{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1829__cudworth_birch___works_of_ralph_cudworth.pdf","mytitle":"Works Of Ralph Cudworth","mylang":"de"}
T H E
W O R K S
OF
R A L P H C U D W O R T H , D . D .
C O N T A I N I N G
THE TRUE INTELLECTUAL
SYSTEM OF THE UNIVERSE,
SERMONS, &c.
A NEW EDITION, WITH REFERENCES TO THE SEVERAL QUOTATIONS IN 1I1E
INTELLECTUAL SYSTEM, AND A LI I E OF THE AUTHOR,
BY THOMAS BIRCH, M.A. l'.R.S.
IN FOUR VOLUMESs
VOL. I.
OXFORD, D. A. TALBOYS.
MUCCCX X1X.
J A ) . L. .
TO TH1
MIGHT RF.VER.tfXD FATHER IX GOD.
JO SE PH ,
LORD B I S H O P OF BRISTOL,
AND
DEAN OF ST. PAUL’S.
MY LORD,
T h e value of the present work is so univer­
sally acknowledged, that to offer any thing
here in recommendation of it, might seem
equally to reflect upon your Lordship’s judg­
ment, as on the character of the excellent
Author. It will be a sufficient honour and
satisfaction to me, to have contributed in
any measure to the improvement of the In­
tellectual System, and to the spreading a
performance, one of the noblest of the last
age, and at least as necessary to the present,
for supporting the grand foundations of all
religion and virtue, against ignorance, so­
phistry, and every pernicious effect of vice
and sensuality upon the human understand­
ing. Such a design, I persuade myself, wants
IV
no apology, especially to a person whose
writings display the evidence, and whose
Character exemplifies the beauty and dignity,
of Christianity. I shall therefore only add,
that, upon these accounts, I am, with the
highest esteem and veneration,
M y L o r d ,
Your Lordship’s most obedient
and most humble servant,
T h o m a s B i r c h .
London, Nov. 6,1742.
ADVERTISEMENT.
T h e former Edition of the Intellectual System,
though the most valuable treasure of the ancient
theology and philosophy extant in any language,
had one considerable defect, (frequent amongst
even the best writers of the last age,) that the re­
ferences of its numerous quotations were very
few, and those obscure and imperfect. Such as
were wanting are therefore supplied in the present
edition with the utmost exactness, chiefly from
Dr. Laurence Mosheim’s Latin translation of this
work; those of the Author are included in [ }to
render them more clear and determinate.
The dedication to the House of Commons, in
1647, of the sermon on 1John ii. 3,4. omitted in
the second and third editions, is restored likewise
from the first.
To the whole is prefixed a new life of the Au­
thor, wherein is given a very particular account
of his several excellent works.
y©L. i. o
r AW
A C C O U N T
OF
T H E L IF E A N D W R ITIN G S
OF
R. C U D W O R T H , D. D.
D r. Ralph Cudworth was son of Dr. Ralph
Cudworth, at first fellow of Emanuel College, in
the University of Cambridge, and afterwards mi­
nister of St. Andrew’s Church in that town, and
at last rector of Alter, in Somersetshire, and chap­
lain to James i.* He died in August or September,
I624.b Though he was a man of genius and learn­
ing, he published only a supplement to Mr. W.
Perkins’s Commentary upon St. Paul’s Epistle to
the Galatians, of which, as well as several other
works of that divine, he was editor.
Our Author’s mother was of the family of Ma-
chell, and had been nurse to Prince Henry, eldest
son of James I. and after Dr. Cudworth’s death,
married to Dr. Stoughton.6 Our Author himself
was born at Aller, in the year 1617, and educated
with great care by his father-in-law, Dr. Stough­
ton ; and in 1630 was admitted pensioner in Ema-
* See Dr. John Laurence Mosheim’
s preface to his Latin transla­
tion ofDr. Cudworth’s Intellectual System. The pagesofthis preface
'sire not numbered.
b Wood, Fasti Oxon. voL J.col. 187. second edit. London, 1721.
* Mosbeim ubi supra,
B 2
8 OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
nuel College, the Doctor giving him this testi­
mony, “ that he was as well grounded in school­
learning as any boy of his age, that went to the
University.” July 5, 1632, he was matriculated
as a student in the University, and applied him­
self to all parts of literature with such vigour, that
in 1639, he was created master of arts with great
applause. Soon after he was chosen fellow of
his college, and became an eminent tutor there,
and had at one time eight-and-twenty pupils; an
instance scarce ever known before, even in the
largest colleges of the University. Among these
was Mr. W.Temple, afterwards famous for his em­
bassies and writings. Not long after, he was pre­
sented to the rectory of North CadbUry, in Somer­
setshire, worth three hundred pounds per annum.
In 1642, he published A Discourse concerning
the true Notion of the Lord’s Supper. It v is
printed at London, in quarto, with only the.initial
letters of his name. Bochart, Spencer, Selden,
and other eminent writers quote this discourse
with great commendations; and tny most ingeni­
ous and learned friend, Mr. Warburton, in a letter
of excellent remarks upon our Author, Which he
favoured me with, styles it a masterpiece in its
kind; and observes, that he has undoubtedlygiven
the true nature and idea of the sacrament, and
supported it with all his learning. The same year
likewise appeared his treatise, intitled, The Union
of Christ and the Church a Shadow, by R. C.
printed at Loudon, in quarto.
He took the degree of batchelor of divinity in
the year 1644, upon which occasion he maintained
at the commencement in the University the two
fallowing theses: I. Dantur boni et roali rationes
OF UAL PH CUPWOHfH, D.D. 9
astern* et indispensabiles: 11. Dantur substan­
tiae incorporeal su4 nature immortales. Hence ijt
appears, that even at that time he was examining
and revolvingip his mind those importantsubjects,
which he so long afterwafds cleared up with such
uncommon penetration in his Intellectual System,
and other works.
lip the same year, 1344, he was appointed mas­
ter of Clare Hall, in Cambridge, in the room of
Dr. Paske, who had 'been ejected by the parlia­
mentary visitors. In .1645, Dr. Metcalf having re­
signed the regius professorship of the Hebrew
tongues, Mr. Cudworth was unanimously nomi­
nated Oct. 1.5, by the seven electors, to succeed
' him. From this time he abandoned all the func­
tions of a minister, and applied himself only to
his academical employments and studies, especi­
ally that of the Jewish antiquities. And we find
the following passage in a manuscript letter of
Mr. John/Worthington, afterwards master ofJesus
•College, dated May 12,1646. “ Our learned friend,
Mr. Cudworth, reads every Wednesday in the
schools. His subject is, Templum Hierosolymi-
tanum.” When his affairs required his absence
from the (University, he substituted Mr. Worth­
ington in his room* March £1,1647, he preached
before the House qf Commons, at Westminster,
upon a day of public humiliation, a sermon upon
John ii. 3, 4, for which he had the thanks of that
House returned him on the same day. This ser­
mon was (printed the same year, at Cambridge, in
quarto, with the following motto in the title-page,
<
sEvatj3{(, <
!
>rtKvov’6yaphiasjStovaxpwc Xpumavi&t* and.
with a dedication to the Hquse of Commons,
which was omitted in (the secpnd and third edi-
10 OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
tions, but restored in the present. In 1651, he
took the degree of doctor of divinity. Though
the places, which he held in the University, were
veryhonourable, yet he found the revenue ofthem
not sufficient to support him; for which reason he
had thoughts ofleaving Cambridge entirely ; and,
indeed, actually retired from it, though- but for a
short time. This appears from two manuscript let­
ters of Mr. Worthington, the former dated Jan. 0.
1651, where he writes thus: “ If through want of
maintenance, he (R. C.) should be forced to leave
Cambridge, for which place he is so eminently
accomplished with what is noble and exempla-
rily academical, it would be an ill omen.” In the
latter, dated Jan. 30,1654, is this passage: “ After
many tossings, Dr. Cudworth is, through God’s
providence, returned to Cambridge, and settled in
Christ’s College, and by his marriage more settled
and fixed.” For upon the decease of Dr. Sam.
Bolton, master of that college, in 1654, our Au­
thor was chosen to succeed him, and married the
same year. In this station he spent the rest of his
life, proving highly serviceable to the University
and the whole church of England. In Jan. 1654,
he was one of the persons nominated by a com­
mittee of the parliament to be consulted about the
English translation of the Bible; as appears from
the following passage of Whitelocke.*
“ Jan. 16th. At the grand committee for reli­
gion, Ordered, that it be referred to a sub-com­
mittee to send for, and advise with, Dr. Walton,
Mr. Hughes, Mr. Castell, Mr. Clark, Mr. Poulk,
Dr. Cudworth, and such others as they shall
think fit; and to consider of the translations and
* Memorials ofthe EnglishAflairs, p. 654, edit Load. 1732, in foL
OF RALPH CUDWORTH, D.D. 1 !
impressions of the Bible, and to offer their opi­
nions therein to this committee; and that it be es­
pecially commended to the Lord Commissioner
Whitelocke to take care of this business.
“ This committee, (says Whitelocke,) often met
at my house, and had the most learned men in the
oriental tongues to consult with in this great busi­
ness, and diversexcellent and learned observations
of some mistakes in the translations of the Bible
in English; which yet was agreed to be the best of
any translation in the world. I took pains in it;
but it became fruitless by the parliament’s disso­
lution.”
Our Author had a great share in the friendship
and esteem of John Thurloe, Esq. secretary of
state to the protectors, Oliver and Richard Crom­
well, who frequently corresponded with him* and
consulted him with regard to the characters of
such persons in the University, as were proper to
be employed in political and civil affairs. For
which purpose, Dr. Cudworth' wrote, among
others, the following letter.*
“ HONOURED SIR,
“ I must, in the first place, crave your pardon
for the delay of this, my second letter, thus long,
(for, I suppose, you have received my former in
answere to yours,) which, had not some unavoida­
ble occasions hindred me, had come sooner to
your hands. Sir, I think there are divers men in
the University at this time, of singular parts and
accomplishments for learning; some of which are
so farre engaged in divinity, that they cannot well
divert themselves to Other professions or employ-
• Thurloe’s Manuscript State Papers, vol. nxviii. p. 259.
It OF THIS LIFE AND WHITINGS
merits; others perhaps so much addicted to a
comtemplative life, that they could not so well
apply themselves to poiiticall and eiviil affairs.
But for those, which I ooncdve to be more free
and undetermined, I shall here present yon with a
catalogue of some of their names, such as I con­
ceive best qualified for civill employments. First,
Mr. Page, a fellow of King’s Colledge, an excel­
lent Latinist, aud one, that hath travelled abroad
for above tea yeares together. He is above forty
years of age; but how he hath been or is affected
to the parliament, or presentgovernment, I cannot
tell. He is now absent from the University, and,
I think, at present with the Earle of Devonshire.
Secondly, Dr. Bagge, fellow of Caius College,
and doctor of physick, a singularly good and
ready Latinist; and J beleeve there is none of his
yeares in England equall to him in the profession
of physick. He hath excellent parts, but I know
not certainly, whether being so eminent in that
way, (though a very young doctor) he would put
himselfe upon state-employment; neither do I
fully know how he is affected. There are of Tri­
nity Colledge severall, that are very good Latin­
ists, and wellfurnisht with all the politer learning;
as Mr. Valentine (a sober discreet man) and Mr.
Linne (well known for an excellent poet.)
“ Mr. Miidmay, of Peter-house, one, whose in­
clination seems to be peculiarly carried out to­
wards poiiticall and civil employments, a scholar
find a discreet mam
“ Mr. Croone, of Emanoell Colledge, a young
master of arts, of excellent good parts, and a ge­
neral scholar,
“ Mr. Miles, fellow of Clare-hall, formerly my
OV RALPH CUDWORTH, D.D. 13
pupill; one that bath no mind to professe divi­
nity, but a very good scholar, and also a junior
master ofarts.
“ Lastly, of Christ Colledge there is a young
man, that is master of arts this yeare, one Mr.
Leigh, that for his standing is very well accom­
plished, and I doubt not, but in a very little time,
would be exceedinge fitte for any such employ­
ment, as you would designe him for.
“ Many more names I could set down; but
these may suffice for your choice, and you may,
if you thinke good, enquire further concerning
any of them from some others, and, if you please,
from this gentleman, whom I have for that pur
pose desired to present this to you, Mr. George
Rust,* fellow of Christ Colledge, who can fun*
ther enforme and satisfy you concerning them. He
is ah understanding, pious, discreet man, and
himselfe 1 know to bee a man of exceeding good
parts, and a generalle scholar, but one that seemes
not so willing to divert himselfe from preaching
and divinity, which he hath oflate intended; other­
wise I know his parts are such, as would enable
him for any employment.
“ If you please to enquire further from him, and
by him signify your further pleasure to me, I sjiall
be ready in this or anything else, that lam able,
to expresse my selfe,
“ Sir,
“ Your affectionately devoted friend and servant,
“ R. CUDWORTH.”
Dr. Cudworth likewise recommended1
* to the
* Afterwards Dean of Dromorc, in Ireland.
1 Thurloe's Manuscript State Papers, yol. xliii. p. 329, of the printed
Papers, voi y. p. 522> 523.
14 OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
secretary, for the place ofchaplain to the English
merchants at Lisbon, Mr. Zachary Cradock,
afterwards provost of Eton Colledge, and famous
for his uncommon genius and learning, and his
abilities as a preacher.
In Jan. 165$, he wrote the following letter to
Secretary Thurloe, upon his design of publish­
ing some Latin discourses in defence of Christ­
ianity against Judaism.*
“ SIR,
“ Having this opportunity offered by Doctour
Solater, who desires to waite upon you, upon your
kind,invitation, which I acquainted him with, I
could do.no lesse than accompany him with these
few lines to present my service to you. I am per-
swaded, you will be well satisfied in his ingenuity,
when you are acquainted with him. Now I have
'this opportunity, I shall use the freedom to ac­
quaint you with another busines. I am perswad-
ed by friends to publish some discourses, which I
have prepared in Latine, that will be of apolemi-
call nature in defense of Christianity against Juda-
isme, explaining some cheef places of scripture
controverted between the Jewes and us, (as Da­
niel's prophecy of the 70 weekes, never yet suffi­
ciently cleared and improved) and withall extri­
cating mauy difficulties of chronologie. Which
taske 1 the rather undertake, not onely because it
is suitable to my Hebrew profession, and because
I have lighted on some Jewish writings upon the
argument, as have scarcely ever been seen by any
Christians, which would the better inable me fully
to confute them; but also because I conceive it a
a Thurloe’a Manuscript State Papers, voh lxiii. p. 43.
OF RALPH CUDWORTH, D. D. 15
•
worke proper and suitable to this present age.
However, though I should not be able myselfe to
be any way instrumental to these great transac­
tions of Providence (not without cause, hoped for
of many) amongst the Jews; yet I perswade my­
selfe my pains may not be alltogether unprofitable
for the setting aud establishing of Christians; or
at least I shall give an account of my spending
such vacant hours, as I could redeetne from my
preaching and other occasions, and the perpetual
distractions of the bursarship, which the statutes
of this Colledge impose upon me. It was my pur­
pose to dedicate these fruits of my studies to his
highnes, (to whose noble father 1 was much ob­
liged) if I may have leave, or presume so to doe;
which I cannot better understand by any than,
yourselfe, if you shall think it convenient, when
you have an opportunity to insinuate any such
thing, which I permitte wholy to your prudence.
I intend, God willing, to be in London some time
in March, and then I shall waite upon you tb re-
ceve your information. In the mean time crav­
ing pardon for this prolixity of mine, and free-
dome, I subscribe myselfe,
“ Your really devoted friend and humble servant,
“ R '. C u d w o r t h .”
Jan. 20, 1668, Christ’s Coll. Cambr.
The Discourse concerning Daniel’s prophecy of
the seventy weeks, mentioned in this letter, and
which is still extant in manuscript, is highly com­
mended by Dr. Henry More, in his preface, ,sec.
18. p. xvi. to his Explanation of the grand Mys­
tery of Godliness, printed at London, 1660; in
folio, where he observes, that Dr. Cudworth in
10 OF THE ilP B AND WBITINOS
, •
that Discourse, 'which was read in the public
schools of the University, had undeceived the
world, which had been misled too long by the
over-great opinion they had of Joseph Scaliger,
mid that taking Funccius’s Epocha, he had de­
monstrated the manifestation of the Messiah to
have fallen out at the end of the sixty-ninth week,
and feis passion in the midst of the last, in the
most natural and proper sense thereof; “ which
demonstration of his, is of as much price and
worth in theology, as either the circulation ofthe
blood in physic, or the motion of the earth in na­
tural philosophy.”
Upon the restoration of Charles u. he wrote
a <cbpy <of verses, published in Academi* Can-
tabrigiensis 2Q2TPA, sive ad Carolona it . redu-
oemde Reguis ipsi, Musis per ipsum restitutis,
■Gratulatio, printed at Cambridge, 1660, in quarto.
In .1662, be was presented by Dr. Gilbert Shel­
don, bishop of London, to the vicarage of Ash-
welt, in Hertfordshire,*to which he was.admitted
on the 1st of December that year.
In the beginning of the year 1665, he had a de­
sign to publish a discourse concerning moral good
and evil, as appears from the following extracts of
letters written by him and by Dr. Henry More,
fellow of his college.6
Dr. Cudworth, in a letter to Dr John Worth­
ington, January, 1661.
*
*You know, I have bad this designe concern­
ing good and evil, or natural ethicks, a great
while .; which I begun abovd a year agoe, (when I
• Newcourt, Repertorium, vol. ii. p. 462.
Communicated by my verylearned friend, Mr. John Ward, F.R.S,
and*prdfeMorofRhetoric ki Gresham College.
OF RALPH CUDWOBTH, D .» . \1
made the first sermon in the chapel about the ar­
gument) to study over anew, and dispatch a din-
course about it. No man had so frequently ex­
horted me to it, and so earnestly, as this friend.—
But about three months since unexpectedly he
told me on a suddain, he had begun a discourse
on the same argument. The next day in writing
I imparted my mind more fully and plainly to
him. Whereupon he came to me, and told me,
he would speak with me about it after a day or
two. So be did; and then excused the business;
that he could not tell, whether I would dispatch
and finish it or no, because I had been so long
about it; that Mr. Fullwood and Mr. Jenks, bad
sollicited him to do this, and that you were very
glad, that he would undertake it. But now lie
understood I was resolved to go through with it,
he was very glad of it, that he would desist, and
throw his into a Comer. All this I impart to yon
privately, because a common friend. I havenot
spoken to any body else but Mr. Standish, and
something to Mr. Jenks and Fullwood.”
Dr. H. More, in a letter to Dr. Worthington,
Jan, 24, 166#.
“ I understand, by Mr. Standish’s letter, that
be, unawares, speaking to the master* of my
Enchiridion Ethicum, he shewed again his dis­
gust, &c.—that, if 1 persisted in the resolution of,
publishing mybook, he would desist in his, though
he had most of it then ready to send up to be li­
censed that week. I pray you, spur him up to set
his to the press. For my part, it is well known,
I have no designe at all but to serve the publick;
1 Dr. Cndwortb.
18 OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
and that 1entered upon the task extreamly against
tny own will, and yet I have finished it all but a
chapter. Whether, >or when, I shall publish it, I
shall have leisure enough to consider.”
Dr. More, in a letter to Dr. Worthington,
Feb. 7, 166*.
*
*Some few friends at Cambridge were exceed­
ing earnest with me to write a short ethicks,
alleging no small reason for it. I did not only
heartily reject them more than once, butwith great
-zeal, if not rudeness, alleging several things,
.which were too long to write, indeed in a manner
vilifying the projeot, preferring experience of life
before all such fine systems; alleging also, that
Dr. Cudworth had a design for the greatest curi­
osity ofthat subject. But nothing would content
•them but my setting upon the work, that it was
'uncertain, when Dr. Cudworth’s would come out,
and besides, mine being a small treatise, running
through the whole body of ethicks, they would
not interfere one with another. For my part, till
1 had by chance told Dr. Cudworth of my pur­
pose, (which I did simply, thinking nothing) and
how many chapters 1 had finished, 1 knew no­
thing either of the time, or the scope of his writ­
ing, or if he intended a general ethicks. But the
effect of those friends’ earnestness (to tell you
• plainly how the case stood) was this: a day or
two after their last importunity, I, waking in the
morning, and some of their weightiest allegations
recurring to my mind, and also remembering, with
what an excessive earnestness one of them soli­
cited me to this work (in which I thought there
might be something more than ordinary, and that
OF RALPH CUDWOHTH, D. O. 19
he was Actuated in this business, 1knew not how,)
I began seriously to think with myself of the
matter, and at last was so conscientiously ilia-
queated therein, that I could not absolutely free
myself therefrom to this very day. Nor was this
only an act ofmere conscience, but of present self-
denial. For it did very vehemently cross other
great and innocent pleasures, that I promised my­
self in a certain order of my studies, which I had
newly proposed to myself at that very time. But
when I was once engaged, I proceeded not with­
out some pleasure.”
Dr. More, in a letter to Dr. Worthington,
May 10,1665.
“ I thank you for your freedom both to him find
to me. It never came into my mind to print this
Enchiridion, till his book was out, unless he would
have professed his like of the project. I have new
transcribed it all. Mr. Jenks and Mr. Fullwood
are exceeding earnest to see it, and would tran­
scribe it for their, present satisfaction. But, ifthey
should do so, and it be known, it would, it may
be, disgust. Dr. Cudworth, whom I am very loth
any way to grieve.. But if yourself have a mind
.to see it, and could get a fair and true copy tran­
scribed of it, I would willingly pay the tran­
scriber, and the copy should be your’s ; for I am
.loth, that what I have writ on so edifying a sub-1
ject should be lost.”
Irreligion began now to lift up its head; but the
-progress of it was opposed by'no person with
greater force and learning than byour Author. For
this purpose, in 1678, he published at London,
2 0 OF T B ? U F K ANP WRITINGS
ia folio, bis True Intellectual System of the Uni­
verse:—The first part, Wherein all the reason and
philosophy of atheism is confuted, and its impos­
sibility demonstrated. The imprimatur by Dr.
Samuel Parker, chaplain to Archbishop Sheldon,
is dated May 20, 1671, seven years before the
publication of this work; which met with great
opposition from some of the courtiers of King
Charles n . who endeavoured to destroy the repu­
tation ofit, when it was first published.* Nor has
it escaped the erasures of writers of different par­
ties since that time.
The first piece, which appeared against it, was
from a Roman catholic, in a Letter to Mr. R. Cud-
worth, D. D. printed at the end of a tract, en­
titled, Anti-Haman; or, an Answer to Mr. G. Bur­
nses Mystery of Iniquity Unveiled; wherein is
shewed the Conformityof the Doctrine, Worship,
and Practice ofthe Roman Catholic Church, with
these ofthe purest Times; the Idolatry of the P a­
gans is truly stated, and the Imputation of Pagan
Idolatry dearly confuted ; and the Reasons are
given, why Catholics avoid the Communion of the
Protestant Church. Tp which is annexed, a Letter
to R.Cudworth, D. D. by W. £ . Student in Di­
vinity. With Leave of Superiors, 1679, in octavo.
This writer attacks Dr. Cudworth’s assertion, that
though very few of this ancient philosophers
thought God to be corporeal, as Epienrus, Strato,
&c. yet, that the greatest part of them believed
him to be a pure spirit, and adored the only true
God, under the names of Jupiter, Minerva, Osiris
and Venus. In opposition to which, his antago-
* VideJoannisClericiVitjim, ad ann. 1711, p. 129, edit. Amstejod,
1711,in octavo.
OP BA&PH CUDWORTH, D .D . 21
Jiist maintains,* “ that although all Pagans (nay
all men) had naturally a knowledge of the true
God, yet those they adored, were men;” in sup­
port of which, he urges four proofs taken, 1.
From the diversity of their sexes; 2. From
their generation; 3. From their death; 4. From
their rites. He likewise attempts to confute what
Dr. Cudworth has strenuously,defended through­
out his book, that the unity of God was a prime
article of the Pagan creed.
But let us now see, in how severe a manner he
was treated, even by a Protestantdivine, Mr. John
Turner, in his discourse of the Messiah.b He tells
us,' “ we must conclude Dr. Cudworth to be him­
self a Tritheistic; a sect, for which, I believe, he
may havea kindness, becauseheloves hard words,
or something else, without either stick or trick,
which I will not name, because his book pretends
to be written against it.” And again,dthat, “ the
most that charity itself can allow the Doctor, if it
were to step forth, and speak his most favourable
character to the world, is, that he is an Arian, a
Socinian, or a Deist.”
Mr. Dryden likewise tells us,* that our Author
“ has raised such strong objections against the
being of a God and providence, that many think
he has not answered them.” And the late earl of
Shaftesbury, in his Moralists, a rhapsody/ has
the following passage:-—“ You know the com-
. » P. 836, «»..
b See p. 16,17,19,16% edit London, 1665, in 8vo.
c P:i7. d P. 19.
e Dedication of his translation of Virgil’®JSnetd, vol. it p. 878;
edit London, 1730, in 8vd.
f Part ii. sec. 3. Characteristics, vol. ii. p. 262. edit London, 1737,
in too.
VOL. I. C
22 OF THE LIFE AKS WAITINGS
mon fate of those, whodare to appear fair authors.
What was that pious and' learned man’s ease,
•who wrote the Intellectual System of the Uni­
verse ? I confess, it was pleasant enough to con­
sider, that though the whole world were no less
satisfied with his capacity and learning, than with
his sincerity in the cause ofthe Deity; yet was he
accused of giving the upper hand to the Atheists,
for having only stated their reasons and those of
their adversaries fairly together.”
'Such was the treatment, which our great Author
jreceived for his immortal volume: wherein, as
Mr. Warburton says,* with a boldness uncommon
indeed, but very becoming a man conscious of his
•own integrity, and of the truth and evidence of his
cause, he launched out into the.immensity of the
Intellectual System; and, at bis first essay, pene­
trated the very darkest recesses of antiquity, to
strip Atheism of all its disguises, and drag up the
lurking monster to conviction. Where, though
few readers, could followhim, yet the very slowest
were able to unravel his secret purpose—to tell
the world—that he was an Atheist in his heart, and
an Arian in his book. However, thus ran the po­
pular clamour against this excellent person:
Would the reader know the consequence ? Why,
the zealots inflamed the bigots:—
’Twas the time's plague, when madmen led the blind:—
'The silly calumny was believed; the much-in­
jured Author grew disgusted; his ardour slack­
ened ; and the rest and far greatest part of the de­
fence never appeared.
The same gentleman, likewise, in his letter to
• Preface to vol. ii. of his Divine Legation ofMoses, p. 10,1lf 12. .
OP RALPH CUDWORTH, D. D. 23
roe above cited, observes, that among the other
excellences of this work, “ all his translations
from the Greek writers are wonderfully exact,
.and a vast judgment and penetration..shewn in
explaining their sense.”
In 1706, there was published at London, in
two. volumes, in quarto, an abridgment of the In­
tellectual System, under this title:—A Confuta­
tion of the Reason and Philosophy of Atheism;
being in a great measure, either an abridgment or
an improvement of what Dr. Cudworth offered to
that purpose in his true Intellectual SyAem of
the Universe. Together with an introduction, in
which, among accounts of other matters relating
to this treatise, there is an impartial examination
of what that learned person advanced, touching
the Christian doctrine of a trinity in unity, and the
-resurrection ofthe body. By Thomas Wise, B. D.
fellow of Exeter College, in Oxford, and chaplain
to his Grace, the Duke of Ormond.
In the introduction, Mr. Wise styles Dr. Cud-
worth’s book, the vastest magazine of reasoning
and learning, that ever singly appeared against
Atheism; and then examines his notions concern- '
ing the trinity and the resurrection of the body.
With regard to the former, he observes, that Dr.
Cudworth having laid down a general proposi­
tion, that the heathens universally held but one
unmade independent God, comes to shew, that
the Platonists, in particular, maintained an unityof
-the Godhead, in their three Divine hypostases,
viz. Monad or Good, Mind, and Soul; notwith­
standing that they owned these three hypostases
to be numerically distinct, or to have distinct sin­
gular essences of their own. To vindicate the
c 2
9 4 OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
Platdnists in this point, he tells us, that the an­
cient orthodox Fathers of the Christian church,
were generally of no other persuasion than this—
that, that essence or substance of the Godhead,
which all the three persons, or hypostases agree
in, as each of them is God, was not one singular
or individual, but only one common or universal
essence or substance.
“ This, (says Mr. Wise,) and other assertions of
the like nature in Dr. Cudworth’s Intellectual
System, have made so much noise in the world,
that %ere has hardly been a pamphlet or book
'written for some years about the blessed trinity,
especially in England, and in the heterodox way,
which does not bring in Dr. Cudworth upon the
stage, and vouch his name and quotations for its
purpose. While, on the other hand, the truly
Orthodox (though often through a misunderstand­
ing of his sense) do aim at his doctrine, as a mark
of their invectives; and others, who call them-
selves also by that name, entertaining no little ve-
.Deration for the very words used by the ancient
Fathers, especially when repeated and revived by
so learned a person as Dr. Cudworth, and resolv­
ing, whatever should come of it, to stand by them,
have unhappily fallen into a kind of Tritheism.”
Mr. Wise therefore endeavours, as much as possi­
ble, to clear up and justify our Author’s doctrine.
■However, Mr. Robert Nelson, in his life of Bishop
Bull,* declares, that Dr. Cudworth’snotion, with
regard to the Trinity, was the same with Dr. Sa­
muel Clarke’s, and represents it in the following
terms:—That the three persons of the trinity are
three distinct spiritual substances; but that the
• Sec. hri. p. 339,340, edit London, 1714, in 8vo.
OF RALPH CUDWORTH, D.D. 1 6
Father alone is truly and properly God ; that he
alone, in the proper sense, is supreme; that abso­
lute supreme honour is due to him only; and that
he, absolutely speaking, is the only God of the
universe, the Son and Spirit being God, but only
by the Father’s concurrence with them, and their
subordination and subjection to him. But to.re­
turn to Mr. Wise: he next considers our Author’s
opinion about the resurrection, who, as appears
from several passages of his Intellectual System*
thought, that the resurrection-body will not con­
sist of the same substance with that which was
buried; and that it will not be a body of flesh,
but an ethereal one; and that the present body
is only a seed of the resurrection. However, Mr.
Wise shews from other passages in his works, that
he has as plainly asserted the resurrection of the
same numerical body, as in some places he has
denied it.
In the year 1703, &c. Monsieur le Clerc gave
large extracts of the Intellectual System in his
Bibliotheque Choisje, tom. i. ii. iii. v. vii. viii. ix.
which engaged him in a dispute with Monsieur
Bayle, concerning Dr. Cudworth’s notion ofplas­
tic natures. Monsieur Bayle, in bis Continuation
des Pensees diverses sur les Cometes,* had ob­
served, that “ the Atheists are very much per­
plexed, how to account for the formation of ani­
mals, which they ascribed to a cause which was
not conscious of what it did, and yet followed a
regular plan, without knowing according to what
plan it went to work. But Dr; Cudworth’s Plas­
tic Nature, and Dr. Grew’s Vital Principle1
*are
*Tom. i. Sec. 21. bSee Dr. Nehemiah Grew’s Cosmologfa
Sacra, printed at Iiondon, 1701, in folio.
26 OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
exactly in the same case; and thus they takd
away the whole strength of this objection against
the Atheists. For if God could communicate snch
a plastic power, it follows, that it is not inconsist­
ent with the nature of things, that there be such
agents. They may therefore exist of themselves,
will the adversary say; whence it would also fol­
low, that the regularity which we observe in the
universe, may be the effect of a blind cause, which
was not conscious of what it did.” Mr. Bayle,
however, owned, that Dr. Cudworth and Dr.
Grew were not aware of the consequence, which;
according to him, followed from their.system.
Monsieur le Clerc returned an answer in the fifth
volume of his Bibliotheque Choisie ;* wherein he
observed, that the plastic or vital natures, which
those twd writers admit, cannot in the least favour
the Atheists; because these natures are only in­
struments in the hand of God, and have no power
or efficacy but what they receive from him, who
rules and directs all their actions. That they are
only instrumental causes produced and employed
by the chief- and First Cause; and that it cannot
be said, that a palace has been built up without
art, because not only hammers, rales, saws, &c.
but even the arms of men, which made use of
these instruments, are destitute of knowledge. It
is sufficient, that the mind ofthe builder directed
all these things, and employed them in the exe­
cution of his design. It is therefore plain, that
the Atheists, who deny the being of an intelligent
Cause, cannot retort the argumeut of Dr. Cud-
worth and Dr. Grew upon them. Monsieur Bayle,
?P. 883, &c.
OP RALPH CUDWOKTH, D.D. 2 7
in his answer,a endeavoured to shew, that if these
writers had considered the plastic natures only as
instruments in the hand of God, this system would
have been exposed to all the difficulties to.which
the Cartesian hypothesis is liable, and which they
intend to avoid. That therefore we must suppose
their opinion to have been, that these natures
are active principles, which do not want to be
continually set on and directed; but that it is
sufficient, ,if God does but put them in a proper
situation, and superintend their actions, to set
them right, if it be necessary. This being the
case, Monsieur Bayle pretends, that the argu­
ment may be retorted against those writers. For,
says be, since when the order and regularity Of
this world are alleged as a proof of the being of
a God, it is supposed that a being cannot pro­
duce a regular work, without having an idea
it; yet, according to Dr. Cudwortb, the plastic'
natures, which produce plants and animals, have.
not the least idea of what they do. If it be answer­
ed, that they have been created with that faculty
by a Being, who knows all, and whose ideas they
only put in execution; the Stratonician will re­
ply, that ifthey do it only as efficient causes, this
is as incomprehensible as that which is objected
to him; since it is as difficult for any being to
perform a scheme, which* it does not understand,
but which another understand^ as it is to perform
a scheme which no being at all has any notion of.
Since you acknowledge, will the Stratonician say,
that God could endow some creatures with «
power of producing excellent works, though
without any knowledge: you must also confess*
* Hist dcs£taVragC8 ties Scavans, A oit 1704. Art.7, p. 380, &0,
28 OF THE W K AND WRITINGS
that there is no necessary connexion between the
power of producing excellent works, and the idea
and knowledge of their essence, and of the man­
ner ofproducing them : consequently, you ought
not to assert, that these things cannot subsist se­
parately in nature, and that nature cannot have
of itself what, according to you, the plastic beings
received from God. In short, Monsieur Bayle
asked, whether these writers maintained, that
the plastic and vital natures are only passive in­
struments in the hand of God, as Monsieur le
Clerc seemed to suppose by his comparison of an
architect. Monsieur le Clerc answered,* that,
according to Dr. Cudworth, the plastic natures
were not passive instruments; but that they are
under God’s direction, who conducts them, though
we cannot explain after what manner. Nor can
the Atheists, added he, retort the argument, be-
^cause God is the.author of the regularity and
order with which the plastic natures act; where­
as, according to the Atheists, matter moves of it­
self .without any cause to direct it, and to give
it a power of moving regularly. This dispute was
carried on still further, with some warmth, and a
great many repetitions on both sides. But what
h^s been said is sufficient to give the reader a no­
tion of this controversy, for the progress of which
he may consult the following books:—Histoire
des Ouvrages des Scavans. Decemb. 1704, art.
12. Bibliotheque Cboisie, tom. vii. art. 7. Repons
aux Questions d’un Provincial, tom. iii. chap. 179.
Bibliotheque Choisie, tom. ix. Art. 10. R&ponse
pourM r. Bayle k Mr. Le Clerc, p. 31, annexed
to the fourth volume of the R6pons. aux Quest.
»Bibtioth. Choifiie, tom. vi. art. 7, p. 422.
OF RALPH CUDWORTH, t>. B. 29
d’unProvincial.—Upon the whole, Mr, Warbur-
too, in his letter to me above cited, is of opinion,
that our Author’s “ Plastic Life of Nature is fully
overthrown by Monsieur Bayle, whose superiority
in that dispute with Monsieur le Clerc, is clear
and indisputable.”
Monsieur le Clercaexpressed his wishes, that
some man of learning would translate the Intel­
lectual System into Latin;. but this .design,
though resolved upon and attempted by several
persons in.Germany,1
* was never executed till the
year 1733, when Dr. Mosheim published his
translation of it under the following title:—Ra*
dulphi Cudworth, Theologiae Doctoris et in Aca­
demic Cantabrigiensi Professoris, Systema Intel­
lectual hujus Universi, seu de veris Naturae Re­
rum originibusCommentarii; quibusomnis eoruro
Philosophia, qui Deum esse negant, funditils
evertitur. Accedunt reliqua ejus Opuscula. Jo­
annes Laurentius Moshemius, Theologiae Doctor,
serenissimi Ducis Brunsvicensis & Consiliis Re­
rum sanctiorum. Abbas Coenobiorum Vallis S.
Mariae et Lapidis S. Michaelis, omnia ex Anglico
Latiufc vertit, recensuit, variis Observationibus et
Dissertationibus illustravit, et auxit. Jenae, 2
vols. in folio. I)r. Mosheim, in his preface, re­
presents the difficulties of translating this work to
be very great; and observes some mistakes, which
Monsieur Le Clerc has committed with regard to
the sense of our Author in his extracts in the Bi-
bliotheque Choisie. Monsieur Bourdelin, a mem­
ber of the French Academy of Inscriptions and
Belles Lettres, had begun a translation of the In-
* Biblioth, Choisie, tom. i. p. 65.
*See Dr. Moshcim’s preface.
30 OF THE LIFE AND.W RITINGS
tellectual System into French,* but was prevent­
ed from completing it by his death, which hap­
pened in May, 1717.
But to return to our Author: in 1078, he was
installed prebendary of Gloucester.b He died at
Cambridge, June 26, 1688; and was interred in
the chapel of Christ’s College, with the following
inscription on his monument:—
“ Here lyeth the body of Dr. Ralph Cudworth,
late Master of Christ’s College, about thirty years
Hebrew Professor, and Prebendary of Glouces­
ter. He died the 26th of June, 1688, in the se­
venty-first year of his age.”
He was a man of very extensive learning, ex­
cellently skilled in the learned languages and
antiquity, a good mathematician, a subtle philo­
sopher, and a profound metaphysician. He em­
braced the mechanical or corpuscular philosophy;
but, with regard to the Deity,'intelligences, genii,
ideas, and in short the principles of human know­
ledge, he followed Plato, and even the latter
Platonists.* A great number of writers commend
his piety and modesty; and Bishop Burnet*1hav­
ing observed, that Dr, Henry More studied to
consider religion as a seed of a deiform nature,
and in order to this, set young students much on
reading the ancient philosophers; chiefly Plato,
Tully, and Plotin; and on considering the Christ­
ian religion as a doctrine sent from God both to
elevate and sweeten human nature, tells us, that
*See his Eloge in Hist, de l’Academie des Inscriptions et Belle*
Lettres, tom. ii. p. 562, edit. Amsterdam.
b Survey of the Cathedrals of York, &c. by Browne Willis, E«(. p
%
743, edit. London, 1727, in 4to.
* Mosheim, vbi supra.
4 History of bis Own Time, vol. i. p. 187.
OF RALPH CUDWORTH, D. » . 51
“ Dr. Cudworth carried this on with a great
strength of genius, and a vast compass of learn­
ing;” and that “ he was a man of great conduct
and prudence; upon which his enemies did veiry
falsely accuse him of-craft and dissimulation.”
.The late earl of Shaftesbury* styles him an ex­
cellent and learned divine, of highest authority at
home and fame abroad*
Besides his sermon on 1 John ii. 5, 4, above-
mentioned, he published likewise another, on 1'
Cor. xv. 57. the third edition of both which was
printed at London, 1676, in folio.
He left several posthumous works, most of
which seem to be a continuation of his Intellec­
tual System, of which he had given the world only
the first part. One of these was published by
Dr. Edward Chandler, bishop of Durham, at
London, in 1731, under this title, A Treatise con­
cerning eternal and immutable Morality, lu the
’preface1
*to which, the Bishop observes, that in
this book our Author “ proves the falseness of the
consequences with respect to natural justice and
morality in God, which are deducible from the
principles of those that maintain the second sort
of Fate, denominated by him Theologic. And thus
it may be reckoned to be a sequel in part of bis
first book against Material Fate. Had it come
abroad as early as it was written, it had served
for a proper antidote to the poison in some of
Mr. Hobbes’s, and others writings, who revived in
that age the exploded opinions of Protagoras aud
other ancient Greeks, and took away the esseu-
tial aud eternal discriminations of moral good and
* Characteristics, vtri. iii. chap. 2, p. 64. bP. 9,10,11.
32 O f THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
evil, of just and unjust, and 'made them all arbi­
trary productions ofDivine orhuman will. Against
the ancient and.modern patrons of this doctrine,
bo one hath writ better than Dr. Cudworth. His
book is indeed a demonstration of the truth of
the contrary opinion, and is drawn up with that
beauty, clearness, and strength, as must delight
as well as convince the reader, if I may judge of
the affection of others from the effect it had on
me. It will certainly give ajust idea of the writer’s
good sense, as well as vast learning, We are not
certain, that this treatise is quoted so perfect as
the Author designed i t ; but it appears from the
ihanuscript, that he transcribed the best part of
it with bis own hand, as if it was speedily to have
been sent to the press.”
The titles and subjects of the rest of our Au­
thor’s manuscripts are as follow;
A Discourse of moral Good and Evil, in se­
veral folios, containing near 1000 pages.
Heads o f the chapters o f one o f those hooks.
Chap. 1. The opinions of the ancient adversa­
ries of natural justice explained, p. 1.
2. Objections against morality, p. 11.
3. Answers to the 1st objection, p. 29.
4. Answer to the 2d and 3d objections, p. 43.
3. Inconsistencies with a commonwealth, p. 49.
6. Justice by God’s arbitrary command, p. 79,
7. The 6th and 7th objections answered, p. 112.
8. Pleasure; wherein the ancient Hedonic phi­
losophy is explained, and it is largely debated,
whether pleasure is the summum bonutn, p. 117,
9. Answer to the 9th objection, p. 175.
10. Notion of morality settled, p. 198
OF RALPH CUDWORTH, D. D. 33
11. Happiness; and the philosophy of Epicu­
rus concerning it examined and refuted, p. 253.
W. True happiness in Divine life, p. 296.
13. Result of the former discourse; incorpo­
real substance Deity, p. 303.
14. Controversy of liberty Stated. A new phi­
losophical hypothesis, p. 336.
15. Objections against liberty. To aya66v fat-
VOfUVOV.
16. Argument from the phenomenon of ineon-
tinency, p. 382.
Headsofanotherbookof'Morality,whereinHobbes's
philosophy is explained.
Prolegomena; to shew, that if nothing is na­
turally just or unjust, nothing can be made so.—
Chap. 2. Not by laws.—Chap. 3. Not by laws of
nature.—Chap. 4. Not by covenants.—Chap. 5.
To explain his doctrine, generally and particu-
larly.—Chap. 6. State of nature.—Chap. 7. Laws
of nature.—Chap. 8. Common representative.—
Chap. 9. To discover his equivocations.—Chap.
10. About obligation.—Chap. 11. According to
him, there can be no Ethic.—Chap. 12. Judgment
on his politics, that no politic can be built on
these principles.
A Discourse of Liberty and Necessity, in which
the grounds of the Atheistical philosophy are con­
futed, and morality vindicated and explained.
This book contains 1000 pages in folio.
Heads of the chapters of one of the books.
Chap. 1. The necessity of all human actions
asserted by three sorts of men, and in different
ways:—First, Some Christian theologers of the
3 4 OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
Jotter age. Secondly, The old Zenonian Stoics.
Thirdly, The Democritical Physiologers or Athe­
istical Fatalists, p. 1.
2. Christian Fatalists pleading, p. 37.
3. The Stoical Fatalists pleading, p. 70.
4. Atheistical Fatalists pleading, p. 84.
5. Answer to the phenomena objected, p. 119.
6. Of motion and sense, p. 167.
7. Of intellection, p. 196.
8. Answer to Hobbes’s Reflections, p. 305.
9. Morality, p. 317.
Heads of the chapters of another booh, He libero
. Arbitrio.
Chap. 1. Dreams.—2. Indifferences.—3. Gene­
ral account.—4. Particular or full account.—5.
Definition and particular account.—6. An imper­
fection not formally in God.—7. Arguments to
prove such a thing.—8. That that, which rules
all, is not dvaykn avapa'iTtiTOQ, but irpovo'ia IXaafiug.
•
—9. Answer to the objection, ju
ii&v avalnov.—10.
Contingencies.—-11.Argument fornecessitv, taken
from the nature of God.
. Upon Daniel’s prophecy of the LXX weeks,
wherein all the interpretations of the Jews are
considered and confuted, with several of some
learned Christians. In two volumes, in folio.
Of the verity of the Christian religion against
the Jews. Dr. Cudworth mentions this in his
MSS. but it is not yet found.
A Discourse of the Creation of the World, and
Immortality of the Soul, in 8vo.
Hebrew learning.
An explanation of Hobbes’s notion of God, and
of the extension of spirits.
OF ttALPH CUDWORTH, D. 0. 35
Our Author had several sons, who probably
died young, but he left one daughter, Daiharis,
who was second wife to Sir Francis Masham, of
Oates, in the county of Essex, Bart.* by whom
she had a son, the late Francis Cudworth Ma­
sham, Esq.bone of the Masters of the High Court
of Chancery, and accountant-general of the said
Court; and foreign apposer in the Court of Ex­
chequer. This lady had a great friendship with
Mr. Locke, who died at her house at Oates,
where he had resided for several years before.
She was distinguished for her uncommon genius
and learning; and in the year 1696 published at
London, in 12mo. without her name, A Discourse
concerning the Love of God.c She introduces this
tract with observing, that “ whatever reproaches
have been made by the Romanists, on the one
hand, of the want of books of devotion in the
church of England, or by the dissenters, on the
other, of a dead and lifeless way of preaching, it
may be affirmed, that there cannot any where be
found so good a collection of discourses on mor
ral subjects, as might be made of English sermons,
and other treatises of that nature, written by the
.divines of our church : which books are certain^
ly in themselves of the greatest, and most general
use of any; and do most conduce to that, which
is the chief aim of Christianity—a good life.” She
then animadverts upon those who undervalue mo­
rality,*1and others, who strain the duties of.it to
ah impracticable pitch, and pretend to ascend by
* He died at his seat at Oates, on Sunday, the 3d of March, 1702-3^
in the 77th year of his age.
b He died May 17,1731.
* It contains 126pages, besides the preface. * P. 2, 3.
36 OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS
it to- something beyOnd or above it ;* and after­
wards proceeds to consider the conduct of those
who build their practical and devotional dis­
courses upon principles which will not bear the
test, but which oblige them to lay down such as­
sertions of morality, as sober and well-disposed
Christians Cannot understand to be practicable.1
*
And here she applies herself to the examination
of Mr. John Norris’s* scheme in his Practical
Discourses and other treatises, wherein he main­
tains, that “ mankind are obliged strictly, as their
duty, to love, with desire, nothing but God only,
every degree of desire of any creature whatsoever
being sinfulwhich assertion Mr. Norris defends
upon this ground, that God, not the creature, is
the immediate efficient cause of our sensations;
for whatsoever gives us pleasure has a right to
our love: but God only gives us pleasure, there­
fore he only has a right to our love. This hypo­
thesis is considered with great accuracy and in­
genuity by Lady Masham, and the bad conse­
quences of it represented in a strong light. Her
Discourse was translated into French by Mr.
Peter Coste, and printed at Amsterdam, in 1705.
She lies buried in the cathedral church of Bath,
where a monument is erected to her memory, with
the following inscription:
“ Near this place lies Dame D a m a b is M a s h a m ,
daughter of Ralph .Cudworth, D. D. aud second
wife of Sir Francis Masham, of Oates, ,in the
county of Essex, Bart, who to the softness and
• P.3, 4,5,6;
• P. 7.
• This <Utine borrowed his hypothesis from Father MaUcbranohe*
37
OP RALPH CUDWORTH, D. D.
elegancy of her own sex added several of the no*
blest accomplishments and qualities to the other.
“ She possessed these advantages in a degree
unusual to either, and tempered them with an
exactness peculiar to herself.
“ Her learning, judgment, sagacity, and pene­
tration, together with her candour and love of
truth, were very observable to all that conversed
with her, or were acquainted with those small
treatises she published in her life-time, though &he
industriously concealed her name.
“ Being mother of an only son, she applied
all her natural and acquired endowments to the
care of his education.
“ She was a strict observer of all the virtues
belonging to every station of her life; and only
wanted opportunities to make these talents shine
in .the world, which were the admiration of her
friends.
“ She was born on the 18th of January, 1658,
and died on the 20th of April, 1708.”
VOL. i. D
THE TRUE
IN T E L L E C T U A L SYSTEM
OP THl
UNIVERSE.
♦
T v p M W rnf 4weifc *H <
ANOPXZm/NH ZOtfA, T lx* )i *H OEl'A.
Origenss.
t) 2
TO TO*
RIGHT HONOURABLE
HENEAGE LORD FINCH,
Baron of Daventry, Lord. High Chancellor of England,and
one of kit Majeety t moet Honourable Privy Council.
MY LORD,
• T h e many favours I have formerly re*
ceived from you, as they might justly challenge,
whenever I had a fit opportunity, a public and
thankful acknowledgment; so have they encou­
raged me at this time, to the presumption of this
dedication to your Lordship. Whom, as your
perspicacious wit and solid judgment, together
with your acquired learning, render every way a
most accomplished and desirable patron; so did
I persuade myself, that your hearty affection to
religion, and zeal for it, would make you not un­
willing, to take that into your protection, which
is written wholly in the defence thereof; so far
forth, as its own defects, or miscarriages, should
not render it incapable of the same. Nor can I
think it probable, that in an age of so much de­
bauchery, scepticism, and infidelity, an under­
taking of this kind should be judged by*you use-
DEDICATION.
less or unseasonable.' And now, having so fit an
opportunity, I could most willingly expatiate in
the large field of your Lordship’s praise, both that
I might do an act of justice to yourself, and pro­
voke others to your.imitation. But I am sensible,
that as no eloquence, less than that of your own,
could be fit for such a performance; so the noble-'
ness and generosity of your spirit is such, that you
take much more pleasure in doing praiseworthy
things, than in hearing the repeated echoes of
them. Wherefore, instead of pursuing encomi­
ums, which would be the least pleasing to your­
self, I shall offer up my prayers to Almighty
God, for the continuation of your Lordship’s life
and h ealth th at so -his Majesty may long have
such .a loyal subject and wise counsellor; the.
church of England such a worthy patron; the-
High Court of Chancery such an oracle of impar­
tial justice; and the whole nation such a pattern
of virtue and piety. Which shall ever be the
hearty desire of,
M y L ord,.
Your Lordship’s most'humble, and
Most affectionate servant,
R. CUDWORTH.
PREFACE TO THE READER.*
T h o u g h , I confess, I have seldom taken any
great pleasure in reading other men’s apologies,,
yet must I at this time make some myself. First,
therefore, 1 acknowledge, that when I engaged
the press, I intended only a discourse concern­
ing liberty and necessity, or, to speak out more
plainly, against the fatal necessity of all actions
and events; which, upon whatsoever grounds or
principles maintained, will, as we conceive, serve
the design of Atheism, and undermine Christ­
ianity, and all religion, as taking away all guilt
and blame, punishments and rewards, and plainly
rendering a day ofjudgment ridiculous: and, it is
evident, that some hare pursued it of late, in
order to that end. But afterwards we considered,,
that this, which is indeed a controversy concern­
ing the True Intellectual System of the Universe,
does, in the full extent thereof, take in other
things; the necessity of all actions and events
being maintained by several persons, upon very
different grounds, according to that tripartite fa­
talism, mentioned by us in the beginning of the
first chapter.- For first, the Democritic Fate is
nothing but the material necessity of all things
without a God, in supposing senseless matter,
necessarily moved, to be the only original and
principal of all things; which therefore is called
by Epicurus the Physiological, by us the Athe-
* Preface to the 3d edit 4to. 1743.
44 PREFACE.
istic Fate. Besides which, the Divine Fate is also
bipartite: some Theists supposing God, both to
decree and do all things in us (evil as well as
good), or by his immediate influence to determinate
all actions, and so make them alike necessary to
us. From whence it follows, that his will is no
way regulated or determined by any essential and
immutable goodness and justice; or that he hath
nothing of morality in his nature, he being only
Arbitrary will omnipotent. As also that all good
and evil moral, to us creatures, are mere thetical
or positive things; vofitp, and not fvau, by law or
command only, and not by nature. This there-
fore may be called the Divine Fate immoral, and
violent. Again, there being other Divine fatalists,
who acknowledge such a Deity, as both suffers
Other things, besides itself, to act, and hath an
essential goodness and justice in its nature, and
consequently, that there are things* just and un­
just to us naturally, and not by law and arbitrary
constitution only; and yet nevertheless take away
from men all such liberty as might make them
capable of praise and dispraise, rewards and pu­
nishments, and objects of distributive justice;
they conceiving necessity to be intrinsical to the
nature of every thing, in the actings of it, and
nothing of contingency to be found any where;
from whence it will follow, that nothing could
possibly have been Otherwise, in the whole world,
than it is. And this may be called the Divine
Fate moral (as the other immoral) and natural (as
the other violent); it being a concatenation, or
implexed series of causes, all in themselves ne­
cessary, depending upon a Deity moral (if we
may so speak).; that is, such as is essentially good,
PREFACE. 45
and naturally just, as the head thereof; the first
contriver and orderer of all. Which kind of Di­
vine Fate hath not only been formerly asserted by
the Stoics, but also of late by divers modern
writers. Wherefore, of the three fatalisms, or
false hypotheses of the universe, mentioned in
the beginning of this book, one is absolute Athet
ism, another immoral Theism, or religion without
any natural justice and morality (all just and un­
just, according to this hypothesis, being mere the-
tical or factitious things, made by arbitrary will
and command only); the third and last, such a
Theism, as acknowledges not only a God, or om­
nipotent understanding Being, but also natiiral
justice and morality, founded in him, and derived
from him; nevertheless no liberty from necessity
anywhere, and therefore no distributive or re­
tributive justice in the world. Whereas these
three things are (as we conceive) the fundamentals
or essentials of true religion. First, that all things
in the world do not float without a head and go­
vernor; but that there is a God, an omnipotent
understanding Being, presiding over all. Second­
ly, that this God, being essentially good and just*
there is Ka\ov kat Sucaiov, something in its own
nature immutably and eternally just and unjust';
and not by arbitrary will, law, and command
only. And, lastly, that there is something <y
dr, that we are so far forth principles or masters
of our own actions, as to be accountable to jus­
tice for them, or to make us guilty and blame­
worthy for what we do amiss, and to deserve pu­
nishment accordingly. Which three fundamentals
of religion are intimated by the author to the
Hebrews in these words:—“ He that cometh to
A(i PREFACE.
God must believe that he is, and that he is a re­
warder of those who seek him out.” For to seek
put God here, is nothing else but to seek a parti­
cipation of his image, or the recovery of that
nature and life of his which we have been alienat­
ed from. And these three things, namely, that
all things do not float without a head and go­
vernor, but there is an omnipotent understanding
Being presiding over all; that this God hath an
essential goodness and justice; and that the dif­
ferences of good and evil moral, honest and dis­
honest, are not by mere will and law only, but
by nature; and consequently, that the Deity can­
not act, influence, and necessitate men to such
things as are in their own nature evil; and, lastly,,
that necessity is not intrinsical to the nature of
every thing, but that men have such a liberty or
power over their own actions, as may render them
accountable for the same, and blameworthy when
they do amiss; and, consequently, that there is a
justice distributive of rewards and punishments
running through the world: I say, these three
(which are the most important things that the
mind of man can employ itself upon), taken all to­
gether, make up the wholeness and entireness of
thatwhich ishere called byus the True Intellectual
System ofthe Universe, in such a sense as Atheism
may be called a false system thereof; the word
Intellectual being added, to distinguish it from
the other, vulgarly so called, Systems of the
World (that is, the visible and corporeal world),
the Ptolemaic, Tychonic, and Copernican; the
two former of which are now commonly account­
ed false, the latter true. And thus our prospect
being now enlarged into a threefold fatalism, or
PREFACE. 47
spurious and false hypothesis of the intellectual
system, making all things necessary upon several
grounds ; we accordingly designed the confuta­
tion of them all, in three several books. The'
first, against Atheism (which is. the Democritic
Fate), whereinall the reason and philosophy there­
of is refelled, and the existence of a God demon­
strated j and so that vX
uci)dvdyiaj, or material ne­
cessity of all things, overthrown. The second, for
such a God, as is not mere arbitrary will omnipo­
tent, decreeing, doing, and necessitating all ac­
tions, evil as well as good, but essentially moral,
good, and just; and for a natural discrimen ho-
nestorum et turpium, whereby another ground of
the necessity of all human actions will be re­
moved. And the third and last, against necessity
intrinsical and essential to all action, and for such
a liberty, or sui-potestas, in rational creatures, as
may render them accountable, capable of rewards
and punishments, and so objects of distributive or
retributive justice; by which the now only re-'
maining ground, of the fatal necessity of all ac­
tions and events, will be taken away. And all
these three under that one general title of the
True Intellectual System of the Universe; each ’
book having, besides, its own particular title: as,'
against Atheism; for natural justice and morality,
founded in the Deity; for liberty from necessity,
and a distributive justice of rewards and punish­
ments in the world. And this we conceive may;
fully satisfy, concerning our general title, all those
who are not extremely critical or captious, at least
as many of them as ever heard of the astronomi-;
cal systems of the world; so that they will not
think us hereby obliged to treat of the hierarchy
PREFACE.
48
of..angels, and of all the several species of ani­
mals, vegetables, minerals, &c.; that is, to write
de omm ente, of whatsoever is contained within
the complexion ofthe universe. .Though thewhole
scale of entity is here also taken notice of; and
the general ranks of substantial beings, below the
Deity (or trinity of Divinehypostases) considered;
which yet, according to our philosophy, are but
two; souls of several degrees (angels themselves
being included within that number), and body or
matter; as- also the immortality of those souls
proved : which notwithstanding is suggested by
us, only to satisfy some men’s curiosity. Never­
theless, we confess, that this general title might
well have been here spared by us, and this volume
have been presented to the reader’s view, not as a
part or piece, but a whole complete and entire
thing by itself, had it not been for two reasons;
first, our beginning with those three fatalisms, or
false hypotheses of the Intellectual System, and
promising a confutation of them all then, when
we thought to have brought them within the com­
pass of one volume; and secondly, every other
page, throughout this whole volume, accordingly
bearing the inscription of book the first upon the
head thereof. This is therefore that, which, in
the first place, we here apologize for our publish­
ing one part or book alone by itself, we being
surprised in the length thereof; whereas we had
intended two more along with it. Notwithstand­
ing which, there is no reason why this volume
should be therefore thought imperfect and incom­
plete, because it hath not all the three things at
first designed us; it containing all that belongeth
to its own particular title and subject, and being
PREFACE. 49
in that respect no piece, but a whole. This in*
deed must needs beget an expectation of the two
following treatises (especially in such as shall
have received any satisfaction from this first), con­
cerning those two other fatalisms, or false hypo­
theses mentioned, to make up our wholes Intel­
lectual System complete; the one to prove, that
God is not mere arbitrary will omnipotent, (with­
out any essential goodness and justice) decreeing
and doing all things in the world, as well evil as
good, and thereby making them alike necessary
to n s; from whence it would follow, that all good
and evil moral are mere thetical, positive, and ar­
bitrary things; that is, not nature, but will: which
is the defence of natural, eternal, immutable jus­
tice or morality. The other, that necessity is not
intrinsical to the nature of every thing, God and
all creatures, or essential to all action; but, that
there is something if n/uv, or that we have sonfe
liberty or power over our own actions: which is
the defence of a distributive or retributive justice,
dispensing rewards and punishments throughout
the whole world. Wherefore we think fit here to
advertise the reader concerning these, that though
they were and still are, really intended by tis, yet
the complete finishing and publication of them
will notwithstanding depend upon many contin­
gencies ; not only of our life and health, the lat­
ter of which, as well as the former, is to us 'very
uncertain ; but also of our leisure, or vacancy from
other necessary employments.
In the next place, we must apologize also for
the fourth Chapter; inasmuch as though, in regard
of its length, it might rather be called a book,
than a chapter, yet it doth notanswer all the con-
PREFACE.
. 60
tents prefixed to it. Here therefore must we again
confess ourselves surprised, who, when we wrote
those contents, did not suspect in the least, but
that we should have satisfied them all within a
lesser compass. And our design then was, be­
sides answering the objection against the natu-
rality of the idea of God, from the Pagan Poly­
theism (we having then so fit an occasion), to give
such a further account of the idolatry and reli­
gion of the Gentiles, as might prepare our way
for a defence of Christianity, to be subjoined in
the close; it beiug not only agreeable to the sense
of ancient doctors, but also expressly declared in
the Scripture, that one design of Christianity was
to abolish and extirpate, the Pagan Polytheism
and idolatry. And our reasons for this intended
defence of Christianity were, first, because we
had observed, that some professed opposers of
Atheism had either incurred a suspicion, or at
least suffered under the imputation of being mfere
Theists, or natural religionists only, and no hearty
believers of Christianity, or friends to revealed
religion. From which either suspicion or impu­
tation therefore we thought it justice to free our­
selves, we having so unshaken a belief and firm
assurance of the truth of the whole Christian doc­
trine. But, secondly, and principally, because we
' had further observed it to have been the method
of our modern Atheists, to make their first assault
against Christianity, as thinking that to be the
most vulnerable: and that it would be an easy
step for them, from thence, to demolish all reli­
gion and Theism. However, since the satisfying
the former part of those contents had already
taken up so much room, that the pursuit of the
PREFACE. 61
remainder would have quite excluded our princi­
pally-intended' confutation of all the atheistic
grounds; the forementioned objection being now
sufficiently answered, there was a necessity, that
we should there break off, and leave the further
account of the Pagan idolatry and religion, toge­
ther with our defence of Christianity, to some
other more convenient opportunity.
And now we shall exhibit to the reader’s view
a brief and general synopsis of the whole follow­
ing work, together with some particular reflec­
tions upon several parts thereof, either for his
better information concerning them, or for their
vindication ; some of which, therefore, will be of
greater use, after the book has been read, thaiu
before. The first chapter is an account of the
Atomic physiology, as made the foundation of
the Democritic Fate: where the reader is to un­
derstand, that this Democritic Fate, which is one
of the three false hypotheses of the Intellectual
System, there mentioned, is the very self-same
thing wih the Atomic Atheism, the only form of
Atheism, that hath publicly appeared upon the
stage, as an entire philosophic system, or hath
indeed been much taken notice of in the world
for these two thousand years past. For, though
it be true, that Epicurus, (who was also an Ato­
mic Atheist, as is afterwards declared/having, ini
all probability, therefore a mind to innovate some­
thing, that he might not seem to have borrowed
all from Democritus,) did by violence introduce
liberty of will into his hypothesis; for the solving
whereof, he ridiculously devised, that his thiFd
motion of Atoms, called by Lucretius-—
--------Exiguum Clinamen Priucipiorum;
PREFACE.
52
Yet was this, as Cicero* long since observed, a
most heterogeneous patch, or assumenlum of his,
aud altogether as contradictious to the tenor of
his own principles, as it was to the doctrine of
Democritus himself. There can be nothing more
absurd, than for an Atheist to assert liberty of
will; but, it is most of.all absurd, for an Atomic
one. And, therefore, our modern Atheists do
here plainly disclaim Epicurus, (though otherwise
so much admired by them,) and declare open war
against this liberty of will; they apprehending,
that it would unavoidably introduce incorporeal,
substance; as also well knowing, that necessity,
on the contrary, effectually overthrows all reli­
gion, it taking away guilt and blame, punish­
ments. and rewards; to which might be added
also prayers and devotions.
And as there was a necessity for us here, to
give some account of that ancient Atomic physio-
logy, with which Atheism now became thus blend­
ed arid complicated; so do we, in this first chap­
ter, chiefly insist upon two things concerning it.
First, that it Was no invention of Democritus nor
Leucippus, but of much greater antiquity; not
only from that tradition transmitted by Posido­
nius, the Stoic, that it derived its original from one
Moschus, a Phoenician, who lived before the Tro­
jan wars, (which plainly makes it to have been
Mosaical;) but also from Aristotle’s affirmation,
that the greater part of the ancient philosophers
entertained this hypothesis; and further, because
it is certain, that divers of the Italics, and parti­
cularly Empedocles, before Democritus, physio-
logized atomically, which is the reason he was so
)
* De Nat. Dcor. I. i. c. 25.
JMtEFACk 53
Much applauded by Lucretius. Besides which,
it is more than a presumption, that Anaxagoras
his HonKBomery, or similar Atomology, was but
a degeneration from the true and genuine Atomo­
logy of the acient Italics, that was an Anomceo-
mery, or doctrine of dissimilar and unqualified
atoms. Wherefore all that is true concerning
Democritus and Leucippus, is only this, that
these men were indeed the first atheizere of this
ancient Atomic physiology, or the inventors and
broachers of the Atomic Atheism. Which is Laer*
tins his true meaning, (though it be not commonly
understood,) when he recordeth ofthem, that they
were the first, who made unqualified atoms the
principles of all things in the universe without ex­
ception ; that is, not only of inanimate bodies, (as
the other ancient religious Atomists, the Italics*
before had done,) but also of soul and niind.
And whereas, we conceive this Atomic physio*
logy, as to the essentials thereof, to be unquest­
ionably true, viz.—That the only principles of
bodies are magnitude; figure, sight, motion, and
rest; and that the qualities and forms of inani­
mate bodies are really nothing, but several com­
binations of these; causing several fancies in u s;
(which excellent discovery, therefore, so long ago
made, is a notable instance of the wit and sagacity
of the ancients;) so do we in the next place make
it manifest, that this Atomic physiology, rightly
understood, is so far from being either the'mo*
ther of nurse of Atheism, or any-ways favourable
thereunto, (as is vulgarly supposed) that it is in­
deed the most directly opposite to it of any, and
the greatest defence against the same. For, first,
we have discovered, that the principle, upon
VOL. 1 . e •
PREPACK.
64
which this Atomology is founded, and from
whence it sprung, was no other than this, nothing
out of nothing, in the true sense thereof; or, that
nothing can be caused by nothing; from whence
it was concluded, that in natural generations
there was no new real entity produced, which
was not before: the genuine consequence whereof
was two-fold; that the qualities and forms of in*
animate bodies are no entities really distiuct from
the magnitude, figure, sight and motion of parts;
and that souls.are substances incorporeal, not ge­
nerated out of matter. Where we hare shewed,
that the Pythagoric doctrine, of the pre-exist­
ence of souls, was founded upon the very same
principles with the Atomic physiology. And it is
from this very principle, rightly understood, that
ourselves afterwards undertake to demonstrate
the absolute impossibility of all Atheism. More­
over, we have made it undeniably evident, that the
intrinsic constitution of this Atomic physiology
also is such, as that whosoever admits it, and
rightly understands it, must needs acknowledge
incorporeal substance; which is the absoluteover-
throw of Atheism. And from hence alone it is
certain to us, without any testimonies from anti­
quity, that Democritus and Leucippus could not
possibly be the first inventors of this philosophy,
they either not rightly understanding it, or else
wilfully depraving the same; and theAtomic Athe­
ism being really nothingelse, but a rape committed
upon the Atomic physiology. For which reason,
we do by no means here applaud Plato, nor Aris­
totle, in their rejecting this most-ancient Atomic
physiology, aud introducing again, that unintelli­
gible first matter, and those exploded qualities
P itt FACE. H6
and forms, into philosophy. For though this were
probably done by Plato, out of a disgust and pre­
judice against the Atomic Atheists, which made
him not so well consider nor understand that
physiology; yet Was he much disappointed of his
expectation herein, that atomology, which he ex­
ploded, (rightly understood,) being really the
greatest bulwark against Atheism; and, on the
contrary, those forms and qualities, which he es­
poused, the natural seed thereof, they, besides
their unintelligible darkness, bringing something
out of nothing, in the impossible sense; which we
shew to be the inlet of all Atheism. And thus, in
"this first chapter, have we not only quite disarmed
Atheism of Atomicism, or shewed, that the latter,
(rightly understood) affordeth no manner of shel­
ter or protection to the former; but also made it
manifest, that it is the greatest bulwark and de­
fence against the same; which is a thing after­
wards further insisted on.
As to the second chapter, we have no more to
say, but only this; that here we took the liberty to
Reveal the arcana mysteries ofAtheism, and to dis­
cover all its pretended grounds of reason, that
'we could find any where suggested in writings,
,those only excepted, that are peculiar tothe Hy-
lozoic.form (which is directly contrary to the
Atomic), and that to their best advantage too;
.‘
nevertheless to this end, that these being after­
wards all baffled and confuted, Theism might, by
this means, obtain the greater and juster triumph
-otter Atheism. .
~ In the third chapter, we thought it necessary,
in order to'a fuller confutation ofAtheism, to con­
sider all the other forms thereof, besides the Atb-
e 2
.PBBFyfGE.
58
miov And here do we, first of all, make a dim
coveryof a certain form of Atheism, never before
taken notice of by any modern writers, which
We call the Hylozoic: which', notwithstanding1
,
though it were long since started by Strato, in
way of opposition to the Democritic and Epicu­
rean hypothesis, yet because it afterwards slept in
perfect silence and oblivion, should have been
here by us passed by silently, had we not had
certain knowledge of-its being of late awakened
and revived by some, who were so sagacious, as
plainly to perceive, that the Atomic form could
■ever do their business, nor prove defensible, arid
iherefoie would attempt to carry on this cause of
Atheism, in quite a different way, by the life and
perception of matter; as also that this, iuaU'pro-
Jbability; would, ere long, publicly appear upon
the stage, though not bare-faced, brit under a dis-
-guise. Which Atheistic hypothesis is partly con­
futed by us, in the close.of this chapter, and partly
«ft the fifth.
’ <! In the next place, it being certairi, that there
•had;been other philosophic Atheists in the world
before those Atomics, Epicurus and Democri-
.tua; we declare, out of Plato and Aristotle, >what
that inost ancient Atheistic hypothesis was-;
namely, the education of all things, even life and
understanding itself, out of matter, hr the way Of
.qualities, or as the passions and affections thereof,
geperable and corruptible. Which form of Athe­
ism is styled by us, not only Hylbpathran, hut also
Anaximandrian; however, we grant some,proba­
bility of that opinion, that Anaximander'held an
Hpmceomery of qualified atoms, as Anaxagoras
ulterw/trds did; the difference between, them
p r e f a c e . *7
being only this, that the latter asserted an unmade
mind, whereas, the former.generated all mipd and
understanding out qf those qualified atoni$, hqjt
and cold, moist and dry, compounded together];
because we judged this difference,pot tp be a sqf-
ficient ground to multiply forms of Atheism upon.
And here do we give notice of that strange kind
of religious Atheism, or Atheistic Theogopism,
which asserted, not only other understanding
beings, superior to men, called by them gods, but
also, amongst those, one Supreme or Jupiter too*;
nevertheless native, and generated at first out-flf
night and chaos (that is, senseless matter), as also
mortal and corruptible again into the same.
. Besides which, there is yet a fourth Atheistip
form taken notice of, out of the:writings of the
ancients, (though perhaps junior to the rest, ^
seemingto be but the corruption and degeneration
of Stoicism) which concluded the whole world*
not to be an animal (as the. Pagan Theists then ge­
nerally supposed), but only one hqge plant or ve­
getable, having an artificial, plantal, and plastic
nature, as its highest principle, orderly disposing
the whole, without any mind or understanding.
And here have we set down the agreement of aty
the Atheistic forms (however differing so much
from one another), in this one general principle,
j»iz.-r—
That all animality, conscious life and nn-
.derstanding, is generated out of senseless matter,
and cbrruptible agaiu into it_
,: Wherefore, in the close of this third chaptertwe
insist largely upon an artificial, regular, and plas­
tic nature, devoid of express knowledge and un­
derstanding, as subordinate-to the Deity; chiefly
jO’way of confutation of those Cosinorpiastie aqjd
PREFACE.
58
Hylozoic Atheisms. Though we had a farther
design herein also, for the defence of Theism; for­
asmuch as without such a nature, either God must
be snpposed to do all things in the world immedi­
ately, and to form every gnat and fly, as it were,
with his own hands; which seemeth not so be­
coming of him, and would render his providence,
to human, apprehensions, laborious and distrac­
tions; or else the whole system of this corporeal
universe must resultonly from for tuitous median- .
ism, without the direction of any mind ; which
hypothesis once admitted, would unquestionably,
by degrees, supplant and undermine all Theism.
And now, from what we have declared, it may
plainly appear, that this digression of our’s, con­
cerning an artificial, regular, and plastic nature,
(subordinate to the Deity) is no wen, or excres-
cency in the body ofthis book; but a natural and
necessary member thereof.
In the fourth chapter, after the idea of God
folly declared, (where we could not omit his es­
sential goodness and justice,* or, if we may so call
it* the morality of the Deity, though that be a thing
properly belonging to the second book, the confu­
tation of the Divine Fate immoral) there is a large
account given of the Pagan Polytheism;to satisfy
a very considerable objection, that lay in our way
from thence, against the naturality of the idea of
God, as including onelihess and singularity in it.
For had that, upon inquiry, been fpund tnfe,
Which is so commonly taken for granted, that the
generality of the Pagan nations had constantly
scattered their devotions amongst a multitude of
self-existent and independent deities, they ac­
knowledging no sovereign Numen; this would
PREFACE* 59
much have stumbled the naturality of the Divine
idea. But now it being, on the contrary, clearly
proved, that the Pagan theologers all along ac­
knowledged one sovereign and omnipotent Deity,
from which all their other gods were generated or
created; we have thereby not only removed the
forementioned objection out of the way, but also
evidced, that the generality of mankind have con­
stantly had a certain prolepsis or anticipation in
their minds, concerning the actual existence of a
God, according to the true idea ofhim. And this,
was the rather done fully and carefully by us, be­
cause we. had not met with it sufficiently per­
formed before; A. Steuchus Eugubiuus having
laboured most in this subject, from whose profit­
able industry, though we shall no way detract, yet
whosoever will compare what he hath written
with our’s, will find no just cause to think our’s
superfluous and unnecessary, much less, a tran­
scription out of his. In which, besides other
things, there is no account at all given of the many
.Pagan, poetical, and political gods, what they
were; which is so great a part of our perform­
ance, to prove them really to have been but the
polyonymy of one God. From whence it follows,
also, that the Fagan religion, though sufficiently
faulty, yet was not altogether so nonsensical, as
the Atheists would represent it, out of design, that
they might from thence infer all religion to be no-
thiug but a mere cheat and imposture; they wor­
shipping only one Supreme God, in the several
manifestations of his goodnes^, power, and pro­
vidence throughout the world, together with his
inferior ministers. Nevertheless, we cannot deny,
that beingopceengaged in tips subject, we thought
CO PREFACB.
ourselves the more concerned to do the business
thoroughly and effectually, because of that con­
troversy lately-agitated (concerning idolatry (which
cannot otherwise be decided, than by giving a true
account of -the Paganreligion), and the so confi- .
dent affirmations of .some, that none could possi­
bly: be guilty of idolatry, in the scripture sense;
who believed one .God, the creator of-the whole
Worldwhereas it is most certain, on the contrary,
that the Pagan Polytheisrp and idolatry consisted,
not in.worshipping many creators, or uncreateds,
but in giving religious worship to creatures, be-
-sides the Creator; they directing their devotion,
(as. Athanasius* plainly affirmeth of them,) svl
aytv^rqt, km7roX
X
otc -ysvtjroiC
) to one uncreated only ;
but, besides him, to many created gods. But as
ior the polemic management of Ibis controversy,
concerning idolatry, we leave it to other learned
-hands, that are already engaged in it.
Moreover, we have, in this fourth chapter,
.largely insisted also upon the Triuity. The rea­
son whereof was, because it came in our way,,
-and our contents engaged us thereunto, in order
to the giving a full account of the Pagan theology,
.it being certain, that the Platonics and Pythago­
reans, at least, if not other Pagans also, had their
trinity, as well as Christians. And we could
.not well avoid the comparing of these two toge­
ther: upon which occasion, we take notice of a
double Platonic trinity ; the one spurious and
adulterated, of some lattejr Platonists; the other
trqe and genuine, of Plato himself, Parmenides,
and the ancients.. The former of which, though
it be opposed by us to the Christian trinity, and
• ‘ . \
, .. ' • • Oratione TV; contra Arianos T; L Opcrum, p*460i
i
PREFACE. e*
confuted, yet betwixt the latter and that, do
we find a wonderful.correspondence; which is
largely pursued iq the Platonic Christian apology.
Wherein, notwithstanding, nothing must be look­
ed upon, as dogmatically asserted by us, butoply
offered., and submitted to the jqdgment of the
learned in these matters; we confining ourselves
•in this mysterious point of the boly trinity,
Within the compass of those its three essentials
declaredrF irst, that it is not a trinity of roerfe
names and words, or of logical notions only ;,bfi£
of persons or hypostases.—Secondly, that none of
those persons or hypostases are creatures, but all
uncreated.—And, lastly, that they are all three,
truly and really one God. Nevertheless we ao>
knowledge, that we did therefore the more copi­
ously insist upon this argument, because of our
-then designed defence of Christianity; we con­
caving, that this parallelism, betwixt the ancient
•or genuine Platonic, and the Christian trinity,
might be of seme use to satisfy those amongst us,
who boggle so much at the trinity, and Look
upon it as the choak-pear of Christianity; when
they shall .find, that the freest wits -amongst the
Pagans, and the best philosophers, who had nq-
thing of superstition to determine them that way,
were so far from being shy of such an hypothesis,
as that they were even fond thereof. 'And that
the Pagans had indeed such a Cabala amongst
them (which some perhaps will yet hardly be­
lieve, notwithstanding all that we have said),
might be further convinced, from that memorable
relation in Plutarch,“of Thespesius Solensis, who,
*Libro de his, qui sero k Numiue puniuntur, tom. ii. Oper. p;563. i.
PREFACE.
482
after he had been looked upon as dead for three
days, reviving, affirmed, amongst other things,
•which he thought he saw or heard in the mean
time in his ecstasy, this of three gods in the form
ofa triangle, pouring in streams into one another<
;
Orpheus his soul,being said to have arrived so far1
;
accordingly as from the testimonies ofother Pagan
writers we have proved, that a trinity of Divine
hypostases was a part of the Orphic Cabala.
True, indeecU our belief of the holy trinity is
founded upon no Pagan Cabala, but only Scrip­
ture revelation; it being that, which Christians
-are, or should be, all baptized into. Nevertheless
these things are reasonably noted by us to this
end, that that should not be made a prejudice
-against Christianity and revealed religion, nor
looked upon as such an affrightful bugbear or
mormo in it, which even Pagan philosophers them­
selves, and those of the most accomplished intel­
lectuals, and uncaptivated minds, though having
neither councils, nor creeds, nor Scriptures, had
so great a propensity and readiness to entertain,
■and such a veneration for.
-In this fourth chapter, we were necessitated,
by the matter itself, to run out into philology and
-antiquity ; as also in the other parts of the book,
we do often give an account of the doctrine of the
ancients ; which, however, some over-severe phi­
losophers may look upon fastidiously, or under­
value and depreciate, yet as we conceived it often
necessary, so possibly may the variety thereof not
be ungrateful to others; and this mixture of phi­
lology, throughout the whole, sweeten and allay
the severity of philosophy to them; the main
thing, which the book pretends to, in the mean
PREPACK. 63
time, being tbe philosophy of religion. But, for
•n r parts, we neither call philology, nor yet phi­
losophy, our mistress; but serve ourselves of
either, as occasion requireth.
As for tbe last chapter, though it promise only
a confutation of all the Atheistic grounds, yet we
do therein also demonstrate the absolute impossi­
bility of. all Atheism, and tbe actual existence of
a God. We say demonstrate, not dpriori, which
is impossible and contradictious; but by neces­
sary inference from principles altogether undeni­
able. For we can by no means grant to the Athe­
ists, that there is no more than a probable per­
suasion oropinion to. be had of the existence of
a God, without any certain knowledge or science.
Nevertheless, it will not follow from hence, that
whosoever shall.read these demonstrations pf
our’s, and understand all the words of them, must
therefore of necessity be presedtly convinced;
whether he will or no, and put out of all manner
of doubt or hesitancy, concerning the existence
of a God. For we believe that to be true, which
some have affirmed, that were there any interest
of life, any concernment of appetite and passion,
against the truth of geometrical theorems them­
selves, as of a triangle having three angles equal
to two right, whereby men’s judgments may be
clouded and bribed, notwithstanding all the de­
monstrations of them, many would remain at least
sceptical about them. Wherefore mere specula^
tion, and dry mathematical reason, in minds un­
purified, and having a contrary interest of carnal­
ity,. and a heavy load of infidelity and distrust
sinking them down, cannot alone beget an un­
shaken confidence and assurance of so high a
64 PREFACE-,
troth ad this, the existence of one perfect under­
standing Being, the original of all things* As it
is certain, also, on the contrary, that minds cleans­
ed and purged from vice may* without syllogistical
reasonings, and mathematical demonstrations,
have an undoubted assurance 6f the existence of
41 God, according to that of the philosopher,
if.Kofiapcric 7
T
O
(6
ttv yvwaurtyvapioruwElvai, Purity pos­
sesses men with an assurance of the best things
-whether this assurance be called a vaticination or
Divine sagacity (as it is by Plato and Aristotle),
or faith, as in the Scripture. For the Scripture
faith is not a mere believing of historical things,
and upon inartificial arguments or testimonies
only; but a certain higher and Divine power in the
soul, that peculiarly correspondeth with the Dei­
ty. Notwithstanding which, knowledge or sci­
ence added to this faiths according to the Scripture
advice, will make it more firm and stedfhst, and
-the better able to resist those assaults of sophis­
tical reasonings, that shall be made against it*
; In this fifth chapter, as sometimes elsewhere,
!we thought ourselves concerned, in defence of the
Divine wisdom, goodness, and perfection against
Atheists, to maintain (with all the ancient philoso­
phic Theists) the perfection of the creation also;
or, that the whole system of things, taken altoge?
ther, could not have been better made and ordered
than it is. And, indeed, this Divine goodness and
perfection, as displaying and manifesting itself in
the works of nature and providence, is supposed
in Scripture to be the very foundation of our
Christian faith; when that is defined to be the sub­
stance and evidence rerwn sperandarum; that is,
of whatsoeveris (by a good man) to behoped for.-r-*-
PREFACE* 65 ,
Notwithstanding which, it was far from our inten­
tion therefore to conclude,'that nothing neither ini
Nature nor Providence could be otherwise than it
is 5 or that there is nothing left to the free will
and choice of the Deity. And though we do, in
the third section, insist largely upon that ancient
Pythagoric Cabala, that souls are always united
io some body or other, as also, that all rational
and' intellectual creatures consist of soul and
body; and suggest several things from reason and
Christian antiquity in favour of them both; yet
would we not be understood to dogmatize in
either of them, but to submit all to better judg­
ments.
• Again, weshall here advertise the reader (though
We have cautioned concerning it in the book it­
self). that in our defence of incorporeal substance
against the Atheists, however we thought our­
selves concerned to saythe utmostthat possibly we
could, in way of vindication of the ancients, who
,generally maintained it to be unextended (which
to some seems an absolute impossibility); yet we
would not be supposed ourselves dogmatically to
assert any more in this point than what all incor-
porealists agree io, that there' is a substance spe­
cifically distinct from body; namely, such as con­
sisted not of parts separable from one another,
ind which can penetrate body, and lastly, is self
active, and hath an internal energy, distinct from
that of-local motion. And thus much is undeni­
ably evinced by the arguments before proposed;
But whether this substance be altogether unex-
tended, or extended otherwise than body, we
shall leave every man to make his own judgment
concerning it.
6 6 PREFACE. *
Furthermore, we think fit here to suggest, that
whereas throughout this chapter and whole hook,
we constantly oppose the generation of souls, that
is, the production of life, cogitation, and under­
standing, out of dead and senseless matter; and
assert all souls to be as substantial as matter it­
self: this is not done by us, out of any fond ad­
dictedness to Pythagoric whiraseys, nor indeed
Out ofa merepartial regard to that cause ofTheism
neither, which we were engaged iu (though we
had great reason to be tender of that too); but
because we were enforced thereunto, by dry ma­
thematical reason; it being as certain to us, as
any thing in all geometry, that cogitation and un­
derstanding can never possibly result out of mag­
nitudes, figures, sites, and local motions (which is
all that ourselves can allow to body) however
compounded together. Nor indeed in that other
way of qualities, is it better conceivable how they
should emerge out of hot and Cold> moist and
dry, thick and thin; according to the Anaximan-
drian Atheism. And they who can persuade
themselves of the contrary, may believe, that any
thing may be caused by any thing; upon which
supposition we confess it impossible to us to
prove the existence of a God from the phenomena.
.. In the close of this fifth chapter, because the
Atheists do in the last place pretend, Theism and
religion to be inconsistent with civil sovereignty,
W
© were necessitated briefly to unravel and con*
,fute all the Atheistic ethics and politics (though
this more properly belong to our second book iu*
tended); where we make it plainly to appear, that
the Atheists artificial and factitious justice id no­
thing but will and words; and that they give to
PREFACE. w.
civil sovereigns no right nor authority at all, but
only belluine liberty and brutish force. But, «n
the contrary, as we assert justice and obligation,
not made by law and commands, but in nature/
and prove this, together with conscience and re*,
ligion, to be the only basis of civil authority, so.
do we also maintain all the rights of civil sove­
reigns ; giving both to Caesar the things that are-
Caesar’s, and to God the things that are God’s. .
. And now, having made ail our apologies and.
reflections, we have no more .to add, but only the.
retractationor retraction ofonepassage (Chap. V.)
where mentioning that opinion.ofa modern Athe­
istic writer, that cogitation is nothing else but
local motion, we could not think Epicurus and
Democritus to have-sunk to such a degree, either
of sottishness or impudence, as this; whereas we
found cause afterwards, upon further consider­
ation, to change our opinion herein. Foras­
much as when Epicurus derived liberty of will in.
men, merely from that motion of senseless atoms
declining uncertainly from the perpendicular; it.
is evident, that, according to him, volition itself
must be really local motion. As indeed in the.
Democritic fate, and material necessity of all
things, it is implied, that human cogitations are
but mechanism and motion. Notwithstanding,
which, both Democritus and Epicurus supposed
that the world was made without cogitation^
though by local motiop. So that the meaning of
these besotted Atheists (if at least they had any,
meaning) seems to have been this, that all cogita­
tion is really nothing else but local motion; ne­
vertheless all motion not cogitation, but only in
08 PREFACE.
sue!) and such circumstances, or in bodies so mo-'
dified.
And now we are not ignorant, that some will
be ready to condemn this whole labour of our’s,
and of others in this kind, against Atheism, as
altogether useless and superfluous; upon this pre­
tence, that an Atheist is a mere chimera, and there
ft no such a thing any where to be found in the'
world. And indeed we could heartily wish, upon
that condition, that all this labour of our’s were
superfluous and useless. But as to Atheists, these
so confident exploders of them are both unskilled
itfthe monuments of antiquity, and unacquainted
with the present age they live in; others having
found too great an assurance, from their own per­
sonal converse, of the reality of them. Never­
theless, this labour of our’s is not intended only
for the conversion of downright and professed
Atheists (of which there is but little hope, they
being sunk into so great a degree of sottishness),:
but for the confirmation of weak, staggering, and
sceptical Theists. And unless these exploders of
Atheists will affirm, also, that all men have con­
stantly an unshaken faith and belief of the ex­
istence of a God, without the least mixture of a
doubtful distrust or hesitancy (which, if it were
so, the. world could not possibly be so bad as now
it is), they must needs grant, such endeavours as
these, for the confirming and establishing Ofmen’s
minds in the belief of a God, by philosophic rea­
sons, in an age so philosophical, not to be super­
fluous and useless.
THE TRUE
I N T E L L E C T U A L S Y S T E M
or
THE UNIVERSE.
BOOK I.
C H A P T E R I,
1. Thefetal necessityofallhuman actions andcrestsmaintainedupon
‘three several grounds, which are so many false hypotheses of the
intellectual systemof the universe.—2. Concerning the mathema-
, ticalor astrological Fate.—3. Concerningtheopinionofthose, who
suppose aTate superior to the highest Deity.—L The moderation
ofthis discourse.—
6.TheAtheisticalhypothesisorDemocriticalFate
beingfounded upontheAtomical physiology: thenecessityofgiving
an account of it, and that first briefly described.—6. 1'he antiquity
of this physiology, and the account which is given of it by Aristo-
tie.—
47. A
*clear and full recordof the same physiology in Plato,
that hath not been taken notice of.—8* That neither Democritus,
norLeueippus,norProtagoras,noranyAtheists,werethe firstinvent­
ors of this philosophy; and of the necessity of beingthoroughlyac­
quainted withit, in order to the confutationof Atheism.—0. The
. tradition of Posidonius, the Stoic, that Moschus, an ancient Phoe­
nician,was thefirst inventorofthe Atomical physiology.—10. That
. thisMoschus, theinventor ofthe Atomicalphysiology,wasprobably
the same with Mochas, the physiologer, in Jamblichus, with whose
successors, priests, and prophets, Pythagorasconversed at Sidon.-—
II. Other probabilities forthis,that Pythagoraswasacquainted with
the Atomical physiology.—12. That Pythagoras’s Monads were
*
. Atoms.—13.‘Provedplainly, that Empedocles, who was aPythago­
rean, phyriologized atomically.—14. The same further convinced
frontPlato,Aristotle, Plutarch,andStobacus.—16. ThatAnaxagoras
was a spurious Atomist, or unskilful imitator of that philosophy.—
16. That Ecpbantus, the Pythagorean, Xenocrates, Heraclides,
Diodorus, dnd Metrodorus Chius, were all ancientassertors of the
VOL. I. F
70 THREE FATALISMS AND
Atomical physiology; together with Aristotle's testimony, that the
ancient physiologers generally went that way.—17. How Aristotle
is to be reconciled with himself, and the credit ofother writers to be
salved, who impute this philosophy to Leucippus and Democritus;
that they were the first Atheizers of it, or the foundersof that philoso­
phy, which is Atheistically Atomical.—18. That the Atomists, before
Democritus, were assertors of a Deity and substance incorporeal.—
19. A confutation of those neoterics, who deny that incorporeal
substance was ever asserted by any of the ancients, and the anti­
quity of that doctrine proved from Plato, who himself professedly
maintained it.—20. That Aristotle likewise asserted incorporeal
substance.—21. That Epicurus endeavoured to confute this opinion,
as that which Plato and others of the ancients had maintained.—
22. That all those philosophers, who held the immortality of the
soul, and a Deity distinct from the world, held incorporeal sub­
stance ; and that besidesThales, Pythagoras was a grand champion
for the same, who also asserted a Divine triad.—23. Pafmenidcs an
assertor ofincorporeal substance, together with all those, who main­
tained that all things did not flow, but something stand.—24. Em­
pedocles vindicated from being either an Atheist or Corporealist at
large.—25. Anaxagoras a plain assertor of incorporeal substance.—
26. Inferred thatthe ancient Atomists before Democritus were both
Theists and Incorporealists.—27. That there isnot only no inconsist­
ency between Atomologyand Theology, but also a natural cognation
provedfrom the origin of theAtomical physiology, and first a general
account thereof.—28. A more particular account ofthe origin of this
philosophy, from that principle of reason, That in nature, nothing
comes from nothing, nor goes to nothing.—29. That the same prin­
ciple, which made the ancients discard substantial forms and quali­
ties, made them also to assert incorporeal substance.—30. That from
the same ground of reason also they asserted the immortality of
souls.—31. That the doctrine of the pre-existence and transmigra­
tion of souls had its original from hence also.—32. Thatthe ancients
did not confine this to human souls only, but extend it to all souls
and lives whatsoever.—33. All this proved from Empedocles, who
' asserted the pre-existence as well as the post-existence of all souls
upon that ground.—34. A censure of this doctrine; that the reason
•of it is irrefragable for the post-eternity of all human souls; and
that the hypothesis of the creation of human souls, which salves
their immortality without pre-existence, is rational.—35. A new
hypothesis to salve the incorporeity of the souls of brutes, without
their post-existence and successive transmigrations.—36. That this
will not prejudice the immortality of human souls.—37. That the
Empedoclean hypothesis is more rational than the opinion of those,
that would make the souls of brutes corporeal.—38. That the con­
stitution of the Atomical physiology is such, that whosoever enter-
4aips it, and thoroughly understands it, must needs hold incorporeal
HYPOTHESES OF THE MUNDANE SY8TEM. 71
substance, in five particulars.—
39. Two general advantages of the
Atomical or mechanicalphysiology; first, that it renders the corpo­
real Worldintelligible.—
40. The secondadvantage ofit, that it pre­
pares an easy and clear way for the demonstration of incorporeal
substance.—41. Concluded, that the ancient Moschical philosophy
consisted oftwo parts, Atomical physiology, and theology orpneu-
matology.—42. That thisentire philosophywas afterwardsmangled
and dismembered, some taking one part of it alone, and some the
other.—43. That Leucippus andDemocritus, beingatheistically in­
clined, tookthe Atomical physiology, endeavouring to make it sub­
servient to Atheism; and uponwhat occasion they didit, and how
unsuccessfully.—44. That Plato took the theology and pneumato-
logyof the ancients, but rejected their Atomical physiology, and
upon what accounts.—45. That Aristotle followed Plato herein,
witha commendation ofAristotle’s philosophy.
T h e y , that hold the necessity of all human ac­
tions and events, do it upon one or other of
these two grounds—either because they suppose,
that necessity is inwardly essential to all agents
whatsoever, and that contingent liberty is irpaypa
awflwrarov, a thing impossible or contradictious,
which can have no existence any where in na­
ture ; the sense of which was thus expressed by
the Epicurean poet,*
-----Quod res qtusque Necessum
Intestinum habeat cunctisin rebusagendis, &c.
That every thing naturally labours under an in­
testine necessity:—or else, because, though they
admit contingent liberty not only as a thing possi­
ble, but also as that which is actually existent in
the Deity, yet they conceive all things to be so de­
termined by the will and decrees of this Deity, as
that they are thereby made necessary to us. The
former of these two opinions, that contingent li­
berty is irpayjua avwoararov, such a thing as can
have no existence in nature, may be maintained
a Lucret. lib. ii. v.289,&o.
F 2
72 THREE FATALISMS AND
upon two different grounds: either from such an
hypothesis as this, that the universe is nothing else
but body and local motion; and nothing moving
itself, the action of every agent is determined by
some other agent without it; and therefore that
v\ucv avdyici), material and mechanical necessity,
must needs reign over all things; or else, though
cogitative beings be supposed to have a certain
principle of activity within themselves, yet that
there can be no contingency in their actions, be­
cause all volitions are determined by a necessary
antecedent understanding.
Plotinus" makes another distribution of Fatal­
ists, which yet in the conclusion will come to the
same with the former; Sirrowc «v nj Q
ifuvog to
vto
vg
ovKavclToiaktfiovcairorvyyrdvoi, oifJivyapdip’tvocnvocx
<
*
xavraavaprwir»v, oiSi o
vkovfw"A mail, (saith he) will
not do amiss, that will divide all Fatalists first in­
to these two general heads, namely, that they de­
rive all things from one principle or not;—the
former of which may be called Divine Fatalists*
the latter Atheistical. Which Divine Fatalists he
again subdivides into such, as first make God by
immediate influence to dp all things in u s; as in
animals the members are not determined by them­
selves, but by that which is the hegemonic in
every one: and, secondly, such as make Fate to be
an implexed series or concatenation of causes, all
in themselves necessary, whereof God is the chief.
The former seems to be a description of that very
Fate, that is maintained by some neoteric Christ­
ians ; the latter is the Fate of the Stoics.
Wherefore Fatalists, that hold the necessity of
all human actions and events, may be reduced to
* Librode Fato, Ennead. iii. lib. i.c. 2. p. 230.
HYPOTHESES OF THE MUNDANE SYSTEM. 73
these three heads: first, such as, asserting the
Deity, suppose it irrespectively to decree and
determine all things, and thereby make all actions
necessary to u s; which kind of Fate, though phi­
losophers and other ancient writers have not been
altogether silent of it, yet it has been principally
maintained by some neoteric Christians, contrary
to the sense of the ancient church. Secondly, such
as suppose a Deity, that, acting wisely, but ne­
cessarily, did contrive the general frame of things
in the world; from whence, by a series of causes,
doth unavoidably result whatsoever is now done
in if: which Fate is a concatenation of causes, all
in themselves necessary, and is that which was
asserted by the ancient Stoics, Zeno and Chry-
sippus, whom the Jewish Essenes seemed to fol­
low. And, lastly, such as hold the material ne­
cessity of all things without a Deity ; which Fate
EpicurusaCalls Tt)v tw
v Q
vaucw
v fi/iap/ieviiv, the Fate
of the Naturalists—that is, indeed, the Atheists,
the assertors whereof may be called also the De-
mocritical Fatalists. Which three opinions con­
cerning Fate are so many several hypotheses of
the intellectual system of the universe: all which
we shall here propose, endeavouring to shew the
falseness of them, and then substitute the true
mundane system in the room of them.
i i . The mathematical or astrological Fate so
much talked of, as it is a thing no way consider­
able for the grounds of it, so whatsoever it be, it
must needs fall under one or other of those two.
general heads in the-Plotinical distribution last
mentioned, so as either to derive all things from.
>
4 Vide Epistol. Epicuri ad Menecoeum, apud Diogen. Laertium, lib
x. segtn. 134, p. 659, edit. Meibomii.
7 4 tH B MATHEMATICAL, OR
one principle, or not. It seems to have had its
first emersion amongst the Chaldeans from a cer­
tain kind of blind Polytheism (which is but a bet­
ter sort of disguised Atheism), but it was after­
wards adopted and fondly nursed by the Stoics,
in a way of subordination to their Divine Fate;
for Manilius, Firmicus, and other masters of that
sect, were great promoters of it. And there was
too much attributed to astrology also by those
that were no Fatalists, both Heathen and Christ­
ian philosophers, such as were Plotinus, Origeu,
Simplicius, and others; who, though they did not
make the stars to necessitate all human actions
here below, they supposed, that Divine Provi­
dence (foreknowing all things) had contrived such
a strange coincidence of the motions and confi­
gurations of the heavenly bodies with such ac­
tions here upon earth, as that the former might be
prognostics of the latter. Thus Origen* deter-
miues, that the stars do not make but signify;
and that the heavens are a kind of Divine volume,
in whose characters they that are skilled may
read or spell out human events. To the same pur­
pose, Plotinus,b<
t>
€pE
raif£vravraiirt owrqpta tw
v o
X
o
jv
,
irafiy^fffOat Si km aX
X
»jv ypttav rrjvrow sic aiira wairep
yfififtara fikeirovrag, Tovg roiavTi)V ypa/u/uarue>)v EiSoraf
avayivtooKtivto fitXXovra eic tw
v ay^rifiarutvKara to ava-
Xoyov /ueO
oSevovrag to at]fiM
vf>
fxtvov' woittp « Tig Xtyoi,
iirtiSi) v^qXoc opvtgaypalvti vxfiqX
acrivae npa^sig' The
motion of the stars vfras intended for the physical
good of the whole; but they afford also another
use collaterally in order to prognostication, name-
*Tide P. Dan. Huetium Origenianor. lib. ii. c. viii. sec. v. p. 129.
b Libro de Fato, Ennead. iii. lib. i. c. vi. p. 233. videas etiam Eu-
Head. ii. lib. iii. c. i. p. 137, et c. vii. p. 140,141.
ASTROLOGICAL'FATE. 76
ly, that they who are skilled in the grammar of
the heavens may be able, from the several confi­
gurations of the stars, as it were letters, to spell
out future events, by making such analogical in­
terpretations as they use to do in augury; as
when a bird flies high, to interpret this of some
high and noble exploit.—And Simplicius,* in like-
raanner, 2
,v/u
<
j>
w
vo
i;tcrrtv jj Ufiapfiivy 7rtp(^opdt
t
}irpoflqXri
tw
v ifyvy^w
v rtj tear aw
rijK Ipyrofitvri tig tjJv yivtoiv, o
vk
avayK
a'C
ovaa jutv ra<; rwvSt optytotiai rj rtU
vB
t, a
v
/n
<
p
(t>
v
o
Q
Si overarate ope^tatv avrwv. The fatal conversion of
the heavens is made to correspond with the pro­
duction of souls into generation at such and such
times, not necessitating them to will this or that,
but conspiring agreeably with s'udb appetites and
volitions of theirs.—And these philosophers were
the rather inclinable to this persuasion from a su­
perstitious conceit which they had, that the stars,
being animated, were intellectual beings of- a far
higher rank than men. And since God did not
make them, nor any thing else in the world,
singly for themselves alone, but also to contribute
to the public good of the universe, their physical
influence seeming inconsiderable, they knew not
well what else could be worthy of them, unless it
were to portend human events. This indeed is
the best sense that can be made of astrological
.prognostication ; but it is a business that stands
upon a very weak and tottering, if not impossible
foundation.
h i. There is another wild and extravagant con­
ceit, which some of the Pagans had, who, though
they verbally acknowledged a Deity, .yet sup-
* Comment, in Epictetum; c. i. p. 26, edit. Salmasii.
76 1 THE OPINION OF A PATE
poked a certain Fate superior to it, and not Only to
all their other petty gods, but also to Jupiterhim-
self. To which purpose is that of the Greek poet
Latined by Cicero,* “ Quod fore paratum est, id
summum exuperatJov e ma n d thatofHerodotus,b
T»fv irtirpofjulvqv p o ipav aSvvarov ‘
s«rrtv a i r o f v y l u v k m
Qup- It is impossible for God himselfto avoid the
destined Fate:—and SovXoc0«osavayicijc,c
Godhimself
is a servant of necessity.—According to which
conceit, Jupiter in Homer* laments his condition,
in that the Fates having determined, that his be­
loved Sarpedon should be slain by the son of
Mensetius, he was not able to withstand it.
Though all these passages may not perhaps imply
much more than what the Stoical hypothesis itself
imported; for that did also in some sense make
God himself a servant to the necessity of the
matter, and to his own decrees, in that heconld
not have made the smallest thing in the world
otherwise than now it is, much less was able to
alter any.thing: according to that of Seneca,*
“ Eadem necessitas et Deos allrgat. Irrevocabilis
divina pariter atque hurnana cursus vehit. Ille
ipse omnium conditor ac rector scripsit quidem
Fata, sed sequitur. Semper paret, semel jussit.”
One and the same chain of necessity ties God
and men. The same irrevocable and unalterable
course carries on Divine and human things. The
very maker and governor of all things, that writ
the fates, follows them. He did but once com-
» DeDivinat. lib. ii. c. x. p. 3196, edit.Yerburgii.
b Lib.i. c. xci. p. 38. ed. Gronovii.
c Tide Menandri et Philetnoiiis reiiquiasaJo. Clencoeditas,p.307.
d Iliad, 1. ft.
9 De Providentia, c. v. p. 195, edit. Jo. Fred.Gronovii.
SUPERIOR TO THE DEITY. 77
mand, bathe always obeys.—But if there were
this farther meaning in the passages before cited,
that a necessity without God, that was invincible
by him, did determine his will to all things; this
was nothing bat a certain confused and contradic-
tiousjumbleofAtheism and Theism both together;
or an odd kind of intimation, that however the
name of God be used in compliance with vulgar
speech and opinion, yet indeed it signifies no­
thing but material necessity; and the blind mo­
tion of matter is really the highest numen in the
world. And here that of Balbus the Stoic, in
Cicero,* is opportune: “ Non est natura Dei pras-
potens et excellens, siquidem ea subjecta est ei
vel necessitati vel naturae, qufi coelum, maria, ter-
raeque reguntur. Nihil autem est praestantius
Deo. Nulli igitur est naturae obediens aut sub-
jectus Deus.” God would not be the most power­
ful and excellent being, if he were subject to that
either necessity or nature, by which the heavens;
seas, and earth are governed. But the notion of a
God implies the most excellent being. Therefore,
God is not obedient or subject to any nature.—
iv. And now we think fit here to suggest, that
however we shall oppose those three Fatalisms b&
forementioned, as so many false hypotheses of the
mundane system and economy, and endeavour to
exclude that severe tyranness, as Epicurus calls
it, of Universal Necessity reigningover all, and to
leave some scope for contingent liberty to move
up and down in, without which neither rational
creatures can be blameworthy for any thing they
do, nor God have any object to display his justice
* De Nat. Dcor. lib. ii. c. xxx, p. 3060,
78 MODERATION OF THIS DISCOURSE.
upon, norindeed bejustifiedin his providence; yet,
as we vindicate to God the glory of all good, so
we do not quite banish the notion of Fate ueither,
nor take away all Necessity ; which is a thing the
Clazomenian philosopher9of old was taxed for,
affirming fitfSiv TOW yivo/iivwv ylveoOai Kaff tl/xa^ixkvijv,
a \\a swat k
sv
o
vto
vtorovvofia‘ That nothing at all
was done by Fate, but that it was altogether a vain
name.—And the Sadduceans among the Jews have
been noted for the same :b T»jv piv tlfiapfiivriv avat-
povffiv, ovStv tivai ravrriv d&ovvrtQ, ovts icar’ avrrjv ra av-
dptiiriva riXog Xa/Ltj3avuv, awavra Si iff rffuv avroig Ti8ivreg'
They take away all Fate, and will not allow it to
be any thing at all, nor to have any power over
human things, but put all things entirely into the
hands of men’s own free will.—And some of our
own seem to have approached too near to this ex­
treme, attributing perhaps more to the power of
free will, than either religion or nature will ad­
mit. But the hypothesis, that we shall recom­
mend as most agreeable to truth, of a vpovoia
iXdfffiog, placable providence—of a Deity essen­
tially good, presiding over all, will avoid all ex­
tremes, asserting to God the glory of good, and
freeing him from the blame of evil; and leaving a
■certain proportionate contemperation and coiri-
-mixture of contingency and necessity both toge­
ther in the world; as nature requires a mixture of
motion and rest, without either of which there
•could be no generation. Which temper was ob­
served by several of the ancients; as the Phari-
* Anaxagoras, who was censured for this opinion by Alexander
Aphrodisiensis de Fato, sec. ii. p. 11, edit. Loud. 1658, in 12mo.
bJosephi Antiq. Judaic, lib. xiii. c. v. sec. ix. p. 649, tom. i. edit.
Havcrcampi.
MODERATION OF THI8 DISCOURSE. 79
saic sect amongst the Jews, who determined,*
nva K
al ov iravrari}Qtt/iapfievriQ uvai ipyov, Tiva Si i<f
cqvrotc vwapypiv, That some things and not all were
the effects of Fate, but some things were left in
men’s own power and liberty:—and also by Platob
amongst the philosophers, IlXdrcuv iyicpwei /uivtlfiap-
fiivtjv ew
l Tijjvavflpw
Trivw
v \|/v^wv k
c
u(3twv, avvuaayu 81
K
ci ri}v w
ap’fj/xac amav’ Plato inserts something of
Fate into human lives and actions, and he joins
with it liberty of will also.—He doth indeed sup­
pose human souls to have within themselves the
causes of their own changes to a better or worse
state, and every where declares God to be blame­
less for their evils; and yet hecsomewhere makes
the three fatal sisters, notwithstanding, Clotho,
Lachesis, and Atropos, to be busy about them
also. For according to the sense of the ancients,
Fate is aservant of Divine Providencein the world,
and takes place differently upon the different act­
ings of free-willed beings. And how free a thing
soever the will of man may seem to be to some,
yet I conceive it to be out of question, that it may
contract upon itself such necessities and fatali­
ties, as it cannot upon a sudden rid itself of at
pleasure. But whatsoever is said in the sequel
of this discourse by way of opposition to that
Fatalism of the neoteric Christians, is intended
only to vindicate what was the constant doctrine
of the Christian church in its greatest purity (as
shall be made manifest), and not to introduce any
new-fangled conceit of our own.
aId. ibid.
bVide Plutarch, de Placitis Philosophorum, lib. i. c. xxvii. p. 844.
t. ii. oper. edit. Francof. 1609, fol.
c Vide Platon, de Ropubliea, 1. x. p. 520.
80 ATHEISTICAL HYPOTHESIS FOUNDED
y. We must now proceed to give a more full and
perfect account of these three several Fates, or hy­
potheses of the mundane system beforementioned,
together with the grounds of thepa, beginning first
with that, which we principally intend the. confu­
tation of, the Atheistical or I)emocritical F ate;
which, as it is a thing of the,post dangerous con­
sequence of all, so it seems to be most spreading
and infectious in these latter times.
Now .this Atheistical system of the,world, that
makes all things to be materially and mechani­
cally necessary, without a God, is built upon a
peculiar physiological hypothesis, different from
what hath been generally received for many ages;
which is called by some Atomical or corpuscular,
by others Mechanical; of which we must there­
fore needs give a full and perfect account. And
we shall do it first in general, briefly, not descend­
ing to those minute particularities of it, which are
disputed amongst these Atomists themselves, in
this manner.
The Atomieal physiology supposes, that body
is nothing else but Biaararov dvTiTV
Trov, that is, ex­
tended bulk ; and resolves, therefore, that nothing
is to beattributed to it, but what is included in the
nature and idea of it, viz.—more or less magni­
tude, with divisibility into parts, figure, and posi­
tion, together with motion or rest, but so as that
no part of body can ever move itself, but is always
moved by something else. And consequently it
supposes, that there is no need of any thing else
besides the simple elements of magnitude, figure,
site, and motion (which are all clearly intelligible
as different modes of extended substance) to solve
the corporeal phenomena by; and therefore, not
UPON THE ATOMICAL PHYSIOLOGY. 81
of any substantial forms distinct from the matter;
nor of any other qualities really existing in the
bodies without, besides the results or aggregates
of those simple elements, and the disposition of
the insensible parts of bodies in respect-of figure,
site, arid motion; nor of any intentional' species or
shows, propagated from the objects to our senses;
nor, lastly, of any other kind of motion or action
really distinct from local motion (such as genera*
tion and alteration), they being neither intelligible,
as modes of extended substance, nor any ways
necessary. Forasmuch as the forms and quali­
ties of bodies may well be conceived to be nothing
but the result of those simple elements of magni­
tude, figure, site, and motion, variously com­
pounded together, in the* same manner as sylla­
bles and words in great variety result from the'
different combinations and conjunctions of a few
letters, or the simple elements of speech; and the
corporeal part of sensation, and particularly that
of vision, may be solved only by local motion of
bodies, that is, either by corporeal effluvia (called
simulacra, membratue, and eocuvidi) streaming con­
tinually from the surface of the objects, or rather,
as the later and more refined Atomists* conceived,
by pressure made from the object to the eye, by
means of light in the medium. So that* <
•>
£
&
<
*
(3aKTripla<; t o v r a d i v r o g a tp o g t o f i\e ir o /u s v o v d v a y y f W e r a t '
the sense taking cognizance of the object by the
subtle interposed medium, that is tense and
a Vide Cartesii Dioptric, c. i, etii. p. 50. tom. i. oper. ed. Amstelod.
1692, in4to.
x b Apollodorus apud Diogenem Lacrtium, lib. vii. segm. 157, p. 466.
vide etiam Plutarch, de Piaciti* Philosophor. lib; iv. c. xv. tom. ii.
oper. p. 911.
8 2 ANTIQUITY OF THIS PHYSIOLOGY,
stretched (thrusting every way from it upon the
optic nerves), doth by that as it were by a staff
touch it.. Again, generation and corruption may
be sufficiently explained by concretion and secre­
tion, or local motion, without substantial forms
and qualities. And, lastly, those sensible ideas
oflight and colours, heat and cold, sweet and bit­
ter, as they are distinct things from the figure, site,
and motion of the insensible parts of the bodies,
seem plainly to be nothing else but our own fan­
cies; passions, and sensations, however they be
vulgarly mistaken for qualities in the bodies with­
out us.
vi. Thus much may suffice for a general ac­
count of the Atomical physiology. We shall in
the next place consider the antiquity thereof, as
also what notice Aristotle hath taken of it, and
what account he gives of the same. For though
Epicurus went altogether this way, yet it is well
known, that he was not the first inventor of it.
But it is most commonly fathered on Democritus,
who was senior both to Aristotle and Plato, be­
ing reported to have been born the year after So­
crates ; from whose fountains Cicero* saith, that
Epicurus watered his orchards, and of whom Sex.
Empiricusb and Laertius' testify, that he did
iicfiaWuvto? 7rotoTjjrac, cashier qualities;—and Plu­
tarch,d that he made the first principles of the
whole universe arofiovqairoiovg,»coiairafclc, atoms de­
void of all qualities and passions.-—But Laertius'
* De Nat. Deor. lib. i. c. xliii. p. 2948. t. ix. oper.
b Lib. ii. adv. Logicos, p. 459. Vide etiam lib. vi. adv. Musicos, p.
367. et lib. i. adv. Logicos, p. 399.
* Lib. ix. segm. 72. p. 586.
d Libro adversus Colotem, tom. ii. oper. p. 1110.
* Lib. ix. segm. 30. p. 567-
w it h Ar is t o t l e ’s a c c o u n t o f i t . 8 3
will have Leucippus, who was somewhat senior
to Democritus, to be the first inventor of this phi­
losophy, though he wrote not so many books con-
cerningit as Democritus did. Aristotle, who often
takes notice of this philosophy, and ascribes it
commonly to Leucippus and Democritus jointly,
gives us this description of it in bis Metaphysics
AtvKnnroQ 8s Kal o sralpog ovtov Aqjuoicptroc aroiyrtla fxfv
to irXtjipEC Kal to icevov slvat <paai, Xtyovrtg olov ro-fisv ov,
to oe fii] ov, icai rae oiayopag avnaq rwv aAAcov yarn ravrac
filvTOi rpslg, ayjilua ts Kal ra£iv Kal Bsaiv, SiaQspsiv yap to
ovpvafitpK
al SiaO
iy^Kalrpowri" Leucippus and his com­
panion Democritus make the first principles of
all things to be Plenum and Vacuum (body and
space), whereofone is Ens, the other Non-ens, and
the differences of the body, which are only figure,
order, and position, to be the causes of all other
things.—Which differences they call by these
names, Rysmus, Diathige, and Trope. And in his
book, De Anima,bhaving declared that Democri­
tus made fire and the soul to consist of round
atoms, he describes those atoms of bis after this
manner, olov tvrip diptT
OKa\ovt)tva£vofiaratv Ta«c But
tw
v O
vplSiov a/crlai, dtv tjjv iravoirtpfiiav aroiyrtla■
\sysi
ArifioKpiroc. tfa oX
»jc <
pvaew
£, o/uolw
c; Si K
al AevKimrot;'
They are (saith he,) like those ramenta or dusty
particles which appear in the sun-beams, an om­
nifarious seminary whereof Democritus makes to
be the first elements of the whole universe, and so-
doth Leucippus likewise.—Elsewhere' the same
Aristotle tells us, that these two philosophers ex­
plained generation and alteration, without forms
• Lib. i. c. iv. p. 268. tom. iv. oper.
b Lib. i. cap. ii. p. 4. tom. ii. oper.
* De Generat. et Corrupt, lib. i. c. ii. p. 700. tom. i‘
. oper.
84 ANTIQUITY OF THIS PHYSIOLOGY,
and qualities, by figures and local motion: Aqjuo-
mptrog Kal Aevkutitog iroufaavrecra oytffiara ti)v aWolwrw
rot rtfvytvecnv ck tovtwu iroiovtn, Siaxplau jiiv icat avyKpuni
yivtaw Keu (pdopdv, ra&t Si Keu Bixiu aXXolwaiV: DetDO-
critus and-Leucippus having made figures (or va­
riously figured atoms), the first principles, make
generation and alteration out of these; namely,
generation together with corruption from the con­
cretion and secretion of them, but alteration from
the change of their order and position.—Again,
he elsewhere* takes notice of that opinion of the
Atomists, that all sense Vas a kind of touch, and
that the sensible qualities of bodies were to be
resolved into figures, imputing it not only to De­
mocritus, but also to the generality of the old phi­
losophers, but very much disliking the same
Atyuoiepcroc (cat ol wAciarot twv <pvaio\oytx)v aroircorarov rt
irotovmj navra yap ra aiaOqra aura noiovai (cat eig ay^ifiara
ivayovairouqyniftovg' Democritus and most of the
physiologers here commit a very great absurdity,
in that they make all sense to be touch, and re­
solve sensible qualities into the figures of insensi­
ble parts or atoms.—And this opinion he endea­
vours to confute by these arguments. First, be­
cause there is contrariety in qualities, as in black
and white, hot and cold, bitter and sweet, but
there is no contrariety in figures; for a circular fi­
gure is not contrary to a square or multangular;
and. therefore there must be real qualities in bo­
dies distinct from the figure, site, and motion of
parts. Again, the variety of figures and disposi­
tions being infinite, it would follow from thence,
that the species of colours, odours, and tastes
should be infinite likewise, and reducible to no
» DeSepsuetSensibili, c. iv.p. 70.tom. ii. open
w it h Ar is t o t l e ’s account o f i t . 85
certain number. Which arguments I leave the
professed Atomists to answer. Furthermore, Aris­
totle somewhere also censures that other funda­
mental principle of this Atomical physiology, that
the sensible ideas of colours and tastes, as red,
green, bitter, and sweet, formally considered, are
only passions and fancies in us, and not real qua­
lities in the object without. For as in a rainbow
-there is really nothing without our sight, but a
rorid cloud diversely refracting and reflecting the
sun-beams, in such an angle; nor are there really
such qualities in the diaphanous prism ; when re­
fracting the light, it exhibits to us the same co­
lours of the rainbow; whence it was collected,
that.those things are properly the phantasms ofthe
sentient, occasioned by different, motions on the
optic nerves ; so they conceived the case to be the
same in all other colours, and that both the co­
lours of' the prism and rainbow were as real as
other colours, and all other colours as fantastical
as they; and then by parity of reason they extend­
ed the business further to the other sensibles. But
this opinion Aristotle condemns in these words :*
O i TTportpov <f>v<no\oyoi rovro ov koXu
>
c eXeyov, Xtvicov ovrt
ovSiv otojutvot ovrt fiiXav avev oiptws, ovrt yypov aviv yti-
owq’ The former physiologers were generally out
in this, in that they thought there was no black or
white without the sight, nor no bitter or sweet
without the taste.—There are other passages in
Aristotle concerning this philosophy, which I
think superfluous to insert here; and 1 shall have
occasion to cite some of them afterward for other
purposes.
v ii. But in the next place it will not be amiss to
* De Anima. lib. ii. c. i. p. 43. tom.ii. oper.
VOL. I. G
I
86 RECORDS IN PLATO CONCERNING
shew, that Plato also bath left a very full record
of this mechanical or Atomical physiology (that
hath hardly been yet taken notice of), which not­
withstanding he doth not impute either to Demo­
critus (whose name Laertius* thinks he purposely
declined to mention throughout all his writings,)
or to Leucippus, but to Protagoras. Wherefore,
in his Theaetetus, having first declared in general,1
*
that the Protagorean philosophy made all things
to consist of a commixture of parts (or atoms), and
local motion,' he represents it, in particular, con­
cerning colours, after this manner ;c wroXafit rolvw
ovT
U
fcnKara ra o/i/iara irpwTov, o Si K
aXtiq yrpaipaXe
v
k
o
v
ftn slvai avro erepov n r<
ov trutvopparwv, /u
jjS cvtoic
'ofifiatn, aXXajueX
avreK
alXevK
ovK
dlortovv aXXofpwpa ik
'tijc irpoe|3oX
i>c rwv opparwvirpot; rrjv irpooyKovoav<
p
opav
<
f>
a
v£
tra
i yiytwr)ptvov, K
al o Si tKaarov Aval eftaptvyjmpa,
o
vte to irpoc|3aXXov ovreto irpoc/3aXXopevovaXXa ptra^v
TitKaartpiSiov-yeyovot,-* First, asto that which belongs
to the sight, you must conceive that which is call­
ed a white or a black colour not to be any thing
absolutely existing, either without your eyes or
within your eyes : but black and white, and every
other colour, is caused by different motions maide
upon the eye from objects differently modified :
so that it is nothing either in the agent nor the pa­
tient absolutely, but something which arises from
between them both.—Where it follows immedi­
ately, i\ (
t
v Suay^vplaaio av tuc otov aoi (paivtrai ik
o
o
to
v
ay^piopa rotovrw K
al tcvvi k
<
u ortpovv tfo<
o; Can you or
any man' else be confident, that as every colour
appears to him, so it appears just the same to
every other man and animal, any more than tastes
and touches, heat and cold do?—From whence it
* Lib. ix. *egm. 40- p. 571. * P. 118. c Ibid.p. 119.
\
THIS ATOMICAL PHYSIOLOGY. . 87
is plain, that Protagoras made sensible qualities
not to be all absolute things existing in the bodies
without, but to be relative to us, and passions in
u s; and so they are called presently after rlva kv
ifuvfatr/tara, certain fancies, seemings, or appear­
ances in us. .But there is another passage,* in
which a fuller accouut is given of the whole Pro-
tagorean doctrine, beginning thus; ’Ap/i) Se 4c
a vvv 8tj tXtyopev iravra vprrrrai riSe avrwv, tog t o wav Kivif-
<ng qv, »ca« aXXo wapa rowt o ovSiv, rr}g B
e Kivpaetog Bvoh$ij,
irXtjOet iusv aweipov tKartpov, Svvapiv Si t o piv woieiv e^ ov,
•
to St wwryvuv’ etc Si Trig rawrwv opi\lag re real rptipewg wpog
aXXrjXa y'vyverai iicyova, wArjOet piv aweipa, BIBvpa Si, to
piv aloOirrov, t o St aiaOpmg att avveKwtwrowra Kal yewto-
pivti pera row aiodifrov, &c. The principle upon
which all these things depend, is this, that the
whole universe is motion (of atoms) and nothing
else besides; which motion is considered two
ways, and accordingly called by two names, ac­
tion and passion ; from the mutual congress, and
as it were attrition together of both which, are be­
gotten innumerable offsprings, which though infi­
nite in number, yet may be reduced to two general
heads, seusibles and sensations, that are both ge­
nerated at the same time; the sensations are seeing
and hearing, and the like, and the correspondent
sensibles, colours, sounds, &c. Wherefore when
the eye, or such a proportionate object meet toge­
ther, both the alodtrrov and the aurdiprig, the sensible
idea of white and black, and the sense of seeing,
are generated together, neither of which would
have been produced, if either of those two had not
met with the Other. Kai r aXXa & ourai rf/vy^pivk m
Otppov K a l wav ra rov avrov rpowov vwoXrjwTiov, awro ptv
• Lib. ix. segm. 40. p. 120.
G *
2
8# RECORUSIN PLATO COJtCERIMIiO
Kaff avro pr$v sivai, tv Si rjj rrpov aAXtjXa o/utX/9, triyra
ytyv&
rO
ai, K
at iravroia.o
t
t
otijc K
tw
iffew
c' The like is to
be couceived of all other sensibles, as hot and cold,
&c. that none of these are absolute things in them­
selves, or real qualities in the objects without, but
they are, begotten from the mutual congress of
agent and patient with one another, and that by
motion; so that neither the agent has any such
thing in it before its congress with the patient, nor
the patient before its congress ftith the agent. *Ek
§£ afltpO TtptoV TOV 7TOIOVVTOC KCM TOV irOff^OVTOQ ir p o e TO aX-
Xi)Xa avvyiyvoftivwv /cat rag aiaO
t}<
m
e k
<
u ra atadqra awo-
rucT
O
V
T
O
tv, t« fuv 7
rota a rra ylyvtaOai, ra Si aurO
avofttva'
But the agent and patient meeting together, and
begetting sensation and sensibles, both the object
and the sentient are forthwith made to be so and
so qualified, as when houey is tasted, the sense of
tasting and the quality of sweetness are begotten
both together, though the sense be vulgarly attri­
buted to the tester, and the quality of sweetness
to the honey.—The conclusion of all which is
Summed up thus, ovSev tivai avro K a ff avro, aXXanvi
ae« ylyveaOat, That none of those sensible things is
any thing absolutely in the objects without, but
they are all generated or made relatively to tbe
sentient:—There is more in that dialogue to this
purpose, which I here omit; but I have set down
so much of it in the author's own language, be­
cause it seems to me to be an excellent monu­
ment of the wisdom and sagacity of the old philo­
sophers ; that which is the main curiosity in this
whole business of the mechanical or Atomical
philosophy being here more fully and plainly ex­
pressed, than it is in Lucretius himself, viz. that
sensible things, according, to those ideas that we
fttlS ATOMICAL PHYSIOLOGY. 89
Have of them, are not real qualities absolutely ex*
fatingwithout us, but ivtjpivfoo/iara, fanciesorphan­
tasms in us : so that both the Latin interpreters
Ficinus and Serranus, though probably neither
of them at all acquainted with this philosophy, as
being not yet restored, could not but understand
k after the same manner; the one expressing
it thus—“ Color ex aspectu motuque medium
quiddam resultans est. Talis circa oculos pas-
s i o a n d the other, “ Ex varia aspicientis diathesi,
variaque sensilis specie colores Yarios et videri et
fieri, ita tamen ut sint favraara, nec nisi in animo
subsistant.” However, it appears by Plato’s man­
ner of telling the story, and the tenour of the
whole dialogue, that himself was not a little pre­
judiced against this philosophy.' In all probabi-*
lity the rather, because Protagoras had made it a
foundation both for Scepticism and Atheism.
v iii. We have now-learnt from Plato, that De­
mocritus and Leucippus were not the sole pro­
prietaries in this philosophy, but that Protagoras,
though not vulgarly taken notice of for any such
thing (being commonly represented as a Sophist
only) was a sharer in it likewise; which Prota­
goras, indeed, Laertius,* and others, affirm to have
been an auditor of Democritus; and so he might
be, notwithstanding what Plutarch tells us,b that
Dembcritus wrote against his taking away the
absolute nature of things. However, we are of
opinion, that neither Demdcritus, nor Prota­
goras, nor Leucippus, was the first inventor of
this philosophy; and our reason is, because
they were all three of them Atheists (though
* Lib. ix. segm. 50. p. 575, 576. Videas eifara A. Gellium Nodt.
Attic, lib. v. c. iii. et Suidam voce
b Libro adversus Colotem, tom* ii. oper.p. 1108, 1109*
90 THE ANTIQUITY OF ATOMOLOGY.
Protagoras alone was banished for that crime by
the Athenians) and we cannot think, that any
Atheists could be the inventors of it, much less
that it was the genuine spawn aud brood of Athe­
ism itself, as some conceit, because, however these
Atheists adopted it to themselves, endeavouring
to serve their turns of it, yet, if rightly understood,
it is the most effectual engine against Atheism that
can be. And we shall make it appear afterwards,
that never any of those Atheists, whether ancient
or modern (how great pretenders soever to it) did
thoroughly understand it, but perpetually contra­
dicted themselves in it. And this is the reason,
why we insist so much upon this philosophy here,
not only because without the perfect knowledge
of it, we cannot deal with the Atheists at their own
weapon; but also because we doubt not but to
make a sovereign antidote against Atheism out of
that very philosophy, which so many have used as
a vehiculum to convey this poison of Atheism by.
ix. But besides reason, we have also good his­
torical probability for this opinion, that this philo­
sophy was a thing of much greater antiquity than
either Democritus or Leucippus. And first, be­
cause Posidonius, an ancient and learned philo­
sopher, did (as both Empiricus* and Strabobtell
us) avouch it for an old tradition, that the first in­
ventor of this Atomical philosophy, was one Mos-
chus, a Phoenician, who, as Strabo also notes,
lived before the Trojan wars.
x. Moreover, it seems not altogether improba­
ble, but that this Moschus, a Phoenician philoso­
pher, mentioned by Posidonius, might be the same
with that Mochus, a Phoenician physiologer, in
a Lib. ix. advers- M&themat. p.621. b Lib. xii. p- 718.
91
THE .ANTIQUITY OF ATOMOLOGY.
Jttmblichus, with whose successors, priests, and
prophets, he affirms that Pythagoras, sometimes
sojourning at Sidon (which was his native city),
had conversed : which may be taken for an inti­
mation, 'as if he had been by them instructed in .
that Atomical physiology, which Moschus, or
Mochus, the Phoenician, is said to have been the
inventor of. Mochus, or Moschus, is plainly a
Phoenician name, and there is one Mochus, a
Phoenician writer, cited in ,Athenaeus, whom the
Latin translator calls Moschus; and Mr. Seldon
approves of the conjecture of Arcerius, the pub­
lisher of Jamblichus, that this Mochus was no
other man than the celebrated Moses of the Jews,
with whose successors, the Jewish philosophers,
priests, and prophets, Pythagoras conversed at
Sidon. Some fantastic Atourists perhaps would
here catch at this, to make their philosophy to
stand by Divine right, as owing its original to re­
velation ; whereas philosophy being not a matter
of faith, but reason^ men ought not to affect (as I
conceive) to derive its pedigree from revelation,
and by that very pretence, seek to impose it ty­
rannically upon the minds ofmen, which God hath
here purposely left free to the use of their own fa­
culties, that so finding out truth by them, they
might enjoy that pleasure and satisfaction, which
arises from thence. But we aim here at nothing
more, than a confirmation of this truth, that the
Atomical physiology was both older than Demo­
critus, .and bad no such atheistical original nei­
ther. . And there wants not other good authority
for this, that Pythagoras did borrow many thiugs
from the Jews, and translate them into his philo­
sophy.
1 92 PYTHAGORAS' AN ATHEIST.
xi. But there are yet other considerable proba­
bilities for this, that Pythagoras was not unac­
quainted with the Atomical physiology.' And
first from Democritus himself, who, as he was of
the Italic row, or Pythagoric succession, so it is
recorded of him in Laertius,* that he was a great
emulator of the Pythagoreans, and seemed to
have taken all his philosophy from them, inso­
much that if chronology had not contradicted it,
it would have been concluded, that he had been
an auditor of Pythagoras himself, of whom he
testified his great admiratidn in a book entitled by
his name. Moreover, some of his opinions had a
plain- correspondency with the Pythagoric doc­
trines, forasmuch as Democritus'* did not only
hold, (piptaBai arofiovg tv rip oX
<j> Sivov/ttvac, that the
atoms were carried round in a vortex ;—but alto­
gether with Leucippus, rjjv-yrjv oyrilQ
ai itipl tofteaov
Sivovptvnv, that the earth was carried about the
middle or centre of this vortex (which is the sun)
turning in the meantime round upon its own axte.
—And just so the Pythagoric opinion is expressed
by Aristotle,0rrjv yi}v iv rwvaorpuv ovaav KvicXip <ptpo-
fievTfv irepito fitaov vvktoKal r»jv ypipav iroiuv' That the
earth, as one of the stars (that is a planet), being
carried round about the middle or centre (which
is fire or the sun), did in the meantime by its cir­
cumgyration upon its own axis make day and
night.—Wherefore it .may be reasonably from
hence concluded, that as Democritus’s philoso­
phy was Pythagorical, so Pythagoras’s philoso­
phy was likewise Democritical, or Atomical.
»Lib. ix. segm. 38. p. 570.
b Lib. ix. segm. 44. p. 573. et segm. 30. p. 567.
* Do Coelo, lib. ii. c. xiii. p. 658. tom. i. oper.
p y t h a o o r a s ’s m o n ad s, a t o m s . 93
xn. But that which is of more moment yet, wO
have the authority of Ecphantus, a famous Py­
thagorean for this, that Pythagoras’s Monads,
so much talked of, were nothing else but corpo­
real Atoms. Thus we find it in Stobmus,* rac Ilv-
O
ayopucac MovaSac ovrof irpwrog anfijvaro atofiarucdc,
. Ecphantus (who himselfbasserted the doctrine of
Atoms)first declared, that the Pythagoric Monads
were corporeal,—i. e. Atoms. And this is further
confirmed from what Aristotlec himself writes of
these Pythagoreans and their Monads, rdf Mo-
vaBac viroXafifidvovtnvf/av fitytdoQ' they suppose their
Monads to have magnitude.—And from that he
elsewhere1
9 makes Monads and Atoms to signify
the same thiug, ovSev B
ia<
psptiMovaSa? Xiyuv $mtfidrta
fffiucpa' It is all one to say monades or small cor-
puscuia.—And Gassendus* hath observed out of
the Greek epigrammatist/ that Epicurus’s Atoms
were sometimes called Monads too
----- :----------fx a n tv *Ewfiewpff XLtrvt
now to xivov ( n r t f f x a l r tn e «2
xm . But to pass from Pythagoras himself;
.that Empedocles, who was a Pythagorean also,
did physiologize atomically, is a thing that could
hardly be doubted of, though there were no more
proof for it than that one passage of his in his
philosophic poems :g
---------------- <pv<rif&iImv ixarrov
*AXX& fjJnat fju fa n h r t fx iy v r rp r
* Eclog. Phys. lib. i. cap.xiii. p. 27. edit Plantin. 1576. foL
b Stob. ubi supra, lib. i. c. xxv. p. 48.
c Metapbys. lib. xi. c. \u tom. iv. oper. p. 424.
d De Anhna, lib. ii. c. vi. p. 13. tom. ii. oper.
* Physices sect i. lib. iii. c. iy. p. 256. tom. i. oper. et iu Notis ad
lib.ix. Diog. Laertii, p. 70. tom. y. oper.
f Antholog.Graecor. Epigram,lib. i.xv. p. 32. edit Francof. 1800.fol.
* Vide Plut. de Placitis Philos, lib* i. c. xxx. p. 885. tom. ii- oper-
94 PROVED THAT EMPEDOCLES
Nature is nothing but the mixture and separation
of things mingled ; or thus, There is no produc­
tion of any thing anew, but only mixture and
separation of things mingled.—Which is not only
to be understood of animals, according to the Py-
thagoric doctrine of the transmigration of souls,
but also, as himself expounds it, universally of
all bodies, that their generation and corruption is
nQthing but mixture and separation ; or, as Aris­
totle8expresses it, avyKpun^ k
<
u BiaK
purit, concretion
and secretion of parts, together with change of
figure and order. It may perhaps be objected,
that Empedocles held four elements, out of which
he would have all other bodies to be compounded;
and that as Aristotle affirms,bhe made those ele­
ments not to be transraulable into one another
neither. To which we reply, that he did indeed
make four elements, as the first general concre­
tions of atoms, and therein he did no more than
Democritus himself, who, as Laertius writes,1did
from atoms moving round in a vortex, iravra <ny-
Kplfiara ytwav irvp, vStop, aepa, yrjv, ilvat yap Kal ravra.
aroputv nvaiv owrrqpaTa, generate all concretions*
fire, water, air, and earth, these being systems
made out of certain atoms.—And Plato further
confirms the same; for in his book De Legibusd
he describes (as I suppose) that very Atheistical
hypothesis of Democritus, though without men­
tioning his name, representing it in this manner;
that by the fortuitous motion of senseless matter
were first made those four elements, and then out
• De Generat ct Corrupt lib. ii. c. vi. p. 730. tom. i. oper.
b Ibid. p. 734. etlib. i. c. iii. p. 699*
c Lib. ix. segm. 44. p. 573-
d Lib. x. p. 906. oper.
PHYBIOLOGIZED ATOMICALLY. 96
of them afterward sun, moon, stars, and earth.
Now both Plutarch* and Stobseusb testify, that
Empedocles compounded the four elements them*
selves out of atoms. ’EfiwtSoicAi/c Si he pueporipw
oyKWtoaroiyrtla avyKpivuairtp iarlv ikdyrurra, km otovtl
aroi^aa aroiy^t'iw
v' Empedocles makes the elements
to be compounded of other small corpuscula,
which are the least, and as it were the elements of
the elements.—And the same Stobaeus again ob­
serves,® ’E
fU
7
T
£
&
M
c\i)CV
pOT
toVTtffffdpW
VO
TO
t^tM
WflpO
W
O
-
fiara tkay^urra’ Empedocles makes the smallest
particles and fragments of body (that is, atoms),
to be before the four elements.—But whereas
Aristotle affirms, that Empedocles denied the
transmutation of those elements iuto one another,
that must needs be either a slip in him, or else a
fault in our copies; not only because Lucretius,
who was better versed in that philosophy, and
gives a particular account of Empedocles’s
doctrine (besides many others of the ancients),
affirms the quite contrary; but also because him­
self, in those fragments of his still preserved^ ex­
pressly acknowledges thjs transmutation.
Keu ^defrit «if aXXnXa, x a i a u g tra t iv/Aigtt afcwf.
xiv. Besides all this,' no less author than Plato
affirms, that according to Empedocles, vision and
other sensations were made by diroppoal a^ripdrwv,
the defluxions of figures,—or effluvia of atoms
(for so Democritus’s Atoms are called in Aristotle
oyrtpara, because they were bodies which had only
figure without qualities), lie supposing, that some
* De Pladtis Philos, lib. i. c. xvii. p. 863. tom., ii. oper. Vide etiam
c. xiii. p. 883.
b Eclog. Physic, lib. i. c. xx. p. 36.
e Ibid. lib. i.c. xviup.33.
96 THE SAME FURTHER CONTINUED
of these figures or particles corresponded with
the organa of one sense, and Some with the organs
of another. *O
vkwv Afyeri airoppocu; nvaq rwv ovrtov
Kara 'E
.pirs^oK
X
ia<
, nal iropoue, ac o
v
q
, KalSt tov at airop-
poaliropevovraii jeal-tw
vairoppowv rac ph>dppdrretv evtotc
T
W
VT
raplD
V
,' rdc ekArrove *
j fX
utdV
Q etvai" Yoii Say,-
then, according to tlie doctrine of Empedocles,
that: there are-certain corporeal effluvia from bo*
dies of different'magnitudes and figures, aS also
seVeral pores and-'meatus’s in us diversely corre-
spobding with them : so that some of these corpo­
real effluvia agree with some pores, when they are
either too big or too little for others.—By which it
is evident, that Empedocles did not suppose sen­
sations to- be made by intentional species or quali­
ties, but as to the generality, in the Atomical way;
in which notwithstanding there are some differ­
ences among the Atomists themselves. But Em­
pedocles went the same way here with Demo­
critus, for Empedocles’s mroppoal tr^t/pdrotv, de­
flexions of figured bodies,—are'clearly the same
thing with Democritus’s a&JAwv aoicpurac, insinua­
tions of simulachra; or, exuvious images of bo­
dies.—And the same Plato adds furtlier,bthat ac­
cording to Empedocles, the definition of colour
Was this, aVoppoij &
y^npdr<
ovotpu avp/urpo^K
aiaurO
rtrog,
The defluxion of figures, or figured corpuscula
(without qualities) commensurate to the sight and
sensible.—Moreover, that Empedocles’s physio­
logy was the very same with that of Democritus,
is manifest also from this passage of Aristotle,*
Ot plv ovv 7
T
E
p
i ’F,[im§OK\ta icai Aq/uoicptrov XavOavownv
avrol iavrovQovytvtaiv 1
2
; aXXqXwv iroiovvrtg, aXXa <
p
a
i-
* Plato in Menone, p. 14. b Ibid.
* De Coelo, lib.iii. cap. vii. p.680. tom. i.' oper..
FROM PLATO AND OTHERS. 9 7
vopfvttv yivtaiv' swrdp^ov -ydp Ikootov tKKpivtaBai faoiv
licnrep c£ayytiou m g ytvtmuyg o
v
o
tjc
” Empedocles and
Democritus deceiving themselves, unaw ares.de­
stroy all generation of things out of one another,
leaving a seeming generation only: for they say,
that generation is not the production of any new
entity, but ouly the secretion of what was before
inexistent; as when divers kinds of things con­
founded together in a vessel, are separated from
one another.—Xastly, we shall confirm all this by
the clear testimony of Plutarch, or the writer tDe
Placitis Philosopborum :*’E/mraSwcXqcrcu.’EiwcotyKic
Kat irav«c oerotKara owaQpoiopov ra»vXtTrroptptHv autparwv
Koapowoiovai, ovyKpiaetg.ptv xai Suucpioug ugayavoi,
atig §ekat tpOopag ov Kvpiwg, ov yap Kara rotov E^oAXetu-
astog, Kara §ettooov ovkowaQpoiapov ravrag ytVE^uVjBm-
pedocles and. Epicurus, and all those .that com­
pound the world of small atoms, introduce con­
cretions and secretions, but no generations, or cor­
ruptions properly so called; neither would .they
have these.to be made according to. quality by al­
teration, but only according to quantity b y .ag­
gregation.—And the same writer sets, down the
order and method of the Cosmopepia, according to
Empedocles,;b’Ep.ntBoK\iig,.vQv pi}*m0fpa,itpuvov2ita#pf
Brjvai, Seprepov Se.ro irvp, t<
j> -<
p Titviyr/v i£ ayav nipta^iyyo-
fitvrig rrj pvfirj mgntpi<popa(,,avnfi\vaai to p$u>p,i% ov, $p-
piaBrvai xov akpa, Kat ytveoBai rov piv avpavov ek top, afBi-
pog, tov. Se rj\iov ek irvpog’ Empedocles writes, that
ether was first of all secreted out of the confused
chaos of atoms, afterwards the fire, and .then, the
earth, which being constiinged, and.as it *
were,
squeezed by the force of agitation, sent forth .wa­
ter bubbling out of it;.from the evaporation of
ft Lib. i.c. xxiv. p*884» opar. b Lib. ii. cap. vi. p. 887.
9 8 MOST OF THE ANCIENT
‘
which did proceed air; and from the ether was
made the heavens, from fire the sun.—We see,
therefore, that it was not without cause, that Lu­
cretius* did so highly extol Empedocles, since bis
physiology was really the same with that of Epi­
curus and Democritus; only that he differed from
them in some particularities, as in excluding a va­
cuum, and denying such physical minima as were
indivisible.
xv. As for Anaxagoras, though he philoso­
phized by Atoms, substituting concretion and se­
cretion, in the room of generation and corruption,
insisting upon the same fundamental principle,
that Empedocles, ^Democritus, and the other
Atomists did; which was (as we shall declare
more fully afterward) that nothing could be made
out of nothing, nor reduced to nothing; and there­
fore, that there were neither any new productions,
lior destructions of any.substances or real entities:
yet, as his Homoeomeria is represented by Aristo­
tle, Lucretius, and other authors, that bone was
made of bony atoms, and flesh of fleshy, red
things of red atoms, and hot things of hot atoms:
these atoms being supposed to be endued origi­
nally with so many several forms and qualities es­
sential to them, and inseparable from them, there
was indeed a wide difference between his philoso­
phy and the Atomical. However, this seems to
have bad its rise from nothing else but this philo­
sopher’s not being able to understand the Atomi­
cal hypothesis, which made him decline it, and
substitute this spurious and counterfeit Atomism
of his own in the room of it.
xvi. Lastly* I might add here, that it is record-
* Lib. i. vers. 744,745.
PHYSlOLOeERS ATOMISTS. 9 9
ed by good authors, concerning divers other an­
cient philosophers, that were not addicted to De-
raocriticism or Atheism, that they followed this
Atomical way of physiologizing, and therefore
in all probability did derive it from those religi­
ous Atomists before Democritus. As for ex­
ample ; Ecphantus, the Syracusian Pythagorist,
who, as Stobaeus writes, made ra aSialpsraawfiara
K
m ro jctvdv, indivisible bodies and vacuum, the
principles of physiology, and as Theodoret also
testifies, taught Ik tw
v a
’rojuwv ffvveardvat rov k
o
o
jio
v
,
that the corporeal world was made up of atoms;
—Xenocrates/ that made piytOv dStatptra, indivisi­
ble magnitudes, the first principles of bodies;
Heraclides,b that resolved all corporeal' things
'into . iptjyfiara K
al Opavofiara .nva eXayrurra, certain
smallest fragments of bodies;—Asclepiades,cwho
supposed all the corporeal world to be made 1$
avo/uolwv K
al dvap/uov oyicivv, not of similar parts (as
Anaxagoras) but of dissimilar and inconcinn mo
leculae, i. e. atoms of different magnitude and fi­
gures ; and Diodorus/ that solved the material
phaenomena by afupii rd eXayurra, the smallest indi­
visibles of body. And lastly, Metrodorus* (net
Lampsacenus, the Epicurean, but) Chius, who is
reported also to have made indivisible particles
and atoms the first principles of bodies. But
what need we any more proof for this, that, the
*Vide Georg. Pachymer. libellum M/uav qui extat inter
Aristotelis opera, tom. ii. cap. i. p; 819.
b Vide Plutarch, de Placitis Philos, lib. i. cap. ^iii. p
~
. 883. tom. ii.
oper.
* Vide Sextum Empiric. Hypotypos. Pyrrhon. lib. iii. cap. iv. p. 136.
d Sext. Empiric, lib. i. adv. Physicos, sect. 363. p. 621. vide etiam
lib. iii. Hypothes. cap. iv. p. 136.
e Vide Stobaei Eclog. Physic, lib. i. cap. xiii. p. 27.
100 DEMOCRITUS AND LEUCIPPUS
Atomical physiology was ancienter than Demo­
critus and Leucippus, and not confined only to
that sect, since Aristotle himself* in the passages
already cited, doth expressly declare, that besides
Democritus, the generality of all the other physi*
ologers went that way; Aij/xoVpiroc k<
m oi' irX««roi
r«5v^tKrioXoywv, &c. Democritus' and the most of
the physiologers make all sense to be touch, and
resolvesensible qualities, as the tastes of bitter and
sweet, &c. into figures.—And again,6 he imputes
it generally to all the physiologers that went be­
fore him, oi' irportpov <
pv<
no\6yot, the former physio­
logers (without any exception) said not well in
this, that there was no black and white without
the sight, nor bitter and sweet without the taste.—
"Wherefore, I think, it cannot be reasonably
doubted, but that the generality of the old physio­
logers before Aristotle and Democritus, did pur­
sue the Atomical way, which is to resolve the cor­
poreal phenomena, not into forms, qualities, and
species, but into figures, motions, and fancies.
xvii. But then there will seem to be no small
difficulty in reconciling Aristotle with himself,
who doth'in so many places plainly impute this
philosophy to Democritus and Leucippus, as the
first source and original of it; as also in salving
the credit of Laertius, and many other ancient
writers, who do the like, Democritus having had
for many ages almost the general cry and vogue
for Atoms. However, we doubt not but to give
a very good account of this business, and recon­
cile the seemingly different testimonies of these
ancient writers, so as to take away all contradic-
* Lib. de Sensu et Sensibili, cap. iv. p. 70. tom. ii. oper.
b De Ammo, lib. ii. cap. i. p. 43. tom. ii. oper.
TUB FIRST ATHEISTIC ATQMI8TS, 101
tkraand repugnancy between them. For al­
though the Atomical physiology was in use long
before Democritus and Leucippus, so that they
did not make it, but find i t ; yet these two, with
their confederate Atheists (whereof Protagoras
seems to have been one) were undoubtedly the
first, that ever made this physiology to be a com­
plete and entire philosophy by itself, so as to de­
rive the original of all things in the whole universe
from senseless atoms, that-had nothing but figure
and motion, together with vacuum, and made up
such a system of it, as from whence it would fol­
low, that the e could not be any God, not so much
as a corporeal one. These two things were both
of them before singly and apart. For there is no
doubt to be made, but that there hath been Athe­
ism lurking in the minds of some or other in all
-ages; and perhaps some of those ancient Atheists
did endeavour to philosophize too, as well as they
could, in some other way. And there was Ato
mical physiology likewise before, without Athe­
ism. But these two thus complicated together,
were never before Atomical Atheism, or Atheisti-
:cal Atomism. And therefore, Democritus and
his comrade Leucippus, need not be envied the
.glory of being reputed the first inventors or-found­
ers of the Atomical philosophy atheized and
adulterated.
. xviii. Before Leucippus and Democritus, the
-.doctrine of Atoms was not made a whole entire
philosophy by itself, but looked upon only as a
-part or member ofthe whole philosophic system,
.and that the meanest and lowest part too, it being
-.only used to explain that which was purely cor­
poreal in the world ; besides which, they acknow-
VOL.'I. H
109 INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCE
legged Something else, which was not mere bnlfc
and mechanism, but life and self activity, that is,
immaterial or incorporeal substance; the head and
sptqmity whereof, is the Deity distinct from the
world. So that there have been two sorts of AtO->
mists in the world, the one Atheistical, the other
Religious. The first aud most ancient Atomists
holding incorporeal substance, used that physio*
logy m a way ofsubordination to theology and me*
taphysics. The other, allowing no other sub*
stance but body, made senseless atoms and fi*
gures, without any mind and understanding (i. e.
without any God) to be the original of all things;
which latter is that, that was vulgarly known by
the name pf Atomical philosophy, of which Do*
mocritus and Leucippus were the source.
xix. It hath been indeed Of late confidently as­
serted by some, that never any of the ancient phi­
losophers dreamed of any such thing as incorpo­
real substance; and therefore they would bear
men in hand, that it was nothing but an upstart
and new-fangled invention of some bigotical reli­
gionists ; the falsity whereof, we shall here briefly
make to appear. For though there have been
doubtless, in all ages, such as have disbelieved the
existence of any thing but what was sensible,
whom Plato* describes after this manner; o*Siatci-
voivt av wav o firj Svvarot rale /ep®’*avfiwiitfiv uoev, apa
to
vtoovSlvro wafdwaptori' That w'outd contend, that
whatsoever they could not feel or grasp with their
hands, was altogether nothing;—yet this opinion
was professedly opposed by the best of the. an­
cient philosophers, and condemned for a piece of
sottisbness and stupidity. Wherefore, the same
a In Sopliista, p. 160.
ASSERTED BY THE ANCIENTS. 198
Plato tells os, that there had been always, as well
te then there was, a perpetual war and contro­
versy in the world, and, as he calls it, a kind of
gigaritomachy betwixt these two parties or sects
of men; the One, that held there was no other tub-
stance in the world besides body; the other, that
asserted incorporeal substance. The former of
these parties Orsects is thus described by the phi­
losopher ; Ot pip etc ynv e
£ ovpapov K
O
I rov dopanru
tttlvt* skim
v&
i Klic yrtpotv drty^vtSf irerpat icat 8pv( irept-
AM
/ifiartiVne, reSvyapto
io
vtu
vfeftawrdptvot iravreav, Sue^d
-
pdfaprt* rovto uvai pop o p o napeyrti ,rpoc/3oXtjv K
al iw
ee-
ta>
a, ravrdv treopateatoverlap6pi£dptvoi' tw
v Si aXXwv
iittg fuel fitj erdipaeyoveivat, K
araejepopovprec to irapatrav,
teal odSev iOfXovTte aXXo «
u
c
o
v
e
(v*These(saith he)pull alt
things down from heaven and the invisible region,
with their hands to the earth, laying hold of rocks
and oaks; and when they grasp all these hard and
gross things, they confidently affirm, that that
Only is substance, which they can feel, and will re­
sist their touch; and they conclude, that body
and substance are one and the self-same thing;
and if any one chance to speak to them of some-
idling which is hot body, i. e. of incorporeal sub­
stance, they will altogether despise him, and not
bear a word more from him. And many such the
philosopher there says he had met withal. The
other he represents in this manner; Ot wpos avrodc
apfuefinroovres pdXa e»Aa/3a>c avu0fv it; dopdrav rdrroo
aiftvPtnrtM vorpa arra Keu demipara e
JSjj, fitafayptvoi rtjp dXrp
Bunjv overlap i-tvtu. sv ptaep St *6p\ ravra aiiktroQ dp<j>orlpem>
piyri rtc du ^wttntpe The adversaries of these
Corporealists do cautiously and piously assault
them from the idvisible region, fetching all things
fromabove by way of descent, and by strength of
h 2
.1 0 4 . . INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCE
Reason;convincing, that certain intelligible and In­
corporeal forms are the true or first substance, and
pot; sensible things. But betwixt these two there
hath always been (saith he) a great war and con­
tention.—And yet in the sequel of his discourse,
he adds, that those Corporealists Were then grown
a little more modest and shame-faced than for­
merly their great champions had been, such.as
Democritus and Protagoras; for however they
still persisted in this, that the soul was a body,
yet they had not, it seems, the impudence to
affirm, that wisdom and virtue were corporeal
things, or bodies, as others before and since too
have doue. We see here, that Plato expressly
asserts a substance distinct from body, which
sometimes he calls ovoiavaatiparov, incorporeal sub­
stance,—and sometimes ovtnW vonrijv, intelligible
substance,—in opposition to the other which he
'calls aurB
riTjiv, sensible.—Aud it is plain to any one,
that hath had the least acquaintance with Plato’s
philosophy, that the whole scope and drift of it,
is to raise up men’s minds from sense to a beliefof
incorporeal things as the most excellent: to
.yap
-aotifiara KaXXiara ovra k
c
u fityiara \6yippovov,.aWip Se
ov&vt, a
a
<
j>
a
>
cSeiKvvrai, as he writes in anotherplace
for incorporeal things, which are.the greatest and
most excellent things, of all, are (saith he) disco?
yerable by reason only, and nothing else.—
rAnd
<hissubterraneous cave, so famously known,and so
■elegantly described by him,” where he supposes
men tied with their backs towards the light,
placed at a great distance from them, so that they
could not turnabout their heads to it neither,
and therefore could see nothing but the.shadows
• * Jo Politico,p»£83. of>*r. k De Repubv lib; sii. p, 483L’
ASS&BTED BY T IM ' ANCIENTS. 109
(of- certain substances behind them) projected'
from it, which shadows diey concluded to be the:
only substances and realities, and when they'
heard>the sounds made by those bodies thatwere>
betwixt the light and them, or their reverberated'
echoes, they imputed them tothose shadows which
they saw; I say, all this is a description of the
state of those men, who take body to be the only
real and substantial thing in the world, and tojdo
all that is done in it; and therefore often impute
sense, reason, and understanding, to nothing but
blood and brains in us.
xx. I might also shew in the next place, how
Aristotle did'not at all dissent from Plato herein,
.he plainly asserting,* aXXqv ovaLav irapa ra tuoBtira,
another substance besides sensibles,—ovalav %
w
pi-
<mjvK
cuK
iyrw
pitrfitvT)vtw
v (
ik
t
O
tjtw
v
, a substance separ­
able and also actually separated from sensibles,—
aK
tvrrrovovaiav, an immoveable nature or essence—
(subject to no generation or corruption) adding,
that the Deity was to be sought for here: nay,
8uch a Substance, qv fik-ytO
ocovSiv ivSlyrtrai aX-
XdaptpvcK
al aStalptroe tan, as hath no magnitude at
all, but is impartible and indivisible.—He also
blaming Zeno (not the Stoic, who w as junior to
Aristotle, b u t .an aucienter philosopher of that
name) for making God to be a body, in these
Words ;bavroc yap<
r
u
>
/u
aXeyeiuvaito
v0 eov"errs roSero-
irav, are on Sijwors atlroc \tywv' aawparog yap wv ir«ea*'
flf^aipoeiSdc *«Ji oravovrwgovr av k
ivo
ito
, o
vt av q'pc/ioi,
pifiapovre a
>
v
"eiret Seouiifiatori, rt avauro k
o
iX
v
e
i KivtidaC
* Metapbys. lib. xiv. cap. vii. p. 480. tom. iv. oper. et in multi* aliig
loci*.
k Libro de Zenonc, Xcnophane, et Gorgia, dtp. ir. p. 844. tom. ii.
oper.
106 1NCOBFQRBAI SOBSTANCE
Zeno implicitly affirms God to be a body, whte-
ther he mean him to be the whole corporeal uni­
verse, pr some particular body; for if God were ,
incorporeal, how could he be spherical? nor could
he then either move or rest, being not properly
in any place: but if God be a body, then, nothing
binders but that he may be moved.—From which
and other places of Aristotle, it is plain enough
■
'also, that he.did suppose incorporeal substance to
be unextended, and as such, not to have relation,
to any place. But tins is a thing to be disputed
afterwards. Indeed some learned men conceive
Aristotle to have reprehended Zeno withoutcause,
and that Zeno made God to be a sphere, or sphe­
rical, in no other sense, than Parmenides did: in
that known verse of his :a
f . . .
IlavTofliv eiixtbtXou cr<pai£A$imXtyxtov oyiua.
Wherein he is understood to describe the Divine
eternity. However, it plainly appears from hence,
that according to Aristotle’s sense, God was aom-
/ugroc, an incorporeal substance distinct from the
world.
xxi. Now this doctrine, which Plato especially
was famous for asserting, that there was ovalaa<
rol-
fU
L
T
O
Q
, incorporeal substance,—and that the souls
of men were such, but principally the D eity;
Epicurus taking notice of it, endeavoured with
all his might to confute it, arguing sometimes
after this manner ;b There can be no incorporeal
God (as Plato maintained), not only because no
man can frame a conception of an incorporeal
a Apud Aristot. in libro jam laudato, cap. iv. p. 843, tom. ii. oper,
et apud Ptatonem in Sophista, et veterum alios.
* Cicero de Natur, Deor. lib. i. cap. xii. p. 2837. tom. ix. oper.
c e N r o r m » r a ric e a s s . 107
ttftstanCe, bat also because whatsoever is incew
poreaf mast seeds want sesiee, and prudence, and
(Censure, aftl which things are inclnded- in the not
tion of God ; and therefore, an incorporeal Deity
is a contradiction.—And concerning the seal of
.man t *
«
eXfyovrif «W|umV tlvai njv rf/vy^ifv
fifcC
. They who say, that the sold is incorporeal, in
any ether sense, than as that,word may be used to
signify a subtile body, talk vainly and foolishly;
for then it coald neither be able to do nor suffer
any thing. It could not act trpon any other thing,
because it could touch nothing; neither could it
sufifer from any thing, because it could' not be
touched by any thing; but it would be just like
to vacuum or empty space, which can neither do
nor suffer any thing, but only yield bodies a pas­
sage through it.—From whence it is farther evi­
dent, that this opinion was professedly maintain­
ed by some philosophers before Epicurus’s time.
x x ii. But Plato and Aristotle were not the first
inventors of it; for it is certain, that all those phi­
losophers, who held the immortality of the hu­
man soul, and a God distinct from this visible
world (and so properly the Creator of it and alt
its parte), did really assert incorporeal substance.
For that a corporeal soul cannot bo hr its own
nature immortal and incorruptible, is plain to
■every one’s understanding, because of its parts
being separable from one another; and Whosoever
denies Ged to be incorporeal, if be make him any
thing at all, he must needs make him to be either
the whole corporeal world, or else a part of it.-—
Wherefore, if God be neither of these, he must
then be an incorporeal substance. Now Plato
4 VidcDiog. Lacrt.lib. x. segm. 67,68. p. 630.
10$ PROVED THAT, INCeRPGHEAL 'SUBSTANCE
w asnot the hrst Iwho asserted these twothings,
but they were both maintained by many-philoso­
phersbefore him. Pherecydes Syrus, and Thales,
were two of the most ancient philosophers among
the Greeks; and it is said of the former of them,*
that by bis lectures and disputes concerning the
immortality of the soul, he first drew, off Pytha'
goras from another course of life to the study of
philosophy. Pherecydes Syrus (saith Cicero)b
“ primus dixit animoshominum esse sempiternos,”
And Thales, in an epistle,cdirected to him, com
gratulates his being the first, that had designed to
write to the Greeks concerning Pi vine things ;
which Thales also(who was the head of the Ionic
succession of philosophers, as Pythagoras of the
Italic) is joined with Pythagoras and Plato, bythe
writer “ De Placitis Philosophorum,,!d after.this
manner, ovrot wavrec ol vportraytitvoi aotSfiarovr>Jvipv-
y^rjv virorifcvrac, <
pvm
i Xeyovreq avroKtvijrov K
ai overlay
voi)r«iv‘ AH these determined the soul to be in­
corporeal, making it to be naturally self-moving
(or self-active) and an intelligible substance,—
that is, not sensible. Now he, that determines
the soul to be incorporeal, must needs hold the
Deity to be incorporeal much more. “ Aquam
di*it Thales esse initium rerum (saith Cicero,)*
Deum autem earn mentem, quae ex aqua cuncta
fingeret.” Thales said that water was the first
principle ofall corporeal things, but theft God was
that mind, which formed all things out of water.
* Vide AugtKtid. cap. cxxxvii.p. 308. tom. ii. oper.
k Tusculan. Qiuest. lib. i. c. xvi. p. 2586. tom. viii. oper*
* Apud Diogen. Laert. lib. i. segm. 43. p.25.
* lib: iv. cap. iii. p. 908.
* Pe Natur. Dcor. lib. i..cap. x. p. 2894. tom, ix. oper, .
WAS ASSERTED BY THE ANCIENTS. 109
—For Thales was a Phanician by extraction, and’
accordingly seemed to have received his two'
principles- from thence, water,' and :the Divine
Spirit-moving upon the waters..The first whereof'
is thus expressed by Sanchoniathon,* in bis de^'
scription of the Phoenician theology, /doc SoAepoiy
fpf/3w&c, a turbid and dark chaos;—and the se->
cond is intimated in these words, ipaoQn towtCfib
tw
v lS
lu
>
v dp/<Jv, the Spirit was affected with love
towards its own principles;—perhaps expressing
the force of the Hebrew word, Merachepheth, and
both of them implying an understanding prolifical
goodness, forming and hatching the corporeal'
world into this perfection; or else a plastic power,
subordinate to it. Zeno (who wag also originally
a Phoenician) tells us,b that Hesiod’
s chaos was
water; and that the material heaven as well as
earth was made out of water (according to the
judgment of the best interpreters) is the genuine
sense of Scripture, 2 Pet. iii. 5. by which water
some ' perhaps would understand a chaos of
atoms confusedly moved. But whether Thales
were acquainted with the Atomical physiology or
no,c it is plain that he asserted, besides the soul’s
immortality, a Deity distinct from the corporeal
world.
We pass to Pythagoras, whom we have proved
already to have been an Atomist; and it is well
known, also, that he was a professed Incorpore-
alist. That he asserted the immortality of the
soul, and consequently its immateriality, is evi-
a Apud Euseb. de Preparation Evangelica, lib. ii. cap. x. p. 33.
b Vide Scholiast, in Apollon. Argoqautic. lib. iv. vers. 676. s. citar
turn ab Hug. Grbtio, in Notis ad lib. i. de Yeritate Reljg. Christ, sec.
xvi. p.30,31.
c Vide Plutarch, de Placitis Philos, lib. i<cap. xvi. p. 883.
110 PABM&ttlDES AN ASSBBTOR OP
dent from: his doctrine of proexistence and trans­
migration ; and that he likewise held an incorpo-
realDeifcy distinct from the world, is w thing not
questioned by any. But if there were any need of
proving it (because there are no monuments of his
extant); perhaps it might be done from hence, be­
cause be was the chief propagator of that doc­
trine amongst the Greeks, concerning three hy­
postases in the I>eity.
For, that Plato and his followers held, rp«* fp-
yriK
ekwroaraattg, three hypostases in the Deity, that
were the first principles of all things—is a thing
very well known to allth o u g h we do not affirm,
that these Platonic hypostases are exactly the
same with those in the Christian trinity.. Now
Plato himselfsufficiently intimates this not to have
been his own invention ; and Plotinus tells us,
that it was itoXataSofa, an ancient opinion before
Plato’s time, which bad been delivered down byr
some of the Pythagorics. Wherefore, I conceive,
this must needs be one of those Pythagoric mon­
strosities, which Xenophon covertly taxes Plate
for entertaining, and mingling with the Socraticat
philosophy, as if be had thereby corrupted the
purity and simplicity of it. Though a Corpore-
alist may pretend to be aTheist, yet I never heard
that any of them did ever assert a trinity, respec­
tively to the Deity, unless it were such an one as
I think not fit here to mention.
xxni. That Parmenides, who was likewise a
Pythagorean, acknowledged a Deity distinct from
the corporeal world, is evident from Plato.4 And
Plotinus tells us also, that he was one of them
that asserted the triad of Divine hypostases.
a In Parmcnklc.
laceam aK B A L i q b r u i c e . I l l
Moreover, whereas there was • great controversy
amongst theancient philosophers before Plato’s
.time/ between such as held all things to flow
(as namely Heraclitus and Cra&ylus), and others^
who asserted that some things did stand, and that
there was itim/roc ouala, a certain immutable na­
ture—to wit, as eternal naiad, together with eter­
nal and immutable truths (amongst which were
Parmenides and Melissus) $ the former, of these
were alt Corporealists (this being the very reason
why they made all things to flow, because tiiev
supposed all to be body), though these were not,
therefore, all of them Atheists. But the latter
were all both Iocorporealists and Theists; for
whosoever holds incorporeal substance, must
needs, according to reason, also assert a Deity.
And although we did not before particularly
mention Parmenides amongst the Atomical philo­
sophers, yet we conceive it to be manifest from
hence, that he was one of that tribe, because he
was an eminent assertor of that principle, ov&v
ovrs yivt&
ai oirt <
f>
S
tlp
t9ai rwvo
v
tw
k
, that no real en­
tity is either made or destroyed, generated or
corrupted.—Which we shall afterwards plainly
shew, to be the grand fundamental principle of
the Atomical philosophy.
xxiv. But whereas we did evidently prove be»
fore, that Empedocles was an Atomical physiolo-
ger, it may, notwithstanding, with some colour of
.probability, be doubted, whether he were not an
Atheist, or at least a Corporealist, because Aris­
totle accuses him of these following things. First/
of making knowledge to be sense, which is, in-
a Vide Platon, in Tlicaeteto, p. 130,131.
bAristot de Anima, lib. iii. cap. iii. p. 45. tom. it. oper.
113 EMPEDOCLES NO ATHEIST
deed/a plain sign of a Corporealist ;and,rthere-
fore, in the next place also,* of compounding the:
soul out' of the four elements, making it to un­
derstand every corporeal thing by something of
the same within itself, as fire by fire, and earth
by earth ;■and lastly,bof attributing muchin forV
tune, and affirming, that divers of the parts of
animals were made such by chance/ and -that
there were at first certain mongrel animals, fortui­
tously produced, that were fiovyevrj K
al dvSpoirpwpa,
such as bad something of the shape of an ox/ to­
gether with the face of a man (though they could
not long continue) ;—which seems to give just
cause of suspicion, that Empedocles atheized in
the same manner that Democritus did.
To the first of these we reply, that some others,
who had also read Empedocles’s poems, were of
a different judgment .from Aristotle as to that,-
conceiving Empedocles not to make sense but
reason the criterion of truth. Thus Empiricus
informs us :c Others say, that, according to Em­
pedocles, the criterion of truth is not sense,-but
right reason; and also that right reason is of two
sorts, the one (fetoe, or Divine, the other avfljpw
V
tvoc,
or human: of which the Divine is inexpressible,
but the human declarable.—And there might be
several passages cited out of those fragments of
Empedocles’s poems yet left, to confirm this; but
we shall produce.only this one:
ruUtv irurrtv fguju* vki S’ $ iriXov tuarrtnA
To this sense; Suspend thy assent to the corpo-
*Arist. Kb. i. cap. ii. p. 5. tom. ii. oper.
* Id. de Partibus Animal, lib. i. cap. i. p. 470.: tom. ii. open et Phy-
sicor. lib. ii. cap. viii. p. 475. et 477.
*Lib. vii. adv. Math. sec. 122. p. 396.
*Ib. see. 125. p. 347.
NOR CORPOREALIST. 113
real senseis, and consider every thing clearly with
thy mind or reason.
And. as to the second crimination, Aristotle?
has much weakened his own testimony here, by
accusing Plato also of the very same thing. IIX«-
t<
ov T»jv ipv^t/v tK rwv aroiyrtwv wotti, yivvoKtrat yap ofioup
ojxoiov, ra Se irpayfiara tic rwv apyrutv im u ’ Plato COffl’
pounds the soul out of the four elements, because
like is known by like, and things are from their
principles.—Wherefore it is probable, that Em­
pedocles might be no more guilty of this fault (of
making the soul corporeal; and to consist ofearth,
water, air, and fire) than Plato was, who, in all
men’s judgments, was as free from it as Aristotle
himself, if not more. For Empedoclesbdid, in the
same manner as Pythagoras before him, and
Plato after him, hold the transmigration of souls,
and consequently both their future immortality
and pre-existeuce; and therefore must needs as­
sert their incorporeity i Plutarch' rightly declar­
ing this to have been his opinion; Elvai «
c
a
<rove
[Ultimo ytyovorac Kai rove V&i TE0V7
)/corac’ That as Well
those who are yet unborn, as those that are dead,
have a being.—He also asserted human souls to
be here in a lapsed state ;d utravaarag, k
o
! $ v
o
v
c
, mu
<
l>
vya
S
a
c, wanderers, strangers, and fugitives from
God; declaring, as Plotinus tells us|* that it was
ia Divine law, aftapravovaatg rate <j>vyrai£ irtativ ivravda,
that souls sinning should fall down into these
earthly bodies. But the fullest record of the
* De Anima, 1. i. o. ii. p. 6. tom. ii. op.
. b Diogen. Laert. lib. yiii. segm. 78. p. 369. et Plut. de Solertia Ani­
mal. tom. ii. p. 964. oper.
cLibro Ady. Colotem, p. 1113. tom. ii. oper.
* Plutarch, de Exilio, p. 607.
* De Animae Descensu in Corpora, En. ir. lib. via. cap. i. p. 468.
114 EMPEDOCLES NO ATHSIST
Empedoclean philosophy concerning die son! is
contained in this of Hierocles,* K<m*xikmaxofrnrm
rijc aJSayfovog yiJpac o ttF0pc#?roc, EfiTreSo/cXiJc 4|i#w o
lliiOayopnoCt— Qvyag 8ioQev teal oXifrijc Nctai juutwop£vif
wievvoQ.—*Avetm & iccu riyv apyraiav 'i%uv a7roXa/u|3**«*
£
2fanfuTirffiy
n
vju
uw irtprUfc
S
g
o
r,
*£v0a <f>
&
v
o
j ts xoTOf i f juw aXXa* fdvsa Jtugwr.
E * ^ *
tC ov oi BKirtaovreq— Atjjq
—
ayi%
fiju
£
rarfx
aJm
£
ro
«fxitfw
w
m
.
*H 8e tiptme row ^twyovroc rov m e yArtjC Xfl/aa»va 7rpog row
m e dArjfetae iirtiyerai Xupwva, ov ct7roX(Wv r >
7 opjur; m e
irripoppvriatwQ Be yr/ivov ipy^trai ampa, ’OX(3iov— atwvoe
Man falleth from his happy state, as Em­
pedocles the Pythagorean saith,—by being a fu­
gitive, apostate, and wanderer from God, actuated
with a certain mad and irrational strife or conten­
tion.—But he ascends again, and recovers his
former state,—if he decline, and avoid these earth­
ly things, and despise this unpleasant and Wretch­
ed place, where murder, and wrath, and a troop
of all other mischiefs reign. Into which place,
they who fall, wander up and down through the
field of Ate and darkness. But the desire of him
that flees from this field of Ate carries him on
towards the field of truth; which the soul at first
relinquishing, and losing its wings, fell down into
this earthly>body, deprived of its happy life.—
-
From whence it appears that Plato’s impoppi^aie
was derived from Empedocles and the Pytha­
goreans.
Now, from what hath been already cited, it is
sufficiently manifest, that Empedocles was so far
from being either an Atheist or Corporealist, that
he was indeed a rank Pythagorist, as be is here
called. And we might add hereunto, what Cle-
*In Aurea Pytkagocae Carmma, p, 186*
NOR CORPORBAUST. 11$
tnens Alexandrinus observes,* that, according to
Empedocles, ovtuc *ai Sucaiw
QSiafiiufto/juv, ftaicapvai
pip svravOa, patcapimrtpoi 8f pera rijv spO
ivB
t iiroXXayvv'
ou Xpovfi r(Mrijv etiSaipioplavt/ovrec, aXXa ivaiivi ivar
w
avtoO
cuBvvaptvoi, 'AfiavaroieiXXounpofitartoi, tv Bi Tpa-
&c. If we live holily and justly, we shall
be happy here, and more happy after our depar­
ture hence; having our happiness not necessarily
confined to time, but being able to rest and fix in
it to all eternity; feasting with the other immortal
beings, &c.—We might also take notice, how,
besides the immortal souls of men, he acknow­
ledged demons or angels; declaring that some of
these fell from heaven, and were since prosecuted
by a Divine Nemesis. For these in Plutarch* are-
called ot 0£i)X«ro( K
oi ovpavom
TibQ Lcttvoi row 'EpireBo-
k
X
Io
v
cSaipwec' Those Empedoclean demons lapsed
from heaven, and pursued with Divine vengeance;
—whose restless torment is there described jn se­
veral verses of his.c And we might observe, like­
wise, how he acknowledged a natural and immu­
table justice, which was not topical and confined
to places and countries, and relative to particular
laws, but catholic and universal, and every where
the same, through infinite light and space; as he
expresses it with poetic pomp and bravery:
d *AXb«i to ftfr v&vron JiA t*
Atdsgoc, tautem? TrirOfTtUf tia, t oorXiTou avyvg.
And the asserting of natural morality is no small
argument of a Theist.
But what then shall we say to those other
things, which Empedocles is charged with by
a Stromatum, lib. v. p. 722.
b Re ViUndo aere alieno,t6ra. ii. opar. p. £30.
eApnd Plut. de Exitio, t. ii. oper. p. 607.
4 Apud Aristot. Rhetoric. Hb. 1. cap. xiii. p. 737. tom. iii. oper.
116 EMPEDOCLES- NO ATHEIST
Aristotle, that seem to have so*rank a smell of
Atheism? Certainly those mongrel, and biform
animals, that are said to have sprung up out of
the earth by chance, look as if they were more
akin to Democritus than Empedocles; and proba-
bly it is the fault of the copies, that it is- read
otherwise, there being no other philosopher that I
know of, that could ever find any such thing-in
Empedocles's poems.”. But for the rest, if Aristo­
tle do not misrepresent Empedocles, as he often
doth Plato, then it must be granted, •that he be­
ing a mechanical physiologer, as well astheolo-
ger, did something too much indulge to fortuitous
mechanism; which seems to be an extravagancy,
that mechanical philosophers and Atomists have
been always more or less subject too. But Aris­
totle doth not charge Empedocles with resolving
all things into fortuitous mechanism, as some phi­
losophers have done of late, who yet pretend to •
be Theists and Incorporealists, but only that-he
would explain some things in that way. Nay, he
clearly puts a difference betwixt Empedocles-and
the Democritic Atheists, in these words subjoin­
ed ;b Eiffi Tivk, &c. which is as if he should have
said, “ Empedocles resolved, some things in the
fabric and structure of animals into fortuitous
mechanism; but there are certain other philoso­
phers, namely, Leucippus and Democritus, who
•would have all things whatsoever in the whole
world, heaven, and earth, and animals, to be made
by chanceand the fortuitous motion of atoms, with­
out a Deity.” It seems very plain, that Empedo-
* Some verses of Empedocles, wherein he expressly maintains that
opinion, are extant in jElian deNatura Animaiium, lib. xvi. c. xxix,
k Physicor. lib. ii. cap, iv. p, 470. oper.
NOB COKPOBEALIST. 117
cles’s Philia and Neikos, his friendship and dis-
.cord, which he makes to be the apyij 8paar»?ptoc, the
active cause,—and principle of motion in the uni­
verse,was a certain plastic power, superior to for­
tuitous mechanism: and Aristotle himself ac­
knowledges somewhere as much. And Plutarch
tells us,* that, according to Empedocles, the
order and system of the world is not the result of
material causes and fortuitous mechanism, but of
a Divine wisdom, assigning to every thing o
vknvn
fvaic SlSw
<
nypfpaVf aXX »)v »
J irpoc to k
o
iv
o
vtpyov t
t
o
O
u
avvrafa' not such a place as nature would give it,
but such,as is most convenient for the good of the
whole.—Simplicius,b who had read Empedocles,
acquaints us, that he made two worlds, the one
•intellectual, the other sensible; and the former of
these to be the exemplar and archetype of the
latter. And so the writer De Placitis Philosopho-
rum observes,0 that Empedocles made $vo qXtovc,
fw>jutvap^rvirov, rov Se faivdfuvov, two suns, the One
archetypal and intelligible, the other apparent or
sensible.—
But I need take no more pains to purge Empe­
docles from those two imputations of Corporeal-
ism and Atheism, since he hath so fully confuted
them himself in those fragments of his still extant.'
First, by expressing such a hearty resentment of
the excellency of piety, and the wretchedness and
sottishness of Atheism in these verses:
**0X0(0? 9? Qtlaovvptiribon i*rh<raro v Xoutov,
AitXof i* &munr&teva 6i£v vrfyt5o£*/t*i/(AoX*r.
* \
ASymposiac. lib. iKQnaast. ii. p. 618.
b Commentar. ad Aristot. libr. Pliyaicor. p. 74. b. edit. Graec* Al-
dinas.
c Lib. ii. cap. xx. p. 000. tom. ii. oper. Platarchi.
* Apud Clement. Alexandria. Stromat lib. v. cap. }s
a
#j p. 733.
VOL. I. I
118 ANAXAGORAS AN INCORPORRALIST.
To this sense: He is happy, who hath his mind
richly fraught and stored with, the treasures of
Divine knowledge; bathe miserable, whose mind
is darkened as to the belief of a God.—And, se­
condly, by denying God to have any human form,
or members,
* Ov p h 0£onyxi<p<t\t) Kara. yuTtuxtmrrcti,
Or otherwise to be corporeal,
b Ovx ?rri» vn>J.<retr&' oii* ^ftXjuoTtriv
“
H/xtrigwc, ^
And then positively affirming what he is,
c *AXXa iigJi uai iQietyt'ros.swXrro /a
o
u
v
o
v
,
<J>govTurt noa-fxgnATravra xanuffffQva-a. dojSVtv.
Only a holy and ineffable mind, that by .swift
thoughts agitates the whole world.— . ,
xxv. And now we shall speak something also
of Anaxagoras, having shewed before, that ho
was a spurious Atomist. For he likewise agreed
with the other Atomists in this, that he asserted:
incorporeal substance in general, as the active
cause and principle of motion in the universe, and
particularly an incorporeal Deity distinct from.
the world; affirming, that there was besides,
atoms, Now? o Siaicoofitov re jcat iravrwv airioc, (as it IS
expressed in Platod
) An ordering and disposing
mind, that, was the cause of all things.—Which
mind (as Aristotle tells us') he made to be fiovov
* ApudTzetz. Chiliad, xiii. Hist, cecclxir. v. 80. et Ammonium in
Comment in Aristotel. m# •z/xnnlat, fol. 107. edit. Aldin.
b Apud Clem. Alexandr. Stromal, lib. y. p. 004.
c Apud Tzetz. et Ammonium, ubi supra.
d In Phsedon. p. 393. oper. ,
* De Auima, lib. i. cap. ii. p. 0. tom. ii. oper.
THE ANCIENT ATOMIST8 THEI8T8. 119
two oVruv airXovvK
al afuyif teat Kadapdv; the Only sim­
ple, unmixed, and pure thing—in the world. And
he supposed this to be that, which brought the
confused chaos of omnifarious atoms into that or­
derly compages of the world that now is.
xxvi. And by this time we have made it evi­
dent, that those Atomical physiologers, that were
before Democritus and Leucippus, were all of
them Incorporeallists: joining theology and pneu-
matology, the doctrine of incorporeal substance
and a Deity, together with their Atomical physio­
logy. This is a thing expressly noted concern­
ing Ecphantus, the Pythagorean, in Stobaeus,*
*Ejc^avroc <
KfU
vriav arofm'v owtaravat rov fcoo/iov, StO
t-
K
sioO
at 81 airo irpovotac* Ecphantus held the corpo­
real world to consist of atoms, but yet to be or­
dered and governed by a Divine providence:—
that is, he joined atomology and theology both
together. And the same is also observed of Ar-
cesilaus, or perhaps Archelaus, by Sidonius Apol-
linaris;b
Post hos Arcesilaus divina mente paratara
Conjicit hanc molem, confectam partibus illis,
Qnas atomos vocat ipse leves.
Now, I say, as Ecphantus and Archelaus asserted
.the corporeal world to be made of atoms, but yet,
notwithstanding, held an incorporeal Deity dis­
tinct from the same, as the first principle of acti­
vity in it; so in like manner did all the other an­
cient Atomists generally before Democritus, join
theology and incorporealism with their Atomical
* Eclog. Physic. lib. i. cap. xxv. p. 48.
b Carra. xv. in Epithalamio Polcmi et Araneolae, y. 94. p. 132. edit.
Sayaronis. ,
i 2
120 THE NEAR COONATION BETWIXT
physiology. They did atomize as well as he, but
they did uotatheize; but that Atheistical atomo-
logy was a .thing first set on foot afterward by
.Leucippus and Democritus.
xxvii.: But because many seem to be so
strongly possessed with this prejudice, as if
Atheism were a natural and necessary appendix
to Atomism, and therefore will conclude, that the
same persons could not possibly be Atomists, and
Ineorporealists or Tbeists, we shall further make
it evident, that there is not only po inconsistency
betwixt the Atomical physiology and theology,
but also that there is, on the contrary, a most na­
tural cognation between them.
. And. this we shall do two manner of ways;first,
by inquiring into the origin of this philosophy,
and considering what grounds or principles of
reason they were, which first led the ancientsinto
this Atomical or mechanical way of physiplogiz-
ing. And secondly, by making it appear, that
the intrinsical constitution of this physiology is
such, that whosoever entertains it, if he do but
thoroughly understand it, must of necessity ac­
knowledge, that there is something else in the
world besides body.
First, therefore, thisAtomical physiology seems
to have had its rise and origin from-the strength
of reason, exerting its own inward active power
and vigour, and thereby bearing itself up against
the prejudices of sense, and at length prevailing
over them, after this manner. The ancients com
sidering and revolving the ideas of their own
minds, found that they had a clear and distinct
conception of two things, as the general heads
and principles of whatsoever was in the universe;
ATOM18M AND INCORPOREALISM. l 2 i
the one thereof was passive natter, and the other
active power, vigour, and virtue. To the latter
of which belongs both cogitation, and the power
of moving matter, whether by express conscious*
ness or no. Both- which together may be called
by one general name of life; so- that they made
these two general heads of being or entity,*passive
matter and bulk, and self-activity or life. The
former of these was commonly called by the an­
cients the t o iraa^ov, that which suffers and re­
ceives,---- and the latter the to vo
io
vv,
the active principle,—and the to 69tv *
»
»dvr\<
nq, that from whence motionsprings. tb.ThiioT
—“ In rerum natura (saith Cicero* ac­
cording to the general sense of the ancients) duo
^uaerenda sunt; unum, quae materia sit, ex qua
quaeque res efficiatur; alterum, quae res sit quae
quicque efficiatThere are two things to be in­
quired after in nature; one, .what is the matter out
of which every thing is made; another, what is the
active cause or efficient.—To the same purpose
Seneca,b “ Esse debet aliquid unde fiat, deinde
k quo fiat; hoc est causa, illud materia:” There
must be something out of which a thing is made,
and then something by which it is made; the latter
is properly the cause, and the former the matter.
—Which is to be understood of corporeal things
and their differences, that there must be both
matter, and an active power, for the production
of them. And so also that of Aristotle,0 o
w
<
n
»
c
airtoQ fuag filv oOev rijv ap^jjv tlva'i <
j>a/j.tv m g Kiv^autig,
• 1
* Be Finibtts bonorata et malorum, lib. i. cap. vi. p. 2346. tom, viii.
©per.
■
b Epistol. Ixv. tom. ii. oper. p. 160.
f Pfybicor* lib.ii. cap. iii. p: 463. tom. i.opcr.
122 THE NEAR COGNATION BETWIXT
piac &rrjcvXvt' ' That, from whence the principle
of motion is, is one cause, and the matter is ano­
ther.-—Where Aristotle gives that name of cause
to the matter also, though others did appropriate
it to the active power. And the writer De Pla-
citis Philosophorum* expresses this as the general
sense of the ancients: aSvvarov ap/vv h ’m
v vXjjv t«5v
ovtwv ijc to iravra viroarr)vait dXXa Kal to irotovv atriov
%py wroriBivai, oiov owic apyvpot apKtt irpoc to tKwwfia y t-
v itrB a i av p t} teal to ttoiovv jj, Towrioriv o ajayupotcoiroc,
opohtfQ feat m rov ^aXicov, k <
u rov £vXov, kcu rqc <*\X*IC
w
X
jjc
* It is impossble, that matter alone should
be the sole principle of all things, but there must
of necessity be supposed also an agent or efficient
cause: as silver alone is not sufficient to make a
cup, unless there be an artificer to work upon it.
And the same is to b.e said concerning brass,
wood, and other natural bodies.—
Now as they apprehended a necessity of these
two principles, so they conceived them to be
such, as could not be confounded together into
one and the same thing or substance, they having
such distinct ideas and essential characters from
one another; the Stoics being the only persons,
who, offering violence to their ownapprehensions,
rudely and unskilfully attempted to make these
two distinct things to be one and the same sub­
stance. Wherefore, as the first of these, viz. mat­
ter, or passive extended bulk, is taken by all for.
substance, and commonly called by the name of
body; so the other, which is far the more noble of
the two, being that, which acts upon the matter,
and hath a commanding power over it, must
needs be substance too, of a different kind from
* Lib. i. cap. iii. p. 876. lom. i. opcrt piutarchi.
ATOMISM ANDINC0RP0REALI8M. 12$
mutter or body; and therefore immaterial or incor­
poreal substance. Neither did they find any other
entity to be conceivable, besides these two, passive
bulk or extension, which is corporeal substance,
and internal self-activity or life, which is the es­
sential character of substance incorporeal; to
which latter belongs not only cogitation, but also
the power of moving body.
Moreover, when they further considered the
first of these, the material or corporeal principle,:
they being not able clearly to conceive any thing
else in it, besides magnitude, figure, site, and mo­
tion or rest, which are all several inodes of extend­
ed bulk, concluded therefore, according to rea­
son, that there was really nothing else existing in
bodies without, besides the various complexions
and conjugations of those simple elements, that is,
nothing but mechanism. Whence it necessarily
followed, that whatsoever else was supposed to be
iti bodies, was, indeed, nothing but our modes of
sensation,^or the fancies and passions in us begot­
ten from them, mistaken for things really existing.
without us. And this is a thing so obvious, that
some of those philosophers, who had taken little
notice of the Atomical physiology, had notwith­
standing a suspicion of it; as for example, Plo­
tinus,* who, writing of the criterion of truth, and
the power of reason, hath these words, Katrdh i
r i t auftjnH C a SI B
okii ttuttivty^uv ivapytirrartiv, airurrarai'
/ap ro n ovk iv toZ
c vtroKUfiivoti, a\X £i>rote waOtmv typi ryv
Soteovvav vimaraoiv, Km vov Sft y Siavoiag rmv Kpivovrwv'
Though the things of sense seem to have so clear
a certainty, yet, notwithstanding, it is doubted
* Libro, quod intelligibilia nota lint extra intellectual, Enncad. v,
lib. v. cap. i. p. 520.
124 THE NEAR COGNATION BETWIXT ,
✓
concerning them, whether (the qualities of them}:
have any real existence at all in the things with­
out us, and -not rather a seeming existence only,,
in our own passions;, and there is need of mind
or understanding to judge in this case, and to de­
termine the controversy, whichsense alone cannot;
decide.-—
But the ancient physiologists concluded
without any hesitancy, ovro avrd cart toptXi 7X0—
KaZ/eofku p t, km to wpIvOtov r<fi rnKpaZprOai, That the
nature of honey in itself, is not the same thing
with my being sweetened, nor of wormwood with
that sense of bitterness which I have from i t ;—>
•
Siatytpsiv SI rd iradoc rou ektoq viroKUfiivov, km rac MoOqanGi'
rd plv ektvq vvoKUfteva. ov Karakapfiavuv, pova Sf st &pa
rd eavrulv vadn’ But that the passion of sense dif­
fered from the absolute nature of the thing itself
without; the senses not comprehending the ob—
jects themselves, but only their own passions from >
them.—
I say, therefore, that the ancients concluded the
absolute nature of corporeal things in themselves
to be.nothing but a certain disposition of parts, in
respect of magnitude, figure, site, and motion,
which-in tastes cause us to be differently affect­
ed with those senses of sweetness and bitterness,
and in sight with those fancies of colours, and
accordingly in the other senses with other fan­
cies ; and that the corporeal world was to be -ex­
plainedbythese two things, whereofone isabsolute ,
in the bodies without us, the various mechanism,
ofthem; the other relative only to us, the different ■
fancies in us, caused by the respective differences'
of them in themselves. Which fancies, or fan­
tastic ideas, are no modes of the bodies without
us, but of that only in ourselves, which is cogita-
. ATOMISM AND INCORPOBEALISM. 12$
live or self-active, that is, incorporeal. For the-
sensible ideas of hot and cold, red and green, &c.
cannot be clearly conceived by us as modes of
the bodies without us, but they may be easily ap­
prehended as modes of cogitation, thatis, of sen-
sation, or sympathetical perception in us.
The result of all which was, that whatsoever is
either in ourselves, or the whole world, was to be
reduced to one or other of these two principles;
passive matter and extended bulk, or self-active
power and virtue; corporeal or incorporeal sub­
stance ; mechanism or life; or else to a complica­
tion of them both together.
x x v i i i . From this general account, which we
have now given ofthe origin of the Atomical phy­
siology, it appears, that the doctrine of incorpo­
real substance sprung up together with it. But
this will be further manifest from that which fol­
lows. For we shall in the next place shew, how
this philosophy did, in especial manner, owe its
original to the improvement of one particular'
principle of reason, over and besides all the rest;
namely, that famous axiom, so much talked of
amongst the ancients,
* Do nihilo nihil, in nifrilumnil posse reverti;
That nothing can come from nothing, nor go to
nothing.—For though Democritus, Epicurus, and
Lucretius abused this theorem, endeavouring to
carry it further than the intention of the firstAtom-
ists, to the disproving of a Divine creation ofany
thing out of nothing by i t ; u Nullam rem k nihilo
gigni divinities unquain ;”b and consequently of
* Pcrsii Satin iii, \cr. 84. . * Lucret. libJ, ver. 151,
126 NOTHING COMES FROM NOTHING,
a D eity: yet as the meaning of it was at firstcon­
fined and restrained, that nothing of itself could
come from nothing, nor go to nothing, or that
according to the ordinary course of nature (with-'
out an extraordinary Divine power) nothing could
be raised from nothing, nor reduced to nothing;
it is not only an undoubted rule of reason in itself,
but it was also the principal original of that Ato-'
mical physiology, which, discarding forms and
qualities, acknowledged really nothing else in
body besides mechanism.
Wherefore, it was not in vain, or to no purpose,
that Laertius, in the life of Democritus," takes no­
tice of this as one of his Dogmata, pij&v U rov pn
ovroc y'tvtaOai, fiqSk E
tc to /l
it
} ov tfhiptoQai, that nothing
was made or generated out of nothing, nor cor­
rupted into nothing;—this being a fundamental
principle, not only of his Atheism, but also of
that very Atomical physiology itself, which he
pursued. And Epicurus, in his epistle to Hero­
dotus,b plainly fetches the beginning of all his
philosophy from hence: Upwrov ph> o n ovStv ylvtrat
Ik rov ftri ovroc, Kai o
v
Se
v(pQeipirai E
tcro /n
r;ov. Et /i£v yap
lyiviTO ro iK^aivd/uevov ererov /ui) ovroc, 7r^v vavroc E
-yi-
v
e
t
’ av, oirtpfiarwvyi o
vSe
vwpo$eoptvov' Kai et ifdeiptro St
ro a<j>avi£optvov etc to fitj ov, iravra av avoXtoXet ra irpa-
ypara ovk o
v
tw
v rwv etc a SteXvero* We fetch the be­
ginning of our philosophy (saith he) from hence,
that nothing is made out of nothing or destroyed
to nothing; for if things were made out of nothing,,
then every thing might be made out of every thing,
neither would there be any need of seeds. And,
if whatsoever is corrupted were destroyed to no-
* Lib. ix. segm. 44. p. 572.
b Apud Diog, Lacrt. lib. x. scgrn. 38, 39. p. 619, &e.
NOR CORK TO NOTHING 127
jibing, then all things would at length be brought
to nothing.—Lucretius in like manner beginning
here, insists more largely upon those grounds of
reason hinted by Epicurus. And first, that no­
thing can be made out of nothing he proves thus:
* Nam si de nibilofierent, ex omnibus rebus
Omne genus nasci posset: nil semine egeret:
E mare primum homines et terra posset oriri
Squamigerum genus, &c.
Nec fructus iidem arboribus constare solerent,
8ed mutarentur: ferre omnes omnia possent.
Praeterea cur vere rosam, frumenta calore,
Yites autumno fundi suadente videmus? &c.
Quod si de nibilo fierent, subito cxorerentur
Incertospatio atque alienis partibus anni.
In like manner he argues, to prove that nothing
is corrupted into nothing: .
b Hue acoedit uti quicque in sua corpora rursum
Dissolvat natura; neque ad nibilitm interimatres:
Nam si quid mortale a cunctis partibus esset,
Ex oculis res quaeque repente erepta periret
Praeterea quaecunque yetustate amoyet Betas,
Si penitus perimit, consumens materiam omnem,
Unde animale genusgencratim in lumina yit®
Redducit Venus? aut redductum Daedala tellus
Unde alit atque auget? generatim pabulapraebens,&c.
« Haud igitur penitus pereunt quaecunqueyidentur,
Quando aliud ex alio reficit natura; nec ullam
Rem gigni patitur nisi morte adjutam aliena.
In-which passages, though it be plain, that Lu­
cretius doth not immediately drive at Atheism,
and nothing else, but primarily at the establishing
of a peculiar kind of Atomical physiology, upod
which indeed these Democritics afterward endea­
voured to graft Atheism; yet, to take away that
suspicion, we shall in the next place shew, that,
a Lucret lib*i. ver. 160, &c. b Id. lib. i. vcr. 216, &c.
* Id. lib. i. yer. 263,
128 NOTHING COMES PROM NOTHING,
generally, the other ancient physiologers alsos
who.were Theists, did likewise build the struc­
ture of their philosophy upon the same founda­
tion, that nothing .can come from nothing, nor go
to nothing: as, for example, Parmenides, Melis1
-
sns, Zeno, Xenophanes, Anaxagoras, and Empe­
docles. Of Parmenides and Melissus Aristotle
thus writes,* owSfv owSI ytvsoOai (jxunv ow8e <p0upt<f6ai
rww ovrwv* They say that no real entity is either
generated or corrupted,—that is, made anew out
of nothing, or destroyed to nothing. And Sim­
plicius tells us,b that Parmenides gave 3 notable
reason for the confirmation of this assertion, that
nothing in nature could be made out of nothing,
turlav rov Saw irevrwc l£ ovrog, ylvtoflat t o yivopevOv, Bav-
paorwc 6 Uap/xevlSric irpoort&rjKcv, oXwc yap <j>rioiv, si at
row pi) ovroc, tiq V aTroicXqptune rov rove yfvtaOai ore tyeve-
ro, aXXapt} wporepov wvorepov* Because if any thing
be made out of nothing, then there could be no
cause, why it should then be made, and neither
sooner nor later.—Again Aristotle* testifies of Xe­
nophanes and Zeno, that they made this a main
principle of their philosophy, pi) iv& yloBm ylvtoOat
pn&v IkpnSevoe, that it cannot be, that any thing
should be made out of nothing:—and of this
Xenophanes, Sextus the philosopher tells us,d
»De Coelo, lib. iii. cap, i. p. 668. tom. i. oper.
*Commentar. in Libras physicos Aristot. fol. 22. b. edit. Grasc.
*libra de Xenophane, Gorgia, et JZenone, cap. i. p. 834. tom. ii,
oper.
, 4Dr. Cudworth was led into a mistake by Henry Stephens, tflio, in
bis poesis Philosophic^ p. 36, where he states this opinion of Xeno­
phanes concerning the Deity, and produces the verses which contain
it, tells us, that he had borrowed them from Sextus the philosopher,
by whom he undoubtedly means Sextus Empiricus. But though this
latter writer, in his Hypotypos. Pyrrhon. lib. i. cap. xxxiii. p. 50..gives
a large account of Xenophanes’s opinion concerning God; yet we do
NOR GOES TO NOTHING. . t $9
that he held on E
tc*« aowparoc 0e
o
c
* That there was
but one God, and that he was incorporeal,—
speaking thus of him:
E& brt B
to
~
<
rixai hQpbmrt fAtyurru;,
Own iifxaqB
vm
dC
rtfifA
M
tof, own wh
/jut.
Aristotle* also writes in like manner concerning
Empedocles, airavra ravra kcuceT
voc opoXoyuon etc te
fir}ovroca/nriyruvovton ytvioOai, to te ov t£oX
X
v<r0aiavtfw*
«rov km apptjKTov. Empedocles. acknowledges the
very same with other philosophers, that it is im*
possible any thing should be made out of nothing,
or perish into nothing.—And as for Anaxagoras,
it is sufficiently known to all, that bis Homceome>
ria, or doctrine of similar atoms (which was a
certain spurious kind of Atomism) was nothing
but a superstructure made upon this foundation.
Resides all which, Aristotlebpronounces univer-
tally concerning the ancient physiologers, without
any exception, that they agreed in this one thing,
Trtpt to
w
tikofioyvwfiovovoi rqc &
>£qc oi mpt Qvatug, onto
ytyvo/itvov ec fit}ovrwv yiyveoOaio
Svvo
to
v' The physio-
logers generally agree in this (laying it down for
a grand foundation) that it is impossible, that any
thing should be made out of nothing,—And again,
he calls this Kotvqv &
>£avrw jwaixurv, the: common
opinion ofnaturalists;—intimating, also, that they
Concluded it the greatest absurdity, that any phy-
siologer could be guilty of, to lay down such prin­
ciples, as from whence it would follow, that any
not find in any part of his writings what is quoted from him by Ste­
phens, who should have eited to that purpose Clemens Alexandria.
Stromat. lib. v. c. xiv. p. 714.
*De Xenophane, &c. cap. ii. p. 836.
• bPhysicor. lib. i. cap. v. p. 451. tom. i. oper.
130 THE ORIGIN OF THE '
real entity in nature did come from nothing, and
go to nothing.:
Now, it may well be supposed, that all these
ancient physiologers (the most of which were also
Theists) did not keep such a stir about this busi­
ness for nothing; and therefore we are in the next
place to shew, what it was that they drove at in
it. And we do affirm, that one thing, which they
all aimed at, who insisted upon the forementioned
principle, was the establishing some Atomical
physiology or other, but most of them at such as
takes away all forms and qualities of bodies (as
entities really distinct from the matter and sub­
stance), and resolves all into mechanism and fan­
cy'. For it is plain, that if the forms and qualities
of bodies be eutities really distinct from the sub­
stance, and its. various modifications, of figure;
site, and motion, that then', in all the changes and
transmutations of nature, all the generations and
alterations of body (those forms and qualities be­
ing supposed to have no real existence any where
before), something must of necessity be created
or produced miraculously out of nothing; as like­
wise reduced into nothing in the corruptions of
them, they having no being any where afterward.'
As for example; whenever a candle is but lighted
or kindled into a flame, there must needs be a
new.form of fire, .and new qualities of light and
heat, really distinct from the matter and sub­
stance, produced out of nothing, that is, created ;
and the same again reduced into nothing, or anni­
hilated, when the flame is extinguished. Thus,
when water is but congealed at any time into
snow, hail, or ice, and when it is again dissolved;
when wax is by liquefaction made soft and trans-
ATOMICAL PHILOSOPHY. 131
parent, and changed to most of our senses; when
the sarnie kind of nourishment taken in by animals
is turned into blood, milk, flesh, bones, nerves,
and all the other similar parts; when that which
was in the form of bright flame, appears in the
form of dark, smoke; and that which was in the
form of vapour, in the form of rain or water, or
the like; I say, that in all these mutations of bo^
dies, there must needs be something made out of
nothing. But that in all the Protean transforma­
tions of nature, which happen continually, there
should be real entities thus perpetually produced,
out of nothing and reduced to nothing, seemed to
be so great a paradox to the ancients, that they
could by no means admit of it. Because, as we
have already declared, first they concluded it
clearly impossible by reason, that any real entity
should of itself rise out of nothing; and secondly,
they thought it very absurd to bring God upon the
stage, with his miraculous extraordinary power,
perpetually at every turn; as also, that every thing
might be made out of every thing, and there would
be no cause in nature for the production of one
thing rather than another, and at this time rather
than that, if they were miraculously made out of
nothing. Wherefore they sagaciously apprehend­
ed, that there must needs be some other mystery
or intrigue of nature in this business, than was
commonly dreamed of, or suspected; which they,
concluded to be this, that in all these transforma­
tions there were no such real entities of forms,
and qualities distinct from the matter,, and the va­
rious disposition of its parts, in respect of figure,
site, and motion (as is vulgarly supposed) pro­
duced and destroyed; but that all these feats;
132 THE ORIGIN OF THE
were done, either by the concretion and secretion
of actually inexistent parts, or else by the differ­
ent modifications of the same pre-existent matter,
or the insensible parts thereof. This only being
added hereunto, that from those different modifi­
cations of the small particles of bodies (they
being not so distinctly perceived by our senses);
there are begotten in us certain confused phasma-
ta or phantasmata, apparitions, fancies, and pas­
sions, as of light and colonrs, heat and cold, and
the like, which are those things, that are vulgarly
mistaken for real qualities existing in the bodies
without us; whereas, indeed, there is nothing ab­
solutely in, the bodies themselves, like to those
fantastic ideas that we have of them; and yet
they are wisely contrived by the Author of nature
for the adorning and embellishing of the corporeal
world to us.
•. So that thev conceived, bodies were to be con-
sidered two manner of ways, either as they are
absolutely in themselves, or else as they are
relatively to u s: and as they are absolutely iu
themselves, that so there never was any entity
really distinct from the substance produced in
them out of nothing, nor corrupted or destroyed
to nothing, but only the accidents and modifica­
tions altered. Which accidents and modifications
are no entities really distinct from their substance;
forasmuch as the same body may be put into
several shapes and figures, and the same man
may successively stand, sit, kneel, and. walk,
without the production of any new entities reially
distinct from the substance of his body. So that
the generations, corruptions, and alterations of
inanimate bodies are not terminated in the pro-
ATOMICAL PHILOSOPpv. 133
daction or destruction of any substantial forms,
or real entities distinct from the substance* but
only in different.modifications of it. But secondly,-
as bodies are considered relatively to us, that so
besides their different modifications and mecha­
nical alterations, there are also different fancies,
seemings, and apparitions begotten ih us front
them ; which unwary and unskilful philosopher*
mistake for1absolute forms and qualities in bo­
dies themselves.. And thus they concluded, that
all the phenomena.of inanimate bodies, and their
various transformations, might be clearly resolved
into these two! things; partly something that is
real and absolute in bodies themselves, which is
nothing hutatheir different mechanism* or disposi­
tion of parts inrespect of figure* site,land motion;
and partly something that is fantastical: in: the
sentient. . . ■
■
That the Atomical physiology did emerge after
this manner 1from the principle.of reason, that
nothing comes from nothing, nor goes to nothing,
might be .further convinced, from the testimony
of .Aristotle,?] lwiiting thus concerning i t : ’Ea
c
-tow
ytvstrO
ai aXXtfXwvr avaurla tvVTrrjpyrtvapa''.a yapuSv
\ . ,f • . » r ■ i -a 1/ + *y t >/
ro yivop&
iov, avayicr} yivtmku 1
7 ovrutv n «; 7
1
1
?*
ovrwv*
rouridv 8btoifJ
tk
v
y£k py ovraw ^Wr(W.a$v*arov, iftpi yip
ravTrjQ opoyvuipovdvbi rife SoEflg airaweg oIrepltpiwrtiog*
to \ei7
rdv ;irvpfiahiuv avayKrjg-evopurav* e
£ oirraiv
ftiivi Ktu:ewjrapy^dvrwv;ytvtarO
ai,: Sea apueportfra*
tJ v
orpetovi^ avaurO
^T&
nf riplv. The. ancient pbysiologers
concluded, .that because contraries were .made
out of one ano&er, that therefore, they were.be-
foiie (one' way or other) iriexistent; arguing inthis
Manner, that if whatsoever be made,! must needs
: a.Shysfeir. lib.i. cap.v.p. 461.
VOL. I. K
134 ugh gkdoin ov the.
be made ootof something, or out of nothing, aad»
this latter (thatany thing should be made-out of
nothing), is.impossible, according-to the general
consent of all the: ancient physiologers; then its
follows o£ necessity, that all. corporeal things ace
made,or generated out of things that were realty
before and inexisteot, though, by reason of the
smallness of their builds they were insensible to
m —
nWhere Aristotle plainly intimates* that alt
the ancientphilosophers, whosoeverinsisted! Upon
this principle* that nothing comes from, npr goes
to nothing, were one.way or other Atomical, and
did resolve all corporeal tilings into oyeovv t
W c
h i tiifr <
ffU
K
fortir* *0*jr«vr i/ttv, certain.nraleculn
or corpuscular winch by reason.of tliejt smallness
were insensible-tons,^tbat is* iato atoms. But
yeit there was-adifferencebetween theseAtotpists,
forasmuch as Anaxagoras was such an Atomist*
as did notwithstanding hold forms, and. qualities
really distinct from,the mechanical: modification's
of bodies. For be npt being able (as it-seems)
welt to understand; that other Atomical physio*
logy of the ancients, that* explodrug qualities*
solved all corporeal phenomena by mechanism
and. fancy; and yet acknowledging* that that
principle of their’s, which they went upon, must
needs?b e troe, that, nothing could of itself come
from nothing, nor go to nothing* framed a ne^v
kiud of atomology of, bis.own* in supposing the
whplexiorporfeal:world;or mass of-matter to con*
slst of shnilar atoms* that is, such: as were otrr-
gkially enduecl wfth all those different forme and
qualities that are vdlgariy concaved: to be ip hoo­
dies, some bony* some fleshy, some fiery, some
watery, some white,, some Mack, some bitter,
JtfSOmOMU JPHIM 80PBY. 133
$ome sweet, and the like, gio that ait bodieswhut-
soever bad srime of all sorts of these atorti8!(wh»ch
are in a mariner infinite) specifically differingfnom*
one another in them. Vw <
t>xavfi ptpl^Bai, Storeirav
*K. :jr4»foc' ylverai, falre&dtu Sk'Siafipovrtt,- teal irfkitrayd*
ptvtofltu trtpa aXXqXuv iic rov pakiora vwtpty*ovrt>
4Site' r i
ett rti wv aireifoni'f &C. That alt things-
were; in every thing mingled together,- because
tbefy saw, that every' thing was made of every*
flting; but that thing* seemed to-differ from ond
another, and were denominated1
to be this or that,
from those atoms* which ate most predominatit inJ
the mixture; by rehson of their multiplicity1
:^--*
whence he concluded, that all the generations,-
corruptions, arid'alterations of’bodies word made
by nothing*but fhe cobcretions mid secretiOfis of
inexistCntand pre-existent atOmSofdiflferentfortriS
and qualities, without the production Of any new
form and>quality out of nothing; dr thereduction
of any into* notiiirig. This very account Aris­
totle gives of the Anaxagorean* hypothesis; iotki
’Ava^ayopag ovriog awnpa mrfitivat ra (rroiy^tla, Sta to vrto*
Xci^i)3avEn*, ttjv Kotvjjv rw v 'fv&lic(vv‘th)at aXrfiij; log
o v ' yivopkiov (n ilS tc tic rov /ut} ovro$. ,A liaxag O T aS
seemeth; therefore, to make infinite atoms ehdufed
with several forms and qualities to bethe'ele*
meats of bodies, because he supposed' that’Conti
inon opinion of physiologeTs to be true, that rid1
thing'is made of nothing.—But all the 'otHer an­
cient physiologers that were before Ahaxagdras;
and likewise those1
after him; Who, insisting Upbti
the Same principle" of'nothing' coming froth ‘
no*-
thing,-did not Auaxagorize; as Empedocles; TJ&
mocritus, and Protagoras, must needs riWdce;Syi*»t^
* Ibid.
K 2
136 IKeORPOREALISM SPRUNG FROM THE
qscpofwct dissimilar moleculae, and w^ovc atrwove,
atoms unformed and unqualified, otherwise than
by magnitude, figure, and motion, to be the prin­
ciples of bodies, and cashiering forms and quali­
ties (as real entities distinct from the matter), re­
solve all corporeal phenomena into mechanisnr
and fancy. Because, if no real entity can come
from nothing, nor go to nothing, thenone of these
two things is absolutely necessary, that either
these corporeal forms and qualities, being real
entities distinct from the matter, should exist
before generations and after corruptions, in cer­
tain insensible atoms originally such, according
to the.Anaxagorean doctrine; or else, that they
should not be real entities distinct from the mat­
ter, but only the different modifications and.me­
chanisms of it, together with different fancies.
And thus we have made it evident, that the ge­
nuine Atomical physiology did spring originally,
from this principle of reason, that no real entity
does of itself cqme from nothing, nor go to no-.
thing.
xxix. Now we shall in the next place shew,
how this very same principle of reason, which in­
duced the ancients to reject substantial forms and
qualities of bodies, and to physiologize atomical­
ly, led them also unavoidably to assert incorpo­
real substances; and that the Souls of men and
animals were such, neither generated nor corr
rupted. They had argued against substantial
forms aud qualities, as we have shewed, in this
manner, that-siuce the forms and qualities of bo*
dies are supposed by all to be generated and cor­
rupted, made anew out of nothing, and destroyed
to nothing, that therefore they could not be real
SAME PRINCIPLE tfITH ATOMISM. 137
entities distinct from the substance of matter, but
only different modifications of it in respect of fi­
gure, site, and motion, causing different sensations
in u s; and 'were all to be resolved into mechanism
and fancy. For as for that conceit of Anaxago­
ras, of pre and post-existent atoms, endued with
all those several forms and qualities of bodies in-
generably and incorruptibly, it was nothing but
an adulteration of the genuine Atomical philoso­
phy, and a mere dream of his, in which very few
followed him. And now they afgue contrariwise
for the souls of men and animals, in this manner;
because they are plainly real entities distinct from
the substance of matter and its modification;
and men and brutes are not mere machines, nei­
ther can life and cogitation, sense and conscious^
ness, reason and understanding, appetite and will,
ever result from magnitudes, figures, sites, and
motions; that therefore they are not corporeally
generated and corrupted, as the forms and quali­
ties of bodies are. ’ASvvarov yivtoQai Tt in fiifStvof
frpovfl-ap/ovroc. It is impossible for a real entity to
be made or generated from nothing pre-existing.
—Now, there is nothing of soul and mind, rea­
son and understanding, nor indeed of cogitation
and life, contained in the modifications and me­
chanism of bodies; and, therefore, to make soul
and mind to rise out of body whensoever a man is
generated, would be plainly to make a real entity
to come out of nothing, which is impossible. I
say, because the forms and qualities of bodies are
generated and corrupted, made and unmade, in
the ordinary course of nature, therefore they con­
cluded, that they were not real entities distinct
from the substance of body and its various modi-
iSp rNCOi^PaB^AWI» *»OJt USE
^ tio q s^ rb^t J^onse-soul,and #iii)d is plainly a
^eofifcjr^li^tincjt from the substance ptfbody,
^^ofbficfU ion and n^chanism; that thenofore
^,vKas not a thing generated,and corrupted, made
apd unipade> jbutayob as had a being ofMs own,
ai^nbfjtantial thing ;by Mself. htefd entire#* and
substances ate jnot generated and corrupted, but
OUly^pdihcatiops. .
. Wbcrqforp these ancients apprehended, that
thpre was a gneat difference betwixt the sonls of
i$en and -animats, and the forms and .qualities of
other inanimate bodies, apd coosequestlybetwiKt
tbejr several -productions: forasmuch as in the
gpnpratipn of inanimate bodies there is «► real
entity acquiredxdsdnct from the substance of the
thing itself, but only a peculiar modification of it.
jh p form 0.f stone, or of timber, of blood, flesh*
and bone* and snob other natural bodies generat­
edf is pp tnore a. distinct -substanceor entity float
ibp mptjtfer, than the form of a house, stool, or
tpbfe is; there is np more new entity acquired in
the gfeppiption of-natural bodies, than there in in
production pf artificial,ones. When water is
tupped jptp ynponr, candle, into flame, flame into
grass into miUc, blood* and bones, there
if ;pp more miraculous .production of something
ppt ofnothing, than vben wool is made into doth,
pr .flax into linen* when a rode and unpolished
ftp«p is hewn into, a beanjtifnl statue; when bricfe,
(imben, nod mortar, that lay together before dis­
orderly, is brought into the form of a stately par
Iftcet .these being!nothing neither in one nor other
Of.these,; bnt only adiflferent disposition and mo-
di%at¥>n jpf.prerexiatent matter. .Which matter
pf.tfcc wuv&ton is always substantially the same,
S * m M U IC IP L E WOTH ATOMISM. 1 1 9
and neither -mode nor lean, but Italy (Froteanljr
Utureformedinto different shapes. Tl»ng«pi*ee,
tb it4heigjeneinltion of all inanimate bodiesii*no*
thing: fontthe change o f accidents and modifica­
tions, -the sobdtnce -being reallytfoe-same, forth
before and after. Bot in the generations ofmen
and animals, besides the new disposition -of the
poets of ’matter and -its organization, there -is aid©
the acquisition and conjunction of -anotherTeal
entity or substance distinctfrom the matter,'whidh
could not be(generated ont of -it, bdt must needs
come into it some other way. Though tfeede be
ho-substantial difference between a stately house
ot palace standing, and all the materials of (he
same ’ruinaited and demolished, -but-only a-difier-
enceofaccidents and modifications; yet,betWrth
%living man and a dead carcats^ therteis, ’besides
■die accidental modification of the body, another
substantial difference, -there being a substantial
sold and inoorporeal ’inhabitant dwelling in-the
.one and acting of-it, which theothfcrishdw-de-
-ae^ted of. And it is very observable, that Anax­
agoras* himself* who made bony and fleshy atoms,
hot and cold, feed and green, add the ’like, which
he supposed to eS&t before generations andafter
‘corruptions, always immutably -theeame ^(that so
-nothing might COme frdm nothing* and>go to no-
ttbingj, yet be did not make-any -animalish atoms
•sensitive and rational. The reason whereof could
tnot foe, because be did nbt think Senseandbnder-
-standing to be as realentitifesds hot and cold, red
and greeny but because the^ could not be sup­
posed to be corporeal forms and qualities, but
'•’Vide AridMl'<teAiihiia, fib. i. btfp.ii. p. 5. iota.'ii, eilHetspB^flc.
iivtufc. it.jp.flto.
140 IMMORTALITY <
OF SOULS1AND ATOMS
must needs belong1
to. another substance that was
incorporeal.‘' And; therefore Anaxagoras could
not bat acknowledge;1
that all souls and lives did
pre and pcwt-exist by themselves, as well as tfabse
corporeal forms and qualities, in hissimilaratoms;
" •sixx.- And now it is already manifest, thatfrom
the same principle of reason before mentioned,
that nothing of itself can come from nothing,»ttor
go to nothing, the ancient philosophers were in­
duced likewise to': aSBert the soul’s immortality,
together with its incorporiety or distinctness from
the body.; No substantial entity ever vanisheth
ofiitself into nothing; for if it did, then in length
of time all might come to be nothing. But the
-Soul is a substantial entity, ■
reaHy distinct from
*the body, and not the mere modification! of it;
and, therefore; when a man dies; his soul must
still remain and:continue-to have a being some­
where else in the universe. 1All the:changes that
tare in nature, are either accidental transformations
and different modifications of the same substance,
-or- else they are conjunctions and separation^,' or
amagrammatical transpositions of things itt ’the
■tiniverse; the 'substance of the whole rehtuining
-always entirely the same;' ^The generation and
'Corruption of inanimate bodies is but like the
making of a house, stool; or table, and the un-
vnaktngor marring of them again; either different
nhodificatdons of one and tUe same substance,: or
elfce divers mixtures and separations,' concretions
tandisecretions.And tlie generation arid cdrrup-
tfoa of animals is likewise nothing but :
»
■
: ^ fjjfysniilX
K
atytttivybrin,' !:
The conjunction of sonls together with such par­
ticular bodies, and the separation of them again
HELD PROM THE SAME PRINCIPLE. Ill
from one another,—
-and so as it were the, aim-
grammatical transposition of them in the universe.
•That souland life, that is now fledand gone from
a lifeless carcass,-is only a loss to that particular
body or- compages of matter, which by means
thereof is now disanimated; but it is no lossto
the-whole, it being but transposed in the uniterse,
and lodged somewhere else.
- xxxi. It is also further evident, that this same
principle, which thus led the ancients to hold the
soul’s immortality, or its future permanency after
death, >must needs determine them likewise: to
maintain its rpothrap&c, -or. pre-existence, and con­
sequently its/umww/uarwKe.or transmigration. For
that which did pre-exist before the generation of
any animal,- and was then somewhere else, must
needs transmigrate into the! body of that animal
where now it is. But as for that other transmi­
gration of human souls into the bodies of brutes,
though it cannot be denied but that roany of these
-ancients: admitted it also, yet Timseus Locrus*
and divers others of the Pythagoreans, rejected
iti<any-otherwise than as-it might be taken for.an
.allegorical description>of that beastly transforma­
tion1
that is made' of men’s souls by vice. Arid-
itotle tells:us-again,b.agreeably to what was -de­
clared before, o n pakiard ipofidvfttixn BuriXtioav'otirar
X
cuO
troik fiiiSevog ylvt&
Q
at n'vpwirapyovrof' that the
ancient philosophers were afraid of nothing mere
.than 'this •one •thing,.th at,any thing should* be
-made out of nothing pre-existent:—and therefore
they.must needs conclude, that the souls of.all
J.r . f v . * . ' *:
1 *De Anima Mundi et Natura, inter Scriptores MjtholQgicps aTho.
Gale editos, pi 566.
bDe Gencratione et Corruption, lib. i. cap',in. p. 764. tom. i- oper.
142 - ?lftfr*EXISTKNCZ O f SOTLS
animals proexisitedbefore theirgenerationa. And
indeed it 4s a'thing Very weilknown, that, accord*
ing to the sense of philosophers, these two thipgis
were always included together in that oaeOpi-
aioa of the soul’s immortality, namely, its p ro
.existence as weR as its postexistence. Neither
was there ever any of the andieatsbeforfe Christ­
ianity, that held the soul’s fixture permanency
after death, who did not likewise assert its pre-
eXisteuce; they clearly perceiving, that if it were
tonce granted, that the Soul was generated, >k
could nevdr be proved hut that it might be also
corrupted. And, therefore, 'the assertore of the
soul’s immortality commonly begun here : first, to
prove its pre-existence, proceeding thence after­
ward toestablish its permanency after,death. This
is the method used in Plato,* <
$
«ran <
ijpvyp}
itpui tv roxSt tip ivOpuHtltty‘ttSk ytveoOtu, liSart nu raimt
atoivunlvm eoucev *
j &vac Gar -soul was some­
where, before it caitae to exist in this present
human form;.and from thence it appears to be
imtoortal, and such as will subsist after death.
“-“-And the chief demonstration of the Soul’s pre-
esistence to the ancients before Plato, was this,
because k is an entity really distinct front body
-or matter, and the modifications of it; and no real
-subotandal -entitycan either Spring ofitsetf out of
nothing, or be made out Of any other substance
distinct from it, because nothing can be made
4k jutfbtdgivtivipxovfas v trpoiirrttp^ovroo, from Aotidng
either in-fexisting or pre-existing:;~*-all natural ge­
nerations being but tbe various dispositions and
modifications of what was before existent in the
universe. But tbere was nothing of sbul and
•In Phaedonfy,p'382.
AS£#*T£D BY TitE ATOMUTS. 14$
pind limepstiug a«d pve-existMg in body before,
there being Atpthipg of life and cogitation «t mag­
nitude, %**re> site, and motio*. Wherefore tins
pt*st needs be, not a thing made or generated* a*
corporeal forms and qualities are, bat sueh as
hath a being in natureiagenerablyand incorrop*
tibly, The mechanism of human body was a
thing made and generated, it being only a difier-
out modification of what was before existent, and
bating no new entity in it distinct from the safe
Stance: and the totmn or composatara of a man
or animal may be said to be generated and con-
rupted, in regard iof the union and disunion, eon-
junction and separation of thnee two parts, the
soul and body. But the soul itself, according to
these principles, is neither a thing geBerabie nm
corruptible, but was as well before the generation,
and will be after the deaths and corruptions of
men, to the substance of their body, which is sup­
posed by all to have been from the first creation,
ahd no part of it to be anoibiiated or lost after
deatii, bat only scattered and dispersed in the
universe. Thus the ancient Atomists concluded,
that souls and lives being substantial entities by
themselves, were all of them as old as any other
Substance in the universe, and-as the whole mass
Cf matter, and every smallest atom of it is: that
is, they who maintained the eternity ofthe world,
did consequently assert also tetei’
iutatemanimorum
(as Ciaero calls it), the eternity of souls and
miqds. But they, who conceived the world to
have had a temporary beginning or creation, held
the eoevity of all souls with it, aud would by no
means be induced to think, that every atom of
senseless matter and particle of dust had such a
144 PUB-EXISTENCE OP SOCES
privilege ant! pre-eminency over the souls of men
and animals, as to be the senior to them. Synesius,
though a Christian, yet havingbeeneducatedin
this philosophy, could not be induced by the
hopes of a bishopric to stifle or dissemble this
sentiment of his mind,* dfitXtt n}v ipvytfv ow
e c
’K
mmw
trors atifiaroQvtrrtpoyftn} vofufteaf I shall never be per­
suaded to think my soul to be younger than my
body.—But such, it seems, was the temper Of
those times, that he was not only dispensed,with­
al as to this, but also as to another heterodoxy of
his concerning the.resurrection.
xxxn. It is already plain, also, that this doc­
trine of the ancient Atomists concerning the itn-.
materiality and immortality, the pre and post-ex­
istence of souls, was not confined by them to hu­
man souls only, but extended universally to all
souls and lives whatsoever; it being a thing that
was hardly ever called into doubt or question by
any before Cartesius, whether the souls of brutes
had any sense, cogitation, or consciousness in
them or no: Now all life, sense, and cogitation
was undoubtedly, concluded by them to be an
entity really distiuct from the substance of body,
and not the .mere modification, motion, or mecha­
nism of it; life and mechanism being two distinct
ideas of the mind, which cannot be confounded
together. Wherefore they resolved, that all lives
and souls whatsoever, which, now are in the
world, ever werefrom the first beginning of it, and
ever.will be; that there will be no pew ones pro^
duced, which are not already, and. have: not-ab
ways been, nor any of those, which now. are, de-
• EpistoL cv. p. 249^pper.
ASSERTED BY THE ATOMISTS. 1 45
stroyed, any more than the substance of any mat­
ter will be created or annihilated. So that the
whole system of the created universe, consisting
of body, and particular incorporeal substances
or souls, in the successive generations and corrup­
tions, or deaths of men and other animals, was,
according to,them, really nothing else but one and
the same thing perpetually anagrammatized, or
but like many different syllables and words vari­
ously and successively composed out of the same'
pre-existent elementsor letters.
x x x i i i . We have now declared, how the same
principle of reason, which made the ancient phy-
siologers to become Atomists, must needs induce
them also to be Incorporealists; how the same
thing, which persuaded them, that corporeal
forms were no real entities distinct from the sub­
stance of the body, but only the different modifi­
cations and mechanisms of it, convinced them
likewise, that, all cogitative beings, all souls and
lives whatsoever, were ingenerable and incorrup­
tible, and as well pre-existent before the generar
tions of particular animals, as post-existent after
their deaths and corruptions. Nothing now re­
mains but only to shew more particularly, that ft
was defacto thus ; that the same persons did,
from this principle (that nothing can come from
nothing, and go to nothing), both atomize in their
physiology, taking away all substantial forms and
qualities, and also theologize or incorporealize,
-asserting souls to be a substance really distinct
from matter, and immortal, as also to pre-exist.
And this we shall do from Empedocles, and first
from that passage of his Cited before in part:
14 0 PRE-EXISTENCE OF SOULS AND ATOMS
''AXUtyM <
fotio
iA
tfyien
*
V
,b
ttia
T
*
©v>
it SJv, ou9* ri{ ov\o(j&m Q
av&
toio ytviQ\yy(al, led. riX fu m );
*Axx& fXovov fsdfa n fttiXXfcgfi; t i /Xifotov'
*£c t «, 4 *r*c 9* »«&' rtTfoyofjta^trat tivQffforofcn.
Which I find Latined thus:
Ast alind dico; nihH est'mortalfctfrortus,
Est nihil ioteritaa, qai rebvsmorte panatur;
Mistio &edsolum est, ct conciliatio rerum
Mistflium; base dici solita est mortalibus ortus.
The full sense whereof is plainly this, that there5
is no fv<ni, or production'ofany tbing,whichwa&
not before v no. new substance made, wlifch did
not really pre-exist; anch therefore, that iii the
generations;and corruptions of inanimate bodies;'
there is no form: or quality really distinct fromf
the substance produced and- destroyed/ but only
a various composition and modification of matter)
But in the generations and corruptions of men-
and animals, where the souls are substances
really distinct from the matter; that there, there!
is nothing but the conjunction and separation- of
souls and particular bodies, existing/ both before
and-after, not the production -of any new soul.
into being, which was not before, nor the absolute
death, and destruction of any into nothing^—
Which is further expressed in these following
verses:
b Nfarm, oo yfytrtyiY kXixtygoytg ttai ftCEfqwtu,
O" Jn yinrQai w
a^oc ovx toy e\7
rfyvnv,
nwraMtvun * t •xaM£6XKttf’d«« iir it m ;
To this sense; that they are infants ih understand-*
ing, and short-sighted, who think any thing to be
a Apod Plutarch, adders. Colotem, p. iv. tom. ii. oper, et ex pdrte
apud Aristot. dc Geueratioae et Corruptions, lib. i. c. i.-p» 696t tom i*
oper.
bApud Plutarch, adr. Colotem, p. 1113. tom. ii. oper.
HOLD FROM DBS SAME PRINCIPLE. 147
made, which, was. nothing before, or any thing to
die, so as to be destroyed to nothing.—Upon-
which Plutarch glosses after this manner: me
ivaifu yiveatv, dX
X
cl rqv tic/iq ovroc, ow
8i ^Otpao aXXa
rjfv Mum, rovrqm Tq*«s rd./uq ov airoXvotw«v' Ettipe-
docles does not here destroy generation, but only
such as is out ofnothing; nor corruption, but such
as is into nothing.—Which, as we have already
intimated, is to be understood, differently in re­
spect. to inanimate and animate things; for in.
things inanimate, there is nothing produced or
destroyed, because the forms and qualities of
them are no entities really distinct from the sub­
stance, but only diverse mixtures and modifica­
tions. ' But in animate things, where the souls
are real entities really distinct from the substance
of the body, there is nothing produced nor de­
stroyed neither, because those souls do both exist
before, their generations, and after their corrup­
tions ; which., business, as to men and souls, is
again more folly expressed thus :—
rt fiiwiTi, T 9 X* fiiwrat xakUuart,
Tfyga pb o
vvtla-
t, a
tai tr^nvra^a
.hat*xa*
H
fJvHfraybr*fyrrd
i*
*
) tvib^ drfc
Tfapt.goodand illdid first.uahere attend*
And not from time before* the soul descend;
That here alone we live, and When
Hence we depart*we forthwiththen
Tom to oirr old non-entity again;
Certes ought not to be believed by wise and learned men.
Wherefore, according to Empedocles, this is to
be accounted one of the vulgar errors, that men
then only have a being and are capable of good
* Apud Plutarch, adv. Colotem, p. 1113. tom. ii. oper.
148 PRE-EXISTENCE. OF SOULS AND: ATOMS
and evil, when.they live here that which is called:
life ; but .that both before they-are. born, and after
they .are dead, .they are perfectlynothing. . .•
And besides Empedocles, the same is repre­
sented, by the Greek tragedian also,* as the sense,
of ihe ancient philosophers;
Qyrurxei J*ovisv rSv ywojUhon, • •
Aieuigtvijuffov 9* iXXo’TT
goc ctXXo
Moffw iTtgaf.ifritugBy, ; •' ' ‘
T hat nothing dies or utterly perisheth.;.l>ut things
being variously concreted- and (secreted, trans­
posed and modified, change their form and shape
only, and are put into a new dress.—
Agreeably whefeunto, Plato also tells us,b.that
it was vakaiog Xo-yoie, an ancient tradition.or doc­
trine before his time, rove £<vvrac be ralv rE0v£a>vra>v
■ytyovtvai, •ovSev ijrrov rj rove r*0v«vrae be r«3v 2«vvr<
*»v’,
that as well the living were made out of the .deady
as the dead out of the living;—and that this was
the constant circle of nature. Moreover, the.
same philosopher acquaints us, that some of those
ancients were not without suspicion, that what is
now called death, was to men more properly a
nativity or birth into life, and what is called ge­
neration into life, was comparatively rather to be
accounted a sinking into death ; th e former being
the soul’s ascent out pf these gross terrestrial bo­
dies to a body more thin and subtile, and the latter
its descent from a purer body to that which is
more crass and terrestrial. Vic ol&v « T
OZflV fltV B
tTTl
* Enripid. in Chrysippo aptn) Clement. Alexandr. Stromat. lib. vi.
p.750. ? r . ............................ -
b In Phaedone,p.381.
c This passage ofEuripides iscited by many ofthe ancients, as Plato,
Cicero, Cleiqens Alex, and Sextus Empirjcu?, See tlje notes of Dr.
HELD FROM TflE IAMB PRINCIPLE. 140
k«(«i'w, to xarOavtiv Si £»jv* who knows whether
that which is called living be not indeed rather
dying; and that which is called dying, living?—
Moreover, that this was the doctrine of Pytha­
goras himself, that no real entity perishes in cor­
ruptions, nor is produced in generations, but only
new modifications and transpositions made; is
fully expressed by the Latin poet,* both as to in-
.animate, and to animate things. Ofthe first thus:
Nec pent in tanto quicqn&m (mihi credite) mundo,
Sed variat, facietnque novat: nascique vocatur
Incipere ease aliud, quam quod fait ante; morique
Desinere illud idem. Cum sint hue foirBitanilia*
Haec translatailluc: summa tamen omniaconstant*
Of the second, that the souls of animals are im­
mortal, did pre-exist and do transmigrate, from
' the same ground, after this manner:
Omnia mtitantur; nihil intent: errat etillind,
Hue venit, hinc illuc, et quoslibet oticupat aitus
Spiritus, eque feris humana in corpora transit*
tnque feras noster, nee tempore deperit pllo.
Utque novis facilis signattir cera figuris,
Nec manet ut ftierat*nec formas servat easdem,
Sed tamen ipsa eadem est; animam sic semper eandem
Esse, sed in varias doceo migrare figuras.
■Wherefore though it be a thing, which hath not
been commonly taken notice of, of late, yet we
conceive it to be unquestionably true, that all
those ancient philosophers, who insisted so much
upon this principle, o»81» ovSl ylvsaOai ovSt fy&tlptadai
tw
vovraiv* that no real entity is either generated or
Potter, now Archbishop of Canterbury* on Clem. Alexand. Stromat.
lib. iii. cap. iij. p. 517. et Jo. Albert Fabridus on Sextus.Empiric. Hy-
potyp. Pyrrhomlib. iii. cap. xxiv.p. 185.
• Ovid. Metam. lib. xv. ver. 254. et ver. 185.
VOL. I. L
^$ 0 '
■ c&nsueb o f t Ab
corrupted,—did therein -at once drive at these
two things: first, the establishihgOf the itatnottU-
lity of all sotils, their pre and post-existence, for­
asmuch as being entities really distinct from the
bod^y they could neither be generated wor ee»-
irupted; and secondly, the making inf corporeal
forms and qualities to be no real entities distinct
fromthe body and the mechanism thereof, because
. theyare things generated and corrupted, and have
no pre and post-existence. Anaxagoras, in this lat­
ter, being the Only dissenter; who supposing those v
forms and qualities to be real entities likewise,
distinct from the substance of body, therefore at­
tributed perpetuity of being to them also, pre and
post-existence, in similar atoms, as well as to the
souls of animals. . ,
And now we have tnade it sufficiently evident,
that the doctrine of the incorporeity and immor­
tality of souls, we might add also, of their pre­
existence and transmigration, had the same ori­
ginal, and stood upon the same basis with the
Atomical physiology; and therefore it ought not
at all to be wondered at (what we affirmed be­
fore) that the same philosophers and Pythagore­
ans asserted both those doctrines, and that the
.ancient Atomists were both Theists and Incorpo-
.realists,
xxxiv. But now to declare our sense freely
.concerning this, philosophy of the ancients, which
seems to be, so prodigiously paradoxical, in re­
spect of that pre-existence and transmigration of
souls; we conceive indeed, that this ratiocination
oftheirs frotnthat principle, that nothingnatutally
or of itself, comes from nothing, nor goes to no­
thing, was not only firmly conclusive against sub-
PYTHAGORIC DOCTRINE. t f i j
stantial fprms and qualities of bodies, really dis­
tinct from tbeir substance, but also for substantial
incorporeal souls, and their ingenerability out of
matter, and particularly for the future immortality
Off post-existence of all human souls.- For since
it is plain, that they are not a mere modification
-Ofbody or matter, but an entity and substance
really distinct from it, we have no more reason to
think>that they can ever ofthemselves vanish into
nothing, than that the substance of the corporeal
world, or any part thereof, can do so. For that,
in the consumption of bodies by fire, or age, or
the like, there is the destruction of any real snb-
ftance into nothing, is now generally exploded as
an idiotical conceit; and certainly it cannot be a
jot less idiotical to suppose, that the rational soul
in death is utterly extinguished,
Moreover, we add also, that this ratiocination
pf the ancients would be altogether as firm and
irrefragable likewise for the pre-existence and
transmigration of souls, as it is for their post-ex­
istence and future immortality, did we not (as in­
deed we do) suppose souls to be created by God
immediately, and infused in generations. For
they being unquestionably a distinct substance
from the body, and no substance, according to
the ordinary course of nature, coming out of .no­
thing, they must of necessity either pre-exist in
the.universe before generations, and transmigrate
into their respective, bodies; or else come from
God immediately, who is the fountain of .all,
-and who. at first created all that substance that
-now is in the world besides himself. Now.the
latter of these was. a thing, which those aneient
philosophers would by.uo means adinatof; they
l 2
153 CENSURE OF THE
judging it altogether incongruous to bring God ;
upon the stage perpetually, and make him imme­
diately interpose every where, in the generations
of men and all other animals, by the miraculous
production of souls out of nothing. Notwith­
standing which, if we well consider it, we shall
find, that there may be very good reason on the
other side for the successive Divine creation of
souls; namely, that God did not do all at first,
that ever he could or would do, and put forth all
his creative Vigour at once, in a moment, everaf-
terwards remaining a spectator only ofthe conse­
quent results, and permitting nature to do all ■
alone, without the least interposition of his at any
time, just as if there Were no God at all in the
world. For this may be and indeed often hath
been, the effect of such an hypothesis as this, to
make men think, that there is no other God in the
world but blind and dark nature. God might also;
for other good and wise ends unknown to us, re­
serve to himself the continual exercise of this
his creative power, in the successive production
of new souls. And yet these souls nevertheless,
'after they are once brought forth into being, will,
notwithstanding their juniority, continue as firmly
in the same, without vanishing of themselves into
nothing, as the substance of senseless matter, that
was created many thousand years before, will do..
And thus our vulgar hypothesis of the new
creation of souls, as it is rational in inself, so k
doth sufficiently solve their incorporeity, their fu­
ture immortality, or post-eternity, without intro­
ducing those offensive absurdities of their pre­
existence and transmigration.
xxxv.: But if there be any such, who, rather
PYTHAGORIC DOCTRINE. 15$
than they would allow a future immortality or
poet-existence to all souls, and therefore to those
of brutes, which consequently must hate their
successive transmigrations, would conclude the
souls of all brutes, as likewise the sensitive soul
in man, to be corporeal, mid only allow the ra­
tional soul to be distinct from matter; to these we
have only-thus much to say, that they, who will
attribute life, sense, cogitation, consciousness, and
selftenjoyment, not without some footsteps of rea­
son many times, to blood and brains, or mere or­
ganized bodies in brutes, will never be able clear­
ly to defend the incorporeity and immortality of
human souls, as most probably they do not intend
any such thing. For dither all conscious and co­
gitative beings are incorporeal, or else nothing can
be proved to be incorporeal. From whence it
would follow also, that there is no Deity distinct
from the corporeal world. But though there seem
to be no very great reason, why it should be.
thought absurd, to grant perpetuity of duration
to the souls of brutes, any more than to every
atom of matter, or particle Of dust that is in the
whole world; yet we shall endeavour to suggest
something towards the easing the minds of those,
who are so much burthened with this difficulty ;
viz. that they may, if they please, suppose the
souls of brutes, being but so many particular era­
diations or effluxes from that source of life above,
whensoever and wheresoever there is any fitly
prepared matter capable to receive them, and to
be actuated by them-, to have a sense and fruition
of themselves in it, so long as it continues such;
but as soon as ever those organized bodies of
theirs, by reason of their indisposition, become
1&4 CBHSURE OP THB
incapable of;being further acted upon by them;
then to be resumed again and retracted back to
their original head and fountain, Since it cannot
be'doubted, but what creates any thing out of
nothing, or sends it forth from itself by free and
voluntary emanation, may be able either toretract
the same back again to its original source, or else
to annihilate it at pleasure.
And I, find, that there have not wanted some
among the gentile philosophers themselves, who
have entertained this opinion, whereof Porphyry
tS One : Xvtrai ikaatri dvVafiisaXoyoc sec fijv oX
tjV£
«*■
)«
tov iravTog, every irrational power is resolved into
the life of the whole.—
xxxvr. Neither will this at all weaken the fu­
ture immortality or post-eternity of human souls.
Fdl*if we be, indeed, Theists, and do in very
godd earnest believe a Deity, according to the
true notion of it, we must then needs acknow­
ledge, that all created being whatsoever owes the
continuation and perpetuity of its existence, not
to any necessity of.nature without God, and in­
dependently upon him, but to the Divine will
only. And, therefore, though we had never so
much rational and philosophical assurance, that
our:Souls are immaterial substances, distinct front
the body, yet we could not, for all that, have any
absolute certainty of their post-eternity, any other­
wise than as it may be derived to us from the ibi-
mutabiiity and perfection of the Divine nature
knd Will, which does always that which is best;
For the essential goodness and wisdom of the
Deity is the only stability of all things. And for
anght we mortals know, there may be good rea­
son, why that grace or favour of future immorta-
PYTNAGpRlC DOCTRINE.
lily and post-eternity, that is indulged to humau
souls, endued with reason, morality, and liberty
of will (by means whereof they are capable of
commendation and blame, reward and punish­
ment), that so they may be objects for Divine,
ju s tic e to display itself upon after this life, in
different retributions, may, notwithstanding, be
denied to those lower lives and more contemptible
souls of brutes, alike devoid both of morality and
liberty.
xxxvii. But if any, for all this, will still obsti­
nately contend for that ancient Pythagovic and
flippedoclean hypothesis, that all lives and souls
whatsoever are as old as 4
tbe first creation, and
will continue to, eternity, or as |png ps the world,
dotli,! as a thing more reasonable and probably
than our continual creation .of new souls, by
moans whereof they become juniors both tp the.
mattejr of the world and of their own bodies, and
whereby also (as they pretend) the Divine crea-,
tive power is made too cheap and prostituted a'
thing, a§ being famuletive always to brutish, and
many times to unlawful lusts and undpe con­
junctions ; but especially than the continual de-
creatipn and annihilatipn .of thespuls of brptes \
we shall not be very unwilling to acknowledge
thus much tp them, that, indeed, of .the twp, jthjff.
opinion is more reasonable and tolerable.,than
that other extravagancy of those, who will .either
make all souls to he generated, apd consequently
to be corporeal, or at least t^e sensitive sold, bptb
in men and brutes. For, brides the monstrosity,
of this latter opinion, in making two distinct
souls and perceptive.substances in every man,
which is a. thing sufficiently confuted by internal
15d THE SENSITIVE SOUL
sense, it leaves us also in an absolute impossibi­
lity of proving the immortality of the ratioual
soul, the incorporeity of any substance, and, by
Consequence, the existence of any Deity distinct
from the corporeal world.
And as for that pretence of theire, that sense-",
less matter may as well become sensitive, and,
as it were, kindled into life and cogitation, as a
body, that was devoid of life and heat, may be
kindled into fire and flame; this seems to argue
too much ignorance of the doctrine of bodies in
men otherwise learned and ingenious; the best
naturalists having already concluded, th a t'fire
and flame is nothing but such a motion of the
insensible parts of a body, as whereby they are
violently agitated, and many times dissipated and
scattered from each other, begetting in the mean­
time those fancies of light and heat in animals.
Now, there is no difficulty at all in conceiving,
that the insensible particles of a body, which were
before quiescent, may be put into motion; this
being nothing but a new modification of them, and
no entity really distinct from the substance of
body, as life, sense, and cogitation are. There is
nothing in fire and flame, or a kindled body, dif­
ferent from other bodies, but only the motion or
mechanism, and fancy of it. And, therefore, it
is but a crude conceit, which the Atheists and
Corporealists of former times have been always
so fond of, that souls are nothing but fiery or
flammeous bodies. For, though heat in the bo­
dies of animals be a necessary instrument for
soul and life to act by in them, yet it is a thing
really distinct from life; and a red-hot iron hath
nob therefore, any nearer approximation to life
NOT CORPOREAL. 157
than it had before, nor the flame of a candle than*
the extinguished snuff or tallow of it; the differ*
ence between them being only in the agitation of
the insensible parts. We might also add, that,
according to this hypothesis, the souls of animals
could not be numerically the same throughout the>
whole space of their lives; since that fire, that
needs a. pabulum to prey upon, doth not continue
always one and the same numerical substance.
The soul of a new-born animal could be no more
the same with the soul ofthat animal several years
after, than the flame of a new-lighted candle is'
the same-with that flUme that twinkles last in the
socket^ which, indeed, areno more the same than
a river or stream is the same at several distances
of time. Which reason- may be also extended
further to prove the soul to be no body at all, since'
the bodies of all animals are in a perpetual flux.
xxxvm . We have now sufficiently performed
our first task, which was to shew, from the origin
of the Atomical physiology, that the doctrine of
incorporeal substance must needs spring up toge­
ther with it. We shall, in the next place, make
it manifest, that the inward constitution of this
philosophy is also such, that whosoever really
entertains it, and rightly understands it, must of
necessity admit incorporeal substance likewise.
First, therefore, the Atomical hypothesis, allow­
ing nothing to body, but what is either included
in the idea of a thing impenetrably extended, or
can clearly be conceived to be a mode of it, as
more or less magnitude, with divisibility, figure,
site, motion, and rest, together with the results of
their several combinations, cannot possibly make
Jife and cogitation tp be qualities of body; since
15ft THE ATOtf JPHIfcQtfOPHY
they are neither contained inthosethiagsbefore*
mentioned, nor can result from nny avZvyltu, or
conjugations of them. Wherefore it must needs
be granted, that,life and cogitation are the atari*
bates of another substance distinct from body,
or incorporeal.
Again, since according to the tenour of this
physiology, hody hath no other action belonging
to it but that of local motion* which local motion;
aS snob, is essentially heterokinesy, that which
never springs originally from the thing itself
moving, but always from the action of some other
agent upon i t ; that is, sinee no body could ever
move itself, it follows undeniably, that there most
be something else in the world besides body, or
else there could never have been any motion in it.
Of which we shall speak more afterwards.
. Moreover, according to this philosophy, the
corporeal phenomena themselves cannot be
solved by mechanism alone without fancy. Now
fancy is no mode of body, and therefore must
needs be a mode of some other kind of being in
ourselves, that is, cogitative and incorporeal.
Furthermore, it is evident from the principles
of jtbis philosophy,; that sense itself is not a more
corporeal passion from bodies without, in that it
supposetb, that there is nothing really in bodies
like to those fantastic ideas that we have of sen­
sible things* as of hot and cold, red and: green,
bitter and sweet; and the like, which, therefore,
must needs owe their being to some activity of
the soul itself; and this is all one as to make it
incorporeal.
Lastly, from this philosophy, it is also manir
fest, that sense is not the Kftriiptov of truth con-
LRIDS trO INCXXRPORXALIKM. I f f f
earning bodies themselves, it confidently pro**
nouncing, that those supposed qualities Of bo»
dies, represented such by sense, are merely fan*
tastical things ; from whence it plainly follows,
that there is something in us superior to senses
which judges of it, detects its fantastry, and
Condemns its imposture; and determines what
really is and is not, in bodies without us, which:
must needs be a higher self-active vigour of the
mind, that will plainly speak it to be incorpo­
real.
xxxix. And now this Atomical physiology of
the ancients seems to have two advantages or pre­
eminences belonging to it, the first whereof is this,
that it renders the corporeal world intelligible to
u s ; since mechanism is a thing that we ban clear­
ly understand, and we cannot clearly and dis­
tinctly conceive any thing in bodies else. To say
that this or that is done by a form or quality, is
nothing else but to say, that it is done we know
not how; or, which is yet more absurd, to make
our very ignorance of the cause, disguised under
those terms of forms and qualities,' to be itself
the cause of the effect.
Moreover, hot and cold, red and green, bitter
and sweet, &c. formally considered, may ’ be
clearly conceived by us as different fancies and
vital passions in us, occasioned by different mo­
tions made from the objects without upon our
nerves.; but they can never be clearly under­
stood as absolute qualities in the bodies them­
selves, really distinct from their mechanical dis­
positions; nor is there, indeed, any more reason,
why they should be thought such, than that,
when a man is pricked with a pin,, or wounded
100 THE ADVANTAGES O f THE
with a sword, the pain which he feels should be
thought to be an absolute quality in the pin or
swordi So long as our sensible ideas are taken
either for substantial forms or qualities in bodies
without us, really distinct from the substance of
the matter, so long are they perfectly unintelligi­
ble by us. For which cause, Timaeus Locrus,*
philosophizing (as it seemeth) after this manner,
did consentaneously .thereunto determine, that
corporeal things could not be apprehended by
us, otherwise than moOfcu «ccu vo9q> Xoy«<r/iy, by
sense and a kind of spurious or bastardly reason;
—that is, that we could have no clear conceptions
of them in our understanding. And, for the
same reason, Platob himself distinguisheth be­
twixt SUCb things as are votfoct fieri Xoyov irtptX»jwr«‘
comprehensible by the understanding with rea­
son,—and those which are only pir o
u
t
&jmwc
aXoyou, which can only be apprehended by opinion,
together with a certain irrational sense;—meaning
plainly, by the latter, .corporeal and sensible
things. And accordingly the Platonists frequent­
ly take occasion, from hence, to enlarge them­
selves much in the disparagement of corporeal
things, as being, by reason of that smallness of
entity that is in them, below the understandings
and: not having so much ovalav as yivtmv,cessence
as generation,—which, indeed, is fine fancy.
Wherefore, we must either, with these philoso­
phers, make sensible things to be aicaraXinrra or
• De Anima Mundi, inter Scriptor; Mythohg. a Tho. Gale edito*.
p. 545.
‘ bVide Theaetetum, p. 130. s. oper. Sophistam. p. 166, 167. et da
Repub. lib. vii. p. 484.
. cPlato de Republica, ubi supra.
: ATOMICAL PHILOSOPHY. . 161
imptXmrra, altogether incomprehensible and incon­
ceivable—by our human understandings (though
they be able, in the meantime, clearly to conceive
many things of a higher nature), or else we must
entertain some kind of favourable opinion con­
cerning that which is the ancientest of all phy­
siologies, the Atomical or mechanical, which alone
renders sensible things intelligible.
x l . The second advantage, which this Atomi­
cal physiology seems to have, is this, that it pre­
pares an easy and clear way for the demonstra­
tion of incorporeal substances, by settling a dis­
tinct notion of body. He that will undertake to
prove, that there is something else in the world
besides body, must first determine what body is,
for otherwise he will go about to prove, that there
is something besides he knows not wbat. B at
now, if all body he made to consist of two sub­
stantial principles, whereof one is matter devoid
.of all form (and therefore of quantity as well as
qualities), from whence these philoso­
phers* themselves conclude, that it is
incorporeal; the other, form, which, 5
b
‘
being devoid of all matter, must needs P&n. p. .
be incorporeal-likewise. (And thus Sto- 16J"
baeus* sets down the joint doctrine both of Plato
and A ristotle; ov rpoirov to tlSoc rtjc vX
ijc afatptQi/v
atniftaroVi ovtuh; km ti?v vXjjv tow tiSovf y^uptaBivro^ o o
aw/ia eiv
c
u
, &tv yap oj^oiv rfic awoSov, 7rpoc tijv row ati-
/uaroc virooramv’ T hat in the same manner, as form
alone separated from matter is incorporeal, so
neither is matter alone, the form being separated
from it, body. But there is need of the joint con­
currence of both these, matter and form together,
v *Eclog. Phys. lib. i. cap. x»v. p. 29.
3«2 THE ADVANTAGES OF THE
*AMnous,.
cap. 11. [In-
tlfod. in Phi­
los. Platon,
p. 479.]
to make up; the substance o£ the body.)—More­
over, if to farms qualities be likewise superadd-
ed r of which it is consentaneously also resolved
by die Platouists, An «! tnutnirtt tv^uatoi, that qua­
lities are. incorporeal,r—a8 if they were
so many spirits possessing bodies; I say,
in this way of..philosophizing, the .no-'
tions of body and spirit, corporeal and
incorporeal, are.so confounded, that it
•is,impossible to prove any thing at all concerning
-them; body itself being, made incorporeal (and
therefore every thing incorporeal); •for whatso­
ever is wholly compounded and made up of in-
Jcoorporeals, most needs be itself also incorporeal.
. Furthermore, according to this doctrine of
natter, forms, and qualities in body, life and un­
derstanding may.be supposed to be certain forms
-©
equalities of body. And then the souls of men
taaybenothing else but blood or brains, endued
with the qualities of sense and understanding;
or else some other more subtle, sensitive, and ra­
tional matter, in us.. And the like may be said of
God himself,also; that Jbe is nothing but a cer­
tain rational, or intellectual, subtile and fierybody,
pervading the whole universe; or else that he is
(the form of the whole corporeal world, together
•with the matter making up but one substance.
Which conceits have been formerly entertained
by toe bestof those ancients, who were captivated
under that dark infirmity of mind, to think,, that
there could be no other substance besides body.
But toe ancient Atomical philosophy, settling
•a•distinct notion of body, that it is &a<mnwavriru-
«rw, a thing impenetrably extended,—which hath
nothing belonging to it but magnitude, figure, site,
ATOMICAL PHILOSOPHY. 3 3 3
rest* and motion* without any self-moving power,
takes away all coufusion; shews clearly how far
body can go, where incorporeal substance begin*;
as also* that there must of necessity be such a
thing in the world.
Again* this discovering not only that the doc­
trine of qualities had its original from men’s mis­
taking their own fancies fbr absolute realities in
bodies themselves; but also, that the doctrine of
matter and form sprung from another fallacy or
deception of the mind, in*taking logical notions,
and our modes Of Conceiving, for modes of being,
and real entities in things without u s; it shew­
ing, likewise, that because there is nothing else
clearly intelligible in body, besides magnitude,
figure, site* and motion, and their various con­
junctions* there can be no such entities of forms
and qualities really distinct from the substance
of body; makes it evident, that life, cogitation*
and understanding can be no corporeal things,
but must needs be the attributes of another kind
of shbStance distinct from body.
. £lL 'We have now clearly proved these two
things r first, that the physiology of the ancients,
before* not only Aristotle and Plato, but also
Democritus and Leucippus, was Atomical or me­
chanical. Secondly, that as there is no incon­
sistency between the Atomical physiology* and
theology, but indeed a natural cognation: so the
ancient Atomists* before Democritus, were nei­
ther Atheists nor Corporealists, but held the in­
corporeity and immortality of souls, together with
a Deity distinct from the corporeal world. Where-
fbre, the first and most ancient Atomiets did not
make tro^ovc «px®£ r<
*
’v they never -endea-
164 ANCIENT PHILOSOPHY CONSISTED
voured to make up an entire philosophy out of
Atomology; but the t^octriue of Atoms was'to
them only one part or member of the whole phikh
sophic system, they joining thereunto the doc­
trine of incorporeal substance and theology, to
make it up complete ; accordingly, as Aristotle
hath declared in his Metaphysics, that the an*
cient philosophy consisted of these two parts,
tpvaioXoylaand O
foXoy'taor Virfwrq <
j>
iX
.o
a
o
<
j>
ta
, physio­
logy, and theology or metaphysics. Our ancient
Atomists never went about, as the blundering
Democritus afterwards did, to build up a world
out of mere passive bulk, and sluggish matter,
without any ap^at Spaarnpun, any active principles,
or incorporeal powers; understanding well, that
thus they could not have so much as motion, me­
chanism, or generation in it; the original of all
that motion that is in bodies springing from some­
thing that is not body, that is, from incorporeal
substance. And yet, if local motion could have
been supposed to have risen up, or sprang in upon
this dead lump and mass of matter, nobody
knows how, and without dependence upon any
incorporeal being, to have actuated it fortuitous­
ly ; these ancient Atomists would still have
thought it impossible for the corporeal world it­
self to be made up, such as now it is, by fortui­
tous mechanism, without the guidance of any
higher principle. But they would have concluded
it the greatest impudence Or madness, for men to
assert, that animals also consisted of mere mecha­
nism; or, that life and sense, reason and under­
standing, were really*nothing else but local mo­
tion, and consequently, that themselves were but
■machines and automata. Wherefore, they joined
o f Ph y s io l o g y ' a n d t h e o l o g y . 145
both active and passive principles together, the
corporeal and incorporeal nature, mechanism and
-life, Atomology and Pneumatology; and, from
,-both these united, they made up one entire system
of philosophy, correspondent with, and agreeable
to, the true and real world without them. ' And
.this system of philosophy, thus consisting of the
doctrine of incorporeal substance (whereof God is
the head), together with the Atomical and mecha­
nical physiology, seems to have been the only ge­
nuine, perfect, and complete.
xlii. But it did not long continue thus; for,
after a while, this entire body of philosophy came
to be mangled and dismembered, some taking
one part of it alone, and some another; some
snatching away the Atomical physiology, without
■
the pneumatology and theology; and others, on
the contrary, taking the theology and doctrine of
incorporeals, without the Atomical or mechanical
physiology. The former of these were Democri­
tus, Leucippus, and Protagoras, who took only
-the dead carcass or skeleton of the old Moschi-
Cal philosophy, namely, the Atomical physiology;
the latter, Plato and Aristotle, who took, indeed,
the better part, the soul, spirit, and quintessence
of it, the theology and doctrine of Incorporeals,
but unbodied, and divested of its most proper
and convenient vehicle, the Atomical physiology,
-whereby it became exposed to sundry inconve­
niences.
x l iii. We begin with Leucippus and Demo­
critus; who, being atheistically inclined, quickly
^perceived, that they could not, in the ordinary
!way of physiologizing, sufficiently secure them­
selves against ai Deity, nor effectually urge Athe-
VOL. I. M
1<J« TJfK PHILOSOPHY OF THE ANCIENTS
ism upon others; forasmuch as Heraclitus and
other philosophers, -who held that all substance
was body, as well as themselves, did, notwith­
standing, assert a corporeal Deity, maintaining,
that the-form of the whole corporeal world was
God, or else that he was vXq ir«c cyrowa, a certain
kind of body or matter, as (for example) a me­
thodical and rational fire, pervading (as a soul)
the whole universe; the particular souls of men
and anjmals being but, as it were, so many pieces
cut and sliced out of the great mundaqe soul:
so that, according to them, the whole corporeal
universe, or mass of body, was one way or other
a God, a most wise and understanding animal,
that did frame all particularities within itself in
the best manner possible, and providently govern
the same. Wherefore, those Atheists now appre­
hending, upon wbat ticklish and uncertain terms
their Atheistical philosophy then stood, and bow
that those very forms and qualities, and the self-
moving power of body, which were commonly
made a sanctuary for Atheism, might, notwith­
standing, chance to prove, contrariwise, the lati-
bulum.and asylum of a Deity, and that a corpo­
real God (do what they could) might lie lurking
under them, assaulting men’s minds with doubtful
fears and jealousies; understanding, moreover,
that there was another kind of physiology set on
foot, which, banishing those forms and qualities
of body, attributed nothing to it but magnitude,
figure, site, and motion, without any self-moving
power; they seemed presently to apprehend some
great advantage to themselves and cause from it;
and therefore, greedily entertained this Atomical
or mechanical physiology, and violently cutting it
MANGLED BY DEMOCRITUS. 107
off front that other part, the doctrine of Incorpo-
reals, which it was naturally and vitally united
to, eiideavoured to serve their turns of it. And
now joining these two things together, the Ato­
mical physiology, which supposes, that there is
nothing in body but magnitude, figure, site, and
motion, and that prejudice or prepossession of
their own minds, that there was no other sub­
stance in the world besides body; between them
both they begat a certain mongrel and spurious
philosophy, atheistically Atomical, or atomically
Atheistical.
But though we have so well proved, that Leu­
cippus and Democritus were not the first invent­
ors, but only the depravers and adulterators of
the Atomical philosophy; yet, if any will, not­
withstanding, obstinately contend, that the first
invention thereof ought to be imputed to them,
the very principles of their Atheism seeming to
lead them naturally to this, to strip and divest
body of all those forms and qualities, it being
otherwise impossible for them, surely and safely,
to exclude a corporeal D eity; yet so, as that the
wit of these Atheists was also much to be ad­
mired, in the managing and carrying on of those
principles in such a manner, as to make up so
entire a system of philosophy out of them, all
whose parts should be so coherent and consistent
together; we shall only say thus much: that if
those Atheists were the first inventors of this
philosophy, they were certainly very unhappy
and unsuccessful in it, whilst endeavouring by it
to secure themselves from the possibility and
danger of a corporeal God, they unawares laid
a foundation for the clear demonstration-of an
M2
'168 THE ATQMICAL PHYSIQUES*
.incorporeal one, and were indeed so far frpnj
{making up any such coherent frame as is pro-
tended, that they were forced every whereto coo-
.tradict their own principles. So that nonsense
lies at the bottom of all, and is iuterwoven
throughout their whole Atheistical system; and
that we ought to take notice of the invincible
.power and force of truth, prevailing irresistibly
against all endeavours to oppress it; and how des­
perate the cause of Atheism is, when that very
\Atomical hypothesis of their’s, which they would
erect and build up for a strong castle to garrison
.themselves in, proves a most effectual engine
against themselves, for the battering of all their
.Atheistical structure down about:their ears.
xliv. Plato’s mutilation and interpolation of
-the old Moschical philosophy was a great deal
more excusable, when he took the theology and
,metaphysics of it, the whole doctrine of Incorpo­
reals, and abandoned the Atomical or mechani­
cal way of physiologizing. Which in all proba­
bility he did, partly because those forementioned
.Atheists having so much abused that philosophy,
adopting it as it were to themselves, he thereupon
.began to entertain a jealousy and suspicion of it ;
and partly, because he was not of himself so ip-
clinableto physiology as theology, to the study of
corporeal as of Divine things; which some think
r
to be the reason, why he did not attend to the Py-
thagoric system of the corporeal world, till late
in his old age. His genius was such, that be was
naturally more addicted to ideas than to atoms,
to formal land final than to material causes. To
which may bp added, thatthe way pfphysiologiz-
iog by matter, forms, and qualities, is a more huffy
SUPERSEDED BY PLATO. 169*
End fanciful thingsthan the other; and lastly, that'
the Atomical physiology is more remote from
sense and vulgar apprehension, and therefore not
So easily understood. For which cause many;
learned Greeks of later times, though they had‘
read Epicurus’s works, and perhaps Democri-;
tus’s too, yet they were not able to conceive, how*
the corporeal and sensible phenomena could pos-’
sibly be solved without real qualities; one in­
stance whereof might be given in Plutarch, writ--
itig against Colotes, the Epicurean. Wherefore
Plato, that was a zealous assertor of an incorpo­
real Deity, distinct from the world, and of immor-'
tal souls, seriously physiologized only by matter;
forms, and qualities, generation, corruption, and*'
alteration; and he did but play and toy some-'
times a little with atoms and mechanism; as'
Where he would compound the earth of cubical/
and fire of pyramidal atoms, and the like. For
that he did therein imitate the Atomical physio-:
logy, is plain from these words of his; Vawa ovv
ravra StavottoOui apiKpa ovrwf, (<
J
cicaff tv iieaarov ov(8v'
6puipet>ov v
tj>
’ ijjuuv, avvaOpoiadtvrwv S
e iroXXwv, rout; oy-
kovs avrtH
v opaadat* All' the&e cubical and pyra­
midal corpuscula of the fire and earth, are in*
themselves so small, that by reason of their par*-1
vitude, none of them can be perceived singly and’
alone, but only the aggregations of many of t<heutf
together.—•
xlv. Afid Aristotle hero trod in Plato’s foot*'
steps, not only in the better part, in asserting an in­
corporeal Deity, and an immoveable First Mover;
but also in physiologizing by forms and qualities,
and rejecting that mechanical way- by atoms,*
* lit Timae. p. 537. opcr.
170 COMMENDATION OF
which had been so generally received amongst the
ancients. Wherefore, though the genius of these
two persons,was very different, and Aristotle of­
ten contradicteth Plato, and really dissents from
hint in several particularities; yet, so much I think
may be granted to those reconcilers (Porphyry,
Simplicius, and others), that the main essentials
of their two philosophies are the same.
Now, I say, the whole Aristotelical system of
philosophy is infinitely to be preferred before the
whole Democritical; though the former hath been
so much disparaged, and the other cried up of
late amongst us. Because, though it cannot be
denied, but that the Democritic hypothesis doth
much more handsomely and intelligibly solve the
corporeal phenomena, yet in all those other things,
which are of far the greatest moment, it is rather a
madness than a philosophy. But the Aristotelic
system is right and sound here, as to those greater
things; it asserting incorporeal substance, a Deity
distinct from the world, the naturality of morality,
and liberty of will. Wherefore, though a late
Writer of politics does so exceedingly disparage
Aristotle’s.Ethics, yet we shall do him this right
here to declare, that his ethics were truly such,
and answered their title; but that new model of
ethics, which hath been obtruded upon the world
with so much fastuosity, and is indeed nothingbut
the old Democritic doctrine revived,' is no ethics
at all, butamere cheat, the undermining and sub­
version of all morality, by substituting something
like it in the room of it, that is a mere counterfeit
and changeling, the design whereof could not be
any other than to debauch the world.
We add further, that Aristotle’s system of phi-
ARISTOTItE’s -PHILOSOPHY. 171
losophy seems to be more consistent with piety*
than the Cartesian hypothesis itself, which yet
plainly supposeth incorporeal substance. Foras­
much as this latter makes God to contribute no­
thing more to the fabric of the world, than the
turning round of a vortex or whirlpool of matter $
from the fortuitous motion of which, according to
certain general laws of nature, must proceed all
this frame of things that now is, the exact organi­
zation and successive generation of animals, with­
out the guidance of any mind or wisdom. Whereas
Aristotle’s nature is no fortuitous principle, but
such as doth nothing in vain, but all for ends,
and in every thing pursues the best; and therefore
can be no other than a subordinate instrument of
the Divine wisdom,-and the manuary opificer or
executioner of it. ,
However, we cannot deny, but that Aristotle
bath been taxed by sundry of the ancients, Christ­
ians and others, for not so explicitly asserting
these two things, the immortality of human souls,
and providence over men, as he ought to have
done, and as his master Plato did. Though to
do him all the right we can, we shall observe here,
that in his Nicomachian Ethics,* he speaks fa­
vourably for the latter; « yapnc w av9pw-
mwv mri 6mv yiverai, dtnrtp fSoK
tt, K
al efSXoywyatpwv
aimmc T
<
jp
* aputrtp k<u rrp trvyytvtararqt (rovro yap tn> o
wove) Ka! rov$ ayairovvragpeiXuna Kal rove rqtuvvrae av-
Ttvrouiv, oe rwv fiXvy aurotc (irijotAov/dva*;, op0«e re
K
aX
<vevparrovrae* If God take any care of human
things, as it seems he doth, then it is reasonable to
think also, that he is delighted with that which is
the best, and nearest akin to himself (which is
• Lib. x* cap. ix. p. 185. tom. iii. oper.'
172 c o m m e n d a t io n o¥
paind or right reason), and that lie rewards those
who most love and honour it (as takingcareofsuch!
thing&asare most pleasing to him), in doing rightly
and honestly.—A very good sehtence, were it not
ushered in with too much of scepticism. And as
for the point of the soul’s immortality, it is true,
that whereas other philosophers, before Aristotle*
asserted the pre-existence, incorporeity, and im­
mortality of aHsouls, not only the rational, but the
sensitive also (which in men they concluded to bo-
one and the same substance), according to that of
Plato’s waoa adavaroc>every soul is immortal,-
—they resolving that no life nor cogitation could
be corporeal; Aristotle, on the contrary, doth ex-s
pressly deny the pre-existence, that is, the separa­
bility, incorporeity, and immortality, of all sensi­
tive souls, not in brutes only, but also every where,-
giving his reason for it in these words; ‘on ptv
ovy otdv ft m ac trpovirapy^av,favepov iariv«ftw
v rocov*
Xwu,, iowv yap ttmv apj((iiv y ivipysia awparucy, SyXov-ort
ratJrac avtv aw/taroc aSvvarov virap^civ, otov /3a8t^tu»Ivw
iroSciiv’ ware ical O
vpadevthntvat aSvvarov' ovrt yap avrag
Kaff ea
vrrm
gucnlvcuotovredy^afpurravgovaag, ovr evatJpart
%
’
untvai. That all souls cannot pre-exist, is mani­
fest from hence, because those principles, whose
action is corporeal, cannot possibly exist without
the body, as the power of walking without the
feet. Wherefore it is impossible, that these sensi­
tive souls (pre-existing) should come into the body
from without, since they can neither come alone
by themselves naked and stripped ofall body, they
being inseparable from it: neither can they come
in with a body, that is, the seed.—This is Aristo-'
tie’s argument, why all sensitive souls must need*
* De General. fetCorruptione, lib. ji. cap. iii. p. 018. tom. ii. oper.
ARISTOtLE’s PHILOSOPHY. ' 173.
be corporeal, because there is no walking without
feet, nor seeing without eyes. But at the same
time he declares, that the mind or intellect does
pre-exist and come in from without, that is, is in­
corporeal, separable, and immortal, giving his rea-;
son for it in like manner :* X
tnrtrai Skrov wi» p&
vm
r
$vpa(kv intioitvai, xal daov fnw ftovav' ovSI yap avrov rp
ivtpyeuf Kaiiwu (Wftaruni ivipyua' It remains, that
the mind or intellect, and that alone (pre-existing)
enter from without, and be only Divine; since its
energy is not blended with that of the body’s, but
it acts independently upon it.—Notwithstanding
which, Aristotle elsewhere” distinguishing con­
cerning this mind or intellect, and making it to
be twofold, agentand patient, concludesthe former
of them only, to be immortal, but the latter cor­
ruptible ; rovro ftovovaO
avarov ical aiSiov, o S
evaOyrucog
vovg fffaprog, the agent intellect is only immortal
and eternal, but the passive is corruptible:—where
some interpreters, that would willingly excuse
Aristotle, contend, that by the passive intellect
is not meant the patient, but the fantasy only, be­
cause Aristotle should otherwise contradict him­
self, who had hefore affirmed the intellect to be se>
parable, uumixed, andinorganical, which they con­
ceive must needs be understood of the patient;
But this salvo can hardly take place here, where
the passive intellect is directly opposed to the
agent. Now what Aristotle’s agent understanding
is, and whether it be anything in us, any faculty of
our human soul or no, seems to be a thing very
questionable, and has therefore caused much dis­
pute amongst his interpreters; it being resolved
i>y many of them to be the Divine intellect, and
» |bid. b De Quinta, lib. iii. cap. vi. p. 60. iom. ii. opcr.
174 COMMENDATION OF ARISTOTLE,
commonly by others, o foreign thing. Whence it
must needs be left doubtful, whether he acknow­
ledged any thing incorporeal and immortal at all
in us. And the rather because, laying down this
principle, that nothing is incorporeal, but what
acts independently upon the body, he somewhere
plainly determines, that there is no intellection
without corporeal .phantasms. That, which led
Aristotle to all this, positively to affirm the cor*
poreity of sensitive souls, and to stagger so much
concerning the incorporeity of the rational, seems
to have been bis doctrine of forms and qualities,
whereby corporeal and incorporeal substance are
confounded together, so that the limits of each
could not be discerned by him. Wherefore
we cannot applaud Aristotle for this; but that
which we commend him for, is chiefly these four
things: first, for making a perfect incorporeal in­
tellect to be the head of all; and secondly, for re­
solving, that nature, as an instrument of this in­
tellect,. does not merely act according to the ne­
cessity of material motions, but for ends and pur­
poses, though unknown to itself; thirdly, for
maintaining the naturality of morality; and lastly,
for asserting the ro vp.1
v, autexousy, or liberty
from necessity.
CHAPTER II
I* tkU chapter are contained all the grounds of reason for the Athe­
istic hypothesis.—1. That the Democritic philosophy, which is made
up of these two principles, Gorporealism and Atomism complicated
together, is essentially Atheistical.—2. Though Epicurus, who was
an Atomical Corporealist, pretended to assert a democracy of gods,
yet he was, for all that, an absolute Atheist; and that Atheists
commonly equivocate and disguise themselves.—3. That the Demo-
critioal philosophy is nothing else but a system of Atheology, or
Atheism swaggering under the glorious appearanoe of philosophy.
And, though there be another form of Atheism, which we call
Stratonical, yet the Democritic Atheism is only considerable; all
whose dark mysteries will be here revealed.—4. That we being
*to treat concerning the Deity, and to produce all that profane and
unhallowed stuff of Atheists in order to a confutation, the Divine
assistance and direction ought to be implored.—5, That there are
two things here to be performed; first, to shew what are the Athe­
ists’ pretended grounds of reason against the Deity; and, secondly,
bow they endeavour either to solve or confute the contrary pheno­
mena. The first of those grounds, that no man can have an ideaor
conception of God, and that he is an incomprehensible nothing.—
6. The second Atheistic argument, that there can be no creation out
of nothing, nor no omnipotence, because nothing can come from
nothing; and, therefore, whatsoever substantially is, was from eter­
nity self-existent, had uncreated by any Deity.—7. The third pre­
tended reason against a Deity, that the strictest notion of a God
implying him to be incorporeal, there can be no such incorporeal
Deity, because there is no other substance but body.—8. The Athe­
ists' pretence, that the doctrine of incorporeal substances sprung
from a ridiculous mistaking of abstract names and notions for reali­
ties* They impudently make the Deity to be but the chief of spec­
tres, and an Oberon or prince of fairies and fancies. Their fourth
argument against a Deity, that to suppose an incorporeal mind to be
the original of all things, is but to make a mere accident and abstract
notion to be the first cause of all.—9. Their fifth argument; a con-
fetation of a corporeal Deity from the principles of Corporealism
176 THE DEMOCHITICAL PHILOSOPHY
itself, that matter being the only substance, and all other difference*
of things nothing but accidents, generable and corruptible, noliving
understanding being can be essentially incorruptible. The Stoical
God incorruptible, ontyby accident.-—
10. Their sixth ratiocination
from a complication of Atomicism; that the first principle of all
tilings whatsoever in the universe is Atoms, or corpuscula devoid of
all qualities, and consequently of sense and understanding (which
spring up afterwards froma certain composition of them), and there­
fore mind or(Deity was not the first original of all.—11. In the se­
venth place they disprovethe world’
s animation, or its beinggovern­
ed by a living, understanding, animalish nature, presiding over the
whole; because sense and understanding are a peculiar appendix
to flesh, blood, and brains, and reason is no where to be found but
in human form;—12. The eighth Atheistic ground, that God being
taken by all for a most happy, eternal, and immortal animal (or liv­
ing being), there can be no such thing, bemuse allliving-beings are
concretions of atoms, that were at first generated, apd are liable to
death and corruption by the dissolution oftheir compages. And that
life is no simple primitive nature, but an accidental modification of
compounded bodies, which, upon the disunion of their parts, va-»
nisheth into nothing.—13. The ninth pretended Atheistic demon­
stration, that by God is meant a first cause or mover, which wasnot
before moved by any thing else without it; but nothing can move
itself, and therefore there can be no unmoved mover, nor any first im
the order of causes, that is, a God.—14. Their furtherproof of this
principle, that nothing can paove itself, with an Atheistic corollary
from tbenoe, that no thinking beingcould be a first cause, no cogita­
tion arising of itself without a cause *which may be reckoned a
tenth argument.—15. Another mystery of Atheism, that all know­
ledge and mental conception istbe information of the things them-,
selves known, existing without the knower, and a passion from
them; and, therefore, the world must npeds be before any know*
ledge or conception of it, and no knowledge or conception before
the world, as its cause.—16. The twelfth argumentation, that things
could not be made by a God, because they are so faulty andrill
made, that they were not contrived for the good of man; and that
^ the deluge of evils, that overflows aH, shews that they did not pro-*
eeed from any Deity.—17. The thirteenth instance of the Atheists
against a Deity, from the defectof Providence, that, in human affairs,
all is Toliu and Bobu, chaos and confusion.—18. The fourteenth
Atheistic ground, that it is notpossible for any ope being to animad-
Es s e n t ia l l y a t h e is t ic a l , 177
Vert and order all things in the distant places of the whole,world at
once: but, if it were possible, that such infinite negotiosity would
be absolutely inconsistent with happiness.—19. Several bold but
* alight queries ofAtheists, why the world was not made sooner? and
what God did before? why it was made at all, since it was so long
- unmade? and, how the architect of the world could rear up so huge
a fabric ?—20. The Atheists’pretence, that it is the great interest of
mankind, that there should be no God; and that it was a noble and
heroical exploit of the Democritics, to chase away that affrightful
spectre out of the world, and to free men from the continual fear of
a Deity and punishment after death, embittering all the pleasures of
. life.—21. Another pretence of their’s, that Theism is inconsistent
with civil sovereignty, it introducing a fear greater than the fear of
the leviathan; and that any other conscience allowed of besides the
civil law (being privatejudgment), is, ipsofacto, a dissolution of the
*
' body politic, and a return to the state of nature.—22. The Atheists'
- conclusion from the former premises, as set down in Plato and Ln-
. cretius, that all things sprung originally from nature and chance,
without any mind or God, that is, proceeded from the necessity of
material motions, undirected for ends; that infinite atoms, devoid
of life and sense, moving in infinite space from eternity, by their for­
tuitous rencounters and entanglements, produced the system of the
whole universe, and as well animate as inanimate things.
I. H a v i n g , in the former chapter, given an ac­
count of the genuine and primitive Atomictd phi­
losophy, which may be called the Moschical; we
.are, in the next place, to consider the Democrt-
tical, that is, the atheized and adulterated Atom-
ology: which had its origin from nothing else
■but the joining of this heterogeneous and contra-
dictious principle to the Atomical physiology,
that there .is no other substance in the woi'ld be­
sides body. Now we say, that that philosophy,
which is thus compounded and made up of these
.two things, Atomicism and Corporealism compli­
cated together, is essentially Atheistical,'though
.neither of them alone be such. For the Atomical
.physiology, as we have-declared already, is in its
178 THIS DEMOCRITICAL PHILOSOPHY
own nature sufficiently repugnant to Atheism.
And it is possible for one, who holds, that there
is nothing in the world besides body, to be per­
suaded, notwithstanding, of a corporeal Deity,
and that the world was at first framed and is still
governed by an understanding nature lodged in
the matter. For thus some of these Corporealists
have fancied the whole universe itself to be a God,
that is, an understanding and ;wise animal, that or­
dered all things within itself, after the best manner
possible, and providently governed the same. In­
deed, it cannot be denied, but that this is a very
great infirmity pf mind, that such persons lie
under, who are not able to conceive any other
substance besides body, by which is under­
stood that which is impenetrably extended, or
else, in Plato’s language, which hath *-poc/3oX>iv km
cwa^qv, that thrqsts against other bodies, and re­
sists their impulse;—or, as others express it,
which is T07roviXiipiiiTucov, that so fills up place—as
to exclude any other body or substance from
co-existing with it therein ; and such must needs
have, not only very imperfect, but also spurious
and false conceptions of the Deity, so long as
they apprehend it to be thus corporeal; but yet
it does not, iherefore, follow, that they must
needs be accounted Atheists. But, whosoever
holds these two principles (before-mentioned^
together, that there is no other substance besides
body, and that body hath nothing else belonging
to it but magnitude, figure, site, and motion,
without qualities: I say, whosoever is that con­
founded thing of an Atomist and Corporealist
jumbled together, he is essentially and unavoida­
bly that yvhich is meant by an Atheist, ,though he
ESSENTIALLY ATHEISTICAL. 179
should in words never so much disclaim it, be*
cause he must needs fetch the original of all
things from senseless matter; whereas, to assert
a God, is to maintain, that all things sprung ori­
ginally from a knowing and understanding na­
ture.
it. Epicurus, who was one of those mongrel
things before-mentioned (an Atomical Corpore-
alist, or Corporeal Atomist), did, notwithstand­
ing, profess to hold a multifarious rabble and de­
mocracy of gods, such as though they were «*-
tywiro/KOffoi,* of human form,—yet were so thiu
and subtile, as that, comparatively with our terres­
trial bodies, they might be called incorporeal;
they having not so much camem as quasi-carnem,
nor sangvinem as quasi-sanguinem, a certain kind
of aerial or etherial flesh and blood; which gods
of his were not to be supposed to exist any where
within the tforld, upon this pretence, that there
was no place in it fit to receive them:
* Iliad item non est, ut possis credere sedes
Esse Defcm sanctas, in mundi partibus ullis.
And, therefore, they must be imagined to subsist
in certain intermundane spaces, and Utopian re­
gions without the world, the deliciousness where­
of is thus elegautly described by the poet:
c Quas neque concutiant venti, neque nubila nimbis
Adspergunt, neque nix acri concreta pruina
Cana cadens violat, semperque innubilus aether
Intcgit, et large diffuse lumine ridet.
Whereunto was added, that the chief happiness
of these gods consisted “ in omnium vacatiorie
a Vide Cieeron. de Natur. Deor» lib. i. cap. xviii. p. 2907. tom. ix»
©per.
b Lucret. lib. v. ver, 147. e Id. lib. iii. vcr. 19.
180 Ep ic u r u s a n a b so l u t e a t h e is t ,
.munerutu,” in freedom from all business and em­
ploymeat,—and doing nothing at all, that so they
might live a soft and delicate life. And, lastly,
.it was pretended, that though they had neither
any thing to do with us, nor we with them, yet
they ought to be worshipped by us for their own
{excellent natures' sake and happy state,
But whosoever had the least sagacity in him
could not but perceive, that this theology of Epi­
curus was but romantical, it being directly con­
trary to his avowed and professed principles, to
.admit of any other being, than what was con­
creted of atoms, and consequently corruptible ;
:and that he did this upon a politic account,
thereby to decline the common odium, aud those
dangers and inconveniences which otherwise he
might have incurred by a downright denial of a
God, to which purpose it accordingly served liis
.turn. T.hus Posidonius" rightly pronounced, “ Nul-
los esse deos Epicuro videri; quaeque is de dits
immortalibus dixerit, invidiae detestaudae gratia
dixisse.” Though he was partly jocular in it also,
it making no small sport to him, in this manner,
to delude and mock the credulous vulgar ;b
“ Deos jocandi causa induxit Epicurus perlucidos
et perflabiles, et habitantes tanquam inter duos
lucos, sic inter duos mundos propter metum rui-
narum.” However, if Epicurus had been never
so much in earnest in all this, yet, by Gassendus’s
leave, we should pronounce him to have been not
a jot the less an Atheist, so long as he maintain­
ed, that the whole world was made nvStvoQSutrar-
*Apud Ciceron. de Natur. Deor. lib. i. cap..xliv. p.2949. tom. ix.
oper. .
* Cicero dc^Divin. 1.ii. c. xrii. p. 3202. tom. pc. oper.
fePICURUS Alt, ABSOLUTE ATHEIST.. 181
toVrtic { Siard^twroe r>}v waaav fiuKaptortfra iyrovro$ p trt
of&iftnac, without the ordering and direction of
any understanding being) that was perfectly
happy and immortal ;^-and fetched the original
of all things, in the universe) even of soul and
mind, airo rwv afo/uon>aw
fxdrtavA
tpovo*ir<
fPK
(nrvyawv
t/oM-wv rijv jccotffftv, from senseless atoms fortuitous­
ly moved.—He, together with Democritus, here*
by making the world to be, in the worst senset
oiov rile w
ktoc, an egg of. the night,—that is, not
the offspring of mind and understanding, but of
dark, senseless matter, of Tohu and Bohu, or
Confused chaos; and deriving the original of all
the perfections in the universe from the most im-
perfect being, and the lowest of .all entities, than
which nothing can be more atheistical. And as
for those romantiq monogramous gods of Epi­
curus, had they been seriously believed by him,
they could have been nothing else but a pertain
kind of aerial and spectrous men, living by them*
selves, nobody knows where, without the world i
m
>
Eirucovpoe /uevirpde tovg inAXot!; dmiXctra 0tov wc
$e rrpoe .rowipvtnv wpay/tdrurv ovSa/u5e’ EpicurUS, ac-
Cording to vulgar opinion, leaves a God; but, ac­
cording to the nature of things, none at all.—
, And as Epicurus, so other Atheists, in like
manner, have commonly had their vizards and
disguises; Atheism, for the most part, prudently
choosing to walk abroad in masquerade. And,
though some over-credulous persons have been
so far imposed upon hereby, as to conclude, that
there was hardly any such thing as an Atheist
any where in the world, yet they that are saga­
cious may easily look through these thin veils and
*Vide Sext. Etnpir. adv. MatheUat. lib. ix. p.566. edit- Fabricii.
VOL. I. N
182 MYSTERIES. OF ATHEISM REVEALED.
disguises, and perceive these Atheists oftentimes
insinuating their Atheism even then, when they
most of all profess themselves Theists, by. affirm­
ing, that it is impossible to have any idea or con­
ception: at all of God; and that, as he is not
finite, so he cannot be infinite, and that no know­
ledge or understanding is to be attributed to him;
which is, in effect, to say, that there is no such
thing. But whosoever entertains the Democritic
principles, that is, both rejects forms and quali­
ties of body, and makes all things to be body,
though be pretend never so much to hold a cor-
poreal Deity, yet be is not at all to be believed
in it, it being a thing plainly contradictious to
those principles.
h i. Wherefore, this mongrel philosophy, which
Leucippus, Democritus, and Protagoras were the
founders of,, and which was entertained after­
wards by Epicurus, that makes (as Laertius
writes)? w oXwv aro/uovc, senseless.atoms to
be the first principles—not only of all bodies (for
that was a-thing admitted before by Empedocles
and other Ajtomists that were Theists), but also of
all things whatsoever in thewhole universe, and'
therefore of soul and mind too; this, 1-say, was
really nothing else but a philosophical form- of
Atheology, a gigantical and Titanical attempt to
dethrone the Deity, not only by solving all the
phenomena of the world without a God, but also
by laying down such principles, from whence it
must needs follow, that there could be neither an
incorporeal nor corporeal Deity. It was Atheism
openly swaggering under the glorious appearance
of wisdom and philosophy.
■. *LiU.x+segra.41.p*£3D.ct albs. ,
MYSTERIES OR A tH EiSM REVEALED. 183
There is, indeed, another form of Atheism,
wbjch (insisting on the vulgar way of philosophiz­
ing by forms and qualities) we, for distinction
sake, shall call Stratonical; such as, being too
modest and shamefaced to fetch all things from
the fortuitous motion of-atoms, would, therefore,
allow to the several parts of matter a certain kind
of natural (though not animal) perception, such
as is devoid of reflexive consciousness, together
with a plastic power, whereby they may be able
artificially and methodically to form and frame
themselves to the best advantage of their respec­
tive capabilities; something like to Aristotle’s
nature, but that it hath no dependance at all upon
any higher mind or Deity. And these Atheists
may be also called Hylozoic (as the other Ato­
mic), because they derive all things in the whole
universe, not only sensitive, but also rational
souls, together with the artificial frame of animals,
from the life of matter. But this kind of Atheism
seems to be but an unshapen embryo of some
dark and cloudy brains, that was never yet di­
gested into an entire system, nor could be brought
into any such tolerable form, as to have the con­
fidence to shew itself abroad in full and open
view. But the Democritic and Atomic Atheism;
as it is the boldest and rankest of all Atheisms, .it
not only undertaking to solve all phenomena by
matter fortuitously moved, without a God, but
also to demonstrate, that there cannot be so much
as a corporeal Deity; so it is that alone, which,
pretending to an entire and coherent system, hath
publicly appeared upon the stage, and therefore
doth, iu a manner, only deserve our consideration,
And now we shall exhibit a full view and
N2
'184 n e c e s s It V o V IM PLORING *
prospect of it, and discover all its dark myste*
ties and profundities; we being much of this
persuasion, that a plain and naked representation
of them will be a great part of a confutation at
least; not doubting but it will be made to appeal*,
that though this monster, big swoln with a puffy
shew of wisdom, strut and stalk so gigantically,
and march with such a kind of stately philosophic
grandeur, yet it is, indeed, but like the giant Or-
goglio, in our English poet* a mere empty blad­
der, blown up With Vain conceit, an Empusalj
phantasm, Or spectre, the offspring of night and
darkness, nonsense and contradiction.
And yet, for all that, we shall not wrong it the
■least in our representation, but give it all possi­
ble advantages of strength and plausibility, that
so the Atheists may have no cause to pretend (as
they are wont to do, in such cases) that either we
did not understand their mysteries, nor appre­
hend the full strength of their cause, or else did
purposely smother and conceal it. Which, in*
deed, we have been so far from, that we must con-
fees we were not altogether unwilling this busi­
ness oftheir's should look a little like something*
that might deserve a confutation. And whether
the Atheists ought not rather to give US thanks
for mending and improving their arguments* than
complain that We have any way impaired them;
we shall leave it to the censure of impartial judg­
ments.
iv. Plato* tells Us, that even amongst those Pa­
gans in his time there was generally such a
*religb
OUS humour, that irdmc ora Karafipayrytroxppoavinfi;
fitTey^ovoi, im rraayO
p
/u
ijj K
ai trfiucpovK
al ftiyaXov irpaypa1
-
. * InTiraoeb,p.236.
. THE DIVINE ASSISTANCE. 1 8 5
r®
c* ©tov da iroi cntcoXovn* Whosoever had but the
least of seriousness and sobriety in them, whenso­
ever they took in hand any enterprise, whether
great or small, they would always invoke the
Deity for assistance and direction.—Adding more­
over, that himself should be very faulty, if in his
Timaeus, when he was'to treat about so grand a
point, concerning the whole world, « yiyov^v $*
<
u
ayfvijc tun, whether it were made or unmade,—
-he
should not make his entrance thereinto by a reli­
gious invocation of the Deity. Wherefore cer­
tainly it could not be less than a piece of impiety,
iu a Christian, being to treat concerning tlie Deity
itself, and to produce all that profane and unhal­
lowed stuff of Atheists out of their dark corners,
in order to a confutation, and the better confirma­
tion of our faith in the truth of his existence, not
to implore his direction and assistance, And I
know no reason, but that we may well do it in
that same litany of Plato’s, teardvavv
^iara, dtro/uevw
c ^ *i/uv drav, that we may first speak
agreeably to his own mind, or becomingly of his
nature, and then consentaneously with ourselves.
v. Now there are these two things here to be
performed by us, first to discover and produce
the chief heeds of arguments, or grounds of rea­
son, insisted on by the Atheists, to disprove a
Deity, evincing withal briefly the ineffectualness
end falseness of them: and secondly, to shew how
they endeavour either to confute or solve, coni
sistently with their own principles, all those phe­
nomena, which are commonly urged against them
to prove a Deity and incorporeal substance; ma­
nifesting likewise the invalidity thereof.
The grounds of reason ^tlleged for the Atheist-
I&0 THE a t h e is t s ’ p r e t e n c e ,
ical hypothesis are chiefly these that follow. First;
That we have no idea of God, and therefore can
have no evidence of him; which argument is far*
ther flourished and descanted upon in this man­
ner. That notion or conception of a Deity, that
is commonly entertained, is nothing but a bundle
of incomprehensibles, unconceivables, and impos­
sibles ; it being only a compilement ofall imagina­
ble attributes of honour, courtship, and complin
ment, which the confounded fear and astonish­
ment of men’s minds made them huddle up toge­
ther, without any sense or philosophic truth.
This seems to be intimated by a modern writer*
in these words: “ The attributes of God signify
not true nor false, nor any opinion of our brain,
but the reverence and devotion ofour hearts; and
therefore they are not sufficient premises to infer
truth, or convince falsehood,” And the same
thing again is further set out, with no small pre­
tence to wit, after this manner: “ They that ven­
ture to dispute philosophically, or reason of God’s
nature from these attributes of honour, losing their
understanding in the very first attempt, fall from
one inconvenience into another, without end, and
without number; in the same manner, as wbetk
one, ignorant of the ceremonies of court, coming
into the presence of a greater person than he is
used'to speak to, and stumbling at his entrance,
to save himself from falling, lets slip bis cloak, to
recover his cloak lets fall his hat, and with one
disorder after another, discovers his astonishment
and rusticity.” The meaning of which, and other
' like passages ofthe same writer, seems to be this;
that the attributes of God (by which his nature
a Hobbes.
'iPHAT TH^RJt lS NO IDEA 6 F G 0 D . I W
is supposed to be expressed) having no pbiloso^
pfiic truth or1
reality in them, had their only ori­
ginal from a certain rustic astonishment of mind,
proceeding from excess of fear, raising up the
phantasm of a Deity, as a bugbear for an object
to itself, and affrighting men into all manner of
confounded nonsense, and absurdity of expres­
sions concerning it, such as have no signification,
nor any conception of the mind answering to them.
This is the first argument, used especially by our
modern Democritics, against a Deity, that be­
cause they can have no fantastic idea of it, nor
fully comprehend all that is concluded in the no­
tion thereof, that therefore it is-but an incompre­
hensible nothing.
vi. Secondly, another argument much insist­
ed on by the old Democritic Atheists, is directed
againstthe Divineomnipotenceand creativepowers
after this manner. By God is always understood
a creator ofsomething or other out ofuotbing. For
however the Theists be here divided amongst
themselves, some of them believing, that there was
once nothing at all existing in this whole space,
which is now occupied by the world, besides the
Deity, and- that he was then a solitary being, so
that the substance of the whole corporeal uni­
verse had a temporary beginning, and novity of
existence, and the duration of it hath now conti­
nued bnt for so many years only : others per­
suading themselves, that though the matter and>
substance at least (if not the form also) of the cor­
poreal world, did exist from eternity, yet neverthe­
less, they both alike proceeded from the Deity by
way of emanation, and do continually depend
Upon it, in the same manner as light, though eo-
1 $ 8 TUB a t h e is t s ’ s e c o n d a r g u m e n t ,
oval Withthe sun, yet proceeded fromthe sun, and
depends upon it, being always, as it were, made
anew by it; wherefore, according to this hypothe­
sis, though things had no antecedent non-entity
in time, yet they were as little of themselves, and
Owed all their being as much to the Deity, as if
they had been once actually nothing, they being,
as it were, perpetually created out of nothing by
it. Lastly, others ofthose Theists resolving, that
the matter of the corporeal universe was not only
from eternity, but also self-existent and uncreated
or independent upon any Deity as to its being1
;
but yet the forms and qualities of all inanimate
bodies, together with the souls of all animals in
the successive generations of them (being taken
for entities distinct from the matter), were created
by the Deity but of nothing. We say, though'
there be such difference among the Theists them­
selves, yet they all agree in this, that God is, in
some sense or other, the creator of some real en­
tity out of nothing, or the cause of that which
otherwise would not have been of itself, so that no
creation out of nothing (in that enlarged sense),
no Deity. Now it is utterly impossible, that any
substance or real entity should be created out of
nothing, it being contradictious to that indubita­
ble axiom of reason, de nihilo nihil, from nothing
nothing, The argument is thus urged by Lucre­
tius, according to the minds of Epicurus and De­
mocritus:
* Prinpipium hinc cujns nobis exordia supiet,
Nullam rem e nihilo gigni divinitns unquam.
Quippe ita fonnido mortaJes contipet omnes,
Quod multa in terris fieri coeJoque tuentur,
‘ Lib. i. vers. 150, &c.
THAT NOTHING CAN COME FROM NOTHING. 189
' * * Quorum opervm oausas nulla ratiooe vidcre
t Posrant, ac fieri divino numine rentur:
Qn&s ob res, nbi viderimu’
s nil posse creari
De nihilo, turn quod sequimur, jam tutins inde »
Perspicjemus, et unde queat res quaeque crcari,
£ t quo quaeque modcrfiant opera sine divum.
- It is true, indeed, that it seems to be chiefly le­
velled by the poet against that third and last sort
of Theists before-mentioned, such as Heraclitus
and the Stoics (which latter were contemporary
with Epicurus), who held the matter of the whole
world to have been from eternity of itself un­
created, but yet the forms of mundane things in
the successive generations of them (as entities dis­
tinct from the matter) to be created or made by
the Deity out of nothing.' But the force of the
argument must needs lie stronger against those
other Theists, who would have the very substance
and matter itself of the world, as well as the
rorhiSj to have been created by the Deity out of
nothing. Since nothing can come out of nothing,
it follows, that not so much as the forms and qua­
lities of bodies (conceived as entities really distinct
from the matter), much less the lives and souls of
animals, could ever have been created by any
Deity, and therefore certainly not the substance
arid matter itself. But all substance and real en*-
tity, whatsoever is in-the world, must needs have
been from eternity, uncreated and self-existent.
Nothing can be made or produced but only the
different modifications of pre-existent matter. And
this is done by motions, mixtures, and separations,
concretions and secretions of atoms, without the
creatiori of any real distinct entity out of nothings
So that there needs no Deity for the effecting of if,
according to that of Epicurus, >
jO
tia vpogravr«
1 9 0 THE a t h e is t s ' p r e t e n c e s a g a in s t
fn^a/xii irpoaaylaBti, no Divine power ought to be
called in for the solving of those phenomena.—To
conclude, therefore, if no substance, nor real en­
tity can be made, which was not before, but all
whatsoever is, will be, and can be, was from eter­
nity self-existent; then creative power, but espe­
cially thatattribute of omnipotence, can belong to
uothing; and this is all one as to say, there can be
no Deity.
vn. Thirdly, the Atheists argue against the
stricter and higher sort of Theists, who will have
God to be the creator of the whole corporeal uni­
verse and all its parts out of nothing, after this
manner: that which created the whole mass of.
matter and body, cannot be itself body; where­
fore this notion of God plainly implies him to be
incorporeal. But there can be no iucorporeal
Deity, because by that word must needs be un­
derstood, either that which hath no magnitude nor
extension at all, or else that which is indeed ex­
tended, but otherwise than body. If the word
be taken in the former sense, then nothing at all
can be so incorporeal, as to be altogether unex­
tended and devoid Of geometrical quantity, be­
cause extension is the very essence of all exist­
ent entity, and that which is altogether unex­
tended is perfectly nothing. There can neither
be any substance, nor mode or accident of any
substance, no nature whatsoever unextended. But
if the word iucorporeal be taken in the latter
sense, for that which is indeed extended, but
otherwise than body, namely so as to penetrate
bodies and co-exist with them, this is also a thing
next to nothing; since it can neither act upon any
JIN fNCORVOBEAL DEITY. ' 191
other thing, nor be acted upon by, or sensible of,
any thing; it can neither do nor suffer any thing.
* Namfoeereat fungi nifi corpus nuUapotestres.
Wherefore, to speak plainly, this can be nothing
else but empty space, or vacuum, which runs
through all things, without laying hold on any
thing, or being affected from any thing. This is
the only incorporeal thing, that is or can he in na­
ture, space, or place; and therefore to suppose an
incorporeal Deity is to make empty space to be
the creator of ail things.
This argument is thus proposed by the Epicu­
rean poet:
b -----------Quodcunque erit esse aliquid, dcbebit id ipsum
Augmine vel grandi vel parvo- - ------
Cui si tactiis erit, quamvis levis exiguusque,
Corporam augebit numerum summamque sequetur:
Sin intactile erit, nnlla de parte quod ullam ■
Rem prohibere queat per se transire meantem,
Scilicet hoc icf erit vacuum quod inane vocamus.
Whatsoever is, is extended or hath geometrical
quantity and mensurahility in it; which, if it be
tangible, then it is body, and fills up a place in the
world, being part of the whole mass; but if it be
intangible, so that it cannot resist the passage of
any thing through it, then it,is nothing else but
empty space or vacuum.—There is no third thing
besides these two, and therefore whatsoever is
not body, is space or nothing:
c --------- Praeter inane et corpora tertia per se,
Nulla potest rerum in numero natura relinqui.
• JLucrct. lib. i. vers. 444, &c. b Id. lib. i. vers. 434>
• Id. lib. L vers. 446.
192 a t h e is t s ’ o b je c t io n a g a in s t
Thus the ancient Epicureans and Deraocritics ar­
gued ; there being nothing incorporeal but space,
there can be no incorporeal Deity.
But, because this seems to give advantage to
the Theists, in making space something, or that
which hath a real nature or entity without our
conception, from whence it will follow, that it
must needs be either itself a substance, or else a
mode of some incorporeal substance; the modern
Democritics are here more cautious, and make
space to be no nature really existing without us,
but only the phantasm of a body, and, as it were,
the. ghost, of it, which has no reality without our
imagination. So that there are not two natures
of body and space,' which must needs infer two
distinct substances, one whereof must be incor­
poreal, but only one nature of body. The con­
sequence of which will be this, that an incorpo­
real substance is all one with an incorporeal body,
and therefore nothing.
v i i i . But because it is generally conceived,
that an error cannot be sufficiently confuted, with­
out discovering ro ainov tov \ptvSovs, the cause of
the mistake;—therefore, the Atheists will, in the
next place, undertake to shew likewise" the ori­
ginal of this doctrine of incorporeal substances,
and from what misapprehension it sprung; as'
also take occasion, from thence, further to dis­
prove a Peity.
Wherefore they say, that the original, of this
doctrine of. incorporeal substances proceeded
chiefly from the abuse of abstract names, both of
substances (whereby the esseuces of singular bo­
dies, as of a man or a horse, being abstracted
from those bodies themselves, are considered uni-
INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCES. t?)3
versally) as also of accidents, whet) they are con­
sidered alone without theif subjects of sUbA
stances. The latter of which iBa thing, that men
have been necessitated to in order to the compu­
tation or reckoning of the properties of bodies,
the comparing of them with* one another, the
adding, subtracting, multiplying, and dividing of
thetn; which could not be done, so long as they
tire taken concretely together with their subjects.
But yet, as there is some use of those abstract
names, so the abuse of them has been also Very
great; forasmuch as, though they be really the
names of nothing, since the essence of this and
that man is not any thing without the man, nor is
an accident any thing without its substance, yet
men have been led into a gross mistake by them,
to imagine them to be realities existing by them­
selves, Which infatuation hath chiefly proceed­
ed from scholastics, who have been so intemperate
in the use of these words, that they could not
make a rational discourse of any thing, though
■never so small, but they must stuff it with their
quiddities, entities, essences, heeCceities, and the
like. Wherefore, these ate they, who, being first
■deluded themselves, have also deluded the world,
introducing an opinion into the minds of men,
that the essence of every thing issomething with­
out that thing itself, and also eternal; and, there­
fore, when any thing is made or generated, that
■there is no new being produced, but only an ante­
cedent and eternal essence clothed (as it were)
with a new garment of existence; as, also, that
the mere accidents of bodies may exist alone by
themselves without their substances. As, for
example, that the life, sense, and understanding
194 a t h e is t s ’ o b je c t io n a g a in s t
of animals, commonly called by the names of
soul and mind, may exist without the bodies
or substances of them by themselves, after the
animals are dead ; which plainly makes them to
be incorporeal substances, as it were the separate
and abstract essences of men. This hath been
observed by a modern writer in these words:—
“ Est hominum abstractorum turn in omni vita,
turn in philosophia, magnus et usus et abusus.
Abusus in eo consistit, quod cum videant aliqui,
considerari posse, id est, inferri in rationes, acci-
dentium increments et decrements, sine consider
rstione corporum, sive subjectorum suorum (id
quod sppellatur abstrahere), loquuntur de acci-
dentibus, tanquam possent ab omni corpore sepa-
rari: hinc enipt originem trahunt quorundam
metaphysicorum crassi errores. Nam ex eo, quod
considerari potest cogitatio, sine considerations
corporis, inferre solent non esse opus corporis
cogitantis.” It is a great abuse, that some meta­
physicians make of these abstract names, because
cogitation can be considered alone without the
consideration of body, therefore, to conclude,
that it is not the action or accident of that body
that thinks, but a substance by itself.—And the
same writer elsewhere observes, that it is upon
this ground, that when a man is dead and buried*
they say his soul (that is, his life) can walk, sepa­
rated from his body, aud is seen by night amongst
the graves.—By which means the vulgar are con­
firmed in their superstitious belief of ghosts,
spirits demons, devils, fairies, and hobgoblins,
invisible powers and agents, called by several
names, and that by those persons whose work it
ought to be,, rather to free men front, such super*
INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCES. 195
atition. Which belief at first had another origi­
nal, not altogether unlike the former; namely,
from men’s mistaking their own fancies for things
really existing without them. For, as in the sense
of vision, men are commonly deceived, in sup­
posing the image behind the glass to be a real
'thing existing without themselves, whereas it is,'
indeed, nothing but their own fancy: in like man­
ner, when the minds of men, strongly possessed
with fear, especially in the dark, raise up the
phantasms of spectres, bugbears, or affrightfui
apparitions to them, they think them to be ob­
jects really existing* without them, aud call them
ghosts and spirits, whilst they are indeed nothing
but their own fancies; so the phantasm, or fancy
of a Deity (which is, indeed, the chief of all spec­
tres), created by fear, has upon no other account
been taken for a reality. To this purpose, a mo­
dern writer, “ From the fear, that proceeds from
the ignorance itself of what it is that hath the
power to do men good or harm, men are inclined
to suppose and feign to themselves several kinds
of powers invisible, and to stand -in awe of their
own imaginations, and in time of distress to in­
voke them, as also in .the time of an unexpected
good success to give them thanks^ making the
creatures of their own fancies their gods.” Which,
though it be prudently spoken in the plural num­
ber, that so it might be diverted and put off to1
the heathen gods; yet he is very simple, that does
not perceive the reason of it to be the same con­
cerning that one Deity which is now commonly
worshipped; and that, therefore, this also is but
the creature of men’s fear and fancy, the chief of
all fantastic ghosts and spectres, as it were an
196 THE ATHEISTS’ ARGUMENT
Qberoo or prince of fairies and fancies. This
(we say) was the first original of that vulgar be­
lief of invisible powers, ghosts, and gods; men’s
taking their own fancies for things really existing,
without them. And as for the matter and sub­
stance of these ghosts, they could not, by their,
own natural cogitation, fall into any other .con­
ceit, but that it was the same with that which ap-
peareth in a dream to one that sleepeth, or in a.
looking-glass to. one that is awake, thin aeriel bo*:
dies, which may appear and vanish when they
please. But the opiniou, that such spirits were
incorporeal and immaterial, could never enter into,
the minds of men by nature, unabused by doc­
trine; but it sprung up from those deceiving and
deceived literati, scholastics, philosophers, and
tbeologers, enchanting men’s understandings, and
making them believe, that the abstract notions of
accidents and essences could exist alone by them­
selves, without the bodies, as certain separate
and incorporeal substances.
To conclude, therefore, to.make an incorporeal
mind to be the cause of all things, is to make our
own fancy, an imaginary ghost of the world, to
be a reality; and, to suppose the mere abstract
notion of an accident, and a separate essence, to-
be not only an absolute thing by itself, and a real
substance incorporeal, but also the first original
of all substances, and of whatsoever is in the
universe, And this may be reckoned for a fourth
Atheistic ground.
ix. Fifthly, the Atheists pretend further to
prove, that there is no •other substance in the
world besides body: as also, from the principles,
of Corporealism itself to evince, that there cart.
AGAINST CORPOREAL DEITY. 197
be no corporeal Deity after this manner. No man
can devise any other notion of substance, than
that it is a thing extended, existing without the
mind, not imaginary, but real and solid magni­
tude; for, whatsoever is not extended, is no
where and nothing. So £hat res extensa is the only
substance, the solid basis and substratum of all.
Now this is the very self-same thing with body;
for avTirviria, or resistance, seems to be a necessary
consequence and result from extension, and they
that think otherwise can shew no reason why bo­
dies may not also penetrate one another, as some
Corporealists think they do; from whence it is
inferred, that body or matter is the only substance
of all things. And whatsoever else is in the world,
that is, all the differences of bodies, are nothing
but several accidents and modifications of this
extended substance, body, or matter. Which
accidents, though they may be sometimes called
by the names of real qualities and forms, and
though there be different apprehensions concern­
ing them amongst philosophers, yet generally they
agree in this, that there are these two properties
belonging to them; first, that none of them can
subsist alone by themselves, without extended
shbstance or matter, as the basis and support pf
them; and, secondly, that tbey may be all de­
stroyed without the destruction of any substance.
Now, as blackness and whiteness, heat and cold,
so likewise life, sense, and understanding, are
such accidents, modifications, or qualitiespfbody,
that can neither exist by themselves, and may be
destroyed without the destruction' of any sub-
.stance or matter. For if the parts of the :body
of any living animal be disunited and separated
VOL. i. o ' .
/
198 THE ATHEISTS’ ARGUMENT
from one another, or the organical disposition of
the matter altered, those accidents, forms, or qua­
lities of life and understanding,' will p r e s e n t l y
vanish away to nothing, all the substance of the
matter still remaining one where or other in the
universe entire, and nothing of it lost. Wherefore,
the substance of matter and body, as distinguish­
ed from the accidents, is the only thing in the
world that is incorruptible and undestroyable.
And of this it is to be understood, that uothing
can be made out of nothing, and destroyed to no­
thing, i. e. that every entire thing, that is made
or generated, must be made of some pre-existent
matter; which matter was from eternity self-eX-
istent and untpade, and is also undestroyable,
arid can never be reduced to nothing. It is not
to be understood of the accidents themselves,
that are all makeable and destroyable, generable
and corruptible. Whatsoever is in the world is
but vXn 7rw
c e/ovffa, matter so and so modified or
qualified, all which modifications and qualifica­
tions of matter are in their own nature destroya­
ble, and the matter itself (as the basis of them,
ririt necessarily determined to this or that acci­
dent) is the only dyiwtirov *cal aiwXe0pw, the only
necessarily existent. The conclusion, therefore,
is, that tto animal, no living understanding body,
can be absolutely and essentially incorruptible,
this being an incommunicable property of the
m atter; and, therefore, there cari be no corporeal
Deity, the original of all things, essentially unde­
stroyable.
Though the Stoics imagined the whole corpo-
real universe to be an animal or Deity, yet -this
feotpoftal God of theirs was only by aceidrini in-
APAIN9T QOUPOMVAL DEITY. 18*9
corruptible aqd immortal; because they supposed
(bat there was no other matter, which, existing
without this world, and making inroads upon it,
could disunite the parts of it, or disorder its com-
pages. Which, if there were, the life and under-
*standing of this Stoical God, or great mundane
animal, as well as that of other animals in like
cases, must needs vanish into nothing. Thus,
from the principles of Corporealism itself, it plain­
ly follows, that there can be no corporeal Deity,
because the Deity is supposed to be ayfwvrov
mwXsOpov, a thing that was never made, and is es­
sentially undestroyable, which are the privileges
and properties of nothing but senseless matter.
x. In the next place, the Atheists undertake
more effectually to confute that corporeal God of
the Stoics and others, from the principles of the
Atomical philosophy,jn this manner. All corpo­
real Tbeists, who assert, that an understanding
nature or mind, residing in the matter ,ofthe whole
universe, was the first original of the mundane
.system, and did intellectually frame it, betray no
.styall ignorance of philosophy and the nature of
.body, in supposing real qualities, besides magni­
tude, figure, site, and motion, as simple and pri­
mitive things, to belong to it; and that there was
nuch a quality or faculty of understanding in the
matter of the whole universe, co-eternal with tfje
same, ithat was an original thing uncompounded
and underived from any thing else. Now, to sttp-
pose such original qualities and powers, which
lace really distinct from the substance of extended
matter and its modifications, of divisibility, figure,
.site, and motion, is really to suppose so many dis­
tinct substances, whic)i, therefore, must n&$d8<b*
o 2
2 0 0 ATHEISTS CONTEND THAT THE
incorporeal. So that these philosophers fall una­
wares into that very thing, which they are so ab­
horrent from. For this quality or faculty of un­
derstanding, in the matter of the universe, origi­
nal and underived from any other thing, can be
indeed nothing else but an incorporeal substance.
Epicurus suggested .a caution against this vulgar
mistake, concerning qualities, to this purpose:—
“ Non sic cogitandae sunt qualitates, quasi sint
quaedatn per se existentes naturae seu substantiae,
siquidem id mente assequi non licet; sed solum-
modo ut varii modi sese habendi cOrporis consi-
derandae sunt.”
Body, as such, hath nothing else belonging to
the nature of it, but what is included in the idea
of extended substance, divisibility, figure, site,
motion, or rest, and the results from the various
compositions of them, causing different fancies.
Wherefore, as vulgar philosophers make their
first matter (which they cannot well tell what
they mean by it), because it receives all qualities,
to be itself devoid of all quality; so we conclude,
that atoms (which are really the first principles
of all things) have none of those qualities in them,
which belong to. compounded bodies; they are
not absolutely of themselves black or white, hot
' nr cold, moist or dry, bitter or sweet, all these
things arising up afterwards from the various ag­
gregations and contextures of them, together with
different motions. Which Lucretius confirms by
this reason, agreeable to the tenour of the Atom­
ical philosophy, that if there were any such
real qualities in the first principles, then, in the
'"various corruptions of .nature, things would at
"last be reduced to nothing : . . . . •
FIRST PRINCIPLE IS ATOMS.. 201
*Immutabiieenim quiddam aoperare neccsie est,
Ne res ad nihiluin redigantur funditus omoes;
Provideoodore cavecontingassemina rerum,
Ne tibi res redeant ad nilum flinditns omnes.
Wherefore, he concludes, that it must not be
thought, that white things are made out of white
principles, nor black things out of black princi­
ples:
—;——Ne ex albi* alba reads
Principiis esse,-----------
Aut ea quae nigrant, nigro de semine nata:
Neve alium quemvis, quae sunt induta, colorem,
Propterea gerere hunc credas, quod material
Corpora consimili sint ejus tincta colore;
Nullus enim color est omnino material
Corporibus, neque par rebus, neque denique dispar.
Adding, that the same is to be resolved likewise
concerning all other sensible qualities as well as
colours:
cSed ne forte putes solo spoliata coFore
Corpora prima manere; etiam secreta teporis
Sunt, ac frigoris omnino, calidique vaporis:
£ t sonitu sterila, et succo jejuna feruntur,
Nec jaciunt ullum proprio de corpore odorem.
Lastly, he tells us, in like mauuer, that the same
is to be understood also concerning life, sense, and
understanding;, that there are no such simple
qualities or natures in the first principles, put of
which animals are compounded, but that these
are in themselves altogether devoid of life, sense,
and understanding:
*Lucret. lib. ii. ver. 750,751. 754, 755.
bId. lib. ii. ver. 730, &c.
c Id. lib. ii. vei. 841, &c. •
A+kfelfeVs toN TEN D THAT ¥ S e
* . . V
• Nttnicea, qA« keb'tfre Vibetpaj* casque, nedeWe *st
Ex lnyetisifibtos tameb omtiia bbfitftfafe
Prindpiis constare: freqiib i&m'abifestkrefatknt,
' Sed magis ipsa'uianu &ucuht, et citetfere cogiint,
Ex insensilibus, quod dico, animalia gigni.
Qjbippevictere licet, viyos exifftere vermes
Stercore de tetro, putrorem cpui sibi nacta ’at.
Infempestmsex imbribus bubiida tellus.
All sensitive and rational animals are madfe’W
irrational and senseless principles, which is proved
by.experience, in that we see worms are made
out of putrefied dung, moistened with immoderate
showers.—
Some, indeed, who are no greater friends to a
Deity than ourselves, will needs have that sense
and nhderstandifig, thalt is in animals and men,
to be derived from an antecedent life and under­
standing in the matter. But this cannot be,' be-
. cause if matter as such had life and understand­
ing in it, then every atom of matter must needs
be a distinct percipient animal and intelligent
person by itself; and it would be impossible for
any suchitnen andanimals as noiv ate to be com­
pounded out of them, because every man would
be variorum animalculorum acervus, a heap of in­
numerable animals and percipients.
Wherefore, as all the other qualities of bodies,
so likewise life, sense, and understanding arise
from the different contextures of atoms'devoid of
all those qualities, or from the composition of
those simple elements ofmagnitudes, figures, sites,
and motions, in the same manner as from a few
letters variously compounded.all that infinite va­
riety of syllables and words is made:
Id. lib.1i. V6IV&84/&C.
VlBST PRINCIPLE u AfQMS. 20#
* Quin etum refcrt uoatri# in versibut ipftis
Cam quibuf et quali ppsitura contiaraotur;
Namque eaderaooeluin, mare, terns, flumina,solem
Sigmitamt, eadem, finiges, achusta, animantes;
Sic ipsis ip rebus item jam material
Interralla, viae, connexus, pondera, plage,
Concursus, motus, ordo, positura, figure,
Cum permutautipr, mutari res quoque debeat.
From the fortuitous concretions of senseless un­
knowing atoms did rise up afterwards, in certain
parts of the world called animals, soul, and mind,
sense and understanding, counsel and wisdom.
But to think, that there was any animalish nature
before all these animals, or that there was an ante­
cedent mind and understanding, counsel and wis­
dom, by which all animals themselves, together
with the whole world, were made and contrived,
is either to run round in a senseless circle, making
animals and animality to be before one another
infinitely; or else to suppose an impossible be-
,ginning ofan original understanding quality in the
m atter Atoms in their .first coalitions together,
when the world was making, were not then di­
rected by any previous counsel or preventive un­
derstanding, which were things as yet unborn and
unmade,
b. Nam certe neque consilio primordia reram
Ordiue se quaeque ftque sagaci mente locarant,
Nec quo# quaeque d^rept motus, pepigere profeeto.
Mind and understanding, counsel and wisdom', did
not lay the foundations of the universe; they are
no archical things, that is, they have not the na­
ture of a principle in them; they are not simple,
original,.primitive, and primordial, but as all other
» Id. fib. ii. ver. 1013. b Id. lib. i. ver. 1000.
2 0 4 THE ATHEISTS OPPOSE
qualities of bodies, secondary, compounded, and
derivative, and therefore they could not be archi-
tectonicaj of the world. Mind and understand­
ing is no God, but the creature of matter and
motion.
The sense of this whole argument is briefly this.
The first principle of all things in the whole uni­
verse is matter, or atoms devoid of all qualities,
and consequently of all life, sense, and understand­
ing ; and therefore the'original of things is no un­
derstanding nature, or Deity.
xi. Seventhly, the Democritic Atheists argue
further after this manner : they who assert a
Deity, ' suppose ifi\pvyrov swat to
v K
oafxov, the whole
world to be animated,—that is, to have a living,
rational, and understanding nature presiding over
it. Now it is already evident from some of the
premised arguments, that the world cannot be
animated, in the sense of Platonists, that is, with
an incorporeal soul, Which is in order of nature
before body, it being proved already, that there
can be no substance incorporeal; as likewise that
it cannot be animated neither in the Stoical sense,
so as to have an original quality of understanding
or mind in the matter; but yet nevertheless some
may possibly imagine, that as in ourselves and
other animals, though compounded of senseless
atoms, there is a soul and mind, resulting from the.
contexture of them, which being once made, do­
mineers over the body, governing and ordering it
at pleasure; so there may be likewise such a liv­
ing soul and inind, not only in the stars, which
many have supposed to be lesser deities,, and in
the Sim, which has been reputed a principal deity;
but also in the whole mundane system, made up
THE w o r l d ’s ANIMATION. 205
ofearth, seas, air, ether, sun, moon, and stars alto­
gether; one[geueral soul and mind, which, though
resulting at first from the fortuitous motion of
matter, yet being once produced, may rule, govern,
aud sway the whole, understandingly, and in a
more perfect manner than our souls do our bo­
dies ; and so long as it continues, exercise a prin­
cipality and dominion over it. Which, although
it will not amount to the full notion of a God, ac­
cording to the strict sense of Theists, yet it will
approach very near unto it, and endanger the
bringing in of all the same inconveniences along
with it. Wherefore they will now prove, that
there is no such soul or mind as this (resulting
from the contexture of atoms), that presides over
the corporeal universe, that so there may not be
so much as the shadow of a Deity left.
It was observed before, that life, sense, reason,
and understanding, are but qualities of concreted
bodies, like those other qualities of heat and cold,
&c. arising from certain particular textures of
atoms. Now as those first principles of bodies,
namely, single atoms, have none of those qualities
in them, so neither hath the whole universe any
(that it can be denominated from) but only the
parts ofit. The whole world is neither black, nor
white, hot nor cold, pellucid nor opake, it contain­
ing all those qualities in its several parts. In like
manner, the whole has no life, sense, nor under­
standing in it, but only the parts of it, which are
called animals. That is, life and sense are quali­
ties, that arise only from such a texture of atoms
as produceth soft flesh, blood, and brains, in bo­
dies Organized, with head, heart, bowels, nerves,
muscles, veins, arteries, and the like:
906 THE ATHEIST* CONTEND
-------—SensusjungituromiHS
Visceribus, nervis, venis, quaecunque videmus,
> Mollia mortsdi consistere corpore creta;
And reasonand understanding, properly so called,
are peculiar appendices to human shape ;b“ Ratio
-nusquam esse potest nisi in bominis figure.” From
-whence it is concluded, that there is no Ike, soul,
nor understanding acting the whole world, be-
•oause the world hathwo blood nor brains, norany
anvmalish or human form.c “ Qui mundum ipsam
aoimantem sapientemque esse dixerunt, anile
xnodo viderunt animi naturam, in quani figuram
cadere posset.” Therefore the Epicurean poet
.concludes upon this ground, that there is no Di­
vine sense in the whole world:
d Dispositum videtur ubi esseet crescere pessit
Seorsim anima atque animus; tanto magis inficiapdum,
Totum posse extra corpus formamque animalem, .
Putribus in glebis terrarum, aut sobs in igni,
Aut in aqua durare, autaltis aetheris oris.
Haud igitur constant divino praedita sensu,
Quandoquidem nequeunt vitaliter esse animata.
Wow ifthere'be no life nor understanding above
us, nor round about us,-not any where else m the
world, but only in ourselves and fellow-animals,
and webe the highest of all beings ; if neither tbe
whole corporeal system be animated, nor those
greater parts ofit, sun, moon, nor stars, then there
-can be no danger of any Deity.
xn. Eighthly, the Democritic Atheists dispute
-further against a Deity in this manner; the Deity
• Id. Kb. ii. ver. 903, &c.
bVelleius apud Ciceron. de Nat. Deor. lib. i. cap. xviii* p. 2907.
e?Id. ibid. lib. i. cap. x. p. 2893. tom. ix. oper.
4 Lucret. lib. ▼
. ver. 143, &c.
'MA'r snOTttlNO is i« mo*tal\ 207
ifegenerally Supposed to be &3vftaKa/Uov M
il&^&apro»,
a perfectly happy animal, incorruptible and im­
mortal. Now there is no living being incorrupti­
ble and immortal, and therefore none perfectly
happy neither. • for, according to that Demo-
critic hypothesis, of atoms in vacuity, the only
incorruptible things will be these three: first of aU
vacuum or empty space, which must needs be
such, because it cannot suffer from any thing,
since it is p la g a ru m expers,
• Et manet intactum, nee abictu Fungiturhilum.
• •
Secondly, the single atoms, because by reason of
their parvitude -add solidity they are indivisible:
and lastly, the sum m a totrnm tirttm of all things, that
is, the comprehension of all atoms dispersed>evfery
Where throughout infinite space.
b -----;
--------Quia nulla loci stat copia certum
Quo quasi res possint discedere dissoluique.
Bdt according to that other hypothesis of some
tnodern Atomists (Which also was entertained of
Oldby Empedocles) that supposes a plenity, there
ishothing at all incorruptible, but thesubstanceof
matter itself. AU systems and compages'of it,
'all «hryKplftara 'and dBpoio/iara, all concretions and
coagmentations of matter divided by motion, to­
gether with the qualities resulting from them, are
corruptible and destroyable: cqueo est coagm enta-
tio rerum non d isio h tb ilis ? Death destroys not the
substance of any matter; for as no matter came
'from nothing, but was self eternal, sO none of it
* Id. lib. v. vers. 358. Addas etiam lib. iii. vers. 814.
b Id. lib. iii. vers. 815.
* Cicero de Nat. Deor. lib. i. cap. viii. p. 2891. tom. ix. oper.
2 0 8 THE a t h e is t s ’ o b je c t io n to a
can ever vanish into nothing; but it dissolves all
the aggregations of.it.
* Non sic interimit mors res, lit material
Corpora conficiat, sedcoetnmdissupat ollis.
Life is no substantial thing, nor any primitive
or simple nature; it is only an accident or qua­
lity arising from the aggregation and contexture
of atoms or corpuscula, which when the compages
of them is disunited and dissolved, though all the
substance still remain scattered and dispersed,
yet the life utterly perishes and vanisheth into no­
thing. No life is immortal; there is no immortal
soul, nor immortal animal, or Deity. Though
this whole mundane system were itself an animal,
yet being but an aggregation of matter, it would
be both corruptible and mortal. Wherefore, since
no living being can possibly have any security of
its future permanency, there is none that can be
perfectly happy. And it was rightly determined
by oUr fellow-atheists, the Hedonics and Cyre-
naics,b mSai/tovla avvvaprov, perfect happiness is a
mere notion,—a romantic fiction, a thing which
can have no existence any where. This is re­
corded to have been one of Democritus’s chief ar­
guments against a Deity, because there can be no
living being immortal, and consequently none per­
fectly happy. c“ Cum Democritus, quia.nihil
semper suo statu maneat, neget esse quicq.uam
sempiternum, nonne Deum ita tollit omnino, ut
nullam opinionem ejus reliquam faciat?”
x i i i . A ninth pretended demonstration of the
* Lucret. lib. ii. vers. 1001.
b Diog. Laert. lib. ii. segm. 94. p. 135.
c Cicero de Nat. Deor. lib. i. cap, xii- p. 2897.
FIRST CAUSE OR MOVER. 209
Democratic Atheists is as followeth. By God' is
understood a first cause or mover, which being
not before acted upon by any thing else, but act-
ibg originally from itself, was the beginning of all
things. Now it is an indubitable axiom, and ge­
nerally received among philosophers, that nothing
can move itself, but quicquid movetur, ah alio mo­
vetur, whatsoever is moved, is moved by some­
thing else;—nothing can act otherwise than it is
made to act by something without it, acting upon
it. The necessary consequence whereof is this,
that there can be no such thing as any first mover,
or first cause, that is, no God. This argumentis
thuS'Urged by a modern writer,aagreeably to the
*sense of the ancient Democritics; “ Ex eo quod
nihil potest movere seipsum, non inferretur, id
quod inferri solet, nempe Eternum Immobile, sed
contra JEternum Motum, siquidem ut verum est,
nihil moveriaseipso, itaetiam verum est nibil moveri
nisi .a moto.” From hence, that nothing can move
itself, it cannot be rightly inferred, as commonly
it is, that there is an eternal immoveable mover
(that is, a God), but only an eternal moved mover;
.or that one thing was moved by another from eter­
nity, without any first mover. Because as it is
true, that nothing can be moved from itself; so it
is'likewise true, that nothing can be moved but
from that which was itself also moved, by .some­
thing else before:—and so the progress upwards
must needs be infinite, without any beginning or
first mover. The plain drift and scope of this ra­
tiocination is no other than this, to shew that the
argument commonly taken from motion, to prove
* Hobbes’s Element. Philosoph. part iv. sive Physic, cap. xxvi.
sec.i. p. 204.
S IP THE ATHEISTS’ FURTHER OBJECTION
BGod (that is, a first mover or caqse), is not only
ineffectual and inconclusive; but also that, oq the
contrary, it may be demonstrated from that very
topic of motion, that there cap be no absolutely
first mover, no first in the order of causes* that
is, no God.
xiv. Tenthly, because the Theists conceive that
though no body can move itself, yet a perfect co­
gitative and thinking being might be the beginning
ofall, and the first cause of motion; the Atheists
will endeavour to evince the contrary, in this man­
ner. No man can conceive how any cogitation,
which was not before, should rise up at any time,
but that there was some cause for it, withoyt the
thinker. For else there can be no reason given,-
why this thought rather than that, and at this time
rather than another, should start up. Wherefore
this is universally true of all motion and action
whatsoever, as it was rightly urged by the Stoics,
that there can beno kwvhq«v«moe, no motion with­
o u t’a cause, i. e. no motion, which lias not some
cause without the subject of it-, or, as the same
thing is expressed by a modern writer, “ Nothing
taketh beginningfrom itself, but from the action of
some other immediate agent without it.” Where­
fore, no thinking being could be a first cause, any
more than an automaton or machine coiuld. To
this purpose, it is further argued, that these,two
notions, the.one of a knowing understanding.be­
ing, the other of a .perfectly happy being, are con­
tradictions, because all knowledge essentially im­
plies depeodancfi upon something else, as its
cause; “ scientia et intellectus signum eat poten-
tiae ab alio dependentis, id quod non est beatissi-
muro.” They conclude, that cogitatiop, and all
TO A FIRST CAUSE OR MOVER. 211
action whatsoever, is really nothing else but local
ffiotion, which is essentially, heterokinesy, that
which can never rise of itself, bnt is caused by
some other agent without its subject.
xv. In the eleventh place, the Democritic Athe­
ists reason thus: if the world were made by any
antecedent mind or understanding, that is, by a
Deity; then there must needs be an idea, platform,
and exemplar of the whole world before it was
made; and consequently actual knowledge, both
in order of time and nature, before things. But
all knowledge is the information of the things
themselves known; all conception of the mind is
a passion from the things conceived, and their ac­
tivity upon i t ; and is therefore junior to them.
Wherefore, the world and things were beforeknow­
ledge and the conception of any mind, and no
/ knowledge, mind, or Deity before the world as its
cause. This argument is thus proposed by the
Atheistic poet:
* Exemplum porro gignundis rebus et ipsa
Notifies hominum Di vis unde insita primum,
Quid valient facere, ut stirent, animoque viderent?
Quove mode est unquam vis cognita principiorum,
Quidnam inter sese permutato ordine possent,
Si nonipsa dedit specimen natura ereandi?
How could the supposed Deity have a pattern or
platform in his mind, to frame the world by, and
whence should he receive it? How could he have
any knowledge of men before they were made, as
also what himself should will to do, when there
was nothing ? How could he understand the force
and possibility of the principles, what they would
* Lucret. lib. v. ver. 182.
212 ' THE ATHEISTS CONTEND
produce when variously combined together, be­
fore nature and things themselves, by-creating,
had given a specimen ?— ■
xvi. A twelfth argumentation of the Democri-
tic and Epicurean Atheists against a Deity is to
this purpose: that-things could not be made by a
Deity, that is supposed to be a being every way
perfect, because they are so faulty and so ill made :
theargumentis thus propounded by Lucretius:8
Quod si jam reram igniorem primordia quae sint,
Hoc tamen ex ipsis coeli rationibus ausim •
Confirmare, aliisque ex rebus reddere multis,
Nequaquam nobis divinitus esse paratam
Naturam reram, tanta stat praeditaculpa.
This argument, a coeli rationibus, from astro­
nomy, or the constitution of the heavens, is this:
bthat the mundane sphere is so framed, in respect
of the disposition of the equator and ecliptic, as
renders the greatest part of the earth uninhabita­
ble to men and most other animals; partly by that
excess of heat in the torrid zone (containing all be­
tween the tropics), and partly from the extremity
of cold in both the frigid zones, towards either
pole. Again, whereas the Stoical Theists con­
temporary .with Epicurus concluded, that the
whole world was made by a Deity, only for the
sake of men,
• ---------------------Horum omnia causa
Constituisse Deum fingunt-------------
it is urged on the contrary, that a great part of the
habitable earth is taken up by seas, lakes, and
* Lib. ii. ver. 177. et lib. v. ver. 196.
bVid. Lucret lib. v. ver. 205, 206. et Cicer. in Somnio Scipionis
cap. vi. p- 3081. tom. xi. oper.
c Lucret lib. ii. ver. 174,175.
THAT THE ^O ftLD IS ILL MADE. 21®
rbcks, barren heaths and sands, aind thereby made
useless for mankind; and that the' remainder of it
yields no fruit to them, unless expunged by ob­
stinate labour; aftet all which, men are often dis­
appointed of the fruits of those labours hy unsea­
sonable weather, storms, and tempests. Again,
that nature has not only produced many noxious
and poisonous herbs, but also destructive and de­
vouring animals, whose strength surpasseth that
of men’s ; and that the condition of mankind is so
much inferior to that of brutes, that nature seems
to have been but a step-mother to the former,
whilst she hath .been an indulgent mother to.the
latter. And to this purpose, the manner of men’s
coming into the world is thus aggravated by th£
poet:
* Turn porropuer, ut saevis projectus ab nodis .
Navita, nudus humi jacct, infans, indigns omni
Vitai auxilio, cum primum in luminis oras
Nixibus ex alvo matris natura profudit:
Vagituque locumlugubri complet, ut aequum’st,
Quoi tantum in vita restet transire malorum.
But on the contrary, the comparative advantages
of brutes and their privileges, which they, have
above men, are described after this manner:
At variae crescunt pecudes, armenta, feraeque:
Nec crepitactila eis opu* sunt nec quoiquam adhibenda 'st
Almae nutricis blanda atque infracta loquela;
Nec varias quaerunt vestes pro tempore coeli.
Denique non armis opus est, non moenibus altis,
Queis sua tutentur, quando omnibus omnia large
Tellus ipsa parit, naturaque Daedala rerum.
And lastly, the topic of evils in general, is in­
sisted upon by them, not those which are called
* Id. lib. v. ver* 223. b Id, ibid.
VOL, I. P
2 1 4 THE ATHEISTS’ OBJECTION
evils of fault (for that is a thing which the
Democritic Atheists utterly explode in the genu­
ine senseof it), but the evils of paih and trouble;
which they dispute concerning, after this man­
ner. “The supposed Deity and maker of the
•world was either willing to abolish all evils, but
notable; or he was able, but not willing; or
-thirdly, he was neither willing nor able; or else
lastly, he was both able and willing. This latter
is the only thing that answers fully to the notion
of a God. Now that the supposed creator of all
things was not thus both able and willing to abo­
lish all evils, is plain, because then there would
hate been no evils at all left. Wherefore, since
there is such a deluge of evils overflowing all, it
must needs be, that either he was. willing and not
able to remove them, and then he was impotent;
or else he was able and not willing, and then he
was envious; or lastly, he was neither able nor
willing, and then he wgs both impotent and en­
vious.
xvn. In the twelfth place, the Atheists further
dispute in this manner. Ifthe world were made
by any Deity, then it would be governed by a
providence; and if there were any providence, it
must appear in human affairs. But here it is
plain, that all is Tohu and Bohu, chaos and con­
fusion ; things happening alike to all, to the wise
and foolish, religious and impious, virtuous and
vicious. (For these names the Atheist cannot
choose but make use of, though, by taking-away
natural morality, they really destroy the things.)
From whence it is concluded, that all things float
up and down, as they are agitated and driven by
* Vide Lactat de Ira D6i, cap. xiii. p. 942. edit. Walchii.
TO A PROVIDENCE. 215
thetumblingbillowsofcarelessfortuneand chance.
The impieties of Dionysius,*bis scoffing abuses of
religion, and whatsoever was then sacred, or wor­
shipped under the potion of a God, were most no­
torious ; and yet it is observed, that be fared never.
a jot the worse for it. “ Hunc nec Olympius Ju­
piter fulmine percussit, nec JSsculapius misero
diutumoque morbo tabescentem interemit; verum
in suo lectulo mortuus, in Tympanidis rogum il-
latus est, eamque potestatem, quam ipse per sce-
lus nactus erat, quasi justam et legitimam, haere-
ditatis loco trad id itN eith er did Jupiter Olym­
pius strike him with a thunderbolt, nor JEscu-
lapius inflict any languishing disease upon him;
but he died in his bed, and was honourably in­
terred, and that power, which he had wickedly ac­
quired, he transmitted, as a just and lawful inhe­
ritance, to his posterity.—And Diogenes the Cy­
nic, though much a Theist, could not but acknow­
ledge, that Harpalus, a famous robber or pirate
in those times, who, committing many villanous
actions, notwithstanding lived prosperously, did
thereby “ Testimonium dicere contra deos,” bear
testimony against the gods.b
—Though it has been
objected by the Theists, and thought to be a
strong argument for providence, that there were
so many tables hung up in temples, the monu­
ments of such as, having prayed to the gods in
storms and tempests, had escaped shipwreck;
yet, as Diagoras observed, “ Nusquam picti sunt,
qui naufragium fecerunt,” there are no tables ex­
tant of those of them who were shipwrecked.*—
Wherefore, it was not considered by these Theists,
* Cicer. de Nat Deor. lib. iii. cap. xxxv. p. 3101.
* Id. ib.cap. xxxiv.p.3009* c Ibid.cap. p. 3104.-
P 2
210 THE ATHEISTS’ OBJECTION
how many ofthem that prayed as well to the gods,
did notwithstanding suffer’shipwreck; as also how
many of those, which never made any devotional
addresses at all to any Deity, escaped equal dan-;
gers of Storms and tempests. ,
Moreover, it is consentaneous to the opinion of
a God, tothink, thatthunder, rattling in the clouds
with thunderbolts, should be the immediate sig­
nifications of his wrath and displeasure: whereas
it is plain that these are flung at random, and that
the fury of them often lights upon the innocent.
Whilst the notoriously guilty escape untouched;
and therefore we understand not, how this can be
answered by ahy Theists.
* CJur,qnibus incautum scelns arereabile cumqilc est,
# Non.faciunt, ifcti flammas at fulguris halent,
Pectore perfixo;documen mortalibus acre?
Et potiusnull®sibi turpis consciusreii,
Vplvitiirin flammisinnoxiiis, intpte peditur*
Turbinecoelesti subito correptus*et igni?
Nowthe fortfe of this argdraeht appears to be
very powerful, because it hath not only staggered
and confounded Theists in all ages, but also hath
effectually transformed many of them into Athe­
ists. For Diagoras Meliusbhimself Was once d
superstitious.religionist, insomuch that, being a
ditbyrambic poet, he began one of his poems
with these words, (cor'd Salfiova Kal tvyrtjv 7rdvra TeXtirat,
alt things are done by God and fortune.-—But,
being injured afterwards by a perjured person,
that suffered no evil nor disaster thereupon, he
therefore took up this contrary persuasion, that
there was no Deity. And there have been innu-
* Lucret. lib. vi. ver. 389, &c.
* VideSext. Empiric. lib. ix. adver. Mathemat. see. liii.p.561.-'
TQ A PROVIDENTIAL DEITY. 2 J 7
werable others, who have been so far wrought
upon by this consideration, as if not absolutely
to disclaim and, discard a Deity, yet utterly to
deny providence, and all care of human affairs by
any invisible powers. Amongst whom the poet
was one, who thus expressed his sense; ,
*Sedcom res hoininum taota caligine vojvi
Aspicerem, lsetosque diu florere nocentes,
Yexarique pios, rursus labefacta cadebat
Rclligio, causseque viamnon sponte scquebar
Alterius, vacuo quaecurrere semina mold
Afiirmat, magnumque novasper inane figuras,
Fortuna, non arte regi; qmae.numina sensu
Ambiguo vel nulla putat, vel nescia nostri.
xvm . A thirteenth argumentation of the De-
mocritic and Epicurean Atheists, is to this pur­
pose : that whereas the Deity is supposed to be
such a being, as both knows all that is done every
where in the m,ost distant places of the world at
once, and doth himself immediately order aH
things-; this is, first, impossible for any one being
thus to animadvert and order all things in the
whole universe:
• Quis regere immensi snmmam, quis habere profundi .
Indnmanu validas potis est moderanterhabenas?
QuiYparitej* coelos omneis ootfvertere ? etomneis
• Ignibus tetberiis terras suffire feraceis?
•Opinibaq inque locis esse ouini tempore presto i
Nubibus uttenebras faciat, coelique serena
Concutiat sonitu? &c. ,
And, secondly, if it were supposed to be possi­
ble, yet such infinite negotiosity would he abso­
lutely inconsistent with a happy state; nor could
»Claudian. in Rufinura, lib. Lver. 12,&c.
hLucret. lib. ii. ver. 1004; &c.
&18 SEVERAL b o l d q u e r ie s
such a Deity ever have any quiet enjoyment of
himself, being perpetually filled with tumult and
hurliburly: ovfifwvovcn irpayfiarnM k m </>povrl8tc
k m opyai teat gaping fiaKapionp-i, aA
A
* arjfkvt’
uj. k m
kat irpoc$E»j<m riHv t Xvmov return y'tverax' Distraction
of business and solicitous cares, displeasures and
favours, do not at all agree with happiness, but-
they proceed from imbecility, indigency, and fear:
— b
ToftMcapiov km atjiOaprov ours avro npdy/xara e^ti, ovre
aXXip Trqpeyrei, wore ovre, opymg ovre %apun trwey^erai, ev
dofkvtiqt yap irav ro rotovrov* That which is happy
and incorruptible, would neither have itself any
business to do, nor create any to others; it would
neither have displeasure nor favour towards any
other persons, to engage it in action; all this pro­
ceeding from indigency.—That is, favourand be­
nevolence, as well as anger and displeasure, arise
only from imbecility. That which is perfectly
happy, and wanteth nothing, oXovovirtpi rjv awa,-
y^nv riJe (&ac EvSaqubm
ac* being wholly possessed
.and taken up in the enjoyment of its own happi­
ness—would be regardless of the concernments of
any others; and mind nothing besides itself, either
to do -it good or harm. Wherefore, this euriosus
et plenus ncgotii devs,c this busy, restless, and'
pragmatical. Deity, that must needs intermeddle
and have to do with every thing in the whole
world, is a contradictious notion, since it cannot
but be the most unhappy of alt things.
xix. In the next :place, the Atheists dispute
further by propounding several bold queries,
*Epicur. in Epist. ad Hterodotumapud Diog. Laert. lib. i. scgm.
77. p. 634.
kVide Diog. Laert. lib. x. segm. 139. 661.
*Velleiusapud Cicer. de Natur. Deor. lib. i. cap. xx. p.2911.
. OF TUB ATHEISTS. 2 1 0
which they conceive unanswerable, after this
manner. If the world were made by a Deity,
why was it not made by him sooner? or, since it
was so long unmade, why did he make it at.
all? *
“ Cur mundi cedificator repente eatiterii*
innumerabiliaante saecula dormierit?* How came
this builder and architect of the world to start
up upon a sudden, after he had slept for infinite
ages—and bethink himself of making a world ?
For, certainly, if be had been awake all that
while, he would either have made it sooner, of
not at all; because, there was either something
wanting to his happiness before, or nothing: if
there had been any thing wanting before, then
the world could not Have been so long unmade;
but, if he were completely happy in himself with­
out it, then /iqSlv tXXttVwvxrtvaic ^utX
X
.cvimyrugfiv irpa-
&n, wanting nothing, he vainly went about to
make superfluous things.—All desire of change
and novelty argues a fastidious satiety, proceed'
ing from defect and indigency:
bQuidve navi potait tanto pes^ ante quietos
Inlicere, ut cuperent vitam mutare priorem?
Nam gaudere novis rebus debere videtur
Quoi veteres obsunt; sed quoi nil aceidtt segri
Tempore in anteacto, cum pulchre degeset sevum,
Quid potuit novitatis amorem acoenderetali?
Did this Deity, therefore, light up the stars, as so
many lamps or torches, in that vast abyss of infi­
nite darkness, that himself might thereby have
a more comfortable and cheerful habitation ? Why
would he then content himself from eternity, to
dwell in such a melancholic, horrid, and forlorn
dungeon?
*Id. ibid. lib. i. cap. ix. p.2$91. *Lucret lib.v. ver.
22<X SEVERAL BOLD- QUERIES
*Aq>crqdo,ia tenebris vita et moerorejacebat^
. Doneediluxit reramgenitalisorigo?
Was company and that variety of things, by
which heaven and earth are distinguished, desira­
ble to him? Why then would he continue solitary
so long, wanting the pleasure of such a specta­
cle? Did he make the world and men in it to
this end, that himself might be worshipped and
adored, feared and honoured by them? But what
Could he be the better for that, who,was suffi­
ciently happy alone in himself before? Or did he
do it for the sake of men, to gratify and oblige
them?
b — At quid immortalibus atque beatis
Gratia nostra queat largirier emolument],
Ut nostra quicquamcausa gerereaggrediantur?
: Again, if this were done for the sake of men,
then it must be either for wise men or for, fools:
if for wise men only, then all that pains was
taken but for a very few; but if for fools, what
reason could there be, why the Deity should seek
to deserve so well at their hands ? Besides this,
what hurt ivould it have been to any of us (whe­
ther wise or foolish) never to have been made ?
cQuidve mali fiierat nobis non esse creatis?
Natus enimdebet quicunque est, velle mancre
In vita, donee retinebit blanda voluptas:
Qui nlinquamvero vitaegustavit amorem,
Nec fuit in numero, quid obest non esse creatum?
Lastly *if this Deity must needs gOabout mo-
liminously to make a world, ipydrov Slkiprkal rkro- '
*Id. ibid. ver. 175,176. bId. ibid. ver. 166.
cId. ibid.ver. 177, &c.
t Vide Ciceroxkde'Nat Deor. lib. i. cap.viii. p. 2890.
OF THE ATHEISTS. 221
vo?, like an. artificer and carpenter,—what tools
and instruments could be have to work withal ?
what ministers and subservient opificers? what
engines and machines for the rearing up of so
huge a fabric ? How could he make the matter
to understand his meaning, and obey his beck ?
how could he move it, and turn it up and down?
for if incorporeal, he could neither touch nor be
touched, but would run through all things, with­
out fastening upon any thing; but if corporeal,
then the same thing was both materials and archi­
tect, both timber and carpenter, and the stones
must hew themselves, and bring themselves toge­
ther, with discretion, into a structure.
xx. In the. last place, the Atheists argue from
interest (which proves many times the most effec­
tual of all arguments) against a Deity; endea­
vouring to persuade, that it is, first, the interest of
private persons, and of all mankind in general;
and, secondly, the particular interest of civil sove­
reigns, and •commonwealths, that there should
neither be a God, nor the belief of any such thing
entertained by the minds of men; that is, no reli­
gion. First, they say,.therefore, that it is the in­
terest of mankind in general; because, so long as
men are persuaded, that there is an understand­
ing being infinitely powerful, having no law but
h.is own will (because he has no superior), that
may do whatever he pleases at any time to them,
they can never securely enjoy themselves or any
thing, nor be ever free from disquieting fear and
solicitude. What the poets fable of Tantalus in
hell, being always in fear of a huge stone hanging
over his head, and ready every moment to tumble
down upon him, is nothing to that true fear, which
222 ATHEISTS DISPUTE FROM INTEREST
men have of a Deity, and religion, here in this
life, which, indeed, was the very thing mytholo­
gized in it:
*Nec miser impendensmagnum timet acre su n n
Tantalus, (at fhma est) cassa foraudine tprpens:
Sedmagisin vita, dxvummetus urge! mania
Mortales, casumquetiment, quemcuxnque fevat fom
*
For, besides men’s insecurity from all manner of
present evils, upon the supposition of a God, the
immortality of souls can hardly be kept out, bat
it will crowd in after it; and then the fear of eter­
nal punishments after death will unavoidably fol­
low thereupon, perpetually embittering all the
solaces of life, and.neversuffering men to have the
least sincere enjoyment.
b------- Si certum fnem esse viderent
jErumnarum homines, aliqao ratione valerent
Reiigionibus, atque minisobsistere Tatum.
Kune ratio nulla estrestandi, nullafacultas:
jEternas quoniam poenas in morte timendum.
Ignoratur enim, quaesit natura animai,
Nata sit, an contranascentibns insinnetur;
Et simul intereat nobiscummorte dirempta,
Antenebras Orci visat yastasque lacunas.
Wherefore it is plain, that they who first intro­
duced the belief of a Deity and religion, whatever
they might aim at in it, deserved very ill of all
mankind, because they did thereby infinitely de­
base and depress men’s spirits under a servile fear:
»
cEfliciunt animos bundles, formidine divum,
Depressosque premunt ad terram:
As also cause the greatest griefs and calamities,
that now disturb human life,
*Lucrct. lib.iii. ver.998. bId. lib. i. ver. 108, &c.
cId. lib. vi. ver. 51.
AGAINST A DEITY. 223
1Quanto*turngemitus ipsi tfbi, quantoque nobis
Volnera, quas lachrymas peperere minoribu’nostris?
There can be no comfortable and happy living,
without banishing from our mind the belief of
these two things, of a Deity, and the soul’s im­
mortality ;
i
bEt metus ille foras prasceps Acheruntis agendus .
Funditus, humanam qui vitam turbat ab itno,
Omnia suffundens mortisnigrore, nequfe ullam
Esse volnptatemliquidampuramque relinquit
It was, therefore, a noble and heroical exploit
of Democritus and Epicurus, those two good-
natured men, who, seeing the world thus oppress­
ed under the grievous yoke of religion, the fear
of a Deity, and punishment after death, and
taking pity of this sad condition of mankind, did
manfully encounter that affrightful spectre, or
empusa, of a providential Deity; and, by clear
philosophic reasons, chase it away, and banish it
quite out of the world ; laying down such princi­
ples, as would solve all the phenomena of nature
without a God:
cQuas bene cognita si tene&s, natura videtur
Libera continuo, dominis privata superbis,
Ipsa sua per se sponte omnia dis agere expers.
So that Lucretius does not, withoutjust cause,
erect a triumphal arch or monument to Epicurus,
fpr this conquest or victory of his obtained over
the Deity aud religion, in this manner:
4 Humana ante oculos foede quurn vitajaceret
In terris, oppressa gravi sub relligionc,
Quae caput a coeliregionibus ostendebat,
Horribili super aspectu mortalibus instans;
*Id. lib. v. ver. 1195. bId. lib. iii. ver. 37.
Id. lib*ii.-vcr. 1089. 4 Id. lib. i. ver.63>
224 . ATHEISTS PRETEND THAT THEISM IS
Primum Graius homo mortales tendere contra
Est octilos ansus, primusque obsistere contra
Quem nec fama dcum nec fnlmina, nec minitanti
Murmure compreasit coelum> &cu
xxi. That it is also the interest of civil sove­
reigns and of all commonwealths, that there
•should neither be Deity nor religion, the Demo-
critic Atheists wonld persuade in this manner:
A body politic or commonwealth is made up of
parts, that are all naturally, dissociated from one
another, by reason of that principle of private
self-love, who therefore can be no otherwise held
together than by fear. Now, if there be any
greater fear than the fear of the leviathan, and
civil representative, the whole structure and ma­
chine of this great coloss must needs fall a-pieces
and tumble down. The civil sovereign reigns
only in fear; wherefore, unless his fear he the
king and sovereign of all fears, his empire and
dominion ceases. But, as the rod of Moses de­
voured the rods of the magicians, so certainly
will the fear of an omnipotent Deity, that can
punish with eternal torments after death, quite
swallow up and devour that comparatively petty
fear of civil sovereigns, and consequently destroy
the being of commonwealths, which have no foun­
dation in nature, but are mere artificial things,
made by the enchantment and magical art of
policy. Wherefore, it is well observed by a mo­
dern writer, That men ought not to suffer them­
selves to be abused by the doctrine of separated
essences and incorporeal substances (such as
God and the soul), built upon the vain philosophy
of Aristotle, that would fright men from obeying
the laws of their country, with empty names (as
INCONSISTENT WITH CIVIL POWER. 225
k>f hell, damnation, fire, and brimstone), as men
fright birds from the corn with an empty hat, dou­
blet, and a crooked stick. And again: if the fear
of spirits (the chief of which is the Deity) were
taken away, men would be much mote fitted than
they are for civil obedience.
Moreover, tbe power of civil sovereigns is per-
fectlyindivisible; it is eitherall or nothing; it must
be absolute and infinite, or else it is none at all.
Now it cannot be so, if there be any other power
equal to it, to share with it, much less if there be
any superior (as that of the Deity) to check it and
control it. Wherefore, the Deity must of neces­
sity be removed and displaced, to make room for
the Leviathan to spread itself in.
Lastly, it is perfectly inconsistent with the na­
ture of a body politic, that there should be any
private judgment ofgood or evil, lawfhl or unlaw­
ful, just or unjust allowed. But conscience (which
Theism and religion introduces) is private judg­
ment concerning good and evil; and therefore the
allowance of it, is contradictious to civil sovereign­
ty and a commonwealth. There ought to be no
other conscience (in a kingdom or commonwealth)
besides the law of the country; the allowance of
private conscience being, ipsofacto, a dissolution
of the body politic, and a return to the state of na­
ture. Upon all these accounts it must needs be
acknowledged, that those philosophers, who un­
dermine and weaken Theism and religion, do
highly deserve of all civil sovereigns and com­
monwealths.
x x i i . Now from all thepremised considerations,
the Democritics confidently conclude against a
Deity; that the system and compages of the uni-
220 THE a t h e is t s ’ c o n c l u s io n , t h a t
yerse had not its original from any understanding
nature; but that mind and understanding itself,
as well as all things else in the world, sprupg up
from senseless nature and chance, or from the un­
guided and undirected motion of matter. Which
is therefore called by the name of nature, because
whatsoever moves is moved by nature and neces­
sity ; and the mutual occursions and rencounters
of atoms, their plaga, their strokes and dashings
against one another, their reflections and repercus­
sions, their cohesions, implexions, and entangle-
ments, as also their scattered dispersions and
divulsions, are all natural and necessary; but it
is called also by the name of chance and fortune,
because it is all unguided by any mind, counsel,
or design.
Wherefore, infiuite atoms of different sizes and
figures, devoid of all life and sense, moving fortu­
itously from eternity in infinite space, and making
successively several encounters, and consequently
various implexions and entanglements with one
another, produced first a confused chaos of these
omnifarious particles, jumbling together with infi­
nite variety of motions, which afterward, by the
tugging of their different and contrary forces,
whereby they all hindered and abated each other,
came, as it were, byjoint conspiracy, to be conglo­
merated into a vortex or vortexes; where, after
many convolusions and evolutions, molitions and
essays (in which all manner of tricks were tried,
and all forms imaginable experimented), they
chanced, in length of time, here to settle, info this
form and system of things, which now is, of earth,
water, air, and fire; sun, moon, and stars; plants,
animals, and m enso that senseless atoms, fortuit-
ALL SPRUNG FROM NATURE AND CHANCE. 227
ously moved, and material chaos, were the first
original of ail things.
This account of the cosmopoeia, and first origi­
nal of the mundane system, is represented by Lu­
cretius* according to the mind ofEpicurus, though
without any mention of those vortices, which were
yet an essential part of the old Democritic hypo­
thesis.
Sedqnibus ille modisconjectus material
Fundarittxelum, ae terrain, pontique profunda,
Solis, iunai cursoa,ex ordine ponam*
Nam eerie neque consilio primordia remm
Ordine so quaeque atqne sagaci mente locarant:
Nec, qnosquasque darent motes, pepigere profecto*
Sed qaia mnlta madia mnltia primordia reram,
Ex infinite jam tempore percita plagis,
Ponderibusquesuis eonsuerunt concita ferri,
Omni-modisque coire, atqne omnia pertent^re,
Quaecnnqae interae possent congressa creare:
.Propterea fit, uti magnum volgata per aevum,
Omnigenoa eoetns, et motus experiundo,
Tandem ea eonveniant, quae ut convenere, repente
Magnarum rerum fiant exordia saepe,
Terrai, mans, et ceeli,generisque animantam.
But because some seem to think that Epicurus
was the first founder and inventor of this doctrine,
we shall here observe, that this same Atheistic
hypothesis was long before described by Plato,
when Epicurus was as yet unborn; and therefore
doubtless according to the doctrine of Leucippus,
Democritus, and Protagoras; though that philo­
sopher, in a kind of disdain (as it seems) refused
to mention either of their names: Snip mu SB
w
pkm
ytjv Ktu aipa, fvotl tmvra tivai Kal tv^ij Qaot’ r(gvy Si
ovStv rovrwv. km ra jitra ravra av <nZpara, yvi re km
ijXtov km atXqvrig, aarpwv re nipt, Sta tovtiov yeyovIvat,
• Lib. v. ver. 417, &c. * Plato, do Legibas, lib. x. p. 666. open
22§ THE a t h e is t s ’ c o n c l u sio n , &c,
wavrtXwc ovtwv aipuyrwv. Tvyrrj $e (pipofiiva Tt/ rrj<; Si>vtf*
ynwg tKaara e/caorwv, rj ^v/unriirrijOKEVy apfiorrovra ouceuoq
7T(*>c, & C . ravTYj Kal Kara ravra ovno ytytvvriicivai rov re
mJpavov oXov Kal 7ravra 07fo<ra icar ovpovov* 'icai &
*>a aw
Ka1 <j>vrd %vfiiravra9 wp<ov iracrwv tfc rowrwv yevo/itvuv* ow
&ci vow (<f>atnv) ovSe 81a rtva 0 £oi>, ovSc Sta riyrvjjv, aXXa;
o Xeyo/isv, ipvati kcu rvyry, rtywiv Se wrrepov sk tovtwv
vorspav yevofitvjfv, &c. The Atheists say, that fine, ■
water, air, and earth (i. e. the four elements) were
all made by nature and chance; and none of them
by art or mind (that is, they were made by the for­
tuitous motion of atoms, and not by any Deity),
and that those- other bodies, of the terrestrial
globe, of the sun, the moon, and the stars (which
by all, except these Atheists, were, in those times,
generally supposed to be animated, and a kind of
inferior Deities), were afterwards made out of the
aforesaid elements, being altogether inanimate.
For they being moved fortuitously, or as it hap­
pened, and so making various commixtures toger
ther, did, by that means, at length produce the
whole heavens and. all things in them, as likewise
plants and animals here upon earth; all which
were not made by mind, nor by art, nor by any
God; but, as wesaid before, by nature and chance;
art, and mind itself, rising up afterwards from the
same senseless principles in animals.
CHAPTER III
An introduction to the confutation of the Atheistic grounds, in yrluch
is contained a particular account of all the several formsof Atheism.
—1. That the grounds of the Hylozoic Atheism could not be in­
sisted on in the former chapter, together with those of the Atomic,
they being directly contrary each to other; with a further account
of this Hylozoic Atheism.—2. A suggestion, by way of caution,
for the preventing of all mistakes, that every Hylozoist must not
therefore be condemned for an Atheist, or a mere counterfeit his-
trionical Theist.—3. That, nevertheless, such Hylozoists as are also
Corporealists, can by no means be excused from the imputation of
Atheism, for two reasons.—4. That Strato Lampsacenus, common­
ly called Physicus, seems to have been the first assertor of the
Hylozoic Atheism, he holding no other God but the life of nature
in matter.—5. Further proved, that Strato was an Atheist, and that
of a different form from Democritus, he attributing an energetic
nature, but without sense and animality, to all matter.—6. That
Strato, not derivingall things froma mere fortuitous principle, as the
Democritic Atheists did, nor y.et acknowledging any one plastic
nature to preside over the whole, but deducing the original of things
from a mixture of chance and plastic nature both together in the
several parts of matter, must therefore needs be an Hylozoic Atheist.
—7. That the famous Hippocrates was neither an Hylozoic nor De-
mocritic Atheist, but rathe£\an Heraclitic corporeal Theist-4
^ .
That Plato took no notice of the Hylozoic Atheism, nor of any other
than what derives the original of all things from a mere fortuitous
nature; and, therefore, either the Democritical or the Anaximan-
drian Atheism, which latter will be next declared.—9. That it is
hardly imaginable, there should have been no philosophic Atheists
in the tworId before Democritus and Leucippus, there being in all
ages, as Plato observes, some or other sick of the Atheistic disease.
That Aristotle affirms many of the first philosophers to have assign­
ed only a material cause of the mundane system, without either
efficient or intending cause; they supposing matter to be the only
substance, and all things else nothing but the passions and accidents
of it, generable and corruptible.—10. That the doctrine of these
Materialists will be more fully understoodfrom the exceptions which
Aristotle makes against them: his first exception, that they assign­
ed no cause of motion, but introduced it into the world unaccount­
ably.—11. Aristotle’s second exception, that these Materialists did
assign no cause*™? iZ»
tai n
a
X
5?, of well and fit, and give no account
VOL. I. Q
230
of the orderly regularity of things. That Anaxagoraswas the first
Ionic philosopher who made mind and good a principle of the uni­
verse.—12. Concluded, that Aristotle's Materialists were downright
Atheists, not merely because they held all substance to be body,
since Heraclitus and Zeno did the like, and yet are not therefore
accounted Atheists (they.supposingtheir fiery matter to be originally
intellectual, and the whole world to be an animal); but because
these made stupid matter, devoid of all understanding and life, to
be the only principle.—13. As also, because they supposed every
thing besides the substance of matter, life and understanding, and
all particular beings, to be generable and corruptible,.and, conse­
quently, that there could be no other God, than such as was native
and mortal. That those ancient Theologers, who were Theogo-
nists, and generated all the gods out of night and chaos, were only
veibal Theists, but real Atheists; senseless matter being to.them
the highest Numen.—14. The great difference observed betwixt
Aristotle's Atheistic: Materialists and the Italic philosophers, the
former determining all things, besides the substance of matter, to
be made or generated, the latter, that no real entity was either ge­
nerated or corrupted; thereupon both destroying qualities and forms
of body, and asserting the ingenerability and incorporeity of souls.
—15. How Aristotle's Atheistic Materialists endeavoured to baffle
and elude that axiom of the Italic philosophers, that nothing can
come from nothing nor go to nothing; and that Anaxagoras'was the
first amongst the Ionics, who yielded sofar to that principle, as from
thence to assert incorporeal substance, and the pre-existence of qua­
lities and forms in similar atoms, forasmuch as he conceived them to*
be things really distinct from the substance of matter.—16. The
error of some writers, who, because Aristotle affirms, that the an­
cient philosophers did generally exclude the world to have been
made, from thence infer, that they were all Theists, and that Aris­
totle contradicts himself in representing many of them as Atheists.
That the ancient Atheists did generally xw/xmiiiv, assert the world
to have been made, or have had a beginning; as also some Theists
did maintain its eternity, but in a way ofdependency upon the Deity.
That we ought here to distinguish betwixt the system of the world,
and the substance of the matter, all Atheists asserting the matterto
have been, not only eternal, but also such independently upon any
other being.—
<17. That Plato and others concluded this Materialism,
or Hylopathian Atheism, to have been at least as old as Homer,
who made the ocean (or fluid matter) the father of all the gods.
; And that this was indeed the ancientest ofall Atheisms, which, ver­
bally acknowledging gods, yet derived the original of them all from
night and chaos. The description of this Atheistic hypothesis in
Aristophanes, that night and chaos first laid an egg, out of which
sprung forth love, which afterwardsmingling with chaos, begat hea­
ven and earth, animals, and all the gods.—18. That, notwithstand-
ittg this, in Aristotle'sjudgment, Parmenides, Hesiod, and others,
who made love, in like manner,,senior to all the gods, were to be
exempted oat of the number of Atheists; they understanding this
love to be an active principle, or cause of motion in the universe,
. which therefore could not rise from an egg of the .night, nor be the
. pfispring of chaos, but must be something in order of nature before
;. matter. Simmies Rhodius’s Wings, a poem in honour of this hea­
venly love. r
fhis not that love winch wasthe offspringof Peniaind
Porus in Plato. In what rectified sense it may pass for true theo­
logy, that love is the supreme Deity and original of all things-—
19.
. That though Democritus and Leucippus be elsewhere taxed by
.Aristotle for this very thing,,that they assigned only a material cause
. of the universe; yet they were not the persons intended by him in
, the fore-cited accusation, but certain ancienter philosophers, who
. also were not Atomists, but Hylopathians.—
r20. That Aristotle’s
.. Atheistic Materialists were all the first Ionic philosophers before
Anaxagoras/ Thales being the head of them. B at that Thales is
. acquitted from this imputation of Atheism by several good authors
(with an account how he came to be thus differently represented);
. and, therefore, that his next Successor, Anaximander, israther to be
. accounted the prince of this Atheistic philosophy.—21. A passage
. .out of Aristotle objected, which, at first sight, seems to make
Anaximander a Divine philosopher, and therefore hath led both mo-
. dem and ancient writers into that mistake. That this place well
considered proves the contrary, that Anaximander was the chief of
. the old Atheistic philosophers.—22. That it is no wonder, if Anax-
, ifnander called senseless matter the 0iw
v
, or God, since to all Athe­
ists that must needs be the highest Numen;. also how this is said to
be immortal, and to govern all; with the concurrentjudgment of
the Greek scholiasts upon this place.—23. A further account ofthe
Anaximandrian philosophy,manifesting it to havebeenpurely Athe-
. istical.—24. What ill judgesihe vulgar have been of Theists and
. Atheists; as also that learned men have commonly supposed fewer
Atheists than indeed there were.. Anaximander and Democritus
, Atheists both alike, though philosophizing different way*. That
, some passages in PJato respectthe Anaximandrian formof Atheism,
rather.than the Peurecriticak—26. Why Democritus and Leucippus
new modelled Atheism into the Atomic foim.—26. That besides the
. three forjn^of Atheism already mentioned, we sometimes meet with
a fourth, which supposes the universe, though not to be an animal,
.yet a kind of plant or vegetable, having one plastic nature in it, de­
void of understanding and sense, which disposes and orders the
whole.—27. That this form of Atheism, which makes one plastic
life to preside over the whole, is different from the Hylozoic, itt that
it takes away all fortuitousness, and .subjects all to the fate of one
plastic methodical nature.—28. Though it be possible, that some in
all ages might have entertained this Atheistical conceit, that things
Q2
232
are dispensed by one regular and methodical, but unknowing fictile*
lees nature, yet it seems to have been chiefly asserted by certain
spurious Heraclitics and Stoics. And, therefore, this form of Athe­
ism, which supposes otie cdsmoplastic nature, maybe called Pserido-.
Zenonian.—29. .That, besides the philosophic Atheists, there hare
been always enthusiastic and fanatical Atheists, though in soihe
sense all Atheists may be said also to be both enthusiasts and fana­
tics, they being led by an ^ axoyo*,or irrational impetus.—30. That
there cannot easily be any other form of Atheism, besides those four
already mentioned, because all Atheists are Corporealists, and yet
all Corporealists not Atheists, but only such as make the first prin­
ciple of all things not to be intellectual.—31. A distribution of
Atheisms producing the former quaternio, and shewing the differ­
ence between them.—32* That they are but bunglers at Atheism
Who talk of sensitive and rational matter; and that the canting as­
trological Atheists are not at all considerable, because not Under­
standing themselves.—33. Another distribution of Atheisms; that
they either derive the original of things from a merely fortuitous
principle, the unguided motion of matter, or else from a plastic and
methodical, but senseless nature. What Atheists denied the eter­
nity of the world, and what asserted it—
34. That of these four
forms of Atheism, the Atomic or Democritical, and the HylOzafoor
Stratonical, are the chief; and that these two being once confuted,
all Atheism will be confuted.—35. These two forms of Atheism
being contrary to one another, how we ought in all reason to intfst
rather upon the Atomic; but that afterwards we shall confute the
Hylozoic also, and prove against all Corporealists, that no cogitation
nor life belongs to matter.—36. That, in the meantime, we shall
not neglect any form of Atheism, but confute them all together, as
agreeing in one principle; as also shew, how the old Atomic Athe­
ists did sufficiently overthrow the foundation of the Hylozoists.—37.
Observed here, that the Hylozoists are not condemned merely for
asserting a plastic life, distinct from the animal (which, with most
other philosophers, we judge highly probable, if taken in a right
sense), but for grosslymisunderstanding it, and attributing the same
to matter. The plastic life of nature largely explained.—38. That
though the confutation of the Atheistic grounds, according to the
laws of method, ought to have been reserved for the last part of
this discourse; yet we having reasons to violate those laws, crave
the reader's pardon for this preposterousness. A considerable ob­
servation of Plato's, that it is not only moral vitiosity, which in­
clines men to atheize, but also an affectation of seeming wiser than
the generality of mankind; as likewise, that the Atheists, making
such pretence to wit, it is a seasonable undertaking to evince, that
they fumble in all their ratiocinations. That we hope to make it
appear, that the Atheists are no conjurors; and that all forms of
Atheism are nonsense and impossibility.
HYLOZOlSM FURTHER EXPLAINED. 233
I. W e have now represented the grand myste­
ries of Atheism, which may be also called the
mysteries of the kingdom ofdarkness; though in­
deed some of them are but briefly hinted here,
they being again more fully to be insisted on af­
terward, where we are to give an account of the
Atheists’endeavours to solve the phenomenon of
cogitation. Wehave represented the chiefgrounds
of Atheisms in general, as also of that most noto­
rious form of Atheism in particular, that is called
Atomical. But whereas there hath been already
mentioned another form of Atheism, called by us
Hylozoical; the principles hereof could not pos­
sibly be insisted on in this place, ,where we were
to make the most plausible plea for Atheism, they
being directly contrary to those of the Atomical,
.so that they would have mutually destroyed each
other. For, whereas the Atomic Atheism sup­
poses the notion or idea ofbody to be nothing hut
extended resisting bulk, andrconsequently to in­
clude no manner of life and cogitation in it; Hylo-
zoism, on the contrary, makes all body, as such,
and therefore every smallest atom of it, to have
'life essentially belonging to it (natural perception
;and appetite) though without any animal sense or
reflexive knowledge, as if life, and matter or ex­
tended bulk, were but two incomplete and inade­
quate conceptions of one and the same substance,
called body. By reason of which life (not animal,
but only plastical), all parts of matter being sup­
posed able to form themselves artificially and me­
thodically (though without any' deliberation or at­
tentive consideration) to the greatest advantage
of their present respective capabilities, and there­
fore also sometimes by organization to improve
2 3 4 EVERY HYLOEOIST NOT
themselves further into sense and self-enjoyment
in'all animals, as also to universal reason and re­
flexive knowledge in men; it is plain, *
that there
is no necessity at all left, either of any incorporeal
soul in men to make them rational, or of any Deity
in the whole universe to solve the regularity
thereof. One main difference betwixt these two
forms of Atheism is this, that the Atomical sup>-
poses all life whatsoever to be accidental, genera*-
ble, and corruptible; but the Hylteoic admits of a
certain natural or plastic life, essential and sub­
stantial, ingenerableand incorruptible, though at­
tributing the same only to matter, as supposing ho
other substance in th.e world besides it.
i i . Now to prevent all mistakes, we think fit
.here by “
way of cantion to,suggest, that as every
Atoroist is not therefore necessarily an. Atheist, so
neither must every Hylozoist needs be accounted
such. For whoever so holds the life of matter,
as notwithstanding^ assert another kind of sub­
stance also, that is immaterial and incorporeal; is
no ways obnoxious to that foul imputation. How­
ever, we ought not to dissemble, but that there is
a great difference here betwixt these two, Atomism
and Hylozoism, in this regard; that the former of
them, namely Atomism (as bath been already de­
clared) hath in itself a natural cognation and con­
junction with Incorporeism, though violently cut
■off from it by the Democritic Atheists; whereas
the latter of them, Hylozoism, seems to have alto­
gether as close and intimate a correspondence with
Corporealism ; because, as hath,been already sig­
nified, if all matter, as such, have not only such a
life, perception, and self-active power -in it, as
whereby it can form itself to the best advantage,
NECESSARILY AN A TH EISt. 235
making this a sun, and that an earth Or planet,
and fabricating the bodies of animals most artifi­
cially, but also can improve itself into sense and
self-enjoyment.; it may as well be thought able to
advance itself higher, into all the acts of reason
and understanding in men; so that there will be
no need either of an incorporeal immortal soul in
men, or a Deity in the universe. Nor indeed is it
easily conceivable, how arty should be induced to
admit such a monstrous paradox as this is, that
every atom of dust or other senseless matter is
wiser than the greatest politician and the most
acute ■
philosopher that ever was, as having ^n in­
fallible omniscience of all its own capabilities and
congruities; were it not by reason of some strong
prepossession, against incorporeal,substance and
a'Deity: there being nothing so extravagant and
outrageously wild, which a mind once infected
with atheistical sottishness and disbelief will not
rather greedily swallow down, than admit a.Deity,
which to such is the highest of all paradoxes ima­
ginable, and the most affrightful bugbear. Not­
withstanding all which, it may not be denied, but
that it is possible for one, who really entertains
the belief of a Deity and a rational soul immortal,
to be persuaded, first, that the sensitive soul in
men as well as brutes is merely corporeal; and
then that there is a material plastic life in the
seeds of all plants and animals, whereby they do
artificially form themselves; and from thence af­
terward to descend also further to Hylezoism, that
all matter, as such, hath a kind of natural, though
not animal life in i t : in consideration whereof, we
ought not to censure every Hylozoist, professing
to hold a Deity and a rational soul immortal, &r
236 ALL ATHEISTS WHO HOLD
a mere disguised Atheist, or counterfeit bistrioni-
cal Theist.
h i. But though every Hylozoist be not there­
fore necessarily an Atheist, yet whosoever is an
HyJozoist and Gorporealist both together, he that
both holds the life of matter in the sense before
declared, and also that there is no other substance
in the world besides body and matter, cannot be
excused from the imputation of Atheism, for two
reasons; first, because though he derive the origi­
nal of all things, not from what is perfectly dead
and stupid as the Atomic Atheist doth, but from
that which hath a kind of life or perception in it,
nay an infallible omniscience, of whatsoever itself
can do or suffer, or of all its own capabilities and
congruities, which seems to bear some semblance
of a Deity; yet all this being only in the way of
natural, and not animal perception, is indeed no­
thing but a dull and drowsy, plastic and sperma­
tic life, devoid of all consciousness and self-enjoy­
ment. The Hylozoists’ nature is a piece of very
mysterious nonsense, a thing perfectly wise, .with­
out any knowledge or consciousness of itself;
whereas a Deity, according to the true notion of
it, is such a perfect understanding being, as with,
full consciousnessand self-enjoyment is completely
happy. Secondly, because the Hyiozoic Corpo-
realist, supposing all matter, as such, to ha,ve life
in it, must needs make infinite of those lives, (fojv*
asmuch as every atom of matter has a life of its
own) co-ordinate and independent on one another,
and consequently, as many independent first prin­
ciples, no one common life or mind ruling over the
whole. Whereas, to asserta God, is to derive all
things a
tj>tvo? rivoc, from some one principle,—or
HYLOZOISM WITH CORPOREALISM. 237
to suppose one perfect living and understanding
being to be the original of all things, and the ar­
chitect of the whole universe.
Thus we see, that the Hylozoic Corporealist is
really an Atheist, though carrying more the sem­
blance and disguise of a Theist, 'than other Athe­
ists, in that he attributes a kind of life to matter.
For indeed every Atheist must of necessity cast
some of the incommunicable properties of the
Deity, more or less, upon that which is not God,
namely,matter; and they, who do not attribute life
to it, yet must needs bestow upon it necessary
self-existence, and make it the first principle of
all things, which are the peculiarities of the Deity.
The Numen, which the Hylozoic Corporealist
pays all his devotions to, is a certain blind she-god
or goddess, called Nature, or the life of matter;
which is a very great mystery, a thing that is per­
fectly wise, and infallibly omniscient, without any
knowledge or consciousness at all; something
like to that twv iralSwv atvijfia (in* Plato) «p eRep.i 5i
TTtp'l TOV tVVOV^OV fioXtJC Tljc WKTtpi^OQ, that P
*4^8.
vulgar enigma or riddle of boys concerning an
eunuch striking a bat; a man and not a man, seeing
and not seeing, did strike and not strike, with a
stone and not a stone, a bird and not a bird, &c.
the difference being only this, that this was a thing
intelligible, but humorsomely expressed; whereas
the other seems to be perfect nonsense, being no­
thing but a misunderstanding of the plastic power,
as shall be shewed afterwards.
iv. Now the first and chief assertor of this Hy­
lozoic Atheism was, as we conceive, Strato Lamp-
sacenus," commonly called also Physicus, that had
» Vide Diogen. Lacrt. scgm.58. p. 308.
238 s t r a t o p h y s ic u s , t h e f ir s t
been once an auditor of Theophrastus, and a fa­
mous Peripatetic, •but afterwards degenerated
from a genuine Peripatetic into anew-formed kind
OfAtheist; For Velleius, an Epicurean Atheist
in Cicero, reckoning up all the several sorts of
Theists, which had been in former'times, gives
such a character of this Strato, as whereby he
makes him to be a strange kind of Atheistical
Theist, or Divine Atheist, if we may use such a
contradictious expression: his Words are these,
# “ Nec audiendus Strato, qui Physicus
• D e N a t De. a p p e l l a t u F , qui omnem vim divinam in
1. 1. cap.xiu. 1 . x
p.i902. natura sitam esse censet, quae causas
gignendi, augendi, minuendive habeat,
sed careat omni sensu.” Neither is Strato, com­
monly called the Naturalist or Physiologist,-to
be heard, who places all Divinity in nature, as
having within itself the causes of all generations,
corruptions, and augmentations, but without any
manner of sense.—Strato’s Deity therefore was a
certain living and active, but senseless nature. He
did not fetch the original of all things, as the De-
mocritic and Epicurean Atheists, from a mere for­
tuitous motion of atoms, by means whereof he
bore some slight semblance of a T h eistb u t yet
he was a downright Atheist for all that, his God
being nO other than such a life ofnature in matter*
4s. was both devoid of sense and consciousness,
and also multiplied together with the'several parts
Of if. He is also in like manner described by
Seneca in St. Augustinef as a kind of
J®
ec
C
ljQ
D
ei’mongrel thing, betwixt an Atheist and a
ieo.i.p.m. Theist: “ Ego feram aut Platonem, aut
tom. vn. oper. . . 0 ~ -
cd.B enedict. Peripateticum Stratonem, quorum alte*
deum sine corpore fecit, alter sine ani-
ATHEISTICAL HYLGZOIST. 239
n o ?” Shall 1 endure either Plato, or the Peripa*
tetic Strato,* whereof the one made God to be
without a body, 'the other without a mind ?—In
which words Seneca taxes these two philosophers,
as guilty of two contrary extremes; Plato, be*
Cause he made God to be a pure mind, or a per­
fectly incorporeal being; and Strato, because be
made him to be a body without a mind, he ac­
knowledging no other Deity than a certain, stupid
and plastic life, in all the several parts of matter*
without sense. Wherefore, this seems to be the
only reason, why Strato was thus sometimes reck>-
oned amongst the Theists, though he were indeed
an Atheist, because he dissented from that only
form of Atheism, then so vulgarly received, the
Democritic and Epicurean, attributing a kind of
life to nature and matter.
v. And that Strato was thus an Atheist, but of
a different kind from Democritus, may farther
appear from this passage of Cicero’s ;*
“ Strato Lampsacenus negat opera deo-
Turn se uti ad fabricaudum mundum ; C
?P-S
*- ,
p . 2 3 1 8 .
qu&cunque sint docet omnia esse effecta tom. y
u
U •
natura, nec ut ille, qui asperis, et l®vi- T r,i :
bus, ethamatis uncinatisquecorporibus concreta
h®c esse dicat, interjecto inani; somnia censet
hffic esse Democriti, non docentis, sed optantis.”
Strato denies, that he makes any use of a God,
for the fabricating of the world, or the solving the
phenomena thereof; teaching all things to have
been made by nature; but yet not in such a man­
ner, as he who affirmed them to be all concreted
out of certain rough and smooth, hookey and
crooked atoms, he judging these things to; be no­
thing but the mere dreams and dotages of Demo-
240 STRATO, THE FIRST
critus, not teaching but wishing.—Here we see,
that Strato denied the world to be made by a
Deity or perfect understanding nature, as well as
Democritus: and yet that he dissented from De­
mocritus notwithstanding, holding another kind
of nature, as the original of things, than he did,
who gave no account of any active principle and
cause of motion, nor of the regularity that is in
things. .Democritus’s nature was nothing but the
fortuitous motion of matter; but Strato’s nature
was an inward plastic life in the several partis of
matter, whereby they could artificially frame them­
selves to the best advantage, according to their se­
veral capabilities; without any conscious or reflex­
ive knowledge. “ Quicquid aut sit aut fiat, (says
the same author)" naturalibus fieri, aut factum esse
docet ponderibus et motibus.” Strato teaches
whatsoever is, or is made, to be made by certain
inward natural forces and activities.—
' vi. Furthermore it isto beobserved, that though
Strato thus attributed a certain kind of life to
matter, yet he did by no means allow of any one
common life,whethersentient and rational, or plas­
tic and spermatic only, as ruling over the whole
mass of matter and corporeal universe; which is a
thing in part affirmed by Plutarch,* and
' C
o
io
tem
?* may in part be gathered from these
words of his ; tov jcoo/xov aurov ou £a>ov eival
©per. <prj<ri, ro& Kara fvaiv Bireadai rtp Kara rvyrriv,
apy^qv yap ivSiSovai to avropaTOv, etra oimu
mpalyemai rwv Qw h k w v iraOdiv eicaarov. StratO affirmeth
that the world is do animal (or god), but that what
is natural in every thing, follows something fortu­
itous antecedent, chance first beginning, and na~
» Ibid.
ATHEISTICAL HYLOZOIST. 241
tare acting consequently thereupon.—The full
sense whereofseems to be this, that though Strato
did not derive the original of all mundane things
from mere fortuitous mechanism, as Democritus
before him had done, but supposed a life and na­
tural perception in the matter, that was directive
of it; yet, not acknowledging any one common
life, whether animal or plastic, as governing and
swaying the whole, but only supposing the seve­
ral parts of matter to have so many plastic lives
of their own, he must needs attribute something to
fortune, and make the mundane system to depend
upon a certain mixture of ch'ance and plastic or
orderly nature both together, and Consequently
must be an Hylozoist. Thus we see, that these
are two schemes of Atheism, very different from
one another ;* that, which fetches the original-of
all things from the mere fortuitous and unguided
motion of matter, without any vital or directive
principle; and that, which derives it from a Cer­
tain mixture of chance and the life of matter both
together, it supposing a plastic life, not in the
whole universe, as one thing, but in all the several
parts of matter by themselves; the first of which
is the Atomic and Democritic Atheism, the second
the Hylozoic and Stratonic.
vn. It may perhaps be suspected by some, that
the famous Hippocrates, who lived long
before Strato, was an assertor of the
Hylozoic Atheism, because of such pas- jj*
sages in him as these, oira/Stwoc »
ifi<ng U *A
U
ect.^
rov aaov*paBovaa ra Btovra iroutv* Nature n,riihna
is unlearned or untaught, but it learneth
from itself what things it ought to d o :—and again
? Vide Lactant, de Tra Dei, cap. x. p. 918. •
2 4 2 HIPPOCRATES VINDICATES
mtsupitfKU V ffrvau; ayrdeayr^ rag e<ft4$ow;,f>vK £/c Slavonic*
feature finds out ways to itself, not by ratiocina-
tion.—But there is nothing more affirmed here
concerning nature by Hippocrates, than, what
might be affirmed likewise of the Aristotelic and
Platonic nature, which is supposed,to act for ends,
though .without consultation and ratiocination.
And I must confess, it seems to me no. way mis­
becoming of a Theist, tp acknowledge such a na­
ture or priuciple in the universe, as may apt ac­
cording to rule and method for the sake of ends,
and in order to the best, though itself do not un­
derstand the Reason of what it doth; this being
Still supposed to act dependency upon a higher
intellectual principle, and to have been first set a
Work and employed by it; it being otherwise PQU-
sepse. But to assert any such plastic nature, as
is independent upon any higher intellectual prin­
ciple, and so itself the first and. highest principle
of activity in the universe, this indeed must .needs
lie, either that Hylozoic Atheism already spoken
pf, or else another different form.of Atheism,
which shall afterwards be described. .But though
Hippocrates were a Corporealist, yet we conceive
he ought not to lie under the suspicion of either of
those two atheisms; forasmuch as himself plainly
asserts a higher intellectual principle* than such a
plastic nature, in the universe, namely an H erar
clitic corporeal God, or understanding fire, im-
. . mortal, pervading the whole, world, in
sal Camitnis. th ese Words; AotcieiSe ftoi o KaXioficv Qtpfiov,
**»' tom i T£«vat,:kcu yoiiv jcavra, Kal oppv, xal
oper. clkovuv, Kal eiSevai iravra rd ovra Kal rd jueX-
Xovra emaOai' It seems, to me, that: that
which is called heat or fire is immortal and om-
?BON HYLOZOIC ATHEISM* 2 4 $
niscient, and that it sees, hears, and knows all
things; not only such as- are present, but also fu­
ture.—Wherefore, we conclude, that Hippocrates
was neither an Hylozoic nor Democritic Atheist,
but an Heraclitic corporeal Theist.
v iii. Possibly it may be thought also, that
Plato, in his Sophist, intends this Hylozoic athe­
ism, where he declares it as the opinion of many,
*t i)v ' ijtvaiv vavra ytvvav, airo rlvog atriag avroftariK K «t
&
vtv havoiag jvovavf" That nature generates all
things from a certain spontaneous principle, with­
out any reason and understanding.—But here the
word avroftartK may be as well rendered fortuitous
as spontaneous; however, there is no necessity,
that this should be understood of an artificial or
methodical unknowing nature. It is true, indeed,
that Plato himselfseems to acknowledge a certain
plastic or methodical nature in the universe, sub­
ordinate to the Deity, or that perfect mind, which
is the supreme governor of all things; as may be
gathered from these words of his, rqY <f>vm
v furi
\6yov km avv \oytp Kat vtfi ra vavra StaKdafuw' that Oa-
tnre does rationally (or orderly) together with
reason and mind, govern the whole universe.—
<
-
Where he supposes a certain regular nature to be
a partial and subordinate cause of things under
the Divine intellect. And it is very probable,
that Aristotle derived that whole doctrine of his
concerning a regular and artificial nature, which
acts for ends, from the Platonic school. But as
for any such form of Atheism, as should suppose
a plastic dr regular, but senseless nature either in
the whole world, or the several parts of matter by
themselves, to be thehighest principle ofall things,
a P. 168. open
244 PLATO TOOK NOTICE ONLY
we do not conceive, that there is any intimktion of
it to be found any where in Plato. For in his De
Legibus, where he professedly disputes against
Atheism, he states the doctrine ofit after this tnan-
jjb. 10. p. ner, ra fitv piyurra Kal KaWiara aiTtpyaHjetrOeu
665,666. • K
a\ ra 81ofU
K
porepariypriv' that
nature and chance.produceth all the first, greatest,
and most excellent things, but that the smaller
things were produced by human art.—The plain
meaning whereof is this, that the first original of
things, and the frame of the whole universe, pro­
ceeded from a mere fortuitous nature, or the mo­
tion of matter unguided by any art or method.
And thus it is further explained in the following
Words, wvp icat v8o>£> Kal y^v xal aepa rftvtrei iravra twai
xal tvyry <j>aal' rtyrvy St ov8ev rovrwv, &C. That the'
first elements, fire, water, air, and earth, were all
made by nature and chance, without any art or
method; and then, that the bodies of the sun,
moon, and stars, and the whole heavens, were af­
terward made out of those elements, as devoid of
all manner of life,—andonly fortuitously moved
and mingled together; and lastly, that the whole
mundane system, together with the orderly seasons
of the year, as also plants, animals, and men, did
arise after the same manner, from the mere fortuit­
ous motion of senseless and stupid matter. In
the very same manner does Plato state this contro­
versy again, betwixt Theists and Atheists, in his
Philebus; TIorEpov, wTipiorapyt, ra£vfiiravra,
K
al toSe to KaXovfievov oXov, iwirpoveuav
fifv tjjv rov aXoyov K
al sucjj Svvajuiv, Kal ra omj etv^ ev ; n
ruvavrla, K
aO
airtpoi irpoaO
evt)/x
ii>
vsAsyov, vow Kal <
p
p
o
vtj~
aiv nva Oavfiarmjvowrarrowrav8iaK
vj3tpv<
fv; Whether
shall we say, O Protarchus, that this whole uni-
P. 28. ed.Ser.
OF THE FORTUITOUS ATHEISMS. 2 4 5
verse is dispensed and ordered, by a mere irra­
tional, temerarious, and fortuitous principle, and
so as it happens; or contrariwise (as our forefa­
thers have instructed us) that mind, apd a certain
wonderful wisdom,, did at first frame, and does
Still govern all things?—
Wherefore we conclude, that Plato took no no­
tice of any other form of Atheism, as then set on
foot, than such as derives all things from a mere
fortuitous principle, from nature and chance; diet
is, the unguided motion of matter, without any
plastic artificialness or metbodicalness, either in
.the whole universe, or the parts of it. But be­
cause this kind of Atheism; which derives all
:things from a mere fortuitous nature, had been ma­
naged two manner of ways, by Democritus in the
.way of Atoms; and by Anaximander and :Others
in the way of Forms and Qualities (of which we
are to speak in the next place); therefore the
Atheism, which Plato opposes, was either the
Democratic or the Anaximandrian Atheism; or
else (which is most probable) both of>
them to-
. gether.
ix. It is hardly imaginable, that there should
be no philosophic Atheists in the world ,before
Democritus and Leucippus. Plato* long p 888ed fcr
since concluded, that ,there have been
. Atheists, more or less, in every age, when he be­
speaks his young Atheist after this manner; Ov<
n
J
-fiovog oilSf cror <
j>
i\o
iirpw
roi- K
aivporrov ravrqv,$o£av wtpi
■
■
Otvv tffytrE, ylyvovrai St ad 7rX
t(O
V
£if tXarrau? tow
tijvtijv
*votxovt^ovrsc’ The full sense whereof seems to be
' f BeLrigilras, lib. x.p.665.
R
VOL. I.
246 MANY OLD PHILOSOPHERS
this: Neither you, my son, nor your friends (De­
mocritus, Leucippus, and Protagoras)are the first,
who have entertained this opinion concerning the
gods, but there bare been always some more or
less sick of this atheistic disease.-—
Wherefore,
we shall now make a diligent search and in-
■
qairy, to see if we can find any other philoso­
phers, who atheized before Democritus and Leu­
cippus, as also what form of Atheism they ehtet-
tained.
Aristotle, in his Metaphysics, speaking of the
quaternio of causes, affirms, that many of those,
who first philosophized, assigned only a material
cause of the whole mundane system, without ei­
ther intending or efficient cause. The reason
whereof he intimates to have been this, because
they asserted matter to be the only substance;
and that whatsoever else was in the world, besides
the substance or bulk of matter, were all nothing
else but irdBv, different passions and affections, ac­
cidents and qualities of matter, that were all ge­
nerated out of it, and corruptible again into it-; the
substance of matter always remaining the same,
neither generated norcorrupted, butfrom
• lib .i.c .s. eternity unmade; Aristotle’s words are*
p.264. *
*
* these: T
W
Vy-pwrtov ^iXoao^itaavruv oi irXttorot
rac tv vXqc *i8a ftovov tpqOitvav a p /d c tivat irav
rwv, ov yip forty airavra ra ovra, cat ov yiyvtrat
TfHvrdv, Ktu tuQ o fdtlperai TtXtvraiov, Tijc fitv ovalaf vm -
(tevovoTKt rotq St ira&un fitrafiaXXovaiK, rovro orotj^ctov,
teat rttvrqy rwv ovtivv rt}v apyyv ftunv ctvat* Mo8t of
those, who first philosophized, took notice of no
other principle ofthings in the universe, than what
is to be referred to the material cause; for that,
ASSERTED MATERIALISM. 247
out of which all things are, and out of which all
things are first made, and into which they are all
at last corrupted and resolved, the substance al­
ways remaining the same, and being changed
only in its passions and qualities; this they con­
cluded to be the first original and principle of all
things.—
x. But the meaning of these old Material phi­
losophers will be better understood by those ex­
ceptions, which Aristotle makes against them,
which are tw o: first, that because they acknow­
ledged no other substance besides matter, that
might be an active principle in the universe, it
was not possible for them to give any account of
the original of motion and action. Ei
yap on pakiora naira tfrdopa ical yivtoic w rtvoc, A™
*- ^
< • \ * i \ i ■ i . «i i f - .!• 1*c.S. p.
«{ cvo{ jj Kai irAttovaiv c<mv, out n rovro trap- S6S.
patvu, Kat rt ro amov } ov yap Ci] to ytvnoKupe-
vov avro trout ptrajiaWtiv tavro' Atyiv SI otov, own ro
£tiAov, outeto y^aXuog airiov row ptrafiaAAuv ixartpov av-
tu>
v‘ ouSf irout rd pev S,vXov kA'ivpv, o SI yaXtcoc awSptavra,
aXX' crcpov rt rijc ptrafioApc amov’ rd SI rovro tpruv ion
rd tijv trtpav fyrriiv apyrjjv, <
w
c av nptic fain/uv, oOtv v
rijc atvrjo&ae’ Though all generation be made
never so much out of something as the matter,
yet the question still is, by what means this
cometh to pass, and what is the active cause
which produceth it ? because the subject.matter
cannot change itself; as, for example, neither tim­
ber, nor brass, is the cause, that either of them
are changed; for timber alone does not make a
bed, nor brass a statue, but there must be some,
thing else as the cause of the change; and to in­
quire after this is to inquire after another princi-
r 2
248 THE OLD MATERIALISTS ASSIGNED
pie besides matter, which we would call that,
front whence motion springs.—In whioh words
Aristotle intimates* that these old Material philo­
sophers shuffled in motion and action intoCthe
world unaccountably, or without acause?;-foras­
much as they .acknowledged no other principle-Of
things besides passive matter, which cotdd'-^OV^r
inflfve, change, or alteritself. r i'1
xi. And Aristotle’s second exception against
these old Material philosophers is this': that Stpee
there could be no intending- causality in senseless
and stupid matter, which they made to be the onl^
principle of all things, they were notable to assign
rou euKat KaXug <MT«v,atiy Cause of Well aSd fit,—
and so could give no account of the-regular and
M
et'i.i . c. 3. orderly frame of this mundane system ;
p. 266. row tv ical KoXtSe ra fitv t ^ o v , t o SkyiyvtaQai
rijjv ovto)v , taivQ o v t6 -yijv, our* aXXo twv rotovrwv- ov#e*>,
tiKoo airtov tlvai' ou$-’ avTif avro/iaTW, Kul rvyrjToaowrov
n vpaypa koXw
q iyrn' That things partly are
nriri
.so weH in the world, and partly are made so well,
cannot be imputed either to earth or -water, or
'any other senseless body; much less is it reason­
able to attribute so noble and excellent an effect
.as this to mere chance or fortune.—Where Aristo-
:tie again intimates, that as these Material pbiloso-
-phers shuffled in motion into the world without a
:cause, so likewise they must needs suppose this
motion to he altogether fortuitous and unguided;
:and thereby in a manner make fortune, which is
nothing but the absence or defect of an intending
cause, to supply the room both of the active and
intending cause, that is, efficient and final; Where­
upon Aristotle subjoins a commendation of Anax-
NO 'CAUSE OF WELL AND F IT . 249
agoras,*as the,firstof'the Ionic philosophers, who
intrpducedmind or intellect for a principle,inthe
universe; that, in.this respect he alone seemed tp
he seher, and iphis wits, comparatively with those
ptbfra .that went before him< who. taliped :sq idly
andatbeisticaJiy, ,, For Anaxagoras’s, principle
wns such, saitb Aristotle, as, wa&quft **k!*»P
TIfViWV TM)vrf 90EV i) OD$6. & caUSS
of motion, rand’also of welland fit -of all the
regularity, aptitude, pulchritude, aadprder, that
is in^ the, whole, uneferae.:, Aed .thus it seems
Anaxagoras himself: had- determined: v
*Ava£wyt>£«e T9 c m
Xfy», Anaxagoras,faith,,that mitid is the ::
oqlyiqan^eof rightend well ;;—this being ;
proper .tp mind tpaim at ends and good, and tq
eflder one; thing fitly for the sake. of another.
Whence ft was, that Anaxagoras concluded good
also,.as well, as mind, to have,been a principle.of
tbe universe, ’AvaSiyo'pfK; de kivovv nj dya- .
QPV:QPX1
9
*
*
’ voyg k iw 9 .ctAAfc kvvu eiw«
tW9c, dm mfw' Anaxagor as makes good: ^ y >
m
,iy\
a principle, as that which moves; for,. ,
though mind move matter, yet. it moves it for the
sake of something, and being itself, as it were, first
moved Jby good: •so that good is also a principle;
-rrAnd we note this the.rather, toshew how well
these; three philosophers, .Aristotle* Plato, ;and
Anaxagoras, agreed all together in this excellent
troth, that mind and good, are the first principle
of all things in the universe/
xn. And; now we think it is sufficiently evi*
dent, that these old Materialists in Aristotle,
whoever they were, were downright Atheists ; not
2 6 0 a r is t o t l e ’s o l d m a t e r ia l is t s
so much because they made all substance to be
body or matter, for Heraclitus first, and after him
Zeno, did the like, deriving the original of all
things from fire, as well as Anaximenes did from
air, and Thales is supposed by Aristotle* to have
done from water, and that with some little more
seeming plausibility, since fire, being a more sub­
tile and moveable body than any other, was there­
fore thought by some ancients to be aatofiarwrarov,
the most incorporeal of all bodies, as earth was
for that cause rejected by all those corporeal phi­
losophers from being a principle, by reason of the
grossness of its parts. But Heraclitus and Zeno,
notwithstanding this, are not accounted Atheists,
because they supposed their fiery matter to have
not only life, but also a perfect understanding,
originally belonging to it, as also the whole world
to be an animal: whereas those Materialists of
Aristotle made senseless and stupid matter, de­
void of all understanding and life, to be the first
principle and root of all things. Bor, when they
supposed life and understanding, as well as all
other differences of things, to be nothing but mere
passions and accidents of matter, generable out
of it, and corruptible again into it, and indeed to
be produced, but in a secondary way, from the
fortuitous commixture of those first elementary
qualities, heat and cold, moist and dry, thick and
thin, they plainly implied the substance of matter
in itself to be devoid of life and understanding.
Now, if this be not Atheism, to derive the origi­
nal of all things, even of life and mind itself, from
• Metapbyiic. lib. $. c, iji. p. 2(35, tom. iv. oper.
DOWNRIGHT ATHEISTS. . 261
dead and stupid matter fortuitously moved, then
there can he up such thing at all.
EIii. Moreover, Aristotle’s Materialists con­
cluded every thing besides the substance of mat­
ter (which is in itself indifferent to all things), and
consequently all particular and determinate be­
ings, to be generable and corruptible. Which is
a thing, that Plato takes notice of as an Atheistic
principle, expressing it in these words: tori pi*
yap ovSfaror’ ovSiv, « | SI ytyverw, that DO* xbevt.
thing ever is, but every thing is made
and generated.—Forasmuch as it plainly follows,
from hence, that not only all animals and the
souls of men, but also if there were any gods,
which some of those Materialists would not stick,
at least verbally, to acknowledge (meaning there­
by certain understanding'beings superior to men),
these likewise must needs have been all gene­
rated, and consequently be corruptible. Now, to
say that.there is no other God, than such as was
made and generated, and which may be again un­
made, corrupted, and die, or that there was once
no God at all till he was made out of the matter,
and that there may be none again, this is all one.
as to deny the thing itself. For a native and mor­
tal God is a pure contradiction. There­
fore, whereas Aristotle, in his Metaphy-
sics, tells us of certain theologers, oi «
vw
cTO
f rdvra ytvvwvrtc, such as did generate all
things (even the gods themselves) out of night
and chaos,—we must needs pronounce of such
theologers as these, who were Theogonists, and'
generated all the gods (without exception) out of
senseless and stupid matter, that they were but a
kind of atheistical Theologers, or theological
GREAT DIFFERENCE BETWIXT? THE
Atheists. ' Fori though -they- did ladttiit of CCril&hib
beings, to 'which they attributed-the DameO#gOds;U
yet, according;to the true notion ofGod, ithey
really acknowledged none at all (i. e. no under*'
standing nature as the original of things); 'but*
Night and Chaos; senseless and slupidfflattev;»
fortuitously moved, was to them the highest of -all*1
Nubiens. So that this theology of their’s was»la,;
thihg wholly founded in atheistical nobsensei '{
xiv.”And now- we think it seasonable here to>
observe, how vast a differencfe there was betwixt1
thesfe old Materialists in ■
Aristotle, and- ithose*
other philosophers,1mentioned before in tbe first*
chapter, who determined; avSev ovSe yiyvtoQacovSk'-
<f£tlpe<rQai twv <5vrwv* That Do realeutity at all was-’
generated or corrupted,-—
for this reason, because
nothing could be made out of nothing. Thesti-
were chiefly the philosophers of the Italic OrPy *
thagbric succession ; and their design in it- was*
not, as Aristotle was pleased somewhere to affirm-,-1
avtXeiv irZoav rrjv yivtn v, tOcontradict common sense-
and experience, in denying all natural generations1
and alterations; but only to- interpret nature-
rightly in them, and that in way of opposition-
to those Atheistic Materialists, after this manner
that in all the mutations of nature, generations,-
and alterations, there was neither any new sub­
stance made, which was not before,-nor any entity
really distinct from the pre-existing substances,1
but only that substance which was before, diverse-*
ly modified; and so nothing produced in genera­
tions, but new modifications, mixtures, and sepa­
rations of pre-existent substances.
Now this doctrine of. their’s drove at these two"
things: first, the taking away of such qualities
M AfEttlAI/ISTS AND PYTHAGOBICS. 253
ati&dbrmsofbody, as were vulgarlyconceived to
be things really distinct from the substance of
extended bulk, and all its modifications of more:
or-less magnitude, figure, site, motion, Or re st .
Because* if there were any such things as these,’
produced in the natural generations and altera*:
iions of bodies, there would then ,be some real -
entity made oc- pq&vocIwirapyovroc %rpoinrapyoin’tf, I
owt of nothing inexisterit or pre-existent.—Wbere-
fore they concluded, that these supposed forms'
and qualities of bodies were really nothing else:
brtt only the different modifications of pre-exist­
ent matter, in respect of magnitude, figure, .site)
and motion,.or rest;: or different concretions and;
secretions, which are no entities really distinct,
from the substance,,but only cause different phas-.
roata,'fancies, and apparitions in us.
The second thing, which this doctrine aimed
at,, was the establishing the incorporeity and in-:
generability of all souls. For, since life, cogita­
tion,, sense, and understanding, could not be re-,
solved into those modifications of matter, magni­
tude, figure, site, and-motion, or into mechanism
and fancy, but must needs be entities really dis-f
tinct from extended bulk, or dead and stupid
matter; they concluded, that therefore souls could
not be generated out of matter,, because this would
be the production of some real entity out of no­
thing inexisting or pre-existing; but that they
must needs be another kind of substance incor­
poreal, which could no more be generated or cor­
rupted,' than the substance of matter itself; and;
therefore, must either pre-exist in nature,.before
generations, or else be divinely created and in*
fused in them. /
254 GREAT DIFFERENCE BETWIXT THE
- It hath been already proved in the first chap­
ter, that the upshot of that Fytbagoric doctrine,
that nothing could be generated out of nothing
preexisting, amounted to those two things men­
tioned, viz. the asserting of the incorporeity and
ingenerability of souls, and the rejecting of those
fantastic entities of forms and real qualities of
bodies, and resolving all corporeal phenomena
into figures or atoms, and the different apparitions
or fancies caused by them. But the latter of these
may be further confirmed from this passage of
Aristotle’s, where, after he had declared that De­
mocritus and Leucippus made the soul and fire
to consist of round atoms or figures, like those
cvr<
pHpi Qua/iara, those ramenta that appear in the
air when the sunbeams are transmitted through
crannies; he adds, eouce B
e km to irapa
N s t AllSC. 1. t t f \ t t * V it
1 . c . 2 . [ T h i s ™ v llv u a y o p e ifo v A e y p / i e v o v , r i y v clvttiv £ % u v
m f s t ^ k e 6 f o r & ® v o l a v * i f a a a v y a p n v e g a v r a l v , ifwyrriv u v a i r a
nTi^d^n*8 ^ <
r
^iara»0
1 T
<
*Ta^TaK
ivovv* And
m a , c a p . i i . that which is said amongst the Pytha-
op».3°mu’ goreans seems to have the same sense,
for some of them affirm, that the soul is
those very gurpara, ramenta, or atoms; but others
of them, that it is that which moves them:—which
latter doubtless were the genuine Pythagoreans.
However, it is plain, from hence, that the old
Pythagoreans physiologized by Zvopara, as well as
Democritus; that is, figures and atoms, and not
qualities and forms.
But Aristotle’s Materialists, on the contrary,
taking it for granted, that matter, or extended
bulk, is the only substance, and that the qualities
and forms of bodies are entities really distinct
from those modifications of magnitude, figure,
MAVSBIAEirrS AND PYTHAGORiee. 2S&
site, motion, or rest; and finding also, by expe­
rience, that these were cohtinually generated and
corrupted, as likewise that life, sense, and under­
standing were produced in the bodies of such
animals, where it had not been before, and again
’ extinguished at the death or corruption of them,
concluded, that the souls of all animals, as well
as those other qualities and forms of bodies, were
generated out of the matter, and corrupted again
into it; and, consequently, that every thing that
is in the whole world, besides the substance of
matter, was made Or generated, and might be
again corrupted.
Of this Atheistic doctrine, Aristotle l.a. c . i . p.
speaks elsewhere, as in his book De
Ccelo. tun yap Tivtf ot <j>a<rtv, ov0*v ayfvvtrov
tlvai raw vpayparwv, aXXa iravra yiyvsoOat' paXurra ptv
oi mpl rov 'HaxoSov, sera SI Kai ruv aXXtav, ot irpwrot fv-
tnoXoyvtravric’ ot Si, ra piv aXXa iravra ylvtaOai re fa n ,
Kai ptiv, ctvat Si irayuoe ovdiv. *v Si rt povov viropivtiv, *£
oi ravra iravra ptraoyifpariCtoQai irifvKtv’ There are
some who affirm, that nothing is iugenerable, but
that all things are made; as Hesiod especially,
and also among the rest they who first pbysiolo-
gized, whose meaning was, that all other things
are made (or generated) and did flow, none of
them having any stability; only that there was
one thing (namely, matter) which always remain­
ed, out of which all those other things were trans­
formed and metamorphosed.—Though, as to He­
siod, Aristotle afterwards speaks differently. So
likewise in his Physics, after he had declared,
that some of the ancients made air, some water,
and some other matter, the principle of • ^ &u
all things; he adds, * t o v TO teal ro<ravTT)v P - 4 6 3 , o p e r .
256 HOW THE MATERIALISTS EXPLAINED,
<j>a
m
v eiiwi rqv atraaav avo'uivs,rd-Sld«AX(i.>7r<£vT» >nfti fO^~\
n o , Kat t£«ic, Kill StaOcvttg' Kat irpyrann (iiv- ©nOM*’ '*'**•*•
a&tov* ra SeaXXa yiyvtaOaiKal &mtpiniti'' 'T1m8>
theyuffirmed to bis' aH the sUbstanceor^ssfencp-.
that was; but-all other.thibgs, tthe-passiofts^iaft:
factions, and dispositions of it; rand thattbis,>
therefore, was eternal as being *capable of :no>
change, but all other ithings infinitely generated;
and corrupted.— ,r.iI.-:-:- •;;> >. ;-o b-.*»i:Tjn i.-;
Xv._ But these Materialists being sometimes*as*,
saulted by the other Italic' philosophers, in,ihe;
manner before declared* that no real entities* disr
tinct from the modifications of .any substance*;
could be generated or corrupted, because1
nothing
couldcomefrotii nothing, ;rior go to nothing ; they;
would not seem plainly to contradict thattheoremy
but only endeavoured to interpret jt into a" comr
pliance with their own hypothesis, and distinguish
concerning the sense of it in this manner ; that it.
ought to be understood only of the substance of<
matter, and nothing else, viz. that no mattercould<
be made or corrupted, but that all other things
whatsoever, not only forms and qualities of bo­
dies, but also souls ; ’life, sense, and understand--
ing, though really different from magnitude, fi-:
gure, site, and motion, yet ought to be accounted
only the iraOt), the passions and accidents of thife
matter, and therefore might be generated out of
it, and corrupted again into it, and, that without-
the production or destruction of any- real entity,:
matter being the only thing that is accounted:
such. All this we learu. from these, words,Of
M e t a p h . 1.1. Aristotle, KM Bta t o v t o ovrt yiyvto&at ovBtv
c. 3- p- 464. oiovrai, out* orroXXvwStti, (0Q T rig T o ia v n jg <bv~:
toraav.open #^ ^ ^ t
treatg an wtrinp/oe rov S&tcpan)
NOTHING GUT O f NOTHING. 257
f
p iv olitfyl'fV ta ^ a i alrX
(5c, ornvy ly v ttm t tcoX
oc9/totw
ru
tof,
tvrt air^X
vtfA
u,' clrwd ie o fia W t/ rfcvracr«ct$nt) ro
viro/tlvav-to vm
tK
U
/tfvov,: r i b 5W
f«*ri> au»*v, our«c:
rth ' aAAwv bvSfv* A? yap aiKtirlv# fvetvi ^^lav, i leXpouc
'fuZy,;<*£:<
3
».yfyutrai. *o £k\ai autofiiviK wcdtaKf .The
sense whereof is this: And, therefore, as to that
axiom of some philosophers, that nothing is either
generated oridestiioyed, these Materialists admit
it to.be true in; respect of the;substance of matter
oiriy, which ;iis alivays.preserved the same; as,*
-say they,!We do h6t say, that Socrates .is simply
K)t absolutely .mhdej whoa he is made either hand­
some ormasical, orthabbe is destroyed when he
tloseth tbolae disptositiofas, -because the subject So­
crates still remains' the same; so neither are we to
say, that any thing else is.absolutely either.gene­
rated or corrupted, because .the substance or mat­
ter of every thing always continues. For there
must needs be some certain nature, from which
~allother things are generated, that still remaining
one and the satne.—
-
. We have noted this passage of Aristotle’s the
rather, because this is just the very doctrine of
Atheists at this day; that the substance of matter
or extended bul^ is the only real entity, and
.therefore the only unmade thing, that is neither
generable nor creatable, but necessarily existent
from eternity; but whatever else is in the world,
as .life and animality, soul and mind, being all
-but accidents and affections of this matter (as if
therefore they had no real entity at all in them),
are generable out of nothing and corruptible into
nothing, sb long as the matter, in which they are,
still remains the same. The result of which is
no less than this, that there can be no other gods
258 ETERNITY OF THE WORLD
or god, than such as was at first made or generated
out of senseless matter, and may be corrupted
again into it. Aftd here indeed lies the grand
mystery of Atheism, that every thing besides the
substance ofmatter is made or generated, and may
be again unmade or corrupted
However, Anaxagoras, though an Ionic philo­
sopher, and therefore, as shall be declared after­
ward, successor to those Atheistic Materialists,
was at length so far convinced by that Pythagoric
doctrine, that no entity could be naturally gene­
rated out of nothing,-as that he departed from his
predecessors herein, and did for this reason ac­
knowledge mind and soul, that is, all cogitative
being, to be a substance really distinct from mat­
ter, neither generable out of it nor corruptible into
it; as also that the forms and qualities of bodies
(which he could not yet otherwise conceive of
.than as things really distinct from those modifica­
tions of magnitude, figure, site, and motion), must
for the same cause pre-exist beforfe generations in
certain similar atoms,.and remain after corruptions,
being only secreted and concreted in them. By
means whereof he introduced a certain spurious
Atomism of his own; for whpreas the genuine
Atomists before his time had supposed ojkovq
avopolovs, dissimilar atoms,—devoid of all forms
and qualities, to be the principles of all bodies,
Anaxagoras substituted in the room of them his
oftotofieptut, his similar atoms,—endued from eter­
nity with all manner of forms and qualities incor-
ruptibly.
. xvi. We have made it manifest, that those Mate­
rial philosophers, described by Aristotle, were ab­
solute Atheists, not merelybecause they madebody
DENIED BY THE ATHEISTB. 359
to be the only substance, though that be a thing,
which Aristotlehimselfjustly reprehends
them for also in these words of his, wto«M
et«ph.1.1.
fitv ovv cv re to wav Kat ftiav t ‘val rtva <j>vaiv, tom.iv.oper.
vXijv riBsaoi, teat ravnjv ou>(iariKqv, nai pt-
■yffloc iyvvaav, SqXov ori iroXXo^c apapravovat, rwv y ip
ottifiarwv ra aroiytia rtOian /bovov, ruvSt aotvfiarurv ov,
ovrwv Kat aawfiarow' They who suppose the world
to be one uniform thing, and acknowledge only
one nature as the matter, aud this corporeal or in­
dued with magnitude, it is evident, that they err
many ways, and particularly in this, that they set
down only the elements of bodies, and not of in­
corporeal thiugs, though there be also things in­
corporeal.—I say, we have not concluded them
Atheists, merely for this reason, because they de­
nied incorporeal substance, but because they de­
duced all things whatsoever from dead and stupid
matter, and made every thing in the world, be­
sides the bare substance of matter, devoid of all
quality, generable and corruptible.
Now we shall take notice ofan objection, made
by some late writers, against this Aristotelic ac­
cusation of the old philosophers, founded upon a
passage of Aristotle’s own, who else­
where, in his book De Ccelo, speaking ^ 1 . '^
of the heaven or world, plainly affirms, i °PC
T
-
ytvoptvov fiiv oSv iw avrte tlval (fnimv, that all
the philosophers before himself did assert the
world to have been made, or have had a begin­
ning.—-From whence these writers infer, that
therefore they must needs be all Theists, and hold
the Divine creation ofthe world; and consequently,
that Aristotle contradicts himself, in representing
many of them as Atheists, acknowledging only
1
8
6
0 .eternity or the world
one material principle of the whole universe,
without any intending or efficient, cause., But:we
cannot but pronounce this to be a great error in
these writers, to conclude all those, who. held the
world to have been made, therefore to have been
Theists; whereas it is certain on the contrary, that
all the first and most ancient Atheists did (in
-Aristotle’s language) -koafioiraiuvri ■ytvvcjwro v.KoafiQV,
make or generate to the world,—that is, suppose
it not to have been from, eternity, but to have had
a temporary beginning; as likewise that-it was
corruptible, aud would, some time or other, have
an end again. The sense of which Atheistic
philosophers is represented by Lucretius.in this
manner :a
Et quoniam docui, mundi mortalia templa
Esse, et nativo consistere corpore coelum,
Et qusecunque in eo fiunt, fientque, necesse
Esse ea dissolvi.
And there seems to be indeed a necessity, in rea-
. son, that they, who derive all things from a fortu-
.itous principle, and hold every thing besides the
..substance ofmatter to have beengenerated, should
suppose the world to have been generated likewise,
as also to be corruptible. Wherefore, it may well
be reckoned for one of the vulgar errors, that all
Atheists .held the eternity of the world.
Moreover, when Aristotle subjoins immediately
after, aXXa ysvojusvov, ot fttv atBiov, ot SI <j>6apTOv, that
though the ancient philosophers all held the world
to have been made, yet, notwithstanding, they
were divided in this, that some of them supposed,
for all that, that it would continue to eternity such
*Lib. Ti.ver.43. AddeHb.v. ver. 236.
DENIED BY THE ATHEISTS. 261
ft*it is, others, that it would be corrupted again;
the former of these, who conceived the world to
be ytvofttvov, but atBiov, made, but eternal, were
Done of them Atheists, but all Theists. Such as
Plato, whom Aristotle seems particularly to per-
strioge for this, who in his Timeeus introduceth the
supreme Deity bespeaking those inferior gods, the
sun, moon, and stars (supposed by that philoso­
pher to be animated) after this manner:
a SI tfiov yf.yop.tva, aXvra, epovyc‘SiXovro^, to
pkv ovv M b irav Xvrov" royt ptfv KaXmc appo-
o(&V KM£/<W to, XveIV iQiXuV, K
O
JC
O
V
"SI a K
C
UtTn'nrip yey*-
vryjQt, adavaroi piv ovk tori, oh
$ mXvroi ro wapirav. oin piv
Sij XvOriaeofieye, ouSe Ttv&ofk Boyarov palpag" rye iprtQfiov-
AuitewcfUtCwoe in Setrpov«<u Kopuartpov XayovrtQ' Those
things, which are made by me, are indissoluble by
sny will; and though every thing which is com­
pacted; be in its own nature dissolvable, yet it is
not the part of one that is good, to will the dissolu­
tion or destruction of any thing that was once
-well made. Wherefore, though you are not abso­
lutely immortal, nor altogether indissolvable, yet
notwithstanding you shall not be dissolved^ nor
«ver die; my will being a stronger band to hold
you together, than any thing else can be to loosen
you.—Philo and other Theists followed Plato in
-tills, asserting, that though the world was made,
yet it woitld never be-corrupted, but have a post-
•eternity. Whereas all the ancient Atheists, namely,
those who derived the original of things from na­
ture and fortune, did at once deny both eternities
-to the world, past and future. Though we can­
not say, that none hut Atheists did this; for Em­
pedocles and Heraclitus, and afterward the Stoics,
did not only suppose the world likewisegenerated,
VOL. i. s
262 ETERNITY OF THE WORLD
and to be again corrupted, but also that this had
been, and would be done over and over again, in
infinite vicissitudes.
Furthermore, as the world’s eternity was gene­
rally opposed by all the ancient Atheists, so it
was maintained also by some Theists, and that
not only Aristotle,* but also before him, by Ocel­
lus Lucanusb at least, though Aristotle thought
not fit to take any notice of him ; as likewise the
latter Platonists universally went that way, yet
so, as that they always supposed the world to
have as much depended upon the Deity, as if it
had been once created out of nothing by it.
To conclude, therefore: neither they, who as­
serted the world’s generation and temporary be­
ginning, were all Theists, nor they, who maintain­
ed its eternity, all Atheists; but before Aristotle’s
time, the Atheists universally, and most of the
Theists, did both alike conclude the world to
have been made; the difference between them ly­
ing in this, that the one affirmed the world to
have been made by God, the other by the fortuit­
ous motion of matter.
Wherefore, if we would put another difference
betwixt the Theists and Atheists here, as to this
particular, wemust distinguish betwixt the system
ofthe world and the substance of the matter. For
the ancient Atheists, though they generally de­
nied the eternity of the world, yet they supposed
the substance of the matter, not only to have
been eternal, but also self-existent and indepen­
dent upon any other Being; they making it the
first principle and original of all things, and con-
* Physic. Auscultat. lib. viil.
k•»{*trirrmfirm, inter Scriptor. Mythol. a Tho. Gale editos, p. 601.
DENIED BY THE ATHEISTS. 263
sequently the only Numen. Whereas the genuine
Theists,. though many of them maintained the
world's eternity, yet they all concluded, both the
form and substance of it to have always depended
upon the Deity, as the light doth upon the sun;
the Stoics with some others being here excepted.
x v i i . Aristotle tells us, some were of opinion,
that this Atheistic philosophy, which derives all
things from senseless and stupid matter in the way
offorms and qualities, was of great antiquity, and
as old as any records of time amongst the Greeks;
and not only so, but also that the ancient
Tbeologers themselves entertained it: Eicrl M
et1.1.c . s.
«, • > » -v , , , ( tom. iv. oper.
c t nvcc, ot $cai rowc irapiraAatove, km iroAw irpo p. 265.
r»jc vwv ytvkavxx;, km npwrovg Ookoynaavrag,
o/6twq otovrat irepl rqg tyvatug &aXa/3«v* Oxeavov re yap
Kal Tijdvv iirolijoav tjjc yivtasuiQ irartpac, Acai rov opxov rwv
d w v vSatp, ti}v Ka\ovptvr)v vir avrtov Srw*yo ra>v 7ro»»rrwv.
TipiwraTov ptv yap to irpttrfivraTov' opKog 8e ro ripuorarov
ioriv' There are some who conceive, that even the
most ancient of all, and the most remote from this
present generation, and they also who first theo­
logized, did physiologize after this manner; foras­
much as they made the Ocean andTethys to have
been the original of generation; and for this cause
the oath of the gods is said to be by water (called
by the poets Styx), as being that from which they
all derived their original. For an oath ought to
be by that, which is most honourable; and that
which is most ancient, is most honourable.—In
which words it is very probable, that Aristotle
aimed at Plato;however, it iscertain, that Plato, in
his Theaetetus,* affirms this Atheistic doctrine to
have been very ancient, «n vavra ixyava pow r* K
al
* P. 118.
s 2
264 MATERIALISM THE MOST
k
u
m
jV w
c
, that all things were the offspring of flux
and motion,—that is, that all things were madie
and generated out of matter; and that he chargeth
Homer with it, in deriving the original of the gods
themselves in like manner from the Ocean (or
floating matter) in this verse of his,
’SlKtaiov rs 6toh y in r iv , xat / jn rif u Tudor,
Tbe fatlier ofall gods the Ocean is,
Tetliys their mother.
Wherefore, these indeed seem to have been the
ancientest of all Atheists, who, though they ac­
knowledged certain beings superior to men, which
they called by the name of gods, did notwith*
standing really deny a God, according to the true
notion of him, deriving the original of all things
whatsoever in tbe universe from the ocean, that is,
fluid matter, or, which is all one, from night and
chaos; and supposing all their gods to hate been
made and generated, and consequently to be mor­
tal and corruptible. Of which Atheistic theology
Aristophanes gives us the description in his Aves,“
after this manner: “ That at first was nothing but
Night and Chaos, which layingan egg, from thence
was produced Love, that mingling again with
Chaos, begot heaven, and earth, and animals, and
all the gods.”
Xaoff h , itat rv£ , !$f$og r cfilXav vpafarov, Jteu T a p r A p g tvpug.
iH
Jy, o'vV o£y oypavof?»• hpl0ovg V h airstport xS kvo ig
' Th i m w p e g rtrrw ixrn vtfxiw v v ( h /u^Xavofrrt^og iov.
’e£ (Z m ptnpXkofM VM C S fA tg i{3 \a o ’r n * E g » g ©voduvog.
Irthfiofft v
SJtov Trrtfvyoivpcpwrcuv. tlx&g anpoeMin Mraif.
Ovrog H x&ti vnpkrrt fjuytig xat& T&fretfw tvpvt,
'Enfrmvcri ytvogbfxtrtpov, Kai irpurot awytvyiv eg <p&c,
Tlpinpcv i* ovk h ybog a&av&rw, owi/uif'Ev chrarra.
• Yer. 694. p. 404. edit. Kusteri.
ANCIENT OF ALL ATHEISMS. 2 6 5
First, all was chaos, one confused heap;
Darknbss enwrapt the disagreeing deep;
In a mixt crowd the jumbling elements were,
Nor earth, nor air, nor heaven did appear;
Till on this horrid vast abyss of things,
TeemingNight, spreading o'er her coal-black wings,*
Laid the first egg; whence, after time's doe course,
Issu'd forth Love (the world's prolific source)
Glistering with golden wings;Which fluttering o'er
Dark Chaos, gendered all the numerous store
Ofanimals and gods; &c,
And whereas tfte poet there makes the birds to
have been begotten between love and chaos before
all the gods; though one might think this to have
been done jocularly by him, merely to humourhis
plot; yet Salmasius" conceives, and .not without
some reason, that it was really apiece of the old
Atheistic cabala, which therefore seems to have
run thus: That chaos or matter confusedly moved
being the first original of all, things did from
thence rise up gradually from lesser to greater
perfection. First, inanimate things, as the ele­
ments, heaven, earth, and seas; then brute ani­
mals ; afterwards men, and last of all the gods.
As if not only the substance of matter, and those
inanimate bodies of the elements, fire, water, air,
and earth, were, as Aristotle somewhere speaks,
according to the sense of those Atheistic
theologers, *<pvaei irporepa rov .Otov, O
fol Se Kal £O
I iib*£c!
ravra, first in order ofnature before God, ?•p-.735-
as being themselves also gods,—but also
brute animals at least, if not men too. And this
is the Atheistic creation of the world, gods and
all, out of senseless and stupid matter, or dark
chaos, as the only original Numen; the perfectly
inverted order of the universe.
a Exercitat. Plinian. in Solinum, tom. i. p. 309.
2 6 6 SOME, WHO MADE l o v e t h e
xviii. But though this hypothesis be purely
atheistical, that makes Love, which is supposed
to be the original Deity, to have itself sprung at
first from an egg of the night; and, consequent­
ly, that all,deity was the creature or offspring of
matter and chaos, or dark fortuitous nature; yet
Aristotle somewhere conceives, that, not only
Parmenides, but also Hesiod, and some others,
who did in like manner make Love the supreme
deity, and derive all things from Love and Chaos,
were to be exempted out of the number of those
Atheistic Materialists before described; foras­
much as they seemed to understand by love, an
active principle and cause of motion in the uni­
verse ; which, therefore, could not spring from an
egg of the night, nor be the creature of matter,
but must needs be something independent on it,
and in order of nature before it: 'vmnmvotu 8 av
riq , 'HfftoSov irpwrov ‘
Cnrrtaai to t o io v t o v , k $ v « tic aXXoc,
"Eptora y ’Eirtdvjutav, ev rote ovatv idi}Kiv wg apy^yv, oJov
teal II(ip/tev(Si)c« Kat yap ovrog KaraaKtvaZuv «}v rou
7rovTOc ylvemv,
n^tunrrov fxvi egoroi BtSv fAnriraro v&rroa.
HcnoSoc Se,
naxrotv fjth ylutt yim'' aurig ivSim
raT lUgUgTfgVOff,—■■
■
W egof, of /u*r<wglwu aBavarounv.
€
*>
c Seov iv TOIQ ovaiv vwap^eiv nva airlav, $rig /avijtret Kat
avvi^et ra irpaypara. tovtovq p\v ovv tt<
oq y^p1} Siavupai
TTEpt TOV T ig 7rp(t)TOg9 £%E<TTO) KptVElV VOTSpOV' O n e WOllld
suspect, that Hesiod, and if there be any other
Aristot. Metaphys. lib. i. cap. iv. p. 267.
SUPREME DEITY, NO ATHEISTS. 267
who made love or desire a principle of things in
the universe, aimed at this very thing (namely,
the settling of another active principle besides
matter): for Parmenides, describing the genera­
tion of the universe, makes Love to be the senior
of all the gods; and Hesiod, after he had men­
tioned chaos, introduced Love as the supreme
Deity. As intimating herein, that besides matter,
there ought to be another cause or principle, that
should be the original of motion and activity, and
also hold and conjoin all things together. But
how these two principles are to be'ordered, and
which of them was to be placed first, whether
Love or Chaos, may be judged of afterwards.—-In
which latter words Aristotle seems to intimate,
that Love, as taken for an active principle, was
not to be supposed to spring from Chaos, but ra­
ther to be in order of nature before it; and, there­
fore, by this Love of their’s must needs be meant
the Deity. And, indeed, Simmias Rbodius, in
his Wiugs, a hymn made in honour of this Love,
that is senior to all the gods, and a principle in
the universe, teHs us plainly, that it is not Cupid,
Venus’s soft and effeminate son, but another kind
of love:
Ovri yt ftfargifec *«?<?•'
'SUtuvirag to
*avto$*£fJUtXiv/
juu
Gv r t y if btgmt $ta£uv, irageiy* rrti6oi.
ro u t, 6ct\cur<ras ti ougavu* mwtg r t $tog fto t h m .
Tfiv y iyoay ix K xrfyra fxrn aryvyim a iia v rg w , ixpanva, r t BifAierrttg.
I’m not that wanton boy,
The sea-froath goddess’s only joy.
Pure heavenly Love I bight, and my
Softmagic charms, not iron bands, fast tye
Heaven, earth, and seas. The gods themselves do readily
Stoop to my laws. The whole world dances to myharmony.
268 SLIGHT DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE
Moreover, this cannot be that Love neither,
which is described in Plato’s Symposium (as some
learned men have conceived), that was begotten
between Penia and Porns, this being not a divine
but demoniac thing (as the philosopher there de­
clares), no God, but a demon only, or of a middle
nature. For it is nothing but ^tXotcaXta, or the
love of pulchritude as such, which, though rightly
used, may perhaps wing and inspire the mind to
noble and generous attempts, and beget a scorn­
ful disdain in it of mean, dirty, and sordid things;
yet is capable of being abused also, and then it
will strike downward into brutishness and sensu­
ality. But at best it is an affection belonging
only to imperfect and parturient beings; and
therefore could not be the first principle of all
things. Wherefore, we see no very great reason
but that, in a rectified and qualified sense, this
may pass for true theology; that Love is the su­
preme Deity and original of all things; namely,
if by it be meant eternal, self-originated, intellec­
tual Love, or essential and substantial goodness,
that having an infinite overflowing fulness and fe­
cundity, dispenses itselfuninvidiously, according
to the best wisdom, sweetly governs all, without
any force or violence (all things being naturally
subject to its authority, and readily obeying its
laws), and reconciles the whole world into har­
mony. For the Scripture telling us, that God is
love, seems to warrant thus much to us, that love
in some rightly qualified sense is God.
xix. But we are to omit the fabulous age, and
to descend to the philosophical, to inquire there,
who they were among the professed philosophers,
who atheized in that manner before described. It
DEMOCRITIG? AND PYLOPATHIANS. $ 69
is true, indeed, that Aristotle, in other plfuce& ac­
cuses Democritus and Leucippus of the very
same thing, that is, of assigning only a material
cause of the pniverse, and giving po account of
the original of motion; but yet it is certain, that
these were not the persons intended by bun here;
those which he speaks of being nvec ™
>v
ftkwrwfaravTuv, some of the first and most ancient
philosophers of all.—Moreover, it appears by the
description of them, that they were such as did
not philosophize in the way ofatoms, but resolved
all things whatsoever in the universe into vXn
and infft? riic vXw, matter, and the passions or af­
fections, qualities and forms of matter; so that
they were not Atomical, but Hylopathian philo­
sophers, These two, the old Materialists and
the Democritus, did both alike derive all things
from dead and stupid matter, fortuitously moved;
and the difference between them was only this,
that the Democritics managed this business in the
way of atoms, the other in that more vulgar Way
of qualities and forms; so that, indeed, this is
really butane and the same Atheistic hypothesis,
in two several schemes. And as one of them is
called the Atomic Atheism, so the other, for dis­
tinction sake, may be called, the Hylopathian.
xx. Now Aristotle tells up plainly, that these
Hylopathian Atheists of his were all the first phi­
losophers of the Ionic order and succession, be­
fore Anaxagoras. Wherefore Thales being the
head, he is consentaneously thereunto by Aristo­
tle made to ;he apypjyoc TtJe<raiaur>jc (piXoirotpiaC) the
prince and leader of this kind of Atheistical phi­
losophy,—he deriving all things whatsoever, .as
Homer had done before him, from water, and ac-
2 7 0 ANAXIMANDER THE FIRST
knowledging no other principle but the fluid
matter.
Notwithstanding which accusation of Aristo­
tle’s, Thales is far otherwise represented by good
authors: Cicero* telling us, that, besides water,
which he made to be the original of all corporeal
things, he asserted also mind for another princi­
ple, which formed all things out of the water; and
Laertiusband Plutarch' recording, that he was
thought to be the first of all philosophers, who
determined souls to be immortal. He is said also
to have affirmed,4that God was vptofivraTw irdvrwv,
the oldest of all things, and that the world was
vouifta O
eov, the workmanship of God.—Clemens'
likewise tells us, that being asked, el \av6dvu ro
Ouov TTpdaawv rl d avOponroQ; Ral ira>c, *wr*v, dayt ovSe
Siavoov/uvoe: whether any of a man’s actions could
be concealed from the Deity ? he replied, not so
much as any thought.—Moreover, Laertius' fur­
ther writes of him, that he held rov xoapov
km Sailuovwv irXdpq, that the world was animated,
and full of demons.—Lastly, Aristotle8himself
elsewhere speaks of him as a Theist; K
C
L
liv T
O
) o\(p
8e Ttvec fizfiiyrQcu tfraalv, oOev i<rwg kcu @aXi?c <oi?0i|
7T
avra irXifpii O&av elvai. Some tbiak (saith he) that
soul and life is mingled with the whole universe;
and thence, perhaps, was that of Thales, that all
things are full of gods. Wherefore, we conceive,
*De Natur. Deor. lib. i. cap, x. p. 2894. tom. ix. oper.
h Lib. i. segm. 24. p. 16.
cDe Placit Philos, lib. iv. cap. ii. p. 908. tom. ii. oper.
4 dDiog. Laert. lib. i. segm.65. p. 21. et Plutarch, in Convivioseptem
sapientum, p. 153. tom. ii. oper.
eClemens Alex. Stromat. lib. v. p. 704. edit. Potteri.
1 Lib.i. segm. 27. p. 18.
1De Anima, lib. Lcap. v. p. 17. tom. ii. oper.
ATHEISTICAL PHILOSOPHER. 271
that there is very good reason, why Thales should
be acquitted from this accusation of Atheism.
Only we shall observe the occasion of his being
thus differently represented, which seems to have
been this; because, as Laertius* and Themistius*
intimate, he left no philosophic writings or monu­
ments of his own behipd him (Apaximander being
the first of all the philosophic writers): whence
probably it came to pass, that, in after times,
some did interpret his philosophy one way, some
another; and that he is sometimes represented as
aTheist, and sometimes again as a downright
Atheist.
But,, though Thales be thus by good authority
acquitted, yet his next successor, Anaximander,
can by no means be excused from this imputa­
tion ; and, therefore, we think it more reasonable
to fasten that title upon him, which Aristotle
bestows on Thales, that he was «/>x»ryoc rqc rot-
avrnc ^tX
o<To^tac, the prince and founder of this
Atheistic philosophy;—who derived all things
from matter, in the way of forms and qualities;
he supposing a certain infinite materia prima,
which was neither air, nor water, nor fire, but
indifferent to every thing, or a mixture of all,
to be the only principle of the universe, and lead­
ing a train of many other Atheists after him, such
as Hippo, surnamed afeoc by Simplicius and
others, Anaximenes, and Diogenes Apolloniates,
and many more; who, though they had some
petty differences amongst themselves, yet all
agreed in this one thing, that matter, devoid of
understanding and life, was the first principle of
* Lib. i. segm. 23. p. 15. bOrat. xxvi. p. 317. edit Harduin.
272 ANAXIMANDER THE FIRST
all things; tillatlength Anaxagoras stopped ibis
Atheistic current amongst these Ionic philoso­
phers, introducing mjn<| as p principle of the uni­
verse.
XXi. J3pt there is a passage in 4ristot|e’s Phy­
sics, §epn}s at first sight to cqotradict Jhjs
again; and to make 4 WHUandef- also nqj; to
hpye b(?en an Atheist, bpt a Pivine philosopher:
wbcfie. b,Sring declared that several of fhe an­
cient physiojogers fnade avapov, or Infinite, to be
principle of all things, be subjoins these
W ords, Bio KaOamp teyoptv, ou ravnjc ®kX’ aurq
't<
jjv aXXfov ttvai Boku, Kai 7
npieynuv airavra (cat iravra '
icvfitpvqv, wq <p(/,<jlv otroi jut) Troiovcn irapd ro aw&pov aW ag
atrta,9, olyy voyv, q <(>{\ig.y. K«i rovro tlvai ro Ouov, a0a-
varov yqp xai av^XcOpov, woirtp ftjaiv o 'Ava^ipavBpog
xai 91 jtT
iuotoi riHv ^vqioXoyuiv’ Therefore, there seems
to h# fl9 principle ,of this Infinite, but this to b,e
the principle pf ojther things, ^nd to cont^n all
j h w . -fflt g/r*VW as they all say,
yj^o do £
not make, brides tnfinjfe, any ojihey
capses, such as p^hd pr friendship; and that this
is fhp only real j^jpuen or God in tfoe world, it
befog iminortal and incorruptible, as Anaximan­
der affirms, and roost of the physiologers.—from
yybich place some fate writers have confidently
concluded, fhat Anaximander, with those other
physiologers ,there mentioned, did, by Infinite,
understand God, according to the true notion of
hipi, or an Infinite Mind, the efficient cause of the
pniverse, and not senseless and stupid matter;
Since tbis could not be spid to be immortal, and
to govern all things; pnd, consequently, that
Aristotle grossly contradicts himself, in making
all those Ionic philosophers before Anaxagoras to
ATHEISTICAL PHILOSOPHER. 273
have been mere ^Materialists or Atheists. And it
is possible, that Clemens AleXandriniis also might
from this very passage, of Aristotle’s, not suffi­
ciently considered, have been induced to rank
Anaximander amongstthe Divine philosophers, as
he doth in his iProtreptric to the Greeks; Where,
after he had condemned certain of the old philo­
sophers as Atheistic Corporealists, he subjoins
these 'words: *fw» S
* aXXaiv <j>tXoao$u>v,
tf j - « n t » \ . 9 9 f Clem.Prot.
oaoi rti crroiyreia v7T£ppavTEg, £7roAv7rpay/uovri<rav p.43.C
ap.y.
Tl VlpTjXoTtpOV Kal irtplTTOTipOV, 01 fitV aVTWV TO tom' '■
aimpov KaOvpvi)<xav, <3v Ava^ipavSpog o MiXtf-
moc qv, Kal ’Ava£tryopac o KXa£oplv(0£, Kal o ’Aftfiwrac
’Ap^iXaog. But of the other philosophers, who,
transcending all the elements, searched after sonte
higher and more excellent thing, Some of them
praised Infinite, amongst which was Anaximan­
der the Milesian, Anaxagoras the ClaXomenian,
and the Athenian Archelaus.—As if thCSe thi%e
had all alike acknowledged an incorporeal deity,
and made an infinite mind, distinct frOm matter,
the first original'Of all things.
But that forecited passage of Aristotle's alone,
W ell considered, 'will itSelfnffbrd a sufficient con­
futation of this opinion'; where AnaxirbaOder,
with those other physiologers, isplaitily opposed
to Anaxagoras, who, 'besides iiiflhite Senseless
matter, or similar atdifiis, ’made mihd to be bprin­
ciple of the universe,'as also'to EtnpedOclOs, Who
made a plastic life and hatfire, called ftfdhdship,
another principle of the corporeal wo?ld; frOtn
whence it plainly follows, that AtfaxiiriOiidOr 'and
the rest supposed not infinite mind, but infinite
matter, without either mirid or plastic matter, to
274 i n f i n i t e Ma t t e r , An a x im a n d e r ’s
have been the only original of all things, and
therefore the only Deity or Numen.
Moreover, Democritus being linked in the con­
text with Anaximander, as making both of them
alike, ro awapm, or Infinite, to be the first princi­
ple of all; it might as well be inferred from this
place, that Democritus was a genuine Theist, as
Anaximander. But as Democritus’s only prin­
ciple was infinite atoms, without any thiug of
mind or plastic nature; so likewise was Anaxi­
mander’s an infinity of senseless stupid matter .;
and, therefore, they were both of them Atheists
alike, though Anaximander, in the cited words,
had the honour (ifit may be so called) to be only
named, as being the most ancient of all those
Atheistical physiologers, and the ringleader of
them.
xxn. Neither ought it at all toseem strange, that
Anaximander, and those other Atheistical Mate,
rialists, should call infinite matter, devoid of all
understanding and life, the to 9uov, the Deity or
Numen, since to all those, who deny a God (ac­
cording to the true notion of him), whatsoever else
they substitute in his room, by making it the first .
principle of all things, though it be senseless and
stupid matter, yet this must needs be accounted
the only Numen, and divinest thing of all.
Nor is it to be wondered at neither, that this
infinite, being understood of matter, should be
said to be, not only incorruptible, but also immor­
tal, these two being often used as synonymous and
equivalent expressions. For thus in Lucretius,*
Lib.i. Ten. 672.'
SUPREME DEITY. 275
the corruption of all inanimate bodies is called
death:
-----------Mors ejus quod fuit ante;
And again,
* Quando aliud ex alio reficit nature, nec ullam
Rem gigni patitur, nisi morte adjutamaliena.
In like manner mortal is used by him for cor­
ruptible :
b Nam siquid mortale a cunctis partibus esset,
Ex oculis res quaeque repente erepta periret.
And this kind of language was very familiar with
Heraclitus,* as appears from these passages of
his, irvpoq Oavaroc, alpi ■ylvtate* Kal aipog Oavarog vSan yi-
vtmc* The death of fire is generation to air; and
the death of air is generation to water;—that is,
the corruption ofthem. And again, ifm
yrrjm
vO
avaroc,
v$wp yevlodai‘ vSari 8e Oavaroc, yvv yevloOaC It is death
to vapour or air, to be made water; and death
to water, to be made earth.—In which Heraclitus
did but imitate Orpheus, as appears from this
verse of his, cited by Clemens Alexandrinus :d
"Error 'hx?* Mmne ¥ i&bncrrn afMiftfr
Besides which, there are many examples of this
use of the word aO
avaroc, in other Greek writers,
and some in Aristotle'’ himself, who, speaking of
the heavens, attributes aO
avaalaand o&o
tijcto them,
as one and the same thing; and also affirms, that
the ancients therefore made heaven to be the seat
of the Deity, we ovra povov aOavarov, as being only
immortal,—that is, incorruptible.
• Lib. i. yen. 264,266. k Lib. i. vets. 219.
c Vide Henr. Stephan,in Foesi Philosophic, p. 137.
4 Stromal lib. vi.cap. ii. p. 476.
• De Coelo, lib. i. cap. iii. p* 614,615. tom. i. oper.
276 INFINITE MATTER, ANAXIMANDER’S
Indeed, that other expression, at first sight,
would stagger one more, where it is said of this
awupov, or infinite,—that it doth not only contain,
but also govern all things: but Simplicius* tells u$,
that this is to be understood likewise of matter,
and that no more was meant by it, than that all
' things were derived from it, and depended on it,
as the first principle; o Bk Aoyoerole roiovrotg m pl
twv fvaiKh>v apx<ov, a \X ov’^ t m pl rwv vjrtp <j>vaiv, a Bi
teal Trepityrtiv iXeyov Kal icvfiepvqv ovStv Bavfuurrov. to filv
yap Trtpityeiv wrapyru T(p vXiKip alrlf, tog Bui iravrwv y » -
povvri, to St icvfiepvqiv ijg Kara rijv tmTtiBtiOTtfra avrov, rwv
vir avrovyevo/xevtvv* These philosophers spake only
of natural principles, and not of supernatural ;
and thongh they say, that this infinite of theirs
does both contain and govern all things, yet tbis
is not at all to be wondered a t; forasmuch as con­
taining belongs to the material cause, as that
which goes through all things, and likewise go­
verning, as that from which all things, according
to a certain aptitude of it, are made.—Philoponus”
(who was a Christian) represents Aristotle’s sense
in this whole place more fully, afterthis manner:
“ Those of the ancient physiologers, who had no
respect to any active efficient cause, as Anaxa­
goras had to taind, and Empedocles to friendship
and contention, supposed matter to be the only
cause of afll things; and that it was infinite in mag­
nitude, ingenerable and incorruptible, esteeming it
to be a certain Divine thing, which did govern all,
Or preside overthe Compages of the universe, and
» Commentar. in octoLibros Physic. Auscultat. Aristot.lib.i. cap.
iii. p. 32. edit. Aldin.
b Comment, in iv. primes LibrosPbysicor. lib. i. cap:iii. a. 10. Adde
cap.i. edit Graecae Yenet. 1036. fol.
SUPREME DEITY, 277
ta be immortal, that is, undestroyable. This
Anaximenes said to be air, Thales to be water,
but Anaximander, a certain middle thing; some
one thing, and some another.” K« yt Oavpa-
<rrov <
pT)<
nv, tv rtf Kafftipag irtpioStp rove irpwrovc juij ixurrif-
oavraQ rrj i^t<rri)icvla ruv oXwv Swa/tu, £v twv trroi^eiwv,
oxtp av vxoxrevtv ocootoc, ainov role aXXotc rt aval, rovro
cv^ve Kat @eov virovoqoac* And Aristotle in this pas­
sage tells us, that it is no wonder, if they, who
did not attend to the active cause, that presides
over the universe, did look upon some one of the
elements (that which each of them thought to be
the cause of all other things) as God. But as
they, considering only the material principle, con­
ceived that to be the cause of all things; so Anax­
agoras supposed mind to be the principle of all
things, and Empedocles, friendship and conten­
tion.—
x xiii. But to make it further appear, that
Anaximander’s philosophy was purely Atheisti­
cal, we think it convenient to shew what account
is given of it by other writers. Plutarch, in his
Placita Philosophorum, does at once briefly re­
present the Anaximandrian philosophy,
and censure it after this manner: ‘Avail- Ub.i.c. s.
- r f R- ton,>
pavepoe <
pi)<n, twv ovtwv tjjv apypiv tivairo airu- u, oper.
pov, Ik ydp tovtov xavra ylvtadat, Kal;tie rovro
xavra QOuptoOai, g.o Kal. yevvaxrOai amipovg Ko<jpovqy Kal
TraXiv tyQuptoQaC Xiyei ovv Sia n aneipov i<mv, iva py tA-
Xe
it
t
v
i y yiveaiQ y v<f>i<jTapevy' apapravEL Se oyroc, ryv pkv
vXijv a7ro^aivo/Lt£Voc> to Se yroiovv cutiov avaipiiv, ro §1
airEipov ovSev aXXo, y vXy iarlv• ov Svvarai Se y vXy ewai
svepyeia, lav py ro iroiovv viroKeyrai* ‘ Anaximander the
Milesian affirms Infinite to be the first principle;
and that all things are generated out of it, and
VOL. I. T
i
276 A FURTHER ACCOUNT OF THE
corrupted again into i t ; and therefore that infinite?
•worlds are successively thus generated and cor­
rupted. Add he gives the reason why it is infi­
nite, that so there might be never any fail of ge­
nerations. But he erreth in this, that assigning
only a material cause, he takes away the active
principle of things. For Anaximander's Infinite
is nothing else but matter; but matter can produce
nothing, unless there be also an active cause.-—
Where he shews also, how Anaximenes followed.
Adaximander herein, in assigning only a material
Cause of the universe, without any efficient;
though he differed from him, in making the first
matter to be air, and deriving all things from
thence by rarefaction and condensation. Thus;
we see, it is plain, that Anaximander’s Infinite
was no infinite mind, which is the true Deity, but
only infinite matter, devoid ofany life or
hr. ttraep. active power. Eusebius is more parti­
es! steph. * cular in giving an account of Anaximan­
der’s CostUOpoeia; rd mrtipov <pavai rt}v ra-
trav am av f)(£(v rife rov travrbg ytwatiag rt kal ipOopag^
bv S4 tovg rt ovpaVovg dvoKCKpurBai, ical xaOoXov roue
airavrag dirtifovc ovtag KWpovg’ fv<rl Se rd «c rov diStou
yovtfiov Btpfiov rt KOt xpvyrpov, Kara rrjv ytvtmv rovSs roS
koitjuov avoKptddvoh Kal ttva *k rovrov fXoyog tnpaipaw vs-
pifvijvai rep Trtpt rijv yrjv dipt, tog rip SfvSpto fXoiiv. 5c Tl~
voc airbppayturrig, (Cat tig rivag mroicXutrBturrig kvkXovg,
Wrotrrijvat rov rjXiov, icat rj)v (teXtjv
t/v, (cat rove dtrripag*
Anaximander affirms Infinite (matter) to be the
only cause of the generation and corruption ofall
things; and that the heavens, and infinite worlds;
were made oat of it, by way of secretion or segre­
gation. Also that those generative principles of
heat and cold, that were contained in it from eter-
ANAXIMANDRIAN PHILOSOPHY. 279
nity, being segregated, when this world was made,
a certain sphere of flame or fire did first arise and
encompass the air, which surrounds this earth
(as a bark doth a tree), which being afterwards
broken, and divided into smaller spherical bodies,
constituted the sun and moon and all the stars.—
Which Anaximandrian Cosmppoeia was briefly
hinted at by Aristotle in these words, .
. S1 . - . , , . , Phys.l.l.c.4.
oc cjc tow tvoc, evovaag rag tvavTiOTtyrag, «c-
icplvovaiv, wmrtp’Ava£(/xav8poc ^n* Some philoSOr
phers generate the world by the secretion and se*
gregation ofinexistent contrarieties, as Anaximan*
der speaks.—And elsewhere in his Me- L'
taphysics, he takes notice of ’Ava&pav-
Spay to filyfia, Anaximander’s mixture of things.—
Whepce we conclude, that Anaximander’s Infi­
nite was nothing else but an infinite chaos of mat­
ter, in which were either actually or potentially,
contained all manner of qualities; by the fortuit­
ous secretion and segregation of which, he sup­
posed infinite worlds to be successively generated
and corrupted. So that we may now easily guess,
whence Leucippus and Democritus had then: infi­
nite worlds, and perceive how near akin these two
Atheistic hypotheses were. But it will not be
amiss to take notice also ofthat particular conceit,
which Anaximander had, concerning the first ori­
ginal of brute animals, and mankind. Of the
former, Plutarch gives us this account :
Ava£t/uavfy»oc *v vyprp yevvg&rjvai to irptSra 5a,
ipXoiotg irepieyrofitva ajtavflaifWt, irpofiaivovirtK tom. nuopen ,
SI rrjg tfXuaac, airofialvuv twt to £nporepov, real
mptpptiywptvov tow ^Xotoy, sinoXtyov y^povov fitrafiitUvai"
That the first animals were generated in moisture,-
and encompassedabout with certain thorny barks,*
t 2
*28^ -A -FURTHER ACCOUNT OF THE!
by which they were guarded and defended ; which*
after further growth, Coming to be more dry and
cracking, they issued for^th, but lived only a short
time after.-—And as for the first original of men,
>
' ■ Eusebius represents his sense th u s : *E£
E. P, 1. 1. , „ r , f f t m x
dXXouSwv Xfiuv o avOpwiroQ iytvvnfh), tic rov ra
fiiv aXXa Si iavrwv.fay? vtfuaBai) ftovov Se rov av6fvrov
jroXvypovtov SttoOai nftpnirai;, Sid xai tear apyac ovk aw
rrore rotourov ovra Suunrfhivai’ .Men were at first gene­
rated in; the bellies ofother animals, forasmuch as
all other animals, after they are brought forth, are
quickly able to feed and nourish themselves,,but
man alone needs to be nursed up a long time; and
therefore could not be preserved at first, in any
other way.—But Plutarch expresseth
s^np.i*M
>
- this something more particularly: ’Ava&-
Vm. u. opeT. ftavSpOQ iv iyOvetv syyivioOai to irpwto* ovflpor-
irovc aTTofaivircu, Kei rpaiptvTac ical yEve/icvovc
ucavovc iavroic (3otfitur, «c|3Xi)0qvai rqvucavra Kai ync
XafifffOat. Anaximander concludes, that men were
at first generated in the bellies of .fishes, and be­
ing there nourished, till they grew strong, and
were able to shift for themselves, they were after?
ward, cast out upon dry land.-—Lastly, Anaxi­
mander’s theology is thus both represented to us,
and censured, by Velleius, the Epicurean
hb.i.c.*'’ philosopher in Cicero: “ Anaxiraandri
ton^oper. Opinio est nativos esse deos, longis ihter-
vallis orientes occidentesque, eosque in-
numerabiles esse mundos: sed nos deum nisi sem-
piternum intelligere qul possumus ?” Anaximan­
der’s opinion is, that the gods are native, rising
and vanishing again, in long periods of times; and
that these gods are innumerable worlds; but how
can we conceive that to be a God, which is not
ANAXIMANDKIAN PHILOSOPHY. 281
eternal ?—We learn from' hence.that Anaximan­
der did indeed so far comply with vulgar opinion,
as that he retained the name of gods; bat, how­
ever, that he really denied the existence ofthe thing
itself, even according to the judgment of this
Epicurean philosopher. Forasmuch as all his
-gods Were native and mortal, and indeed nothing
wise, hut those innumerable worlds, which be sup­
posed in certain periods of time to be successively
generated and destroyed. Wherefore, it is plain,
that Anaximander’s only real Numen, that is, his
first principle, that was ingenerable and incor­
ruptible; was nothing but infinite matter, devoid
of all understanding and life, by the fortuitous se­
cretion of whose inexistent qualities and parts, he
supposed, first, the elements of earth, water, air,
and fire, and then, the bodies of the sun, moon, and
stars, and both bodies and souls of men and other
animals, and lastly, innumerable or infinite such
worlds as these, as so many secondary and native
gods (that were also mortal), to have been gene-
' rated, according to that Atheistical hypothesis de­
scribed in Plato.*
xxiv. It is certain, that the vulgar in all ages
have been very ill judges of Theists and Atheists,
they having condemned many hearty Theists, as
guilty of Atheism, merely becatfse they dissented
from them in some of their superstitious rites and
opinions. As for example; Anaxagoras the Cla-
zomenian, though he was the first of all the Ionic
philosophers (unless Thales ought to be excepted)
who made an infinite mind to be a principle, that
is, asserted a Deity, according to the true notion
a D c L cg ib u s, lib. x . p. G66.
282 THEISTS AND ATHEISTS
of i t ; yet he was, notwithstanding, generally cried
pi,. A
p6i. down for an Atheist, merely because
Socr. jk36*. [jg affirmed tbe sun to be ftiBpov BiAwpav,
a mass Offire, or a fiery globe, and the moon to be
ah earth;—that is, because he denied them to be
animated and endued with understanding souls,
end consequently to be gods. So likewise So*
crates Was both accused, and condemned, for
atheistical impiety, as denying.all gods, though
nothing was pretended to be proved against him,
„ . , butonly this, that he did feovc&SwrKavjri
Flat. Apol. & • r\ y * m « /
vojuu,civ, ovc ti ttoMq vofiii,6i, erepa oe cai/uma
Kaiva ei^ip a v, teach that those were not true gods
which the city worshipped, and in the room thereof
introduce other new gods.—And lastly, the Christ*
ians in the primitive times, for the Same reason,
were vulgarly traduced for Atheists by the Pa­
gans, as Justin Martyr declares in his Apology,*
afoot KticXyfuOa, kcu opokoyovjutv twv roiovron* vofu^opivw
Otuvadsot sivat' We are called Atheists; and we
confess ourselves such, in respect of those gods
which they worship, but not of the true God.—
And as the vulgar have unjustly condemned many
Theists for Atheists, so have they also acquitted
many rank Atheists from the guilt of that crime,
merely because they externally complied with
them, in their religious worship, and forms of
speech. Neither is it only the vulgar, that have
been imposed upon herein, but also the generality
of learned men, who have been commonly so su­
perficial in this business, as that they have hardly
taken notice of above three or four Atheists, that
ever were in former times, as, namely, Diagoras,
Theodorus, Euemerus, and Protagoras; whereas
* P. 56. opcr.
. MISTAKEN FOR ONE ANOTHER. $ 8 3
Democritus and Anaximander wereasrauk Athe­
ists as any of them all, though they had the wit to
carry themselves externally with more cautious­
ness. And indeed it was really one and the self*
same form of Atheism, which both these enter­
tained, they deriving all things alike* from dead
and stupid matter fortuitously moved* the differ­
ence between them being only this, that they ma­
naged it two different ways; Anaximander in the
way of qualities and forms, which is the more vul­
gar and obvious kind ofAtheism; hut.Democritus
- in the way of atoms and figures, whieh seems to
be a more learned kind of Atheism.
And though we do not doubt at all, but that
Plato, in his tenth De Legibus, where he attack*
Atheism, did intend the confutation as well of the
Democritic as the Anaximandrian Atheism; yet
whether it were, because he had no mind to take
any notice at all of Democritus, who is not so
much as once mentioned by him any where, or else
because he was not so perfectly acquainted with
that Atomic way of physiologiziug, certain it is,
that be there describes the Atheistic hypothesis
more according to the Anaximandrian than the
Democritic form. For when he represents the
Atheistic generation of heaven and earth, and all
things in them, as resulting from the fortuitous
commixture of hot and coldv hard and soft, moist
and dry corpuscula; this is clearly more agreeable
with the Anaximandrian generation of the world,
by the secretion inexistent contrarieties in the
matter, than the Democritic Coswopcpia, by the
fortuitous concourse of atoms, devoid of all roan
ner ofqualities and forms.
Some indeed seem to call that scheme of Athe-
284 WHY DEMOCRITUS AND LEUCIPPUS
ism, that deduces all things from matter, i» the
way of qualities and forms, by the name of Peri­
patetic, or Aristotelic Atheism; we suppose for
this reason, because Aristotle physiologized in
that way of forms and qualities, educing them out
of the power of the matter. But since Aristotle
himselfcannot be justly taxed for an Atheist, this
form of Theism ought rather, as we conceive, to
be denominated from Anaximander, and called
the Anaximandrian Atheism.
• xxv. Now the reasons, why Democritus and
Leucippus new-modelled Atheism, fromthe Anax­
imandrian and Hylopathian into the Atomic form;
seem to have been chiefly these:—first, because
they, being well instructed in that Atomic way of
physiologizing, were really convinced, that it was
not only more ingenious, but also more agreeable
to truth; the other, by real qualities and forms,
seeming a thing unintelligible. Secondly, because
they foresaw, as Lucretius intimates, that the pro­
duction of forms and qualities out of nothing, and
the corruption of them again into nothing, would
prepare an easy way for men’s belief of a Divine
creation and annihilation. And lastly, because,
as we have already suggested, they plainly per­
ceived, that these forms and qualities of matter
were of a doubtful nature; and therefore, as they
were sometimes made a shelter for Atheism, so
they might also prove, on the contrary, an asylum
for Corporeal Theism;in that it might possibly be
supposed, that either the matter of the whole
world, or else the more subtile and fiery part of it,
was originally endued with an understanding
form or quality, and consequently, the whole an
animal or god. Wherefore, they took another
” ' NEW-jtODELLED ATHElsM. • 285
more effectual course, to secure their Atheism^
and exclude all possibility of a corporeal God, by
deriving the original of all things from atoms,
devoid of all forms and qualities, and having no*
thing in them, but magnitude, figure, site, and
motion, as the first principles; it following un­
avoidably from thence, that life and understand­
ing, as well as those other qualities, could be only
accidental and secondary results from certain for­
tuitous concretions and contextures of atom s; so
that the world could be made by no previous coun­
sel or understanding, and therefore by no Deity.
xxvi. We have here represented three several
forms ofAtheism—the Anaximandrian, the Demo-
critical, and the Stratonical. But there is yet ano­
ther form of Atheism, ‘
different from them all, to
be taken notice of, which is such, as supposes one
kind of plastic and spermatic, methodical and ar­
tificial nature, but without any sense of conscious
understanding, to preside over the whole world,
and dispose and conserve all things, in that regu­
lar frame in which they are. Such a form of Athe­
ism as this is hinted to us in that doubt­
ful passage of Seneca’s ; “ Sive animal est
mundus, (for so it ought to be read, and
not amnia) sive corpus natura gubernante, ut ar-
bores, ut sata;” whether the whole world be an ani­
mal (i. e. endued with one sentient and rational
life), or whether it be only a body governed by (a
certain plastic and methodical, but senseless) na­
ture, as trees, and other plants or vegetables.—In
which words are two several hypotheses of the
mundane system, sceptically proposed by one,
who was a Corporealist, and took it for granted
that all was body. First, that the whole world,
286 WHEREIN THE COSMO-PLASTIC ATHEISM
though having nothing but body in it, yet was not­
withstanding an animal, as our human bodies
are, endued with one sentient or rational lifeand na­
ture, one soul or mind, governing and ordering the
whole. Which corporeal Cosmo-zoism we do not
reckon amongst the forms of Atheism, but rather
account it for a kind of spurious Theism, or The­
ism disguised in a Paganic dress, and not without
a complication of many false apprehensions, con­
cerning the Deity, in it. The second is, that the
whole world is no animal, but, as it were, one huge
plant or vegetable, a body endued with one plastic
pr spermatic nature, branching out tbe whole, or­
derly and methodically, but without any under­
standing or sense. A nd this m ust needs be a©-
counted a form of Atheism, because it does not
derive the original of things in the universe from
any clearly intellectual principle or conscious
nature.
x x v i i . Now this form of Atheism, which sup­
poses the whole world (there being nothing but
body in it) not to be an animal, but only a great
plant or vegetable, having one spermatic form, or
plastic nature, which, without any conscious rea­
son or understanding, orders the whole, though it
have some nearer correspondence with thatH ylo-
aoic form of Atheism before described, in that it
does not suppose nature to be a mere fortuitous,
but a kind of artificial thing; yet it differs from it
in this, that the Hylozoic supposing all matter, as
such, to have life essentially belonging to it, must
therefore needs attribute to every part of m atter
j(or at least every particular totum, that is one by
continuity) a distinct plafetic life of its own, but
acknowledge no one common life, as ruling over
DIFFERS FROM THE HYLOZOIC. 287
tlie whole corporeal universe; and consequently
impute the original of all things (as hath been al­
ready observed) to a certain mixture of chance,
and plastic or methodical nature, both together.
Whereas the cosmo-plastic Atheism quite ex­
cludes fortune or chance, subjecting all things to
the regular and orderly fate of one plastic or plan-
lal nature, ruling over the whole. Thus that phi­
losopher before mentioned concludes, that whe­
ther the world were an animal (in the Stoical sense)
or whether it were a mere plant or vege­
table, Ab initio ejus usque ad exitum, *'4
quicquid facere, quicquid pati debeat,
inclusum est. U t in semine, omnis futuri ratio
hominis comprehensa est. E t legem barbae et
canorum nondum natus infans h ab et; totius eniin
corporis, et sequentis aetatis, in parvo Occultoque
lineamenta sunt. Sic origo inundi non magis solem
etlunam , et vices syderum, et animaliura ortus,
quam quibus mutarentur terranea, continuit. In
his fuit inundatio, quae non secus quam hyems,
quam aestas, lege mundi venit.” Whatsoever,
from tlie beginning to the end of it, it can either do
or suffer, it was all at first included in the nature
o f the whole; as in the seed is contained the whole
delineation of the future man, and the embryo or
unborn infant hath already in it the law of a beard
and grey hairs; the lineaments of the whole body,
and of its following age, being there described as
it were in a little and obscure compendium. In
like manner, the original and first rudiments of the
world contained in them not only the sun and
moon, the courses of the stars, and the generation
of animals, but also the vicissitudes of all terres­
trial things; and every deluge or inundation of wa-
/
288 THE COSMO-PLASTIC ATHEISM
ter comes to pass no less by the law of the world
(its spermatic or plastic nature) than winter and
summer doth.
• x x v i i i . We do not deny it to be possible, but
that some in all ages might have entertained snch
-an Atheistical conceit as this, that the original of
this whole mundane system was from one artificial,
orderly, and methodical, but senseless nature
lodged in the matter; but w6 cannot trace the
footsteps of this doctriue any where so much as
among the Stoics, to which sect Seneca, who
speaks so waveriugly and uncertainly in- this
point (whether the world were an animal or a
plant), belonged. And, indeed, divers learned
men have suspected, that even the Zenonian and
Heraclitic Deity itself, was no other than such a
plastic nature or spermatic principle in the uni­
verse, as in the seeds of vegetables and animals
doth frame their respective bodies orderly and
artificially. Nor can it be denied, but that there
hath been just cause given for such a suspicion;
forasmuch as the best of Stoics, sometimes con­
founding God with nature, seemed to make him
nothing but an artificial fire, orderly and metho­
dically proceeding to generation. And it was fa­
miliar with them, as Laertius* tells us, to call
God airtp/iarucov \6yov tov kou/hov, the spermatic rea­
son, or form of the world.—Nevertheless, because
Zenoband others of the chief Stoical doctors did
also many times assert, that there was ^vnc votpa
•cat Xoyuci), a rational and intellectual nature (and
therefore not a plastic principle only) in the mat­
ter of the universe; as, likewise, that the whole
»Lib. vii. scgm. 136. p. 450.
*Vide Diog. Lacrt. lib, vii. p. 148. p. 459*
ASSERTED BY SPURIOUS STOICS. 289
world was an animal, and not a mere plant; there­
fore, we incline rather to excuse the generality of
the first and most ancient Stoics from the imputa­
tion of Atheism, and to account this form of
Atheism, which we now speak of, to be but a
certain degeneracy from the right Heraclitic.and
Zenonian cabala, which seemed to contain these
two things in it; first, that there was an animalisb,
sentient, and intellectual nature, or a conscious
soul and mind, that presided over the whole
world, though lodged immediately in, the fiery
matter of i t ; secondly, that this sentient and in­
tellectual nature, or corporeal soul and mind of
the universe, did contain also under it, or within
it, as the inferior part of it, a certain plastic na­
ture, or spermatic principle, which was proper­
ly the fate of all things. For thus Heraclitus*
defined Fate, A
d'yov rov Siari?c ovuut to
v iravroc Stij-
icovra, v alQtptov awfia, eirippa Ttjg rov iravrog ytvtattot;'
A certain reason passing through the substance
of the whole world, or an ethereal body, that was
the seed of the generation of the universe.—And
Zeno’s1
*first principle, as it is said to be an intel­
lectual nature, so it is also said to have contained
in it vavroQ rove amppartKOvq Xoyove, Kaff ov? acatrra
Kaff Hfiapfiivifv yiyvirai, all the.spermatic reasons
and forms, by which every thiug is done accord­
ing to fate.—However, though this seem to have
beeu the genuine doctrine, both of Heraclitus and
Zeno, yet' others of their followers afterwards
divided these two things from one another, and
taking only the latter of them, made the plastic
*Apud Plutarch, de Placitis Philosophor. lib. i. cap. xxviii. p. 885.
tom. ii. oper.
*Vide Plutarch, ubi supra, lib. i. cap. vii. pi 881.
2 9 0 MANY FANATICAL ATHEISTS,
or spermatic nature, devoid of all animality or
conscious intellectuality, to be the highest prin­
ciple*in the universe. Thus Laertius tells us,”
that Boethus, an eminent and famous Stoical
doctor, did plainly deny the world to be an ani­
mal, that is, to have any sentient, conscious, or
intellectual nature presiding over i t ; and, conse­
quently, must needs make it to be but “ corpus
natura gubernaute, ut arbores, ut sata,” a body
governed by a plastic or vegetative nature, as
trees, plants, and herbs.—And as it is possible,
that other Stoics and Heraclitics might have done
the like before Boethus, so it is very probable,
that he had after him many followers; amongst
which, as Plinius Secqndus may be reckoned for
one, so Setaeca himself was not without a doubt­
ful tincture of this Atheism, as hath been already
shewed. Wherefore this form of Atheism, which
supposes one plastic or spermatic nature, one
plantal or vegetative life in the whole world, as
the highest principle, may, for distinction sake,
be called the Pseudo-Stoical, or Stoical Atheism.
xxix. Besides these philosophic Atheists, *
whose several forms we have now described, it
cannot be doubted, but that there have been in
all ages many other Atheists that have not at
all philosophized, nor pretended to maintain any
particular Atheistic system or hypothesis, in a
way of reason, but were only led by a certain
dull and sottish, though confident disbelief of
whatsoever they could not either see or feel; which
kind of Atheists may, therefore, well be account­
ed enthusiastical or fanatical Atheists. Though
*Lib. rii. Kgm. 143. p. 453.
BESIDES THOSE WHO PHILOSOPHIZED. 291
it be true, in the meantime, that even all manner
of Atheists whatsoever, and those of them, who
most of all pretend to reason and philosophy,
may, in some sense, be justly styled also both en­
thusiasts and fanatics. Forasmuch as they are
not led or carried on, into this way of atheizing,
by any clear dictates of their reason or under'
standing, but only by an oppn aXo-yoc, a certain
blind and irrational impetus;—they being, as it
were, inspired to it by that lower earthly life and
nature, which is called in the Scripture oracles,
to mtvfia row icoopov, the spirit of the world, or a
mundane spirit,— and is opposed to the rd nvsvpa to
U rov Otov, the Spirit that is of God.—For, when
the apostle speaks after this manner, “ We have
not received the spirit of the world, but the Spirit
that is of God,” he seems to intimate thus much
to us, that as some men were led and inspired by
a Divine spirit, sa others again are inspired by a
mundane spirit, by which is meant the earthly
life. Now the former of these two are not to be
accounted enthusiasts, as the word is now com­
monly taken in a bad sense; because the Spirit of
God is no irrational thing, but either the very
self-same thing with reason, or else such a thing
as Aristotle (as it were vaticinating concerning it)
somewhere calls Xoyoo n icpsirrov, a certain betted
and diviner thing than reason;—and Plotinus,
pltftv \6yov, the root of reason.—But, on the con­
trary, the mundane spirit, or earthly life, is irra­
tional sottishhess; and they, who are atheisticaily
inspired by it (how abhorrent soever they may
otherwise seem to be from enthusiasm and revela­
tions), are notwithstanding really no better than a
kind of bewitched enthusiasts and blind spiritati,
292 THE QUATERKIO OF ATHEISMS. :
*
that are wholly ridden and acted by a dark, nar­
row, and captivated principle of life, and, to use
their own language, in-blown by it, and by it be­
reft, even in speculative things, of ail free reason
and understanding. Nay, they are.fanatics too,
however that word seems to have a more peculiar
respect to something of a Deity; all Atheists
being that blind goddess Nature’s fanatics.
xxx. We have described four several forms of;
Atheism :—first, the Hylopathian or Anaximan-
drian, that derives all things from a dead and
stupid matter, in the way. of qualities and forms,
generable and corruptible: secondly, the Atom­
ical or Democritical, which doth the same thing,
in the. way .of atoms and figures: thirdly, the
Cosmo-plastic or Stoical Atheism, which supposes
one plastic and methodical but senseless nature,
to preside over the whole corporeal universe;
and, lastly, the Hylozoic or Stratpnical, that at­
tributes to all matter, as. such, a certain living and
energetic nature, but devoid of all animality, sense,
and consciousness. And as we do not meet with
any other forms or schemes of Atheism besides
these four, so we conceive, that there cannot ea­
sily be any other excogitated or devised; and that
upon these two following considerations: first,
because all Atheists are mere Corporealists, that
is, acknowledge no other substance besides body
or matter. For as there was never any yet known,
who, asserting incorporeal substance, did deny a
Deity; so neither can there be any reason, .why
he that admits the former should exclude the
latter. Again,.the same dull and earthly disbe-;
lief or confounded sottishness of mind, which
makes men deny, a God, must needs incline them.
ALL ATHEISTS MERE CORPOR^ALISTS. 0 9 3
to deny all incorporeal substance also. Where­
fore, as the physicians speak of a certain disease
or madness, called hydrophobia, the symptom of
those that have been bitten by a mad dog, which
makes them have a monstrous antipathy to water;
so all Atheists are possessed with a certain kind
of madness, that.may be called Pneumatophobia,
that makes them have an irrational but desperate
abhorrence from spirits or incorporeal substances,
they being acted also, at the same time, with
an Hylomania, whereby they madly doat upon
matter, and devoutly worship it as the only
Numen.
The second consideration is this, because* as
there are no Atheists but such as are mere Corpo­
realists, so all Corporealists are not to be Ac­
counted Atheists neither: those of them, who,
notwithstanding they make all things to be mat­
ter, yet suppose an intellectual nature in that
matter to preside over the corporeal universe,
being in reason and charity to be exempted out
of that number. And there have been always
some, who, though so strongly captivated under
the power of gross imagination, as that an incor­
poreal God seemed to them to be nothing but a
God of words (as some Of them call it), a mere
empty sound or contradictious expression, some­
thing and nothing put together; yet, notwith­
standing, they have been possessed with a firm
belief and persuasion of a Deity, or that the sys­
tem of the universe depends upon one perfect
understanding being as the head of it-; and there­
upon have concluded that v\n waleiy^ovaa, a certain
kind of body or matter is God.—The grossestand
most sottish of all which Corporeal Tbeists ^eetfa
VOL. i. ’ u
294 ALL A fH EISTS MERE C0KP0REALI8TS.
to be those, who contend, that God is only one
particular piece of organized matter, of human
form and bigness, which, endued with perfect
reason and understanding, exerciseth an univer­
sal dominion over all the rest. Which hypothesis,-
however it hath been entertained by some of tbe
Christian profession, both in former and later
times, yet it hath seemed very ridiculous, even to
many of those Heathen philosophers themselves,
who were mere Corporealists, such as the Stoics,
who exploded it with a kind of indignation, con­
tending earnestly, Vs dvOpwimpopfov, that
God (though corporeal) yet must not be conceived
to be of any human shape. And Xenophanes,b
an ancient philosophic poet, expresseth the child­
ishness of this conceit after this manner:
*AXX* ttrof y* *T^«r $&*c hi xiorric,
*H Xth,<ro‘l»*** TiXiTvXar*^&vig*c,
K
al xi8sSv tyfufw, uat imiow
T«ao8’ o
t
o
vmg auti airrol iifjutc o/uoTov.
If oxen, lions, asses, and horses, had all of them
a sense of a Deity, and were able to limn and
paint, there is no question to be made, but that
each of these several animals would paint God
according to their respective form and likeness,
and contend, that he was of that shape and no
other.—But that other corporeal Theism seeinb
to be of the two rather more generous and gen­
teel, which supposes the whole world to be one
animal, and God to be a certain subtile and ethe­
real, but intellectual matter, pervading it as a
soul: which was the doctrine of others before the
*Those are the words of Clemens Alexandrians concerning Xeno­
phanes, Stromat lib. v. p. 714.
*Apud ClenvAlex. nbi supra, p. 745.
ALL ATHEISTS MERE COkPOREALISTS. £95
• Stoics, "rt> irvp Otov v7mX»j^aTOv ’‘Imfuaoc n & Meraifov-
rivoc m u i *Etpiffioc 'HptocXttroc, H ippiSO S Of Metfi*
pontus, and Heraclitus the Ephesian, supposed
the fiery and ethereal matter of the world to bU
God.—'However, neither these Heredities ahd
Stoics, nor yet the other Authropotnorphites, are
by us condemned for downright Atheists, but re*
ther looked upon as a sort of ignorant, childish,1
and unskilful Theists.
Wherefore we see, that Atheists are now re­
duced into a narrow compass, since none are con­
cluded to be Atheists, but such as are mere Cor*
porealists; and alt Corpotealrets most not be
condemned for Atheists neither, hut only those
of them, who assert, that there is no conscious im
tellectual nature, presiding over the whole ttUb
verse. For this is that, which the adepti in
Atheism, of what form soever, all agree in, that
the first principle of the universe is no aoimalisb,
sentient, and conscious nature, but that all ani­
mality, sense, and consciousness, is a secondary,
derivative, and accidental thing, geuerebleand
corruptible, arising out of particular concretions
Of matter, organized and dissolved together with
them.
xxxi. Now if (he first principle end original of
ill things in the universe be thus supposed to be
body or matter,*devoid of all animality* sens^
end consciousness, then it must of necessity he
Cither perfectly dead and stupid, and without el)
manner of life; or else endued with such a kind
of life only, as is by some called plastic, spertmu-
iScal, and vegetative, by others the life of natqte^
*IiUitii<rProiMptie«, Mp. V
. p. Ck
V 2
206 WHEREIN THE FOUR ATHEISMS
or natural perception. And those Atheists, who
derive all things from dead and stupid matter,
must also needs do this, either in the way of qua­
lities and forms, and these are the Anaximandrian
Atheists; or else in the way of atoms and figures,
which are the Democritical. But those, who
make matter endued with a plastic life to be the
fifst original of all things, must needs suppose
either one such plastic and spermatic life only in
the whole mass of matter or corporeal universe,
which are the Stoical Atheists; or else all matter
as such to have life and an energetic nature b&
longing to it (though without any animal sense or
self-perception),.and consequently all the parti­
cular parts of matter, and every totum by conti­
nuity, to have a distinct plastic life of its own,
Which are the Stratonic Atheists. Wherefore,
there does not seem to be any room now left for
afty Other form of Atheism, besides these four,
to thrust in.
And we think fit here again to inculcate, what
hath been already intimated, that one grand dif­
ference amongst these several forms of Atheism
is this, that some of them attributing no life at all
to matter, as such, nor indeed acknowledging
any plastic life Of nature, distinct from the ani­
mal, <
and supposing every thing whatsoever is in
the world, besides vXq «irowc, the bare substance
of matter .considered as devoid of all qualities
(that is, mere extended bulk), to' be generated
hud corrupted; consequently resolve, that; all
manner of life whatsoever is generable and cor­
ruptible, or educible out of nothing, and reduci­
ble to nothing again; and these are the Anaxi­
mandrian and Democritic Atheisms. But the
DIFFERED FROM EACH OTHER. 297'
other, which are the Stoical and Stratonical, do,
on the contrary, suppose some life to be funda­
mental and original, essential and substantial,
ingenerable and incorruptible, as being a first-
principle of things; nevertheless, this not to be
any animal, conscious, and self-perceptive life,
but a plastic life of nature only; all Atheists still
agreeing in those two fore-mentioned things: first,
that there is no other substance in the world be­
sides body; secondly, that all animal life, sense,
and self-perception, conscious understanding and
personality, are generated and corrupted, succes-,
sively educed out of nothing and reduced into
nothing again.
x x x i i . Indeed we are not ignorant that some,
who seem to be well-wishers to Atheism, have
talked sometimes of sensitive and rational mat­
ter, as having a mind to suppose, three seve­
ral sorts of matter in the universe, specifically
different from one another, that were originally
snch, and self-existent from eternity; namely,
sensefless, sensitive, aiid rational: as if the mun­
dane system might be conceived to arise from-a
certain jumble of these three several sorts of mat­
ter, as it were scuffling together in the dark, with­
out a God, and so producing brute animals and
men. But as this is a mere precarious hypothe­
sis, there being no imaginable account to be given,*
how there should come to be such an essential dif­
ference betwixt matters, or Why this piece of mat­
ter should be sensitive, and that rational, when
another is altogether senseless; so the suggestors
of it are but mere novices in Atheism, and a -kind
of bungling well-wishers to it. . First, because,'
accordingto this hypothesis,'no life would be pro-
298 ON THSj ASSERTOB8 OF . SENSITIVE
duced or destroyed in thesuccessive generations
and corruptions of animals, bat only concreted
and secreted in them; and, consequently, all burr
man personalities must be eternal and incorrupt
tible ? which is all one, as to assert the pre and
post-existence of all souls from eternity to eter-
City, a thing that all genuine and thorough-paced
Atheists are in a manner as abhorrent from, as
they are from the Deity itself. And secondly*
because there can be no imaginable reason given
by them, why there might pot be as well a certain
Divine matter perfectly intellectual and self-exist­
ent from eternity, as a sensitive and rational mat­
ter. And, therefore, such an hypothesis as this
can never serve the turn of Atheists. But all
those that are masters of the craft of Atheism*
and thoroughly catechised or initiated in the dark
mysteries thereof (as hath been already incul­
cated), do perfectly agree iu this, that all animal,
sentient, and conscious life, all souls and minds,
and consequently all human personalities, arei ge­
nerated out of matter, and corrupted again into
i,t, qr lather educed out of nothing, and reduced
into nothing again.
We understand also, that there are certain cant­
ing astrological Atheists, who would deduce all
things from:the occult qualities and influences of
the stars, according to their different conjunc­
tions, oppositions, and aspects, in a certain blind
and unaccountable manner. But these being per­
sons devoid of all manner of sense, who. neither
so much as pretend to give an account of these
stars, whether they be animals or not, as also
whence they derive their original (which, if they
did undertake to do atbeistical.ly, they must needs
AND RATIONAL MATTS*. 9 d 0
resolve themselves at length into one or other of
those hypotheses already proposed), therefore, as
we conceive, they deserve not the least conside­
ration. Bat we think fit here to observe, that
ouch devotees to the heavenly bodies, as look up­
on all the other stars as petty deities, bat the sun
as the supreme deity and monarch of the uni­
verse, in the meantime conceiving it also to be
perfectly intellectual (which is in a manner the
same with the Cleanthean hypothesis) are not so
much to be accounted Atheists, as spurious, pa-
ganical, and idolatrous Theists. And upon all
these considerations, we conclude again, that
there is no other philosophic form of Atheism,
that can easily be devised, besides -these four
mentioned, the Anaximandrian, the Democritical,
the Stoical, and the Stratonical.
x x x i i i . Amongst which forms of Atheism,
there is yet another difference to be observed, and
accordingly another distribution to be made of
them. It being first premised, that all these fore-
mentioned sorts ofAtheists (ifthey will speak con­
sistently and agreeably to their own principles)
m ust needs suppose all things to be one way or
other necessary. For though Epicurus intro­
duced contingent liberty, yet it is well known,
that he therein plainly contradicted his own prim-
ciples. And this, indeed, was the first and prin­
cipal thing intended by us, in this whole under­
taking, to confute that false hypothesis of the
mundane system, which makes all actions and
•vents necessary upon Atheistic grounds, but es­
pecially in the mechanic way. Wherefore, in the
next place, we must observe, that though the prin­
ciples of all Atheists introduce necessity, yet the
4 6 0 ANOTHER DISTRIBUTION
necessity of these Atheists is not one and the same,
but of two different kinds; some of them suppos
ing a necessity of dead and stupid matter, which
is that, which is commonly meant by vX
uct) avayicvh
ormaterial necessity, and is also called by Aristo­
tle, an absolute necessity of things; others, the
necessity of a plastic life, which the same Aristo­
tle calls an hypothetical necessity. For the Anaxi-
mandrian and Democritic Atheists doboth ofthem
assert a material and absolute necessity of all
things; one in the way of qualities, and the other
of motion and mechanism: but the Stoical and
Stratonical Atheists assert a plastical and hypo­
thetical necessity of things only.
Now one grand difference betwixt these two
Sorts of Atheisms and their necessities lies in this,
that the former, though they make all things ne­
cessary, yet they, suppose them also to be fortuit­
ous; there being no inconsistency between theSe
two. And the sense of both, the Apaximandrian
and DemoCritic Atheisms seems to be thus de­
scribed by Plato,* fl-awa Kara rv^ ijv aua-yKJjc ow e-
KtpaoOn, All things Were mingled together by ne­
cessity according to fortune.—For that nature,
from whence these Atheists derived all things, is
at once both necessary and fortuitous. But the
Plastic Atheisms suppose such a necessary'na­
ture for the firstprincipleof things, asis not merely
fortuitous, but regular, orderly, and methodical;
the Stoical excluding all chance and fortune uni­
versally, because they subject all things to one
plastic nature ruling over the whole universe, but
the Stratonical doing it in part only, because they
De Legibus, lib.X p. 66G.oper.
OP ATHEISMS. ‘301
De Nat De.
1. 2. cap.
zxxii. p.
3001.tom.U.
oper.
derive things from a mixture of chance and plastic
nature both together. '
And thus we see, that there is a double notion
of nature amongst Atheists, as well as Theists;
which we cannot better express than in the words
of Balbus the Stoic, personated by Ci-
. cero: “ Alii naturam censent esse vim
quandam sine ratione, cientem motus in
corporibus necessarios; alii autem vim
participem ordinis, tauquam via progre-
dientem. Cujus solertiam, nulla ars, nulla ma-
nus, nemo opifex, consequi potest imitando; se-
minis enim vim esse tantam, ut id quanquam pe-
rexiguum, nactumque sit materiam, quo ali auge-
rique possit, ita fingat et efficiat, in suo quidque
genere, partim ut per stirpes alantur suas, partim
ut movere etiam possint, et ex se sitnilia sui gene-
rare.” Some by nature mean a certain force with­
out reason and order, exciting necessary motions
in bodies; but others understand by it such a
force, as participating of order proceeds as it
were methodically. Whose exquisiteness, no art,
no hand, no opificer can reach to by imitation.
For the force ofseed is such, that though the bulk
of it be very small, yet if it get convenient matter
for its nourishment and increase, it so forms and
frames things in their several kinds, as that they
can partly through their stocks and trunks be
nourished, and partly move themselves also, and
generate their like.—And again: “ Sunt qui om­
nia naturae nomine appellent, ut Epicurus; sed
nos, cum dicimus natura constare administrarique
raundum, non ita dicimus, ut glebam, aut frag-
mentum lapidis, aut aliqnid ejusmodi, nulla co-
haerendi natura; sed ut arborem, ut mumalia, in
903 WHAT ATHEISTS DENIED, AND WHAT
qtubus nulla teineritas, sed ordo apparet el artis
qusedam similitudo.” There are some, who call
all things by the name of nature, as Epicurus; but
we, when we say that the world is administered
by nature, do not mean such a nature, as is in
clods ofearth and pieces ofstone, but such as isia
a tree or animal, in whose constitution there is no
temerity, but order and similitude of art.—Now,
according to these two different notions of nature^
the four forementioned forms of Atheism may be
again dichotomized after this manner—into such
as derive all things from a mere fortuitous and te­
merarious nature, devoid of all order and metho­
dicalness; and such as deduce the original of
things from a certain orderly, regular, and artifi­
cial, though senseless nature in matter. The
former of which are the Anaximandrian and De-
mocritic Atheisms, the latter the Stoical and Stra-
tonical.
It hath been already observed, that those Athe­
isms, that derive all things from a mere fortuitous
principle, as also suppose every thing, besides
vA
t) avaioCf the bare substance of matter—or ex­
tended bulk, to be generated and corrupted;
though they asserted the eternity of matter, yet
they could not, agreeably to their own hypothesis,
maintain the eternity and incorruptibility of the
world. And accordingly hereunto, both the Anax*-
imandrian* and DemocriticbAtheists did conclude
the world to be yivopevov km fQaprov, such as was at
first made, and should be again corrupted.—And
upon this account, Lucretius concerns himself
highly herein, to prove both the novity of the
* Vide Diog. Laert. lib. ix. segm. 44. p. 573.
b Vide eufldem lib.ii. scgm. 1,2. p. 78,79.
ASSERTED THE W OREO'l ETERNITY.. SOS
world, and also.its future dissolution and extinc*
tion, that
Totum natrium mortal! corpore constat
But instead oftbe world’s eternity, these two sorts
pf Atheists introduced another paradox, namely
auawstfua Koafuo*, an infinity of worlds;—and that
not only successive, in that space, which this world
of our’s is conceived now to occupy, in respect of
the infinity of past and future time, but also a con­
temporary infinity of coexistent worlds, at al|
times, throughout endless and unbounded space.
However, it is certain, that some persons Athe-
istically inclined, have been always apt to run out
another way, and to suppose, that the frame of
things, and system of the world, ever was from
eternity, and ever will be to eternity, such as now
it is, dispensed by a certain orderly and regular,
but yet senseless and unknowing nature. And it
is prophesied in Scripture, that such Atheists as
these,should especially abound in theselatter days
of our’s ; “ There shall come in tbe last #Pets
days (ifivaiKTcu) atheistical scoffers, walk­
ing after their own lusts, and saying,' Where is
tbe promise of his coming? For since the father^
fell asleep, all things continue as they were from
tbe beginning of the creation.” Which latter
words are spoken only according to the received
hypothesis of the Jews, the meaning of these Athe­
ists being quite otherwise, that there was neither
creation nor beginning of the world; but that
things had continued, such as now they are, from
all eternity. As appears also from what the apo­
stle there adds by way of confutation, that they
“ were wilfully ignorant of this, thatby theword of
304 WHAT ATHEISTS DENIED, AND WHAT
God the heavens were of old, and the earth stands
ing out of the water and in the water; and that as
the world, that then was, overflowing with water
perished, so ,the heavens and earth, which now
are, by the same word are kept in store, and re5
-
served uilto fire against the day of judgment and
perdition of ungodly men.” And it is evident;
that some of these Atheists, at this very day,
march in the garb of enthusiastical religionists,
acknowledging no more a God than a Christ with­
out them, and allegorizing the day of judgment
and future conflagration into a kind of seemingly
mystioal, but really atheistical nonsense. These,
if they did philosophize, would resolve themselves
into one or other of those two hypotheses before
mentioned; either that of one plastic orderly and
methodical, but senseless nature, ruling over the
whole universe; or else that of the life of matter,
making one or other of these two natures to be
their only God or Numen; it being sufficiently
agreeable to the principles of both these Atheistic
hypotheses (and no others) to maintain the world’s
both ant& and post-eternity; yet so as that the lat­
ter of them, namely, the Hylozoists, admitting a
certain mixture of chance together with the life of
matter, would suppose, that though the main
strokes of things might be preserved the same, and
some kind of constant regularity always kept up
in the world, yet that the whole mundane system
did notin all respects continue the same, from eter-
str*b.i t. nity t0 eternity, without any variation.
But as Strabo tells us, that Strata Phy-
sicus maintained, the Euxine sea at first to have
had no outlet by Byzantium into the Mediterra­
nean, but that by the continual runuing in of ri-
ASSERTED THE WORLD’S ETERNITY. 30ft
vers into it, causing it to overflow, there was in
length of time a passage opened by the Propontis
and Hellespont; as also that the Mediterranean
sea forced open that passage of the Herculean
straits, being a continual isthmus or neck of land
before; that many parts of the present continent
were heretofore sea, as also much of the present
ocean habitable land:—so it cannot be doubted,
but that the same Strato did likewise suppose
such kind of alterations and vicissitudes ais these,
in all the greater.parts of the mundane system.
But the Stoical Atheists, who made the whole
world to be dispensed by one orderly and plastic
nature, mightvery well, and agreeably totheir own
hypothesis, maintain, besides the world’s eternity,
one constant and invariable course or tenor of
things in it, as Plinius Secundus doth, who, if he
were any thing, seems to have been one
of these Atheists; “ Mundum et hoc ^at h. i. j.
quod nomine alio coelum appellare li-
buit, (cujus circumflexu reguntur cuncta) Numen
esse, credi par est, aeternum, immensum, neque
genitum, neque interiturum------—Idem rerum na­
turae opus, et rerum ipsa natura.” The world, and
that which by another name is called the heavens,
by whose circumgyration all things are governed,
ought to be believed to be a Numen, eternal, im­
mense, such as was never made, and shall never
be destroyed.—Where,.by the way, it may be
again observed; that those Atheists, who denied
a God, according to the true notion of him, as a
conscious, understanding being, presiding over
the whole world, did notwithstanding look upon
either the world itself, or else a mere senseless
plastic, nature in it, as a kind of Numen or Deity,
3 0 8 WHAT ATHEISTS DENIED, AND WHAT
they supposing it to be ingenerable and incorrupti­
ble. Which same Pliny, as, upon the grounds of
the Stoical Atheism, he maintained against the
Anaximandrians and Democritics, the world's
eternity and incorruptibility; so did he likewise,
in way of opposition to that wupU Koopw, that infi­
nity of worlds—of their’s, assert, that there was
but one world, and that finite. In like manner
we read concerning that famous Stoic, Boethtts,
whom Laertius affirms to have denied the world
to be an animal (which, according to the language
and sense of those times, was all one as to deny a
€!od); that he also maintained, contrary to the re­
ceived doctrine of the Stoics, the world’s ante-eter­
nity and incorruptibility; Philo, in his treatise
irtjot afBapolae K
otrpov, or the Incorruptibility of the
World,—testifying the same of him.
Nevertheless it seems, that some ofthese Stoical
Atheists did also agree with the generality of the
other Stoical TheistS, in supposing a successive
infinity ofworlds generated and corrupted, by rea­
sonofinterveniugperiodical conflagrations;though
all dispensed by such a stupid and senseless na­
ture, as governs plants and trees. For thus much
we gather from those words of Seneca before cited,
where, describing this Atheistical hypothesis, he
tells us, that though the world were a plant, that
is, governed by a vegetative or plastic nature,
without any animality, yet notwithstanding, “ ab
initio ejus usque ad exitum,” &c. it had both a'be­
ginning, and will have an end; and from its begin­
ning to its end, all was dispensed by a kind of re­
gular law, eveu its successive conflagrations too,
as well as those inundations or deluges, which
have sometimes happened. Which yet they un-
ASSERTED THE WORLD’
* ETERNITY. 907
derstood after such a manner, as that in these se*
veral revolutions and successive circuits or periods
of worlds, all things should be airofoXXcucra, exactly
alike, to what had been infinitely before, and
should be again infinitely afterwards. Of which
more elsewhere.
xxxiv. This quadripartite Atheism, which we
have now represented, is the kingdom of darkness
divided, or labouring with an intestine seditious
war in its own bowels, and thereby destroying it­
self. Insomuch that we might well save ourselves
the labour of any further confutation of Atheism,
merelyby committing these several formsof Athe­
ism together, and dashing them one against ano­
ther, they opposing and contradicting each other,
no less than they do Theism itself. For first, those
two pairs ofAtheisms, on the one hand the Anax-
imandrian and Democritic, on the other the Stoical
and Stratonical, do absolutely destroy each other;
the former of them supposing the first principle of
all things to be stupid matter devoid of all manner
oflife, and contending, that all life as well as other
qualities is.generable and corruptible, or a mere
accidental thing, and looking upon the plastic life
ofnature as a figment or fantastic capricio, a thing
almost as formidable and altogether as impossible
as a Deity; the other, on .the contrary, founding
all upon this principle, that there is a life and na­
tural perception essential to matter, ingenerable
and incorruptible, and contending it to be utterly
impossible to give any account of the phenomena
of the world, the original of motion, the orderly
frame and disposition of things, and the nature of
animals, without this fundamental life of nature.
Again, the single Atheisms belonging to each of
808 THE SEVERAL FORM
S OF ATHEISM.
these several pairs quarrel as much also between
themselves. For the Democritic Atheism ex­
plodes the Anaximandrian qualities and forms,
demonstrating that the natural production of such
entities out of nothing, and the corruption of
them again into nothing, is of the two rather
more impossible than a Divine creation and anni­
hilation. And, on the other side, the Anaximan­
drian Atheist plainly discovers, that, when the
Democritics and Atomics have spent all their
fury against these qualities and forms, and done
what they can to solve the phenomena of nature
without them another way, themselves do not­
withstanding, like drunken men, reel and stagger
hack into them, and are unavoidably necessitated
at last to take up their sanctuary in them.
In like manner, the Stoical and.Stratonical
Atheists may as effectually undo and confute
each other; the former of them urging against
the latter, that, besides that prodigious absurdity
of making every atom of senseless matter infalli­
bly wise or omniscient, without any conscious­
ness, there can be no reason at all given by the
Hylozoists, why the matter of the whole universe
might not as well conspire and confederate toge­
ther into one, as all the single atoms that com*
pound the body of any animal or man; or why
one conscious life might not as well result from
the totum of the former, as of the latter; by which
means the whole world would become an animal,
or God. Again, the latter contending, that the
Stoical or Cosmo-plastic Atheist can pretend, no
reason, why the whole world might not have one
sentient and rational, as well as one plastic soul
in it, that is, as well be an animal as a plant:
MUTUALLY DESTROY EACH OTHER. 309
moreover, that the sensitive souls of brute ani­
mals, and the rational souls of men, could never
possibly emerge out of one single, plastic, and
vegetative soul in the whole universe: and, lastly*
that it is altogether as impossible, that the whole
world should have life in it, and yet none of its
parts have any life of their own, as that the whole
world should be white or black, and yet no part
of it have any whiteness or blackness at all in it.
And, therefore, that the Stoical Atheists, as well
as the Stoical Theists, do both alike deny incor­
poreal substance but in words only, whilst they
really admit the thing itself; because one and the
same life, ruling over all the distant parts of the
corporeal universe, must needs be an incorporeal
substance, it being all in the whole, and all acting
upon every part, and yet none of it in any part by
itself; for then it would be many, and not one.
From all which it may be concluded, that Athe­
ism is a certain strange kind of monster, with four
heads, that are all of them perpetually biting, tear­
ing, and devouring one another.
Now, though these several forms of Atheism
,do mutually destroy each other, and none of them
be really considerable or formidable in itself, as
to any strength of reason which it hath ; yet, as
they are* compared together among themselves-,
so some-of them may be more considerable than
•the rest. For, first, as the qualities and forms of
rthe Anaximandrian Atheist, Supposed to be really
distinct from the substances, are things unintelli­
gible in themselves; so he cannot, with any colour
or pretence of reason, maintain the natural'pro­
duction of them out of nothing, and the reduction
of them again into nothing, and yet withstand a
.VOLi I. X
310 THE ATOMIC AND THE HYtOZQtC
Divine creation and annihilation, as an impdssi*.
bility. Moreover, the Anaxitnandrian Atheism
is as. it were swallowed up into the Deinocritic,
and fhrther improved in it; this latter carrying
on the same design, with more seeming artifice*
greater, plausibility of wit, and a more pompo«6
show of something, where, .indeed, there is no­
thing. Upon which account, it hath for many
ages past beaten, the Anaximandrian Atheism in
a manner quite off the stage, and reigned there
alone. So that the Deinocritic or Atomic Athe­
ism seems to be much more considerable of the
two, than the Anaximandrian or Hylopathian.
Again, as for the two other forms of Atheism*
if there were any life at all in matter, as the first
and immediate recipient of it, then in reason this
must needs be supposed to be after the same man­
ner in it, that all other corporeal qualities .are in
bodies, so as to be divisible together with it, and
some of it be in every part of the matter; which
is according to the hypothesis of the Hylozoists.
Whereas, on the contrary, the Stoical Atheists
supposing one life only in the whole mass of mat­
ter, after such a manner, as that none of the parts
of it by themselves should have any life of theit
own, do thereby, no less than the Stoical Theiste,
make this life of their’s to be no corporeal qua­
lity or form, but an incorporeal substance; which
is to coutradict their own hypothesis. From
whence we may conclude, that the Cosmo-plastic
or Stoical Atheism is, of the two, less considera­
ble than the Hylozoic or Stratonical.
Wherefore, amongst these four forms of Athe­
ism, that have been propounded, these two, the
Atomic, or Democritical, and the Hylozoic or
THE C B 1 Y P O t TUB FOtfR ATHEISMS. $11
^tratonical are the chief. The forrtier of which,
namely, the Democritic Atheism, admitting a true
notion of body, that (according to the doctrine of
the first and most ancient Afomists) it is nothing
but resisting bulk devoid of all manner of life;
yet, because it takes for granted, that there is no
Other substance in the world besides body, does,
therefore, conclude, that all fifeand understanding
in animals and men is generated out of dead and
stupid matter, though not as qualities and forms
(which is the Anaximandrian way), but as result­
ing from the contextures of atoms, or some pecu­
liar composition of magnitudes, figures, sites, and
motions; and, consequently, that they are them­
selves really nothing else but local motion and
mechanism; which is a thing, that some time
since was ■
very pertinently and judiciously both
observed and perstringed by the learned Scct 4 c 3,
author* of the Exercitatio Epistolica,
now a reverend bishop. But the latter, namely,
the Hylozorc, though truly acknowledging, on
the contrary, that life, cogitation, and understand­
ing are entities really distinct from local motion
and mechanism, and that therefore they cannot
be generated out of dead and stupid matter, but
must needs be somewhere in the world, originally,
essentially, and fundamentally: yet, because they
take it also for granted, that there is no other sub­
stance besides matter, do thereupon adulterate
the notion of matter or body, blending and con­
founding it with life, as making them but two in­
adequate conceptions of substance, and conclud­
ing that all matter and substance, as such, hath
a Dr. Seth Ward, Savilian Professor ofAstronomy in the University
of Oxford; and successively Bishop of Exeter and Salisbury.
x 2
312 THE ATOMIC AND THE HYLOZOIC
life and perception, or understanding, natural and
unconscious, essentially belonging to it; and that
sense and conscious reason or understanding in
animals, arises only from the accidental modifica-
tion of this fundamental life of matter by organi­
zation.
We conclude, therefore, that if these two Athe­
istic hypotheses, which are found to be the most
considerable, be once confuted, the reality of all
Atheism will be ipsofacto confuted; there being
indeed nothing more requisite to a thorough con­
futation of Atheism, than the proving of these two
things: first, that life and understanding are not
essential to matter, as such; and, secondly, that
they can never possibly rise out of any mixture
or modification of dead and stupid matter what­
soever. The reason of which assertion is, because
all Atheists, as was before observed, are mere
Corporealists, of which there can be but these
two sorts; either such as make life to be essential
to matter, and therefore to be ingenerable and in­
corruptible; or else such as suppose life and
every thing besides v\q airococ, the bare substance
of matter, or extended bulk, to be merely accir
dental, generable, or corruptible, as rising out
of some mixture or modification of it. And as
the proving of those two things w,ill overthrow all
Atheism, so it will likewise lay a clear foundation
for the demonstrating of a Deity distinct from the
corporeal world.
xxxv. Now that life and perception, or under­
standing, should be essential to matter, as such, or
that all senseless matter should be perfectly and
infallibly wise (though without consciousness) as
to all its own congruities and capabilities, which
THE CHIEF OF THE FOUR ATHEISMS. 313
is- the doctrine of the Hylozoists; this, I say, is
an hypothesis so prodigiously paradoxical, and so
outrageously wild, as that very few men ever could
have Atheistic faith enough, to swallow it'down
and digest it. Wherefore, this Hylozoic Atheism
hath been very obscure ever since its first emer­
sion, and bath found so-few fautors and abettors,
that it hath looked like a forlorn and deserted
thing. Neither indeed are there any public monu­
ments at all extant, in which it is avowedly main­
tained, stated, and reduced into any system. Inso­
much that we should not have taken any notice of
it at this time, as a particular form of Atheism, nor
have conjured it up out of its grave, had we not
understood, that Strato’s ghost had begun to walk
of late; and that among some well-wishers to
Atheism, despairing in a manner of the Atomic
form, this Hylozoic hypothesis began already to
be looked upon, as the rising sun of Atheism,
------“ Et tanquam spes altera Trojae,” it seem­
ing to smile upon them, and flatter them at a dis­
tance, with some fairer hopes of supporting that
ruinous and desperate cause.
Whereas, on the contrary, that other Atomic
Atheism, as it insists upon a true notion of body,
that it is nothing but resisting bulk; by which
means we, joining issue thereupon, shall be fairly
conducted on to a clear decision of this, present
controversy, as likewise to the disentangling of
many other points of philosophy; so it is that,
which hath filled the world with the noise of it,
for two thousand years, past; that, concerning
which several volumes have been formerly written,
in which it hath been stated and brought into a
kind of system; and which hath 6f late obtained
314 THE FOUR ATHEISMS TO BE
a resurrection, amongst us, together with the Ato­
mic physiology, and been recommended to the
world anew, under a specious shew of wit and
profound philosophy.
Wherefore, as we could not here insist upon
both these forms of Atheism together, because
that would have been to confound the language of
Atheists, and to have made them, like the Cad-
mean offspring, to do immediate execution upon
themselves; so we were in all reason obliged to
make our first and principal assault upon the
Atomic Atheism, as being the only considerable,
upon this account, because it is that alone, which
publicly confronts the world, and like that proud
uncircumcised Philistine, openly defiesthehosts of
the living God; intending nevertheless in the close
of this whole discourse (that is, the last book),
where we are to determine the right intellectual
system of the universe, and to assert an incorpo­
real Deity, to demonstrate, that life, cogitation,
and understanding do not essentially belong to
, matter, and all substance, as such, but are the pe­
culiar attributes and characteristics of substance
incorporeal.
xxxvi. However, since we have now started
these several forms of Atheism, we shall not in the
mean time neglect any of them neither. For in
the answer to the second Atheistic ground, we
shall confute them altogether at once, as agreeing
in this one fundamental principle, That the origi­
nal of all things in the universe is senseless mat­
ter, or matter devoid of all animality or conscious
life;—In the reply to the fourth Atheistic argu­
mentation, we shall briefly hint the grounds of
reasou, from which incorporeal substance is de-
(CONFUTED ALTOGETHER. 3 1 5
monstrated. In the examination of the fifth, we
shall confute the Anaximaudrian Atheism there
propounded, which is, as it were, the first sciogra-
phy and rude delineatiop of Atheism. And in
the confutation of the sixth, we shall shew, how
the ancient Atomic Atheists did preventively over­
throw the foundation of Hylozoism. Besides all
which, in order to a fuller and more thorough con­
futation, both of the CosmQ'plastic and Hylozoic
Atheisms, we shall in this very place take occa­
sion to insist largely upon the plastic life ofnature,
giving in the first place a true account of it; and
then afterwards shewing, how grossly it is misun­
derstood, and the pretence of it abused, by the as-
sertors of both these Atheistic hypotheses. The
heads of which larger digression, because they
could not be so conveniently inserted in the con­
tents of the chapter, shall be represented to the
reader’s view at the end of it.
x x x v ii. For we th in k fit here to observe, that
neither the Cosmo-plastic or Stoical, nor the Hy­
lozoic or Stratonical Atheists, are therefore con­
demned by us, because they suppose such a thing
as a plastic-nature, or life distinct from theanimal;
albeit this be not only exploded, as an absolute
nonentity, by the Atomic Atheists, who might
possibly be afraid of it, as that which approached
too near to a Deity, or else would hazard the in­
troducing ofit; but also utterly discarded by some
professed Theists of later times, who might not­
withstanding have an undiscerned tang of the Me­
chanic Atheism banging about them, in that their
so confident rejecting of all final and intending
causality iu nature, and admitting of no other
causes of things, as philosophical, save the mate-
316 A DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE
rial and mechanical only; this being really'to ba­
nish all mental, and consequently Divine causa­
lity, quite out ofthe world; and to make the whole
world to be nothing else* but a mere heap of dust
fortuitously agitated, or a dead cadaverous thing,
that hath no signatures of mind and understand­
ing, counsel and wisdom at all upon it; nor indeed
any other vitality acting in it, than only the pro­
duction of a certain quantity of local motion, and
the conservation of it according to some general
laws; which things the Democritic Atheists take
for granted, would all be as they are,
DeC®i.L*. though there were no God. And thus
tom. i. oper. Aristotle describes this kind, of philoso­
phy, that it made the whole world to
Consist, «c obi/uartov juovov, (cat /uovaSwv ra^iv ftlv f^ovrwv,
atf/vyrtv Sewdfinav, of Nothing but bodies and mo­
nads (that is, atoms, or small particles of matter)
only ranged and disposed together into such an
order, but altogether dead and inanimate.—
2. For unless there be such a thing admitted as
a plastic nature, that acts mica rov, for the sake of
something, and in order to ends, regularly, artifi­
cially and methodically, it seems, that one or other
of these two things must be concluded; that either
in the efformation and organization of the bodies
of animals, as well as the other phenomena, every
thing comes to pass fortuitously, and happens to
be as it is, without the guidance and direction of
any mind or understanding; or else, that God him­
self doth all immediately, and, as it were, with his
own hands, form the body of every gnat and fly,
insect and mite, as of other animals in generations,
all whose members have so much of contrivance
iu them, that Galen professed he could never
PLASTIC LIFE OF NATURE. 817
enough admire that artifice, which was in the leg
of a fly (and yet he would have admired the wis­
dom of nature more, had he been but acquainted
with the use of microscopes): I say, upon supposi­
tion of no plastic nature, one or other of these two
things must be concluded; because it is not con­
ceived by any, that the things of nature are all thus
administered, with such exact regularity and con­
stancy every where, merely by the wisdom, pro­
vidence, and efficiency of those inferior spirits, de­
mons, or angels. As also, though it be true, that
the works of nature are dispensed by a Divine law
and command, yet this is not to be understood in
a vulgar sense, as if they were all effected by the
mere force of a verbal law or outward command,
because inanimate things are not commendable
nor governable by such a law. And therefore, be­
sides the Divine will and pleasure, there must
needs be some other immediate agent and execu­
tioner provided, for the producing of every effect;
since not so much as a stone, or other heavy body,
could at any time fall downward, merely by the
force of a verbal law, without any other efficient
cause; but either God himself must immediately
impel it, or else there must be some other subor­
dinate cause in nature for that motion. Where­
fore, the Divine law and command, by which the
things of nature are administered, must be con­
ceived to be the real appointment of some ener­
getic, effectual, and operative cause for the pro­
duction of every effect. •
3. Now to assert the former of these two things,
that all the effects of nature come to pass by ma­
terial and mechanical necessity, or the mere for­
tuitous motion of matter, without any guidance or
3 1 8 A d ig r e s s io n c o n c e r n in g t h e
direction, is a-thing no less irrational than it is inv.
pioqs and atheistical. Not only because it is
utterly inconceivable and impossible, that such
infinite regularity and artificialness, as is every
where throughout the whole world, should con­
stantly result put of the fortuitous motion of mat­
ter; but also because there are many such parti­
cular phenomena in nature, as do plainly tran­
scend the powers ofmechanism, of which therefore
no sufficient mechanical reasons can be devised—
as the motion of respiration in animals: as there
are also other phenomena, that are perfectly cross
to the laws of mechanism; as, for example, that of
thedistant poles of the equator and ecliptic, which
we shall insist upon afterward. Of both which
kinds there have been other instances proposed
by my learned friend, Dr. More, in bis Enchiri­
dion Metciphysicum, and veryingeniouslyimproved
by him to this very purpose, namely, to evince,
that there is something in nature besides me­
chanism, and consequently substance incorpo­
real.
Moreover, those Theists, who philosophize af­
ter this manner, by resolving all the corporeal phe­
nomena into fortuitous mechanism, or the neces­
sary and unguided motion of matter, make God
to be nothing els.e in the world, but an idle spec­
tator of the various results of the fortuitous and
necessary motions of bodies; and render his wis­
dom altogether useless and insignificant, as being
a thing wholly enclosed, and shut up within his
own breast, and not at all acting abroad upon any
thing without him.
Furthermore, all such Mechanists as these,
whether Theists or Atheists, do, accordiug to that
PLASTIC LIFE OF NATURE. 0 1 9
judicious censure passed by Aristotle, d« PartA
a.
long since, upon Democritus, but sub-
stitute as it were %tipa Zpktvqv r*icrov*c, a
carpenter’s or artificer’s wooden band, moved by
strings and wires, instead of a living baud.—They
make a kind of dead and wooden world, as it were
a carved statue, that hath nothing neither vital nor
magical at all in it. Whereas to those, who are
considerative, it will plainly appear, that there is
a mixture of life or plastic nature, together with
mechanism, which runs through the whole cor­
poreal universe.
And whereas it is pretended, not only that all
corporeal phenomena may be sufficiently solved
mechanically, without anyfinal, intending, and di­
rective causality, but also that all other reasons of
things in nature, besides the materia) and mecha­
nical, are altogether unpbilosopbical, the same
Aristotle1
*ingeniously exposes the ridiculousness
of this pretence after this manner: telling us, that
it is just as if a carpenter, joiner, or carver should
give this account, as the only satisfactory, of any
artificial fabric or piece of carved imagery, on ifivt-
epvro? rpv p p y a v o v to ftkv #ot\ov eylperp, ro S e tjrlysSoy,
that because the instruments, axes and hatchets,
planes and chisels, happened to fall so and so
upon the timber, cutting it here and there, that
therefore it was hollow iu one place, and plain iu
another, and the like; and by that means the whole
came to be of such a form.—For is it not altoger
ther as absurd and ridiculous, for men to under­
take1
"to give an account of the formation and or­
ganization of the bodies of animals, by mere fortu­
itous mechanism, without any final or intending
*llbi supra. bVide Cartes, libr. de Homine,et do Formation© Foetus
FINAL CAUSES
320
causality,' as why there was an heart here, and
brains there; and why the heart had so many and
such different valves in the entrance and outlet of
its venticles; and why all the other organic parts,
veins and arteries, nerves and muscles, bones and
cartilages,with thejoints and members,wereofsuch
a form ? Because forsooth, the fluid matter of the
seed happenedto move so and so in several places,
and thereby to cause all those differences, which
are also diverse in different animals; all being the
necessary result of a certain quantity of motion at
first indifferently impressed upon the small parti.-
des of the matter of this universe turned round in
a vortex. But, as the same Aristotle adds, no
carpenter or artificer is so simple, as to give, such
an account as this, and think it satisfactory, but
he will rather declare, that himself directed the
motion of the instruments, after such a
aIu i. manner, and in order tosuch ends: *B*X-
t io v o t v Ct w v , ow yap iKavov tarot avrtj), t o to-
advrow airav, on t/xirsaovro^ row opyavov, &C. oAX« Sioti
rijv orXijyijv broiijoaro roiawTijv, Kat rcvoc tvuca, tpti tj/v
airtav, omvc roiovSt rjTOtov&ijTrorc rijv /uopipnv yivvrai. A
carpenter would give a better account than so, for
he would not think it sufficient to say, that the fa­
bric came to be of such a form, because the instru­
ments happened to fall so and so, but he will tell
you that it was because himselfmadesuch strokes,
and that he directed the instruments and deter­
mined their motiou after such a manner, to this
end, that he might make the whole a fabric fit and
useful for such purposes.—And this is to assign
the final cause. And certainly there is scarcely
any man in his wits, that will not acknowledge the
reason ofthe different valves in the heart from the
NOT UNPHILOSOPHICAI<. 321
apparent usefulness of them, according to those
particular structures of their’s, to be more satisfac­
tory, than any which can be brought from mere
fortuitous mechanism, or the unguided motion of
the seminal matter.
4. And as'for the latter part of the disjunction,
that every thing in nature should be done imme­
diately by God himself; this, as, according to vul­
gar apprehension, it would reuder Divine Provi­
dence operose, solicitous, and distractious, and
thereby make the beliefof it to be entertained with
greater difficulty, and give advantage to Atheists;
*so, in the judgment of the writer De Munflo, it is
not so decorous in respect of God neither, that he
should avrovpyuv avavra, set his own hand, as it
were, to every work, and .immediately do all the
meanest and triflingest things himself drudgingly,
without making use of any inferior and y
subordinate instruments. Etn-sp aotpvov
ijv av’rov Bokuv Hfp£ijv avrovpyuv airavra, *cat StarcXccv
a |3ovAoito, k m k^undfitvov Bioikuv, tto
Xu /uaXXov airpcirtc
av itrji rip Osip. Stjuvorepov Be k m irp«ra>Sf<rrtpov rqv Svva-
fitv avrov, Bid rov av/tiravroe Koapov Stipcovaav, qXiov re
Kivtlv km (T£\?/v?jv, &c. If it were not congruous in
respect of the state and majesty of Xerxes, the
great king of Persia, that he should condescend
to do all the meanest offices himself; much less
can this be thought decorous in respect,of God..
But it seems far more august and becoming of the
Divine Majesty, that a certain power and virtue,
derived from him, and passing through the uni­
verse,- should move the sun and moon, and be the
immediate cause of those lower things done here
upon earth.—
. Moreover, it seems not so agreeable to reason
322 n a t u r e a s u b u r u in a t e
neither, that nature, as a distinct thing from the
Dteity, should be quite superseded or made to
signify nothing, God himself doing all things'im­
mediately and miraculously; from whence it
would follow also, that they are all done either
forcibly and violently, or else artificially only, and
hone of them by any inward principle oftheir own;
Lastly; this opinion is further confotedby that
slow and gradual' process, that is in the genera­
tions of things, which would seem to be but a vain
and idle pomp, or a trifling formality, if the-agent
were omnipotent: as also by those anaprnpaxa (as^
Aristotle calls them) those errors and bungles,
which are committed, when the matter is inept and
contumacious; which argue the agent not to be
irresistible, and that nature is such a thing, as is
not altogether incapable (as well as human art)
of being sometimes frustrated and disappointed,
by the indisposition of matter. Whereas an om­
nipotent agent, as it could dispatch its work in a
'moment, so it would always do it infallibly and
irresistibly; no Ineptitude Orstubbornness ofmat­
ter being ever able ,to hinder such a one, or make
him bungle or fumble in any thing.
5. Wherefore, since neither all things are pro­
duced fortuitously, or by the unguided mechanism
of matter, nor God himself may reasonably be
thought to do all things immediately and miracu­
lously ; it may well be concluded, that there is a
plastic nature under him, which, as an inferior and
subordinate instrument, doth drudgingly execute
that part of his providence, which consists in the
regular and orderly motion of matter; yet so as
that there is also, besides this, a higher Provi­
dence to be acknowledged, which, presiding over
INSTSOMEUt 0» TH£ D fe ttt. 323
it, doth often supply the defects of it, and some­
times over-rule i t ; forasmuch as this plastic na­
ture cannot act eleCtively, nor with discretion.
And by this means the wisdom of God will not be
shut up nor concluded wholly within his own
breast, but will display itself abroad, and print its
stamps and signatures everywhere throughout the
world; so that God, as Plato* (after Orpheus*)
speaks, will be not only the beginning and end,
but also the middle of all things; they being as
much to be ascribed to his causality, as if himself
had done them all immediately, without the con*
current instrumentality of any subordinate natural
cause. Notwithstanding which, in this way it
will appear also to human reason, that all things
are disposed and ordered by the Deity, without
any solicitous care or distractious providence.
And indeed those mechanic Theists, who, re­
jecting a plastic nature, affect to concern the Deity
as little as is possible in mundane affairs, either
for fear ofdebasing him, and bringing him down to
too mean offices, or else of Subjecting him to soli­
citous encumberment; and for that cause would
have God to contribute nothing more to the mun­
dane system and economy, than only the first
impressing of a certain quantity of motion upon
the matter, and the after conserving of it, accord­
ing to some general laws; these men, I say, seem
not very well to understand themselves in this.
Forasmuch as they must of necessity, either sup­
pose these their laws of motion to execute them­
selves, or else be forced perpetually to concern
the Deity in the immediate motion of every atom
of matter throughout the universe, in order to the
*De Leg; lib. iv.p. 6d0.6per. bVide Apul. de Mundo, p.36.
324 A PLASTIC NATURE AQREEARLE TO THE
execution and observation of them. The former of
which being a thing plainly absurd and ridicu-
lous, and the latter that, which these philoso­
phers themselves are extremely abhorrent from,
we canuot make any other conclusion than this,
that they do but unskilfully and unawares esta­
blish that very thing, which in words they oppose;
and that their laws of nature concerning motion
are really nothing else but a plastic nature, acting
upon the matter of the whole corporeal universe,
both maintaining the same quantity of motion al­
ways in it, and also dispensing it (by transferring
it out of one body into another) according to
such laws, fatally impressed upon it. Now, if
there be a plastic nature, that governs the motion
of matter every where, according to laws, there,
can be no reason given, why the same might not
also extend farther to the regular disposal of that
matter, in the formation of plants and animals,
and other things, in order to that apt coherent
frame and harmony of the whole universe.
6 . And as this plastic nature is a thing, which
seems to be in itselfmost reasonable, so hath it also
had the suffrage of the best philosophers in all
ages. For, first, it is well known, that Aristotle
concerns himself in nothing more zealously than
this, that mundane things are not effected merely
by the necessary and unguided motion of matter,
or byfortuitous mechanism; but by such a nature
as acts regularly and artificially for ends; yet so
as that this nature is not the highest principle
neither, or the supreme Numen, but subordinate
to a perfect mind or intellect; he affirming, that
vovg curtov teal tpvmg tovSs tov iravrog, that mind, toge­
ther with nature, was the cause of this universe;
.SENSE 0 F * K E 6ftS f E ftttO iO tU tU E s.. - & &
—and thatheaven and earthy plants and animals;
Were framed by them both; .that is, by mind at
the principal and directive cause* but by nature as
a subservient or executive instrument\ and else­
where joining; in likemanner God tuid nature both
together* as when be concludes* That God and
nature do nothing in vain.
Neither-was Aristotle the first broacher or ini
vector of this doctrine, Plato before him having
plainly asserted- the same. For in a passage al­
ready cited, he affirrrts; that nature, together with
reason, and according to it, Orders ail things%
thereby making nature, as a distinct thing fropr
the Deity, to be a subordinate cause Under the
reason and wisdom of it. And elsewhere he re­
solves, that there are1tfifpovocfvotmeoitlai, <
&
evirile*
tdv/tdit o (k<
k%
(>
&
■
&
, certain causes of a wise and
artificial nature, which the Deity uses assabSer-
vient to itself;—as also, that there are £wdnd.oh
ifavipyoie ytfnTcu, con-causes, which’God makes
use of, «s subordinate^ co-operative with him*
s^f. '
Moreover, before. Plato, Empedocles philoso­
phized also id the same mantfer, When, supposing
two worlds, the one archetypal, the other eifeypal,
he made (jnXla and vtucoe, friendship and discord,
tO be tire Spatrrvptoe, the active principleand
immediate operator in this lower World; he ttift
-understanding thereby, as Plutarch* and some
-others have conceited, two substantial principles
in the world, the one of good*the other of evil*;
but only a plastic nature, aS Aristotle in Sundry
. * Da lade et Osiride, p. 370. tapi>
U
topttv
Y
VOL. I.
220 A BLA8TIC NATURE AGREEABLE TO .TH f
places intimates; which he called, by[that name,
partly because he apprehended, that the,result
and upshot of, nature in all generations andcor-
ruptions amounted to nothing more than mixtures
and separations, or concretion and secretion[of
preexistent things; and partly because this plas-
tic nature is that, which [doth reconcile the con­
trarieties and,enmities of particular things, and
bringthetn into one general harmony in the whhle
[Which latter is a notion, that Plotinus, describing
this very seminary reason or plastic nature of the
world (though taking it in somethmg a larger
£a s 1 s sense, than we do in this place), doth in-
»
ec[i6.'p.* geniously pursue after this manner: ’A*
*67. oper. Tl(fa gj aXXyXoig.ra pipit, Kal ,jrou|<rac *vSt#i
voXipov Kal payrtK ery&ramv km ylvtaiv upyaaaxo' Key. ovxttt
laxly «c w«c,. £ t c o | * ytvopevov.yap tavxtp xol^pipten
xroXiptov, ovrittf tv strri ■
Kal ^tXov, tyQvtp av a Spaparoe
Aoyoe uip,'o rov Spapaxoc, e
v avxtj) iroXXac. juoj^ac"
to plv oSv Bpapa xi pepayrypiva, otov tic plav. appovlav,
ayu »{ rs paXXov av « c rjj appovla xp ek
p a y p p lv w v tu ca a eu . The seminary reason or plasr
lie nature of the universe, opposing the parts to
one another, and making them severally indi­
gent, produces by that means war and contention.
And, therefore, though it be one, yet, notwith­
standing, it consists of different and contrary
things. For there being hostility in its parts,- it
is nevertheless-friendly and agreeable in the wholes;
.after the same manner as in a dramatic poem,
•clashings and contentions are reconciled into one
harmony. Anch, therefore, the seminary and plas­
tic nature of the world may fitly be resembled to
the harmony of disagreeing things.—Which Plo-
SENSE OF THE BE8T PHILOSOPHERS. 327
-foie doctrine may well pass for a commentary
-upon Empedocles, accordingly as Sim- de
plicius briefly represents his sense, 'Ep- c*u. i. c.
frtSiwXjc S»o K
W
T
fxovgffvvlaritai, rovfdv'i»
vptftk- editionsc.
. voy Kat votjrov, rov :Si B u u c a c p tfd v w K a i c u a fh rro v, ^ jnet 16*6'
lea l t v r o v r w K o o fitp rtjv s y w o tv o p tic a l rqv 3ta-
' Kptaw' Empedocles makes two worlds, tbe ofle
t united and intelligible, the other divided aud sen­
sible; and in this lower sensible world, he takes
’notice both of unity and discord.—
It was before observed, that Heraclitus; like-
. wise did assert a regular and artificial nature, qs
:the fate of things in this lower world; for his “ rea­
son passing through the substance ofall things,”pr
“ ethereal body, which was the seed of the gene-
. ration of the universe,” was nothing but that sper­
matic or plastic nature which we now speak of.
And whereas there is an odd passage of this phi-
. losopber’s recorded,* K
o&
fiov rovSt ovre.Tig 0E
(ji{ ov
r a v O p w irw v tiroojfft, that neither any Godr nor man
- made this world,—which, as it is justly derided
by Plutarch for its simplicity, soitlooks very
atheistically at first sight; yet, because; Heracli­
tus hath not been accounted an Atheist, we there­
fore conceive the meaning of it to have been thie,
. that the <vorld was not made by any whatsoever,
after such a manner as an artificermakes a house,
by machines and engines, ;acting from' without
.-upon the matter, cumbersomely andmolimfnously,
but: by. a certain inward plastic nature of its own.
And as Hippocrates followed' Heraclitus in
■this (as was; before, declared), so did; Z e n o and
. the Stoics also;;they supposing, besides an intpl-
*Apud Plutaroli. de Animas Procrcat. ex TimsBO^toiiii ii.'bp&rljp,
10l4.etapud Clement. Alexandria. Stromat. lib. r. cap. xhr. p.-7IK
.Y2
3f6 A PLABtIC NATURE AGREfcASLfe TO THE
lectnal natare, as the supreme tiMbitedt and mas­
ter-builder of the world, another plastic nature
as the immediate workman and operator: whlt$i
plastic nature hath been already described, in the
words of Balbus, as a thing, which acts not'for­
tuitously, but regularly, orderly, and
ZeJ? artificially. And Laertius tells* us, it
was defined by-Zeno‘
himself after'this
manner: Si <
f>
v
<
r
tc *£ avrifc K
«vow
»f*n
Kara atrcfjuartKoyc Xoyotie, •dircrreXovoi ri Kal <rvviy^oviia
rtTf£ diJrnC *v tiputfdtote ypovoic* Kal rotavra Spwaa.
Atf cfovnmicpidn' Nature is a habit moved from it­
self according to spermatic reasons or seminal
principles, perfectingand containing thoseseveral
things, which in determinate times are produced
fromit,- and acting agreeably to that from which
it was steerCted.-:- *
Lastly, as the latter Platohists and Peripate­
tics have unanimously ■
followed their masters
herein, whofcevegetative soul also is no other than
a plastic nature; so the chemists and Paracel-
siatas insist much upon the same thing, and seem
rather to hate carried the notion on further, in
the bodies of animals, where they call it by a neW
name Of their own—the ArcheUs.
-Moreover, We cannot but observe here; that,
as amongst the ancients they were generally con­
demned for downright Atheists, who acknow-
■lodged no other principle besides body or matter,
•necessarily and fortuitously moved, such as De­
mocritus and the first Tonics: so even Anax­
agoras himself, notwithstanding that he was a
professed Theist, and plainly asserted mind to
be a principle, yet, because he attributed too
much to material necessity, admitting neither tbis
SENSE OJP TI&E BEST PHtfcOSOEBUUfc. 329
plastic nature nor a mundane Soul, tvas severely
censured, not only by the vulgar (who unjustly
taxed him for an Atheist), but also by Plato and
Aristotle, as a kind of spurious and imperfect
Theist, and one who had given great advantage
to Atheism, Aristotle, in his Metapby- , L 1 e4
sics, thus represents his philosophy:* p»g-
• A y r \ ~ ~ - , tom.iT.oper,
Avac^zyopac re yap fir\yavrj ^piprat ry l vi$9wfrog
rqv KO(jfiOTroiiav> Kal <Jrav diropiftrj? 8ui rtv atrtav, ££ dwi-
yiccc «crri, rore eXicu outqv) iv §£ role aXXoic irdvra fJtaXXov
avnarcu r iv ywofievwv 1} vovv* A n a x a g o ra s US6th H ttod
and intellect, that is, God, as a machine in the
Cosmopoeia; and whan he is at a loss to give
an account of things by material necessity* then,
and never but then, does he draw in mind or God
to help him out; but*otherwise he will rather as*
sign any thing else for a cause than mind.—Now,,
if Aristotle censure Anaxagoras in this manner,
though, a professed Theist, because he did but
seldom make use of a mental cause for the solv­
ing of the phenomena of the world, and only then
when he was at a loss for other material and me*,
cbanieal causes (which it seems be soitigtit&es
confessed himself to be), what would that philo­
sopher have thought of those our so confident
Mechanists of later times, who will never vouch­
safe so much as once to be beholden tp God Al­
mighty for any thing in the economy of tbe .cor­
poreal world,*After the first impression of motion
upon the matter ?
Plato, likewise, in his Phadof and;elsewhere,
condemns this Anaxagoras byname for tbi* very
thing, that though be acknowledged mindr to be
*P..3S3.
I
330 A PLASTIC MATURE AGREEABLE TO THE
a cause, yet he seldom made use of it for solving
the phenomena; but in his twelfth De JLegibus, >
heperstringeth him unnamed, as one who, though <
alprofessed■
Theist, had, notwithstanding, given.
greatencouragement to Atheism, after
steph9
.67' . this manner Asyovrtgwe voue ttv 9 Sto/ct--'
Koirjifi|ic(dcffKi^iwa'icaT' ovjwvov, avm$T(Uar'
a/napravovrtg j)e'■
pvaeuig, ort irpeaftvrepov utf a(O
fiarttnir
airavff wg eltniv ivog, a»terpepav irakiv, ra yap St irpo r<5w
OpfiartoV ifavra, avraiig s<
j>
a
vi}, ra tear ovpavdv /pepopeva,
peara civui Xtfhitv,'lea
l yjJe, (tat 7roXXwv aXXwv aif/vyrtov <w-
/iarirv, Stavs/uovrwv rag airtac Travrog row Koapov, roan iv
I'd rort e^tipyaapeva iroXXag afeortrrac* Some of them,
who had concluded that it was mind that or­
dered all things in the heavens, themselves erring
concerning the nature.ofthe fcoul, andnot makings
that older than the body, have overturned all
again; for heavenly bodies being supposed by.
them to be full of stones, and earth, and: other*
inanimate things (dispensing the causes of the
whole universe), they did by this means occasion
much Atheism and impiety—
Furthermore, the same Plato there tells us, that
in those times of his, astronomers and physiolo-
gers commonly lay under the prejudice- andsus­
picion of Atheism amongst the vulgar, merely for
this reason, because they dealt so much in mate­
rial Causes: 01 iroXXol Siavoovvrm rovg ra rocawra pera-
yupiffapevovg, atrrpovopia re Kal rate juerdV
Aw
rijcavayKaltug
dXXaig reyvaiQ, adsovg ylyviOai, /caBewpaxorag we oidvrt
yiyvo/ueva avay/cate ra irpaypar, aX
X
’ aw Butvoiatg /3ouX?/-
Ciwg ayaBwv wepi rt\ovfisvw v‘ The vulgar think, that
they -who addict themselves to. astronomy' and
physiology, are made Atheists thereby, they see­
ing as much as is possible, how things come to
SENSE OF THE BEST PHILOSOPHERS. 331
pass by material necessities, and being thereby
disposed to think them not to be ordered by mind,
and will, for the sake of good.—From whence
we may observe, that, according to the natural
apprehensions of men in all ages, they'who re­
solve the phenomena of nature into material ne­
cessity, allowing of no final nor mental causality
(disposing things in order to ends), have been'
strongly suspected for friends to Atheism.
7 . But because some niay ’pretend, that the
plastic nature is all one with an occult quality,'
we shall here shew, how great a differeneethere
is betwixt these two. For he that asserts an oc­
cult quality for the cause of any phenomenon,
does indeed assigu no cause at all of it,' but-only
declare his own ignorance of the cause: but he
that asserts a plastic nature, assigns aideterminate
and proper cause, nay, tjie only intelligible cause,
of that which is the greatest of all phenomena in
the world, namely, the «>s5 k
<
u KoXa?, the orderly
regular, and artificial frame of things iu thp uni­
verse, whereof the mechanic philosophers, how­
ever, pretending to solve all phenomena by matter
and motion, assign up cause at all. Mindabdi
understanding is the only true cause of orderly
regularity; and he that asserts a plastic nature,
asserts mental causalityin the world • but the for­
tuitous Mechanists, who, exploding final causes,-
will not allow mind and understanding to have
any influence at all upon the frame of things, can
never possibly assign any cause of this grand
phenomenon, unless confusion may be said to be
the cause of order, and fortune or chance of con­
stant regularityand,, therefore, themselves must
resolve it into aii occult quality. Nor, indeed,-
33* A .BIGOT HEPBKSElCTATKm
does there appear anjr great reason, why' such
feeb should assert an infinite mind in the world*
since they do not allow it to act any where at all,
Undtherefore must needs make it- to beinvam.
- 6 . Now, this,plastic nature being:athing, which
is not without some difficulty in the conception
erf it, we shall here-endeavour to do these two
things concerning it : first, to set down a right
representation thereof; and then afterwards to
shfew bow extremely the notion of it hath been
mistaken, perverted; and abused by those-Athe­
ists, who would make it to be the only God Al­
mighty, or first principle of all things. ..
, How the plastic nature is. in general to be Cou-
•phys i c ceived, Aristotle instructs ns-in these
MrP'g-.4*7-; W ords :* tr ivijv iv r<p:%p\<p q i>ainriytiai it/tibl-
*^™
1
: wc «v Tf.fiott nrora• If the naupegical art,
that is, (he mftof the shipwright, were in thetim*
bUr; itself operatively and effectually, it would
there: act just as nature doth.—And the ease id
the same:for all other arts. If the oecodoimeal
art, Which is to the mind of the architect, were
supposed to be transfused into the stones, bricks*
Uod mortar,.there acting upon them.in such a
manner as to make them come together of them:
Selves, and range themselves into; the form of a
complete edifice* as Amphion was said,: by his -
harp* to have made: the stones move, and place
themselves orderly of their own accord, and so tor
have built,the walls Of-Thebes; or if the musical
art were conceived to be. immediately in -the
instruments and strings, animating them as a liv­
ing soul, and making them to move exactly, ac­
cording to the laws of harmony, without any ex­
ternal- im pulsethese, and such tike instances,
OF THIS PLASTIC NATURE. 339
in Aristotle’s judgment; would be fit iconisms or
representations of the plastic nature, that being
art itself acting immediately upon the matter as
au inward principle in it. To which purpose the
same philosopher adds, that this thing might be
further illustrated by another instance Or resem­
blance : fiakuna SifXov, orav tic iirptvu avroc *ovrov,
nvrp yip itiuctvij (jnutu;’ Nature may be yet more
clearly resembled to the medicinal art, when it is
employed by the physician in curing himself.—So
that the meaning of this philosopher is, that na­
ture is to be conceived as art, acting not from
without and at a distance, but immediately upon,
the thing itself'which is formed by it And thus
we have the first general conception of the plastic
nature, that it is art itself, acting immediately no.
the matter as an inward principle. *
8 . In the next place, we are to observe, that
though the plastic nature be a kind of art, yet
there are some considerable pre-eminences which
it bath above human art; the first whereof is thip,
that whereas human art cannot act upon the mat­
ter otherwise than from without and at a distance,
nor communicate itself to it, but with a great deal
of thmult and burliburly, noise and clatter* it
Using bauds and axes, saws and hammers* and
after this manner, with much ado, by knockiqgs
and tbrustings, slowly introducing its form or idea
(as, for example, of a ship or house) into the
materials; nature, in the mean time, is another
kind of art, which, insinuating itself immediately
into things themselves, and there acting more
commandingly upon the matter as an inward prin­
ciple* does its work easily, cleverly, and silently.
Nature is art as it were incorporated end embo-
3 3 4 NATURE IS THE
died in matter, whichdoth not act upon it from
without mechanically, but from within
»
ecinp
3344 vitally aT
1d magically; ovre tvrauOa,
ovre tro&c, ovre rt opyavov eiraKrov i) ov/tfi/rav,
vXyg Si Set £<f tie iroiyou, Kal yv iv uSei Tout, vavritrov
SfXov. Set Si -Kal to fioyrXevstv a<j>sXetv ek rye^"joucyetr»ty-
iroioe yap todtapoc, y rte ftoy\elat &c. Here.are
no hands, nor feet, nor any instrument, connate,
or adventitious, there being only need of matter to
work upon, and to be brought into a certain form,
and nothing else. For it is manifest that the ope­
ration of nature is different from- mechanism, it
doing not its work by trusion or pulsion, by knock-?
ings or thrustings, as if it were without that which'
it wrought upon.—But as God is inward to every­
thing, so nature acts immediately upon the mattery
as an inward and living soul, or law in it. •.1
• 10 . Another pre-eminence of nature above hu­
man art is this, that whereas human artists me'
Often to seek and at a loss, and therefore consult
and deliberate, as also upon second thoughts mend'
their former work; nature, on the contrary, is ne­
ver to seek what to do, nor at a stand; and for
that reason also (besides another that will be.sug­
gested afterwards) it doth never consult nor deli­
berate. Indeed Aristotle intimates, as if this had
been the grand objection of the old Atheistic phi­
losophers against the plastic nature, that because
W
Odo not see natural bodies to consultordeliber
rate, therefore there could be nothing of art, coun­
sel, or contrivance in them; but all came:tO'pass
fortuitously.—But he confutes it after
PKys. 1
. 2.C
. this manner : "Aroirov Si T
O uy mtotiat iveKtt.
8.p.477.tom
. » n >' . i \ - n % • /
i.-oj>cr. - • row ytvemat, eav fty tooxxi to kivovv povAtoaa-
- •- fttvov, Kaerei kal y re^vy ov (HovXsVtrat' I tis
' DIVINE ART EMBODIED. 335
absurd for men to think nothing to be done for
ends, if they do not see that which moves to
consult, although art itself doth not consult.—
Whence he concludes, that nature may act artifi-
daily, orderly, and methodically, for the sake of
ends, though it never consult or deliberate. In­
deed human artists themselves do not consult pro­
perly as they are' artists, but whenever they do it,
it is for want of art, and because they are to seek,
their art being imperfect and adventitious: but
art itself or perfect art, is never to seek, and there­
fore doth never consult or deliberate; and nature
is this art, which never hesitates nor studies, U
&
unresolved what to do, but is always readily
prompted; nor-does it ever repent afterwards of
what it had formerly done, or go about, as it
were, upon second thoughts, to alter and mend its
former course; but it goes on in one constant un?
repenting tenor, from generation to generation,
. because it is the stamp Or impress of that infalli­
bly omniscient art of the Divine understanding,
which is the very law and rule of what is simply
the best in every thing. • • • *•
And thus we have seen the difference between
natufe and human art: that the latter is imperfect
art,' acting upon the matter from without, and at
a distance; but the former is art itself, or perfect
art, acting as an inward principle in it. Where-.
'fore* when art is Said to imitate nature, the mean­
ing thereof is, that imperfect human art imitates
that perfect art of nature, which is really no othet
than the Divine art itself; as, before Aristotle,
Plato had declared in his Sophist;* in these
* P. I6&. open
936 KATUHE .IS THE
W ords: ra f w XtyAfisvn nouioOai (Wqt t&
xv*
i* T h o s e
things, which are said to be dope by nature, are
indeed dope by Divine art.—
. 1 1 . Notwithstanding which, we are to take no­
tice in the next place, that as nature is not the
Deity itself, but a thing very remote.from it,, and
far below it, so neither is it the Divine art* as it is
in itself pure and abstract, but* concrete and em­
bodied only; for the Divine art considered in it­
self, is nothing but knowledge, understanding, or
wisdom in the mind of God. Now knowledge and
understanding, in its own nature, is ^e/w^ir/dvovu,
a certain separate and abstract thing,:—and of so
Subtile and refined a nature, as that it is not capa­
ble of being incorporated with matter* pr mingled
and blended with it, as the soul of it. .And there­
fore Aristotle’s second instance, wbiqh. he pro­
pounds as most pertinent to illustrate this busi­
ness of nature by, namely, of the physician’s art
curing himself, is not so adequate thereunto i be­
cause when the medicinal art cures the physician,
in whom it is, it doth npt there act as nature, that
is, as concrete and embodied art, but as knaw-
ledge and understanding only, which is art naked,
abstract, and unbodied; as also it doth its work
ambagiously, by the physician’s willing and pre­
scribing to himself the use of such medicaments,,
as do but coudu.ce, by removing of impediments,
to help that, which is nature indeed, or the inward
arcbeus, to'effect the cure. A rtis defined by^Aris­
totle* to be Xoyoc•to
v tjjyov «v*w uX
»jc, the reason ;of
the thing without m a t t e r a n d so the Divine art
or knowledge in the mind of God, is unbodied
reason; but nature is ratio mersa el confusa,
» De Partib. Animal, lib*i. cap, i, p. 472* tom. ii. opcr.
DIVINE ART EMBODIED, 337
reason immersed and >plunjged into matter, and, as
it were, fuddled in it, and cobfounded with it.
Nature is not the Divine art archetypal, hut only
ectypal; it is a living stamp or signature of the
Divine wisdom; which, though it act exactly ac­
cording to its archetype, yet it doth not at all com-
jwehend nor understand the reason of what itself
doth. And the difference between these two may
be resembled to that between the Xoyoc ivSidforcig,
the reason of the mind and conception,—called
verbvm mentis, and the X
o-yoeirpo^opucoc, the reason,
of external speech;—the latter of which, though
it bear a certain stamp and impress of the forma*
upon it, yet itself is nothing but articulate sound'
devoid of all understanding and sense. Or else
we may illustrate this business by another simili­
tude, comparing the Divine art and wisdom to an
architect, but nature to a mannary opificer; the
difference betwixt which two is thus set forth by
Aristotle pertinently to our purpose:
rode afXtriKTOvac crept tKaarov npuoripove
fiaXXov elStvot vopXCppx* row y^tfortyvijiv, Kal ir.oper.
aotjtatrfpow;, o n rag curiae f<*v tmovjubwv idaaiv.
oc- S’ tvgirep Kat rwv aifmyrwv etna, irottt plv, ovk fiSora
croiti, otov>jcatuto vvp. ra pivovv cu/arya tyvoei rtvi vouuv
rowtafpvea&rw' roueSi yaporiyvoc Si iO
og. We account
the architects in every thing more honourable'than
tbe mannary opificers, because they understand
the.reason of things done; whereas the other, as
some inanimate things, only do, not knowing what
they do ; the difference between them being only,
tfrigythat inanimate things act by a certain naturje
<
in-them, but the mannary opificer byhabit.—Thus
nature may be called the or manuary
opificer, that acts subserviently under the archir
3 3 8 NATURE THE M^NCARV OPIFICEH OF.
'' » -
tectonical art and wisdom of- the Divine under­
standing,*ywoui /uv ovk ti&via, which does do with­
out knowing the reasonof whatitdoth.—
1 2 . Wherefore, as we did before' observe the
pre-eminences of nature above human art^ so we
must here take notice also of the imperfections
and defects of it, in which respect it falls short of
human art, which are likewise tw o; and the first
of them is this, that though it act artificially for
the sake of ends, yet itself doth neither, intend
those ends, nor understand the reason of that it
doth. Nature is not master of that consummate
'art and wisdom, according to which it acts, but
only a servant to it, and a drudging executioner of
the dictates of it. This difference betwixt-nature
En.4.i. i. and abstract,art or wisdom is expressed
C.13.p.467, by piotinus in these words : ™
\ey6fievyc; <pv&
eu>c Qpovyaig ; on y fib/ <ppdvy<ns irptUrdv,''^
8( ipvmc eayarov, tvdakfia yap (ppovyaewq y <pv<rif, kcu ifniyryfi;
iayrarov ov, coyarov ical row*v avT/j sXXafnrdpevov Xoyov
iysi- otov el ev Kyp<p j3a6ei, SuKveiro tig eayarov an Bdrepa
iv rrj hriQavelq. tvttoq' evafyave fiev ovtoc row avw, i^vowc
Se aaOevovc ovroc rowKario, odtv ow
S
s olSe fiovov 8e
voiel. How doth wisdom differ from that: which
is called nature? verily in this manner,.that wis­
dom is the first thing, but nature the last and low­
est ; for nature is but an image or imitation of wis­
dom, the last thing of the soul, which hath the
lowest impress of reason shining upon it; as when
a thick piece of wax is .thoroughly impressed upon
• *>y a seal, that impress, which is clean and distinct
in the superior superficies of-it, will in the:Ipwer
side be weak and obscure; and such is the stamp
! V . . _
a Plotin. libro utrum Stellae aliquid agant. Enncad* h. lib. iii. ca|u
THE DIVINE ABCHITECTONICAL ART. 339
and signature of nature, compared w ith th at of
wisdom and understanding, nature being a thing)
which doth only do, but not know.—-And else­
where the same writer-declares the.difference be­
tween the spermatic Xoyoi, or reasons, and know­
ledges or conceptions of the mind in this
manner: Ilortpa 81 o* Xd-yoi ovroi ol kv '
4n,'fy lit:
voifjuara | aXXa irwc Kara ra vor\para vouiau j
o yapXoyog kv vXt| irotEt, tea
t to roieSv ^w ucut, ov voijtrtg,
ov8t opaotg, aXXa Svvajutc 'TpCTracij rijlc #X
<IC
i -ovk *8uia)
aXXa Bptoaa fxovov, olov iwovkat ayrtpa kv vSan. i Whe­
ther are these plastic reasons or forms in the soul
•knowledges ?. but how shall it then act according
to those knowledges ? for the plastic reason or
form acts or works in matter, and that which acts
naturally is not intellection nor vision, but a cer­
tain power of moving matter, which doth not
know, but only do, and makes as it were a stamp
or figure in water. .
* .A nd with this doctrine of the ancients, a modern
judicious writer^ and sagacious inquirer into na­
ture, seems fully to agree, that nature is such: a
thing as doth not know, but only d o ; for after he
bad admired. that wisdom and art, by which the
'bodies of animals are fraibed, he concludes tha^t
one or other ,of these two things must needs be
.acknowledged, that either the vegetative or. plas­
tic power of the soul) by which if fabricates and
organizes its own body, is more excel­
lent and Divine .than the. rational: or 5"v'd
.e . •
. _ . - Gen.‘ Am-
else, .*
.*In naturae operxbus neque, pru- m
ai.E
x.4S.
.dentiam nec. intellectunr inesse, sed ita ?
solum videri; conceptui nostro, qui: secundum
-artes nostras etfacul fates, seu.exemplaria a nobis-
metipsis mutuata, de rebus naturae divinis judi-
340 \NATURS ACTS ABTIFtCIAM iT
caftiHS;quasiprincipia naturae:adtiva e ffe c ts staoa
com edo producerent, quo nos opera nostra arti-
ficialia s o l e m u s T h a t in the w otks of nature
there is neither prudence nor understanding, h u t
only it seems so to- our apprehensions, who judge
of these Divine things of nature according to o u t
own arts end faculties, and pattern^ borrowed
from ourselves.; as if the active principles of na­
ture did produce their effects in: the. same m anner
as we do our artificial works.—W herefore we
conclude, agreeably, to the sense of the best philfr
Bophers, both ancient, a n d .modern, that nature, it
such a thing, as, though it act artificially, and fot
th e sake of ends, yet it doth but ape and mimic
the Divine art and wisdom; itselfnot understand­
ing those-ends which it acts for, n o r the reason of
w hat it doth in. order: to it h e m f o r w hich. :caush
also-it is not capable o£ consultatibn or delibera­
tion, nor can it act electively, or with discretion.
13. But because this may seem strange at the
first sight, that nature should be said' to act fvatd
tov, for the sake of ends,—and regularly or arti­
ficially, and:yet beitself devoid of knowledge and
understanding, we shall therefore endeavour i6
persuade the possibility, and facilitate the belief
o f it, by some other instances; and first by that of
habits, particularly those musical Ones ofsinging;
playing upon instruments, and dancing. Which
habits direct every motion of the hand, voice, and
body, and prompt them readily, withoutany deli­
beration or studied consideration, .what the next-
following note or motion should be. If you jog
a sleeping musician, and sing but the first words
of a song to him, which he had either himselfcom­
posed, or learned before, he will presently take it
-AMO FOR RNDS. 341
from you, and that perhaps before he is thoroughly
awake, going on with it, and singing out the re-
taainder of the wholesong to the end. Thus the
fingers of an exercised lutonist, and th e ir s and
whole body of a skilful dancer, are directed to
move regularly and orderly, in a long train and
aeries ofmotions, by those artificial habits in them,
which do not themselves at all comprehend those
laws and rules of music or harmony, by which
they are governed. So that the same thing may
be said of these habits, which was said before of
nature, that they do not know, but only do. And
thus we see there is no reason, why this plastic
nature (which is supposed to move body regularly
and artificially) should be thought to be an abso­
lute impossibility, since habits do, in like manner,
gradually evolve themselves in a long train or se­
ries of regular and artificial motions, readily
prompting.the doing of them, without compre­
hending.that art and reason, by which they are di­
rected. The forementioned philosopherillustrates
the seminary reason and plastic nature of the uni­
verse, by this very instance: qroiwvivtp-
yua qvrrje rtyrviKv' worep avo opyov/utvoc, #e«-
vavfiivoe ttif. qydp opyiorijc* wj ovru) TtyrviK
tj oper.
l/ori iouctv avroc, Kat jJ veyyn avrov kivh
, cat
o
v
tu
s Kivu, ate Ttfffoqe avrqe TO
iavrqg irateovaqe- The
energy of nature is artificial,- as when a dancer
moves; for a dancer resembles this artificial life
of nature, forasmuch as art itself moves him, and
so moves him as being such a life in him.—And
agreeably to this conceit, the ancient mythologists
represented the nature of the universe, by Pan
playing upon a pipe or harp, and being in love
with the nymph, Echo; as if nature did, by a kind
VOL. i. z
3 4 2 THE ENERGY CF MATURE
of silent melody, make all the parts of the universe
everywhere dance in measure and proportion, it*
self being, as it were, in the mean time, delighted
and ravished with the re-echoing of its own har­
mony. Habits are said to be an adventitious and
acquired nature, and nature was before defined
by the Stoics* to be t&c, or a habit: so that there
seems to be no other difference between thesetv^o,
than this, that whereas the one is acquired by
teaching, industry, and exercise; the other, as was
expressed by Hippocrates,1
* is avat&vroc kw.&
Sk
fittO
ovaa, unlearned and untaught,—and may in
some sense also be said to be avVoStSmcroc, self-
taught,—though she be indeed always inwardly
prompted, secretly whispered into, and inspired
by the Divine art and wisdom,
14. Moreover, that something may act artifi­
ciallyand forends, without comprehendingthe rea­
son of what it doth, may be further evinced from
those natural instincts that are in animals, which
without knowledge direct them to act regularly,
in order both to their own good, and the good of
the universe. As for example: the bees in melli-
fication, and in framingtheircombsand hexagonial
cells, the spiders in spinning their webs, the birds
in building their nests, and many other animals in
such like actions of their’s, which would seem- to
argue a great sagacity in them, whereas, notwith­
standing, as Aristotle observes,* owe t
e
^v
*
?, ovrt
Ztirijaavra, ovn (3ov\cvadfitva irout* They do these
things, neither by art, nor by counsel, nor by any
* Apud Diogen. Laert. lib. vii. segro. 148. p. 468;
b Epidenjicpr. lib. \i. sect. v. p. 608. tom.,i. edit. Vapder Linden.
Vide etiam eundem mgl rgofne- Seo: viii. p. 687. tom. i. ©per.
* Pbjeioor. lib. ii. cap. x. p. 476. tom. i. oper.
WITHOUT EXPRESS CONSCIOUSNESS. 343
deliberation oftheir own;—and, therefore, are not
masters of that wisdom, according to which they
act, but only passive to the instincts and impresses
thereof upon them. And indeed to affirm, that
brute animals do all these things by a knowledge
of tbeir own, and which themselves are masters
of,and that without deliberation.and consultation,
were to make them to be endued with a most per­
fect intellect, far transcending that of human rea­
son; whereas'it is plain enough, that brutes are
not above consultation, but below it, and that'
these instincts of nature in them are nothing but a
kind of fate upon them.
15. There is, in the next place, anothe.r imper­
fection to be observed in the plastic nature, that
as it doth not comprehend the reason of its own
-action, so neither is it clearly -and expressly con­
scious of what it doth ;"in which respect, it doth
-not only fall short of human art, but even of that
very manner of acting, which is in brutes them­
selves, who, though they do not understand the
reason of those actions, that their natural instincts
lead them to, yet they are generally conceived to
-be conscious of them, and to do them by fancy;
whereas, the plastic nature in the formation of
plants and animals seems to have no animal fancy,
no express <
rw
<
u<
r0>
i<
ric, con-sense, or consciousness
of what it doth. Thus the often commended philo*-
SOpher : n <pvaig ouS« Qavraoiav typi, V Ss voijaig (pavra*
oiaf Kpt'iTTWv, (pavraaia & fitrafcv Qvatwc rvirov En 4 j 4
teat voi|<T€<i>c‘ 1
} /uev -ye ovdevog avriAjji^iv ot)8e »
■
avv&
nvi'/u. Nature hath not so much as A
nim
as.
A
any fancy in it; as intellection and know- p
ledge is a thing superior to:fancy, so fancy is su­
perior to the impress ofnature, for nature hath no
z 2
344 T H I ENERGY OF NATURE
-apprehension nor conscious perception of any
thing. In a word, nature is a thing, that hatfr no
such self-perception or Self-enjoyment in it, as
animals have.
16, Now we are well aware, that this is a thing,
which the narrow principles of some late philoso­
phers will not admit of, that there should be any
action distinct from local motion besides expressly
conscious cogitation. For they making the first
general heads of all entity to be extension and co­
gitation, or extended being'and cogitative; and
then supposing, that the essence of cogitation con­
sists in express consciousness, must needs by"this
means exclude such a plastic life of nature, as we
speak Of, that is supposed to act without animal
fancy or express consciousness. Wherefore, we
conceive, that the first heads of being ought ra­
ther to be expressed thus; resisting or antitypous
extension, and life, (i. e. internal energy and self­
activity;) and then again, that life or internal self­
activity is to be subdivided into such as either
acts with express consciousness and synsestbesis,
or such as is without i t ; the latter of which is this
plastic life of uature : so that there may be an ac­
tion distinct from local motion, or a vital energy,
which is not accompanied with that fancy, or con­
sciousness, that is in the energies of the animal
life; that is, there may be a simple internal energy^
or vital aiitokinesy, which is without that dupli­
cation, that is included in the nature of<n/vaui6ij<nc,
con-sense and consciousness,-r-wbich makes a be?
ing to be present with itself, attentive to its own
actions, or animadversive of them, to perceive it­
self to do or suffer, and to have a fruition or en­
joyment of itself. And indeed it must be grauted,
WITHOUT EXPRESS CONSCIOUSNESS. 9 4 5
that what moves matter or determines the motion
of it.vitally, must needs do it by some other energy
of its own, as it is.reasonable also to conceive,
that itself hath some vital sympathy with that
matter, which it acts upon. But we apprehend,
that both these may be without clear and express
consciousness. Thus the philosopher:
_ *
* y \ • j t En. 3.1
.1,
vra<ra cju>
t) svepyua, Kat rj favAn, tvepyeia ce9 c> ub. L
U
>
Cto irvp tvtpyti, oAA ij evfpyeia avrtie, “ ^
Kav fiy ntaQr\a'u; tic *"aprj, Ki'vjjai'c « c oufc euctj.
Every life is energy, even the worst of lives, and
therefore that of nature; whose energy is not like
that of fire, but such an energy, as though there
be no sense belonging to it, yet is it not temera­
rious or fortuitous, but orderly and regular.—
Wherefore this controversy, whether the energy
of the plastic nature be cogitation or no, seems to
be but a logomachy, or contention about words.
For ifclear and express consciousness besupposed
to be included in cogitation, then it must needs be
granted, that cogitation doth not belong to the
plastic life of nature; but if the notion of that
word be enlarged, so as to comprehend all action
distinctfrom local motion, and to be ofequal extent
with life, then the energy of nature is cogitation.
Nevertheless, if any one think fit to attribute
some obscure and imperfect sense or perception,
different from that of animals, to the energy of
nature, and will therefore call it a kind of drowsy,
unawakened, or astonished cogitation, the philoso­
pher before mentioned will not very
much gainsay it : Etnc /3ovXnr«* avwviv
Ttva jj aloOifaw tmri} 3i8oi»ai, ovyrotav Xiyofuv
cw! r<av aXAwv njv aadrjaiv $ r«iv ovvtiatv, etano.p.
«XX’
tf •* '■
* » / 343. f<
oiov ting rqv row uirwov rp row eypqyoporoG
346 VITAL ENERGIES
irpoetucafftu. If any will deeds attribute some kind t
of apprehension or sense to nature, then it must
not be such a sense or apprehension, as is in ani­
mals, but something that differs as much from it,
as the sense Or cogitation of one in a profound
sleep differs from that of one who is awake.—
And since it cannot be denied, but that the plas­
tic nature hath a certain dull and obscure idea of
that, which it stamps and prints upon matter, the
same philosopher* himself sticks not to call this
idea of nature, dia/m and O
twpvfia, a spectacle and
contemplameu, as likewise the energy of nature
towards it, (kwplaa\po<
jxK
, a silent contemplation ;
-—
nay, he allows, that nature may be said to be,
in some sense, ^Xotfea/uw, a lover of spectacles or
contemplation.—
17. However, that there may be some vital
energy without clear and express <nivaw
0jf«e, con-
sense and consciousness, animadversion, atten-.
tion, or self-perception, seems reasonable upon
several accounts. For, first, those philosophers
themselves, who make the essence of the soul- to
consist in cogitation, and again, the essence of
cogitation in clear and express consciousness,
cannot render it any way probable, that the souls
of men in all profound sleeps, lethargies, and
apoplexies, as also of embryos in the womb;
from their very first arrival thither, are never so
much as one moment without expressly conscious
cogitations; which, if they were, according to the
principles of their philosophy, they must,
facia,-cease to have any being. Now, if the souls
of men and animals he at any time without con-
* Ubi supra.
WITHOUT EXPRESS CONSCIOUSNESS. 347
sciousness and self-perception, then it mast needs
he granted, that clear and express consciousness
is not essential to life. There is some appearance
• of life and vital sympathy .in certain vegetables
and.plants, which, however called sensitive-plants
and plant-animals, cannot well be supposed- to
have animal sense and fancy, or express con­
sciousness in them; although we are not ignorant,
in the mean time, how some endeavour to solve
..all those phenomena mechanically. It is certain,
that our human souls themselves are not always
conscious of whatever they have in them; for
even the sleeping geometrician hath, at that time,
all his geometrical theorerasand knowledgessome
way in him; as also the sleeping musician, all
his musical skill and songs; and, therefore, why
may it not be possible for the soul to have like-
wise some actual energy in it, which it is not
expressly conscious of? We have all experience,
of our doing many animal actions non-attend-
ingly, which we reflect upon afterwards; as, also,
that we often continue a long series of bodily mo­
tions, by a mere virtual intention of our minds,
and as it were by half a cogitation. That vital
sympathy, by which, our soul is united and. tied
fast, as it were with a knot, to the body, is a thing
that we have no direct consciousness of,,but-only
in its effects. Nor can we tell, how we come.to
he so differently affected in our souls,, from:the
many different motions made: upon our bodies.
' As, likewise, we are not conscious to. ourselves of
that energy, whereby we impress variety of mo­
tions and figurations upon the animal spirits of
our brain in our fantastic thoughts. For, thqugh
the geometrician perceive himself to make lines,
348 VITAL ENERGIES
triangles, and circles in the dust with his finger,
yet he is not aware, how he makes all those same
figures first upon the corporeal spirits of his
brain,, from whence, notwithstanding, as from a
glass, they are reflected to him, fancy beingright­
ly concluded by Aristotle4 to be a weak and ob*
scure sense. There is also another more interior
kind of plastic power in the soul (if we may so
call it), whereby it is formative of its own cogita­
tions, which itself is not always conscious of; as
when, in sleep or dreams, it frames interlocutory
discourses betwixt itself and other persons, in a
long series, with cobereut sense and apt connect
tions, in which oftentimes it seems to be surprised
with unexpected answers and repartees, though
itself were all the while the poet and inventor off
the whole fable. Not only our nictations for the
most part ,when :we are awake, but also our.noc­
turnal volutations in sleep, are performed with
very little or no cpnsciousness. Respiration, or
that motion of the diaphragma and other muscles
which causes it (there being no sufficient mecha­
nical account of it), may well be concluded to be
always a vital motion, though it be not always
animal; since no man can affirm, that he is per­
petually conscious to himself of that energy of
his soul, which does produce it when he is awake,
much less when asleep. And, lastly, the Carte­
sian^ attempts to solve the motion of the heart
mechanically, seem to be abundantly confuted by
autopsy and experiment, evincing the systole of
the heart to be a muscular constriction, toausGd
• lib. iii. deAnima, cap. iii. iv. p. 45. s. tom. ii. qper.
*Vide Cartes. Libr. de Hotniae et de Formatione Foetus, p. ii.
p. 105. s.
WITHOUT EXPRESS CONSCIOUSNESS. 3 4 9
by some vital principle, to make which, nothing
bat a pulsific corporeal quality in the substance
of the heart itself, is very unphilosophical and
absurd. Now, as we have no voluntary impe-
rium at all upon the systole and diastole of the
heart, so are we not conscious to ourselves of
any energy of our own soul that causes them;
and therefore we may reasonably conclude from
hence also, that there is some vital energy, with*
out animal fancy or synsesthesis, express con*
sciousness and self-perception,
18. Wherefore, the plastic nature, acting nei­
ther by knowledge nor by animal fancy, neither
electively nor hormetically, must be concluded to
act fatally, magically, and sympathetically. And
thus that curious and diligent inquirer into na­
ture, before commended, resolves: “ Na­
ture, tanquam fato quodam, seu manda-
to .secundum leges operante, movet;”
Nature inoveth as it were by a kind of fate or
command, acting according- to laws.—Fate, and
the laws or commands of the Deity, concerning
the mundane economy (they being really the sanle
thing), ought not to be looked upon, neither as
verbal things, nor as mere will and cogitation in
the mind of God, but as an energetical and effec­
tual principle, constituted by the Deity, for the
bringing of things decreed to pass. The Aphro-
disian philosopher,* with others of the ancients^
have concluded, that fate and nature are but two
different names for one and the same thing; and
that tore ufiafftivov Kara Qvotv to Kara j>v<rcv tlftap-
fxivov, both that which is done fatally is done na­
turally, and also whatever is done naturally is
»Libr. da Fato, sec. 6. p. 25. edit. Londin.
850 NATURE NEITHER A
done fatally--but that which we assert in tbiN
place is only this, that the plastic nature may be
said to be the true and proper late of matter, or
the corporeal world. Now, that which acts not
by any knowledge or fancy, will or appetite, of
its own, but only fatally, according to laws and
impresses made upon it (but differently in differ­
ent cases), may be said also to act magically and ,
sympathetically. *HaX
riO
ivij ftaytia (saith the philo­
sopher*) »
i tv rip navrl <
pi\laicat vtucoc,'The true ma­
gic is the friendship and discord that is in the
universe.—And again, magic is said to be founded,
tv r »
i avftiraBua jcai rrj toiv Svvdjutcvv rwv iroWwv vouciktif
vpos tv Z&
O
V irwreXovvrwv, in the sympathy and va­
riety of diverse powers conspiring together into
one animal.—Of which passages, though the
principal meaning seem to be this, that the ground
of magical fascinations is one vital unitive prin­
ciple in the universe; yet they imply also, that
there is a certain vital energy, not in the way of
knowledge and fancy, will and animal appetite,
but fatally sympathetical and magical. As, in­
deed, that mutual sympathy, which we have con­
stant experience of, betwixt our soul and our
body (being not a material and mechanical, but
vital thing), may be called also magical. :
19. From what hath been hitherto declared
concerning the plastic nature, it may appear, that
though it be a thing that acts for ends artificially,
and which may be also called the Divine art, and
the fate of the corporeal world; yet, for all-that,
it is neither god nor goddess, but a low and im­
perfect creature. Forasmuch as it is not master
APlotin. lib. ii. de Dubit. Animae, Ennead. iv. lib. v. cap. xl. p- 434.
GOO NOR GODDESS. 351
of that reason and wisdom, according to which it
acts, nor does it properly intend those ends, which
it acts for; nor, indeed, is it expressly conscious
of what it doth, it not knowing, but only doing,
according to commands and laws impressed up­
on it. Neither of which things ought to seem
strange or incredible, since nature may as well
act regularly and artificially, without any know­
ledge and consciousness of its own, as forms of
letters compounded together may print coherent
philosophic sense, though they understand no­
thing at all; and it may also act for the sake of
those ends, that are not intended by itself, but
some higher being, as well as the saw or hatchet
in the hand of the architect or mechanic
doth : to oichrapyov tvacd row jreXac£, aXX’ ow ^tPhy*.
TrpoXoytZofitvov, aXXa rip irpoXoytCopivtp wjrtfpt-
rovv; the axe cuts for the sake of some­
thing, though itself does not ratiocinate, nor in­
tend nor design any thing, but is only subservient
to that which does so.—It is true, that our human
actions are not governed by such exact reason, art,'
and wisdom, nor carried on with such constancy,
evenness, and uniformity, as the actions of nature,
are; notwithstanding which, since we act accord­
ing to a knowledge of our own, and are masters
of that wisdom, by which our actions are directed^
since we do not act fatally only, but electively
and intendipgly, with consciousness and self-per­
ception, the rational life that is in us ought to be
accounted a much higher and more noble perfec­
tion .than that plastic life of nature. Nay, thin
plastic nature is so for from being the first and
highest life, that it is indeed the last and lowest
of all lives, it being really the same thing with the
362 NATURE NEITHER A
vegetative, which is inferior to the sensitive'. The
difference betwixt nature and wisdom was before
observed, that' wisdom is the first and highest
thing, but nature the last and lowest; this latter
being but an umbratile imitation of the former;
And to this purpose, this plastic nature is further
described, by the same philosopher, in these
words: a m rolvw owtoc o Aoyoc owe aicparoc
^lef'Hbr.'i. avrovovg, ovStye \pvypii tcadapaf to
d«Pr<m- yivoQ’ ijprtwEvoc 8e IjCEtvnc, Ktu otov acXauduc
dentia, p. L > . - - « , - « , - , -
267. cc; a/ufxnv vov jtat *ai Kara vo w
■
SiaK
U
fiivriQyevvqaavrtovrov Xoyovrovrov. Xbe
spermatic reason or plastic nature is no pure
mind or perfect intellect, nor any kind of pure
soul neither; but something which depends upon
it, being as' it were an effulgency or eradiation
from both together, mind and soul, or soul af­
fected according to mind, generating the same as
a lower kind of life.—
And though this plastic nature contain no small
part of Divine providence in it; yet, since it is a
thing that cannot act electively nor with discre­
tion, it must needs be granted, that there is a
higher and Diviner providence than this, which
also presides over the corporeal world itself;
which was a thing likewise insisted
upon by that philosopher: rivEratrd ev rp
Trawl ov Kara arrcpjuarucovc, dXXa Kara Xoyovc
trepi\i)TTTiKovg, kat rwv irporipuv, V Kara rove
Tuv irirlpjudXoyuv Xoyovci ov yap ev role <T
JT
E
p-
parucoiG Xoyou; evi, Kal rwv ytvoptvorv, irapa rot!$ tnrtpfia-
tikovc avrovc Xoyovc* The things in. the world are
not administered merely by spermatic reasons,
but by perileptic(thatis, comprehensive, intellec­
tual reasons), which are in order of nature before
Eo. 4. 1
.4.
c.39.libr.
u.deDub.
Anim®, p.
433.
GOD NOR GODDESS. 3 5 3
the other, because in the spermatic reasons can*
not be contained that which is contrary to them,
&c.—Where, though this philosopher may extend
hiB spermatic reasons further than we do our
plastic nature in this place (which is only confined
to the motions of matter), yet he concludes, that
there is a higher principle presiding over the uni­
verse than this. So that it is not ratio mersa et
confusa, a reason drowned in matter, and con­
founded with it,—which is the supreme governor
of the world, but a providence perfectly intellec­
tual, abstract, and released,
20 . But, though the plastic nature be the low­
est of all lives, nevertheless, since it is a life, it
must needs be incorporeal; all life being such.
For body being nothing but antitypous extension,
or resisting bulk, nothing but mere outside, aliud
extra aliud, together with passive capability, hath
no internal energy, self-activity, or life belonging
to it; it is not able so much as to move itself, and
therefore much less can it artificially direct its
own motion. Moreover, in the efformation of the
bodies of animals, it is one and the self-same
thing that directs the whole. That which con­
trives and frames the eye, cannot be a distinct
thing from that which frames the ear; nor that
which makes the hand, from that which makes'
the foot; the same thing, which delineates the
veins, must also form the arteries; and that which
fabricates the nerves, must also project the mus*
cles and joints; it must be the same thing that
designs and organizes the heart and brain, with
such communications betwixt them; one and the
self-same thing must needs have in it the entire
idea, and the complete model or platform of the
8A 4 PLASTIC NATURE INCORPOREAL.
'whole o rg a n ic body. For the several parts of
matter distant from one another, acting aloue by
themselves, without any common directrix, being
not able to confer together, nor communicate with
each other, could never possibly conspire to make
up one such uniform and orderly system or coin-
pages, as the body of every animal is. The same
is to be said likewise concerning the plastic na­
ture of die whole corporeal universe, in which'
airavra «rpoc «v awriraKrai, all things are ordered to­
gether conspiringly into one.—It must be one and
the same thing, which formeth the whole, or else
it could never have fallen into such an uniform
order and harmony. Now that which is one and
the same, acting upon several distant parts of mat­
ter, cannot be corporeal.
Indeed Aristotle is severely censured by some
learned men for this, that though he talk every
where of such a nature as acts regularly, artifi­
cially, and methodically, in order to the best, yet
he does no where positively declare, whether this
nature of his be corporeal or incorporeal, substan­
tial or accidental; which yet is the less to be won­
dered at in him, because he does not clearly de­
termine these same points concerning the rational
soul neither, but seems to stagger uncertainly
about them. In the mean time it cannot be denied,
but that Aristotle’s followers do for the most part
concludethis nature of his to be corporeal; where-
■
as, notwithstanding, according to the principles'of
this philosophy, it cannot possibly be such: for
there is nothing else attributed to body in it, be­
sides these three, matter, form, and accidents;
neither of which can be the Aristotelic nature.
First, it caunot be matter; because nature, ac-
PLASTIC NATURE INCORPOREAL. 356
cording to Aristotle, is supposed to be the prin­
ciple of motion and activity, which matter in ife
selfjs devoid of. Moreover, Aristotle concludes,*
that they, who assign only a material cause, as­
sign no cause at all ™ tv km koAwc, of well and fit,
of that regular and artificial frame of things which
is ascribed to nature; upon both which accounts,
it is determined by that philosopher,bthat y i/>
v
<
n
c
ftaXXov apyry k m a tria r y e vXye* nature is more a prin­
ciple and. cause than matter;—and therefore it
cannot be one and the same thing with it. Again,
it is as plain, that Aristotle’s nature cannot be the
forms of particular bodies neither, as vulgar Peri­
patetics seem to conceive, these being all gene­
rated and produced by nature, and as well cor­
ruptible as generable. Whereas nature is such a
thing as is neither generated nor corrupted, it
being, the principle and cause of all generation
and corruption. To make nature, and the mate­
rial forms of bodies, to be one and the self-same
thing, is all one, as if one should make the seal
(with the stamper too) to be one and the same
thing with the signature upon, the wax. And,
lastly, Aristotle’s nature can least of all be the
accidents or qualities of bodies; because these act
only in virtue of their substance, neither can they
exercise any active power over the substance it­
self in which they are; whereas the plastic na­
ture is a thing that domineers over the substance
of the whole corporeal universe, and which, sub-
©rdinately to the Deity, put both heaven and
earth in this frame in which now it is. Wherefore,
*Metapbys. lib. i-cap. iii. p. 266. tom. iv. oper.
kDe Partib. Animal, lib. i. cap. i. p. 475. tom. ii. oper. Vide etiam
Pbysicor. lib. ii. cap. i. p. 402.
356 A H IStO TU t’s ACCOUNT OF NATURE.
since Aristotle’
s nature can be neither the matter,
nor the forms, nor the accidents Of bodies, it is
plain, that, according to bis own principles, it
mast be incorporeal.
. 2 1 . Now, if the plastic nature be incorporeal,
then it. most of necessity be either an inferior
power or faculty of some soul, which is also con­
scious, sensitive,, or rational; or else a lower sub­
stantial life by itself, devoid of animal conscious­
ness. The Platonists seem to affirm both these,
together, namely, that there is a plastic nature
lodged in all particular souls of animals, brutes,
and men, and also that there is a general plastic
or spermatic principle of the whole universe dis­
tinct from their higher mundane soul, though sub­
ordinate to it, and dependant upon it:* n Xpyojuivq
fuatG ytyviifta tpvyrijt; irportpae Svvaroirepov £gjO
tjc, That
which is called nature, is the offspring ofan higher
soul, which hath a more powerful .life in it.—And
though Aristotle do not so clearly acknowledge
the incorporeity and substantiality of souls, yet
he concurs very much with this Platonic doctrine,
that nature is either a lower power, or faculty of
some conscious soul, or else an inferior kind oflife
by itself, depending upon a superior soul.
l.1.e.i. And this we shall make to appear from
tom7
a oer book Dfi Partibus Animcdium, after
we have taken notice of some considera­
ble preliminary passages in it in order thereunto.
For having first declared, that besides the material
cause, there are other causes also of natural gene­
rations, namely, these two, fa ov tveica teal S0tv n
*Plotin. Libr. deNatura, Cuntemplatione, ft Uno, Ennead. iii. lib.
viii. cap. iii. p. 345. oper.
arzstotlb’s account of n a tu r e. 357
afXi' ktvnowc, that for whose sake (or the final
canse), and that from which the principle of mo­
tion is,—or the efficient cause; he determines,
that the former of these two is the principal: ^alvt-
rat Je rpuri) rjv Xt-yo/utv tvtxa rtvoc. XoyOf yap ovroc,.
a
f>
x>
7$£o Xo-yoc, ofU
H
U
C
, tint to'iq Kara Ttyryriv icat roZf
fv*u ovvurriiicoaiv. The chiefest of these two causes
seems to be the final or the intending cause; for
this is reason, and reason is alike a principle in
artificial and in natural things.—Nay, the philoso­
pher adds, excellently, that there is more of rea­
son and art in the things of nature, than there is in
those things that are artificially made by men:
ftaWov S’ t o r i to o v W a Kat to koXov tv roic fvattac
tpyoic, ij tv rocc ric rinvite. There* is more of final
or intending causality, and of the reason of good,
in the works of nature, than in those of human art.
—After which he greatly complains ofthe first and
most ancient physiologers, meaning thereby Anax­
imander, and those other Ionics before Anaxago­
ras, that they considered only r»jvvX
uc>}v ap^nv/the
material principle and cause of things,—without
attending to those two other causes, the principle
ofmotion, and that which aims at ends; they talk­
ing only of fire, water, air, and earth, and gene­
rating the whole world from the fortuitous con­
course of these senseless bodies. But at length
Aristotle falls upon Democritus, who, being ju­
nior to those others before-mentioned, philoso­
phized after the same Atheistical manner, but in
a new way of his own, by atoms; acknowledging
no other nature, neither in the universe, nor in the
bodies of animals, than that of fortuitous me­
chanism, and supposing all things to arise from
the different compositions of magnitudes^ figures,
v o l . i. 2 a
358 ARISTOTLE'S ACCOUNT <0* WATURtf.
sites, and motions. Of whichDemocritic philo­
sophy he given his censure in these fol-
lowing words: « /Av oivry vy^rpankm t#
XptSputt Jawrov eort, rm t -Tt Zfowv (cat rw v f*&-
p iw , o p t ^ <
■
»fittffioxfnvc \lyo t, &c. K animals and
their several parts did consist of nothing hat
figure and colour, then indeed Democritus 'would
be in the right; buta dead man hath the same form
and figure of body, that he had before, and yet
for all that he is not a man; neither is a brazen or
wooden hand a hand, but only equivocally, as a
painted physician, or pipes made of stone, are na
called. No member of a dead man’s body is that
which it was before, when be was alive, neither
eye, nor band, nor foot. Wherefore, this is but &
rade way of philosophizing, and just as if a car*
penter should talk of a wooden hand. For thus
these physiologers declare the generations and
■causes of figures only, or the matter Ont of which
things are made, as air and earth. Whereas, so
artificer would think it sufficient to render such a
cause of any artificial fabric, because the instru­
ment happened to fall so upon the timber, that
therefore it was hollow here, and plane there; but
rather because himBelf madeeuch strokes, and for
such ends, &c.
Now, in the close of all, this philosopher at
length declares, that there is another principle o f
corporeal things, besides the material, and suchas
is not only the cause of motion, but also acts arti­
ficially in order to ends, £m m
.rotourov $ Btf (co
i ku-
•Xovfjtv there is snch a thing as that whichw e
call nature;—that is, not the fortuitous motion of
senseless matter, but a plastic regular and arti­
ficial nature, such as acts for ends and good; de-
' AKISrOTLS’s ACCOUNT OP NATURE. 369
daring, in the same place, what this nature is ;
namely, that it is i'fax’
K a w
»au«v
soul, or part of soul, or not without so d ;—and
from thence inferring, that it properly belongs to
a physiologer, to treat concerning the soul also.
But be concludes afterwards, w81waaa^ i j fiats,
that the whole soul is not nature;—whence it re­
mains, that, according to Aristotle’s sense, nature
is q i^u/qc juffoc, q /vqavEv 4n»xqc, either part of a
soul, or not without s o u l t h a t is, either a lower
part or faculty of some conscious soul; or else an
inferior kind oflife by itself, which is not without
soul, but subordinate to it, and dependent on it.
2 2 . As for the bodies of animals, Aristotle* first
resolves in general, that nature in them is either the
whole soul, or else some part of it; fiatc wgn «-
v o v a a , teat fc>gro rtX og tov £< io u , qrot 'wa r m q ^
ti avrqc* Nature, as the moving principle, or as that
which acts artificially for ends (so far as concerns
the bodies of animals), is either the whole soul, or
else some part of it.—But afterward he determines
more particularly, that the plastic nature is not
the whole soul in animals, but only some part of
it; ovtraaa tfntyrtf ftme, dXXdft jiopiovathijs, that is, na-
' ture in animals, properly so called, is some lower
power or faculty lodged in their respective souls,
whether sensitive or rational.
And that there is plastic nature in the souls of
animals, the same Aristotle elsewhere
affirms and proves after this manner: rl m An. l. *.
« / r \ c.,4. J>. 26. s.
to auvtypvag r avavrta fepofitva, to vvp teatrqv tom
.ii. oper.
yijv’ SiomaAftfirat yap siflirt tarosto tca/X
v-
aoVf ctS* earl, rovr tartv q fvyy, icat to avrtovrow ay£avt~
adat Kal rptfsodai. What is that, which, in the bo-
* D« Partib. Animal, lib. i, o«p. i. p. 473.
2 A2
360 ■THAT THERE IS PLASTIC NATURE
'dies of animals, holds together such things as, of
their own nature, would otherwise move contrary
ways, and fly asunder, as fire'and earth, whieh
‘would be distracted and dissipated, the one tend­
ing upwards, the other downwards, were there
pot something to hinder them 1 Mow if there be
any such thing, this must be the soul, which is
also the cause of nourishmentand augmentation.-^—
Where the philosopher, adds, that though some
were of opinion, that fire was that, which was
the cause of nourishment and augmentation in
animals, yet this was indeed but avvalriov ir<
o
?
rov
fit}v «rX(J{ ye curcov, aXXa ftaXXov jj ipvy^rj, only the COn-
cause or instrument, and not simply the cause, but
rather the soul.—And to the same pur-
* * * - 8- pose he philosophizeth elsewhere, ov&
.ii. oper. yap ij 7rf^t£ &’ t)g ij rpo<f>i yiverat rote JJwo*C
ovre avtv ^vy^rig, oiire Oepfiortfrog sari, .m>pt y ip
spyaltrai iravra’ Neither is concoction, by which
nourishment is made in animals, done without.the
soul,nor withoutheat, forall things are doneby fire.
And certainly it seems very agreeable to the
phenomena, to acknowledge something in the bo­
dies of animals superior to mechanism, as that may
well be thought to be, which keeps the more fluid
.parts of them constantly in the same,form and fi­
gure, so as not to be enormously altered in their
•growth by disproportionate nourishment; that,
which restores flesh that was lost, consolidates
dissolved continuities, incorporates the newly-re­
ceived nourishment, and joins it continuously
with the pre-existent parts of flesh and .bone;
which regenerates and repairs veins consumed or
cut off; which causes dentition in so regular a man­
ner, and that, not only in infants, but also adult
LODGED IN THE SOULS OF ANIMALS. 361
persons; that which casts off excrements, and
dischargeth superfluities; which makes things
seem ungrateful to an interior sense, that were not­
withstanding pleasing to the taste: that nature of
Hippocrates,* that is the curatrix of diseases,
at $vauQruv vovaitov tqrpol, and that archeus of the
chymists or Paracelsians, to which all medica­
ments are but subservient, as being able to effect
nothing of themselves without it: I say, there
seems to be such a principle as this in the bodies
of animals, which is not mechanical but vital; and
therefore, since eutities are not to be multiplied
without necessity, we may with Aristotle con­
clude it to be /nipoc, or /uopiovt>
ic ^ certain part
of the soul .of those animals, or a lower uncon­
scious power lodged in them.
23. Besides this plastic nature, which is in ani­
mals, forming their several bodies artificially, as
so many microcosms, or little worlds, there must
be also a general plastic nature in the macrocosm,
the whole corporeal universe, that which makes
all things thus to conspire every where, and agree
together into one harmony. Concerning which
plastic nature of the universe, the author £>e
Mundob writes after this manner: «ai rov oXov k6-
oftov htKoofUfot fua y &d iravrow BiyKovtra Svva/tut, one
power passing through all things ordered and
formed the whole world.—Again, he calls the
samecTviv/xa, xal ifixpyy^ov, xa! yovtpiov ovaiav, a spirit,
and a living and generative nature;—and plainly
declares it to be a thing distinct from the Deity,
but subordinate to it and dependent on it. But
Aristotle himself in that genuine work of his be-
*Epidemic, lib. vi. sect. v. p.809. tom. i. oper. edit. Vander Linden.
*Cap. v. p. 856*inter Arjst. opera, tom. i. c lb. cap* iv. p. 862.
sm a r is t o t l e ’s a c c o u n t cur t r b
fMe-mentioned, speaks clearly and positively con­
cerning this plastic nature of the unrveTSe, as well
as that of animals, in these'words •
I>eP»rt.An. (pmlvrnu y a p ti& rtp i v r tig n ^ y a o ro i; tj
P. 47'4. oihvQ tva u ro ts toIf vpaypaoiv £X\il
V • r n * * a t t n t
Mae atria rotaur? tjv jcmairsp ro UBppop
K a i t o ^w ^pov w row 7ravT®$*'8»® juaXXov haC
oc row w iporov
ysysvqo$ai n r» rowvrttg am «e, « y'eyov«t Ktmttvae $i«rro u w
rqv tiriav ftaW ov, ij. ra {wa ra Bvifra’ to yww rerayftitav
km tiptofAvov iro\v juaXXw fdhnrai iv ro lf avpavm c, 4 w*p*
ijfioe- W Si aXXore aXX«ct k m irspi r» A n m (m X*
Xov* qe deln w jucv &>an>ckootov f v a u tp a triv la n t k m y iv k a B a C
row 8* oopavov airo riy iK m i row avropearot* rotovrov » r
*r*vac> wtp a r r o r v y p jQ k m ara ^iac o»T orm iv f a l v s r a t ' It
seemetb, that as there is art in artificial things, so
in the things of nature there is another such like
principle or cause, which we ourselves1 partake
of; in the same manner as we do of beat and cold,
from the universe. Wherefore, it is more probable,
that the whole world was at first made by such k
cause as this (if at least it were made) and that it
is still conserved by the same, than that miortal
animals should be so; for there is much more of
order and determinate regularity in the heavenly
bodies than in ourselves; but more of fortuitous­
ness and inconstant irregularity among these mor­
tal things. Notwithstanding which, some there
are, who, though they cannot but acknowledge,
that the bodies of animals were all framed by an
artificial nature, yet they will needs contend, that
the system of the heavens sprung merely from
fortune and chance; although there be not the least
appearance of fortuitousness or temerity in it.—
And then he sums up all into this conclusion :
*»Crt «vac tpftvipov ore ta n n rotovrov o 8* Ktu KoXovfiev
PLASTIC NATURE OR T#E UNIVERSE. 363
4 «*tv* Wherefore, it is manifest, that tbete is
some such thing as that which we call nature;—
that is, that there is not only an artificial, metho­
dical, and plastic nature in animals, by which their
respective bodies are framed and conserved; but
also, that there is such a general plafrtic nature
likewisein the universe, by which the heavens' and
whole world are thus artificially ordered mid dis­
posed.
2 4 . Now whereas Aristotle, in the foreeited
words, tells us, that we partakeof life and under­
standing from that in the universe^ after the same
manner as we partake of heat and cold from that
beat and cold that is in the universe; it is observ­
able, that this was a notion borrowed from So­
crates (as we understand both from Xenophon
and Plato); that philosopher having used it ais an
argumentation to prove a Deity. And the sense
of it is represented after this manner by the Latin
poet:*
Principio ooehint ac terram, c&mposqne lfquentes,
Lucentemque globum lun»,TitanifrqpQ astra,
Spiritus intus alit, totosque infusa per artus,
Mens agitat molem, et magno se corpore miscet.
fade homkmm pecudumque genus, vitaeqtw volantfrm.
From whence it may be collected, that Aristotle
did suppose this plastic nature o f the universe to
be r} pljpoc v ftj avev Tpvyrijg, either part ofsome
mundane soul,—that was also conscious and in­
tellectual (as that plastic nature in animals is), or
at least some inferior principle, depending on such
a soul.—And indeed whatever the doctrine of the
modem Peripatetics be, we make no doubt at a)T
but that Aristotle himself held the world’s anima­
tion, or a mundane soul: forasmuch as he plainly
* Virgil. -lEneid. lib. vi. y e n . 724.
3 6 4 THAT AtUSTOTLE HELD
declares himself concerning it elsewhere in his
book De Ccelo, after this manner:—
c-1*' a’XX’ jjueic oic iTepl cramarum itovov avrw v, Kal
p .656. tom. , ‘ , » ./ m . , .
1. opfcr. fioyavw , raqiv fitv tyrovnov, ay/vyrwv oe irafttraVj
ScavooVfitOa* S$i 8e tie /uersy^ovrtov viroXq/Apavetv
wfm&ue xal t m e ‘ But we commonly think of the
heavens as nothing else but bodies and monads,
having only a certain order, but altogether inani­
mate ; whereas we ought, on the contrary, to con­
ceive of them as partaking of life and action:—
that is, as being indued with a rational or intellec­
tual life. For so Simplicius* there rightly ex­
pounds the place; 8u8
1a>
c7r«pl i/npvypov avrtovavXXo-
ylZjtoQat, Kai XoyiKijv iy o v rw t ipvyrrlv, «J( Kal rrpa&utg Kal
Zf»nc XoyucJt fitriytiv' to filv yap ttouw, Kal Kara ruiv aXot-
ywv \pvyp3v Karriyopov/icv, Kal Kara TtOv atfw^aw awjuariov,
r i Se Trpamiv KvpiwQ icara rwv Xoywcwv ipvy^wv Kanrfopov-
ptv' But we ought to think of the heavensas ani­
mated with a rational soul, and thereby partaking,
of action and rational life. For (saith he) though
irotttv be affirmed not only of irrational souls, but
also ofinanimate bodies, yet the word vparnw does
only denominate rational beings.—But further, to
take away all manner of scruple or doubt con­
cerning this business, that philosopher beforer ip
the same boo^pitriilc affirmeth, on o ovpavog i/jafatyog,
ical ap/vv K
ivvtm
oQ ; that the heaven is animated
and .hath a principle of motiou within itself:—
where, by the heaven, as in many other places of
Aristotle and Plato, is to be understood the
whole world.
There is indeed one passage in the same book.
Pe Ccelo, which, at first sight, and slightly consi-
a Comment, in Libr. de Coelo, f. 126.
b Aristot. de Coelo, Ub. ii. cap, ii. p. 642. tom. i. oper.
A SOUL OF THE WORLD. 305
dered, may seem to contradict this again; and
therefore prpbably is that, which hath led many
into a contrary persuasion, that Aristotle
dented the world’s animation : dX
Xa ui}i> L *
•
oute viro if/vyrtif evXoyov avaytcdCovatic fitvsiv Loper.
tuStov" ovSe yap rye faxwe oiov r swat rrjv rotav-
Tt]V Z/aftv oXvirov Kat fuucapiav' dvayiat yap Kat rrjv Kwttatv
fttra fiiii ovtrav, wstfrvicdroQ rov wptdrov atoftaroc aXXtvc Kat
kivsw ovvtyrtIc» atr^oXov tlvai, Kat t a<r»JC dvtiWayftlvnv
patrrti*iK iftifipovoQ' siyt pti$ utcirsp, rij tpvyrfj rrj reSv Gvtr
rwv Zftitavfartv avairavate »i wtpt rov vtrvov yivo/isw) ran
mSfiaroc avtotf, aXX’ avayKatov ’I£tovoc tivoc jttotpav kote-
ystv otlrijv atStov Kat arpvrov* Sut it is not reasonable
neither to think, that the heavens continue to eter­
nity, moved by a soul necessitating, or violently
compelling' them. Nor indeed is it possible, that
the life of such a soul should be pleasurable or
happy: forasmuch as the continual violent motion
of a body (naturally inclining to move another
way) must needs be a very unquiet thing, and void
of all mental repose, especially when there is no
such relaxation as the souls of mortal animals
have by sleep; and therefore such a soul of the
world as this, must of necessity be condemned to
an eternal Ixionian fate.—But in these words Aris­
totle does not deny the heavens to be moved by a
soul of their own (which is positively affirmed by
him elsewhere), but only by such a soul as should
violently and forcibly agitate, or drive them round,
contrary to their own natural inclination, where­
by, in the mean time, they tended downwards of
themselves towards the centre. And his sense
concerning the motion of the heavens,-is truly re­
presented by Simplicius, in this manner: to BeoXov
fvatKov Kat cjui^u^ov, viro tpvyrijg Kvp'uat Ktveirat, Bid psang
3 6 6 THE PLASTIC NATURE OP THE WORLD
Tiff i|w<nwc. The whole world or heaven, being aa
well a natural, as an animalish body, is moved
properly by soul; but yet by means of nature
also, as an instrument, so that the motion ofit is
hot violent.—But whereas Aristotle there insrau-
ates, as if Plato had held the heavens to be moved
by a soul violently, contrary to their nature ; Sim­
plicius, though sufficiently addicted to Aristotle,
ingenuously acknowledges his error herein, and
vindicating Plato from that imputation, shews
how he likewise held a plastic nature as well as a
mundane souL; and that amongst his ten
• ifeLeg' _ instances of motion,* the ninth is that of
nature; ti)vmpav<mKivovaav, kmpterafiaXXo-
plwiv if’ tripov' that which always moves another,
being itself changed by something else;—as the
tenth, that of the mundane soul, riiv eavrijv wvovowv
sol mpa, that which originally both moves itself
and other things:—as if his meaning in that place
were, that though nature be a life and internal
energy, yet it acts subserviently to a higher soul
as the first original mover.
But the grand objection against Aristotle’s hold­
ing the world’s animation is still behind; namely,
from that in his Metaphysics;* where he deter­
mines the highest starry heaven to be moved by
an immoveable mover, commonly supposed to be
the Deity itself, and no soul of the world; and all
the other spheres likewise to be moved by so many
separate intelligences, and not by souls. To
which we reply, that indeed Aristotle’s first im­
moveable mover is no mundane soul, but an ab­
stract intellect separate from matter, and the very
Deity itself; whose manner of movingthe heavens
• Lib. xiv. cup. vii. viii. ix. p. 476. s. toni. ir. oper.
P&PBtfDS OJX A VBBfECT INTEf4.E)€T. 307
is tbua.described by him,* «nv*t I* wc t^v/*emv, it
movetb only as being loved.—Wherefore, besides
tins supreme unmoved mover, that philosopher
supposed another inferior moved mover also, that
is, a mundane soul, as the proper and immediate
efficient cause of the heavenly motions; of which
be speaks after this manner: Ktvavfuvov Si roXX*
xnm, that which itself being moved (objectively,
or by appetite and desire of the first good) movetb
other things.—And thus that safe and surefooted
interpreter, Alex. Aphrodisius, expounds his mas­
ter's meaning, that the heaven being animated, and
therefore indeed moved by an internal principle
of its own, is notwithstanding originally moved
by a certain immoveable and separate
nature, which is- above soul, r<
p wav ™ ?Jlcl'if**’
atiro, Kal treaty icat opt£tv rqc ofiouiows
avrov, bath by its contemplating of it, and having
an appetite and desire of assimilating itself there­
unto.—rAristotle seeming to have borrowed this
notion from. P1ato>bwho makes the constant regm
lar circumgyration of the heavens to be an imita­
tion of the motion or energy of intellect. So that
Aristotle’s first mover is not properly the efficient,
but only the final and objective canse, of the bear
venly motions, the immediate efficient cause
thereof being fvote, soul and nature.—
Neither may this he confuted from those other
Aristotelic intelligences of the lesser orbs; that
philosopher conceiving in like manner concerning
them, that they were also the abstract minds or
intellects of certain other inferior souls, which
moved their several respective bodies or orbs, chf-
• Metaph. lib. xiv. cap, viii. p 479.
b Dc Legibus, lib. x. p.€69. ct aliafl.
368 THE PLASTIC NATURE OF THE WORLD
cularly and uniformly, in a kind of imitation of
them. For thiis plainly appears from hence, in
that he affirms of these his inferior intelligences
likewise, as well as of the supreme mover, that
they do k iv u v w q rIXoc, move only as the end.
Where it is evident, that though Aristotle did
plainly suppose a mundane intellectual soul, such
as also contained, either in it, or under it, a plas­
tic nature, yet he did not make either of these to
be the supreme Deity; but resolved the first prin­
ciple of things to be one absolutely perfect mind
or intellect, separate from matter, which was
a K tvn ro s o v a la * an immoveable nature,—whose es­
sence was his operation, and which moved only
as being loved, or as the final cause: of which
he pronounces in this manner, on lie rot-
Met 1.14. a v r tic yp rrrra i o ovpavoc x a l i) <f>v<ri£,
tom
!fv.oper. that upon such a principle as this, hea­
ven and nature depends;—that is, the
animated heaven, or mundane soul, together with
the plastic nature of the universe, must of neces­
sity depend upon such an absolutely perfect and
immoveable mind or intellect.
Having now declared the Aristotelic doctrine
concerning the plastic nature of the universe,
with which the Platonic also agrees, that it is,
| fifpoc | firlavev either part of a mun­
dane intellectual soul (that is, a lower power and
faculty of it), or else not without it, but some in­
ferior thing depending on it ;-^-we think fit to add
in this place, that though there were no such
mundane soul, as both Plato and Aristotle sup­
posed, distinct from the supreme Deity, yet there
might notwithstanding be a plastic nature of the
* Aristot. Mctapbysicor. lib. xiv. cap. vi. p. 477.
DEPENDS ON A PERFECT INTELLECT. 369
universe depending immediately upon the Deity
itself. For the plastic nature essentially depends
upon mind or intellect, and could not possibly be
without i t ; according to those words before cited,
«
»
croiauTjjc ^prtrrat >
j^v'<nc, nature depends upon
such an intellectual principle;—and for this cause
that philosopher does elsewhere join vov? and
<
f>
v
<
r
ic
,mind and nature—both together.
25. Besides this general plastic nature of the
universe, and those particular plastic powers in
the souls of animals, it is not impossible but that
there may be other plastic natures also (as certain
lower lives, or vegetative souls) in some greater
parts of the universe; all of them depending, if not
upon some higher conscious soul, yet at least
upon a perfect intellect presiding over the whole.
As for example; though it be not reasonable to
think, that every plant, herb, and pile of grass,
hath a particular plastic life, or vegetative soul of
its own, distinct from the mechanism of the body,
nor that the whole earth is an animal endued with
a conscious soul; yet there may possibly be, for
aught we know, one plastic nature or life belong­
ing to the whole terrestrial (or terraqueous) globe,
by which all plants and vegetables, continuous
with it, may be differently formed, according to
their different seeds, as also minerals and other
bodies framed, and whatsoever else is above the
power of fortuitous mechanism effected, as by the
immediate cause, though always subordinate to
other causes; the chief whereof is the Deity.
And this perhaps may ease the minds of those,
who cannot but think it too much, to impose all
.upon one plastic nature.of the universe.
26. And now we have finished our first task,
3 7 0 THE ZKKORS OF ATHSISTS, WHO SHUCK
which was to give an account of the plastic na­
ture, the sum whereof briefly amounts to this;
that it is a certain lower life than the animal,
■W
hichacts regularly and artificially, according to
the direction of mind and understanding, reason,
And wisdom, for ends, or in order to good, though
itselfdo not know the reason of what it does, nor
is master of .that wisdom according to which it
acts, but only a servant to it, and drudging execu­
tioner of the same; it operating fatally and sympa­
thetically, according to laws and commands pre­
scribed to it by a perfect intellect, and impressed
upon it; and which is either a lower faculty of
some conscious soul, or else an inferior -kind of
life or soul by itself; but essentially depending
.upon a higher intellect.
< We proceed to our second undertaking; which
.was to shew, how grossly those two sorts of Athe­
ists before-mentioned, the Stoical or Cosmo-plas­
tic, and the Stratonical or Hylozoic, both of them
acknowledging this plastic life of nature, do mis­
take the notion of it, or pervert it, and abuse it,
to make a certain spurious and counterfeit God-
almighty of it (or a first principle of all things),
thereby excluding the true omnipotent Deity,
which is a perfect mind, or consciously under­
standing nature, presiding over the universe; they
substituting this stupid plastic nature in the room
of it.
Now the chief errors or mistakes of these Athe­
ists concerning the plastic nature, are these four
following. First, that they make that to be the
first principle of all, and the highest thing in the
universe, which is the last and lowest of all lives;
a thing essentially secondary, derivative, and de-
THE PLASTIC NATUK& A GOD-ALMIGHTY. 371
pendent For the plastic life of nature is but the
mere umbrage of intellectuality, a faint and sha­
dowy imitation of mind and understanding; upon
which it doth as essentially depend, as the sha­
dow doth upon the body, the image in the glass
upon the face, or the echo upon the original voice.
So that if there had been no perfect mind or intel­
lect in the world, there could no more have been
any plastic nature in it, than there could be an
image in the glass without a face, or an efho with­
out an original voice. If there be $v<nc, then
there must be Novc: if there be a plastic na­
ture, that acts regularly and artificially in order
to ends, and according to the best wisdom, though
itself not comprehending the reason of it, nor be­
ing clearly conscious of what it doth; then there
must of necessity be a perfect mind or intellect,
that is, a Deity, upon which it depends. Where­
fore Aristotle does like a philosopher in joining
4>uffic and Novc, nature and mind both together;
but these Atheists do very absurdly and unphilo-
sophically, that would make a senseless and un­
conscious plastic nature, and therefore without
any mind or intellect, to be the first original of all
things.
Secondly, these Atheists augment the former
error, in supposing those higher lives of sense or
animality, and of reason or understanding, to rise
both of them from that lower senseless life of na­
ture, as the only original fundamental life. Which
is a thing altogether as irrational and absurd, as
if one should suppose the light, that is in the air
or ether, to be the only original and fundamental
light, and the light of the sun and stars but a se­
condary aud derivative thing from it, and nothing
.372 THE ERRORS OF ATHEISTS, WHO MAKE
but the light of the air modificated and improved
by condensation; or, as if one should maintain,
that the sun and moon, and all the stars, were
really nothing else but the mere reflections of
those images, that we see in rivers and ponds of
water. But this hath always been the sottish
humour and guise of Atheists, to invert the order
of the universe, and hang the picture of the world,
as of a man, with its heels upwards. Conscious
reason and understanding, being a far higher de­
gree of life and perfection, than that dull plastic
nature, which does only do, but not know, can
never possibly emerge out of it; neither can the
duplication of corporeal organs be ever able to
advance that simple and stupid life of nature into
redoubled consciousness or self-perception; nor
any triplication, or indeed milleclupation of them,
improve the same into reason and understanding.
Thirdly, for the better colouring of the former
errors, the Hylozoists adulterate the notion of the
plastic life of nature, confounding it with wisdom
and understanding. And though themselves ac­
knowledge, that no animal sense, self-perception,
and consciousness belongs to it, yet they will have
it to be a thing perfectly wise, and consequently
every atom of senseless matter that is in the whole
world, to be infallibly omniscient, as to all its
own capacities and congruities, or whatsoever it­
self can do or suffer; which is plainly contradic­
tious. For, though there may be such a thing as
the plastic nature, that, according to the former
description of it, can do without knowing, and is
devoid of express consciousness or self-percep­
tion, yet perfect knowledge and understanding,
without consciousness, is nonsense and impossi-
THS PLASTIC MATURE A GOD-ALMIGHTY. 373
\
bility. Wherefore, this must needs be con­
demned for a great .piece of sottishness in the
Hylozoic Atheists,. that they attribute perfect
wisdomand understanding toa stupid unconscious
nature, which is nothing but yaporlyvnc, the mere
drudging instrument, or manuary opificer of a
perfect mind.
. Lastly, these Atheists err in this, that they
make, this plastic life of nature to be a mere mate­
rial or corporeal thing;. whereas matter or body
cannot move itself, much less, therefore, can it ar­
tificially order and dispose its own motion. And
though the plastic nature.be indeed the lowest of
all lives, yet, notwithstanding, since it is a life, or
internal energy, and self-activity, distinct from
local motion, it must needs be incorporeal, all life
being essentially such. But the Hylozoists con­
ceive grossly both of life and understanding,
spreading them all over upon matter, just as but­
ter is spread upon bread, or plaster upon a wall,
and accordingly slicing them out in different
.quantities and. bulks, together with it; they con­
tending, that they are but inadequate conceptions
;of body, as the only substance; and consequently
concluding, that the vulgarly received notion of
.God is nothing else but such an inadequate con­
ception of the matter,of the whole corporeal uni­
verse, mistaken for a complete and entire sub­
stance by itself, that is supposed to be the cause
of all things; which fond dream or dotage of
their’s. will be further confuted in due place. But
-it is now time to put a period to this long, though
necessary, digression, concerning the plastic life
of nature, or an artificial, orderly* andmethodical
nature.. •’*
VOL. 2 b
374 THE ATHEISTIC ATOMOLOGY
xxxviii. Plato givesan'account, why feejudged
it necessary in those times, publicly to propose
that Atheistic hypothesis, in order to a confuta­
tion, as also to produce rational arguments for
the proof of a Deity, after this manner:
fxtf Kammrapfiivm jfwv ot rotovrot Aoyoc »
oper. toIc iraaiv, <Jc firoc e’
nreiv, avdpwvotc, ovSev a*
tSct ra v erafjvvovrtov \iyu v, *ic <in fo i, vwv Se
ava-yiaj' H ad not these Atheistic doctrines been
publicly divulged, and made known in a manner
to all, it would not hare been needful to hare
icoafuted them, nor by reasons to prove a Deity;
but now it is necessary.—And we concave, that
the same necessity at this time will justify our
present undertaking likewise; since these Athe­
istic doctrines have been as boldly vented, and
publicly asserted in this latter age of our’s, as
ever they could be in Plato’s time; when the -se­
verity of the: Athenian government must needs
be a great check to such designs, Socrates baring
been put to death upon a mere false and ground-
less accusation of Atheism, and Protagoras (who
doubtless was a real Atheist) haring escaped the
same punishment no otherwise than by flight, his
books being, notwithstanding, publicly burnt in
the market-place at Athens, and himself con­
demned to perpetual exile, though there was no­
thing at that time proved against him, save only
tins one sceptical passage, in the begin-
w
ta^ProtU
b. ning. of a book of his: irtpi fiiv 9wvo»k
p.tfre!51 «iracv, off amv, tiff. <J< oufcttm, TroXXa
, y«$> to ^wXwowrtt »jrf aSuXonjc, K u i 0 p a -
yve ivvqfilof to
vdvOpwirov' Concerning the gods, 1
have nothing at all to say, either that they be or
be not; there being many things, that hinder the
LATELY REVIVED. $75
knowledge of this matter, both the obscurity of
the thing itself, and the shortness of human life,
—Whereas Atheism, in this latter age of our’s,
hath been impudently asserted, aud most indus­
triously promoted; that very Atomic form, that
was first introduced (a little before Plato’s time)
by Leucippus, Protagoras, and Democritus, hav­
ing been also revived amongst us, and that with
no small: pomp and ostentation of wisdom and
philosophy. t
It was before observed, that there were two
several forms of Atomical philosophy: first, the
most ancient and genuine, that was religious,
called Moschical (or, if you will, Mosaical) and
Pythagorical; secondly, the .adulterated Atheistic
Atomology, called Leucippean or Democritical.
Now, accordingly, there have been in this latter
age of our’s two several successive resurrections
or restitutions of those two Atomologies. For
Renatus Cartesius first revived and restored the
Atomic philosophy, agreeably, for the most part,
to that ancient Moschical and Pythagoric form;
acknowledging, besides extended substance and
corporeal atoms, another cogitative incorporeal
substance, and joining metaphysics or theology,
together with physiology, to make up one entire
system of philosophy. Nor can it well be doubt­
ed, but that this physiology of bis, as to the me­
chanic part of it, hath been elaborated by the in­
genious author into an exactness at least equal
with the best Atomologies of the ancients. Ner
vertheless, this Cartesian philosophy is highly
Obnoxious to censure upon some accounts; the
chief whereof is this, that, deviating from that
primitive Moschical Atomology^ in rejecting aJJ
2 b *
376 THE ATHEISTIC ATOMOLOGY .
plastic nature, it derives the whole system of the
corporeal universe from the necessary motion of
matter, only divided into particles insensibly
small, and turned round in a vortex, without the
guidance or direction of any understanding na­
ture. By means whereof, though it boast of solv­
ing all the corporeal phenomena by mete fortui­
tous mechanism, and without any final or mental
causality, yet it gives no account at all of that,
which is the grandest of all phenomena, the n>eS
km koXw
q
, the orderly regularity and harmony of
the -mundane system.—
The occasion 'of which
miscarriage hath been already intimated; namely,
from the acknowledging only two heads of being,
extended and cogitative, and making the essence
of cogitation to consist in express consciousness;
from whence it follows, that there could be no
plastic nature, and therefore either all things must
be done by fortuitous mechanism, or else God
himself be brought immediately upon'the stage
for the solving of all phenomena. Which latter
absurdity our philosopher being over careful to
avoid, cast himself upon the former, the banish­
ing of all final and mental causality quite out of
the world, and acknowledging no other philoso­
phic causes, beside material and mechanical. It
cannot be denied, but that even some of the an­
cient religious Atomists were also too much in­
fected with this mechanizing humour; but Rena-
tus Cartesius hath not only outdone them all
herein; but even the very*Atheists themselves also,
as shall be shewed afterward; and, therefore, as
much as in him lies, has quite disarmed the world
of that grand argument for a Deity taken from
the regular frame and harmony of the universe;
LATELY REVIVED. 377
To. which gross miscarriage of his there might
be also another added, that he seems to make
matter necessarily existent, and essentially infi­
nite and eternal. Notwithstanding all which,
we cannot entertain that uncharitable opinion of
him, that he really designed Atheism; the funda­
mental principles of his philosophy being such,
as that no Atheistic structure can possibly be
built upon them. But shortly after this Carter
sian restitution of the primitive Atomology, that
acknowledgeth. incorporeal substance, we have
had our Leucippus.and Democritus too, who
also revived and brought again upon the stage
that other Atheistic Atomology, that makes op/ac
t<
ov oXurpdro/uovQ, senseless and lifeless atoms, to be
the only principles of all things in the universe;
thereby necessarily excluding, besides incorpo­
real substance and immortality, of souls, a Deity
and natural morality; as also making all actions
and events materially and mechanically necessary.
Now there could be no satisfactory confuta­
tion of this Atheistic hypothesis, without a fair
proposal first made of the several grounds of it
to their best advantage, which we have therefore
endeavoured in the former chapter. The answers
to which Atheistic arguments ought, according to
the laws of method, to be reserved for the last
part of the whole treatise, where we are positive­
ly to determine the right intellectual system of the
universe; it being properly our work here, only
to give an account of the three false bypothesesof
the mundane, system, together with their several
grounds. Nevertheless, because it might not only
seem indecorous, for. the answers to those Athe­
istic arguments to be so long deferred, and^placed
378 TWO SORTS OF ATHEISTS IN PLATO.
so far behind the arguments themselves, bat also
prove otherwise really inconvenient, we -shall
therefore choose rather to break those laws of me­
thod (neglecting the scrupulosity thereof), and
snbjoin them immediately in this place, craving
the reader’s pardon for this preposterousness.
It is certain, that the source of all Atheism is
generally a dull and earthy disbeliefof the exist­
ence of things beyond the reach of sense; and it
cannot be denied, but that there is something of
immorality in the temper of all Atheists, as all
atheistic doctrine tends also to immorality. Not^
withstanding which, it must not be therefore cow-
eluded, that'all dogmatic Atheists came tO be
such merely by means of gross intemperance, sen­
suality, and debauchery. Plato, indeed, describes
one sort of Atheists in this manner: olg
p!*90a ' *10 ®
v ry 8ofy, rjj OttSv tpy/ia ttva t travra,
axparaai re »j8ovwv «cai Xvttw
v wpo<?rrtoGxn, •frvij-
ftai ri nr^vpat km juaO
qaH
Co^e
u
u wapHai’ Such wbo,
together with this opinion, that all things are void
of gods, are acted also by intemperance of plea­
sures and pains, and hurried away with violent
lusts, being persons otherwise endued with strong
memories and quick wits.—And these are the
debauched, ranting, and hectoring Atheists. But,
besides these, that philosopher tells us,
‘ ’ that there is another sort of Atheists
also: o2$ pi) vofil£ovcn O e o v c ilvat t o irapairav, q0oc f w m
irpocylverM B'ucatov, pwouvric re ytyvovrat rove jccucOvei Ktu
Tty Bucyrepalvtiv njv aSuclav, ovtb r a t totavrac irpa£«e wpoc*
u vra i irparrav, rove re jut)Sucatove rwv avdpthrw v fevyo w n ,
k
c
urove Sutaiove orlpyowiv* Such who, though they
think there be no gods at all, yet, notwithstand­
ing, toeing naturally disposed to justice and niodfr-
TWO SOOTS OF ATHEISTS U( PLATO. 9 7 d
ratios, a# they will not do outrageous and exo*
bitant things themselves, so they, will shun tbft
conversation of wicked debauched persons, and
delight rather in the society of those, that are fair
and just.—And these are a-sort of externally ho­
nest or civilized Atheists. Now what that thing
is, which, besides gross sensuality and debauch­
ery, might tempt men to entertain atheistic opi^
nions, the same philosopher also declares; name­
ly, that it is an affectation of singularity, or of
seeming wiser than the generality of mankind.
For thus when Clinias had disputed honestly
against Atheists, from those vulgar,topics of the
regularity and harmony of the universe (observa­
ble in the courses of sun, moon, and stars, and
the seasons of the year), and of the common no­
tions of mankind, in that both Greeks and bar­
barians generally agreed in this, that there were
gods, thinking he had thereby made a sufficient
confutation of Atheism, the' Athenian Hospes
hereupon discovers a great fear and jealousy,
which,he had, lest he should thereby but render
himself an object of contempt to Atheists, as
being a conceited and scornful generation of men.
A@. fofiovfiai ye <
u ftaicapu rove,/uo^d^povc, foinwf vfiwv
KaTaijtpqvriatiHjtv, v/utic /»*v yap owe urn avrutv Trepi,. rqv
rq$ Sta^ppac atnav, aXX’ ijyEurOt aKpateia povov riSovotv re
Kai im&vfiuov ini rov aKfarrj j3tov opftaoQtu, rac
avrwv, &c, I am afraid of those wicked men the
Atheists, lest they should despise you; for you
are ignorant concerning them, when you think
the only cause of Atheism to be intemperance of
pleasures and lusts, violently hurrying men’s souls
on to a wicked life.—C l i n . What other cause of
Atheism can there be besides this ?—A th. That
380 THE ATHEISTS NO CONJURERS.
which you are not aware of* who live remotely,
namely, \A*ta(Ua fiaXa ^aXein} Soicotwa ctvieufujiarn fpo-
vtimQ' A certain grievous ignorance, which yet,
notwithstanding, hath the appearance of the
greatest wisdom.—And, therefore, afterwards,
when that philosopher goes about to propose the
Atheistic hypothesis, he calls it,* rov irapa iroXXolg
$o£a£d/utvovaval <
xo<
jxtJr'arovavavratv Xoywv, that which
to many seemeth to be the wisest and profound-
est of all doctrines.—
And we find the same thing at this very day,
that Atheists make a great pretence to wisdom
and philosophy; and that many are tempted to
maintain atheistic opinions, that they may gain
a reputation of wit by it. Which, indeed, was
one reason, that the rather induced us nakedly to
reveal all the mysteries of Atheism, because we
observed, that so long as these things are con­
cealed and kept up in huggermugger, many
will be the rather apt to suspect, that there is
some great depth and profundityof wisdom lodged
in them ; and that it is some noble and generous
truth, which the bigotic religious endeavour to
smother and suppress.
Now the case being thus, it was pertinently sug­
gested also by the forementioned philosopher,"
ou oftucfov y t to Eiaftpov, u ipaveiev ol Xoyiov dirro/tievoi
datfiulv, aXXotc re t^apyovree, /xjjSt tv role Xoyotc,
dXX‘ t^juofniftliwc xpwfitvoi, That it must needs be a
matter of no small moment, for any one to make
it appear, that they, who maintain wicked athe­
istical opinions, do none of them reason rightly,
but grossly fumble in all their ratiocinations.—
*De Lctfib. 1.x. p. 664. open kIbid. p. 667. s.
THE ATHEIST8 NO CONJUKEES. 381
And we hope to effect this in our present under­
taking, to make it evident, that Atheists are no
such conjurers, as (though they bold no spirits)
they would be thought to be; no such gigantic
men of reason, nor profound philosophers, but
that, notwithstanding all their pretensions to wit,
their Atheism is really nothing else, but a^adia/iaXa
yraXtrrq, a most grievous ignorance, sottishness,
and stupidity of mind in them.
Wherefore we shall, in the next place, conjure
down all those devils raised and displayed in their
mostformidable colours, in the precedent chapter;
or rather we shall discover, that, they are really
nothing else, but what these Atheists pretend God
and incorporeal spirits to be, mere fantastic spec­
tres and impostures, vain imaginations of deluded
minds, utterly devoid of all truth and reality.
Neither shall we only,confute those Atheistic ar­
guments, and so stand upon our defensive posture,
but we shall also assault Atheism even with its
own weapons, and plainly demonstrate, that all
forms of Atheism are unintelligible nonsense and
absolute impossibility to human reason; as we
shall likewise, over and. above, occasionally insert
some (as we thiuk) undeniable arguments for a
Deity.
The Digression concerning the Plastic Life.of
Nature, . or an artificial, orderly, and me­
thodical Nature, No. 37. Chap. iii.
“ 1. That neither the Hylozoic nor COsmo-
plastic Atheists are condemned for asserting an
orderly and artificial plastic nature, as a life dis-
382 DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE
tinct from the animal, however this be a thing
exploded., not only by the Atomic Atheists, but
also by some professed Theists, who, notwith­
standing, might have an undiscerned tang of the
mechanical-atheistic humoor hanging about them.
2. If there be no plastic artificial nature admit­
ted, then it must be concluded, that either all
things come to pass by fortuitous mechanism,
and material necessity (the motion of matter urn
guided) or else that God doth avrovpyiiv awavrcu, do
all things himself immediately and miraculously,
framing the body of every gnat and fly, as it were
with his own hands; since Divine laws and com­
mands cannot execute themselves, nor be the pro­
per efficient causes of things in nature.. 3. To
suppose all things to come to pass fortuitously,
or by the unguided motion of matter, a thing al­
together as irrational as it is atheistical and im­
pious; there being many phenomena, not only
above the powers of mechanism, but also contrary
to the laws of it. The mechanic Theists make
God but an idle spectator of the fortuitous mo­
tions of matter, and render his wisdom altogether
useless and insignificant. Aristotle’s judicious
censure of the fortuitous Mechanists, with the ri­
diculousness of that pretence, that material and
mechanical reasons are the only philosophical.
4. That it seems neither decorous in respect of
God, nor congruous to reason, that he should
avrovpyuv airavra, do all things himself immediately
and miraculously, nature being quite superseded
and made to signify nothing. The same further
confuted by the slow and gradual process of
things in nature, as also by those errors and bun­
gles, that are committed, when the matter proves
383
PLASTIC L IF E OF NATURE.
inept and contumacious, arguing the agent not to
be irresistible. 3. Reasonably inferred, that there
is a plastic nature in the universe, as a subordinate
instrument of Divine Providence, in the orderly
disposal of matter; but yet so as not without a
higher providence presiding over it, forasmuch as
this plastic nature cannot act electively or with
discretion. Those laws of nature concerning mo­
tion, which the mechanic Theists themselves sup­
pose, really nothing else but a plastic nature.
6. The agreeableness of this doctrine with .the
sentiments of the best philosophers in all ages,
Aristotle, Plato, Empedocles, Heraclitus, Hippo­
crates, Zeno, and the Paracelsians. Anaxagoras,
though a professed Theist, severely censured,
both by Aristotle and Plato, as an encourager of
Atheism, merely because he used material and
mechanical causes, more than mental and final.
Physiologers and astronomers, why vulgarly sus­
pected of Atheism in Plato’s time. 7. The plas­
tic nature no occult quality, but the only intelligi­
ble cause of that, which is the grandest of all phe­
nomena, the orderly regularity and harmony of
things, which the mechanic Theists, however pre­
tending to solve all phenomena, can give no ac­
count at all of. A God, or infinite mind, asserted
by them, in vain and to no purpose. 8. Two
things here to be performed by us; first, to give
an account of the plastic nature, and then to
shew how the notion ofit hath been mistaken, and
abused by Atheists. The first general account of
this plastic nature, according to Aristotle, that it
is to be conceived as art itselfacting, inwardly and
immediately, upon the matter; as if harmony liv­
ing in the musical instruments should move the
394 DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE
strings of them without any external impulse.
9. Two pre-eminences of the plastic nature above
human art:—First, that whereas human art acts
upon the matter from without cumbersomely and
molimihously, with tumult and hurly-burly, na­
ture acting on it from within more coinmandingly
doth its work easily, cleverly, and silently. Hu­
man art acts on the matter mechanically, but na­
ture vitally and magically. IQ. The second pre­
eminence of nature above human art, that whereas
.human artists are often to seek and at a loss, anxi­
ously consult and deliberate, and upon second
thoughts mend their former work, nature is never
to seek, nor unresolved what to do, nor doth she
ever repent afterwards of what she hath done,
changing her former course. Human artists
themselves consult not, as artists, but only for
want of a rt; and therefore nature, though never
consulting, may act artificially. Concluded, that
.what is called nature is really the Divine art.
1 1 . Nevertheless, that nature is not the Divine
art, pure and abstract, but concreted and embo­
died in matter, ratio mersaet confusa; not the Di­
vine art archetypal, but ectypal. Nature differs
.from the Divine art, as the manuary opificer from
the architect. 1 2 . Two imperfections ofthe plas­
tic nature, in respect whereof it falls short.even
of human a rt; first, that though it act for ends
artificially, yet itself neither intends those ends,
nor understands the reason of what it doth, and
therefore cannot act electively. The difference
between the spermatic reasons and knowledge.
Nature doth but ape or mimic the Divine art or
wisdom, beingnot master of that reason, according
to which it acts, but only a servant to it, and
.PLASTIC LIFE OF NATURE. 385
drudging executioner of it. 13. Proved that there
may be such a thing as acts artificially, though it*
self do not comprehend that art, by which its
motions are governed; first from musical habits;
the dancer resembles the artificial life of nature.
14. The same further evinced from, the instincts
of brute animals, directing them to act rationally
and artificially, in order to. their own good and
the good of the universe, without any reason of
their own. The instincts in brutes but passive
impresses of the Divine wisdom, and a kind of
fate upon them. 15. The second imperfection
of the plastic nature, that it acts without animal
fancy, <rwa«rdir<nc, express con-sense, and consci­
ousness, and is devoid of self-perception and self-
enjoyment. ..16. Whether this energy of the plas­
tic, nature be to be called cogitation or no, but a
logomachy or contention about words. Granted,
that what moves matter vitally, must needs do it
by some energy of its own, distinct from local
motion; but.that there may be a simple vital
energy, without that duplicity, which is in synses-
thesis, <
or clear and express consciousness. Ne­
vertheless, thatthe energy of nature might becalled
a certain drowsy, unawakened, or astonished
cogitation. 17. Instances, which render it pro­
bable, that there may be a vital energy, without
synsesthesis, clear and express cpn-sense, or con­
sciousness. 18. The plastic nature, acting nei-
ther.knowingly nor fantastically, acts fatally, ma­
gically, and sympathetically. The Divine laws
and fate, as to matter, not mere cogitation in the
mind of God, but an energetic and effectual prin­
ciple ;. and the plastic nature, the true and proper
fate of matter, or the corporeal world. What raa-
386 DIGRESSION CONCERNING THE
gic isj, and that nature, which acts fatally, actsalso
magically and sympathetically. 19. That the
plastic nature, though it be the Divine art and
fate, yet for all that, it is neither god nor goddess,
but a low and imperfect creature; it acting arti­
ficially and rationally no otherwise, than com­
pounded forms of letters, when printing coherent
philosophic sense; nor for ends, than a saw or
hatchet in the hands of a skilful mechanic. The
plastic and vegetative life of nature the lowest of
all lives, and iuferior to the sensitive. A higher
providence than that of the plastic nature go­
verning the cotporeal world itself. 20 . Notwith­
standing which, forasmuch as the plastic nature
is a life, it must needs be incorporeal. One and
the same thing, having in it an entire model and
platform, and acting upon several distdnt parts of
matter at once coherently, cannot be corporeal 5
and though Aristotle no where declares whether
his nature be corporeal or incorporeal (which he
neither doth clearly concerning the rational soul)
and his followers conclude it to be corporeal, yet,
according to the very principles of that philoso­
phy, it must needs be otherwise. 2 1 . The plastic
nature being incorporeal, must either be a lower
power lodged in souls, that are also conscious,
sensitive, or rational; or else a distinct substan­
tial life by itself, and inferior kind of soul. How
the* Platonists complicate both these together;
with Aristotle’s agreeable determination, that na­
ture is either part of a soul, or not without soul.
2 2 . The plastic nature as to animals, accordingto
Aristotle, a part or lower power of their respective
Soulsi That the phenomena prove a plastic na­
ture or archeus in animals, to make which a dis-
PLASTIC LIFE OF NATURE.. 387
tincl thing from the soul, is to multiply entities
without necessity. The soul endued with a plas­
tic power, the chief formatrix of its own body, the
contribution of certain other causes not excluded.
23. That besides that plastic principle in particu­
lar animals, forming them as so many little worlds,
there is a general plastic nature in the whole cor­
poreal universe, .which likewise, according to
Aristotle, is either a part and lower power of a
conscious mundane soul, or else something de­
pending on it. 24. That no less according jto
Aristotle than Plato and Socrates, ourselves par­
take of life from the life of the universe, as well
as we do of heat and cold, from the heat and cold
of the universe; from whence it appears, that
Aristotle also held the world’s animation, with
further undeniable proof thereof. An answer, to
two the most .considerable places of that philoso­
pher, that seem to imply the contrary. That
Aristotle’s first immoveable.mover was no soul,
but a perfect intellect abstract from matter; but
that be supposed this to move only as a final cause,
or as being loved, and besides it, a mundanesoul
and plastic nature, to move the heavens effi­
ciently. Neither Aristotle’s nature, nor his mun­
dane soul, the supreme Deity. However, though
there be no such mundane soul, as both Plato and
Aristotle conceived, yet notwithstanding there
may be a plastic nature depending upon a higher
intellectual principle. 25. No impossibility Of
80m0 other particular plastic principles ; and
though it be not reasonable to think, that every
plant, herb, and pile of grass, hath a plastic or
.vegetative soul of its own, nor that the earth is an
animal; yet, that there may possibly be one plas-
388 DIGRESSION ON THE PLASTIC LIFE, &C.
tic unconscious nature in the whole terraqueous
globe, by which vegetables may be severally or­
ganized and framed, and all things performed,
which transcend the power of fortuitous mecha­
nism. 26. Our second undertaking, which was
to shew how grossly those Atheists (who acknow­
ledge this plastic nature) misunderstand it and
abuse the notion, to mpke a counterfeit God-Al­
mighty or Numen of it, to the exclusion of the
true Deity. First, in their supposing, that to be*
the first and highest principle of the universe,
which is the last and lowest of all lives, a thing
as essentially derivative from, and dependent upon
a higher intellectual principle, as the echo.on the
, original voice. 27. Secondly, in their •making
sense and reason in animals to emerge out of a
senseless life of nature, by the mere modification
and organization of matter. That no duplication
of corporeal organs can ever make one single un­
conscious life to advance into redoubled consci­
ousness aud self-enjoyment. 28. Thirdly, in at­
tributing perfect knowledge and understanding to
this life of nature, which yet themselves suppose
to be devoid of all animal sense and conscious­
ness. 29. Lastly, in making the plastic life of
nature to be merely corporeal; the Hylozokts
contending, that it is but an inadequate concep­
tion of body, as the only substance; and fondly
dreaming, that the vulgar notion of God is nothing
but such an inadequate conception of the matter
of the whole universe, mistaken for a complete
and entire substance by itself, the caHseof all
things.”
CHAPTER IV.
The idea of God declared, in way of answer to the first Atheistic ar­
gument. The grand prejudice against the naturality of this idea,
as essentially including unity or oneliness in it, from the Pagan Po­
lytheism, removed. Proved that the intelligent Pagans generally
acknowledged one supreme Deity. What their Polytheism and
idolatry was; with some account of Christianity.—1. The either
stupid insensibility, or gross impudence of Atheists, in denying the
word GOD to have any signification, or that there is any other idea
answering to it besides the mere phantasm of the sound. The dis­
ease called by the philosopher airox/tWic t
o
uroiTtxou, the petrification
(or dead insensibility) of the mind.—2. That the Atheists them­
selves must needs have an idea of God in their minds, or other­
wise, when they deny his existence, they should deny the existence
of nothing. And that they have also the same idea of him with
Theists, they denying the very same thing which the others affirm.
—3. A lemma, or preparatory proposition to the idea of God, that
though some things be made or generated, yet it is not possible,
that all things should be made, but something must of necessity
exist of itself from eternity unmade, and be the cause of those other
things that arc made.—4. The two most opposite opinions, concern­
ing that which was self-existent from eternity, or unmade, and the
cause of all other things made: one, that it was nothing but sense­
less matter, the most imperfect of all things; the other, that it was
something most perfect, and therefore consciously intellectual. The
assertors of this latter opinion, Theists in a strict and proper sense;
of the former, Atheists. So that the idea of God in general is a
perfect consciouslyunderstanding being (or mind) self-existent from
eternity, and the cause of all other things.—5. Observed, that the
Atheists, who deny a God, according to the true idea of him, do
often abuse the word, calling senseless matter by that name, and
meaning nothing else thereby but a first principle, or self-existent
unmade thing. That, according to this notion of the word God,
there can be no such thing as an Atheist, no man being able to per­
suade himself, that all things sprung from nothing.—6. In order to
the more punctual declaration of the Divine idea, the opinion of
those taken notice of, who suppose two self-existent unmade
principles, God and matter; and so God not to be the sole, but only
the chief principle.—7. That these are but imperfect and mistaken
Theists. Their idea ofGod declared, with its defectiveness. A la­
titude in Theism. None to be condemned for absolute Atheists,
VOL. I. 2 c
390
but such as deny an eternal unmade mind, ruling over matter.—
8. The most compendious idea of God, an absolutely perfectbeing.
That this includes not only conscious intellectuality and necessary
existence, but also omni-causality, omnipotence, and infinite power:
and therefore God the sole principle of all, and catise of matter.
The true notion of infinite power. Pagans acknowledged the Di­
vine omnipotence. And that the Atheists supposed infinite power
to be included in the idea of God, proved from Lucretius.—9. That
absolute perfection implies something more than power and know­
ledge. A vaticination in men’s minds of a higher good than either.
That God is better than knowledge, according to Aristotle; and
that there is morality in the nature of God, wherein his chiefhappi­
ness consisteth. This borrowed from Plato, who makes the highest
perfection, and supreme Deity, to be goodness itself, above know­
ledge find intellect. God, and the supreme good, according to the
Scripture, love. God no soft or fond love, but an impartial law, and
the measure of all things. That the Atheists supposed goodness
also to be included in the ideaof God. The idea ofGod more expli­
cate and unfolded, a being absolutely perfect, infinitely good, wise,
and powerful, necessarily existent; and not only the framer of the
world, but also the cause of all things.—10. That this idea of God
essentially includes unity or oneliness in it; since there can be but
one supreme, one cause of all things, one omnipotent, and one infi­
nitely perfect. This unity or oneliness of the Deity supposed also
by £picurus and Lucretius, who professedly denied a God, accordr
ingto this idea.—11. The grand prejudice against the naturality of
this idea of God, as it essentially includes unity andsolitariety, from
the Polytheism of all nations formerly, besides the Jews, and of all
the wisest men and philosophers: from whence it is inferred, that
this idea of God is but artificial, and owes its original to laws and
institution. An inquiry to be made concerning the true sense of the
Pagan Polytheism. That the objectors take it for granted, that the
Pagan Polytheists universallyasserted many self-existentintellectual
beings, and independent deities, as so many partial causes of the
world.—12. First, the irrationality of this opinion, and its manifest
repugnancy to the phenomena; which render it less probable to have
been the belief of all the Pagan Polytheists.—13. Secondly, that
no such thing at all appears, as that ever any intelligent Pagans as­
serted a multitude of eternal, unmade, independent deities. The
Hesiodian gods. The Yalentinian -Eons. The nearest approach
maae thereunto by the Manichean good and evil gods. This doctrine
not generally asserted by the Greek philosophers, asPlutarch affirm-
eth. Questioned whether the Persian evil demon, or Arimanius, were
a self-existent principle, essentially evil. Aristotle’s confutation and
explosion of many principles, or independent deities. Faustus the
Manichean’s conceit, that the Jews and Christians paganized, in
the opinion of monarchy, with S t Austin’s judgment, concerning
391
the Pagans, thereupon.—14. Concluded that the Pagan Polytheism
must be understood according to another equivocation in the word
gods, as used for created intellectual beings, superior to men, that
ought to be religiously worshipped. That the Pagans held both
many gods and one God (as Onatus the Pythagorean declares him­
self), in different genses; many inferior deities subordinate to one
Supreme.—15. Further evidence of this, that the intelligent Pagan
Polytheists held only a plurality of inferior deities, subordinate to
one Supreme: first, because after the emersion of Christianity, and
its contest with Paganism, when occasion was offered, not only no
Pagan asserted a multiplicity of independent deities, but also all
universally disclaimed it, and professed to acknowledge one su­
preme God.—16. That this was no refinement or interpolation of
Paganism, as might possibly be suspected, but that the doctrine of
the most ancient Pagan theologers, and greatest promoters of Po­
lytheism, was agreeable hereunto; which will be proved, not from
suspected writings (as of Trismegist and the Sybils), but such as
are indubitate. First, that Zoroaster, the chief promoter of Poly­
theism in the eastern parts, acknowledged one supreme Deity, the
maker of the world, proved from Eubulus in Porphyry,-besides his
own words cited by Eusebius.—17. That Orpheus, commonlycalled
by the Greeks the Theologer, and the father of the Grecanic Po­
lytheism, clearly asserted one supreme Deity, proved by his own
words, out of Pagan records.—18. That the Egyptians themselves,
the most polythcistical of all nations, had an acknowledgment
amongst them of one supreme Deity.—19. That the poets, who
were the greatest depravers of the Pagan theology, and, by their
fables of the gods, madeit look more aristocratically, did themselves
notwithstanding acknowledge a monarchy, one Prince and Father
of gods. That famous passage of Sophocles not to be suspected,
though not found in any of his tragedies now extant—20. That
all the Pagan philosophers, who were Theists, universally asserted
a mundane monarchy. Pythagoras, as^much a Polytheist as any,
and yet his first principle of things, as well as numbers, a monad or
unity. Anaxagoras’s one mind ordering all things for good. Xeno­
phanes’ one and all, and his one God the greatest among the gods.
—21. Parmenides’ supreme God, one immoveable. Empeddcles’
both many gods junior to friendship and contention, and his one
God, called to tv, senior to them. Zeno Eieates’demonstration of
one God, in Aristotle.—22. Philolaus’s prince and governor of all,
God always one. Euclides Megarensis’s God, called tr t
o<
fyoddv, one
the very good. Timasus Locrus’s mind and good, above the soul
of the world. Antisthenes’ one natural God. Onatus’s Coiypheus.
—23. Generally believed and true, that Socrates acknowledged one
supreme God; but that he disclaimed all the inferior gods of the
Pagans, a vulgar error. Plato also a Polytheist, and that passage,
which some lay so great stress upon (that he was serious when he
2 c 2
392
began his epistles with God, but when with godsjocular), spurious
and counterfeit; .and yet he was, notwithstanding, an undoubted
Monotheist also in another sense; an assertor of one God over ally
of a maker of the world, of a first God, of a greatest of the gods.
The first hypostasis of the Platonic trinity properly the King of all
things, for whose sake are all things; the father of the cause and
prince of the world, that is, of the eternal intellect, or —24.
Aristotle an acknowledger of many gods (he accounting the stars
such), and yet an express assertor of xo^avoc, one prince, one im­
moveable mover.—2d. Cleanthes and Chrysippus Stoics, though
they filled the whole heaven, earth, air, and sea with gods, yet, not­
withstanding, they acknowledged only one God immortal, Jupijer;
all the rest being consumed into him, in the successive conflagra­
tions, and afterwards made anew by him. Cleanthes’ excellent
and devout hymn to the supreme God.—26. Endless to cite all the
passages of.the later Pagan writers and Polytheists, in which one
supreme God is asserted. Excellent discourses in some of them
concerning the Deity, particularly. Plotinus; who, though be de­
rived all things, even matter itself, from one supreme Deity, yet
was a contender for many gods.—27. This not only the opinion of
philosophers and learned men, but also the general belief of the
Pagan vulgar: that there was one supreme God, proved from
Maximus Tyrius. The Romans’ Dev* optima* maximas. The
Pagans, when most serious, spake of God singularly. Kyrie Elee-
son part of the Pagans’ litany to the supreme God. The more civil­
ized Pagans, at this very day, acknowledge one Supreme Deity, the
maker of the world.—28. Plutarch’s testimony, that, notwithstand­
ing the variety of Paganic religions, and the different names of gods
used in them, yet one reason, mind, or providence ordering all
things, and its inferior ministers, were alike every where worship­
ped.—29. Plain that the Pagan Theists must needs acknowledge
one supreme Deity, because they generally believed the whole
world to be one animal, governed by one soul. Some Pagans made
this soul of the world their supreme God; others an abstract mind
superior to it.—30. The Hebrew doctors generally of this persua­
sion, that the Pagans worshipped one supreme God, and that all
their bther gods were but mediators betwixt him and men.—31.
Lastly, this confirmed from Scripture. The Pagans knew God.
Aratus’s Jupiter, and the Athenians’ unknown God, the true God.
—32. In order to a fuller explication of the Pagan theology, and
shewing the occasion of its being misunderstood, three heads requi­
site to be insisted on. First, that the Pagans worshipped one su­
preme God under manynames; secondly, that besides this oneGod,
they worshipped also many gods, which were indeed inferior deities
subordinate to him; thirdly, that thfey worshipped both the supreme
and inferior gods in images, statues, and symbols, sometimes abu­
sively called also gods. First; that the supreme God amongst the
303
Pagans was polyonymoas, and worshipped under several personal
names,' according to bis several attributes and the manifestations of
them, his gifts and effects in the world.—33. That, upon the same
account, things not substantial were personated and deified by the
Pagans, and worshipped as so many several names and notions of
one God.—34. That as the whole corporeal world animated was sup­
posed by some of the Pagans to be the supreme God, so he was
worshipped in the several parts and members of it (having personal
names bestowed upon them) as it were by parcels and piece-meal,
or by so manyinadequate conceptions. That some of the Pagans
made the corporeal world the temple of God only, but others the
body of God.—35. The second head proposed, that besides the
one supreme God, under several names, the Pagans acknowledged
and worshipped also many gods; &
*w
eywiT»f, made gods, created
intellectual beings superior to men.—36. The Pythagoric or Plato­
nic trinity of Divine hypostases. And the higher of the inferior
deities, according to this hypothesis, Nous, Psyche, and the whole
corporeal world; with particular Noes and Henades.—37. The
other inferior deities, acknowledged as well by the vulgar as philo­
sophers, of three sorts. First, the sun, moon, and stars, and other
greater parts of the universe animated, called sensible gods.—38.
Secondly, theirinferior deities invisible, ethereal, and aerialanimals,
called demons. These appointed by the supreme Deity to preside
over kingdoms, cities, places, persons, and things.—39. The last sort
of the Pagan inferior deities, heroes and 0savdg«*oi, or men-gods.
Euemerus taxed by Plutarch, for making all the Pagan gods nothing
but dead men.—40. The third general head proposed, that the Pa­
gans worshipped both the supreme and inferior gods in images, sta­
tues, and symbols. That first of all, before images and temples,
rude stones and pillars without sculpture were erected for religious
monuments, and called 0atrvXut9 or Bethels.—41. That afterwards
images, statues, and symbols were used, and housed in temples.
These placed in the west-end of the temples to face the east; so
that the Pagans entering worshipped towards the west; one proba­
ble occasion of the ancient Christians praying towards the east.
The golden calf made for a symbolic presence of the God of Israel.
—42. All the parts of the entire Pagan religion represented toge­
ther at once in Plato.—43. That some late writers, not well under­
standing the sense of Pagans, have confounded all their theology,
by supposing them to worship the inanimate parts of the world as
such, for gods; therefore distinguishing betwixt their animal and
their natural gods. That no corporeal thing was worshipped by the
Pagans otherwise, than either as being itself animated with a parti­
cular soul of its own, or as being part of the whole animated world,
or as having demons presiding over it, to whom the worship was
properly directed; or, lastly, as being images or symbols of Divine
things.—44. That though the Egyptians be said to have worshipped
394
brute animals, and were generally therefore condemned by the
other Pagans; yet the wiser of them used them only as hierogfyr
phics and symbols.—46. That the Pagans worshipped not only the
supreme God, but also the inferior deities, by material sacrifices.
Sacrifices or fire-offerings, in their first and general notion, nothing
else but gifts and signs of gratitude, and appendices of prayer.
But that animal sacrifices had afterwards a particular notion also of
expiation fastened on them; whether by Divine direction, or.human
agreement, left undetermined.—46. The Pagans’ apology for the
three forementioned things. First, for worshipping one supreme
God under many personal names, and that not only according to his
several attributes, but also his several manifestations, gifts, and ef­
fects, in the visible world. With an excuse for those corporeal
Theists, who worshipped the whole animated world as the supreme
God, and the several parts of it under personal names, as living
members of him.—47. Their apology for worshipping, besides the
one supreme God, many inferior deities. That they worshipping
them only as inferior could not, therefore, be guilty of giving them
that honour which was proper to the Supreme. That they honoured
the supreme God incomparably above all. That they put # dif­
ference in their sacrifices; and that material sacrifices were not the
proper worship of the supreme God, but rather below him.—48.
Several reasons of the Pagans, for giving religious worship to infe­
rior created beings. First, that thishonour, which is bestowed upon
them, does ultimately redound to the supreme God, and aggran­
dize his state [and majesty, they being all his ministers and attend­
ants.—49. That as demons are mediators betwixt the celestial gods
and men, so those celestial gods, and all the other inferior deities?
are themselves also mediators betwixt man and the supreme God,
and as it were convenient steps, by which we ought with reverence
to approach him.—50. That there is an honour in justice due to all
those excellent beings that are above u s; and that the Pagans do
but honour every thing as they ought, in that due rank and place,
in which the supreme God bath set it.—51. That demons or angels
being appointed to preside over kingdoms, cities, and persons, and
the several parts of the corporeal universe, and being many ways
benefactors to us, thanks ought to be returned to them by sacrifice.
—52. That the inferior gods, demons, and heroes, being all of them
able to do us either good or hurt, and being also irascible, and
therefore provokable by our neglect of them, it is as*well our inter­
est; as our duly to pacify and appease them by worship.—53. Lastly,
that it.cannot be thought, that the supreme God will envy those in­
ferior gods that worship or honour which is bestowed upon them;
nor suspected, that any of those inferior deities will factiously go
about to set up themselves against the supreme God.—54. That
many of the Pagans worshipped none but good demons, and that
those of them, who worshipped evil ones, did it onlyin order to
395
their appeasement and mitigation, that so they might do them no
hurt None but magicians to be accounted properly devil worship­
pers, who honour evil demons, in order to the gratification of their
revenge, lust, and ambition.—65. The Pagans plead, that those
demons, who delivered oracles, and did miradles amongst them,
must needs be good, qincethere cannot be agreater reproach to the
supreme God, than to suppose him to appoint evil demons as pre­
sidents and governors over the world, or to suffer them to have so
great a sway and share of power in it. The faith of Plato in Divine
Providence, that the good every where prevails over the bad, and
that theDelphic Apollo was therefore a good demon.—56. The Pa­
gans’apology for worshipping the supreme God in images, statues,
and symbols. That these are only schetically worshipped by them,
the honour passing from them to the prototype. And that since we
living in bodies cannot easily have a conception of any thing without
some corporeal image or phantasm, thus much must be indulged to
the infirmity of human nature (at leastin the vulgar) to the worship
of God, corporeally in images, to prevent their running to Atheism.
—57. That though it should appear, by this apology of the Pagans,
that their case were not altogether so bad as is commonly supposed,
yet they cannot be justified thereby in the three particulars above-
* mentioned, but the Scripture condemnation of them is irrefragable,
that knowing God, they did not glorify him as God, or sanctify bis
name; that is, worship him according to his uncommon and incom­
municable, his peerless and insociable, transcendent and singular,
incomparable and unresemblable nature; but mingled, some way or
other, creature-worship with the worship of the Creator. First, that
the worshipping of one God in his various gifts and effects, under se­
veral personal names, a thing in itself absurd, may also prove a great
occasion of Atheism, when the things themselves come to be called
by those names, as wine Bacchus, corn Ceres. The conclusion ea­
sily following, from thence, that the good things of nature are the
only deities. But to worship the corporeal world itselfanimated, as
the supreme God, and the parts of it as the members ofGod, is plain­
ly to confound God with the creature, and not to glorify him as Cre­
ator, nor according to his separate and spiritual nature.—58. To give
religiousworship to demons or angels, heroes or saints, or any other
intellectual creatures, though not honouring them equally with the
supreme God, is to deny God the honour of his holiness, his singu­
lar, insociable, and incommunicable nature, as he is the only seif-
originated being, and the Creator of all; of whom, through whom,
and to whom are all things. As God is such a being, that there is
nothing like him, so ought the worship which is given him to be such
as hath nothing like to it, a singular, separate, and incommunicate
worship. They not to be religiously worshipped, that worship*—
59. That the religious worship of created spirits proceeded chiefly
from a fear, that if they were not worshipped, they would be pro-
39 6
voked and do hurt, which is both highly injurious to good spirits,
and a distrust of the sufficiency of God’s power to protect his wor­
shippers. That all good spirits uninvoked are of themselves offi­
ciously ready to assist those, who sincerely worship and propitiate
the supreme Deity, and therefore no need of the religious worship
of them, which would be also offensive to them.—60. That men’s
praying to images and statues is much more ridiculous than chil­
dren’s talking to babies made of clouts, but not so innocent; they .
thereby debasing both themselves and God, not glorifying him ac­
cording to bis spiritual and unrescmblable nature, but changing the
glory of the incorruptible God into the likeness of corruptible man
or beast—61. The mistake of those who think none can be guilty
ofidolatry, that believe one God the maker of the world.—62. That
from the same ground of reason, that nothing ought to be religious­
ly worshipped besides the supreme God, or whom he appoints to
represent himself (because he ought to be sanctified, and dealt
withal, according to his singular nature, as unlike to every thing),
it follows, contrary to the opinion of some opposers of idolatry, that
there ought also to be a discrimination made between things sacred
andprofane, and reverence used in Divine worship. Idolatry and sa­
crilegeallied.—63. Another Scripture charge upon the Pagans, that
they were devil-worshippers; not as though they intended all their *
worship to evil demons or devils as such, but because their Polythe­
ism and idolatry (unacceptable to God and good spirits) was pro­
moted by evil spirits delivering oracles and doing miracles for the
confirmation of it, they also insinuating themselves into the tem­
ples and statues, therefore the worship was looked upon as done to
them. The same thing said of others besides Pagans, that they
worshipped devils.—64. Proved that they were evil demons, who
delivered oracles, and did miracles amongst the Pagans, for the
canying on of that religion, from the many obscene rites and mys­
teries, not only not prohibited, but also enjoined by them.—65. The
same thing further proved from other cruel and bloody rites, but es­
pecially that of man-sacrifices. . Plutarch’s clear acknowledgment,
that both the obscene rites and man-sacrifices, amongst the Pagans,
owed their original to wicked demons.—66. That the God of Israel
neither required nor accepted of man-sacrifices, against a modern
Diatribist—67. That what faith soever Plato might have in the
Delphic Apollo, he was no other than an evil demon, or devil. An
answer to the Pagans’argument from Divine Providence.—68. That
the Pagans’religion, unsound in its foundation, was infinitely more
corrupted and depraved by means of these four things:—First, the
superstition of the ignorant vulgar.—69. Secondly, the licentious
figments of poets and fable-mongers, frequently condemned by -
Plato and other wiser Pagans.—70. Thirdly, the craft of priests
and politicians.—71. Lastly, the imposture of evil demons, or devils.
That by means of these four things, the Pagan religion became a
397
most fooj and andean thing. And as some were captivated by it
under a most grievous yoke of superstition, so others strongly in­
clined to Atheism.—72. Plato not insensible, that the Pagan reli­
gion stood in need of reformation; nevertheless, supposing many of
those religious rites to have been introduced by visions, dreams,
and oracles, he concluded, that no wise legislator would, of his own
head, venture to make an alteration; implying, that this was a thing
not to be effected otherwise than by Divine revelation and miracles.
The generally-received opinion of the Pagans, that no man ought
to trouble himself about religion, but content himself to worship
God, irouott, according to the •law of that country which he
lived in.—73. Wherefore God Almighty, in great compassion to
mankind, designed himself to reform the religion of the Pagan
world, by introducing another religion of his own framing instead
of it; after he had first made a proelodium thereunto in one nation
of the Israelites, where,he expressly prohibited, by a voice out of
the fire, inhis firstcommandment, the Pagan Polytheism, or the wor­
shipping of other inferior deities besides himself; and in the second,
their idolatry, or the worshipping of the supreme God in images,
statues, or symbols. Besides which, he restrained the use of sacri­
fices : as also successively gave predictions, of a Messiah to come,
such as together with miracles might reasonably conciliate faith to
him when he came.—74. That afterwards, in due time, God sent
the promised Messiah, who was the eternal Word hypostatically
united with a pure human soul and body, and so a true 6«a*d{«oioc,
or God-man; designing him for a living temple and visible statue or
image, in which the Deity should be represented and worshipped;
as also after his death and resurrection, when be was to be invested
with all power and authority, for a prince and king, a mediator and
intercessor betwixt God and men.—75. That this Qtiv&
pnroc, or God-
man, was so far from intending to require men-sacrifices of his wor­
shippers, as the Pagan demons did, that be devoted himself to be a
catharma and expiatory sacrifice for the sins of the whole world;
and thereby also abolished all sacrifices or oblations by fire whatso­
ever, according to the Divine prediction.—76. That the Christian
Trinity, though a mystery, is more agreeable to reason than the Pla­
tonic ; and that there is no absurdity at all in supposing the pure
soul and body of the Messiah to be made a living temple or Sbechi-
nah, image or statue of the Deity. That this religion of one God
and one Mediator, or flabfyanroff, God-man, preached to the Pagan
world, and confirmed by miracles, did effectually destroy all the
Pagan inferior deities, middle gods and mediators, demons and he­
roes, together with their statues and images.—77. That it is no way
incongruous to suppose, that the Divine Majesty, in prescribing a
form of religion to the world, should graciously condescend to com­
ply with human infirmity, iu order to the removing of two such
grand evils as Polytheism and idolatry, and the bringing of men to
398
wotship God in spirit and in truth.—78. That demons and angels,
heroes and saints, are but different names forthe same things, which
are made gods by being worshipped. And that the introducing of
angel and saint-worship, together with image-worship, into Christi­
anity, seems to be a defeating of one grand designof God Almighty
in it, and the paganizing of that, which was intended for die unpa­
ganizing of the world.—79. Another key for Christianity in the
Scripture, not disagreeing with the former, that since the way of
wisdom and knowledge proved ineffectual as to the generality of
mankind, men might, by the contrivance of the gospel, be brought
to God and a holy life (without profound knowledge) in the way of
believing.—80. That, according to the Scripture, there is a higher,
more precious, and diviner light, than that of theory and speculation.
—81. That in Christianity all the great, goodly, and most glorious
things of this world are slurred and disgraced, comparatively with
the life of Christ—82. And that there are all possible engines in it to
bring men up to God, and engage diem in a holy life.—83* Two er­
rors here to be taken notice of; the first, of those who make Christi­
anity nothing but an Antinomian plot againstreal righteousness, and
as it were a secret confederacy with the devil. The second, of those
who turn that into matter of mere notion and opinion, dispute and
controversy, which was designed by God only as a contrivance, ma­
chine, or engine, to bring men effectually to a holy and godly life.
—84. That Christianity may be yet further illustrated, from the con­
sideration of the adversary or Satanical power, whichis inthe world.
This no Manichean substantial evil principle, but a polity of lapsed
angels, with which the souls of wicked men are also incorporated,
and may therefore be called the kingdom of darkness.—85. The
history of the fallen angels in Scripture briefly explained.—86. The
concurrent agreement of the Pagans concerning evil demons or de­
vils, and their activity in the world.—87. That there is a perpetual
war betwixt two polities or kingdoms in the world, the one oflight,
the other of darkness; and that our Saviour Christ, O
rthe Messiah,
is appointed the head or chieftain over the heavenly militia, or the
forces of the kingdom of light—88. That there will be at length a
palpable and signal overthrow of the Satanical power and whole
kingdom of darkness, by dco?i v o God appearing in an ex­
traordinary and miraculous manner; and that this great affair is to
be managed by our Saviour Christ, as God's vicegerent, and a visible
judge both of quick and dead.—89. That our Saviour Christ de­
signed not to set up himself factiously against God Almighty, nor
to be accounted superior to God, but that when he hath
done his work, and put down all.adversary power, himself will then
be subject to God, even the Father, that so God may be all in all.—
-
90. Lastly, having spoken of three forms of religions, the Jewish,
Christian, and the Pagan, and there remaining only a fourth, the
Mahometan, in which the Divine monarchy is zealously asserted,
THE IDEA OF GOD DECLARED. 399
we may now conclude, that the idea ofGod (as essentially including
unity in it) hath been entertained in all forms of religion. An ac­
count of that seemingly-strange phenomenon of Providence: the
rise, growth, and continuance of the Mahometan religion not to be
attempted by us, at least in this place.
1. H a v in g in the former chapter prepared the
way, we shall now proceed (with the Divine as­
sistance) to answer and confute all those Athe­
istic arguments before proposed. The first where­
of was this, That there.is no idea of God, and
therefore either no such thing existing in nature,
or at least no possible evidence of it.
To affirm, that there is no idea of God, is all
one as to affirm, that there is no conception of the
mind answering to that word or name; and this
the modern Atheists stick not to maintain, that
the word God hath no signification, and that there
is no other idea or conception in men’s minds, an­
swering thereunto, besides the mere phantasm of
the sound. Now, for any one to go about soberly
to confute this, and to prove, that God is not the
only word without a signification, and that men
do not every where pay all their religious devo­
tions to the mere phantasm of a transient sound,
expecting all good from it, might yery well seem
to all intelligent persons a most absurd and ridi­
culous undertaking; both because the thing is so
evident in itself, and because the plainest things
of all can be least proved; for o iravra
diroSuKra vcvo/lukojc, avrt}v airoSet^tv avaipu'
He that thinks all things to be demon- editor*®
,
strable, takes away demonstration itself, foi.
—Wherefore we shall here only suggest
thus much, that since there are different words
for God in several languages, and men have the
same notion or conception in their minds answer-
4 0 0 . THE INSENSIBILITY, OR
ing to them all, it must needs be granted, that
they have some other idea or conception belong­
ing to those words, besides the phantasms of their
several sounds. And indeed it can be nothing
else, but either monstrous sottishness and stu­
pidity of mind, or else prodigious impudence, in
these Atheists to deny, that there is any idea of
God at all in the minds of men, or that the word
hath any signification.
It was heretofore observed by Epic-
5. p. 95. tetUS, av Tie evuTTirrai irpog ra ayav EKtyavn*
Edft.Can- irpog rovrov ov paSidv wrtv evpeiv Xoyov, Si ov
fitTcnrtUTU rig avrov' to
vtoS* o
v
te irapa ti}v c
jc
w
-
vou ylverai Svvapiv, o
v
te irapci tijv rov SiSaoKovrog a<rOe-
vaav• That if any man will oppose or contradict
the most evident truths, it will not be easy to find
arguments wherewith to convince him. And yet
this, notwithstanding, ought neither to be im­
puted to any inability in the teacher, nor to any
strength of wit in the denier, but only to a certain
dead insensibility in him.—Whereupon he further
adds, that there is a double dirovkpaw«c,or airoXlO
wm
c,
mortification or petrification of the soul; the one,
when it is stupitied and besotted in its intellec­
tuals ; the other, when it is bedeaded in its mo­
rals as to that pudor, that naturally should belong
to a man. And he concludes, that either of these
states (though it be not commonly so apprehend­
ed) is a condition little less deplorable, than that
of bodily death; as also that such a person is not
at all to be disputed with. For irotov auV
<
£ irvp 4
t
t
o
io
volSripov irpoqayta, iv cuoO
rjT
aiori vtvsKpiarai; alcrda-
vdjueooc ov vpo&roitvrai; m y^elptovsortrov vacpov, «ct4-
Tfirirai yap to aiSqjuov avrov k
c
uto tvTptTTiK
ov' What
sword can one bring, or what fire, by burning or
IMPUDENCE OF ATHEISTS. 401*
slashing, to make such a one perceive that he is.
dead ? But if he be sensible, and will not acknow-
ledge it, then he is worse than dead, being cas­
trated as to that pudor, that belongs to a man.—
Moreover, that philosopher took notice, that in
those times, when this denial of most evident
truths proceeded rather from impudence than stu­
pidity or sottishness, the vulgar would be apt to
admire it for strength of wit and great learning;
av rtvoc t o alSti/uov airovfKpwOp, t o w t o frt /cal Svvafiiv
K
aXov/uev' But if any man’s pudor be deaded or
mortified in him, we call thispower and strength.—
Now, as this was sometimes the case of the
Academics, so is it also commonly of the Athe­
ists, that their minds are partly petrified and be­
numbed into a kind of sottish and stupid insensi­
bility, so that they are not able to discern things
that are most evident; and partly depudorated, or
become so void of shame, as that though they do
perceive, yet they will obstinately and impudently
deny the plainest things that are; as this, that
there is any idea answering to the word God, be­
sides the phantasm of the sound. And we do.the
rather insist upon this prodigious monstrosity of
Atheists in this place, because we shall have oc­
casion afterwards more than once to take notice
of it again in other instances, as when they affirm,
that local motion and cogitation are really one and
the self-same thing, and the like. And we con­
ceive it to be unquestionably true, that it is many
times nothing else, but either this shameless impu­
dence, or sottish insensibility in Atheists, that is
admired by the ignorant for profoundness of wit
and learning,* dAAa TawTJjv Svva/uiv W (1) ; fti} yivo«
to. a
* Epictet. apud Arriati. ubi supra, p. 96.
402 SOME UNMADE SUBSTANCE MUST BE
fai Kai 1-J)V rw v KcvaiSmr, naff rjv irav to iireXOov ev flier<f>
xai noiovoi ko( X iyow n. But shall I call this power
or wit, and commend it upon that account? no
more than I will commend the impudence of the
Cinsedi, who stick not publicly to do and say any
thing.'—
i i . But whatever these Atheists deny in words,
it is notwithstanding evident, that even themselves
have an idea or conception in their minds an­
swering to the word God, when they deny his
existence, because otherwise they should deny the
existence ofnothing. Nor can it be at all doubted,
but that they have also the same idea of God with
Theists, they denying the existence of no other
thing than what these assert. And as in all other
controversies, when men dispute together, the one
affirming, the other denying, both parties must
needs have the same idea in their minds of what
they dispute about, or otherwise their whole dis­
putation would be but a kind of Babel language
and confusion; so must it be likewise in this pre­
sent controversy betwixt Theists and Atheists.
Neither indeed would there be any controversy at
all between them, did they not both by God mean
one and the same thing; nor would the Atheists
be any longer Atheists, did they not deny the ex­
istence of that very same thing which the Theists
affirm, but of something else.
h i. Wherefore, we shall in the next place de­
clare, what this idea of God is, or what is that
thing, whose existence they that affirm, are called
Theists, and they who deny, Atheists. In order
whereunto, we must first lay down this lemma, or
preparatory proposition—that as it is generally ac­
knowledged, that all things did not exist from
THE CAUSE OF OTHER THINGS MADE. 403
eternity; such as they are, unmade, but that some
things were made and generated or produced; so
it is not possible that all things should be made
neither, but there must of necessity be something
self-existent from eternity, and unmade; because
if there had been once nothing, there could never
have been any thing. The reason of which is so
evident and irresistible, that even the Atheists
confess themselves conquered by it, and readily
acknowledge it for an indubitable truth, that
there mustbe somethingaytwijrov, somethingwhich
was never made or produced—and which there­
fore is the cause of those other things that are
made, something avr6<j>vtg and avOvwoararov, that
was self-originated and self-existing, and which is
as well avojXeOfov and a^Oaprov, as dytwtirov, incor­
ruptible and undestroyable, as ingenerable; whose
existence therefore must needs be necessary, be­
cause if it were supposed to have happened by
chance to exist from eternity, then it might as
well happen again to cease to be. Wherefore all
the question now is, what is this dytwyrov and aW-
XtSpov, avTO(j>vig and avOvnoararov, this ingenerable
and incorruptible, self-originated and self-existent
thing, which is the cause of all other things
that are made.
iv. Now there are two grand opinions oppo­
site to one another concerning it; for, first, some
contend, that the only self-existent, unmade, and
incorruptible thing, and first principle of all
things, is senseless matter; that is, matter either
perfectly dead and stupid, or at least devoid of
all animalish and conscious life. But because
this is really the lowest and most imperfect of all
beings, others on the contrary judge it reasonable,
404 ATHEISTS ABUSE THE WORD COD, .
that the first principle and original of all things
should be that, which is most perfect (as Aristo-
tle# observes of Pherecydes, and his.followers,
ro ytwtiaav npuirov aptarov riOiaoi, that they made the
first cause and principle of generation to be the
best), and then apprehending, that to be endued
with conscious life and understanding is a much
greater perfection than to be devoid of both,
(as Balbus in Cicero declares upon this
DeNat. very occasion, “ Nec dubium quin quod
D
eor. I.2. / A ^ M
cap. x tu. p. ammanssit, habeatque mentem, etratio-
nem, et sensum, id sit melius quam id
quod his careat”) they therefore con­
clude, that the only unmade thing, which was the
principle, cause, and original of all other things,
was not senseless matter, but a perfect conscious
-understanding nature, or mind. And these are
they, who are strictly and properly called The-
ists, who affirm, that a perfectly conscious under­
standing being, or mind, existing of.itself from
eternity, was the cause of all other things; and
they, on the contrary, who derive all things from
senseless matter, as the first original, and deny
that there is any conscious understanding being
self-existent or unmade, are those that are properly
called Atheists. Wherefore, the true and genu­
ine idea of God in general, is this, A perfect .con­
scious understanding being (or mind) existing of
itself, from eternity, and the cause of all other
things.
v. But it is here observable, that those Athe­
ists, who deny a God, according to this true and
genuine notion of him, which we have declared,
do often abuse the word, calling senseless matter
» Metaphysicor. lib. xii. cap. iv. p. 446. tom. iv. oper.
WHO APPLY IT TO 8ENSELE8S MATTER. '4 0 5
by that name; partly perhaps as endeavouring
thereby, to decline that odious and ignominious
name of Atheists, and partly as conceiving, that
whatsoever is the first principle of things, inge^
nerable and incorruptible, and the cause of all
other things besides itself, must therefore needs
be the divinest thing of all. Wherefore, by the
wordGod, these mean nothing else, but that which
is ayiwirrov, Unmade or self-existent, and the
or first principle of things. Thus .it was before
observed,* that Anaximander called infinite mat­
ter, devoid of all manner of life, to 0«ov, or God;
and Pliny, the corporeal world, endued with no­
thing but a plastic unknowing nature, Numen; as
also others in Aristotle,b upon the same account,
called the inanimate elements gods, as supposed
first principles of things; (hoi & k<
uravra, for these
are also gods.—And indeed Aristotle himself
Seems to be guilty of this miscarriage of abusing
the word God after this manner, when, speaking
of love and chaos, as the two first principles of
things* he must, according to the laws of gram­
mar, be understood to call them both
gods : Tovrovgfuv.ovvvvt ypij Skavtifiai, vtftl ^cap^-il'p.
row ri( irpwroc, i^foria Kpivav votepov' Con-
cerning these two (gods) how they ought
to be ranked, and which of them is to be placed
first, whether love or chaos, is afterwards to be
resolved.—Which passage of Aristotle’s seems to
agree with that of Epicharmus,' AXXa Xe-ytTai fitv
* Chap. ifi. sec. xx.
* This is a mistake of Dr. Cudworth,for Aristotle does not speak of
those philosophers, who considered the elements as gods, hot of Em­
pedocles, and his well known principles ofNiIxof and atxfc. De Qenera-
flone et Cotrnptione, cap-vi. p. 734. tom. i. oper.
9 Apiidftifcgpff.Laert. life. iii. stgsi. 10. p. 171. . r
VOL. I. * 2 d
406 ATHEISTS ABUSE THE -WORD ODD,
yeioc trjwrw ytvioBcuSwv, but chaos is said to have
made the first of gods;—unless we should rather
understand him thus, that chaos was said to have
been made before the gods. Aiid this abuse of
the word God is a thing, which the learned Origen
took notice of in his book against Celsus, where
he speaks of that religious care, which ought to
l . i. p. 19. be bad about the use of words t o r o lv w
^*nt' [ttya\o$vf<rrepov, K(/iv oAtytjv tovtwv irtptvotav
ev\a(3r](hj(r(Tat, aXXa aXXotc ifappotjuv ovo/tara
irpay/uatri, fiyiroTt ofioiov vaOy to«
c to ©toy ovofia iofyakfii-
iwc <
j>
ipovaiv, iirl vX
«)v axpvy^ov’ He, therefore,- that
hath but the least consideration of these things,
will take a religious care, that he give not impro­
per names to things, lest he should fall into a like
miscarriage with those, who attribute the name of
God to inanimate and senseless matter.—Now,
according to this false and spurious notion of the
word of God, when it is taken for any supposed
first principle, or self-existent unmade thing, what­
soever that be, there neither is nor can be any such
thing as an Atheist ;'since whosoever hath but the
least drachm of reason, must needs acknowledge,
that something or other existed from eternity un­
made, and was the cause of those other things
that are made. But that notion or idea of God,
according to which some are Atheists and some
Theists, is, in the strictest sense of it, what we
have already declared, A perfect mind, or con­
sciously understanding nature, self-existent from
eternity, and the cause of all other things.—The
genuine Theists being those, who make the first
original of all things universally to be a consci­
ously understanding nature (or perfect mind); but
the Atheists, nroperly such, as derive all things
W
HO APPLY IT TO 8EN8ELESS MATTER. 407
from matter, either perfectly dead and stupid, or
else devoid of all conscious and animalish life. .
vi. But that we may more fully and punctually
declare the true idea of God, we must here take
notice of a certain opinion of some philosophers,
who went as it were in a middle betwixt both the
former, and neither made matter alone, nor God,
the sole principle of all things; but joined them
both together, and held two first principles or seif-
existent unmade beings, independent upon one
another—God, and the matter. Amongst whom
the Stoics are to be reckoned, who, notwithstand­
ing, because they held, that there was no other
substance besides body, strangely confounded
themselves, being by that meaus necessitated to
make their two first principles, the active and the
passive, to be both of them really but one and the
self-same substance: their doctrine to this pur­
pose being thus declared by Cioero :* “ Naturam
dividebant in res duas, ut altera esset efficiens, al­
tera autem quasi 'huic se praebens, ex qua effice-
retur aliquid. In eo, quod efficeret, vim esse cen-
sebant; in eo, quod efficeretur, materiam quan-
dam; in utroque tamen utrumque. Neque enim
materiam ipsam cohaerere potuisse, si nulla vi con-
tineretur, neque vim sine aliqua materia; nihil est
enim, quod non alicubi esse cogatur.” The Stoics
divided nature into two things as. the first princi­
ples, one whereof is the efficient or artificer, the
other that which offers itself to him for things to
be made out of it. In the efficient principle they
took notice of active force in the patient of matter,
, » Aeadcni. Quaest. lib. i, cap. vi. p. 2231. tom. viii oper. Bat Ci­
cero in this passage dotes not treat of the opinion of the Stoics/but of '
that of Plato and his ancient followers, orthe first Academics.
2 D 2
Sffo SOME ASSERT. TWO UNMADE ? R l$ Q I9 lfE #,
. but iso at that in each of these tyere botb-t©ge^
ther;=
forasmuch as neither the matter could e<h
here together, unless it were coutaisiedby some
adtiVefotice-, nor-the active force subsist of itself
without matter, because that iti.nothing,,which
is>'not sdmewhere.-—
But besides:these Stoics*
there wereother.-philosophers* who*admitting:of
inedrporeal sobstauce, did suppose two firstprin*-
-itipleg, assubstances really distinct from oneanoe
ther,thgkwereco-existentfrometarnity-^-aaiadOfr
poreal Deityandmatter; asforexample,
Anaxagoras, Arcbelaus, Atticps,; and
.mil «
.v
?. many more; insbmUch that Pythagoras
himselfwas reckoned amongst thoseby
Niimenius, and Plato by Pluthroh and .Lfser-
tiilS.; ........•: ;....
And we find it commonly takenfor granted,
-tb^t Aristotle also Was of this persuasion, though
it cannot be certainly concluded from thence (as
tome seem to suppose), because be asserted |he
eternity of the world \ Plotinus', Porphyrins, Jam-
blichus, Proclus, and Simplicius dctiug the like,
and yet, notwithstanding, maintaining, that God
was the sole principle of all things, and that .mat­
ter also was derived from him. .Neither will that
’L/i.cii p passage of Aristotle’s, in his Metapby-
'*as.to*.»
t
. isics, necessarily evincethe contrary: ©<ac
** $o
k
m T
o aiTitturtaaivtiva\ k
c
u
,Qf'fn Ttc>Gpd
toems to be a cause to all things, and a certaip
principlebecause this might be understood
..only of the forms of things, ,
, - But it is plain, that Plutarch was,a maintainor
of this doctrine, from his discourse upon the Pla-
tbpib osychogonia* (besides other places): (SiXtiov
' . . . , »
* Tom. ik pper. p. . .
' SOD JUID MATTER. 0100
flXa*h/»i rs&
ofitvokiQrov fttvKopfitwvvd/9tauyeyovi-
'Vtti\lytiv itn« $Sui>’ t> fitv. yaft. knXXurroc»?5v.ytyovoruv,
<
0 Si apt&
t&
c?'rulvmvtmv' rrjvSi cvalavjeai «
JX
l)V
, e£.troytyi-
V
O
>
, o» ytvo/tevn*, dXXAvroxafievtiv cict S*ifuot)py^,ttic
&a(kmv kiHTtfyv4vriKy *
:a
l ffpoe,tnlmvi£o/nb!tuU
iV
j
'Vatov fc irapaayretv' «v ydp tK row pv avrot i.ydatatil,
roX
X
'^K
-Tovfiif;*»Xwc,' pi$ aitutb*et^oi/roc, n
a
g>
o
‘
(K
la$, tihl
ijU
krldv, tealivBptimracr It is, therefore* better for tis
to follow Plato (than Heraclitus), and loudly to
declare, that the world was made by Gdd. . Fbr
as the world is the best of all Works, so is God
the best of all causes, Nevertheless, the .sub­
stance oh matter, out of Which the wOrld was
made, was not itself made!; butalways ready at
hand,i and subject to the artificer, id be ordered
and disposed by hint. For the iriakin& of "the
world was not the production of if out of notbiiig,
but out of an antecedent bad and disorderly 8thte,
like the making ofa house, garment, or statud
^It is also well known, that Htermogenes; and
other ancient pretenders to Christianity, did in
like manner assert the self-existence and iihpirf)-
(juCtion of die matter, for which cause'they weire
commonly called Materiarii, or the Materiariapi
'heretics ; they pretending by this means to give an
account (as the Stoics had done before them) df
the original of evils, arid to free God from fhe iia-
.potation of them. Their ratiocination to which
’purpose, is thus Set down by Tertullian : A
d er
“ God'made all things, either out of hhn- «ng.p.^ .
iself, or out of nothing, or out of matter.
He could not make all things out of hiinself, be­
cause himself being always unmade; .he should
then really have, been the maker of nothing: and -
he did not make allout of nothing, because being
'410 THE MATEBIABIAMS
essentially good, he would have made tiih il kirn
optim um , every thing in the best manner, and so
there could have been no evil in the world ; but
since there are evils, and these could not pro­
ceed from the will of God, they most needs arise
from the fault of something, and therefore of the
matter, out of which things were made.” Lastly,
it is sufficiently known, likewise, that some mo­
dern sects of the Christian profession, St this
day, do also assert the uncreatedness of the
matter. But these suppose, in like manuet* as
the Stoics did, body to be the only substance.
vii. Now of all these, whosoever they were,
who thus maintained two self-existent principles,
God and the matter, we may pronounce univer­
sally, that they were neither better nor worse,
.than a kind of imperfect Theists.
They had a certain notion or idea of God, such
as it was, which seems to be the very same with
that expressed in Aristotle,* Zwovapurrov <uSiov, an
animal the best, eternal; and represented also
by Epicurus in this manner,1
*Zwov irmmv «x°v fuuca-
pcorqra per’ a<
f>
B
apaiat’ an animal, that hath all hap­
piness with incorruptibility.—
Wherein it was acknowledged by them, that
besides senseless matter, there was also an ani-
malish and conscious or perceptive nature, self-
existent from eternity; in opposition to Atheists,
who made matter either devoid of all manner of
life, or at least of such as is animalish and con­
scious, to be the sole principle of all things. For
it hath been often observed, that some Atheists
attributed a kind of plastic life or nature to that
• Metapliys. 1ib. xiv. cap. viii. p. 479. tom. iv. oper.
b Vide Diogen. Laert.*lib. «egm. 123. p. 655*
IM PERFECT THRIFTS. 411
matter, which they made to be the only-principle
of the universe. And these two sorts of Atheisms
were long since taken notice of by Se­
neca, in these words: “ Universum, in praV.^i.
quo nos quoque sumus, expers esse con-
silii, et aut ferri temeritate quadam, autnatura
nesciente quid facial.” The Atheists make the
universe, whereof ourselves are part, to be de­
void of counsel; and, therefore, either to be car­
ried on temerarious!y and fortuitously, or else by
such a nature, as which (though it be orderly, re­
gular, and methodical) yet is, notwithstanding,
nescient of what it doth.—But no-Atheist ever
acknowledged conscious animality to be a first
principle in the universe; nor that the whole was
governed by any animalish, sentient, and under­
standing nature, presiding over it as the head of
it; but as it was before declared, they concluded
all animals and animality, all conscious, sentient,
and self-perceptive life, to be generated and cor­
rupted, or educed out of nothing, and reduced to
nothing again. Wherefore they, who, on the conr-
trary, asserted animality and conscious life to be
a first principle or unmade thing in the universe,
are to be accounted Theists. Thus Balbus in
Cicero declares,* that to be a ThCist is to assert,
Ab animantibus principiis mundum esse genera-
tum,” that the world was generated or produced
at first from animant principles;—and that it is
also still governed by such a nature; “ Res omnes
subjectas esse naturae sentienti,” that all things
are subject to a sentient and conscious nature,
steering and guiding of them.—
* De Natura Deor. I. ii. sect. xxx. p. 299. tom. ix. oper.
412 TUB M A TER IA R IA N S.
I
But to distinguish this Divine animal from all;
others, these definers added, that it was apamw
and juaKafWrarov, the best and most happy animal;
—and, accordingly, this difference is added to.
that generical nature of animality by Balbus the.
Stoic, to make up the idea or definition of God.
complete: “ Talem esse deum certa,
notione auimi praeseutimus; primum, ut
tomLope7
; animans; deinde, ut in omni patura
nihil illo sit prsestantius.” We presage,
concerning God, by a certain notion of our mind;
first, that be is an animans, or consciously living
being; and then, secondly, that he is such an ani­
mans, as that there is nothing in the whole uni­
verse, or nature of things, more excellent than
him.—
Wherefore these Materiarian Theists acknow­
ledged God to be a perfectly-understanding being,
and such as had also power over the whole matter
of the universe; which was utterly unable to
move itself, or to produce any thing without him.
And all of them, except the Anaxagoreans,* con­
cluded, that be was the creator of all the forms of
inanimate bodies, and of the souls of animals.
However, it was universally agreed upon amongst
them, that he was at least the orderer and dis­
poser of all; and that, therefore, he might upon
that account well be called the Styuovpyoc, the
maker or framer of the world.
Notwithstanding which, so long as they main­
tained matter to exist independently upon God,
and sometimes also to‘be refractory and contu­
macious to him, and by that means to be the
cause of evil, contrary to the Divine will; it is
*Vide Diogen. Laert. lib. ii. segtn. 9. p. 86.
■
IM PER FECT TH EISTS. 413
plain, that they could not acknowledge the Di­
vine omnipotence, according to the full and pro-,
per sense of it; which may also further appear,
from these queries of Seneca," concerning God?
‘‘ Quantum Deus possit? roateriam ipse sibi for-,
met, an data utatur ? Deus quicquid volt efficiat ?.
an in multis rebus ilium tractanda destituaut, et,
a magno artifice prave formentur multa, non quia, .
oessat ars.sed quia id, in quo eiercetur, saepe.
inobsequens arti est?” How far God’s power,
does extend ? whether he makes his own mattery
or only use that which is offered him; whether
he can do whatsoever he will; or the materials in.
many things frustrate and disappoint him, and by.
that means things come to be ill framed by this,
great .artificer, not because his art fails him*, but
because that which it ia exercised upon, proven
stubborn and contumacious?—Wherefore, I thiuk,
we may well conclude, that those Materiariaa
Theists had not a right and genuine idea of God,.
. Nevertheless, it does -not, therefore, follow,
that they, must needs be concluded absolute)
Atheists; for there may be a latitude allowed ini
Theism. And though, in a strict and proper
sense, they be only Theists who acknowledge ong
God perfectly omnipotent, the sole original of all
things, and as well the cause of matter as of any
thingelse; yet it seems reasonable, that such consi­
deration should be had of the infirmity of human
understandings, as to extend the word further,
that it may comprehend within it those, also, who
assert one intellectual principle self-existent from
eternity, the framer and governor of the .whole
world, though not the creator of the matter; aud
*Praefat. lib. L Quaest. Nfitur. loro. ii. oper. p. 486.
414 t h a t o m n ip o t e n c e is I n c l u d e d
that none should be condemned for absolute'
Atheists, merely because they hold eternal no-
created matter, uuless they also deny an eternal
unmade mind, ruling over the matter, and so
make senseless matter the sole original of alt
things. And this is certainly most agreeable to
common apprehensions; for Democritus and Epi-
■curus would never have been condemned for
Atheists, merely for asserting eternal self-existent
atoms, no more than Anaxagoras and Archelaus-
were(who maintained the same thing), bad they
not also denied that other principle of their’s, a
perfect mind, and concluded, that the world was
made, fttiStvoe {
S
m
to
tto
v
to
c *
? Siartt^oftivov rtjv iratrav
iyrovros [taKapiOTifra fur a<p0ap<rlac, without the Order*
ing and disposal of any understanding being,
that had all happiness with incorruptibility.—
, v i i i . The true and proper idea of God, in ite
most contracted form, is this, a being absolutely
perfect; for this is that alone, to which necessary
existence is essential, and of which it is demon­
strable. Now, as absolute perfection includes in
it all that belongs to the Deity, so does it not only
comprehend (besides necessary existence) perfect
knowledge or understanding, but also omni-cau­
sality and omnipotence (in the full extent of it),
otherwise called infinite power. God is not only
£wovapioTov, and “ auimans quo nihil in omni na­
ture prastantius,” as the Materiarian Theists de­
scribed him, the best living being; nor, as Zeno
Eleates* called him, Kpanarov toww, the most
powerful of all things;—but he is also TajKpariig,
and iravTO
K
parutp, and 7ravre£ov<r«oc* absolutely omni*
•Tide Aristot. Libro do ^enocratc, Zenone, el Gorgia, cap. iii.
p. 840. tom. ii. oper.
IN THE DIVINE IDEA. • 4 1 £
potent, and infinitely powerful; and, therefore,
neither matter, nor any thing else, can exist of it­
self independently upon God; but he is the sole
principle and source, from which all things are
derived.
But because this infinite power is a thing,
which the Atheists*quarrel much withal, as if it
were altogether unintelligible, and therefore im­
possible ; we shall here briefly declare the sense
of it, and render it (as we think) easily intelligi­
ble or conceivable, in these two following steps:
first, that by infinite power is meant nothing else
but perfect power, or else, as Simplicius calls it,
0X
11 Svva/uc, a whole and entire power,—such as
hath no allay and mixture of impotency, nor any
defect of power mingled with it. And then,
again, that this perfect power (which,is also the
same with infinite) is really nothing else but a
power of producing and doing all whatsoever is
conceivable, and which does not'imply a contra­
diction; tor conception is the only measure of
power and its extent, as shall be shewed more
fully in due place. \
Now, here we think fit to observe, that the
Pagan Theists did themselves also vulgarly ac­
knowledge omnipotence as an attribute of the
Deity; which might be proved from sundry pas­
sages of their writings i—
Homer. Od. S'.*
----------------------9fo; aXXor’ i-jr’ aXXos
Z l L f iryoAbm ju u io v n J jJ oT , iu vetrai y d g a v r a y r a .
----- -------------- Deus aliud post aliud
Jupiter, bpnumque malumque dat, potest enim orfinia.
♦ Vers. 226,227.
416 THAT OMNIPOTENCE IS INCLUDED
And again, Od. %
.* <•••■• '
— 0§«ftrb fxh ivrtt, nib $ i* ru t ^
m
O rri xiv $ Q
vfX
ff) Jurarewyag eiiravra.
-----Deus autemhoc dabit, illud omittet,
Quodcunque eilibitum fiierit, potest enim omnia*
To this purpose also, before Homer, Linns ;*
>
'M ia mirraBtS sal >d$h' ''
And after him, Callimachus tc .
kaifjumi wtb Bmrarkr , ..
All things are possible for God to do, afid no­
thing transcends his power.—
, Thus also amongst the Latin poets, Virgil.
jE n .L "■
'■ Sed pate* omuipotensspduncls abdidit atris.
Again, JEn. II.
At pater AnoMses oculos ad sydefa htotud"1
Extulit, et coelbpaimas cum voce tetendit^ ;
Jupiter omnipotens, precibus si flecteris ullis.
■And, iEn. IV.
Talibus orantem dictis, arasque tenentem
-Audiit Omuipotens.
. Ovid, in like manner, Metamorph. L
Turn pater omuipotens misgo perfregit Olympian :
Fulmine, et excussit subjectpm Pelion Ossae.
And to cite no more, Agatho, an ancient Greek
poet, is commended by Aristotle, for affirming
1Vers. 432,433.
*Apud Jamblichum in Vita Pythag. cap. xxvlfi. p. 117,118.
cApud Plutarch. dc Placitis Philosopher, lib. i. cap. vii. p. 880. tom.
ii. oper.
. IN THE P I VINE IDEA, ... 4 1 7
nothing to be exempted from the power of God
but only this, that he cannot make that not to
have been, which hath been; that is, do what
implies a contradiction. . .
M
&
vouyk% c tlro u , n o t ©i3${rrtq icn & ra u , . Ktb. Nib. !. 4.
'Ayfmna m*tv, &
crr a*J mtpyfMkia* • °* 2-P- W*
tom. ill. oper.
Hoc namque dtmtaxatnegatum etiam Deo est,
Quaa focta aunt, infecta poise reddeiraL
Lastly, that the -Atheists themselves under Par
ganism looked upon omnipotence and infinite;
ppwer as an essential attribute of the Deity, ap*
pears plainly from Lucretius ; when he tells us,
that Epicurus, in order to the taking away of re*
ligion, set himself to confute infinite power:
— -Omncfmmeiisumperagratltmenteauimoque, L i. ren
.
tJnde iefert nobftt victor, quid p*s*it oriri, 75, He. ••
Quid nequeat:.fiflitapatostasdenique quoique
, Quanam sit ratione, atque alte terminus hasrens. (
Qdare religio pedibus subject* yicissim
ObteritUr, dob exequalvictoria caolo.
As if he should have said, Epicurhs, by shewing
that all power was finite, effectually destroyed
religion^ be thereby taking away the object of it,
which is an omnipotent and infinitely powerful
Deity. ' And this is a thing, which the same poep
often harps upon again, “
that, there is no infinite
power, and consequently no Deity, according jto
the true idea of it. But, last of all, in his sixth
book, he condemns religionists, as guilty of great
folly, in asserting omnipotence or infinite power
(that is, a Deity); after this-manner:
Rursus in antiquasreferuntnr religiones,' ’
Rt donaiaos aorefc atclscuhV<uunis po«se, | '!
Quos miseri credunt, ignari quid queat esse,
418 KNOWLEDGE AND POVER ALONE
- Quid iMjqneat, fiM
itfcpoteetMdeniqueqaoiqne,
Quailam sit ralioM, toque alto terminus liaerem:
Quoinagis errantes tola regione feruutur.
Where though the poet, speaking carelessly, after
the manner of those times, seems to attribute
omnipotence and infinite power to gods plurally ;
yet, as it is evident in the thing itself, that this can
only be the attribute of one supreme Deity; so it
may be observed, that in those passages of the
j>oets before cited, it is accordingly always as­
cribed to God singularly. Nevertheless, all the
inferior Pagan deities were supposed by them to
have their certain shares of this Divine omnipo­
tence, severally dispensed and imparted to them.
ix. But we have not yet dispatched all that
belongs, to the entire idea of God; for knowledge
and power alone will not make a God. For God
is generally conceived by all to be a most venera­
ble and' most desirable being; whereas, an omni­
scient and omnipotent arbitrary Deity, that hath
nothing either of benignity or morality in its na­
ture, to measure and.regulate its will, as it could
not be truly august and. venerable, according to
that maxim, sine bqnitate nuUamajestas; so neither
could it be desirable, it being that which could
only be feared and dreaded, but not have any
firm faith or confidence placed in it. Plutarch,
in the life of Aristides :* to 0 « ov rpurl B
o
ku Btafipuv,
afOapoup, Kal Bvvapsi, teat apery* <3v aepvorarov ij apery Kal
Oeiorarov sari’ a<j>9apTio pev yap etvat Kal rw Kivip, Kal toiq
irToiyrttotQ avpfiifitiKt' Bvvapiv Bl auopol Kal Ktpawoi, Kal
•Kvevfiaratv oppal Kal pevparatv emfopal peyaXyv iy^ovo«, & C .
God seems to excel in these three things, incor­
ruptibility, power, and virtue; of all which the
* P. 322. tom. i. oper.
WILL NOT MAKE UP A GOD. 41$
most Divine and venerable is virtue: for vacuum
and the senseless elements have incorruptibility;
earthquakes, and thunders, blustering winds and
overflowing torrents, much of power and force.
Wherefore, the vulgar being affected three man­
ner of ways towards the Deity, so as to admire its
happiness, to fear it, and to honour i t ; they es­
teem the Deity happy for its incorruptibility, they
fear it and stand in awe of it for its power, but they
worship it, that is, love and honour it, for itsjus­
tice.—And indeed an omnipotent arbitrary Deity
may seem to be in some sense a worse and more
undesireable thing, than the Manichean evil god;
forasmuch aSthe latter could be but finitely evil,
■whereas the former might be so infinitely. How­
ever, I think, it can be little doubted, but that the
whole Manichean hypothesis, taken all together,
is to be preferred before this of one omnipotent
arbitrary Deity (devoid of goodness and moral­
ity) ruling all thiugs ;• because there the evil prin­
ciple is yolked with another principle essentially
good, checking and controlling it; and it also
seems less dishonourable to God, to impute defect
of power than of goodness and justice to „him.
Neither can power and knowledge alone make
a being in itself completely happy; for we have
all of us by nature fiavrtvfxa n (as both Plato and
Aristotle callit)-a certain divination, presage, and
parturient vaticination in our minds, of some
higher good and perfection than either power or
knowledge. Knowledge is plainly to be pre­
ferred before power, as being that which guides
and directs its blind force and impetus; but Aris­
totle himself declares, that there is Ao-yov r« xpeirrov,
which is Ao-yov ap/v, something better than
430 . A GOOD SUPERIOR TO -
o ' ^U
i4 m
' rc38011 3I,d knowledge, which is the
р. 384.tom
. principle and original of, all.—For (saitb
*
*
' °*
>
e
T. he) Xoyou d o v Xoyog, aXXa n Kfurrov'
The principle of reason is not reason, but some­
thing better.-^Where he also intimates this to be
the proper and essential character of the Deity;
ri o
ijvavKpurrov teat iirurrrifiry;, irXqvoQtogi For what
is there, that can be better than knowledge, but
God ?—Likewise the same philosopher elsewhere
plainly determines, that there is morality in the
nature of God ; and that hishappiness consisteth
principally therein, and not in external things,
and the exercise of his power : ori par
DeBep.!.7. v « / - / * G 'w "
с.3.p. 569. ovv Ejcaprqj rrtf ivoaijAOvtaQ tmpaAAu roawrov§
torn, rii.oper. */ * ~ \ . /, \ «
* /
0<T0V 7TSf> apCTIJG K a i <frpQVTf&bta)£y K M TOV TTpU TtU P
Kara ravrac, ivrw avvw/uoXoyitjucvov n/ilv, pdprvpt rtp 0m*
Xpwfievoig, oc svSaipwv fisv tori <
cat fjuucdpipg, B
i eB
O
iit B
e
rwvtfyirrtpiK
uivayaO
div, aXXa B
d avrovauroc, <rat rjpmimic
Tigtivai tjjv<
f>
va
iv
. That every man hath so mueb
of happiness, as be hath of virtue and wisdom, and
of acting according to these, ought to be con­
fessed and acknowledged by us, it being a thing,
that may be proved from the nature of God,, who
is happy, but not from any external goods, but be­
cause he is himself (or that which he is) and in
such a manner affected according to his nature;
•
—that is, because he is essentially moral and vir-'
tuous.
Which doctrine of Aristotle’s seems to have
been borrowed from Plato, who in his dialogues
De Republican discoursing about moral virtue^
occasionally falls upon this dispute coucerning the
summumbouum, or cbiefest good; wherein he Con­
cludes, that it neither consisted in pleasure, as
aDe Republics, lib. *i. p. 477. oper.
KNOWLEDGE AND; POWER. 421
such, according to the opinion, of the vulgar; nor
yet in mere knowledge and.understanding* ac­
cording to the conceit pf others; who were more
polite and ingenious. di$«on rue fu» w
oA
*
Aotc ijSovq SoKtl flat t o dya6dvt roZp $i Kopiporf- (
pot? ^povtpmc* m i orryt- oi rovro owe. t^ovoi
W ippovtiotc, aAA’avafKoXfuvrot rtAtwrwvrtc tiji> t o o
dyaOw (ftdvai, fidXa yiAo/wf, OKtSS(ovrE{ yap, on QVKM
fjXV-
t o dyaOdv, Xiyovot iraAcv tif fiSdoi' You know that,
to the vulgar, pleasure seems to be the highest
good; but to those, who are more elegant and in­
genious, knowledge: but they, who entertain this
latter opinion, can none of them declare what
kind of knowledge it is, which is that highest and
chiefest good, but are necessitated at last to say,
that it is the knowledge of good, very ridicu­
lously: forasmuch as herein they, do but run
round in a circle, and upbraiding us for being ig­
norant of this highest good, they talk to us at the
same time, as knowing what it is. A nd thereupon
he adds, KaXdiv dfiQortpurv ovruv, n teal aAij-
&<a$, .aXAo Kal icdXXtov in tO
vto qyovjutvOc aiiro, opftut
ijyifffirrcH. ’Emortj/uriv Si Kcd aAiffcav, tofirtp tfxoc rc. *a*
diftiv rjAiOttSq fitv vo/ui^ctv '
■
6p9ov, ijXlOV Si oyttodat owe dp-
6&>c, ovrtti KalsrravOa dyafottSii fievvo/ut&tv dfiforepa opflov,
dyaOdv St qyataOat dirditpov avruv ook opOdv, aAA’ert fi^ir
£ov<t>c ri)v rawayaOov ?£ivT(/i>|reoVi That thoUghknOW-
ledge and truth be both of them excellent things,
yet he that shall conclude the chief good to be
something which transcends them both, will not
be mistaken. For as light, and sight, or the see­
ing faculty, may both of them rightly be said to
be soliform things, or of kiu to the sun, but nei­
ther of-them to be the sun itself; so knowledge
and truth may likewise both of them be said to be
VOL. i. 2 E
422 A GOOD SUPERIOR fO
boriiform thihgs, and of kin to the chief good,
but neither of them to be that chief good it­
self ; but this is still to be looked upon as a thing
more augnst and honourable.—In all which of
Plato’s there seems to be little more, than what
may .be experimentally found within ourselves;
namely, that there is a certain life, or vital and
moral disposition of soul, which is much more in­
wardly and thoroughly satisfactory, not only than
sensual pleasure; but also than all knowledge and
speculation whatsoever.
Now whatever this chiefest good be, which is a
perfection superior to knowledge and understand­
ing; that philosopher* resolves, that it must needs
be first and principally in God, who is therefore
called by him, r ayaBov, the very idea or es­
sence of good.—Wherein he trod in the footsteps
of the Pythagoreans, and particularly of Timseus
Locrus,bwho, making two principles of the uni­
verse, mind and necessity, adds, concerning the
former, rovrewv rov jutv rag r ayaBov tpvaiot; ti/Ltev, Beovrs
opvfiaiv&rdai ap^avre raw aplaroiv' The first of these
two is of the nature of good, and it is called God,
the principle of the best things.—Agreeably with
which doctrine of their’s, the Hebrew Cabalists
also make a Sephirah in the Deity, superior both
to Binah and Chochmah (understanding and wis­
dom), which they call Chether,. or the crown. And
some would suspect this Cabalistic learning to
have been very tmcient among the Jews, and that
Parmenides was imbued with it, he calling God in
like manner ortfavnv, or the crown.—For which,
* VidePlaton.de Republic^lib. ii. p. 431. ct Philebum, p. 77, to.
b Libro de Anima Mundi, cap. i. p. 543. inter Scriptores Mytholog.
a Tbo. Gale editos.
KNOWLEDGE AND POWER. 423
Velleius in Cicero* (representing the several opi-
hionsofphilosophers concerningGod), perstringes
him amongst the rest; “ Parmenides commenti-
tium quiddam coronee similitudine efficit, Ste-
phanem appellat, continentem ardore lucis orbem,
qui ciugit coelum, quern appellat deum.”
But all this while we seem to be to seek, what
the chief and highest good superior to knowledge
is, in which the essence of the Deity principally
consists; and it cannot be denied, but that Plato
sometimes talks too metaphysically and cloudily
about if; for which cause, as he lay open to the
. lash of Aristotle, so was be also vulgarly per-
stringed for it, as appears by that of Aropbys the
poet in Laertius :b
To I* dyaQov o, rt «r«r* iffir, ov av wy^inn
Mixxitf ftuvrmt, nrrov olla tout*iyw,
*H to toCHXaravyoc *Ay*Q&r
What good that is, which you expect from hence,
I confess, I less understand, than I do Plato’s
good.—Nevertheless, he plainly intimates these
two things concerning i t : first, that this nature of
good, which is also the nature of God, includes
beuignity in it, when he gives this account* of
God’s both making the world, and after such a
manner—“ Because he was good, and that which
is good, hath no envy in it; and therefore he both
made the world, and also made it as well* and
as like to himself as was possible.”—And, se­
condly, that it comprehends eminently all virtue
and justice, the Divine Nature being the first
'pattern hereof; for which cause-virtue is defined
* De Natura Deonim, lib. i. cap. x. p. 2896. oper. tom. ix.
b Lib. iii. segno. 27. p. 381.
* Yide Piaton. in Tim*©, p. 527.
2 E 2
4^4 GOD, ACCORDING TO THE SCRIPTURE*
to be, an assimilation to the Deity. Justice'and
honesty are no factious things, made by the will
and command ofthe more powerful to the Weaker,
but they are nature and perfection, and descend
downward to us from the Deity.
But the .Holy Scripture, without any metar
physical pomp and obscurity, tells us plainly,
both what is that highest perfection of intellec­
tual beings, which i8 jcfttrrov Xoyov K
al eirvtrrifiiK,
better than reason and knowledge,—and which is
also the source, life, and soul of all morality;
namely, that it is love or charity. Though I
speak with the tongue of men and angels, and
have not love* I am but ^aXfcoe y'fvv, ^ k
v
/u
/3o
Xo
v
dXaAd£ov, as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal^
—which only makes a noise without any inward
life. And though I have prophecy, and under­
stand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though
I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains*
and have not love, I am nothing; that is, I have no
inward satisfaction, peace, or true happiness. And
though I bestow all my goods to feed .the poor,
and give my body to be burned, and have not love,
it profiteth me nothing; I am for all that utterly
destitute of all true morality, virtue, and grace.
And accordingly it tells us also, in the next place,
what the nature ofGod is—that be is properly nei­
ther power nor knowledge(tbough having the per­
fection of both in him), but love. And certainly
whatever dark thoughts, concerning the Deity,
some men in their cells may sit brooding on, it
can never reasonably be conceived, that that
which is iK
a
v
<
O
T
a
.T
O
V awdvrwv K
al avTapKtorarov, the
most self-sufficient and self-happy being,—should
have any narrow and selfish designs abroad, with-
LOVE OR CHARITY. 425
out itself, much less harbour any malignant and
despightful ones towards its creatures. Never*
tbeless, because so many are apt to abuse the no­
tion of the Divine love and goodness, and to frame
such conceptions of it, as destroy that awful and
reverential fear that ought to be had of the Deity,
and make men presumptuous and regardless of
their lives; therefore we think fit here to superadd,
also, that God is no soft nor fond and partial love,
but that justice is an essential branch of this Di­
vine goodness; God being, as the writer De
Mundo'well expresses it, v
o
ro
? w
okX
iv
t
Jc, an impar­
tial law ;—and as Plato,b /wrpov irdvrw*, the mea­
sure of all things.—In imitation whereof, Aristo­
tle concludes also, that a good man (in a lower
and more imperfect sense) is /isrpovtoo, an impar­
tial measure of things and actions.
It is evident, that the Atheists themselves, in
thoseformer timesofPaganism, took itfor granted,
that goodness was an essential attribute of the
Deity, whose existence they opposed (so that it
was then generally acknowledged for such, by the
Pagan Theists), from those argumentations of
their’s, before-mentioned, the 12th and 13th, taken
from the topic of evils, the pretended ill frame of
things, and want of providence over human affairs.
Which, if they were true, would not at all disprove
such an arbitrary Deity (as is now fancied by
some) made up of nothing but will and power,
without any essential goodness and justice. But
those arguments of the Atheists are directly level­
led against the Deity, according to the true notion
or idea of it; and could they be made good,
»Cap. Tup. 865.tom. i. oper. Aristotelis.
b De Legibus, lib. iv. p. 601.
THE DIVINE IDEA
426
would do execution upon the same. For it can-*
not be denied, but that the natural consequence
of this doctrine, that there is a God essentially
good, is this, that therefore the world is well made
and governed. But we shall afterwards declare,
that though there be evil in the parts'of the world,
yet there is none in the whole; and that moral
evils are not imputable to the Deity.
And now we hafe proposed the three principal
attributes of the Deity. The first Whereofis in­
finite goodness with fecundity; the second, infi­
nite knowledge and wisdom; aud the last,,infinite
active and perceptive power. From which Di­
vine attributes, the Pythagoreans and Platonists
seem to have framed their trinity ofarchical hypos­
tases, such as have the nature of principles in the
universe, and which, though they apprehended as
several distinct substances, gradually subordinate
to one another, yet they many times extend the
ro 0 «ov so far, as to comprehend them all within it.
Which Pythagoric trinity seems to be intimated
by Aristotle in these words: <
ca0aV«p -yap
D eC cel. 1.1. t « ,t t .a * v - \ \ *
c . i . p.610. tpaoi Kai oi llw ay o p ao i to ttuv kcu ra iravra
tom
. i.open grpknSiwpurrai' As the Pythagoreans
also say, the universe, and all things, are deter­
mined and contained by three principles.—Of
which Pythagoric trinity more afterwards. But
now we may enlarge and fill up that compendious
idea of God premised, of a being absolutely per­
fect, by adding thereunto (to make it more par­
ticular) such as infinitely good, wise, and power­
ful, necessarily existing, and not only the framer
of the world, but also the cause of all things.
Which idea of the Deity is sufficient, in order to
our present undertaking.
MOKE EXPLICATE. 42V
Nevertheless, if we would not only attend to
what is barely necessary for a dispute with Athef
ists, but also consider the satisfaction of other
free and devout minds, that are hearty and sin­
cere lovers of this most admirable and most glor
rious being, we might venture for their gratificar
tion to propose yet a more full, free, and copious
description of the Deity, after this manner.—Cod
is a being absolutely perfect, unmade, or self-ori­
ginated, and necessarily existing; that .hath an
infinite fecundity in him, and virtually contains
all things; as also an infinite benignity or oyerr
flowing love, uninvidiously displaying and com­
municating itself; together with an impartial rec­
titude, or nature of justice; who fully compre­
hends himself, and the extent of his own fecun.-
dity, and therefore all the possibilities of things,
their several natures and respects, and the best
frame or system of the whole; who hath also infi­
nite active and perceptive power; the fountain ,of
ail things, who made all that could be made, and
was fit to be made, producing them according, to
his own nature (his essential goodness and wis­
dom), and therefore according to the best pattern,
and in the best manner possible, for the good of
the whole; and reconciling all the variety and
contrariety of things in the universe into one most
admirable and lovely harmony. Lastly, who con­
tains and upholds all things, and governs them
after the best manner also, and that without any
force or violence, they being all naturally subject
to his authority, and readily obeying his law.
And now we see, that God is such a being, as
that, if he could be supposed not to be, there is
TH E IDEA OF GOD
428
nothing whose existence a good man could possi­
bly more wish or desire.
x. From the idea of God thus declared, it
evidently appears, that there can be but one such
being, and that Movw
hc, unity, oneliness, or singu­
larity is essential to it; forasmuch as there can­
not possibly be more than one Supreme, more
than one Omnipotent, or infinitely powerfulBeing,
and more than one cause of all things besides it­
self. And however Epicurus, endeavouring to
pervert and adulterate the notion of God, pre­
tended to satisfy that natural prolepsis or antici­
pation in the minds of men, by a feigned and
counterfeit asserting of a multiplicity of co-ordi­
nate deities, independent upon one Supreme,
and such as were also altogether unconcerned
either in the frame Or government of the world,
yet himself, notwithstanding, plainly took notice
of this'ideh'of God, which we have proposed,
including unity or oneliness in it (he professedly
opposing the existence of such a Deity); as may
sufficiently appear from that argumentation of
his, in the words before cited:
Lib. %p. Quia regere immensi summam, quis habere profundi
198. Lamb. Inde manu validas potis est moderanter h&benas ?
Quis pariter coelos otnnes convertere, etomnes
Ignibus setberiis terras suffire feraces?
Omnibus inque locis esse omnitempore prsesto ?
Where he would conclude it to be a thing ut­
terly impossible, for the Deity to animadvert,
order, and dispose all things, and be present
every where in all the distant places of the world
at once; which Could not be pretended of a mul­
titude of co-ordinate gods, sharing the govern-
Es s e n t ia l l y in c l u d e s u n it y . 4 2 9
ment of tbe world amongst them-; and, therefore,
it must needs be levelled against a Divine mo*
narchy, or one single, solitary, supreme Deity,
ruling over all. As, in like manner, when be
pursues the same argument further in Cicero, to
this purpose, that though such a thing were sup­
posed to be possible, yet it would be, notwith­
standing, absolutely inconsistent with the happi­
ness of any being, he still proceeds upon the
same hypothesis of one sole and single
Deity: “ Sive ipse mundus Dens est,
quid potest esse minus quietum, quam P-2
o
^ - to“-
nutlo puncto temporis intermisso, ver-
sari circum axem coeli admirabili celeritate? sive
in ipso mundo Deus inest aliquis, qui regat, qui
gubernet, qui cursus astrorum, mutationes tem-
porum, hominum commoda vitasque tueatur; n®
ille est implicates molestisnegotiis et operosis.”
Whether you will suppose the world itself to
be a God, what can be more unquiet, than with­
out intermission perpetually to whirl round upon
the axis of the heaven with such admirable cele­
rity ? or whether you will imagine a God in the
world distinct from it, who does govern and disr
pose all things, keep up the courses of the stars,
the successive changes of the seasons, and order­
ly vicissitudes of things, and contemplating lands
and seas, conserve the utilities and lives of men;
certainly he must needs be involved in much so­
licitous trouble and employment.—For, as Epi­
curus here speaks singularjy, so the trouble of
this theocracy could not be thought so very great
to a multitude of co-ordinate deities, when par­
celled out among them, but would rather seem
to be but a sportful and delightful divertiseinent
430 T H E . CHIEF OBJECTION TO TH IS ID EA ,
to each of them. Wherefore it is manifest, that
such an idea of God, as we have declared, in­
cluding unity, oneliness and singularity in it, is a
thing, which the aucient Atheists, under the times
of Paganism, were not unacquainted with, but
principally directed their force against. But
this may seem to he anticipated in this place, be?
cause it will fall in afterwards more opportunely
to be discoursed of again.
xi. For this is that, which lies as the grand
prejudice and objection against that idea of' God,
which we have proposed, essentially including
fiovoxnv, singularity or oneliness in it, or ,the real
existence of such a Deity, as is the sole monarch
of the universe; because all the nations of the
world heretofore (except a small and inconsider­
able handful of the Jews), together with their
wisest men, and greatest philosophers, were gene­
rally looked upon as Polytheists, that is, such as
acknowledged and worshipped a multiplicity of
gods. Now one God, and many gods, .being di?
rectly contradictious to one another, it is there­
fore concluded from hence, that this opinion of
monarchy, or of one supreme God, the maker
and governor of all, hath no foundation in nature,
nor in the genuine ideas and prolepses of men’s
minds, but is a mere artificial thing, owing its ori­
ginal wholly to private fancies and conceits, or to
positive laws and institutions, amongst Jews,
Christians, and Mahometans.
For the assoiling of which difficulty (seeming
so formidable at first sight), it is necessary that
we should make a diligent inquiry into the true
and genuine sense of this Pagan Polytheism.. For.
since it is impossible, that any man in. his wits
FROM TH E EAGAN POLYTHEISM . 431
should believe a multiplicity of gods, according
to that idea of God before declared, that js, a mul­
tiplicity of supreme, omnipotent, or infinitely
powerful beings; it is certain, that the Pagan Po­
lytheism, and multiplicity of gods, must be under-*
stood according to some other notion of the word
gods, or some equivocation in the use of it. It
hath been already observed, that there were some
time amongst the Pagans such, who, meaning no­
thing else by gods but understanding beings su­
perior to men, did suppose a multitude of such
deities, which yet they conceived to be all (as
well as men) native and mortal, generated suc­
cessively out of matter, and corrupted again into
it, as Democritus’s idols were. But these Theo-
gonists, who thus generated all things whatsoever,
and therefore the gods themselves universally, out
of night and chaos, the ocean or fluid matter (not­
withstanding their using the name gods) are
plainly condemned both by Aristotle and Plato
for downright Atheists, they ma’king senseless
matter the only self-existent thing, and the origi­
nal of all things.
Wherefore there may be another notion of the
word gods, as taken for understanding beings sur
perior to men, that are not only immortal, hut
also self-existent and unmade. And, indeed, the
assertors of a multiplicity of such gods a$ these,
though they cannot be accounted Theists in a
strict and proper sense (according to that idea of
God before declared), yet they are not vulgarly
reputed Atheists<neither, but looked upon as a
kind of middle thing betwixt both, and commonly
called Polytheists. The reason whereof seems to
be this, because it is generally apprehended to be
432 IRRATIONALITY OF TH E OPINION
essential to Atheism, to make senseless matter the
sole original of all things, and consequently to
suppose all conscious intellectual beings to be
made or generated. Wherefore they, who, on the
contrary, assert (not one but) many understand­
ing beings unmade and self-existent, must needsbe
looked upon as those who, of the two, approach
nearer to Theism than to Atheism, and so deserve
rather to be called Polytheists than Atheists.
And there is no question to be made, but that
the urgers of the forementioned objection against
that idea of God, which includes oneliness and
singularity in it, from the Pagan Polytheism, or
multiplicity of gods, take it for granted, that this
is to be understood of many unmade self-existent
deities, independent upon oue Supreme, that are
so many first principles in the universe, and par­
tial causes- of the world. And certainly, if it
could be made to appear, that the Pagan Poly1
-
theists did universally acknowledge such a mul­
tiplicity of unmade, self-existent deities, then the
argument fetched from thence, against the natu-
rality of that idea of God proposed (essentially
including singularity in it), might seem to have
no small force or validity in it.
xn. But, first, this opinion of many self-exist­
ent deities, independent upon one Supreme, is
both very irrational in itself, and also plainly re­
pugnant to the phenomena. We say, first, it is
irrational in itself, because self-existence and ne­
cessary existence being essential to a perfect
being, and to nothing else, it must needs be very
irrational and absurd to suppose a multitude of
imperfect understanding beings self-existent, and
no perfect one. Moreover, if imperfect under-
OF MANY SELF-EX ISTEN T D E IT IE S. 4 3 3
standing beings were imagined to exist of them*
selves from eternity, there could not possibly be
any reason given, why just so many of them
should exist, and neither more nor less, there
being indeed no reason why any at all should.
But if it be supposed, that these many self-exist­
ent deities happened only to exist thus from eter­
nity, and their existence, notwithstanding, was
not necessary, but contingent ; the consequence
hereof will be, that they might as well happen
again to cease to be, and so could not be incor­
ruptible. Again, if any one imperfect being what­
soever could exist of itself from eternity, then
all might as well do so, not only matter, but also
the souls of men, and other animals; and, conse­
quently, there could be no creation by any Deity,
nor those supposed deities therefore deserve that
name. Lastly, we might also add, that there
could not be a multitude of intellectual beings
self-existent, because it is a thing, which may be
proved by reason, that all imperfect understand­
ing beings or minds do partake of one perfect
mind, and suppose also omnipotence^ or infinite
power; were it not, that this is a consideration
too remote from vulgar apprehension, and there­
fore not so fit to be urged in this place.
Again, as this opinion of many self-existent
deities is irrational in itself, so is it likewise plain­
ly repugnant to the phenomena of the world. In
which, as Macrobius writes,* omnia sunt connexa,
all things conspire together into one harmony,
and are carried on peaceably and quietly, con­
stantly and evenly, without any tumult or hurly-
burly, confusion or disorder, or the least appear-
*In Somn. Scip. lib. i. cap. xir. p. 75.
4 3 4 THE FAGAN D E IT IE S HOT ALL tJN M A bE,
once of schism and faction,; which could not pos­
sibly be supposed, were the world made and go­
verned by 9 rabble of self-existent deities, co-or­
dinate, and independent upon one Supreme.
Wherefore this kind of Polytheism was
■up. S'*' obiter thus confuted by Origen: roatp o3v
bHg Cant>" (3i\ruhr ro at rtovopatplvow ttuO
o/u v o v t o ic Kara
rtjv cvra^lav rov Kooftav aifietv rov Sq/uotipyw
avTOv evocovrog cva, Katavjuirvlovroc avrov oXtfi eavnp, #
cat
Sta rovro /»ij S w afiivov uiro voXXwv Sqfuovpytav y ty o v h a t,
tic oitf tnro 7roXXwv \pvyruiv avvsy^taOai oXov rov oiipavov
Kivovauv; How much better is it, agreeably to
what we see in the harmonious system of the
world, to worship one only maker of the world,
which is one, and conspiring throughout with its
whole self, and therefore could not be made by
many artificers, as neither be contained by many
souls, moving the whole heaven?—Now since
this opinion is both irrational in itself, and repug­
nant to the phenomena, there is the less probabi­
lity, that it should have been received and enter­
tained by all the more intelligent Pagans.
x iii. Who, that they did not thus universally
look upon all their gods as so many unmade self-
existent beings, is unquestionably manifest from
hence, because ever since Hesiod’s and Homer’s
time at least, the Greekish Pagans generally ac­
knowledged a theogonia, a generation, and tem­
porary production of the gods; which yet is not
to be understood universally neither, forasmuch
as he is no Theist, who does not acknowledge
some self-existent deity. Concerning this theo-
Euter.p.53. gonia, Herodotus writeth after this man-
53. p! 109. n e r : o(kv yap tyivero acatrroc twV Ohov, etrt
edit.Gronov. J t} ^aav iravrtC, OKOIOI TS Tlvtg TO ttSea, OVK
BECAUSE THEY H ELD A THEOGONIA. 435
rimaTtaro piyrpt ov irptiifv re kai a m Xoytp’
"HrrtoSov yap Kai' 'Ofaipov yXiKirjv rerpaKoaiom treat
Soiciw fitv wpeajivTtpovi ytvioBai, k<
h o
w wXioai. o
v
to
i Si
(iff! oi trotifoavrec Qeoyovlav .^EAXijot, Kat T®«ri (holm rac
nrwwjutac Sovrec. Whence every one of the gods
was generated, or whether they all of them ever
were, ahd what are their forms, is a thing that
was not known till very lately; for Hesiod and
Homer were (as I suppose) not above four hun­
dred years my seniors. And these were they,
who introduced the theogonia among the Greeks,
and gave the gods their several names:—that is,
settled the Pagan theology. Now, if before He­
siod’s and Homer’s time, it were athing not known
or determined amongst the Greeks, whether their
gods were generated, or all of them existed from
eternity; then it was not universally concluded
by them, that they were all unmade and self-ex­
istent. And though, perhaps* some might in those
ancient times believe one way, and some another,
concerning the generation and eternity of their
gods ; yet it does not follow, that they, who
thought them to be all eternal, must there­
fore needs suppose them to be also unmade or
Self-existent. For Aristotle, who asserted the
eternity, of the world, and consequently also of
those gods of his, the heavenly bodies, did not,
for all that, suppose them to be self-existent
or-first principles, but all to depend upon one
principle or original Deity. And, indeed, the
true meaning of that question in Herodotus, whe­
ther the gods were generated or existed all of
them from eternity, is (as we suppose) really no
other than that of Plato’s, tt ytyovev o Koopog$ aye-
ydc «m' Whether the world were made or unmade?
436 THE HE8IODIAK g o d s ,
—aad whether it bad a temporary beginning, or
existed such as it is from eternity; which will be'
more fully declared afterwards. But ever since
Hesiod’s and Homer’s time, that the theogonia or
generation of the gods was settled, and generally,
believed amongst the Greeks, it is certain, that
they could not possibly think all their gods eter­
nal, and therefore much less unmade and self-
existent.
But though vre l^ave thus clearly proved, that
all the Pagan gods were not universallyaccounted
by them so many unmade self-existent deities,
they acknowledging a theogonia, or a generation
of gods; yet it may be suspected, notwithstand­
ing, that they might suppose a multitude of them
also (and not only one) to have been unmade
from eternity and self-existent. Wherefore we
add, in the next place, that no.such a thing does
at all appear neither, as that the Pagans or any
others did ever publicly or professedly assert a
multitude of unmade self-existent deities. For,
first, it is plain concerning the Hesiodian gods,
which were all the gods of the Greekish Pagans*
that either there was but one of them only self-
existent, or else none at all. Because Hesiod’s
gods were either all of them derived from chaos
(or the floating water), love itself being generated
likewise out of it (according to that Aristophanic
tradition before-mentioned); or else love was sup­
posed to be a distinct principle from chaos, name­
ly, the active principle of the universe, from
whence, together with chaos, all tiie theogonia
and cosmogonia was derived. Now, if the former
of these were true, that Hesiod supposed all his
gods universally to have been generated abd
THE DITHEISTIC DOCTRINE. 437
sprung originally from chaos, or the ocean; then
it is plain, that notwithstanding all that rabble of
gods mustered up by him, he could be no other
than one of those Atheistic TheogOnists before-
mentioned, and really acknowledged no God at
all, according to the true idea of him ; he being not
a Tbeist, who admits of no self-existent Deity.
But if the latter be true, that Hesiod supposed
love to be a principle distinct from chaos, namely,
the active principle of the universe, and derived
all his other gods from thence, he was then a right
paganic Tbeist, such as acknowledged indeed
many gods, but only one of them unmade and
self-existent, all the rest being generated or created
by that one. Indeed, it appears from
^ * * p \ \ 9
those passages of Aristotle, before cited ' *
by us, that that philosopher had been sometimes
divided in his judgment concerning Hesiod, where
he should rank him, whether among the Atheists
or the Theists. For in his book D e Ceelohe ranks
him amongst those, who made all things to be ge­
nerated and corrupted, besides the bare substance
of the matter, that is, amongst the absolute Athe­
ists, and looked upon him as a ringleader of them;
but in his Metaphysics, upon further thoughts,
suspects, that many of those, who made love the
chiefest of the gods, were Theists, they supposing
it to be a first principle in the universe, or the
active cause of things, and that not only Parme­
nides, but.also Hesiod, was such. Which latter
opinion of his is by. far the more probable, and
therefore embraced by Plutarch,* who somewhere
determines Hesiod to have asserted one Otov a y t w v -
xov, or unmade Deity; as also by the ancient scho-
• De Pla$itis Philosophor. lib. i. cap. vi. p, 880;
VOL. I. 2 P
4 3 8 THE VALENTINIAN jEON#
liast upon him, writing thus, that Hesiod’s love
Was o olipaviot fpcoc,. oc kat Qtoc' o "yap *£’A^poStnjc
veJrtpoc tartv' The heavenly love, which is also
God; that other love, that was born ofVenus, be­
ing junior.—Bat Joannes Diaconus; ipwm 81tvrav-
Oa votfriov, ov rov tijc ’A^poStrijc iratSa, irtoe yap rye fttt~
rpdg- firfirw ytyovvias ouroc irapayerai; aXX’ aXXov nva
irptofivyivrj tpura. olfiai 81 rt}v E'yAcar«<nrapytfVJ|V pvcrucwc
Ktvjfroc^v amav EK
currytw
vovrwv. By lovehere (saith
he), we must not understand Venus’s son, whose
mother was as yet nnborn, but another more an­
cient love, which I take to be the active cause or
principle ofmotion, naturally inserted into things.
—Where, though he do not seem to suppose this
love to be God himself, yet he conceives it to be
an active principle in the universe derived from
God, and not from matter. But this opinion will
be further confirmed afterward.
The next considerableappearanceofamultitude
of self-existent deities, seems to be in the Valenti-
nian thirty gods and aeons, which have been taken
by some for such; but it is certain, that these were
all of them, save one, generated; they being de­
rived by that fantastic deviser of them, from one
self-originated deity, called Bythus. For thus
Her. s i. Epiphanius informs us, r p u u c o v r a yap Km
tom Loper* °”T°€ Kal Alwwac *at Owfavovf fiovAtrai
wapttedyav, <5v 6 rp u ro c tan. Butfoc* This
(Valentinus) would also introduce thirty gods and
aeons, and heavens, the first of which is Bythus;
—be meaning thereby an unfathomable depth and
profundity; and therefore, this Bythus was also
Called by him, o a v o r a r a t icai a K a r o v o f ia o r o e irarijp, the
highestand ineffable Father.
We do indeed acknowledge, that there! have
WERE ALL GENERATED, EXCEPT ONE. 430
been some, who have really asserted a duplicity
of gods, in the sense declared, that is, of animal-
ish or perceptive beings self-existent; one as the
principle of good, and the other of evil. And
this Ditheism of theirs seems to be the nearest ap­
proach, that was ever really made to Polytheism i
unless weshould here give heed to Plutarch,* who
seems to make the ancient Persians, besides their
two gods, the good and the evil, or Oromasdes
and Arimanius, to have asserted also a third
middle deity, called by them, Mithras; or to some
ecclesiastic writers, who impute a trinity of gods
to Marcionb (though Tertullian* be yet more li­
beral, and increase the number to an ennead). For
those, that were commonly called Tritheists, be­
ing but mistaken Christians and Trinitarians, fall
not under this consideration. Now, as for that
forementioned Ditheism, or opinion of two gods, a
good and an evil one, it is evident, that its origi­
nal sprung from nothing else, but first a firm per­
suasion of the essential goodness of the Deity,
together with a conceit, that the evil that is in the
world, was altogether inconsistent and unrecOn-
cilable with the same; and that, therefore, for the
solving of this phenomenon, it was absolutely ne­
cessary to suppose another animalish principle
self-existent, or an evil god. Wherefore, as these
Ditheists, as to all that which is good in the world,
held a monarchy, or one sole principle and ori­
ginal ; so it is plain, that bad it not been for this
business of evil (which they conceived could not
* De Jside et Osiride, tom. ii. p, 369.
b Vide Enseh. Hist. Eccles. lib. v. cap. xiii. p. 177. etauctores illos
quos Jo. Bapt. Cotelerius Jaudat ad Constit Apost. p. 339. tom. i. Pa-
tram Apostol,
* Libro i. adversns Marcionem, cap. x\i. p. 237,238.
2 f 2
440 PLUTARCH A DITHEIST, OR ASSERTOR
be solved any other way) they would never have
asserted any more principles or gods than one.
The chiefest and most eminent assertors of
which ditheistic doctrine of two self-existent ani-
malish principles in the universe, a good god and
an evil demon, were the Marcionites and the Ma-
nicheans; both of which, though they made some
slight pretences to Christianity, yet were not by
Christians owned for such. But it is certain, that
besides these,, and before them too, some of the
professed Pagans also entertained the same opi­
nion, that famous moralist, Plutarchus Chaero-
nensis being an undoubted patron ofit; which in
his book D e l s i d e e t O s i r i d e he represents, with
some little difference, after this manner; fie/uyfutm
■
p jjj y a p ij rovSt row K oaftov y iv t a ig k m a v a r a m t
ivavruav, ov /ucv looaBivwv Svva/utaiv, aXXa 'tik
fttXrlovoc to Kparoc ifrrlv' airoXbrOai SI tjjv tfiavXriv navrar
TTaaui aSvvarov, jroXXijv fitv eftmfvKvtav rto atoftan, ttoXXt
i'v
St tjj tfoxy tov vavroc, a« wpoc ri}v (3tXriova Sve/uay^ovaav.
The generation and constitution of this world is
mixed of contrary powers or principles (the one
good, the other evil), yet so as that they are not
both of equal force, but the better of them more
.prevalent .'-notwithstanding which, it is also abso­
lutely impossible for the worser power or principle
to be ever utterly destroyed, much of it being
always intermingled in the soul, and much in the
body of the universe, there perpetually tugging
against the better principle.
indeed, learned men of later times have,' for
-the most part, looked upon Plutarch here, but
either as a bare relater of the opinion of other
philosophers, or else as a follower only, and not a
leader in it. Notwithstanding which, it is evident,
OF AN EVIL PRINCIPLE. 44*
that Plutarch was himselfheartily engaged in this
opinion, he discovering no small fondness, for it,
in sundry of his other writings; as, for example,
in his Platonic questions, where he thus declares
himself concerning it, n ro iroXXdictc v<
j>
‘ P 1003 Par.
ij/udiv \ty6fuvov aXifisg ionv, V Pev yap avovc tom' “•oper'
lpuy^t), icai %
o apop<j>ov aw/na, owvirqpyov aXXi/Xoic del, «cai
to ovStTspov avrwv yivtaiv e^ev ovjl apyijv* or else that .
which is often affirmed by us is true, that a mad
irrational soul, and an unformed disorderly body,
did co-exist with one another from eternity, nei­
ther of them having any generation or beginnings
—And in his Tinuean Psychogonia he does at
large industriously maintain the same, there and
elsewhere* endeavouring to establish this doctrine,
as much aa possibly he could, upon rational foun­
dations. As, first, that nothing can be made or
produced without a cause; and therefore there
must of necessity, be some cause of evil also, and
that a positive one too; he representing the opi­
nion of those as very ridiculous, who would make
the nature of evil to be but nreuro&ov, an accidental
appendix to the world, and all that evil which is
in it, to have come in.only by the bye, and by con­
sequence, without any positive cause. Secondly,
that God being essentially good could not possibly
be the cause of evil, where he highly applauds
Plato for removing God to the greatest distance
imaginable from being the cause ofevil. Thirdly,
that as God could not, so neither could v\v airotoc,
matter in itself devoid of all form and quality,
be the cause of evil, noting this to have been the
subterfuge of the Stoics. Upon which account
* Libro dcIside et Osiridc, p.369, ct Psychogon. p. 1014,1015. tom.
ii. oper.
442 PLUTARCH A DITHEIST, OR AS8ERTOB
he often condemns them, but uncertainly, some­
times as such, who assigned no cause at all of
evils, and sometimes again as those,, who made
God the cause of them.' For in his Psychogonial
he concludes, that unless we acknowledge a sub­
stantial evil principle, at Sroucal KaraXa/ilfiduovaiv
ypac airoptat, to kokov itc rov fin ovroc avatrltoe teat ayew q-
rwc lircurayovrcc, aru rtvvyt ovrwv owrc to ayadov, own to
airotov, ctKOC iartv ovalav kokov teat yivsaiv trapwrytat' The
Stoical difficulties will of necessity overtake and
involve us, who introduce evil into the world from
nothing, or without a cause, since neither that
which is essentially good (as God), nor yet that
which is devoid of all quality (as matter), could
possibly give being or generation to it.—
^But in
his book against the Stoics,k he accuses them as
those, who made God, essentially good, the cause
of evil. A vtoI tj)v kcikmv apy^yv ayaddv ovra ro> Qtov
iroiovai, ov yap qvAqto kokov Ii; au’rjjgxapiayyKtv, aroioc
yap eari Kal iraoaq oaaq Siyerai Siapopee, V
7ro rovxotovvrot;
avrijv Kal ayrifiariCovroQ iayyKtv' wart dvayKy to kokov,
a fitv St ovSev, Ik tov py ovtoc, « Sc £tatiJv Ktvovaav apyryv
Ik to
vOtov ytyopoevvapyav* Themselves make God
being good the principle and cause of evil, since
matter, which is devoid ofquality, and receives all
its differences from the active principle that moves
and forms it, could not possibly be the cause
thereof. Wherefore, evil must of necessity, either
come from nothing, or else it must come from the
active and movingprinciple, which is God.—Now
from all these premises joined together, Plutarch
Concludes, that the phenomenon of evil could no
otherwise possibly be solved, than by supposing
a substantial principle for it, and a certain irra-
a P. 1015. tom. ii. oper. P. 1076. tom. ii. oper.
OF AN EVIL PRINCIPLE; 443
tional and maleficent soul or demon, unmade,
and coexisting with God and matter from eter­
nity, to have been the cause thereof. And ac­
cordingly be resolves, that as whatsoever is good
in the soul and body of the universe, and likewise
in the souls of men and demons, is to be ascribed
to God as its only original; so whatsoever is evil,
irregular and disorderly in them, ought to be im­
puted to this other substantial principle, a fa%n
woveteat Kaxoirotoc, an irrational and maleficent soul
or demon,—which insinuating itself every where
throughout the world, is all along intermingled
with the better principle :aicat firj irav clvat tpyov rod
O
tod tvv faxJv, so that neither the soul of the uni­
verse, nor that of men and demons, was wholly
the workmanship of God, but the lower, brutish,
and disorderly part of them the effect of the evil
principle.
But, besides all this, it is evident, that Plutarch
was also strongly possessed with a conceit, that
nothing substantial could be created (no not by
Divine power) out of nothing pre-existing; and,
therefore, that all the substance of whatsoever is
in the world, did exist from eternity unmade; so
that God was only the orderer or the methodizer
and harmonizer thereof. Wherefore, as he con­
cluded, that the corporeal world was not created
by God out of nothiug, as to the substance of it,
but only the pre-existing matter, which before
moved disorderly, was brought into this regular
order and harmony by him;-in-like manner here-
solved, that the soul of the world (for such a thing
is always supposed by him) was not made by God
out of nothing neither, nor out of any thing inani-
* Plutarch, de Animae. Procreat. ex Timaeo, p. 1027.
444 PLUTARCHSGR0UNPS FOR AN
mate and soulrless pre-existing, but out of a pre­
existing disorderly soul, was brought into an or-
D
eP«jehog. derly and regular frame; oKoapia yap nv ra
p. 1014. Ptr. jfpQ Tyg TO
v KOdfiov ytvtatute, axodpla St ovk
aowparoe owSt axlvifToe, ovStaxpv^oe, a’AXa dpopfov ptv k«*
t n a m w to awfMTUcov, iftwXiiKTOv SI teat aXo-yov to KtvqT*-
kov fyrovera' tovto St »|v avappoorta ipvyjlQ ' ovk t^ovtnic
Xd'yov" o yap Otoe ovrt aw/ia to dawparov, ovrt ipvyrjjv to
aif/v^ov iiroirfotv, aXX’ liatrsp appdvtKov avSpa, & C. T h e r e
was unformed matter before this orderly world
was made, which matter w$s not incorporeal, nor
unmoved or inanimate, but body discomposed and
acted by a furious and irrational mover, the de­
formity whereof was the disharmony of a soul in
it, devoid of reason. For God neither made body
out of that which was no body, nor soul out of no
soul. But as the musician, who neither makes
voice nor motion, does by ordering of them, not­
withstanding, produce harmony; so God, though
he neither made the tangible and resisting sub­
stance of body, nor the fantastic and self-mov­
ing power ofsoul, yet taking both those principles
pre-existing .(the one of which was dark and ob-'
scure, the other turbulent and irrational), and or­
derly disposing and harmonizing of them, he did
by that means produce this most beautiful and
perfect animal of the world.—And further, to the
Same purpose: ovyl awparoe dirXdte, ovSe oyKov Kal
vXtrc, aXXa trvpptTplag 7rtpi awpa k<
u KaXXovc Katd/uotdrqroc,
i|v o Otoe ftartip kcu Svpiovpyde' ravra Set StavoturOat kcu Trtpt
ifwxnc, *le Ttjv jutv ov« w o tov Otov ytvoptvi)v t>vrc <co—
trjttov °^<rav} dXXa Ttva tpavraarueve Kat So^aaTurde,
a’Xo-you St Kal arajerov tpopag Kal oppije Svvapiv evroEtvqrov
Kat aeiKtVTiTov' tjjv St avrde o Otoe Stappoaaptvoe, irpoevKOV-
atv dpSpdie Kat Xoyotc, tyKartorriOtv dytpdva tov Koapoo
EVIL GOD, -OR UNMADE SOUL. 445
y ty ovoroc yew yniv ovaav. God was not the cause Q t
maker of body simply, that is, neither of bulk nOr
matter, but only ofthat symmetry and pulchritude
which is in body, and that likeness which it hath
to himself; which same ought to be concluded
also concerning the soul of the world, that the
substance of it was not made by God neither ;'nor
yet that it was always the soul of this world, but
at first a certain self-moving substance, endowed
with a fantastic power, irrational and disorderly,
existing such of itself from eternity, which God,
by harmonizing, and introducing into it fitting
numbers and proportions, made to be the soul and
prince of this generated world.—According to
which doctrine of Plutarch’s, in the supposed
soul of the world, though it had a temporary be­
ginning, yet was it never created out of nothing,
but only that, which pre-existed disorderly, being
acted by the Deity, was brought into a regular
frame. And therefore he concludes, v f a x * vow
fitTaayrovoa Kal X oyiafiov /cat ap/tovtac, ov/c tpyov tart row
6tov /uovov, aXXaxat /utpoc, ovS’ w avrov, aAA’ atr’ a v ro v ,
Kal tg avrov y i y ovtv* Soul partaking ofmind, reason,
and harmony, is not only the work of God, but
also a part of him; nor is it a thing sp much made
by him, as from him, and existing out of him.-—
And the same must he likewise affirm concerning
all other souls, as those of men and demons, that
they are either all of them the substance of God
himself, together with that of the evil demon; or
else certain delibations from both, (if any one
could understand it) blended and confoundedi to­
gether ; he not allowing any new substance at all
to be created by God out of nothing pre-existent.
It was observed in the beginning of this chapter,
440 AN EVIL OOD NOT GENERALLY ASSERTED
that Plutarch was an assertor of two taSBrnroorara
orself-existent principles in the universe, G od and
m atter; but now we understand, that he was an
earnest propugnor of another third principle (as
himself calls it)' besides them both, viz. a ipvy^i
avovc k«
u jcaKoirotdc, a mad, irrational, and maleficent
soul or demon:—so that Plutarch was both a
Triarchist and a Ditheist, an assertor of three
principles, but of two gods; according to that
forementioned notion of a God, as it is taken for
an animalish or perceptive being self-existent.
We are not ignorant, that Plutarch endeavours
with all his might to persuade this to have been
the constant belief of all the Pagan nations, and
of all the wisest men and philosophers that ever
were amongst them. “ For this (saith he, in his
book D e I s i d e et O s i r i d e ) * is a most ancient opi-
nion, that hath been delivered down from theolo-
gers and law-makers, all along to poets and philo­
sophers ; and though the first author thereof be
unknown, yet hath it been so firmly believed every
where, that the footsteps of it have been imprinted
upon the sacrifices and mysteries or religious rites,
both, of Barbarians and G reeks; namely, that the
world is neither wholly ungoverned by any mind
or reason, as if all things floated in the streams of
chance and fortune, nor yet that there is any one
principlesteeringand guidingall,without resistance
or control; because there is a confused m ixture of
good and evil in every thing, and nothing is pro­
duced by nature sincere. Wherefore it is not one
only dispenser of things, who, as it were, out o f
several vessels distributeth those several liquors
of good and evil, mingling them together, and
• Tom. ii. oper. p. 369.
BY TUB GREEK PHILOSOPHERS. 447
dashiug them as he pleaseth; but there are two
distinct and contrary powers or principles in the
world, one. of them always leading as it were to
the right band, but the other tagging a contrary
way. Insomuch that our whole life, and the
whole world, is a certain mixture End confusion
Of these tw o; at least this terrestrial world be­
low the moon is such, all being every where full
of irregularity and disorder. F or if nothing can
be made without a cause, and that which is good
cannot be the cause of evil, there must needs be
a distinct principle in nature, for the production
of evil as well as good. And this hath been the
opinion of the most and wisest men, some of them
affirming feov$ tW SvoKaO
avtpavrtriypH
wc, that there
are two gods as it were of contrary crafts and
trades, one whereof is the maker of all good, and
the other of all evil; but others calling the good
principle only a God, and the evil principle a
demon, as Zoroaster the magician.” Besides which
Zoroaster and the Persian magi, Plutarch pre­
tends, that the footsteps of this opinion were to
be found also in the astrology of the Chaldeans,
and in the mysteries and religious rites, not only
of the Egyptians, but also of the Grecians them­
selves; and, lastly, he particularly imputes the
same to all the most famous of the Greek philo­
sophers, as Pythagoras, Empedocles, Heraclitus,
Anaxagoras, Plato, and A ristotle; though his
chiefest endeavour of all be to prove, that Plato
was an undoubted champion for it: ’AX\a ^ Pjychog-
towto nAarwv ouk tirade roTc wrrtpov, <n»Se ira- P
*
piSwv, eKelvot, rijv /uera£v tijc w
Xijc rov Otov rptnjv
apyijv ical Svva/uv, viro/nuve t c jv Xoywv rov aromirarov,
wretcoSiov ovk otSa owwe irocovvra ran* Ka/cutv fvaiv air «u>-
448 PLATO NO ASSERTOR OF A
I
rofxarov Kata <rap/3f/3qicoc- Earueovpip fiiv yap ovSi axa-
pee (yxXiwu njv arofiov ovyypopovotv, &
>
c dvalnov **■«<-
ayovn Kivifaiv tK rov firi ovrof, avrol Be Kaxiav cat kokoBui-
fiovlav rooavTtiv, trepac re mpt aaifta ftvplag aroirtac cat
SwcytpttaC) alrlav ev rate a’p^ate ovc tyovaac, car* ttraco*
XovAnnv yeyovivai Xeyovatv* o St IlXarcw o » y ovtwc*
aXXa rijv vXqv Biafopag airaatic acaXXarrwvj cat rov Otov
rrjv rti)v kokwv alrlav dviorara* rtdifievoQ. But Plato W8S
not guilty of that miscarriage of later philoso­
phers, in overlooking the third power, which is
between the matter and God, and thereby falling
into the grossest of all absurdities, that the na­
ture of evils was but an accidental appendix to
the world, and came into it merely by chance, no­
body knows how. So that those very philoso­
phers, who will by no means, allow1
to Epicurus
the smallest declension of his atoms from the
perpendicular, alleging, that this would be to
introduce a motion without a cause, and to bring
something out of nothing, themselves do, not­
withstanding, suppose all that vice and misery,
which is in the world, besides innumerable other
absurdities and inconveniences about body, to
have come into it, merely by accidental conse­
quence, and without having any cause in the first
principles. But Plato did not so; but divesting
matter of all qualities and differences, by means
whereof it could not possibly be made the cause
of evils, and then placing God at the greatest
distance from being the cause thereof, he conse­
quently resolved it into a third Unmade principle
between God and the matter, an irrational soul,
or demon, moving the matter disorderly.—
Now, because Plutarch’s authority passeth so
uncontrolled, and hid testimony in this particular
SUBSTANTIAL EVIL PRINCIPLE. 449
seems to be of late generally received as an ora­
cle, and consequently the thing taken for an un­
questionable truth, that the Ditheistic doctrine of
a good and evil principle was the Catholic or uni­
versal doctrine of the Pagan Theists, and parti­
cularly that Plato, above all the rest, was a pro­
fessed champion for the same; we shall therefore
make bold to examine Plutarch’s grounds for this
so confident assertion of his; and principally'
concerning Plato. And his grounds for imputing
this opinion to Plato, are only these three, which
follow. First, because that philosopher, in his
Politicus *speaks of a necessary and innate ap­
petite, that may sometimes turn the heavens a
contrary way, and by that means cause disorder
and confusion: Secondly, because, in his tenth
De Legibus, he speaks of two kinds of souls,
whereofone is beneficent, but the other contrary:
and, lastly, because in his Timaeus he sup-
poseth the matter to have been moved disorderly
before the world was made; which implies, that
there was a disorderly and irrational soul con­
sisting with it as the mover of it, matter being
unable to move itself. But as to the first of these
allegations, out of Plato’s Politicus, we shall only
observe, that that philosopher, as if it had been
purposely to prevent such an interpretation of his
meaning there as this of Plutarch’s, inserts these
very words :b //ijr* aw $uo rtve flew, (ppovovvrt iavroig
ivavrla trrpifuv avrov. Neither must any such thing
be supposed, as if there were two gods, contrarily
minded to one another, turning the heavens some­
times one way, and sometimes another.—Which
P. 176. oper. " Ibid. p. 175.
4 5 0 PLATO gO A8SEBT0R OP A
plain declaration of Plato’s sense, beibg directly
contrary to Plutarch’s interpretation, and this Di-
theistic opinion, might serve also for a sufficient
confutation of his second ground from,the tenth
De Legibus,* as if Plato had there affirmed, that
there were two souls moving the heavens, the one
beneficent, but the other contrary; because this
would be all one as, to assert two gods, contrarily
minded to one another. Notwithstanding which,
for a fuller answer thereunto, we shall further
add, that this philosopher did there, first,
only distribute souls in general into good and
evil, those moral differences properly belonging
to that rank of beings, called by him souls, and
first emerging in them, according to this premised
doctrine, t«Jv ayaQwv atria if ifivyrj) Kal rwv icaXwv, teai
KaxiZv k<
u cuayrpwv, Sucaunv re Kal aSuctov. Soul is the
cause of good and evil, honest and dishonest,
just and unjust.—But then, afterwards, .making
inquiry concerning the soul 6f the world or hea­
ven, what kind of soul that was, he positively
p. 898. concludes, that it was no other than a
8<
*
P
h- soul endued with all virtue. A0.~
tf*>xv fiv «mv i) ntpiayovaa t}fttv ravra, rtjv Se ovpavou
vtpufropav *£ avayKift mptayuv <
p
areov, imfitXavftbntv Kal
Koapovaav, vroi rtjv dp'iaTijv ijtoi njv evavrtav. KX.
O %lvf, aXXa ck ye r«iv etpqjuiwv o\$ oaiov aWon; Xiytiv,
y iraaav aperijv ty^ovaav rpv^Vv jutav rj irXdovc ireputyuv
avra.— A t u . H o sp. Since it is soul that moves all
things, we must of necessity affirm, that thehea-
ven or world is moved by some soul or other,
adorning and disposing of it, whether it be the
best soul, or the contrary. Cl in . O Hospes, it
*• P. 669. oper.
SUBSTANTIAL EVIL PRINCIPLE. 451
is certainly not holy nor pious to conclude other*
wise, than that a soul endued with all virtue, one
or more, moves the world.—A nd as for the last
thing urged by Plutarch, that before the world
was made, the matter is said by Plato* to have
been moved disorderly, we conceive, that that
philosopher did therein only adhere to that vul­
garly-received tradition, which was originally
Mosaical, that the first beginning of the Cosmo-
poeia was from a chaos, or matter confusedly
moved, afterward brought into order. And now
we think it plainly appears, that there is no
strength at all in any. of Plutarch’s fore-mentioned
allegations, nor any such monster to be found
any where in Plato, as this substantial evil prin­
ciple or god, a wicked soul or demon, unmade
and self-existent from eternity, opposite and mi-
micous to the good God, sharing the empire and
dominion of the world with him. Which opinion
is really nothing else but the deifying of the devil,
or prince of evil spirits, making him a corriva!
with God, and entitling him to a right of receiving
Divine honour and worship.
And it is observable, that Plutarch himself
confesseth this interpretation, which he makes of
Plato, to be new and paradoxical, or an p9yC
hog. P.
invention of his ow n: km $«* ro irXtwrotc 101i'
Ttov airo nXdr<i>voc vvwavnovaOat Sto/itvov irapojuv0«ac,
such as because it was contrary to the generally-
received opinion of Platonists, himself thought
to stand in need of some apology and defence.—
To which purpose, therefore, he adds
• * ^ \ f ^ ^ 1014.
again: irpcorovovv tiv typ* 7
T
E
p
£tovtwv oiavotaV)
hcBrivofiai nurrovfitvoq r<£ bikoti, Kal irapafivBcvptvog9 cJc
%
• In Timaeo, cap. xiv. p. 527.
452 THE TRUE ACCOUNT OP THE
evtan, rdaXifits rov Xoyov, xat trapaSo^ov' I will (saith
he) declare mine own opinion first concerning
these things, confirming it with probabilities, and,
as much as possibly I can, aiding and assisting
the truth and paradoxicalness thereof. More*
over, Proclus upon the Timaeus takes notice of
no other philosophers that ever imputed this doc­
trine to Plato, or indeed maintained any such
opinion of'two substantial principles of good and
evil, but only Plutarch and Atticus (though, I
confess, Chalcidius cites Numenius also to the
same purpose). Proclus’s words are
these: oi /ulv irtpt IlXowrap^ov rov Xsptwfa
icat ‘
'Arrucov’ 7rpOM
vai fatal r>Jv aKoafirfrov vXijv irpo r*c
■ytvkotbx;, irpotivu 81 A
cai r»}v «caiecpyariv rijv Tovro
Kivovarav, iro6tv yap v Ktvipnc ijv, i} airo ? « 81
otoktoc ij KivT/atf, atro otoktov \|/vyj}c- Phltarchu8
Chaeronensis and Atticus maintain, that before the
generation and formation of the world, there was
unformed and disorderly matter existing (from
eternity) together with a maleficent soul: for
whence, say they, could that motion of the mat*
ter, in Plato’s Timaeus, proceed, but from a soul ?
and if it were a disorderly motion, it must then
needs come from a disorderly soul.—And as P ro­
clus tells us, that this opinion of theirs had been
before confuted by Porphyrius and Jamblichus,
as that which was both irrational and impious,
so doth he there likewise himself briefly refel it
m these two propositions: First, that naaa
ytwnfia ian rod Otov, every soul is the offspring of
God,—and there can be no soul, nor any thing
else, besides God, self-existing; and, Secondly,
ro k
o
k
o
vfhauoviov trottiv, utoirsp k
at ro ayaflov, aroirov,
ov yap o/udn/tov rw O
tltoto dO
tov, ovrt tiriaw dyevvtirov,
PLATONIC ORIGIN OF EVIL. 453
■ovr«aX
b»cavrtSiypiiiitvov'. It is absurd, to make evil
alike eternal with good, for that which is godless
cannot be of like honour with God, and equally
unmade, nor indeed can there beany thing at all
positively opposite to God.—
But because it may probably he here demanded,
what account it was then possible for Plato to
give of the qriginal of evils, so as not to impute
.them to God himself, if he neither derived them
from vXn airotoc, unqualified matter (which Plu­
tarch has plainly proved to be absurd), nor yet from
a avovc, an irrational and maleficent soul of
the world, or demon, self-existent from eternity;
we shall, therefore, hereunto briefly reply, that
though that philosopher derived not the original
ofevils from unqualified matter, nor from a wicked
soul, or demon unmade, yet did he not therefore
impute them to God neither, but, as it seemeth, to
the necessity of imperfect beings. For as Ti-
mseus Locrus had before Plato determined, that
the world was made by God and necessity, so
does Plato himself accordingly declare in his
Timaeus,1 ore(itjuynivii rowSt rowKoafiov ytviaiQ dvay-
jc
*
ic km vow avaraatwf, vowSe avay/cjjc apyrovroe' That
the generation of this world is mixed, and made
up of a certain composition of mind and necessity
both together, yet so, as that mind doth also (in
some sense) rule over necessity.—Wherefore,
though, according to Plato, God be properly and
directly the cause ofnothing else but good, yet the
necessity of these lower imperfect things does un­
avoidably give being aud birth to evils. For, first,
as to moral evils (which are the chiefest), there is a
necessity, that there should be higher and lower
*P. 633. open
2 g
VOL. I.
464 THE TRUE ACCOUNT OF THE
inclinations in all rational beings, vitally united
to bodies, and that as autexousious, or free-willed,
they should have a power of determining them­
selves more or less either way; as there is also a
necessity, that the same liberty of will (essential
to rational creatures), which makes them capable
of praise and reward, should likewise put them in
a possibility of deserving blame and punishment.
Again, as to the evils of pain and inconvenience;
there seems to be a necessity, that imperfect ter­
restrial animals, which are capable of the sense of
pleasure, should in contrary circumstances (which
will also sometimes happen, by feason of the in-
consistency and incompossibility of things) be ob­
noxious to displeasure and pain. And, lastly, for
the evils of corruptions and dissolutions; there is
a plain necessity, that if there be natural genera­
tions in the world, there should be also corrup­
tions ; according to that of Lucretius* before cited,
Quando aliud ex alio reficit natura, nee ullam
Rem gigni patitnr, nisi morte adjutam aliena.
To all which may be added, according to the opi­
nion of many, that there is a kind of necessity of
some evils in the world for a condiment (as it
were) to give a relish and haut-goust to good; since
the nature of imperfect animals is such, that they
are apt to have but a dull and sluggish sense, a flat
and insipid taste of good, unless it be quickened
and stimulated, heightened and invigorated, by
being compared ,with the contrary evil. As also,
that there seems to be a necessary use in the world
of the KaKaaxovtna, those involuntary evils of pain
and suffering, both for the exercise of virtue, and
*Lib. i. vers. 294.
PLATONIC ORIGIN OF EVIL. 455
the quickening and exciting the activity of the
world, as also for the repressing, chastising and
punishing of those icaica inovaia, those voluntary
evils of vice and action.—Upon which several ac­
counts, probably, Plato concluded, that evils
could not be utterly destroyed, at least in this
lower world, which, according to him, is the re­
gion Of lapsed SOuls: aXX’ o u t ' ditoXeoBat lnThe*te,p.
ra KaKa Suvarov, to GcoS&ipt, (yirtvavrlov yap n 176' SteP1
*
*
rtp ayaOtp ast slvat avayKti) out tv OtotQ aura ISpvaOat, rrjvSe
$vt]Tt}v (pvatv, Kol tovSs rov roirov irtfwroXav e£ ava-yAcrjc' $ed
TTtipaoOai yrprj svOtvSe iKtlos, tptvyuv ort ray^iora' <j>vyi\ §6
o/nolwaig Oetp Kara ro Suvorov, oftolwmg Se Bucatov /cat ooiov
(itra ^povqircu; yivioBai. Sut it is neither possible
(O Theodorus) that evilsshould be quitedestroyed
(for there must be something always contrary to
gopd), nor yet that they should be seated amongst
the gods, but they will of necessity infest this
lower mortal region and nature. Wherefore, we
ought to. endeavour to dee from hence with all
possible speed; and our flight from hence is this,
to assimilate ourselves to God as much as may
be; which assimilation to God consisteth in being
just and holy with wisdom.—Thus, according to
the sense of Plato, though God be the original of
all things, yet he is not to be accounted properly
the cause of evils, at least moral ones (they being
Only defects), but they are to-be imputed to the
necessity of imperfect beings, which is thatdvdy«cv
TroX
X
drip $ttp Svofiayrouaa Kal d^vid^ovcra, that neces­
sity, which doth often resist God, and as it were
shake off.his bridle.—-Rationalcreatures being, by
means thereof, in a capability of acting contrary
to God’s will and law, as well as their own. true
nature and good; and other things hindered ofthat
2 o 2
4 5 6 THE GREEK PHILOSOPHERS DID NOT
tperfection, which the Divine goodness would else
have imparted to them. Notwithstanding which,
mipd, that is, God, is said also by Plato, to rule
over necessity, because those evils, occasioned by
the necessity of imperfect beings, are over-ruled
by the Divine art, wisdom, and providence, for
gpod; Typhon and Arimahius (if we may use that
language) being, as it were, outwitted by Osiris
and Oromasdes, and the worst of, all evils made,
in spite of their own nature, to contribute sub­
serviently to the good and perfectibn of the whole;
Ka(tovto fu-yurniQ rtyytis ayaOoirMUv ra koku, and this
must needs be-acknowledged to be the greatest
art of all, to be able to bonify evils, or tincture
them with good.—
' And now we have made it to appear (as we con­
ceive) that Plutarch had no sufficient grounds to
impute this opinion, of two active perceptive prin­
ciples in the world (one the cause of good, and
the other of evil) to Plato. And as for the other
Greek philosophers, his pretences to make them
assertors of the same doctrine seem to be yet more
slight and frivolous. For he concludes
the * Pythagoreans to have held two
such substantial principles of good and
evil, merely because they sometimes
talked of the EvavriorijTEC and awTrot/cai,
the contrarieties and conjugations of
things, such as finite and infinite^ dex­
trous and sinistrous, even and odd, and
the like. As also, that Heraclitus en­
tertained the same opinion, because he
spake of TraXlvT^oTTogapfiovla Koafiov, a ver­
satile harmony of the world,—whereby things re­
ciprocate forwards and backwards, as when *a
•Ol Ihfayt-
ftt« ov&
ct/uot?
xeutot it
T
tU
f
trapXa/xBanr
The Pytha­
goreans no
where admit­
ted evil a-
mongst the
principles.
Syrianus in
Aristot. Me-
taphys. MS.
p. *18.
ASSERT A GOQD AND EVIL PRIN CIPLE. 457
bow is successively intended and remitted; as
likewise because he affirmed all things to flow,
and war to be the father and lord of all. More*
over, he resolves/ that Empedocles’s friendship
and contention could be no other than a good and
evil god; though we have rendered it probable,
that nothing else was understood thereby but an
active spermatic power in this corporeal world,
causing vicissitudes of generation and corruption.
Again, Anaxagoras, is entitled by him to the same
philosophy, for no other reason, but only because
he made mind and infinite matter two principles
of the universe. And, lastly, Aristotle himself
cannot escape him from being made an assertor of
a good and evil god too, merely because he con­
cluded form and privation to be two principles of
natural bodies. Neither does Plutarch acquit him­
self any thing better, as to the sense of whole na­
tions, when this doctrine is therefore imputed by
him to the Chaldeans, because their astrologers
supposed two of the planets to be beneficent, two
maleficent, and three of a middle nature; and to
the ancient Greeks, because they sacrificed not
only to Jupiter Olympius, but also to Hades, or
Pluto, who was sometimes called by them the in­
fernal Jupiter. We confess, that his interpretation-
of the traditions and mysteries of the ancient
Egyptians is ingenious, but yet there is no neces­
sity for all that, that by their Typhon should be
understood a substantial evil principle, or god self-
existent, as he contends. For it being the manner
of the ancient Pagans (as shall be more fully de­
clared afterwards) to physiologize in their theo-
logy, and to personate all the several things in
• De Iside et Osiride, p. 370.
458 ' THE ARTMANIU8 OP- THE
nature; it seems more likely, that these Egyptians
did, after that manner, only npoowironouiv, personate
that evil and confusion, tumnlt and hurliburly,
constant alteration and vicissitude ofgenerations
and corruptions, which is in this lower world,
(though not without a Divine providence) by
Typhon.
Wherefore, the only probability now left is
that of the Persian Magi, that they might indeed
assert two such active principles of good and evil,
as Plutarch and the Manicheans afterwards did;
arid we must confess, that there is some probabi­
lity of this, because, besides Plutarch, Laertius*
affirms the same of them, 8uo tear avrov? Jvai ap^oc,
ayadov Salfiova Kat tca/cov, that there are'two principles
according to the Persian Magi, a good demon and
an evil one;—he seeming to vouch it also from the
authorities of Hermippus, Eudoxus, and Theo-
pompus.. Notwithstanding which, it may very
well be questioned, whether the meaning of those
Magi were not herein misunderstood, they per­
haps intending nothing more by their evil demon
than such a Satauicai power as we acknowledge;
that is, not a substantial evil principle, unmadeand
independent upon God, but only a polity of evil
demons in the world, united together under one
head or prince. And this, not only because Theo­
doras in Photiusbcalls the Persian Arimaniusby
that very name, Satanas; but also because those
very traditions of their’s, recorded by Plutarch
himself, seem very much to favour this opinion,
d* i». eto- they running after this manner: ivtu n St
>ir. 370. Par. tlfiapfdvOQ, kv (OTOV ApflfiavlOV Xot/UOV
ivayovra K a t Xt/xov, o t t o t o wraiv dvdytcrj <p8aprjvat iravra-
»In Prooemio, segm. 8. p. 6. b Bibliothec. Cod. Ixxxi. p. 199.
PERSIAN MAGI CONSIDERED. 4 5 9
van km dtpaviodyvai, rye SJ yvQ sviv&ov A
cat ojuaXi/c 7 E
V
0-
juivqc* *va /3tov k
<
u fiiav voXtrelav avOptSvwv /uucapaov ica*
Ofxoy\(oaa(t)v avavrwv yiveaQai' That there is a fatal
time at hand, in which Arimanius, the iutroducer
of plagues and famines, must of necessity be ut­
terly destroyed ; and when, the earth being made
plane and equal, there shall be but one life, and
one polity of men, all happy and speaking the same
language.—Or else, as Theopompus* himself re­
presented their sense, TfXoc avoXtlvea0aiT6v',ASi)v, Kal
rovt;fjkvdvOpwvove tvSai/novaciatadai, n^rt rpo^Jjc Seo
/xevovc,
/ui/re UKiav voiovvrae’ rov Sf ravra fttiyavtiaa/ttvov Otov
riptfiuv Kal avavavtaOat y^povtp kuXwq fjxv ov voXvv r<p Oitp,
wovtp avO
poivtf) K
otfia)fiiv(i>juerptov. That in conclusion
Hades shall be utterly abolished, and then men
shall be perfectly happy, their bodies neither
needing food, nor casting any shadow; that God,
which contrived this whole scene of things, rest­
ing only for the present a certain season, which is
not long to him, but like the intermission of sleep
to men.—For since an unmade and self-existent
evil demon, such as that of Plutarch’s and the Ma-
nicheans’, could never be utterly abolished or des­
troyed; it seems rather probable, that these. Per­
sian Magi did, in their Arimanius, either vpoowvo-
vom>, personate evil only, as we suppose the
Egyptians to have done in Typhon; or else un­
derstand a Satanical power by it: notwithstand­
ing which, they might possibly sacrifice thereunto
(as the Greeks did to evil demons) for its appease­
ment and mitigation; or else, as worshipping the
Deity itself, in the ministers of its wrath and ven­
geance.
However, from what hath been declared, we
• Apud Plutarch* de Iside et Osiride, p. 370. tom. ii. opcr.
4 6 0 DITHEISM NOT GENERALLY RECEIVED
conceive it does sufficiently appear, that this di>
theistic doctrine of a good and evil god (or a good
god and evil demon both self-existent), asserted by'
Plutarch, and the Manicheans, was never so uni­
versally received amongst the Pagans as the same
Plutarch pretendeth. ' Which thing may be yet
further evidenced from hence, because the Mani-'
cheans professed themselves not to have derived
this opinion from the Pagans, -nor to be a subdivi­
sion under them, or schism from them, but a quite
different sect by theibselves. Thus, Faustus in
„ St. Augustin: “ Pagani bona et mala,
lib. 20. c. 3 . tetra et splendida, perpetua et caduca,
»
iif.^o
p
er°m mutabilia et certa, corporalia et divina,
cdu. Bene- unum habere principium dogmatizant.
His ego valde contraria censeo, qui
bonis ouinibu^principium fateor Deum, contrariis
vero Hylen (sic enim mali principium et naturam
theologus noster appellat.)” The Pagans dogma­
tize, that good and evil things, foul and splendid,
perishing and perpetual, corporeal and Divine, do
all alike proceed fromthe same principle. Whereas
we think far otherwise, that God is the principle
of all good, but Hyle (or the evil demon) of the
contrary, which names our theologer (Manes) con­
founds together.—And afterwards Faustus there
again determines, that there were indeed but two
sects of religion in the world, really distinct from
one another, viz. Paganism and Manicbeism.*
From whence it may be concluded, that this doc­
trine of two active principles of good and evil, was
not then looked upon as the generally-received
doctrine of the Pagans. Wherefore, it seems
reasonable to think, that Plutarch’s imputing it so
* Apud Augustin, ubi supra.
BY THE PAGANS. 461
universally to them, was either out of design,'
thereby to gain the better countenance and au­
thority to a conceit, which himself was fond o f;
or else, because he being deeply tinctured, as it
were, with the suffusions of it, every thing which
he looked upon seemed to him coloured with it.
And indeed, for aught we can yet learn, this Plu-
tarchus Chaeronensis, Numenius, and A tticus,
were the only Greek philosophers, who ever inf
public writings positively asserted any such opi­
nion.
And probably St. Athanasius is. to be under­
stood of these, when, in his oration contra Genies,"
he writes thus concerning this opinion: 'EXXjjvwv
owv riv£C wXavvOfVTfs rijc oBov, x a l r o v Xpiorov ovk tyvw-
kotiq, av viroaratru ku i KaO’ Eaurrjv alvat tt)v KaKiav airctpij-
va vro ' a/xapravovTEc K ara Bvo towto, i? row Btjfuovpyov awo-
OTtpOVVTtQ T
O
W ttVM 7T
O
(7JT
T
)VTtov O
VTO
JV, 'O
W'yap O
Wt(JJ TWV
o v t w v xvpioc, ti‘ye Kar ow tow c V KaKia*Ka(f eavrrjv viroerraaiv
a^Ei Kai ovarlav, rj 7raXiv BtXovrtt; aw'rov ironjr>jv elvat rwv
oXtov, sS, avayKiK Kal rov kukov Btoaovatv elvac, ev yap rotf
ovtnv km to k o k o v k o t ’ ow tow c «m . Some ofthe Greeks,
wandering out of the right way, and ignorant of
Christ, have determined evil to be a real entity by
itself, erring upon two accounts : because they
must of necessity either suppose God not to be
the maker of all things, if evil have a nature and
essence by itself, and yet be not made by him ; or
else that he is the maker and cause of evil; whereas
it is impossible, that he, who is essentially good,
should produce the contrary.—After which that
father speaks also of some degenerate Christians,
who fell into the same error; oi & aim tw
v alpiaaav
tKm aovrtf rric «HcXi|<rta<mK>ic BtBaaKcikiac, km irtpi Tifv
* Tom. i. p. 6. oper.
462 DITH EISM NOT GENERALLY RECEIVED
viariv vavayyaavrtQ, Kal ovrot juev viroaraaiv row kokov
Trapatjjpovovoiv elvm
. Some heretics, forsaking the
ecclesiastical doctrine, and making shipwreck of
the faith, have in like manner falsely attributed a
real nature apd essence to evil.—O f which here­
tics, there were several sects before the M ani-
cheans, sometime taken notice of and censured
by Pagan philosophers themselves; as by Celsus,*
where he charges Christians with holding this
opinion, that there is evavrloe r<
j> fityaXtp dtip (hoc Ka~
rypafiivoe, an execrable god contrary to the great
G od;—and by Plotinus, writing a whole book
against such Christians (the ninth of his second
Ennead), which, by Porphyrius, was inscribed,
irpoc t
o
v
qTv
u
m
jt
ik
o
v
q
, Against the Gnostics.—
' B ut if, notwithstanding all that we ,have hi­
therto said to the contrary, that which P lutarch
so much contends for should be granted to be
true, that the Pagan theologers generally asserted
two self-existent principles (a good God, and an
evil soul or demon), and no more, it would una­
voidably follow from thence, that all those other
gods, which they worshipped, were not looked
upon by them as so many unmade self-existent
beings, because then they should have acknow­
ledged so many first principles. However, it is
Certain, that if Plutarch believed his own writings,
be must of necessity take it for granted, that
none Of the Pagan gods (those two principles of
good and.evil only excepted) were by their theo-
logers accounted unmade or self-existent beings.
And as to Plutarch himself, it is unquestionably
.manifest, that though he were a Pagan, and a
Worshipper of all those many gods of their’s, but
*Apud Otigen. contra Celsumf lib. vL p. 303.
HV TH E PAGANS. 493
especially amongst the rest, of the Delian Apollo
(whose priest he declares himself to have been),
yet he supposed them all (except only one good
God, and another evil sonl of the world) to be
no self-existent deities, but 6tol yewnrol,* generated
or created gods only. And the same is to be
affirmed of all his Pagan followers, as also o f the
Manicheans, forasmuch as they, "besides their
good and evil god (the only unmade, self-existent
beings acknowledged by them), worshipped also
innumerable other deities.
Hitherto we have not been able to find amongst
the Pagans, any who asserted a multitude of un­
made, self-existent deities: but, on the contrary,
we shall now find one, who took notice of this
opinion of iroXXai ap^at, many principles, so far
forth as to confute i t ; and that is Aristotle, who
was not occasioned to do that neither, because
it was a doctrine then generally received, but
only because he had a mind odiously to impute
such a thing to the Pythagoreans and Platonists,
they making ideas (sometimes called also num­
bers) in a certain sense, the principles of. thingsi
Nevertheless, the opinion itself is well confuted
by that philosopher -from the phenome-
na, after this m anner: Oi Si Xfyovree rov 1
. 14.c. 10.
apiOfiov ifpiUrov rov fiaOrtfiariKov, tea* ovtojq del i^oper.
aXXrjviyrofiivriv ova'iav teat apj(dc acaartfQaXXac,
tirti&oSuiSi) tt)v rov iravroc ov&iav iroiovircv* &C. They
who Say that mathematical number is the first,
and suppose one principle of one thing,- and ano-
thei* of another, would make'the whole world to
be like an incoherent and disagreeing poem,*where
things do not alt mutually contribute toone ano-
®Vide Rualdum in Vita Plutarchi, cap; ix.
464 Aristotle’s confutation of
ther, nor conspire together to, make up one sense
and harm ony: but the contrary (saith he) is most
evident in the w orld; and, therefore, there can­
not be many principles, but only one.—From
whence it is manifest, that though Aristotle were
a worshipper of many gods, as well as the other.
Pagans (he somewhere representing it as very,
absurd to sacrifice to none but Jupiter), yet he
was no Polytheist, in the sense before declared,
of many unmade, self-existent deities, nor indeed
any Ditheist neither, no assertor of two under­
standing principles, a good and evil god (as P lu ­
tarch pretended him to be); he not only here ex­
ploding that opinion of n-oXAai ap/ai, many princi­
ples, but .also expressly deriving all from one;
and in that very chapter affirming, that good is a
principle, but not eyil. But as for the Platonists
a n d .Pythagoreans there perstringed by him,
though it be true, that they made ideas.in some
sense principles, as the paradigms of things; yet,
according to Aristotle’s own confession, even in
that same chapter, they declared also, that there
was oXXt) dftyrtj K
vpicoT
E
pa, another principle more
excellent or superior; which is indeed that, that
was called by them the to tv, or povac, unity itself,
or a monad, that is, oue most simple deity.
Though we did before demonstrate, that tbe
Pagan gods were not all supposed by them to be
unmade, self-existent beings, because they ac­
knowledged a theogonia, a generation and tem-
-porary production of gods; yet, forasmuch as it
might be suspected, that they held notwithstand­
ing a multitude of unmade deities, we have now
made the best inquiry that we could concerning
this: and the utmost that we have been able yet
MANY PRINCIPLES. 465
to discover, is, that some few of the professed
Pagans, as well as of pretended Christians, have
indeed asserted a duplicity of such gods (viz.
understanding beings unmade), one good, and the
other evil, but no more. Whereas, on the con­
trary, we have found, that Aristotle did profess­
edly oppose this opinion of many principles, or
unmade gods, which certainly he durst never have
done, had it then been the generally-received
opinion of the Pagans. And though it be true,
that several of the ancient Christians, in their
disputes with Pagans, do confute that opinion of
many unmade deities; yet we do not find, for all
that, that any of them seriously charge the P a­
gans with it, they only doing it occasionally and
ex abundanti. But we should be the better ena­
bled to make a clear judgment concerning this
controversy, whether there were not amongst the
Pagan deities a multitude of supposed unmade
beings, if we did but take a short survey of their
religion, and consider all the several kinds of
gods worshipped by them; which may, as we
conceive, be reduced to these foliowingheads:—In
the first place, therefore, it is certain, that many
.of the Pagan gods were nothing else but dead
men (or the souls of men deceased), called by
the Greeks Heroes, and the Latins M anes; such
as Hercules, Liber, JEsculapius,- Castor, Pollux,
Quirinus, and the like. Neither was this only
true of the Greeks and Romans, but also of the
Egyptians, Syrians, and Babylonians. For which
cause the Pagan sacrifices are, by way ofcontempt,
in the Scripture,* called the sacrifices of the dead;
that is, not of dead or lifeless statues, as some
Psalm cvi. 28.
<406 A GENERAL SURVEY
would put it off, but of dead man: whicb w as
•the reason why many of the religiousrites and
solemnities, observed by the Pagan .priests, ware
ch>p. v;. mournful and funeral; accordingly as ,it
T
cr' i s . e x p r e s s e d in Baruch concerning the
Babylonians:—“ Their priests sit in their tem­
ples, having their clothes rent, and thejr heads
and beards shaven, and nothing upon their b ead s;
they roar and cry before their gods, as men do a t
the feast, when one is dead.” Some of w hich
rites are therefore thought to have been interdict­
ed to the Israelitish priests. A nd the same thing
is noted likewise by the poet* concerning the
-Egyptians:
Et quem tu plangens, homioem testaris, Osirin:
and intimated by Xenophanes the Colophonian,b
when he reprehensively admonished the Egyp­
tians after this m anner: « Btovg vofiltflvat fit} Bptiv«v,
ei Se Bpr/vovat /it} Beowe vo/ilfetv, T hat if they thought
those to be gods, they should not so lament them-;
but if they would lament them, they should no
longer think them gods.— Moreover, it is well
known, that this humour of deifying men was
afterwards carried on further, and that living men
(as emperors) had also temples and altars erected
to the m; nay, human polities and cities were
‘also sometimes deified by the Pagans, Rome it­
self being made a goddess. Now, no man can
imagine, that those men-gods and city-gods were
looked upon by them as so many unmade, self-
existent deities, they being not indeed so m uch
' 4 Lucan. Pharsal. lib. viii. vers. 13$.
bVide Plutarch, de Superstit p. 171. tom, ii, oper. et Aristot. Rhe­
toric. lib. ii. cap. xxiii. p. 780. tom.' iii. oper.
OF THE PAGAN DEITIES. 407
as fv a u ytwrrrol Oeol, gods made or generated by
nature, but rather artificially made by human
will and, pleasure. Again, another sort of the
Pagan deities were all the greater parts of the
visible mundane system, or corporeal world, as
supposedto be animated—thesun, themoon, E
nd.
the stars, and even the earth itself, under the
names of Vesta and Cybele, the mother of the
gods, and the like. Now it is certain, also, thdt
none of these could be taken for unmade, self-
existent deities neither, by those who supposed
thewhole world itselfto have been generated, or
hada beginning, which, as Aristotle*tells us, was
the generally-received opinion before his time.
There was also a third sort of Pagan deities,
ethereal and aeriel animals invisible, called de­
mons, genii, and lares, superior indeed to men,
but inferior to the celestial or mundane gods be­
fore-mentioned. W
herefore,, these must needs be
looked upon also by thembut as yewtirol 6tol, ge­
nerated or created gods, they being but certain
inferiorparts of the wholegenerated world.
Besides all these, the Pagans had yet another
sort of gods, that were nothing but mere acci­
dents or affections of substances, whichtherefore
could not be supposed by themto beself-existent
deities, because they could not so much as sub­
sist by themselves. Such as were virtue, piety,
felicity, truth, faith, hope, justice, clemency, love,
desire, health, peace, honour, fame, liberty, me­
mory, sleep, night, and the like; all which had
their temples or altars erected to them. Now
this kind of Pagan gods cannotwell beconceived
to have been any thing else, but the several and
»Lib. i. do Coelo, cap. x. p. 632. tom. i. oper.
'46$ A GENERAL SURVEY
various manifestations of that one Divine force,
power, and providence, that runs through the
whole world (as respecting the good and evil
of men), fictitiously personated, andso represent­
ed as so manygods and goddesses.
Lastly, there is still another kind of Pagan
gods behind, having substantial and personal
names, which yet cannot be conceived neither to
be so many understanding beings, unmade and
independent upon any supreme, were it for no
other reason but only this, because they have all
of them their particular places and provinces,
.officesandfunctions severally,asitwere, assigned
to them, and to which they are confined; so
as not to interfere andclash withoneanother, but
agreeablytomake uponeorderlyandharmonious
system of the whole; one of those gods ruling
only intheheavens, anotherin the air, andther in
.the sea, and another in the earth and hell; one
being the god Or goddess of learningandwisdom,
another of speech and eloquence, another ofjus­
tice andpolitical order; one the god of war, ano­
ther the god of pleasure; one the god of corn,
and another the god of wine, andthe like. For
how can it be conceived, that a multitude of un­
derstandingbeings, self-existentandindependent,
could thus of themselves havefallen into such an
uniform order and harmony ; and, without any
clashing, peaceably and quietly sharing the go­
vernment of the whole world amongst them,
should carry it on with such a constant regu­
larity? For which cause, we conclude also, that
neither those dii majorum gentium , whether the
twenty Selecti, or the twelve Consentes, nor yet
that triumvirate of gods, amongst whom Homer
OF THE PAGAN DEITIES. 469
shares the government of the whole world, ac­
cording' to that of Maximus Tyrius, ^ ^
rpiy^Oa 'O/iqpip StSaarat ra iravra, IlotraSwv
fA v tXayrt, iroXtqv iXa vaitfitv aut,' "A&jc S i t \ a y t t,o<j>ov
ijipocvra, Z
cvcSi ovpavov’ The sea being assigned' to
Neptune, the dark and subterraneous parts to
Pluto, but the heaven to Jupiter; which three
.are sometimes called also the celestial, m
arine^
and terrestrial Jupiter; nor, lastly, that other
Roman and Samothracian trinity of gods, wor­
shipped altogether in the capitol, Jupiter, Mi­
nerva, and Juno; I say, that none of all these
could reasonably be thought by the Pagans
themselves, to be so many really distinct, un­
made, and self-existent deities.
Wherefore the truth of this whole business
seems to .be this, that the ancient Pagans did
physiologize intheirtheology; and whetherlook­
ing upon the whole world animated, as the su­
preme God, and consequently the several parts
of it as his living members; or else, apprehend­
ing it atleast to be amirror, or visible image of
the invisible Deity, and consequently all its se­
veral parts, aud things of nature, but so many
several manifestations of the Divine power and
providence, they preteqded, that all their devo­
tion towards the Deity ought not to be huddled
up in one general and confused acknowledgment
of a supreme invisible Being, the creator and
governor of all; but that all theseveral manifes­
tations of the Deity in the world, considered
singly and apart by themselves, should be made
so many distinct objects of their devout venera­
tion. And, therefore, inorderhereunto, did they
irpoirwiroirotHv, speak of the things in nature, and
VOL. I. 2 H
4 7 0 THE THINGS OF NATURE JDEIFIEI*
the parts of the world, as persons,—and confer
quently as so manygods andgoddesses; yet so,
as that the intelligent might easilyunderstand the
meaning, that these were all really nothing else
but so many several names and notions ,of that
one Numen, divine force and power, which runs
through the whole world, multiformly display­
ing itself therein. To this purpose, Balbus in
Gicero;■“Videtisne ut a physicis rebus tracta
ratio sit ad commentitios et fictos .decs'?” See
you not, how fromthe things of nature fictitious
god8 have been made?—And Origen seems to
insist upon-thisverything(whereCelsusupbraids
the Jews and Christians forworshipping,oneonly
God), shewing, thatall that seemingmultiplicity
of Pagan gods could not he understood of so
L
. i.p.t8
. many distinct substantial independent
edU. Cantab. d e itie 8 : StUCvBTw roiwVf aurdc Swmrqt
TrapaoTtjacu to trXjDoc rwv Kaff ^EXA^vac decov, q rose
Xolirqug j3ap/3apovc* Atwcvvrw vxooTcunv cat ovalav M vq-
poavvtK Ttwwnic dxo Au>c rdc Mowac, q 6quSoc rdc
'Opac, rag Xaptrac alti yu/ivac vapaarpaarw BvvaaStu
tear ovalav v^taripclvcu, aXX ov Swooirai ra 'EXXhwv
mvanXaa/iara (aiofiaroiroutaBai Bokovvra airq «mi vpay/jia-
rw
v) Stuevvvai G
tovc- To this sense: Let Celsus,
therefore, himself shew, how be is able to make
out a multiplicity of gods (substantial and self-
existent) accordingto the Greeks and otherbar­
barian Pagans; let himdeclare the essence and
substantial personalityof thatmemory, which by
Jupiter generated the Muses, or of that Themis,
which brought forth the.hours; or let him shew
how the Graces, always naked, do subsist by
themselves. But he willnever beable to do this,
*De Natur. Deor. liKii. cap. xrrai. p. 399ft. tom, ix. oper.
9VX SPVEftAL NA:ME8 OF GOD. 471
nor to make it appear, that those figments of the
Greeks (which seem to be really nothing else but
the things of nature turned into persons) are so
many distinct (self-existent) deities.—Where the
latter words are thus rendered in a late edition;
“ Sed winqaam potent (Celsus) Graecoruin fig-
meota, quae validiora iieri videntnr, ex rebus ipsis
deos esse arg u ere—which we confess we can­
not understand; but we conceive the word awftaro-
•ro
teu
rO
m
v, there turned validiorafieri, is here used
by Origen in the same sense with irpovunrotrottu^ai:
so that his meaning is, as we have declared, that
those figments of the Greeks and other barbarian
Pagans (which are the same with Balbns’s com*
mentitii etficti Du), are really nothing else but the
things of uature, figuratively and fictitiously per­
sonated, and consequently not so many distinct
substantial deities, but only several notions and
considerations of one God, or supreme Numen,
in the world.
Now this fictitious personating, and deifying of
things, by the- Pagan Theologers, was done two
manner of ways; one, .when those things in na­
ture were themselves without any more ado, or
change of names, spoken of as persons, and so
made gods and goddesses, as in themany instances
before proposed: another, when there were dis­
tinct proper and personal names accommodated
severally to those things, as of Minerva to wis­
dom, of Neptnne to the sea, of Ceres to corn, and
of Bacchus to wine. In which latter case, those
personal names properly signify the invisible Di­
vine powers, supposed to preside over those sever
ral things in nature; and these are therefore pro­
perly those gods and goddesses, which are Swrvptt
2 h 2
47 2 THE THINGS OF NATURE DEIFIED,
(daw,*the givers and dispensers of the good thingb;
and the removers of the contrary; but they arO
used improperly also for the things of nature
themselves, which, therefore, as manifestations of
the Divine power, goodness, and providence per­
sonated, are sometimes also abusively called godd
and goddesses. This mystery of the Pagan Poly*
inH
esiod, theism, is thus fullydeclared by Moscho-
pulUS: ’Icrrlov ore 7ravra ©i^EXXijvcc « 8vva/uV
iyovra ealpow, ovk avev ivurraoiag 0efiv ri}v Sivafuv avrwv
ivepyuv'evd/iiZov, m 81 ovo/xan to re rijv Svva/uv cj(°v, Kiu
rov £7ri(TTarovvTa Tovrtfi 0€oi; 'jivo/xa£ov* oflev^H^ourrov cica*
XoVV TO
TE SlC
U
C
O
V
U
C
O
VTO
VTO 7TVf, Kat TO
V ETTlO
TC
LTO
ttVTa TUtg
Sidtovtov evepyovfisucug riyyaie, #ca* Aq/uvrpav rov crirov
icai rove Kapwovg, ical rrjv Siopovjui&vriv tovtovg 0eov, kcu
imoTaTovoav avVoie, icai 'AOrjvav ttjv <f>
fdvrj<nv9kcuTTfVifor
pov Trjg #povi}<r&*>g 0fiov* Icai rov Acovvtrov rov oivov icai rov
StSovra tovtov 0cov* ov icai avo rov SiSovai row oivov o
TIXarwv .irapayu, <cai AiSotwoov to v to v irout tlra r a t Aio-
wvffov* Kat EtXetflu/ae rove tokovc;, Kat rac e^ o p w ae rove
to k o vc $ f d ( ' kcu ’.A^poStrqv t »Jv avvovalav Kat nrtOTaroiMrav
ravrjj flsov' Kara rovro Kat Movcrac eXeyov ro a n Xoyucac
rfy v ac, otov ptjropiKiJv, dtrrpovofitav, Ku/LiwSlav, rpayatSlaV,
teat rdc tfopovs Kat irapoyovc tow tm v $tdg. W e m u s t
know, that whatsoever the Greeks (or Pagans)
saw to have any power, virtue, or ability in it,
they looked upon it as not acting according to
such power, without the providence, presidency,
or influence of the gods; and they called both the
thing itself, which hath the power, and the deity
presiding over it, by one and the same name:
wheuce the ministerial fire used in mechanic arts,
and. the god presiding over those arts that work
by fire, were both alike called Hephaestus, or Vul-
a Hesiod, inTheogon. vers. ill.
BUT SEVERAL NAMES OF GOD. 472.
can ; so the name Demetra, or Ceres, was given as
well to corn and fruits, as to that goddess which
bestows them; Athena, or Minerva, did alike sig­
nify wisdom, and the goddess which is the dis­
penser of it; Dionysius, or Bacchus, wine, and the
god thatgiveth wine; (whence Plato etymologizes
the name from giving of wine.) In like manner,
they called both the child-bearing of women, and
the goddesses that superintend over the same,
Eilithyia, or Lucina; Coitus, or copulation, and
the deity presiding over it, Aphrodite or Venus.
And, lastly, in the same manner, by the Muses
they signified both those rational arts, rhetoric,
astronomy, poetry, and the goddesses, which as­
sist therein or promote the same.—Now, as the se­
veral things in nature and parts of the corporeal
world are thus metonymically and catachresti-
cally called gods and goddesses, it is evident, that
such deities as these could not be supposed to be
unmade or self-existent, by those, who acknow­
ledged the whole world to have been generated
and had a beginning. But as these names were
used more properly, to signify invisible and un­
derstanding powers, presiding over the things in
nature, and dispensing of them, however they have
an appearance ofso many several distinct deities;
yet they seem to have been all realty nothing else,
but as |lalbus in Cicero* expresses it, “ Deus per-
tinens per naturam cujusque rei,” God passing
through, and acting in the nature of every thing;
—and consequently, but several names, or so
many different notions and considerations of that
one supreme Nutnen, that Divine force, power,
* De Natur.Deor. Jib. ii. cap. xxviii. p. 2996. tom. ix. oper.
474 ALE THE PAGAtf GODS
and providence, which rone through the wh®te
World', as variously manifesting itself therein.
Wherefore, since there were no-other kinds of
Gods amongst the Pagans, besides these already
enumerated, unless their images; statues, and
symbols, should be accounted such1(because'they
were also-sometimes abusively called1gods)' which
could not be supposed1 by them' to have been un­
made or without a beginning, they being the work­
manship of men's own hands; we conclude uni­
versally, that all that multiplicity of Pagan gods;
which makes so great a show and noise, was really
either nothing but several names and notions of
one supreme Deity, according to its different ma­
nifestations, gifts; and effects in the world, per­
sonated ; or efee many inferior understanding be­
ings, generated or created by one Supreme: so
that one unmade self-existent Deity, and no more,
was acknowledged by the more intelligent of the
ancient Pagans (for of the sottish vulgar, no man
can pretend to give an account, in any religion);
and, consequently, the Pagan Polytheism (or ido­
latry) consisted not in worshipping a multiplicity
of unmade minds, deities, and creators, self-exist­
ent from eternity, and independent upon One Su­
preme ; butmmmgling and blending, some way or
other, unduly, ereature-worship with the worship
ofthe-Creator.
And that the ancient Pagan Theisth thus ac­
knowledged one supreme God, who was the only •
Ge
o
cayfwtrnKi unmade or unproduced Deity, (I
say, Theists, because those amongst the Pagans,
who admitted of many gods, but none atall un-^
made,, were absolute Atheists) this may be unde-
DERIVED FtfOW ONE SUPREME. 4 75
niabfy concluded from what was before proved,,
thht they acknowledged omnipotence or infinite
power to bea Divihe attribute. Because upon the
hypothesis of many unmade self-existent deities,
it is plain, that there could be nohe omnipotent,
aUd consequently no such thing as omnipotence
iii rerum natura: and therefore omnipotence was
rightly and properly styled by Macrobius,1 svmtni
Dei ontnipotentia, it being an attribute essentially
peculiar to' one supreme and Sole self-existent
Deity. And Simplicius, likewise a Pagan, con­
futed the MUnichean hypothesis of two self-ex*
istent deities finm hence also, because it destroyed
O m nipotence): ctvayKd£ovrdi Bid Xt-yovrtc twv jj, EpJct c
SiXav (r<i‘tb ayaddv Kdl ro icaicdv) koc,ro *
dyaOSv itaja aotcife Xsydfitvcnt 0tov, jutpcm' -jf&v p. 1 64. edit
twv ainov \iyu v, jtnjS&a)t Trainokparopti'StkaitiK
awfivttv, fiySe Bvvafuv' awrw rtjV aKpordrrp) Kai oX?jv dva-
■n&tVat, aXXa ro djaurv rvc dX
ijC Swfljutwc, €
*
w
«
jp «p« *al
rmmr For they, who-assert two principles of the
universe (one good, the other evil) are necessitated
to grant, that the gOod principle, called by them
God, is not the cause of all things, neither can
they praise it as omnipotent, nor ascribe a perfect
and' whole entire pOWer to it; but only the half of
a Whole power at most; if so much.—-Overand be­
sides all which, it hath been also proved already,
that the ancientAtheists under Paganism directed
themselves principally against the opinion of mo*
narchy, or of one supreme Deity ruling over all;
from whence it plainly appears, that it was then
asserted by the Pagan Theists.
And We think it here observable, that this was
a thing so generally confessed and acknowledged,
• IdSomn. Scipioor. lib. i. cap. xviL p, 87.
47& THE pagans’ opinion of monarchy
that Faustus. the Manichean took up this conceit*
that, both the Christians and Jews paganized in,
the opinion, of monarchy, that is, derived this
doctrine of one Deity, the sole principle of all
things, only, by tradition from the Pagans, and, by
consequence, were no other than schisms or sub-
s. A
ug.con- divided sects of Paganism. *
*Vosdescisr
tr»Faust. 1. centes a gentibus (saith he) monarchic
p.t37. tom. opinionem pnmo vobiscum divulsistis,
.t
u
i.oper. eg^ oinnia credatis ex deo. Estis,
sane schisma, nec nonetpriores vestri Judsei. De
opinione monarchiae, in qullo etiam ipsi dissen-
tiunt .a paganis. Quare constat vos atque Ju-
daeos schisma esse,gentilitatis. Sectas autem si
quaeras, non plures erunt quam dux, Gentium et
nostra.” You revolting from the Gentiles, broke
offtheir opinion of monarchy, and carried it along
with you, so as to believe all things to come from,
God. Wherefore, you are really nothing but a
schism of Paganism, or a subdivided branch of it*
and so are your predecessors the Jews; who differ
nothing from Pagans neither in this opinion of
monarchy. Whence it is manifest, that both Christ­
ians and Jews are but schisms of Gentilisra. But
as for.sects pf religion, really differing from ano-r
ther, there are but these two, that of the Pagans,
and that of our’s, who altogether dissent from
them.—Now though this be false and foolish, as
to the Christians and Jews deriving that opinion
pf monarchy, only by way of tradition, from the
Pagans, which is a thing founded in the princi­
ples of nature; yet it sufficiently shews this to
have been the general sense of the Pagans, that
all their,gods were derived from one sole, self-ex­
istent Deity ; so that they neither.acknowledged
ASCRIBED TO JEWS AND CHRISTIANS. 477
a multitude of unmade deities, nor yet that dupli-.
city of them, which Plutarch contended for (one,
good, and the other evil), who accordingly denied.
God to be the cause of all things, writing thus in,
his Defect of Oracles,* ot /mvov&v
o
cairXwcTov Oeop,
oi §£ Ojuov ti vavTuv atriov noiovvTtg, aaroy^woi rov /uerplov
teal vpiirovT oe, They are guilty of one extreme,
who make God the cause of nothing, and they of
another, who make him the cause of all things.
—But this paradox was both late started amongst
the Greeks, and quickly cried down by'the .sue-'
cession of their philosophers, and. therefore pre-
judiceth not the truth of Faustus’s general assets
tion concerning the Pagaus. Which, is agaiq
fully confirmed by St. Austin in his re­
ply : “ Siquis ita dividat, ut dicat eorum, jo*p.*«L.
quae aliqua religione detinentur, aliis ^ . v
iiL
placere unum Deum colendum, aliis
multos; per hanc differentiam et pagani a nobis
remoti sunt, et Manichaei cum paganis deputan-
tur, nos autem cum Judaeis. Hie forte dicajtis,
quod multos deos vestros ex una substantia per-
hibetis ; quasi pagani multos suos,. non ex una
asserant, quamvis diversa illis officia, et opera,
et potestates illis attribuant; sicut etiam apud
vos alius deus expugnat gentem tenebrarum, alius
ex ea capta fabricat mundum,” &c. If one should
make another distribution of -religionists, into
such as worship either one God, or many gods;
according to this division, the Pagans will be
removed from us Christians, and joined with you
Manicheans. But, perhaps, you |will here say,
that all your many gods are derived from one
substance; as if the Pagans did not also derive
■Toro^ii. oper. p. 414.
478 tiT
e Pagans' 8eld, BofH maKVdrifts',
all their gods from one, though*attributing sevCraF
offices, works, and potters to theft; ini like man­
ner as amongst you, one god expugns the nation
of darkness, another gbd makes a world out of
And again, afterwards, he writes* farther
a A
ug con- the same purpose: “ Discat ergO
*f»T au jt.i. 20; FaustuS monarchic opinionem nod ex
e.i9.p.$46. gig^jjjyg ttog habere, sed gentes don
risque adeo ad fhlsos deos esse dilapsas, u t opi­
nionem aiiiitterent unius veri dei, ex quo est Om-
nis qualiscunquenatura.” Let Faustus therefore
know*, that we Christians have not derived the
opinion of monarchy from the Pagans; but that
the Pagans have not so far degenerated, Sinking
down into die worship of false gods, as to Have
lost the opinion'of one true God, from whom' is
all whatsoever nature.—
xiv. It follows, from what tte have declared,
that the Pagan1Polytheism,or multiplicity ofgods;
is not to be understood in the sense before
expressed, of many 6tol dyevrniroi kcu avdvvdararoi,
dtany unproduced and self-existent deities, but
according to some Other notion or equivocation
Of the word' gods. For God' is rwv iroXXaywc Xeyo-
fiivtbv, one of those*words, that bath been used
hi many different senses,—the Atheists themselves
acknowledging a God and gods, according to
Some private senses of their own (which yet they
do not all agree in neither), and TheistS riot al­
ways having the same notion of that ttord; foras­
much as angels in Scripture are called gods in one
Sense, that is, as understanding beings superior
tb men, immortal, holy, and happy; and the Word
is again sometimes carried down lower to princes
and magistrates ; and not only so, but also to
A
1W
>ONEOODIN DIEEBRENf M
EN
8ES. 47$
good men assocb, wheuthey are said to be made!
partakers of the Divine nature.* And thus that
learned philosopher and Christian, Boethius,*
“ Omnis beatus deus; sed Datura quideito unus,
participatione veto nihil prohibet esse qoamplu-
rim o s E v e ry good and happy man is a god,
and1 though1 there be only one god by nature, yet
nothing hinders but that there may be many by
participation.—'But then again, all men' and an­
gels are alike denied to be gods in other respects,
and particularly as to religions \Vorship: “ Thou
shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only
shaft thou serve.” Now this is that, which seems
tu be essentially included in the Pagan notion of
the word' God or gods, when taken in1general1
—
namely, a respect to religious worship. Where1
-
fore, a God' in general, according to the sense
of the Pagan Theists, may be thus defined, An
understanding Being superior to men, not ori­
ginally derived from senseless matter, and looked
upon as an1 object for men’s religious worship.
But this general- notion of the word God is again
restrained and limited1 by differences, in the divi­
sion of it. For such a-God as this may be either
ayiwtrro?, ingenferate or unproduCed, and conse­
quently self-existent; or else yewnroc, generated
or produced, and dependent on some higher
Being as its cause. In the former sense, the in­
telligent Pagans, as we have declared, acknow­
ledged only one God, who was therefore called
by them o (koe k
u
t *£oyi»v, according to that of
Thales in Laertius,6 irpt<r/3vrarw ton/ ovrwv o 0co(,
ayiw urov -yap’ God is the oldest of all things, be-
»%Peter i. 4. bDe Consolat. Philos, lib. iii. p. 72. s.
c Lib. i. scgm. 35. p. 21. s.
480 THE PAGANS HELD, BOTH MANY GODS,
cause he is unmade or unproduced, and the only
thing that is s o b u t in the latter, they admitted
of many gods, many understanding beings, which,
though generated or produced, yet were superior
to men, and looked upon as objects for their reli­
gious worship. And thus the Pagan Theists
were both Polytheists and Monotheists in differ­
ent senses, they acknowledged both many gods,
and one God; that is, many inferior deities, sub­
ordinate to one Supreme. Thus Onatus the Py-
_, thagorean, in Stobaeus, declares himself:
J*',. 3
} "S' \ \ r r r ' n \ ‘W * '
1.1.p.4. edit. O
O
A
C
E
ldc /<Ot, K
O
I/H
J tie C
lfUV OOtOQ, a W Clc /tcv
Pkntin. . , » / > , « , i « /
o /tcytoroc, k m Kao vxcprcpoc, k m o K partw v tw
xavroc’ ot S’ aXXot xoXAot SuupipovTtc; Kara Swa/ttv, /3a-
trtXcuct Sc Travrwv aorw v o teat Kparct k m peyidti k m a p trif
ptiZf.ov" ovtoq Sc teat tin 6 Trepuyriov rov <ni/txavra Koafiov?
rot S’ aXXot ol OtovrtQ ciat tear’ owpavov o vv rc r«- xavroc
xcptayi/trct, Kara Xoyov tixoUcovrcc n p xptJrtj> teat vottrtp.
It ^eemeth to me, that there is not only one God,
but that there is one the greatest and highest
God, that govetaeth the whole world, and that
there are many other gods besides him differing
as to power, that one God reigning over them all,
who surmounts them all in power, greatness, and
.virtue. That is that God, who contains and
comprehends the whole world; but the other
gods are those, who, together with the revolution
of the universe, orderly follow that first and intel­
ligible God.—Where it is evident, that Onatus’s
iroXXot fleot, or many gods, were only the heavenly
bodies, or animated stars. And partly from those
words cited, but chiefly others, which follow after
inthe same place (that will be produced elsewhere),
it plainly appears, that in Onatus’s time, there were
some who acknowledged.one only God, denying
AND ONE GOD IN DIFFERENT SENSES. 481
all those other gods, then commonly worshipped.
And indeed Anaxagoras seems to have been such
an one; forasmuch as asserting one perfect mind
ruling over all (which is the, true Deity), he effec­
tually degraded all those other Pagan gods, the
sun, moon, and stars from their godships, by
making the sun nothing but a globe of fire, and
the moon earth and stones, and the like of the
other stars and planets. And some such there
were also amongst the ancient Egyptians, as
shall be declared in due place. Moreover, Pro-
clus, upou Plato’s Timseus, tells us,
that there hath been always less doubt
and controversy in the world concerning the ope
God, than concerning the many gods. Where­
fore Onatus here declares his own sense, as to
this particular, viz. that besides the one supreme
God, there were also many other inferior deities,
that is, understanding *beings, that ought to be
religiously worshipped.
But because it is not impossible, but that there
might be imagined one supreme Deity, though
there were many other Owl aylwnrot, unmade and
self-existent gods besides, as Plutarch supposed
before, one supreme God, together with a
avovg, an irrational soul or demon unmade, infe­
rior in power to it; therefore, we add, in the next
place, that the more intelligent Pagans did not
only assert one God, that was supreme and Kpan-
cttoc iravrwv, the most powerful of all the gods, but
also, who, being omnipotent, was the principle
and cause of all the rest, and therefore the only
0*0$ a-ytwjjroc Kal avOvitoototoc, the only UO- j p j
produced and self-existentDeity.—Max- edit. L
ugd.
imus. Tyrius affirms this to have been' •“ T
O
-
the general sense, of all the Pagans, that there
488 T H E PAGAN THEOGONJA
W88 4e«c TTO
.VTWfiamXak cat ttcrvft m lSm m U pi,
fl*»pirwSec, cvwpxovrfc fey, one God the klwg aod
father of all, and many gods, the sons of God,
reigning together with God.—Neither did the
poets imply any tiling jess, when Zcvc was so often
called by the Greeks, and Jupiter by the Latins,
v«rq'p mSpwvre (kwvre, and bomimtn pater Clique
deorum, or hominum factorqve deorvm, and the
like. And, indeed, the tbeogftnia of the ancient
Pagan8 before-mentioned, was commonly thus
•declared by them universally, ytvwnwlc rove fltodc
tlvai, that the gods were generated, or, as Hero­
dotus* expre88eth it, &
riHcaorocrvv (kfiv iyivere, that
every one of the gods was generated or pro­
duced ;—which yet is not so to be understood, as
if they had therefore supposed no God at all un­
made or selfiexistent (which is absolute Atheism),
but that the <
o
i feel, the gods, as distinguished
from the ofedc, or to D
nw, from God, or the su­
preme Deity, were all of them universally made
orgenerated.
But to the end, that we may now render this
business yet something more easy to be believed,
that the intelligent Pagans did thus suppose all
their gods save one to have been made or gene­
rated, and consequently acknowledged only one
. feo'yayU
rvtyrov k
<
u cudwrtimrw, one unprodneed and
self-existent Deity,—we shall in this place further
observe, that the theogonia of those ancient
Pagans, their genesis and generation of gods,
was really one and the same thing with the cos-
megonia, the genesis and generation of the world,
and indeed both of them understood of a tempo­
rary production both of these gods and the world.
And this we shall first prove from Plato, in
• Histor. lib, Ii. cap. liii. p. 109.
THE SAME THJN.O WITH THE COSMOGONIA. 4 8 3
his ; whore he, being fco treat of the
OOscQOgonia, premisetfa this distinction concern*-
mg two heads of beings—
that some were eternal
fuid never made, and some again made nr gene*
rated ; the former whereof he calls pvosfai or es*-
sence, the latter 7W k> or generation ; adding
also this difference betwixt them, that the eternal
and immutable things were the proper objects -of
science and demonstration, but the other gene*-
rated things of faith and opinion only;
V \ \ f * f ~ \ f Page *9.
o, n yip fjpoff ytysaiv ovcna, to
vtqirpoqmany
oXv&m, for what essence is to generation, the same .
is certainty ,of truth or knowledge to faith.—And
thereupon he declares, .that his reader was pot to
expect the same evidence and certainty of truth
from him, where he was pew to treat of things
generated (namely, the gods, apd the visible
world), as if he had been to discourse about things
immutable and eternal, in these words;
•> * t t A'X' \\ - * / “ 8*
eav qvv, ftf Z^fcpareGy TroAAa iroA A u v w ft v r t y v
tr*pi O
tw
v K
turije rowxrawrdc ■
yS'sp'tw
C
j &C. If, therC'-
fore, O Socrates, many things having beep/spoken
by many men, concerning the gods and the ge­
neration of the universe, we be pojt .able to disr
course demonstratively concerning the same, you
ought not at all to wonder at it, or be displeased
with ns; hut, on the contrary, to rest well satis­
fied with our performance, if upon Ibis argument
we do but deliver probabilities.—Where the
gods are by Plato plainly referred to yivtotc, and
not to ovvla; to generation, and not to eternal or
immutable essence, as they are also joined with
the generation of the world, as being but apajrt
thereof. Neither is this at aU to he wondered at
in Plato, since first the whole visible world was
484 THE PAGAN THEOGONtA
no less to him than it was to the other Pagans, a
G od; he calling it feov evSai/uova, a happy God,
and before it was yet made, O
tovimfisvov, a God
about to be made.—Not as if Plato accounted
the senseless matter of this corporeal world,
whether as perfectly dead and stupid, or as en­
dued with a plastic nature only, to be a God (for
no inanimate thing was a God to Plato), but
because he supposed the world to be an -animal,
endued with an intellectual soul, and indeed the
best of all animals compounded of sOul and
P S
O boily I ovt<
dc ovv Bv Kara Xoyov tov tucora Set
Xiytiv, tovSe tov KOtrjuov faoov tfixpvy^ov evvovv
Ve T*j aXtfieuf Bm rrjv tov Otov ytvloOai vpdvoiav. Where­
fore we are thus, according to probability, td
conclude, that this world was really made by the
providence of God an intellectual animal
whence from an animal forthwith it became a God,
So that here we are to take notice of two gods id
Plato, very different from one another: one a ge^
berated god, this whole world animated; and
another that God, by whose providence this world
Was generated, and thus made an animal and a
-god; which latter must needs be an unmade,
self-existent Deity, and not belong to ylvttne, but
to ovtrla, not to generation, but to immutable es­
sence. Again, those greater parts of the world,
the sun, the moon, and the stars (as supposed also
-to be animated with particular souls of their
own) were as well accounted by Plato, as by the
Other Pagans, gods, he plainly calling them there
opafot ical ytwrfTot fern, visible and generated gods.—
Besides which celestial gods, the earth itself also
is Supposed by him to be either a god or goddess,
according to those ancient copies of the Tinwens
THE SAME THING WITH THE COSMOGONIA. 485
used both by Cicero and Proclus: iNjv Si, rpo+ dv
fiiv n ju rtp a v, tiX ovfiivriv S i wpl rov Sid v a v ro vtoX
ov rera -
ftevov, fv X a x a Kii Syfuovpyov. tw c rd f r t Ktu d ftip ac, ifiif-
XavriaaTO, v p tin /v Ktu irpto^fvnirqv Otwv, ooot. evToc
w pavao ysyo va o t’ God fabricated the earth also,
which is our nurse, turning round upon the axis
of the world, and thereby causing and maintain­
ing the succession of day and night, the first and
oldest of all the gods generated within the hea­
vens.—Where, since that philosopher seems the
rather to make the earth an animal and a God,
because of its diurnal circumgyration upon its
own axis, we may conclude, that afterwards,
when in his old age (as Plutarch* records from
Theophrastus), he gave entertainment also to
that other part of the Pythagoric hypothesis, and
attributed to the earth a planetary annual mo­
tion likewise about the sun (from whence it would
follow, that, as Plotinusbexpresseth it, the earth
was e? rwv SoTpm
v, one of the stars), he was there­
fore still so much the more inclined to think the
earth to be a god as well as the other planets, or
at least as the moon; that having been formerly
represented in the Orphic tradition but as ano­
ther habitable earth. For these verses of Oj:-
pheus are recorded by Proclus,* to that purpose:
Mnouro*>* a
X
X
sryeuar amlfaror, b*ri ItXfam
*A04mrw *x6{ovr<r, litiyfhtM Ji t i M«ro,
' *H ir&X’ tip l%ut i m i , plAodg*.
The sense whereof is this: That God in the cos-
»Ip Quaeatien. Platopic. p. 1006. oper. vide piiam eund«ipm'S$jN|*
Nuipae, tom. i. oper. p. 312. •
bLib. ii. de Dub. Animae, Ennead iv. lib. iv. cap. itxii.%, i l l
c Comment in TimaBum Platpnis, lib. iv. p, 28& vide f.tltm lib. v.
p 292.
VOL. I. 2 I
- ‘PLATO-8 COSMOOOKIA
mogonia, or Cosimopceia, besides this earth ‘
of
our’s; fabricated also another vast earth, which
the immortal gods, call Selene, but mortal men
Mene, or the tnoon; that hath many hills and
valleys, many cities and houses in it.—‘From
s« iviacrob. whence Proclus, though as it seems a
s»m
.sdp. i. stranger to the Pythagoric system, ye*
being much addicted to these Orphic
traditions, concluded the moon to be, -yjj* atfkpiav,
an ethereal earth :
After all this, Plato, that he bright be thought
to oteit Nothing iu his Timaehd cosmogonia, speaks
also of the genesis ortus, of generation of the
poetic gods, under the natne Of demons, such as
Tethys and Phorcys, Saturn and Khea, Jupiter
and Juno, and the like; which seem to be really
nothing else but the other inanimate parts of the
world and things of nature, tfcojroev0«vra, that is,
fictitiously personated and deified (as is else^
where declared). Which whole business was
thing setoff by those poets with much fiction and
physiological allegory. And though Plato, out
of a seeming •compliance with the laws of his1
city, pretends here to give credit to this!‘poetic
theogonia, as tradition delivered down from-the
sons of the gods, who must not be supposed to
have been ignorant of their parents.; yet, as Eu­
sebius* well obseraeth, he doth but all the while
slily jeer it, plainly insinuating the' fabulosity
thereof,- when he ajfijrmeth it to have been intro-.
duC(^<not Only avtv avayKalmv djroSfl^o>v,b without
necessary demonstrations, but alsd «jcor*fr,
without so.much as probabilities: ; Nevertheless;
’ ^ 'Prcparat. Evangelic, lib. it cap: \iK p. 76,78.
bPlat, ip Ttameo, cap. xxvi. p. 240.
A THKOGONIA. 4®fr
Proclus,* suspecting no such matter, but taking
Plato in all this to have been in-very good earnest,
interprets these poetic gods or demons mentioned
by him, to be the gods below the moon (notwith­
standing that the earth was mentioned before by
Plato), calling them ytvtowopyoog Btooc, the gods
that cause generation, and seeming to understand-
thereby' the animated elements; Jupiter being
here not taken, as he is often elsewhere, for the
supreme God, but only for the animated ether,-
as Juno for the animated air. And upon this
occasion he runs out into a long dispute, to prove,-
that not only the stars were animated, but also
all the other sublunary bodies or elements: « yip
oXog o Kotrpoc Oeog eoSalfu&v, a m ovStv sort two avfxif\rp>
povvrwv avrov fiopiwv aOtov, *cat dirpovorjTOV, el Si tear
Otov iravra periyrzi Kai irpovolag, Otlav tXaye ipvaiv, el Si
rovro, icat o'lKuat ratifig 9twv £tp£<m)Kamv avroig, u yap
Kai o oupavoc 8ia fi£<jwv ipvyrwv km vowv furiy^u rtjg fuag
\pvyrt}Q, K ai t o o iv o g vow, ri ^ p i j irs p l Towrwv tusoOat rtov
aroiyreliov' nwg oo ifoXXtf>juaXAov rawro Sia Sij nvarv pioorv
Bslwv ra^stov jUETfiXijye rrjg fiiag too icoafiov Beomrog. F o r
if the whole world be a happy God, then none
of the parts of it are godless, or devoid of provi­
dence; but if all things partake of God and Pro*
vidence, then are they not unfurnished -of the
/ Divine nature; and if so, there must be- Some
peculiar orders of gods presiding over then). For
if the heavens by reason of particular souls and
minds partake of that one soul and one mind-;
why should we not conclude the same concerning*
the elements, that they also, by certain interroe*
dious orders of gods, partake of that one-Divi­
nity of the whole world?—Wherefore, a little be*
1In TimaeoiaPlaton, lib. iv. p. 967.
2 l 2
488 p l a t o ’s c o sm o g o n ia
fore, the same Proclus highly condemns certain
ancient physiologers whom he supposeth Aris-
p J85 totle to have followed: rroA
X
oic rwv fvoto-
Xoyuv a\|«j(a iin | fepoptva, Kat aVpovoip-a
ravra ttvai ra aroi^iia vtvofiutrai' ra piv yap ovpavta $ta
rgy cv av’roic r«£tv, vovv ica! 0e
J v ptriy^uv wjuoXoyoms rtjv
91 yivtoiv, tic woXvfierafioXott, Kat aoptarov, Kat airpovoir-
rov aVtXitrov, Ota 81 Kat AptOTortAifc vtmpov *8d£aaf,
rate oupavtafc irspt^opaZc povtoc iirtoriaas, rac aKivtfrovc
atr«ac’ ffrt dm ! eitv, ttrt rXttovc’ axf/v^a 81 ra arot^cta
ravra KaraXuVwv* The elements were thought by
most of the ancient physiologers to be inanimate,
and to be moved fortuitously without providence.
For though they acknowledged the heavenly bo­
dies, by reason of that order that appears in
them, to partake of mind and gods; yet they left
this sublunary world (or genesis) to float up and
down without providence. And these Aristotle
'afterwards followed, appointing immoveable in­
telligences to preside over the celestial spheres
only (whether eight or more) but leaving all the
lower elements dead and inanimate.
Lastly, besides all those other mundane gods
before-mentioned, as generated together with the
world, though Proclus -seems to be of another
opinion, yet it is manifest, that Plato doth not
there, in his Timseus altogether forget those pro­
perty called demons (elsewhere so much insisted
Upon by him;, but in the very next following
words he plainly insinuates them, after this man­
ner:. *ooot falvovrai icaff wrov av cdcXwac 0kk, the. gods,
which appear visibly to us as often as they please,
or which can appear and disappear at pleasure—
speaking also of their genesis or generation as
♦InTimaeo, cap. xxvi. p. 248.
A THEOGONIA. 489
part of the cosmogonia; and then again after­
wards calling them vfot Scot, junior gods, he de­
scribes them as those whose particular office it
was to superintend and preside over human
affairs, *icae itara Bvva/itv o n K
aXXi&
ra teat apiara to
Siojroit Staicvfitpvqivtfi*ov, ore ftv ko
kw
v avro £avr<p yiyvotro
tunov, and to govern this mortal animal, man,
after the. best manner possible, so that he should
no otherwise fail of doing well or being happy,
than as he became a cause of evil and misery
to himself, by the abuse of his own liberty.—
And thus much out of Plato’s Timaeus; but
the same thing might be proved also out of his
other writings, as particularly from that passage
in his tenth book of Laws,b where he takes no­
tice again of the theogonia of the ancients, and
that as it had been depraved and corrupted
by a great mixture of impious and immoral fa­
bles. Etiriv ij/uv Iv ypaft/iiun Xoyoi Ktl/uvoi. Ot f/lv tv
run fibpoig, ot Sc kcu. avtv fttrpwv’ Xtyovrte irtpt 6twv, ot
fikv iraXaioraToi, wg ytyovtv J
j 7rp(Jrij <pvtrif ovpavov rtov rt
aX\u>v' rp o » m ( SI r if ov iroXt) Btoyovlav Scc£cp-
yovrat, ytvofUvoi rt w t vpo; aXXqXotc M/xl\rj<Tav. There
are (saith he) extant among ns Athenians, certain
stories and traditions, very ancient, concerning
the gods, written partly in metre, and partly in
prose, declaring how the heaven, and the other
gods were at first made, or generated, and then,
carrying on their fabulous theogonia farther, how
these generated gods afterward conversed with '
one another, and ingendering after the rnauner of
men, bfegat other gods.—Where that philosopher,
taking off his vizard, plainly discovers his great
dislike of that whole fabulous theogonia (how-
*In Timaeo, cap. xxix. p. 332. *P. 084.
4 9 0 HE8IOI)’s THEOGONIA
ever he acknowledges elsewhere; that it did con­
tain virovotoci* that is, physiological allegories un­
der it), as a thing that was destructive of all piety
and virtue, by reason of its attributing all human
passions and vices to the gods. However,, it
plainly appears from hence, that the theogonia.
and the cosmogonia were one and the same thing*
the generation of the gods being here the genera­
tion of the heaven, and of the sun, moon, a n d .
stars, and the like.
Moreover, this same thing is sufficiently mani­
fest also even from Hesiod’s own theogonia,
which doubtless was that which Plato principally
aimed a t; and if it were not absolutely the first,
yet it is the most ancient writing now extant, in
that kind. For there, iu the beginning of that
poem, Hesiodb invokes his onuses after this man­
ner:—
XoigtTi, rixya AUff,*tori )i l / M p i iotM
v*
K X ife n y ifankrm fifd * ytv o * a lb farm,
OTI’flp ifrytMTO iuu Ovgavcfi dtrrtfbrrof,
Nu*rk Jii ho^tgSff, riff 0’ iXftvgiff ITsrrsc*
E
lira
rty, «
ct
£W
(&
t*Q
ttijm
2I’
a
*
*y
*
v
o
rro
,
\LaX llortfjui, Jtol Tlirrot kmproff o
O
/uati 0u
* v,
" A rtX
a
p
u
n
v
M
trra, K
a
t tv
g
v
efan
g
d
*
,
OI V lx rob fybom 0fot lonUpg ieun.
Salvete natse Jovis, date vero amabilem cantilcuam:
Celebrate qtioqueimmortalium divinumgenus semper existentium,
Qui tellure prognati sunt, coelo stellato,
Nocteque caliginosa, quos item salsus nutrivit pontus.
Dicite insuper, ut primum dii et terra facti fuerinf,
Et flumina, et pontus immensus aestu fervens,
Astraque fulgentia, et coelum latum supeme,
Et qui ex his nati sunt, dii, datores bonorum.
Where we see plainly, that the generation of
the gods is the generation of the earth, heaven,
* Vide Platon, de Republ. lib. ii. p. 430. bTheogou. vers. 104.
THE COSMOGON1A. m
stars, seas, rivers, and other things begotten from
them (as probably amongst the rest demons and
nymphs, which the same, Hesiod speaks of else­
where). Bat immediately -after this invocation
of the moses, the poet begins with Chaos, and
Tartars; end Love, as;the first principles, and
then proceeds to the production of the earth and
of night out of; chaos; of the ether and of day
from night; of the starry heavens, mountains, and
seas, &c. All which genesis or. generation Of
gods- is really nothing but a poetical description
of the cosmogonia; as throughout the sequel of
that whole poem all seems to be physiology,' veiled
under fiction and allegories. And thus the an­
cient scholia upon that hook begin, urrtov ort a vepl
rijc ©to-yowac Xoyoe ^Muctjv Biriyijmv twv'fivrwv virayopevti,
We must know, that the whole doctrine of the
theogonia contains under it, in way of allegory, a
physiological declaration of th in g sH e sio d ’s
gods being not only the animated parts of the
world, but also all the other things of nature, fic­
titiously personated and deified,' or abusively
called gods and goddesses.
Neither wasthis only the doctrine of the Greeks,
that the world was thus made or generated, and
that the generation of the world was a theogonia,
or a generation of gods (the world itself and its
several parts being accounted such-by them), but
also in like manner of the other Barbarian Pagans.
For Diogenes Laertius hath recorded ih'Proam
.'
concerning the Persian Magi, awofaivt- *' .
<r6ai m p t re overlap dtwv Kal -yev«rewc, o»s Kal irvp ttvat xq.1
ynv kM That they did both assert the being
and generation of gods, and also that these gods
*Vida ctiaipHerodot. Hist. lib. i. cap. cxxxi. pt 55; •
4 9 $ THB PAGAN XHBOGONIA
were fire, and earth, and w a t e r t h a t is, that the
animated elements were gods (as Proclus also
before declared), and that these, together with the
world, were generated, or had a beginning. And
in O
n Per- both Laertius and Diodorus represent it
88 opinion of the ancient Egyptians,
^LTXT ' thnt the world was generated, or had
«Hw,one«( a temporary production;as also, that the
Startingby sun and moon, and other parts of the
InS
eogoiiie. world, were gods. But whereas the
jj-«
• same Diodorus writes of certain Egyp-
m.)llerod. tian gods, ot ybtaiv atStov taypiKonc, which
isj/HKi. had an eternal generation;—he seems to
P-5*- mean thereby only the celestial gods, the
sun, moon, and stars, as distinct from those other
heroes and men-gods, which are again thus de­
scribed by him: ot Ovrfrcl viraj>$ayrtc> &a St trvvtptw
trot tcotvifv avflpohrwv tvtfyvr'iav, mv/iMcoftc. rife aOavamac:
Who, though naturally mortal, yet,' by reason of
their wisdom, virtue, and beneficence toward man­
kind, had been advanced to immortality.—
And by this time we think it doth sufficiently
appear, that the theogohia of the ancients is not
to be understood merely of their heroes and men-
gods, or of all their gods, as supposed to have
been nothing else but mortal men, (Dii mortalt-
bus nati matribus, as Cotta in Cicero* speaks) who,
according to the more vulgar signification of the
word, had been generated (kumano more), as some,
otherwise learned men, have seemed to suppose;
but that it extends to all the inferior Pagan gods,
some whereof were parts of the visible world ani­
mated, as the sun, moon, stars, and earth: so that
their theogonia was the very same thing with the
* Da Natur. Deor. lib. iii. cap. xyjii. p. 307$. toiq. jx. open
HOW MISTAKEN. 493
cosmogonia, or sit least a part thereof. Notwith­
standing which, we deny not, bnt that there was
also, in the paganic fables of the gods, a certain
mixture of history and herology interserted, and
complicated all along together with physiology.
We are, in the next place, to observe, that both
this tbeogonia and cosmogonia of the ancient
Pagans, their generation ofthe world and gods, is
to be understood of a temporary production of
them, whereby they were - made «c nv ovrwv, or
from an antecedent non-existence brought into
being. For this was the general tradition amongst
the Pagans, that th*e world was made out of an
antecedent chaos, as shall be afterwards further
declared. And Aristotle* affirmetb, that before
his time, this genesis and temporary production
of the world had been universally entertained by
all, and particularly, that Plato was an assertorof
the same. Nevertheless, the generality of the
latter Platonistsbendeavour, with all their might,
to forcea contrary sense upon his Timaeus: which
is a thing, that Plutarch long since observed after
this manner; oi v-Xtiaroi n5» IlXa- •
rurvi, tboBovuivw., «ca< irapaAvTrovutvot, xavra DeP«ychog.
- , A #
“ r . Rat.p.1013.
(itiyravwrat, km irapapuu,ovrfU km orptfovmv,
«C n Sctvov km apptfrov otojucvot &wvtputaXwmw *cai apvii-
atiat, tijv rt tov jcoa/tov mv rt me avrov ykvunvK
M
awrraoiv, ovk a&utv <rwt<manitv, ou& tov amtpov ^povov
ovro»c ty^ovrun)" The most of Plato’s followers, be­
ing infinitely troubled and perplexed in their
minds, turn themselves every way, using all man­
ner of arts, and offering all kind of violence to
his text, as conceiving, that they ought, by all
* De Coelo, lib. i. cap. x. p. 632. tom. i. oper*
* Vide Proctum iu Timasurn Platon. *
494 THAT PLATO REALLY ASSERTED
means possible, to hide and conceal that opinion
(as infand and detestable) of the generation of the
world, and of the soul of it, so as pot to have con­
tinued from eternity, or through aauccession of
infinite time.—Notwithstanding, Which; we; con­
ceive it to be undeniably evident, that Plato, in his
Timaeus, doth assert the genesis of the world in
this sense; to wit, of a. temporary prodpotion of
it, and as not haying existed from eternity, or
Without beginning.' First, because, in the entrance
of that discourse,* heopposeth these two things to
one another, to auov, that which always isr—and
fo yiwtm v I/ov; that which is generated or made;—
and therefore, in affirming the world to have been
generated, he must needs deny the eternity thereof.
Again, the question is so punctually stated by him
afterwards, as that there is no possibility of any
Sttbterfuge left, irortpov jjv du ytvi<no>^ iytMr
MfSefitav, rjyiyovtv, mr rtvoc ap^apevoc ?Whether
the world always were, having no beginning orge­
neration, or whether it was made or generated,
having commenced from a certain epgcha?r-r-To
which the answer is, yiyovtv, that it was made, or
had a beginning.—Moreover, this philosopher
there plainly affirms also,b that time itself was
made, or had a beginning, /povoc S’ o5vner odpavoi
yiyovtv, iva afta ytwtiBivrtq, dfia «cat \v6unv, av ifote Xvoic
r«covrwvyivifrai. Time was made together with the
heayen, that, being both generated together, they
might be both dissolved together likewise, if at
least there should ever beany dissolution ofthem.
—Besides which, he plainly declares, that before
this orderly world was produced, the matter of it
did move disorderly;' wavooov jjvoparov, irapaXa(3oiv,
• Cap. xii.p.235. k Cap. xx. p. 245- cTim*ircap. xiv.p. 237.
THAT THE , WORLD •HAD A BEGINNING. 459
oCk ijavyrlav ayov,' aXXd Kivovpivov irXjj/XjUtXwg u ! arMCrwc,
etc rd£tv avro rjyaytv tie tvC ctYa£/ac‘ God taking all
that matter, which was, (not then resting, bat
moving confusedly;and disorderly) he brought it
into order put of confusion.—Which is nomor-e
than if he should have said, God made this world
out of an antecedent chaos; which, as we said bet-
fore, was the constant tradition of the ancient
Pagans. Now, as.to authority, we may well con­
clude, that Aristotle was better able to understand
both Plato’s philosophy and Greek, than any of
those junior Platonists, who lived hundreds of
years after. And yet we are-not quite destitute
of other suffrages besides Aristotle’s neither; not
only Philo, the Jew,* but also Plutarch1
' and At-
ticus,e who were both of them Platonic Pagans*
voting on this side,, besides Alexander Apbrodi-
sius,da judicious Peripatetic, 't'he only objection
considerable is from what Plato himself writes in
his third and sixth book of Laws; in the former
whereof, Clinias and the Athenian Hospes dis­
course together after this manner, coneerningthe
original or first beginning of commonwealths:
noXcrctqc 8’ apyijv r/ya irore rpwptv yeyovtvai; p ^ ^
KA. Ae-yttf SeTroOiv\ A 0. Ol/uai /uev airo ypovou
[iVicov§ rt teat. awtiplar;, feat rwv fitra)3oXa>v iv rip TOisrirtp'.
KA. n«3c;X*7«C ; AO. <t>£pe, atjt' ov 7roX«c r cirri km avBpia^
7roi yoXirtvoptvoi, Sokhq&
v won KaravovwM ypdvov,.irXiff>oc
oaov ykyovtv; KA. Ovkovv pqov y i ovSapwQ. AO. T o -81
yt wc arrtipov rt km ipvy^avov av « q .. KA. Havwpiv ovw
TOVTO ye. AO. Mwv yEoSvou fivpiai ftiv im p v p a icvjuiv
* In Libro, qnod mulxlus sit incortuptibilis, p. 941. oper.
b In Libro de Animae Procreat. p. 1013,1014. tom. ii.oper.
c Apud Euseb. Praepar. Evangel, lib xv- cap. vi. p. 80J.
* Comment, in Libros Metaphys. Aristot. p. 181. cd. Latin. Pari*.
WOS.foL . •:!
496 THAT PLATQ REALLY ASSERTED
•ytyovam iroXtic *v Tovrtpry yrp&
vtp, Kara rdv awrov S rou
»
tXj?0ouc Xoyov, ovk tXarrovc tfQ<tpnhat ; wtiroA(T*v/sdvai
2
> av iracrac iroXtrctac itoXXokic a n w ra ^ v v ; *cai tote fiiv c£
iXarrovwv, ftt&flve, tor i Si «c fittCoywv, eXarrovc’ <c«* j(« “
pov? («c (3t\riovU» ytyovaai, km ficXriovf w ^ tip o iw .
A th. What beginning shall we say there was of
commonwealths? Cl. Whence would yourself
derive them? Ath. I suppose from a great length
and infinity of time, through successive changes.
Cl. 1 understand not well what you mean.
A th. Thus therefore, do you think, that you are
able to determine what length or quantity of time
there hath been since cities and polities of men
firstbegan ? Cl. This is by no means easy to be
done. A th. Wherefore, there is a kind ofinfinity
and inestimability of this time. Cl. it is very true.
A tH. Have there not then been innumerable
cities constituted within this time, and as many
again destroyed, of all several forms; they being
changed from greater to lesser, and from lesser to
greater, from better to worser, and from'worser to
better?—Now, we say, that if Plato intended here
to assert an absolute infinity of time past, then it
must needs be granted, that in his old age, when
he wrote his book ofLaws, he changed bis opinion
from what it was before when he wrote his
Timaeus; and if so, he ought in all reason to have
retracted the same, which he does not here do;
but in very truth, the meaning of this philosopher
in those words cited, seems to be this; not that
there was an absolute infinity of time past, (as
Proclus contends, taking advantage of that word
awupla) but only that the world had lasted such a
length of time, as was in a manner inestimable to
us, or uncomputable by us; there having-hap-
THAT THE WORLD HAD A BEGINNING. 4 8 7
pened, as he addeth, in the mean time, several
successive destructions and consumptions of man­
kind, by means of various accidents, as particu­
larly one most remarkable deluge and inunda­
tion of waters. The latter place, in his sixth
book of Laws, runs thus: »
j ra5v dv0p*jjr«v
/ * t t * t t
ytvtaiQ r) to vapatrav apypiv ovot/uav
ov$ 7
t
o
t
£y t teX
e
u
t
t
iv
' aXX i/v te ati m i t<rrai «ravr<oq'
V /uqicocrt rqc ap/VC duf> ov ytyovtv, ifty^avov av ^pdvov
o<rovytyovot av eiy. Either the generation of men
had no beginning Rt all, and will have no end, but
always was and always will be ; or else there has
been an inestimable length of time from the begin­
ning of it.—Which place affordeth still more light
to the former; for we may well conclude, that by
airapov rt teat ajuij)(avov, there was not meant an abso­
lute infinity of time, but only such as had a very
remote or distant beginning, because dpd/avov
here is plainly taken in that sense. We conceive,
therefore, that this was Plato’s opinion in his old
agie, when he wrote his})Ook of Laws, that though
the world had a beginning, yet it had continued
a very long time not computable by us; or at least
he thought fit to declare himself after that manner^
perhaps by reason of the clamours of Aristotle, or
some others against his Timaeus, that so he might
thereby somewhat roolify that opinion of the no-
vity of the world, by removing the epocha and
date thereof to so great a distance.
Nqw, it is very true, what we have several times
before suggested, that there have been amongst
the Pagans, both Theogonists and Cosmogonists
too, that were Atheists; they abusing the word
gods several ways; some of them, as Anaximan­
der, understanding thereby inanimate worlds sue-
THAT PLATO WAS
498
cessively generated oat of senseless matter, and
corrapted again into it; others, as Anaximenes
and Democritus^ allowing, that there were certain
animals and understanding beings superior to men,
but such only as were native and mortal, in like
manner as men, and calling these by the name of
gods. Of the former of which two philosophers,
St. Austin* gives us this account: “ Anaximenes
Omnes rerum causas infinite aeri dedit, nec deos
negavit aut tacuit, non tamen ab ipsis aerein fac­
tum, gfed ipsos ex aere ortos c re d id itA n a x i­
menes made infinite air to be the first original and
cause of all things; and yet was he not therefore
silent concerning the gods, much less did lie deny
them; nevertheless, he did not believe the air to
have been made by the gods, but the gods to have
been all generated out of the air.—These were
therefore such Theogonists, as supposed all the
gods without exception to be generable and cor­
ruptible, and acknowledged no O
tovdytvvtrrowa t all,'
no understanding beiug unmade and self-existent;
but concluded senseless matter to be the only ayiv
vnrpvand original of alt things, which is absolute
Atheism. Notwithstanding which, it is certain,
that all the Pagan Theogonists were not Atheists,
(no more than all their Cosmogonists Theists) but
that there was anothersortof Theogonistsamongst
them, who supposed indeed all the inferior mun­
dane gods to have been made or generated in one
sense or other ; but asserted one Q
tov aylwnrov km
ai!0vjro<rrarov, one supreme unmade self-existent
Deity, who was the cause of them all: which The-1
ogonists, for distinction sake from those other
Atheistic ones, may be called Divine.
• De Civitate Dei, lib viii. cap. ii- p, 147. tom. optr.
A DIVINE THEOGONIST. 499
And that Plato was such a Divine Theogonist,
is a thing, as we eonceive, out of question;, but if
there had been any doubt concerning it, it would
have been sufficiently removed from those pas-
sages before cited out of his Timaeus. To which,
nevertheless, for fuller satisfaction sake, may be
added, these two following: the first, page 3 4 :
oifroc 8ij wag ovrog «« Xoyurjuog Beov, wept rov wore taofitvov
Oeov XoytwQeig' For thus it ought to be read ovroc;
as it is also in Aldus’s edition ; and not ovr«c, as in
Stephens, following an error in that of Ficinus.
And accordingly the words are thus rendered by
Cicero: “ Haec Deus is, quisemper erat, de ali-
quando future deo cogitaus, laevem eum effecit;
et undique aequabilem,” &c. This was the ratio­
cination or resolution of that God, which always
is, concerning that god, which was sometime
about to be made, that he should be smooth and
spherical, &c.—Where again, it presently follows
in Cicero’s version, 44 Sic Deus ille aeternus hunc
perfecte beatum deum procreavit;” thus that
eternal God procreated this perfectly happy god;
the world.-^Where there is plainly mention made
of two gods, one a generated god, the animated
world, called elsewhere in Plato B
elovyewijrov; and
another eternal and unmade God, innatuset infeo
tns Deus, who was the cause of the World’s genet
ration or production; or, to keep close to Plato’s
own language, one God who belonged to genesis;
or that head of being, which he calls generation;
and therefore must needs have an antecedent cause
of his existence, since nothing can be made with­
out a cause; and another God, that was truly and
properly ovala, immutable essence, who was the
cause of that generated god the universe, and
6 0 0 TH ^T PLATO WAS
therefore of all things. The other passage of
Plato’s is, (page 4 1, of his Tim$eus,) iwu eZv wavrtc
ivoi T
£xifnroXoJm<
jta
vtp
w
<
;,«cai mmtyaivovrat Ka(foaovav
iO
i\<
iM
X
i O
h
m
, yivtatv tffyov, \tyti irpoc avrovc o ro& to
irav ytvvijffac, ra&, Otol ftwv, <
Jvtyw SityM
O
vpyoc* iranjp
re cpywv, a &’ c/tov ytvo/ieva' . When therefore all the
gods, both those .which move visibly about the
heavens, and those which appear to us as often as
they please (that is, both the stars and demons),
were generated or created, that God>.which made
tbis whole universe, bespake these generated gods
after this manner: Ye gods of gods (whom I my­
self am the maker aud father of) attend.—-Wheye
(he words O
h
m O
tw
v, notwithstanding Proclua’s
other differing conjectures, seem to have beep
very well rendered by Cicero: Dii, qvi deorup|
satn orti estis, Ye gods, which are the progeny or
offspring of the gods.—And the gods, whose off­
spring these generated gods (the animated stars
and demons) are sajd to be, must needs be those
oStot O
h
m
, those eternal gods, elsewhere mentioned
in the same Timaeus, as where the philosopher
calls the world,8raJv aStum O
hmv ytyovos ayaX/ic(, a ge­
nerated or created image of the eternal gods;
as Cicero also is to be understood of these, when
he speaks of the world’s being made by tbe gods,
and by the counsel of the gods. . Now, these eter­
nal gods of Plato, called by his followers Otot wep-
K
wr/uoi, the supramundane gods,—though, accord­
ing to that stricter notion of the word yiv«nc, as it
is used both in Plato and Aristotle, for a tempo­
rary production of things, o
v
V ovrwv, they were
indeed all ayfwijm, because they never were not,
and had no beginning of their existences yet,.not-
‘ Timaei, cap. xxu p- 246, s.
A DIVINE THEOGONIST. 501
withstanding were they not therefore supposed by
that philosopher tObe all avroyovoi and av'dvmraroi,
so many self-originated and self-subsistent beings,
or first principles, but only one of them such, and
the rest derived from that one : it being very true,
as we conceive, what Proclus affirms,.cm o flXdrwv
iiri fiiav apyrr/v avayu Traina, that Plato re- jn T;mc.
duces all things to one principle,—even p-tl6<
matter itself; but unquestionable, that he deriveth
all his gods from one. Wherefore, all those eter­
nal gods of Plato (one only excepted), though
they were not ytwirrw, or generated in one sense,
that is, Kara /povov, as to a temporary beginning,
yet were they, notwithstanding, as Proclus distin­
guished, ytwtrroi air alriac, generated in another
sense, as produced from a superior cause, there
being only one such dyhm/roc, one ingenerate or
unproduced Deity. Thus, according to Plato,
there were two sorts of secondary or inferior and
derivative gods; first, the fool eyKoa/uoi, or mundane
gods, such as had all of them' a temporary genera­
tion with the world, and of whom Plato's theogo-
nia and ycvcaeie 6t<
Z
vis properly to be understood;
and secondly, the virepKoa/uoi and aiSiot Oeol, the su-
pramundane and eternal gods, which were all of
them also, save only one, produced from that
one, and dependent on it as their cause. But of
these inferior eternal gods of the Platonists and
Pythagoreans we are to speak again afterwards.
In the mean time it is evident, thatin that passage
of Plato’s before cited, there is plain mention
made both of deal yevtmv t^ovrec, of dii orti, gods
who were made or generated with the w.orld, and
of ot
o
Seto irav ytwrtaaq, of one God, who was the
make;* of them, and of the whole universe, who
VOL. i. 2 i
502 PAGAN THEOGONISTS ASSERTOBS
therefore is himself every way ayiw ijroe, unmade
or unproduced.—And accordingly, he afterwards,
subjoins, /cal o /uv Si} ravra navra Stara£a<;, iptvtv ev rqi
iavrov Kara rpoirov i}0u‘ fttvovrof^Se vo»jaavn<s oi rraiStg t jjv
rov irarpoc ra£«v, iirdOovro avrrj. which Cicero thus
renders: Atque is quidem (Deus) qui cuncta
composuit, constanter in suo manebat statu; qui
autera erant ab eo creati (dii) cum parentis ordi-
nem cognovissent, hunc sequebantur,” &c. Then
that god, who framed all things, remained con­
stantly in his former state; and his sons, or the
gods that were created by him, observed his order
and appointment.—
Neither was Plato singular in this; but the gene­
rality of the other Pagan Theists, who were more
intelligent, all along agreed with him herein, as to
the generation of the mundane gods; and so were
both Theists and Theogonists, they indeed under­
standing nothing else by their theogonia, or ge­
neration of gods, than a Divine cosmogonia, or
creation of the world by God; forasmuch as they
supposed the world itself as animated, and its se­
veral parts to be gods. So that they asserted these
three things: first, a cosmogonia, the generation of
the world, that it was not from eternity, but had a
novityor beginning; secondly, that this cosmogo­
nia, or generation of the world, was also a tbeo-
gonia, or generation of gods, the world itself and
several of its parts animated being esteemed such;
and lastly, that both these gods and the world
were made and produced by one 0*oe ayewnros ical
avroytv»»e, oneunproduced and self-originated Deity,
r—
All which particulars we may here briefly ex­
emplify in P. Ovidius Naso, whose paganity suf­
ficiently appears from his Fastorum and all his
OF ONfc UNMADE DEITY. 5 0 5
other writings, and who also went off the stage
before Christianity appeared on it, and may well
be presumed to represent the then generally re-'
ceived doctrine of the Pagdns. First, therefore,
as for the generation and novity of the world, and
its first production out ofa chaos, we have it fully
acknowledged by him in these following verses:
Ante mare et terra?, et, quod tcgit omnia, coelom, Metim. 1.1,
IJnus erat toto naturae vultus in orbe, tTers*5*1
Quern dixere chaos, rudis indigestaque moles,
Nec quicquam nisi pondus iners, congestaque eodem
Non benejunctarum discordia semina rerum.
Nullus adhuc mundo praebebat lamina Titan,
Nec nova crescendo reparabat cornua Phoebe,
Nec circumfuso pendebat in a'ere tellus,
Ponderibus librata suis;nec bracbia longo
Margine terrarum porrexerat Amphitrite.
Quaque erat et tellus, &c.
Which, in Mr. Sandys’s English, with some little,
alteration, speaks thus:—
Before that sea, and earth, and heaven was fram'd,
One facehad nature, which they chaos nam’d.
No Titan yet the world with light adorns,
Nor waxing Phebe fills her wained horns;
Nor hung the self-poiz’d earth in thin air plac’d,
Nor Amphitrite the vast shore embrac’d;
Earth, air, and sea confounded, &c.
In the next place, when there was a world made
out of this chaos, that this cosmogonia, or gene­
ration of the world, was also a theogonia, or
generation of gods, is plainly intimated in these
verses:
Neil regio (oret alia suis animalibus orba, .
Astra tenent cceleste solum, formaeque deorum.
To this sense,
That nought ofanimals might unfurnish’d lie,
Th« gods, in form ofstars, possess the Sky,
2 K 2
504 PAGAN THEOGONISTS ASSERTORS
And that all this was effected, and this orderly
mundane system produced out of a disorderly
.confused chaos, not by a fortuitous motion ofmat­
ter, or the jumbling of atoms, but by the provi
dence and command of one unmade Deity, which
was also that, that furnished all the several parts
of the world with respective animals, the sea with
fishes, the earth with men, and the heaven with
gods; is thus declared also by the poet:—
Hanc Deus et melior litem natura diremit,
Nam coelo terras, et terris abscidit undas:
Et liquidum spisso secrevit ab acre coelum, &c.
Sic ubi dispositam, quisquis fait ille deoram,
1 Congeriem secuit, sectamque in membra redegit;
Principio terrain, ne non aequalis ab omui
Parte foret, magni specicm glomeravit in orbis:
Turn freta difludit, rapidisque tumescere ventis
Jussit, &c.
Sic onus inclusum numero distinxit eodem
Cura Dei, &c.
This strife (with better nature) God decide*,
He earth from heaven, the sea from earth divides:
He ether pure extracts from grosser air.
All which unfolded by his prudent care,
From that blind mass; the happily disjoin'd
With strifeless peace, be to their seats confin'd, &c.
What God soever this division wrought,
And every part to due proportion brought,
First, lest the earth unequal should appear,
He turn’d it round in figure of a sphere.
Then seas diffus’d, commanding them to roar
With ruffling winds, and give the land a shore.
To those he added springs, ponds, lakes immense,
And rivers whom their winding borders fence.
Where, though that learned paraphrast supposed
(and not without some probability neither) that
Deus et melior natura, God and the better nature,
—were one and the self-same thing, yet we rather
conceived them to be distinct, but one of them
subordinate to the other as its instrument, God
OF ONE UNMADE DEITY. 505
and the plastic nature; accordingly as Aristotle
writes in his Physics, Nowc K
al ainov rovSe rov
iravrog, That mind and nature were both together
the cause ofthis universe.—
Nevertheless, we cannot but observe in this
place, that though that poet speaks more than
once of God singularly, as also calls him mundi
fabricator, and ille opifpx rerum, and mundi me-
lioris origo; yet notwithstanding, where he writes
of the making of man, Pagan-like, he affirms him,
though to have been made by God, yet according
to the image or likeness of the gods, whichgoverq
all things.
Sanctius his animal, mentisque capacius altae,
Deerat adhuc, et quod dominari in csetera posset;
Natus homo est: sive hqnc divino semine fecit,
Ille opifex rerum, mundi melioris origo :
Sive recens tellus, seductaque nuper ab alto
jEthere, cognati retinebat semina coeli.
Quam satus Iapeto, mistam fluvialibus undis,
Finxit in effigiem moderantum cuncta deorum.
The nobler being, with a mind possest,
Was wanting yet, that should command the rest,
That Maker, the best world’s original,
Either him fram'd of seed celestial;
Or earth, which late he did from heaven divide,
Some sacred seeds retain’d to heaven allied:
Which with the living stream Prpmetheus mixt,
And in that artificial structure fixt
The form of all the all-ruling deities.
And because some may probably be puzzled with
this seeming contradiction, that one God should
be said to be the maker ofthe whole world and of
man, and yet the government of all should be at­
tributed to gods plprally, and man said to be made
in the image and likeness of the gods; we shall
therefore add here, that according to the tenor
of the Pagan theology, the inferior and minor gods
506 PAGAN THEOGONISTS ASSERTORS
were supposed also to have all of them their se­
veral share in the government of things below
them: for which cause they are called not only
by Maximus Tyrius,* owapxpvrtg 0
t<
j>
, co-rulers
with God, but also by Plato himself, rip fity'wTtp
Satfiovi avvapy'ovrtg, the co-governors and co-reign-
ers with the supreme God. So that the govern­
ment of this inferior world was by the Pagans
often attributed to them jointly, the supreme and
inferior gods both together, under that one gene­
ral name of gods. But the chief of those infe­
rior deities, in whose image man is also said to
have been made, as well as in the likeness of the
supreme, were either those celestial gods and
animated stars before mentioned by the poet, or
else the eternal gods of Plato, which were looked
upon likewise as co-makers of the world subor­
dinate.
Besides Ovid, we might instance here in many
more of the Pagan Theogonists clearly acknow­
ledging in like manner one unmade Deity, which
generated both the world and all the other gods
in it; as, for example, Strabo, who, affirming that
the World was Ttjg tpiatutga/tiatc&
t rijg irpovolag epyov,
the joint work both of nature and providence,—
17 809 as it was* before ascribed by Ovid to
p’ ' Dens et melior natura, adds concern­
ing Providence or the Deity in this manner: To
$£ rije trpovotag, ort /3e(3ov\rrrai teat avrij iroaoXorepa rig
o v o a , teat fivpiuv ip y w v Stipuovpyog, tv rote irpotroig Zioa
yewqtv, iroXu Sta^tpovra tw v dXXotv* teat ro vrio v ra
KpcLTitJTa 0 tovg re jcai avOftojrovg,. (ov tv tK tv ,teat rd aXXa
a w im tiK t. T oig plv ovv Ototie airt§tt£t rov oupavov, rote
S' avflfwirote r»jv yjfv. That having a multiform fe-
*Dissertat. i. p. 5. edit. Lugd. 1631.8vo,
OF ONE UNMADE DEITY. 507
cundity in it, and delighting in variety of works,
it designed principally to make animals as the
most excellent things, and amongst them chiefly
those two noblest kinds of animals, gods and
men; for whose sakes the other things were
made; and then assigned heaven to the gods, and
earth to men, the two extreme parts of the world
for their respective habitations.—Thus also Se­
neca in Lactantiiis,* speaking concerning God:
“ Hie cum prima fundaraenta molis pulcherrimae
jaceret, et hoc ordiretur, quo neque majus quic-
quam novit natura nec melius; ut omnia sub du-
cibus irent, quamvis ipse per totum se corpus,
intenderat, tamen ministros regni sui deos genuit.”
God, when he laid the foundations of this most
beautiful fabric, and began to erect that struc-
• ture, than which nature knows nothing greater or
more excellent; to the end that all things might
be carried on under their respective governors or­
derly, though he intended himself through the
whole, as to preside in chief over all, yet did he
generate gods also, as subordinate ministers of
his kingdom under him.—We shall forbear to
mention the testimonies of others here, because
they may be more opportunely inserted elsewhere;
only we shall add, as to Hesiod and Homer, that
though they seem to have been sometimes sus­
pected, both by Plato and Aristotle, for Atheistic
Theogonists, yet, as Aristotle did, upon maturer
thoughts, afterwards change his opinion concern­
ing both of them, so it is most probable, that
they were no Atheists, but Divine Theogonists;
such as supposed indeed many generated gods,
but one supreme unmade Deity, the maker both
* *Divin. Iuatitut. lib. i. cap. v. p. 40.
608 THE d iv in e t h e o g o n is t s m a d e
o£ the world and them. And this not only for
vhe grounds before alleged concerning Hesiod,
and because both of them do every where affirm
even their generated gods to be immortal (which
no Atheists did), but also for sundry other rea­
sons, some of which may be more conveniently
inserted elsewhere. Moreover, it hath been al­
ready intimated, that the generated gods of He­
siod and Homer extend farther than those of
Plato’s; they being not only the animated parts of
the world, but also all the other things of nature
fictitiously personated, and improperly or abu­
sively called gods and goddesses; whereof a far­
ther account will be afterwards given.
Neither ought it at all to be wondered at, if
these Divine Theogonists amongst the Pagans did
many times, as well as those other atheistic ones,
-make Chaos and the Ocean senior to the gods,
and Night the mother of them. The former of
these being not only done by Hesiod and Homer,
but also by the generality of the ancient Pagan
Theists in Epicharinus;* and the latter by Or­
pheus,11 an undoubted Theist, in his hymn of the
Night:
v Nuxta Qi£v ytvirttgAf atiro/uai, Mi xai avfySr
Noctem concelebro genetricem hominum deumque.
They not understanding this absolutely and uni­
versally of all the gods without exception, as the
other Atheistic Theogonists did, as if there had.
been no unmade Deity at all, but Chaos and
Night (that is, senseless matter blindly and fortu-
*Apud Diog. Laert. lib. iii. segm. 10. p. 170.
bP. 99. oper. Vide etiam cundem in Argonautic. vers. 339. p. 24.
et Proclum in Timaeum Platonis, lit* ii. p. 63.
CHAOS AND NIGHT SENIOR TO THE GOt)S. 5 6 9
itously moved,) had been the sole original of all
things, but only of the ol 0 «>/, the gods, so called
by way of distinction from God, or the supreme
Deity; that is, the inferior mundane gods gene­
rated together with the world. The reason whereof
was, because it was a most ancient, and in a man­
ner universally received tradition amongst the
Pagans, as hath been often intimated, that the
cosmogonia, or generation of the world, took its
first beginning from a chaos (the Divine Cosmo-
gonists agreeing herein with the Atheistic ones);
this tradition having been delivered down from
Orpheus and Linus (amongst the Greeks), by
Hesiod and Homer, and others; acknowledged
by Epicharmus; and embraced by Thales, Anax­
agoras, Plato, and other philosophers, who were
Theists; the antiquity whereof was thus declared
by Euripides:*
Oux ifjtos ofjtZQos, «tXX’ fywic ftitrgtt vag«,
\12; ougavofr t y a u t r fa fAOf<prj fx ia ,
'Entl i£ttgtrd>)0>
ayaX
X
nX
w
T«tw n v a v r a , xca & aixar
T« H v fy a , v r v v a , 0?g*c, ovq 8’ aX juv T{E<pti,
rivof rt O
vnrSnr
Non hie meus, sed matrisest sermo mcae,
Figura ut nna fuerit et coeli et soli,
Secreta quae mox ut receperunt statum,
Cuncta ediderunt haec in oras luminis;
Feras, volucres, arbores, ponti gregem,
Homines quoque ipsos.
Neither can it reasonably be doubted, but that
it was originally Mosaical, and indeed at first a
Divine revelation, since no man could otherwise
pretend to know what was done before mankind
*In Menalippe apud Diodor. Sicul. lib. i. cap. iy. ct Eusebium
Prarp&rat. Evangel, lib. i. cap. v. p. 20.
filO THE DIVINE THEOGONISTS MADE
bad any being. Wherefore those Pagan Cosmo-
gonists, who were Theists, being Polytheists and
Theogonists also, and asserting, besides the one
supreme unmade Deity, other inferior mundane
gods, generated together with the world (the chief
whereof were the animated stars), they must needs,
according to the tenor of that tradition, suppose
them, as to their corporeal parts at least, to have
been juniors to Night and Chaos, and the offspring
Sym
pos i 4 them, because they were all made out
Qu.5. [p. wo. of an antecedent dark chaos. Tijv nvyct-
*
* ^ Arjv tK
TtduaaO
at Aryovtrtv (saitll Plutarch),
wjto Ai'yuimwv TvtpXrjv ovaav, on to okotoq tow ijx^Tog
iJyowvTo irpe<r/3wrepov* The wus araneus being blind,
is said to have been deified by the Egyptians, be­
cause they thought, that darkness was older than
light.—And the case was the same concerning
their demons likewise, they being conceived to
have their corporeal vehicula also; for which
cause, as Porphyrius* from Numenius writeth,
the ancient Egyptians pictured them in ships or
boats floating upon the w ater: roue Se Alyvvriovc
Sia towto Toue Sal/xovag airavrag owe toravat «rt ortptov,
aXXa vavrag im nXolov. The Egyptians therefore
represented all their demons, as not standing
upon firm land, but in ships upon the water.—•
But as for the incorporeal part or souls of those
inferior gods, though these Divine Theogonists
could not derive their original from Chaos or
matter, but rather from that other principle .called
Love, as being divinely created, and so having
God for their father, yet might they, notwith­
standing, in auother sense, fancy Night to h a v ^
been their mother too, inasmuch as they were
*Dc Antro Nyrnphar. p. 66, edit. Cantab.
CHAOS AND NIGHT SENIOR TO THE GODS. 5 1 1
all made owe ovrwv, from an antecedent nou-ex-
istence or nothing, brought forth into being. For
which cause there seems to have been in Orpheus
a dialogue betwixt the Maker *of the world and
Night * For that this ancient cabala, which de­
rived the cosmogonia from Chaos and Love, was
at first religious and not atheistical, and Love un­
derstood in it not to be the offspring of Chaos,
may be concluded from hence, because this Love
as well as Chaos was of a Mosaical extraction
also, and plainly derived from that Spirit of God,
which is said in Scripture to have moved upon the
waters, that is, upon the chaos; whether by this
Spirit be to be meant God himself, as acting im­
mediately upon the matter, or some other active
principle derived from God and not from matter
(as a mundane soul or plastic nature). From
whence also it came, that, as Porphyrius testifieth,
the ancient Pagans thought the water D
eA
nt
to be divinely inspired: yyovvro yap npom- N
ym
ph.P
.
Zflvuv Tip vBan rac; \f>vy^ag deoirvOM ovti oig^sjoiv
o.Now/iijvioc Bid tovto XeytOK icat rdv Trpo^qrqv EiptjKtvac,
ifiipipeadai tnav(i) tov vBarog flsovitvivfia' They thought,
that souls attended upon the water, or resorted
thereunto, as being divinely inspired, as Nume-
nius writeth, adding the prophet also therefore to
have said, that the Spirit of God moved upon the
water.—
And that this cabala was thus understood by
some of the ancient Pagan Cosmogonists them­
selves, appears plaiuly, not only from Simmias
Rhodius and Parmenides, but also from these
following verses of Orpheus, or whoever was the
writer of those Argonautics, undoubtedly ancient,
*Apml Proclum et alio».
512 THE DIVINE THEOOQNISTS MADE
where Chaos and Love are thus brought in to­
gether :—
P. 17. ecL nfira. fxb a^atw Xofoc fxe>M^arw 5/otvcr,
Steph. *12; tTra/uei^t <puretc, «c r ofyavoc etc iregac fade*
rUc r* fvfy^rffvw/ ymcnv, mAftsta re &aX&ovnc,
IJ^ty0vrarw re not avrortXri voXvfA.nrtv*Ep«Ttt,
*0<rcra £<pw
t«r aTTav^ct, iiixgjw i ’ aXXov am aXXov*
To this sense : We will first sing a pleasant and
delightful song concerning the ancient Chaos, how
heaven, earth, and seas were framed out of it; as
also concerning that much-wise and sagacious
Love, the oldest of all, and self-perfect, which
actively produced all these things, separating one
thing from another.—Where this Love is not
•only called w
oX
«ju»jr«c, of much counsel or saga­
ciousness, which implies it to have been a sub­
stantial and intellectual thing, but also irp£«r/3wraroe,
the oldest of all, and therefore senior to Chaos,
as, likewise, auroreX»fc, self-perfect or self-origi­
nated.—From whence it is manifest, that, ac­
cording to the Orphic tradition, this Love, which
the cosmogonia was derived from, was no other
than the eternal unmade Deity (or an active prin­
ciple depending on it) which produced this whole
orderly world, and all the generated gods in it, as
to their material part, out of Chaos and Night.
Accordingly, as Aristotle determines in his Me-
l.i. c. 6
. taphysics, not only in the place before
p.849. cited, but also afterward: ertpot Se tu/*c»
oOev ij ap^ij Tt)q otrot ?
* Nouv v ^Epwra iroioHaiv
«PX»jv. Others, besides the material cause of the
world, assign an efficient, or cause of motion;
namely, whosoever make either Mind (and intel­
lect) or Love a principle.—Wherefore we con­
clude, that that other Atheistic cabala, or Arftsto-
CHAOS AND NIGHT SENIOR TO THE GODS. 513
phanic tradition before-mentioned, which accord­
ingly, as Aristotle also elsewhere declareth con­
cerning it, did 4k w
ktoc irovra "ysw
qtv, generate all
things whatsoever, even the gods themselves uni­
versally, out of Night and Chaos, making Love
itself likewise to have been produced from an egg
of the Night; I say, that this was nothing else
but a mere depravation of the ancient Mosaic
cabala, as also an absolutely impossible hypothe­
sis, it deriving all things whatsoever in the uni­
verse, besides the bare substance of senseless mat­
ter, in another sense than that before-mentioned,
out of nonentity or nothing; as shall be also far­
ther manifested afterwards.
We have now represented the sense and gene­
rally received doctrine of the ancient Pagan theo-
logers, that there was indeed a multiplicity of
gods, but yet so that one of them only was ayiwn-
toc, ingenerate or unmade, by whom all the other
gods, together with the world, were made, so as
to have had a novity of being, or a temporary be­
ginning of their existence; Plato and the Pytha­
goreans here only differing from the rest in this,
that though they acknowledged the world and
all the mundane gods to have been generated to­
gether in time, yet they supposed certain other
intelligible and supramundane gods also, which
however, produced from one original Deity, were
nevertheless eternal or without beginning. But
now we must acknowledge, that there were
amongst the Pagan Theists some of a different
persuasion from the rest, who therefore did not
admit of any theogonia in the sense before de­
clared, that is, any temporary generation of gods,
because they acknowledged no cosmogonia, no
514 SOME PAGAN THEISTS NEITHER
temporary production of the world, but concluded
it to have been from eternity.
That Aristotle was one of these is sufficiently
known; whose inferior gods, therefore, the sun,
moon, and stars, must needs be aytwirroi, or inge-
nerate, in this sense, so as to have had no tempo-
rary production, because the whole world to him
was such. And if that philosopher* be to be be­
lieved, himself was the very first, at least of all
the Greeks, who asserted this ingenerateness or
eternity of the world; he affirming, that all before
him did ytw<jvrov Konkov, and Kov/uoirouiv, generate
or make the world ; that is, attribute a temporary
production to it, and consequently to all those
gods also, which were a part thereof. Notwith­
standing which, the writer De Placitis Pkiloso-
phorum,band Stobaeus,' impute this dogma of the
world’s eternity to certain others of the Greek
philosophers before Aristotle (besides Ocellus
Lucanus,d who is also acknowledged by Philo
to have been an.assertor thereof). And indeed
Epicharmus, though a Theist, seems plainly to
have been of this persuasion, that the world was
unmade, as also that there was no theogonia, nor
temporary production of the inferior gods, from
these verses of his,* according to Grotius’s cor­
rection :—
Excerp. *AXX’ act to; dioi ‘
BUgrkav, u'jteXitto
v ou Ktuifoxtf
p. 478. T a5
e 5’ atl wagwQ’ o/txout, iia ie reHv avrUv atL
*De Coelo, lib. i. cap. x. p. 623. tom. i. oper.
bLib. ii. cap. iv. p. 886.
«Eclog. Physic, lib. i. cap. xxiv. p. 44.
4De Mundi ./Eternitate, inter Scriptor. Mytholog. a Tho. Gala
editos.
*Apud Diogen. Laert. lib. iii. segm. x. p. 170.
THEOGONISTS NOR COSMOGONI8TS, 515
*A
X
X
aX
sy*Ta»/ugvy a .es T
T
pa-rovyfoio-0ai rawdi£v*
nSc i i ; iftayeLvem y airo rtwf o, rt irgZrov /ia
o
X
m’
Ou* ag* ijU
oX
f vrgctT
ovoi/iev, o v it fx a & ltt it v r tp v ,
Twy i t y eh ifX fJ,if w v X ty o fx f* «?v«u/xfXAii rail.
Nempe Di semper fuerunt, atquenunquam intercident:
Haec quae dico semper nobis rebus in iisdem se exhibent
Extitisse sed deorum primum perhibetur chaos:
Quinam vero ? nam de nihiio nil pote primum existere.
Ergo nec primum profecto quicquam, nec fuit alterum:
Sed quae nunc sic appellantur, alia fient postmodum.
Where, though he acknowledges this to have
been the general tradition of the ancient Theists,
that Chaos was before the gods, and that the in*
ferior mundane gods had a temporary generation,
or production with the world; yet, notwithstand­
ing, does he conclude against it, from this ground
of reason—because nothing could proceed from
nothing; and, therefore, both the gods, and in­
deed whatsoever else is substantial in the world,
was from eternity unmade, only the fashion of
things having been altered.
Moreover, Diodorus Siculus affirms the Chal­
deans likewise to have asserted this L #
dogma of the world’s eternity, oi S’ ovv P
XaXSatoi rrjv ptv rov Koapov tpvcnv atSiov <j>amv aval, ical prjrt
*
2
;apyrijg ytvtm v toy(t)Ktvai, fiqff wrrepov <f>9opav siriSf&aOat,
The Chaldeans affirm the nature of the world to
be eternal, and that it was neither generated from
any beginning, nor will ever admit corruption.—
Who, that they were not Atheists for all that (no
more than Aristotle), appears from those follow­
ing words of that historiographer: njv re rwv oXwv
ra£iv re icat Suncoonnmv, Otut nvi irpovoiq. yiyovtvai, ical
w v eicaararwvevovpavto yivofitvwv, ovy^ wg erv^ev, ovS’ av-
rofiartog, a’X
X
’ Mpioptvp rtvi icai (3e(3awg KtKvpwpevp 0ewv
icpiffu, <
rvvreX
eur0a<* They believe also, that the order
5 1 6 PAGAN ASSERTORS OF THE ETERNITY
and disposition of the world is by a certain Di­
vine Providence, and that every one of those
' things, which come to pass in the heavens, hap­
pens not by chance, but by a certain determinate
and firmly ratified judgment of the gods.—How­
ever, it is a thing known to all, that the generality
of the later Platonists stiffly adhered to Aristotle
in this; neither did they only assert the corpo­
real world, with all the inferior mundane gods in
it, to be o-ytvvjJrovG
, or ingenerate, and to have ex­
isted from eternity, but also maiutained the same
concerning the souls of men, and all other ani­
mals (they concluding that no souls were younger
than body or the world); and because they would
not seem to depart from their master, Plato,
therefore did they endeavour violently to force
this same sense upon Plato’s words also.
Notwithstanding which, concerning these later
Platonists, it is here observable, that though they
thus asserted the world, and all inferior gods and
souls, to have been .ayswnrovg, according to that
stricter sense of the word declared, that is, to
have had no temporary generation or beginning,
but to have existed from eternity; yet by no
means did they therefore conceive them to be
avroytvtiQk
o
I avO
viroararovQ
, self-originated, and self-
existing, but concluded them to have been all
derived from one sole self-existent Deity
as their cause; which, therefore, though
not in order of time, yet of nature was before
them. To this purpose, Plotinus: vow irpo avrw
tlvat ov^r ale ypov<f> irportpov aurov ovra, a’XX on Trapd
vov sari Kal ipvau irponpoc tK tivog, Kal a irta v ro v ro v , a p y rt-
ruirov otov Kal irapaS tiyfia iikovoq' Kal <
5
1 fKEivov ovroc K al
wwtovtoc «« rovSt t
o
v rpoirov. Mind or God was
En. 3.1.2.c. 1.
THE SAME THING WITH THE COSMOGONIA. 517
before tbe world, not as if it existed before it
in time, but because the world proceeded from it,
and that was in order of nature first as the cause
thereof, and its archetype or paradigm; the world
also always subsisting by it and from G
n. 2. 1.9.
it.—‘
And again elsewhere to the same °-3-
purpose, ov roiwv iytvero, aAA’ tylvero Kal yivijacrai,
ooa ytvt]Ta Xcyerai, ov Se fOapyotrai, aAA’ v wra iyei iiQ
a* The things, which are said to have been
made or generated, were not so made, as that
they ever had a beginning of their existence, but
yet they were made, and will be always made
(in another sense); nor will they ever be destroy­
ed otherwise than as beirig dissolved into those
simple principles, out of which some of them
were compounded.—Where, though the world be
said never to have been made as to a temporary
beginning, yet, in another sense, is it said to be
always made, as depending upon God B
n
>
5
> L8.
perpetually as the emanative cause c-12-
thereof. Agreeably whereunto, the manner of
the world’s production from God is thus de­
clared by that philosopher; oweopO
togol <
f>
0
e
lp
o
v
<
nkal
ytwwmv avrov, oong yap rpoirog rrjg iro
it}
<
re&
>
€ravn/c,
o
v
keO
fX
ovtrt avviivai, ovS’ ttraaiv, on oaov eiciivalAAa/uira,
ovjuiifrorcraiXXatXXilira. They do not rightly, who
corrupt and generate the world, for they will not
understand what manner of makiug or produc­
tion the world had, to wit, by way of effulgency
or eradiation from the Deity. From whence it
follows, that the w.orld must needs have been so
long as there was a God, as the light was coeve
with the sun.—So likewise Proclus * concludes,
* There are still extant eighteen arguments of his, wherein he
attacks the Christian doctrine of the world’s being created by Godin
VOL. I. 2 L
518 PAGAN A8SJSRTORS OF THE
that the world was a
’« •yi-yvo/usvoc, km kXkap*Qinvoc
aVorov ovrocr always generated or eradiated from
God—and therefore must needs be eternal* God
being so. Wherefore these latter Platonists sup*
posed the same thing concerning the corporeal
world, and. the lower mundane'gods, which'their
master Plato did concerning his higher eternal
gods; that though they had no temporary pro?
duction, yet they all depended no. less upon one
supreme Deity, than if they had .been made out
of nothing by him. Prom whence it is manifest*
that none of these philosophers apprehended any
repugnancy at all betwixt these two things; ex­
istence from eternity* and being’caused or.pro­
duced by another. Nor can we make any great
doubt, but that if the latter Platonists had been
fully convinced of any contradictious inconsis­
tency here, they would readily have disclaimed
that their sO beloved hypothesis of the world’s;
eternity; it being so far from truth what;some
have supposed, .that the assfertors of the world’s
eternity were all Atheists, that these latter Pla­
tonists were: led into this’opinion;, no otherwise
than from the Sole consideration of the Deity.;
to wit, its ayaOotiBye fiovXifaict km yovtfioc- Sw
va/tuc,>
p its essential goodness* ..and generative
power, or emanative fecundity—as Pros
clus plainly declares upon the Timaeus.
Now, though Aristotle were not acted with
any such divine enthusiasm as these Platonists
seem to have been, yet did he notwithstanding,
time; in answer to which, John Philoponus wrote the same number
of books against the eternity of the world. VideJo. Alberti Fabricii
Biblioth, Grace, lib. v. c. x iu §.xiii. p. 522.
ETERNITY OF THE WORLD AND GODS. 519'
after his sober manner, really maintain the same
thing; that though the world, and inferior mun-t
dane gods, had no temporary generation, yet;
were they nevertheless all produced from one'
supreme Deity as their cause. Thus Simplicius
represen ts that philosopher’s sense:. 'ApurrorcX^ov
ylvtaO
ac d£iOi row Kwspbv, aWa icar aAAov ^
rpoirovvvdOcov 7rapayEcr0ai' Aristotle would Phys. 1.8.
not have the world to have been made, A
idil
(so as'to have had a beginning), but yet
nevertheless to have been produced from God after
some other manner.-^-And again afterw ard; ’Apur-
Tori\iiirp:ainov tov ovpavov 'Kal Ttjg cUSlov Kivijtrswg atiroi
OtovXtytiv, optic ayivtirov' avrovawoStikvvai. Aristotle,
though making God the cause of the heaven and
its eterhal motion, yet concludes it notwithstand­
ing to havebeen ihgenerate or unm ade;—that is,
without, beginning. However, we think fit here
to observe, that though Aristotle do for the
most part express a great deal of zeal and confi­
dence for that opinion of th e world’s eternity, yet
doth he sometimes for all that seem to flag a little,
and speak more languidly and sceptically about
it; as, for example, in his book de Partibus Ani-
malium, where he treats concerning an artificial
nature: paXXov tuepe row ovpavdv yeyevti'oOai, ^ c
wjrorotavriie curiae, « ytyove, kcutlvai Sia roiavrrjv
eurwv, paXXov ij tfia ra Ovqra’ It IS HIOre oper.]
likely, that the heaven was made by such a cause
as this (if it were made), and that it is maintained
by such a cause, than that mortal animals should
be so; which yet is a thing more generally ac­
knowledged^—Now it was. before declared, that
Aristotle’s artificial nature was nothing but the
mere executioner or opificer of a perfect Mind;
2 l S
5 2 0 THE PAGANS’ ETERNAL GODS ytvqrol*:
that is, of the D eity; which two therefore he
sometimes joins together in the Cosmopoeia, af­
firming that Mind and nature, that is, God and
nature, were the cause of this universe.
And now we see plainly, that though there
was a real controversy amongst the Pagan tbeo-
logers (especially from Aristotle’s time down­
ward), concerning the Cosmogonia and Theogonia,
according to the stricter notion of those words,
the temporary generation or production of the
world' and inferior gods, or whether they had any
beginning or n o ; yet was there no controversy at
all concerning the self-existency of them, b u t it
was universally agreed upon amongst them, th a t
the world, and the inferior gods, however sup­
posed by some to have existed from eternity, yet
were nevertheless all derived from one sole self-
existent Deity as their cause; two feou vapayopevot
rj iWapvofisvoi, being either eradiated or produced
from God.—-Wherefore it is observable, that these
Pagan Theists, Who asserted the world’s eternity,
did themselves distinguish concerning the word
■ytvijrov ortum, natum, et factum, as that which
Was equivocal: aud though in one sense of it,
they denied, that the world and' inferior gods
were ytvriTpi, yet notwithstanding did they ,in an­
other sense Clearly affirm the same. For the word
sim
piie. in. (say they) strictly and properly
taken, is T
Oiv ptfu yrpovov t
t
}
v tic T
O tlvai
, ‘ ' 7rapoSov Xa/av, that which, in respect of
time passed Out of non-existence into being—or o
to n-portpov nv ov, tiortpov St or, that which being n o t
before, afterwards was.—Nevertheless they ac­
knowledge, that in a larger sense this word
yevTfrov may be taken, also for to O
T
T
O
K
rovv ax’ airiac
DERIVED FROM ONE SELF-EXISTENT DEITV. 521,
tytarafuvov, that which doth any way depend
upon a superior being as its cause.— And there
must needs be the same equivocation in the
word aytvtirov, so that this in like manner may be
taken also, either ypovucwc, for that which is
ingenerate in respect ot time, as having no tem­
porary beginning; or else for that which is air
mriaeayivirrov, ingenerate or unproduced from any
cause:—in which latter sense, that word dytwrov,
or unmade, is of equal force and extent with
avfhnrocnaTov O
T avroyevec;, that which is S elf-S u b - .
sistent or se lf-o rig in a te d a n d accordingly it was
used by those Pagan Theists, who concluded
on iXi)dytvriToc, i.e. that matter was unmade—that
is, not only existed from eternity without begin-,
ning, but also was self-existent, and independent
upon any superior cause. Now, as to the for­
mer of these two senses of those words, yevvrov
and dyivnrov, the generality of the ancient Pagans,
and together with them Plato, affirmed the
world, and all the inferior gods, to be ycvqrovc, to
have been made in time—or to have had a begin­
ning; (for whatever the latter Platonists pretend,
this was undoubtedly Plato’s notion of that word,
and. no other, when he concluded the world to be
ysvjjTov, forasmuch as himself expressly opposes
it to aScots, that which is eternal.) But, on the,
contrary, Aristotle, and the latter Platonists,
determined the world, and all the inferior gods,
to be in this sense dyev^rovv, such as had no tem­
porary beginning—but were from eternity. How­
ever, according to the latter sense of those words,
all the Pagan theologers agreed together, that,
the world, and all the inferior gods, whether
having a beginning, or existing from eternity,
522 THE PAGANS’ ETERNAL GODS y tw r c l*
were notwithstanding yevijrol air alrlag, produced
or derived from a superior cause;—and th at thus
there was only one Oeoe ayivyrog, one unproduced
and self-existent Deity— who is said by them to
be atrlag Kpeirrtov Kai irptafUrspog, superior to n oause,
and older than any cause, he being-the cause of
all things besides himself. Thus Crantor, and
his followers in Proclus, zealous assertors of the
in Time, world’s eternity, determined, yevnrov
.• XeytoQcu rov koouou tig air' alrlag aXXijg
[V.deatmm ' , , , y , /
e u n d e m i n Trapayofjizvovy Kai ovK ovra avfoyovov O W E
iniSeoiogi-6 av&vTToaraTov* that the world (with all the
inferior mundane gods in it), notwith*
«•“ ™
*d standing their being from eternity, m ight
68. eilib. yi. be said to be ytvrrrm
, that is orti, or
o. 2.p.34i.] made, as being produced from another
cause, and not self-originated or self-existing*
In like manner Proclus himself, that grand cham­
pion for the world’s eternity, plainly acknow ­
ledged, notwithstanding, the generation, of the
gods and world in this sense, as being produced
from a superior cause: Xlyojuev O
tivv ysinjaug, nfv
appiyrov avrolv 7rpo<ro$ov evSuKvvfttvoi, Kai tj)v rwv 8tvriptov
mporijra, irpog rag airlag uvtwv' W e call it the ge­
nerations of the gods, meaning thereby, not any
temporary production of them, but their ineffa­
ble procession from a superior first cause*—T hus
also Salustius, in his book de Diis et Mundo,*
where he contends the world to have been from
eternity, or without beginning, yet concludes
both it, and the other inferior gods, to have been
made by one supreme Deity, who is called by
him, o irpwrog 9eoc, the first God.— For, saith he,
* Cap. *iii. p. 209. inter Scriptor. Mythologic. £ Tho.£al$ editoa.
DERIVED FROM ONE SELF-EXISTENT DEITY. 523
ju ty io T J/c r f / c d v v d ju sw c a&orig, o v k av0fW7rovg eSei Kat £ w a
ftova ttouiv, aXXa Oeovg ts xai Sal/tovag. God, Or the
first cause, having the greatest power, or being
omnipotent, ought therefore to make not only
men, and other animals, but also gods and
demons.. And accordingly this is the title of
his 18th chapter: tra c rd atSia Xeyercu ylyveaflai, how
eternal things may be said to be made or gene­
rated.—It is true, indeed (as we have often de­
clared), that some of the Pagan Theists asserted
Gdd not to be the only ayivtrrov kat avOviroorarov,
the only unmade and self-existent being—but
that matter also was such; nevertheless, this
opinion was not so generally received amongst
them, as is commonly supposed: and though
some of the ancient fathers confidently impute it
to Plato, yet there seems to be no sufficient
ground for their so doing; and Porphyrius,
Jamblichus, Proclus, and other Platonists, do
not only professedly oppose the same as false,
but also as that which was dissonant from Plato’s
principles. Wherefore, according to that larger
notion of the word d yivn ro v, as taken synony­
mously with avroytvegand avOvnoararov, there were
many of the Pagan theologers, who agreed with
Christians in this, o n avro ayevjjrov o 0£o'c, Kat
ovcr'ia avTov w e a v tnrot rig i) a y tw iia ia , that God is
the only ingenerate or unmade being, and that
}iis very essence is ingenerability or innascibility;
—all other things, even matter itself, being made
by him. . But all the rest of them (only a few
Ditheists excepted), though they supposed matter
to be self-existent, yet did they conclude, that
there was only «e 0eoc dylvijroc, Only one unmade
or unproduced God—and that all their other
524 HOW THE PAGANS DISTINGUISHED .
gods were ytvnrol, in one sense or other, if not
as made in time, yet at least as produced from a
superior cause.
Nothing now reniaineth, but only that we shew,
how the Pagans did distinguish, and put a dif­
ference, betwixt the one supreme unmade Deity,
and all their, other inferior generated gods.
Which we are the rather concerned to do, because
it is notorious, that they did many times also corn-
found them together, attributing the government
of the' whole world to the gods promiscuously,
and without putting any due discrimination be-*
twixt the supreme and inferior (the true reason
whereof seems to have been this, because they
supposed the supreme God, not to do all imme­
diately, in the government of the world, but to
permitmuch to his inferiorministers); one instance
of which we had before in Ovid, and innumer­
able such others might be cited out of their most
sober writers. As, for example, Cicero, in his
first book of Laws,* “ Deorum immortalium vi,
ratione, potestate, mente, numine, natura omnis
regitur;” the whole nature, or universe, is governed
by the force, reason, power, mind, and divinity of
the immortal gods.—And again in his second
book,b “ Deos esse dominos ac moderatores om­
nium rerum, eaque quae geruntur, eorum geri ju-
dicio atque numine; eosdemque optime de genere
hominum mereri, et qualis quisque sit, quid agat,
quid in se admittat, qua mente, qua pietate reli-
giones colat, intueri; priorumque et impiorum
habere rationem; a principio civibus suasum esse
a Lib. i. cap. yii. p. 3303. oper. tom. ix.
b Lib. ii. cap. vii. p. 3343.
THE SUPREME FROM THE INFERIOR GODS. 5 2 5
debet:” the minds of citizens ought to be first
of all embued with a firm persuasion, that the
gods are the lords and moderators of all things,
and that the conduct and management of the
whole world is directed and overruled by their
judgment and Divine power; that they deserve
the best of mankind, that they behold and con­
sider what every man is, what he doth and takes
upon himself, with what mind, piety, and sincerity,
he observes the duties of religion; and, lastly,
that these gods have a very different regard to the
pious and the impious.—Now such passages as
these abounding every where in Pagan writings,
it is no wonder, if many, considering their theo­
logy but slightly and superficially, have been led
into an error, and occasioned thereby to conclude
the Pagans not to have asserted a Divine monar­
chy, but to have imputed both the making and
governing of the world to an aristocracy or demo­
cracy of co-ordinate gods, not only all eternal,
but also self-existent and unmade. The contrary
whereunto, though it be already sufficiently
proved, yet it will not be amiss for us here in the
close, to shew how the Pagans, who sometimes
jumble and confound the supreme and inferior
gods all together, do notwithstanding at othertimes
many ways distinguish between the one supreme
God, and their other many inferior gods.
First, therefore, as the Pagans had many pro-,
per names for one and the same supreme God,
according to several particular considerations of
him, in respect of his several different manifes­
tations and effects in the world; which are often­
times mistaken for so many distinct deities (some
supposing them independent, others subordinate);
526 p a g a n s ’ p r o p e r n a m e s
so bad they also, besides these, other proper
names of God, according to that more full and
comprehensive notion of him; as the Maker of the
whole world, and its supreme Governor, or the
sole Monarch ofthe universe. For thus the Greeks
called him Z a n d Zijw, &c. the Latin# Jupiter
and Jovis, the Babylonians Belus and Bel* tbe
Persians Mithras and Oromasdes, the Egyptians
and Scythians (according toHerodotus) Ammoun
and Pappaeu#. And Celsus in Origen concludes
it to be a matter of pure iodifferency, to Call the
supreme God by any of all these names, either
Lib. 5. c. Zew
c, or Ammoun, or Pappseus, or the
’ like; KeAooe outcli fitfSiv >& a<pepEiv9 A la
\pHJTOv, KaXetv rj Zrjva, t) ASwvarov* rt 'Eafia-
*50, V (<og Aryvirrioi) ’’Aftftovv, v (w? 2<cil0ai) Tlainralov.
Celsus thinks it to be a matter of no moment,
whether we call the highest and supreme God,
Adonai and Sabaoth, as the Jews do; or i>ia and
Zena, as the. Greeks; or, as the Egyptians, Am­
moun ; or, as the Scythians, Pappaeus.—Notwith­
standing which, that pious and jealous father ex­
pressed agreat deal ofzeal against Christians then
using any of those Pagan names. “ But we will
rather endure any torment (saith he) than confess
Zeus (or.Jupiter) to be God; being well assured,
that the Greeks often really worship, under that
name, an evil demon, who is an enemy both to
God and men. And we will rather suffer death,
than call the supreme God Ammoun, whom the
Egyptian enchanters thus invoke: X iytrw rav Sc
icat ScvOai row Ylawtreuov Oeov aval rowiirl itaaiv' aXX’
ijjucic o
wiruoofxeOa, riOevrte /itu row C
7
ri itaai O
e
o
v
, w
c Sc
<j>l\ov rip Xayowrt r»|v 2/cvOtov tptifiiav, teal toe
O
v
o
c avrtov
kat SiaX
ctcrow
, o
v
k dw
ojud^ovrcc. row 6cow, &
>
£ Kvplqi
FOR THE 8UPREME GOt>. 527
ovo/ian Tif> TIainrcuov. 'SkvO
utti yap to 7rpo<r»j"yopt({dv
roi» ©eov, (cat Aiyvimcrrl, /cat iraatf dtaXt/crto »
} t/caaroc
tvTtOpairrai, dvo/ia^uv, ov^ ajuaprtftrerat. And though
the Scythians call the supreme God Pappseus,
yet we> acknowledging a supreme God, will never
be persuaded to call him by that name,: which it
pleased that demon, (who ruled over the Scythian
desert, people, and language) to impose. Never­
theless, he that shall use the appellative name for
God, either in the Scythian, Egyptian, or any
other language which he hath been brought up in,
will not offend.” Where Origen plainly affirms the
Scythians to have acknowledged one supreme
God, called by them Pappaeus, and intimates,
that the Egyptians did the like, calling him Am-
moun. Neither could it possibly be his intent to
deny the same of the Greeks and their Zeus,
however his great jealousy made him to call him
here a demon; it being true in a certain sense,
which shall be declared afterward, that the Pa­
gans did oftentimes really worship an evil demon,
under those very names of'Zeus and-Jupiter, as
they did likewise under those of Hammon and
Pappaeust
In the mean time we deny not,-but that both
the Greeks used that word Zeus, and the Latins
Jupiter, sometimes fvaucws, for the ether, fire or
air, some accordingly etymologizing from Z««,
others A evc from A euo>: whence came those forms
of speech, sub Jove, and sub Dio. And thus Ci­
cero, “ Joyem Ennius nuncupatitadicens. DeN»t.l>.
]. 2. 223.
Lamb.[c.25.
Aspice hoc sublimecandens, quern invociantomnes Jovem. p>2992.
, tom. 9.
Hunc etiam augures nostri cum dicuqt oper^
528 PAGANS’. PROPER NAMES
Jove fulgente, Jove tonante; dicunt enim in
ccelo fulgente, tonante,” &c. The reason ofwhich
speeches seems to have been this, because in an­
cient times some had supposed the animated hea­
ven, ether and air, to be the supreme Deity. We
grant, moreover, that the same words have been
sometimes used ioropwcwe also, for a hero or dei­
fied man, said by some to have been born in
Crete, by others in Arcadia. And Callimachus,*
though he were very angry with the Cretians for
affirming Jupiter’s sepulchral monument to have
. been with them in Crete, as thereby making- him.
mortal:
KfSmj oii •vJ/fofrTctt, a a l yip r a < p n , 3 a v a , « to
K^ninc IrittTpvam* ffv oil Sane, tovi yip aU
C*
Cretes semper mendaces, tuum enim, rex sepnlcbram
Extraxerunt: tu veru non es mortuus, semper enim es.
Himself nevertheless (as Athenagorasb and Ori-
gencobserve) attributed the beginning of death
to him, when he affirmed him to have been born
in Arcadia; o
’p/v Oavarov ij «rt yijg yevtaiQj
because a terrene nativity is the beginning of
death.—Wherefore this may pass for a general
observation here: that the Pagan theology was all
along confounded with a certain mixture of phy­
siology and herology or history blended together.
Nevertheless it is unquestionable, that the more
intelligent of the Greekish Pagans did frequently
understand by Zeus that supreme unmade Deity,
who was the maker of the world, and of all the
*Hymtio in Jovcm, vers. 8, 9.
b In Legation, pro Christiania, cap. 26. p. 121..
c Contra Celsum, lib. iii, p. 137.
FOR THE SUPREME GOD. 6 2 9
inferior gods.' Porphyrius in Eusebius thus
declares their sense, tov A la, tov N ovv Prep Et
Koafiov VTro\a/uf3dvov<nv, oq ra ev avrq" ISijjutovp- • • 9-
■yjjtrtv, tov Kovfiov. By Zeus the
Greeks understand that Mind of the world,
which framed all things in it, and containeth the
whole world.—Agreeable whereunto is that of
Maximus Tyrius,* KaXti tov ftsv A ia, vovv irpstrfivra-
tov, Kal ap^i/cwrarov, tv iravta tirerat Kal irtiOafyu' .
By Jupiter you are to understand that most an­
cient and princely Mind, which all things follow
and obey.—And Eusebius himself, though not
forward to grant any more than needs he must to
Pagans, concludes with this acknow- Pnep Et
ledgment hereof: itmv o Ztv'c nmtO’ v *•s^ g
13-
irvptiStie Kal aiQtpiog ovala, tvtnrtp to«
c 7raXaioie
tvofivCfro, Kara tov IlXovTap^ov, aXX’ avroc o avtorarta
Novc, o rtov oXb)v Srj/uiovfyydtj' Let Jupiter therefore
be no longer that fiery and ethereal substance,
which the ancient Pagans, according to Plutarch,
supposed him to be; but that highest Mind,
which was the maker of all things.—But Phor-
nutusb by Jupiter understands the Soul of the
world, he writing thus concerning him; w
tnrep Se
ij/U
Eic airo 4>VXVQ BioucovfuBa, ovrtv Kal 6 Kvbjioq \pvyjiv
i\H ti}v ‘ avvlyovaav avrov, Kal avr>) KaXtirat Ztvt;, ama
ovffa toiq Z,wm tov Zpv, Kal Sta tovto (HaatAevuv 6 Ztvg
Xlycrat twv oXwv. As we ourselves are governed
by a soul, so hath the world in like manner a Soul,
that containeth it; and this is called Zeus, being
the cause of life to all things that live; and there­
fore Zeus or Jupiter is said to reign over all
aDissert 29. p. 290.
bLibro de Natura Deor. cap. 2, inter Scriptores Mythologicos a
Tho. Gale editos.
530 p a g a n s ’ p r o p e r n a m e s
things.—However, though these were two differ­
ent conceptions amongst the Pagans concerning.
God, some apprehending him to be an abstract
mind separate from the world and. matter, but
others to be a soul of the world only; yet never­
theless they all agreed-in this, that Za)c or Jupiter
was the supreme moderator or governor of all.
p .396. edit. And accordingly Plato, in his Cratylus,
steph. taking these two words, Zj/va and A la ,
both together, etymologizeth them as one, after
this manner: a w n O t/n va etc tv S»|Xot rdv t
o
wOtov,
ov yap toriv yfiiv Kat ro if aXXotc ira n v oartc *«Ttv atrtoc
fiaXkav .row £jfw, rj o dpywv re icat /3a<nXet!c rwV v a v rw v ’
<rvju/3atvet ovv dp0<vc dvOfia&Oat ovrtwc, r<p Geoc etvtu
SI ov £jjv a’et warn toiq’I&hjiv v n a p y ti, SittXryitTai St S lya
(<ocr7rep Xeyw) ev ov roovo/ia, rtf AuKal ZryvL These two
words compounded together declare the nature
of God; for there is nothing, which is more the
cause of life, both to ourselves and all other ani­
mals, than he, who is the Prince and King of all
things; so that God is rightly thus called, he
being, that by whom all things live. And these
are really but one name of God, though divided
into two words.—But because it was very obvious
then to object against this position of Plato’s,
that Zeus or Jupiter could not.be the Prince of
all things, and first Original of life, from the
Theogonia of Hesiod and other ancient Pagans,
in which himself was.made to have been .the son
of Kpovoc, or Saturn; therefore this objection is
thus preoccupated by Plato, tovtov St, Kpovow
vtov, vf3pi<TTUC0v [ttv av tivi Su^titv tlvai aK ovaavri
$afy>v»ic‘ Whosoever shall hear this (saith he), will
presently conclude it to be contumelious to this
Zeus orJupiter (as he hath been described by us),
FOR THE SUPREME GOD. 531
to be .accounted the son of ChrOnos or Saturn.—
And in answer hereunto, that.philosopher stretch^
eth his wits to salve that poetic Theogonia, and
reconcile it with his own theological hypothesis;
and thereupon he interprets that Hesiodian Ztwc
or Jupiter into a compliance with the third hy­
postasis of his Divine triad, so as properly to sig­
nify the superior Soul of the world; twXoyov Se,
fitya\i]Q tivoc Siavolac acyovov eivairov Ata.. Kpoi/ojf-yap
T
O KaOapov avrov Kal dtcifpttrov .tow Not*' fart. St- aurog
Ovpavov w
tov
c, wc Xo'-yoc* Nevertheless it.is reasonable
to suppose Zeus or Jupiter to be the offspring of
some great mind; and Chronos or Saturn signi*
fieth a pure and perfect mind eternal; who again
is said to be the son of Uranus or Ccelius.—
Where it is manifest, that Plato endeavours, to
accommodate this poetic trinity of gods, Ura­
nus, Chronos, and Zeus, or Ccelius, Saturn, and
Jupiter, to his own trinity of Divine hypostases,
r ayaOov, vow'c, and ^pvyrj, the first good, a perfect
intellect, and the highest soul.—Which accom­
modation is accordingly further pursued by Plo­
tinus in several places, as Enn.5 . 1. l.c. 4. and
Enn. 5.1. 8 . c. 13.' Nevertheless, these three ar-
chical hypostases of the Platonic trinity, though
looked upon as substances distinct from each
Other, and subordinate, yet are they frequently
taken all together by them for the whole supreme
Deity. However, the word Zew'c is by Plato seve­
rally attributed to each of them; which Proclus
thus observed upon the Timaeus: Xlyupev on a-oXXat
fitv ftat ra^fic teat irapa IlXaTwvt now A toe' ’'AXXoc yap d
Srj/uovpyog Ztvg, tic ev KparuXfj) yiypairrai, teat
aXXoc o ITpairoc tj]q Kpovtac rptaSoc;, wq tv
r opyltf Xf-ytrat, teat aXXoc d airdXwwc, ev r» <S>alSptp
P. 298.
T H E
W O R K S
OF
RALPH CUDWORTH, D.D.
CONTAINING
THE TRUE INTELLECTUAL
SYSTEM OF THE UNIVERSE,
SERMONS, &c.
A NE W EDITION, WITH RE FERENCES TO THE SEVERAL Q U O IA IIO N b IN 1111.
INTELLECTUAL SYSTEM, AND A LIFE OF THE AUTHOR,
BY THOMAS BIRCH, M. A. F.R.S.
IN FOUR VOLUMES:
VOL. II.
M i - L
THE TRUE
IN T E L L E C T U A L SY ST E M
or
THE UNIVERSE.
CHAP. IV. CONTINUED.
A s for this vulgar of the Greekish Pagans, whe­
ther they appreheuded God to be vovv ifypij-
fitvw tov Koa/xov, a mind or intellect separate from
the world, or else to be a soul of the world only;
>
—it cannot be doubted, but that by the word
Zeus they commonly understood^ the supreme
Deity in one or other of those sqjpes, the father
and king of gods; he being frequently thus styled
in their solemn nuncupations of vows, Zevirartp,
Ztv avp, O Jupiter father, and O Jupiter king.
As he was invoked also Ztv /3a<xiA
tu in that excel­
lent prayer of an ancient poet, not without cause
commended in Plato’s Alcibiades ;a
Zfu B e u ri'k iu , t k f x h ia Q X e i n o t xol dvtuxroif
"Afxfxi Win, rk foivet xai «u^o/u.*v°»f aira\i(itr
O Jupiter king, give us good things, whether we
*In Alcibiad. secundo, sive de Precatione, p. 40.
VOL. II. B
2 THE SUPREME OOD
pray or pray not for them; but withhold evil
things from us, though we should pray never so
earnestly for them.—But the instances of this
kind being innumerable, we shall forbear to men­
tion any more of them : only we shall observe,
that Zeus Sabazius was a name for the supreme
God, sometime introduced amongst the Greeks,
and derived in all probability from the Hebrew
Sabaoth, or Adonai Tsebaoth, the Lord of hosts
(that is, of the heavenly 'hosts) or the supreme
governor of the world. Which therefore Aristo­
phanes took notice of as a strange and foreign
god, lately crept in amongst them, that ought to
be banished out of Greece ; these several names
of God being then vulgarly spoken of as so many
distinct deities, as shall be more fully declared
afterward. We shall likewise elsewhere shew,
that besides Z«5e, n«v also was used by the Greeks
&
s ^ name for that God, who is the supreme
moderator and governor of the whole world.
That the Latins did in like manner, by Jupiter
and Jovis, frequently denote the supreme Deity,
aiid Monarch o'f’the universe, is a thing unques­
tionable; and which does sufficiently appear from
those epithets, that were commonly given to him,
of optimus and maximus, the best and the greatest;
as also of omnipotens, frequently bestowed upon
him by Virgil and others. Which word Jupiter
or Jovis, though Cicero* etymologize it ajuvando,
or fromjuvans pater, as^not knowing how to do
it otherwise; yet we may rather conclude it to
have been of an Hebraical extraction, and de­
rived from that Tetragrammaton, or name of God,
De N at Deor. lib. ii. cap. xxv. p. 2902, tom. ix. oper.
DENOTED BY APPELLATIVES. 3
consisting of four consonants; whose vowels
(which is to be pronounced with) though they be
not now certainly known, yet must it needs
have some such sound as this, either Jovah or
lavoh, or 'lew, or ’law, or the like; and the ab­
breviation of this name was Jah. For as the
Pagan nations had, besides appellatives, their
several proper names for God, so also had the
Hebrews theirs, and such as being given by God
himself, was most expressive of his nature, it signi­
fying eternal and necessary existence.
But, in the next place, we shall suggest, that
the Pagans did not only signify the supreme God,
by these proper names, but also frequently by
the appellatives themselves, when used not for
a God in general, but for the God, or God Kar
tgo/qv, and by way of eminency. And thus d O
toe
and (hoc, are often taken by the Greeks, not for
Otuv t ic , a God, or one of the gods, but for God, or
the supreme Deity. We have several examples
hereofin passages before cited occasionally in this
very chapter, as in that of Aristotle’s, ri ovv av
jcptrrrov k<
m imxnnfiiK irXijv o 6tdc ; what is there,
therefore, that can be better than knowledge, but
only God?—As also that other of his, that happi­
ness consisteth principally in virtue, «
<
t
t
w mivufto-
\oytifiivov tijutvpaprvpi rip dap xpwpfaotG, it is a thing,
that ought to be acknowledged by us from the
nature of God.—So likewise in that of Thales,
rpM^vrarov wavruv o6toc, aytvrjrov yap’ God is the
oldest of all things, because he is unmade;—and
that of Maximus Tyrius, n-oX
X
oi 0?ol walSee dtov K
at
awapxovTts 6ap, many gods, the sons of God, and
co-reigners together with God.—Besides which,
there have been others also mentioned^ which we
b 2
4 0eol TAKEN FOR THE
shall not here repeat. And innumerable more
instances of this kind might be added; as that of
Antiphanes,a 9e
o
q ovStvt s
o
m
c
e
*, Sidwep' avrov ovBslg
■iicfiaBuv £s elxovoc Bvvatai, God is like to nothing, for
■which cause he cannot be learnt by any from an
image —
this of Socrates,b« ravry 8e$ tavry
yiviaOw, if. God will have it so, let it be so.—And
that of Epictetus,' <
n
>fiovov fitfiviiao r<ov KadoXuctov, rl
S
fjL
O
V
yTt ovicifiovj rl O
iXu.fiEt
t
o
ie
ivo Otoe vvv ; do thou
only remember these catholic and universal prin­
ciples, what is mine, and what is not mine? what
would God have me now to do? and what would
he have'me not to do ?—But we shqll mention no
more of these, because they occur so frequently
in all manner of Greek writers, both metrical and
prosaical.
Wherefore we shall here only add, that as the
singular dsoc was thus often used by the Greeks
for God Kar e£oyijV
, or in wpy of eminency, that
is, for the supreme Deity; so. was likewise the
plural 0eol frequently used by them for the inferior
gods, by way of distinction from the supreme.
As in that usual form of prayer and exclamation,
<
5 JZ
e»
» km ©sol, O Jupiter and the gods;— and that
form of obtestation, u-poe Aide Kal 0ewv, by Jupiter
and the gods.—So in this of Euripedes :d
—
*AXX’ icrvtv, larrr Kav rtq eyyeXa Xoy«f
Zivq Kal ©sot, 0prtta Xevravreq TraOrr
Est, (sint licet qui rideant) est Jupiter,
*Superique, casus qui vident mortalium.
a Apud Hug. Grot. Excerpt, veter. Tragic, et Comicor. p. 632.
b Apud Platon, in Critone, p. 370.
c Apud Arrian, in Epictet Kb. iv. p. 385. edit. Cantabrig.
d Vide Grotii Excerpta veter. Tragicor. et Comicor. p. 417.
\
INFERIOR GODS ONLYi 5
In which passages, as Jupiter is put for the su­
preme God, so is 0 *o» likewise put for the infe­
rior gods, in way of distinction from him. Thus
also, 0 *oc, and ©*ot, are taken both together in
Plato’s Phaedo, 0 *o? for the supreme unmade and
incorruptible Deity, and 0 *o! for the in- p
ferior gods only, o Si y t 0 *oc (o lfia i) if r i
6 S titK p d rtK , teal a vro t o r i j c *TSoc irapa vavrutv ap
ifioXoyvOflvt /iijSfirore airtSXXvaOai. Ylapa ira vrw v ftlvro t
vrj At’ (t<pn) avdpw rtov y t , teal trt fiaX X o v, we lyip p ai, irapa
0 *wv. I suppose, said Socrates, that God, and
the very species, essence or idea, of life will
be granted by all to be incorruptible. I!I,V
>
!?*?***
, ®
y
X
Doubtless by all men (said Cebes)
but much more, as I conceive by the a^,rX’«Sx,
gods.—But a further instance will be
propounded afterward of the word “f * ,!f «"»
^ 9 ^ 9 Ol/VATCy
0 *ot, thus used, by way of distinction,
for the inferior gods only; as it was be- n'ver^Tig,
fore declared, that the theogonia, or °f
h
J
,h
*n.
generation of gods was accordingly un- de»’’onr";«
*
i * 1 1 /• Biipch as it is
derstood by tbe (jrreeks uniyersaIIy of possiblefora
the oi 0 *oi, that is, the inferior gods. toG
od°p.e
6i3.
Moreover, as the word 0*oc was taken «car*
or>by way of erainency, for the supreme
God, sO was Aalftwv likewise. As for example,
in this passage of Callimachus, before cited im­
perfectly:*
■■
■ ■ ■ >
■— El 0*ov o7<r9'«,
ojm m * pi£»* bcilfxm «rSv hnaror
— ----^ Si Deus est tibi notus,
Hoc etiam jioris, omnia posse Deum,
Where 0£o<; and Aatpwv are used both alike sig -*
\
a Vide FragmcntaCallimachi a Rich. Bentjeio collects, p. 372.
0 Aai/juov TAKEN FOR TBJJ^
nanter, for the supreme God. And thus also in
that famous passage of another poet:
■
-------Toff yk f dxlrgoic,
Elv atf xot you*, Jutxei fAu^ia Bratov9 Aad/xw.
Homer, likewise, in one and the same place,*
seems to use 0 <o? and Aaipwvboth together, after
the same manner, for the supreme G od:
*O m or Aytif idixitargoc lai/xova tyrri p&xto&at,
* 0 9 mi n p u t , r & x * 0
? fM ty a a r iifx a K u X lr S v ,
Quoties bomb vult, adverse mraiine, cam viro pugnare,
» Qnem Deus honorat, mox io eum magna elades. devolyitur.
Again we conceive, that Jupiter, or the supreme
God, was sometimes signified amongst the Pagans
by that expression, 0eoc avroc, Deus ipse, as in that
of Homer’s ninth Iliad :b
----------- Oui* ft x iy /m i v iro rred n 0io$ ctuTOf,
rrjpag a m ^ v e r a f S h o w vsoy b $ u m r«.
-------Neque si mihi promitteret Dees ipse,
Senectutem abradens, effecturum me jevenem pebespentem.
9®
?*",#l-l-And thus St. Cyril of Alexandria in-
1. [p. 27. edit. J
$p«nh.] so terprets Homer here, ov yap irov $r\<tiv9 u
Justin. M art. 1 h f / / ^ . / v
ad Grce. cob. KC“ t ic v w o tT ^ o iro /JLOi r o v f il v yr/pfjjg a m f i -
p. 22. [ed. Co- iroXrjv, waXivayp£Tov Si rrjv vE&nfra, rerr/priKE Si
lon ^ ro Xpr/pa povty Tty hr! rravrag Oety, &C. to yap rot
06oc avrbg, ovk l($
> iva twvev pvOoig vejrXaaplvwv nva}avrov
Si Sr) juovov KaraaTfpyvEiev av rov a\rj$UK; ovra 0 edv* Ho­
mer doth not say, if any of the go3s would pro­
mise me freedom from old age, and restitution of
youth, but he reserves the matter only to the su­
preme God; neither doth he refer it to any of the
a Iliad, lib. i. ver. 98* bYer. 448.
SUPREME GOB. ?
fictitious poetic gods, but to the true God alone.
—The same language was also spoken in the laws
of the twelve tables:* “ Deos adeunto caste, opes
amovento: si secus faxint, Deus ipse vindex erit.”
Let the gods be worshipped chastely, super­
fluity of riches and pomp being removed: if men
do otherwise, God himself will be the avenger.—
Where, though the word gods be used generally,
so as to comprehend both the supreme and in­
ferior gods under it, yet Deus ipse, God himself,
denotes the supreme God only. In like manner,
o Saifiu>
v avroc also seems to be taken for the su­
preme God, in that of Euripides :b
AVCU (A
Mi L aifun autoc, Preuf JyA
which was thus rendered by Horace:
—- Ipse Deus, simulatque volet, me solvet.
. Notwithstanding which, Aaifitov and Aol/umc are
often distinguished from 6coc and ©tot, they being
put for an inferior rank of beings below the gods
vulgarly called demons; which word in a large
sense comprehends also heroes under it. For
though these demons be sometimes called gods
too, yet were they rather accounted 'H/wfeot demi­
gods, than gods. And thus 0 *ot mu Aalfiovtg, gods
and demons, are frequently joined together, as
things distinct from one another; which notion of
the word Plato refers to, when he concludes Love
not to be a god, but a demon only. But of these
demons we are to speak more afterward.
Furthermore, the Pagan writers frequently un-
* Vide Ciceron. de Legibus, lib. ii. cap. viii. p. 3345. tom. ix. oper.
b In Bacchis, ver. 497.
8 To 0twv AND To Acu/ioviov
derstand the supreme God by the to 0 «ov, when
the word is used substantively. As, for example,
in this of Epicharmus ;*
OyMi iicttyivyu to 3 *Xcr rouro yn&nuiv p i ttf*
Avrof ia$* hfxSn irtoyn r ib u r u r ti ? oviiv ©«».
Res nulla est Deum quee lateat, scire quod te convenit:
Ipse.est noster introspector, turn Deus nil non potest.
So likewise in this of Plato’s,'bwoppv ij&wvc xal X
v-
jt
ijcifyvTai t o dtiov, God is far removed both from
pleasure and grief.—And Plotinus calls the su­
preme God, to Iv T
q
>wavrl dtiov, the Divinity that is
in the universe.—But because the instances hereof
are also innumerable, we shall decline the men­
tioning of any more, and instead of them, only set
down the judgment of that diligent and impartial
observer of the force of words, Henricus Ste-
phanus,cconcerning it; “ Redditur etiam to Oiiov
ssepe Deus, sed ita tamen, ut intelligendum sit,
non de quolibet Deo ab ipsis etiam profanis scrip-
toribus dici, verum de eo quern intelligerent, cum
dicebant quasi nar i%oytfv ad difierentiam eo-
rum, qui multi appellatione dm v includebantur,
summum videlicet supremumque N umen, et quasi
dicas dcov 0e(ov virarov xat cfpiaTov, ut loquitur de Jove
Homerus.”
Lastly, as to dtiov, so likewise was ro 8ai/xoviov
used by the Greeks for the supreme Numen, or
that Divinity, which governs the whole world.
Thus, whereas it was commonly said, (accord-
*Apud Clement. Alexandria Stromat. lib. v. p. 708. The transla­
tion is by Grotius in Excerpt, veter Tragicor. et Comicor. p, 481.
bEpist. iii. p. 708.
eIn Thesauro Graecae Linguae, tom. i. p. 1634.
TAKEN FOR THE SUPREME DEITY. 9
ing to Herodotus*) on t o Otiov fdovtpov, that God
was envious;—the meaning whereof was, that he.
did not commonly suffer any great human pros*
perity to continue long, without some check or'
counterbuff; the same proverbial speech is ex­
pressed in Aristotle, <
f>
6
o
vtp
6
vto Scupowov. And in
this sense the word seems to be used in Isocrates
ad Demonicnm, ripa to Saipovtov<m plv, juaXtoraSi
fitra ryeiroXtwe, worship God always, but especi*.
ally with the city, in her public sacrifices.—And
doubtless it was thus taken by Epicte* Arr.iib.ir.e-
tus, in this passage of his, pla 080c m ^
tupoiav, tovto Kal opOfov, kcu ptff npipav Kai ,mb]
WKTwp, ioTU irpoyfipov, dirooraaiQ twv avpoaiptrwv, to
pqSlv iSiov yyuaOat, to vapaSovvai iravra Tip Soipov'up, kcu
T
jj Tvyrj. There is but one way to tranquillity of
mind and happiness: let this therefore be always
ready at baud with thee, both when thou wakest
early in the morning, and all the day long, and
when thou goest late to sleep ; to account no ex­
ternal things thine own, but to commit all these to
God and fortune.—And there is a very remarkable
passage in Demosthenesb (observed by Budaeus)
that,must not be here omitted; in which we have
ot Ocol plainly for the inferior or minor gods only,
and t o Saipovtov for the supreme God, both toge­
ther ; eicrovTai ot 0eoi /cat t o Saipovtov, t o v pv r a SiKcua
ipn<
f>
urapfvov. The gods and the Deity will know
or take notice of him that gives not a righteous
sentence;—that is, both the inferior gods and the
supreme God himself. Wherefore we see, that
the word Satjuovtov, as to its grammatical form, is
* Lib. iii. cap. xli. p. 176. He cites this from an Epistle of Amasis
to the tyrant Polycrates.
. b Orat, wegl p. 266. edit. Graec. Basil. 1532. fol.
10 To 0«ov AND To Aaipoviov, &C.
not a diminutive, as some have conceived, but au
adjective substantived; as well as ro 6smv is. Ne­
vertheless in Pagan writings, Saipoviov also, as
well as Sat/ucov, from whence it is derived, is often
used for all inferior rank of beings below the
gods, though sometimes called gods too; and
such was Socrates’ Saipoviov, so commonly known.
But the grammar of this word, and its proper
signification in Pagan writers, cannot better be
manifested, than by citing that passage of So-
p.vr.steph. crates’ own, in his Apology, as writ-
sC
T
eraiom
'^- ten by P lato; who, though generally
quotation*1
1
1
* supposed to have had a demon, was
,tiomPi»to, notwithstanding by Melitus accused of
terations.] ath eism ; £OT(v O
O
TIQ avupdnrbJV, <
5 1/ltklTS,
av&punrsia. piv vopiZu wpaypara Aval, avS’panrovc Si ov vo-
fiiZti; rj ootic iTnrovg piv ov voplZsi, imruci 8k wpaypara,
&C. ovk etrriv, i3 apiort avSpaiv, oXXo ro brl rovrip diro-
Kpivai, toff 8<m$ Saipovia piv vopiZu wpaypara Aval,' Sal-
juovac 8s ov voplZsi; ovic tariv' aXA’ ovv Saipovia ys voplZot
Kara rov abv Xoyov" si Si xai Saip6via vopiZiv, not Saipovag
Sywov woWrj dvaytcr) vopiZtiv ps strrtv. robg ^ Salpovag
riroi Ssovq ys riyovpsSta slvai, y SsCiv wtuSac, &C. Is there
any one, O 'Melitus, who acknowledging, that
there are human things, can yet deny, that there
are any men? or confessing that there are equine
things, can nevertheless deny, that there are
any horses? If this cannot be, then no man,
who acknowledges demonial things, can deny
demons. Wherefore I being confessed to assert
Saipovia, must needs be granted to hold Saipovae
also. Now do we not all think, that demons
are either gods, or at least sons of the gods ?
Wherefore for any one to conceive, that there are
{lemons, and yet no gods, is altogether as absurd,
PAGAN IDEAS OF-THE SUPREME GOD. 11
as if any should think, that there are mules,but
yet neither horses nor asses.—However, in the
New Testament, according to the Judgments of
Qrigen, Eusebius, and others of the ancient f*>
tbers, both those words Scujuovac and Saipomaace
alike taken, always in a worser sense, for evil and
impure spirits only.
But over and hesides all this, the Pagans do
often characterize the supreme God by such titles,
epithets, and descriptions, as are incommunicably
proper to him; thereby plainly distinguishing
him from all other inferior gods. He being some­
times called by. them o Anpuwpyoc, the opifex, ar­
chitect, or maker of the world; 6 'Hyejuwvrow wavroc
K
tu’ApyrtyirtK, the priuce and chief ruler pf the
universe; 6 U
ptH
rog and o Tlpwrurroe Otoe (by the
Greeks) and (by the Latins) Primus Deus, the
first God; o nparoc Novo the first Mind; o pfytc
6tdc, the great God; o ftiyurroQSa^v, and o fityuf
roc 0«vv, the greatest God, and the greatest of the
gods; o^Y^urroc, the Highest; andd v
t
t
o
t
o
c fltdv,
the Supreme of the gods; o dvwrdrw 0toc, the up­
permost, or most transcendent G od; Princeps
ille Dens, that chief or principal God; Ococ 9tH»,
the God of gods; and ’Apxn ,AfX"v>the Princi­
ple of principles; To irpwrav amov, the First Cause;
*0 roSt to nav ytvvgaag, he that generated or created
this whole universe;, o Kpartwv t o v n-uvroe,.he that
ruleth over the whole world ; Summus.Rector et
Dominus, the supreme Governor and Lord of all;
o «ri wool Otog, the God over all; o (kdedylvjjroc, avTO
-
ytwjg, avTo<pvr)Q, avQvTroaTUTog, the ingenerate or un­
made, self-originated and self-subsisting Deity;
Movde, a Monad ; To iv Kal avro ayaOov, Unity and
Goodness itself; To iwtKtiva rtjg ovoiag, and toinripQV-
12 . CHAMPIONS FOB PAGANISM
<rtov, that which is above essence or super-essen-
tial; To iirhcuva vow, that which is above mind and
understanding; “ Suramum iilud et aeternum, ne-
que mutabile neque interiturum,”-~-that supreme
and eternal .Being, which is immutable and can
never perish; K
alrtXog, K
alfxkaovdwdvTwv, the
beginning and end and middle of all things;
■'Ey Kal w dvra, one and all things; Deus unus et
omnes, one God and all gods: and, lastly, to
name no more, y Ilpovout, or Providence, as dis­
tinguished from 4>vo(c, Nature, is often used by
them also as a name for the supreme God, which,
because it is of the feminine gender, the impious
and atheistical Epicureans therefore took occasion
to call God, ridiculously and jeeringly, “ Anum
fatidicam Pronoeam.”* Now all these, and other
such-like expressions, being found in the writings
of professed Pagans (as we are able to shew)
and some of them very frequently, it cannot be
denied, but that the Pagans did puf a manifest
difference betwixt the supreme God, and all other
inferior gods.
xv. What hath been now declared, might, as
we conceive, be judged sufficient, in order to.
our present undertaking; which is to prove, that
the more intelligent of the ancient Pagans, not-
withstanding that multiplicity of gods worshipped
by them, did generally acknowledge one supreme,
omnipotent, and only unmade Deity. Neverthe­
less, since men are commonly so much prepos­
sessed with a contrary persuasion, (the reason
whereof seems to be no other than this, that be­
cause the notion of the word God, which is now
4Vide Ciceron. de Natur. Deor. lib, i. cap. viii. p. 2890. tom. i*,
oper*
ASSERT MONARCHY. 13
generally received amongst us Christians, is snch
as does essentiallyinclude self-existeuce in it, they
are therefore apt to conceit, that it must needs do
so likewise amongst the Pagans;) we shall endea­
vour to produce yet some further evidence for the
truth of our assertion. And,-first, we conceive
this to be no confirmation thereof, because after
the publication ofChristianity, and all along during'
that tugging and contest, which was betwixt it
and Paganism, none of the professed champions
for Paganism and antagonists of Christianity,
(when occasion was now offered them) did ever
assert any such thing as a multiplicity of under­
standing deities unmade (or creators) but on the
contrary, they all generally disclaimed it, profess­
ing to acknowledge one supreme self-existent
Deity, the maker of the whole universe.
It is a thing highly probable, ifnot unquestiona­
ble, that Apollonius Tyanseus, shortly after the
publication of the gospel to the world, was a per­
son made choice of by the policy; and assisted by
the powers, of the kingdom of darkness, for the
doing of some things extraordinary, merely out of
design to derogate from the miracles ofour Saviour
Christ, and to enable Paganism the better to bear
up against the assaults of Christianity. For
amongst the many writers of this philosopher’s
life, some, and particularly Philostratus, seem to
have had no other aim in this their whole under­
taking, than only to dress up Apollonius in such
a garb and manner, as might make him best seem
to be a fit corrival with our Saviour Christ, both
in respect of sanctity and miracles. Eunaipius *
therefore telling us, that he mistitled his book, and
aIn Vitis Sophistarum, Prooem. p. 6, 7. edit Plantin.
14 APOLLONIUS TYANJEUS
that instead of 'AttoXXwvIov (Sloe, the life of Apol­
lonius, be should ,have called it 0«n) etcavSpwirovc
hnStifiiav, the coming down, and converse of God
with men; forasmuch as this Apollonius (saith
he) was not a bare philosopher or man, aXXaTt&wv
k
o
I avSpanrov fiLoov, but a certain middle thing be­
twixt the gods and men.—And that this was the
use commonly made by the Pagans-of this history
ofApollonius, namely to set him up in way of-oppo-
sition and rivalry to our Saviour Christ, appears
Sundry ways. Marcellinus, in an Epistle of his
to St. Austin,* declares this as the grand objection
of the Pagans against Christianity, (therefore de­
siring St. Austin’s answer to the same ;) “ Nihil
aliud Dominum, quam alii homines facere potu-
erunt, fecisse vel egisse mentiuntur; Apollonium
siquidem suum nobis, et Apuleium, aliosque ma­
gic® artis homines, in medium proferunt, quorum
majora contendunt extitisse miracula.” The Pa­
gans pretend, that our Saviour Christ did no more
than what other men have -been able to do, they
producing their Apollonius and Apuleius, and
other magicians, whom they contend to have done
greater miracles.—And it is well known, that Hie-
rocles, to whom Eusebius gives the commendation
of a very learned man, wrote a book against the
Christians (entitled, $ i\a X y O n e , or Aoyot <j>tXa\yOeie)
the chief design whereof was to compare this
Apollonius Tyapaeus with, and prefer him before,
our Saviour Christ: vA
vo> k
o
I K
ara/ OpvXXovm, atftvv-
vovtec rov ’lyaovv, tie rvipXoie dvafiiXhpai n napaay^ovra,
lad rtva rotavra Spdaavra Oavfxaaia' They are 'Hierocles*
own words in Eusebius: “ The Christians (saith
' *Inter Epistol. Augustin. Epist. cxxxyi. tom. ii. pper. p. 304. edit
Benedict , 1
A RIVAL WITH OUR SAVIOUR CHRIST. 15
he)keep a great deal ofstir, crying up ofone Jesus,
for-restoring sight to the blind, aud doing some
Such Other wonders.” And then mentioning -the
thaumaturgi or wonder-workers amongst the Pa­
gans, but especially Apollonius Tyanaeus, and in­
sisting largely upon his miracles, he adds in the
close of all, rivoe ovv evsxa to
vtw
v tjuvqotiqv; tva
ovyuplvtiv rijv rifurepav aKpt/3tj Kal fiefiaiav e
<
f>
’ ixaortp kpl­
ow, kch t »/v r«5v Xpumavwv icov^orqra* tiirsp vpttQ fih> t o v
rdtavra mirottiKora, ov 6iov, aXXa Store Kt^aptayttvov avSpa
Vyov/utOa' ol Be Si oXlyaf npaniag nvag rov ’1tiadvv 0tdv
avayoptvown. To what purpose now have we men­
tioned all these things? but only that the solid
judgment of us [Pagans] might be compared with
the levity of the Christians; forasmuch as we do
not account him a god who did all these miracles,
but only a person beloved of the gods; whilst
they declare Jesus to be a God, merely for doing
a few wonders.—Where, because Eusebius, is
silent, we cannot but subjoin an answer out of
-Lactantius(which indeed heseems to havedirected
against those very words of Hierocles, though not
naming of him) it being both pertinent and full;
“ Apparel nos sapientores esse, qui mi- d« Jaili. i.
rabilibus factis non statim fidem divini- *-c-r-
tatis adjunximus, quam vos, qui ob exigua por­
tents Deum credidistis----- Disce igitur, si quid
tibi cordis est, non solum idcirco a nobis Deum
creditum Christum, quia mirabilia fecit, sed quia
vidimus in eo facta esse omnia, quae nobis annun-
ciata sunt, vaticinia prophetarum. Fecit mirabilia;
magnum putassemus, ut et vos nuncupatis; et
Jiidaei tunc putaverunt: si non ilia ipsa facturum
Christum, prophets omnes uno spiritu praedicas-
sent. Itaque Deum credimus, non magis ex factis,
%
16 APOLLONIUS TYANAJUS
operibusqne mirandis ; quam ex ilia ipsa cruce,
quam vos sicut canes lambitis; quoniam simul et
ilia predicta est. Non igitur suo testimonio, (cui
enim de sedicenti potest credi ?) sed prophetarum,
testimonio, qui omnia quae fecit ac passns est,
iiiulto ante cecinerunt; fidem divinitatis accepit;
quod neque Apollonio neque Apuleio neque cui-
qnam magorum potest aliqnando contingere.” It
is manifest, that we Christians are wiser than you
Pagans, in that we do not presently attribute di­
vinity to a person merely because of his wonders;
whereas a few portentous things, or extraordinary
actions, will be enough with you to make you
deify the doer of them (and so indeed did some
of them, however Hierocles denies it, deify Apol­
lonius). Let this writer against Christianity there­
fore learn, (if he have any understanding or sense
in him) that Christ was not therefore believed to
be a God by us Christians, merely because of his
miracles, but because we saw all those things done
by and accomplished in him, which were long be­
fore predicted to us by the prophets. He did
miracles, and we should therefore have suspected
him for a magician (as you now call him, and as
the Jews then supposed him to be) had not all the
prophets with one voice foretold, that he should
do such things. We believe him therefore to be
God, no more for his miracles than from that very
cross of his, which you so much quarrel with,
because that was likewise foretold. So that our
belief of Christ’s divinity is not founded upon bis
own .testimony (for who can be believed concern­
ing himself?) but upon the testimony of the pro­
phets, who sang long before of all those things,
which he both did and suffered. Which is such
A RIVAL WITH. OUR SAVIOUR CHRIST. 17
a peculiar advantage and privilege of his, as that
neither Apollonius nor Apuleius, nor any other
magician, could ever share therein.—Now, as for
the life and morals of this Apollonius TyanstM,
as it Was a thing absolutely necessary for the car­
rying oi»of such a diabolical design, that the per­
son made use of for an instrument should have
some colourable and plansible pretence to virtue;
so did Apollonius accordingly take upon him the
profession of a Pythagorean; and indeed act that
part externally so well, that even Sidonius Apotti-
naris,* though a Christian, was so dazzled with the
glittering show and lustre of his counterfeitvirtues,
as if he had been enchanted by this magician so
long after his death. Nevertheless, whosoever is
not very dim-sighted in such matters as these, or
partially affected, may easily perceive, that this
Apollonius was so far from having any thing of
that Divine Spirit which manifested itself in our
Saviour Christ, (transcending all the philosophers
that ever were) that he fell short of the better
moralized Pagans; as for example Socrates, there
being a plain appearance of much pride and vain­
glory (besides other foolery) discoverable both in
his words and actions. And this Eusebiusbunder­
takes to evince from Philostratus’s own history
(though containing many falsehoods in it) oilS’ e»
tmtucin Kal (isrpioie dvSpdnv a£tov iyxplvav, ovyr’ 07rwc r<p
■&WTqpt dpeov Xpiortp vapanQkvai rov ’AiroXXwvtov, that
Apollonius was so far from deserving to be com­
pared with our Saviour Christ, that he was not fit
to be ranked amongst the moderately and indiffe­
rently honest men.—therefore, as to his reputed
*Epistolar. lib. viii. Epist. iii. p. 462, 463.
bAdvers, Hieroclem, cap. iv. p. 431. \
VOL. II. C
18 APOifcONIUS TVAN*U?
miracle, if credit be to be given to those relations,
Ofid e'uch things, were really done by bins, it must
fqr this reason also be concluded,'that they were
done no otherwise than by magicand necromancy;
and that this Apollonius was but aa arcbimago or
grand magician. Neither ought this tq b e snsr
pectedfora mereslander cast uponbimby partially
affected Christians only, since, during bis lifer
time, he was generally reputed, even amongst the
pagans themselves, for no other than a yaw* or
infamous enchanter^ and accused of that very
crime before Domitiaa the emperor:” as he was
also represented such by one of the Pagan wri-
eoa.ci. u6. tors Of his life, Moeragenes, senior to
p-so
s. Pbilostratns, as we learn from Origen:
HVpl (jutytia^fapivy Srt.i fiovX6[tutvoc i^sraaai, irSrtpov iron
rot fiXfaoipoi qXtttrpl slow otjry, tl jw|, d v a yvd m r i ytypaft-
ffivo M oipayiwi run/ 'AiroXXuiylqu tqv Tvovlwc fiayov teal
^(Xq
cw
^ou airojuvqcpvsvpas'wv*. «v d ? b /it? Xpfonavoe, aAAa
ttpyotv ftXuvtu vtro tH
c tv ’AitoXAwv/cp /uaytiap,
QVK aytv&C W C $ i\ oq6Qovc,. <
S
?
c Vpi>c yoijra aurov «ctA-
Sovrac. tv o h , ot/uu, icoi irtpl 'Eu</>paTov travu Surfftoaro,
K
c
d
, tw
o
q ’Eyucovpctou* As concerning the infamous
and diabolical magic, he that would know whe­
ther or no a philosopher be temptable by it, or
i|U.queabi& into it, let him read the writings of
|deeragenes concerning the memorable things
of Apollonius Tyanseus the. magician and ph'i-
losopbet ; in which he that was 90 Christian,
put a Pagan philosopher himself, affirmeth some
not ignoble philosophers to, have been taken
with Apollonius’s magic, including (as I sup-
* I ’biBis related by Philostratqs in Vita ApoHonii,lib. ii. cap. xviii.
p. 166. ,
k Philostrat. nbi npra,lib. viii.cap. wi. p.327.
A RIVAL WITH OUR SAVIOUR CHRIST. 19
pose) in.that number Euphrates and a certain
Epicurean.—And no doubt but this was the
restson, why Philostratus *derogates so much
from tbe authority of this Mmragenes, affirming
him to have been ignorant Of many things con­
cerning Apollonius (ot» yttp M oipaytvu n ■KpoqiKrtav,
fee.) Because Moeragenes bad thus represented
Apollonius in his true, colours as a magician;
whereas Bhilostratus’s whole business atld de­
sign was, on tbe contrary, to vindicate him froth
that imputation: the truth whereof, notwithstand­
ing, may be sufficiently evinced, even from those
very things that are recorded by Philostratus
himself. And here by the way we shall observe,
that it is reported by good historians, that mi­
racles werealso done by Vespasian at Alexandria,
“ Per eos menses (they are the words huu.ir.p.
of Tacitus) mqlta miracula evfenere, m *
qais ceelestis favor, et quaedam in Vespasianum
inclmatio numinum ostenderetur. Ex plebeAlex­
andrine quidam, oculorum tabe notus, genua
ejus advolvitur, remedium csecitatis exposcens
gemiio; monitu Serapidis dei, quern dedita su-
perstitionibus gens ante alios colit; precabatur-
que principem, ut genas et oculorum orbes dig-
naretur respergere oris excremento. Alius manu
aeger, eodem deo anctore, ut pede ac vestigio
Csesaris catcaretur orabat.” At that time many
miracles happened at Alexandria, by which was
manifested the heavenly favour and inclination
of the Divine powers towards Vespasian. A
plebeian Alexandrian, that had been known to
be blind, casts himself at the feet of Vespasian,
*Ibid. lib. i. cap. iii. p. 6,8.
c2
3 0 APOLLONIUS TYANaEUS
begging with tears from him a remedy for his
sight, (and that according to the suggestion of the
god Serapis) that he would deign but to spit
-upon his eyes and face. Another having a lame
hand (directed by the same oracle) beseeches him
but to tread upon it with his foot.—And after
some debate concerning this business, both these
things being done by Vespasian, “ statim conversa
ad usum manus, et caeco reluxit d i e s t h e lame
hand presently was restored to its former useful­
ness, and the blind man recovered his sight: both
which things (saith the historian) some who were
eye-witnesses do to this very day testify, when it
can be no advantage to any one to lie concerning
i t —And that, there seems to be some reason to
suspect, that our archiinago Apollonius Tyanaeus
might have some finger in this business also, be­
cause he was not only familiarly and intimately
acquainted with Vespasian, but also at that very
time (as PhilOstratus* informeth us) present with
him at Alexandria, where he also did many mi­
racles himself. However, we may here take no­
tice of another stratagem and policy of the devil
in this, both to obscure the miracles ofour Saviour
Christ, and to weaken men’s faith in the Messiah,
and baffle the notion of i t ; that whereas a fame
of prophecies had gone abroad every where, that
a king was to come out of Judea and rule over
the whole world, (by which was understood no
other than the Messiah) by reason of these mira­
cles done by Vespasian, this oracle or prediction
might the rather seem to have its accomplishment
in him, who was first proclaimed emperor in
a Ubi supra, lib. v. cap. xxvii. p. 209. et lib. viii. cap. vii. sect. ii.
p. 329.
A RIVAL WITH OUR SAVIOUR CHRIST. 21
Judea, and to whom Josephus* himself basely and
flatteringly had applied it. And since this busi­
ness was started and suggested by the god Se-
rapis, that is, by the devil (of whose counsel pro­
bably Apollonius also was); this makes it still
more strongly suspicable, that it was really a de­
sign or policy of the devil, by imitating the mi­
racles of our Saviour Christ, both in Apollonius
and Vespasian, to counterwork God Almighty in
the plot of Christianity, and to keep up or con*,
serve his own usurped tyranny in the Pagan world
still. Nevertheless, we shall here shew Apollo­
nius all the favour we can, and therefore sup­
pose him not to have been one of those more foul
and black magicians, of the common sort, such
as are not only grossly sunk and debauched in.
their lives, but also knowingly do homage to evil
spirits as such, for the gratification of their lusts;
but rather one of those more refined ones, who
have been called by themselves Theurgists, such •
as being in some measure freed from the grosser
vices, and thinking to have to do only with good.
spirits; nevertheless, being.prond and vain-glori­
ous, and affecting wonders, and to transcend the
generality of mankind, are, by a Divine nemesis,
justly exposed to the illusions of the devil or evil
spirits, cunningly insinuating here, andi aptly ac­
commodating themselves to them. However, con­
cerning this Apollonius, it is undeniable, that he
was a zealous upholder ofthe Pagan Polytheism,
and a stout champion for the gods, he professing
to have been taught by the Samian Pythagoras’s
ghost, how to worship these gods, invisible as
f De Bello Judaico, lib. v. cap. v. sect. ir. p.390. tom. ii. oper. -
92: APOILONJUS TYANJEUS A PRQFEBSXD
weH as visible,* and to have converse with them..
For which cause he is styled by YopiscuS," amicus
varus deorum, a true friend of the g o d s t h a t is,
a hearty and sincere friend to that old Pagan re­
ligion, now assaulted by Christianity, in which
not one only true God, but a multiplicity of gods,
were worshipped. But, notwithstanding all this,
Apollonius himself was a clear and undoubted
assertor of one supreme Deity; as is evident from
his apologetic oration in Philostratus,c prepared
for Domitian: in which he calls him, tovtmv &W,
End rov ravruv Sqjtuovpyov feov, that God, who is the
maker of the whole universe, and Of all things.
-r*And, as he elsewhere in Philostratus declares
both the Indians and Egyptians to have agreed
in this theplogy, insomuch that though the Egyp­
tians condemned the Indians for many other of
their opinions, yet did they highly 'applaud this
doctrine Of theirs, T»ic ju£v 6Awv ytviattl»c n Kal oi<r(ac
Oebv 8t)ftujvpy6v idvai, rovSc lv9v/ir)^vai ravta, dbriov t6
ayaObv $vtuairbv, that God was the maker both of
the generation and essence'of all.things, and that
the cause of his making them was his essential
goodness:—so doth he himself very much com­
mend this philosophy, of Jarchas, the
» ^ Indian brachman, viz. that the whole
world was but one great animal, and
might be resembled to a.vast ship, wherein there
are many inferior subordinate governors, under
one supreme, the oldest and wisest-; as also ex-
pert mariners of several sorts, some to attend
upon the deck, and others to climb the masts and
* Vide Philostrat. ubi supra, lib. i. cap. xxxii. p. 40.
b In Vila Aurel. cap. xxiv* p. 578* edit Obrechti.
• Ubi supra, lib. viii. cap. Yii. sect. vM
. p* 337.
A«8£ftV0K OF MbNAfcCtiY. &
Order the soils, -h f r$r fitv irpwnjvk
x
HrtXetrr&
nr*fth
p ar ixoSorhnStopyttfro/*to!iSe row. t,&m, ftjw 81 inr hcittnf,
Stoicof *0 pipij avrov K
vfitpvitH
Ti' K
b
Xr&
pitoiffrSrviviOe-
yfatSa, braBfi »oXA«)f [&
v $&
<
rkw
nv iv- ripvirpavip&
fo
i>
C
d ra t, iroW vbt SI b QriMtrry, iroXXbdf St ti> irfftaic v* w®
v&
ftm
oi,woXXovcSt littl iript yijv, itvtu it M
il irrb-y?jvrtvac-
In which the first and highest seat is to be given
to that God, who is the generator or creator of
this great animal; and the next linder it to those
gods, that govern the several parts of it respec­
tively : so that the poets were to be approved of
heire, when they affirm, that there are many gods
in the heavens, many in the seas, many In the ri-
ters and fountains, many also upon the earth,
and some tinder the earth.—
-Wherein we have 0
trne representation of the old Paganictheology,
which both Indians, and Egyptians, and E u­
ropean poets, (Greek and Latiri) all agree in ; that
there Is one supreme God, the maker of the uni­
verse, and under him many inferior generated
gods, or understanding beings (superior to men)
appointed to govern and preside over the several
parts thereof, who were also to be religiously ho­
noured and worshipped by men. And thus much
for Apollonius Tyanteus.
The first Pagan writer against Christianity was
Celsus, who lived in the times of Adrian, and waS
so professed a Polytheist, that he taxes the Jews
for having been seduced by the frauds of Moses
into this opinion of one God; o n r<p 4yn- otig. P. vr,
aapiivty orjtSrv brifavoi MmO&p t&tr6Xoi fcdl’itof- ' i8-
fUvtC, ieyftoiKtHc latdrtuc ^v\trjrwyiid{vrecl ftta \v6fuanv tlvtu.
©
tov* Those silly shepherds and herdsmen,, fol­
iowing-Moses their leader, and being seduced by
bn rustic frauds, came to Crttertain this belief,
24 CELSUS AND PORPHYRIUS .
that there was but one only God.—Nevertheless*
this Celsushimselfplainly acknowledged, amongst
his many gods, one supreme, whom he some­
times calls tow Trpw
TovO
eov, the first God ^ so m e­
times t
o
w/isywrow0Eow,|thegreatest G o d a n d some­
times rowvwtpovpaviw 0cow
, the supercelestiai God,—
and the like: and be doth so zealously assert the
Divine omnipotence, that he casts an imputation
upon, the Christians of derogating from the same,
O
ng.i.vt p. that their hypothesis of an adversary
-3^3. power; trtpdXXovrai Se datfUarara o t t o , icot
7T£pl rjjp S t Tt)v fisyta riiv ayvotav tfiolw g d iro Oftwv alviy/iar
t w v Trtir\avi]fi£vT)v, t to io v v t e q 9t<p tva vrlo v n p a , SiafioXop
r t m l y X w rry 'E fip a lq Sarawav di/opaZopreg row avrow.
aXXwc p ip ovv vavreXiSg Ovt]Ta ravra, ical ouS’ oma X iy tiv ,
S ri S i 6 p iytp ro g 0 tog, (3ovX6ptp6g rt avOpwvoig wtjnXrjtrai,
rovavtarpatroovra teataSwarct. The Christiansare
erroneously led into most wicked opinions con­
cerning God, by reason of their great ignorance
of the Divine enigms; whilst they make a.certain
adversary to God, whom they call the devil, and
in the Hebrew language Satan; and affirm, con­
trary to all piety, that the greatest God, having a
Ceifi°Tui to do good to men, is disabled or
419. withstood by antadversary resisting him.
—Lastly, where he pleads most for the worship
of demons, he concludes thus concerning the
.Supreme God : 0eo» St ovSaprj ovSapw g a rroXtnrrtov,
ovte fuff fipipap, ovre vvicrtop, o vr' ig kw po p, our’iS iy , Xoyq> r t
Iv rravr'i koX ipytp Sm vaaSg, aXXa ye m l p tra rw v S t, m l xwptf,
»
/^ i j au Ttraadta jrpog row Oe
o
v
*
. But God is by no
means any where to be laid aside, or left out;
neither by day nor by night, neither in publio nor
in private, either in our words or actions; but in
every thing our mind ought constantly to be
BOTH< POLYTHEISTS AND MONOTHEISMS. 2 4
directed towards God.—A saying, that might
very well become a Christian.
The next and greatest champion for the Pagan'
cause in books and writings was that famous
Tyrian philosopher Malchus, called bythe Greeks
Porphyrius; who published a voluminous and.
elaborate treatise (containing fifteen books)
against the Christians; and yet he notwithstand­
ing was plainly as zealous an assertor of one su­
preme Deity, and one only dytvnrov, unmade or
self-existent principle of all things, as any of the
Christians themselves could be; he strenuously
opposing that forementioned doctrine of Plutarch
and Atticus concerning three unmade principles,
a good God, an evil soul or demon, and the mat­
ter, and endeavouring to demonstrate, that all*
things whatsoever, even matter itself, was derived
from one perfect understanding Being, or self-
originated Deity. The sum of whose argumen­
tation to which purpose we haye represented by
Proclus upon the Tiraseus, (vol. i. 2 Id.)
After Porphyrius, the next eminent antagonist
of Christianity and champion for Paganism, was
Hierocles, the writer of that book, entitled in
Eusebius)^<XaAi}0*c, or aloverofthe truth;—which
is noted to have been a modester inscription than
that of Celsus’s aXtjfliJc Xo-yoc, or true oration.^-
For if Eusebius Pamphili were the writer of that
answer to this Philalethes now extant, as we
both read.in our copies and as Photius also read;
then must it needs be granted, that Hierocles, the
author of it, was either contemporary with Por­
phyrius, or else but little his junior. Moreover,
this Hierocles seems plainly to be the person in­
tended by Lactantius in. these following words:
£ 6 HIBROCLBS IN H IS >JPH1LALETHES
»•!«»»,i.is.“ Alius eandem . materiam ltiordacMb
«.u.[p.338-]seripsit; qui erat turn e numero jadi*
cum, et qui auctor in primis faciendae persecu-
tionis fuit: quo seelere non contentus, etiaaa
scripiis eos, quos afflUcerat, insecutus est. Com-
posuiteuim libelloa duos, non contra Christianos,
qe inimice insectari videnetur, sed ad Christianos,
ut humane ao benigae consulere videretur. In
quibus ita falsitatem scripture sacre arguere co-
uatus est, tauquam eibi esset tota coutraria.—
Proecipue tamen Paulum Petrumque laceravit,
cffiterusque discipulos, tauquam fhllaci® semi-
qatores; quos eosdem tamen rudes et indoctos
fuisse testatus est.”—Another hath handled the
same matter more smartly, who was. first himself
one of the judges, and a chief author of the per­
secution ; but, being not contented with that
wickedness, he added this afterwards, to perse­
cute the Christians also with his pen; he compos*
.ing two books, not inscribed against the Christ­
ians, (lest he should seem plainly to act the part
of au enemy) but to the Christians, (that he might
be thought to counsel them humanely and benign­
ly:) in which he so charges the holy Scripture
with falsehood, as if it were all nothing else but
contradictions: but he chiefly lashes Panl and
Peter, as divqlgers of lies and deceits, whom
notwithstanding be declares to have been rode
and illiterate persons,—! say, though Hierocles,
for some cause or other, be not named here by
Lactantins in' these cited words, or that which
follows, yet it cannot be doubted, but. that he
was the person intended by him, for these two
reasons: First, because he tells us afterward,
that the main business of that Christtano-%
ACKNOWLEDGED A SUFKBME MUMEN. 27
•
raastix was to compare Apollonius with oar So* ,
viour Christ. “ Cam facta Christi ffiirabilia de»
strueret, aec tamen negaret, voluit ostendere,
ApOllonitun vel paria, vel etiain majora fecisse.
Mirum Ijaod Apaleium pnetermiserit, cujns so*
lent et multa et mira memorari. E t ex hoc inso-
lentiam Christi voluit arguere, quod deuna se con­
stituent : ut ille verecuudior fuisse videretur, qui
cam majora faceret (ut hie putat) tamen id sibi
non arrogaverit.” That he might obscure the
miracles of our Saviour Christ, which he could
not deny, he would undertake to shew, that equal
or greater miracles were done by Apollonius.
And it was a wonder he did not mention Apu-
leius too, of whose many and wonderful things
the Pagans used to brag likewise. Moreover, he
condemns our Saviour Christ of insolency, for
making himself a god, affirming Apollonius to
have been the modester person, who, though he
did (as he supposes) greater miracles, yet arro­
gated no such thing to himself.—The second
reason is, because Laclantius also expressly
mentions the very title of Hierocles’ book, viz.
Philaletbes. “ Cum talia ignorantiae suae delira-
menta fudisset cumque veritatem penitusexcidere
connixuS est, ausus est libros suos nefarios, ac
Dei bostes, fikaXyfetc annotare:” Though pouring
out so much folly and madness, professedly fight­
ing against the truth, yet he presumed to call
thesehis wicked books and enemiesofGod, Pfaila-
letheis, or friends to truth.—From which words of
i^actantius, and those foregoing, where he affirms-
this Christiano-mastix to have written Dr. Peanon,
two books, the learned prefacer to the bP
*ofChe,ter*
latf edition of Hierocles^ probably concludes,
2 8 FURTHER PARTICULARS
that the whole title of Hierocles’ book was this,
Xoyoi <pi\a\r}6tig 7rpog Xpiariavovg' And I con­
ceive, that the first of those two books of Hiero­
cles insisted upon such things as Porphyrius had
before urged against the Christians; but.then in
the second, he added this die novo of his own, to
compare Apollonius with our Saviour Christ;
which Eusebius only takes notice of. Wherefore
Epiphanius telling us,“ that there was one Hiero­
cles, a prefect or governor of Alexandria, in those
persecuting times of Diocletian, we may proba­
bly conclude, that this was the very person de­
scribed in Lactantius, who is said to have been
first of the number of thejudges, and a principal
actor in the persecution; and then afterward to
have written this Philalethes against the Christ­
ians, wherein, besides other things, he ventured
to compare Apollouius Tyanseus with our Saviour
Christ.. Now, if this Hierocles, who wrote the
Philalethes in defence of the Pagan gods against
the Christians, were the author of those two other
philosophic books, the Commentary upon the
Golden Verses, and that De Fato et Providentia,
it might be easily evinced from both of them, that
he was notwithstanding an assertor ofonesupreme
Deity. But Photiusbtells ns, that that Hierocles,
who wrote the book concerning Fate and Provi­
dence, did therein make mention of. Jamblichus,
and his junior Plutarchus Atbeniensis: from
whence Jonsius taking it for granted, that it was
one and the same Hierocles, who wrote against
the Christians, and De Fato, infers, that it could
*Haeres* lxvm. Meleiian. §. ii. tom. i. oper. p. 717.j
b Biblioth. Cod. ccxiv. p. 564. ,
CONCERNING HIEROCLE8. £ 9
not be Eusebius Pamphili, who answered the
Philalethes, but that it must needs be some other
Eusebius much junior. But we finding Hiero-
cles’ Philalethes in Lactantius, must needs con­
clude, on the contrary, that Hierocies, the famous
Cbristiano-mastix, was not the same with that
Hierocies, who wrote De Fato. Which is further
evident from iEneas Gazeus in his Theophrastus;
where first he mentions one Hierocies, p .V.
an Alexandrian, that had been his mas-
ter, whom he highly extols, dX
X
' avk pot, in vap
vfuv turiv ol ri\g (^i\oao<j>lag Seucviivnc Tag reXirag, otog ijv
’IcpoxXdcoSiSdffKaXoc; but tell me, I pray you, are
there yet left amongst you in Egypt any such ex­
pounders of the arcane mysteries of philosophy,
as Hierocies our master was ?—And this we sup­
pose to be that Hierocies, who wrote concerning
Fate and Providence, (ifnot also upon the Golden
Verses.) But afterward, upon occasion of Apol­
lonius the Cappadocian, or Tyanaean, he mentions
another Hierocies distinct from the former;
namely him, who had so boasted of Apollonius's
miracles, in these words : o ’AiroXXtonog rd xptvSij
Xlywv sXey^erat. 'IfpoicXije Se ovk 6 StSacrKaXog, p
aX
X
’ o irpo(3aX
X
o/ucvogrd Oav/uama, amtrrov kal
rowro vpoakO
vKtv' Thus Apollonius is convinced of
falsehood; but Hierocies (not our master) but he
that boasts of the miracles (of Apollonius) adds
another incredible thing.—And though it be pro­
bable, that one of these was the author of that
commentary upon the Golden Verses, (forthat it
should be written by a Christian is but a dream)
yet we cannot certainly determine, which of them
it was. However, that this Hierocies, who was
the mastix of Christianity, and champion for the
3 0 HIEEQC&Sg A DECIDED ASSEETOB
gods, « u notwithstanding a professed asseitsr
cl one supreme Deity, is dearly manifest Also
from L*actaatius, in these following words:
“ Quam tandem nobis attulisti veritatem? nisi
quod assertor deoram eos ipsos ad ultimum pro-
didisti: prosecutus enim snmmidei laudes, quern
regem, quern maximum, qnem opificein rerum,
quern fontera bonorom, quemparentem omnium,
qnem factorem altdremque viventium confesans
es, ademisti Jovi tno negnum; eumque summa
frotestatedepul&um in ministrornm numerum, re-
degisti. £pilogus ergo te tuua arguit stultitise,
vanitotis, erroras. Affirmas deos esse; et illos
tasnen subjicia et mancipas ei deo, cujus religio-
non conaris evertere.” Though, you have entitled
your book Philalethes, yet. what truth hare you
brought us therein, unless only this, that being
ao assertor of the gods, (contradicting yourself)
you hare at last betrayed those very gods? For
hr the close:q£your book, prosecuting the praises
of the supreme God, and confessing him to be the
king, the greatest, the opifex of the world, the
'fountain of good, the parent of all things, the’
maker and conserve? of all. living beings, ycut
have by dais means dethroned youF Jupiter, and,
degrading bins from his sovereign power,reduced
him into the rank of inferior ministers. Where­
fore your epilogue argues you guilty of folly,
vanity and ervor, in that you both assert gods, and
yet subject and maneipate them under that one
God, whose religion you endeavour to overthrow.
-—
Where we must confess We understand not
well Lactantius’s logic; forasmuch as Hierocles’
!i&
eu$, or Jupiter, was one and the same with his
supreme God (as is also here intimated) ; and
O r MONARCHY.. 31
though be acknowledged all the other god* to bp
but bis inferior ministers, yet nevertheless did be
contend, that these ought to be religiously woiv
shipped, which was the thing that Lactantius
should have confuted. But that, which we here
take notice o£ ia this; that Hierocles, a grand
persecutor of the Christians, and the author of
that bitter invective against them, called Phila*-
lethes, though he were so strenuous an assertor
of Polytheism*and champion for the gods, yetdid
he nevertheless at the same time clearly acknoww
ledge one supreme Deity, calling him the kingt
(that is, the monarch of the universe) the greatest^
the opifex of the world, the fountain of good, the
parent of all things, and the maker and conserve!
ofaH life.
But the greatest opposer of Christianity every
way was Julian the emperor, who cannot reason,
ably be suspected to have disguised or blanched
Paganism, because he was an. emperor, and had
so great an animosity against Christianity, and
was so* superstitiously or bigotically zealous for
the worship of the gods; and yet this very Julian,-
notwithstanding, was an unquestionable assertor
of one supreme Deity. In his book e^u. coot,
written against the Christians, he de- j^ 4*
clares the general sense of the Pagans *
>
«
*
»
•]
after this manner: ol ydp tfpcrcpoi faalv, rw Sn/uoapjow
awamvv piv tlvai kolvov wariga m l fiaoiX&a, vtvtjiria-jat St
r^Xeurq w W vvv wr uvrdv, Wvdpxatg Ka^ 0*«c»
i v Ikootoc iwiTpovtvu rrjv lavroS* Xq£tv oIkbIwc avnjJ* iw&Sr)
yap Iv plv rip warpl wdvra reXtta, m l iv wdvra, iv Si to«
c
fttptpnfiie, aXAij wap' eXXip Kparu Svvafuc, &c.—Our the-
Ologers affirm, the Maker of all to be a common
32 JULIAN THE EMPEROR
fatherand king; but that the nations, as to par­
ticular things, are distributed by him to other
inferior gods, that are appointed to be governors
over countries and cities, every one of which ad­
ministers in his own province agreeably to him-
self. For whereas in the common father all
things are perfect, and one is all, in the parti­
cular or partial deities one excels in one power,
and another in another. Afterward, in the same
book he contends, that the Pagans did entertain
fighter opinions concerning the supreme God
P .146, [p.148. than the Jews themselves: el fiiv o
r 1lrpo<TExngeirjrovtcoapovoripiovpyogoKripvTropevog
{rtrb tov Mwaewp, rifiup vTrlp avrov (itXrlovg t^o/itv do^ag, oi
koivbv fiiv Ikuvov {nroXa/ufidvovrcc dwavrwv Sunrdrt]v, iOvap-
yag aXXovc, oi rvy\avov<n plv tor Ikuvov, tiai §k Sxrmp
thrapxpi (SaaiXlws, licaoroc rr/v tavrov Sia<pepovrw<; bravop-
Qotiptvog tjtpovrlSa, Kal ov'icaOlarafitv avrov, ovSk avriptpirpv
rtoV far avrov 9t(ov KaOtorapivwv' If that God, who is SO
much spoken of by Moses, be the immediate
opificer of the whole world, we Pagans entertain
better opinions of him, who suppose him to
be the common Lord of all; but that there are
other governors of nations and countries under
him, as prefects or presidents appointed by a king;
we. not ranking him amongst those partial gover­
nors of particular countries and cities, as the
Jews do.—From both which places it [is evident
that, according to Julian’s theology, all those
ether gods, whose worship he contended so much
for, were but the subordinate ministers of that
one supreme God, the maker of all.
- The same thing might be further manifested
from Julian’s oration made in praise ofthe sun, as
d e r iv e d a l l h is g Dd s p r o m o n e . 3 3
a great God in this visible world; he therein
plainly acknowledging another far more glorious
Deity, which was the cause of all things; piv o
rwv okutv &ifuovpyo<:, woXXot SI oi tear ovpavov retpirro-
XouvrtcSti/uovpyiKotO
tol. There is one God, p.*26t.
the maker ofall things; but besides him
there are many other demiurgical gods p-mo-]
moving round the heavens—in the midst of which
is the sun. Where we have a clear acknow­
ledgment of one supreme God, and of many in­
ferior deities, both together. Moreover, in the
same oration,* he declareth, that the ancient
poets, making the sun to have been the offspring
of Hyperion, did by this Hyperion understand
nothing else but the supreme Deity ; rev irdvrwv
virfpty^ovra, irdvratv eirbcctva, rrepl ov iravra, teat ov ivtica
iravra etrrlv, him who is above all things, and about
whom, and for whose sake, are all things.—Which
supreme Deity is thus more largely described by
him in the same oration (where he calls him the
king of all things): ovroe rotvw, tire to p 24g
iirtKUva row vov KaXeiv avrov Bijuic" tire iStav [p.is*. edit.
" y rt a i . < \ i 9 . »
/ a Spanbem.]
rwv ovtwv o cri to voryrov ovfiTav tire ev9
britSr) wavrwv rb Iv Soku w( irptafivrarov' tin S nAar«w
titoOtv 6vofia£tiv rb ayaOov' ovtij % ovv V povotiSrjc riSv
oXtov air[a, ratri rote ovmv,t^tiyov/i(vti koXXovc re, kal rtXtt-
ottjtos, iviHiaettig rt, kai Swaptute dfXT)\avov' Kara tjjv iv avrg
plvovaav irpwrovpybv ovalav, tjXiov Q
eov piyurrov avfyyvev,
&c. This God, whether he ought to be called that,
which is above mind and understanding, or the
idea of all things,^ or the one (since unity seems
to be the oldest of all things) or else, as Plato
was wont to call him, the good; I say, this uni-
l
aP. 136. edit Spanhem.
7 D
VOL. II.
34; JULIAN THE EMPEROR
form cause of all things, tvhicli is the original of
all pulchritude and perfection, unity and power,
produced from himself a certain intelligible sun,
every way like himself, of which the sensible sun
is but an image.—For thus Dionysius Petavius
rightly declares the sense ofJulian in this oration;
p “ Vanissim® hujus et loquacissim® dis-
putationis mysterium est; a principe ac
primario Deo, v
o
jjto
v quendam et archetypum
solem editum fuisse; qui eandem prorsus tr/lmv et
riSe,tv in genere rwv v
o
ijtiH
v habeat, quam in aiofhjroiQ
ille, quern videmus, Solaris globus obtinet. Tria
itaque discernenda sunt, princeps ille Deus, qui
rayadov a Platone dicitur, o vmiroc tjAioe, o (jtaivofievog
StV
fcoc. The mystery of this most vain and lo­
quacious disputation is this, that from the first
and chief Deity was produced a certain intelli­
gible and archetypal sun, which hath the same
place or order in the rank of intelligible things,
that the sensible sun hath in the rank of sensibles.
So that here are three things to be distinguished
from one another; first, the supreme Deity,
which Plato calls the good; secondly, the intel­
ligible sun, or eternal intellect; and lastly, the
corporeal orsensible sun (animated).—Where, not­
withstanding, we may take notice, how near this
Pagan philosopher and emperor, Julian, ap­
proached to Christianity, though so much op­
posed by him, in that he also supposed an eternal
mind or intellect, as the immediate offspring of
the first fountain of all things; which'seems to
differ but a little from the Christian Aoyoc- How­
ever, it is plain, that this devout restorer of Pa­
ganism, and zealous contender for the worship
of the gods, asserted no multiplicity of indepen-
DERIVED ALL HIS HODS FROM ONE. 3 5
dent self-existent deities, but derived all liis gods
from one.
As for those other philosophers and learned'
men, who, in those latter times of the declining
of Paganism, after Constantine, still stood out in
opposition against Christianity; such as Jam bli-
chus, Syrianus, Proclus, Simplicius, and many
others, it is unquestionably evident concerning
them all, that they clearly acknowledged one su­
preme Deity as the original of all things. Maxi-
mas M adaurensis, a confident and resolved Pa*
gan in St. Austin's time, expressed both his own
and the general sense of Pagans after • Ep ^
this m anner:* “ Equidem unum esse P"‘*f
Deumsumtnum, sme initio, naturae ceu «p>
»t. «.
patrem magnum atque magnificum, quis oper. edit,
tarn demens, tarn raente captus neget Beoed‘ot]
ease certissimnm ? H ujus nos yirtutes per mun-
danum opus diffusas multis vocabulis invocamus,
quoniam nomen ejus cuncti proprinm videlicet ig­
noramus. Ita fit, ut dum ejus quasi quaedam
membra carptim variis supplicationibus prose-
quimur, to&um colere profecto videamur.” T ruly
that there is one supreme God, without beginning,
as the great and magnificent father of nature;
who is so mad or devoid of sense as not to ac­
knowledge it to be most certain? His virtues
diffused throughout the whole world (because
we know not what his proper name is) we invoke
under many different names. Whence it comes
to pass, that whilst we prosecute, with our sup­
plications, his, as it were, divided members se­
verally, we must needs be judged to worship the
whole Deity.—And then he concludes his epistle
d 2
36 PAGANS DISCLAIM A MULTITUDE
th u s: “ Dii te servent, per qiios et eorum, atque
cunctorum mortalium, communem patrera, uni-
versi mortales, quos terra sustinet, mille modis,
coacordi discordia venerantur.” The gods keep
thee, by and through whom, we Pagans, dis­
persed over the whole world, do worship the
common father, both of those gods, and all mor­
tals, after a thousand different manners, neverthe-
Ep.*i. [inter ^ess with an agreeing discord.—Longi-
Epiit. A
ogns- nianus, likewise, another more modest
tin.epMt.834. . . . , ,
p.647. j Pagan philosopher, upon the request of
the same St. Austin, declares his sense concern­
ing the way of worshipping God, and arriving to
happiness, to this purpose : “ Per minores deos
perveniri ad summum Deuin non sine saCris pu-
rific a to riis a that we are to come to the supreme
God by the minor or inferior gods, and that not
without purifying rites and expiations:—he sup­
posing, that besides a virtuous and holy life, cer­
tain religious rites and purifications were neces­
sary to be observed in order to that end. In
which epistle, the supreme God is also styled by
him “ urius, universus, incomprehensibilis, inef-
fabilis et infatigabilis Creator.”
Moreover, that the Pagans generally disclaim­
ed 'this opinion of many unmade self-existent
deities, appeareth plainly from Arnobius, where
he brings them in complaining, that they were
falsely and maliciously accused by some Christ-
. ians as guilty thereof, after this manner:
’, p ‘ “ Frustra nos falso et calumnioso inces-
sitis et appetitis crimine, tanquam inficias eamus
* These words are not Longinianus’s, but the argument of the
epistle prefixed to it.
OF INDEPENDENT DEITIES. 37
Deum esse.majorem; cam a nobis et .Jupiter
nominetar, et optimus habeatur et maximus:
cumque illi augustissimas sedes, et capitolia
constituerimus immania.” In vain do you Christ­
ians calumniate us Pagans, and accuse us, as
if we denied one supreme omnipotent G od;
though we both call him Jupiter, and account
him the best and the greatest, having dedicated
the most august seats to him, the vast capitols.—
Where Arnobius, in way of opposition, shews
first,,how perplexed and entangled a thing the
Pagans’ theology was, their poetic fables of the
gods nonsensically confounding herology together
with theology; and that it was impossible, that
that Jupiter of theirs, which had a father and a
mother, a grandfather and a grandmother, should
be the omnipotent God. “ Nam Deus otnnipo-
tens, mente una omnium, et communi inortali-
tatis assensu, neque genitus scitur, neque novam
in lucem aliquando esse prolatus; nec ex aliquo
tempore coepisse esse, vel sseculo. Ipse enim est
fons rerum, sator saeculorum ac temporum. Non
enim ipsa per se sunt, sed ex ejus perpetuitate
perpetua, et infinita semper continuatione proce^
dunt. A t vero Jupiter (ut vos fertis) et patrem
habet et matrem, avos et avias, nunc nuper in
Otero matris suae formatus,” &c. You Pagans
confound yourselves with contradictions; for the
omnipotent God, according to the, natural sense .
of all mankind, was neither begotten nor made,
nor ever had a beginning in time, he being the
fountain and original of all things. B ut Jupiter
(as you say) had both father and mother, grand­
fathers and grandmothers, and was but lately
formed in the womb; and therefore he cannot be
3 8 PAGANS DISCLAIM A MULTITUDE
the eternal omnipotent God.—Nevertheless, Af-
nobins afterward considering (as we suppose)
that these poetic fables were by the wiser Pagans
either totally rejected, or else some way or other
allegorized, he candidly dismisseth this advan­
tage, which he had against them, and grants their
Jupiter to be the true omnipotent Deity, and con­
sequently that Same God, which the Christians
w orshipped; but from thence infers, that the
Pagans therefore m ust needs be highly guilty,
whilst worshipping the same God with the
Christians, they did hate and persecute them
after that manner. “ Sed sint, ut vnltis, unum,
nec in aliquo, vi numinis, et majestate distantes;
ecquid ergo injustispersequimininos odiisl Quid*
n t ominis pessimi, nostri nominis inhorrescitis
mentione, si, quem Deum colitis, eum et nos?
aut quid in eadem causa vobis esse Contenditis
familiares Deos, inimicos atque infestissimos no­
bis? etenim, si una religio est nobis vobisque
communis, cessat ira coelestium.” But let it be
granted, that (as you affirm) yoiir Jupiter, and
the eternal omnipotent God are one and the same;
why then do you prosecute us with unjust hatreds,
abominating the very mention of our names, if
the same God that you worship be worshipped
by us ? Or if your religion and ours be the same,
why do you pretend, that the gods are propitious to
you, but most highly provoked and incensed
against us?—W here the Pagan defence and reply
is, “ Sed non idcirco Dii vobis infesti sunt, quod
omnipotentem colatis D eum ; sed quod hominem
naturn, et quod personis infame est vilibus, crucis
supplicio interemptum, et Deum fuisse conten-
ditis, et superesse adhuc creditis, et quotidianis
OF INDEPENDENT DEITIES* 89
supplicationibus a d o r a t i s B a t we do not say,
that the gods are therefore displeased with yon
Christians, because you worship the omnipotent
G od; but because you contend him to be a god,
who was not only born a mortal man, but also
died an ignominious death, suffering as a male­
factor; believing him still to survive, and ado­
ring him with your daily prayers.—To which
Arnobius retorts in this m anner: “ Tell us now, I
pray you, who these gods are, who take it as so
great an injury and indignity done to themselves,
that Christ should be worshipped ? Are they not
Janus and Saturn, Aesculapius and Liber, Mer-
curius the son of Maia, and the Theban or Ty­
rian Hercules, Castor and Pollux, and the like T
*
*
f Hice ergo Christum coli, et a nobis accipi, et
existimari pro numine, vulneratis accipiunt auri-
bus? et obliti paulo ante sortis et conditionis suae,
id, quod sibi concessum est, impertiri alteri no-
lunt ? hsec est justitiacoelitum ? hoc deorum judi­
cium sanctum 1 Nonne istud livoris est et avari-
tiae genus ? non obtrectatio quaedam sordens, suas
eminere solummodo velle fortunas, aliorum res
premi et in contempts humilitate calcari? natum
hominem colim us; quid enim, vos hominem nul­
lum colitis natum ? non unum et alium ? non in-
numeros alios? quinimo non omnes quos jam
templis habetis vestris, mortalium sustulistis ex
numero, et coelo sideribusque donastis ? Conce-
damus interdum manum vestris opinationibus dan-
tes, unum Christum fuisse de nobis, mentis, ani-
mae, corporis, fragilitatis et conditionis unins;
nonne dignus a nobis est tantorum obmunerum
gratiam, Deus dici, Deusque sentiri? Si enim
40 v JUDGMENT OF FATHERS CONCERNING
vos Liberum, quod reperit usum vini; si quod
panis, Cererem; si JEsculapium, quod herbarum
si Miuervam, quod oleae; si Triptolemum, quod
aratri; si denique Herculem, quod feras, quod
fures, quod multiplicium capitum superavit com-
-pescuitque natrices, divorum retulistis in ceelum:
honoribus quautis afficiendus est nobis, qui ab
erroribus nos magnis in sinuata veritate traduxit ?”
&c. Are these the gods, who are so much of­
fended with Christ's being worshipped, and ac­
counted a god by us? they, who being forgetful
of their former condition, would not have the
saqie bestowed upon another, which hath been
granted to themselves? Is this the justice of the
heavenly powers? this the righteous judgment of
gods? or is it not rather base envy and covetous­
ness, for them thus to engross all to themselves?
W e worship indeed one, that was born a man :
what then? do you worship no such ? not one,
and another, and innumerable? and are not al­
most all your gods such as were taken from out
of the rank of men, and placed among the stars ?
and will you account that damnable in us, which
yourselves practise? Let us for the present yield
thus much to your infidelity, and grant, that
Christ was but an ordinary man, of the same rank
and condition with other m ortals; yet might we
not for all that (according to your principles)
think him worthy, by reason of the great benefits
we received from him, to be accounted a god ?
For if you have advanced into the number of
your Divi, Bacchus or Liber for inventing the use
of wine, Ceres of corn, jEsculapius of herbs,
Minerva of the olive, Triptolemus of the plough,
THE PAGAN POLYTHEISTS. 41
nod Hercules for subduing beasts, thieves, and
monsters; with how great honours ought he to
be affected by us, who by the insinuation of D i­
vine truth hath delivered us from such great errors
of mind? &c.—Which argumentation of Arno-
bius, though it were good enough ad homines, to
stop the mouths of the Pagans, there being more
reason, that Christ should be made a god, for
the benefits that mankind receive from him, than
that B acchus,. or Ceres, or Hercules should be
so ; yet as the same Arnobius himself seems to
intimate, it is not sufficient without something
else superadded to it, for the justification of
Christianity. Neither indeed was that the chief
quarrel, which the Pagans had with the Christ­
ians, that they bad deified one, who was cruci­
fied, (though the cross of Christ was also a great
offence to them) but that they condemning the
Pagans, for worshipping others besides the su­
preme omnipotent God, and decrying all those
gods of theirs, did themselves notwithstanding
worship one mortal man for a god. This Celsus
urges in Origen, d pkv S
ij pr$kva oA
A
ov iOtpa-ntvov
ovroi n A
ijwtva 0£ov, ijvav T
iea
u
ro
Z
clatisq irpog . Iib
.T
iii.
» p . 3 8 5 .
rove; aAAouc artvifc Aoyog. vvvi C€ row Bvayy^og
javsvra tovtov virtpOpriaictvovcn, ica'i o/ut»e oiiStv
vofiiZ,o
w
ir
iTTtpl rov0eov, « Kal virripirriQ avrov O tpairtvdt}-
aerac If these Christians themselves worshipped
no other but one God, or the pure Divinity, then
might they perhaps seem to have some just pre­
tence of censuring u s; but now they themselves
give Divine honour to one that lately rose up, and
yet they persuade themselves, that they do not at
all offend God ip worshipping that supposed
42 THE JUDGMENT OF FATHERS CONCERNING
minister of his.—Which, as Origen makes there
a reply to it, so shall it be farther considered by
us afterwards.
As for the judgment of the fathers in this
particular, Clemens Alexandrinus was not only
of this opinion, that the Pagans (at least the
Greekish) did worship the true God, and the
same God with the Christians, (though not after
a right manner) but also endeavours to confirm it
Strom. 6. from the authority of St. Peter: “ That
p.m edit’the Greeks knew God, .Peter intimates
Potter!.] jn jjjg predication. There .is One God,
saith he, who made the beginning of all things,
and hath power over their end, &c. Worship
this God, not as the Greeks do. Wherein he
seemeth to suppose the Greeks tb worship the
same God with us, though not according to the
right tradition received by his Son. He does not
enjoin us not to worship that God, which the
Greeks worship, but to worship him otherwise
than they do; altering only the manner of the
worship, but not the object, or preaching ano­
ther God. And what that is, not to worship
God as the Greeks do, the same Peter intimated
in those words: They worship him in images of
wood and stone, brass and iron, gold and silver,
and sacrifice to the dead also, as to gods.” Where
he adds further out of St.’ Peter’s predication,
*
*Neither worship God as the Jews do,”&c. “ The
one and only God (saith Clemens) is worshipped
by the Greeks Paganically, by the Jews Judai-
cally, but by us newly and spiritually. For the
same God, who gave the two testaments to the
Jews and Christians, gave philosophy to the
Greeks, SC%
Co iravroicparwp Trap’’’EXAjjffi So£a&rai, by
T& £ M O A N POLYTHEIST8. 4 3
which the omnipotent God is glorified amongst
the Greeks.
Lactantin8 Firmianus also, in many d«i™d«\
places, affirms the Pagans to have ac- £4
7
p
” \
knowledged one snpreme Deity; “ Sam* p-w*]
mum Deum et philosophi et poet®, et ipsi deni-
qae, qui deos colant, ssepe f a te n tu rT h a t
there is one supreme Deity, both philosophers
and poets, and even the vulgar worshippers of
the gods themselves, frequently acknowledge.—
From whence he concludes, that all the other
Pagan gods were nothing but the ministers of
this one snpreme, and creatures made by him,
(he then only blaming them for calling them gods,
and giving them religious worship)—lib. i. When
he had declared, that it was altogether as absurd
to suppose the world to be governed by many
independent gods, as to suppose the body of a
man to be governed by many minds or souls in­
dependent; he adds: “ Quod quia in - ^ j
telliguut isti assertores deorum, ita eos 1
®
*
p-“*
• p-
praeesse singulis rebus ac partibus di-
cunt, ut tantum unns sit rector eximius. Jam
ergo cmteri non dii erunt, sed satellites ac mi-
nistri, quos ille unus, maximus et potens omnium,
officiis his prsfecit, ut ipsi ejus imperio et nuti-
bus serviant. Si universi pares non sunt, non
igitur dii omnes sunt. Nec enim potest hoc idem
esse, quod servit et quod dominatur. Nam si
Deus est nomen summae potestatis incorruptibilis
esse debet, perfectus, impassibilis, nulli rei sub-
jectus. Ergo dii non sunt, quos parere uni
maximo Deo ttecessitas.cogit.” Which because
die assertors of gods well understand, they affirm
these gods of theirs bo to preside over the seve-
44 THE JUDGMENT OF FATHERS CONCERNING
ral parts ofthe world, as that there is only one chief
rector or governor. Whenceitfollows, thatall their
other godscan be no other thing than ministersand
officers, which one greatest God, who is omnipo­
tent, hath variously appointed and constituted, so
as to serve his command and beck. Now, if all
the Pagan gods be not equal, then can they not be
all gods; since that which ruleth, and that which
serveth, cannot be the same. God is a name of
absolute power, and implies incorruptibility, per­
fection, impassibility, and subjection to nothing,
p. 28.{cap.t. Wherefore these ought not to be called
p-40.] gods, whom necessity compels to obey
one greatest God.—-Again, in the same book,
“ Nunc satis e'st demonstrare, summo ingenioviros
attigisse veritatem ac prope tenuisse; nisi eos re-
trorsum infatuata pravis opinionibus consuetudo
rapuisset, qua et deos alios esse opinabantur, et
ea, quae in usurn hominis Deus fecit, tanquam
sensu praedita essent, pro diis habenda et colenda
credebant.” It is now sufficient to have shewn,
that the more ingenious and intelligent Pagans
came very near to the truth, and would have
fully reached it, had not a certain customary in­
fatuation of evil opinions snatched them away to
an acknowledgment Of other gods, and to a be­
lief, that those things, which God made for the
use of raeu, as endued with sense (or animated)
ought to be accounted gods and worshipped;
p. 39. [o. vii. namely, the stars.—And afterward,
p.5i.] “ Qqod si cultores deorum eos ipsos se
colere putant, quos summi Dei ministros appel-
latnus, nihil est qUod'nobis faciant invidiam, qui
unuiu Deum dicamus, multos negemus.” If the
worshippers of the gods think* that they worship
THE PAGAM POLYTHEISTS. 45
ho other than the ministers of the one supreme
God, then there is no cause, why they should ren­
der us as hateful, who say, that there is one God,
and deny many gods.—
Eusebius Caesariensis likewisegives us „ „
. . ° Prep. Evang.
this account of the Fagans creed, or the i>
i>
.m
.c.>
«!.
tenor of their theology, as it was then [p' 1811
held forth by them ; tva yip 6vra dtbv, mvrotaic
Svva/um, ra irdvra irAjjpouv, ical Sid wavrwv ical ro?c
ra(T(v brurrarttv* a<ru>fjuxT
ii>c Si ical a<j>avio<; iv iraaiv ovra, k«1
Sid •navrwv Svfpeovra' ical tovtov eticorwc Sia rwv SeSi)\iofdv<tiv
cifieiv foot' The Pagans declare themselves in
this manner, that there is one God, who with his
various powers filleth all things, and passeth
through all things, and presideth over all things;
but being incorporeally and invisibly present in
all things, and pervading them, he is reasonably
worshipped by or in those things that are mani­
fest and visible.—Which passage of Eusebius will
be further considered afterward, when we come to
give a more particular account of Paganism.
What St. Austin’s sense was *concerning the
theology of the Pagans, hath been already de­
clared ; namely, “ That they had not so far dege­
nerated as to have lost the knowledge of one su­
preme God, from whom is all whatsoever nature;
and that they derived all their gods from one.” We
shall now, in the last place,, conclude with the
judgment of Paulus Orosius, who was Hi».i.»!.«.!.
his contemporary: “ Philosophi dum in- F
abric!!.]
tento mentis studio quaerunt scrutanturque omnia,
unutn Deutn authorem omnium reperernnt, ad
quern unum omnia referrentur; unde etiam nunc
Pagani, quos jam declarata veritas de contu-
■
*Lib. xx. contra Fanitnm Manich. cap. xix. p. 340. tom.vi. oper.
4 6 PAGANS ACKNOWLEDGED
rnacia magis qnam de ignorantia convincit, cam a
nobis discutiuntur, non se plures sequi, sed sub'
nno Deo magno, plures ministros venerari fatea-
tur. Restat igitur de intelligentia veri Dei, per
multas intelligendi suspiciones, confusa dissensio
quia de uno Deo omnium pene una est opinio.”
The philosophers of the Gentiles, whilst with
intent study of mind they inquired and searched
after things found, that there was one God, the
author of all things, and to which one all things
should be referred. 'Whence also the Pagans at
Ibis very day, whom the declared truth rather
convinceth of contumacy than of ignorance, when
they are urged by us, confess themselves not to
follow many gods, but only under one God to
worship many ministers. So that there remaineth
only a confused dissension concerning the manner
of understanding the true God, because about
one God there is almost one and the same opi­
nion of all.
And by this time we think it is sufficiently evi­
dent, that the Pagans, (at least after Christianity)
though they asserted many gods, they calling all
understanding beings superior to men by that
name, (according to that of St. Jerome, “ Deum
quicquid supra se esset, Gentiles putabant;”) yet
they acknowledged one supreme, omnipotent and
only unmade Deity.
xvi. But because it is very possible, that some
may still suspect all this to have been nothing else
but a refinement and interpolation of Paganism,
after that Christianity had appeared upon the
stage; or a kind of mangonization of it, to render
it more vendible and plausible, the better able to
defend itself, and bear up against the assaults of
ONE d V R iro tlN T DEITY. 47
Christianity; whilst in the mean time the genuine
doctrine of the ancient Pagans was far otherwise:
although the contrary hereunto might sufficiently
appear from what hath been already declared, yet
however, for the fuller satisfaction of the more
strongly prejudiced, we shall, by an historical de­
duction made from the most ancient times all
along downwards, demonstrate, that the doctrine
of the greatest Pagan Polytheists, as well before
Christianity as after it, was always the same; that,
besides their many gods, there was one supreme,
omnipotent and only unmade Deity.
And this we shall perform, not as some *have
done, by laying the chief stress upon the Sibylline
oracles, and those reputed writings of Hermes
Trismegist, the authority whereof hath been oflate
so much decried by learned men; nor yet upon
such oracles of the Pagan deities,1
*as may be sus­
pected to have been counterfeited by Christians;
but upon such monuments of Pagan antiquity, as
are altogether unsuspected and indubitate. As
for the Sibylline oracles, there may (as we con­
ceive) be two extremes concerning them; one, in
swallowing down all that is now extant under
that title as genuine and sincere, whereas nothing
Canbe moremanifest, than that there is much couu-
terfeit and supposititious stuff in this Sibylline
farrago, which now we have. From whence, be­
sides other instances of the like kind, it appears
too evidently to be denied, that some pretended
Christians of former times have been for pious
and religions frauds, and endeavoured to uphold
* Augustinus Eugubinus, Mutius Pansa, and others.
*These oracles are produced by Justin Martyr, in Orat. ad Ghe-
cos et Eusebius in Pnepar. Evang. and others.
48 CONCERNING THE
the truth of Christianity by figments andfoj*ge»ier
of their own devising. Which, as it was a thing
ignoble and unworthy in itself, and argued that
those very defenders of Christianity did them­
selves distrust their own cause; so may it well
be thought, that there was a policy of the devil in
it also, there being no other more effectual way
than this, to render all Christianity (at least in
after-ages) to be suspected. Insomuch that it
might perhaps be questioned, whether the truth
and divinity of Christianity appear more in having
prevailed against the open force and opposition
of its professed enemies, or in not being at last
smothered and oppressed by these frauds and
forgeries of its seeming friends and defenders.
The other extreme may be, in concluding the
whole business of the Sibylline oracles (as any
ways relating to Christianity) to have been a mere
cheat and figment; and that there never was any
thing in those Sibylline books, which were under
the custody of the Quindecimviri, that did in the
least predict our Saviour Christ, or the times of
Christianity. For notwithstanding all that the
learned Blondel* hath written, it seems to be un­
deniably evident from Virgil's fourth Idyllium,
that the Cumean Sibyl was then supposed to have
predicted a new flourishing kingdom or monarchy,
together with a happy state of justice or righte­
ousness to succeed in the latter age of the world:
Ultima Cumaei venStjam carminis aetas,
Magnus ab integro seclornm nascitur ordo.
Jam redit et virgo, redeunt Saturnia regna,
Jam nova progenies coelo delabitur alto, &o.
* In his Treatise of the Sibyls, printed in French at Paris, 1649, in
4to.
S I B U U N I O IA O U 8. 4»
Moreover, it is certain, that in Cicero’s time the
Sibylline prophecies were interpreted by some
in favour of Caesar, as predicting a monarchy;
i*Sibyllse versus observamus, quos ilia .Cic. Dii. lib.
furen8 fudisse dicitnr. Quorum inter-
pres nuper falsa quadam hominum fama o
p
O
T
J
dicturus in senatu putabatur, eum, quem revera
regem habebamus, appellandum quoque esse re­
gem, si salvi esse vellemus.” We take notice of
the verses of the Sibyl, which she is said u cotu
to have poured out in a .fury or pro- Q
°ilK
fo
cu
,1
T
ir-
phetic frenzy, the interpreter whereof was lately
thought to have been about to.declare in the se­
nate-house, that if we would be safe, we should
acknowledge him for a king, who really was so,
—Which interpretation of the Sibylline oracles
(after Caesar’s death) Cicero was so much offended
with (he also looking upon a Roman monarchy
as a thing no less impossible than undesirable),
that upon this occasion, he quarrels with those
very Sibylline oracles themselves, as well as the
readers and expounders of them, after this man­
ner: Hoc si est in libris, in quem ho-jvDir.ub.ii,
minetn, et in quod tempos est? Callide
enim, qui ilia composuit, perfecit, ut, quodcun-
que accidisset, praedictura videretur, hominum et
temporum definitione sublata. Adhiboit etiam la-
tebram obscuritatis, ut iidem versus alias in aliam
rem posse accommodari viderentur. Non esse
autem illud carmen furentis, turn ipsum poema
declarat, (est enim magis artis et diligentim quam
incitationis et motus) turn vero ea quae cucpavriylc
dicitur, cum deiuceps ex primis versuum literis
aliquid connectitur. Quamobrem Sibyllam qui-
dem sepositam et conditam habeamus, ut, id, quod
VOL. II. a
50 CONCERNING THE
proditum est a majoribus, injussu senatns ne \e-
gantar quidem libri.” If there be any such thing
contained in the Sibylline books, then we demand; -
concerning what man is it spoken, and of what
time? For whoever framed those Sibylline verses;-
he craftily contrived, that whatsoever should
come to pass, might seem to have been predicted
in them, by taking away nil distinction.of persons
and times. He also purposely affected obscurity,
that the same verses might be accommodated
sometime to one thing, and sometime to another;
But that they proceeded not from fury and pro*
phetio rage, but rather from art and contrivance;
doth -no less appear otherwise, than from the '
acrostic in them. Wherefore let us shut up the Si*
byl, and keep .her close, that, according to the de­
cree of our ancestors, her verses may riot be read
without the express command ofthe senate.—Arid
lastly, he addeth, “ Cum antistitibus agamus, ut
quidvis potius.ex illis .libris quam regera profe*
rant, quern Romse posthac net dii nec; homines
esse patientur*” Let us also deal with the quin*
decimviri and interpreters of the Sibylline books,
that they would rather produce any thingout of
them, than a king; whom neither gods nor men
will hereafter.suffer-at Rome. Where, though
Cicero were mistaken as to the event of the Ror
roan government,-and there were doubtless some
predictions in these Sibylline books of a new king­
dom or .monarchy to be set up in the world; yet
that the Roraan empire was not the thing intended
in them, doth manifestly appear from that descript­
ion in Virgil’s foreinentioned eclogue; wherein
there is accordingly another completion of them
expected, though flatteringly applied to Saloni-,
SIBYLLINE ORACLES. 61
nos. Wherefore we conclude, that the kingdom,
and happy state, or golden age, predicted in the
Sibylline oracles, was no other than that of the
Messiah, or oar Saviour Christ, and the times of
Christianity. Lastly, in that other passage of
Cicero’s, concerning the Sibylline oracles: “ Va-
leant ad deponendas potius quam ad snscipiendas
religioneslet them be made use of rather for
the extinguishing than the begetting of religions
and superstitions;—there seems to be an intima­
tion, as if, of themselves, they rather tended to
the lessening than increasing of the Pagan super­
stitions ; and therefore may probably be thought
to have predicted a change of that Pagan religion,
by the worship of one sole Deity to be introduced.
Neither ought it to seem a jot more strange, that
our Saviour Christ should be foretold by the Pai-
gan Sibyl, than that he was so clearly predicted
by Balaam the Aramitic sorcerer. However, those
things in the Sibylline verses might have been de­
rived, some way or other, from the Scripture-pro­
phecies ; which there is indeed the more probah*.
lity of, because that Sibylline prophet made use
of those very same figures and allegories in de­
scribing the future happy state, that are found in
the Scripture. As for example:
*------- Nec rnagnos metuent armenta leones;
xOccidet ct serpens, &c.
Now, as Cicero seems to complain, that in his
time these Sibylline oracles were too much ex-
' posed to view, so is it very probable, that not­
withstanding they were to be kept under the
guard of the quindecimviri, yet many of them
, v , a Virgil. Edog. iv. ver. 22. 24.
E 2
bfc CbNCEfiKtaG THE
might bd copied out, dtid get abroad; and thereby
ah occasion be offered to the ignorantly-rzealons
Christians, Who were for officious lies and pious
frauds, to add a great deal more of their oWn
forging to them. Neither indeed is it imaginable,
hdw any Such cheat, ds this should either at first
hdVe been attempted, or afterward have proved
Successful, had there hot been some foundation
"oftruth to support ahd countenance it. Besides
which it is observable, that Gelsus, who Would
'bate had the Christians father to have made the
Sibyl than odr Saviour Christ a God; taking notice
oftheir using ofthose Sibylline testimonies against
the Pagans, did not tax them for counterfeiting
the Whole business of these Sibylline oracles, but
'only for inserting many things of their own into
Orig. q
. Cel*, th e m ; vfiuc Bi K<fv 2i(3vtedv, p ‘
xp^vrai rivtc
lib.tiI. p.368. e’
lKorug av juaXXov irpOf<m}<ra<r9t, <Jc to
w'
tfeov7r<u£a,vvv StTrapeyypttipEiv jub etcra bccivtK, iroAXdteat
pXainpiifiaiucp S
tuvarr&
e‘ You Christians might much
lathef have acknowledged even the Sibyl for the
offspring OfG od; but now yon can boldly insert
into her verses many, and those maledicent things
Of your oWn.—Whete Origen, that he might vin­
dicate, as Well as he could, the honour of Christ­
ians, pleads in their defence, that Celsns, for all
that, could not shew what they had foisted into
those Sibylline verses; because, if he had been
able to have produced more ancient and incorrupt
copies, in which such things were not found, he
would certainly have done it. Notwithstanding
which, it is likely, that there were other ancient
copies then to he found, and that Celsus might
have met with them too, and that from thence he
took occasion to write as he did. However, this
SIBYLLINE ORACLES. $3
would not justify the present Sibylline books, it)
which there are forgeries plainly discoverable
without copies. Nevertheless it seems, that all
the ancient Christians did not agree in making nqe
of these Sibylline testimonies, thus much being
intimated by Celsus himself, in the forecited
words, y xjwvrai nvcc vpy, which some of you
make use o f a s they did not all acknowledge the
Sibyl to hpve been a prpphetess peither: since,
upon Celsus *mentioning a sect of Christians call­
ed Sibyllist8, Oyigep tejls us, that these were such
as using the Sjbyllipe testimonies were called so
in .way ofdisgrace by ether Christians, who would
not allow the Sibyl to have been a prophetess; they
perhaps conceiving it derogatory' to the .Scrip­
tures. £ut though there may be some of the aq-
cienjt Sibylline verses still left in that farrago which
we pow.have, yet it being impossible for us to
prove which aje such, we shall qot insist upon any
testimonies at all from,thence, to evince, that the
ancient Pagans acknowledged one supremeDeity. #
Notwithstanding which, we shall not omit one Si­
bylline passage, which we find recorded in Pau-
saniasb(from whence, by the way, it appears also,
that the Sibylline verses were not kept up so close,
but that some of them got abroad), he telling us,
that the defeat of the Athenians at JEgosPota-
mo8 was predicted by the Sibyl in these words
(amongst others):
Ko2 t &
t 0 a g u < r r m t iw h a b h a t t
Zivc eZirtf xparoq hrrl fxkyurrw, &o.
Ac turn Cecropidis luctum gemitusque ciebit
t Jupiter altitonans, rerum cui sumraa potestas, &c.
aOrig. contra Celsum, lib. v. p. 272.
b.In Phocicis, lib. x. cap. ix. p. 820. edit. Kuhnii. j
5 4 CONCERNING THE SIBYLLINE ORACLES.
Whereto might be added also that of another an-
cient Peliadean prophetess, in the same writer,*
wherein the Divine eternity aud immutability is
plainly declared:
■ .Zive h , Z$vq fart, Zivc i m r u , m /m ju Xi Ziv,
Jupiter est, fait, atque erit: O bone Jupiter alme.
Besides these Sibylline prophecies, there are
also other oracles of the Pagan deities themselves,
in which there was a clear acknowledgment of
one supreme and greatest God. But as for such
gf them, as are said to have been delivered since
the times of Christianity, when the Pagan oracles
began to fail, and such as are now extant only in
Christian writings, however divers of them are
cited out of Porphyrius’s book of oracles; be­
cause they may be suspected, we shall not here
mention any of them. Nevertheless, we shall take
notice of one oracle of the Clarian Apollo, that is
recorded by Macrobius,* in which one supreme
*Deity is not only asserted, but is also calledby that
Hebrew name (or Tetragrammaton) Ja o :
tov x&non vyretrov $|or i/x/xiv *1
You are to call the highest and supreme of all the
gods, Jao—though it be very true, that that Cla-
riap devil there cunningly endeavoured to divert
this to the sun, as if that were the only supreme
Deity and true Jao. To which might be added
another ancient oracle (that now occurs) of the
Dodonean Jupiter,btogether with the interpreta­
tion of Themistocles, to whom it was delivered ;
wherein he was commanded irpoc tov djuoiwjuov tov
*Ibid. cap. xii. p. 828. /
bSaturnal. lib. i. cap. xviii. p. 290. .
J5Apud Plutarch, iu Vita Thcmistocl, tom. i. oper. p. 225.
ZOROASTER A POLVTHBIST. 55
4kw to repair to him, who was called by
the same name with God; which Themistocles ap*
prebeuded to be the king of Persia, ptyaXovt yip
i p f o r t p owe K nu T l K a i X ty w Q a « /3atnXt«c, because both
he and God were alike called (though in different
respects and degrees) the great king or monarch,
But as for those writings, commonly imputed to
Hermes Trismegist, that have been generally con­
demned by the learned of this latter age, as wholly
counterfeit and supposititious, and yet on the con­
trary are asserted by Athanasius Kirchierus* for
sincere and genuine; we shall have occasion to
declare our sense’concerning them more oppor­
tunely afterward.
The most ancient theolOgers, and most eminent
assertors of Polytheism amongst the Pagans, were
Zoroaster in the eastern parts, and Orpheus
amongst the Greeks. The former of which was of
so great antiquity, that writers cannot welt agree
about his age. But that he was a Polytheist is
acknowledged by all, some affirming it to be sig­
nified in bis very name, as given him after bis
death ; it being interpreted by them a worshipper
of the stars.* Neither is it to be doubted, but that
ster or ester, in the Persian language, did signify
a star, as it hath been observed also by learned
men concerning sundry other words, now familial1
in these European languages, that they derived
their original from the Persian. Notwithstanding
which, it may be suspected, that this was here but
a Greek termination ; the word being not only in
* In CEdipo ./Egyptiaco et Obelisco Pamphitio, p. 35.
b Thus it was explained by Dinon and Herraodorus, as we are in­
formed by Laertius in his proem, segm. 8. p. 6. of which opipiou is
likewise Scajjger, with others of the modern?* *
5 6 *OROASTER, AN ASSERTOR
(be oriental languages Written zertoost and zardr
dust, but also in Agathias, zarades. However,
Zoroaster’s Polytheism is intimated by Plato;*
where his magic is defined to have been nothing
else but Qwv (kpainla, the worship of the gods.—
>
-
Whence by the way we learn also, that the word
f i a y u a , or magic; was first taken in a good sense,
he AbitKk which is confirmed by Porpbyrius, *W
-
iv. p. 165. p a y t jBJfv role n ^ e iu c , ot wept to
Kal rovrov Acpdiromc, Ma-yo» fiiv irpoattyopevovrat'
Am ongstthe Persians, those who were skil­
ful in the knowledge o{ the Deity, and religi­
ous worshippers of the same were called, magi,
—And as magic is commonly conceived to be
founded in a certain vital sympathy that is in
the universe, so did these ancient Persian magi
and Chaldeans (as Psellus tells usb
) suppose ovp-
vafcj mat raavitroteKara, that there was a sympathy
betwixt the superior and inferior beings;—but it
seems the only way at first by them approved,-of
attracting the influence and assistance of those
superior invisible powers, was by piety, devotion*
and religious rites. Nevertheless, their devotion
was not carried out only to one omnipotent God,
butalso to manygods; neither is it to bequestioned
but that this Divine magic of Zoroaster shortly
after degenerated in many of his followers into die
theurgical magic, and at length into ymrnla, down­
right sorcery and witchcraft; the only thing which
is now vulgarly called magic. But how. many
gods soever this Zoroaster worshipped, that he ac-
aIn Alcibiade i, oper.p. 32. , .
.bIn brevidogmat. Chaldaicorum declaration^ published at the end
of Seryatius Gallaeus’s edition of the Sibylline Oracles, Ajnst, 1689,
in4to.
o r ONE SUPREME DEITY. 57
knowledge*! notwithstanding one supreme Deity,
appeareth from the testimony of Eubulus, cited
by Porphyrius in bis De Antro Nym- 2
5
4
>
pharum, vptSra ftev, wc fyn EvfiovXoc, Zw
*
(oaorpov avro^ucc QirriXaiov cv roic tr^igotov open rijc
Il^riSbc, avOnpov teat wijyae *X0V* ^uptlvavroc «c
riju^v t o v iravrwv jrotnrov <ca< irarpo^ M«0pov, tucova
^ tp o r r o c < w iy row oirviXaiov t o v k o o /
jlov, ov o MI9pa(
i^fuovpyrm' Zoroaster, first of all, as Eubulus
testified), in the mountains adjoining to Persis,
consecrated a native orbicular cave, adorned
with dowers, and watered with fountains, to the
honour of Mithras, the maker and father of all
things: this cave being an image or symbol to him
of the whole world, which was made by Mith­
ras;—Which testimony of Eubulus is the more to
be valued, because, as Porphyrius elsewhere* in­
formed) us, he wrote the history of Mithras at
large in many books; from whence it may be pre­
sumed, that he had thoroughly furnished himself
with the knowledge of what belonged to the Per­
sian religion. Wherefore, from the authority of
Eubulus, we may well conclude, also, that not­
withstanding the sun was generally worshipped
by the Persians as a god, yet Zoroaster, and the
ancient magi, who were best initiated in the Mitb-
raic mysteries, asserted* another Deity, , Tij(
superior to the sun, for the true Mithras, ra»,w
hich
i t ' \ \ \ .1 was called o
StiCU as was V
O
V
T
W
VTTOITJTTIC KO
Ll TTCLTIjp, tne Xfttyto; df£t(
maker and father of all things, or of the
Whole world'—whereof the sun is-a part. vU
i-
However, these also looked upon the
sunas the most livelyimage ofthis Deity, in which
it was worshipped by them; as they likewise wor-
* De Abstifi. lib. iv, sect. xvi. p. 165.
5 8 ZOROASTER, AN ASSERTOB
shipped the same Deity symbolically in fire, as
Maxinms Tyriug.informeth us;V agreeable to
which is that in the magic oracles tb
■ fratra w o g o f ting IxyryaSer*,
All things are the offspring of one fire; that is, of
one supreme Deity.—And Julian the emperor was
such a devout sun-worshipper as this, who ac­
knowledged, besides the sun, another incorporeal
Deity, transcendent to it. Nevertheless, we deny
hot, but that others amongst the Persians, who
were not able to conceive of any thing incorpo­
real, 'might, as well as Heraclitus, Hippocrates,
and the Stoics amongst the Greeks, look upon
the fiery substance of the whole world (and espe­
cially the sun) as animated and intellectual, to
be the supreme Deity, and the only Mithras, ac­
cording to that inscription,' Deo Soli Invicto
Mithrae.—However, Mithras,whether supposed to
be corporeal or incorporeal, was unquestionably
taken by the Persians for the supreme Deity, ac­
cording tO that Of Hesycllius, MiOpag, 6 vpwrog cv
IIcpaatQ Otog, Mithras, the first god among the
Persians—who was therefore called in the iu-
scriptiondOmnipotent, Omhipotenti Deo Mithrae,
Which first, supreme and omnipotent God was
acknowledged by Artabanus, the Persian, in his
conference with Themistocles, in these yvords:
„ . .■ nutv Ss iroWuiv voiiwv kcu koX w i ovtojv, icaX-.
P l a t . T O ie m u t. ** , “ - n v v
Auttqq ovrog c m to Ttfiyv paatAea, jcai wpoo-
Kvvelv tucova Oeoy rov ra irqvra odXfiyrog* Amongst
aTide Dissertat xxxviii. p. 371.
bCommonly ascribed to Zoroaster, *
sect. ij. vers. 29. in Stanley’s
History of Philosophy.
**Vide Aiilon. Van Dale Dissert, ix. ad An'liquit. et Marmora, p. 16.
1
*Apud Grater. Thesaur. Inscrip. p. 34. n.5.
OP ONE SUPREME DEITY. 59
Gemtrix.
those many excellent laws of ours, the most ex­
cellent- is this, that the king is to be honoured
and worshipped religiously, as the image of that
God, which conserveth all things.—Scaliger* with
some others (though we know not upon what cer­
taingrounds) affirm, thatmzf/ier.inthe Persian lan­
guage, signifiedgrea/, and mithra,greaterorgreat­
est; according to which, Mithras would be all one
with Deus major or maximtisb
, the greatest God.
Wherefore we conclude, that either Herodotus
was mistaken, in making the Persian Mithras the
same with Mylitta or Venus, (and perhaps such
a mistake might be occasioned from hence, be­
cause the word mader or mether in ?t , s.
the Persian language signified mo- ' J
ther, as mylitta in the Syrian did); of else, rather,
that this Venus of his is to be under­
stood of the ’AippoSltv ovpavla, the hea­
venly Venus or Love; and thus indeed is she
there called in Herodotus, Urania; by which,
though some would understand nothing else but
the moon, yet we conceive the supreme Deity,
true heavenly Love (the mother and nurse of alt
things) to have been primarily signified therein.
But Zoroaster and the ancient magi are said
io have called the supreme God also by another
name, viz. Oromasdes or Ormisdas; however
Oromasdes, according to Plato,c seems to have
been the father of Zoroaster. Thus, besides Plu­
tarch and others, Porphyrius, in the life of Py­
thagoras, Trapifvft uaXtara S’aXifieottv, rouro P. 191.
' . i t ’ A ’ - n - Cp -'4 *"
■yap fiovov cvvaavai rove avvpwwooe iroutv attp Kusttr.]
» Do Emenilat.Tcmporum, lib. vLcap. do Ilcbdom. Daniel, |'.5S8;
b Hist. lib. i. cap. cxxxi. p. 65.
f Jn Alcibljide, tom. i. oper. p. 32.
$ 0 THE TRIPLASIAN MITHRAS.
7rapaxXi}atouc, eira k«i irapa rov 8eov, «uc xapa w » M dyw
S7ri»v0ai/£ro, ov’Qpofiafrjv KaXovoiv ixuvot, iouctvai to fi\v
wfia fxori’ r>jv St akifltuf, Which we would
understand thus: Pythagoras exhorted men chiefly
to the love of truth, as being that alone which
could make them resembleGod, he having learned
from the magi, that God, whom they call Oro­
masdes, was as to corporeals most like to light*
and as to incorporeals to troth•’-^-Though perhaps
some would interpret these words otherwise, so
as to signify Oromasdes to have beep really cpm*
pounded of soul and body, and therefore nothing
else but the animated sun, as Mithras is pomr
monly supposed also to have been. But thp
contrary hereunto is plainly implied in those
Zoroastrian traditions or fables concerning Oro­
masdes, recorded, in Plutarch,1
! on tirlorwn row
*)A(ou Toaovrov, o<rop 6 vXiog tie ytjt th a t
Oromasdes was as far removed from the sun, as
the son was from the earth.—Wherefore Oror
masdes was, according to the Persians, a deity
superior to the sun ; God properly as the fountain
of light and original of good, and the same with
Plato’s rayaOov, or first good.—From whom the
Persians, as Scaliger informs ns, called the first
day of every month Ormasda, probably because
be was the beginning of all things. And thus
Zoroaster and the ancient magi acknowledged
one and the same supreme Deity, under the dif­
ferent names of Mithras and Oromasdes.
But it is here observable, that the Persian Mi­
thras was commonly called TptxXa<uoc, threefold or
treb le.— Thus Dionysius,bthe Pseudo-Areopagite,
»Do Iside et Osir. p. 370. tom. ii, oper.
b Epistol. vii. ad Polycarpum, p.9J. tom. ii. oper.
THE T K lPl.A 8iA N M ITHRAS. 01
IcA eu tri MilyOt rd fivitfioown rov rpurXafftAv MWpov re*
Xou<nv’ The Persian magi to this very day cele­
brate a festival solemnity in honour of the tri-
plasian (that is, the threefold or triplicated)
Mithras. And something very like tp this is re­
corded in Plutarch* concerning Oromasdes also,
d pAv'Qpofta&ic rpJc iavrov av^nc, Oromasdes thrice
augmented or triplicated himself;—from whence
it further appears, that Mithras and Oromasdes
were really one and the same Numen. Now the
scholiasts upon Dionysius pretend to give a rea­
son of this denomination of the Persian Mithras,.
Triplasios, or threefold, from the miracle done in
Hezekiah’s time, when the day was increased,
aud almost triplicated; as if the magi then ob-.
serving the same had thereupon given the name
of TfwrXdatoc, or threefold, to their god Mithras,
that is, the sun, and appointed an anniversary
solemnity for a memorial thereof. But learned
men have already shewn the foolery of this con­
ceit ; and therefore it cannot well be otherwise
concluded, but that here is a manifest indication
of a higher mystery, viz. a trinity in the Persian
theology; which Gerardus I. Vossiusbwould wil­
lingly understand, according to the Christian hy­
pothesis, of a Divine triunity, or three hypostases
in one and the same Deity, whose distinctive cha­
racters are goodness, wisdom, and power. But
the magical or Zoroastrian oracles seem to repre­
sent this Persian trinity more agreeably to that
Pythagoric or Platonic hypothesis, of three
distinct substances subordinate one to another,
1De Iside et Oskide, p.|J70. tom.ii. oper.
bDe Orig. et Progress!! Idelolat. lib.ii. csp.ix. p. 131.
62 THE TRIPLASIANM ITHftAS.
the two first whereof are thus expressed id the
following verses:* <
■ ■ l l a m a y k f i g i r f a n r t ' w r f y , tu d v S «rag&«x«
A t m t f t ) , b V f t b r w xXu/^crai !$vut d v f y & r .
To this sense: This Father, or first Deity, per­
fected all things., and delivered them to the se^
cond Mind, who is that, whom the nations of men
commonly take for the first.—Which oracle Psel-
lusb thus glosseth upon; tijv waaav KTtmv Styitovp-
yd<rag <
5 Tijc-rpiaSoc wpiUrog irarijp, waptSatKS ravrtjv rip
v(p‘ ovriva vovv to £v/uirav yivog rwv avBputv, ayVoovvrtg tif* '
irarpuci/v WEpo^iJi/ iraryp,' Ofdv' wpmrov KaXovoi' 'T he-
first Father of the Trinity having produced this
whole creation, delivered to it Mind or Intellect;
which Mind, the whole generation of mankind;
being ignorant of the paternal transcendency;
commonly call the first God.—After which, Psel-
lus takes notice of the difference here betwixt
this magical or Chaldaic theology, and that of
Christians: FIAt
Jv to Trap' jj/uv doy/ia ivavriioQ *X£‘»
ovroc o nptZrog vovg, o wide row fityaXov watpog, tjJv
ktioiv wdaav edtifuovpytjaev} &c. Silt our Christian
doctrineis contrary hereunto, namely thus : that
the first Mind or Intellect, being the Son of the
great Father, made the whole creation. For the
Father, in the Mosaic writings, speaks to his Son
the idea of the creation; but the Son is the imme- ■
diate opifex thereof.—His meaningis, that accord­
ing,to this Persian or Chaldaic theology, the first
hypostasis of the'-Divide Triad was the Stifitovpyde,
or immediate architect' of the world—whereais,
' , ' • • . 1
aIn Oraculis Zoroastri adscripts, sect. ii. ver.27, 28. apud Stanley,
ubi supra. ^
b He and Plctlio wrote commentaries on tfye oracles of Zoroaster.
THE MAGIC AND CHALDAIC.TRINITY. 63
according to the Christian' as well as Platonic
dootrine, he is the second. For which cause,
Pletbo'framed another interpretation of that ma­
gic oracle, to render it more conformable both to
the Christian and Platonic doctrine; o yap *-arqp
awavra t£er«Xi<ra, ra votjra Sr/XaBt} ti8n (ravra yap tan ra
tKTiTtXtafUva Tt Kqt rtXtia) x a i r a fttff tavrov Bfirripcp Oup
vap&wctv, apytw 8r)\aB>) Kal *Jyetadat avruv, &C. The
Father perfected all things, that is, the intelligible
ideas (for these are those things which are com­
plete and perfect), and delivered them to the.ser
cond God, to rule over them. Wherefore what­
soever is produced by this God, according to its
own exemplar and the intelligible essence,, must
needs owe its original also to the highest Father.
Which second God, the generations of men cooir
monly take for the first, they looking i^p no higher
than to the immediate architect of the world.—
According to which interpretation of Pletbo’s
(the more probable of the two) the Second hypo­
stasis in the magic (or Persian) trinity, as well
as in the Platonic and Christian, is the immediate
opifex or architect of the world; and this seems
to be properly that which was called Mithras in
Eubulus.
But, besides these two hypostases, there is
also: a third mentioned in a certain other magic-or
Chaldaic oracle, cited by Proclus, under the
name of Psyche, or the mundane soul;
-------■
--------- i— Mfr& ITctTpiKa? AutvoU;,
V v ^ f i i y u v c d v .
After (or next below) the paternal .Mind, 1 Psyche
dwell.—Now the paiternal Mind, as Psellus in-
fortns us, is the second hypostasis before men?
tioned : 6 irarpueoc V
O
V
C
, 6 Stvrepoc SjtX
aSri Otoe, icat rqc
64 THE Z0ROASTRIAN TRINITY,
ifatfk "poatxvQinfuovftyof The paternal Mind is the
second God, and the immediate demiurgus or opi-
fex of the soul. Wherefore though both those
names, Oromasdes and Mithras, were frequently
used by the magi for the ro Bhov, or whole Deity
in general, yet this being triplasian, or threefold,
according to their theology, as containing three
hypostases in it; the first of those three seems to
have been that which was most properly called
Oromasdes, and the second Mithras. And this
is not only confirmed by Pletho, but also with
this further superaddition to it, that the third
hypostasis of that Persian trinity was that
which they called Arimanius;.he gathering as
much even from Plutarch* himself: ^tuiwspl Zutpodtr-
rpov, <
I>
£rpvyjy r“ 3vra SU Xot' ical r y julv irptUrry avrO iv fio ip q ,
*O pof»aZyv i<j>i<TTifif' rovrov S’ «vat, rov v
t
t
orwv \o y tu v wm-
rip a KaXov/usvov' rySe Itry a xy ’A peiftavriv* MiBpav Si r y /ultrp,
nit rovrov S’fiv tlveu rov At& repov Novv kaXovfievov wrro rw»
ZojU
jv. They say, that Zoroaster made a three­
fold distribution of things, and tlfst'-he-assigned
the first and highest rank of them to Oromasdes,
who in the oracles is called the Father; the lowest
to Arimanes; and the middle to Mithras, who in
the same oracles is likewise called the second
Mind.—Whereupon he observes, how great an
agreement there was betwixt the Zoroastrian
and the Platonic trinity, they differing in a man­
ner only in words. And the middle of these,
namely, the eternal Intellect, that contains the
ideas of all things, being, according to the Plato­
nic hypothesis, the immediate Sti/uo<*?7<
>
c8Qd archi­
tect of the world, this probably was that Mithras,
as we have already intimated, who is called in
• DeIsideet O
sir*p.370~
OROMA8DB8, MITHRAS, AltD ARIMANIUS. Q6
Eubulus, the demiurgus of the world, and the
maker and father of all things. Now, if that
third hypostasis of the nragic or Chaldaic.oracles
be the same with that which the Persians call
Arimanias, then Hiust it be upon such an account
as this, because this lower world (wherein are
souls vitally united to bodies,.and lapsable) is
the region, where all manner of evils, wicked­
ness, pains, corruption and mortality reign. And
herewith Hesychius seemeth to agree: ’Apcipdvqc
(saith he) 6’Affiijc ™pi lUpaatt, Arimanius among
the Persians is Hades—that is, either Orcus or
' Pluto; wherein he did but follow TheopOmpus,
who in Plutarch calls Arimanius likewise Hades
or Pluto: which it seems was is well the third in.
the Persian Trinity (or triplasian Deity) as it was
in the Homerican. And this was that Arima­
nius, whom the Persian king in Plutarch, upon
Themistoclfes’ flight, addressed his devotion to;
icarcv&ijufvoc h i rote iroXtfxlou; roiavrac <pp(vae i„ vit
.. StSovai rov 'Aptipaviov, S ru; iXavvutai rove apta~ Them.
roveraiv iaurwv, he prayed, that Arimanius
; would always give such a mind to his enemies, as
thus to banish and drive away their best men from
them.—And indeed from that which Plutarch
affirms, &o icat M
tOpijv Tlepoai rov M
ttrirrfV ovofiaZovoi,
that the Persians from their god Mithras, called
any mediator, or middle betwixt two, Mithras;
it may be more reasonably concluded, that Mith­
ras, according to the Persian theology? was pro­
perly the middle hypostasis of that triplasian or
triplicated Deity of theirs, than that he should be
a middle aelf-existeut god or mediator betwixt
two adversary gods unmade, one good, and the
other eyjl, as Pjutarch would suppose.
VOL. II. ' f
3 6 4POB £OHOASTJtUIf TRIW ITV,
■ Notwithstanding which, ifthat, which the same
•Plutarch and others do so confidently affirm,
-should be trae, that Zoroaster and the ancient
•magi made good and evil, light and darkness, the
tnro '&abstairtial principles of the universe; that
'4$ asserted an evil demon co-eternal with God,
•arid^independent on him, in the very same manner
hhat Autarch himself and the Manicheans after-
iwArd did -- yet however it is plain, that iu this
•way also Zoroaster and the magi acknowledged
*me©nly fountain and ordinal df all good, and
nothing to be independent upon that one good
.^viociple or God, but only that, which is-so con­
trary to his nature and perfection, as that it could
‘>tidtproceed from him, namely, evil. But we have
; already discovered a suspicion, that the meaning
>of-those ancient magi might possibly be other-
; wise ; they philosophizing only concerning a cer-
; tain mixture of evil and darkness, together with
good and light, that was in the composition of
^jus lower world, and personating the sam e; as
also, perhaps taking notice especially therein of
*evH demons (who are acknowledged likewise in
1the magic oracles, and called flijptc \9ovo^, beasts
of the earth—arid x0ovtoi ictivsc, terrestrial dogs;)
' th e ‘head of which might be sometimes called
1atso emphatically 6 irovijp^c Saifiwv Uspaihv, the evil
r .demon of the Persians—as being the very same
with the devil: all which was under the imme­
diate presidency or government of that God-,
called by them Arimanius, Hades, or Pluto, the
third hypostasis in the triplasian Deity of the
Persians. Which suspicion may be yet further
confirmed from hence, because the Persian theo-
logers, as appears'by the inscriptions, -expressly
OROM
A8D.E8, MITHRAS, AND ARIMANIUS. 67
acknowledged the Divine omnipotence, which they
could not possibly have done, had they admitted
pf a Manichean substantial evil principle, co-
eternal with God, and independent on him. Be­
sides which, it is observable, that whereas the
Gnostics in Plotinus's time asserted this world to
have been made, not so much from a principle
essentially evil and eternal, as from a lapsed soul,
to weigh down the authority of Plato, that was
against them, did put Zoroaster in the other scale,
producing a book entitled onmiXI^c
i; Ztopoaarpov,
or ’the Revelations of Zoroaster—Porphyrius
tells iis,* that himself wrote purposely to disprove
those Zoroastrian revelations, as new and coun­
terfeit, and forged by those Gnostics themselves;
therein implying also the doctrine of the ancient
Zoroaster no why to have countenanced dr
favoured that Gnostic heresy. Moreover, .the
tenets of these ancient magi, concerning.that
duplicity of principles, are by writers represented
with great variety and uncertainty. That account,
which Tbeodorus in Photiusb(treating of the Per­
sian magic) gives thereof, as also that other of
Eudemus in Damascius,0 are both of them so
nonsensical, that we shall not here trouble the
reader with them: however, neither of them sup­
pose .the Persian Arimanius, or Satanas, to be an
.unmade self-existing demon. But the Arabians,
writing of this Altauawiah, or Persian duplicity
of good and evil principles, affirm, that according
to.the most approved magi, light was Kadiman,
the piost ancient and first God, and that darkness
a In Vita Plotini, ca^.xvi. p. 119. edit. Fabrieii.
b Bibliotb. Cod. Ixxxi. p. 199.
,c T
&
virpw
T
w
v a work never yet printed.
...... *
' -F 2 • •
681 CONCElRNIfcO Tttfi M
AC1C,
was fcut a created God; they expressly denying'
the principle of evil and darkness to be coeve
with God, or the principle of good and light.
And Abulfeda represents the Zoroastrian doc­
trine (as the doctrine'of the magi reformed) after
PocookS
pec, this manner: “ That God was older than
u<£i47.P
' darkness and light, and the creator of
i4a- them, so that he was a solitary being,
without companion or corrival; and that good
and evil, virtue and vice, did arise from a certain
commixture of light aud darkness together, with­
out which this lower world could never have
been produced ; which mixture was still to con­
tinue in it, till at length light should overcome
darkness: and then light and darkness shall each
of them have their separate and distinct worlds,
.apart from one another.”
*
If it were now needful, we might still make it
further evident, that Zoroaster, notwithstanding
the multiplicity of gods worshipped by him, was
an assertor of one supreme, from his own descrip­
tion of God, extant in Eusebius: Otoe«<m
v6 vpw-
Prep. £». •TOg aidtog, aylvrp-og, afitpi)g, avopoio-
[<
»p.x.p. farog, rjv(o\og iravroc icaAov, aSutpod^KWTog, aya~
4*0 SiLv ay.a&urarog, <j>pov(pti>v tppovifitSrarog, tart 81
xal TTarrjp cviropiag ical Suecuoowtic, avroSidaKTog, riXsUig,
tealU
povfvaiKov fiovog ivpsrrig- God is the first in­
corruptible, eternal, unmade, indivisible,.most
■unlike to every thing, the head or leader of all
'good, unbribable, the best of the good, the wisest
of-the wise; he is also the father of law and
'Justice; self-taught, perfect, and the only inventor
of the natural holy.—Which Eusebius tells us,
that this Zoroastrian description of God was
contained verbatim, in a book entitled, A holy
OR CHALDA1C ORACLES. (39
Collection of the Persian Monuments; as^also
that Ostanes (himself a famous magician .and
admirer .of Zoroaster) had recorded. the very
same of him in his Octateuchon.
Now we having, in this discourse /concerning
Zoroaster aud the magi, .cited the oracles, called
by some magical, and imputed to Zoroaster, but
by others Chaldaical; we conoeive it not im­
proper to give some account of them here. And
indeed if there could be any assurance,of the
antiquity and sincerity'of those reputed oracles,
there would then need no other testimony to
prove, that either Zoroaster and the Persian
magi, or else at least the Chaldeans, asserted not
only a Divine monarchy, or one supreme Deity
the original of all things, but also a trinity con­
sistently with the same.
And it is certain, that those of^des are not
such novel things as some .would suspect, they
being cited by Synesius,* as then venerable, and
x>f.great authority, under the name of U
gaMyta,
holy o r a c l e s a n d there being, of this number,
some produced by .him, that are not to be found
in the copies of Psellus and Pletho; from whence
it ;nay be concluded, that we have pnly some
fragments of these oracles .now left. And that
they were not forged by Christians,, as Softie of
the ^Sibylline oracles undoubtedly were, -seems
.probable from hence, because so many Pagan
philosophers make use of their testimonies, laying
ho small stress upon them; as for example Da-
mascius, out of whom Patritius hath made a cpn-
. siderable collection of such of these oracles as
pre wanting in Psellus and Pletho’s copies. And
4pe Jnsomnjw, passim. ,
70 CONCERNING THE MAGIC,
we learn from Photius,* that whereas Hierocles’
book of Fate and Providence was divided into
seven partsj the drift of the. fourth of them was
this, ra Xtyopeva X6yia, tic <rvfi>j>tovlav m vajtiv, ole IlXarwv
i&oyfianot, to reconcile the reputed oracles with
Plato’s doctrines.—Where it is not io be doubted,
but that those reputed oracles of Hierocles were
the. same with these magic or Chaldaic oracles;
because these are frequently cited by philosophers
under that name of or oracles. Ptoclus upon
p the Pim8eus,.vftrf rt ilXarwvoc, upl ’Op'^lwc,
icalAoyltov, woirfnjs Kal 7rar?)p vpvtiTcu to
v7ravroc,
irdrijp avSpuivr t $tu>vr t*yew&v (iivtoirXifirj rdv S t5 » , yfw
x&
e
8l irifariav tic ytvfo«c avSpwv* The maker of the uni­
verse is celebrated both by Plato and Orpheus
and the oracles, as the father of gods and melt,
who both produceth multitudes of gods and
sendfe down soiils for the generations of men.—
And ps there are other fragments of these cited
by Procliis elseWhete under the name of Xdyta or
oracles, so doth be sometimes give them that
higher title of StoirapaSoroc StoXoyta, and pvdraywytd,
the theology that was of Divine tradition or reve­
lation.—Which magnificent encomium was be-
stoWed ifi like manner upon Pythagoras’s phi­
losophy by Jambliehus,b that being thought.to
HaVe been derived ih great part from theChahleaHs
and the magi ; ac &twv avrijc irapaSodtltnic toteat' ap\a£‘
This philosophy of Pythagoras having been first
divinely delivered, oi1revealed by the gods, ought
not to be handled by us without a religious invb-
cation Ofthem.—And that Porphyrius was not
unacquainted with these oracles neither, may be
» Biblioth Cod. ccxiv. p. 563.
b Id Vita Pythag. cap. i. p. 1, 2. cd. Kusteri.
OR CHALDA1C ORACLES. 71;
concluded from that book of his, entitled mpi x5c
U\«yU*vftXowoflae,concerning the philosophy from,
oracles;—which consisting of more parts, one of,
them was called, ra rh» XaXSatwvXdyta, the oracles,
of the Chaldeans:—which, that they were the
very same with those we now speak of, shall be;
farther proved afterward. Now, though Psellos
affirms, that the Chaldean dogmata contained in
those oracles were some of them admitted both
by Aristotle and Plato; yet does he not pretend
these very Greek verses themselves to have been
nso ancient. But it seems probable from Saidas,
that Julian, a Chaldean and Theurgist, the son
of Julian a philosopher (who wrote concerning
Demons and Telesiurgics), was the first, that
turned those Chaldee or magic oracles into Greek
verse; ’IovXtav&
c, htl M a p k
o
v 'Avto
vIvo
v row
fyptafit dtaupyueOf rtXtoruca, \6 y i a &
’brw > ‘ Julian, in
the time of Marcus Antoninus the emperor, wrote
the Theurgic and telestic oracles in verse.—For
that there is something of the Theurgical magic
mixed together with mystical theology in these
oracles, is a thing so manifest from that operation
about the Hecatine circle, and other passages in
them, that it cannot be denied; which renders it
still more unlikely that they should have been
forged by Christians. Nevertheless, they carry
along with them (as hath been already observed)
a clear acknowledgment of a Divine Monarch, or
one supreme Deity, the original of all things $
which is called in them the Father, and the pater­
nal Principle, and that Intelligible, *S^ at vodv
vow that cannot be apprehended otherwise
than by the flower of the mind;—as also that
a Qraeujar. $ebt,iii. vers, 63/
1 _>
7 2 CONCERNING THE MAGIC,
*one fire, from whence all things spring: Psellus
thus giossiug upon that oracle, “ all things were the
offspring of One fire,w ir&vra r a 6 v ta rare vortta, ical
itd&rjra, airA fiiv o v Scow rrjv inr6<jra&iv t\a /3 o v , teal irpac
£7r¥afpa7i4ai, & d. oittcuotov ovv r& \6 y io v , xal
nXfy^ Ttiv rifieTtpov Soyfiarog' All things, whether
intelligible or sensible, receive their essence from
God alone, and return back again only to him ;
so"that this oracle is irreprehensible, and full of
6ur doctrine.—And it is, very observable, that
these very same oracles expressly determined
also that inatter was not ayfvvrbc, unmade or self-
existent—but derived in like manner from the
Deity. Which we learn flora Proclus upon
Plato’s Timasus, where, when he had positively
asserted, that there is tv itavrwvwnov, one thing
thfr Cause'of ail things ;—-and rayaO ov ira v r w v .a tr io v
t v , tlv a i Kai CXrjc a m o v , that the supreme good, being
the cause of all things, is also the cause of nfatler
—he confirms this assertion of his from theautho-
P 118 rity of the oracles, a im fawnjc teal Trig Ta^tatg
• icat ra \6yia vapayu rrjv irokvwoltaXdv C
X
tjv,
fvStv a
p
S
iJ
v SpdxT
K
ei yiveeng voXviroiKlkov C
X
j
j
?
- From
this order also do'the oracles deduce ihe genera-
tioh of the matter, iii these words; from thence
(thill is, from one Supreme Deity) altogether pro­
c e ss the genesis of the multifarious matter.—
Which unquestionably vyas ohe of those very
m'agic or Chaldee oracles ;b and it may be further
proved from hence, because it was by Porphyrins
set down amongst them,- as appears from Aineas
Gazeus in his' Theophrastus oi» yip ayfwijroc
otiSt avap^oe r\ vX
»j, tovro as K
al XaXSatot StBaaieovat, teal
hopfhptog* tiriypa<
f>
u St icadoX
ov ro /3t|3Xfov 8 tigfiiaov
» Sect. ii. vcr. 69. b Sect. i. vcr. 20. c P. 66.
OR CHALDAIC ORACLES. 73
wpoayti, rwv XaXSaiwv Ta \6yia, iv ole ytyovlvax ti)v 5X»f»
hrxyptZtreu' Neither was matter void of generation
or banning, which the Chaldeans and Porpliy-
rius teach thee; he making this the title of a
whole book published by him, The Oracles of
the Chaldeans; in which it is confirmed that
matter was made.—
Moreover, that there was also in these magic
or Chaldee oracles a clear signification of aDivine
triad, hath been already declared. But we shall
here produce Proclus’s* testimony for it too;
ovru Si K
al dunrapaSoroc Stokoyla, ovjutrarX
tiptlM
rd'tu
rov x6ofiov, lie rwvSerwv Tptw
v* kkyti yovv 17 wtpl rov
Atoc hrhcctva rov Btnuovpyfiaavrog rb irav' Thus the'
divinely delivered (or inspired) theology.affirmetb
the whole world to have been completed from
these three; Psyche, or the mundane sonl, therein
Speaking concerning that Zeus or Jupiter, who
was above the maker of the world, in this manner,
&c.—For we have already declared, that Proclus’s
0fotfapaSoroe OeoXoyia, his theology of Divine tra­
dition or revelation—is one and the same thing
with the X6yia, or oracles. To which testimony
of Proclus we might also superadd that oracle
cited put of Damascius by Patritius;
vnrr\ yh{ h xixr(juc Xo/xim Tgtct;, Mova;
In the whole world shineth forth a triad or
trinity,, the head whereof is <
a monad or perfect
unity—thau which nothing can be plainer.
.xvii. And now we pass out of Asia o t vow
idi
into Europe, from Zoroaster to Or- D
-4*.Po-
pheus. It is the opinion of some emi-
pent philologers of latter times, that there never
• ‘ r : * Comment in Timaeam, Plat p. 116.
74 THE HISTORY OF ORPHEUS
was any such man as Orpheus, but only kr
Fairy-land; and that the whole history of Or*
phens was nothing but a mere romantic allegory*
utterly devoid of all truth and reality. But there
is nothing alleged for this Opinion from antiquity,
save only this one passage of Cicero’s concerning
Be Nat. d . Aristotle: “ Orpheum poetam docetAria*
1.1. P.sii. t0te|eg nanquam faisse Aristotle teach-
eth, that there never was any such man as Orpheus
the poet:—in which notwithstanding Aristotle
seems to have meant no more than this, that there
was no snch poet as Orpheus senior td Homer*
Or that the verses vulgarly called Orphical were
not written by Orpheus. However, if it should
be granted, that Aristotle had denied the exist*
ence of such a man, there seems to be no reason
at all, why his single testimony should hefe.pre­
ponderate against that universal consent of all
antiquity, which is for one Orpheus, the son of
Oeager, by birth a Thracian, the father or chief
founder of the mythical and allegorical theology
amongst the Greeks, and of all their most arcane
religious rites and mysteries; who is commonly
supposed to have lived before the Trojan war
(that is, in the time of the Israelitish judges), or
pt least to have been senior both to Hesiod and
Homer; and also to have died a violent death,
most affirming him to have been tom in pieces by
he Rep. i.x. women. For which canse, in that vision
lib.iv.p.16*. of Herus Pamphylius in Plato, Or-
Kheus’s soul being come down again into another
ody, is said to have chosen rather that of a
swan (a reputed musical animal) than to be bom
again of a Woman, by reason of that great hatred,
which he had conceived of all womankind, for
75
NOT A MERE ROMANCE.
his suffering such a violent death from them.
And the historic triflli of Orpheus was not only
acknowledged by Plato, but also by Isocrates,
senior to Aristotle likewise (in his oration in the
praise of Busiris*); and confirmed by that sobet
historiographer Diodorus Siculus,bhe givihg thiS
account of Orpheus, That he was a man, who
diligently applied himselfto literature, and having
learned ri /wSoXo^ofyuva, or the mythical part of
theology, travelled into Egypt; where he attained
to further knowledge, and became the greatest of
all the Greeks iii the mysterious rites of religion,
theological Skill, and poetry. To which Pau-
sanias addeth, that he gained great authority,
da rurrtvdfitvot *5ps»cfatal tpywv avoatuv tca$ap- jjb. i*. p.
fiofc;,v6auvrtl&fiara,toolrpovacfiijvifiarwvdduv"
as being believed to have found out expiatioris
for wicked actions, remedies for diseases, and
appeasements ofthe Divine displeasure.—NeitheC
was this history,of Orpheus contradicted by Ori-
gfeh;c when Gelsns gave him so fit an occasion,
and so strong a provocation to do it, by his pre­
ferring Orpheus before ohr Saviour Christ. To
alt which may be added, in the last place,' that it
being commonly concluded from the Greek word
dpipnctfe, that the Greeks derived their Teletae and
mysteries of religion from the Thracians, it is not
so reasonable to think with the learned Vossius,d
that Xamolxis was the founder of them (and no.t
Orpheus), this Xamolxis being by most reported
to have been Pythagoras’s servant, and consef-
. quently too much a junior; and though Herodd-
a p. 452. b Lib. iv. cap. xxv. p. 221..
c Advers. Cels. lib. \ii. p. 368.
* De Artis Poetic. Nator. cap. xiii.
76 THft, HISTORY OF ORPHEUS
tus *
• attribute more' antiquity to him, yet did he
conceive him to.have been no other than a demon,
who appearing to the Thracians, was worshipped
by them.; -whereas in the meantime, the general
tradition of the Greeks derived the^Thracian re­
ligious rites and mysteries fromOrpheosSnd rid
ptlier, according to this of Suidas; Xiyerai wg'op-
c ©/>$;, Trpwroo ersxvoX6ynot ra 'EXXjjvwv pvarripta, koI
to rtfiQV Otbv dpnotctiuv £KaA»j<r£V, <Lc Qpqxlas ovcnjc Trjf
tbpUewc. It is commonly said, that Orpheus the
Thracian was the first inventor of the religious
mysteries of the Greeks, and that religion was
from thence called Threskeia, as being a Thraciau
invention,—Wherefore though it may well be
granted, that by reason of Orpheus’s great an­
tiquity, there have been .many fabulous and
romantic things intermingled with this history ;
yet there appears no reason at all, why we should
disbelieve the existence of such a man.
But though there were such a man asOrpheus,
yet it may very well be questioned for all that,
whether aiiy.of those poems, commonly entitled to
him, and called Orphical, were so ancient, apd
indeed written by him. And this the rather, be­
cause Herodotus declares it as his-own opiuion,
that Hesiod and Homer were the ancientest of'all
the Greek poets, ol Ssfportpovwottirat Xeydfievoi to
vrtov
P;.53' tw
vav$pu>
vyivtffdcuvcrrepovi-yevovro,and that
ptioV]1
1 those other poets, said to have been be­
fore them, were indeed juniors to them;—meaning
hereby, in all probability, Orpheus, Musaeus and
Linus. As also because Aristotle seems plainly
to have followed Herodotus in this, he mentioning
the Orphic poems (in his book ,of the squI). aftcp
a Hist lib. iv. cap. xcvi. p. 252,2$3.
NOT A MERE ROMANCE. 77
this manner, t« ’Opfud <
c
«
Xov/uva imt, the ^ o „ ^
verses that are called Orphical.—Besides
which Cicero* tells us, that some imputed all the
Orphic poems to Cercops, a Pythagorean; and it
is. well known, that many have attributed the
same to another of that school, Onoraacritus, who
lived in the times of the Pisistratidae: wherefore
we read more than onqe in Sextus Empiricus of
’OvofiaicpiTOQ tv rolf 'OptjiiKcnQ, Onomacritus in the
Orphics.—Suidas also reports, that some of the
Orphic poems were anciently ascribed to Theog-
netus, others .to Timocles, others to Zopyrus,
&c. .From all which Grotiiis seems to Pro|eit ill
have made up this conclusion : That the Flor,s*
ob*
Pythagorics entitled their own books to Orpheus
and Linus, just in the same manner as ancient
Christians entitled theirs, some to the Sibyls, and
others to Hermes TriSmegist.—Implying there­
in. that both the Orphic poems and doctrine owed
their very being and first original only to the Py­
thagoreans. But on the other side Clemens
Alexandrians,b afiSrmeth, that Heraclitus the
philosopher borrowed many things from the Or­
phic poems. And it is certain, that Platoc does
not only very much commend the Orphic hymns
for their suavity and deliciousness, but also pro­
duce some verses out ofthem, without making any
scruple concerning their author. Cicero himself,
notwithstanding what he citesout ofAri- D
eND
e L
stotle to the contrary, seems to acknow- p-*01-Ltm
b-
ledge. Orpheusforthe most ancient poet, he writing
a De.Natur. Deor. lib.i. cap. xxxviii. p. 2940.. tom. ix. oper.
b Stromat. lib. vi. cap. ii. p. 752.
c Vide Plat.de Legib.l. viii. p. 623, et Cratylum, p. 265. Io, p. 144.
et in Convivio, p.318.
f & WHETHAR jORJPHEUS w jer e x h ^e a u th o r
thus of Qeanthes: “ In secundo libro de natura
deorum, y.ultOrphei, Musa^i, Hegiodi, Homerique
fabellas accommodare ad ea, quae ipsedediis im-
piortalibus scripserat, ut etiam veterrimi poetae,
,qui h^c ne suspjcati quidem sint, Stoici fuisse vi-
dea,ntur.” Cleanthes, in his second .book of the
nature 0f the gods, endeavours to accommodate
jtbe fables pf Orpheus, Musseus, Hesiod, and
J^omer, to those very things, which himself had
written concerning them; so that the most an-
.cient pppts, who never dreamed of any such mat­
ter, are made by him to have been Stoics.—Dio­
dorus Siculus* affirmetb Orpheus to have been the
author of a most excellent poem : and Justin
.Martyr,bClemens Alexandrinus,cAtheqagoras,d
and others, take it for granted, that Homer bor-
Towed many passages of his poems from the
Orphic verses, and particularly that very begin­
ning of his Iliad—
£uh, Btk---------- s
-----
Lastly, Jamblichus testifieth, that by most wri­
ters Orpheus was represented as the ancientest
of all the poets; adding, moreover, what dialect he
DeV.Pjtb. Wrote in, at ttXeIovc Turviaropiwv inrotjxilvovoi,
o. xxxir. kfxpija$ai tq Aa)pucy SiaXiicr<
j> icai top' Op<p£a,
ip«195t196«] /!>/ v •
• ^ ‘ _ _
rrpeapvrepov ovra rwv Troeijraiv Most of the
historiographers declare, that Orpheus, who was
.the ancientest of all the poets, wrote in the Doric'
dialect,—rWhich, if it be true, then those Or­
phic fragments, that now we have, (preserved
in the writings of such as did not Dorize) must
a Lib, iv. cap. xxy. p. 221.
k Cohortat. aid Grsecos, p. 17. oper. .
c Stromat. lib. vi. cap. ii. p.738. 751.
d Legat. pro Christianis, cap. xy. p. 64,65.
■ 9F m g PfD
gM
S«ALL£D ORPfl^fL. 7f)
hajte been transformed by them out of their na-
live idiom. Now as concerning Herodotus, .who
supposing Homer and Hesiod to bare been the
aacieutest of all the Greek poets, seemed there­
fore to conclude the Orphic poems to have been
.psendepigraphous; himself intimates, that this
-was .but a singular opinion, and as it were para-
.dox, of his own, the contrary thereunto being
ithen generally received. However Aristotle pro­
bably might therefore be the more inclinable to
follow Herodotus in this, because be had no great
ioindness for the Pythagoric or Orphic philo­
sophy. But it is altogether irrational and ab­
surd to think, that the Pythagorics would entitle
their books to Orpheus, as designing to gain
credit and authority to them thereby, had there
‘been no such doctrine before, either contained in
•some ancient monument of Orpheus, or at least
-transmitted down by oral tradition from him.
-Wherefore the Pythagorics themselves con­
stantly maintain, that before Pythagoras’s time,
there was not only an Orphic cabala extant, but
also Orphic poems. The former was declared
in that ancient book,called ItpocAo-yoc,.or The holy
Oration—ifwe may believe Prod us upon the Ti-
m seu s: Hv9ay6petDtf &v 6 TifiaXog, Ittitcu tcuq
GvOayopituv opiate* avrai $ tto-iv ai ’Optical
TppaSotraf' ‘A yapOpfevG Si’ airopprrruiv \6ywv juvaruc&C
wapa§f§w|«,,ravra n.ii$ary6pae uafltv bpyiaaOtlc: iv At-
$t)0poic Toig 0p^cfo«c, 'AyXao<j>rjfM
^TtXirrrucafifraBi&jvroe'
Tfuira -yap frimv 6.Ilvftryrfpac iv T
ip 'Iepcp Ao-y<p. Ti-
meeus being a Pythagorean, follows the Pytha­
goric principles, aqd these are the Orphic tra­
ditions.; for what things Orpheus delivered
mystically, (or ip arcane allegories,J these Py-
80 WHETHER ORPHEUS WERE THE AUTHOR
thagoras learned when he was initiated by Agla-
ophemus in the Orphic mysteries, Pythagoras
himself affirming as much in •his book, called
The holy Oration.—Where Proclus, without any
doubt or scruple, entitles the book inscribed ’Iepoc
Xoyoc, or The holy Oration, to Pythagoras bimself.
Indeed, several of the ancients have resolved Py­
thagoras to have written nothing at all; as Fla.
Josephus, Plutarch, Lucian, and Porphyrius; and
-Epigenes in Clemens Alex, affirms, that the *Iepoc
Aoyoc, or holy Oration, was written by Cercops, a
Pythagorean. Nevertheless,-Diogenes Laertius
thinks them not to be in good earnest, who deny
Pythagoras to have written any thing; and. he
tells us, that Heraclides acknowledged this'Icpoc
Aoyoc, or holy Oration, for a genuine and iridubi-
tate foetus of Pythagoras. Jamblichus is also of
the same opinion, as the most received ; though
confessing somie to have attributed that book to
Telanges, Pythagoras’s son. But whoever was
the writer of this Hieros Logos, whether Pytha­
goras himself, or Telauges, or. Cercops, it must
needs be granted to be of great antiquity, accord­
ing to the testimony whereof, Pythagoras derived
much of his theology from the Orphic traditions.
Strom. 1. i. Moreover, Ion Chius in his Trigramrai
[p. w . edit, testified, as Clemens Alexandrinus in-
PoneH
.] formeth us, that Pythagoras himself re­
ferred some poems to Orpheus as their author;
which is also the general sense of Platonists as
well as Pythagoreans. Wherefore upon all ac­
counts it seems most probable, that either Or­
pheus himself wrote some philosophic dr theolo-
gic poems, though certain other poems might be
also fathered on him, because written in the
81
OF THE POEM8 CALLED ORPHICAL.
same strain of mystical and allegorical theology,
and as it were in the same spirit, with which this
Thracian prophet was inspired; or, at least, that
the Orphic doctrine was first conveyed down by
oral cabala or tradition from him, and afterwards,
for its better preservation, expressed in verses,
that were imputed to Orpheus, after the same
manner as the Golden Verses written by Lysis
were to Pythagoras. And Philoponus • intimates
this latter to have been Aristotle's opinion con­
cerning the Orphic verses; he glossing thus upon
those words of Aristotle before cited : K
aXov/xivo»c
dire, Sri /ut) SokeTOp^ltuc ra tiri), <
I>
c ical avroc Iv r«p wept
fjnXouoiplac Xlyei. Avtov yap dal, ra Soypara, ravra
<
t>
a<
jiv 'OvofiwepiTov tv hrtai KaraOuvai, Aristotle calls
them the reputed Orphic verses, because they
seem not to have been written by Orpheus him­
self, as the same Aristotle affirmeth in his book of
philosophy. The doctrine and opinions of them
indeed were his, but Onomacritus is said to have
put them into verse.—However, there can be no
doubt at all made, but that the Orphic verses, by
whomsoever written, were some of them of great
antiquity (they being much older than either Ari­
stotle, Plato, or Herodotus) as they were also had
in great esteem amongst the Pagans; and there­
fore we may very.well make a judgment of the
theology of the ancient Pagans from them.
Now that Orpheus, the Orphic doctrine, and
poems, were Polytheistical, .is a thing acknow­
ledged by all. Justin Martyrb affirms, that Or­
pheus asserted three hundred and sixty gods; he
also bestows upon him this honourable title (if it
a Comment, in Aristot. lib. iii. de Amnia, fol. 2. edit. Graecse,
Tenet. 1553. fol. b Apolog. ii. pro Christianis, p. 104.
G
VOL. II.
82 ORPHEUS A DECIDED POLYTHEIST,
^may be so accounted) of iroXv&enjroc narnp Kal
ffpJroc StSdoxaXoc, the father and first teacher of
Polytheism amongst the Greeks—he supposing,*
that 'Homer derived his Polytheism from him;
O
juifipD
Crtic iroXvdEorqroc ’Op<j>eu^ £i)Xu><rdcSo^av, fivffioBuc
ftev wXttoviaiv Otatv fitfxvT\rai, iva fit} BiZfi tiis ’Ojp^fwc
o
V^Se
e
viroojffEw
c* Homer emulating Orpheus’s Po­
lytheism, did himself therefore fabulously write
of many gods, that he might.not seem to dissent
from his poems, whom he had so great a venera­
tion for-—With which also agreeth the testimony
of Athenagoras :b 'Opjrevg leal ra ovopara BttHv wpahoc
e%evpev, Kal rac ytv(<nie Bis^ijXOs, Kal Sera tiedareii wbcpaiertu
e
T
t
t
e
, tg mCOfiifpOQ ra iroXXa mu irtpl Otiov paXtara brcrai"
Orpheus first invented the very names of the gods,
declaring their generations, and what was done by
each of them; and Homer for the most part fol­
lows him therein.—Indeed, the whole mythical
theology, or fables of the gods, together with the -
religious rites amongst the Greeks, are commonly
supposed to have owed their first original to no
other but Orpheus. In which Orphic fablek, not
only the things of nature, and parts of the world,
were all theologized, but also all manner of hu­
man passions, imperfections, and vices (accord­
ing to the literal sense) attributed to the gods.
Insomuch that divers of the Pagans themselves
took great offence at them; as for example Iso-
inl*u
.B
n*ir. crates, who concludes that a divine Ne-
[p.452.] mesis or vengeance was inflicted upon
•Orpheus for this impiety, ’Op<pev<; o paXtara twv
roiovrutv Xoyatv crtyaptvoq, SiamraaOug ruv {Slav ErtXtilrrjtrt,
a Cohort, ad Graecor. p. 17.
b Apolog. pro Christian, cap. xv. p. 64.
ALTHOUGH A MONARCHIST. 83
Orpheus, who was most of all guilty in this kind,
died a violent death.—Also Diog. Laertius for this
cause made a question, whether he should reckon
Orpheus amongst the philosophers or no: and
others have concluded, that Plato ought to ha.ve
banished Orpheus likewise out of his common­
wealth, for the same reason that he did Homer;*
which is thus expressed—for not lying well
concerning the gods.—And here we may take
notice of the monstrosity and extravagancy of Or­
pheus’s fancy, from what Damasciusband others
tell us, that he made one of his principles to be
Spcucovra KifaXdg i-^ovra trpoairt<f>vicviag ravpovKai Xtovrof,
kv ftkotp St 0fov irpoounrov, Kal km Afiwv wrtpa, a dragon,
having the heads both of a bull and a lion, and in
the midst the face of a god, with golden wings
upon his shoulders—which forsooth must be an
incorporeal deity and Hercules, with which na­
ture (called Ananche and Adrastea) was associ­
ated. Nevertheless the generality of the Greek-
ish Pagans, looking upon this Orpheus, not as a
mere fanciful poet and fabulator, but as a serious
and profound philosopher, or mystical tbeologer,
a person transcendency holy and wise; they sup­
posed all his fables of the gods to be deep mys­
teries and allegories, which bad some arcane and
recondite sense under them; and therefore had a
high veneration for him, as one who did aXtiBkartpov
QtoXoyuv (as Athenagoras writes)' more truly the-
ologise than the rest—and was indeed divinely in­
spired. Insomuch, that Celsus would rather have
had the Christians to have taken O r-c>cdl_,#
T
a>
phens for a god, than our Saviour Christ, p*
.367*
*De Legibus, lib. ii, p.429. b ittftrw d^a*, a MS. citedabove.
c Apol. pro Christian, cap. xv. p.64.
G 2
84 THE PHILOSOPHY OF ORPHEUS, PLATO,
avSpa ofioXoyov/ievtoC onto) ^pqtrdpEvov irvivfiari, ica'i avrov
fiialwis airoBavavra, as being a man unquestionably
endued with a holy spirit, and one, who also
(as well as the Christians’Jesus) died a violent
death.
But that Orpheus, notwithstanding all his Poly­
theism, or multiplicity of gods, acknowledged one
supreme unmade Deity, as the original of all
things, may be first presumed from hence, be­
cause those two most religious philosophic sects,
the Pythagoreans and Platonists, not only had
Orpheus in great esteem, he being commonly
called by. them o.QtoXoyoe, the theologer, but were
also thought in great measure to have owed their
theology and philosophy to him, as deriving the
same from his principles and traditions. This
hath been already intimated, and might be further
proved. Pythagoras, as we are informed by Por-
phyrius and Jamblichus,* learned something from
all these four, from the Egyptians, from the Per­
sian magi, from the Chaldeans, and from Or-
Ms.Coii. Caj. pheiis, or his followers. Accordingly,
pn’
com
m
ent Syrianus makes ’O ptical Kal IIvOayopiKal
ad lib. iii. xiii. dpvai, the Orphic and Pyth'agoric prin-
xiv.Metaphys V * ’ , K , * 9 \ ,
Aristot. foi. ciples to be one and the same.— And
as we understand from Suidas,b the
same Syrianus wrote a book entitled, 'S.vp^mvla
’Op^EO)?, riufla-yopou Kal ITXarwvoc, the Harmouy of
Orpheus, Pythagoras and Plato.—Proclus, be­
sides the place before cited, frequently insists
upon this elsewhere, in his commentary upon the
TimseUS, as p. 63. IIvflaydpEtov $1 Kal to Tali; ’On<pi-
Katc E
T
T
E
ffSat yevea\oy(aiG. "AvioOsv yap airo rfj<: ’Op^arije
*De Vita Pythag. cap. xxviii. p. 122. •
bVoce tom. iii. Lcxic. p. 410. edit. Kusteri.
AND PYTHAGORAS AGREE. 85
'irapaBoatwg Bia HlvQayopov teal tig "EXXqvac V 7rtpt Otwv
kmorntii! npoiiXOtv' It is Pythagorical to follow the
Orphic genealogies. For from the Orphic tra­
dition downward by Pythagoras was the know­
ledge of the gods derived to the Greeks.—And
that the Orphic philosophy did really agree and
symbolize with that which afterward was called
Pythagoric and Platonic, and was of the same
strain with it, may be gathered from that of Plato
in his Cratylus, where he speaks concerning the
etymology of the Greek word awpa' Bokovol pevroi
poi pakiara SloOat oi ap<p\ 'Optyta rovro t o ovopa, ^ ^
wf Bucriv BiBovatig rijg \pv\rig, rovrov Bi ntplfioXov
tXttv! Iva crai^tfrai, Btaportipiov tlicova’ tlvai ovv, rrjf ifn>X*K
t o v t o ayTO.twg a v ktcriag ra otpiiXufitva t o awpa' OrpheUS
and his followers seem to me to have given the
best etymology of this word awpa (from aw&
oO
ai)
that the soul is here in a state of punishment, its
body being a prison to it, wherein it is kept in
custody till its debts or faults be expiated, and
is therefore called awpa.—Now these three philo­
sophies, the Platonic, Pythagoric, and Orphic,
symbolizing so.much together, it is probable, that
as the Platonic and Pythagoric, so the Orphic
likewise derived all their gods from one self-ex­
istent Deity.
Which may be further manifested from that
epitome of the Orphic doctrine made long since
by Timotheus the chronographer in his Cosmo-
pceia, still extant in Cedrenus* and Eusebii Chro­
nica, and imperfectly set down by Suidas (upon
the word Orpheus) as his own, or without men­
tioning the author’s name:------’E$ ap\vc avtBu\6ti
a In Chronograph, fol. 46.
86 ORPHEUS, A
r<ji Koaptp o atOiJp, U
7ro tov Oeov 8i)fiiovpyj)6tlg' First of
all, the ether was made by God, and after the
ether a chaos; a dark and dreadful night then
covering all under the whole ether. Stj/ua/vwv rijv
vvicra irponpeCuv, Orpheus hereby signifying (saith
Timotheus) that night was senior to day, or that
the world had a beginning; Elpijicwc lv njf avrov he-
Oicru, ajcaraXjprrov rtva ical vavrwv wrlprarov uvtu, irpoye-
vkartp6v re ical 8i)fiiovpybv airavriov, ical avrov tov alOipoc,
k(Airavnwt£
>
vwr avrovtov<u6(pa* He having declared
also in his explication, that there was a certain
incomprehensible Being, which was the highest
and oldest of all things, and the maker of every
thing, even of' the ether itself, and all things
under the ether. B ut the earth being then invi­
sible by reason of the darkness, a light breaking
out through the ether illuminated the whole crea­
tion ; this light being said by him to be that high­
est of all beings, (before mentioned) which is
called also counsel and life.—Tavra ra rpta ov6para
(to use Suidas’s words here) ptav Sivaptv mr t^ y -
varo, ical lv Kparog t o v Srj/uiovpyov iravrwv Oeov, t o v iravra
Ik to v fir) ovrog irapayaybvrog tig ri> itvar These three
names .in Orpheus (light, counsel and life) declar­
ing one and the same force and power of the God,
who is the maker of all, and who produceth all
out of nothing into being, whether visible or in­
visible.—To conclude with Tim otheus: ’o Seairrbc
’OptptvQ lv ry avrov ovvira$tv, Sri 8ia twv avrwv
Tpitov ovoparwv plug Otbrifrog, ra iravra lyivero ical avrog
lari ra rr&vra’ And the same Orpheus in his book
declared, that all things were made by one God­
head in three names, an4 that this God is all
things.
But that Orphens asserted one supreme Deity,
PROFESSED MONARCHIST. 87
as the original of all things, is unquestionably
evident from the Orphic verses themselves; of
which notwithstanding, before we mention any in
way of proof, we shall premise this observation,
or rather suspicion ofour own, that there seem to
be some Orphic verses supposititious, as well as
there were Sibylline; they being counterfeited
either by Christians or Jews. For we must freely
profess, for our own part, that we cannot believe
all that to be genuine, which is produced by an­
cient fathers as Orphical; that is, either to have
been written by Orpheus himself, or else by Ono-
macritus, or any other Fagan of that antiquity,
according to the Orphic cabala or tradition.
As, for example, this concerning Moses ;*
fclyoc affittUn, itc
*Ex yvatfAAifi K*0atvtwrb dwftfr*
Uthabet sermo antiqaorum, ut ex-*qua-ortus descripsit,
Acccpta diviniUis lege, q i» duplicia praeoepta continet.
And this that is commonly understood of Abra­
ham,
Oil x a g yttn t k D m Snrur, fAitfntm tfafarrra,
Ei f*n (AOUfoytmf rtf a*o£fi/£ <pv\ov ivotQti
XeLktialatf, Dgic ykf ln»irrfoio vopffac*
Non enim quispiam mortalium videre posset enm, qui hominibus
imperat,
Nisi Unigenitus quidam profectus ab antiqua origine gentis
Chaldaeorum ; sciebat enim astri cnrsum.
The manifest forgery of which might make one
suspect also some other passages, such as this
concerning the Divine Logos ;
’iQuVMf I 9 0 ip v KUTOf.
Wherefore it being not ingenuous to lay stress up-
*
* Apud Euseb. Praeparat. Evangel, lib. xiij. cap. xii.p. 664,665.
8 8 PROVED CLEARLY THAT THE ORPHEISTS
on that for the proofof any thing, which ourselves
believe not to be sincere and genuine; we shall
here cite no Orphic verses for the acknowledg­
ment of one supreme Deity, but only such as;we
find attested in Pagan writings. As first of all
p 95 that copy produced by Proclus upon the
Timseus:
Touvtxa avv rS veavri Aioq TfaXiv evroqirv^dn
A id ifo f i f y s h f h ? o itg a n v a y k a h v v -fa q ,
I ltv T o v r e i r g v y i r w , y c tiv q r * Iputv& soq s ig n ,
’S lxtetvh q t i f x i y a q , Kerf v t'u tr a r d p T e tf * yerfnq,
Kerf mra/urf, xai vrhrroqiirgiptroq, aXAa n irdrta*
IIamq v a.^dvanru /juttutpq Sirf, Mi BtaiVeu,
"Oova V Ini ytyaShra, turf IWlgw wither 2/usXXfv,
*£yyEV«ro* Zwrf'q 3* Ivl y e t r r i g i ovppet
To this sense: Wherefore, together with the uni­
verse, were made within Jupiter the height of
the ethereal heaven, the breadth of the earth and
sea, the great ocean, the profound Tartara, the
rivers and fountains, and all the other things, all
the immortal gods and goddesses. Whatsoever
hath been, or shall be, was at once contained in
the womb of Jupiter.—
Proclus understands this of the ideas of all
things being in God, before the world was pro­
duced, that is, in order of nature only, he suppos­
ing them in time coeve. However, it is plain,
that all things are said to be contained in the
womb and fecundity of one self-originated Deity,
not only all the other,gods and goddesses, but
every thing else whatsoever.
Again Proclus, in the same place, ushers in
another copy of Orphic verses (which are also
found in the writer De Mundo) after this manner:
ttSv Si ’IShSv wXfipric &v, Sid tovtwv iv tavri^ ra oXn irepitt-
ASSERTED MONARCHY. 89
X
>
)4
>
e
, ftif ml rovroivBtuevfiptvoQ6StoX
o-yocbrfryayf The
demiurgus, or maker of the world, being full of
ideas, did by these comprehend all things within
himself, as that theologer also declareth in these
..following verses:
Z tv g flrgarroc y k n r o , Z i i q C a -ra ro q i^ixipauvoc*
Z iv q xs<paXi}, Z ivf f i f o r t r Atof i ’ s k i r d r r a TlTUXTeu*
Zit>; ifOTjr y i n r o , z* t* i / j ,0 p o r o ( i i r \ ito vvfxtyn*
Zfuc iruOfAn* y td n q r t x c d ovpavov io - r ip c tr r o q '
Z tu q 4iT0(ii m d r r w Ztuc c a u tf ju ir w itu poq op/oin*
Zfuc wovtou Zfi»f nX(0f qls g iXw j*
Zivc 0 a n X t v f Z t l q a v r o e i t r a r r o n a p % ty tn 6 \o e *
*Ev R faro f, iff A a L /x w t y i n r o , ( x t y a q a ^ o q a n a r r c u v .
Which likewise in plain prose is t h i s T h e high
thundering Jove is both the first and the last;
Jove is both the head and middle of all things ;
all things were made out of Jupiter; Jove is both
a man and an immortal maid; Jove is the pro­
fundity of the earth and starry heaven; Jove is
.{.he breath of all things; Jove is the force of the
untameable fire; Jove the bottom of the sea;
Jove is sun, moon, and stars; Jove is both the
original and king of all things : there is one pow­
er, and one God, and one great ruler over all.—
Where though there be many strange expres­
sions, yet this seems to be the strangest of them
all, that Jupiter should be said to be both a man
and an immortal maid. But this is nothing but
a poetic description ofdpptvo(hi\vc, male and female
together.—And it was a thing very familiar with
all the mystical theologers amongst the Pagans, to
call God dpptvqOiiXw, male and female together;—
they signifying thereby emphatically—the divine
fecundity, or the generative and creative power
of the Deity;—that God was able from himself
alone to produce all things. Thus Damascius,
9 0 FURTHER PROOFS THAT THE ORPHEISTS
the philosopher,* writing of this very Orphic theo- •
logy, expounds it, apotvofhiXvv avViJv OTamj«aro, irpoc
tvSu&v rijc ndvnov •yEWjjTucrjc ovaiac’ the Orphic theo­
logy calls the first principle hermaphroditic, or
male and female together ; thereby denoting that
essence, that is generative or productive of all
things.—And that learned and pious Christian
bishop, Synesius.itseems, thought the expression
so harmless, that he scrupled not himself to make
use of it, iu those elegant and devout hymns of
his to God Almighty:
Iu WA-rtp, Iu irri fjtdrxp,
Iu y aftnr, Iu is 3>
>
X
uff,
Ta Pater, Tu es Mater,
Tu Mas, Til Foemina.
Besides these, there are also certain other Or­
phic verses, scattered up and down in Proclus,
but cited altogether in Eusebius, out of Porphy-
rius, in which the whole world is represented as
one great animal, God being the soul thereof
“Ev ie iifiAq (ZttriXsiw, iv S rait frdvra xuxXsTrat,
IZup xeu ui»p, xal yaXa, Hal alQyp, vv%re Xfti n/uagm
Kal MoTtc, wpSroc ysviroog, xal noXirnpmr
ndvara yag sv fAiyd\a> Ztivoc rdie adfjMn xsTrar
Tou Mroi XKpaXvv /uiv IX
fTv, xal xa\a vr^rotva,
Ovpavoi alyXntie, ov^puo*iai sQsigai
irsgutaMesf vfffoorrai, &c.
Omnia regali sunt haec in corpore clausa,
Ignis, ct unda, et tefta, aether com nocte diequc;
(Consilium, primus genitor, cum numinc amoris:)
Juppiter immenso sub corpore cuncta coercet:
En hujus caput eximium, vultusque decoros
Undique resplendens coelum, cui pendula circum
Aurea Caesaries astrorum lumina fundit:
Sunt oculi Phoebus, Phqeboque adversa recurrcns
Cynthia, &c.
aVide Wolfiii Excerpta cx Pamascio mgl apx»vin Aqecdptis
Graecis tom. iii. p. 254.
AS9ERTED MONARCHY. 91
Where probably that one verse,
XjA Mvrtf, fr(«ro£ ynirmf, X*2"Ep»c froXvnpirri;,
though truly Orphical, and indeed divine, it (sig­
nifying, that Mind and Love were the first beget­
ters and original of all things) was notwithstand­
ing clapped iu unduly out of some other place.
But from all these citations it plainly appears, that,
according to the Orphic theology, though there
were many gods and goddesses too admitted, yet .
there was one original and king of them all, one
supreme Deity acknowledged. We are not ig­
norant, that some of the ancient and learned
fathers,* conceiving it contradictious, for Orpheus
at the same time to assert both many gods and
one God, apprehended this to be a convenient
salvo for this difficulty, to suppose, that Orpheus
had by fits and turns been of different humours
and persuasions; first a rank Polytheist, assert-
• ing three hundred gods and more; and then after­
wards a converted Monotheist, they being the ra­
ther led into this opinion, by reason of certain
counterfeit Orphic verses in Aristobulus, made
probably by some ignorant Jew; wherein Orpheus
is made to sing a palinodia or recantation, for his
former error and Polytheism. But we must crave
leave, with all due respect, to dissent from re­
verend antiquity in this; it plainly appearing
from that first Orphic excerption in Proclus, that
Orpheus at the s.ame time acknowledged both
one unmade Dbity (the original of all things) and
many generated gods and goddesses, that were all
contained in it*
* Justin. Martyr ip jC o h o r ta t. ad Grecos, p. 15. c t Apol. ii. pro
Christian, p. 104. Clemens Alexandr. in Pfotreptico, cap. vii. p. 03.
et Cyrillus AJcxandr. lib. i. advers. Julian, p.25.
92 A TRINITY, PART OF
P.93.
Having now made it sufficiently evident from
such Orphic fragments, as have been acknow­
ledged by Pagan writers, and by them cited.out of
Orpheus’s hymns and rhapsodies, that the opi­
nion of monarchy, or one self-existent Deity, the
original of all things, was an essential part of the
Orphic theology or cabala; we shall here further
observe, that besides this opinion of monarchy,
(but consistently with the same) a trinity also of
Divinehypostases subordinate was another part of
this Orphic cabala. Proclus upon Plato’sTimaeus,
making an inquiry into Plato’s demiur-
gus, or opifex oftheworld, gives us an ac­
count, amongst other Platonists, of the doctrine of
Amelius (who was contemporary with Plotinus,
and who is said to have taken notice of what St.
John the evangelist had written concerning theLor
gos, as agreeing with the Platonic and Pythagoric
hypothesis*) after this manner: ’ApeXiog Se rptVov
iroieZ t o v Atyuovpyov, teat Not!? rpelg, Ba<rtA«e Tpeig, tov
rfOv t o , t o v rfE^ovra, t o v 'Opcvvra* Biatyepovai Be o v t o i, on
6 per irpttiTOg Nov? ovrwg eorlv 6 eonv" o St Bevrepog, eon pev
t o tv .avTip v o ijt o v , Zyei Bet o wpo avrov, (cat pereyei Travruig
tKttvou, (cat Sia t o v to StvTtpoc' *0 Be rplrog, eon ptv t o tv
avr<p, Kalovrog votfrov’ (jrag yap vovg rip ovfcvyovvn vorjrtp
6 avrog eonv) eyuBe t o tv r<p Bevrep<p’ (cat opa to irpivrov'
oo<p. yap vXelai v airooraoig, tooovtw to e^ov apopfiorepov.
This passage being very remarkable, we thought
fit to set it down at large, and shall here translate
it.—Amelius makes a threefold demiurgus or opi­
fex of the world, three minds and three kings ;
him that is, him that hath, and him that beholds.
Which three minds differ thus, in that the first is
* Vide Euscb. Praeparat. Evang. lib. xi. cap. xviii. xix. p. 640.
THB ORPHIC CABALA. 93
essentially that, which he is (or all perfection:)
the second is its own intelligible, but hath the
first (as something distinct from it) and indeed
partakes thereof, and therefore is second. The
third is also that intelligible of its own, (for
every mind is the same thing with its corres­
pondent intelligible) but hath that which is in
the second, and beholds the first. For how
much soever every being departs from the first, so
much the obscurer is it.—After which Proclus
immediately subjoins, tovtovq ovv roue rptlc voouc k«
m
$r]fUovpyov(; viro rld tra i, Kai roue irapa Tip IlAdram, Tpeic
(3euri\eac, Kai roue T
ra
p
-’'Opipu rptig, •tavrjra, teal Ovp a vo v,
Kai K p o v o v , Kal 6 fia k ia ra trap avxtp Stipiovpyog 6 ^avijc
imiv' Amelius therefore supposeth these three
minds and demiurgic principles of his to be both
the same with Plato’s three kings and- with Or­
pheus’s trinity of Phanes, Uranus, and Chronus;
but Phanes is supposed by him to be principally
the demiurgus. Where though Proclus (who had
some peculiar fancies and whimsies of his own,
and was indeed a confounder of the Platonic the­
ology, and a miiigler of much unintelligible stuff
with it) does himself assert a monad or unity, su­
perior to this whole trinity; yet does he seem ne­
vertheless rightly to contend against Amelius, that
it was not the first hypostasis neither in the Pla­
tonic nor Orphic trinity, that was chiefly and pro­
perly the demiurgus or opifex ofthe world, but the
second. And thus Proclus’s master Syrianus*
had before determined, that in the Orphic theo­
logy, the title of Opifex did properly belong to
Orpheus’s irpwro-yovoe 0e
o
c
, or first-begotten God,
which was the same with Plato’s Noue or Divine
a Comment in Libr. aliquot Metaphys. Aristot p. 33.
94 A TRINITY, PART OP THE,
Intellect.—Agreeably whereunto Proclus’s con­
clusion is, «c ftfv ovv o Srifuovpyog tort Kat ort Nowc
B
eu
a
gri/c oXifc irontatwgaittog, tlpyaO
wSia rovruv’ K
atmrug
V
7
T
O
T
C’O
pipeotgteal IlXarcuvoc, o avrogdvvpvuratSr/piovpyog ,
Ztvg, airo rovruv vv^oOu' Thus much may.suffice
to have declared, who is the demiurgus of the
world, namely,thatitis the Divine Intellect, which
is the proper and immediate cause of the whole
creation; and that it is one and the same demiur-
gical Jupiter, that is praised both by Orpheus and
Plato,—Now, besides this, it is observable, that
Damascius in his book irspl dpx<
*
’v>
aor concerning
the principles (not yet published) giving an ac­
count of the Orphic theology, tells us, amongst
'other things, that Orpheus introduced rplpopfov
O
tov, a triform deity.—To all which may be added
what was-before cited out of Timotheus the chro-
nographer, that God had three names light—coun­
sel and life; and that all things were made by one
Deity- under these three several names. Where
Cedrenus, the preserver of that excellent frag­
ment of antiquity, concludes in this manner: ravra
‘fifioBeog owtypa-tyaro o^povoypcupog, \tyw v rov ‘Opipta irpo
Toaovriiiv ypovwv tlirovra, TptaSa opoovmov 8ti/uiovpyt)ffat
ta iravra’ These things Timotheus the chronogra-
pher wrote, affirming Orpheus, so long ago, to
have declared, that all things were made by a
coessential or consubstantial Trinity.—Which,
though otherwise it might be looked upon suspi­
ciously, because that Timotheus was a Christian
(especially in regard of that word opoovomv) yet by
comparing it with what we have before alleged
out of Pagan writers, it appears, that so far as
• Vide Wolfii Excerpta ex hoc Opere Damascii, §.xiii. in Anecdote
Grsecis, tom. iii. p. 252, 253.
ORPHIC CABALA. 9 5
concerns an Orphic trinity, it was not altogether
vainly written, or without ground by him.
But we have not yet done with Orpheus and the
Orphic theology, before we have made one fur­
ther reflection upon it, so as to take notice of that
strong and rank haut-goust, which was in it, of
making God to be all. As for example, if we may
repeat the forecited passages, and put in the name
of God, instead of Z*0c, or Jupiter; Aioc ira'Xtv tvroc
tTvydn, this universe, and all things belonging to
it, were made within God.— Zi»voc S’ «vt yaaript
avppa miftvKH, all things were contained together in
the womb of God ZtOc Kt<pa\i}, Zcvc pkaaa, God is
the head and middle of all things :—Zoic mOpnv
yaliK, &c. God is the basis of the earth and hea­
ven; God is the depth of the sea; God is the
breath of all (or the air that we breathe); God is
the force of the untameable fire; God is sun, moon,
and stars.— Ev BkBtpac (3aalXuov, there is one kingly
(or divine) body—and
Tlarra ytif & /utya\aj Znroc rais foofjutn tctTrat,
for all these things lie in the great body of God.
And thus was the Orphic theology before repre­
sented also by Timotheus * the chronographer, Bid
rijc O
e
o
t
ijt
o
? irdvra lysvero, »caiavrog eari jrovro, all things
were made by God, and himself is all things.
But further to prove, that the ancient Greekish
Pagans were indeed of such a religious humour
as this, to resolve all things into God, and to make
God all, we shall here cite a remarkable testimony
of Plutarch’s, out of his Defect of Oracles : 8vo
Traariq yevtatwg atrt'ac tyovoiK, ol ptv tripoSpa waXaiol
* Apud Cedren.et Malalam, in Histor. Chron. tom. i. p. 92.
9 6 THE GRAND ARCANUM OF *THE ORPHIC
QtoXoyoi kcu TroLijral xrj Kpelrrovi fiovy rov PovV'
*436* Trpoatytiv EiXovro, rovto SrJ to. koivov kitityOvy- ‘
yofitvoi iratn irpay[ia<n9
Ztvf agx*i, Zfilj fxic-ira, Atec 3’ ** Tavta m'Xorr&t.
raig S’ avayica'icug Kai tjniaiKaig ovk m irpooti&rav amatc* ©1
§e vta/rspoi tovtuiv /cal (puaucol irpooayopevofitvoi rovvavriov-
tKtlvoig, Ttjg KaXrig Kai Quag avoirXavtfiivrtg apytjg, iv <r«-
fiam Kai iradtm owfiarwv* vXtijaig re Kai fterafioXatg
Kai Kpaasai riBtvrat to av/mav. Whereas- there are
two causes of all generation (the Divine and the
natural) the most ancient theologers and poeta
attended only to the more excellent of these
two (the Divine cause) resolving all things into
God, and pronouncing this, of them universally,
that God was both the beginning and middle,
and that all things were out of God. . Insomuch
that these had no regard at all to the other natural
and necessary causes of things. But on the con­
trary their juniors, who were called Physici (or
naturalists) straying from this most excellent and
Divine principle, placed all in bodies, their pas­
sions, collisions, mutations and commixtures to­
gether.—Where by the most ancient theologers
and poets, Plutarch plainly meant Orpheus and
his followers, it being an Orphic verse that is
here cited by him, whereby he gives, also an ac­
knowledgment' of their antiquity. But by their-
juniors, who are called Physici, he could under­
stand no other than those first Ionic philosophers,
Anaximander, Anaximenes, Hippo, and the rest,
whom those degenerate Italics afterward followed,
atomizing atbeistically, Leucippus, Democritus,
and Epicurus. So that here w;e have another
confirmation also of what was before asserted by
us, that the Ionic philosophers after Thales, and
THEOLOGY, THAT GOD IS ALL. 97
before Anaxagoras, were generally atheistical.
And indeed from them the word <f>v<rucot, or Natu­
ralists, came to be often used as synonymous with
aOtot, or Atheists. Now these,two are here con­
demned by Plutarch for two contrary extremes;
the one, who resolved all into natural and neces­
sary causes, that is, into matter, motion, and
qualities of bodies, leaving out the Divine Cause,
as guilty of Atheism; the other, who altogether
neglecting the natural and necessary causes of
things, resolved all into theDivine Cause, as it were
swallowing up all into God, as guilty of a kind of
fanaticism. And thus we see plainly, that this was
one grand arcanum of the Orphic cabala, and the
ancient Greekish theology, that God is all things.
Some fanatics of latter times *have made God
to be all, in a gross sense, so as to take away all
real distinction betwixt God and the creature,
and indeed to allow no other being besides God;
' they supposing the substance of every thing, and
even of all inanimate bodies, to be the very sub­
stance of God himself, and all the variety of
things, that is in the world, to be nothing but
God under several forms, appearances and dis­
guises. The Stoics anciently made God to be
all, and all to be God, in somewhat a different
way; they conceiving God properly to be the ac­
tive principle of the whole corporeal universe,
which yet (because they admitted of no incor­
poreal substance) they supposed, together with
the passive or the matter, to make up but one
and the same complete substance. And others,
who acknowledged God to be an incorporeal sub-
*Rob. Fludd, M. D. in the. Preface to his Pbilosopbia Mosaics; and
Jacob Vefamen.
VOL. I I. H
■JJ8 THE GRAND ARCANUM OF THE ORPHIC .
stance, distinct from the matter, have notwith­
standing made all to be God also, in a certain
•sense; they supposing God to be nothing but a
soul of the work!, which, together with the mat­
ter, made up all into one entire Divine animal.
Now the Orphic theologers cannot be charged
with making God all, in that first and grossly
fanatic sense; as if they took away all real dis­
tinction betwixt God and the creature, they so
asserting God to be all, as that notwithstanding
they allowed other things to have distinct beings
of their own. Thus much appearing from that
riddle, which in the Orphic verses was proposed
by the maker of the world to Night;
.Proclns in Ijjfc H fxoitv ti t£ vrarr trrai, not ixarrov;
[lib. a. p. 112.]
How can all things be one, and yet every thing
have a distinct being of its own ?—Where rfEvri «*
irdvra, all things one, or one all things— seems to be
the supreme Deity, or Divine Intellect, as Proclus
also interprets it, rm 8Xa irepU^wv 6 Ze
v
? ical navra
fiova^iKwg icat voepwQ, Kara rovrov^ ■xpqafiobe, fterdrqc vuicroc
kat iravra ra vyte6<Tfua Otwv, «al rac ftotpae nowwav-
t<
?
c
* Jupiter, who containeth the universe, and all
• things within himself, unitively and intellectually,
according to these Orphic oracles, gives a par­
ticular subsistence of their own also to all the
mundane gods,.and other parts of the universe.—
And this is x^pw eKturrov, in that fore-cited Orphic
verse, Every thing apart by itself—the whole pro­
duced or created universe, with all its variety of
things in it; which yet are Orphically said to be
God also in a certain other sense, that shall be
declared afterward. Nor can the Orphic tbeolo-
gers be charged with making God all in the se-
THEOLOGY, THAT GOD IS ALL. ' 99
■
cond Stoical sense, as if they denied all incor­
poreal substance, they plainly asserting, as Da-
n>a8cin8 and others particularly note, 0Mv«aw/uarov,
an inoorporeal Deity.—But as for the third way,
it is very true, that the Orphic theologers did
frequently call the world, the body of God, and its
several parts bis members, making the whole uni-
•verse to be one Divine animal; notwithstanding
which, they supposed not this animated world to
be the first and highest God, but either S tf o tp o v
( k o v , as the Hermaic or Trismegistic writers call
it, the second God—or else, as Kumenius and
. others ofthe Platonists speak, r p t r o v 9 t6 * , the third
God;—the soul thereof being as well in the Orphic
as.it was in the Pythagoric and Platonic trinity,
bot the third hypostasis; they supposing two other
Divine hypostases superior thereunto, which were
•perfectly secrete from matter. Wherefore, as to
the supreme Deity, these Orphic theologers made
<himto be all things, chiefly upon the two follow­
ing accounts: first, because all things coming
from God, they inferred, that therefore they were
all contained in him, and consequently were in a
certain sense himself; -thus much being declared
in those Orphic verses cited by Proclus * and
others,
Uirrd rah xfvfac, «20«c if voX
uyn&
if
MiXXsvivo u&
lU
nt irgoftfttv, w*)uQtrxiXd pi£<*y.
Which Apuleiusb thus renders,
Napaque ainu occultans, dukes in luininis oras
'Cuncta tulit, sacro yersans sub pectore coras.
The sense whereof is plainly this: That God at
* Comment, in tHmaeum Platon, life. ji. j>..
. *Libra de ttundo, p. 25.
H 2
100 g o d ’s b e in g a l l ,
first hiding or occultly containing all things withia
himself, did from thence display them, and bring
them forth into light, or distinct beings of their
own, and so make the world.—The second is,
because the world produced by God, and really
existing without him, is not therefore quite cut
off from him, nor subsists alone by itself as a
dead thing, but is still livingly united to him,
essentially dependent on him* always supported
and upheld, quickened and enlivened, acted and
pervaded by him; according to that Orphic pas­
sage,* *Ev S’ avToiiQ avroe irtpivurtrerai, God passes
through and intimately pervades all things.
Now it is very true, that some Christian tbeo-
logers also have made God to be all, according to
these latter senses; as when they affirm the whole
world to be nothing else but Deum explication,
God expanded or unfolded—and when they call
the creatures, as St. Jerome and others often do,
radios Deitatis, the rays of the Deity.:—Nay, the
Scripture itself may seem to give some counte­
nance also hereunto, when it tells us, that “ of
Coi. 1.16. him, and through him, and to him are all
things;” which in the Orphic theology was thus
expressed; God is the beginning, apd middle,
and end of all things j that kv avrq? kicrurOti rd irdvra,
all things were made in him, as in the Orphic
Verses, — Aioc tvroc kroyOit ;' that rd irdvra iv avrq?
coi. i. i7. owiarnKt,“ all things consist in him;”that,
“ in him we live, and move, and have our being;”
that God doth Zwono««v vavra, “ quicken
lTim. ti.13. a|| things,” an(J that Jjg Qught to be
* Apud Justin. Martyr, in Cohortat. ad Gentes, et in Apol. ii. et
*pud Clement. Alexandra. Euseb. &c.
A GROUND OF POLYTHEISM. tOI
made wavra iv iranv, “ all io all:” which
, , . . ’ ’ , lCor.xT.S8.
supposeth him in some sense to be so.
Notwithstanding which, thisisav,ery ticklishpoint,
and easily liable to mistake and abuse: and, as
we conceive it was the mistake and abuse of this
one thing, which was the chief ground and ori­
ginal of the both seeming and real Polytheism,
not only of the Greekish and European, but also
of the Egyptian and other Pagans, as will be
more particularly declared afterwards; they con­
cluding, that because God was all things, and
consequently all things God, that therefore God
ought to be worshipped in all things, that is, in
all the several parts of the world, and things of
nature, but especially in those animated intellec­
tual beings, which are superior to men. Con-,
sentaneously whereunto, they did both OtoXoy^v
arravra, theologize or deify all things—looking
upon every thing as having vz^wrucov rc, some­
thing supernatural—or a kind of divinity in i t ;
and also bestow several names upon God, ac­
cording to all the several parts of the world, and
things of nature, calling him in the starry heaven
and ether, Jupiter; in the air, Juno; in the
winds, .ZEolus; in the sea, Neptune; in the earth
and subterraneous parts, Pluto; in learning,know­
ledge and invention, Minerva aud the Muses; in
war, Mars; in pleasure, Venus; in corn, Ceres; in
wine, Bacchus; and the like.
However, it is unquestionably evident from
hence, that Orpheus with his followers, that is,
the generality of the Greekish Pagans, acknow­
ledged oneuniversal and all-comprebending Deity,
one that was all; consequently could not admit
of many self-existent and independent deities.
I'OB t b e P o l y t h e is m
x v i i i . Having treated largely concerning tbrf
two most eminent Polytheists amongst the an­
cient Pagans, Zoroaster and Orpheus, and clear­
ly proved, that they asserted one supreme Deity
we shall in the next place observe, that the
Egyptians themselves also, notwithstanding their
multifarious Polytheism and idolatry, had an ac­
knowledgment amongst them of one supremeand
mtiversal Numen.
There hath been some controversy amongst*
teamed men, whether Polytheism and idolatry)
had their first rise from the Egyptians, or the
Chaldeans, because the Pagan writers* for the-
most part give the precedency here to the Egyp-
Be.syri,' tiaus; Lucian himself, who was by birth’
ftomlr'oper a Syrian, aQd a diligent inquirer ihto’
p.656,657.]' the antiquities of his own country, af­
firming that the Syrians and Assyrians received
their religion and gods first from the Egyptians :*
and before Lucian, Herodotus,* the father of;
history, reporting likewise, that the Egyptians-
Were the first that erected temples and statues ta-
the gods. But whether the Egyptians or Chal-.
deans were the first Polytheists and idolaters,
there is no question to be made, but that the
Greeks and Europeans generally derived their;
Polytheism and idolatry from the Egyptians. He­
rodotus affirms in one place,b that the Greeks re-
ceived their twelve gods from thence; and in an*
Other,' that <rx&°v *nl irdvra rd ovo/xara TtS v fkwv IK
MyvirTov ikrikvOtv tlcrijv 'EXAaSar almost allthe names,
of the gods came first oat ofEgypt into Greece.—
a Lib. ii. cap. iv. p. 90.
b Ibid, et lib. I V . cap'.!. p. 108.
Lib. cap. L p. 10$.
O t T H U EGYPTIANS. 103
la wHat sense this might be trne of Zev« itself,
thoaghthe word be originally Greekish, shall be
declared afterwards: bat it is probable, that He­
rodotus had here a farther meaning, that the
wry names of many of the Greekish gods were
originally Egyptian. In order to the confirma­
tion of which, we shall here propound a conjec­
ture concerning one of them, viz. ’A0qvd, called
Otherwise by the Greeks Pallas, and by the Latins
Minerva. For, first, the Greek etymologies of this
word seem to be all of them .either trifling and fri­
volous, or violent and forced. Plato in bis Gra-
tylns* having observed, that according to the an­
cient allegorical interpreters of Homer, ’AO
ijvawas
nothing else but vov?, or Stavom, mind or under­
standing, personated and deified, conceived, that
the first imposers of that name, intending to sig­
nify thereby Divine wisdom, called it 'A0qvd, as
6tov vot|<j*v, the understanding ofGod, or the know­
ledge of Divine things—as if the word had been
art first 0tovdn, and thence afterward transformed
into'Aflnva.—But being not fully satisfied himself
with this etymology, he afterward attempts ano­
ther, deriving the word from vo*j<nc «v r£ »;0h,
knowledge concerning manners, or practical
knowledge—as if it had been at first ’H
0ovo'>», and
from thence changed into ’Afljjvd.—Others of the
Greeks have deduced this word diro rov afyuv, be­
cause it is the property of wisdom* to collect all
into one, supposing that it was at first. 'Adpnva.
Others would fetch if from O
ijX
vgand alpha pri­
vative, because Minerva, or wisdom, though she
be a goddess, yet hath nothing of feminine imper­
fection in her. Others again would etymologize it,
»p.e67.
104 KAMBS OF 0REEKISH GODS
«7To rov [irj titQvidvai 0i)veir9ai icai vroTamuOai rrji/ aptr^p,"
because virtue or wisdom is of such a noble and
generous temper, as that it scorns to subject itself
to any base and unworthy servitude. Lastly,others
would derive it, aa-o rov alBepoe, affirming it to have
been at first AlBtpovtia. 1 From all which uncer­
tainty of the Greeks concerning the etymon ofthis
word ’AO
rpia, and from the frivolousness or forced­
ness ofthese conjectures, we may rather conclude
that it was not originally Greekish, but exotical,
and probably, according to Herodotus, Egyptian.
Wherefore let us try, whether or no we can find
any Egyptian word, from whence this ’AO
qva
might be derived. Plato in his Timseus,b making
mention of Sais, a city in Egypt, where Solon
sometimes sojourned, tells us, ol w<SXtw<; Otog
ap\trf6c ioriv, AlyvKTiari ftkv rovvopa Nijt9, 'ElAAijvwrrt $1,
wt o heelvwv Xoyoc,’ABqva, that the presidentor tutelar
God of that city was called in the Egyptian lan­
guage Neith, but in the Greeks, as the same
Egyptians affirm, ’AOivx.—Now, why might not
this very Egyptian word Neith, by an easy inver­
sion, have been at first turned into Thien, or 0»jv,
(men commonly pronouncing exotic words ill-
favoured1y) and then by. additional alphas at the
beginning and end, transformed into ’AO
r/va? This
seems much more probable than either Plato’s
©tpvoij, or ’H0ovo»), or auy other of those Greek
etymologies beforementioned. And as the Greeks
thus derived the names of many of their gods from
the Egyptians, so do the Latins seem to have
done the like, from this one instance of the word
•Vide Phornut. in Librode Natur. Deor. Cap. xx. p. 185. inter
Scripter. Mytholog. k Tho. Gale editos.
bP 524. Oper.
DERIVED FROM EGYPT. 105
Neptune; which though Varro‘ would deduce a
nubendo, as if it had been Nuptunus, because the
sea covers and bides the land, and Scaliger with
others, axo rw viwrtn, from washing—this being
the chief use of water; yet as the learned Bo-
chart" hath observed, it may with greater probabi­
lity be derived from the Egyptian Word Nephthus,
Plutarch telling US,® 6ri Nfy0vv tcakovttl Trig yng ra
itryara uR irzpSpia teal ipavovra rijg Sakaamjc, that the
Egyptians called the maritime, parts of land, or
such as border upon the sea, Nephthus.—Which
conjecture may be further confirmed from what
the same Plutarch elsewhere4 writes, that as Isis
was the wife ofOsiris, so the wife of Typhon was
called Nephthus. From whence one might col­
lect, that as Isis was taken sometimes for the earth,
or the goddess presiding over it, so Nephthus was
the goddess of the sea. To which may be fur­
ther added out ofthe same writer, that Nephthus
was sometimes called by the Egyptians 'A^poBir*i,
or Venus, probably because Venus is said to have
risen out of the sea. But whatever may be
thought of these etymological conjectures, certain
it is, that no nationin the world was ever accounted
by the Pagans more devout, religious and super­
stitious, than the Egyptians, and consequently
none was more polytheistical and idolatrous. Iso­
crates, in his praise of Busiris, gives them a high
encomium for their sanctity; and Herodotus* af-
firmeth of them, that they were dtoatfihg mpiaawg
eovriQ fiaXiara jravrwv avOptiiratv, exceedingly more
a Vide Vossiam de Origine et Progressu Idololalriae, lib. ii. cap.
Ixxvii. p. 259.
b In Phaleg. lib. i. cap. ii. p. 9, 10. et lib. iv. cap. xxx. p. 283.
* De Iside et Osiride, p. 306. d Ibid. p. 355.
" Lib. ii. cap. xxxvii. p. 102.
106 EGYPT A SCHOOL OP *
religious and more devout worshippers ol tftO
Deity than ail other mortals.—Wherefore they
Ebwb.Pr. were highly celebrated by Apollo’s ora-
* 4is'X
icx
' c^e»(recorded by Porphyrius) and pre­
ferred before all other nations for teach-
ing rightly amtvqv oSovftaxapiav, that hard and dif­
ficult way, that leadeth to God and happiness.—*
But in the Scripture,* Egypt is famous for her
idols, and for her spiritual whoredoms and forni­
cations; to denote the uncleanness whereof she
is sometimes joined with Sodom. For the Egyp­
tians, besides all those other gods, that were
worshipped by the Greeks and other barbarians;
besides the stars, demons and heroes; and those
artificial gods, which they boasted so much of
their power of making, viz. animated statues}
and this peculiar intoxication of their own, which
rendered them infamous and ridiculous even
amongst all the other Pagans, that they worship­
ped brute animals also, in one sense or other;
Quis nescit, Volusi Bithymce, qualia demens
Sow. yptus portenta colat? Crocodilon adorat
Parskeec,ilia pavetsaturam serpentibusIbin.
Concerning which Origen against Celsus thus
Lib.iiLp.121. writeth ; vap dig TTpoaiovri fikv lari Xafiirpa
[Tk®se words r£^fV
i?, icai aX<nj, icat TrpoirvXalwv fieyeOy re
gen’s, bat jcat icaXXfj feat vea) Oavfiaaioi, Kal GKrjvai irepi£
^ virtprityavoi, teal (jpyaKEiai fiaka SeunSalfuoviQ
icai ftwmjpiairiSec’ V$V Se eiaiovri, Kal kv^orepw yevo/zevqi,
Bewpeirai TTpo<JKvvov[i£VOQa’
lXovpog, y 7T
10W
C
O
C
, y jcpoicoSecXoc,
jj rp a yo g , y kvw v' T o him, that cometh to be a
spectator of the Egyptian Worship, there first
offer themselves to his view most splendid and
* Revelat. xiv-8.
X V nSA TU R E BEFORE GREECE. 1 0 ^’
stately temples, snmptuously adorned together
with solemn groves, and many pompous rites
and mystical ceremonies; but as soon as he
enters in, he perceives, that it was either a cat,
or an ape, a crocodile, or a goat, or a dog, that
was the object of this religious worship.—
But notwithstanding this multifarious Poly­
theism and idolatry of these' Egyptians, that they
did nevertheless acknowledge one supreme and
universal Numen, may first be probably collected
from that lame, which they had anciently over
the whole world for their wisdom. The Egyp­
tians are called by the Elei in Herodotus,*
aSfwraroi ivOpJnrwv, the wisest of men;—and it is a
commendation, that is given to one bin the same
writer, that he excelled the Egyptians in wisdom,
who excelled all other mortals. Thus it is set
down in the Scripture for Mosel’s encomium,
that he was “ learned in all the Wisdom of the
Egyptians ;”cand the transcendency ofSolomon’s
wisdom is likewise thus expressed by the writer of
the Book of Kings,dthat it excelled “ the wisdom
of all the children of the east country, and all
the wisdom of Egypt.” Where by the children
of the east are chiefly meant the Persian magi,
and the Chaldeans; and there seems to be a
climax here, that Solomon’s wisdom did not only
excel the wisdom of the magi, and of the Chal­
deans, but also that of the Egyptians themselves.
From whence it appears, that in Solomon’s time
Egypt was the chief school of literature in the
whole world, and that the Greeks were then but-
* Lib.iL cap. cl*, p. 151.
. b Ramsinitus, king ofEgypt. Herod, lib. li. cap. exxi. p. 135.
* Act* vii. 22. d 1 Kings iv. 29.
108 THE EGYPTIANS THE MOST CONSTANT
little or not at all taken notice of, nor bad any
considerable fame for learning. For which cause,
we can by no means give credit to that of Philo,
in the life of Moses,a that besides the Egyptian
priests, learned men were sent for by Pharaoh’s
daughter out of Greece to instruct Moses.
"Whereas it is manifest from the Greekish monu­
ments themselves, that for many ages after Solo­
mon’s time, the most famous of the Greeks tra­
velled into Egypt to receive culture and literature,
as Lycurgus, Solon, Thales, and many others, '
amongst whom were Pythagoras and Plato.
Concerning the former ofwhich Isocrates writes,k
that coming into Egypt, and being there instructed
by the priests, he was the first that brought phi­
losophy into Greece; and the latter of them is •
perstringed by Xenophon,cbecause AtyOwrov vpa<j$n •
ical rfje Ilvdayopov rtpariZSove <
ro
<
p
ia
c
, not contented
with that simple philosophy of Socrates (which
was little else besides morality) he was in love
with Egypt, and that monstrous wisdom of Py­
thagoras.—Now, as*it is not probable, that the
Egyptians, who were so famous for wisdom and
learning, should be ignorant of one supreme
Deity, so is it no small argument to the contrary,
that they were had in so great esteem by those
twa divine philosophers, Pythagoras and Plato.
We grant, indeed, that after the Greeks began to
flourish in all manner of literature, the fame of
the Egyptians was not only much eclipsed (so
that we bear no more of Greeks travelling into
Egypt upon the former account), but also that
* Lib. i. p. 605. b In Encomio Busiridis,,p. 450.
* In fragmento Epistolae ad jEschinem, apud Euseb. Praepar.
Evangel, lib. xiv. cap. xii.. p. 745.
ASSERTORS OF THE COSMOGONIA. 109
their ardour towards the liberal sciences did by
degrees languish and abate; so that Strabo *in
his time could find little more iu Egypt besides
the empty houses and palaces, iu which priests,
formerly famous for astronomy and philosophy,
had dwelt. Nevertheless, their arcane theology
remained more or less amongst them unextinct
to the last, as appears from what Origen, Por-
phyrius, and Jamblichus have written concerning
them.
The learning of the Egyptians was either his*
torical, or philosophical, or theological. First
the Egyptians were famous for their historic
learning and knowledge of antiquity, they being
confessed in Platobto have had so much aucienter
records of time than the Greeks, that the Greeks
were but children or infants compared with them.
They pretended to a continued and uninterrupted
series of history from the beginning of the world
downward, and therefore seem to have had the
clearest and strongest persuasions of the Cosmo-
gonia. Indeed, it cannot be denied, but that this
tradition of the world’s beginning was at first in
a manner universal among all nations. For con­
cerning the Greeks and Persians we have already
manifested the same; and as Sanchoniathon tes­
tified the like concerning the Phoenicians, so
does Strabo likewise of the Indian
Brachmans, affirming, that they did •3
"‘715*
agree with the Greeks in many things, and par­
ticularly in this, Sri yevtiroc 6 K
&
afio^K
al^O
aprog, that
the world was both made and should be de­
stroyed.—And though Diodorusc affirm the con-
» lib. xvii. p, 764. b In Timseo. p. 624.
c lib. ii. p. 83. edit. Haoov. 1604.
H O TlHt EGYPTIAN* THE W08T CONSTANT
trary of the Chaldeans, yet we ought in reasori to
E
u»eb.Chon, assent rather to Berosus, * in respect of
■p' 6
- his greater antiquity, who represents die
sense ofthe ancient Chaldeans after this manner:
yfv£<r§cu xpovov iv <
p rb map aidrog kq\ p------<rbp$e
B??Xov, {it Ala fie9ep/*iivs6ovm, fiiaov rafi6vra to okotth;,
\wploat yrjv Kal ovpavbv am aXXjjX<u*>, kat Simr-aZat rbv
.teSafiov—airortXlaai Si -rbv BqXov yal aarpa xai flXiov ttal
ctXqirjjv k
oi roiigmivn n\avfirag‘ That there was a
time, when all was darkness and water, but Bell
(who is interpreted Jupiter) cutting the darkness
.in the middle, separated the earth and- heayeu
from one another, and so framed the world ; this
■
Bell also producing the stars, the sun, and the
moon, and the five planets.—'From which testi­
mony of Berosus, according to the. version of
Alexander Polyhistor, by the way it appears also,
that the ancient Chaldeans acknowledged one
supreme Deity, the maker of the whole world, as
they are also celebrated for this in that oracle of
Apollo, which is cited out of Porphyry by Euse­
bius,
Euseb. Praep.
-. Evang.l.ix.
c. x.
M
o
tiv
e
*X
a
X
&
u
e*a&
plwX
ogov,u
J’ap *
E
£
g
o
S
<
w
,
A
vT
oykvt§\toJL
vaiL
T
<t <
rt&
a(Q
fA
tvoi8tofrtyvSf.
■Where the Chaldeans are joined with the He­
brews, as worshipping likewise in a holy manner
one self-existent Deity; Wherefore, if Diodorus
were not altogether mistaken, it must be oon-
•eluded, that in the latter times, the Chaldeans
. (then perhaps receiving the doctrine OfAristotle)
did desert and abandon the tradition of their
.ancestors concerning the Cosmogonia. But the
Egyptians, however they attributed more antiquity
» Apud Georg. Syncell. inClironico, p. 29.
ASSERTORS OF THE COSMOGONIA. M l
to the world than they ought, yet seem to have
had a constant persuasion of the beginning of it,
and the firmest of all other nations: they (as
Khrcber tells us *) therefore picturing Horus, or
the world, as a young man beardless, not only
to signify its constant youthful and flourishing
vigour, but also the youngness and newness of
its duration. Neither ought it to -be suspected,
that though the Egyptians held the world to have
had a beginning, yet they conceived it to be made
by chance without a God, as Anaximander, De­
mocritus, and Epicurus afterward did; the con­
trary thereunto being so confessed a thing, that
Simplicius, a zealous contender for the world’s
eternity, affirms the Mosaic history of its creation
by God to have been nothing else but p69<
nAtyWriw,
Egyptian fables.—The place is so considerable,
that 1 shall here set it down in the author’s own
language : £ i St rbv rwv ’IovSalwv vo/hodbuv Simp], ia A-
tvStiiewrai Xtyovra, tv apxV trohfoev 6 dsog t o p
ovpavbv Kal rtjv ynv‘ 17 St 7 ^ tjv a6parog Kal col. 1.
iutaramcsiaoTOtf Kal mc6rog iiravai rqc aflvtrtxov, Kal irvev/ua
Steov hrtftpero bravu rov SSarog. dra irotqaavroc avrov rb
ical S(ax«lp(ff«vroc ava filaov rov tparrog Kal ava fdoou
rov ma&rwc, eirfiyaye, j
o
at hcaXcenv 6 $£Ot t o VfjJpav,
aat to okdrog viiera* tool iytvero ttnrfpa mil iyivt^o vptaL
oqt&paf&a' tl ovvrd/rijv rov \p6vov voplt^st ylviaiv rqv awb
Xp6vov, twoelrii) on pvOucji rig ioriv v irapdSotng, k
at a«ru
pi&mv Alywrriwv tiXuuofthn- If Grammaticus here
mean the lawgiver of the Jews, writing thus, [In
the beginning God made heaven and earth, and
the earth was invisible and unadorned, and dark­
ness was upon the deep, and the Spirit of Clod
moved upon the water;] and then afterward when
‘ In Ocdipo jEgyptiaco.
112 THE EGYPTIANS, ASSERT0R9
he had made light, and separated the light from
the darkness, adding, [And God called the light
day, and the darkness night, and the evening and
the morning were the first day :] I say, if Gram­
maticus think this to have been the first gene­
ration and beginning of time; I would have
him to know, that all this is but a fabulous
tradition, and wholly drawn from Egyptian far
bles.—
As for the philosophy of the Egyptians, that
besides their physiology, and the pure and mixed
mathematics (arithmetic, geometry, and astro­
nomy), they had another higher kind of philoso­
phy also concerning incorporeal substances, ap­
pears from hence, because they were the first
assertors of the immortality of souls, their pre-
existence and transmigration, from whence their
incorporeity is necessarily inferred. Thus He-
E te 123 r o d o t u s : wpSrroi rovSt rov Xoyov Alyfam ol
elm oi uit6vtsq, avBpdirov ^(lai/ar<fc sort*
row awfiaTOQ Si KaratpOivovrog, £? aXAo £6*ov aUi yiv6fievov
iaSmrai, &c. The Egyptians were the first as­
sertors of the soul’s immortality, and of its trans­
migration, after the death and corruption of this
body, into the bodies of other animals succes­
sively, viz. until it have run round through the
whole circuit of terrestrial, marine, and volatile
animals, after which, they say, it is to return
again into a human body; they supposing this
revolution or.apocatastasis of souls to be made,
in no less space than that of three thousand
years.—But whether Herodotus were rightly
catechised and instructed in the Egyptian doc­
trine as. to this particular or no, may very well
be questioned ; because the Pythagoreans, whom
OF INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCE. 113
be there tacitly reprehends for arrogating the first
invention of this to themselves* when they had
borrowed it from the Egyptians, did represent it
otherwise; namely, that the descent of human
souls into these earthy bodies was first in way of
punishment, and that their sinking lower after­
ward into the bodies of brutes, was only to some
a further punishment for their future degeneracy;
but the virtuous and pious souls should after this
life enjoy a state of happiness in celestial or spi­
ritual bodies. And the Egyptian doctrine is re­
presented after the same manner by Porphyrius
in Stobceua, *as also in the Hermetic or Trisme-
gistic writings. Moreover, Chalcidius reports,
that Hermes Trismegist, when he was about to
die, made an oration to this purpose: That he
had' here lived in this earthly body but an exile
and stranger, and was now returning home to his
.own country; so that his death ought not to be
lamented, this life being rather to be accounted
death.—Which persuasion the Indian Brachmans
also were embued withal, whether they received
it from the Egyptians (as they did some other
things) Or no; rov /liv ivSaSe (3[ov, tog av aKjuijv nvofdvtov
tlvcu, rov Si Sravarov yivtm v tig rov ovrtog /3tov, that
-this life here is but the life of embryo’s, and that
death [to good men] is a generation or birth into
true life.—And this may the better be stm
bo,i.xT.
,believed to have been the Egyptian doc- *■
71S-
. trine, because Diodorus himself hath some pas­
sages sounding that way ; as that the Egyptians
lamented not the death-of good men, but.ap­
plauded their happiness, b g rb v alwva Si«rp/f3«v ftiX-
a Eclog. Phys. lib. ii. cap. vii. p. 200,
VOL. II. I
11 4 ON THE ARCANE THEOLOGY
Aovttc kh(F$8ov fitfci tojv cvacfiwv, as being to life CT0f
ih tile'other world with the pious.—HoW-
ever, it being certain from this Egyptian
veM
#ria*p- doctrine' of pre-existence and transroi-
pellant. Diod. 1
gration, that the Egyptians did assert
the soul’s incorporeity, it cannot reasonably bfe
doubted, but that they acknowledged also ah
incorporeal Deity. The objection against which,
from what Porphyrius writeth concerning Chae-
remon, will be answered afterward.
We come in the last place to the theology of
the Egyptians. Now it is certain, that the
Egyptians besides their vulgar and fabulous theo­
logy (which is for the most part that which' Dio­
dorus Siculus* describes) had another airoppjp'dc
StoAoyfd, arcane and recondite theology—that was
concealed from the vulgar, and communicated
only to the kings, and such priests and others, as
were thought capable thereof; these two theolo­
gies of theirs differing^ as Aristotle’s Exoterics
and Accoathatics. Thus much is plainly declared
by Origen, whose very name was Egyptian, it
bein£ interpreted Horo-genitus (which Horos was
, . an Egyptian God), upon occasion of
Celsus s boasting that he thoroughly
understood all that belonged to Christianity:
“ Celsus (saith he) seemeth here to me to do joSt
as if a man travelling into Egypt, where the wise
men of the Egyptians, according to their country-
learning, philosophize much about those things,-
that are accounted by them Divine, whilst the
idiots in the mean time hearing only certain fables,
which they know not the meaning of, are very
much pleased therewith: Celsus, I say, doth as
J Lib. i. p. 33.
OF THE EGYPTIANS. 115
ifsuch a sojourner in Egypt, who had conversed
only with those idiots, and not been at all in­
structed by any of the priests in their arcane and
recondite mysteries, should boast, that he knew
all that belonged to the Egyptian theology.”
Where the same Origen also adds, that this was
not a thing proper neither to the Egyptians only
to have such an arcane and true theology, distinct
from their vulgar and fabulous one, but common
with them to the Persians* Syrians, and other
Barbarian Pagans; &St ilirov wepl Aiywrrlaiv <rwf»Zv re
icat i&wrah/' Swarbv tiirtiv not irrpl lltpaCitv, &C. What
we have now affirmed (saith he) concerning the
difference betwixt the wise men and the idiots
amongst the Egyptians, the same may be said
also of the Persians, amongst whom the religious
rites are performed rationally by those, that are
ingenious* whilst the superficial vulgar look no
further in the observation of them, than the ex­
ternal symbol or ceremony. And the same is
true likewise concerning the Syrians and Indians,
and all those other nations, who have, besides
their religious fables, a learning and doctrine.—
Neither can it be dissembled, that Origen in this
place plainly intimates the same also concerning
Christianity itself; namely, that besides the out-
sideand exterior cortex of it (in which notwith­
standing there is nothing fabulous) communicated
to all, there was a more arcane and recondite
doctrine belonging thereunto, which all were not
alike capable of; he elsewhere observing this to ’
be that wisdom, that St. Paul spake amongst the
perfect. From whence he concludes, that Celsus
vainly boasted, vdvrayap 6i$a, for I know all things
belonging to Christianity—
-when he was ac-
i 2
H6 ofc 'Th e Ar c a n e fiiEOLoGV
quainted only with the exterior surface of it.
But concerning the Egyptians, this was a thing
most notorious and observed by sundry other
Writers; as, for example, Clemefis of Alexandria,
a man also Well acquainted with the affairs of
Strom. 1
.V
. Egypt; Alyinrriot oi rote iwirvxovm rd napa
p. 508. onjtlmv avirlOivTO pvarripia, ow8i p v v (3ej3rfXotg
rijv t w v Otlwv tlStjffiv t%
i<
fiepoVj aXX’ i? povotg y t rotg ptX-
Xovaiv tirt rijv (3a<n\etav npoiivai, scat t w v Uptwv r o t e sept-
Ottatv ilvat SoKipwrarovg, and re rrjg rpoiftve, Trig nai-
Selag, scat rov yevouf. The Egyptians do not reveal
their religious mysteries promiscuously to all, nor
communicate the knowledge of Divine things to
the profane, but only to those, who are to succeed
in the kingdom, and to such of the priests, as are
judged most fitly qualified for the same, upon
account both of their birth and education.—With
which agreeth also the testimony of Plutarch, he
adding a. further confirmation thereof from the
Deis. et Os. Egyptian sphinges: o «c paylpwv dnoStStty-
354' fiivog Jj3a<xtX*ue] swfMc iyivero t w v ttptwv, scat
rtjg <pi\ooo<f>tag tiriKfKpvppivtig to iroXXa pdOmg scat
Xoyocc, dfivSpag epfaaug Trig aXifielag scat Siat^aamg iy^ovmv'
wmrtp dfitXu scat napaSrjXovmv avrol 7rpo Twv'UprSv rag
cr<p!yyag eiruiKwg lardvTtg, alg alviyparoiSri aoiplav Trig Oto-
Xoylag avrwv lyovarig. When amongst the Egypt­
ians there is any king chosen out of the military
order, he is forthwith brought to the priests, and
by them instructed in that arcane theology, Which
conceals mysterious truths under obscure fables
and allegories. Wherefore they place sphinges
before their temples, to signify, that their theo­
logy contained a certain arcane and enigmatical
wisdom in it.'—And this meaning of the sphinges
in the Egyptian temples is confirmed likewise! by
OP THE EGYPTIANS. 117
Clemens Alexandrians, * Sia roU
rd rot k
o
*Alywmot
irpo tuv Upwv roe ofiyyaQ ISpvovrai, <
i*c alviy/uarioSovc
rowirept Otov X
oyow
, km atrafovc ovroc* Therefore do
the Egyptians place sphinges before their tem- ■
pies, to declare thereby, that the doctrine con­
cerning God is enigmatical and obscure.—Not­
withstanding which, we acknowledge, that the
same Clemens gives another interpretation also
of these sphinges, or conjecture concerning them,
which,may not be unworthy to be here read; ra\a
SI Kat ort Set Kat fofitioQm ro Ouov' ayavq.v fitv
«C irpooqvic km t&fuvtc toIf ooukc, StSdvai Si airapai-
njrwt S
A
kmov rolf avooloif, Oqplov yap oftov Kat avOpwirov
alvutotTM rqv uxova’ But perhaps the mean­
ing of those Egyptian sphinges might be also to
signify, that the Deity ought both to be loved
and feared; to be loved as benign and propitious
to the holy, but to be feared as inexorably just to
the ipapious, the sphinx being made up of the
image both of a man and a lion.—Moreover, be­
sides these sphinges, the Egyptians had also
Harpocrates and sigalions in their temples, which
are thus described by the poet; b
Quique premunt voCem, digitoque silcntia- suadent:
they being the statues of young men pressing their
lips with their finger. The meaning of n, i,. *
which Harpocrates is thus expressed by 0,ir‘
.Plutarch: row S i'ApTTOKppryv, ov Qtov drtXrj km vryiriov,
;aXXa row vtpl OtiHv tv avBptiiroig Xoyov vtapoy km areXovg
. km aSiapOptvrov 7rpo<rrarqv Kat. ov^povioryv, Sto r<p arofian
. tov SajcrvXov tyti TrpooKtlftfvov, tytfivBlag Kat otwirq? avfi~
/3oXov. The Harpocrates of the Egyptians is not
to be taken for an imperfect and infant God, but
i*jStipiqat lib. v, cap. iv. j».664. b Ovid.. Metam. lib, jx,
118 ON THE ARCANE THEOLOGY
for the president of men’s speech concerning the
gods, that is bat imperfect, balbuiient and inarti­
culate, and the regulator or corrector of the
same; his finger upon his mouth being a symbol
of silence and taciturnity.—It is very true, that
some Christians have made another interpretation
of this Egyptian Harpocrates, as if the meaning
of it had been this: that the gods of the Egyptians
had been all of them really nothing else but
mortal men, but that this was a secret, that was
to be concealed from the vulgar. Which conceit,
however it be witty. yet it is devoid of truth; and
doubtless the meaning of those Egyptian Harpo­
crates was no other than this, that either the su­
preme and incomprehensible Deity was to be
adored with silence, or not spoken of without
much caution and circumspection ; or else that
the arcane mysteries of theology were not to be
promiscuously communicated, but concealed from
the profane vulgar. Which same thing seems to
have been also signified by that yearly feast kept
by the Egyptians in honour of'Thoth or Hermes,
when the priests eating honey and figs pronounced
those words, yXwcv q JXyO
eia, truth, is sweet—as
also by that amulet, which Isis was fabled to have
worn about her, the interpretation whereof .was
4>
&
iv
qaXq&tc,* true speech.
This aw6ppi{roq SrtoXoyta, this arcane and recon­
dite theology of the Egyptians, was concealed
from the vulgar two manner of ways, by-fables
’or allegories, and by symbols or hieroglyphics.
Eusebius informs us> that Porphyrius wrote a
book n*pi Trig aXXriyopov/jIvrjg 'ILXXyivmv k
c
l
\ Aiywrfani
OtoXoylag, concerning the allegorical theology both
* De Iside et Gsiride, p. 378.
OF THE .EGYPTIANS. uo
of the Greeks and Egyptians.—And here by the
way we may observe, that this business of alle­
gorizing in matters of religion had not its first
and only rise amongst the Christians, but was a
thing very much in use among the Pagan theo-
Ipgers also: and therefore Celsus in Origen*
commends some of the Christians for this, that
they could allegorize ingeniouslyand handsomely.
It is well known, how both Plutarchband Syne-
aius* allegorized those Egyptian fables of Isis
and Osiris, the one to a philosophical, the other
to a political sense. And the Egyptian hierogly­
phics, which were figures not answering to sounds
or words, but immediately representing the ob­
jects and conceptions of the mind, were chiefly
made use of by them to this purpose, to express
the mysteries of their religion and theology, so
as that they might be concealed from the pro­
fane vulgar. For which cause the hieroglyphic
learning of the Egyptians is commonly taken for
one and the same thing with their arcane theo­
logy, or metaphysics. And this the author of
the questions and answers ad Orthodoxosd tells
ns was anciently bad in much greater esteem
amongst the Egyptians, than all tbeir other learn­
ing; and that therefore Moses was as well in­
structed in this hieroglyphic learning and meta­
physical theology of theirs, as in their mathema­
tics. And, for our parts, we doubt not, but that
the Mensa Isiaca lately .published, containing so
many strange and uncouth hieroglyphics in it,
was something ofthis Mppnrot 0foXoy(a,this arcane
• Lib. i. p. 14. edit. Cantab. b De Iaide et Osirido,
e De Providentia, p. 89. oper.
* Inter Jastini Martyris Opera, Question, et Respon n r p. 490#
120 AN OBJECTION
theology of tbe Egyptians, and not mere history,
as some imagine; though the late confident Oedi­
pus seems to arrogate too much to himself, in
pretending to such a certain and exact interpreta­
tion of it. ^Now as it is reasonable to think, that
in all those Pagan nations, where there was ano­
ther theology besides the vulgar, the principal
part thereof was the doctrine of one supreme and
universal Deity, the Maker of the whole world;
so can it not well be conceived, what this fypifroc
and h.v6ppijro^ and alviypanO
Sricdtokoyia, this arcane,
and mysterious, and enigmatic theology of the
Egyptians, so much talked of, should be other
than a kind of metaphysics concerning .God, as
one perfect incorporeal Being, the original of all
things.
We know nothing of any moment, that can be
objected against this, save only that, which Por-
phyrius, in his Epistle to Anebo, an Egyptian
Pr. Ev.iib. priest, writeth concerning Chseremon :*
c.*
»
• Xaipfipwv piv yap, teal oi aXXoi, ovS* SXXo rl.
3rporwvbpvpivwv K
ocr/xw
vrryovvrai, tv apXVX6ym>n6ifUVM
Tdbc Alyvtrrlwv, ouS? aXXovc w
X
^v tw
v irXavt/rwv
Xe/ofifviov, feat rwv avfiirXrjpoiivrwv rov ^wSiaxov, &C.
Chseremon and others acknowledge nothing be­
fore this visible and corporeal world, alleging
for the countenance of their opinion suchpf the
Egyptians, as talk of no other gods but the
planets, and those stars, that fill up the zodiac,
or rise together with them, their decans, and ho­
roscopes, and robust princes, as they call them ;
whose names are also inserted into their alma-
packs or ephemerides, together with the times of
a This Epistle is prefixed to Jamblichus de Mystcriis iEgyptior,
published at Oxford by Dr. T. Gale.
FROM CH&REMON ANSWERED. 121
fhelr risings and settings, and the prognostics or
significations of future events for them. For he *
observed, that those Egyptians, who made the
son the demiurgus or architect of the world, in­
terpreted the stories of Isis and Osiris, and all
those other religious fables, into nothing but stars,
and planets, and the river Nile, K
acoktagiravratigra
fwTU
ca,'K
al ovStv etc oawftarovg K
ai tfooagovaiagip/iifveouv,
and referred all things universally into natural or
inanimate, nothing into incorporeal and living sub­
stances.—Which passage of Porphyrins concern­
ing Chaeremon, we confess, Eusebius lays great
stress upon, endeavouring to make advantage of
it, first against the Egyptians, and then against
the Greeks and other Pagans, as deriving their
religion and theology from them: “ It is manifest
from hence, (saith he) that the very arcane theo­
logy of the Egyptians deified nothing but stars
and planets, and acknowledged no incorporeal
principle or demiurgic reason as the cause of this
universe; but only the visible sun.” And then he
concludes in this manner: “ See now what is be­
come of this arcane theology of the Egyptians,
that deifies nothing but senseless matter or dead
Inanimate bodies.” But it is well, known, that
Eusebius took all advantages possible, to repre­
sent the Pagans to the worst, afnd render their
theology ridiculous and absurd; nevertheless what
he here urgeth against the Egyptians, is the less
valuable, because himself plainly contradicts it
elsewhere, declaring, that the Egyptians acknow­
ledged a demiurgic reason and intellectual archi­
tect of the world, which consequently was the
maker of the sun; and confessing the same of the
other Pagans also. Now to affirm, that the Egypt-
122 AN OBJECTION
ians acknowledged no other deity than inanimate
matter and the senseless corporeal world, is not
only to deny that they had any airoppnro^ OtoXoyla,
any arcane theology at all (which yet hath been
sufficiently proved) but also to render them abso­
lute Atheists. For if this be not Atheism, to ac­
knowledge no other deity besides dead.and sense-
less matter, then the word hath no signification.
Chaeremon indeed seems to impute this opinion
(not to all the Egyptians) but to some of them;
and it is .very possible, that there might be
some Atheists amongst the Egyptians also, as
well as amongst the Greeks and their philosophers.
And .doubtless this Chaeremon himself was a kind
of .astrological Atheist ; for which cause we con­
clude, that it was not Chaeremon the Stoic, from
whom notwithstanding Porphyrius in his book ctf
Abstinence citeth certain other things concerning
the Egyptians; but either that Chaeremon, whom
Strabo made use of in Egypt, or else some othf?
of that name. Eat that there ever was or £gp
be any such religious Atheists* as Eusebius with
some others imagine, who though acknowledging
no Deity, besides dead and senseless matter* not­
withstanding devoutly courtand worship the same,
constantly invoking it and imploring its assistance,
as expecting great benefit to themselves thereby;
this we confess is such a thing, as we have not
faith enough to believe, it being a sottishness and
contradictious nonsense, that .is pot incident to
human nature. Neither can we doubt, but that
-all .the devout Pagans acknowledged some living
and understanding deities or other; nor easily
believe, that they ever worshipped any inanimate
or senseless bodies, otherwise than as some way
FROM CHiEREMON ANSWERED. 123
referring to the same, or as images and symbols
ofthem. Bat as for that passage in Porphyrius’s
Epistle concerning Chaeremon, where he only
propounds doubts to Anebo, the Egyptian priest,
as desiring further information from him concern*
ing them, Jamblichus hath given us a ftall answer
to it, under the person of Abammo, another Egyp­
tian priest, which notwithstanding hath not hi­
therto been at all taken notice of, because. Fici-
nus and Scutellius, not understanding the word
Chaeremonto bea propername, ridiculously turned
it in' their translations, optarem and gauderem,
thereby also perverting the whole sense. The
words in the Greek MS. (now in the hands of my
learned friend Mr.Gale)run thus:* Xoipq/wvSeKoi
otrive? aXXot rwy irtpi rov Koopiov awrovrai rpwrtov airiutv,
rd? TtXtvrala^ ap\ac ifyiyouvrai, oaot re rove irXaviirac, Km
rov ZwSuucdv, rove Se SfKavovc, Kal wpooicoiravQ, Kat rove
Xeyoftivovc icparatove qytfMOveut wapa8t8ovmt rac fitpitrroe
r*3v dp^vv Stavo/uae avaQaivomn’- rare iv toIc aXfUvucuucote
pipof rt /3payirarov mp&yti rtSv 'EpfiaiKwv 81ara£e«t>v, Kal
ra ■irepl aaripwv q fatrtuv, v Kpv\f/swvt .ri atXrivrK av’fctjasivv,
4 fiutoauov tv rote eo^aroie ££)(£ rqv ev Aryvimots amoAq- .
ylaV Qwruca. r t ov Xtyovaiv tlvai rravra A ’
lyuTTioi, a’XAd
Kat rijv rrj( \fwyrjg ttorjv, Kal rqv voepa'v aVo rqe <
j>
v^rew
K
.StoKpivoumv’. o v k im rov rrovroc ftovov,. dXXd Kfu ep’
Hfjuav, vovv re Kal Xoyov jrpoorqad/uevoi Kaff eaurove
.ovrat, o
v
tw
q StyuovpyuaOai <paal ra yiyvoytva. But
-Cbaeremon and those others, who pretend to write
•of the first causes of the world, declare only
the last and lowest principles, as likewise they
who treat of the planets, the zodiac, the de­
cans, the horoscopes, and the robust princes.
And those things, that are in the Egyptian alma-
f Jamblich. dc Mystec. JSgyptior. sect. viii. cap. iv. p. 160. <
124 SOME TRISMEGISTIC
nack (or ephemerides) contain the least part of
the Hermaical institutions, namely the phases and
occultations of the stars, the increase and de­
crease of the moon, and the like astrological
matters; 'which things have the lowest place in
the Egyptian aetiology. Nor do the Egyptians
resolve alt things into (senseless) nature, but they
distinguish both the life of the soul and the in­
tellectual life from that of nature, and that not
only in ourselves, but also in the universe; they
determining mind and reason first to have ex­
isted of themselves, and so this whole world to
have been made. Wherefore they acknowledge
before the heaven, and in the heaven, a living
Power, and place pure mind above the world,
as the Demiurgus and architect thereof.—From
which testimony of Jamblichus, who was but
little junior to Porphyrius,, and contemporary
with Eusebius, and who had made it his bu­
siness to inform himself thoroughly concerning
the theology of the Egyptians, it plainly ap­
pears, that the Egyptians did hot generally sup­
pose (as Chaereraon -pretended concerning some
of them) a senseless inanimate nature to be the
first original of all things, but that as well in the
world as in ourselves, they acknowledged soul
superior to nature, and mind or intellect superior
to soul, this being the Demiurgus of the world.
But we shall have afterward occasion more op­
portunely to cite other passages out of this Jam-
blichus’s Egyptian qaysteries to the same pur­
pose.
Wherefore there is no pretence at all to sus^
pect, that the Egyptians were universally Atheists
and Anarchists, such as supposed no living uu-
BOOKS COUNTERFEIT. 125
derstanding Deity, but resolved all into senseless
matter, as the first and highest principle; but all
the question is, whether they were not Poly-
archists, such as asserted a multitude of under­
standing deities, self-existent or unmade. Now,
that monarchy was an essential part of the ar­
cane and true theology of the Egyptians A.
Steuchus Eugubinus, and many other learned
men, have thought to be unquestionably evident
from the Hermetic or Trisinegistic writings, they
taking it for granted, that these are all genuine
and sincere. Whereas there is too much cause to
suspect, that there have been some pious frauds
practised upon .these Trismegistic writings, as
well as there were upon the Sibylline; and that
either whole books of them have been counterfeit­
ed by pretended Christians, or at least several spu j
rious and supposititious passages here and there
inserted into some of them. Isaac Casaubon,*
who was the first discoverer, has taken notice of
many such in that first Hermetic book, entitled,
Poemander; some also in the fourth book, in­
scribed Crater, and some in the thirteenth called
the Sermon in the Mount concerning Regeneration;
which may justly render those three whole books,
or at least the first and last of them, to be sus­
pected. We shall here repeat none of Casau-
bon’s condemned passages, but add one more to
them out of the thirteenth book, or Sermon in the
Mount, which, however omitted by him, seems
to be more rankly Christian than any other ; \ly e
ItoX t o v t o , rfc £ff?t yevemovpybc r!}e ira\iyytveir(ae; 6 tow
6tov irate, avdpwiroc e
Ic, OtXrman Oeov. Tell me this
* Exercitat i. in Baron. Nam. xviii. p.54.
1 2 6 ALL 'THETRIAMEGISTIC BOOKS
also, who is the cause or worker of regeneration?
The Son of God, one man by the will of God.—
Wherefore, though Ath. Kircheruss contend with
much zeal for the sincerity of all these Trisme-
gistic books; yet we must needs pronounce of
the three forementioned, at least Pcernander pro­
perly so called, and the Sermon in the Mount,
that they were either wholly forged and counter­
feited by some pretended Christians, or else had
many spurious passages inserted into them.
Wherefore, it cannot be solidly proved from the
Trismegistic books after this manner, as sup­
posed to be all alike genuine and sincere, that the
Egyptian Pagans acknowledged one supreme and
universal Numen: much less can the same be
evinced from that pretended Aristotelic book, De
secretiore parte divinaesapientiae secundum iEgyp-
tios—greedily swallowed down also by Kirche­
rus, but unquestionably pseudepigraphous.
Notwithstanding, which, we conceive, that
though all the Trismegistic books, that now are
or have been formerly extant, had been forged by
some pretended Christians, as that book of the
arcane Egyptian wisdom was by some philoso­
pher, and imputed to Aristotle; yet would they,
for all that, upon another account, afford no in­
considerable argument to prove, that the Egyp­
tian Pagans asserted one supreme Deity, viz. be­
cause every cheat and imposture must needs
have some basis or foundation of troth to stand
upon; there must have been something truly
Egyptian in such counterfeit Egyptian writings,
(and therefore this at least of one supreme Deity)
* In Obelisco Pampbylio, p. 35, and in Oedipo iEgyptiaco Class,
xii. eap. iii.
NOT CHRISTIAN CHEATS. 1*7
«r else they could never have obtained credit at
first, or afterwards have maintained the same.
The rather, because these Trismegistic books
were dispersed in those ancient times, before the
tSgyptian Paganism and their succession of priests
Were yet extinct; and therefore had that, which
is so much insisted upon in them, been dissonant
from the Egyptian theology, they must needs
have been •presently exploded as mere lies and
forgeries. Wherefore, we say again, that if all
the Hermaic or Trismegistic books, that are now
extant,, and those to boot, which being mentioned
itt ancient fathers have been lost, as the «* ytvuca,
and the rd SuZoSuca, and the like, had been no­
thing but the pious frauds and cheats of Christ­
ians, yet must there needs have been some truth
Htthe bottom to give subsistence to them; this, at
least, that Hermes Trismegist, or the Egyptian
priests, in their arcane and true theology, really
acknowledged one supreme and univeral Nuraeo.
But it does not follow, that, because some of
these Hermaic or Trismegistic books now extant
Were counterfeit or supposititious, that therefore
all of-them must needs be such; and not only so,
but those also, that are mentioned in the writings
of ancient fathers, which are now lost. Where­
fore, the learned Casaubon seems not to have
reckoned or concluded well, when from the de­
tection of forgery in two or three of those Tris-
megistic books at most, he pronounces of them
all universally, that they were nothing but Christ­
ian cheats and impostures. And probably he
waS led iuto this mistake, by reason of his too
securely following that vulgar error, (which-yet
had been confuted by Patricius) that all that was
128 ALL THE TRISMEGISTIC BOOKS
4
published by Ficinus, under the name of Hermes
Trismegist, was but one and the same book, Pce-
mander, consisting of several chapters; whereas
they are all indeed so many distinct and indepen­
dent books, whereof Pcemander is only placed
first. However, there, was no;shadow of reason,
why the Asclepius should have fallen under the
same condemnation, nor several other books su-
peradded by Patricius, they being unquestion­
ably distinct from the Pcemander, and no signs
of spuriousness or bastardy discovered in them.
Much less ought those Trismegistic books cited
by the fathers, and now lost, have been con­
demned also unseen. Wherefore, notwithstand­
ing all that Casaubon lias written, there may very
well be some Hermetic or Trismegistic books ge-
ituine, though all of them be not such; that is,
according to our after-declaration, there may be
such books, as were really Egyptian, and not
counterfeited by any Christian, though perhaps
not written by Hermes Trismegist himself, nor
in the Egyptian language. And as it cannot well
be conceived, how there should have been any
counterfeit Egyptian books, had there been none
at all real ; so that there were some real and ge­
nuine, will perhaps be rendered probable by these
following considerations.
That there was anciently, amongst the Egyp­
tians such a man as Thotb, Theuth, or Taut,
who, together with letters, was the first inventor
of arts and sciences, as arithmetic, geometry,
astronomy, and of the hieroglyphic learning,
(therefore called by the Greeks Hermes, and by
the Latins Mercurius) cannot reasonably be de­
nied ; it being a thing confirmed by general fame
NOT CHRISTIAN CHEATS. 129
in all ages, and by the testimonies not only of
Sanchoniathon *a Phoenician historiographer, who
lived about the times of the Trojan war, and
wrote a book concerning the theology of the
Egyptians, and Manetho's Sebennyta,6 an Egyp­
tian priest, contemporary with Ptol. Philadel-
phus; but also of that grave philosopher Plato,
who is said to have sojourned thirteen years in
Egypt, that in his Philebus0speaks of him as
the first inventor of letters, (who distinguished
betwixt vowels and consonants determining their
several numbers) there calling him either a god
or divine man; bat in his Pheedrusdattributeth*to
him also the invention of arithmetic, geometry
and astronomy, together with some ludicrous re­
creations, making him either a god or demon:
janxm npl NatgpartvrijvAlyfanov, ytvlaOat rwv lieu iraAaiwv
TivaOtSiv,ov k
o
l toopvcov rbItpbv 8ka
ilKaXovmv"ifitv, avrtj) Si
Svofia r«
j»Salftovi tlvcu ©
did* I have heard (saith he)
that about Naucratis, in Egypt, there was one of
the ancient Egyptian gods, to whom the bird Ibis
was sacred, as his symbol or hieroglyphic; the
name of which demon was Theuth.—In which
place the philosopher subjoins also an ingenious
dispute betwixt this Theuth, and Thamns, then
king of Egypt, concerning the convenience and
inconvenience of letters; the former boasting
of that invention <Jc7*v»J/mjc koi ao<f>iac ^opjuaxov as a
remedy for memory, and great help to wisdom—
but the latter contending, that it would rather
beget oblivion, by the neglect of memory, and
therefore was not so properly ftvniint as wrofiv^atuq
* Apud Euseb. Praepar. Evang. lib. i. cap. ix. p. 31, 32.
b Apud Georg. Syncellam in Cbron. p.40.
c P. 75. f P. 356.
VOL. II. K
’ISO THOTH, THE
tpapptaK
ov, a remedy for memory, as reminiscence,
or the recovery of tilings forgotten—adding, that
it would also weaken and enervate men's natural
faculties by slugging them, and rather beget
Sa£cu> (jo^laQ
, than aXtj&iav, a puffy conceit and
opinion of knowledge—by a multifarious rabble
df- indigested notions, than the truth thereof.
Moreover, Since it is certain, that the Egyptians
tfrere famous for literature before the Greeks, they
mast of necessity have some one or more found­
ers of learning amongst them, as the Greeks
k d : and Thoth is the only or first person cele­
brated amongst them upon this account, in re^
fnfembrarice of whom the1first month of the year
was called by that name. Which Thoth is gene­
rally supposed to have lived in the times of tile
patriarchs, or considerably before Moses; Moses
himself being said to have been instructed iittthat
learning, which owed its original to him.
Again, besides this Thoth, or Theuth, who was
called the first Hermes, the Egyptians had also
afterwards another eminent advancer or restorer
Of learning, who was called &vrepoe *Eppse, the
second Hermes—they perhaps supposing the soul
ofThotli, or the first Hermes, to have come into
him by transmigration ; but his proper Egyptian
name was Siphoas,as Syncellus* out of Manetbo
informs u s: St^wac, 6 *a» 'Ep/u»ie, vioc ‘H^o
m
to
w
,
Siphoas, (who is also Hermes) the son of Vulcan.
^This is he, who is said to have been the father of '
Tat, and to have been surnamed Tpto^fywToc, Ter
Maxifinis, (he being so styled by Manetho, Jam-
blichus, aud others.) And he is placed by Eu­
sebius11 in the fiftieth year after the Israelitish
a In Cliron- p. 124. b In Clironico, p. 556.
EGYPTIAN HERMES. 131
fixitus, though probably somewhat too early.
The former of these two Hermes was the inven-
tor of arts and sciences; the latter, the restorer
and.advancer of them: the first wrote in hie­
roglyphics upon pillars, iv rjj Svpiyyucjj 7 *
»
, (as
die learned Valesius* conjectures it should be
read, instead of 2 t>
pia&
K
>
jj’) which Syringes what
they were, Am. Marcellinusb will instruct us.
The second interpreted and translated those hie­
roglyphics, composing many books in several arts
and sciences; the number whereof set down by
Jamblichus' must needs be fabulous, unless it be
understood of paragraphs or verses. Which Tris-
tpegistic or Hermetic books were said to be care­
fully preserved by the priests in the interior re­
basses of their temples.
• ■
But besides the hieroglyphics written by the
first Hermes, and the books composed by .the
second, (who was called also Trismegist) it
cannot be doubted, but that there were many
other books written by the Egyptian priests suc­
cessively in several ages. And Jamblichus in­
forms us, in the beginning of bis mysteries—That
Hermes, the God of eloquence, and president or
patron ofall true knowledge concerning the gods,
wras formerly accounted common to all the priests,
insomuch, that ra avrwv tt)q <rofiac evpqfiara, avrw
tivetiikaav, *Ep/uau iravra ra ouccia avyypafiftara Iirovo/ia-
i^avrtg, they dedicated, the inventions of their wis­
dom to him, entitling.their own books to Hermes
n*rismegist. — Now though one reason hereof
anight probably have been thought to have been
a Not. ad Ammian. Marceliin. lib. xxii. p. 339.
P Hist. lib. xxii. cap. xv. p. 339.
c De.Myster.iEgyptior. sect. viii. cap. i. p. 157.
K 2
132 HERMAkC BOOK* EXTANT
this, because those books were supposed to Itsve
been written according to the tenor ofthe old Her­
metic or Trismegistic doctrine; yet Jamblichus
here acquaints us with the chief ground of it,
namely this: that though Hermes was once a
mortal man, yet he was afterwards deified by the
-Egyptians, (which is testified also by Plato) and
made to be the tutelar god, and fautor of all arts
and sciences, but especially theology; by whose
inspiration therefore all such books were con­
ceived to have been written. Nay, further, we
may observe, that in some of the Hermaic or
Trismegistic books now extant, Hermes is some­
times put for the Divine wisdom or understanding
itself. And now we see the true reason, why
there have been many books called Hermetical
and Trismegistical; some of which, notwithstand­
ing, cannot possibly be conceived to have been
of such great antiquity, nor written by Hermes
Trismegist himself, viz. because it was customary
with the Egyptian priests to entitle their own phi­
losophic and theologic books to Hermes. More­
over, it is very probable, that several of the books
of the Egyptian priest of latter times were not
originally written in the Egyptian language, but
the Greek ; because, at least from the Ptolemaic
kings downward, Greek was become very fami^
liar to all thelearned'Egyplians, and in' a manner
vulgarly spoken, as may appear from those Very
words, Hermes, Trismegist, and the like, so com­
monly used by them, together With the proffer
names of places; and because the Coptic lan­
guage to this very day hath more of Greek than
Egyptian words in i t ; nay, Plutarch ventures to
etymologize those old Egyptian names, Isis, Osi-
AFT«B CXBMEMS ALEXANDRIMU8* 133
■is, Horus and Typhon, from the Greek, as if the
Egyptians had been anciently well acquainted
'with that language.
Now, that some of those ancient Hermaic
l>ooks, written by Hermes Trismegist himself, or
l>elieved to be such by the Egyptians, and kept
in'the custody of their priests, were still in being,
and extant amongst them, after the times of
Christianity, seems to be unquestionable from the
testimony of that pious and learned father, Cle­
mens Alexandrinus, he giving this par- strom
.6.p..
ticular account of them, after the men- ^p3?;
tioning of their opinion concerning the 757.'edit.'
transmigration of souls: “ The Egyp- Fpu*n'^
tians follow a certain peculiar philosophy of their
own, which may be best declared by setting down
the order of their religious procession. First,
therefore, goes the precentor, carrying two of
Hermes’s books along with him; the one of
which contains the hymns of the gods, the other
directions for the kingly office. After him follows
the horoscopus, who is particularly instructed
in Hermes’s astrological books, which are four.
Then succeeds the hierogrammateus, or sacred
scribe, with feathers upon his head, and a book
and rule in his hands, to whom it belongeth to be
thoroughly acquainted with the hieroglyphics, as
also with cosmography, geography, the order of
tiie sun and moon and five planets, the choro­
graphy of Egypt, and description of Nile. In
the next place cometh the stolistes, who is to be
thoroughly instructed in those ten books, which
treat concerning the honour of the gods, the
Egyptian worship, sacrifices, first-fruits, prayers,
pomps, and festivals. And last of all marcheth
1 3 4 ' HBRMAIC BOOKS ACKMOWLBPOBB
the prophet, who is president Of the temple and
sacred things, and ought to be thoroughly versed
in those other ten books called sacerdotal, con*
cerning laws, the gods, and the whole discipline
of the priests. .Wherefore, amongst the books
of Hermes, there are forty-two accounted most
necessary; of which thirty-six, containing all
the Egyptian philosophy, were to be learned by
those particular orders beforementioned $ but
the other six, treating of medicinal things, by the
pastophori.—From which place we understand!
that at least forty-two books of the ancient
Hermes Trismegist, or such reputed by the Egyp­
tians, were still extant in the time of Clemens
Alexandrinus, about two hundred years after'the
Christian epocha.
Furthermore, that there were certain books
teally Egyptian, and called Hermaical or Trisme-
gistical, (whether written by the ancient Hermes
Trismegist himself,or by other Egyptian priests of
latter times, according to the tenor of-his doctrine!
hnd only entitled to him) which, after the times
pf Christianity, began to be taken notice of. by
Other nations, the Greeks and Latins, seems pro-'
bable from hence, because such books are not
only mentioned and acknowledged by Christian
writers and fathers, but also by Pagans and philo*
p. 374. sophers. In Plutarch’sdiscourse Delside
[P.3r5.] et Osiride, we read thus of them: rEt»SI
rate *Eppov \$yopivcug /3t/3Xotc, laropovai -yiypatpdcu,
raiv Uptov ovoparwv, art vqv piv in i rijc tow ntptfapttf
reraypivpv Svvapiv, ?Qpoy,<
'EXXt)vt<; ^ ’AwoXXftnut KaXowdt,
Tjjv Se C7ri row TrvivparoQ, oi piv ''Ooipiv, ot .SE.2apairtv,.ot SI
2o»0t Alyyirnari In the books called Hermes’s, or.
Hermaical, it is reported to have been written con-
BY PAGANS AND PHILOSOPHERS. 13$
cerning sacred names, thatthe power appointed to
preside over the motion of the sun is called by ihe.
Egyptians Horus (as by the Greeks Apollo) and
that, which presides over the air and wind, is called
by some Osiris, by others Sarapis, and by others
Sothi, in the Egyptian language.—-Now these sa­
cred namesin Plutarch seem to be several names of
God; and therefore,whether these Hermaic books
of his were the same with those in Clemens Alex*
andrinus, such as were supposed by the Egyp­
tians to have been written by Hermes Trismegist
himself, or other books written by Egyptian
priests, according to the tenor of this doctrine;
we may by the. way, observe, that, according to
the Hermaical or Trismegislic doctrine, one and
the same Peity was worshipped under several
names and notions, according to its several pow­
ers and virtues, manifested in the world; which
to a thing afterwards more.to be insisted od.
Moreover, it hath been generally believed,.that
L .(/Apuleius Madaurensis, an eminent Platonic
philosopher, and zealous assertor of Paganism,
jwas the translator of the Asclepian dialogue of
Hermes .Trismegist out of Greek into Latin;
vyhich therefore hath been accordingly published
with Apuleius’s works. And Bartbius affirms,
that St. Austin does somewhere expressly impute
this version to Apuleins; but we confess wehaye
not yet met with the place. However, there
Seems to be no sufficient reason, why; Colvius
should call this into question from the 6tyle:and
Latin.. Again, it is certain, that Jamblichus doth
not only mention these Hermaic books, under
the name of ra <pepdpeva cue 'Eppov, the books that
are carried up and down as Hermes’s, or vulgarly
136 HERMAIC B00K8 ACKNOWLEDGED
imputed to him; .but also vindicate them from
the imputation of imposture. Not as if there
were any suspicion at all of that, which Causau-
bon is so confident of, that these Hermaic books
,were all forged by Christians; but because some
might then possibly imagine them to have been
counterfeited by philosophers ; wherefore it will
be convenient here to set down the whole passage
of Jamblichus *concerning it, as it is in the Greek
IMS. SitvKptvqOivr&iv' ovv toVtw v oimog, ical rwv iv toiq trvy-
ypa/ifiamv oig Xeytt iirvrsrvyTiKivai, aa<j>tiQiartv t
j SioXwnc*
ra fitv yap tptpofuvat wq Eppov, 'Epjuaucdg mpiiyu 8o£ag,
it (cat tq tw v tpiXoaotptov ■yX&Irrrj TroXXa/ctg ypyrai' juera-
ykypatrrm yap airo tt\q Aiywrrlae yXwrnK w ’ ivSptSy
<fuXoao<j>la^ owe airtipwe t^ovraw.' Xaipffiwy Se, &C.
These things being thus discussed and determined,
the solution of that difficulty, from those books
which Porphyrius saith he met withal, (namely the
Hermaics, and those writings ofChaereraon)willbe
clear and easy. For the books vulgarly imputed
to Hermes do really contain the Hermaic opi­
nions and doctrines in them, although they often
speak the language of philosophers;. the reason
whereof is, because they were translated out of
the Egyptian tongue by men not unacquainted
with philosophy. ButChaeremon and those others^
fee.—Where it is first observable, that Jambli­
chus doth not affirm these Hermaic books to have
been written by Hermes Trismegist himself, he
calling them only ra ftpSpeva Ac'Eppov, the books
that- were carried about as Hermes’s.—But that
which he affirmeth of them is this, that they did.
peally contain the Hermaical opinions, and de-
f Sect. viii. clip. iv. p. 160. edit. Gale.
BY PAGANS AND PHILOSOPHERS; 137'
Tire their original from Egypt.—Again, whereas
some might then possibly suspect, that these
Hermaic books had been counterfeited by Greek
philosophers, and contained nothing but the
Greek learning, in them, because they speak so
much the philosophic language; Jamblichus gives
an account of this also, that the reason hereof
was because they were translated out of the
Egyptian language by men skilled in the Greek
philosophy—who therefore added something of
their own phrase and notion to them. It is true,
indeed, that most of these Hermaic books, which
now we have, seem to have been written origin­
ally in Greek; notwithstanding which, others
of them, and particularly those that are now lost,
as ra rWuca, and the like, might, as Jamblichus
here affirmeth, have been translated out of the
Egyptian tongue, but by their translators disguised
with philosophic language, and other GrecaniC
things intermixed with them. Moreover, from the
forecited passage of Jamblichus we may clearly
collect, that Porphyrius in his epistle to Anebo,
the Egyptian priest (of which epistle there are
only some small fragments left*) did also make
tpention of these Hermaic writings; and whereas
he found the writings of Cbseremon to be (contra­
dictious to them, therefore desired to be resolved
by that Egyptian priest, whether the doctrine of
those Hermaic books were genuine and truly
Egyptian or no. Now, Jamblichus in his answer
here affirmeth, that the doctrine of the ancient
Hermes, or the Egyptian theology, was as to the
substance truly represented in those books, (vul-
* These fragments are prefixed to Dr. Gale’s edition of Jamblichus
de My&t jEgyptior.
139 HERMAIC BOOKS ACKNOWLEDGED
garly imputed to Hermes) but not so,by Chmre-
mon. Lastly, St. Cyril of Alexandria informs
contrajuu- us, that there was an edition of these
Hermaic or Trismegistic books (cora-
spanhem
.] piled,together) formerly made at Athens
under this title, *E
p/ua'tK
direvracaiSacu. fifteen
Hermaic books.—Which Hermaics, Casaubon,
conceiving them to have been published before
Jamblichus’atime,took themfor those Salaminiaca,
which he found in the Latin translations of Jam-
blichus, made by Ficinus and Scutellius; where­
as, indeed, be was here abused by those trans­
lators, there being no such thing to be found in
the Greek copy. But the word oXfitvactam, (not
understood by them) being turned into Salami-
niaca, Casaubon therefore conjectured them to
have been those Hermaic books published at
Athens, because Salamin was not far distant from
thence. Now, it cannot be doubted, but that
this edition of Hermaic books at Athens was
made by some philosopher or Pagans, and not
by Christians; this appearing also from tttft words
of St. Cyril himself, where, having spokeu of
Moses and the agreement of Hermes with him,
he adds, wtirofijrai & teal rovrov /uvrip-qV, Iv iSlatQ itnry-
y p a tp c u g , 6 tr v v r td tiK w e 'AOrtvytri ra brlieXtiv 'E p fia'iica trtv-
TtK
alSeK
afiifiXla. Of which Moses also, who com­
piled and published the fifteen Hermaic books at
Athens, makes mention in his. own discourse-r-
(annexed thereunto.) For thus we conceive that
place is to be understood, that the Pagan pub­
lisher of the Hermaic books himself took notice
of some agreement, that was betwixt Moses and
4Excrcit. I. in Barooii Annal. p. 55.
BY PAGANS AND PHILOSOPHERS. 139
Honnes. But here it is to be noted, that because
jSermes and the Herqaaic books were in, such
great credit, not only among the Christians, but
also the Greek and Latin Pagans, therefore were
there some counterfeit writings obtruded also un­
der that specious title; such as that ancient bo­
tanic book mentioned by Galen, and those Christ­
ian forgeries of later times, the Pceraander and
Sermon on the Mount; which being not cited by
any ancient father or writer, were both of then)
doubtless later than Jamblichus, who discovers
no suspicion of any Christian forgeries in this
kind.
But Casaubon, who contends, that all the theo-
logic books imputed to Hermes Trismegist were
counterfeited by Christians, affirms all the phi­
losophy, doctrine and learning of them (except­
ing what only is.Christian in them) to be merely
Platonical and Grecanical, but not at all Egyp­
tian : thence concluding, that these books were
forged by such Christians, as were skilled in the
Platonic or Grecanic learning. But first, it is
here considerable, that since Pythagorism, Pla­
tonism and the Greek learning in general was in
jgreat part derived from the Egyptians, it cannot
be concluded, that whatsoever is Platonical or
Grecanical, therefore was not Egyptian. The
only instance, that Casaubon .insists upon, is this
dogma in the Trismegistic books, that nothing in
the world perisheth, and that death is not the de­
struction, but change and translation of things
only—which, because he finds amongst some of
the Greek philosophers, he resolves to be pecu­
liar to them only, and not common with the Egyp­
tians. But since the chief design and tendency
140 THAT NOTHING PEBI6HETH.
of that dogma was plainly to maintain the immor­
tality, pre-existence and transmigration of souls,
which doctrine was unquestionably derived from
the Egyptians; there is little reason to doubt but
that this dogma was itself Egyptian also. And
Pythagoras, who was the chief propagator of this
doctrine amongst the Greeks, ovSev ovSlyiyvtaOai ovSt
fOdptoOatTtovovrwv,that no realentity (ingenerations
and corruptions) was made or destroyed—accord­
ing to those Ovidian verses before cited,
. Nec perit in toto qnicquatb, mihi credite, mundo,
Sed variat facieraque novat, Nascique vocatur
Incipere esse aliud, &c.
did in all probability derive it, together with its
superstructure, (the pre-existence and transmi­
gration of souls, at once from the Egyptians. But
it is observable, that the Egyptians had also a
peculiar ground of their own for this dogma (which
we do not find insisted upon by the. Greek
philosophers) and it is thus expressed in the
eighth of Ficinus’s Hermetic books or chapters;
« of Oeog o Kocrjuoc, Kai £wov aOavarov, aBvvarov tan
t o v aOavarov £tvov fityog n airoOavuv" travra St ra tv ry
icoaptp fdpn tqri to v Koa/tov, fiakiara Sl.o avOpwtoc ro'
Xoyucov Zuwv If the world be a second god and
an immortal animal, then is it impossible, that
any part of this immortal animal should perish
or come to nothing; but all things in the world
are parts of this great mundane animal, and
chiefly .man, who is a rational animal.—Which
same notion we find also insisted on in the As-
clepian dialogue; “ Secundum deum hunc crede,
q Asclepi, omnia gubernantem, omniaque mun­
dane illustrantem animalia, Si enim animal.
OLD EGYPTIAN PHILOSOPHY. 141
mandus, vivens, semper et fuit et est et erit,
nihil in mando mortale est: riventis enim uni-
nscujusqae partis, qu® in ipso mando, sicut in
nno eodemqae animate semper vivente, nullus est
inortalitatis locus.” Where though the Latin be
a little imperfect, yet the sense is this: You are
to believe the world, .0 Asclepius, to be a second
god governing all things, andillustrating all mun­
dane animals. Now if the worl<] be a living ani­
mal, and immortal, then there is nothing mortal
In it, there being no place for mortality as to any
living part or member of that mundane animal,
that always liveth.—Notwithstanding which, we
deny not, but that though Pythagoras first de­
rived this notion from the Egyptians, yet heand his
followers might probably improve the same farther
(as Plato tells us, that the Greeks generally did
what they received from the Barbarians) namely,
to the taking away the qualities and forms of bo­
dies, and resolving all corporeal things into mag­
nitude, figure and motion. But that there is in­
deed some of the old Egyptian learning con­
tained in these Trisinegistic books now extant,
shall be clearly proved afterwards, when we come
to speak of that grand mystery of the Egyptian
theology (derived by Orpheus from them) that
God is all. To conclude Jamblichus’s judgment
in this case ought without controversy to be far
preferred before Casaubon’s, both by reason of
his great antiquity, and his being much better
skilled, not only in the Greek, but also the Egyp­
tian learning; that the books imputed to Hermes
Trismegist did ’Epjuaiucac So£ac> really con­
tain the Bermaic opinions, though they spake
143 TOE ASCLEPIANDIALOGUE
sometimes the language of the Greek philoso­
phers.
< Wherefore, upon all these considerations, we
conceive it reasonable to conclude, that though
there have been some Hermaic books counter^
feited by Christians, since Jamblicbus’s time,
as namely the Pcemander and the Sermon on the
Mount concerning Regeneration, neither of which
is found cited by any ancient father; yet there
Were other Hermaic books, which though not
written by Hermes Trismegist himself, nor all of
them in the Egyptian language, but some of then!
in Greek, were truly Egyptian, and did, for the
substance of them, contain the Hermaic doctrine:
Such probably were those mentioned by the an*
cient fathers, but since lost, as the rd rWucd, which
seems to have been a discourse concerning the cos>
mogonia, and the rd Su^oBuca, and the like. And
such also may some of these Hermaic books be,
that are still.extant; as to instance particularly,
the Asclepian dialogue, entitled in the Greek o
rtX«oc X
070C
, the perfect oration—and in all proba*
bility translated into Latin by Apuleius. For it
can hardly be imagined, that- he who was so. de­
vout a Pagan, so learned a philosopher, and so
witty a man, should be so far imposed upon by a
counterfeit Trismegistic book, and mere Christian
cheat, as to bestow translating upon it, and're*
commend it to the world, as that which was ge­
nuinely Pagan. But, however, whether Apuleius
were the translator of this Asclepian dialogue or
no, it js evident, that the spirit of it is not at all
Christian, but rankly Pagan; one instance where­
of we have, in its glorying of a power,, that men
NO CHRISTIAN FORGERY. 143
have of making gods; upon which account St.
Austin *thought fit to concern himself in the con­
futation of it Moreover, it being extant and vul­
garly known before Jamblichus’s time, it must
needs be included in his rd fepopeva wc 'Epjuov, and
Consequently receive this attestation from him,
that it did contain not merely the Greekish, but
the Hermaical and Egyptian doctrine.
There are indeed some objections made against
this, as first, from what we read in this P
>
dialogue, concerning the purgation of C
oL
the world, partly by water and partly by fire:
“ Tuncille Dominus et pater Deus, primipotens,
et unus gubernator mundi, intuens in mores fac-
taque hominum, voluritate sua (quae est dei benig-
hitas) vitiis resistens, et corruptelae errorein revo-
cans, malignitatem omnem vel alluvione diluens,
▼
el igne consumens, ad antiquam faciem mundum
tevocabit.” When the world becomes thus dege­
nerate, then that Lord and Father, the supreme
God, and the only governor of the world, behold­
ing the manners and deeds of men, by his will
(which is his benignity) always resisting vice, and
restoring things from their degeneracy, will either
wash away the malignity of the world by water,
br else consume it by fire, and restore it to its an­
cient form again.—But since we find in Julius
Ftrmicus,b that there was a tradition amongst the
Egyptians, concerning the iapocatastasis of the
world, partira per K
araieXvojudv, partim per
partly by inundation and partly by conflagration
—this objection can signify nothing. Wherefore
* De Civitate Dei, lib. vlii. cap. xxiii. p. 162. tom. vii. open
b Matheseos, lib.iii. cap. i. p. 34»
144 T H E ' ASCLEPIAN DIALOGUE
there is another objection, that hath some more
plausibility, from that prophecy, which we find
in this Asclepius, concerning the overthrow of
the Egyptian Paganism (ushered in with much
lamentation) in these words; “ Tunc terraista,
sanctissima sedes delubrorum, sepulchrornm erit
mortuorumque p lenissim athen this land of
Egypt, formerly the most holy seat of the religi­
ous temples of the gods, shall be every where
cir.p . °f the sepulchres of dead men. The
c.xx»i.[p.i66. sense whereof is thus expressed by St.
tom. T1I. _ * ,
op«r.] Austin: “ Hoc videtur doiere, quod me­
morise martyrum nostrorum templis eorum delu-i
brisquesuccederent; utii, qui haec Legunt, animo
a nobis averso atque perverso, putent a Paganis
deos cultos fuisse in templis, a nobis autem coli
mortuos in sep u lch risH e seems to lament this,
that the memorials of our martyrs should succeed
in the place of their temples; that so they, who
read this with a perverse mind, might think, that
by the Pagans the gods were worshipped in tem­
ples, but by us (Christians) dead men in sepul­
chres.—Notwithstanding which, this very thing
seems to have had its accomplishment too soon
after, as may be gathered from these passages of
DeCnr.G.A. Theodoret: Kal yap avruiv tojv KaXovfitwv
1. vili. [p.544; rnv uvnunv, sk tv c tw v avdpwuwv
tom. ii. oper.] / * 7 f * _
Xeixpav (oi fiaprvpegj ciavoiag' Now the
martyrs have utterly abolished and blotted out
of the minds of men the memory of those, who
were formerly called gods.—And again, rove-yap
oticH
ove vtKpovQ o $£<T7rorij<; avruoriZe ToUc'v/usrepoii Ototg,
Kai rove fiiv <f>povdovQairifyivs, rovrote Se ro tKeivwv airh>Ei/ie
ytpae, &c. Our Lord hath now brought his dead
(that is,, his martyrs) into the room and place
. i JSO CHRISTIAN FOROSRY. 145
(that is, the temples) of the gods; whom he hath
sent away empty, and bestowed their honoqr
upon these his martyrs. For now instead of the
festivals of Jupiter and Bacchus, are.celebrated
those Of Peter and Paul, Thomas and Sergins,
and other holy martyrs.—Wherefore this being so
shrewd and plain a description’in the Asclepian
IHalogue of what really happened in the Christian
world, it may seem suspicious, that it was rather,
a history, written after the event, than a prophecy
before it, as it pretends to be: it very much re­
sembling that complaint of Eunapius Sardianus
in the life of jEdesius,* when the Christians had
demolished the temple of Serapis iq Egypt, seiz­
ing upon its riches and treasure, that instead of
the gods, the monks then gave Divine honour
to certain vile and flagitious persons deceased,
.called by the name of martyrs. Now if this be
granted, this book must needs be counterfeit and
supposititious. Nevertheless, St. Austin enter­
tained no such suspicion concerning this Ascle­
pian passage, as if it had been a history written
after the fact, that is, after the sepulchres and me­
morials of the martyrs came to be so frequented;
he supposing this book to be unquestionably of
greater antiquity. Wherefore he concludes it to
be a.prophecy or prediction made instinctufalla-
eia sp iritu s, by the instinct or suggestion of some
evil spirit;—they sadly then presaging the ruin of
their own.empire. Neither was this Asclepian
Dialogue only ancienter than St. Austin, but it is
cited by Lactantius Firmianusb also under the
name of prcAuocAoyos, the perfect oration—as was
* In Vitis So pbistarum, p. 8 f, 86. edit. Plantin.
b Divinar. Instit. lib. iv. cap. vi. p.418.
VOL. II. L
146 TH E A8CLEPIA.N DIALOGUE MItVMDERSTOOD
Said before, and that as atbing then reputecfcctf
great antiquity. Wherefore, in allprobability#'.
this Asclepian passage was wriiteo before that
described event* had its accomplishment. Aiktt
indeed if Antoninus the'pbilosopher ^ae the fo#e*'
mentioned Eunapitfs* Writes) dfclpredictthewesys
Same thing, that after bis decease, that nagniu
ficent temple of SeTapis in.Egypt) ■
together a id i
(herest, shouIdbe'denaolished^rtaJ
ytvnofafim,and the temples-of -thegods- tonted*into
sepulchres—why might not this-Elg-yptianor-Tiw
megistic writer receive the like-inspiration-ortna*-
, ditton; or at least make the same conjecture? >w
But there is yet another objection-made against
iib.iv.c«p.Ti. the sincerity of this Asdeptan dialogas,-
fr°m Lactantins?
s citing apassage out
p* ’ of itfor the second person in the Trioityii
the Eon of God; Hermes in eo Mbro^saith Lao~
taiitius) qui o rlXctoc Xoyoc inScribittfr, his usns Sit
Verbis, o Kvptoc teal o irftvraw irettrnjg,-'£ v
vtvofiltcufttv, sxtl rov Sevrepov eiroltiat Beov, ipkr& x -am
i
aiaOrfrov (cuaOqrovSi <pvf*t ov Sm to a’
toQioQai teirov, niepl-yap
roiirotl aU
Kfan xortpov avroc ataOoiro, aXX’
-Srt tif
tnroirijxtfu, (Cdlclcvovv^Ewdrowrov tiro/rfff*, irptorov, •(C«l
vov, Xal tva, kaXo$ e^dvi? awry, ica t nktipiararoQ Iravraft
rwv dyaOv, qylaai rt kal v a w (tplXriaev *»$•fStov roteov*
Which we find in Apuleius’s .Latin translation
Coiv.p.588. thus rendered; u Dominns et omnium
conformator, quern recte Deumdiciinue^
a se secundnm deum fecit, qui videri et sentiri'pes-i-
sit; quern secundum [deum] sedsibilem ita dixe-
rim, non ideo 'quod ipse sentiat (de hoc enim-an
ipse sentiat annon alro dicemns tempore) sedeo
quod videntium sensus incurrit:) quoniam ergo
* Vbj supra, p.76.
' B T EACTANTIUS AND ST. AUSTIN. 147
bone .fecit ex se primum, et a se secundum^ yi-
suoqse est ei palcher, utpote qui est omnium bo-
nitate pleuissjtmis, amavit earn ut diviaitatis su«
prolcm;’ (for so it ought to be read, and not pa­
ints*,. it being: n>/covin the Greek). The Lord and
Masker of aH, whom we rightly call. God, when
hwhad made a second God, risible and-sensible (I
shy, sensible, not actively, because himself hath
sense;' for concerning this, whether he have sense
or no, we shall speak elsewhere but passively,
because he incurs into our senses), this being his
first and only production, seemed both beautiful
to him, and most full of all good, and therefore
beloved him dearly as his own offspring.—Which
Lactantios, and after him St. Austin,* under­
standing of the perfect Word of God, or eternal
Ao-yoc, made use of it as a testimony against the
Pagans for the confirmation of Christianity; they
talcing it for granted, that this Hermaic book was
genuinely Egyptian, and did represeht the doc­
trine of the ancient Hermes Trismegist. But
Pienysius Petavius, * and other later writers, un­
derstanding this place in the same sense with
lmcitantius and St. Austin, have made a quite di£»
ferent use of it, namely, to infer from thence, that
, thiabdok was spurious and counterfeited by some
Christian. To which we reply, first,.that if this
.Hermaic writerhad acknowledgedan eternal Aoyoc,
or W-ord>of God, and called it a second God and
the Son of God, he had done no more in this
than Philo the Jew did, who speaking of this
sameAdyoc expressly calls it SevrepovOtovand t
t
pwro-
* Vide Librum contra qunique Haereses, cap. iii. p. 3., tom. viil.
oper. Append.
* Dbgm&t.Theol. tom.ii, lib.ii. de Trinit. cap.ii. §.5. p.20.
l 2
148 THB A8CLEPIAN DIALOGUE MISUNDERSTOOD
yovo»>*iov (kou, the second God and the first-begot­
ten Son of God. Notwithstanding which, those
writings of Philo’s are not at all suspected. And
Origen affirms, that some of the ancient
Hom?i4. philosophers did the like; “ Multi.pbi-
. losophorum veterum, unumesse deum,
qui cuncta crearit, dixerunt; atque in hoc con­
sentient legi. Aliquanti autem hoc adjiciunt,
quod Dens cuncta per verbum suum fecerit et
jegat, et Yerbum Dei sit, quo cuncta moderentur;
in hoc non solum legi, sed et evangelio quoque
consona scribant.” Many of the old philosophers
(that is, all besides a few atheistic ones) have Said,
that there is one God who .created all things, and
these agree with the law: but some add further,
that God made all things by his Word, and that
it is the Word of God, by which all things are
governed; and these write consonantly not only
to the law, but also to the gospel.—But whether
Philo *derived this doctrine from the Greek phi­
losophers, or from Egyptians and Hermes Tris-
megist, he being an Alexandrian, may well be a
<Wai.K
b.i.question. For St. Cyril doth indeed cite
e-3
3
* several passages out of Hermaic writings
then extant to this very purpose. We shall only
set down one of them here; 6 k
o
o
/u
o
c e-%
u ap^ovra
iiructiftevov ^ u v p y o v Adyov tow M v r w .J a n r o r o # , oq fur
bcuvov irptim Svvafuc, aybnjrot, airtpavro^, :acm e#
irpoKmf/aaa, Kal eirucEirai, «cat apyti TiHv 8i avrow
fuavpyrfi&VTOtv' cart 8e row vayrtktipv qw yw oc c a t
rtAtioc K
al ywi/iof w
ide. The world bath a governor
set over it, that Word of the Lord of all which
was the maker of it; this is the first power
* Vide Joan. Clerici Comment in xviii.prioraCoinmata Evangel.
JoannisinHammondi Nov. Test. tom. i. p. 399. et Epist. Critic, viii.
p.233.
BY LACTANT1U8 AND ST. AUSTIN. 148>
after himself, uncreated, infinite, looking ont from,
him,. and ruling over all things that were made by
him; this is the perfect and genuine Son of the,
first omniperfect Being.—Nevertheless the author
of the W
X
ctocXoyoc, or Asclepian Dialogue, in that
forecited passage of bis, by bis second God, the
son of the first, meant no such thing at all as the
Christian Logos, or second person of the Trinity,
but only the visible world. Which is so plain
from the words themselves, that it is a wonder
how Lactantius and St. Austin could interpret
them otherwise, he making therein a question,
whether this second God were [actively] sen­
sible or ho. But the same is farther manifested
from other places of that Dialogue, as this for
example: “ JEternitatis Dominus Deus primus est,
secundus est m u n d u s T h e Lord of eternity is
the first God, but the second God is the world.:—
And again, “ Summus qui dicitur Deus rector
gnbernatorque sensibilis Dei, ejus qui in se com-
plectitur omnem locum, omnemque rerum sub-
stantiam;” The supreme God is the governor of
that sensible god, which contains in it all place
and all the substance of things.—And that this
was indeed a part of the Hermaic or Egyptian
theology, that the visible world animated Was a
second god, and the son of the first God, ap­
pears also from those Hermaic books published by
'Fknnus, and vulgarly called Pcemander, though
that be only the first of them. There hath been
one passage already cited out of the eighth book,
-fismpoc ho; o icdopoc, the world is a second god.^—
After which followeth more to the same purpose;
irp«TOc yap iravnav dvrwc, dt&oc Kal aylvqroc, ical Sti/uovp-
yoc r<uw oXwv ■6to$. Stvrtpot St 6 Kar tiKova avrov
1 8 0 THAT OTHER TB18MBGJ8TIC BOOKS
aJrbvysvofitvoQKaiur avroumnit^i/tevot Kal*f*jiSfM»nc
Kaia&avariZofitvOQ«c tor IStov irarpoc* TbfefintGod’U ,
that eternal unmade maker of all things; the 86-
copdis he that is made according to the image of
the first, which is contained, cherished, or nou­
rished and immortalized by him, as by his own
patent, by whom it is made an immortal animaL—
So again. in the ninth book, irar?}p 6 0toc toy Kovftnv,
k a i o jU
c
vKoafioi; vio
q rev;0«ov, God is the father of
fhh world, and the .world is the ton of God.—
Affd-in the twelfth, o dlaifaroc k
o
v
/x
o
c o
3to
cojutyac
Bt&
c-tealrdv fielfovoc e
u
c
o
Iv,this whole world is Agreat
god; and the image of a greater.—
Asfor the other Hermetic or Trismegisticbooks,
published partly by Ficiniis and partly by Patri- .
dins, we cjannot confidently condemn any ofthem
for.Christian cheats or impostures, save only the
Patnander- and the Sermon in the Meant con­
cerning Regeneration, the first and thirteenth of ,
-Ficinus’s chapters or books. Neither of which
books is cited by any of the ancient lathers, and
therefore may be presumed not to have been
extant in Jambiichoss time, but more lately
forged; and that probably by one and the self­
same band, since the writer of the latter {the
Sermon in the Mount) makes mention of the former
{that is, the Poemander) in the close of it. For
tHat, which Casanbon objects against the fourth
of Ficinus’s books or chapters (entitled the
Crater,) seems not very considerable, it beidg
questionable, whether by the Crater any such
thing firere there meant as the Christian Baptis-
terion. Wherefore, as for all the rest of thbfee
Hermaic books, especially such of them as being
eited by ancient fathers, may be presumed to '
CONTAIN EGYPTIAN. DOCTRINE.. -1 5 1
have beeeeitant before Jaimblichus’s time; W
b o v no reason why we should not concur with
that banted philosopherin his judgment conGera*
iagr tbenti -that though they offced speak the lah-
p a g e of philosophers, and here not written by
Hermes Tcismegist himtolt yet thfcy do really
contain OoSjtie 'fip^irac, HerrOaical opinions, or
the Egyptian doctrine. The ninth of Fieinus’s
hooks mentions the Asclepiaa Dialogue, under
the Greek title of o fc&aoc Xsyoc, pretending to
ham been written by tUe same hand; «'A-
smX^m
x
% tav tU
KuomeroSlSwcu Aoyov, vm St ovaymnov
nftufuii aWXavflov acabip, cat mm irtpi <no9s<m«b \oyfv
jW
j*X(W
*’ The meaning ef which.pldoe (not under­
stood by the translator) is this: I lately published
(Q>Aaeiepiue) the book entitled <*TAuoc Xpybt (Or
the perfect oration) and now 1judge it necessary,
inpnrsuit of the same, to discourse concerning
sense.-r^Which book, an well as the perfect ora-
tmi, is cited by.Lactantiuai * As is also the tenth
of Fioihus^ called the Glavie, which does not
only pretend to be of kin to the ninth, and eo»-
sfqaently to die- Asclepius likewise, but also to
contain in it an epitome of that Herntaic book
eallfed r« ytvuoi, mentioned in Eusebius’
s Cbro-
nioon,b rov Xoybv,*». ’A
cncX
ijiret, w
otav&hfku, fdy
S 4*tfuppv Bucacov tan Tar. eamBrnm, tmi' on rmv
fW
iwcJvAoyatVf rov apot avrov XcXaXtyitvuv iartvartropii.
My former'discourse vast dedicated to thee* O
Asclepius, but this to: fatius, it being an epi­
tome of those Geniea that were delivered to him.
’Which rctfinJ are thus again afterward mentioned
in the same book,,our woutruc *v role I wcoJc
, on
t
* Vide Difin. Iristit lib. ii. cap. xv. p.254.
b Vide Scfriig. ad G reta Ensebii, p. 409.
15ft THAT OTHER TRISMEGI8TIC BOOKS
ato fuac too Vavroc Toaot at \fntyal w m \
Have yon not heard in the Genica, that all souls
are derived from one soul ofthe universe'?—Neither
of which two places were understood by Ficinua.
But doubtless this latter Hermaic book had some­
thing foisted into it, because there is a manifest
contradiction found thereinforasmuch as that
transmigration of human souls into brutes, which
in the former part thereof is asserted1after'the
'Egyptian way, uc xaraSucv nucqt, as the just,
punishment of the wicked—is afterwards cried
dowp and condemned in it, as the greatest error.
Apd the eleventh aud twelfth following books
seem to us to be as Egyptian as any of the rest}
as also does that long book entitled copij Koofitm,
the thirteenth in Patricias: Nay, it is observable*
th&t even those very books themselves, that are
so justly suspected and condemned for Christian
forgeries, have something of the Hermaical or
Egyptian philosophy, here and there interspersed
in them. As, for example, when in the Pen*
mander God is twice called appcvoOqXvc, male and
female together;—this seems to have been Egyp­
tian (and derived from thence by Orpheus) ac­
cording to that elegant passage in the Asclepian
[Dialogue concerning God; “ Hie ergo, qui solus
est omnia, utriusque sexus fcecunditate plenissi-
inus, semper voluntatis suse pregnane, parit sem­
per quicquid voluerit p r oc r ea r eh e therefore,,
who alone is all things, and most full of the fe­
cundity of both sexes, being always pregnant of
his own will, always produceth whatsoever' be
pleasetb.—Again, when death is thus described
in it, wapaSiSovai t o ' rnofia ac aXXoluxnv Kal t o tJSof,
o tie afavtg ylvtoBai, to be nothing eise but the
CONTAIN EGYPTIAN DOCTRINE. 153
'change of the body, and the form or life’s passing
into the invisible.—This agreeth with that in the
eleventh book or chapter: njv pcraj3oXtjv Oavarov
U vai, &a to fifat <niifia B ia X vta Q a i, rijv SI £b>i}v «C to d<j>avtq
y»pth»: That death is nothing but a change, it
being only the dissolution of the body, and the
life or sool’s passing into the invisible or incon­
spicuous.-—
In which book it is also affirmed of
the world, yiveoOai fiipoc avrou Kaff auum/v qfitpav tv rw
afavd, that every day some part or other of it goes
into the invisible, or into Hades;—that is, does not
utterly perish, but only disappears to our sight,
it beingeither translated into some otherplace, or
changed into another form.—And accordingly it
>is said of animals, in the twelfth book, SiaXverai,
<va mroXifrai, aXX* iva via ytvtfrcu, that they are
dissolved by death, not that they might be de­
stroyed, but made again anew.—As it is also there
•affirmed of the world, that it doth vavra *outv <
cai
■ac eavrov ototoihv, make' all things out of itself,
and again unmake them into itself; /cat StaXvwv
wavra avavEot, and that dissolving all things it
doth perpetually renew them.—For that nothing
in the whole world utterly peVisheth, as it is often
declared elsewhere in these Trismegistic writings,
rso particularly in this twelfth book of Ficinus,
iovftvae 6 Kooftoc d/xera(3Xnrof, ra Se ftipri avrou iravra
fU T a fiX ifra ., ovSsv SI <f>6aprov v dwoXXifuvov" The whole
world is unchangeable, only the parts of it being
alterable; and this so, as that none of these nei-
•ther utterly perisheth, or is absolutely destroyed;
'—owe /ulpoc n Silvarai (pdaprjvcu row dtjSaprov, rj airoXtoOat
ii xov Osov ; for how can any part of that be cor­
rupted, which is incorruptible, or any thing of
God perish or go to nothing?—all which, by Ca-
saubon’s leave, we take to have been originally
133 THAT SOME TRI8MBG1STIC HOOKS
Egyptian doctrine, and thence inpart aftermat'd
transplanted into Greece. Moreover when in the
Pomander God is styled more than ohoe:foe«<u
fight and life—this seems to have been Egyp­
tian also, becanse it was Orphical. In like
wtanner the appendix to the Sermon in the Mouat,
•called ti/uvw
Sta icpwm}, or the occult caution, hath
,seme strains of the Egyptian theology in it, wbieb
will be afterward mentioned.
The result of our present discourse is this; that
though some of the Trismegistic books were either
.wholly counterfeited,.or else had certain supposi­
titious passages inserted into them by aoraeChrist­
ian hand, yet there being others of them origi­
nally Egyptian, or which, as to the substance of
them, do contain Hefmaical or Egyptian doc­
trines (in all which one supreme Deity is every
where asserted) we may well conclude from hence,
that the Egyptians had an acknowledgment
amongst them of one supreme Deity, And herein
several of the ancient fathers have gone before us;
as first of all Jnstin Martyr,* ’
'Appw vayicpvipw
dtov dvojua&t, ‘Epftic aaipvie kat faviptig Xiyei, Qtov
ah>ijetu fiiv tori rov, fpaomU aSuvatop" A m m O pitt
his books calleth God most hidden; and Hermes
plainly declareth, that it is hard to conceive God,
but impossible to express him,—Neither doth it
follow that this latter passage is counterfeit, as
Casaubon concludes, because there is something
like it in Plato’s Timaus, there being doubtless
a very great agreement betwixt Platonism.sad
d « Moi. ran. ^ie aocient Egyptian doctrine.— Thus
tp.*26.’ again St. Cyprian: “ Hermes qnoqup
oper^ Trismegistus unum Deuni loquitur, eum-
» CohorUt ad Graecos, p. 37. opcr.
CONTAIN S S m iA M DO CTM N ft 155
que ioeffabilem et 4n«stimabilem confltetur
Hermes Trismegist also acknowledged: one God,
confessing bim to be ineffable and inestimable
which passage is also cited by St. Austin.*- Lac-
taetius likewise; Thoth antiquissimus LiM.p.<
*
,.
et instrucUssimus omnigenere doctrine, [D
iv“-
aoeo ei in maltarurn rerum et artium
amentia Trismegisti cognomen imponeret; bic
scripsit libros et quidem inultos, ad cognitionem
dtatnartim rerum pertinentes, in quibus majesta-
tem sunrari et siugnlaris Dei asserit, iisdemque
nominibus appellat, quibus nos, Deum et patrem.
Ac ne,qtiis nomen ejus reqoireret; awSw/wv esse
dixit." Tboth (that is Hertnes) the most ancient
and most instructed in. all kind of learning (for
{which be was called Trismegist) wrote books,
tuad those many belonging to the knowledge of
Divine things, wherein he asserts the majesty of
one supreme Deity, calling him by the same names
that we do, God'and Father; but (lest any one
should require a proper name of him) affirming
him to be anonymous.—Lastly, St. Cyril" hath
Much more to the same .purpose also: and we
must confess, that we have the rather here in­
stated so much upon these Hermaic or Trisme-
gistic writings, that in this particular we might
Vindicate these.ancient fathers from the imputa­
tion either of fraud and imposture, or ofsimplicity
•and. felly.
Bnt that the Egyptians acknowledge, besides
their many gods, one supreme and all-compre­
hending Deity, needs not be -proved from these
* De Baptismo contra Don&tiatas, Jib. vi. §. lxxxvii. p, 126. tom.
* CMtraJullasiiin/libii. p. Si. • -
156 PROVED THAT THE EGYPTIANS
Trismegistic writings (concerning which we
leave others to. judge as they find cause) ii
otherwise appearing, not only because Orpheus
(who Was an undoubted assertor of monarchy,
or one first principle of all things) is generally
affirmed to have derived his doctrine from the
Egyptians; but also from plain and express
testimonies. For besides Apollonius Tyanaeus’s
voi a *2 a®rma^on concerning both Indians
°’u**‘ ' and Egyptians, before cited, Plutarch
throughout his whole book De Iside et Osiride*
supposes the Egyptians thus to have asserted one
supreme .Deity, they commonly calling him row
■tpwrov Oaw, the first God.—Thus in the beginning
of. that book -he tells us, that the end of airthe
religidusrites and mysteries of that Egyptian
goddess 'Isis, was ij row irpwrou, mi icvplov, K4l
vorjTOV yvwatQy o v if Osoq wapaKoXii wap avrg 4
C
<
ju
per avTT)Q ovra kcu awovrcC* the knowledge of that
first God, who is the Lord of all things, and only
intelligible by the mind, whom this goddess ex-
hortethmen to seek, in her communion.—After
which he declareth, that this first God of the
Egyptians was accounted -by them an obscure
and hidden Deity, and accordingly he gives the
reason, why. they made the crocodile to be a
p 38i symbol of him: povov Be jtamp ev
Buurovp&vov, r«*c oif/eit; vpeva Xstbv m i Bta<pavij
itapaKakyirreiv, sic rov perwirov Kartpyoptvov, ware fi\&retv
ptf flXiiropevov. ortf npwrtp 0e$ avp(Hfir)Ktv. Because
they say the crocodile is the only animal, which,
living in the water, hath his eyes covered by a thin
transparent membrane, falling down over them,
by reason whereof it sees and is not seen; which
is a thing that belongs to the first God, to see all
ADMITTED. A, FIRST AND SUPREME GOD. 157
things, himselfbeing not seen.—Though Plutarch
ia that place gives also another reason why the
Egyptians made the crocodile a symbol of the
Deity; ov |ui}v ovSl o K
poK
oStcXoc airlag vSatnic «j«ol-
powrav iaytiKt rt/uqv, aXAa pl[ti)fia dtov Xiytrai ytyovivai
povoe fuv ayXoxnroc (Jv, <pwviicyap o6tioc Xoyoc turpoaSetfs
ian, Kai Si axpcxpov j3aiv(ov KtXsvdov kcuSuctic ra Ovtfra ayu
Kara Sucqv* Neither were the Egyptians without a
plausible reason for worshipping God symboli­
cally in the crocodile, that being said to be an
imitation of God, in that it is the only animal
without a tongue. For the Divine Xoyoc, or reason,
Standing not in need of speech, and .going on
through a silent path of justice in the world, does
without noise righteously govern and dispense all
human affairs.—In like manner, Horus Apollo in
his Hieroglyphics* tells us, that the Egyptians
acknowledging a aavroKparwp and KoapoKparwp, an
omnipotent Being, that was the governor of the
whole world, —did symbolically represent him by
a Serpent, iv piatp avrov oocov fiiyav SfiKvuovrec, o yap
fiamXuoe oiucoc avrov tv rtp K
o
<
r
/u
<
t>
, they picturing also
a great house or palace within its circumference,
because .the world is the royal palace ofthe Deity.
—Which writer also gives us another reason,,why
the serpent was made to be the hieroglyphic of the
Deity ; rowc rpotfi xpHodat r£ taurov atipan, Li6 c
inpanu, ro iravra ova £/c rife feme' apovoias h
*
-
tv r«j) Kovpup ytworat, rovra iraXtvKai rijvpt'uoaivtic avrov
Xapfiamv.—Because the serpent feeding as it were
upon itsown body,doth aptlysignify, thatall things
generated in the world by Divine Providence are
again resolved into him.—And Philo Byblius,b
*Lib. i. cap. lxi. p. 75.
bApod Euseb. Praepar. Evangel, lib. i. cap. x. p. 41.
tS ft PROTED IH A T THfi SGYPTJAirS*
from Sanchoniathon, gives tlte same peaaoowhy
the serpent was deified by Taut, or the Egyptian
Hermes, oriadavaroviai «ciaurov avakvireu, becauseit
is immortal, and resolved into itself.—Though
sometimes the Egyptians added to the serpentalse
a :hawk, thus complicating,the hieroglyphic of
the Deity; according.to that.of a famous Egyp­
tian priest in Eqsebius, *t# «y>
<
lm
>
vov Otuitarov, ofte
ta n U paxof /w p$i}v, that the first and diviuest
being of all is symbolically represented by aser-
pent having the head o f a havttk.*~And that »
hawk was also sometimes used alone.for a hiero­
glyphic of the. Deity, appeareth. from that .of
Plutarch,bthat in the. porch of an Egyptian.tern-
pie at Sais, were engraven these three hierogly­
phics; a young man, an old man, and a hawJr;
to make up this sentence, that both tbe.beginning
and .end of human life dependeth upon God, .or.
Providence, But we have two more remarkable
passages in the foremeniioned Horus Apollo,* con­
cerning the Egyptian .theology, which mustopt be
permitted ; the first this, vap avrole rail nuvrosloiapav
tohvKwion xvtvpa, that according to them, thereis
a spirit passing through the whole world, to wit,
God.—And again, Soku avr(nt_St^a O tovpjSiv'iX iiW G v-
vttrravai, it seemetb to the Egyptians, that nothing
at all consists without God.—In tbe next place,
Jamblichus .wa? a person, who had made it'hia
business to inform himself thoroughly concerning
the theology of the Egyptians, and who under­
takes to give an account thereof, in his answer
to Porphyrius’s epistle to Anebo, an Egyptian
* Praepar. Evang. lib. i. cap. x. p*41.
bDe laide et Osiride, p. 363.
*Lib. i. cap. lxir, p. 77. and Jib. i. cap. xMi p. 27.
ADMITTED AFIRST AND SUPBEME GOD. (59
priest; whose testimony therefore may well seem
to deserve credit. And he first gives us a summary
account of their theology after this manner:* x*’Pl0
W
Wti ifypp*tfitvoc,fterivpoe,k m naff favrovvmpir*\***(iivoG rwv
f itly K
&
af,up Svw fiftiv te «ceu trrov^tiuv, o rijit yevta&oc Kai
^ in w oXeC
i w>!rtSv tv avroiic arot\tloic Swa/ittov xaawv,
W lfK 6fof‘ art &} vvepi^tav rovrou, aiiAoc, k m datifiarof,
m*! vtrtp^vvC
> mytvtirde re kat d/uptarof, 6\of *£ tavrov u n
m ipvrty) ava^xm ic, irpotTfurai iravrwv tovtwv, k m iv £aur<j>
TmiXtrTrtpityu, Kai iiortfiiv awclXq^Eiravra, KuiptraSlSfo<nv"
ThatGod, who is the cause of generation and
thfi'wholonature, and of all the powers in the ele­
ments .themselves, is separate, exempt, elevated
above, and expanded over, all the powers aud ele­
ments in the world. For being above the world,
and transcending the same, immaterial, and in­
corporeal, supernatural, unmade, indivisible, ma­
nifested wholly from himself, and in himself, he
raleth over all things, and in himself contained) all
things. And because he virtually comprehends
idi things, therefore does he impart and display the
same from himself.—According to which excel­
lent description of the Deity, it is plain, that the
Egyptians asserting one God that comprehends all
things, could not possibly suppose a multitude of
self-existent deities.- In which place, also, the
same Jamblichus* tells us, that as the Egyptian
hieroglyphic for material and corporeal things
was mud or floating water, so they pictured God
“ in loto arbore sedentem super l utumsi t ti ng
upon the lote-tree above the.watery mud.-—" Quod
innuit Dei eminentiam altissimam, qua fit ul nullo
modo attingat lutum ipsum. Demonstratque Dei
*Jamblich. de Myster. Aigyptior. sect. vii. cap. ii. p. 151.
kIMd. p; 161.
160 HERMBS DERIVED MATTER AMD ALL THINGS
imperium intellectuale, quia loti arboris omfiia
sunt rotunda tam frondes quam fructus,” &c.
Which signifies the transcendent eininency of the
Deity above the matter, and its intellectual empire
over the world; because both the leaves and fruit
of that tree are round, representing the motion of
intellect.—Again, he there adds also, that the
Egyptians sometimes pictured God sitting at the
... . helm of a ship. But afterward, in the
Seg. viii. c. i. i l l « -*
same book, he sums up the queries,
which Porphyrius had propounded to the Egyp­
tian priest, to be resolved concerning them, in this
manner: j3ovXa voi BiiXioOtjvm, r'l to fpurov alrurv
rjyovvrai etvai’AlyvrmoC, rrorspov vovv rj xnrtp vovtqKalpovov
tj per aXXov ij aX
X
tov; Kal rrorepov aaioparov j aioparucov,
Keu el rip Srjpiovpytp ra avra, rj irpotov Bripiovpyov km «
tvocra iravra rj Ik iroXXwv: Kal ttv
X
t
/vitramv rj m&para wota
irptoTov, 'Kal el ayivtfrov vX
rjvrj ytvrfrrjv; You desire to
be resolved, what the Egyptians think to be the
first cause of all; whether intellect or something
above intellect ? and that whether alone or with
some other? whether incorporeal or corporeal?
whether, the first principle be the same with the
Demiurgus and architect of the world, or before
him? whether all things proceed from one or many?
whether they suppose matter, or qualified bodies,
to be .the first? and if they admit a first matter,
whether they assert it to be unmade or made?—In
answer to which Porphyrian queries, Jamblichuis
thus begins: Kal nparrov ptv, o wptorov rjpitiriprat;, wept rov-
rovaKOve' irpoTwvQvrwQ o v t w v Kal t io v oXwv dpyw v,etrrt dsoc
tig’irpwroc, fcai t o v irpiirov Oiov Kal (iatnXiwg, OKivrrrbg’ ev
■povortfri t>
k lavt o v Iv o tjjto c ptvtov’ ovre yap votjtov avrio
ImvXeKerai, ovre aXXon‘ I shall first reply to that you
first demanded, that, according to the Egyptians,
FRO
M ONE DIVINE PRINCIPLE, 161
before all entities and principles there is one God,
'who is in order of nature before (him that is com-
tnonly called) the first God and King; immove­
able ; and always remaining in the solitariety of his
own unity, there being nothing intelligible, nor any
thing else complicated with him, &c.—In which
words Jamblichus, and those others that follow af­
ter, though there be some obscurity (and we may
perhaps have occasion farther to consider the
meaniug of them elsewhere), yet he plainly de­
clares, that according to the Egyptians, the first
Original of all things was a perfect unity above
intellect; but intimating withal, that besides this
firstunity, they did admit of certain other Divine
hypostases (as a perfect intellect, and mundane
soill) subordinate thereunto, and dependent on it,
concerning which he thus writeth afterward; *
,t*
T
Virpo rov ovpavov, (cat tjJ
v tv r
<
j> ovpavy £amKj)v Swapiv
•j/uniakoom, KaOapov re vovv virip rov Koapov irpori&tatn'
The Egyptians acknowledge, before the heaven,
imd in the heaven, a living power (or soul) and
again they place a pure mind or intellect above
the world*—But that they did not acknowledge a
plurality of coordinate and independent principles
is further declared by him after this manner; b
km ovrtvc avwOev ^%
Pl r(*
’v rtXtvrouvv Virspl twv apywv
Xiytrimoie vpaypartla, a
<
f> twt ap^srac, km irpotiaiv tic
trXqOoc, rwv iroXXwv avOic &
<f tvoc EiaKvfitpvtoptvwv, Kal
ft«VTo\oo rov aoplarov <j>vatw
<; iirueparoupbnK vwo rtvoc
tSpUrpivov perpov, jcat rrjc avwrarat evtaloQ iravrwv alrlag'
And thus the Egyptian philosophy, from first to
last, begins from unity; and thence descends to
multitude; the many being always governed.by
, . . *Cap.iv. p. 160., ^ . . .
bSect, viiil cap.iii. p. 159.
M
VOL. II.
102 HER$f£g DERIVEDMATTERANDALL THINGS
die one; and the infinite or undeterminate nature
every where mastered and conquered by some
finite and determined measure; and all ultimately
by tl^at highest Unity, that is the first cause of all
things.—Moreover, in answer to the last Porphy^
rian question concerning matter, whether the
Egyptians thought it to be unmade and self-ex­
istent or made, Jaroblichus tbps replies: yXyv $
Ttapyyaytv o 0eoc aird ovat6ryroe yirw?%i<iQdaTig yXovgrpc*
That Recording to Hermes and the Egyptians,
matter was also made or produced by God: “ ab
essentiflitate guccisa ac subscisgamaterjalitajtp,”
B117 on ScutelHus turns it. Which passage of
Jamblichus, Proclus upon the Tifpse«m
(where he asserts that God wasp/Y>irroeatriarye iXner
the ineffable cause of matter) takes notice of m
this maqner: km >
j rwv Alyvirrlwv irapaSome ra avra, irepi
avrije ipyatv'oye roi6tioe’Iajuj3Xr^oe urrdpg?£V,dn KaiRpyie
sicrnc ovatOTyTo^ryv vXoryra itapaytoOat (3ovXera^, km Syictfl
tucoc k4* tovtov roy IlXarawa r>)v rotavryv irspi rijc vAqc
$d$av e^eiv* And tbe tradition of the Egyptians
agreeth herewith, that matter was not unmade or
self-existent, but produced by the Deity: for the
divine Jamblichus has recorded, that Hermes
would have materiality to have been produced
from essentiality, (that is, the passive principle of
matter from that aotive principle of the Deity:)
and it is very probable from hence, that Plato was
also of the satee opinion concerning matter; viz,
because he is Supposed to have followed Hermes
and the Egyptians. Which indeed, is the more
likely, if that be true, which the same Proclus
affirmeth concerning Orpheus, we re km ’Op^sve
Kara rovrov rov Xoyov airo rye irpwrlortie rwv voyrwv
wrooTamwe wapayu ryv v
X
ijv
,.that Orpheus also did.
FRO
MON* DIVINEPRINCIPLE# 165
tffiter the same manner, deduce or derive matter
from the first hypostasis of intelligible*, that is,
from the supreme Deity. We shall conclude here
in the last place with the testimony of Damasciue,
in his book of Principles/ writing after this
manner concerning the Egyptians: Afywrmwc &o
f l i t E v 8j)/xoc ov8ev ilc p tfiie w roptt' o l S i A iyu w rio t K t/ff npag
ftk h jo jx H ytyo vo reg , t£i)vtyjcav avriH v rrjv aXyfatcv KVCpvp-
ftitn fv , tvp o vn g tv A ly v rrlo tQ ru n Aoyotc* «*c n i jcar'
« vtovc v pi* p u i r u y oAitrn oKorog ayvwsrov vp v o vftivti,
l u l vouto r p tf ava fw vovpevov o u r w ? ' Eudemus hath
given us no exact account of the Egyptians; but
tiie Egyptian philosophers, that have been in our
times, have declared the hidden truth of their
theology, having found in certain Egyptian writ­
ings, that there was, according to them, one Prin­
ciple of all things, praised under the name of the
unknown darkness, and that thrice repeated
■which unknown darkness is a description of that
supreme Deity, that is incomprehensible.
But that the Egyptians amongst their many gods
did acknowledge one supreme, may sufficiently
appear also, even from their vulgar religion and
theology; in which they had first a peculiar and
proper name for him as such. For as the Greeks
called the supreme God Zcvg, the Latins Jupiter
or Jovis, so did the Egyptians call him Hammon
or Ammon, according to Herodotus/ whose tes­
timony to this purpose hath been already cited,
and confirmed by Origen/ who was an Egyptian
born. Thus also Plutarch in his book De Iside/
» Vide Wolfii Apecdot. Grae<$, tom. Hi. p. 200*
bLib. ii. cap. xlii. p. 105.
*O
rrathpr Celsus in Origen contra C
oteum
*lib. v. p* 201.
4Tom. ii. oper. p. 364.
m 2
164 HAMMON THE
'ruv TpoWwvvofitZpvruiv, iSiov Trap Alyimrloie ovopa row Atoc
uvai, row 'Ajuovv, o irapayovrcg wjutig‘
'Appova \iyoptv’ I t
is supposed by most, thatthe proper name ofZeus,
4>
r Jupiter (that is, the supreme Deity) amongst
the Egyptians is Amous, which the Greeks pro­
nounce Hammon. To the same purpose Hesy-
chius, ’Appovqo Zo5c, 'A^iototeXi/c, Amraous, accord­
ing to Aristotle, is the same with Zeus. Whence
it came to pass, that by the Latin writers Hammon
.was vulgarly called Jupiter Hammon. Which
'Hammon was not only used as a proper name for
the supreme Deity by the Egyptians, but also by
the Arabians and all the Africans, according to
that of Lucan, *
QuatHvis ^Sthiopum populis Arabumque beaife
Gentibus, atque India, anus sit Jupiter Ammon.
Wherefore not only Marmarica (which is a part of
Africa, wherein was that most famous temple of
this Ammon) w&s from thence denominated Am­
monia, but even all Africa, as Stepbanus informs
us, was sometimes called Ammonis from this
god Ammon, who hath been therefore styled Zewc
Ai/3w
k
o
c
, the Lybian Jupiter.b
. Indeed it is very probable,* that thisword Ham­
mon or Ammon was first derived from Ham or
.Cham, the son of Noah, whose posterity was
chiefly seated in these African parts, and from
;whom Egypt was called, not only in the Scripture,
“ the land of Ham,” hut also by the Egyptians
themselves, as Plutarch testifieth, X ^ew
, orChe-
» Lib. ix. ver. 517,518.
bYidoYos8. de Idolatr. lib. ii. c. xi. p. 134,135, et Sam. Bochart.
in ]>haleg. lib. i. cap. i. p. 6,7.
*Vide B6ch&rt. ubi supra lib; iv. cap. i. p. 204,205. et lib. i. cap. L
p. 6,7, et Marsham. in Canon. Chron. Saecul. i. p. 30;
EGYPTIAN JUPITER. 185
mia, and as St.Jerome, Ham; and the Coptites also
to this very day call it Chemi. Nevertheless this
will not hinder, but that the word Hammon, for all
that, might be used afterwards by the Egyptians,
as a name for the supreme God, because, amongst
the Greeks Znic in like manner was supposed td
have been at first the name of a man or hero, bdt
yet afterwards applied to signify the supreme God.
And there might be such a mixture of herology or
history, together with theology, as well amongst
the Egyptians as there was amongst the Greeks.
Nay, some learned men* conjecture, and not with­
out probability, that the Zeus of the Greeks also
was really the very same with that Ham or Gham,
the son of Noah, whom the Egyptians first wor­
shipped as an hero or deified man; there being
several considerable agreements and correspon­
dences between the poetic fables of Saturn and
Jupiter, and the true Scripture story of Noah and
Cham; as there is likewise a great affinity betwixt
the words themselves; for as Cham signifies heat or
fervour, so is Zoic derived by the Greek gramma­
rians from ltd). And thus will that forementioned
testimony of Herodotus in some sense be verified,
that the Greeks received the names of most of
their gods, even of Zcvc himself, from the Egypt­
ians.
Perhaps it may be granted also, that thesun was
sometimes worshipped by the Egyptians under the
name of Hammon; it having been in like manner
sometimes worshipped by the Greeks under the
name of Zeus.' And the word very Well agreeth
herewith, nan in the Hebrew language signifying
not only heat, hut the sun; from whence O'JDn
aVide Bochart. ubi supra, lib. i. cap. i. p. 7, 8.f
108 HAMMQN A HIDDEK
Chamanim, also was derived. Nevertheless, it wiU
not follow from hence, that therefore the visible
son was generally accounted by the Egyptians the
supreme Deity, no more than he was amongst the
Greeks: bat, as we have often occasion to observe,
there was in the Pagan religion a confused jumble
of berology, physiology, and theology all together.
And that the notion of this Egyptian god Ammon
was neither confined by them to the sun, nor yet
the whole corporeal world or nature of the uni*
verse (as some have conceived), is evident from
hence, because the Egyptians themselves inter­
preted it, according to their own language, to sig­
nify that which was hidden and obscure, as both
Manetho, an ancient Egyptian priest, and Hecatse-
Os (who wrote concerning the philosophy of the
Egyptians) in Plutarch agree:* M«v*0wc plv a
lefitvvlrtK to KtKpvfifiivov olerat cal rrjv Kpvtpiv tiiro ravnjc
&fXoua0ai r*e fwvrjg" 'Ecaratoc SI ’AfiBfpvntf fot0iraortf cal
wpot;aWyXovt; t(£
>popart roue Aiyvirrtovg, orav nva
irpo«KaXovvrai, 7rp<xricA»
jtuajv yap sivai rijv friivqv' Sid rd»
wptotov 0tov wctufrainj cat KtKpvppkvw ovra, irp«ocaXoi>psv»c
cal TTapoKaXovvrc^, tp^avr) ytviaBat cat SqXov avroic, ’A/uovv
Xiymxn' Manetho Sebennites conceives the word
Amoon to signify that which is bidden; and
Hecatseus affirmeth, that the Egyptians use this
word, when they call any one to them that was
distant or absent from them: wherefore the first
God, because he is invisible and hidden, they as it
were inviting him to approach near, and to make
himselfmanifestand conspicuous to them, call him
Amoun.—
rAnd, agreeably hereunto, Jamblichus h
givesusthisaccount ofthe true notion ofthisEgyp*
• De Iside et Osiride, p. 354. tom. ii. oper.
*De'Myster. J E & yp t sect, viii.c. iii. p*159.
AND INVISIBLE DEITY. 167
t»n god Ammon: o S tjfito v p y u c o c v o v c , x a l r r jc a k r f itla e
irpotnariKt « u oofup ip%o/itvoe ftev nri yivsmv, Kalri}w aipavri
i*Wv Ktkptipftivw koywv tivva/uv tie Q&f Sytov, A/uov Kari
r«3v Alywr'ihtv yXwaoav \iytrai’ The demitlrgical
Intellect, and President of Troth, as with wisdom
itproceedeth to generation, and produceth into
fight the secret and invisible powers of the hidden
reasons, is, according to the Egyptian language,
tailed Hammon.—Wherefore we may cdnclode,
that Hammon,amongstthe Egyptians, wasnotonly
the name of the supreme Deity, bnt also of such
Aone aS'Was hidden, invisible and incorporeal.
And here it may be worth our observing, that
&is Egyptian Hammon was in all probability
taken notice of in Scripture, though vulgar inter­
preters have not been aware thereof. For thus
we understand that of Jeremy xlvi. 25. “ The
Lord of hosts, the God of Israel saitb, behold I
will R3Q flDN (that is, not the multitude of Noe,
but) Ammon (the God) of Noe, and Pharaoh
Utod Egypt with her (other) gods and kings, and
ell that trust in him; I will deliver them into the
hands of those that Seek their lives, and into the
hands ofNebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon.” For
the understanding of which place, we must ob­
serve, that according to the language Ofthose an­
cient Pagans, when every country or city had
feteir peculiar and proper namesv for the gods pre­
siding over them or worshipped by them, the se­
veral nations and places were themselves com­
monly denoted and signified by the names of those
their respective gods. With which kind of lan­
guage the Scripture itself, also complieth; as
when the Moabites are called in it—the. people of
Chemosh, (Numbers xxi.) and when the gods of
168 THE EGYPTIAN HAMMON
Damascus are said to have smitten Ahaz, be-
Cause, the Syrians smote him. (2 Cbron. xxviii.)
Accordingly whereunto also, whatsoever was.
done or attempted against the several nations or
countries,' is said to have been done or attempted
against their gods. Thus Moab’s captivity is de*
scribed, Jeremy xlviii. “ Thou shalt be taken, and
Chemosh shall go into captivity.” And the over-
throw of Babylon is predicted after the same
manner, in the prophecy of Isaiah, chap. xlvi.
“ Bell boweth down, Nebo stoopeth, themselves
are gone into captivity.” And also the,same is
threatened in that ofJeremy, ch. li. “ I will visit
Bell in Babylon, and will bring out of his mouth
that which he hath swallowed up, and the nations
shall not flow unto him any more, for the wall of
Babylon shall be broken down.” Now Bell, ac­
cording to Herodotus,* was a name for the su­
preme god amongst the Babylonians, as well as
Ammon wasamongst the Egyptians; who notwith­
standing by both of them was worshipped after:
an idolatrous manner. And therefore, as in these
latter places, by the visiting and punishing of the
Babylonians, so in that former place of Jeremy,
by the visiting of Ammon, and the gods of Egypt*
is understood the visiting of the Egyptians them*
selves; accordingly as it is there also expressed.
No was, it seems, the metropolis of all Egypt;
and therefore Ammon, the chief god of those an­
cient Egyptians, and of that city, was called
Ammon of No. As likewise the city No is de?
nominated from this god Ammon in the Scripture,
and called both No-Ammon and Ammon-No,
* This seems to be a mistake for Diodorus Siculus, who mentions
it, lib. ii. p. 00. '
TAKEN NOTICE OP IN SCRIPTURE. 169
The former in the prophecy of Nahum, chap. iii.
“ Art thou better than No-Ammon r” or that No
in which the god Ammon is worshipped ? Which
is not to be understood ofthe oracle of Ammon in
Marmarica, as some have imagined *(they taking
No for an appellative, and. so to signify habita­
tion ;) it being unquestionably the proper name of
» city in Egypt. The latter in that of Ezekiel,
chap. xzx. “ I will pour out my fury upon Sin,
the strength of Egypt, and will cut off Hammon-
No.” In which place as by Sin is meant Pelusium,
so Hammon-No, by the Seventy, is interpreted
Diospolis, the city of Jupiter; that is, the Egyp­
tian Jupiter, Hammon. Which Diospolis was
otherwise called the Egyptian Thebes, (anciently
the metropolis of all Egypt) but whose proper
name, in the Egyptian language, seems to have
been N o; which from the chief god there wor­
shipped was called both No-Ammon and Ham-
mon-No; as that god himself was also denomi-
Baited from the city, Ammon of No. And this
.is the rather probable, because Plato fll P
hledro>
tells us expressly, that Ammon was an- fp-^6-
ciently the proper or chief god of the
Egyptian Thebes or Diospolis, where he speaks
of Theuth or Tboth, the Egyptian Hermes, in
these words : /3a<xiA
i«cS’av to
t*o
v
to
c Atywrrow o
X
ijc
Qafiov, yrtpl rqv fityaXtjv t
t
o
Aiv tow avm tottov, ov ot
*EA
A
jJvec PuyuTrrlaq 6i{j3ac Kakovai km tov Otov"Afifiwa*
Thamus was then king over all Egypt, reigning
in that great city (the metropolis thereof) which
the Greeks call the Egyptian Thebes, and whose
God was Ammon. But whereas the prophet
f Voss, dc Idol, lib. i. cap.^xxii. p. 89. , . -■
170 THE OLD EGYPTIAN THEOLOGY
Nabum (who seems to have written after tbecoib-
pletiotf of that judgment upon No, predicted
both by Jeremy and Ezekiel) describes the place,
as situate among the .rivers, and having the sea
for Its wall and rampart; whence many learned
men *have concladed, that this was rather to be
Understood of Alexandria than Diospolis (Mfe
withstanding that Alexandria was not that inf
being, nor built till a long while after, in Alex­
ander the Great’s time): this may very well, as
we conceive, be understood of Egypt in general,
whose metropolis this No was; that it was siinate
amongst the rivets, and had the seas for its wall
and rampart, the Red and Mediterranean. And
thus much for the Egyptian Jupiter, or their
supreme Deity, called by them Hammon.
There is an excellent monument of Egyptian
antiquity preserved by Plutarchband others, trow
whence it may be made yet further evident, that
the Egyptians did not suppose a multitude of un­
made, self-existent deities, but acknowledged owe
supreme, universal and all-comprehending Nu-
men. And it is that inscription upon the tempin'
at Sais ; ’Eyw sifit vent re yEyovdc, neat dv, icat taopitvov,
Hal tov tfiOv 7T£7rXov ovSste 7
T
<
d dvqro? amK*\v\ptv, 1 3B1
all that hath been, is, and shall be, and my
peplutn or veil no mortal hath ever yet unco­
vered.—Which though perhaps some would un­
derstand thus, as if that Deity' therein described
were nothing but the senseless matter of the whole
corporeal universe, according to that opinion of
Ghmremon beforementioned and confuted ; yet it
* The Chaldean Interpreter, St. Jerome, Drusius, and man; other*,
Vid. Voss, ubi rfripra.
k D« Iside et Osir. p. 364. tom. ii. oper.
THAT GOD IS ALL THINGS. 171
w {tain, that this could not be the meaning of
this inscription: first, because die god here de­
scribed is not a mere congeries ofdisunited matter,
O
tf aggregation of divided atoms, but-it is some
ontothing, which was all: according to that other
inscription upon an altar dedicated to the goddess
which we shall also afterward make use of,
“ Tibi, una, quae es omnia;” To thee, who being
dse, art all things.—Again, in the Deity here de­
scribed, there is. both a veil or outside, sfM
smfl also something hidden and recon- p^^nhi,
dke; the sense seeming to be this: I am SKp
n“m”1
’
ail that was, is, and shall be; and the »
>
«
a
whole world is nothing but myself veil- in tw » .
• d ; but my naked and unveiled bright- p‘30*
ness no mortal could ever yet behold or compre­
hend. Which is just as if the sun should say, I
mb aH the colours of the rainbow (whose mild and
gentle light may easily be beheld) and they are
nothing but ray simple and uniform lustre, vari­
ously refracted aud abated; but my immediate
Splendour and the brightness of my face no mortal
can contemplate, without being either blinded or
dazzled by it. Wherefore this description of the
Deity may seem not a little to resemble that des­
cription, which God makes of himself to Moses,
“ Thou shalt see my back parts, but my face shall
not-be seen.” Where there is also something ex­
terior and visible in the Deity, and something
hidden and recondite, invisible and incomprehen­
sible to mortals. And Philo thus giosseth upon
those W ords : avfapKic MTt <ro$^>, rcr a«coXov0a jcai ova
Iiefo row Qtov yvtU
vat, row$ oycpowueow ovatavo ^ ^
fioifoofitvog KataOtavavOai, rtf irtfutvytt r«5wmcri- brode K*.
»w wplvl&
T
ww
*ipot iarai' It is sufficient for
172i THE OLD EGYPTIAN THEOLOGY
a wise man to know God aposteriori, or from his
effects; but whosoever wilt needs behold the:
naked essence of the Deity, will be blinded with'
the transcendent radiancy and splendour of -his
beams.—rWhereas, according to Philo, the works
of God, as manifesting the attributes ofhis power,
goodness and wisdom, are called the back parts
of -the Deity; so are they here in this inscription'
called the peplum, the veil and exterior garment’
of it, or else God himself veiled. Wherefore it-
is plain, that the Deity here described cannothe:
the mere visible and corporeal world as sense-*
less and inanimate, that being all outside and
exposed to the view of sense, and having no-'
thing hidden or veiled in it. But, thirdly, this
will yet be more evideut, if we do but take;
notice of the name of this God, which was
here described, and to whom that temple wsb
in dedicated; and that was in the Egyp-
puvsTim. ^an language Neith, the same with:
p-30- 'A9nva amongst the Greeks, and Mi-,
nerva amongst the Latins; by which is meant
wisdom or understanding:. from whence it. is
plain, that the inscription is to be understood not
of such a god as was merely senseless matter
(which is the god of the Atheists) but a mind..
Athenagoras* tells us, that the Pagan theologers
interpreted rijv 'AOvvav, or Minerva, to be njv+popn~
ant Std iravrwv Soijcowmv, wisdom or mind passing
and diffusing itselfthrough all things—than which
there cannot be a better commentary on this in­
scription. Wherefore it may be here observed,
that those Pagans, who acknowledged God to-
be a . mind, and incorporeal being secrete from
f Lcgat. pro Christianis, cap. xix. p. 8(>.
THAT GOD IS ALL THINGS. >73
matter, did notwithstanding frequently consider
him, not abstractly by himself alone, but con­
cretely together with the result of his whole fe­
cundity, or as displaying the world from himself,
and diffusing himself through all things, and be­
ing in a manner all things. Accordingly, we
learned before from Horus Apollo, that the Egyp­
tians by God meant a spirit diffusing itselfthrough
the world, and intimately pervading all things;
and that they supposed that nothing at all could
consist without God. And after this.manner,
Jamblichus in his Mysteries* interprets the mean­
ing of this Egyptian inscription: for when he had
declared that the Egyptians did, both in their
doctrine and their priestly hierurgies, exhort men
to ascend above matter, to an incorporeal Deity,
the maker of all, he adds, v^tiyif<raro SI xal r«w i*
n fv oBov o 'Epjuiic, vpftnveixre Be Bfflvc irpo^ifrqc ’
'Apfoovi
fiaenXei, ev dSvrotf evptiv dvayeypa/uftevT/v, iv upoyXvtfujcotc
ypdfifiaai Kara 2ai’
v tjjv ev A ’
ryvirrtp, tore row Qeou ovofia
*rap(B*uce to Boikov Bl oXov row Koapou" Hermes also
propounded this method,and Bythis, the prophet,
interpreted the same to King Ammon, having
found it written in hieroglyphic letters in the tem­
ple of Sais in Egypt; as be also there declared
the name of that God, who extends or diffuses
himselfthrough the whole world.—And this was
-Neith, or Athena, that God thus des- m
i**a,u,«
&
-
cribed, “ I am all that was, is, and shall
be, and my peplum or veil no mortal
could ever uncover.” Where we cannot *
*
Jl
a
tt^ r
but take notice also that whereas the god. Prod,u
Athena ofthe Greeks was derived from w
here
9 '
* De Myster. iEgypt. sect. ?iii. cap. y. p. 164.
174 T H 6 OLD EGYVTIAM THEOLOOY
ifcM
poap** the Egyptian Neith, that she also Kras
famous for her peplum too,aswell as the
Egyptian goddess. »Pepluaj(saitbSeiv
9~t«- vius) est piroprie palla picta famines,
Minervae eonsecrataPeplum is properly a wo»
Bianish pall or veil, embroidered all over, and
consecrated to Minerva.-*—Which rite was per­
formed at Athens, in the great Panathenaic^
with much solemnity, when the statue of this
goddess was also by those noble virgins of the
city, who embroidered this veil, clothed all over
therewith. From whence we may probably com
elude, that the statue of the Egyptian Neith also,
in the temple of Sais, had likewise, agreeably to
its inscription, sueh a peplum or veil east over it,
as Minerva or Arthemis at Athens had ; this him
roglyphically to signify, that the Deity was in ­
visible and incomprehensible to mortals, but had
veiled itself in this visible corporeal world, which
is, as it were, the peplum, the exterior variegatedor
embroidered vestment of the Deity. To all whieh
considerations may be added, in the last place;
in Tim*, what Proclus hath recorded, that there
»•39- was something more belonging to this
.Egyptian inscription, than what is mentioned by
Plutarch; namely these words: ov-tretov
{Xu* iyivero, and the sun was the froit or offspring,
which I p ro d u ced fro m whence it is manifest,
that, according to the Egyptians, the sun was not
the supreme Deity, and that the God here de­
scribed, was, as Proclus also observeth, Styuaupyuni
Bias, a deminrgical Deity, the Creator of the whole
world, and of the sun. Which supreme incor­
poreal Deity was, notwithstanding, in their theo-
THAT OOD IS 4U u THINGS. 175
log? said to be all things, because it diffused itself
through all.
Wherefore, whereas Plutarch * cites this pas­
sage opt of Hecatseus, concerning the Egyptians,
rpy TQ
wrav6tovrw flam rov awrovv
o
/j
u
C
o
u
o
tv, that they
take the first God, apd the universe, for one and
the same thing;—the meaning of it cannot be, as
ifthe first pr supreme God of the Egyptians were
the senseless corporeal world, Plutarch himself
in the very next words declaring him to be m+avi
«§Kpvwdvav> invisible and hidden—whom there­
fore the Egyptians, as inviting him to manifest
himself to them, called Hammon; as he else-
where affirmeth, That the Egyptians’ first God, or
supreme Deity, did see all things, himself being
mot seep.—But the forementioned passage must
needs be understood thus, that according to the
Egyptians, the first God, and rd ndv, or the uni­
verse, were synonymous expressions, often used
to signify the very same thing; because the first
supreme Deity is that, which contains all things,
apd diffuseth itself through all things. And
this doctrine was from the Egyptians derived
to the Greeks, Orpheus declaring, fv « rd jrdvro,
that all things were one—and after him Parme­
nides and otherphilosophers, e»waitojrdv, that one
vras the universe or all—and that rd nav was
detvarov, that the universe was immoveable—
-they
meaning nothing else hereby, but that the first su­
preme Deity was both one and all things, and
immoveable. And thus much is plainly intimated
by Aristotle in these words • dot tivic o»xept rou
trovroc ,fc>£ qv fjuag ovaqg <j>vatwq dmtyivaitro*
There are some, who pronounced con- [^p*p
^p!*h>
cerningthe whole universe, as being but op"'<
*
• DeI«i<ta e^Oiir* p.3|4. ton, ii. nper.
176 PAN, 606
one nature—that is, who called the supreme
Deity toirav, or the universe—because that virtu­
ally contained all things in it.
■Nevertheless to irav, or the universe, was fre­
quently taken by the Pagan theologers also, as
we have already intimated, in a more compre­
hensive sense, for the Deity, together with all the
extent of its fecundity, God as displaying himself
in the world; or, for God and the world both to­
gether; the latter being looked upon as nothing
* but an emanation or efflux from the former. And
thus was the word taken by Empedocles in Plu­
tarch,* when be affirmed, o v ro irav «vat roV Koopov,
a X V oXlyou.n tov iravroc /uepoc, that the world 'was
not the universe, but only a small part thereof.—
And according to this sense was the god Pan un­
derstood both by the Arcadians and other Greeks,
not for the mere corporeal world as senseless and
inanimate, nor as endued with a plastic nature
only (though this was partly included in the no­
tion of Pan also) but as proceeding from a rational
and intellectual principle, diffusing itself through
all; or for the whole system of things, God and
the world together, as one Deity. For that the
Arcadic Pan was not the corporeal world alone,
but chiefly the intellectual ruler and governor of
the same, appears from this testimony of Macro-
bius;b “ Hunc Deum Arcades colunt, appel-
lantes t o v rijfc vXnc k
v
/ix
o
v
, non sylvarum dominum,
sed universal substantiaematerialis dominatorem
the Arcadians worship this god Pan (as their
most ancient and honourable god) calling him the
Lord of Hyle, that is, not the Lord of the woods,
%De Placit. Philos, lib. i. cap. v. p. 879.
b Sftturn&L, lib, i. cap.x&ii. p.307.
DIFFUSED THROUGH AXL. 177
btit the Lord or domirrator over all material sub­
stance. And thus does Phornutns *likewise de­
scribe the Pan of the other Greeks, not as the
mere corporeal world, senseless and inanimate;
but as haring a rational and intellectual principle
for the head of it, and presiding- over i t ; that is,
for God and the world both together,' as one
system ? the world being but the efflux and ema­
nation. of their Deity. The lower parts of Pan
(saith he) were rough and goatish,' because of the
asperity of the earth; but hie upper parts of a
human form; because the ether being rational and
intellectual, is the Hegemonicofthe world add­
ing hereunto, that “ Pan was feigned to be lustfnt
o*lascivious, because of the multitude of sper­
matic reasons contained in the world, and the
COhtinual mixtures and generations of things; to
be clothed with the skin of a Iibbard, because
of the bespangled heavens, and the beautiful va­
riety of things in the world; to lire in a desert,
because of the singularity of the world; and,
Hstly, to be a good demon, by reason of the «rpo-
SMt adroit Xoyo$, that supreme niind^-reason, and
Understanding,' that governs all in it/* Pan there­
fore was hot the mere corporeal world senseless
Snd inanimate, bnt the Deity as displaying itself
therein, and pervading all things: Agreeable to
Which, Diodorus Siculusb determines^ that Ilav
aUd Zcvc were but two several names for one and
'the same Deity (as it is well known, that the
Whole universe was frequently called by the Pa­
gans Jupiter, as- well as Pan).- And Socrates
. * Libro da Nature Deor. cap.xxvii. p.203. intetScriptor. Mythol.
aTho. Gale editos. "
b Lib. i. p. 7.
VOL. II. N
179 DEMONS LAMENT
himself in Plato *directs his prayer, m a most de­
vout and serious manner, to this Pan; that is, not
the corporeal world or Senseless matter, but an in­
tellectual principle,ruling over all, or the supreme
Deity diffusing itself through all; he therefore
distinguishing him from the inferior gods:
Hav, Kai aXXot o<rot rySe' did., Soltyrt fioi KaXif ytytoQat
ravSoOfv' raZuOtv Se 6aa {j(w, rolc <vroc tlvat pot <plXta.
O good (or gracious): Pan, and ye other gods,
who preside over this place, grant that I may be
beautiful or fair within, and that those external
things, which I have, may be such as may best
agree with aright internal disposition of mind,
and that I may account him to be. rich, that is
wise and just.—The matter of which prayer,
though: it be excellent, yet it is paganically dir
rected to Pan (that is, the supreme god) and the
inferior gods both together. Thus w.e see, that as
welt according to the Greeks; as the Egyptians,
the first or; supreme God, and vo*av, or the uni7
yerse, Were really the same thing.
And here we cannot but by the way take no­
tice of that famous and remarkable story of Plu-i
tarch’s in his Defect of Oracles, concerning de­
mons lamenting the death, of the great Pan.-r-Io
the time of Tiberius (saitb he) certain persona
embarking from Asia for.Italy, towards the even­
ing sailed by the Echiuades; where being, be­
calmed, they heard from thence a loud voice call;
mg one Thamous, an Egyptian mariner, amongst
them, and after the third time commanding him,
when he came to the Palodes, to declare, that
the great Pan was dead. He with the advice of
his company resolved, that if they had a quick
* InPhsedro, p.358. oper.
: THE DEATH OF- GREAT PAN. . .. 179
gale, when they came to the Palodes, he would
pass, by silently; b.ut if they should find them­
selves, there becalmed, he would then perform
what the voice had commanded: but when the
ship arrived thither, there neither was any .gale of
wind nor agitation of water. Whereupon Tha-
mous looking out of the hinder deck towards the
Palpdes, pronounced these words with a loud
voice, o (liyas lidv.rifkiiKt,.the great. Pan is dead—-
which he had no sooner done, but he was an­
swered with a choir of many voices, making a
great howling and lamentation, not without a cerr
tain mixture of admiration. Plutarch, who gives
much credit to this relation, adds, how solicitous
Tiberius the emperor was, first, concerning, the
truth.thereof; and afterwards, when he had satis­
fied himself therein, concerning the interpretation;
be making great inquiry amongst his learned
tnen, who this Pan should be. But the only use;
which that philosopher makes of this story, is
this, to prove that demons, haying bodies as well
a r men, (though ,of a different kind from them,
s(nd much more longeve) yet were notwithstanding
mortal; he endeavouring from thence to solve
that phenomenon of the defect of oracles, because
the demons, who' had formerly haunted those
places, were now. dead.< But this being an idle
fancy of Plutarch's, it is much more probably con­
cluded by Christian writers, that this thing coming
to pass in the reign of Tiberius, when our Saviour
(Christ was crucified, was no other than a lamen­
tation of evil demons (not without a mixture of
admiration) upon account of our Saviour's death
happening .at that very time; they not mourning
oat of love, for him. that was.dead, but as sadly
J 8 0 HOW TH E T R ISM E G IST ie BOOKS IN S IST
presaging evil to themselves from thence, as. that
which would threaten danger to their kingdom of
darkness, and a period to that tyranny and domi­
nation which they had so long exercised over man­
kind ; according to s»eh passages of scripture as
these; “ Now is the prince of this world judged;
and having spoiled principalities and powers (by
his death upon the cross) he triumphed over them
in it.” Now dUr Saviour Christ couM not be called
Pan, according to that notion of the word, as
taken for nothing but the corporeal world devoid
of all manner of life, or else as endued onlywith
a plastic nature ; but this appellation might-very
well agree to him, as Pah Was taken for the AoyoC
Kpetfafe K
O
rT
fiov, that reason and understanding,
by which all things were made, and by Which
they are all governed,1or for fpovnaie mirror
tkjieowH
i,that Divine wisdom, Which diffnseth itself
through all things,—
-Moreover, Pan being used
not so much for the naked and abstract Deity, aS
the Deity as it Were embodied in this visible COi*
poreal world, might therefore the better Signify_
God manifested in the flesh, and clothed with a
particular human body (in which respect alone
he was capable of dying). Neither indeed was
there any other name, in all the theology of tire
Pagans, that could so weft befit our Saviour
Christ as this;
We have now made it manifest, that according
to the ancient Egyptian theology, (frorti Wbeface
the Greekish and European were derived)1tfierC
Was One intellectual Deity, one mind Or WiSdOtfi;
which as it did produce all things from itself, So
doth mpdytivrd oXav, contain Snd comprehend the
whole—and is itself irr a manner all things. We
UPON GQD’s. BEING A|iL THINGS. 18)
think fit in the next piece to observe, bow this
point of the old Egyptian theology, vjz. God’s
being all things, is every where insisted upon
throughout the Herinaicor Trismegistic writings,
We shall begin with the Asplepian Dialogue or
the r&oocXoyoc, translated into Latin by Apuleius;
in the entrance of which, the writer having der
dared, Omnia unius esse, et unum esse omnia,”
that all things were of one, and that oqe was all
things, he afterwards adds this explication thereof:
“ Nonne hoc dixj, Omnia unum esse, et unum
omnia, utpote quia in creatore fuerint omnia, ar>-
tequarn creasset omnia? Nec immerito unus est
dictus omnia, cujus membra sunt omnia. Hnjus
kaque, qui est unus omnia, vel ipse est Creator
omnium, in tota bac disputatione cprato ipemi-
nisse.” Have we not already declared, that all
things are one, and one all things ? forasmuch as
all things existed in the Creator, before they were
made ; neither is he improperly said to he all
things, whose members all things are. thoq
therefore mindful in this whole disputation of him,
who is one and all things, or was the creator of
atlj-rAnd thus afterwards does ho declare, that
all created things were in the Dejty before they
were made; “ Idcirco non erant qpando ngfo nop
erant, sed in eo jam tone eraut unde nasqi babue-
runt;” they did not properly then exist before
they were made, and yet at that very time were
they in him, from whom they were afterwards
produced. Again, he writes thus concerning God:
“ Non spero totius majestatis effectorepi, omnium
ferum patrem vel domiuum, imo posse quamvis e
multis compoaito nomine nuncupari. Hunc vpep
potius oinni nomine, siquidem sit unus et omnia;
18S HOW THE TRISMEGISTIC BOO&S IN SIST
ut necesse sit aut omnia ipsitis nomine, autipsnm
omnium nomine nuncupari. Hie ergo solus om-
nia,”&c. I cannot hope sufficiently to express the
author of majesty, and the father and'lord of all
things, by any one name, though compounded of
never so many names. Call him therefore by
every name, forasmuch as he is one and all things;
so that of necessity, either all things tnhst be
called by his name, or he by the names of all
■ things.—And when he bad spoken of the
mutability of created things, he adds;
4
4Solus deus ipse in se, et a se, et circum se, to-
tus est plenus atque perfectus, isque sua firma
stabilitas est; nec alicujus impulsu, nee loco mo-
veri potest, cum in eo sint omnia, et in omnibus
ipse est solus.” God alone, in himself, and from
himself, ■
and about himself, is altogether perfect;
and himself is his own stability.' Neither can he
be moved Or changed, by the impulse of any
thing, since all things are in him, and he alone is
in all things.-^Lastly, to omit other places, 4
4Hie
p 6i7 sen'sihiKs mundus receptaculum est om^
nium sensibilkimspecieruna, quaUtatum,
velcorporum; quae omnia sine Deo vegetari non
possunt: Omnia enhn Deus, et a Deo omnia, et
sine hoc, nec fuit aliquid, nec est, nec erit; om­
nia, enim ab eo, et in ipso, et per ipsum------Si to>-
turn animadvertes, vera ratione perdisces, inun-
dum ipsum sensibiletn, et quae in eo sunt omnia,
a superiore illo mundo, quasi vestimento,essecon-
tecta.” This sensible world is the receptacle of
all forms, qualities, and bodies, all which cannot
be vegetated and quickened without God: •for
God is all things, and all things are from God,
'and all things the effect of his Will ; and withoqt
‘UPON GODS BEING ALI^ THINGS. 183
God there neither was any thing, nor is nor shall
be; hut all things are from him, and in him, and
by him------ and if you will consider things after a
right manner, you shall learn, that this sensible
world; and all the things therein, are covered all
over with that superior world (or Deity) as it
Were with a garment.—As for the other Trisme-
gistic books of Ficinus’s edition, the third of
them, called Upoc Xoyoc, is thus concluded; to yap
9tlov r\ warn KoafUKq uirfKpamg, Qiaei avaOe&poVfUvif lv
y&p rip 0d(p Kal ri <
f>
{f<
ne <Tvyica0i<rrnK€vm The Divinity is
the whole mundane cotnpages, or constitution;
for nature is also placed in the Deity.—In the
fifth book,-written upon this argument, a^avqc
diac rj>avepurrar6cion, that the invisible God is most
hianifest— we read thus: ovSiv yap iartv iv vavrl
hetfvtp, J ovte tartv ttvrop, iartv avrif Kal ra Svra, Kal pit
Syra* ret plv yap ovra avrbf i^avipivae" r6S i fii| 6vra t \ i i iv
fttvrw- For there is nothing in the whole world,
Which he is not; be is both the things that are,
Wild the things that are not; for the things that are,
hie hath manifested ; but the things that are not,
he contains within himself.—And again, ovroc 4
A
mw/mtoc Kat 6 voXvaAparag’ paXXov Si iravrbc atiparon
evSiv iartv, &ourop ovk tort* iravra yap a iart, w
otwriJc lore
’
wd Sta tovto avro? 6v6ftara i\et iravra, Srt iv6f tort xarp6^
M
at Sta rovro ovopa ovk on iravrwv trrl irarfip. He .
is both .incorporeal and ©ronicorporeal, for there
is nothing of any body, which he is n o t; he is all
things .that are, and therefore he hath all names,
because all things are from one father; and there­
fore he hath no name, because he is the Father of
'all things.—And in the close of the same book:
*Hrlp':tlvog at vpvfiaw, vrrlp &v hrobiaaf, rj vrtp ■
S>v owe
bfoliptaQ’
y vwip wv i<f>avlpa>aasr jj vwip 5>v itcpvQfiat]. Sta<ti
18 4 HOW THE ?E*$MEGI6TIC BOOKS ItyKIST
£lMaiv/ivfob)<
r«
; (J/cifiofftov wv; bic«xt'>'n oAAyc
£y; (tv *?*yqp 8 lav. 5' <rv.fl 8 Vfuw* <
rt>d 8 gv A
I"y<o' <
rt> y4p
ravra *1, to aX^o oiiSiv t<rr(v &1$ il’ av wav to ytypfitvov,
m
>to fivytvo/xtvov' fo r jirhat shall I praise thee ?
for those things which thqp hast made, or for
those things which thou host not made? for
those things which thou hast manifested, or for
those things which tbou hast hidden and poor
cealed within thyself? And for what capse shall
1 praise thee ? because I am piy own, as haring
something proper, and distinct from thee?, thop
prt frbatfoever I am; thou art whatsoever J
do, or say, for thou art all things, and there if
nothing .which thou art pot; thou art that which 1
is made, and thou art that which is unmade.—
Where it is observable, that before things were
made, God is said wpvwruv, to hide them within
himself:—but when they are made, favtpovv, to
manifest and reveal them from himself.—Book the
eighth, viffwoy $ n 6 piv Koapqs into row 0cw teal tv ry
ppxjn & #at tpd..^aram^ Wavrwv 6 6b
6q‘ U n r
derstand that the whole world is from God, and ii»
God; for God is the beginning, comprehension and
constitution ofall things.—Book the ninth, paXXov
Si A
£ywSri ov* «vror avro #xtc» to aXflStg dwofaipor
fiai, avrbg fijravrtt WTfV‘ ovfc e^ttiflfvaura wpo<r\ap(3dvwv, e&y
Si twiSiSovc' I would not say, that God hath all
things,but rather declare tbetruth, and say that be
is all things; not as receiving them from without,
butas sending them forth from himself.—Again,af­
terward in the same book, wl oyic f<
JT
<
uwon xpdyop,
S tb o ird t^ n w a l n rwv ovrtiiy' Srpv Si Xlyu ry» Svrbty,
Xfyt) too $tov' ra y$Q ovra b 8tbg ?xjEt, icat ovtb avtow ovSiy
cktoc, o
v
tbaiirbso
vSb
v
Ss' There shall never be a time,
when any thing that is shall cease to be; for
UPON CODS BEING ALL THINGS.’ 180
when I spy any thing that is, I say any thing of
G od; for God hath all things in him, and there
is neither any thing without God, por Gpd without
any thing.—Book the tenth, rl yap iorf. Otbc txA n-aryp,
*xd to ayaSov, rj to tuv navrury tlvat obit in ovtuiv' aXXff
fyrapZig ainij tuv ovrotv; What is God, but the very
being of all things that yet are not, aud the sub­
sistence of things that are?—And agaio> &3*oc,
variip tool ib ayadov, rip ilvat ra ravri, God is both the
father and good, because be is all things.— Book
the eleventh, abrpvpybp yap wv ati iariv iv np tpytpr
ainbc <
*
>
v $ iroui' tl yap \wpia^ttr) abrov, iravry p iv
avffirt/ruaSfu, vavra St rtQv^taOai avayia)’ God actjug
immediately from himself is always in his own
work, himself being that which he makes; for if
that were never so little separated from him, all
Would ofnecessity fall to nothing and die.—rAgain,
vatrra iariv iv rip Ottp, ovx^S iv totripKtlptva, all things are
in God, but not as lying in a place.—And further,
sipce pur own soul cap by cogitation and fancy
become what it will, and where it will, any
thing, Or in any place, toutov ovv to
v rpo7rov voq-
frqv rpy Stpy, Hjarrip vohfWTa vayra iv tavrip fatty, rpy
Kotriypy ai/Tov tiihpv' You may consider God iff the
same manner, an containing the whole world
within himself, as his own conceptions and cogi­
tations.—And in the close of that chapter, that,
which is also thence cited by St, Cyril,* is to the
same purpose ; aoparpe 9 ~to£; tvfpiiprjaov k
atrip attroy
fyqytpwrtpop' Si avro rouro iravra iirocriaev, tva Sia travrvf
pvrov fiXliryp' tovto itm to ayaSqv tov Stov' tovto St furryy
pfftTTj, to abrov (paivtadai Sia vavrwv' Is God invisible ?
speak worthily of him, for who is more manifest
than he? for this very reason did he make all
* Adycrs. Julian, lib* ii. p. 52. edit* Spanhcm.
186 AGREEMENT OF TRISMEG1STIC ROOKS
things, that thou migbtest see him through all
things. The mtrid is seen in thinking, but God in
working or making;—Book the twelfth, fiKmaarov
ayaOovSatpovog \{yovrog{hiitvog yap /uovog, &rhcvov, aXtfi« c
w f rrpurroyovog '■
Otbg, ra iravta ■
kanSuiv, Stiovg \ 6yoog
i<pfiiy%aro) f/Kovaa yovv avrov irore Afyovroe, Sri iv toti ra
Tratrm
’ I have beard the good demon (for he alone,
as the first-begotten God, beholding all things,
spake divine words); 1 have heard him sometimes
saying, that one is alt things.—Again, in the same
chapter, 6 Si <
r6jm
as k
6opog owoc yvwfiivog hcutxp, K
a\
trvadj^tov T
T
jv r(£,iv, k
a\ j3ovXi}m
v row jrarpoc, it
X
rtpwpa
tori T
rjg icai ovSiv iariv iv rovnp Sia iravrbg rov
aituvog, ovrf to
viravrip, owe rwv Kara fiipog, 8 oi^t
veitpbvyap ovSitv, -owe ylyovtv, owe «rriv, owe•tarai1hr
K
&
ofuf This whole world is intimately united to
him, and observing the order and will of its'-father,
hath the fulness of life in it ; and there is nothing
in it through eternity (neither whole nor part)
which does not live; for there neither is, nor hath
been, nor shall be, any thing dead in the world;—
The meaning is, that all things vitally depend
topon the Deity, who - is said in Scripture to
quicken and enliven all things* rowo i<mv 6 $iog,
rb irav" tvSirip iravrl, ovSiv iativ 8 firj iariv"' odtv oweptyiBog,
owt Totroc, oSrt .iro«Jri)C
, ovre ayrtfia, owt %p6vog irtpi rov
Seov earl" irav yap iari, rb Si wav Sia iravrwv xal jrtpt iravra*
This is God, the universe or all. And in this
universe there is nothing which be is not: where­
fore there is neither magnitude, nor place, nor
quality, nor figure, nor time about God, for he
is all or:the whole (but those things belong to
parts).—And the Arcane Cantion, though that
.thirteenth book, to which it is subjoined, be
supposititious, yet harps much upon this point
WITH THE OLD EGYPTIAN THEOLOGY. '187
pf the Egyptian theology, that God is all : b/Mt*
fdXXiv rbv rijc xrlaewc Kvptov, teal rb wav, koI 'rb tv'
I am about to praise the Lord of the creation, the
’
all and the one.—And again, All the powers that
are in me praise the one and the all.—Book the
fifteenth, lav rtf lwi\ttpfyrp rb wav teal tv \opioai, rb wav
row tvbe Xvtrac, awoXiou rb wav, wavra yap tv ilvai Set’
If any one go about to separate the all from the
one, he will destroy the all, or the universe, for
all ought to be one.—Book the sixteenth, ap$opai
■
row Xbyov tvdiv, rbv 9fbv iwueaXtaapxvog, rbv rwv SXtov
‘
Seowornv, teal wotrfrrjv, teal waripa, teal wtpljioXov, k<
Awavra
Svra rbv iva, teal iva ovra ra wavra' rb wivrwv yap rb
wXfipivfta tv ion, teal iv ivi' 1 will begin with a prayer
46 him, who is the Lord and maker and father
and bound of all things; and who being all
tbiogs, is one; and being one, is all things; for
the fulness of all things, is one and in one.—And
■again, p&piarov 6uS wavra iortv' cl Si wavra p6pta, wavra
Apa b Otbc" wavra ovv wouiv, lavrov wotei' All things
ureparts of God, but ifall things be parts of God,
4ben God is all things; wherefore he making all
things, doth, as it were, make himself.— <
Now, by all this we see, how well these Tris-
megistic books agree with that ancient Egyptian
inscription in the temple of Sais, That God is all
that was, is, and shall be.—Wherefore the Egyp-
tian theology thus undoubtedly asserting one God
that was all things; it is altogether impossible,
that it should acknowledge a multitude of self-
existent and independent deities.
Hitherto we have taken notice of two several
Egyptian names for one and the same supreme
'Deity; Hammon and Neith: but we shall find,
^Jjiat, besides these, the supreme God was some-
ISIS o n e
190
times worshipped by the Egyptians under other
names and notions also ; as of Isis, Osiris, and
Serapis. For, first, though Isis have been taken
by some for the moon, by others for the whole
earth, by others fpr Ceres or corn, by others for
the land of Egypt (which things, in what sense
they were deified by the Egyptians, will be else-:
where declared), yet was she undoubtedly taken
also sometimes for an universal and all-compre­
hending Nunaen. For Plutarchaaffirms, that Isis
and Neith were really one and the same god
among the Egyptians, and therefore the temple
of Neith or Minerva at Sais, where the foremen-
tioned inscription was found, is called by him the
temple of Isis; so that Isis, as well as Neith
or Minerva among the Egyptians, was there der
scribed, as that God, who is all that was, is, and
shall be, and whose veil np mortal bath ever un­
covered ; that is, not a particular God, but an unii-
versal and all-coinprebeuding Numen. And this
maybe yet further confirmed from that ancient in*-
scription and dedication to the goddess Isis, still
extant at Capua:
-TIBI.
VNA. QV^E.
ES. OM N JA .
D E A . IS IS .
Whore the goddess Isis is plainly declared to bp
4al ravra, one and a]l things,—
-’•that is, an univer­
sal and all-comprehending Deity. And with this
H ^ , agreeth also that oration of this godr
[Ub. ii. p.' dess Isis in Apuleius; “ En adsum tuis
243^ commofa, Luci, prpcibus, rerqm natnra
parens, elemeutorum omnium domina, spculoruip
» De Jaide et Osir. p, 354, tom. il. oper.
AND ALL THINGS. 189
progenies initialis: summa nuininum, regina ma-
rinm, prima ccelitum, deorurn dearuinque facies
tmiformis; quae coeli luminosa culmina, raaris sa-
labria flamina, inferorutn deplorata silentia, nu-
tibos meis dispense. Cujus nuraen unicum multi­
form! specie, ritn vario, nomine muftijugo totuS
veneratur orbis.” Behold, here am i, moved by
thy prayers,#Lucius, that nature, which was thd
parent of things; the mistress of all the elements'
the beginning and original of ages; the sum of
all the divine powers; the queen of the seas; tbd
first of the celestial inhabitants; the uniform face
Of gods and goddesses; whidh with my becks
dispense the luminous heights of the heavens, the
wholesome blasts of the Sea, and the deplorable
silences of hell; whoSe only divine power the
whole world worships and adoreS, in a multiform
tnannet% and under different rites and names.—
From which words it is plain, that this goddess
Isis was not the mere animated moon (which was
rather a-symbol of her) but that she was an uni­
versal Deity, comprehensive of the whole nature
of things; the one supreme God, worshipped by
the Pagans under several names, and with differ­
ent rites. Aud this is the plain meaning of those
last words, Numert unicum,, &c. that the whole
World Worshippeth one and -the same supreme
God, in a multiform manner, with various rites
and under many different names.—For, besides
the several names of the other Pagans'there menr
tinned, the Egyptians worshipped it tinder the
names of-Hamtaon, Neith, and others that shall
be afterwards declared. And ihus was Isis again
worshipped and invoked, as the unicum numen, or
only divine power, by Apuleius himself, in these
OSIRIS AND-SEJtAPIS
Allowing words:* “Tusanctahuroani generis sos-
pitatrix perpetua, dulcem matris affectionem mi-
seris tribuis, fatorum inextricabiliter coutorta re-
tractas litia, fortunae tempestates mitigas, et stel-
larum noxios meatus cohibes: Te superi colunt,
observant inferi. Tu rotas orbem, luminas solem,
regie mundum, calcas Tartarum. Tibi respou-
dent sydera, gaudent n'umina, serviunt elementa:
tuo nutu.spirant flamina,” &c. • Thou, holy and
perpetual saviour of mankind, that art always
bountiful in cherishing mortals, and dost manifest
the dear affections of a mother to thein in their
calamities, thou extricatest the involved threads
of fate, mitigatest the tempests of fortune, and
restrainest the noxious influences of the stars;
tjbecelestial gods worship thee, the infernal powers
obey thee ; thou rollest round the heavens, en-
lightenest the sun, governest the world, treadest
ppon Tartarus, or hell; the stars, obey thee, the
elements serve thee, at thy beck the winds blow,
&c.-—
Where Isis is plainly supposed to be.an uni­
versal Numen and supreme monarch ofthe world.
Neither may this hinder, that she was called a
goddess, as Neith also was; these Pagans making
their deities to be indifferently of either sex, male
pr female. But much more was Osiris taken for
the supreme Deity, whose .name was sometimes
said to have signified,in the Egyptian language;
jro\v6<
f>
6a\fioc, that which had many eyes—some-r
times Kparog tvtpyovv jcai ayaOoirptov, an active and
beneficent force—(and whose hieroglyphic was an,
eye and a sceptre); the former signifying proviT
dence and wisdom, and the latter power and mar
THE SUPREME N U M p. m
jasty (as Plutarch tells us),* who also is thus de^
scribed in Apuleios: “ Deus deorum magnorum
potior, et majoruin sumnras, et summorum maxi-
pius, et maximorum regnator, O s ir is T h a t God
who is the’cbiefest of the greater gods, and the
greatest of the cbiefest, and which reigneth over
the greatest—Wherefore the same Apuleiusbalso
tells us, that Isis and Osiris were really one and
the same supreme Numeq, though considered
under different notions, and worshipped with dif-,
ferent rites, in these words; c“ Quanquam con-
nexa, imo vero unica, ratio Numinis, religionis-
queesset, tamen teletae discrimen esse maximum
Though Isis and Osiris be really one and the same
Divine power, yet are their rites and ceremonies
very different.—The proper notion of Osiris being
thus declared by Plutarch,*1t o wp&rov kcukv^uototw
w«vtmv, o rV y atu rawrov tori, that first and highest
of all beings, which is the same -with good.—
Agreeably wbereunto, Jamblichus'affirmeth, aya-
fiwv rotvnnic wv ''OoipiQ ic«cX»rr<u, that God, as the
cause of all good, is called Osiris by the Egyp­
tians.—Lastly, as for Serapis, though Origenf
tells us, ;tbat this was a, new upstart deity, set
np by Ptolemy iu Alexandria, yet this god in'
bis oracle8to Nicocrion, the king of Cyprus, de­
clares himself also to be an universal Nuraen,
comprehending the whole world, in these words:
ovpavioQKoafiosicc^aXij, &c. to this sense: The starry
; * Dp Iside et Osiride, p.354, etp.371. tom-ii. Oper.
* Metamorphos. lib. xi. p. 258. c Ibid. p. 256.
4 De Iside et Osir. p. 372.
* De Myster...Egypt. sect. viii. cap. iii. p. 150,
1 Ajdvers. Cels. lib. v. p. 257. ed. Cantabr.
* Apud Macrobium Satnrnal; lib. i. cap. xx. p. 299.
i& k OSIRIS AND SERA PIS
heaven is my head, the sCa my belly, my ears are
ftk the ether, and the bright light of the sun is
my clear piercing eye.” And doubtless lie was
Worshipped by many under this notion. For as
Philarchus8 wrote thus concerning him, Sapmrtc
SvtytA rtm to itdp Kotr/uovvroc, That- Serapis was the
Wafne of that Gdd, which orders and governs the
Whole world;-—so doth Plutarchb himself con­
clude, that Osiris andSerapis were apfa «*>cO
eovKal
fnik SU
<(juE
cdc, both of them names of one God, and
the Same Divine power.—Accordingly wherennto
Diodorus Siculus0determines, that these three,
f lemniott, Osiris, and Serapis, were but different
Whines for one and the same Deity, or supreme
God. Notwithstanding which, Porphyrins,4 it
Seems, had a very ill conceit of that power which
manifested itself in the temple of this god SerW-
piS, abote all the other Pagan gods, he suspect­
ing it to be no Other than the very prince of evil
demons or devils : ToOj v6vitjwv$ Balpova^ovK tuej
AwS tqv \nroitreuopev' ovB' tKrtov'avpfioXwv fiovod
«Wwf«»fl£vt<c,&c. Wedo notvainlyor withoutgronnd
sUspectaOd conjecture, that the evil demons are
Under Serapis as their prince and bead: this ap-
pearing (saith he) not only from those rites of ap­
peasement used in the worship of this god, but
also from the symbol' of him, which was a three-
headed dog, signifyingthatevildemon which ruleth
Hi1
those threeelements, water, earth,and air.-—
Nei­
ther indeed can it be doubted, but that it was an
evil demon or devil, that delivered oracles in this
* De Iside et Osir. p. 362. b Ibid. p. 361, 362.
c Videlibri. cap. xxy. p.21.
d Libro de Philosoptiia et Oraculis apud Euseb. Praepar. fivang”
.
lib. iv. cap. xxiii. p. 175.
THE SUPREME NUMEN. 193
temple of Serapis as well as elsewhere among the
Pagans, however he affected to be worshipped as
the supreme God.
Besides all this, Eusebius himself from Por-
pbyrius informs us, that the Egyptians acknow­
ledged one intellectual Demiurgus, or maker of
the world, under the name of Cneph, whom they
worshipped in a statue of human form, and a
blackish sky-coloured complexion; holding in
bis hand a girdle and a sceptre, and wearing upon
his head a princely plume, and thrusting forth an
egg out of his mouth. The reason of which hie­
roglyphic is thus given, on XoyocSvnvpmc
Jew KtKpvfifxtvog, k<
u oil favog, Kac on £a>oirotoc,
wh on /3aaiX(vc, K« on voepwc Jctvctnu. Sio if
row irnpov fw n s cv tjp jcc^aXjjf Kiirac Because that
wisdom and reason, by which the world was
made, is not easy to be found out, but hidden and
obscure. And because this is the fountain of life
and king of all things; and because it is intellec­
tually moved, signified by the feathers upon his
head. Moreover, by the egg thrust out of the
mouth of this God, was meant the world, created
by the eternal Xoyoc, and from this Cneph was
said to be generated or produced another God,
whom the Egyptians call Phtha, and the Greeks
Vulcan—of which Phtha more afterward. That
the Egyptians were the most eminent assertors of
the eosmogonia, or temporary beginning of the
world, hath been already declared; for which
cause the scholiast upon Ptolemy thusperstringeth
them, 7
T£fHTT<vg e’
uoOaai Xsysiv yiv&nv A lyvvnoi koo/iov,
the Egyptians were wont to talk perpetually of
the genesis or creation of the world.—And Ascle-
VOL. II. o
194 THE EGYPTIAN TRINITY ; EICTON,
pius, an ancient Egyptian writer, mins'
Seal. Emend. r
Temp.i.T, de Mynogenesis, affirms, that according to
condit.nm
ndi. tjje Egyptian tradition, the sun was mader
in Libra. But, that the Egyptians did not sup­
pose the world to have been made by chance, as
Epicurus and other atheistical philosophers did,
but by an intellectual Demiurgus called by them'
Cneph,.is evident from this testimony of Porphy-
rius. Which Cneph was looked upon by them as
an unmade and eternal Deity, and for this'very
cause the inhabitants of Thebais refused to wor-
De i et S^*P any other god besides him, as Pin*
o»ir. ’ tarch informs us in these words : tic 84.
[p. 357.] . rpotfxju; Tu>vripooptvwv £<Ju>v, rove jutv aXXouff*
awrirayfitva rtXuv, povovQ SI pt) SiSovat rove 0»?/3atSa
icaroucovvrac, <
<
>
e Ovrfrov 9eov ovSeva vopu^ovrsc, aXXa ov
Kakovaiv avroi aytvtfrov ovra kat aOavarov’ W h ilst
the other Egyptians paid their proportion ■
of tax
imposed upon them, for the nourishment of those'
sacred animals, worshipped by them, the inhabit*'
ants of Thebais only refused, because they would
acknowledge no mortal god, and worshipped him
only, whom they call Cneph, an unmade and eter- -
nalDeity.—
Having now made it undeniably manifest, that
the Egyptians had an acknowledgment amongst
them of one supreme universal and unmade Deity,
we shall conclude this whole discourse with the
two following, observations: First, That a great
partof the Egyptian Polytheism was really nothing
else but the worshipping of one and the same su­
preme God, under many different names and no­
tions, as of Hammon, Neith, Isis, Osiris, Serapis,
Cneph, to which may be added Phtha, and those
CNEPH OR EMEPH, AND PHTHA. ' 195
other names in Jamblichus, of Eicton and Emeph;
And that the Pagans universally over the-whole
world did the like, was affirmed also byApuleius,
in that forecited passage of his: “ Numen unicurn,
mnltiformi specie, ritu vario, nomine multijugo,
totus venerator orbis,” the whole world worship­
p ed one only supreme Numen in a multiform
manner, under different names, and with different
rites.—Which different names for oneand the same
supreme God might therefore be mistaken bysome
ofthe sottish vulgar amongst the Pagans, as well
as they have been by learned men of these later
times, for so many distinct, unmade, and self-ex­
istent deities.
•
-•Nevertheless, here may well be a question start­
ed, whether amongst those several Egyptian names
of God, some might not signify distinct Divine hy­
postases subordinate; and particularly, whether
there were not some footsteps of a trinity to be
found in the old Egyptian theology ? For since
Orpheus, Pythagoras, and Plato, who all of them
asserted a trinity of Divine hypostases, unques­
tionably derived much of their doctrine from
the Egyptians, it may reasonably be suspected,
that these Egyptians did the like before them.
And indeed Athanasius Kircherus makes no doubt
at all hereof, but tells us that, in the Pamphylian
obelisk, that first hieroglyphic of a winged globe,
with a serpent coming out of it, was the Egyptian
hieroglyphic of a triform Deity, or trinity of Di­
vine hypostases; he confirming the saige, from
the testimony of-Abenephius, an Arabian writer,,
and a Chaldaic fragment imputed to Sanchonia-
ttion ; the globe being said-tO signify the first in­
comprehensible Deity, without beginning or end,
o 2 'v
196 THE EGYPTIAN T R IN IT Y ; EICTON,
self-existent; the serpent the Divine wisdom and
creative virtue; and lastly, the wings that active
spirit, that cherisheth, quickeneth, and enliveneth
all things. How far credit is to be given to this,
we leave others to judge; but the clearest foot­
steps that we can find any where of an Egyptian
trinity is in Jamblichus’s book, written concern­
ing their mysteries; which whole place there­
fore is worth the setting down: Kar' aX
A
tjv Si r«£w
Xpoorarrei {^Epjtijc] $tbv rutv tnpvpavfav Stuiy
fyoCptvPV, ov $r\<nv vow tlvcu avrov tavrov voovvra, kat rag
voint{ etc tavrov imarptyovra. To6rov Si tv aptptg, teal 5
$yoi to irpwrov payevpa, wporarrai, Svical Eltcrwv iirpvopaZa,
iv (j>ro irpiSr6v tori vpovv ical to npotrov voijrbv, S Sij teal Sea
otyrjg p6vyg Stpavtvtrai. 'Eirl Si roiroig------------ S Sij-
piovpyiKog vpvg ical rije aXrjOtlag irppoTarng, ical ao<plq ip\opt-
vog piv tig yivtaiv, ical Tqv a<j>avri rurv KtKpvppivwv Aoywy
Sdvapiv tig <p<ogayotv,’Apivv Kararrjv ru>vAlyvTrrtwv yAwooav
Xfytrai, owrtXtiv Si atptvSwg licacrra ical re^viKwgper akrfitiag
4>6a, "EX
A
t
jv
e
cSi ale "K^aiorov ptraXapfiavovm to
vQOa, rip
rt^yuap povov irpoofiaWovrtg, ayaOwv Si irontriK.bg wv*0<npig
k
&
c
A
ijt
o
j,icalaXAag St'aXXagSvvapcigrt icalivtpyttag brwyvplag
$X
U
‘According to another orderormetbod, Hermes
•Orc«eph P*aces *he god Emeph, * as the prince
and ruler over all the celestial gods,
whom he affirmeth to be a mind, understanding
himself, and converting his cogitations or intel-
lections into himself. Before which
1 neph‘ Emeph, * he placeth one indivisible,
whom he calleth Eicton, in which is the first in­
telligible, and which is worshipped only by si-
•otCneph ^ence* After which two, Eicton and
Emeph,* the demiurgic mind and pre­
sident of truth, as with wisdom it proceedeth to;
generations, and bringeth forth the hidden powers
CNEPH OB EMEPH, AMD PHTHA. 197
of the occult reasons into light, is called in the
Egyptian language Ammon; as it artificially af­
fects all things with troth, Phtha (which Phtha, the
Greeks, attending only to the artificialness thereof,
call Hephestus or Vulcan); as it is productive of
good, Osiris, besides other names that it hath,
according to its other powers and energies.-r-In
which passage of Jamblichus * we have plainly
three Divine hypostases, or universal principles
Subordinate, according to the Hermaic theology t
first, an indivisible unity called Eicton; secondly,
a perfect mind, converting its intellections into
itself, called Emeph or Hemphta; and thirdly,
the immediate principle of generation, called by
several names, according to its several powers, as
Phtha, Ammon, Osiris, and the like:'so that these
three names with others, according to Jamblichus,
did in the Egyptian theology signify, one and the
same third Divine hypostasis. How well these
three Divine hypostases of the Egyptians agree
with the Pythagoric or Platonic trinity, of, first, t o
tv or rayadov, unity and goodness itself—second­
ly, vove, mind—and thirdly, 'fax*’ soul—I need
not here declare. Only we shall call to mind
what hath been already intimated, that that rea­
son or wisdom, which was the Demiurgus of the
world, and is'properly the second of the fore-
mentioned hypostases, was called also among
the Egyptians, by another name, Cneph; from
whom was said to have been produced or begot­
ten the god Phtha, the third hypostasis of the
Egyptian trinity; so that Cneph and Emeph are
all one. Wherefore we have here plainly an Egyp7
» De Master. iEgypt. sect. viii. cap. iiju p. 158,159.
198 . THE ALLEGORY OF OSIRIS
tian trinity of Divine hypostases subordinate,
IJicton, Eineph (or Cneph), and Phtha. We
know not what to add more to this of Jamblichus
Concerning an Egyptian trinity, unless we should
insist upon those passages,.which have been cited
by some of the fathers to this purpose out of Her-
maic or Trismegistic books,, whereof there was
one' before; set down out of St. Cyril; or unless
,we should again call to.mind that citation o u t o f
DamascillS, * file. t
iH
v o
Xo
jv ypxo o
k
o
to
q ayvuxrrov
y/tvovpevti Kal rayro rplg dva<fxovov/nevoy ovr&
ic, that, RCr
cording to,the Egyptians, there is one principle
pf all things praised under the name of the un­
known darkness,and this thrice repeated.—’Agree­
ably to which, Augustinus Steuchus produces
another passage out of the same philosophic
writer; that the Egyptians made irpwrnv apx*v
<r«caro£ virip iraaav votynv, oxoroc iyvtoarov, rpig to
u
to
emfm&flVTts, the first principle of all to be dark­
ness above all knowledge and understanding (or
Unknown darkness), they thrice repeating the
same.—Which the forementionpd Steuchus takes
to be a clear acknowledgment of a trinity of Di-
yine hypostases in the Egyptian theology.
. Our second observation is this; .That the Egyp­
tian theology as well as the Orphic (which was
derived from it) asserting one incorporeal Deity,
that i^ all things; as it is evident, that it could
not admit a multitude of self-existent and inde­
pendent deities, so did the seeming Polytheism of
those Egyptians proceed also in great measure
from this principle oftheirs not rightly understood;
they being led thereby, in a certain sense, 6amoawt
* Vide Wolfii Anecdot. Graepa, p. 260.
CUT IN PIECES BY TYPHON. 199
to personate and deify the several parts of the
world, and things of nature, bestowing the names
ofgods and goddesses upon them. Not that they
therefore worshipped the inanimate parts of the
world as such, much less things not substantial,
but mere accidents, for so many real, distinct,
personal deities; but because, conceiving that
God, who was all things, ought to be worshipped
in all things (such especially as were most benefi­
cial .tomankind), they did, according to that Ascle-
pian and Trismegistic doctrine beforementioned,
call God by the name of every thing, or every
thing by the name of God. And that the wiser
of them very well understood, that it was really
One and the same simple Deity, that was thus
worshipped amongst them by piecemeal, in the
several parts of the world, and things of nature,
and under different names and notions, with dif­
ferent ceremonies, is thus declared by d«i*.<
*o>.
Plutarch ; ‘EXXqvucovV am, KU o Tv<fwv
waXe/uog rrj Oew, jcal St dyvoiav ical aV
arrjvTirv<p<i>fiivoG,
«
c
a
!StaairHv Kal atpavl^wv rovtepov X
o-yov, Sv dO
to
etnivayu
k
at avvrlBiimi Kat vapaSiSaxn role rtkovfitvoie Ouuaaac
*
Isis is a Greek word, which signifies knowledge;
and Typhon is the enemy to this goddess; who
being puffed up by ignorance and error, doth dis­
tract and discerp the holy doctrine (of the simple
Deity), which Isis collects together again, and
mkkes'up into one, and thus delivers it to those
who are initiated into her sacred mysteries, in or­
der to deification.—In which words Plutarch
intimates, that the Egyptian fable of Osiris being
mangled and cut in pieces by Typhon, did alle­
gorically signify the discerption and distraction
of the simple Deity, by reason of the weakness
2 0 0 THE POETS, HOW DEPRAVERS
and ignorance of vulgar minds (not able to com­
prehend it altogether at once), into several names
and partial notions, which yet true knowledge
and understanding, that is, Isis, makes up whole
again, and unites into one.
xix. It is well known, that the poets, though
they were the prophets of the Pagans, and, pre­
tending to a kind of Divine inspiration, did other­
wise embue the minds of the vulgar with a cer­
tain sense of religion, and the notions of mortal­
ity, yet these notwithstanding were the grand
depravers and adulterators of the Pagan theo­
logy. For this they were guilty of upon several
accounts. As, first, their attributing to the gods,
in their fables concerning them, all manner of
human imperfections, passions, and vices. Which
abuse of theirs the wiser of the Pagans were in
all ages highly sensible of and offended with, as
partly appears from these free passages vented
upon the stage;
— — Keti yaf, Srr»c ftoraSs '
Kaxoc fntyvx*), tyifAiwcn ©
J Bid*
nSic wv Mxaiw, nrouq vofAWt upoc fyoro*
rpa^arrac avrolf iwfxlav tyXio-Jtamv’
,
....... ■Si quis est mortalium
Qui scelera patrat, exignnt poenam dei:
At nonne iniquum est,ves, suas leges quibu$
Gens debet hominum, jure nullo vivere?
To this sense: Since mortal men are punished by
the gods for transgressing their laws, is it not un­
just, that ye, gods, who write these laws, should
yourselves live without law ?—And again:'
■ ©cim V a
vQ
p
cw
rovsxauZg
Aiystv &buuo9, si r i rfiv 0sm
M
ifM
VfAiQ', aXXtt Tow; toHnarras t«Js*
Sarip.inlone.
[Ex Florile-
gio Stobooi
apud Hugon.
Grotinm in
Excerpt, ve-
teram Comi-
cor, et Tragi-
cor. p. 334.]
OF THE PAGAN THEOLOGY. 201
■
■
■
■
■
■
■ Nulla nos posthac notet
Censura, liqu&ndo ista, quae supcros decent,
Imitamur homines. Culpa ad auctores redit*
Let men no longer be blamed for imitating the
evil actions of the gods; for they can only be
justly blamed, who teach men to do such things
by their examples.—
Secondly, The poets were further guilty of de­
praving the religion and theology of the Pagans,
by their so frequently personating and deifying
all the things of nature and parts of the world,
and calling them by the names of those gods,
that were supposed to preside over them; that is,
of the several Divine powers manifested in them.
This Plutarch • taxes the poets with, where giv­
ing directions for young men’s reading of their
writings, he thus seasonably cautions against the
d a n g e r of i t ; tovto 8t avayKaiov, Kai tl fu\-
Xotfitv Ik rwv wowjfiarwv w(j>t\t$ri<TfoOai /cat jui) j3Xa/3ijot<r0a<,
TO yivtogkuv irdc ToIc rwv Otcjjv ovoficunv ot woiip'ai yptovrcu.
—
—ypwvrai 81 rote rwv Otwv ovofiam oi irourrai, irori fiev
apTbJV tKt'lVtOV t^aVTOfmHH Ttj twollf, TTOTt 8t 8wafUl( TlVOQf
i v oi Btoi SwrriptQ tun /cat KadtrytpovtG, o/ui/vvjutuc wpoaayo-
pew
ovrec* It is very profitable and necessary, if we
would receive good from the writings of the poets,
and not hurt, that we should understand how
they use the names of the gods in different senses.
Wherefore the poets sometimes use the names of
the gods properly, as intending to signify thereby
the gods themselves, and sometimes again they
use them improperly and equivocally, for those
powers which the gods are the givers and dispen­
sers of, or the things which they preside over.—
De audiendis Poctis, p.22. iom.iL oper.
202 THE POETS, HOW DEPRAVERS
As for example, Vulcan is sometimes used by the
poets for that god or divine power which pre­
sides over fire and the arts that operate by fire,
and sometimes again the word is taken by them
for fire itself. So Mars, in like manner, is some­
times used for the god which presides over mili­
tary affairs, and sometimes again it signifies no­
thing else but war. An instance whereof is there
given by Plutarch out of Sophocles;
TixJ>Xo?ya£t & yutatot, ovf ip£v*Apft
2uof trgorafaru velrra rug0d£f« xcuuL
*
Mars (O Mulieres) caecus birsato suis
Velatore frendens, cuucta commiscct mala.
And we might give this other instance of the
same from Virgil,
■
............ Furit toto Mars impius orbe.
For the God of war, that is, the divine provi­
dence that presides over military affairs, could
not be called impious or wicked, but it is war it­
self that is there so styled.
Indeed, we shall afterward make it appear,
that the first original of this business proceeded
from a certain philosophic opinion amongst the
Pagans, that 'God was diffused throughout the
whole world, and was himself in a manner all
things, and therefore ought to be worshipped in
all things: but the poets were principally the men,
frho carried it on thus far, by personating the se­
veral inanimate parts of the world and things of
Aature, to make suoh a multitude of distinct gods
and goddesses of them. Which humour, though
it were chiefly indulged by them, ^vyaywyiag W«v,
only for the delight and pleasure of the reader—
J OP THE PAGAN THEOLOGY. 203
^besides gratifying.their own poetic fancies; yet
was it a matter of dangerous consequence, as the
same Plutarch gravely and soberly advises, in his
jbook De Iside, it begetting in some gross and ir­
rational superstition (that is, in our Christian lan­
guage, idolatry), and carrying others on to down­
right impiety and Atheism. But this will be after­
ward also again insisted on.
Wherefore, in the next place, we shall observe,
that the poets did also otherwise deprave the theo­
logy of the Pagans, so as to make it look some­
what more aristocratically, and this principally
two manner of ways; first, by their speaking so
much of the gods in general and without distinc­
tion, and attributing the government of the whole
world to them in common, so as if it were ma­
naged and carried on, communi consilio deorum,
*>y a common council and republic of gods,—
wherein all things were determined by a majority
of votes, and as if their Jupiter,.or supreme god,
,were no more amongst them, than a speaker of a
house of lords or commons, or the chairman of a
committee. In which they did indeed attribute
more to their inferior deities, than, according to
£heic own principles, they ought.
And secondly (which is the last depravation
of the Pagan theology by these poets), by their
making those, that were really nothing else but
(several names and notions of one and the same
supreme Deity, according to its several powers
manifested in the world, or the different effects
produced by it, to be so many really distinct per­
sons and gods; insomuch as sometimes to be at
odds and variance with one another, and even
with Jupiter himself. This St. Basil seems to
204 THE POETS, HOW DEPRAVERS
take notice of, in his oration, How young men
may be profited by the writings of the Greeks f
wavrarv §e ijiaora irtpi 0ewv rt JwAtyo/iiwic (iroii|Taic)
v,poat^ofitv, K
tu fiaXioff orav tie toX
X
w
v re avrfair
&e£tuwj, K
airovra/vovSeofiovooivrtav' But least of all
will we give credit to the poets, where they dis­
course concerning the gods, and speak of them
as many (distinct and independent) persons, and
that not agreeing amongst themselves neither,
but siding several ways, and perpetually quar­
relling with one another.—
Notwithstanding all which extravagances and
miscarriages of the poets, we shall now make it
plainly to appear, that they really asserted, not
a multitude of self-existent and independent dei­
ties, but one only unmade Deity, and all the
other, generated or created gods. This hath been
already proved concerning Orpheus, from such
fragments of the Orphic poems, as have beefi
owned and attested by Pagan writers: but it
would be further evident, might we give credit to
any of those .other Orphic verses, that are found
cited by Christians and Jews only (and we cannot
reasonably conclude all these to be counterfeit
and supposititious), amongst which we have this
for one,6
tit irr auToyiwff, ivocIxyova iravra r&rvtircu,
There is one only unmade God, and all other gods
and things are the offspring of this one.—More­
over, when God, in the same Orphic fragments*
is styled Myrpo-varwp, both father and mother of
• P. 10. Edit Oxon. Job. Potteri.
b Apod Clement. Alexandr. in Cohortat. ad Gentes, cap. vii. p. 64.
Vide etiam Euseb. Praepar. Evangel, lib. xiii. cap. xiL et Theodoret.
do curandis Graeconnn affect, serai, i. tbtn*ii.oper. p. 475.
2 0 5
OF THE PAGAN THEOLOGY.
all things—(accordingly as it was observedbefore)
that both the Orphic and Egyptian theology made
the supreme Deity especially to be dppnvo9vi\wt
bermaphroditical, or male and female together;
this, as Clemens Alexandrinus* rightly interprets
the meaning of it, was to signify n}v he pn ovrwv
ytvtoiv, the production of things out of nothing,—
or from the Deity alone, without any pre-existent
self-existent matter.
But we shall pass from Orpheus to Homer.
Now it is certain, that Homer’s gods were not
all. eternal, unmade, and self.existent, he plainly
declaring the contrary concerning the gods in ge­
neral ; that they had a genesis, that is, a tempo­
rary production, as in that forecited verse of bis/
'auavfo rt &iSv yhtwr, fico.
The oceanfrom whence the godsweregenerated;—
where, by gods are meant all the animated parts
of the world superior to men, but principally (as
Eustathius observes) the stars, 8twv dvrl dortpwv,
gods(saith he) are here put for stars.—And, as the
same philologer further adds, the gods or stars do
by a synechdoche signify all things, or the whole
World, avrl row iravrwv a>c <
m
to /xspovg, a part being
put for the whole;—accordingly as the same poet
elsewhere *declares his sense, speaking likewise
of the ocean,
■■ ■ ■ ----------- *0 ; yinaiQ va m a n rirvxreu,
'Which was the original of all things—or from
whence (not only the gods, but also) all other
things were generated. Wherefore the full mean-
•Stromatum, lib. v. p, 724. b Ibid. s. ver. 201,202.
c Ibid. ver. 246.
206 h o m e r ’s g o d s a l l GENERATED
ing of Homer was this: that the gods or stars,
together with this whole visible world, had a tem­
porary production, and were at first made Out of
•the ocean, that is, out of the watery Chaos. So
that Homer’s theogouia, as well as Hesiod’s,' was
one and the same thing with the cosmogouia;
his generation of gods the same with the genera­
tion or creation of the world, both of them having,
in all probability, derived it from the Mosaic ca-'
bala, or tradition. And Eustathius tells ns, that,
according to the ancients, Homer’s aamBoiroua, de­
scribed II. a. was aiviy/ia r»jc Koafioytvt'iac, an ob-‘
scure signification of the cosmogenia,—or cosmos
gonia. .
Nevertheless, though oi 0«h or the gods in gene­
ral be by Homer thus generated from the oceau or
watery chaos, yet this is to be understood only of
the inferior gods, and he is supposed to be dis­
tinguished from them, who in the same poet is
frequently called, o 0eoc ko
t tSo^nv, God, by way'
of eminency (to whom he plainly ascribes omni­
potence), and Zn!c, or Jupiter, whom he styleth
KapTiarov awavTuv, the most powerful of all, and'
Trpwra Oedjv, the first and chiefest of the gods, and’
virarov O
tw
v and Kpuovrwv, the highest of gods and
governors, and whom he affirmelh infinitely to
transcend the gods, II. 0.*
ToVcroviyx m p t %
\pXQ
iZ
nr, irspir w
t/x*ayQ^vvaot.
And to reign as well over gods as men, 11. «.b
— — — os t i 6so~ai Ketl avdfMjroic-iv a varo-ti.
Lastly, whom he maketh to be irarlpa 0«Jv, the-
father of the gods as well as men—that is, nothing
1 Ver. 27. '» Yer. 281.
FROM JUPITER AND THE OCBAN. 90?
less than the creator of them and the whole world:
He, therefore, who thus produced the gods and
stars out of the ocean or watery chaos, must needs
be excluded out of that number of gods, so as
not to have been himself generated or made out
of it. Thus have we before observed, that oi O
hm,
or the gods in general, are frequently taken, both
by Homer and other Greek writers, in way of
distinction from « Otoe, or Jupiter, that is, for the
inferior gods only.
It is true, indeed, that others of the Pagan gods,
besides Jupiter, were by the Latins in their so­
lemn rites and prayers styled patres, fathers;
and as Jupiter is nothing else but Jovis pater,
contracted into one word, so was Mars called by
them Marspiter, and Saturnus, Janus,' Neptunus,
and Liber had the like addition also made to their
names, Saturnuspater, Januspater, Neptunus-
pater, Liberpater: and not only so, but even their
Very heroes also (as for example, Quirinus) bad
this honourable title of father bestowed on them;
all which appeareth from those verses of Luci-
lius,*
Ut nemo sit nostrum, quin aut pater optimus divum,
Aut Neptunus pater, Liber, Saturnus pater, Mars,
Janus, Quirinus pater nomen dicatur ad unum.
Notwithstanding which, here is a great difference
to be observed, that though those other gods were
called fathers, yet none of them was ever called,
either by the Greeks irar»)p 6tu<v, or by the Latins,
paler optimus divum, save only Ztvg or Jupiter, the
supreme Deity.
And that Homer was thus generally under­
stood by the Pagans themselves to have asserted
* Apud Lactant. Divin. Instit. lib. iv. cap. iii. p. 408.
2 0 8 h o m e r ’s g o d s a l l g e n e r a t e d
a Divine monarchy, or one supreme Deity ruling
over all, may further appear from these following
citations. Plutarch, in bis Platonic questions,' km
StvoKpdrrig Ala irarov tcaAu, irportpovSf’Ofiijpoc rovrw
ap^ovrwv apyxnna Otov, virarov Kpudvriov irpootlm' Ze-
nocrates called Jupiter, Hypaton, or the highest;
but before him Homer styled that God, who is the
prince ofall princes, virarov jtpelo'vrmv, the highest of
p rulers or governors.—Again, the same
Plutarch,[deIside et Qsiride, Tov&yO
<rtp«*
a5 iraAtv btpdaXpip kat cncr/iTTpip jpaipovm, S>v to fliv rrjv
vpovoiav ift$a(vsi, to S i.tt}v Svvafuv’ wc "O/uijpoc rbv op*-
\ovra teal jBaaiXevovra iravriov Zyv vTrarov icat pftorwpa
KaXfatv, eouce rip piv xrrraTip to teparoc avrov, rip Si /utjtmwpt
Trjv eii(3ov\(av teal rrjv t^poirtjaiv ar\paivtiv‘ The Egyp­
tians, when they described Osiris by those hie-
roglyphics of an eye and a sceptre, did by the
former of them signify providence, and by the
latter power; as Homer,'when he calls that
Ze
v
?, or Jupiter, who ruleth and reigneth over all
things virarov and pvtmopa, seems by the word wrarov
p 96 n
» u *° ^enote k*s power and sovereignty, but
in T
im
teum“■by firiffTw
pa his wisdom and knowledge*
p ia to n .] —To Plutarch may be added Proclus,
who, upon Plato’s Timrnus, having proved that,
according to that philosopher, there was row
K
oopoviravrogtlf teal 8Xoc Srifuovpybg, one only maker
of the whole world—affirms the same likewise of
that divine poet Homer (as he there styles him),
Sc teal Sid iraonc iroiriotwc virarov K
pHovrm
v teal iraiipa
dvSpwv ical Oewv avrov awpvtt, ical iraoiv tv^nfiu rote $ti/ur
ovpyacotc voripamv• That he also throughout all his
poesy praises Jupiter as the highest of all rulers,
* P. 1007. tom. ii. oyer.
PROM JUPITER AND THE dCEAN. 209
and the father both of gods and men, and attri­
butes all deroiurgical notions to him.— W here­
upon he concludes in this manner: ovrw ro!»w
obffwaaav rrjv 'EAAjjvo
o
jV OtoXoylav drrffpvafuv, rip Ad rrjv
&X.i}v §i)[uovpy(a\> airovl/iovaai)’ And thus we have
made it manifest, that all the Greekish theology
universally ascribes to Zoic, or Jupiter, the maker
of all things. — Lastly, Aristotle himself con-
firmeth the same with his testimony, where he
writes ofthe paternal authority after this m anner:
V T<Jv ritanav dpxH /3a<nAactf' Sio icaXwc "Ofirjpoc DtRtp. !.i.
tiv Ain *potmy6ptvmv chrwv,
■ n«T*f inifSttt iiSt ri,
tbv fiaaiXia robnov’ yap rov jSamAia SiaflpHv piv 8«,
Tip yivu ft tlvat tov avrov* Sircp t
t
IttovO
i. to wpeafifotpov
9pot rb vttSrtpov, kat &ytwfiaac xp6e ri> tIkvov' The
paternal power or authority over children is
a kingly authority: wherefore Homer, when he
intended to set forth Jupiter's kingly power over
all, very well called him the father of men and
gods. For he, that is king by nature, Ought both
to differ from those that he reigneth over, and
also to be of the same kind with them ; as the
senior is to the junior, and he that begetteth to
bis offspring.-—
W here Aristotle's sense seems to
be this, that Jupiter had therefore a natural and
not acquired kingly power over all the. gods, be­
cause they were all his offspring and begotten
by him, as well as men. In which passage there­
fore Aristotle plainly acquits and frees Hpmer
from all suspicion of Atheism.
As for Hesiod, if we had not already suffici­
ently proved from his Theogonia, that all his
gods (that is, his inferior deities) were generated
VOL. II. p
2 1 0 h e s io d ’s t h e o o o n ia t o b e u n d e r s t o o d
arid made, as well as men, it might be tnade un­
questionably evident from this verse of his in his
Opera,"
'f lf f 0
fjw
8tv ytyaari 3 i o i &tvrot r &
v&
£*m
oi.
Wheri the gods and mortal men, were bothtoge­
ther, alike made or generated.—Where the word
opoQtv is thus interpreted by the Greek scholiasts,
airo rijc avrijg pt£wc and s
a
c row avrov yivovg, i. e. the
gods and men were both alike made from the
.riame root or stock.—And though it foliow etbim­
mediately after,
Xfvo-m fxit vtf&nrra yiiof (jLitfvun eh&ptfarw
*A0awroi volvrav, oXvfxvut idfxar
That first of all a golden age of men was made
by the immortal gods; yet Moschopulus there
notes, 'AOavarot irowjoav, o Zcvc juovoc tTro’
nynv, (og ato
row aXXwv favtpov ylvtraC Xiyet Si iravrag rove Stowe,
row evoc tpyov ewi iravrag rove o/iotiSslg ava<j>tp«v* T h e
immortal gods made; the true meaning (saith he)
is, that Jupiter alone made this first golden age
of men; as may be proved from other places in
the same poet; and though he speak of the gods
in general, yet doth he but transfer that, which
was the work of one upon all of the like kind;
And there are several other instances of this poet’s
.using deol for Otoe, gods for god.—But it is pos­
sible, that Hesiod’s meaning might be the same
with Plato’s,b that though the inferior mundane
gods were all made at first by the supreme God,
as well as men, yet they being made something
* Ver.108, 109, 110. b 1
1
1Timaeo, p. 530, oper.
ONLY OF IN FSB IQ R .G Q D * m
sooner than men, did afterward contribute also
to the making of men.
Bat Hesiod’s Theogonia, or generation ofgods,
is not to be understood universally neither, but
only of the inferior gods, that Z*)«orJupiter being
to be expected out ofthe number of them, whom
the same Hesiod, as well as Homer, makes to
be the father of gods, as also the king of them,
in these words :*
Avrotyt^m
irrm$euiX
tut
And attributes the creation of all things to him,
as Proclus writeth upon this place,
things are, and not by chance; the poet, by a sy­
necdoche, here ascribing the making of all to Ju­
piter.—Wherefore Hesiod’s Theogonia is to be
understood of the inferior gods only, and not
of Zoic or Jupiter, who was the father and maker
of them (though out of a watery chaos) and him­
self therefore ouro^vtJc, self-existent or unmade.
In like manner, that Pindar’s gods were not
eternal, but made or generated, is plainly de-
dared by him in these words;
* Apud Clement. Alexandr. in Cohortat. ad Gentes, cap.Vu. p. 63.
tom. i. edit. Potteri.
h Hesiodi Opera et Dies, ver- 3.
k-Orti jii0prolch
ty
icIfM
;,A
c.
*Ev avfyoh, b Stofoyinr U
M
m
; m
io
fA
S
t
MATpOf
N en .Q 4.T i.
[p. 120. edit.
Sehnidii.]
Unum Hominum, unum Deorum genus,
Et ex una spiramus
Matre utrique.
p 2
212 PINDAR A DIVINE THEOGONIST.
There is one kind both of gods and men, and we
both breathe from the same mother, or spring
from the same original.---Where by the common
mother both of gods and men,- the' scholiast un-
derstahds the earth and chaos, taking the gods
here for the inferior deities only, and principally
the stare.* -
* This of Pindar's therefore is to be understood
of all the other gods, that they were made as
well as men ont of the earth or chaos, but not of
that supreme Deity, whom the same Prhdar else­
where calls (kvv xparurrov, the most powerful of the
gods—and tovvavrwv rupiov,the Lord ofallthings—
•
and ira vrl a irto v, the Cause of every thing—and
a p io T w k y y a v Q tov, that God who is the best artificer,
or was the framer of the whole world—and at
Clemens Alexandrinus tells us,b to ir a v , or t h e
universe.—Which God also, according to Pindar;
Chiron instructed Achilles to worship principally,
above all the other gods.
The sense of which words is thus declared by the
rtju£vKal osfitaOat' That he should honour and wor­
ship the loud-sounding Jupiter, the lord of thun­
der and lightning, transcendently above all the
other gods.—Which by the way confutes the opi­
nion of those, who contend, that the supreme
God, as such, was not at all worshipped by the
Pagans.
* Vide Clement. Alexand. Stromat. lib. v. p. 710.
* Ibid, p.726.
Pyth. Od. Vi.
[p.260.]
-—(taXurr* (tb K
gorffar,
Bogv&rar vTtgwravxtgavvSn rt tr/vramr,
ri0t<r$air
A PASSAGE OF:SOPHOCLES DEFENDED. .213
However, this is certaih concerning these three,
Homer, Hesiod, and Pindar, that they must of
necessity either have been all absolute Atheists,
in acknowledging no eternal Deity at all, bat
making senseless Chaos, Night and the Ocean,
the original of all their gods without exception,
and therefore of Jupiter himself too, that king
and father of them; or else assert one only eter­
nal unmade self-existent Deity, so as that all the
other gods were generated or created by that one.
Which latter doubtless was their genuine sense;
and the only reason, why Aristotle and Plato
might possibly sometime have a suspicion of the
oontrary, seems to have been this—their not un­
derstanding that Mosaic cabala, which both He­
siod and Homer followed, of the world’s, that is,
both heaven and earth’s, being made at first out
tof a watery chaos; for thus is the tradition de­
clared by St. Peter, Ep. it ch. iit
There might be several remarkable passages to
the same purpose, produced out of those two
tragic poets, JEschylus and Sophocles; which
yet, because they have been already cited by Jus­
tin Martyr, Clemens Alexandrinus, and others;
to avoid unnecessary tediousness, we shall here
pass by. Only we think fit to observe concern­
ing that one famous passage of Sophocles,*
ETcraXt &\nBtUwir, it{ fc-rw ©«off,
“Of ovparfor Srtv^t juu ytuav (juutfav,
Tlorroun XH
****oft/**, ttpipun 0Ur9See.
Unus profecto, unus est tantum Dens,
Coeli solique machinam qui condidit,
Vadumque ponti coeralum, et vimspintus, &c.
* JEx Stoboei Eclog, apud Hugon. Grot in Excerpt veter. Co-
micor. et Tragic, p. 148.
. 2 1 4 EURIPIDES AND OTHER GREEK HOETS
^Ttiereis in truthone only God, who made heaven
and earth, (be sea, air, and winds, &c.—After
.which foltoweth also something against image
worship; that thongh this be such as might well
.become a Christian, and be no where now to be
.found in those extant tragedies of this poet (many
whereof have been lost) yet the sincerity thereof
cannot reasonably be at all suspected by ns, it
■
having been cited by so many of the ancient fa­
thers in their writings against the Pagans, as par?
:ticnlarly Athenagoras, Clemens Atexandrinqs,
<
Justin Martyr^ Eusebius, Cyril and Theodoret;
of which number Clemens tells ns/ that it was
attested Likewise by that ancient Pagan historio­
grapher Hecatteus. Butthere are so,many places
•to our purpose in Euripides, that we cannot omit
-them all in his Supplices we have this, wherein
-all men’s absolute dependence upon Jupiter, or
one supreme Deity, is fully acknowledged/
*0. Zsu, ri Kret roue raXaiirvfOvs BpoTQu;
QpovtivXiyovn; trev l^rfifXtBa,
AgS/ulv Tf roiavB*, a*v av rvy^ayrtf BiXoev,
Miseros qujd homines, O deorn rex et pater, .
Sapere arbitramur? Pendet e nutu tuo
Res nostra, facimusque ilia quaevisum tibi.
We have also this excellent prayer to the supreme
Governor of heaven and earth, cited out of the
same tragedian: c <
' Zo?, r S TCarroov /usZ tc r r t, y a r n
ITlXavoy T8 <fy£got> Z iu f h r * A ib ic
*0vo/ua{o/u£vo? o-TSfy£»f--------
1vya£ £v T8 BtoTi ro~c ovptvfteiic,
» Stromat. lib. v. p. 717. b Ver. 734, 735, 730.
c Apud Clement Alcxand. Stromat. lib. y. p. 688. Vide Hug.
Grotii Excerpta, p. 431.
A8SJSBTOR8 OF A DIVINE, MONARCHY.
\
Ixn«pT{0» TO A llf /UfTA£li{f£*Vf
XdwUn y Afty /MrlxjUf
nif*4* P " & *
*
$
*
»
*
Toft/S
o
vUftim
q<W
W
cV
fO
fx
a
d
C
v,
TlcSn I/SXooto*, netsfifcc *a*2v,
T
b*htfutu
a
p
m£dvra/tim
e
Evpiif fib/hm &xdit*vfkM.
215
Tibi (cunctorum domino) viodm,
Salsamque molatti fero, sea Ditis,
Tu sive Jovis nomine gaudes:
Tu namque deos superos inter
Sceptrum tractas sublime Jovis;
Idem regnum terrestre tones,
Te lucem ammis infunde virum,
Qui scire volant, quo sata mentis
Lucta sit ortu, qu» causa mali;
Cui coelicohim rite litando
Requiem sit habere laborum.
Where we may observe that Zcvc andrfASijc, Jupi­
ter and Pinto, are both of them supposed to be
names equally belonging to one and the same
supreme God. And the sum of the prayer is
this, That God would infuse light into the souls
of men, whereby they might be enabled to know,
what is the root, from whence all their evils spring,
and by what means they may avoid them.—
Lastly, There is another devotional passage,
cited out of Euripides,* which contains also a
clear acknowledgment of one self-existent Being
that comprehends and governs the whole world:
I t TO
R Avrtyuff, TO* •* ct&fffet
'P
v/x
@
<
f>irarrtn if*vAi{a*y,
"0* Trip? fib trip! V otfvttta.
Nu£ alcih&xgote, aip-rh r i^r^an
w
O
^
X
o
fly
JsX
i^
a
S
?ifjtQ
ftoftvti.
Tbou self-sprung Being,that dost all enfold,
And in thine arms heaven's whirling fabric hold !
* Apud Clement. Alcxand. ubi supra, p. 717.
2 1 6 EURIPIDES AND OTHBR GREEK POETS
Who art encircled with resplendent light,
And yet ly’st mantled o’er in sh^dy night!
About whom, the exnltant starry fires
Dance nimbly round in everlasting gyres.
For this sense of the third and fourth verses,
which we think the words will bear, and which
agrees with that Orphic passage,
• --------------- rrm ^ y i f vityoslrrfi£txrai,
That God being in himself a most bright and
dazzling light, is respectively to us, and, by rea­
son of the weakness of our understanding, co­
vered over with a thick cloud; as also with that
in the Scripture, “ clouds and darkness are round
about h i m I say, this sense we chose rather to
follow, as more rich and august, than that other
vulgar ope, though grammatically and poetically
good also: That successive day and night, toge­
ther with a numberless multitude of stars, perpe­
tually dance round about the Deity.
Aristophanes in the very beginning of his Plu-
tus distinguisheth betwixt Zn)( and O
tol, Jupiter
and the gods;
apyaXioyvrfiy/t |? r i 2 Ztv JUtl 0loi, &0.
And we have this clear testimony of Terpander,
cited by Clemens Alexandrinus,* Ztv vavrwv apx*>
Zevtrdvrwv aytfrwp, Thou Jupiter, who art the origi­
nal of all things; thou Jupiter, who art the gover­
nor of all.—And these following verses are attri­
buted to Menander;b
a Stromat. lib. vi. p, 784.
k Apud Euseb. Justinum Martyr, et Clement. Alcxan. Which
last ascribes them to Diphilus.
A8SBRT0RS OP A DIVINE MONARCHY. 217
T«p for* w irrm avpm ym ntrarm
JUi ara-rlp*, toCtop harixn rip ff §*6m9
*Aya&m rotourm d ftrb *ai arlrtfa*
Reram nniversarnm Rnperalorem et patrem,
Solum perpetao colere rappliciter decet,
Artificem tanto et largitorem copfae.
Where men are exhorted to worship the supreme
God only, as the sole author of all good, or at
least transcendently above all the other gods.
There are also two remarkable testimonies, one
of Hermesianax, an ancient Greek poet, and ano­
ther of Aratus, to the same purpose; which shall
both be reserved for other places.
Wherefore we pass from the Greek to the Latin
poets, where Ennius first appears, deriving the
gods in general (who were all the inferior deities)
from Erebus and Night, as supposing them all
to have been made or generated out of Chaos,
nevertheless acknowledging one, who was
— Divumque bomiomnque pater, rex,
both Father and King of gods and men—that is,
the maker or creator of the whole world, who
therefore made those gods together with the world
out of chaos, himself being unmade.
Plautns in like manner sometimes distinguish­
e d betwixt Jupiter and the gods, and c*p.Act.u.
plainly acknowledged one omniscient8o-*
•
Deity,
Est profecto Dens, qui qn» nos gerimus, auditque et videt
Which passage very much resembles that of Man­
lius Torquatus in Livy, “ Est coeleste numen, es
mague Jupiter;” a strong asseveration of one su­
preme and universal Deity. And the same Plau-
218 THE CONSENT OF LATIN POETS
tus in his Rndens clearly asserts one supreme
Monarch and Emperor over all, whom the inferior
^gods are subservient to ;
Qui geutes ojnnes mariaque et terras movet,
Ejus sum civis civitate ooelitum;
Qui est imperator divum atque hominum Jupiter,
Is nos per gentes alium alia disparat,
Hominum qui facta, mores, pietatem et fidem
Noscamus.—
—
■ Qui falsas lites falsis testimoniis
Petunt, quique in jure abjurant pecuniam,
Eorum referimus nomina exscripta ad Jovem.
Cotidie Ille scit, quis hie quaerat malum.
Iterum Ilie earn rem judioatam judicat.
Bonos in aliis tabulis exscriptos habet.
Atque hoc scelesti illi in animum inducunt suum
Jovem se placare posse donis, hostiis;
, Sed operam et smpptum perdunt, quia
Nihil Ei aeqeptum est a perjuris sdppticii.
Where Jupiter, the supreme monarch of gods and
men, is said to appoint other inferior gods under
him, over all the parts of the earth, to observe
the actions, manners and behaviours of men every
where; and to return the names both of bad and
good to him. Which Jupiter judges over again.
all unjust judgments, rendering a righteous retri­
bution to all. And though wicked men conceit,
that he may be bribed with sacrifices, yet no
worship is acceptable to him fromtheperjurious.—
Notwithstanding which, this poet afterward jum­
bles the supreme and inferior gods all together,
after the usual manner, under that one general
name of gods, because they are all supposed to
be co-governors of the world;
' Facilius, siqui pins est, a Diis supplicans,
Quam qui scelestus est, iuveniet veniam sibi.
p®n. Act. t. Again the same poet elsewhere brings in
Sc-4- Hanno the Carthaginian with this form
I N T H B MONARCHY OP THB WHOLE. 219
of prayer addressing himself to Jupiter or the
supreme G qd;
Jupiter, qui genus colis alisqae bominum, per quern vivimus
' Vitale aerurn; quem penes spes vitseque sunt hotmnam omnium,
diem bunc sospitem, quqeso, rebus meis pgundis.
In the next place, we have these verses of Va­
lerios Soranns, an ancient and eminent poet, full
to the purpose, recorded by Varro :*
Jupiter omnipptens, regum rex ipse deumque,
Progenitor genitrixque deum, Dews unus et oMNis.
To this sense: Omnipotent Jupiter, the King of
lungs and gods, and the progenitor and genitrix,
the both father and mother of those gods; one
God and all gods,—Where the supreme and omni­
potent Deity is styled “ progenitor et genitrixdeo-
rum,” after the same manner as be was called in
the Qrphic theology pirrpowarwp and dppsvoOi)X
«c,
that expression denoting the gods and all other
things to have been produced from him alone,
and without any pre-existent matter. Moreover,
according to the tenor of this Ethnic theology,
that one God was all gods and every god, the Pa­
gans supposed, that whenever any inferior deity
Was worshipped by them, the supreme was therein
also at once worshipped and honoured.
Though the sense of Ovid hath been sufficiently
declared before, yet we cannot well omit some
Other passages of his, as that grateful and sensfe
ble acknowledgment,
Quod loquor et spiro, coelumque et lumina solis
Aspicio (possumne ingratys et immemor esse?)
Ipse deditb
a De Lingua Latina, p.71. edit. 1581, iu8vo.
b Metamorpl:. lib. xiv. ver. 172.
3 2 0 THE CONSENT OP LATIN POETS, .
And this in the third of bis Metamorph.
Ille pater rectorque deum, cui dextra trisnlcis
. Ignibus armata est, qui nutu concutit orbem.
Virgil’s theology also may sufficiently appear from
his frequent acknowledgment of an omnipotent
Deity, and from those verses of his before cited
out of Mn. 6. wherein he plainly asserts one God
to be the original of all thiugs, at least as a soul
of the world; Servius Honoratus there paraphra­
sing thus: “ Deus est quidam divinus spiritus, qui
per quatuor fusus elements gignit univ ersaG o d
-is a certain spirit, which, infused through the four
elements, begetteth all things:—Nevertheless, we
shall add from him this also of Venus’s prayer
to Jupiter, JEn. 1.
.......... O qui res faominumque deumque
terms regis imperiis, et fulmine terres!
Which Veuus again, iEn. 10. bespeaks the same
Jupiter after this manner:
O pater, O hominum divumque seterna potestas!
Where we have this annotation of Servius: “ di­
vumque seterna potestas, propter aliorum numi-
num discretionem Jupiter is here called the
eternal power of the gods, to distinguish him froth
all the other gods—that were not eternal, but made
or generated from him.
Neither ought Horace to be left out, in whom
we read to the same purpose, lib. i. od. xii.
Quid prius dicam solitis parentis
Laudibus? quires hominum et deorum,
Qui mare et terras, variisque mundum
Temperat horis.
Unde nil majus generatur ipso,
Ncc viget quicquam simile aut secundum;
Proximos illi tamen occupavit
Pallas honores.
IN THE MONARCHY O f THE WHOLE. 281
And again, lib. in. od. iv. ■
Qui terrain inertem, qui mare temperat
Ventosmn, eturbes, regnaque tristia;
Divosque, mortalesque turmas,
Imperio regit u n u s Bequo,
Where from those words of Horace, “ solitis pa­
rentis laudibus,” it appears, that the one supreme
Deity, the parent and maker of all things, was
then wont to be celebrated by the Pagans as such
above all the other gods. And whereas those
Pagans vulgarly ascribed the government of the
seas particularly to Neptune, of the earth and
Hades or Inferi (which are here called tristia
Regna) to Pluto, these being here attributed by
Horace to one and the same supreme and universal
Deity; it may well be concluded from thence,
that Jupiter, Neptune and Pluto, were but three
several names or notions of one supreme Numen,
whose sovereignty notwithstanding was chiefly
signified by Jupiter. Which same is to be said of
Pallas or Minerva too, that signifying the eternal
Wisdom, that it was but another name of God also,
though looked upon as inferior to that of Jupiter,
and next in dignity to i t ; unless we should con­
clude it to be a second Divine hypostasis, accord­
ing to the doctrine of the Pythagoreans and Pla-
tonists (probably not unknown to Horace) as also
to that Scripture cabala, “,1 was set up from ever­
lasting, or ever the earth was; when there were
no depths, I was brought' forth,” &c. But of this
more afterward.
Lastly, We shall conclude with Manilius, who
lived in the same Augustean age, and was a zea­
lous opposer of that Atheistical hypothesis of Epi-
222 B P IC ttU S THE ONLY PHILOSOPHER
curus and Lucretius, as appears from these
verses of his;
aQuis credat tatitas opernm sine numine mqles,
Ex minimis caecoque creatnm foedere mundum?
Wherefore he also plainly asserts one supreme
Deity, the framer and governor of the whole
world, in this manner, lib. ii.
bNamque canam taoita natur&ta mentq potentem
Infusumque Deum coelo,.terrisqUe* fretoque,
Ingentem aequali moderantem foedere molem,
Totumque atterno consensu tivCre mundum,
Etratioms agi motu; quum s p ir it u s u n u s
Per cundtas habitet partes, atque irriget orbem,
Omnia pervolitans, corpusque animate figuret, &c.
And again,
Hoc opus immensi constructum corpore mundi
Vis animae divina regit, sacroque meatu
Conspirat Deus et tacita ratione gubernaf.
And lib. iv.c • >
—— tfaciem coeli non invidet orbi
Ipse Deus, Yultusque suos, corpusque recludit,
Semper Yolvendo, seque ipsum inculcat et offert;
Ut bene cognosci possit, monstretque videndo,
Qualis eat, doceatque suas attendere leges. *
Ipse vocat nostros animos ad sydera mundus,
Neo patitur, quia non condit, sua jura latere.
Where notwithstanding we confess, that the whole
animated world, or rather the Soul thereof, is,
according to the Stoical doctrine, made by Ma-
tiilius to be the supreme Numen.
xx. We now pass from the poets of the Pagans
to their philosophers. A modern writerd conr
cerning the religion of the Gentiles, affirmeth this
to have been the opinion of very eminent philo­
sophers, That even all the minor gods of the Pa-
a Lib. i. ver. 402, 403. b Ver. 6i, &c. c Ver. 015.
4 Sir Edward Herbert, De Religion© Gentilium, cap.xiy. p. 290*>
WHO ASSERTED MANY INDEPENDENT OODS. 2 3 d
gaos did exist of themselves from eternity un­
made, they giving many reasons for the same. But
how far from truth this is, will (as we conceive)
appear sufficiently from the sequel of this dis­
course. And we cannot conclude otherwise, but
that this learned writer did mistake that opinion
of Aristotle and the latter Platonists, concerning
the eternity of the world and gods, as if they
had therefore asserted the self-existence of them;
the contrary wbereuuto hath been already mani­
fested. Wherefore we shall now make it unques­
tionably evident, by a particular enumeration, that
the generality of the Pagan philosophers, who
were Theists, however they acknowledged a mul­
tiplicity of gods, yet asserted one only self-exis­
tent Deity, or a universal Numen, by whom the
world and all those other gods were made. There
being only some few Ditheists to be excepted,
(such as Plutarch and Atticus,) who, out of a
certain softness and tenderness of nature, thaf
they might free the one good God from the impu­
tation of evils, would needs set up, besides him,
an evil soul or demon also in the world self-ex­
istent, to bear all the blame of them.
And indeed Epicurus is the only person that we
can find amongst the reputed philosophers, who,
though pretending to acknowledge gods, yet pro­
fessedly opposed monarchy, and verbally asserted
a multitude of eternal, unmade, self-existent de­
ities; but such as had nothing at all to do, either
with the making or governing of the world. The
reason whereof was, because he yvould by no
means admit the world to have been made by any
mind or understanding. Wherefore he concluded,
Nataitun renim, hand divina mente coortam; JjDere)
t; '' !"•
224 OPINIONS OF THALES & PHEEECYDES SYRUS
That there was no God the Bn/uovpyoc or framer
of the world.—But nevertheless,- ,tbat he might
decline the odium of being accounted an
Atheist, he :pretended to assert a multitude
of gods unmade and incorruptible, such as were
unconcerned in the fabric of the world. Wherein
first it is evident, that he was not serious and
sincere, because he really admitting no other
principles of things iu his philosophy, besides
atoms and vacuum, agreeably thereunto could
acknowledge no other gods than such as were
Compounded out of atoms, and therefore cor­
ruptible. And thus does.Origen.declare the doc­
trine of .Epicurus, npt indeed as he pretended to
hold it, but as, according to the tenor of his
principles, he must have held it, had he really
. . asserted any gods at all, ol row’E7ruco6pow
Celt. p. 169.' Stol, trvvQeroi drdfiwv rvyxavovree, teal rb 8&ou
Ctrlrg avaraati avaXvTQi, wpay/iartbovrat rae $@o-
.q
o
t
t
o
io
v
c
;arvfiovg anocrderrdai j Epicurus’s gods being
compounded of atoms, and. therefore by their very
constitution corruptible, are in continual labour
and toil, struggling with their corruptive princi­
ples.—Nevertheless if Epicurus had in good earn­
est asserted such a commonwealth of gods, as
were neither made out of atoms, nor yet corrup­
tible ; so long as he denied the world to have been
made by any mind or wisdom (as we have already
declared) he ought not to be reckoned amongst
the Theists, but Atheists.
Thales the Milesian was one of the most an­
cient Greek philosophers, and that he admitted
a plurality of gods in some sense, is evident from
that saying of his cited by Aristotle,8 wavra &wv
* De Anima, lib*i. cap. viii. p. 17. tom. ii. oper.
ON THE DEITY. 225
n-Xvpv, all things are full of gods. But that not­
withstanding he asserted one supreme and only
unmade or self-existent Deity, is also manifest
from that other apothegm of his. id Laertius,*
7rpeo(3vraTov irdvrwv o Otot;, ayivvtfrov yap’ God is the
oldest of all things, because he is unmade. From
whence it may be concluded, that all Thales’s
other gods were generated, and the offspring of
one sole unmade Deity.
Pherecy.des Syrus was Thales’s contemporary,
of whom Aristotle in his Metaphysicsbhath re­
corded, that he affirmed t o yeirvrjaav w pw rov a p ia ro v,
that the first principle, from whence all other
things w'ere generated, was the best or an abso­
lutely perfect being; so as that in the scale of
nature, things did not ascend upwards from the
most imperfect to the more perfect beings, but, on
the contrary, descend downwards from the roost
perfect to the less perfect. Moreover, Laertius
informs us,c that this was the beginning of. one
of Pherecydes’s books, Ze
i!$ p iv ical yj>dvo<; «e
ad, uni ydwv nv' Jupiter, and time, and the earth
always were.—Where, notwithstanding, in the
following words, he makes' the earth to be de­
pendent upon Jupiter; though some reading Kpovos
here instead of ypovog, seem to understand him
thus, that Jupiter and Saturn, really one and the
same Nunien, was always from eternity. How­
ever, there is in these words an acknowledgment
of one single and eternal Deity.
Pythagoras was the most eminent of all the an­
cient philosophers, who, that he was a Polytheist
* Lib, i. segra. xxxv. p. 21.
* Lib. xii. cap. iv. p.446. tom. iv. oper.
c Lib. i. segm. cxix. p. 76..
▼OL. II. Q
226 PYTHAGORAS BOTH A POLYTHEIST
as well as the other Pagans, may be concluded
from that beginning of the Golden Verses (though
not written by him,)
*A&etitcirovf fxb wtfxrra idpto, &q h&mrrtu,
Tift*, *at ai0w tyur UniS1JJgaw
t?ayawvq’
Tovq r i Mruxfiwiwq Ufftumc, imjua pi£<uf.
Wherein men are exhorted in the first to worship
the immortal gods, and that accordingly as they
were appointed by law; after them the heroes,
and last of all the terrestrial demons. And ac­
cordingly Laertius *gives this account of Pytha­
goras’s piety; rtjude dtole Seiv voju*£«v K e lt ijpaxnv, jut)
rde time. That he conceived men ought to worship
both the gods and the heroes, though not with
equal honour.—And who these gods of Pytha­
goras were, the same writer also declareth,btjXtdv re
ra t fftXtjvTfv rat rovg aXXovg arrtpag i W Stove* That
they were, in part at least, the sun, and moon,
and stars.
Notwithstanding which, that Pythagoras ac­
knowledged one supreme and universal Numen,
which therefore was the original of all those other
gods, tnay partly appear from that prayer invthe
Golden Verses, which, whether written by Philo-
laus or Lysis, or some other follower of Pytha­
goras, were undoubtedly ancient and agreeable
to his doctrine.
Salmas. Praf. Zf"*
n*T*£» $ ffoX
X
fivr tiu tx S S v K & avaq a m m o ?
in Tab. Ceb. El iriig-iv oTv r S itd ftm cu m
Arab.
Jupiter alme, malig jubeas vel solvier omnes:
Omnibus utantur vel quonam daemone monstra.
Upon which Hieroclesc thus writeth: rov *rotijri|v
* Lib. viii. Segm. xxxiii. p. 514. Vide etiam segm. xxiii. p. 506.
b Segm. xxvii. p. 509.
e Comment, in Aurea Carmina Pythag. p,200. edit. Needham!.
AND A MONARCHIST. 227
r a va rip a rov8e row vmvrof eflo? i|» rote IlvOtryopttotc tip
tin Aide, K
<
u Zt)voc, ovofian otpvvvtiv' St' ow■yapto ctwat,
kat to tfpv, rote iraotv vir«p^H, rowrov Swcatov «tro Trie
fvtpyuac ovofxaZtaOat’ It was the manner of the P y­
thagoreans to honour the M aker and Father of this
whole universe with the name of Dis and Zen, it
being just, that he, who giveth being and life to
alt, should be denominated from thence.— And
again afterw ard: to row Atoe Svopa ovp(3o\ov cm,
k m fLew iv tfMvrj }i)jwoupyun|e ov<r{ac, tip rove wpwrove
Ap&owe ToJjf irpaypam ra ovopmra Sia eofiag vn pf3o\r}v,
liarrip rtvag ayaX fiarorotovc apim ovg, Sta rtov ovo/m t w v ,
tig S
t* cucarav, ip fa vla a i avrw v rd< Suvaptte* This very
Dame Zeus is a convenient symbol or image of the
demiurgical nature. And they, who firstgave names
to things, were by reason of a certain wonderful
wisdom of theirs a kind of excellent statuaries;
they by those.several names, as images, lively re*
presenting the natures of things. Moreover, that
this Pythagoric prayer was directed to the su­
preme Numen and King of gods, Jamblichus
thus declares in his Protreptics, “ iv rovroi? p la
p tv ipiirrn irapaicXfitrie tig n jv Otiav tvfiaifioviav rj p tp iyp ivn
ttug tiytiig k<
u avaK\i}tntn rivv Otivv, teat fiaXurra row
fitunXeiog avTtov Aioc- Here is an excellent exhorta­
tion of these Golden Verses to the pursuit of Di­
vine felicity, mingled together with prayers and
the invocation of the gods, but especially of that
Jupiter, who is the King of them.— Moreover, the
same -might further appear from those Pythago­
ric fragments,b that are still ex tan t; as that of
Ocellus Lucanus, and others, who were moralists,
• Cap. iii. p. 10. edit. Arcerii.
* These are published by Dr. Thomas Qale in his Opascula Veter.
Moral et Mytholog. Atasterd. 1688. in 8vo.
Q 2
22a PYTHAGORAS 8 MONAD
in which as gods are sometimes spoken of pta-
rally, so also is God often singularly used for that
supreme Deity, which containeth the whole.
But this will be most of all manifest from what
hath been, recorded, concerning the Pythagoric
philosophy, and its making a monad,the first prin­
ciple, It is true, indeed, that the writer De Placi-
tis.Philosophorum doth affirm Pythagoras to have
asserted, two substantial principles self-existent,
a monad and a dyad; by the former of which,
as God is confessed to have been meant, so the
latter of them is declared with some uncertainty,
it being in one place interpreted to be a demon, or
a principle of evil ;* IlvOa'ydpas iw .dp^wv tvv pty
fiovaSa Otov, km rayaOov, yrie iarlv n row woe (jwmQ, adrdc
o vove' njv S’ aopiaTov BvaSa Salfiova, km to-kcucov, & C .
Pythagoras’s first principle is God and Good,
which is the nature of unity, and a perfect mind ;
but his other principle of duality is a demon or
evil.—But in another place expounded to be
. . matter : iraXiv rijv fiovaSa km rrjv aopiorov
[p. 876. tom. SvaSa tv rate opiate' airevBu Ss avrw rwv
ii. oper.l , * ~ * \ > \ \ \ * \ \
v J ap^tUV n fl£V £7TI TO TTOllfttfCOV CU
TIO
V K
C
L
t fctO
C
JC
O
V
,
(oT
T
tptart voveo Otoe) V$t «ri to rfaOijrticov rt teat vX
ucov
(oirtp tortv d oparoe Koa/xoe’) Pythagoras’s prin­
ciples were a monad and infinite duality: the
former of them an active principle, Mind or
God; the latter passive and matter. And Plu­
tarch, in some other writings of his, declares
that the first matter did not exist alone by itself
dead and inanimate, but acted with,an irrational
soul; and that both these together made up
that wicked demon of his. And, doubtless, this
book De Placitis Philosophorum was either writ-
a De Placit. Philos, lib. i. cap. vii. p. 881.
THE SOLE PRINCIPLE OF ALL THINGS. .220
' fen by Plutarch himself, or else by some disciple
and follower of his according to his principles.
Wherefore this account, which is therein given of
the Pythagoric doctrine, was probably infected
with that private conceit of Plutarch’s, that God
and a wicked demon, or else matter, together
with an irrational soul, self-existent, were the
'first principles of the universe. Though we do
acknowledge that others also, besides Plutarch,
have supposed Pythagoras to have made two
self-existent principles, God and matter, but not
.animate, nor informed,.as Plutarch supposed,
with any irrational or wicked soul.
'Notwithstanding which, it may well be made a
question, whether Pythagoras by his dyad meant
matter or no; because Malchus or Porphyrius,
in the life of Pythagoras, thus interprets those
two Pythagoric principles of unity and duality;
re cuttov ttjc avpirvoiat Kal rtjf avuiradtiae, teal
, - •# - •- i i 203.
t *
k aurrtipuig rtitv oAtiw tow Kara ravra /cat
M Bvrut t^ovrocj tv vpomrfopeuaav, Kal yap to tv rote
Kara plpog tv toiow tov vwapyti, yvutptvov rots 1piptm /cat
mtpwovv, Kara ptrovaiav rotI irptSrov, airlav’ rov Se njc
OrtporjjToc (cat aiwoniTOC (cat vavrot rov fitpurrov /cat tv
pfrafioXrj Kal aXXors aXXwg iyovrot SvotiBrj Xoyov xal
3vd8a irpoariyopewrav' The cause of that sympathy,
harmony, and agreement, which is in things, and
of the conservation of the whole, which is always
the same and like itself, was by Pythagoras
called unity or a monad (that unity, which is in
the things themselves, being but a participation of
the first cause); but the reason of alterity, ine­
quality and uncopstant irregularity in things, was
by him called a dyad.—Thus, according to Por­
phyrius, by the Pythagoric dyad is not so much
2 3 0 P y t h a g o r a s ’s m o n a d
i
meant matter, as the infinite and indeterminate
nature, and the passive capability of things. So
that the monad and dyad of Pythagoras seem to
have been the same with Plato’s *^«c and amipov,
his finite and infinite in his Philebus; the former
of which two only iB substantia], that first most
simple being, the cause of all unity, and the
measure of all things.
However, if Pythagoras’s dyad be to be un­
derstood of a substantial matter, it will not there*
fore follow, that he supposed matter to be self-
existent and independent -upon the Deity, since,
according to the best and most ancient writers,
his dyad was no primary bnt a secondary filing
only, and derived from his Monad, the sole ori­
ginal of all things. Thus Diogenes Laertius tells
us,* that Alexander, who wrote the successions
of philosophers, affirmed he had found in the
Pythagorie Commentaries, jup iw awdvrmu,
fiovaSa’ £ici&
e tik jttwaSog, aopurmv SvdSa, <Je & qv ry
, jurvdSi curltp&
frrivTcomipni' that a Monad was the
principle ofall things, but that from this Monad
was derived infinite duality, as matter for the
Monad to work upon, as the active cause.—
With which agreeth -Hennias,* affirming this to
.be one ofthe greatest of all the Pythagorie mys­
teries, that a Monad was the sole principle of all
things. Accordingly whereunto, Clemens Alex­
andrians cites this passagecoutof Thearidas,' an
ancient Pythagorean, in his book concerning
nature, A ap^a rwv ovrwv, apx1
*l“*v ovrt^aXqftva, fua’
a Lib. viii. segm. xxv. p. 607.
b IrrisiCne Philos; Gentilis, sec. xvi. p. 226.
c Dr. Cudworth does not cite this passage as it is in Clemens Alex-
andr. but as it is given by Euseb.Prseparat. Evangel. lib. v.cap. xxiv.
THE SOLE PRINCIPLE OF ALL THINGS. 231
Ktuw yap tv apx? ^ «w» «v*« fwvov, the S
lron).T
. p.
true principle of all things was only 6\}-
„ r . r . . , * . J e d i t . P o t t e n . ]
one; for this was in the beginning one
alone.—Which words also seem to imply the
world to have had a novity of existence or begin­
ning of duration. And, indeed, however Ocellus
Lucanus writes, yet that Pythagoras himself did
not hold the eternity of the world, may be con­
cluded from what Porphyrius* records of him,
where he gives an account ofthat his superstitious
abstinence from beans j on rile irptSrrit kiu
ytvtotwc roparropivifc, iro W u i apa ovvrjvtypivwv km
ffixnrfipopivuv k<
u tmagirKoplvtov tv rp yp, tear’oXlyov
ykvtaiQ km Siaucpun^ ovvsoti), £<iM
i>
v n iftov yevopivuv, km
$tmov avaStSoptvwv, rore Si) awo rife avrijc atjwtSovo^, av»
Spwirovc ovott)vcu teat Kvapovc fiXaorijvM' That at the
beginning things being coafonnded and mingled
together, the generation and secretion of them
afterward proceeded by degrees, animals and
plants, appearing ; at which time, also, from the
same putrefied matter, sprung up both men and
beans.—
Pythagoras is generally reported to have held a
trinity of Divine hypostases: and, therefore, when
St. Cyrilb affirmeth Pythagoras to have called
God tpvywnv twv o
A
o
jvkvkXwv, km iravnav K
ivt)<
nvf the
animation of the whole heavens, and the motion
of all things—adding, that God was not, as some
Supposed, E
jcrogTtjg StaKoap^atwQ
, aXX tv aural oXoc
ivoXtfi, without the fabric of the world, but whole
in the whole—this seems properly to be under­
stood of that third Divine hypostasis of the Py-
tbagoric trinity, namely, the eternal Psyche.
* In \ita Pytha^. p. 43. edit. Kusteri,
b Contra Julian, lib. i. p. 30.
232 HOW SOME M ADE LO VE T H E O L D E S T ;
Again, when God is called in Plutarch,*accord­
ing to Pythagoras, auroc o voile, mind itself— this
seems to be meant properly of his second hypos­
tasis ; the supreme Deity, according to him, being
something above mind or intellect. 'In like
manner, when in Cicero,k Pythagoras’s opinion
concerning the Deity is thus represented: “ Deum
esse animum per naturam rerum omnium inten-
tum et commeantem, ex quo animi nostri;carpe-
rentur ■that God was a mind passing through
the whole nature of things, from whom our souls
were, as it were, decerped or cut out—and again,
“ ex universe mente divina delibato esse animos
nostros;” this in all probability was to be under­
stood also either ofthe third or second Divine hy­
postasis, and not of the first, which was pro-
Met. 1.;. o . perly called by him to tv and povoc, a
j r . - r unity and monad; and also, as Plu-
1' tarch® tells us, to dyaQov, goodness it­
self.—Aristotle plainly affirmeth, that some of
the ancient theologers amongst the Pagans made
qxvra,or Love, to be the first principle of all things,
that is, the supreme Deity; and we have already
shewed, that Orpheus was one of these. , For
when epwc 7roXvrtpm
}?and iroXv/itirtg, delightful Love,
and that, which is not blind, but full of wisdom
and counsel—is made by him to be avroreXsc and
irptofivrarovj self-perfect and the oldest ofall things
—it is plain, that he supposed it to be nothing less
than the supreme Deity. Wherefore, since Py­
thagoras is generally-affirmed to have followed
the Orphic principles, we may from hence pre-
* I)e Placit. Philosoph. lib. i. cap. vii. p. 881.
b De Natur. Door. lib. i. cap. xi. p.2895. tom.ix. oper.
c De Placit. Philos, lib. i. cap. vi. p. 881.
OTHERS, THE YOUNGEST GOO. 233
some, that he did it in this ailso. Though it be
.Very true, that Plato, who called the supreme
Deity rayadov, as well as Pythagoras, did dissent
from the Orphic theology in this, and would not
acknowledge Love for a name of the supreme
D eity; as when in his Symposion in the person
of Agatho he speaks thus: : Q
alSptp n-oX
X
d dXXa
o/toXoywv, row
to o
w
^ ofioXoyto, we ’’Epwe Kpovov km
’Iairerov a’p^atorepoe «mv* aXXa vewrarov aw
T
ow
uvai Btdiv, icai act vtov’ Though I should readily
grant to Phaedrus many other things, yet I can­
not consent to him in this, that Love was older
than Saturn and Iapet; but, on the contrary, I do
affirm him to be the youngest of the gods, as he
is always youthful. They, who made Love older
than Saturn as well as Iapet, supposed it to be
the supreme Deity: wherefore Plato here, on the
-contrary, affirms Love not to be the supremeDeity
or Creator of all, but a creature; a certain junior
god; or, indeed, as he afterward adds, not so
much a god as a demon, it being a thing which
plainly implies imperfection in it. “ Love (saith he)
is a philosopher, whereas Oewv ou&i? <
p
i\o
a
o
<
j>
at, oils’
ivSvftti w
o^iocytviaOat, tortyap, no god philosophizeth,
nor desires to be made wise, because he is so
already.—Agreeably with which doctrine of his,
Plotinus* determines, that Love is peculiar to
.that middle rank of beings called souls; Traaa
\/A>Xn, a^poStrij. icai rovro aivirrerai teai ra ryq d^poSlryt;
yiveOXia, 'icai o sptog o juer avryc yEvo/zevot;’ spy. ovv Kara
E^outra i/ru^rj deov9 ivtoOrjvai deXovaa, w&7rep wap-
.fitvoc icaXij TTpoc KaXov avSpa* orav $e eig yevttnv
tX9ovaa9 oiov juvyaTualc ainanj0y9 aXXov dp^a/uivy Ovrjrov
ipwra9 iprjfiK
jt 7raTpoc v/3pt£trai9 &C. Every SOul is
a Venus, which is also intimated by Venus’s
* Libro dc Bono vcl Uno, Erniead. vi. lib. ix. cap. xii. p. 768.
2341 HOW SOME MADE LOVE THE OLDEST ;
nativity, and Love’s being begotten with her:
wherefore the soul being in its right natural
state loves God, desiring to be united with him,
which is a pure, heavenly and virgin love; but
when it descends to generation, being courted
with these amorous allurements here below, and
deceived by them, it changeth that its Divine and
heavenly love for another mortal one: but if it
again shake off these lascivious and wanton loves,
and keep itself chaste from them, returning baek
to its own father and original, it will be rightly
affected as it ought.—But the reason of this dif­
ference betwixt the Orpheists and Plato, that the
former made Love to be the oldest of all the gods,
but the latter to be a junior god or demon, pro­
ceeded only from an equivocation in the word
love. For Plato’s Love was the daughter of
Penia, that is, poverty and indigency, together
with a mixture of Ilopoc, or riches; and being so
as it were compounded of plenty and poverty,
was in plain language no other than the love of
desire, which, as Aristotle affirmeth, is /ucr«Xur*«
accompanied with grief and pain. But that Or­
phic aud Pythagoric love was nothing else but
wopoc and euiropla, infinite riches and plenty, a love
of redundancy and overflowing fulness, delight­
ing to communicate itself, which was therefore
said to be the oldest of all things and the most
perfect, that is, the supreme Deity; according to
which notion also, in the Scripture itself, God
seems to be called love, though the word be not
there epwc,but ayairif. But, to say tbe truth, Par­
menides’s love (however made a principle some­
where by Aristotle*) seems to be neither exactly
* Pfaysicor. lib. i. cap. ii. iii, p.446. tom. i. oper. Adde Metaph.
lib. i. cap. v. p. 269.
OTHERS, THE YOUNGEST GOD. 235
(he same with the Orphic, nor yet with the Pla­
tonic love, it being not the supreme Deity, and
yet the first of the created gods; which appears
from Simplicius’s * connecting these two verses
of his together in this manner:
*E» M f/tiveetovtw ial/jun o$ •nkrta. xu0tgra,
• tm rrn i t u i 0iSh a lr la r itm l t y r t , w t,
n ^T im v fxb tprr* Btcb fxnrlavetro ir&rrw
In the midst of these elements is that God, which
governeth all things, and whom Parmenides af-
firmeth to be the cause of gods, writing thus:
God first of all created Love, before the other
gods.—Wherefore by this Love of Parmenides is
understood nothing else, but the lower soul of
the world, together with a plastic nature, which
though it be the original of motion and activity
in this'corporeal world, yet is it but a secondary
or created god; before whose production, neces­
sity is said by those Ethnic theologers to have
reigned : the true meaning whereof seems to be
this, that before that Divine Spirit moved upon
the waters, and brought things into an orderly
system, there was nothing but the necessity of
material motions, unguided by any orderly wis­
dom or method for good (that is, by Love) in that
•confused and floating chaos.
But Pythagoras, it seemeth, did not only call
.the supreme Deity a monad, but also a tetrad
or tetractys; for, it is generally affirmed, that
Pythagoras himself was wont to swear hereby:
though Porphyrius and Jamblichus and others
write, that the disciples of Pythagoras swore by
Pythagoras, who had delivered to them the doc­
trine or cabala of this Tetractys. Whifch Te-
b Comment&r. in Aristot. Phys. p. 152. edit. Grace. Aldin.
236 ' THE TETRACTYS,
-tractys also in the Golden Verses is called m ryi
aewaovjftwnve, the fountain of the eternal nature,
;an expression, that cannot properly belong to
any thing but the supreme Deity. Add thus
Hierocles,* o v k iartv Eiireiv o fiq rrjg rerpaicrvog, *
>
C
pi£i\g, Kcu apyj)g qprtrrat. ftrri yap, tog etpa/uev, Bqfuovp'
. yog Ttov oX(t>v, Kat atria V Tirpag, 0 eoc votfrog, atrtog
rov ovpaviov, /cat aurOijt
o
u0£o»>. There is nothing
in the whole world, which doth not depend
upon the Tetractys, as its root and principle.
For the Tetrad is, as we have already said, the
Maker of all things; the intelligible God, the
'cause of the heavenly and sensible god, that is,
of the animated world or heaven.—Now the latter
Pythagoreans and Platonists endeavour to give
reasons, why God should be called Tetras or
Tetractys, from certain mysteries in that number
four, as for example; first, because the tetrad
is Bvva/ug BsicdSog, the power of the decad—it vir­
tually containing the whole decad in it, which is
all numbers or beings; but the bottom of this
mystery is no more than this, that one, two, three,
.four, added all together, make up ten. Again,
because the tetrad is an arithmetical mediety be­
twixt the monad and the hebdomad; which
monad and hebdomad are said to agree in this,
that as the monad is ingenit or unmade, it being
the original and fountain of all numbers, so is the
hebdomad said to be, not only wapdivog, but
apvTtop, a motherless, as well as virgin number.—
Wherefore the tetrad lying in the middle betwixt
the ingenit monad, and the motherless virgin
hebdomad; and it being both begotten and be­
getting, say they, must needs be a very mys-
a Comment, in Aurea Carolina Pythag. p, 170,171.
THE TETRAGRAMMATON. 237
terious number, and fitly represent tbe Deity.
Whereas, indeed, it was therefore unfit to repre^
sent the Deity, because it is begotten by the mul­
tiplication of another number; as the hebdomad
therefore doth not very fitly symbolize with it
neither, because it is barren or begets nothing at
all within tbe decad, for which cause it is called
a virgin. Again, it is further added, that the te­
trad fitly resembles that, which is solid, because;
as a point answers to a monad, and a line to a
dyad, and a superficies to a triad, (tbe first and
most simple figure being a triangle;) so the te­
trad properly represents the solid, the first pyra­
mid being found in it. But, upon this considera­
tion, the tetrad could not be so fit a symbol of
tbe incorporeal Deity, neither as of the corporeal
world. Wherefore these things being all so
trilling, slight and fantastical, and it being really
absurd for Pythagoras to call his Monad a
Terad; the late conjecture of some learned men
amongst us* seems to be much more probable,
that Pythagoras’s Tetractys was really nothing
else but the Tetragrammaton, or that proper
name of the supreme God amongst the He­
brews, consisting of four letters or consonants.
Neither ought it to be wondered at, that Py­
thagoras (who besides bis travelling into Egypt,
Persia and Chaldea, and his sojourning atSidon,
is affirmed by Josephus, Porphyrius and others,
to have conversed with the Hebrews also) should
be so well acquainted with the Hebrew Tetra­
grammaton, since it was not unknown to the
Hetrurians and Latins, their Jove being certainly
a Selden de Diis Syris Syntagtn.ii. cap. i. p. 209,210. et Tbeo-
pbilus Gale in bis Court of the Gentiles, part ii. lib. ii. cap. yiii.
p. 147. edit. Oxon. 1672. in quarto.
238 THE TETRACTYS, THE TETRAORAMMATON.
nothing else. And, indeed, it is the opinion ofsome
philologers, that even in the Golden Verses them­
selves, notwithstanding the seeming repugnancy
of the syntax, it is not Pythagoras, that is sworn.
by, but this Tetractys or Tetragrammaton; that
is, Jova or Jehovah, the name of God, being put
for God himself, according to that received doc­
trine of the Hebrews mttn Kin NTt id# that God
aiid his name were all one—as if the meaning of
those wards,
No! /out Toy dfHTtya 4*%? TfTgAjtTtry
Tlayttv atrvaov <pu<rtau;. - ■
were this: By the Tetragrammaton or Jovah,
who hath communicated [himself or] the fountain
of the eternal nature to our human souls; for
these, according to the Pythagoric doctrine, were
said to be* ex mente divina carptee et delibata,
i. e. nothing but derivative streams from that
first fountain of the Divine mind.
Wherefore we shall now sum up all concerning
Pythagoras in this conclusion of St. Cyril’s: «
&
>
»
C«». isl. 1. i. S* tva rt uvai Xsya rov rwv oA<vv Otov,
[p. 30.] fcal7ravrajv ap^jjv ipyan/v rt rwv avrov Swdjutwv,
fttMrrypa Kal ipvytoaiv, jjrot £<vo7rotj/<Tiv rwv oA
a>t> icatkvkXw
xdvrwv Kivr/mv" xapvicrai Se ra xavra Trap’ avrov Kal riiv ac
rov fui) ovroc ro ctvatKivi}atv Xa^ovra faivtrai' Behold
we see clearly, that Pythagoras held there was one
God of the whole universe, the principle and cause
ofall things, the illuminator, animator, and quick-
ener of the whole, and original of motion; from
whom all things were derived, and brought out of
non-entity into being.
Next to Pythagoras, in order of time, was
Xenophanes the Colophonian, the head of the
Eleatic sect of philosophers, who, that he was
‘ Cicer. de Natur. Deor. libwi cap. xi. p. 2806. oper.
Xe n o ph a n es’s o ne and a l l . 239
an assertor both of many gods and one God, suf­
ficiently appears from that verse of his before
cited, and attested both by Clemens Alexan-
drinus,* and Sextus the philosopher ;
ET(? 6«d? fy n 3 iain juri adfchroca-i ftfy irro c *
There is one God, the greatest both amongst gods
and men.—Concerning which greatest God, this
other verse of Xenophanes is also vouched;
H a l a fitd m jQ i nrowio *6ou, f p t y l v d r r a ftfo&um *
That he moveth the whole world without any la­
bour or toil, merely by mind.—Besides which,
Ciceroband others tell us, that this Xenophanes
philosophizing concerning the supreme Deity,
was wont to call it ev k
c
uwav, one and all—as being
one most simple being, that virtually containeth
all things. But Xenophanes’s Theosophy, or
Divine philosophy, is most fully declared by Sim­
plicius out of Theophrastus in this man- inA
riitot#
n e r : M/av Se ti}
v apyjiv, %
T01 *v Ka* *r«v, ptJr8
*p-5,6.
JC
yC
U OVT8 W8W8pd(TfJl£VOV 0VT8 aWElpOV, OVT6 KIVQVfJLEVOV OVT8
Ipt/Aovv, Sevofavriv rov KoXo^wviov rov Ilap/zev/Sov SiSa-
ajcaXov vwor.iOtaOai <
f>
r/<
T
iv o Geo^phoroc* ofioXoywv erkpaq
elvai fiaXkov rj rye wept <f>v<rewq laroplag, njv /ivijjurjv rrjq
t o v t o v S6£tjg. t o yap ev rovro /cal way rov Qeov eXeyev 6
EUvofpavrjq' ov eva pkv Seucwaiv e/c rov wavrwv Kparurrov
eivaC 7rXaovwv yap tyr\aiv ovrwv, ofxolwg avay/cy vwapytw
warn t o KparELv’ t o Se wdvnov Kpanarov jcai apiarov, 0 h>
c’
dykwjrov Se eSti/cwev--------- icai ovre Sri aweipov oire wewe-
patTfievov tivaC Sion aweipov fiev t o fir/ ov, (og ovre apyfjv
i\o v fitire piaov fir\re rkXog* wepaiveiv Se wpoq aXXr/Xa rd
wXeLuj* wapawXtjaitoq Se /cal ttjv kivtjoiv a<f>aipei /cal t ijv
8 Strowat. lib. v. p. 714.
b In Acad. Quaest. lib. iv. cap. xxxvii. p. 2315. tom. viii. oper,
2 4 0 x e n o p h a n e s 's o n e a n d a l l .
yptfiiav' aidvifrov fiiv, Sec. Theophrastus affirmeth,
that Xenophanes the .Colophonian, Parmenides’s
master, made one principle of all things, he
calling it one and all, and determining it to be
neither finite nor infinite (in a certain sense)
and neither moving nor resting. Which Theo­
phrastus also declares, that Xenophanes in
this did not write as a natural philosopher or
physiologer, but as a metaphysician or theo-
loger only; Xenophanes’s one and all being
nothing else but God. Whom he proved to be
one solitary being from hence, because God is
the best and most powerful of all things; and
there being many degrees of entity, there must
needs be something supreme to rule over all.
Which best and most powerful Being can be but
one. He also did demonstrate it to be unmade,
as likewise to be neither finite nor infinite (in a
certain sense;) as he removed both motion and
rest from God. Wherefore, when he saith, that
God always remaineth or resteth the same, be
understands not this of that rest which is opposite
to motion, and which belongs to such things as
may be moved; but of a certain other rest, which
is both above that motion and its contrary.—From
whence it is evident, that Xenophanes supposed
(as Sextus the philosopher also affirmeth) God to
be incorporeal, a being unlike to all other things,
and therefore of which no image could be made.
And now we understand, that Aristotle* dealt
not ingenuously with Xenophanes, when from
that expression of his, that God was a<
j>
aipou§ns,
Orsphery-forra—he would infer, that Xenophanes
made God to be a body, and nothing else but the
a Vid. libr. de Xenophane, Zenone et Gorgia, cap. iv. p. 843,
x e n o p h a n e s 's o n e a n d a l l . 241
round corporeal world animated; which yet was
repugnant also to another physical hypothesis of
this same Xenophanes, dirapovc wXtouc dvat «cat
<reX
nvac, that there were infinite suns and. moons ;—
by which moons he understood planets, affirming
them to be all habitable earths, as Cicero tells us.*
Wherefore, as Simplicius resolves, God was said
to be ojaipoaSiK, or sphery-form—by Xenophanes
only in this sense, as being iravra-^60tvo
/u
m
o
c
, every
way like and uniform.—However, it is plain, that
Xenophanes asserting one God, who was all, or
the universe, could not acknowledge a multitude
of partial, self-existent deities.
Heraclitus was no clear, but a confounded
philosopher (he being neither a good naturalist
nor metaphysician) and therefore it is very hard,
or rather impossible^ to reconcile his several opi­
nions with one another. Which isa thing the less
to be wondered at, because, amongst the rest of
his opinions, this also is said to have been one,
that contradictories may be true: and his writ­
ings were accordingly, as Plato intimates, stuffed
with unintelligible, mysterious nonsense. For,
first, he is affirmed to have acknowledged no
other substauce besides body, and to have main­
tained,* that all things did flow, and nothing
stand, or remain the same; and yet in his epistles
(according to the common opinion of philosophers
at that time) doth he suppose the pre- and post­
existence of human souls in these words :d raya
■» Vid. Acad. Quest, lib. iv. cap.xxxix. p. 2319. tom. viii. oper.
b Vide sext. Empiric. Hypotypos. lib. i. cap. xxix. p. 53.
c Vide Platon, in Convivio, p. 321.
* Vide Epistol. Grsecas ab Eilhardo Lubino editag. Heidelberg,
1601. in octavo, p. 54,55.
VOL. II. R
242 He r a c l it u s 's r o d ,
jtut P - Q V T t v t T a t OToXvatv e a u r q t v 8 t i x o r i i * tow 8w
f t g r n p l o v r o v r o i i ’ i c a l a u o f t i v o v t o v t n l / m roc E n cn rn m ,
Q W f U t i y q v K t r i n t« t t a r p t a y t a p i a , t v O t v K a T t X O o v f f a « •
pujSaXXrro plow «fvfU ridvaoc rovro, o S o k u , &C. M y
goal seemeth to vaticinate and presage its ap­
proaching dismission and freedom fromibia its
prison; and looking out, as it were, through the
cracks and crannies of this body, to remember
those its native regions or countries, from whence
descending it was clothed with this flowing mor­
tal body; which is made up and constipated-of
phlegm, choler, serum, blood, nerves, bones aud
flesh.—And, not Only ao,:but he also thfrre rC
~
koowiedgeth the souls immortality, which Sto­
ics, allowing its permanency afterdeatb, lor some
.time at least, and to the next conflagration, did.
d e n y ; Swrera* tp <w/ua « c -t o . t l f u i p f t i v o v , aXX«, av t//»-
jpi Swrerai' aXXa dOavarov ovaca eic ow
pcrw
T
v. avfr
vnpnrm fitrapm,oc’ Sl&
>vrat Sf./u aiMpita Sofm^ mlwoX
«n
Ttiaofitu o
u
k tv. avQpthrotc aXX’ tv State. This body
shall ha fatally changed to-something else ; hot
my. soul shall not die or perish, but, being an im­
mortal .thing, shall fly away mounting upwards
to heaven; those etherial houses shall receive me,
and. l shall no longer converse with men, bttt
gods.'—Again, .though Heraclitus,asserted3
thefa­
tal necessity of. all things, yet notwithstanding
was: fye a strict moralist, and upon this account
highly,esteemed by the Stoics, who followed;him
in this and other things; and be makes no small
pretence to it himself in bis epistle to Hermo-
dorns,* Ktu ifiovye iroX
X
ot Kal Swryspiarteroi iBXoi k
«-
T(opO<i)VTai' vtv'iKtiKa ySovae, vivIkijkci ^pdfiara, vEvanpca
tjuXorifilav, .KareirdXaura ftuXtav, KarevaXaiaa KoXtucdav'
* Apud Lubinum, ubi supra, p. 50.
WHOSE TEMRLE THE WHOLE WORLD. 943
omca v n k iy ti pot fo flo c, owe avn X iyu pot p jfttf fofititroi p t
W li Qbfittrtu p t opyn‘ Kara rovruv avrwv m i «vroc terra-
ftwyi*, ipatnf imrarrtov, w^ wr’ Evpwtttic' Ibave
also had my difficult labours and conflicts as-well'
as Hercules; I hare conquered ambition; Ihave;
subdued cowardice and flattery; neither fear nor''
intemperance cab confront me ; grief and anger'
are afraid of me, and fly. away from me. These
are the victories, for which I am crowned, not by>
Snrystheus, but as being made master of my-
self.f—
Lastly, though Heraclitus made fire to be
the first principle of all things, and had some odd
passages imputed to him, yet notwithstanding
was be a devout religionist, he supposing, that
fiery matter of the whole univeme animantem esse
etDeum, to be an animal and God.—And as hei
acknowledged many gods, according to that,
which Aristotle* recordeth of him, that when
spine passing by had espied him sitting in a smoky
cottage, he bespake them after tips manner, In-
troite, mm et hie dit sunt, Come ini, I pray, for
heite there are gods also;—he supposing all places
^to be fall of gods* demons and souls: so was he
an undoubted assertor of one supreme Numen,
that governs? all- things, and that such as could
neither bp represented by images,, nor confined to
temples. For after he had been accused of im­
piety by Euthycles, he writes to Hermodorus
ip this manner :b dXX’, w apaOetc avBponrot, 8t$a%art
irpotiov vpac ,n tanv o te o t| irov S’ toriv o A nt; *w
rote vaoic atroKacXuopivoQ; tvatfittc yt, ot tv okotu
td»i &eov ISpvtrf —
1 —airalStvrot, owe tart on ouik tart
' ■ De Partib. Animal, lib. i. cap. v. p. 481. tom.ii. open
fc Apod Lnbin. ubi supra, p. 60.
r 2
244 ANAXAGORAS’S ONE IN FIN ITE HIND/
Otdc yupoKfirfroQ' ov% c£ <
*P
X
^C (3aatv wS *X«•
cvs wtpifloXov’ aX
X
’oXoc o Koa/toe avr« vaoc core, £m{>
K
tu fvrt'iQK
al&rrpotc irarouctXjuivoc’ But O you U
D
--
wise and unlearned! teach us first what God is,,
that-so yon may be believed in accusing me of
impiety: tell us where God is. Is he shut up
within the walls of temples? is this your piety tot
place God in the dark, or to make him a stony
Odd ? O you unskilful! know ye not, that God
is not made with hands, and bath no basis orfnU’
crum to stand upon, nor can be iaclosed withini
the walls of any temple; the whole world, varie-:
gated with plants, animals and stars being his;
temple?—And again, <
Jp’ ovkti/il evertj3Je, Ev
Am
c
X
o
c
V
oc juovoc olSa dtov; imttBepi) ISpvfljj (kov(3h>
ft6(,.ow
e «m
>
9to{; tav &iSpvdji pi} 0cov, &
eo
gcorn*; wart X
iO
oe•few1
frttprwpct* cpys Set juaprvpctv, out ijX
tov’ vu£ayr<ji icedq
/u
fp
fc>
paprvpovotv*wpai avrtjt /udprupec, yV dXq K
apirotjtopoZan,
papfvc* <
T
{
X
*
jv
»
fco K
vicX
oc,ixtlvov cp-yov, ovpdviocpapn^far.-
Am I impious, O Euthycles, who alone know
what God is ? is there no God without altars ? or
are, stones the only witnesses of him? No, -his-
own works give testimony to him, and principally;
the sun; night.and day bear witness of him; >tbe:
earth bringing forth fruits, declares: him; the tin-:
cle of the moon, that was made by him, isa-Hea*;
venly testimony of him. •••••; >
In the next place, Anaxagoras; the Clazome*;
nian philosopher, comes to be considered, whose-
predecessors of the Ionic order (after Thales) as
Anaximander, Anaximenes and Hippo, were (as
bath been already observed) Materialists and-
Atheists; they acknowledging no other substance
besides body, and resolving all things into the
'THE MAKER OF THE WHOLE WORLD. 3 4 5
motions, passious, and affections of it Whence
was that cautious advice given by Jam- -spot.x
» t
1.
- blicbus, tTporlftanjv ’IraXuevv <fr\oooflav nfv'« hfo^pre-
ra a o tlp a ta . KaO’ avra Otwpovoav, rjc ’Iovuciff
Vive Va mofiara rjmryovfihuc tvuTKaaxntfievtK' edit.A™
»n>^
Prefer the Italic philosophy, which contemplates
incorporeal substances by themselves, before the
Ionic, which principally considers bodies.—Aud
Anaxagoras was the first of these Ionics, who
-went out of that road; for seeing a necessity of
sonte other cause, besides the material (matter
being not able so much as to move itself, and
minch less if it could, by fortuitous motion, td
biring itselfinto an orderly system and cbmpages;)
he therefore introduced mind into the Cosmopceia;
as the principal cause of the universe;
which mind is the same with God. si7.eS.-
Thus Themistius, speaking of Anaxa- H^
rd,,uuJ
^oras, vo vV ta u O to v r p to r o c itr a y a y o p tv o e r p K o a p u n e o u fi
tnu ov travra avaif*tf ris ^unuc rov otipiaruv’ He Wad
the first (that is, amongst the Ionic philosophers)
■whobrought in mind and God to the Cosmopeeia;
add did not derive all things from senseless bo­
dies. And to the same purpose Plutarch; in the
lifeofPericles,*roie oAotc rpuroc ovrvjfpvov8’mijKw,
h inw iuitw t tipyqvi aXXa vow iwtarifat KaOapov icai
oKparov' The other Ionic philosophers before
Anaxagoras made fortune and blind necessity,
that is, the fortuitous and necessary motions of
the matter, to be the only Original of the world;
but Anaxagoras was the first, who affirmed a pure
and sincere mind to preside over all. Anaxago­
ras therefore supposed two substantial self-exist-
1 P. 154. tom. i. oper.
2 4 8 ANAXAQOKAl’g ONE IN FIN ITB HIND,
enft principles of the universe, one an infinite
Mind or God, the other an infinite fiomoibmery
ofinatter, or infinite atoms ; not unqualified, such
jas those of Empedocles and Democritus, -which
was the most ancient and genuine atomology ; but
similar, such as were severally endued with sill
manner of qualities and forms, which physiology
of his therefore was a spurious kind of Atomism.
Anaxagoras indeed did not suppose God to have
treated matter out of nothing, but that he was
cuijwtuc ap%it the principle of its motion, and also
tv K
ai k
o
A
w
c atria, the regulator of this motion
for good—
-and consequently the cause of all.the
order, pulchritude, and harmony of the worid:
for which reason this Divine principle was called
also by. him, not only mind, but good; it being
that, which acts for the sake of good. Wherefore
according to Anaxagoras, first, the world was
not eternal, but had a begipning in time,; and
before the world was made, there was from eter-
hity an infinite congeries of similar and qualified
atoms,sd f-oxistent, withouteitherorderormotion:
secondly, the world was not afterward made by
chance, but by Mind or God, first moving the
matter, and then directing the motion .of it so, as
to bring it into this orderly system and compagaa
So that vovc was nw^orowci Mind, the first maker
of the world, and vovc j3wnXcvc ovpavov re h i yic,
Mind, that which still governs the same, the king
and sovereign monarch of heaven and earth.
Thirdly, Anaxagoras’s Mind and God was purely
incorporeal; to which purpose his words record?
ed by Simplicius are very remarkable;
IbArist. Phys. \ r . ' w ' * 9 %
l.i. fol. 33. Move fiB/wcTai oveevi ‘
^py/iari a \\a fiovog avrog
©
.ii. *,» « - » * i i »,» * - v *
>
>»
£
<
/> eavrov Jimv, u /l
d
? yap ef eavrov t
/v, aAAa
TUB MAKER OF THE WHOLE WORLD. 2 4 7
ritp i/tefwcro aXXtp, furo^t* av croMW ^ la n w , *t
eftlfU
K
T» ritp" ev ram yip nwroc ftotpaivtariv’tSalrip Iv
***CvpodGtvifiot XiXucrtu' teat aau^Xvtv avrov rd trto
fttfU
-
0r>fpivax warn fii$woe xp4f«*roc *P®
r*6» opoiuc, *»c *«
«*ro if' cavrov* wn.^ap Xtirrorardv re watrrtnr
‘
yQpqfuerw, K
ai KaSaptirmrov' jeat yvttpipt yt r^pi iravroc
■••to tr^H* jeal tayiu fiiyurrov' Mind 18 mingled
with nothing, bat is alone by itself and separate;
far if it were not by itself secrete from matter,
bat mingled therewith, it would then partake of
all- things, because there is something of all in
awry thing; which things mingled together with
it, would hinder it, so that it could hot master
•tr* conquer any thing, as if alone by itselft for
tnidd is the most subtile of all things, and die
most pure,, and has the knowledge of all things,
together with an absolute powerover all.—Lastly,
Anaxagoras did not suppose a multitude of un­
made minds, coexistent from eternity, as so many
partial causes and governors of tbe world, but
only one infinite Mind or God, ruling Over all.
■ Indeed, it may well be madea question, whether
or -no, besides this supreme and universal Pfeity,
Anaxagoras did acknowledge any of those other
inferior gods, then worshipped by the Pagans?
bueause it is certain, thatthough he asserted-in­
finite Mind to-be tUe maker and governor of tbe
whole-World, yet he was accused by tbe Atheni­
ans for Atheism, and besides a mulct imposed
upon bhn, banished for the same; the trne ground
wbefeof was no other than this, because be af­
firmed tbe sun to be nothing but ft mass of fire,
add the moon and earth, having mountains and
valleys, cities and houses in it; and probably con-
2 4 8 ANAXAGORAS TAXED, FOR REFERRING MORE
eluded the same of all the other stars and planets,
that they were either fires, as the sun, or habita­
ble earths!, as the moon ; wherein, supposing them
not to .be animated, he did consequently deny
them to be gods. Which his urigodding of the
sun, moon and stars, was then looked upon by
the vulgar as nothing less than absolute Atheism;
they being very proneto think, that if there were
not many understanding beings superior to men, —
and if the sun, moon, and stars were not such, and
therefore in their language gods, there was no jGod
at all. Neither was it the .vulgar only, who con­
demned Anaxagoras for this, but even those two
gtave philosophers, Socrates and Plato, did the-
like; the first? in his apology made to the Athe­
nians, where he calls this opinion of Anaxagoras
absurd; the second in bis book of Laws, where
becom plains of this doctrine as a great inlet info
Atheism, in this manner: ifioikm<
ro
»,omr
k*886.S * *' T£Kl“Vp«« Aeyw/usv o»c /hot, ravra qiird wpo#-
^ipovrtet vXtov rt Kat asXitvtfv xat mnpa Kai
w? Beovf /cat Baa ovra,wird ru v rxxpwv tovtsjv avairorfwjtjfvo*.
W X ty o u v, h; y q v rc Kai XtOouc ovra avra, kcu o v S a r
rwv avBpanrcw v v p a y fia m v $povri£civ Swajutva* W hSO
you and I, endeavouring by arguments to pjRoye^
that there are gods, speak of the sun and mopo^
stars and earth, as gods and Divine things, X>nr
young men presently, being principled by th es^
new philosophers, will reply; That those ahe no-:
thing but earth and stones (senseless and inani-
mate bodies) which therefore cannot mind -nor
take notice of any human affairs.—Where, we may
observe these two things; first, that nothing was
a Or rather Plato, p. 362.
TO MATERIAL THAN TO MENTAL CAUSES. 249
accounted truly and properly a god amongst the
Pagans, but only what was endued with life and
understanding. Secondly, that the taking away
of those inferior gods of the Pagans, the sun,
moon, and stars, by denying them to be ani­
mated, or to have life and understanding in them,
was, according to Plato’s judgment, then the most
ready and effectual way to introduce absolute
Atheism.
.Moreover, it is true, that though this Anaxa­
goras were a professed Theist, he asserting an ini
finite self-existent Mind to be the maker of the
whole world, yet he was severely taxed also by
Aristotle and Plato, as one not thorough-paced
in Theism, and who did not so fully, as he ought,
adhere to bis own principles. For whereas,.to
assert Mind to be the maker of the world, is really
all one as to assert final causality for things in nar
tore, as also that they were made after the best
manner; Anaxagoras, when he was to give his
particular account of the phenomena, did com­
monly betake himself to material causes only,
and hardly ever make use of the mental or final
cause, but wheu be was to seek and at a loss; then
only bringing in God upon the stage. Socrates’s
discourse concerning this in Plato’s
Pheedo is very well worth our taking ,97,Stoph'
notice of: >
“ Hearing one sometime read^saith he)
out.of a book of Anaxagoras, a»cv
o
v
qamv 6Buucoa-
fw* re (cai iravruv amoe> that Mind, was the order
mid causeof all things, I was exceedingly pleased
herewith, concluding, that it must needs follow
from thence, that all filings were ordered and dis­
posed of as they should, and after the best man­
ner possible y and therefore the causes evep of the
250 ANAXAGORAS TAXED, FOR REFERRING"MORE
things in nature, (or at least the grand strokes-of
them) ought to be fetched from the to /3*Xno*»ty
that which is absolutely the best. But when
afterward I took Anaxagoras’s book into .my
hand, greedily reading it over, I was exceedingly
disappointed of my expectation, finding therein
no other causes assigned, but only from airs, and
ethers, and waters, and such-like physical and
material things. And he seemed to me to deal,
just as if one having affirmed, that Socrates did
ail by mind, reason and understanding, afterward
undertaking to declare the causes of aH my ac.
lions, as particularly of my sitting here at this
time, should render it after this manner; because,
forsooth, my body is compounded of bones and
nerves, which bones, being solid, have joints in
them at certain distances, and nerves of such a
nature, as that they are capable of being both in*
tended and remitted: wherefore, my bones being
lifted up in the joints, and my nerves some of
them intended and some remitted, was the cans?
of the bending of my body, and of my sitting
down in this place. He in the mean time neglect,
ing the true and proper cause hereof, which was
no other than this; because it seemed good to the
Athenians to condemn me to die, as also to my­
self most just, rather to submit to their censure,
and undergo their punishment, than by flight to
escape it; for certainly otherwise these nerves
and bones of mine would not have been here now
in this posture, but amongst the Megarensians
and Boeotians, carried thither ®
»ro rovfttXrhrrov,
by the opinion of the best; had 1 not thought it
better to submit to the sentence of the city, than
to escape the same by flight. Which kind of phi-
TO MATERIAL THAN TO MENTAL CAUSES. 2 5 1
lMOphers (saith lie)-do not seem to me, to distin­
guish betwixt the true and proper cause of things,
and the cause sine qua non, that without which
they. could not have been effected.. And such
S
U
Mthey, who devise many odd physical reasons
for the firm settlement of the earth, without any
regard to that Power, which orders all things
for the best, (as having Satpoviav a Divine
force in it) ; but thinking to find out an Atlas far
more strong and immortal, and which can better
hold all things together; to yap aya&6v<
co
ito &o
v
>
o
v
Se
v £v
v
8m
v fcal ^wi\uv‘ Good and fit, being not
ablei, in their opinions, to hold, or bind any thing.”
From which passage of Plato’s- we. may con­
clude, that though Anaxago,ras was so far. con*
viuced of Theism, as in profession to make one
infinite Mind the cause of all thiugs, matter only
excepted; yet he had notwithstanding too great
a tang of that old material and atheistical philo­
sophy of his predecessors, still hanging about
him, who resolved all the phenomena of nature
into physical, and nothing into mental or final
causes.. And we have the rather told this lofig
story, of him, because it is so exact a parallel
with-the philosophic humour of some in this pre-t
sent age, who pretending to assert a God, do
notwithstanding discard all mental and final cau-r
sality from having any thing to do with the fabric
of*4be world; and resolve all into material neces­
sity and mechanism, into vortices, globuli and
striate particles, and the like. Of which Christ­
ian philosophers we must needs pronounce, that
they are not near so good Theists as Anaxagoras
himself was, though so much condemned by Plato
and Aristotle;'.forasmuch as he did not only as-
252 p a b m e n id e s ’s s u p r e m e g o d ,
sert God to be the cause of motion, but also the
governor, regulator and raethodizer.of the same,
for the production of this harmonious system of
the world, aud therefore rowtv KalxaXa>cxuriav, the
cause of well and fit.—Whereas these utterly rc-.
ject the latter, and only admitting the former,
will needs suppose heaveu and earth, plants and
animals, and all things whatsoever in this orderly
compages of the world, to have resulted merely,
from a certain quantity of motion, or agitation,
at first impressed upon th e ,matter, and deter-]
mined to vortex.
xxxi. The chronology of the old philosophers
having some uncertainty in it, we shall' not scru­
pulously concern ourselves therein, hut in] the
next place consider Parmenides, Xenophanes!?
auditor, and a philosophic poet likewise, but who,
conversing much with two Pythagoreans, Anws
nias and- Diochcetes, was therefore looked upon
.as one, that was not a little addicted to the Py-
thagorio sect. That this ]Parmenides acknoii*-'
lodged many gods, is evident from what has been
already cited-out ofhim; notwithstanding which,?
he plainly asserted also one Supreme, makinghim«s
as Simplicius tells us, acrlav (kiov, the cause of] all
those other gods—of which Love is said to ba.ve
' been first produced. - Which supreme Deity Par*
raenides, as well as Xenophanes, called ev™ wivt
one that was all—or the universe; but adding
thereunto of his own, that it was aUoanv»pw»
immoveable.
' Now, though it be true, that Parmenides’s
*writings being not without obscurity, some of the
ancients, who were less acquainted with mein?
physical speculations, understood hint physically,
253
ONE AND ALL, IMMOVEABLE.
to*if he had asserted the whole corporeal universe
to be all but one thing, and that immoveable,
thereby destroying^ together with the diversity
Ofthings, all motion, mutation and action; which
was plainly to make Parmenides Dot to have been
* philosopher, but a madman: yet Simplicius, a
man well acquainted with the opinions of an­
tifeat philosophers, and who had by him a copy
Of Parmenides’s poems, (then scarce, but siuce
lost) assures us, that Parmenides dreamt of no
each matter, and that he wrote o« ircplrov fwnKov
OTwytlov, aXXa irtpl tov 6vtwe ovroe, O r wtpl rile Otiae
vrepox^c, not concerning a physical element or
principle, but concerning the true Ens, or the
Divine transcendency—addiug, that though some
of those ancient philosophers did not distinguish
nifvatKa aimrwv vVepfvotv,naturalthingsfromsuper-
nmtnral—yet the Pythagoreans, and Xenophanes;
and Parmenides, and Empedocles, and Anaxago­
ras,- did all Suucpmtv, handle these two distinctly—
xattriprp aaafda XavOavovr$eroveiroXXovei however, by
reason of their obscurity, it was not perceived
by many—for which cause they have been most
of them misrepresented, not only by Pagans, but
alio by Christian writers. For, as the same Sim­
plicius informs us, Parmenides propounded two
several doctrines, one after another; the first con­
cerning theological and metaphysical things, called
to -him aXnOaav, truth;—the second concerning
physical and corporeal things, which be called
Sd£ov, opinion.—The transition betwixt which was
contained in these verses of his;
’Ey t £ c o t iravoo v t r r o v X o y a v b it vonfxa
’A/l
c
^ cikuBtUf V *«ro roSJt fyoTtUv;
r ip«vhriw iarBrpXtveutmon*.•
$ 8 4 l>AKMKMIt>gSrS SUPREME GOP,
■In the former of which- doctrines, Pano^idsi
asserted .one.immoveable principle; bat in' the
Hitter, two moveable ones, fire and earth. He
spoaking of souls also as a certain middle or vinr
culura betwixt the incorporeal and the corporeal
world,. and affirming, that God <d»d r»c..f*rx«c
triform iron /m
> lie r<tv,ipifmvaiq «c;.ro a«8Jc, woci SI
•vmrnXiv, sometimes send and translate souls from
the visible to the invisible regions, and sometimes
again, on the contrary, from the-invisibleto the
visible.—From whence it is plain, that when Par­
menides. asserted his one and .all immoveable, he
spake not as a physiologer, but as a metaphy­
sician,andtheologer only. Which, indeed was a
thing so evident, that Aristotle* himself, though
be had; a mind to obscure Parmenides’s senses
that be might have a fling at him in his Physics,
yet could not altogether dissemble it, For: when
he thus begins,. “ There mast ofnecessity be either,
one principle or many; and if there bebutone*
then mast it either be immoveable,, as. Parmenides
and Melissus affirm, or else moveable, wamp- el
fvouew, as the naturalists or pbysiologers;” he
therein intimates, that when Parmenides and
Melissus made one immoveable the principle of
all things,, they did not: write this as physjolo-
gers. And afterward he confesses, that thdscon-
troversy, whether there ware one. immoveable
principle, does not belong to. natural philosophy,
bat to some other science. But .this is more
plainly declared by him elsewhere," writing con-,
cerning Parmenides and Melissus after this man­
ner : tt ical r aXXa Xs-youtrc fcaXwc, aXX’ ov ipvaiKw^ ye
* Physical Auscultat. lib.!, cap. ii. p.446. tom. i.oper.
b De Coelo, hb. iii. cap*i. p. 6#8. .
Ik
ONE AND ALL, IMMOVEABLE. £55
8tt,vo*u£av A&ynv,to -yap tlvaiarr« t » v o i t m i dyiinfra kcu
5Xt>C wc(vqra, /uaXAov amv tripae <cal irportpac* '/ TVi
fvm xii a;wK^wc' Though it be granted, that
Parmenides and Melissus otherwise said well,
yet. we must not imagine them to have spoken
physically. For this, that there is something un­
m ade and immoveable, does not so properly be-
leog to physics, as to a certain other science,
which is before it.
Wherefore Parmenides, as well as Xenopha­
nes’s master, by his one and all, meant nothing
else bat the Supreme Deity, he calling it also im­
moveable, For the supreme Deity was by these
ancient philosophers styled, first to tv and juovac,
a^tmity and monad—because they conceived, that
tbe> first and most perfect being, and the begin­
ning of all things, must needs be the most sim­
ple, Thus Eudorus in Simplicius *declares their
sense; ap^ijv t^aaavtlvat Tiiv xavrwv totv,uc xairnc vAiic
iU)t rwy qvtwv iravrow, i^avrov ytytvttpivutv, tovto Si tlvai
rqr vwepavw Qeov‘ These ancients affirmed, that the
one, or unity, was the first Principle of a ll; mat­
ter itself, as well as other things, being derived
from it; they meaning by this one that highest or
supreme God, who is over all.—And Syrianps to
the same purpose,1
*oi. Ouoi actIvoi avSptt, to tv Oedv
Qeypv, «Jc cw ittvc toZ
c oAoic airiov, to! iravro$ rov ovroc
ut, n n K Those Divine men called God the
Oqe, as being the cause of unity to all things, as
likewise he was of being and life. And Sim­
plicius concludes, that Parmenides’s tv ov, one
Eos, was a certain Divine principle, superior to
* Comment, in Physic. Aristot. p. 39. edit. Grace. Aldin.
> Ex MS. Commen in libr. aliquot Metaphysic. Aristotel.
256 PARMENIDES.
mind or intellect, and more simple. X«Wat ow to
F. 3i. Gr. voiitov irivTwv airtov, St’ o icat o'vovc
S 'p IJric' T® vo£‘v> <j*rdvra Kara fiiav nwnvowppttytfvct’C
Ariitotel.] KaraXiprrat, icat nvw/xfawg, tovro tivat to tlap -
/urnSaov tv ov. It remaineth, therefore* that that*
Intelligible, which is the cause of all things, and
therefore of mind and understanding too, in which'
all things are contained and comprehended com­
pendiously, and in a way ofunity; I say, that this
was Parmenides’ one Ens or Being.
In the next place, Parmenides, with the others
of those ancients, called also his tv ov, ro vdv, his
one Ens or first most simple Being, all, or the uni­
verse—because it virtually contained all things,
and, as Simplicius writes, wavra fkaxacpt/utwc *
/«
■
falverat dir ovrov, all things are from this one, dis­
tinctly displayed.—For which cause, in Plato’s
Parmenides, this one is said to be «rt v«vr«
iroXXd ovra vevsfiijfitvov, distributed into all things,
that are many.—But that Parmenides by his tv
ro irdv, one and all— or the universe, did not un­
derstand the corporeal world, is evident from
inphvs. hence, because he called it aStalperov, or
f. i7.*. indivisible—and, as Simplicius observes,
supposed it to have no magnitude; -because that,
which is perfectly one, can have no parts.
Wherefore it may be here observed, that this
expression of tv to vav, one being all—hath been
used in very different senses: for as Parmenides
and Xenophanes understood it of the supreme
Deity, that one most perfect and most simple'
Being was the original of all things; so others of
them meant it atheistically, concerning the most
imperfect and lowest of all beings, matter or
body, they affirming all things to be nothing but
PARMENIDES. 267
one end the same matter diversely modified.
Thus much we learn from that place of Aristotle
in his Metaphysics : ovih ftev o5v tv re TOirav Kal ftlav
uvai rtva <pvaiv w$ t>Xqv riBiaai, Kal ravrijv .
\ \ t f\ it ^ . Ii* C
»TIL
WfiaTucifv Kai fuytuoQ eyovaav, crjAov ore iroA- [>. 274. tom.
apaprivovac They who affirm one lY
m
oper^
to be all in this sense, as if all things were nothing
]but one and the same matter, and that corporeal
and endued with magnitude, it is manifest, that
.they err sundry ways.:—But here is a great differ•
ence betwixt these two to be observed, in that
the atheistical assertors of one and all (whether
they meant water or air by it,' or something else)
did none of them suppose their one and all to be
immoveable, but moveable: but they, whose prin­
ciple was one and all immoveable (as Parmenides,
Melissus and Zeno) could not possibly mean any
thing else thereby, but the Deity; that there was
one most simple, perfect and immutable Being in­
corporeal, which virtually contained all things,
and from which all things were derived. But
Heraclitus, who is one of those, who are said to
have affirmed tv tlvat to irav, that one was all, or
that the universe was but one thing—might pos­
sibly have taken'both those senses together (which
will also agree in the Stoical hypothesis) that all
things were both from one God, and from one
fire; they being both alike corporeal Theists, who
supposed an intellectual fire to be the first Prin­
ciple of all things.
And though Aristotle in his Physics quarrels
very, much with Parmenides and Melissus, for
making one immoveable Principle; yet in his Me­
taphysics himself doth plainly close with it, and
own it as very good divinity, that there is one in-
vod. II. s
PAItMENlDES.
258
corporeal and immoveable Principle of all things*,
and that the supreme Deity is an immoveable na­
tures £t7rtp virap^si Tis ovaia roiavriu \ i y w 85
1
**H
i.°oiT
U
. XVf™** Ka'
1“Kiwirbc, oirtp wtipaaofuu Sfuevwai,
ivravOa a v eu) not) (cat to Oiiov, (cat airtj av erij
irptari) ical Kvpioratti ap^n* If there be any sueh sub­
stance as this, that is separate (from matter, or
incorporeal) and immoveable (as we shall after­
wards endeavour to shew that there is), then the
Divinity ought to be placed here, and this must
be acknowledged to be the first and'most proper
principle of all.—But lest any should suspect,
that Aristotle, if not Parmenides also, might, for
all that, hold many such iminoveable principles;
or many eternal, uncreated and self-existent
beings; as so many partial causes of the world;*
Simplicius assures us, /tv y tyo v tva i §o£av iroXXdc /col
aK ivvtovc tA
$a p ya g X iyovaav, t. e. that though divers
of the ancient philosophers asserted a plurality
of moveable principles (and some indeed an infi­
nity), yet there never was any opinion entertained
amongst philosophers, of many, or more than
one, immoveable principles. — From whence it
may be concluded, that no philosopher ever aS*
serted a multitude of unmade, self-existent minds,
or independent deities, as co-ordinate principles
of the world.
Indeed, Plotinus seems to think, that Parme­
nides in his writings, by his to o v , or Ens, did fre- *
quently mean a perfect mind or intellect, there
being no true entity (according to him) below that
which understands; (which mind, though incor­
poreal, was likened by him to a sphere, because
it comprehends all within itself, and because in-
* In Phys. Aristotel. foLxvii.
PARMENIDES. 259
tellection is not from without, but from within);
bat that when again he called hie On or Ens one*
he gave occasion thereby to some to quarrel
with him, as making the same both one and
many; intellect being that, which contains the
id te of all things in it. Wherefore Parmenides’s
whole philosophy (saith he) was better digest­
ed and more exactly and distinctly set down in
Plato’s Parmenides, where he acknowledged
three, unities subordinate, or a trinity of Divine
hypostases; o irapd nXarwvt TlapfxeviSiK, aicptfitartpov
X iyuv, Siaipu ax’ aXXjjXwv, to irpwrov ev, o Kvpttvrepov ev,
(tat Stdrepov tv iroXXd Xi-ywv' Kal rptrov tv koi iroXXd* Kal
wiftfatvoe ovroc Kat avroc tort rate Tpurlv' Parmenides^
ip Plato, speaking more exactly, distinguishes
three Divine unities subordinate; the first of that
nfhich is perfectly and most properly one; the
second of that, which was called by him one-
naany; the third of that, which i$ thus expressed,
one and many. So. that Parmenides did also
agreein thisacknowledgment ofa trinity of Divine
or archical hypostases.—
-Which observation of
Plotinusis, by the way, the best key, that we know
o& for that obscure book of Plato’s Parmenides.
Wherefore Parmenides thus asserting a trinity of
Divine hypostases, it was the first-of those hyposr
te e s that was properly called by him tv.rdirdv, one
the universe or.all: that is, one most Simple Being,
the fountain, and original of all. And the second
e£:tbem (which is a perfect intellect) was, it
seems, by him called, in way of distinction, ev
iroXXd or iravra, onemiany or one all things—by
which all things are.meant the intelligible ideas of
things, that are all contained together in one per­
fect Mind. Aftd, of those was Parmenides to be
s 2
/
260 PARMENIbei.
understood also, when he affirmed, that all thingO
did stand, and nothing flow ; not of singular and
sensible things, which, as the Heraclitics rightly
affirmed* do indeed all flow; but of the imme>-
diate objects of the mind, which are eternal and
immutable: Aristotle himselfacknowledging, that
no generation nor corruption belongeth to them,
since there could be no immutable and certain
science, unless there were some immutable, ne­
cessary and eternal objects of it. Wherefore, as
the same Aristotle also declares, the true mean-
Met. i.iv. c.v. b ig of that controversy betwixt the He-
iv’opw
’]O
B
,‘ rachtics and Parmenideans, Whether all
ir-oper. thing's did flow, or some things stand?
was the same with this, Whether there were any
other objects of the mind, besides singular sensi-
bles, that were immutable? and, consequently,
whether there were any such thing as science or
knowledge which had a firmitude and stability in
it? For those Heraclitics, who contended, that
the only objects of the mind were singular and
sensible things, did with good reason consequently
thereupon deny, that there was any certain and
constant knowledge, since there can neither be
any definition of singular sensibles, (as Aristotle*
writes) nor any demonstration concerning them.
But the Parmenideans, on the contrary, who
maintained the firmitude and stability of science*
did as reasonably conclude thereupon, that bed­
sides singular sensibles, there were other objects
of the mind, universal, eternal and immutable,
which they called the intelligible ideas, all origir
nally contained in one archetypal mind or under­
standing, and from thence participated by infe*
*Metaph. lib. i. cap. vi. p. 272. tom. it. oper.
PARMENIDES. 201
rior minds and souls. But it must be here ac­
knowledged, that Parmenides and thePythago-
reans went yet a step further, and did not only
iuppose those intelligible ideas to be the eternal
ted immutable objects of all science, but also,
as they are contained in the Divine intellect, to
be the principles and causes of all other things.
For thus Aristotle declares their sense; atno rd
*f8*l rocc aWoiQ‘ and again, ro rt iJv eiri.
fKaartf) rww aXXuiv ra eiSt
j irapi^ovrai, rote $£ oper j0™
uBkh t o %
v' The ideas are the causes of
all other things; and the essence of all other
things below is imparted to them from the ideas,
fes the ideas themselves derive their essence from
die first unity: those ideas in the Divine under­
standing being looked upon by these philosophers,
&s the paradigms and patterns of all created
things. Now these ideas being frequently called
by the Pythagoreans Numbers, we may from
hence clearly understand the meaning of that
seemingly-monstrous paradox or puzzling Gri-
phus of theirs, that* Numbers were the causes
and principles of all things, or that all things
were made out of Numbers; it signifying indeed
lib more than this, that all things were made from
the ideas of the Divine intellect, called Numbers;
'which themselves also were derived from a monad
orunity: Aristotle somewhere1
*
intimatingthis very
account ofthat assertion,rose dpiO/wvg amove «va»ro?e
£X
X
o«c nic ovoi'ac* that Numbers were the causes of
the essence ofother things—namely, because ra «Bii
dp&no\, the ideas were numbers. Though we are
not ignorant, how the Pythagoreans made also
f Ariutot. Metapbys^ lib. i. cap. vi. p. 272. b Ibid.
*62 PARMENIDES.
all the numbers within the decad, to be symbols
of tilings. But besides these two Divine hypos­
tases already mentioned, Parmenides seems to
have asserted also a third, which, because it bad
yet more alterity, for distinctioii’s sake was called
by him, neither tvto wav, one the’universe or all-*-
nortv itavra, one-all things—but tv Kaiirdvta, one
and all things :<
—and this is taken by Plotinus to
be the eternal Psyche, that actively produceih
all things, in this lower world, according to those
Divine ideas.
inArutFijfc But that Parmenides, by his hue-ill
&
i.yiLxTii..immoveable, really understood nothing
xau else but the supreme Deity, is further
unquestionably evident from those verses of his
cited by Simplicius, but not taken notice of by
Stephanus in his Poesis Philosophies, of virhich
We shall only set down some few here.
-----'ilf aymrrw smiuu Aft»x«dgjrin ti,
OvHvor ?», ov? irrai, iirii wf km v o
/ aov va r
rtEv avnyiq' Tifa yap ytm t tifniai avrou;
Avrag cbtlnrc* fjtty&Km if Trtipaa-i lio-fiStt,
Tainfo r*b tout£ rt pivot,’*o$* kauri n ntrcu* &©.
In which, together with those that follow, the su­
preme Deity is plainly described as one single^
solitary, and most simple being, unmade pr self-
existent, and necessarily existing, incorporeal and
devoid of magnitude, altogether immutable or
unchangeable, ighose duration therefore was,very
different from mat of ours, and not in a way of
flux or temporary succession, but a constant eter­
nity, without either past or future. From whence
it may be observed, that this opinion of a stand­
ing eternity, different from that flowing succes-
PARMENIP&S AND MELISSUS. 263
/
sion of time, is not So^novel a thing as some
would persuade, nor was first excogitated by
Christian writers, schoolmen or fathers, it being
a t least as old as Parmenides; from whom it
was also afterward received and entertained by
the best of the other Pagan philosophers;; how­
ever it hath been of late so much decried, not
osly by atheistical writers, but other precocious
and conceited wits also, as nonsense and impos­
sibility. It is well known, that Melissus held forth
the very same doctrine with Parmenides, of one
Immoveable, that was all, which he plainly af­
firmed to be incorporeal likewise, as Parmenides
did; jcai 9Me
^u
jcto
c tv tov tpijsi, Suv ailrO ow/ua fii} e^uv,
» S i iy t i v a y o s , iy o i av fio p ia ' Melissus also de­
clared, that his one £ns must needs be gim
piio.A
r.
devoid of body, because if it had any phy*-f-19*
crassities in it, it would have parts.—But the
only difference that was between them was this,
that Parmenides called this, one immoveable that
was all irorEputfjufvov, finite or determined,—but
Melissus airapov, infinite—which difference not­
withstanding wasin words only, there.being none
at all as to the reality of their sense: whilst each
of them endeavoured, in a different way, to set
forth the greatest perfection of the Deity; there
being an equivocation in those words finite and
Infinite, and both of them signifying in one sense
.perfection, but in another imperfection. And the
disagreeing agreement of these two philosophers
with one another, Parmenides and Melissus, as
also of Xenophanes with than both concerning
the Deity, is well declared by Simplicius after
'this manner; otJSev SI ?<w
c yctpov oXlyov ^ (T
264 PARMENIDES AND MELISSUS.
koItoi Stafepeiv Sokovvreg oi rraXam irepi rac tuiv dpryfZv.
So£ac, Evappov'uog optog avp^epovraC Kal yap oi piv irfpf
rig vorjTrjg Kat irpwt»
ic dpyrjg StcXe^Tjoav, ale Scvo^avifc
icai IIap/Li€viSryc icai MlXcaaoc' o ficv IIap/LC€viSi|C tv Xeywv Kat
ireirEpaaptvov' avdyKrj yap to ev tov irXifflovg irpomapyeiv,
Kat to irdaiv dpov Kat irtparog aircov, Kara to irkpagpaXXov
qwEp Kara tijv airetpiav atpoptZeaOai, Kat to irdvrij ts reXetov
to tIXoc to oikeiov dwEiXtityog, TTEVEpaapivov elvai, paXXov
Se teXoq tu)v irdvnav (vg ap^ij* to ^yap areXeg evSeeg ov,
O
V
7T6I iripag dmiXti^E* MeXiaaog $e to /uev dfiErdfiXriTOV
opoitog Kat ovtoc eOeaaaTo, Kara Se to atwcXeitttov tt?C
ovaiag, icai to aireipov tijc Svvdpeojg, aneipov avro dmtytf-
varo, dlairEp Kat dyevrfTov* irXijv o /l
c
e
v Stvotpavrig fog
wdvriov aireov, icai 7rdvra>v V
7
TEpaviyov, Kat KivriaEtog avro
icai dpEftutg jcac irdatig avriaroiyEtag eweKEiva rlQrtmv, axrtrep
Kat o IlXaratv ev t$ 7rpci5rp i)iro0g<m* o Se Ilap^tviSoc, to
Kara rd aura icai <J<ravra>€ t^ov adrod, icai iraovig pETafioXqg,
raya Se Kat ivepyelag icai SwdfiEwg enEKEiva, 0£a(rdpevog%
dtdvrrrovawodw/tvEt• Perhaps it will not be improper
for us to digress a little here, and to gratify the stu­
dious and inquisitive reader, by shewing, how those
ancient philosophers, though seeming to dissent in
their opinions concerning the principles, did not­
withstanding harmoniously agree together. As,
first ofall, they who discoursed concerning the in­
telligible and first principle of all, Xenophanes,
Parmenides and Melissus; of whom Parmenides
called it one finite and determined; because as
unity must needs exist before multitude, so that,
which is to all things the cause ofmeasure, bound
and determination, ought rather to be described
by measure and finitude than infinity; as also
that which is every way perfect, and hath attained
its own end, or rather is the end of all things (as
it was the beginning) must needs be of a determi-
PARMENIDES AND MELISSUS. 2 0 5
nate nature ; for that which is imperfect and there*
lore indigent, hath not yet attained its term or
measure. But Melissus, though considering the
immutability of the Deity, likewise yet, attending
to the inexhaustible perfection of its essence, the
tmlimitedness and unboundedness ofits power, de-
clareth it to be infinite, as well as ingenit or un­
made. Moreover, Xenophanes looking upon the
Deity, as the cause of all things, and above all
things, placed above motion and rest, and all
those antitheses of inferior beings, as Plato like­
wise doth in the first hypothesis of his Parme­
nides ; whereas Parmenides and Melissus, attend­
ing to its stability and constant immutability, and
its being perhaps above energy and power, praised
it as immoveable.—From which of Simplicius it
is plain, that Parmenides, when he called God
vtirtpaafttvov, finite and determined—was far from
meaning any such thing thereby, as if he were a
corporeal Being offinite dimensions, as some have
Ignorantly supposed ; or as if he were any way
limited as to power and perfection; but he under­
stood it in that sense, in which vipag is taken by
Plato, as opposite to dirupia, and for the greatest
perfection ; and as God is said to be vipag xal
fierpwiravrwv, the term and measure of all things.-—
But Melissus calliug God amipov, infinite—in the
sense before declared, as thereby to signify his
inexhaustible power and perfection, his eter­
nity and incorruptibility, doth therein more agree
with our present theology, and the now receiv­
ed manner of speaking. We have the rather
produced all this, to shew how curious the an-
fcient philosophers were in their inquiries after.
_God, and how exact in their descriptions of him.
206 ZENO ELEAtES.
Wherefore however Anaximander’s Infinite were
nothing but eternal senseless m atter (though
called by him the ro fleiov, the divinest thing of all)
yet Melissns’s oira/oov, or Infinite, was the tru e ,
Deity.
W ith Parmenides and Melissns fully agreed
Zeno Eleates also, Parmenides’s scholar, that
One immoveable was all, or .the original of all
things ; he meaning thereby nothing else but the
supreme Deity. For though it be true, that this
Zeno did excogitate certain arguments against
the local motion of bodies, proceeding upon the
hypothesis of the infinite divisibility of body,* one
of which was famously known by that name of
Achilles, because it pretended to prove, that it
was impossible (upon the hypothesis) for the
swift-footed Achilles ever to overtake the creep­
ing snail; (which arguments of his, whether or no
they are well answered by Aristotle,* is not here
to our purpose to inquire) yet all this was nothing
else but lusus ingenii, a sportful exercise of Zeno’s
wit, he being a subtile logician and disputant, or
perhaps an endeavour also to shew, how puzzling
and perplexing to human understanding, the con­
ception even of the most vulgar and confessed
phenomena of nature may be. F or that Zeno
Eleates, by his one Immoveable that was all, meant
not the corporeal world, no more than Melissus,
Parmenides, and Xenophanes, is evident from
Aristotle writing thus concerning him ; to tm
ow
to*
tv ov rov O
co
vAfyti, ovrs Kimftu, ovte K
tvq
rov em
u,
Zeno by his one Ens, which neither was moved,
nor moveable, meaneth God. Moreover the same
Aristotle informs us, that this Zeno endeavoured
a Physic, lib. vi. cap. xiv. p. 359. tom. L open
s m p b d o c z .e s . m
to/demoustrate, thatthere wasbut oneGod, from
that idea, which ail men have'of him, as that
Which isthe best, the supreme and most power­
ful of all, Or as an absolutely perfect D
eX
en9pk_
Being: « S
’etrflv dOtoeairavtwv'Kpdturrwi tva j-^
'p
®
1
-?”*
ftpi'irpoailictiv1
avtov• 'If God be the best 84o.’tom
.•.
etfall things, then he mustneeds be one.— flper^ .
Which argument was thus pursued by him; rwro
M fira i 9toV Bvvajj.CeKpartiv a’XXa ’
fit} tcpartlaOai' wafrcjta&J
/Hfxptlrrov, Kara roaovfov ovktlvat Otdv’vrXttovviv ovv &
vtv>
v,
fe'jtlhr titv ra juiv a’XXjjXwv Kpdrrotog, -ra ^ nrrWC) ®t«c ttv
clvat Osaie’ ireijtvKtvai yap Oeov fit} KparttaOa«* «rwv Sc
ovrtvv, ovk av e^ctv Oeov -fvatv Sctv-ctvat Kparutrov’ to Be
(c
to
v
, ovrt /3eXrtov ovre yupov uvai rov urov* <
vot’ corcp enj
re, (cat rotovrov ctq Otoe, •eva juovov ctvat rov 0cov ouSf
■yap ovSl travra BvvaoOat a av j3ovXoiro‘ This is God,
and the power of God,, to prevail, conquer, and
rule over all. Wherefore, by how much any
thing falls short of the best, by so much does
it fall short of being God. Now if there be
supposed more such beings, whereof some are
better, some worse, those could not be all gods,
because it is essential to God not to be trans­
cended by any; but if they be conceived to be
so many equal gods, then would it not be the
nature of God to be the best, one, equal being,
Ueither better nor worse than another: where­
fore if there be a God, and this be the nature of
him, .then can there be but one. And indeed
otherwise he could not be able to do whatever he
would.
Empedocles is said to have been an emulator
of Parmenides also, Which mast be understood
of his metaphysics, because in his physiology
(which was atomical) he seems to have trans-
268 EMPEDOCLES.
cended him. Now that Empedocles acknow­
ledged one supreme and universal Numen, and
that incorporeal too, may be concluded from wbat
p 2g hath been already cited out of his phi­
losophic poems. Besides which the
writer De Mundo* (who, though not Aristotle,
yet was a Pagan of good antiquity) clearly a t
firmeth, that Empedocles derived all things what­
soever from one supreme Deity; rd yap Si aipogi-
yravra, km m yi/c, km rd iv v$art, O
eovXsyovr’av ovrwc
tpya (ivm, row rov xoa/tovtd^ovroc' ov Kara rov finrucov
’E/nrtSoicAsa,
tlarO’ Sea r fa , Sea r I f Sera t i levat brier*, &e.
All the things, that are upon the earth, and in
the air and water, may truly be called the works
of God, who ruleth over the world. Out of whom,
according to the physical Empedocles, proceed
all things that were, are, and shall be, viz. plants,
men, beasts and gods. Which notwithstanding
we conceive to be rather true as to Empedo­
cles’ sense than his words; he affirming, as it
seems, in that cited place, that all these things
were made, not immediately out of God, but out
of contention and friendship; because Simplicius,
who was furnished with a copy of Empedocles’s
poems, twice brings in that cited passage of his
in this connexion:
’E y S2 JtoTft) hifxotfa not avSi%a rarra viXcrrat,
2uy y t@n iv ^ ix S m rt not aXXnXoiee voQtTrat,
*E* roh ycL£ travB* S ee*"fa, S eea ri t e n , xcu ie re u ,
AtvSpa ti @t&Xeurri}XS} xcu avtptfwJi yw aX xtf,
©
ng«ffV, olosvoi ti, xcd vSaroB^ifjtfxovt^ IxfB t,
K«t ti diMSoXe^aioms rifjtnet ^fgiorw.
* Cap. vi. p. 863. tom. L opeivAristot. v
EMPEDOCLES. 2 6 9
Things are divided and segregated by contention,
but joined together by friendship; from which
two (contention and friendship) all that was, is,
and shall be, proceeds; as trees, men and wo­
men, beasts, birds and fishes; and, last of all,
the long-lived and honourable gods.—Where­
fore the sense of Empedocles’s words here was
this; that the whole created world, together with
all things belonging to it, viz. plants, beasts,
men and gods, was made from contention and
friendship. Nevertheless, since, according to Em­
pedocles, contention and friendship did them­
selves depend also upon one supreme Deity,
which he with Parmenides and Xenophanes call­
ed To ev, or the very one—
-the writer, De Mundo,
might well conclude, that, according to Em­
pedocles, all things whatsoever, and not only
men, but gods, were derived from one supreme
Deity. And that this was indeed Empedocles’s
sense, appears plainly from Aristotle in his
. Metaphysics, TiBvn /uv yap [’EpireSo^Xiic] ®
PX
T
*
VTlva
rn t Affopac t o vtuccx;, Sd£fte 8 av ovOtv tjtto v
, - U. in. o. it.
icai tovto ytwqtv *5 awrov row Jfc.voc* Airavra [p.295. tom.
yap cic t o v t o v r aXXa earl irXiJv o 0eoc' Xlyti *
T
*
S i Sr* r fa, Sr* r Sr* ▼
’Irrai Itrirr*, &c.
Empedocles makes contention to be a certain
principle of corruption and generation: never­
theless, he seems to generate this contention it­
self also from the very one (that is, from the su­
preme Deity). For all things, according to him,
are from this contention, God only excepted; he
writing after this manner, from which (that is,
contention and friendship) all the things that have
EMPPDOCLJBg.
*70
been, are, ,ao(i shall..be (plants, beA9tSt.BieR.Mid
gods), derived .their original,—For Empedocles
it .seems supposed** that were,it notlor v«i«*, dta*
cord pr, contention,.all,things would, be. one: so
that;, accordingto biro*, all things whatsoever,pro*-
qeeded from contention or discord* together with
& mixture of friendship, save, only the supreme
God, who hath, therefore no contention at all in
him*because be is essentially nl tv, unity itselfand
fripndehjp,~From ,whence Aristotle takes,occa?
sinn .to quarrel,with Empedocles, as if it would
follow from hia principles,, that the supreme and
most happy, God was the least wise ofall, as being
not able to know any thing besides himself, or in
M
et.uii. o. the world without him^ S*o\*au m/ifiatm
£& [;*£. ] ™ few. vttov <f>povtfiov
am t *rw
^> aXXoiv, a i . -yap yvwpIZu, ra aroiyjaa
wavra, to -yap"veucoc ij,Se yvufais rov o/totov rtf
OflOUp,. ►
retiy f+iv yfy (<piri) yeuav ofe&irafitfr, titan J*titatg, &c.
This therefore happens to Empedocles, that, ac­
cording to his principles, the most happy God ig
the least wise of all .other things, for he cannot
know the elements,, because he hath no con­
tention in him; all knowledge being by that,
which is like; himself writing thus: We, know
earth by earth, water by water, air by air, and
fire by fire; friendship by friendship, and coqten-
tioq by contention*—Bat to.let this pass; Empe­
docles here making the gods themselves to be
derived,,from, contention and friendship, thesu-
preme Deity, or most happy God, only excepted,
(who hath no contention in. him, and from whom
contention andfriendship themselves were derived)
plainly acknowledged both one unmade Deity, the
EMPEDOCLES. 2 7 1
original of all things under the name of toe
v
, the
very one—'and many other inferior gods, gene­
rated or produced by him; they being juniors to
contention, or discord, as this was also junior to
Unity, the first and supreme Deity. Which gods
of Empedocles, that were begotten from conten­
tion (as well as men and other things) were
doubtless the stars and demons.
Moreover, we may here observe, that, accord­
ing to Empedocles’s doctrine, the true original
of all the evil, both of human souls and demons
(which he supposed alike lapsable) was derived
from thatvcucoc, discord and contention, According to
that is necessarily contained in the na-lkat
tore of them, together with the ill use «i
«
v
m
cp-s&
of their liberty, both in this present and their
pre-existent state. So that Empedocles here trod
in the footsteps of Pythagoras, whose praises he
thus loudly sang forth in his poems;
*H v r iff *v xibwtr a r ig vriffiM ria P o r p h y r . d o
* O f M frfixurrw irptmton Ixrfttretro *Xcin*, 1 ^ 4 . ^ f e d ***
nmrciatv rt fAaKurt » owtfh Im fy a r o ff tyym, & o . C a n t a b , p . 3 5 .
ed. Koateri.]
Horum de numero quidam praestantia norat
Plurima, mentis opesamplassubpectore servans,
Omniavestiganssapientum docta reperta, &c.
xxii. Before we come to Socrates and Plato,
iive shall here take notice of some other Pytha­
goreans, and eminent philosophers, who clearly
asserted one supreme and universal Numen,
though doubtless acknowledging withal other
'inferior gods. Philo in his book De Mundi
Opificio, writing of the hebdomad or P.s3.
septenary number, and observing, that,oper^
according to the Pythagoreans, it was catted
both a motherless and a virgin number, because
272 PHIL0LAU9, ARCHYTAS, &C.
it'was (he only number Within the decad,' which
was neither generated, nor did itself generate,
tells us, that therefore it was made by them a
symbol of the supreme Deity, oi IIuflayopHoi tw
dptBfjtov tovtov tfcofUHovm rip qytfiovi rarv mifnravwv*
The Pythagoreans likened this number to the
Prince and Governor of all things, or the supreme
Monarch of the universe—as thinking it to bear a
resemblance of his immutability: which fancy of
theirs was taken notice of by us. However,
Philo hereupon occasionally cites this remark­
able testimony of Philolaus. the Pythagorean;
Eart yap, ijyqucuv kat apyiov aTravrwv o 0toc, QC
da wv, povtjuoc, dttwjroc* dvroc avrip ofunoc, mpo<
Tbtv dXXwv. God (saith he) is the Prince and
Ruler over all, always one, stable, immoveable,
like to himself, but unlike to every thing else.—
To which may be added what in Stobceus is
further recorded out Of the same Philolaus; n»
& 6 kocf/xoc auHvoCt Kal ag atwva Stapevti, ac O
tto evoe
E
ocl. phjs. T
<
“ w yytvtio km icpariirnt) Kvfitpvt&iuvos’ This
p. 4. world was from eternity, and will re­
main to eternity, one governed by one, which is
cognate and the best.—Where notwithstanding
he seemetb, with Ocellus, to maintain the world’s
pre-eternity. And again, Sid kcu kuXioc «
x«v tXtyt,
Koapov q/itv ivfpytutv aiSiov 0tiH
>rt /cat ytvtaiov' Where­
fore, said Philolaus, the world might well be
called the eternal energy or. effect of God, and of
successive generation.
Jamblichus, in his Protreptics, cites a passage .
out of Archytas, another Pythagorean,
C. ir. p. so. , J- rf .
to the sam e purpose ; ocrric avaXvaai oioc re
cure vavra ra yivsa v
tto fjuav re kcu avrav dpyav, ovrog Botcu
pot KaXav oKoiridv evpriKtvai, a<f ov Swarog eamirai tov
OCELLUS. 273
©wVK&
rojtuodai, &c. "Whosoever is able to reduce
all kinds of things under one and the same prin­
ciple, this man seems to me to have found out
an excellent specula, or high station, from whence
he. may be able to take a large view and prospect
of God, and of all other things; and he shall
clearly perceive, that God is the beginning and
end, and middle of all things, that are performed
according to justice and right reason.—Upon
which words ofArchytas, Jamblichus thus gloss-
eth : “ Archytas here declares the end of all theo­
logical speculation to be this, not to rest in many
principles, but to reduce all things under one and
the same head.” Adding, rotavnj iiriarnfinrowtvoc,
riXoc wri ramie 0£«w
pcac, that this knowledge of the
first Unity, the Original of all things, is the end
of all contemplation.—Moreover, Stoboeus cites
this out of Arcbytas’s book of principles, viz.
That besides matter and form, avay/taio-
i \ / \ t * t P k p .o z.
ri£>avnvaHfitvairiav, rav tavaaoiaavevecrrcuraiv
W
payfidrwv«rt rav juop^cw
, ravra St rav irparav Bvvd/ufi,
•cat KaO
virtpraravtt/tsv, dvo/ud&adac B
l Gcov,&C. There
is another more necessary cause, whioh moving,
brings the form to the matter; and that this is the
first and most powerful cause, which is fitly
called God. So that there are three principles,
God, matter, and form; God the artificer and
mover, and matter that which is moved, and form
the art introduced into the matter.—In which
same Stobean excerption, it also follows after­
ward, Set voy rt icpiaaov eivai, vdy- Si kptaaov tori
otnp ovopaC ppiv 0 eov‘ That there must be something
better than mind ; and that this thing better than
mind is that which we (properly) call God.
Ocellus also in the same Stoboeus thus writeth:
VOL. II. T
274 TIMJEUS LOCBUS.
P. S*. [lib. i. Ta flip oicavta fro*, rajirac 8' a&to*'
****” •] ' rpvya' rov $k Kott/nov appov'ia, ravrag ^ om*»
0 ©toe* rove y oaewe *at T®
C miXwc o/teovoea, ravrac 8
amo t vojuoc. Life contains the bodies of animals,
the cause of which life is the soul; concord
contains houses and cities, the cause of which
concord is law; and harmony contains the
whole world, the cause of which mundane har-
. mony is God.-r-And to the same pur­
pose Aristseus, wc o re-^vlrai trort rav rfy-
vav, owra»c ©toe m f ap/tmiav, as the artificer is to
art, so is God to the harmony of the world.—
-
There is also this passage in the same Stobceus
cited out of an anonymous Pythagorean: ©socpb
p .g coriv apx.0 Kat *y»«3wov, fftioc Be o jeon/uoc, p o d
is the principle, and the first thing; and
the world (though it be not the supreme God) yet
is it Pivine.
Timaeus Locrus, a Pythagorean senior to Plato,
in his book concerning Nature, or the Soul of the
world (upon which Plato’s Timaeus was but a
kind ofcommentary), plainly acknowledged both
one supreme God, the maker and governor of
the whole world, and also many other gods, his
creatures and subordinate ministers; in the close
thereof,* writing thus concerning the punishment
of wicked men after this life: avavra Be ravra lr
Bturtpq. ireptoBtp a Nepemc owBiixpive, <n)vBaifiotn.wakap-
wuoic \SovioK re, role eiroirriuc rwv avdpwvivutv’, ole o
iravrwv aye/iuv ©coc tirtrpeipe Bioucrpriv Koa/m enqurmrAs*
pufiewi «c 6t(Hv re Kai pvOptompv, rmv re aXXwv om
BeBapuwpyifrai tot tucova rav dpurrav uBeoc oyevdrw. n !
*Tim*us de Anima Mandi, p, 506. inter SeTiptor. mythologic.
* Tha.Galeeditos.
TIMJEUS LOCRUS. '275
tiiwviw’ All these things hath Nemesis decreed to
be executed in the second circuit by the ministry
of vindictive terrestrial demons, that are over­
seers of human affairs; to which demons that
supreme God, the ruler over all, hath committed
the government and administration of'the world.
Which world is completed and made up of gods,
men, and other animals, all created according to
the best pattern ofthe eternal and unmade idea.—
In which words of Timaeus there are these three
several points of the Pagan theology contained;
first, that there is one supreme God, eternal and
unmade, the creator and governor of the whole
world* and who made it according to the best
pattern or exemplar of. his own ideas and eternal
.wisdom. Secondly, that ,this world created by
God is compounded and made up of other in­
ferior gods, men, and brute animals. Thirdly,
that the supreme God hath committed the ad­
ministration of our human affairs to demons
and iuferior gods, who are constant inspectors
liver us, some of which he also makes use of for
the punishment of wicked men after this life.
Moreover, in this book of Timaeus Locrus the
supreme God is often called o 0*oe, and some­
times o Salfiwv, God in way of eminency ;—some­
times Nooc mind—sometimes / ayaOov, the very
Good—sometimes apya rwvapior<at>,the Principle of
the best things—
-sometimes Bapioupyog rov (3t\novoc,
the Maker of the better—(evil being supposed not
taproceed from him;) sometimes Kpanarov ainov,
the best and most powerful Cause—-sometimes
apyayoc K
tu. ysviriopavavrittv, the Prince and Parent
of all things.—Which God, according to him, is
not the soul of the world neither, but the creator
t 2
276 TlMiECS LOCBfJS.
thereof, he having made the world ah animal,
and a secondary generated god;* SqX
oupEvoc <
&
r
apiorovyevapairoutv, rovtov iirolti 8t6v •ytvaTov, o
v*o
k
a
<p8apt)<r6ptvoP vw aXX» tututi, eS,u t v aw
Tov trupTeraypivv
8tv, eiiroKO. SijX
cfo avrdv StaX
vctv* God willing to
make the world the best that it was capable of,
made it a generated god, such as should never
be destroyed by any other cause, bat only by
that God himself, who framed it, if he should
ever will to dissolve it. But since it is not the
part of that which is good to destroy the best of
works, the world will doubtless ever remain in*
corruptible and happy, the best of all generated
things, made by the best cause, looking not at
patterns artificially framed without him, but the
idea and intelligible essence, as the paradigms',
which whatsoever is made conformable to, must
needs be the best, and such as shall never need
to be mended.—Moreover, he plainly declares;
that this generated god of his, the world, was
produced in time, so as to have a beginning, xptv
vpavov ytvtaOai, \oy<p ISta re teat vka, Kai o 0eo<
dapiovpyos rod ftsXrlovof, before the heaven was
made, existed the idea, matter, and God the
opifex of the best.—Wherefore, whatever Ocellus
and Philolaus might do, yet this,Timaeus held
not the world’s eternity; wherein he followed not
only Pythagoras himself (as we have already
shewed) but also the generality of the first Py-
M e t.u . o. vii. thagoreans, of whom Aristotle pro*
f
v
P
'o^]°m
‘ nounces without exception, yevwmyap rd*
K
oapov, that they generated the world.— •
Timaeus indeed in this book seems to assert the
» P. 646.
TIMJSUS LOCRUS. 277
pre-eternity of the matter, as if it were a Self-
existent principle together with God; and yet
Clemens Alexandrinus cites a passage ^ ^
cat of him looking another way, dXX eoiTpJrvi.
• ___t t f • \ \ * edit. Potteri.
Hvrucpvg Kat piav apyrjv km wap r*AA«yvci>v
tucovaai 7TO064C; Tipatog o AoKpog iv Tip <
f>
v<
ructp trvyypap-
p a n Kara \i£iv pot fiaprvpqm. Mia apya iravntjv
coriy ayevrrrog, u yap eyevero, owe av iyy tn dpya, nAA ciccwa
op^a, t$.«c iyivero1 Would you hear of one only
principle of all things amongst the Greeks ? Ti-
mteus Locrus, in his book of Nature, will hear no
witness thereof; he there in express words writ­
ing thus: There is one principle of all things un­
made; for if it were made, it would not be a
principle, hut that would be the principle, from
whence it was made.—
-Thus we see, that Timaeus
Locrus asserted one eternal and unmade God,
the maker of the whole world, and besides this,
another generated god, the world itself animated,
with its several parts; the difference betwixt
■both which gods is thus declared by him :a 0 to v
' &, row ptv aiMviov vooc opr} /uovo?, rwv dwavruv dp-
y^aydv Kal yeviropa tovtcidv, row Be yevarov oif/ei opioptQ,
Kwrfiov 81 rovSe, Kal ra pipa avrw oicoaa wpdvw ivrl.
That eternal God, who is the prince, original,
and parent of all these things, is seep only by
the mind; hut the other generated god is visible
to our eyes, viz, this world, and those parts
of it which are heavenly;—that is, the stars, as
so many particular gods contained in it. But
here it is to he observed, that the eternal God
is not only so called by Timaeus, as being withr
Out beginning, but also as having a distinct
» P. 640.
2 7 8 tfNAros.
P. 233.
kind of duration from that of time, which is pro­
perly .called 'JEon, or Eternity,.he therein,follow­
ing Parmenides, eIk o I v $ 1 t o r i ra > dytvdrto yg d w , ov
a’
nivaworayopevofitg" tig ydpwor' a’iStav TrdpaSuyjua tov
iSavucov Koa/uov oSe tipavog tyevaffy, ovrwg tog irpdg
irapaStiypa rov alwva oSe ypovog ovv icoopy iBapiovpyyBo'
Time is bat an image of that unmade, duration,
which we call eternity: wherefore, as this sensible
world'was made according to that exemplar or
pattern of the intelligible world', so was time
made together with the world, as an imitation
of eternity.
It hath been already observed, that
Onatus, another Pythagorean, took no­
tice of an opinion o f some in.his time, that there
was one only God, who comprehended the whole
world, and no other gods besides, or a t least,
none such as was to be religiously worshipped;
himself in the mean time asserting, that there
was both one God and many gods; or, besides
one supreme and universal Numen, many other
inferior and particular deities, to whom also men
ought to pay religious worship. Now his fur­
ther account of both these assertions is contained
stob. Ecir. iQthese following w ords: to! 8e Xeyovrtg
Bhjs. p. 5. |va Q
tov itfiev, aXXa fiy woWtUg dftaprdmvn’ to
•yap ptyurrov ai-tw/ua ryg Btiag VTrepOyrjg ov ainiBtopovm'
Xeyoi Ss to apytv K
alKaOyyesadat rwv ojuotcw, K
al K'pdrtorov
Kal KaBvwiprtpov' iifitv rtov aXXwv* rol S’ aXXot deal wort
rov irporov K
al v
o
ijtov oV
ra>
e e^ovti toowep ^opeuru wort
Kopwpalov, K
al orparlwra wort orparayov, K
al \o yira , Kal
ivnrctyph/oi wort ra^iapyav K
al Xo^ayerav, e
t
^o
v
t
e tjivmv,
twtoOai K
ai tiraKoXovBiiv r a KaXwg KaOyytofievtp. .k
o
iv
o
v
fitv tw
v avraiv .to tpyov arri, K
al tw apyovri, Kai t w v
apyofxivwv, aXX’ o
v
k
e
t
e BvvavToovvrerd\Bttt t
o
! apyopevot
0NATU6. 279
wort r o ip y o v , a ir o X tifO tv n e d y tjto v o c ' wnrep ovS* y o p tv -
rcu irort owaiStav, ouSt a r p a r tw r a i wort a r p a r tiy la v , ajro-
X*if Q iv r te a y tf iovo£, rot fitv a r p a r a y u , rot SI K o p vfa lu t’
They who maintain, that there is only one God,
and not many gods, are very much mistaken, as
not considering aright, what the diguity and
majesty of the Divine transcendency chiefly con-
sisteth iu, namely, in ruling and governing those
which are like to it (that is, gods) and in excel­
ling or surmounting others, and being superior to
them. Bat all those other gods Which we con­
tend for, are to that first and intelligible God but
as the dancers to the Coryphaeus or Choragus,
and as the inferior common soldiers to the captain
or general; to whom it properly belongeth, to fol­
low and comply with their leader and command­
er. The work indeed is common, or the same
to them both, to the ruler, and them that are
ruled; but they that are ruled could not orderly
conspire and agree together into one Work, were
they destitute of a leader; as the singers and
dancers could not conspire together into one
dance and harmony, were they destitute of a Co­
ryphaeus; norsoldiers make up one orderly army,
were they without a captain or commander.
And asthesupremeGod ishere called byOnatus
the Coryphaeusofthe gods, sois he in like manner
by the writer De Mundo* styled the Coryphaeus of
the world, or the Praecentor and Praesultor of it,
tathese words: KaO
am
ptv \ofxo, Koovipalov <cardp£avroc,
amtirnyil tciq o yopoc; avSfwv, toff art jcai yuvaucaiv, ev
$un+6pote 4
>
<
o
v
acc o£vr*patc xal (3apvrkpcug, filav dp/iovlav
ippskii KtpavvvvTm>
*o
v
t
o
)C i\u k
c
l
i km rov to tri/jurav
» Cap. vi. p,861, 802. tom. i. oper. Aristotcl.
280 EUCL1UES.
Stbrovroc Oeov’ Kara yap to avu>0ev iv B o & tp o v viro row
tfitpwvvpwq av Kopvipaiov npoaayopivOtvroq, Kivurai piv
ra aarpa atl Kai o avfnraq oopavoc' As in a cho-
rus, when the Coryphaeus or Praecentor hath
begun, the whole choir compounded of men, and
sometimes of women too, followeth, singing every
one their part, some in higher and some in lower
notes, but all mingling together into one complete
harmony; so in the world God, as the Cory­
phaeus, the Praecentor and Praesultor, beginning
the dance and music, the stars and heavens move
round after him, according to those numbers and
measures which he prescribes them, altogether
making up one most excellent harmony.
It was also befores observed, that Ecphantus
the Pythagorean, and Archelaus the successor of
p 2g Anaxagoras (who were both of them
Atomists in their physiology) did assert
the world to have been made at first, and still to be
governed by one Divine mind; which is more than
some Atomists of ours in this present age, who
notwithstanding pretend to be very good Theists,
will acknowledge. We shall, in the next place,
mention Euclides Megarensis, the head of that
sect called Megaric, and who is said to have been
Plato's master for some time after Socrates’s
death; whose doctrine is thus set down by Laer­
tius :b owroc ev to ayaOov airtfalvtro, iroXXoic ovopaan k
o
-
\ovpivov' ori ptv yap 4>povijmv, ore 0 eov, mu aXXore
Nouv, Kai ra \onrd. t o Se dvructlptva rw 'AyaOy avrjpa, /ay
elvai$curK
b>
v‘ Which we understand thus: That Eu­
clides (who followed Xenophanes and Parmeni­
des) made the first principle ofall things to be one
* Cap. i. §. xxvi; b Lib. ii. segm. cvi. p. 14%
ANTISTHENES. 281
the very Good, dalled sometimes Wisdom, some­
times God, sometimes Mind, and sometimes by
other names; bat that he took away all that is op­
posite to good, denying it to have any real entity—
that is, he maintained, that there was no positive
nature of evil, or that evil was no principle. And
thus do we also understand that of Cicero,* when
he represents the doctrine of the Megarics after
this manner, “ Id bonum soluoi esse, quod esset
Unum, et Simile, et Idem, et Semper;” to wit,
that they- spake this concerning God, That good
or goodness itself is a name properly belonging to
hint, who is also one, and like, and the same,.
and always; and that the true good of man con-
sisteth in a participation of, and conformity with
this first Good. Which doctrine Plato seems to
have derived from him, he in like manner calling
the supreme Deity by those two names, ™
>tv and
r ayadov, the One and the Good, and concluding
true human felicity to consist in a participation
of the first Good, or of the Divine Nature.
In the next place we shall take notice of An-
tisthenes, who was the founder also of another
sect, to wit, the Cynic; for be, in a certain phy­
siological treatise, is said to have af-
firmed, “ Esse populares deos multos, D
.°i.i.6
[<
^p.
sed naturalem u n u m T h a t though
there were many popular gods, yet there was but
one natural God—or, as it is expressed in Lac-
tantius, “ Unum esse naturalem Deum, quamvis
gentes et urbes suos habeant popularesDeIraD0xi
That there was but one natural God,
though nations and cities had their several popular
* Academ. Quaest. lib. iv. cap. xlii. p. 2325. tom. viii. oper.
282 ANTISTHENES.
ones.-*—
Wherefore Velleius the Epicurean in Ci­
cero‘quarrels with this Antisthenes, as one, who
destroyed the natureofthegods,because he denied -
a multitude of independent deities, such as Epi­
curus pretended to assert. For this of Antis-
thenes is not so to be understood, as if he had
therein designed to take away all;the inferior gods
of the Pagans, which had be atall attempted, he
would doubtless have been accounted an Atheist,
as well as Anaxagoras was; but his meaning was,
only to interpret the theology of tbe Pagans con­
cerning those other gods of theirs, that were or
might be looked upon as absolute and indepen­
dent ; that these, though many popular gods, yet
indeed were but one and the same natural God,
called by several names; As for example, when
the Greeks worshipped Zeus, the Latins Jovis,
the Egyptians Hammon, tbe Babylonians Bel, the
Scythians Pappseus; these were indeed many
popular gods, and yet nevertheless all but one
and the same natural God. So again, when in
the self-same Pagan cities and countries, the re­
spective laws thereof made mention of several
gods, as supreme and absolute in their several
territories, as Jupiter in the heavens, Juno in the
air, Neptune in the sea; or as being chief in se­
veral kind of functions, as Minerva for learning,
Bellona for war, &c. (for this Aristotle takes no­
tice of in his book against Zeno,b Kara rov vopov,
iroXXa KpuTTovg aXXtjXwv oi (hoi, That according to ‘
the laws of cities and countries, one god wag
best for one thing, and another for another)—
^
* De Natur. Deor. lib. i. cap. xiii. p. 2898. torn. ix. oper.
b Cap. iv. p. 782. tom. ii. oper.
DIOGENES SINOPENSIS. 283
Antisthenes here declared concerning these also,
that they were indeed many popular, or civil
gods, but all really one and the same natural
God.
To Antisthenes might be added Diogenes Sino-
pensis, of whom it is recorded by Laertius,* that
observing a woman too superstitiously worship­
ping the statue or image of a god, endeavouring
to abate her superstition, be thus bespake her;
ovk tvXafiri, <
3yvvat,- fir\ wort 0tov oirlodtv wrdlroc (trivra
y ip amv avrov jrXtjprj) aaynf*oviarK? Take you not
Care, O woman, of not behaving yourself un­
seemly in the sight of that God who stands be­
hind you; for all things are full of him—thereby
giving her occasion, more to mind and regard that
supreme and universal Numen, that filleth the
whole world and is every where.
xxm . It hath been frequently affirmed, that
Soorates died a martyr for one only God, in op­
position to those many gods of the Pagans: and
Tertullian/ for one, writeth thus of him, “ Prop-
terea damnatus est Socrates, quia deos destrue-
"batS ocrates was therefore condemned to die,
because he destroyedthegods.—And, indeed, that
Socrates asserted one supreme God, the maker
and governor of the whole world, is a thing not
at all to be doubted. In his discourse with
Aristodemus, in Xenophon’s first book of Me­
moirs/ he convinced him, that the things of this
world were not made by chance, but by mind
and counsel; ovrw yt atcoirovfdvip iravv tones ravra
* Lib. \i. segm. xxxvii. p.333.
b In Apologet. cap. xiv. p. 144. edit. Havercamp.
* P. 573. opcr. These words are not Socrates’s to Aristodemus,
but Aristodemus’s to Socrates.
284 SOCRATES.
ao<f>ov nvog Stipiovpyov, icat ftXo&uov rtymifum, I Pin
now convinced from what you say, that the things
of this world were the workmanship of some
wise artificer, who also was a lover of animals.—
• And so he endeavoured to persuade him, that
that mind and understanding, which is in us, was
derived from some mind and understanding in
the universe, as well as that earth and water,
which is in us, from the earth and water of the
universe I* <
n
5 ocavrov <j>povipovri Soxtig c^ciV
) aXXoffi
fie ovSapov ovSiv (ppovtpov tlvat, tlStvg on yne re juacpov
pipog tv r<
j> atipan iroXAijc ov<nie «X«C, Ktu vypow (3payy,
-iroWov ovrog, Kal tuv •XXorV'Sijirov ptyaXtvv ovruv scafnw
pucpov pipog Xafidvn to owqppoorai aoi; votlv Si povov
Apa ovSapov ovra as svrvywg irtog SoKtlg awapiraam J
Do you think that you only have wisdom in your*
self, and that there is none any where else in the
whole world without you ? though you know that
you have but a small part in your body of that
vast quantity ofearth which is without you.; and
but little of that water and fire, and so of every
other thing, that your body is compounded of,
in respect of that great mass and magazine of
them, which is in the world. Is mind aud un­
derstanding therefore the only thing, which you
fancy you have, some way or other, luckily got
and snatched unto yourself, whilst there is no
such thing any where in the world without you;
all those infinite things thereof being thus orderly
disposed by chance?—And when Aristodemus
afterward objected, that he could not see any
artificer that made the world, as he could those
artificers which made all other human things,
* P. 574.
SOCRATES. 285
Socrates thus replies: wSI -yap rrjv crcavrov <
tiye
'h'xnv opqg, i\ rov <T(ifxaroQ tcvpla iariv* (o<rre Kara ye rovro
H&rrl aot XiytiVf on ooSi ymifirj aXXa tvy^ jravra irparrac*
Neither do you see yoar own soul, which rules
over your body; so that you might for the same
reason conclude yourself to do nothing by mind
and understanding neither, but all by chance, as
well as that all things in the world are done by
chance.—Again, when he further disputed in this
manner against the necessity of worshipping the
Deity ; ov^( vvtpoput to Saifioviov, J SwKpartc, aXX’
ixuvov ptyaXoirptviortpov liyaupat, i?a>
crnc *juiCOtfxnnlat;
irpooSeiodaC I despise not the Deity, O Socrates,
but think him to be a more magnificent Being
than that he should stand in need of my worship
of him:—Socrates again answers, o
o
<
pfitydkoirptiri-
■
orcpov a£toc <r£ Qcpcnnvtiv, rooovrip /uaXXov ript/riov avro'
How much the more magnificent and illustrious
that Being is, which takes care of you, so much
the more, in all reason, ought it to be honoured
by you.—-Lastly, Aristodemus discovering his dis­
belief of Providence, as a thing, which seemed to
him incredible, if not impossible, that one and
the same Deity should be able to mind all things
at once, Socrates endeavours to cure this disbe­
lief of his in this manner:* w ayaOk, fcara/LiaOe, on
xal 6 (Tog vovg kv<ov to oov owfia omog fiovXerai fttrayeipl-
£erae* oleaOai ovv ypij Kal njv ev iravrl (ppovrjmv ro 7rovra
oirtog av avTr} iJSv y out(o rlOeaOai* Kal firi to oov fikv Ofifia
SvvaaOai, km w o \\a trraSia kl^ucvtiodai, rov 8k rov Oeov
o(pOaXfiov a8vvarov uvai ajma iravra opqv. Consider,
friend, I pray yon, if that mind, which is in
your body, does order and dispose it every
a P. 575,
.SOCRATES.
286
way as it pleases; why,should not that wisdom,
which is in the universe, be able to order all
things therein a)so, as seemeth best to it? And if
your eye can, discern things several miles distant
from it, why thould it be thought impossible for
the eye of God to behold all things at once?
Lastly, if your soul cap mind things both here and
in. Egypt, and in -Sicily; why may not the great
mind or wisdom of God be able to take care of
all things, in all places ?—And then he concludes,
that jf Aristodemus would diligently apply him­
self to the worship of God, he should at length
be convinced, ore tooovtov Kal rotovrov lore to O
uov,
«itoff a/ia Trdvra opfv, cat iravra okovuv, km travra^ov
ra p tira i, Kal a/ua itavruv nrifuXtiaAu* That God i8
such and so great a Being, as that he can, at
once, see all things, and hear all things, and be
present every where, and take care of all affairs.
—Moreover, Socrates, in his discourse with Eu-
thydemus, in Xenophon’s fourth book, speaks
thus, concerning that invisible Deity, which go­
verns the whole world ;* ol yap dXXot (hot ,i)p.lv ri
iy a B a SiSovtec, ouSev touteov tic to z[x<j>avtg tovrec StSdaoti*,
cat o rov oXov cdo/tov awTarfiov r t cat tn w t'p v , ev ^>
trdvra caXa cat ayaBa sort, &C. ovrog ra p iy u tra fiiv
v p a rrw v oparat, toSe oiKovoptov aoparog v/xiv ta rtv' iwott
cat o tram (pavtpdg Sokmv ttvat viXiog, ovc hrtrphrtt rote
dyBptdnoig tavrov aKpi(5wg oppv, a’XX’ eav rig avrov
dvaiSajg E-y^sipp BtaaBai, rqv oxpiv aipaipurai' The Other
gods giving us good things, do it without vi­
sibly appearing to us; and that God, who fram­
ed and contained^ the whole world (in which
are all good and excellent things) and who con-
f P. 633.
■SOCRATES. 287
tidually supplietb us with them, he, though he be
seen to do the greatest things of all, yet notwith­
standing is himselfinvisible and unseen. Which
ought the less to be wondered at by us, because the
sun, who seemeth manifest to all, yet will not suffer
himself to be exactly and distinctly viewed, but
if any one boldly and impudently gaze upon him,
will deprive him of his sight: as also because the
soul of man, which most of all things in him par-
taketh of the Deity, though it be that which
manifestly rules and reigns in us, yet is it never
8een: a t) Karovoovvra fir} Karcuppoveiv tujv aoparwv,
«XA’ a t rwv yivofiivotv tijv Svvajutv avrov tcara/uavdavpvra,
vtfiav ro Satjuovtov* Which particulars he that con­
siders, ought not to despise invisible things, but
to honour the supreme Deity, taking notice of
bis power from his effects. Where we have to
feupovtov, as also before to 0 « o v, plainly put for
the supreme Deity. And we did the rather set
down these passages of Socrates here, concern­
ing God and Providence, that we might shame
those, who, in these latter days of ours, are so
atheistically inclined, if at least they have any
•pudor or shame left in them.
But, notwithstanding Socrates’s thus clear ac­
knowledging one supreme and universal Numen,
if doth not therefore follow, that he rejected all
those other inferior gods of the Pagans, as is com­
monly conceived. But the contrary thereunto
appeareth from these very passages of his now
cited, wherein there is mention made of other
gods besides the supreme. And how conformable
Socrates was to the Pagan religion aud worship,
may appear from those last dying words of his,
288 SOCRATES.
(when he should be most serious,) after he had
drunk the poison, wherein he required his friends
to offer a votive cock for him to JEsculapiud; for
Coat. cd«. which Origen thus perstringeth him,
I.ix. p. m . rr)\ucavra <j>i\oao<j>TioavTt(; rijc
Kal ri)v &a-ya>yqv tjjc KaXwg f3ef3iwKvlag Sie£eX0ovtec, tea*
raXtTrovTSC to fisytOog w v aurolc o 0 eo« iipavipwatv, tvreXq
<j>povovai (coi a[u k pa, aXsicrpvova rip ’AoicXriirup airoStSovrec*
And they, who had philosophised so excellently
concerning the soul, and discoursed concerning
the happiness of the future state to those who
live well, do afterward sink down from these
great, high, and noble things, to a superstitious
regard of little, small, and trifling matters, such
as the paying of a cock to Aesculapius.—Where,
notwithstanding, Origen doth not charge Socrates
with such gross and downright idolatry, as he
does elsewhere,* for his sacrificing to the Pythian
Apollo, who was but an inferior demon. And
perhaps some may excuse Socrates here, as think­
ing, that he looked upon JEsculapius no other­
wise than as the supreme Deity, called by that
name, as exercising his providence over the sick­
ness and health or recovery of men, and that
therefore he would have an eucharistic sacrifice
offered to him in his behalf, as having now cured
him, at once, of all diseases by death. -How­
ever Platob informs us, that Socrates, imme­
diately before he drunk his poison, did eSx’
^m foic
0EO(£, Tljv JU
E
T
O
(K
t}(T
tVTIJV EV0SV& E
K
E
U
JEE
VTV^rj E
iV
C
U
* p ray
(not to God, but to the gods, that is, to the su­
preme and inferior gods both together, as in
a Vide Orig. advers. Celsura, lib. vii. p. 335.
b In Phaedone, p. 402. oper.
Real accusation a g a in st socrates. 289
Plato’s Phaedrus he did to Pan, aod the other,
tutelar gods of that place) that his translation
from hence into the other World might be happy?
to him. And Xenophon, in his Memoim," in­
forms t>
8»that Socrates did, both in his words and'
practice,, approve of that doctrine of the Pythian:
Aipollo, That the rule of piety and religion Ought<
x
to be.the law ofevery particular city andco’untry,
he.,affirming it to boa vanity for any man to be'
singular herein.. Lastly, in bis own apology, as
written by Plato, he professes to acknowledge
the sun, moon and stars for gods; condemning*
the contrary doctrine of Anaxagoras, as irrational -
and:absurd. Wherefore we may well conclude:
this opinion, of Socrates’s being condemned for
denying the many gods of the Pagans/ or of his
being a.martyr for one only God, td be nothing
but a vulgar error.
But if you therefore demand, what that accu­
sation ofimpiety really was, which be was charged,
with, Socrates himself, in Plato’s Euthyphro,.will;
inform you, that it was for his free and. open com:
demning those traditions concerning the gods,
wherein wicked,- dishonest and unjust actions
were imputed; to -them. For when fiuthyphro,'
haying accused his own father-as guilty of murder*
(merely, for committing a homicide into prison,
who happened to die there) would justify hhm-
sejlf. from the examples of the gods, nimeiy Ju­
piter and Saturn, because Jupiter, the best and:
jdatest of the gods, had committed his. father
Saturn to prison for devouring his sods, as Sa-*
torn himself also had castrated hi&father Ceeliiis
* Lib. iy. p,634. optr.
VOL. II. V
f
cP.49.
290 PLATO A REAL POLYTHEIST.
for some. miscarriage* of his, Socrates thus be-i
, speaks him ;a*A
p«-y<, <
2Ew&^pov, to
u
t tonv ol tvtKa
ti)ii ypo-tpi^v -feuyti, 6ri -nt rotav+a llrttSiv rfe- irtpt ruv ■
Oeuv Svo^tptif rfoUf airqSixOfiat, &C. I b DOt-
this the very things O Euthyphro, for which I
am accused ?- namely, because when I hear any:
one affirming such matters as these concerning the
gods, I am very-loath to believe them* and stick
not publicly to declare my dislike of them? And*
can .you, Q Euthyphro,- in good earnest think,
that there are indeed wars and contentions among
the gods, and that those other things were also’
done by them, which poets and painters coin-1
monly impute to them? such as the peplum or:
veil of Minerva, which in the Panatbenaics is with;
great pomp and ceremony brought into the acre*
polis, is embroidered, all over with ?—Thus we
see, that Socrates, though he asserted one sttJ
preme Deity, yet be acknowledged, notwithstand­
ing, -other inferior created gods, together with
the restof the Pagans, honouring and worshipping
them; only he disliked those poetic fables con-1
cerning them (believed at that time by the vulgar,)1
in which all. manner of unjust and immoral- ac­
tions were fathered on them; which, .together
with the envy of many, was the only true rea­
son, why he was then accused of impiety and
Atheism.
It hath been also affirmed by many, that Plato
really asserted one only God and no more, and
that therefore, whensoever he speaks of gods.
pluraUy, he must be understood to have done
this, net according to his own judgment, but only
* P- 49.
PLATO A BEAL POLYTHEIST. 281
ill ftway of politic compliance with the Athenians,
and for fear of being made to drink, poison in like
manner as Socrates was. In confirmation of
Which opinion, there is also a passage cited oat
of that thirteenth epistle of Plato's to Dionysius,
wherein he gives this as a mark, whereby his se­
rious epistles, and such as were written according
to the true sense of his own mind, might by bis
Mends be distinguished from those which were
O therw ise ; rve ftkv yip <nro»&ua<; hnoroXifc ©«4r "PX*»
tW Si ijrrw* When I begin my epistles .with
God, then may you conclude I write seriously;
butnot so when I begin with gods.—And ^
Ibis place seems to be therefore the more
authentic, becauaeit waa long since pro- p‘
duced by Eusebius to this very purpose, namely,
to prove, that Plato acknowledged one only God t
&»Xoc $ earn tua 0 h>
i^wSmc, it icat auvif0<nf ”EXXw*» rif
T W H irXft o w w p tlo iv B t ^ p q v f i a t v p a a ir y a p la , Kxu «»R1 r y e n p * C
enoroXic, *v p wpfivX*, &§avc» *•»* rt 8t»
mwouSrjf; mnp ypa^optuoniy ical muv aXXuK airippipplmm’
f t is manifest, that Plato: really acknowledged
one only God, however, in compliance with the
language of the Greeks, he often spake of gods
plurally, from that epistle of his to Dionysius,
Wherein be gives this symbol or mark, whereby
ha might be knowa to write seriously, namely,
when bft began bis. epistles with God, and not
with gods.
Notwithstanding which, we have already mani-
fosted,.out of Plato’s Timxus, that he did in. good
etftftast assert a plurality of gods; by which gods
of his. are to be anderstood animated cur intelleoi
tual beings superior to men, to whom there is an
honour and worship* from men due; he therein
v 2
302 PLATO A. REAL- POLVTHEIKT.
declaring, not only the sun; and itartf,
p. 40. S er. a ] g 0 { ( ] e e a r ^ itself (as animated)tO
be a £od or goddess. For though it be now read
in our copies irpca/3vrarqv owfiamni, that the earth
was the oldest of all the bodies within the hea-
Tens’;—yet it is certain, that anciently it was read
otherwise, 7 r p « r / 3 u r d r i f v 0 e u v , the oldest ofthe gods—
not only from Proclus and Cicero, but also from
Laertius *writing thus: yijv St wptafivraniv /u2v ttvat
w v tv rw ovpawf Qiwv, ytvtaBat. St Sqjutoupyqjua, wc v w ra
muijf^pav wouat, ovaav S’ tiri to
uft&oov, nwuftn flrept-rd
pbmv' Though Plato’s gods were for -the most part
fiery yet did he suppose the earth to be a god or
goddess too, affirming it to be the oldest ofall the
gods within the heavens, made or created to distin­
guish day and night, by its diurnal circumgyration
upon its own axis, in the middle or centre of the
world.—For Plato, when he wrote his Timsus,
acknowledged only the diurnal motion of the
earth, though afterwards he is said to have ad­
mitted its annual too. And the same might be
further evinced from all his other writings, but
especially his book of Laws (together with his
Epinomis) said to have been written-by him in bis
old age, in which he much insists upon the god-
ships of the sun, moon and stars; and complains,1
that the young gentlemen of Athens were then so
much infected with that Anaxagorean doctrine,
which made them to be nothing but inanimate
stones and earth; as also be approves of that then
vulgarly-received custom of worshipping the ri-»
sing and setting sun and moon, as gods, to which,'
in all probability, he conformed himself: 'AvarA-
* III. wgm. 75. p.21l.
PLAT© 'ALSO A MONARCHIST. 2fl8
Xtttiroc rc rjXtou kcu (rsXnvifC, icalxpoc Svcrfiag
ioytow, TrpoaicvXioeiQ apa ical irpomcuvtftrac ’EX- op.]
Xywv to icai Bapj3apoiv ^ravraiv, ci; <rvfjL<popaiQ
vdvrolaig eypfumw ical ev tvwpayiaig, log on fiakiara
Q
vr<*rt>, ical ovSafiri vnoxfnav lu&Sovrwv tug ovic «<n Otoi.
The prostrations and adorations, that are used
bothby theGreeks and all Barbarians, towards the
rising and setting sun and uioon (as well in tbeir
prosperities as adversities), declare them to be un­
questionably esteemed gods.—Wherefore we can­
not otherwise conclude; but that this thirteenth
epistle of Plato to Dionysius, though extant, it
seems, before' Eusebius’s time, yet was supposi­
titious and counterfeit by some zealous but igno­
rant Christian: as there is accordingly a No&vtrai;
or brand of bastardy, prefixed to it in all the edi­
tions of Plato’s works. ' • •
-. -However, though Plato acknowledged and
Worshipped many gods, yet is-it undeniably evi­
dent, that he was no Polyarcbist, but a Monar­
chist,-. an assertor of One supreme God, the only
tohafwc,' or. self-originated Being—the maker of
the*heaven and earth, and of all thoSe other gods.
For, first,- it is.plain,- that, according to Plato,
the soul-of the whole world was not itself eternal,
much less self-existent, but made or produced'by
God in?time, though indeed before its body, the
world, from,these words of his; njv \(n>yijv
. . - . , . * - v,. r
f . Pl»t- Tim
- P
-
©¥)£ 0g yvv vartpav emytipovfitv Asyeiv, ovrcog 34. [p.528.
qitljfavqaaro ical 6 0eoc vewrepav, o &
e #cal oper*
J
yejififfH Kai apery irporipav ical irptafiirrefniv xpv^riv adfiarog,
&
E
o
r7roTiv kcu>ap^ovaav ap^opevov truvaariftroro* G oii
did pot fabricate or make the soul of.the world,
pv the same order that we now treat concern-^
S i PXtAfO ALSO * U M IA 1C H IT .
ing it, that is, after it, as junior to it; bat that,
vliidi was to rale over the world, as its body,
being more excellent, he made it tint, and senior
to the same.—Upon which account Aristotle
quarrels with Plato as contradicting himself, in
that he affirmed the soul to be a principle, and
yet supposed it not to be eternal, bat made toge*
M
et ther with the heaven: «XX« pqv ov& IIX&
rwv*7* °*®VT£X*7 «», t|v oieratapxvv cm urw or*
opet-.] anro iavto Kivoiv, wrrepov yap km ifta tw
pmvyi fayti' Neither is it possible for Plato here
to extricate himself, wlto sometimes declares the
soul to be a principle, as that which mores itself,
and yetaffirms it again not to be eternal, bat mode
together with the heaven.—For which cause some
Piatonists conclude, that Plato asserted a doable
Psyche, oner the third hypostasis of his trinity,
and eternal; the other created in time, together
with the world, which seems to be a probable
opinion. Wherefore, since, according to PJato,
the soul of the world, which iBthe chief of all
his inferior gods, was not self-existent, but made
.or produced by God in time, all those other gods
of his, which were bat parts of the world, as
the sun, moon, stars and demons, must needs be
so too. But, lest any should suspect, that Plato
might, for all that, suppose the world and its
gods not to have been madejby one only unmade
God, but by a multitude of co-ordinate, self-ex­
istent principles, or deities'conspiring; we ska!
observe, that the contrary hereunto is plainly dv
dared by him, in way of answer to that quer
whether or no there were many and infini
worlds, (as some philosophers had maintained
pl a t o ’s one god se lf-m a d e. Sflfi
or only one ? he resolving it thus, •xonpmotv 6}A*c
jwaotyMvoyTpotitficamr,i?woAAwcw
»iivtfpouc ^ ^ 31 .
M?ftv opS6rfpov; fvd, Hvtp norm rb Kn^ir O
p-'S
H
7*.
jSOyjua £t£*yM
O
t>
p7 >
yu*'O
Clot«' rit yip tipttxpv *
*
'*
' Kam\
■
W
qvrabr6amvoqra&ya, puff eripevStvrtpw «w
csv ifarcur,
htt w»riSt learinjvpbvt^aiv,ofiotovfryTavriktl
IW
» rath-*oSrt &
5o, plur’airffyovc btolvnt &
nivv *
o
<
x
/»
0
¥
C
»
jW
U
’tlf povayfvw avpavbf ytyavit, tan ri teal tatrat.
Whether hove we rightly affirmed, that there is
Only one heaven, (or world) or is it more agteea-
Jhle to reason, to hold many or infinite? We say
(there is but one;’if it he made agreeable:to its in­
tellectual paradigm, containing the ideas of all
animal8 and other things in it ; for there can be
hot one archetypal animal, which is the paradigm
Of all created beings: wherefore, that theworld
«Say agree with its paradigms in this respect of
solitude of oneliness, therefore it it not two, nor
infinite, but one only begotten,—His meaning is,
tfwt there is but one archetypal Mind,- the Dewi-
'prgos, or maker of all things that were produced,
and therefore but one. world,
r And this one God, which, according to Plato,
fsas the maker of the whole world, is frequently
called by him, in his Timaeus and elsewhere, 6
jB^c, God, or the God—by way. of excellency;
pproetimes o the Architect Or Artificer
of the world;—sometimes »IJotqnic*«£fiani^ rou&
W vsvrac, the Maker and Father of this uni-
yerse-t—
whom it is bard to find out, but impos­
sible to declare to tbe vulgar: again,.6«rl *a<
fiB*oc,
■
ithe God over a l l m ^wwc wwnfci the Creator
Ofoature—Tawwpvr&c the solePrincipleefthe
universe—t
t
avrwv Ainov, the Cause of all things—
No»c fiamXtix, Mind, the King ofall things—
396 pla to ’s o ne cod help-m ade.
avTO
K
p&
nap,xarrwxo&
fiwv, Sui xavrwvlii»,thst Sove-
rejgp Mind, which orders alI things, and passes
through all things—
-r«wswric Kv&tpvirnK, the Go­
vernor of the whole—rb5v«j, yivtmvdiohct%
pv, that
which always is, and was never made—bwpQeoi
0eo?, the first God—
-4|«#ywrts)A«(fMiw, and bfdytaT
O
C
the greatest God, and the greatest of the
gods-—
6IXow ^EndMc, he that generated or pro*-
daced the son—
r6 yfr; oipmbv, «A •adc,
■ *?l,l koI nifaira 'r i tv ovpovy cal r i tv $$ov, ca2 t i t
&mra Iftyt&nU) lie that makes earth, add hea­
ven, and the gods; and doth all things, both in
heaven and hell, and under the earth—again, he
by whose efficiency the1
things of the world fartpov
‘inSophut. at7t««To, vprfrtpovwc ovra, were afterwards
i[p;168.] made whenthey werenot before; orfirom
an antecedent non-existence brought forth into
being.—'This philosopher somewhere intimating,
that it was as easy for God to1
produce those real
tilings, the son, moon, stars and earth, &c. Troth
himself, as it is for us to produce the images of
purselves and whatsoever else we please; only by
interposing a looking-glass. Lastly, he is called
n. Eep.1
.x. bciravrarare aXAaIpyaZirai,«
ca
Jeavriv, he that
.[p. d^i.] causeth or prodnceth both all other
things, and even himself—the meaning whereof is
this: he, that is avro^vfo; (as the same Plato als6
calls him), a self-originated Being, and from •no
other canse besides himself, bat the cause of all
other things.—Neither- doth Laotaotius Firmi-
anus “ himself refuse to speak of God after this
very manner; as ipsutn fecit, and that he'Was
° exse ipso procreatns, et propterea talis, qualem
* Ipatit* Pivin, lib.i. $ap,vii. p. 53. et.lib. ii. cap. *iii. p. 214.
plato ’s o n e god self-m ade. 297
se esse volait;” that be made himself—and that
Iftfng procreated from himself, he therefore was
fcVeryway such as he willed himselfto be. Which
unusual and bold strain of theology is En Ti, T
U
i
very much insisted upon by Plotinus, in
his -hook rUpi rowOt\$fum>s rowfvoc, con­
cerning the will of the first One, or unity ; he
there writing thus of the supreme God, amov
iavrov, /cat irap* avrov, teat St’ avrov avroc; He is the
banse of himself, and he is from himself, and
himselfis for himself.-—And again, avroc ionv oiroco
irottSv Iavrov, /cat /cvptoc Iavrov, /cat oxr^<
I»crtc erepoc edfXqoe
ytvofitvoe, aXX’ u; Ol\u avroc* This is he, who is
the maker of himself, and is lord over himself;
(in a- certain sense) for he was not made that,
which another willed him to be, bnt he is that,
which he willeth himself to be.—Moreover, avroc
<Svrovro o/T
T
T
E
p tjydirtyn, rovro Seitrnv viroorqoac
avrov, £r/rep evfpyeta ftivovaa wars ivfpyqjua
atlroc, aXXa aXXov pev ovSevoc, iavrov apa IvEpyqpa avroc,
ovk apa a>c <rvp/3f/3q/cfv *®rtv, dXX* <
■
/c Evepyet avroc /cat
«c avroc i(H\u, &c. The Supreme Deity 'loving
'himself as a pore light, is himself what he loved;
thns, as it were, begetting and giving subsistence
to himself, he being a standing energy. Where­
fore, since God is a work or energy, and yet he
is not the work or energy of any other being, he
most needs be (in some sense) his own work or
energy; so that God is not that, which he hap­
pened to be, bnt'that- which he willeth himself
to be. Thus also a little before, dvaicrtdv ■
^
«c ev rrjv -(3ovXt
/oiv /cat njv ovaiav* t o Se
Irap* avrov, avdyteq apa t o etvat trap’ avrov, ware avro'v
reiroiq/CEvat avrov, o Xoyoc ayewpev* eityap V./3ovXqa»c irap’
avrov,; /cat otov epyov avrov, avrq Si ravrov rp Virooraon
908 PbAlVs ONE GOD
Svrtov «vroc av virtue w o n q fa t w et*j avrov, « f n a»](
ftW*cp «rvx&> hru*,sdAA’«r^> ifSooMfoaoraf,
pf necessity make will am) essence the same in
the first Being; W herefore since bin willing ip
from himself, his being m ust needs be from biw-
self to o ; the consequence of which ratiocination
is this, that He made himself. For if hip volition
be from himself, and his own work, and this be
the same with his hypostasis or substance; be
may be then said to have given subsistence to him*
self. Wherefore he is net what he happened tp
be, hot what he willed himself to be. But, because
this is so unusual a notion, we shall here set down
ypt one or two passages more of this philosopher’s
ri7 concerning it; owe ?£*> *% fiovXfatvc
< oiialdf $AA« o vvttm v airrov r y olov oitoif i
BtXqoi?’ k m owe tonv airrov A afiu v, a v tv tofi BIXuv 'iaiitnji,
Strip tori' ml OvvSpopac airroc iaurif, § t\w v curroc 4 m <,ml
rovro uv' Sirtp ^A ti' m l n &
£X
ij<rt{; icgl avrbe 2v* cal rpSny
o v \ §rrc>v, ort /uq aXXo avroc wenrtp h v \ t v , &XXo 8i r& «c
ifiovXtiBii av* Ti yap aV «cal q&A.q<rc,q rovro o lore jeaityap tt
bwoBolpt^a iAiaSat avr«jJ 3r« SiXoi ■
ytvioScu, ml IKuvai airng
all«hur3w rqv avrov Q vaw dcaX X o, pelyrtav aXAorc •yivLo&al
i3ovXq$Jjvqt, p$r av ttump n fifyapaoSai, dtf taro avayieqe
rovro 3v o sort, r<£ avrov dvai, 07Tfp avrap atl q&Xqav
xat StXu' w i yap ovrwf q ayaOov pwnp, 0tXw‘C.avrov*
The essence of the supreme God is not without
his will, but bis will and essence are the sam e;
so |haf God concurred) with himself, himself
immg willing to be as he is, and being that which
he willeth; and his will and himself being one and
the same. For himself is not one thing (as hap­
pening to be that which he is) and that he would
will to be another: for what could God will to
be, but that which he is? And if we should sup-
PLATO’* OWE GOD SELF-MADE. ■ l i f t
pMt, iu his own choice to be what he
would, and that he had liberty to change hisna-
tore into whatsoever else he pleased, it is certain
that he would neither will to be any thing else bed­
sides what he is, nor complain Of himselfas being
how that which he is out of necessity, be being
indeed no other but that, which himself hath
Willed, and doth always will to be. For bis will
to his essential goodness; so that his will doth not
follow his nature, but concur with it; in the very
essence of this good there beiog contained his
choice, and willing of himselfto be such. Lastly,
n o r Spa (3o6Xy*tc, i?ni oimtn to pf) fiovX6fuvov,
fw& TOVpX jiov\fi<nti>c apa‘ irpwrov Spa $ (ioiXif-
«C avrbc, m ltiw c IfiotiXero Spa m ) olov ifiaOXtro, tuS to
*f fSm
tXfitrtiMptvov&fi rrnaf/n)fioiXn«c iyiv p a ’ iyhnnmSi
oAltwtn lvaimi‘ God is all will, nor is there any
thing in him winch he doth not will, nor is his being
before bis will, but his will is himself, or he himself
the first will. Sp that he is as he would himself,
and such as be would, aad yet his will did not ge­
nerateor produce any thing that was not before.—
And qow we may in all probability conclude, that
Lactantins derived this doctrine from Plato and
Plotinus; which, how far it is to be either allowed
of or excused, we leave others to judge; only we
shall observe, that, as the word avroyadc* fre­
quently attributed to God by Christians as well
as Pagans,* seems to imply as much; so the
scope and drift of Plotinus, in all this, was
plainly no other, tbaijr partly to set forth the self-
existence of the supreme Deity .after a more lively
* Vide Dtouys. Pat&v. Ddgmat. Tbettog. dtTrinitato, lik.'Y. Wjbf.
§.)uy. p.*#4. toin. ii.
300 PL^TOfc .TRINITY. FIRST HYPOSTASIS.
mariner, and partly to confute that odd-conceit,
which some might possibly entertain of God, a#
if bo either happened, by chance, to be what be
is, or .else were each by a certain necessity of na­
ture, and had his being imposed upon him;
whereas, he is as much every way what he would
will and choose to be, as if he had made himself
by his own will and choice. Neither have we.set
down all this, only to give an account of that one
expression of Plato’s, that God causeth himself
and all things—but also to shew how punctually
precise, curious and accurate some of' these Pa­
gans were in their speculations concerning the
Deity.
To return therefore to Plato: though some have
suspected that trinity, which is commonly called
platonic, to .have been ,nothing but a mere fig-
ment and invention of some later Platonists ^ yet
the contrary hereunto seems to be unquestionably
evident, that Plato himself really asserted such a
trinity of universal and Divine hypostases, which
have the nature of principles. For, first, whereas,,
in his tenth book of Laws, he professedly opr
posing Atheists, undertakes to prove the.existence*
of a Deity, be does notwithstanding there ascend
no higher than to the Psyche, or universal mua-*
dane soul, as a self-moving principle, and.the'im-
mediate, or proper cause, of all that, motion,,
which: is in. the world. ;And this,is all. the-god
that there he. undertakes to' prove.. But in other,
places of his writings be frequently asserts, above
the self-moving Psyche, an immoveable and stand-,
ing Nous or intellect, which was properly the De-
miurgus, or architectonic framer of .the whole
world. And, lastly, above this multiforfn Intel-.
p l 'a to 's t r i n i t y .' f ir s t h y p o s t a s is ; SOI
Uct, be plainly asserts yet a higher hypostasis,-
one most simple and most absolutely perfect Ber­
ing ; which he calls to e
v
,-in opposition to that
multiplicity, which speaks something of imper-
fectionin it, and r'dyaOov, goodness itself, as being
above mind ;and understanding; the first intelli­
gible, and an infinite fecundity together with over­
flowing benignity. And accordingly in his se­
cond epistle to Dionysius does he mention a tri­
nity of Divine hypostases all together. Now the
words 69meand to O
twv, God and the Divinity—in
Plato, seem sometimes to comprehend this whole
trinity of Divine hypostases, as they are aga)^
sometimes severally applied to each of them, ac­
cordingly as we have already observed, that Zeus
or Jupiter in Plato is not always taken for the
first and highest hypostasis in his trinity, but
sometimes the second hypostasis of mind or intel­
lect1
is meant thereby, and sometimes again his
third hypostasis of the universal aiid eternal
Psyche; nevertheless the first of these three hy­
postases is that, which is properly called by the
Platonists mryv rije O
tortiroc, the fountain of the
Godhead, and by Plato himself* o irdvrwv j9aot-
Atvg, m p l o v v a v r a tori, o v tv e x a iravra, x a t o a tiio v
ravrwv r<Jv xaXtov’ The King of all things, about
whom are all things, and for whose sake are all
things, and the cause of all good and excellent
things.
And this first Divine hypostasis, which in
Plato’s' theology is properly a vro O to e, the original
Deity—is largely insisted upon by that philoso­
pher m the sixth of his Politics, under the name
* Epi«t.ii. ftdDfefcys. p.7U7. apcr.: '
90S P M T P ’* TRINITY. FIRST HYPOSTASIS.
mid title of v A
’yaiov, the Good—but priocip&Uy
there illustrated by that resemblance of the sun,
called by that philosopher also, a heavenly god,
and said to be the offspring of this highest Good,
and something analogous to it in the corporeal
world, o, ri w
ayw
S
tob»r£ voipiji t o irpo?r« vovvM
m
ti voov/ttvo, rovro rovrov n* rtg iparifi Jrpoc ra oi/*v m i ri
op&iifvr This is the same in the intelligible world
to intellect (or knowledge) and intelligibles, that
tbe sun is in the sensible world to sight and visi­
bles. For, as tbe sun is not sight, but only the
cause of it; nor is that light, by which we sea;
u e same with the sun itself, but only ijAiouSlf, a
mm-like thing; so neither is the supreme and
highest Good (properly) knowledge, but tbe cause
of knowledge; nor is intellect (precisely consi­
dered as such) tbe best and most perfect being,
but only aya&otiSis, a boniform thing. Again, As
the sun gives to things not only their visibility,
but also their generation; so does that highest
Good, not only cause the cognoscibility of things,
but also their very essences and beings.—Owe
< n i o v r o f tow ayctdov, dXX’ in irrtKUva ownac,
rptofiehf mu Svva/ui xnriptyovroc, this highest Good
being not itself properly essence, but above es>
sence, transcending tbe same, both in respect of
dignity and power.—Which language and con­
ceit of Plato’s some of the Greek fathers seem to
have entertained, yet so as to apply it to the
whole Trinity, when they call God wipownov, or
superessential.—But the meaning of that philo­
sopherwas,as we conceive, no other than this, that
this highest Good hath no particular characteristic
upon it, limiting and determining of it, it being
the hidden and incomprehensible source of all
XENOPHON, ARISTOTLE, POLYTHEISTS. 40ft
things. In the last place, we shall observe, that
this first Divine hypostasis of the Platonic tri­
nity is by that philosopher called to
u
t* jytftovoc
mi omov travtbw rtrqp, the. Father of the prince,
and cause of all things.—Wherein we cannot but
take notice of an admirable correspondency be­
twixt the Platonic philosophy and Christianity,
in that the second hypostasis of both their trini­
ties (called also sometimes Aoyocby the Platonists
as well as Novc) is said to be the immediate cause
of all things; and the Demiurgus, the architect,
maker or artificer of the whole world.
Now.to Plato we might here join Xenophon,
because he was his equal, and a Socratic too,
(though it seems there was not so good corres­
pondence betwixt them ;) which Xenophon, how­
ever in sundry places of his writings he acknow­
ledge a plurality of gods, yet doth he give plain
testimony also of one supreme and universal Nu-
men; as this particularly,* &vavra attwvteal Arpt/rf-
£wv, hit filv plyac rtc, icat SvvarbcQ
avtphf, M ac S’ieni
ftoptfv aQavfo He that both agitates all things,
and established the frame of the whole world,
though he be manifest to be great and powerful,
yet is he, as to his form, inconspicuous.
xxiv. In the next place we come to Aristotle:
who, that he acknowledged more gods than one
(as well as the other Pagans) appears from his
using the word so often plnrally. As particularly
in this passage of his Nicomachiap Ethics-; a &
TfXtfatv^aifiovla, SriS’
taipljTocjj tIqiarivIvipytia, ^ 0,jjj '
ttei lincvdtv 3v<
bavdi}‘ roveyap uaXurravirtiX^- 1
8
3
>
* tow.iii.oper.]
fafUV paicapiovgicai tvoatpovagtivaC irpa^eig©I
i . . . . . . . . , . . . . . .
* YideClement. Alexandria, inCohort, ad Genies, $ap. vi. p. Cl,
et Stromat. lib. v.p. 4l7.
304 Ar is t o t l e 's p o l y t h e is m .
■wotag afovufiai ypswv abrolg; ir6rtparag Sueataci VytXcloi.
favovvrai <rvvaXXarrovng teal irapajcara$fcac avo$i$6irngr
ical 8<ra SXXa rotavra; aXXa rac avSpitovg ; vvopivovrag ra.
ipofitpa kal KivSvvcvovrag, &ri KaXov" q rac tXevOtptovg; rlvi
Si &m ow i; arovov S’ cl tail fortu avroig vopiapa, q rt
TOidurov’ e! Si auxftpovtg rt av dev; rj ^oprusog 6 hraivog,
&ri 'ovk flavin ipavXag imOvplag' Bu^iovai Si iravra ipalvoa'-
av r a .wspl rac rpa^«t puepa k
c
HavaEia Sewv'aXXa uqv ^pv.
re vavrtg imtiXriipatnv airroig- m l. tvtpyuv apa, av yap to
K
aOeCBttv, woTTip rov 'EvSvpIwva' rip. Si Zwvri ro vparruv
afypupivip, 2rt Si piaXXov rb vottiv, rt Xttverai vXyv Otuplag"
That perfect happiness is a speculative or contem­
plative energy, may be made manifest from hence,
because we account the gods most of all happy.
Now what moral actions can we attribute to them?
Whether those of justice amongst one another;
as if it were not ridiculous to suppose the gods
to make contracts and bargains among themselves
and the like. Or else those of fortitude and mag­
nanimity ; as if the gods had their fears, dangers
and difficulties to encounter withal. Or those, of
liberalityas if the gods had some such thing as
money too, and there were among them indigent
to receive alms. Or, lastly, shall we attribute to
them the actions of temperance? But would not
this be a reproachful commendation of the gods,
to say, that they conquer and master their vicious,
lusts and appetites ? Thus running through ail
the actions of moral virtue, we find them to be
small, and mean, and unworthy of the gods.
And yet we all believe the gods to live, and con->.
sequently. to a ct; unless we should suppose them
perpetually to sleep, as Endymion did. Where­
fore if all moral actions, and therefore much moire
mechanical operations, be taken away from that
Ar is t o t l e ’s POLYTttEista.
which lives; and understands, what is there left
to-it besides -contemplation? To which he there
adds a .further argument also of the same thing.:
-Because other,animals, who-are deprived'of con­
templation,: partake not -of -happiness. For to
the-gods all their life is happy; to men So far
forth, as it approacheth to contemplation; but
brute animals, that do not at all contemplate,
partake not at- air of happiness.^—Where Arr-
stotle plainly acknowledges a plurality -of gods,
at|d that there is a certain higher rank of beings
above-men.: And by. the way we may here ob­
serve, how from those words of his, ^ n f m c
'vn&tyim- foot}?, all men suppose the gods to live—
aad from what follows in him, that opinion of
some -late writers may be confuted^ that the Par
gansgenerally worshipped the inanimate parts of
the world as true and proper gods: Aristotle
bere telling us, that they universally agreed in
this, that the gods were animals, living and un­
derstanding beings, and such as are therefore
capable of contemplation. Moreover, Aristotle
iiphis 'Politics, writing of the means to conserve
ajtyranny, as -he calls it, sets down this for one
amongst the rest; In Si ra irpbc robe dtoi/c
falvtaOai cul tnrovSaZovra Sia<f>tp6vru>g, fjrrdv. re ’ ,
y ip ifofiowrai, to waOuv n irapavopov tmb twv roto&rwvj
hav SsuriSat/iova vo/i(Z*xnv ilvai rov apxovra <cal fypoirrl&iv,
ritv Stwv'- Kal (7Tt/3ovXevovmv Jjnov, (if <rv/i/ua^ovcfx°vr(
to
*
v Q
toig- For a prince, or monarch to seem, to he
always more than .ordinarily, sedulous about the
worship ofthe gods: .because men are less afraidof.
suffering auy injustice from such kings or princes,
as.they think:to be religiously disposed,! and de­
voutly affected .towards itbegods. Neither tvdk
VOL. II. x
3Q0 A-Bj^PTLES POEY.THEU*!.
they be bo apt .to make conspiracies against such,
•they supposing, that the gods wiU be their abet­
tors and, assistants.—W here the word IkunSaijui*
seems to be taken, in a: good sense, and in way o f
commendation for a religious person though we
m ust confess, that Aristotle himself does n o t here
w rite so much like.a&tat&upw, as a mere poHti-
eian. Likewise in hie first 'book D e Cceto* he
writeth thus ; ir«*wc apO
p^nrgtiirffi Sfwv%
X
Q
P
w
,ct ilL {j>.4ifi. wmrte rfor djwrarw a«w
tom. t. Ojier.] Bdp|3apo**dl!EAXfV6C,,w cn£ iQap&r#
jd aQ4twov wvtiprtifdtnv, &
¥tf>Q
vv tptt rt Stiapr Svmf
All men havenn opinion or persnasKMP
that there are gods. And they, who think, ho* as
well barbariaus as Greeks, attribute the highest
place to that which is Divine, as sqpposingithe im­
mortal heavens to be most accommodate to im
mortal gods. Wherefore, ifthere heany Divinity,a*
unquestionably there is, the body of the heavens
m ust be acknowledged to be of a different kind
from that of the elements.?—And in the following
book he tells us again, T hat it is.most agreaaUe
tjf navrtitf irepi rwv fhvk, to that vaticination,; which
all men have in their minds concerning, the gods*
to suppose the heaven to be a quintessence dis­
tinct from the elements* and therefore incorrupt
tibfc.—-Where Aristotle affirmeth, that m enbaae
generally navrtlav, a vaticination in their m inds
concerning gods; to wit, that themselves are.not
the highest beings, b u t that there is a rank of inteL*
lecttial beings, superior,to m en.; the chief, of which
fo the supreme D eity; concerning whom therein
indeed the greatest fiavrtbu, or. vaticination,oftaHi. ■
:
W e acknowledge i t to be very true* that Anri*;
sfotle- does •not so •much -insist tfpon;demount* as
arwtqu.e’» poiw^ bi*!*. 988
Plato and tbe geniality of Pagan*,m that age
d id ; and probacy be hfad; not so great a belief-qf
their existence; though be doth; make-mention-,of
tfraioalao, a# when ip bia Metaphysics,.4 speaking
of bodies compounded of the elements* be? tor
stanpeth ia £
&
>
<
i « xal d<w
#M
r*»t anwials. and de*-
toeps—and elsewhere he ineioeates fcbem.tobftf*
RffJf bodies, in these- words; h&vri<m*.yap.av,.ve,
«N B m ir tv a n ’
t r l a v , »i t v T
«j» a’ep* ' b x ' h TVC or rp*c guwc
jjkXrfi**’ carb k
& aftivaro^ffa,,some perhaps would
demand- e r/easeft, why the soul that is t .
toithe air, is better and more immortal t*^.**.*
than* that in aqimais*-—However, whet
liter Aristotle believed, these-. lower de».
mon gods or no,, it is certain, that be ackno
ledged a higher, kind of gods* nam ely,the intel-
%fnoes>of alktha.seyqral.spheresb if not also die
gpol&of them and the stafs;: whiebispberes being,
mvoordipg to the astronomy thenreceived, forty*
apven in number, be must needs acknowledge at
least: so many. gods. Besides, which, Aristotle
Spams also to suppose another sort: ofincbrpdeeed
gods, without theheavens, where, accordingtohimv
■there is neither, body, nor place, nor vacuum, nor
tittle; in these words; wr*iv twm t» khni<f>w
t*i a6te
*««■• irwd.yiipawcen', ©vJT m t!» «w
8cmoc-peCol. 1.1.
liiS fftta fttra fio X i), rwv vrep ripr ifo r a r u t r n a y *
'ldfe*> fopw ,. awaXAeiura Kai aomOi,
m p t p r l f t i i y p v r n £«n}v k m a v r a p a s a r a r i f v S m r c X u > r m y a f u e r r a
They* who exist there* are such M
b
-ast
Witherapt to bein.a.place, nonto wax -old: with
time* ’nor to: there any change? at; all. ia. thOafe
things above thehighest sphere ;'b«titbeyibeing
'MPpaskibto: and’ unalterable, leadthei hesfcaad
*JU
b. v. e*(u.TijLp,3S0. ten.ikIdp«r.
x 2
308 ARISTOTLE AN ASSERTOR
t , \
mdstself-sufficient life, throughout all eternity.—
*
-
B u t: this passage i s ' not without suspicion of
being supposititious.
Notwithstanding all Which, that Aristotle did
assert one suprem e’and universal Numen, is-a
thing also unquestionable. For though it be
granted, that he useth the singular fltoe, as like­
wise Vo Btlov and ro 'iatfioviov, many times inde-’
finitely, for a god in general, or any Divine'
being'; and that such places as these have bedh
oftentimes mistaken by Christian w riters,' as if
Aristotle had meant the supreme God in them ;
yet it is nevertheless certain, that he often useth
those words also*emphatically, for one only suL
preme God. As in that of his Metaphysics, :o, n
■ ' &toc SoKei to ainov iraaiv tivai Kai'
p. s6s!S
tom.'-r<c. God seemeth' to be a cause and
? U
T " Ju ‘ certain principle to all things.— And
[jp. io. toi». aig0 jn this De Anima; where he 'speaks
of the soul of the heavens, and its cir­
cular, motion : aXXa finv ovS- on (3£Atiov Aiyerai'y
*XpW toy Otov Std tovto kv«
c
X
$>iroiuv fyiptaQai r»fv ipoyyv,
in fifArtou avrrj ro KtvtoOai too juIvhv, icivttffflai S
t o»Irwfc
n iAXw$' Neither is that a good cause of the
circular motion of the heavens, which they (that
is, the Platonists) call the ro (OfAnov, because it is
better that it should be so than otherwise; a s'if
God therefore ought to have made the soul of the
world .such, as to move, the heaven circularly,
because it was better for it to move so than other­
wise:, but this being, a speculation that properly
beldbgs to some other science, we shall no further
pursue if in this place.—Thus afterwards again,
in the 8&me‘ bookj “ <n>^i/3«uv« ’E/^inSokAuye' kA*'
■
4Lib.i. cap.rii.' p. 16. topi.'ii. ope/. ‘
OF., ONE UNIVERSAL NUMEN. 309
^^Wtirrarw civai rov 6eov, fiovof yap rivv aroiytltov ti»ov
. yvtoptti, t o Ntucoc, r a Si O y irra travra, ix ra v ra iv y a p
« ca« T o v * It follows from Empedocles’s princi­
ples, that God must needs be the most unwise
of all, he alone being ignorant of that (out of
which all other things are compounded) vcucoc,
or contention—(because himself is nothing, but
ftXla, unity and friendship)—whereas mortal: ani­
mals may know or conceive all things, they
being compounded of all. Which same passage
we have again also, in his Metaphysics,* from
, whence it was before cited to another purpose.
To these might be added another place out of
his book of Generation and Corruption,1
*t o oXov
<
n
n
>
E
7
rX
*
)p
u
)<
T
£
v o 9toq, ivrtXeyrj Troiyaaq ytvtaiv’ God
hath filled up the whole, or universe, and con­
stantly supplies the same, having made a con­
tinual successive generation.—Lastly, ro Satpovtov
is.sometimes plainly used by Aristotle also, not
for the Divinity in general, or any thing that is
'Divine, but for that one supreme Deity, the go­
vernor of the whole world. Thus in that passage
of his Rhetoric to Alexander, r o v r o t<mv C
apii p6og.
Sia<
j>
tpoptv tw
v Xonriov %
(o
a
tv, rjpugoi ptyian\q t.P
;8
3
3
*
T
ifM
jcwo rov baifioviov rerv^Tpcorec' 1Ills IS
that, wherein we men differ from other animals,
having received the greatest honour from God,
lhat though they' be endued with appetite and
huger and other passions, as well as we, yet we
alone are furnished'with spfeech and reason.
Over and besides which, Aristotle in x
iTc x
bis Metaphysics (as.bath been already ^ 4
j
observed) professedly opposeth that im- ’
. \ L$b. iii. «ap* iy. p. 295. tom.iv.oper,
b bib. ii. cap. x, p. 74*- tom.i. oper,
3 f0 AtClSTOTtfe ‘
AN AS^ERTbB
tfg faaV y W p rifid ftin d ep en d en t ptfbci'ple'S
Pftbe oftfverse; fWat rs, of many unmade bcW
*
(existent drive's; Ire toiifatingthe same frdm the
phenotneila, because airavta n-pdetv <nM
-hvKtai, all
things areplaibly co-6rdered to one—the 'Whole
world conspiring into ohe agreeing harmony^
•ijforeas if there Were many principles or fade*
pendent deities, the system of the world must
heefis ’have been iinwotiuSSris, incoherent and in-
Conspiring—like ah ill-agreeing drama, botched
tip Of many impertinent interse'rrions. Whereupon
Aristotle concludes after this maOner, fa ®ovra <
»
y
fSbvXrfai KaittZc irdXcrtvtaffai.
| Ov* a yM t TbXtfiUifaYki, rElg Kofykrt?
|tot things will pot be ill administered—(which
was then it seems a kind of proverbial speech)
pnd according toHoroer?the government of many
is not good, {nor could the affairs of the world be
evenly carried on under it) wherefore there is one
prince of monarch over all. From which passage
of Aristotle’s it is evident, that though he as­
serted tioXvfctiav, a multiplicity of gods—in the
vtrtgaraense, as hath been already declared, ^ret
he absolutely denied iioXwcotpariijv and IloXvap^taiv
a polyarchy or mundane aristocracy—that is, a
multiplicity of first principles and independent
deities- Wherefore though Aristotle doated much
upon that whimsy of his, of as many intel-
ligibles, or eternal and immoveable minds (now
comUibnly called intelligences) as there are move-
able spheres of all kinds in the heavens (which be
sticks not also sometimes to call principles); yet
must he of necessity be interpreted to 'have df-
OF ONE UNIVERSAL. NOMEN. 311
rived all these from one supreme universal Deity*
which, asSirnplicius expresseth ityis’Apxv «Vx^v»
the principle of principles ;t
—
and which ccklipre-
hendsandcontains those inferior deities trader it;
•fter the same manner as the prtmton mob.tfe, or
highest sphere, contains all the lesser spheres
within it: because otherwise there would not be
4c Kwpavoc, one prince or monarch over the wholes
but the government of the world would be a poly^-
hcerany or aristocracy of gods, concluded to be
an ill government. Moreover, as Plotinus re­
presents Aristotle’s sense, it is not con- E
dd.5.
ceivable, that so many independent prin-
oiples should thus constantly conspire,
*|W t tv ipyov npr row iravroc wpaiW '(ni|l^wiav, Ifltf
one work, that agreeable symphony and harmony
O fthe whole heaven.—
--Asthere conhi not beany
reason neither, why there should be jost so many
of these inteltigences as there are spheres, and n6
more; and it is absurd to suppose, icavi owrv\jmo
Wc dv<
u, that the first principles of tbe uni­
verse happened by chance.
-Now this highest principle, as it is atdvnrocohala,
an immoveable essence—is by Aristotle in the
first place supposed to be «px^ c, tbe prin­
ciple of motion in the universe—
o f at least of
fhat chiefest motion of the pt-imum mvbik or
td&hteSt Sphere (Which according*© the astronomy
df those times sefetos to hate been the sphere of
fikdd Stars), by whdse rapid circumgyration, all
the Other spheres and heavens wereimagined to be
Carried 'round, from east to west. And accord*
ibgly the supreme Deity is by Aristotle called
it'Tjb&bv the first ittUttOve- Eet, |. x
W
.
aWe mover—or the mover of the pri-
312 Hfff FIRST. lIMMOVEABLE MOVER.
ir.'op*r.]M
«t mum mobile, and whole heaven.' Which
[p/SsTtoi/ first:moVer being concluded by bini to
ir. 4p«r.] be but one, he doth from thence infer
the singularity of the heaven or world, Sv/ilvop*
'rtf ^ 6 y icai aptO/up, rb- irpOrrov k
lv
o
v
v aiefvtirov Sv': *ai- »
javofyievov apa ail ■
not iravc^u( tv /i6vov. clc apa obpavbf
l* 6 v b r There is one numerically first immoveable
jnover and no more; and therefore there is but
•one moveable neither, that .is, but one heaven-or
world.—In which doctrine of-Aristotle’s, there
-seerasto be a great difference, betwixt his philor
sophy and that of Plato’s; in that Plato makes
the principle of motion in the heavens and whole
world to be. a selfimoiving soul, but Aristotle sup-
poseth it to be an immoveable, mind or intellect.
'Nevertheless, according to Aristotle's explication
of himself, the difference betwixt them is .not
great, if any at all; Aristotle’
s imnjoveablemover
being understood by him, not to move the hea­
vens efficiently, but only objectively:and finally,
«5cipwfifvov, as being loved.—Which conceit of
his Prod 11s upon Plato’s Tiuufeus perstringetb
after this manner; r«vnakaiuivo*plvto
v
Koopov hrurrfAipavTis lir\ tov vovv, vat tov
-^ocarocytovircpi rbvptZrrovbpeierbv, Srfvrte avreji rtjvKlvpoiv,
ovStv i<fM <rav into t o v vov K a O riK tiv tl< ; a irro v , cv io < p irp o o -
Ta^ayrisavroyto
iq tpaapioiq ptVfru
>
v aloSnrrwv,pijSev. Si
ytvvjjTiicbv c^ovmv iv iy iavrwv fvotC . Some of the
ancients converting the world to mind (or intel­
lect)- and. making it move only by love of that
first;desirable,- acknowledged nothing a ta ll t o
descend down ,from Mind: (or God) upon the
fvotld;-but equalized the same with other- aroi-
able.things, amongst sensibles, that have-nptbiog
generative in their nature.—Where Proclus^eepis
P. 167.
HIS. FIRST IMMOVEARLE MOYER. ,3 1 3
• * * * *
,tp suppose Aristotle to have attributed tp God no
efficiency at a ll.opon the world;•the contrary
whereunto .shall be evidently proved, afterwards.
In the mean time it is certain, that Aristotle, .be­
sides his immoveable mover of the heavens, which
'inoveth only finally, or as being loved, must needs
suppose another immediate mover of them, or
efficient cause of that motion; which could be
nothing but a soul, that,, enamoured with this su­
preme Mind, did, as it were in imitation of it,
continually turn round the heavens. Which seems
to be nothing but Plato’s doctrine disguised; that
philosopher affirming, likewise, the circular rno-
.tions of the heavens, caused efficiently by a soul
.of the world in his Tintseus, * to be ri?vw
ept vow
M
ol Qpovrimv fia\«rra ovaav, a motion, that 18 most
.agreeable to that of mind or wisdom:—And again,
in -his Laws, brqv rov vou irepiSStj) iravrwe ojf Bvvarbv,
'roiKf{OTarTiv Kal ofiolav, that which of all corporeal
.motions only resembles the circuit of intellect.—
.Which Platonic conceit found entertain D
eC
om
oi.
raent with. Boetius, who writing of the ua- M
et-9-
;soul of the world, represents it thus;
( Quae cam secta duos motum glomeravit in orbes,
In semet reditura meat, mentemqne profundam
* Circuit, et simili conyertitimagine coelum.
r
Wherefore, as well according to Plato’s hypothe­
sis, as Aristotle’s, it may be'affirmed of. the su­
preme Deity in the same Boetius’s language, that,
■- -----Stabilisque manens dat cuncta m o m
.-Being itselfimmoveable, it oauseth all other things
>tomove.—Xhe immediate, efficient cause of which
•piotion, also, no less according to Aristotle than
a Cap. xvii. p-241. edit. Fabnciu
. h
. Lib> x. p.,669.
314 his CAtr& 'Of wA L j
and Fir.
Plato/sfeems to have been ariinhdane sbul; boW*-
fever, Aristotle thought npt so fit to make this soul
a principle; in ail probability, because be %
fcjs
notsowell assured of the incorporehy of soifls,
as of minds or intellects.
Nevertheless this is not the only thing, which
Aristotle imputed to his first and highest hhtho^e-
able principle, or the supreme Deity, its turn­
ing round of the prim um mdbile, and that nh
otherwise than as being loved, Or as the final cause
thereof, as Prod us supposed; but he, as well afe
M
etLxi*. Anaxagoras, asserted it to be also ro5
c.Tu.'p. (j K
aj K
oX
aic airlav, the cause of well and
fit—Orto owo
v
kavtvro tv, that without which 'there
could be no such thing as well—that is, no Ordtet
no aptitude, proportion and harmony in the uni­
verse : he declaring excellently, that a nv etfrm
vapa ra ataffi/ra aXXn, ovk ttrrai ap^fj Kal ra£ic, aXX’ act
rtjg apj(ne ip%
rir unless there were something elsfe
in the world besides sensibles, there could be nei­
ther beginning nor order in it, but one tfdngwould
betheprinciple ofanother infinitely, orWithoutenfd.
—And again, in anotherplace already cited,* tov&
K
aik
o
X(J{,law; ovrt vvp ovrt yvv, &C. ovf avrql avrofiartf
Kal tvx*
Itooovtov tvirpbpanrpayfia KaXtag c^a, it IS n o t a t
all likely, that either fire or earth, or any such
body, should b e.the cause of that well and fit
that is in the world; nor can so noble an effect as
this be reasonably imputed to chance or for­
tune.-—Wherefore himself, agreeably with Anaxa­
goras, concludes, that it is $»vc Or Mind, which Is
properly ainop roll vcaX
ctfc«caiopOeSt, the cause Of wen
•and right— and accordingly does hfe freqiieM fy
• Ibid. lib. vii. cap. iii. p. 266* total. ft. oper.
3 1 5
BtS CAUSE OF V E tl> AND T IT .
call the supreibe Deity by that name. Mb
affirming, likewise,* that the order, pulchritude
and harmony ofthe whole world dependeth upon
that one highest and supreme Being in it, after
t^e same manner as the order of an army de>
pehdeth upon the general or emperor, who is
not for the order, but the order for him. Which
highest Being of the universe is therefore cafl-
pd by him also, conformably to Plato, ri dya-
Ijr Kf^wpia/xivov, the separate good of the world
—in way of distinction from that intrinsic or
inherent good of it, which is the order and
harmony itself: *Eir«ncHrrfo» 8* kcu ro r^ w c Met 1. air.
^ y« J) tow qXov <
pv<
ns to dyaOdv kcu to ipurrov;
jrortpov Ktyjvpujptvov rt, kcu avro Kao awro ; i) it. oper.]
'fqtf ra£(v; »
} dfitporiptoc ticnrtp arpareufia ; kcu yap tv rp
t d a to tv kcu o (TTparij-yoe, kcu juqXAov owtoc, <w *yap
iSh’oc Sta till rdS.iv, a’XX' tictivi] Bid rovrov icrriv' iravra
W awrlrcucrai tw
c* It is to be considered also,
Wtact ia the good and best of the universe; whe­
ther its own order only ? or something separate
add existing by itself? or rather both of them to­
gether ? As the good of an army consisteth both
in its order, and likewise in its general or emperor,
but principally in this latter, because the emperofr
is not for the order of the army, but the order of
ithfe Army is for him; for all thihgs are co-ordered
'lo g g er with God, and respectively to him,—
Wherefore since Artetotle’s. supreme Deity, by
what name soever called, whether mind or good,
,ts the proper efficient cause of all that wen and
fit, that is in the universe, Of all the order, pul­
chritude, and harmony thereof; it must needs be
grafted, that besides its being the final cause qf
* Ibid. lib. xiv. cap.x. p.484, 485. tom. u.oper.
3 1 6 M.IND, AqCORPING TO ARISTOTLE,
motiop, or ita turning round the heavens by, being
,loved, it was also the efficient cause of the whole
frame of nature and system of the world. And
.thus does he plainly declare his sense, wherie be
applauds Anaxagoras for maintaining
M
tt,1*©•ni. ^ ^ h f ^ / l, /
[p. $66.tom. Novy aval Kai toy jcoo/xoy kch rife rpc^wc wcunrc
■ r.oper.] ajrw
)v> that mind is the cause not only
of all order, but. also of the whole world:—
.M
et- i.xi*-. and when himself positively, affirms, a:
tom'iP&psr*] T<Ha*
,T1K &PXW vpTvrai o ovpavoQ km ij $wnc,
that from such a principle as this <
Je*
pends the heaven, and nature.—
7Where by hea­
ven is meant the whole world, and by natjare
that artificial nature of his before insisted on,
which doth, nothing in vain, but always actetb
for ends regularly, and is the instrument of the
.D
e^Pirt,Ad
. Divine mind. He also somewhere af-
'• '• firmeth, that if the heavens .or world
were generated, that is, made in time, so as to
have had a beginning, then it was certainly made,
not by chance and fortune, but by such an .arti­
ficial nature as is the instrument of a perfect mind.
And in his Physics, where he contends for the
world’s ante-eternity, he concludes, nevertheless,
.JUb. ii. 0. »i. w a y ki\ vovv alnov km fwrtv fivcu rovSt irvvrot,
oper]4l°m*
' ^ at m'n(i together with nature must of
necessity be the cause of this whole
universe.-—For though the. world were never so
much coeternal with mind, ,yet was it in order of
nature after it, and junior to it as the effect there­
of, himself thus generously resolving, Ev\oywrarov
Ar. <LeA
n.Li. £lval vowy irpoyivtaTQTOv, teat Kvpiov Kara ipwHV*
to^'il^oper6] T
<
*® (rroiytla tyun irpwra ruiv ovrtop £tvcu, that
though somte (that is, the Atheists) af­
firm the elements to have been the first beings,
THE EFFICIENT CAUSE OF THE ■WORLD. 31?
yet it was the most reasonable thing of aM to
cdnclnde, that mind was the oldest of all things;
abd senior to the world and elements; and that;
according tonature, it had a princely and Sovereign
dominion over all.—
-Wherefore, we think it now
sufficiently evident, that Aristotle's supreme Deity
does not only move the heavens as being loved, or
is the final canse of motion, but also was the
efficient cause of this whole muudane system,
framed according to the best wisdom, and after
the best manner possible.
For perhaps it may not be amiss here to ob­
serve, that God was not called Mind by Aristotle,
and those otber'ancient philosophers, according
to? that vulgar sense of many in- these days of
ours ;
■as if be were indeed an understanding or
perceptive Being, and that perfectly omniscient,
but1yet nevertheless such; as acted all things ar­
bitrarily, being not determined by any rule or
nature of goodness, but only by bis own fortui­
tous will. For, according to those ancient philo­
sophers, that, which acts without respect to good,
-would not be so much accounted mens as demen­
tia, mind/ as madness or folly; and to impute
the frame of nature or system of the world, tfc
gether-with'the government of the same,’to such
a ’principle as this, would have been judged-by
them air one, as to impute them to chance or for­
tune.-' But Aristotle and those other philosophers
who called the supreme God Nwc or Mind, un­
derstood thereby that, which of all things in the
whole world is most opposite to chance, fortune,
and* tem eritythat which is-regulated by the ro
c
3'k
*>icak'oc, the well and fit—of every thing, if it
bemet rdther-thevery -rule;; measure<and>eg8emcU
9 ) 9 H i N P , A C C O ^ P IN G T O tV a i^ T O T IjE ,
of fitness itself; that which acteth all ter end?
andgood, end doth, every thing after the best
Tnaaper» ia order to the whole. Thus Socrates
ia that place before cited out of Plato’s Phaedo,
interprets,the meaning of that opinion, That ming
made the world, and Was the cause of all things^
Wi|iihw*a d rofirg. ovrwt fya, rbv voivtmSw Kfi
•owrap nOiim. rairfi » ^IXn<rra <x?‘ That there-
fore every thing might be concluded to bas>e been
disposed of after the. best manner possible.—-And
accordingly Theophrastus, Aristotle’s scholar and
successor,; describetk God after this: manner ™
Trftoirov K
m Quorarov, vavra rt^aplant (3ov)lbfjutoK,
first and diviueBt Being of all, which willeth sU
the best th ills.—Whether of these two hyper
theses concerning God, one of the ancient Pags*
philosophers, that God is as essentially goodness
as wisdom, oiy as Plotinus after Plato calls him,
decency and fitness itself; the other, of somc late
professors of Christianity,-that be is nothing but
arbitfary will, omnipotent:adadomwscieut; I say,
whetheroftbese two'is more agreeable to pietyand
trueCbristjanity, weshall!ease it to be considered.
■lastly, itisnot without probability, that Ari-
Stptie did, besides.the frame of nature, sndfekric
pf the world* impute event the very substance of
things themselves, also to the Divine efficiency
(norindeedcan these well be. aay doubtofany
thing, save only the; matter) f partly from hia-af­
firmiug God to: be< a cause and principle toiiaH
thingsand -pactly frora .his. commendingthisdoh*
ifet.i.i.e; trine .of Auaaagoras, afm T^joaXi^alSm
iu.[p.tf6. ,km M
>
V
V
VE
M
K
tl.TU».O
W
T
W
VV
D
V
lU.tfaxt.' tihd
tom. iwoper.J ^ ™ . a ■ 1 _
■tras*together with.Well and fit,the cause
m 4> piotipta of things, theniseliesirrrJiomavM,
THE EFFICIENT CAU»E OF THE W0EL1E
that Aristotle’s inferior gods, at leant, and there­
fore his intelligences of. thelesaer spheres, which
were incorporeal substances, ware; all of then
produced or created, by one Supreme, may be
further confirmed: fromthis definition of hie.in, his
rhetoric, toSatpovtwow$v «mv, V'flwc, t B# .
^ few «
pt*v, the Divinity is nothing htut bf*'78®
*
either God or the work of God,—Where ' op*r^
Owe is unquestionably used in way of eminency
for the supreme Deity, as in those other placerof
Aristotle’s before cited, to which.sundry- more
• might bo added; as, irdwra t* y«Sm6iug.m«
c
.
hoc, Kalionv avrapoK/ God pOSSeSSSth &
H[p!**55*to«.
good things, and is self-sufficient:—and “ "fw-J
again where he speaks of things, that are more
than praise-worthy, rwovrovSitJvmrowfeov-eo>mai.
m i raya$&», irpoq ravra yap kcu r aAXa avaft-
puSat, such are God and Good, for to <*"4
tbese are aU other things referred.—But here
Aristotle affirming, That there is nothing Divine,
but either God himself> or the work and effectsof
God, plainly implies, that there was no multitude
of self-existent deities, and that*those intelligences
of the lesser stars or spheres, however eternal;
were.themselves also produced or caused-byone
supreme Deity.
. Furthermore, Aristotle declares, that . ^.
this speculation, concerning the Deity [P
.34e.
does constitute a particular science b y opw
‘-'
itrel£dfotincbfrom.thoseother;specala4tve sciences
of physiology, and .the pore, mathematics? settbat
there* are in all. three speculative.sciences, distinr
gushed .by their .several' objects* physiology; the
pure mathematics,.and theology, oc metepbyetcac
thg former of theg^ tl»%U&phyriology, befog,non-
320* HEADS- OFARISTOTEe’S THEOLOGY. ■ *'
versaot:7repl ayp£piara> phi, a \ \ ‘■
ow
e aKwtfra, ■
about*
things both inseparable from matter, and move-1
able;—the second (viz. geometry, or the pare'
mathematics) irtpv aKtvtrra ptv, aXX’ av'ywpiard, aXX’;
tog’
Jv vXy, about things immoveable, indeed, but
not really separable from'matter, so as to-exist
alone by themselves;—but the third and last, .
irepl ywptard k
«
u aiavirra, concerning things both im-*
moveable and separable from matter—that is, in-
corporeal -substances <
immoveable: this philoso­
pher there adding, ei p i ’tori n c hipa ovoia irapd ra?
${ktu (rwKmqKvlat;, i tpxtaucrj.av tii) irpilrri)■
hriartipri, d S i lori
tic owria acivuroc, awnj wporipa, km ipiXoaoKpla irpwrij'
that if there were no other substance besides
these natural things, which are material . and:
moveable, then would physiology .be. the first
science; but if there be any immoveable subi
stance, the philosophy thereof must needs in .or-,
der of nature he before the other.—Lastly, he.
concludes, that as the speculative sciences in go-,
nerai are more nobleand excellent than the other,.
so- is.theology or metaphysics the: most honour-1
ableofall the speculatives. Now the chiefpoints’
of the Aristotelic theology,'or metaphysical doc*
trine concerning God, seem to be these four fol--
lowing. First, that though all things be not.in*•
genit or unmade, according to .that in bis book
Met.1. xir.o. ®Shinst Xenophanes,* ap‘ a’va-yjci) ayivtfra-
tom^V^er ] lroVTa t*
wat* -V KmXvu ytyovsvaiertpai^
Iripmv' there; is no necessity, that all
things’should be.unmade, for what hinders but
that some things may be generated from other,
things?—Yet there :must needs be something:
eternal and unmade, as likewise incorruptible,* be*
? De Xenopbane,Zenose,eiGeorgia^cap.ii.p',888.torn:ii.'oper.-?
h e a d s o f Ar is t o t l e ’s t h e o l o g y . 811
Cause ct afioai ovalouipSaprai, irivra fOapra’ If all SUb-
stances were corruptible, then all might come to
nothiug.—Which eternal, unmade (or self-exist­
ent) and incorruptible substance, according to
Aristotle, is not senseless matter, but a perfect
mind. . Secondly, that-God is also an incorporeal
Mbotance, k
c
^ v/iIv
ii owAirtiv, sepa- ^ ^^ ^
xatefrom sensibles—and not' only so, »a. [>.iw.‘
but, according to Aristotle’s judgment to“ lT
/op" l
likewise, aSuuptroe, and apspiJc, and apeytOnc, indivi­
sible, and devoid of parts, and^ magnitude.—Nor
.can it be denied, bat that besides Aristotle, the
generality of those other ancients, who asserted
incorporeal substance, did suppose it likewise
to' be uriextended, they dividing substances (as
we learn from -Philo) into Suterpparucai, moSuMtorat
•uohu, distant and indistant, or extended abd un­
extended substances.—Which doctrine, whether
true or no, .is not here to be discussed. Thirdly,
TCrtirov vovc xoi vorrrov, that in God •intel- Met.lib. itr.
leet is really the same thing with the in- °‘ &
telligibles.—Because the -Divine Mind being (at
least ib order of nature) senior to all things, and
acchitectonal of the world, could not look abroad
far its objects, or find them any where without it­
self, and therefore must needs contain them alt
within itself. Which determination of Aristotle’s
is no less agreeable to Theism than to Platonism $
.whereas, on the contrary, the Atheists, who assert
mind and understanding as such, toN
be in order
iof, nature junior to matter and the world, do
therefore, agreeably to.their own hypothesis, sup­
pose all intellection to be by way of passion from
corporeal things without, and no mind or intellect
to contain, its intelligible?, or immediate objects
VOL. II. Y
3 2 2 SUMMARY. O f ARISTOTLE’8 CREED.
within itself, Lastly, that God being an insmove-
M«t.iib.xir. >bje substance, bis ov<na is tvepytta, his
essence and act or operation the same.;
Sit ipa.flvat auoiav rounmjv qc »
i owna ivtpyaa, there
must therefore needs be some such: principle an
this, whose essence is act or energy.—from which
theorem Aristotle indeed endeavours to establish
the eternity of the world, that it was not made c
m
v
u
k
to
c
, teat o/ttov jravrtou, cat sk pn ovroc, from night,
and a confused chaos of things^and from nothing |
—that is, from an antecedent non-existence,
brought forth into being; because God, who is
an immoveable nature, and whose essence is act
or energy, cannot be supposed to have rested or
slept frometernity, doing nothing at all, and then,
after infinite ages, to have began to move the mat*
ter, or make the world. Which argumentation
of Aristotle’s, perhaps, would not be inconsider­
able, were the world, motion, and time, capableof
existing from eternity, or without beginning. Of
which more elsewhere. However, from hence it
is undeniably evident, that Aristotle, though as­
serting the world’s eternity, nevertheless derived
the same from God, because he would prove this
eternity of the world from the essential energy
and immutability of the Deity.
We shall now conclude all concerning Aristotle
with this short summary, which himself gives ns
of his own creed and religion, agreeably to the
Met. ub.xir tradition of his Pagan ancestors: wapa*
Jp- SiBorai wro raiv apyaluv k
c
u naXaiwv, on (hoi
ri uaiv ovrot, teat Tfpuysi to Oetov rqv oXqv ^«r
91V'ra Xonra puflurwe q8q KpaarryOw. jrpoc tiJv rafftormr
»oXX«v, K «i rtjv.fic roue v o p ov Q k u I t o m p jip m t y p ifo to l
iripwrotiScic tf yap rovrovc a t rwv aXAwv o/uoiouc
SUMMARY OP ARISTOTEE’S CREED. 3 2 3
iWi XiyoUffi, Ka't rovtoUQ ertptt dlffootlfa rtib Vto£«hrXifMM
It hath been delivered down to ns from very am
cient times, that the stars are gods also; besides
that supreme Deity, which contains the whole
nature. But all' the other things' were fabulously
added hereunto; for the better persuasion*of the
multitude, and for utility of human life and polit
treat1
ends, to keep men in obedience- to civil law ,
As,'for example, that these gods ate of human
form, or like to other animals; with such other
things as are Consequent hereupon.'—In which
words of Aristotle these three things may betaken
notice of. First, that this Was the general per­
suasion of the civilized' Fagans from all1known
antiquity downwards; that there is one ro (M
m,
Which comprehends the whole nature. Where
to Wav, is by AriStotte plainly taken for the suv
ptetne Deity. And his own sense concerning
•fh»‘particular isr elsewhere thus declared aftdr
the same manner, where he speaks of oitlerphan
mony, and proportion; Oifaey*?' $
»
»rovro
9ih
>
afU
h
>
^ spyov, ijrriQ K
«u roSe:trvvi)ga ro m , '
this is the work of Divine power, which also
contains this universe.—Which Divinity contains-
ing and comprehending the whole nature' mad
universe, must needs be a single and solitary Bw-
iUg, according to that expression of Horace he-
fore Cited1
:
N«c wgetquicquam simile autiecandum,
Thaty. which bath nothing like it; nor second’to
i t —-The next thing is, that, according tothe Pa*-
gun tradition, besides this universal Ntimen;>there
were'certain'other particular and inferior deities
mfeo/ that iB, understanding beings superior to
, y 2
$04 C SPKUSIPPUS, XENOGRATES,
men; namely, the animated stars or spheres, So-
cording to the vulgar apprehension,,though Arih
stotle’s philosophy would .interpret this chiefly of
their immoveable minds or intelligences. Lastly,
that all the rest offthe Pagan religion ant} theor
logy, those two things only excepted, were fabu?
lous and: fictitious, invented for the better persua-
sioa of the vulgar; to piety, and the conserving of
them in obedience.to civil laws; amongst; which
thismay be reckoned for one, that those gods are
oil like; men or other animals; and therefore to
be .worshipped in.images and statues of those se-
-veral forms; with .all that other fabplous farrago,
iwhicb depepdeth hereupon. Which, being separ
rated from the rest, the.*arpto?&
>£«, or ancient trar
dition of.their Pagan progenitors—would remain
comprised within those two particulars above-
mentioned; namely,,.that there is one supreme
Deity, that contains the whole universe, and that*
besides it, the animated stars or their minds are
certain inferior gods also.:
To ‘Aristotle may be here subjoined Spengipr
«pusand Xenocrates, his equals and corrivais, they
being Plato’s successors; together with Theor
phrastus, his oyra scholar and successor.: ,Com
cerning the former, of which it is recorded,intjjr
cero, that agreeably with Plato, he as-
*898,M
i99.' serted “ vim quandam, qua ;omnip. rer
tom. u . oper.] gantur, eamque animalem,” one animal
and intellectual force, by which all things are go­
verned j-eby1reason-.whereof,,
■
Velleius .the.'Epicu­
rean complains,of hipa, as.thereby endeavouring
•
“ evellere ex animis cognitionem deorutn,” Jtp
pluck out of:the mindsof men the notion ofigodw;
c-r-as indeed both he and Plato did destroy those
AND THEOPHRASTUS, MONARCHISTS. 9 2 4
Epicurean gods, which were all supposed'to be
independent, and to have do swaf or influence at
all upon the government of the: world; whereas
neither of them denied a plurality of subordinate
add dependent deities, generated or created by
jtae.Supreme,and by him employed as his minis^
lent in the economy of the universe: for had they
-done any such thing.as this^ they would’certainly
have been then condemned for Atheists, And
J&enocrates’s theology is thus represented in Sto-
-Ih b U8 : rtjv MowaSa ko.1t*
}
v. AvaSa Oeovi, rijv ’ i
pit) «*c&f>ptva. 7TOTpociyOvoav ra&v, rjvttva vpoa- ' *
’UyOfkvH kal Zqva, kcu FUpirrov, Kal Now, oO
tic - '
fen* ifttfry tfpwroe 8tog‘ n)v’8i OijXtiav./inirpSe Oa >
v BLeifli,
VW)1Mo too 'ovpavov Xii&wc iyov^W t one cvnv oilnp
’
jiftoyjr tow-iraDToc, &c. 1 That both a- monadand
dyad were gods, the one masculine, .haring the
[order'of a lather, which he calieth Zen and Minds
aad which is also to him the first God; the other
-feminine, as it were the mother of the gods,which
is to him the Soul ofthe universe:-1
—
-besides which
-hef acknowledged] the heaven to be Divine, that
5a, animated with a particular soul of its own,
.and the fiery stars to be celestial gods, as he as-
'Serted also certain sublunary gods, viz. the in-
^risible demons; Where, instead of the Platonic
•timity, Xenocrates seems to have acknowledged
(tody a duality of Divine hypostases';' the first
called- a Monad and Mind; the second a Dyad
•and; Soul Of the universe; And, lastly, we have
tins testimony of Theophrastus, besides; others,
Aiitedout Ofhis Metaphysics^ 9tlayip kmmov
&' >
5
c airavra kmion km Stajulvct, there is one Divine
.Principle of all things, by or frota/wbichflll things
subsist aiidremain. : .- - vi
526 tHX STOICS C0RPOBEALISTS.
xxv. T h e:Stoics and their chief doctoral
Zeno, Gleadthes and Cbrysippus, were no bettor
naturalists and metaphysicians than Heraclitus,
in whose footsteps they trade; they in like man­
ner admitting no other substance besides body,
according to the true and proper notion thereof
%
s that which is not only Suurrarov, distant and
extended*—
>bnt also «vrnwov, resisting and impe­
netrable.—&othat, according to these Stoics, the
souls not only of other animals, hot of men also,
Were properly corporeal, .that is, substances im*
penetrably extended; and which differed from
that other part of theirs, commonly called their
body, do otherwise than that they were *<r«p*
epamrepov KalXsuTopfpiarfpov, a morethin and aubtfle
body—
—
and wtvpa ivOeppov, a hot and fiery spint
-—
it being supposed by these philosophers, that
.cogitation, reason, and understanding, are lodged
only in the fiery matter of the universe. And
though the generality of these Stoics acknow­
ledged human souls to have a certain permanency
after .death, and some of them till thenext confla-
gration,(unless perhapsthey should be crashed and
broken all to pieces,in.their passageoutofthe body,
-by the downfal of sometower, steeple, or the like
upon them) yet did they all conclude against
their immortality, there being nothing at all im­
mortalwith them (as shall be afterwards declared)
sa v e only Jupiter, or the one supreme Deity. And
as for the punishment of the wicked souls after
death, though some of them seem to have utterly
exploded the same, as a mere figment pf poets,
* These are the Words of Chrysjppus, preserved by Plutarch,
Libre de Repugnantiis Stoicorum, p. 1052,tom. ii. opqr.
THE STOICS CORPOREALISTS. 3 ^
(insomuch, that Epictetus ‘ himself denies there
was any Acheron, Cocytus, or Pblegethon) yet
others granted, that as the better souls after death
did mount up to the stars, their first original, so
the wicked wandered up and down here in certain
dark and miry subterraneous places, till at length
they were quite extinct. Nevertheless, they seem
to have been all of this persuasion, that the fright­
ening Ofmen with punishments after death was no
proper nor accommodate means to promote vir­
tue, because that ought to be pursued after for its
own sake, or the good of honesty, as vice to be
avoided for that evil of turpitude which is in it,
and not for any other external evil consequent
thereupon. Wherefore Chrysippus reprehended
Plato for subjoining to his republic such affright*
ful stories of punishments after death: p,nLde
f*T«V oik opOwc OTrorpirtiy T
<
j» a m r«3v Btwv Stolo. lap.
Ijafap, rqc aSuctac, row KifaXov" tv&af3Xqrov P
v torn Kax*ipocrovvavriov t£dy<nra moXXovc irtpurwaaftoit
tt! nA tw nrnic avrmirrotNroc, rov mpl row m rov 0eoo
m Xmww Xo-yov, « t ov%v Statpipovra trie ’Akkouc k«
urife
A X ftrovc, 8i tin ra wtaSapta rov KtucotryoXav al ■ywauerc
mmlpyouat' Chrysippus affirmeth, that Plato (in the
person of Cephalus) does not rightly deter men
fnm injustice by the fear of Divine punishment
and vengeance after death; since this opiriion (of
torments after death) is liable to much exception,
and the contrary is not without probabilities; so
that it seems to be but like to women’s frighting
of children from doing unhappy tricks, with those
bugbears of Acco aud Alphito.—But how fondly
these Stoics doated upon that hypothesis, that all
» Arrian, in Epictet. lib. iii. cap. xiii. p. 393.
\
THB STOICS NOT ATHEISTS.
was.bodysmay appear from hence, that they matai-
tainederen accidents and qualities fbeinseUes to
be bodipsj for voice and sound; iiigbt auddayj
evening aod morning, summer and winter; Bay;
qalepdsrftnd nones, months and years, were bodies
With them. And; not only so; but also the quali­
ties of the mind itself, as virtue and vice, together
with the motions and affections of it, as anger and
eqvy, grief and joy; according to that passage ini
Seneca, *“ Corporis bona sunt corpora ; corpora
ergo sunt et quae animi; nam et hie corpus est:”
The goods of a body are bodies; now tbe mind
is a: body; and therefore the goods of the mind
^re bodies top.—
rAnd with as good logic as this
did they further infer, that all the actions, pas­
sions, apd qualities of the mind, were.not hnly
bodies, but also animals likewise:* ‘‘Animatn
constat animal esse; cum ipsa efficiat,' ut shnoS
auimalia; virtus autem nihil aliud est quiam ani­
mus taliter se habens, ergo animal est:”.It is
manifest* that the soul is an animal,.because it'is
thak by which we are made animals; now virtue
and vice are nothing else but the soul so and-so
affected or modified, and therefore these are ant
mala too.—Thus we see wbat fine conclusions
these doaters upon body (though accounted great
masters of logic) made; and .how they were lie*
fooled in their ratiocinations and philosophy.
. Nevertheless, though these Stoics were shch
sottish Corporealists, yet were they:not for all that
Atheisms; they resolving, that mind or understand­
ing, though always lodged in corporeal substance,
9Epist. cvi. p. 399. tom. ii. oper.
b Spneca, Epist. cxiii. p.422. tom. ii. oper.
t h e s t o ic s n o t a t He is t s . 3 2 9
‘yet was not first of all begotterTout of senseless
matter, so or so modified. but was an eternal un^-
made thing; and the maker of the wholeraundarie
•system. And, therefore, as to that controversy'so
much agitated amongst the ancients, whether the
■World were made by chance, or by the necessity
•Of material motions, or by mind, reason and un­
derstanding ; they avowedly maintained, that it
Was neither by chance nor by material necessity,
but Divina Mente, by a Divine and eternal Mind
■every way perfect. From which one eternal
‘Mind theyalsO affirmed human sonls to havebeen
derived, and not from senseless matter; “ Pruden-
iiatn etmentem a diis ad homines pervenisse,”*
that mind and wisdom descended down to men
'from the Deity.—And that “ Ratio nihil alind est,
quam in corpus humanum pars divini spiritus
mersa;"b Reason is nothing else bqtpart of the
Divine spirit merged into a human body:—so that
these human souls were to them no other than
fiopux (km Kal axoairaafiara,0 certain parts of Ood,
or decerptions and avulsions from him.—Neither
were the reasons, by which these Stoics would
prove the world to have bad a Divine original, at
all contemptible, or much inferior to those which
have been used in these latter days; they being
such as these: first, that it is no more likely this
■orderly system of the world should have been
madfe by chance, than that Ennius’s Annals or
Comer’s Iliads might have resulted from the fori
'tuitoug projection or tumbling out of so many
* Cicero de Nat. Deor. lib. ii. cap. xxxi. p*3000. tom. ix. open
b Senec. Epist. Ixvi. p. 168. tom. ii. oper.
* Arrian, in Epict. lib. i. cap. xiv. p. 123.
9 3 0 . : qrapiR AUGVMEfTS
forms of letters, confounded all together; there
being as touch continued and coherent sense, and
.ns many several combinations in this real poem of
the world, as there is in any fantastic poem
made by men. And since we see no houses or
cities, no books or libraries any where made by
the fortuitous motions of matter, it is a madness
to think, that this admirable compages of the
whole world should first have resulted from
thence. Again* there could not possibly be such
an agreeing and conspiring cognation of things
and such a universal harmony throughout the
whole world, as now there is, “ nisi ea uno divine
et cootiuuato spiritu continerentur,” were they
not all contained by one and the same Divine
spirit:—which is the most obvious argument for
the unity or oneliness of the Deity. They rea­
soned also from the scale of nature, or the gra­
dual perfection of things in the universe, one
above another; that therefore there must he some­
thing absolutely perfect, and that either the world
itself, or something presiding over it, was a pristr
cipio sapiens,,*wise from the beginning,—or rather
without beginning, and from eternity. For as if
thegrowth ofplants andanimals, “ Naturesuo quo
dam itinere ad ultimum pervenit,”nature by a con­
tinual progress, and journeying forwards, arrives
at length to the greatest perfection, which those
things are respectively capable of;—and as those
arts of picture and architecture aim at perfection;
“ ita in omni nature necesse est absolvi aliquid et
perfici,” so in the nature of the whole universe
there must needs be something absolutely perfect
* Cicero de Nat. Dcor. lib*ii. cap. xiii. p. 2973. top. ix, oper.
IN FAVOUR OF A GOD. 0 3 !
reached unto.—“ Necesse est praestantem aliquant
esse uaturam, qua nihil est melius ;n sincethere if
such a gradual ascent and scale of perfections in
nature, one above ,another, there must needs ,tie
spmp.mostexcellent and perfect Being, than which
nothing can be better—at the top ofall, asthehead
thereof. Moreover, they disputed Socratically,
after this manner;4 “ Unde arripuit homo vitam,
mentem et rationem r” Whence did man snatch
life, reason, or understanding? Or from what was
it kindled in him? For is it not plain, that we
derive the moisture and fluidity of our bodies
from the water that is in the universe, their con­
sistency and solidity from the earth, their heat
and activity from the fire, and their, spirituosity
from the air ? “ Illud autem, quod yincit haec om­
nia, rationem, mentem et consilium, &c. ubi inve-
n.imus ? unde sustulimus ? An caetera muudns ha-
bebi.t omnia ? Hoc unum quod plurimi est non
habebit?” Butthatwhich far transcendetb all these
things,our reason, mind and understanding,where
did we find it?, or from whence did we derive it?
Hath the universe all those other things of ours
in it* and in a far greater proportion? and bath it
nothing at all of that, which is the most excellent
tbjngiu us ? “ Nihil quod animi, quodque rationis
est expers, id generare ex se potest aniraantes
npmpotesque rationis, wuudus autem generat ani-
mantes compotes rationisN othing that is devoid
of mind and reason, can generate things animant
pud rational; but the world generated) such, and
therefore itself (or that which contains it, and pre­
sides over it) must needs be animant and rational,
or intellectual.—Which argumentation is further
3Id. ibid. cap. \i. vii. viii. ix.
83% • ' f HBiR ARGUMENTS
set home bysuchsimilitudes as these; “ Si ex blivsl
modulate canentestibiae nascerentur, non ddbi-
tarCs, quin eSsetin Oliva tibicinis quaedam scieh-
tia .Q u id si ptatani fidiculas ferreut numerosd
sonauteS, idem scilicet censeres in platanis ittesse
musicafri. -Cur igitnr mundus noo auimans sa-
piensquejadicetur.cum ex se procreet animantes
atque sapientes ?” If from the olive-tree should be
produced pipes sounding harmoniously, Or from
the; plane-tree tiddles,playing of their Own accord
musically, if would not at all be doubted, buf
that there was some musical, Cither skill or nature,
id those trees themselves: why therefore should
hot the world be' concluded' to be both animant
and wise (or to have something init Which'is so)
-since it produceth such beings■from itselfP-nAndl
-though perhaps some may think that of Cotta’s
-here to have: been a smart and witty repartee,*
**-Qdterit Socrates, unde animam arripne'ritaus, si
•holla fuerit in mundo? Et ego quaero, unde ora-
tionern ? unde numeros? unde Cantus? nisi vero
loqui sol6m cum luna putemufc, cum propiuS
occesserit: aut ad harmoniam canere taundum,
d t Pythagoras existimat.” Socrates demanded),
Whence we Snatched soul, life, and reason, ifthere
Were none in the world ? and I demand (saith he)
Whence did We snatch speech, music; ahd num­
bers? Unless perhaps you-Will suppose the sun
to confabulate with the moon, when he approaches
hear her in the Syzygiae; Or the World td sound
harmonically, as Pythagoras conceited.—Yet this,
how smart Soever it may Seem, Was really but ad
empty flash of academic wit, without any solidity
at all-in it, as shall be manifested afterwards
*Id. ibid*lib. in. cap. xi. p. 3064. tom. ix. opcr.
IN FAVOUR OF A GOD. $ $ $
Lastly, the Stoics endeavoured to prove;the ex?
istence of a God after this manner: “ Ut pulla parf
corporis nos.tri est, quae non sit minor qnam nos?
metipsi sumus, sicmundum universum plans esse
necesse estquam partem aliquam u n iv ersiA s
there is no part of our body, which is. uotinferior
in perfection to ourselves* so must the. whole uni?
verse needs be supposed to be better and more
perfect than any ofthe parts thereof.—
-Wherefore
since it<is better to be endued with life and under­
standing;, than to be devoid thereof, and these,are
pare perfections; they being in some measure ia
ihe parts,, must needs be much more in.the whole*
NulliuS sensu carentis pars pot£st essesentiens;’’
no part of that, which is utterly dead and stupid,
-can have, life and understanding in it.—And it is
-a madness for any man to suppose “ Nihil in omni
mundo melius esse quaiu se,” that there is nothing
in the whole world better than himself,, or than
.mankind—which is but a part thereof,:Now Cotta
■here,again exercises his jeering academic wit after
-the same,manner as before; Hoc si placet, jam
efficies, ut mundus optime librum legere videatur,
&c. Isto raodo etiam disertus, matbematicus,
nmsicus,omni denique doctrina refertus, postremb
philosophus erit mundus.” By this same argu-
unent.'you might as well prove,, that the world..is
>also book-learned, an orator, a mathematician, a
.musician, and last of all a philosopher.—-But nei-
;ther this objection of bis nor that former have,any
4mrtitu.de at all in them: Jbecause though an effect
cannot be better or more perfect than .its .cause,
nor a part than the whole; and, therefore, what­
soever there is of pure perfection in any effect, it
mu^t needs be mpre in ihe cause; yet as tp those
THE'R AROO'M’
BWTS '
384
things there mentioned by Cotta (which havei ali a
plain mixture of imperfection in them) as~ they
could not therefore formally exist in that which
is absolutely perfect, so is it sufficient, that they
are ail eminently and virtually contained therein;
By such argumentations as these (besides that
taken from the topic of prescience and divina*
tion) did the ancient Stoics endeavour to de­
monstrate the existence of a God, or a universal
Nunten, the maker and governor of the whole
world; and that such a one, as was not a mere
plastic or methodical and senseless, but a con­
scious and perfectly intellectual nature; So that
the world to them was neither a mere heap and
congeries of dead and stupid matter fortuitously
compacted together; nor yet a huge plant or ve­
getable, that is, endued with a spermatic princi­
ple only; but an animal informed and enlivened
by an intellectual soul. And though, being Cor-
porealists, they sometimes called the whole world
itself or mundane animal, God; and sometimes
the. fiery principle in it, as intellectual, and die
hegemonic of the mundane soul; yet was the God
of the Stoics properly, not the very matter itself,
but that great soul, mind and understanding, or
in Seneca’s language, that ratio incorporatis, that
rules the matter of the whole world. Which
stoical God was also called as well TayaBov as
Novc, good as mind—as that which is a moat
moral, benign, and beneficent being; according
to that excellent Cleantbean description of him,
in Clemens Alexandrines.*
TdppSdirifofrpc ft oSsi*r* &ou|'
TfTflpybtfrflV,toxCUOf, O&UNf
KfaroSv ioirroD, , xetXov, hov, &c. «
*hi Protreptico^cap; vi. p. 61. and Stromat. lib. v.p.716.
IK FAVOUR OF A COO.
But this maker and governor of the whole world
was most commonly named by the Stoics Zeus
and Zen, or Jupiter; some of them concluding',
that therefore there was but one Zeus or indepen­
dent Deity, because the whole world was but
one animal governed by one soul; and others of
them endeavouring, on the contrary, to prove the
unity and singularity of the world from the oneli-
ness.of this Zeus, or the supreme Deity, sup­
posed and taken for granted, and because there
is but one fate and providence. Which latter
consequence Plutarch would by no means allow
of, be writing thus concerning it, where he pieads
for a plurality of worlds; *o* p«iv rays D.uef. O
r.
aM a r&v 'SrwxStvxit hv fofitfOelq, vwAwtjal* p>4S5.
vwv irwc Eifiapfdvtf pla fdvu teal Tlpovoia, m l OirraXAai
Atiff (eat Zfixc taovnu, v W v u v ovruiv toapuv, ric yap
au^pyKt) troXXov^ tlvai A(ay, av rXtlovec &<n xSafiot, wk fty
kmff ■tkaarov ap\avra npUrrov m\ rrytfi6va row SXcru£m
&
k,
oloe & w p’ ‘
flftiv icipioe airavrwp ml icarrjp hrovopmtCdfU-
voc, &c. Neither is it at all considerable, what the
^Stoics here object against a plurality of worlds,
they demanding, how there could be but oneFate,
and one Providence, and one Jove, (or indepen­
dent Deity) were there many worlds? For what
neeessity is there, that there must be more Zens
or Joves- than one, if there were more worlds ?
and why might not that one and the same God
of this universe, called by us the Lord and Father
of all, be the first prince, and highest governor
in all those worlds ? Or what hinders, but that a
multitude of worlds might be all.subject to the
late and providence of one Jupiter, or supreme
God; himself inspecting and. ordering them every
one; and imparting principles and spermatic
336 ACKNOWLEDGED ONLY ONE.
yeasonsto them, according to which: alt thingsiu
jtbem might be governed and disposed ?, For can
many distinct persons in an army or .chorus be
reduced into one body or polity ? and could not
ten or fifty, or a hundred worlds in the uni?
yerse,be all governed by one reason, and. be or?
4ere4 together in reference to one principle ?-—In
yrhich place these two things are plainly con­
tained ; first, that the Stoics unquestionably as­
serted one supreme Deity, or universal monarch
over the whole .world; and, secondly, that Plu­
tarch was so far from giving any entertainment
to the contrary opinion, that be concluded,though
there were ten or fifty* or a hundred worlds, yet
they were all subject to one supreme, solitary,
and independent Deity.
But, however, though these Stoics thus un­
questionably asserted one sole independent and
.universal Numen, the monarch oyer the whole
world; yet did they, notwithstanding, together
with the other Pagans, acknowledge a plurality
O f gods 5they concluding iravra fitora uvai Oetjv &d
JBaip6vun>, that all things were full of gods and de­
mons.—And.so far were they from falling short of
the other Pagans, as to this Polytheism.or multi­
plicity of gods, that they seem rather to have sur­
passed, and outstripped them therein. Plutarch*
making mention of their rooovrov vXtiQoc.Owv,: their
so great multitude of gods;—and affirming theta*
*/x7T£7rX)(K£vairif) Xoytp Qtwv tov ovjMvov, Tiyvyvv, r$v aspa,
<ri}v OaXarrav, to have filled the whole heaven, earth,
■air, and sea with gods.—Nevertheless, they plain­
ly declare, that all this their multiplicity of.gods
(one only excepted) was generated or created, in
*DeRepugnant Stoicer. p.r076. topi. ii. oper. •• 1
337
&TERNAL AND IMMORTAL OOP.
lime by that one, called Zens or Jupiter, wbo
was not only the spermatic reason, bat also the
soul and mind of the whole universe; and who
from himself produced the world, and those gods,
out of non-existence into being. And, not only so,
but that also in the successive conflagrations they
are all again resolved and swallowed up into that
one. Thus Plutarch, in his defect of „ .
P 420
oracles, writing of the mortality- of de­
mons, roJf Srwwoif yivwmoflw, ov fi6vov xatcL Saifidviov rjv
Xfyw 86^av t\ovrac, aXkh k
o
X dtiov, 6vru»v roo&vrov to tX?-
3»c' ivl xjM>/ifoovc iu$t(p na\ a$0aprq>, roic Si aXXov; tai
ytyqvivai K
ai tjtOapriatodai wyifijnirat' We know the
Stoics to maintain this opinion, not only con­
cerning demons, but also the gods themselves,
that they are mortal. For though they own such
a multitude of gods, yet do they acknowledge
only one of them eternal and incorruptible; af­
firming concerning all the rest, that as they were
made in time, so they shall be again corrupted
and destroyed.—Plutarch himself there defends
the mortality of demons, but this only as to their
corporeal part, that they die to their present
bodies, and transmigrate into others, their, souls
in the mean time remaining immortal and incor­
ruptible; but the Stoics maintained the sfune as
well concerning gods as demons; and that in such
a. manner, as that their very souls, lives, and per­
sonalities, should be utterly extinguished and
destroyed. To the same purpose Plutarch again
writeth, in his book of Common Notions against
the Stoics, Xpvmmroc K
al KXaavOnct/nrerXi|-
K&
TtQ(<»£ jhroc ciiraTv) T
<
j>Xwytfi Stwv, TOVovpavov,
f b riv <Upa,ri)v SaXarrav, ovSiva tw v rooofmov fy&ap*
rov, ovSt aiSiov airokikolireusi, irXqv novov rov A«fc* dc
VOL. II. Z
SUB ACKNOWLEDGED ONLY ONE
tfitiVaQ karttvakiaieotai tovc aXXowe, 8lc. ravra 81 oi/\ arcaA~
XaTraXXatiSv aroiraruvvWoyi&fiEva t%ii rag vxoSiaetg avrdiv,
kdi role d4ypamv farirat, a'XXaairrol plya (3odivTtg hiroig xipi
SritHv, ical xpovolag, lipappiinig rt leal Qftattog ypappaat, Siep-
/ty&iv XSyovai, rotig &eoiigaxavrag rival ytyav6rag teal pQapir
aofth>ovg vtto xitpbg, ’
npcrcitg Kara avroiig, Stamp Ktipivotfs »J
Kamptvovc ovfac* Chrysippus and Gleanthes, having
filled the whole heaven, earth, air and sea with
gods, leave not one of these their so many gods
incorruptible uor eternal, save Jupiter only, into
whom they consume all the rest; thereby making
hHn to be a helhio and devourer of gods ; which
is as bad as if they should affirm him to be cor­
ruptible, it arguing as much imperfection for one
to be nourished and preserved by the consump­
tion of other things into him, as for himself to die.
Now this is not only gathered by way ofconse-
qtieace from the other principles of the Stoics,
bat it is a thing, which they expressly assert, and
W itha loud voice proclaim in all their writings
Concernifigthe gods, providence, fate and nature ;
that all the gods were generated, (or made-in
time) and that they shall be all destroyed by fire:;
they supposing them to be meltable, as if they
were waxen or leaden things.—This indeed is es­
sential to the stoical doctrine, and from their
principles inseparable and unavoidable; foras­
much as they held all to be body, and that in.the
Successive conflagrations alt corporeal systems
fltid compages shall be dissolved by fire; so.theft
tiOother deity can then possibly remain safe and
untouched, save Jupiter alone, the fiery principle
of the universe, animated or intellectual. Here
therefore there is a considerable difference to be
observed betwixt these Stoics and other Pagan
ETERNAL AND IMMORTAL GOD. 3 3 9
Theists; that whereas the others for the most
part acknowledged their gods to have been made
in time by one supreme universal Numen, but
•yet nevertheless to be immortal, and to continue
tp eternity; the stoical Pagans maintained, that
all their other gods, save Jupiter alone, were
not only ysyovoree, but also $0apt)<r6fuvot, such as
should be as well corrupted as they were gene-
nrated, and this so also, as that their very per­
sonalities should be utterly abolished and an­
nihilated^ all the stoical gods in the conflagra­
tion being as it were melted and confounded into
one.
Wherefore during the intervals of the succes­
sive conflagrations, the Stoics all agreed, that
there is no more than ode.God (Zeus or Jupiter)
left alone, (there being then indeed nothing else
besides himself) who afterwards produceth the
whole mundane system, together with all the
gods, out of himself again. Chrysippus in Plu­
tarch affirmeth, eouclvai r<j> fitv avOpwmp rov. p 1(ff7
A ta mil rbv KOCTflOV, TT) St *fn>XQ T^
v flprfvotav, [Da Repugn,
ftravavv tKiripwaig yivtfrai fiovov atpOaprov 6vra *toicor*l
Tov Ala nSv Otwvy ava\u>puv br\ rijv irp6voiav, ttra 6pov ye-
‘
WOfiivtWQ) brl ftiag rtjc rov alSrlpog ovatac StareXctv afitporl-
(m
w
c
, that as Jupiter and the world may be re­
sembled to a man, so may providence be to the
aoul: when therefore there shall be a conflagra­
tion, Jupiter of all the gods being alone incor­
ruptible and then remaining,*will retire and with­
draw himself into providence; and so both to­
gether remain in that same ethereal substance.—
Where notwithstanding Jupiter and Providence
are really but one and the same thing. And Sene-
®a <writetb thus concerning the life of a wise man
340 STOICS WORSHIPPED INFERIOR GODS.
Bp.«. [R
P
i»
«
.*
n solitude: “ Quallsfutura est vita sa-
u . p . x i i i . t o m . pientis, si sine amicis relinquatur, in cos*
H . o p « r . ] todiam conjectus, ant in desertum littus
ejectus? Qualis est Jovis, cum resoluto roundo,
et d i i s in u n u m c o n f u s is , paulisper cessante na-
tura, acquicscit sibi, cogitationibus suis traditus
If you ask, What would be the life of a wise man
either in a prison or desert ? I answer, the same
with that of Jupiter, when the world being re­
solved, and the g o d s all c o n f o u n d e d into o n e ,
and the course of nature ceasing, he resteth in
himself, conversing with his own cogitations.—
Arrianus’s Epictetus, likewise, speaking of the
same thing, ironically introduces Jupiter, be­
moaning himself in the conflagration, as now left
Arr. i. iii.c quite alone, after this manner; TqXac ey*l,
xiii. [p. S9i.] 0{JTE ^v^H pav owrsrtjw Aflijvav, oi n tor
’AiroW wva, ovn oX
<i>c Va&X^ov, i) ulov, ijovyytvn’ Alas!
I am now left all alone; 1 have neither Juno, uor
Minerva, nor Apollo with me; neither brother
nor son, nor nephew, nor kinsman (neither God
nor goddess) to keep mecompany.—He adding
also, according to the sense of the Stoics, that in
all these successive conflagrations, o Z«V avroc
avvcoTt, icat iavrov, km swot? ti/v Stouctr
mv iavrov, oia tori, Kal iv imvoiaif y'lverat irpiirovoatt
iavrif, Jupiter, being left alone, converseth only
with himself, and resteth in himself, considering
his own government, and being entertained with
thoughts becoming himself.—And thus have we
made it unquestionably evident, that the Stoics ac­
knowledged only one independent and self-existent
Deity, one universal Numen, which was not only
the creator of all the other gods, but also, in cer­
tain alternate vicissitudes of time, the decreator of
STOICS WORSHIPPED INFERIOR GODS. 341
them; he then swallowing them up, and devour­
ing them all into himself, as he had before pro­
duced them together with the world out of him­
self.
It is granted, that these Stoics as well as the
other Pagans did religiously worship more gods
than one, that is, more understanding beings su­
perior to men. For it was Epictetus’s* own ex­
hortation, tv^ov Ototc, Pray to the gods.—And the
same philosopher1
*thus describeth the dispdsition
of a person rightly affected; 9t\wti&vat « pot tcatti-
kov irpoc roue dfovg, I would willingly know, what
is my duty, first to the gods, and then to my pa­
rents, and other relations.—And they are M. An­
toninus's precepts,* AtSov Btovc, revere the gods,
and4tv avam fltow
e iiriKaXov, in.every thing implore
the aid and assistance of the gods.—And accord­
ingly in that close of bis first book,* himself does
thankfully ascribe many particular benefits to the
gods ID C om m on ; irapa r<Sv Otiov t o ayaOovg ir a v
wovtt 8cc. I owe to the gods, that I had good pro­
genitors and parents, &c.—Where, amongst the
rest, he reckons up this for one, that he never was
any great proficient, either in poetry or rheto­
ric ; because these would probably (had he suc­
ceeded in his pursuit of them) have hindered him
from the attainment of far better things. And
after all his enumeration, he concludeth thus:
iravra yap ravra dtwv j^otfiwv cat rv^?je Btirai, for all
these things need the assistance of the gods and
fortune, viz. because they are not in our own
power.
*Apud Arrian, lib. i. Dissert, i. p. 84. d Lib. vi. §. 23. p. 183.
bIbid. lib. iii. cap. xvii. p. 222. •Lib. i. §. 17. p. 30.
cLib. *i. §. 30. p. 190.
STOICS WGR8HIBPEIJ
342
Neither can it be denied, but that they did often
derogate from the honour of the supreme God, by
attributing such things to the gods in common,
(as the donors of them,) which plainly belong
to the supreme God only. As when Epictetus
t. iu.o
.xiir. makes reason in men to be a gift of the
Opnd Arrian, ggds ; tyM
VOVV \6 y O f £7rl arv\l<f K
C
UKOKoSaiflOvUf
*
* ^ SiBonuwrorwv \ is reason therefore
given us by the gods merely to make us miserable
and unhappy ?—And when he again imputes
virtue to them; hast thou overcome thy Inst, thine
x. i r . o . in. intemperance, thine anger ? iuIZw
[p. 388.] atria Svolaf, rj w a rtla t
) vtraf>\la, ravra he <rov
avrov ylverai iccii airb rwv $fu v, how much greater
cause then hast thou of offering sacrifice, than if
thou hadst got a consulship or prsetorship? for
those things come only from thyself and from the
gods.—Though the reason of these speeches of
theirs seems to have been no other than this, be*
cause they took it for granted, that those under­
standing beings, superior to men, called by them
gods, were all of them the instruments and mi­
nisters of the supreme God in the government of
the world; and had therefore some kind of stroke
or influence, more or less, upon all the concern­
ments of mankind. Whence it came to pass also,
that they often used those words God and gods
promiscuously and indifferently: as one and the
same celebrated speech of Socrates is sometimes
expressed singularly, « ravrp r<
£ <
p
(X
o
v} if.God
will have it so, let it be so, (Arr.Epict. l.i. c.xxix.
l.iv. c. iv.) and sometimes again plurally, « ravry
4>iXov role Otois, if the gods will have it so.
Wherefore, notwithstanding the many gods of
those Stoics, they worshipped for all that one Su-
ONE U N IV E R S A L NUMEN. 343
preme, that is, one universal Nuinen, that con­
tain* and comprehends the whole world, vyho W
a§
Variously described by them, sometimes as the
nature and reason of the whole world; A
nton , lV
ij tu)v 5Xu
>
v iftvaiQ TrptcrfivraTif Srtwv, the nature, K
-1-P?6-0
of the whole, the oldest of all the gods—and' v «»
SXa Swucowo $Wig, that nature which governs all
things—6 rrjv ruiv oXwv ovaiav Sioucaiv Xbyoc, Ant
that reason which governs the sub- l6‘
Stance of all —6 Sia rijg ovalag Sijjkw
v AntJ.W.§.1 .
Xoyogx taii Sia ffayrhg tov atvvog Kara irepttiSovp.
Ttrayfiivat ohcovofiwv to vav, that reason which passes
through the substance ofthe universe, and through
all eternity orders and dispenses all according
tp appointed periods.—Sometimes is he called
ij T
fU
voA
oti/ atria, the cause of all things— Ant 1.».
Sometimes rb row koouov rrytuovucbv, the he-
• , Anton. 1.1*.
gemonic and ruling principle of the
whole world—and 6 vytpuiv to
vk
So
/mv, the prince
of the world,— Again, 6 Sioucwv ra 6Xa,
t^e governor, of the whole—as in this £7'jg“°j 75'
of Epictetus; S icaXogical ayaObg rrjv avrov
yvu>fir}v VTrore rayt r y Sioueovvn ra SXa, icaSrmrep A„j*
ot aya&ol noXtrai v6py Tig noXtwg; a good “ •
ipan submits his mind to the Governor of the
whole univej-se. as good citizens do theirs to the
lnw of the city.—Also o Stardffffwv, the orderer of
—ip this other religious passage of the same
philosophers, rb iraiStfooSat, tovt(<
jti ; p a v ^ m
^avsiv ^aerra ovrw diXeiv we ylveraC irwg St C»»t
yiyerai; yg StfraZtv avra 6 Star&aawv, to be .instruct­
ed is to will things to be as they are made: and
how are they made ? as that great Disposer of
all hath appointed.—Again, tl$e supreme God is
sometimes called by them ro mpd\ow ra SXa votpbv,
344 STOICS WORSHIPPED
that intellectual principle, which contains the
whole, as in this instruction of M. Antoninus;
L. viiL $.45 RVM
^vov M tprrvtXv Tty yepd \ o v n a ip i, aXXAMil
(TVfKppoViiv Tty ■Ktpii'XpVTi yavra votpty, that, 88
our bodies, breathe the common air, so'
should our souls suck and draw in vitalbreath from
that great Mind, that comprehends the universe,
becoming as it were one spirit with the same.—He
A
nton,p,us. ^ als0 called by them d row dAov vovc km
Stdvowi, the mind and understandibg of
the whole world, pia ydvwrfv ynyd voepct,
one intellectual fountain of all things; and, lastly,
to name ho more, A
ide «c &d yavrw, km
*
* ’ <fv<tla fila, km vo/ioc etc, one God through all,
one substance,and one law.—Which supreme God
A
fl.^n i,ril! was commonly called also by the Stoics,
?’
. p.sio] together with the generality of the other
Pagans, d 0«oc, or God—emphatically,
and in way of eminency, as in this of Epictetus,*
M*l&v ftXXo d(\t, ,rj a 6 0(bc &tX«, Kal Hq m icwXiwa!
will nothing but what God willeth, and then who
can be able to hinder thee ?—And, again, Qtkneov
L. a. «.xtiiL *0^*$ favnvM Tty dtty, bnSMpiioov KaSapbf perl
[p. 835.] icaS’
apov (Ttavtou ytvia^M K
al peril rov 9coi,
affect to seem fair to God, desire to be pure with
thy pure self, and with God.—Also whereb he
speaks of the regular course of things in nature,
rera yp ivm c, Kadimp he irp o ara y/ta roc 0to v , B ra v hctlyot
titry ro le ipvTotc; avOtXv avO u, &rav tbrg fiX a a ra vetv fiX tu rrb ve i'
that it proceedeth orderly, every thing as it were
obeying the command of God: when he bids the
plants to blossom, they blossom; and when to
* Apud Arrian, lib. ii. cap.xxvii. p.221.
* Apud Arrian, lib. i. cap. xiv. p. 122,123.
ONS UNIVERSAL NUMEN. 346
bring forth fruit, they bring forth fruit.—To
which innumerable other instances might be
added. And Zeus or Jupiter was the r ,rt m
proper name of this supreme God[*p?dA
rr|^
amongst the Stoics also; whence the go-
vernment ofthe whole world is called by them Awe
itobamt, the government or economy ofJupiter.—
Lastly, this supreme God is sometimes distin­
guished by them from the other gods, expressly
and by name; as in this of Epictetus, lyA L
<
iT c xii
S’ rfvt virvrtri-^Oai, rlvt xtiSsorSai, t<
|>dap teal [p-4*6.]
roteper uccwov, I have, whom I ought to be subject
to, whom to obey, God and those, who are next
after him—that is, the supreme and inferior gods.
So, likewise, when he exhorteth not to desire:
things out of our own power: aAAa r«j» Ait x^Pl<
T
tu
avrcL, M
at rote aXXotc tcotci ixtlvoig vapaSoc, hctXvw icvfiip-
varoxrav' Let Jupiter alone with these Lil e xriL
things, and the other gods, deliver them C
p*M
1-]
up to be ordered and governed by them.—And
so again, where he personates one, that places his
happiness in those things without him: Kadn/tm
k
c
Harivit), koL$v Sfoajtuu XotSopw, rov Ala m l rove &odc
JXXovc ; I then shall sit lamenting, and speaking
evil of every one, even Jupiter himself and the
other gods.
And it must in reason be supposed, that this
Jupiter, or universal Numen of the world, was
honoured by these Stoics far above all their other
particular gods; he being acknowledged by them
to have been the maker or creator of them as well
as the whole world, and the only eternal and im­
mortal God: all those other gods, as hath been
already declared, being as well corruptible, mor-
340 STOICS HONOURED
tal, and annihilable, as they were generatedqr
»e.N. s. i.a. created. For-though Cicero’s Luciliua
p.«25. L«mb, Balbus, where he pretends to represent;
pT*w"tom. the doctrine of the Stoics, attribute the
u'oper'-1 very first original of the world to a plu­
rality of gods, hr tbe$e words: “ Pico igitqr pro-
videntia deorutn mundum etomnes mundi par­
tes, et initio cpnstitutas esse, et otnni tempore
administrari;” yet unquestionably .Ciqero forgat
himself herein, and rather spake the language of
some other Pagans, who, together wjththegene-
ration of the world, held indeed a .plurality of
eternal {though not independent) deities, than of
the Stoics, who asserted oqe only eternal God;
and supposed, in the reiterated conflagrations, all
the gods to be'melted and confounded into,one;
80 that Jupiter being then left alone, must needs
make up the world again, as also all those other
gods out of himself. And thus does £epo in
Itaertiusa describe the Cosmopmia, «>v 0ajv m
<tp^dc, tcaff pvrdv ovra, that God at first being alone
by himselif, converted the fiery, substance of the
world by degrees into water, that is, into a cras­
ser chaos; ont of which water, himself after­
wards, as the spermatic reason of the vyorld,
formed the elements and whole mundane system.
And Cicero himselfelsewhere, iq his De Pegibus,b
attributes the first original of mankind cautiously,
not to the gods in common, but to the supremo
God only; “ Hoc animal proyidum, &,c.qnem vch
camus homipem, prjaeclara quadaqa conditiope ge­
neraturn esse, a su m if o d r q and this, rather
» Lib. vii. segm. 136. p.450.
b Lib. i. cap; yiii. p. 136. tom. ix. opjoy.. *
THE SUPREME GOD ABOVE ALL. 347
Recording to the sense of the Stoics, than of the
Platonists, whose inferior generated gods also
(being first made)* were supposed to have had a
stroke in the fabrefaction of mankind, and other
animals. Thus Epictetus plainly ascribes the
making of the whole world to God, or the one
supreme Deity, where he mentions the Galileans,
that is, the Christians,'their contempt of death,
though imputing it.only to custom in them* and*
not to right knowledge; (as M. Antoninus like*
wise ascribes the same to rrapira^e,'
mere obstinacy of mind) wro fmvUe/m
> *,9-l
S v v a r a i rtc o v r w SiartB^vai, k <
u thro t9 o v c ol r<iXiX«KH, vni
Ao-yov de jtat a w o $ u £ e v e ov&tc S v v a r a t fim D u v, q t i q Q t o e
ir a m a w & co iq K t rd tv rw K oit/jup, k m a v r o v tq v k o p /io v .
Can some be so affected out of madness, u ^ c.v
ii>
and the Galileans out of custom ? and tp-so®
.]
can none attain thereunto by reason and true
knowledge, namely, because God made all things
in the world, and the whole world itself perfect
and unhinderable; but the parts thereof for. the
use of the whole, so that the parts ought there­
fore to yield and give place to the whole. Thus
does he again elsewhere demand, rov n\iov rfa wt*
xapwovc8trig, &c. Who made the sun ?
■Who
the fruits of the earth ? Who the seasons of the
year? Who the agreeable fitness ojf things?
Wherefore thou having received all from another,
even thy very self, dost thou murmur and com­
plain against the donor of them, if he take-away
any one thing from thee? Did he not bring thee
into the world? shew thee the light? bestow sense
and reason upon thee?—Now the sun was the
chief of the inferior Stoical gods, and therefore be
being made by another, all the rest of tbeir gods
3 4 8 STOICS HONOURED
must needs be so too. And thus is it plainly ex-
Li. o . ill.[ p . pressed in this following citation: « r«c
90.Tide.tiun ■ / . . ■i >w
lib.i.cp.xir. TV wypart rovnp avpiraOnOM Kar aejiav ovvatro,
p' 1**,1 on ytyovafitv mrd tov 9tov irdvrsc irpoqyov/dv«i»c
Vat'o Ocac warqp tan rwv r dvOpwirotv km twv fltwv, ovSev
aytw^C, o
i!Se Ta7ruvov ivOv/xifi^atrai mpi towro®* If aiiy
one could be thoroughly sensible of this, that we
are all made by God, and that as principal parts
of the world, and that God is the father both of
men and goids, he would never think meanly of
himself, knowing that he is the son of Jupiter
also.—Where 6coc is plainly put for the supreme
God, and 0«mfor the inferior gods only. Again,
he thus attributes the making of man and govern­
ment of the whole world to God, or Jupiter only.
L. iii.c. xxir. ® ©*oc n 'v ro ( avOpwirowe nrt to tvSaifiovtiv
[p. 3*8.] hrotijirt, &C. rtjv S ovatav tov ayadov k m tov
kokov, wairtp a&ov tov KqSdjutvov i)/xtuv, Kat varpUavg
w pourrafitvov iv rote »
8
to
tc* God made also men to
this end, that they might be happy, and as be­
came him, who bad a fatherly care ofus, he placed
our good and evil in those things, which aTe in
L.ui.o. xxir. our own power. And rtp own kok<5$ &o»-
Jp.331.] fcterai t o o
X
o, « /iq tjrqitXemu o Ztvc t v v
cavrov iroXrrwv, iv w
brtv ojuotoi avrtp svSal/jtovfg, things
would not be welt governed, if Jupiter took no
care of his own citizens, that they also might be
happy like himself.
And that these Stoics did indeed religiously
worship and honour the supreme God above all
their other gods, may appear from sundry in­
stances. As first, from their acknowledging him
to be the sovereign legislator, and professing sub­
jection and obedience to his laws, accounting'
this to be their greatest liberty. Thus Epictetus,
THE SUPREME GOD ABOVE ALL. 349
tic k/ti’ oiiStlf Viovotav i%tt, fiXevdiptvfuu ifrJ» L o t;;
row 0*ow, tyiwua avrov rac JwoAaf, owicfri
owStlc SovXaytoyijoalfu86vanu‘ No man hath power
over me, I am made free by God, (by becoming
this subject) I'know his commandments, and no
man can bring me under bondage to himself.—
And again, rawra twtniStiwp 9iXw evpcdijvai, ^ ... # ^
Jv ta rtiv Svvajuat ry! 6«j>, fiffri wapif&tiv m v rac
IvroXac, &c. These things would I be found em­
ploying myself about, that I may be able to say
to God, Have I transgressed any of thy com­
mandments? Have I used my faculties and anti­
cipations (or common notions) otherwise than
thou requirest?
Again, from their acknowledging him to be
the supreme governor of the whole world, and
the orderer of all things in it by his fate and pro­
vidence, and their professing to submit their wills
to his will in every thing; Epictetus somewhere*
thus bespeaks the supreme God: /ufoi Ifitfopififivm5
rjjv 8to(ici]<riv; evo<njaaSri r^(Xi)oaci, ical ol aXXoi, aXX’ tytS
Ikwv. vivtic tytv6/ii)v mv $Aovroc aXXa \alpttiv' ovkifp£a, Sri
ai ovk ifilkriaae, ovSivor trr&vfit}<ra apxw’ pAp1 foirov
tvfKa orvyvtfrtpov tlStc; /it) ov irpooijXOov mi<f>ai8p<p rtf
Trpootimp, troifUK tin hnramttf, An orifiatvHc ; vwv fit
$(Xttc avtXSuv Ik rijc iravrjyvptwc; ami/ju.* \aptv ooi
ttoctov, Sn (rvfiiravriyvploai mi, ieat iSttv ipya ra aa,
tcalf-gtioucrimmv <rvfnrapaKoXov0rjaai‘rawra fit ivSvfioifUvav,
rawra ypaupovra,rawra avayivuimovra icaraAaj3ot av $avarof’
Did I ever complain of thy government? I was
sick when thou wouldest have me to be, and so
are others, but I was so willingly. I was poor
also at thy.appointment, but rejoicing; I never
bore any magistracy, or had any dignity, because
Apad Arrian, lib. iii. eap. v. p. 274.
3 6 0 s t q ic b ’ d e v o t io n t o t h e s u p r e m e g o d .
thou wouldest not have me, and I never desired
it. Didst thoii ever .see me the more dejected or
melancholy for this ? Dave I appeared before thee
Rt any time with a discontented countenance?
•'Was I not always prepared and ready for what­
soever thou requirest ? WHt thou now have me to
depart out of this festival solemnity? 1 am ready
to go; and I render thee all thank's for that, thou
bast honoured me so far as tolet me keep the feast
With thee, and behold thy works, and observe tby
economy of the world. Let death seize upon
me no otherwise employed, than thus thinking
and writing of Such things.—He likewise exhorts
L . B . e . x v i . others after this manner: r o X / t v a o v a v a -
fp. Sir.] 7rpoc rov Qibv shrdv, 6ri jjpu fioi \oiirbv
tip I av $!Xyc> tyioyvuifiovo) aw, laof tl/if* ovSiv wapatrcwfuu
ru v aw 8oro6vrwv, Hirov d&np ayt, fjv JiXijc laStfra irtp/Ssc,
ip \tlv fit dlXetp, lSiwT({itiv, fdviiv, (ptvytiv, irivtadai, ttXov-
iyw aw inrip awavrwv to{rruv irpop rove avOpartrove
iwoXoyfioo/iw, -S*f£w rrjv heaarov <jtvaiv o7a i<rr(v* Dare to
lift up thine eyes to God and say, Use me here*
after to whatsoever thou pleaseth. I agree, and
am of the same mind with thee, indifferent to all
things. I refuse nothing that shall seem good to
thee. Lead me whither thou pleasest. Let me
act what part thou wilt, either of a public or pri­
vate person, of a rich man or a beggar. I will
apologise for thee as to all these things before
teen. And 1 will also shew the nature of every
one of them.
The same is likewise manifest from tbeir pre­
tensions to look to God, and refer all to him ;
expecting aid and assistance from him,and placing
their confidence in him. Thus also Epictetus,
'STOICS*DEVOTION' TOTHKSUPBEMEGOP. 351
' ftiv t%ur raimiv ivifioXiiy awonXiom vpag l fl. c.xlx.
tkfvBtpow
e*tvSaijowowrac, fterov Stov afop&v- ^ *31^
rosy iv aravrl pueptp teat fieyaXtp. My design is this, to
render you free and undisturbed, always looking
at God, as wellin every small as greater matter.—
Again the same Stoic concludes, ow
ejiorw u a. c.»i.
aXXwc exfiaXeiv X
v
t
t
jt
v
, <
j>
6
{3
o
v
, hr&vplav, &
C
. tp' 218-i
ii fifjw
poc povovtov §ebvairofiXivovra, iK
tivip p6wp irpoa-
*eTrovS6ra, roue hatvov Trpoardyfuioi K
aSsw
auoplvov. A
man will never be able otherwise to expel grief*
-fear, desire, envy, &c. than by looking to God
alone, and being devoted to him, and the observ­
ance of his commandments.—And he affirmeth of
Hercules, that this great piece of piety was so
long since observed by him, rbv M a avrw L.ai.c.«nr.
waripa ucaXu, kcil wpot ciettvovaftopwv brparrsv ^
p'33®
‘^
o itrparrt’ that as he called Jupiter, or the su­
preme God, his father, so did he whatsoever he
did, looking-at him.—Thus M. Antoninus speak-
eth of a double relation that we all have ; one
trpoc rode avfiftiovvrac, to those that live with us;—
and another, jrjoocri)v 9uav atrlav a<pi tit fvp- £ 2
3
i’
fSttivti iraatv iravra, to that Divine cause,
from which all things happen to all.—
As likewise he affirmeth, ouk dvBpiivtvov n u lt.
ivtv rrjt **« ra O
ua crwavm
popaq tvwpdSfitt, £*37 j3'
that no human thing is well ^done with­
out a reference to God.—And he excellently ex*
borteth men, evl n p irow, Koi Trpoaavawavov, L Ti j 5
’
■awo npaletot Kbtvtavuatft ■
.ptrafiatvuv im j
' rarpaicjLV koivowikt/v ovv pvr\pn tov Oeov' To
be delighted.and satisfied with this one thing; in
doing one action after.another, tending to a com­
mon good, or the good of human society; toge­
ther with the remembrance of>God.—Lastly, be
3 5 2 s t o ic s ’ d e v o t io n t o t h e s u p r e m e g o d .
declareth his own confidence in- the supreme
l vi 8 ® e *ty *u these words; dappw rtp 8eoucovvnr
[>
ep
.to. I trust and rely upon the governor of
P' 1741. the whole world.
This may be concluded also from their thank­
ing one supreme God for all, as the author of all
good, and .delightfully celebrating bis praises.
Epictetus declares it to be the duty of a good
many J(aptv f\tiv wrtp iravriov rqi Otu to thank God
for all things.—And elsewherehespeaketh thus:
.cl vovv u \0(uv, SXX6 n tSu q/uac votttv, m 2Kottrg
- m l l&ly, V vfivtiv rb dttov, ical tv<j>tifitiv, kat bn-
[p * m ]** &f>Xf0$eu ra? xapur*c; oinct&i teal meiarrovrat,
k
c
H apovvrac, xal itrSlovrac, $8uv tov vjuvov rbv
slcStdv; fityac l)Stbc &n ypuv wapio\tv bpyava ravra, St’ i r
rijv yrjv ipyaoifuda" pbfac 6 Stbc J n \ttpac Sw ctv, 8tc.
&n av£«rdat XcXi^ iSw c , Sri mOtbBovrae avarvuv" ravra 2f’
hcdoTov tv^nfuiv tStt, teal rbv pbytirrov m l Sftdrarov ifivov
bpvfivdv, fin ttjv Bivafuv tStbict rijv TrapaKoXovSrfrucrjv rob-
twv' ri o iv ; &C. u yowariSwv ijfirjv, brolbvv ra r j { aq&tvoc,
(t tebievog, ra tov kvkvov, vvv il Xoyucof dfu, vftviiv fit
S et t o v Stdv. Had we understanding, what should
we do else but both publicly and privately
praise God, bless him, and return thanks to him ?
Ought not they, who dig, plough, and eat, con­
tinually sing such a hymn to God as tbis; Gre&t
is that God, who gave us these organs to cul­
tivate the earth withal; great is that God,
who gave us hands, &c. who enabled us to grow
indiscernibly, to breathe in our sleep. But the
greatest and divinest hymn of all is this, to praise
God for the faculty of-understanding all these
things. What then if for the most part men be
blinded, ought there not to be some one, who
should perform this office, and sing a hymn to
EPICTETUS. 3 5 3
God for all ? If I were a; nightingale, I would
perform the office of a nightingale; or a swan,
that of a swan: but now, beiqg a reasonable
creature, I ought to celebrate and sing aloud the
praises of God, that is, of the supreme Deity.
Lastly, the same is evident from their invoking
the supreme God as such, addressing their de­
votions to bimalone without the conjunction of any
other gods'; and particularly imploring his assist­
ance against the assaults of temptations, L
<
ii c X
T
iii
called by them fancies. To this pur-
pose is that of Epictetus, juiyac o ay«v P
‘
sort, ‘Oiiov to Ep-yov, vrrtp (3aotXtiae, VTTtp eXevOtplag, tqv
0fov ftsftvnoo, e/ceivov tmKaXov )3or/0ov Kat irapaoTarjjv, tog
rove AitxrKopovce
vysifiivvi ot irXIovrtc. This is a great
conflict or contention, a Divine enterprise; it is
fbr liberty and for a kingdom. Now remember
the supreme God; call upon him as thy helper
and assistant, as the mariners do upon Castor and
Pollux in a tempest.—He commends also this
form of devotional address, or Divine ejacula­
tion*, which was part of Cleantbes’s litany, to
be used frequency upon occasion,* ’
’Ayov $4 /u,
to Z tv , irot <n) ij wtrptofiivri orroi iroO' (vftiv) tlpl Startray-
ftivoc, vpofial y i aoxvoc’ vv Se yt fiq OtAw, ovSev ijrrov
spofiai. Lead me, O Jupiter, and thou Fate,
whithersoever I am by you destined; and I will
readily and. cheerfully follow; who, though I
were never so reluctant, yet must needs follow.—
Where Jupiter and Fate are really but one and
the same supreme Deity, under two Ep 106
several names. And therefore the sense [«»“•
of this devotional ejaculation was no
* Vide Arrian, lib. iii. cap. xxvi. p. 366.
VOL. II. 2 A
CLEANTHES’ DEVOUT HYMN
3 U
less truly and. faithfully than elegantly thus reu
dered by Seneca:
Due me parens, celsique dominator poll,
Quocunque placuit, nulla parendi est mora,
Assam impiger: fac nolle, comitaborgemens,
Malusque patiar, quod pati licuit bono.
But because many are so extremely unwilling to.
believe, that the Pagans ever made any religious
address to. the supreme God as such, we shall
here set down an excellent and devout hymn of
th6 same Cleanthes to him; the rather* because it
hath been but little taken notice of. And, the
more to gratify the reader, we shall subjoin an
elegant translation thereofinto Latin verse, which
he must owe to the muse of my learned friend Dr.
Duport. •
Steph. Poes.
Philos, p. 49.
[ex Stoboei
Bolog. Physio.]
i&avaTd*, « ro \v< vvu {X i, .srayjtgftrlc aisx, .
Z if a , <purtoic Aggnyl, {lira parr* xvflgfiSh,
X
flTpi*—Ei yi$ van Qt/jut OnroTn *£0<rav&av
'Ex rou yip ytrof irfib, fjd/xrifxa Xa%wrtc
M
dDvor, era {dti n xai ipni M r* M yau»*
T2 0
*
1 xa&vfAWffot xal roy.xpdrof alb aiirv.
Z
a» 9raf efo xfcptoc i\irrtfxst<x; «nplyauw .
TTi&irar, 7 xtv ayn{, xeu ix&vvwo rt~o XfariTrat.
ToXovI^tif faretfyb &n*Aruefaro
'A/affatn, mtgourra, aii^emra xtpturfrr
Too yip fart vXhyrti vdrr ifflyart,
rQ»cruxariu&utfKxotvof Xlyw, fa ftii xarroet
<toirf fAiyvvfXiw
“Of rirrot ytyoke fararoe &an\ivc Jii varrfa*
OvH vt yiynrai Ify» isrt %6ori rev tlya, fadpkvr,
Ours xat*alSfyiorStiof voXn, our* lei vbroe,
nXnv extra, fifovn xaxo* npiri^triv avoUir
Kal xerfxiiQTi axorfxa xeii ov <pfX
x0*
m <
p*X
x«<mv.
TflJl yip Ire b irarra n&nf/u,oxac iolxi xeutoTrtt,
*arQ* ha ytnr&at natron Xoyor alb sorraer.
-**O
y<p«yyoim
ff wroi $viit£vxaXot lurry;
Awrpxogot, err aya$S» fxb ati Krvriv woSwrrt',
Out irogSon btov xurov tofxm, ovrs xXuounr
*Qi xtysreid^ufyoi rfa yS $loyie-foor l^oiw
TO THE SUPREME GOD, 355
A W ? aZ tyfAM
O
’n inu xaXoviXXoc lw a X X a
O l fxh brig W fu c o-ffouinr$wi(tfTar Iconic,
Ol y ivl xifioovMtqrvrfafAfjdm oufcri xUfMt,
"AXXot y i t ; avttrty, xai o-cZfxaros
*AXX^ Zivf< * a rta g f, KiXeuniph, ei(%txi(aurt,
'Arifvirouf puw&vtipovrtKbrl Xvytfc,
*Hv av irdri{ oTtfoaroY4fU
X^t & r o , W c M xvgnrai
Tvdfjtnt, n irlruvoi av lixne fura itdrra Mu0tfmc
'O t f * ' T t/u » 0 iv T * ; afAti&vfUffQdera ripy,
'tfMwrnf t A <ra i^ya timxk, o»thrioutt
Qyfirk iorr**i«ri2o
Sti B
poroTf yipt^ 5x
X
o
t
*ftiigov,
Q y n S io T f, ft xotyi* V fy tw h W xp vfJtnTr.
Magne pater divum, cui nomina mulla, sed una
Omnipotens semper virtus, tu Jupiter autor
Naturae, certa qui singula lege gubernas!
Rex salve. Te nempe licet mortalibus aegris
Cunctis compellare; omnes tua namque propago
Nos sumus, aeternae quasi imago vocis et echo
Tanturn, quotquot humi spirantes repimus; ergo
Te cantabo, tuum et robur sine fine celebrans.
Quippe tuo hie totus, terram qui circuit, orbis
Paret (quoquo agis) imperio, ac obtemperat ultro
Invictistelum manibus tibi tale ministrum,
Anceps, ignitura, haud moriturum deniquefulmen. *
Ictu etenim illius tota et natura tremiscit;
Uloet coramunem rationem dirigis, et quae
Mundi agitat molem, magno se corporie miscens:
Tantus tu rerum dominus, rectorque supremos.
Nec sine te factum in terris, Deus, autopus ullum,
ASthere nec dio fit, nec per caerula ponti,
Errore acta suo, nisi quae gens impia patrat
Confusa in sese tu dirigis ordine certo;
Auspice te ingratis et inest sua gratia refras;
Foeliceharmonia, tu scilicet, omnia in unum
Sic bona mixta malis compingis, ut una rasurgat
Cunctorum ratio communis et usque perennans:
Quam refugit, spernitque hominum mens laeva malorum.
Heu miseri! bona qui quaerunt sibi semper et optant,
Divinam tamen hanc communem et denique legem,
Nec spectare oculis, nec fando attendere curant: .
Cui si parerent poterant traducere vitam
Cum ratione et mente boriam: nunc sponte feruntur
In mala praecipites, trahit et sua quemque voluptas.
Hunc agit ambitio, laudisque immensa eupido.
Ilium et avarities, et amor vesanus habendi,
Blanda libido alium, venerisque licentia dulcis:
2 A 2
3 5 6 CICERO <A THE 1ST.
Sic alio tendunt alii in diversa ruentes.
At tu, Jupiter alme, tonans in nubibus atris,
Da sapere, et meutem miseris mortalibusanfer
Insanam, banc tu pelle pater; da apprendere posse
Consilium, fretus quo tu omnia rite gubernas:
Nos ut honorati pariter, tibi demus honorem,
Perpotuis tua facta hymoispraeclaracanentes,
Ut fas est homini; nec enim mortalibus u)kim,
Nec superis, m&jus potent contingere donum,
Quam canere aeterno communem carmine legem.
xxvi; It would be endless now tq cite all the
testimonies of other philosophers anu Pagan wri­
ters of latter times, concerning one supreme and
universal Numen. Wherefore we Shall content
ourselves only to instance in some of the most
remarkable, beginning with M. Tull. Cicero;
whom though some would suspect to have been
a sceptic as to Theism, because in his De Natura
Deorum he brings in Cotta the academic, as well
opposing Q. Lncil. Balbus the Stoic, as C. Vel­
leius the Epicurean; yet from sundry other places
of his writings, it sufficiently appears, that he was
a dogmatic and hearty Theist; as for example,
this in his second book De Divin:* “ Esse prae-
stantem aliquam aeternamque natnram, et earn
suspiciendam admirandamque hominum generi,
pulchritudo mnndi, ordoque rerum coelestium
cogit confiterithat there is some most excel­
lent and eternal nature, which is to be admired
and honoured by mankind, the pulchritude of the
world, and the order of the heavenly bodies com*,
pel us to confess.—And this in his oration De
haruspicum responsis ;b “ Quis est tatti vecors, qui
cum suspexerit in ccelum, Deos esse non sentiat,
et ea quae tanta mente hunt, ut vix quisquam arte
* Cap. Ixxii. p. 3265. tom. ix. oper.
*Cap.x. p.2333. tom. ?. oper.
CICERO A THEI3T. 357
ulla, ordinem rerum ac vicissitudioem persequi
peewit, -casu fieri pntet ?” Wbo is so mad or stupid,
as when he iooks up to heaven, is not presently
convinced, that there are gods ? or can persuade
himself, that those things, which are made with
so much mind and wisdom, as that no human
skill is able to reach and comprehend the artifice
and contrivance of them, did all happen by
chance?—To which purpose more places will be
afterwards cited. However, in his philosophic
writings it is certain, that he affected to follow
the way of the new academy, set on foot by
•Carneades; that is, to write sceptically, partly
wpon prudential accounts, and partly for other
reasons intimated by hhnself in these words:
*' Qui requirunt quid quaque de re ipsi DeJfJ), t
sfentiamus curiosius id faciunt quam ne- £*p
; ?
■p-
cesse est. Nonenim tarn autbontatis m
disputandoquam rationis momenta qnserendasunt-.
Quinetiam obest plernmque iis, qui discere vo-
hmt, auctoritas eorum, qui se docere profttentur.
Desimuit enim suum judicium adhibere, idque
habent ratum, quod ab eo, quern probant, judi-
catum vident:” they who would needs know,
what we ourselves think concerning every thing,
are more curious than they ought, because philo­
sophy is not so much a matter of authority as of
reason; and the authority of those, who profess
to teach, is oftentimes a hinderance to the learn­
ers,' they neglecting by that means to use their
own judgment, securely taking that for granted,
which is judged by another whom they value.—
Nevertheless, Cicero in the close of this discourse
DeNatura Deorutn (as St.Austin* also observeth)
a De Civitate Dei, lib. iv. cap. xxx. p. 86. tom. vii. oper.
CICERO A THEIST.
358
plainly declares himself to be more propenseand
inclinable to the doctrine of Baibas, than either
that of Velleius or Cotta; that is, though he did
not assent to the Stoical doctrine or theology in
every point (himself being rather a Platonist than
a Stoic), yet he did much prefer it before, not only
the Epicureism of Velleius, but also the scepti­
cism of Cotta. Wherefore Augustinus Steuchus,
and other learned men, quarrel with sundry pas­
sages of Cicero’s upon another account, not as
Atheistical, but as seeming to favour a multitude
of independant gods; he sometimes attributing
not only the government of the world, and the
making of mankind, but also the first constitution
and fabric of the whole world, to gods plurally.
As when he writeth thus :b “ Ut perpetuus muiidi
esset ornatus, magna adhibita cura est a provi-
dentia d e o ru m fo r the perpetual adorning of
the world, great care hath been taken by the pro­
vidence of the gods.—And “ a diis immortalibus
hominibus provisum esse,” &c. that the immor­
tal gods have provided for the convenience of
mankind, appears from the very fabric and figure
DeN d i*s tben1,— And that place before cited,
“ Dico igitur providentia deorum man-
dum et omnes mundi partes initio constitutas
esse;”.I say,that the world and all its parts wereat
first constituted by the providence of the gods;—
And, lastly, where he states the controversy of
_ . . that book De N. D. thus: “ Utrumdii
nihil agant, nihil moliantur ? An contra
ab his et a principio omnia facta, et constituta
sint, et.ad infinitum tempus regantur atque mo?
veantur?” Whether the gods do nothing a t all,
b De Natar. Dcor. lib. iii.
.CICERO A THEI8T. •350
.but are void of care and trouble ? Or whether aH
.things were at first made and constituted, and
over since are moved and. governed, by them ?—
Notwithstanding which, it is evident, that this
^earned orator and philosopher plainly ackuow-
4edged the monarchy of the .whole, or one su­
preme and universal Numen over all. And that
first from his so often using the word God in the
singular, emphatically and by way of eminency;
“ Ipsi Deo nihil minus gratum, quara t ug.rsss.
non omnibus patere ad se placandum et p»5*.
i <
■ • M i , tom
.ix.oper.J
cpleaduin viam: Nothing can be less
grateful to.God himself, than that there should not
be a liberty open to all (by reason of the costli­
ness of sacrifices) to worship and appease him;—
and;—“ Nisi juvante Deo, tales non fue- DN
;D
.Ui.
xpnt Curius, Fabricius,”&c. Gurius and p-
.Fabricius had never been such men as
£hey were, had it not been for the Divine as­
sistance.—Again, “ Commoda, quibus Pros.Ro*.
jitimur, lucemque qua fruimur, apiri- kTtom.'ili!
' tugaque quern ducioius, a Deo nobis operJ
jdari atque impertiri videmus.” We must needs
^acknowledge, that, the benefits of this life, the
light which we enjoy, and. the spirit which we
breathe, are imparted to us from God.—And, to
.mention no more, in his version of Plato’s Ti-
jnaeus,a“ Deos alios in terra, alios in luna, alios
in xeliquas mundi partes spargens Deus quasi
se re b a tG o d distributing gods to all the parts
of the world, did as it were sow some gods in the
parth, some in the moon, &c.—Moreover, by his
making such descriptions of God as plainly imply
his oneness and singularity, as in his Orat. pro Mi-
* Gap. xia. p. 4034. tom.-x. oper.
360 CICERO A THEIST.
p.556.Lmbi lone: “ Kst, estprofecto illa vis; nreque
tomiS
i his corporibus, atque in hac itfibeci-
°p“-i litate nostra, inest quiddafn, quod vigeat
et sentiat, et non inest in hoc tanto naturae tain-
que preolaro moto. Nisi forte idcirco esse non'
.putant, quia non apparet nec eernitur: proinde
quasi nostram ipsam inentera, qua sapimus, qua
providemus, qua haec ipsa agitnns et dicinaus, vi-
dere, aut plane qualis et ubi sit, sentire possu-
mqs.” There is, there is certainly such a Divhre
force in the world ; neither is it reasonable to
think, that in these gross and frail bodies of ours
there'should be something which bath life, sense,
and understanding, and yet no such thing in the
whole,iuniverse; unless men will therefore con­
clude, that there is none, because they see it not:
as if we could see our own mind (whereby we
order and dispose all things, and whereby we
reason and speak thus), and perceive what kind
of thiqg it is, and where it is lodged.—Where,
as there is a strong asseveration of the exist­
ence of a God, so is his singularity plainly Im­
plied, in that he supposes him to be one mind
or soul acting and governing the whole world, as
our mind doth our body. Again, in his Tuscu-
lan Questions,' “ Nec vero deus ipse alio modo in-
telligi potest, nisi mens soluta quaedam,
[cap.^ixvu.p. et libera, segregata ab omni concretione
mortah>omnia seatiens et m o v eh sN e*
*
Tin.oper. jjjgj, can q 0(j himself be understood
by us otherwise than as a certain loose and free
Mind, segregated from all mortal concretion,
which both perceives and moves all things.—So
T o » c q l . i . a8a*n in the same book, “ Haec igitur et
p. 1*
6. [cap. alia innumerabilia cum cernimus, pos-
xxix.p.s606.] sumusne dubitare, quin hispraesit aliquis
CICEtfO A th E IS T .
vel effector,si haecdataguntut Platoni Videtur; ref
si temper fuerint, ut Aristoteli placet, moderator
tariti operis et muneris?” When we behold these
and other wonderful works of nature, can we at
all doubt, but that there presideth over them,
either one maker of all, if they bad a beginning,
as Plato conceiveth; or else, if they always were
as Aristotle supposeth, one moderator and gover­
nor? And in the third DeLegibus, “ Sine p j
imperio nec doraus ulla, nec civitas, p-smio*.'
nec gens, nechocmnum universum genus
stare, nec rerum natura omnis, nec ipse moodus
potest. Nam et hie deo paret, et buic obediifnt
maria terraeque, et hominum vita jussis supreme
legisobteaiperatW ithout government, neither
any house, nor city, nor nation, nor mankind in
general, nor the whole nature of things, nor the
world itself could subsist. For this also obeyeth
God, and the seas and earth are subject to him,
and the life of m§m is disposed of by the com­
mands of the supreme law.—Elsewhere he speaks
of “ Dotnioaos ille nobis Deas, qui nos Th
m
.q.i.l
vetat bine injussu suo demigrare,” that
God, who rules over all mankind, and
forbids them to depart hence without his leave; of
“ Dens, cujus numku parent omnia ;” that God,'
whose Divine power all things obey.—We read
also in Cicero of “ summus” or “ su- ^
preuius Deus,” the supreme God—to [iib
.i. c*p.
whom the first making of man is pro-
perly imputed by him; of “ snmmi rec-
toris et domini Numen,” the Divine power Of
the supreme Lord and governor;—of wDens
praepotens,” and “ rerum omnium praepotens Ju-
1303 WHAT CICERO’S GODS WERE.
piter*:” the most powerful God, and Jupiter,
who bath power over all t h i n g s o f b“ Princeps
ille Deus, qui ornnern hunc-mundum
Somn. Scip. . . * .
[<«p.ir.p. regit, sicut animus humanus id corpus
cui propositus est;” that chief or prio­
r y ] 1
' p* cipal God, who governs the whole world
in the same manner as a human soul go-
verneth that body which it is set over.—Where­
fore, as for those passages before objected,- where
the government of the world, as to the concern­
ments of mankind at least, is ascribed by Cicero
:to gods piurally, this was done by him and other
Pagans, upon no other account but only this;
because the supreme God was not supposed by
them to do all things himself immediately in the
government of the world, but to assign certain
provinces to other inferior gods, as ministers un­
der him; which therefore sharing in the eco­
nomy of the world, were looked upon as co-go­
vernors thereof with him. Thus when BSlbus-in
Cicero, to excuse some seeming defect of Provi­
dence, in the prosperities of wicked and the ad­
versities of good men, pretended, “ non animad-
vertere omnia. Deos, ne reges quidem;” that the
gods did not attend to all things, as neither do
DeN.D.i. in. kings;—Cotta amongst other things re-
p
”p
io7*tom
. plfed thus: “ Fac divinam mentem esse
iz. oper.] distentam, coelum versantem, terrain tu-
entem, maria moderantem, cur tarn multos deos
■nihil agere et cessare patitur? Cur non rebus hu-
manis aliquos otiosos deos profecit, qui a te,
Balbe, innumerabiles explicati sunt?” Should it
■be grapted, that the Divine Mind (or supreme
* t)c Difinat. lib.ii. cap. xviii. p. 3204. tom. ix. opcr.
b Vide Somnium Scipion. cap.iii. p.3973. tom. x. oper.
w h a t Cic e r o 's o o d s w e r e . 3 6 3
■
Deity) were distracted with turning round the
.heavens, observing the earth, and governing the
seas, yet why does he let so many other gods to
do nothing at all? Or why does he not appoint
some of those idle gods over human affairs, which,
.according to Balbus and the Stoics, are innumer­
able?—Again, when the immortal gods are said
by Cicero to have provided for the convenience of
mankind in their first constitution, this doubtless
is to be understood according to the Platonic
hypothesis, that the gods and demons being first
made by the supreme God, were set at work and
employed by him afterward in the making of man
and other mortal animals. And, lastly, as to that,
which hath the greatest difficulty of all in it, when
the whole world is said by Cicero to have been
made by the providence of the gods, this must
needs be understood also of those eternal gods
of Plato’s, according to whose likeness or image.
the world and man are said to have been made;
that is, of the trinity of Divine hypostases called
by Amelius Plato’s three minds and three kings,
and by others of the Platonists, the first and
second and third god, and the to w p u r o v a*riov,
and ro Stvrtpovatnov, &c. the first and second causes
&c. And, it may be here observed, what we learn
from St. Cyril, that some Pagans endeavoured to
justify this language and doctrine of theirs, even
from the Mosiac writings themselves; contrajai.
Otwe cTtpoig wroroirqoavrfc rov rwv oXwv <
f>avcu L*
•
tfeov, 7
ro
i?j<
T
W
/i£
v avOpumov tear tucova ij/U
frepav Kal icaff
viuHwnv, they suspecting, that the God of the uni­
verse, being about to make man,did there bespeak
the other gods (rolejatflf favrov Seurtpoigxal tv fiuoaiv
own, which were secondary and inferior to him),.
364 VARBO's NATURAL THEOLOGY.
afterthis manner, " Let us make man according to
oar Own image and likeness”—which St. Cyril
and other Christian writers understand .of the
Trinity. Now those eternal gods of Plato, ac­
cording to whose image the world and man are
said by him to have been made,and which (though
one of them was properly called the Deraiorgus)
yet had all an influence and causality upon the
making of it, were (as hath been already observed)
not so many independant and self-originated dei­
ties, but all derived from one first Principle. And
therefore Cicero following Plato in this is not to
be suspected, upon that account, to have been an
assertor of many independent gods, or partial
creators of the world; especially since, in so
many other places ofhis writings, he plainly owns
a Divine monarchy.
We pass from M. Tullius Cicero to M.Teren-
tius Varro his equal, a man famous for polymathy
or multifarious knowledge, and reputed unques­
tionably (though not the most eloquent, yet) the
most learned of all the Romans, at least as to
antiquity. He wrote one-and-forty books con­
cerning the antiquities of human and Divine
things; wherein he transcended the Roman pon-
tifices themselves, and discovered their ignorance
as to many points of their religion. In which
books he distinguished three kinds of theology,
the first mythical or fabulous, the second physical
or natural, and the last civil or popular: the first
being most accommodate to the theatre or stage;
the second to the world, or the wiser men in it ;
the third to cities or the generality of the civilised
vulgar. Which was agreeable also to the doctrine
of Scffivola, that learned pontifev, concerning
YABBO’s NATURAL THEOLOGY. 36&
three sorts of gods, poetical, philosophical and
political. As for the mythical and poetical theo-
Jogy, it was censured after this manner by Varro:
“ In eO'Sunt raulta contra dignitatem et
naturam imroortalium ficta. In hoc
enim est, ut deus alius ex capite, ali- opM
-t™
us ex femore sit, alius ex guttis san­
guinis natus. In hoc ut dii furati sint, ut ad-
ulteraverint, ut servierint homini. Denique, in
hoc omnia diis attribuuntnr, quae non modo in
hominem, sed etiani in conternptissimum homi-
nem cadere possunt.” That, according to the li­
teral sense, it contained many things contrary
to the dignity and nature of immortal beings;
the genealogy of one god being derived from
the head, of another from the. thigh, of an­
other from drops of blood: some, being repre­
sented as thieves, others as adulterers, &c. and
all things attributed to the gods therein, that are
not only incident to men, but even to the most
contemptible and flagitious of them.—And as for
the second, the natural theology, which is the
true, this Varro conceived to be above the capa­
city of vulgar citizens; and that therefore it was
expedient,, there should be another theology cal­
culated, more accommodate for them, and of a
middle kind betwixt the natural and the fabulous,
which is that which is called civil. For he af>
firmed, “ multa esse vera, qu® vulgoA
asC
S5- D
scire non sit utile, et qu®dam, qu® ta-
metsi falsa sint, aliter existimare popu-
lum expediat;” that there were many things
true in religion, which it was not convenient for
the vulgar to know; and again, some things,
which, though false, yet it was expedient they
should- be believed by- them.—As Sc®vola, the
366 VARRO’s NATURAL THEOLOGY.
Roman pontifex, in like manner, would not h a v e
the vulgar to know, that the true God had nei­
ther.sex, nor age, nor bodily members. “ Expe-
dire igitur existimat (saith St. Austin of him)
cit. d . l.w. faNi 'n religione civitates, quod dicere
etiam in libris rerum divinarum ipse
Varro non dubitat.” Scaevola therefore
judgeth it expedient, that cities should be de­
ceived iu their religion; which also Varro him­
self doubteth not to affirm in his books of Divine
Things.—Wherefore thisVarro, thoughdisapprov­
ing the fabuloustheology, yet out of apious design
as he. conceived,- did he endeavour to assert^ as
much as he could, the civil theology then received
amongst the Romans, and to vindicate the same
from contempt: yet nevertheless so, as that “ si
earn civitatem novam constituent, ex naturae
ar.D.Ur. potius formula, deos et deorum nomina
se fu*
S8e dedicaturum, non dubitet con-
f i t e r i i f he were to constitute a new
Rome himself, he doubts not to confess, but that-
he would dedicate gods and the names of gods
after another manner, more agreeably to the form,
ofnature or natural theology.—Now what Varro’s
own sense was concerning God, he freely declared
in those books of Divine Things; that he was the
great soul and mind of the whole world. Thus
dr d i it •^LU
St*
n> “ Hi soli Varroni videntur
ei ix.[cap. *aniinadvertisse quid esset deus, qui cre-
xxxu.p.87.] diderunt eum esse animam, motu ac ra-
tione mundum gubernantem These alone seem
to Varro to have understood what God is, who'
believed him to be a soul, governing the whole
world by motion and reason.—So that VarrO
plainly asserted one supreme and universal Nu-
men, he erring only in this (as St. Austin con-
VARRO’s NATURAL THEOLOGY. 367
ceives) that he called him a soul, and not the
creator of soul, or a pure and abstract mind. But
as Varro acknowledged one universal Numen, the
whole animated world, or rather the soul thereof,
which also he affirmed to be called by several
names, as in the earth, Tellus; in the sea, Nep­
tune, and the like: so did he also admit (together
with the rest of the Pagans) other particular gods,
which were to him nothing but parts of the world
animated with superiorsoulsto men: “ A cw. d .i.™.
summo circuitu cceli, usque ad circulum .
Junae, aethereas animas esse astra ac Stel­
las, eosque coelestes deos, non modo intelligi esse,
sed etiam videri: inter lunae vero gyrum et nim~
borum cacumina aereas esse animas, sed eas ani-
mo non oculis videri; et vocari heroas, et lares,
et g e n io sT h a t from the highest circuit of the
heavens to the sphere of the moon there are ether
real souls or animals, the stars which are not only
understood, but also seen to be celestial gods;
and between the sphere of the moon and the mid­
dle region of the air, there are aereal souls or
animals, which though not seen by our eyes, yet
are discovered by our mind, and called heroes,
lares, and genii.—So that, according to Varro, the
only true natural gods were, as himself also de­
termined, “ aiiimamundi, ac partes ejus;” first, the
great Soul and Mind of the whole world, which
comprehendeth a ll; and, secondly, the parts of
the world animated superior to men. Which
gods also he affirmed to be worshipped castius,
more purely and chastely, without images, as they
were by the Romans for one hundred and seventy'
years: he concluding “ qui primi si- D
e civ D
mulacra deorum populi posuerunt, eos
civitatibus siiis et metum dempsisse et
3,68 ,SENECAS THEOLOOY.
• erronem addidisse; prudenter existimans (saitb
S t Austiu) decs facile posse in simulachrorum
stoliditate contemui;” that those nations, who
first set up images of the gods, did both take
away fear from their cities, and add error to them;
he ,wisely judging, that the foppery of images
would easily render their gods contemptible.
. L. Annaeus Seneca, the philosopher, was con­
temporary with our Saviour Christ and his apo­
stles, who, though frequently acknowledging a
plurality of gods, did nevertheless plainly assert
one Supreme, he not only speaking of him singu­
larly, and by way of eminency, but also plainly
describing him as such; as when he calls him
“ Formatorem universi; rectorem. et arbitrum et
„ custodeua mundi; ex quo suspehsa sunt
Kit Q. I. ii. . . ‘ . . * .
cxiT.[p. omnia; ammum ac spintum uuiversi;
^ j°m
'm u n d an i hujus operis dominum et arti-
ficem; cui nonien omne convenit ; ex
quo nata sunt omnia; cujus spiritu vivimus; to-
tum suis partibus inditum, et se sustinentem sua
vi; cujus consilio huic rnundo providetur, ut in-
concussus eat, et. actus suos explicet; cujus de-
qreto omnia fiunt; divinum spiritual per omnia
maxima et minima sequali intentione diffusum;
. . deum potentem omnium; deum ilium
P.443.law. . , .. . . .
maximum potentissimumque, qui ipse
vehit omnia; qui ubique et omnibus praesto est;
cceli et deorum omnium deum; a quo ista numina,
quaesingula adoramus et colimus, suspensa sunt:”
qnd the like. The framer and former of the uni­
verse, the governor, disposer, and keeper thereof;
him, upon whom all things depend; the mind and
spirit of the world ; the artificer and lord of this
whole mundane fabric; to whom every name be­
longed* ; from whom all things spring; by whose
s e n e c a ’s t h e o l o g y . 369
spirit we live; who is in all his parts, and sus-
taineth himself by his own force; by whose coun­
sel the. world is provided for, and carried on in
its course constantly and uninterruptedly; by
whose decree all things are done; the Divine
spirit, that is diffused through all things both
great and small with equal intention; the God,
whose power extends to all things; the greatest
and most powerful God, who doth himselfsupport
and uphold all things; who is present every where
to all things; the God of heaven, and of all the
gods, upon whom are suspended all those other
Divine powers, which we singly worship and
adore.-—
Moreover, we may here observe from St.
Austin, that this Seneca in a book of his C
iTD, T
i
against superstitions (that is now lost) * ^ •
did not only highly extol the natural;
theology, but also plainly censure and condemn
the civil theology then received amongst the Ro­
mans, and that with more freedom and vehemency
than Varro had done the fabulous or theatrical
and poetical theology. Concerning a great part
whereof he pronounced, that a wise man would
observe such things, “ tanquam legibus jussa, non
tanquam diis grata;” only as commanded by the
laws (he therein exercising civil obedience), but
not at all as grateful to the gods.
M. Fabius Quintilianus, though no admirer of
Seneca, yet fully agreed with him in the same na­
tural theology, and sets ,down this as the gene­
rally-received notion or definition of God: “ Deum
esse spiritum omnibus partibus irnrnis-T ..
. , ^ , . . * . . . . . L . V 11. c . 111.
turn, that God is a spirit mingled with
and diffused through all the parts of the world;
—he from thence inferring Epicurus to be an
VOL. II. 2 B
370 PLINY, APULEIUS.
Atheist, notwithstanding that he verbally asserted
gods, because he denied a God according to this
generally-received notion, he bestowing upon his
gods a circumscribed human form, and placing
them between the worlds. And the junior Pliny,
though he were a persecutor of the Christians, he
■
EP 97. concluding, “ qualecunque esset quod
pa>.x.] faterentur, pervicaciam certe et inflexi-
bilem obstinationem debere p u n i r it h a t whatso­
ever their religion were, yet notwithstanding their
stubbornness and inflexible obstinacy ought to be
punished;—and Who compelled many of them to
worship the images of the emperor, and to sacri­
fice and pray to the statues of the Pagan gods,
and lastly, to blaspheme Christ; yet himselfplain­
ly acknowledged also one supreme universal Nu-
men, as may sufficiently appear from his panegy­
ric oration to Trajan, where he is called “ Dees
ille, qui manifestos ac preesens ccelum ac sydera
in sid e tth a t God, who is present with, and in-
*A
ndM
andi habits the whole heaven and stars :*—
pureni,and himself making a solemn prayer and sup-
n t i m d e d r t u n - plication to him, both in the beginning
,ne' .and close thereof, and sometimes speak­
ing of him therein singularly and in way of emi-
nency, as in these words: “ Occultat uttorumque
seminaDeus,et plerumque bonorum roalorumque
causae sub diversa specie l a t e n t G o d hideth the
seeds of good and evil, so that the causes of each
often appear disguised to men.—L.Apuleiusalso,
whose pretended miracles the Pagans endea­
voured to Confirm their religion by,* as well as
they did by those of Apollonius, doth in sundry
* Vide Augustin. Epist cxxxviii, p.317. tom.ii. oper.
SYMMACHUS. 371
places of his writings plainly assert one supreme
and universal Numen: we shall only here set
down one: “ Cum summus deorum D
eP
hao<
> *
cuncta hsec non solum cogitationum ra- p *78-c°l0-
tione consideret; sed prima, media, et ultima
obeat; compertaque intimae providentiae ordina-
tionis universitate et constantia re g a t S i n c e the
highest of the gods does not only consider all
these things in his mind and cogitation, but also
pass through and comprehend within himself the
beginning, middle, and end of all things, and
constantly govern all by his occult providence.
Lastly, Symmachus, who was a zealous stickler
for the restitution of Paganism, declared the Pa­
gans to worship one and the same^God with the
Christians, but in several ways; he conceiving,
that there was no necessity God should be wor­
shipped by all after the same manner. “ iEquum
est, quicquid oranes colunt, p n u m pu- „ r ■
.
tari: eadem spectamus astra; commune iib.x/epstT
cesium est; idem nos mundus involvit; Ul' p‘448‘
quid, interest, qua quisque prudentia verum re-
quirat? Uno itinere non potest perveniri ad tam
grande secretum.” We ought in reason to think,
that it is one and the same thing, which all men
worship; as we all behold the same stars.have
the same common heaven, and are involved within
the .same world. Why may not men pursue one
and .the same thing in different ways ? One path is
notenough to lead men to so grand a secret.—The
scene whereof is thus elegantly expressed by
JPrudentius:
Uno omnes sub sole siti, vegetamur eodem
A’
ere, communis cunctis yiventibus aura.
2 B 2
P. 285. [Con-
t r a S y m r a a -
c h n m l i b . i i .
▼ er. 85.]
372 THE WRITER DE MUNDO.
Sed quid, sit qualisque dens, divers* secuti. .
Quaerimus, atque viis loijge distantibus unum
turns ad occultum; snus est mos cuiquc gcnti,
Per quod iter properans eat ad tarn g r a n d e profundtim. *
P 308 •
[T
er. 8«.] And again afterward,
Secretum sed grande nequit rationis opertae
Quaeri aliter, qnam si sparsis via mnftiplicetur
Tramitibus, et centenos terat orbita calles,
Quaesitura deum variata indage latentem.
And the beginning of Prudentius’s confutation
is this,
• Longe alittd vernm est. *Nam mnita ambago viarum
Anfractus dubios habet, et perplexius errat.
Sola errore caret simplex via, nescia flecti
In diverticulum, biviis nee pluribus anceps, &c.
We shall now instance also in some of the latter
Greek Writers. Though the author of the book
De Mundo were not Aristotle, yet 'that he was a
Pagan, plainly appears from some passages there­
of; as where he approves of sacrificing to the
gods, and of worshipping heroes and dead men:
as also because Apuleius would not otherwise
have translated so much of that book, and incor­
porated it into his De Mundo. He therefore does
not only commend this of Heraclitus, Ik iravrwvtv,
KoUZivoc vavra, that there is one harmonioussystem
made out of all things, and that all things are d&
rived from O n e b u t doth himself also write ex­
cellently concerning the supreme God, whom he
. calleth rtjv t w v oXwv ctwektikjjv airlav, the
tL’.'ifopfr?8' cause, which containeth all things—and
Anitot.]. r(j T
py Konkov KvpuiraTov, the best and most
Ver. 846.
THE WRITER DE MEN DO. 3 7 3
excellent part of the Wo r l d h e beginning after
this manner: ’Ap^alocfuv ©
vvrtc Aoyoe km varpioi«m
naatv av0pwjroic, we £ic Oeov rd iravra, (cat Sid 0tov »)/uiv av- '
varrijice* ovBtfda Se tpvtrtQ, atin} #ca0* £aur*)v aiiraptcqc, £pijjta>-
0eida rtie rovrov awTrjpiae' It is an ancient Opinion
or tradition, that hath been conveyed down to alt
men from their progenitors, that all things are
from God, and consist by him; and that no nature
is sufficient to preserve itself, if left alone, and.
devoid of the Divine assistance and induence.—-
Where we may observe, that the Apuleiau Latin
version, altering the sense, renders the words
thus: “ Vetus opinio est, atque in cogitationes
omnium hominum penitus iucidit, Deum esse: ori:
ginis non habere auctorem; Deumque esse salu-
tem et perseverantiarn earurn, quas etfecerit, re­
rum.” So that whereas, in the original Greek, this
is said to be the general opinion of all mankind,
That all things are from God, and subsist by him,
and that nothing at all can conserve itself in being
without him Apuleius, correcting the words,
makes the general sense of mankind to run no
higher than this; “ That there is a God, who hath
no author of his original, and who is the safety
and preservation of all those things, that were
made by himself. From whence it may be proT
bably concluded, that Apuleius, who is said to
have been of Plutarch's progeny, was infected also
with those paradoxical opinions ofPlutarch’s, aud
consequently did suppose all things not to have
been made by God, nor to have depended on him
(as the writer De Mundo affirmeth), but that there
was something besides God, as namely the matter
and an evil principle, uncreated and self-existent.
Afterwards the same writer De Mundo elegantly
374 PLUTARCH.
illustrates, bysimilitudes, bow God, by one simple
motion and energy of his own, without any labour*
or toil, doth produce and govern all the variety*
of motions in the universe; and how he doth «w
viyiiv njv rwv oX
covap/tovlav n teatawrtfplav, contain the
harmony and safety of the whole.—And, lastly, he
Concludes, mp tv vijt nij3epvqnic, tvapfiari 31
[ P » 8 6 4 * 3 * t i. . -* » r »
ijvio^oc, cv X°PV K0PX
xpaiog, ev 7roAei vo/iog, ev
orparoTreSrp vytfuov, t o v t o 6eog tv Koafup, that what a
pilot is to a ship, a charioteer to a chariot, the
Coryphaeus to a choir, law to a city, and a general
to an army; the same is God to the world:—there
being onlythis difference, that whereas the govern*
ment of some of them is toilsome and solicitous,
the Divine government and steerage of the world
is most easy and facile; for as this writer adds,
“ God, being himself immoveable, moveth all
things; in the same manner as law, in itself im­
moveable, by moving the minds of the citizens,
orders and disposes all things.”
Plntarchus Chaeronensis (as hath been already
declared) was unluckily engaged in two false
opinions, the first of matter’s being ingenite or un­
created, upon this pretence, because nothing could
be made out of nothing; the second of a positive
substantial evil principle, or an irrational soul
and demon self-existent, upon this ground, be­
cause * njv Ktadav ytyovtvat Kara rtjv rov deov irpovouni,
w n rs p t o <pav\ov eirlypafifta Kara ttjv rov irotijrov (3ov X q fftv ,
iraaav «rtvotav arorlag virfp/3aAXtt* there is no greater
absurdity imaginable, than that evil should pro­
ceed from the providence ofGod, as a bad epigram
from the will of the poet.—In which respect be
was before called by us a Ditheist. Plutarch was
aDe Fato, p. 572, tom. ii. oper.
(
\
DIO CHRYSOSTOMVS. 375
also a worshipper of the many Pagan gods, him­
self being a priest of the Pythian Apollo. Not­
withstanding which, he unquestionably asserted
one sole Principle of all good, the cause of all
things (evil and matter only excepted,) the framer
of the whole world, and maker of all the gods in
it; who is therefore often called by him, God, in
way of eminency, as when he affirmeth *d« ytw/u-
rpuv rov O
tov, that God doth always act the geo­
metrician ;—that is, do all things in measure and
proportion : and again,b irdvra Kaff apfiovlav vw6 rov
Otw karcuTictva/'fioO
ai, that all things are made by
God, according to harmony;—and that o dtocapno-
vucdc tcakurai km (io
v
o
ik
o
g
, God is called a harmo­
nist and musician:—and he hath these epithets
given him, o piyac 0*d«, the great God—and o avw-
rdru (kof, the highest or uppermost God—and o
T
T
fxoT
oc0tdc, the first God—and dd-ylwqroc 0toc, the
unmade self-existent God;—all the other Pagan
gods, according to him, having been made in time,
together with the world. He is likewise styled
by Plutarch, irtXayoc rov icaXov, the sea of pulchri­
tude:—and his standing and permanent duration,
without any flux of time, is excellently described
by the same writer, in his book concerning the
Delphic inscription. Lastly, Plutarch affirmeth^
that men generally pray to this supreme God for
whatsoever is not in their {own power, ooapq nap
aj/uv tortv, evyoptOarov dtovSiSovat.
Dio Chrysostomus, a sophist, Plutarch’s equal,
though an acknowledger of many gods, yet never­
theless asserteth (3am \evsff0ai t
ooX
ov, that p.1
9
9
.
the whole world is under a kingly power [Ed.M
ow
n.]
4Vide Plutarch. Sympos. lib. viii. Quaest. ii. p. 718. tom. ii. oper.
bVide eund*de Adwica, p. 11£7. tom. ii. oper.
376 GALEN.
or monarchy,—he calling the supreme God,some-
• time,' rov k
o
c
v
o
vdvOptivotv Kai Qewv /3atuXea re
Kai «p)^ovra, Kai irpvraviv Kai irarcpa, tne com-
mon King of gods and men, their governor and
father; rov irdvrwv Kparovvra 6tdv, the God that rules
P 80S i rov irpcurov Kai /ityurrov Btov, the
first and greatest G od; rov Kopv^otovVpo-
Eorwra rwv oXcuv, Kai Kartv&vvovra rov ajravra ovpavov
Kai Koafiov, &c. the chief President over all things,
who orders and guides the whole heaven and
p w0|,ld, as a wise pilot doth a ship ; rov
rov £v/tiravroc vyifiova ovpavov, Kai r^c d\iK
S«rjroTtiv ovalac, the Ruler of the whole heaven, and
Lord of the whole essence—and the like. And
he affirming that there is a natural prolepsis in the
minds of men concerning him : IItpl & &uv
»*2
0
1
* ^ j ^ ^
rijc rt AcavoAou ipvaewg, Kai ftaXiara rov irawwv
ijye/io'voc, irpwrov piv Kai e
v irpwroit; Bo£a Kai Eirtvota Kotvy
rov £vpiravroc avOpanrlvov yevovg' ojiolwe fih> EXXijwv,
OfwlaiQ Be Bap(3ap(t)v, avayKala Kai i/i^vroQ iv vavrl rip Xo-
yuctv yiyvofiivri Kara <j>vaiv, avEv O
vtjtou BiBaoKaXov Kai juv~
araywyov' Concerning the nature of the gods in
general, but especially of that supreme Ruler over
all, there is an opinion in all human kind, as well
Barbarians as Greeks, that is naturally inplanted
in them as rational beings, and not derived from
any mortal teacher.—The meaning whereofis th is;
that men are naturally possessed with a persua­
sion, that there is one God, the supreme Governor
of the whole world, and that there are also below
him, but above men, many other intellectual
beings, which these Pagans called gods.
That Galen was no Atheist, and what his reli­
gion was, may plainly appear from this one pas­
sage out of his third book De (Jsu Partium , to
MAXIMUS TYRIU8. 377
omit many others : ’AXXd yap Uwg d hi- P 40*
.[c,p,
7rXtOV TOIOVTMV flVtlftOVtVOlfU (ioOKripaTWV, Ot
ooxjipovovvTtg opOo»c iv [toi plpyftoivro, Kal pial- ,«!.]
v«v <j>auv ttpdv Xoyov, ov iyw row Sripiovpyqoavrog dpae vp-
vov aXifi(wow ovvrldiipi, feat vopU,<otovt slvat ryv ovrtog svai-
/3flaw* ov^i et ravparv tKaropfiag avrw irapiroXXovg KaraOv-
oaipt, Kal ra aXXa pvpla pvpa Bvpaaaipi Kal Kaolag, aXX’ a
yvolt/v 1
uev avrog Trpurrog, h u r a Si Kal rolg aXXoig tE,i)yr\oal-
fitiv, oiog ptv ion njv ocxplav, dog St rt)v Svvapiv, oiroiog Si
rijv yptioTortira' to ptv yapiOiXeiv Kooptiv atravra row IvSt^o-
ptvov Koapov Kal pt}Stvl tpOovelv twv dyaOwv, ri}g rtXttvrdrtjc
yjptlorOTifroe iyw Stiypa rlOtpat, ravry piv wg ayaOog vptv vp-
vtlodto' to S’ <vg av paXurra Koopi\9tli\, irav lZ,tvptlv, aKpag
oo<plag" rd Si Kal Spaoai irdvff 00a npotlXtro, Svvaptwg dtprif-
rov. Should I any longer insist upon such brutish
persons as those, the wise and sober might justly
condemn me, as defiling this holy oration, which
I compose as a true hymn to the praise of Him
that made us ; I conceiving true piety and reli­
gion towards God to consist in this, not that I
should sacrifice many hecatombs, or burn much
incense to him, but that I should myself first ac
knowledge, and then declare to others, how great
his wisdom is, how great his power, and how
great his goodness. For that he would adorn the
whole world after this manner, envying to nothing
that good, which it was capable of, I conclude
to be a demonstration of most absolute goodness,
and thus let him be praised by us as good. And
that he was able to find out, how all things might
be adorned after the best manner, is a sign of the
greatest wisdom in him. And, lastly, to be able to
effect and bring to pass all those things, which he
had thus decreed, argues an insuperable power.
Maximus Tyrius, in the close of his first dis-
3 7 8 MAXIMUS TYRIUS.
sertation, gives us this short representation of his
own Theology: BowXopat SI < r o t S a & u t o Asyo/tevm < r a -
feorepa ukovi. ’Evvoti /usyaAyvapyyv Kal fieunAdav tpput-
fiivriv jrpoc filav xpvyyv (3aatAea>c rowapurrov teal irptaflirra-
tov avpiravrwv vtvevKorwv Ikovta»v* opovSI r»jc a p\»IC o«X
''AXuv irorapov, owSi 'EXXijojrovrov, owSI rrjv M o u o t j v , owSe
rac lirt T(ji WKtavtf jjtovac, aXXa owpavov <
c<
uyqv row julv avut
ryv S’tvepflev* (3aaiAea Ss awrov Sij rov fUyav arpepoUvra, wo-
m p vopov jrape^ovra role iruOoptvot$, owryptav xmapyovaav
avTwv, Kal tcotmovc rijc apyrtg, iroXXowc |U» oparovc feowc>
toXXovc St a^avtic' rov? /utw irtpt r« irpoflvpa avra eiXow-
pivovg, olov HoayytXIae rtvac <cot fiaoiAttc trvyytvetrra-
t o u c, o p o T p a w t t o v g awrowg Kai owvamowc* rove Se towtwv
wirijpfrac, rowc Ss srt rovrtov /caraSssorlpovc* 8taS©x»»*
o^fc fca] rd£tv ap\j?C Karafialvovaav Ik row Oeov pi\p i 7W<
I will now more plainly declare my sense by this
similitude: imagine in your mind a great and
powerful kingdom or principality, in which all
the rest freely and with one consent conspire to
direct their actions, agreeably to the will and
command of one supreme King, the oldest and
the best: and then suppose the bounds and limits
of this empire not to be the river Halys, nor the
Hellespont, nor the Meotian lake, nor the shores
ofthe ocean; but heaven above, and the earth be­
neath. Here then let that great king sit immove­
able, prescribing laws to all his subjects, in
which consist their safety and security: the con­
sorts of his empire being many, both visible and
invisible gods; some of which, that are nearest to
him, and immediately attending on him, are in
the highest royal dignity, feasting as it were at
the same table with him : others again are their
ministers and attendants; and a third sort, in­
ferior to them both. And thus you see, how the
ARISTIDES. 379
order and chain of this government descend
down by steps and degrees, from the supreme God
to the earth and men.—In which resemblance,
we have a plain acknowledgment of one su­
preme God, the monarch of the whole world,
and three subordinate ranks of inferior gods, as
his ministers, in the government of the world;
whom that writer also calls deovc Otov iral&ae «cal
flXotK, gods, the sons and friends of God.
Aristides, the famous Adrianean sophist and
orator, in his first oration or hymn vowed to Jupi­
ter, after he had escaped a great tempest, is so
full, to the purpose, that nothing can be more:
he, after his proem, beginning thusZa)c r«
iravra siroltios, m l Aiog ianv ipya oaa iarl iravrcL, kcu
vorapog, m l yrj, m l BdXarra, k
c
l
i ovpavog' kcu oaa rov-
tu>
v fitra%u aval, m l oaa v
tto ravra* m l Oeoi m l avOpa>~
toi, m l oaa ipvyqv e^et, kcu oaa dg oiptv atyiKvurai, kcu oaa
Set voriaa Xaj3ecv. 'EirolqoE Se irpwrog avrog eavrov' oi5 Kpif-
nyc evdiSanv avrpoig rpatf^lg' ov8* ipkXXijaev avrov Kpovog
mrairiuv* ovr avr ekeivov XIOov KarkmEv, ovS ekivSvvevO
E
Zeug, ovSe ftyvore kivSvvevoei0 ou8* ion 7rpsof3vTEpov ovSiv
Aidg' ov fjkaXXov ye rj vmg re irarEpwv TTpeof^vrepoi ykvoir av9
kcu rd yiyvdfuva rwv 7rovovvtwv* aXX*oSe earl irptorog re m l
irpEofivrarog, m l apyj^ykrtf/g rwv iravrwv* avrdg at; avrov
yevopsvog* oirore Si eyevero, ovk ianv enreiv aXX* t
)V re apa
ec, apyjig m i aarcu eiaaei, avrovarwp re kcu fw lfijv rj ec
, aA-
Xov yayovkvau Kae foarrsp rrjv *A0iyvav apa ek riig K&paXig
ifvoEy kcu ydfiov ovSsv irptooeSenOil dg auriyv, ovrcvg i n irpor
repov avrog eavrov e£ eovtov ejroltfoe, m l ovSev TrpooaS&ifh
Erkpov tig to EivaC aXX* avro tovvavriov iravra alvai av
ekeIvov rjp£aro, m l ovk io n ypovov dvEiv* Oore yap ypovog
i}v ina tote ore pr$E aXXo pySev' Siy/jeovp-yov yap ipyov ov-
Sev io n 7rpe<rj3vTepov* ovrw St
) apyfj /uev airavnov Zevc *ai
ek A k>£ iravra, are Srjwv ypdvov re KpEnrwv, mlovSipa
380 ARISTIDES
tyjov rov dvrucoipovTa, avYoeT* o/iov k
c
u6 Koapoe tjv, ourw
rayy iravra iiroiipK, iwolqot Bf toBe, &C. Jupiter made all
things, and all things whatsoever exist are the
works ofJupiter; rivers, and earth, and sea, and
heaven, and what are between these, and gods and
men and all animals, whatsoever is perceivable
either by sense or by the rnind. But Jupiter first of
H
owG
odwu ma<^e himself; for hewas not educated
s a i d tob e s e i f - in the flowery and odoriferous caves of
p . 4 0 5 a n d Crete, neither was Saturn ever about
406, to devour him, nor instead of him did
he swallow down a stone. For Jupiter wasnever
in danger, nor will he be ever in danger of any
thing. Neither is there any thing older than Ju­
piter, no more than there are sons older than their
parents, ,or works than their opificers. But he is
the first and the oldest, and the prince of all
things, he being made from himself; nor can it be
declared when he was made, for he was from the
beginning, and ever will be his own father, and
greater than to have been begotten from one an­
other. As he produced Minerva from his brain,
and needed no wedlock in order thereunto, so
before this did be produce himself from himself
needing not the help of any other thing for his
being. But, on the contrary, all things began to be
from him, and no man can tell the time; since
there was hot then any time when there was no­
thing else besides, and no work can be older, than
the maker of it. Thus was Jupiter the beginning
of all things, and all things were from Jupiter,
who is better than time, which had its beginning
together with the world.—And again: 'QcSsKalOeuv
oaa <j>v\a awopponv tijc Aide rov iravrtvv irarpoQ BvvafitWG
tKaffra £\fi, fcai tXTtyvtoi; Kara tijv 'Opr/pov otipdvt dnrayra
PLOTINUS. 381
«C awTov StypTtirai, Kal iravra avrcni e£i)irrat’ iparra r e
•km dvayKt/v Suo rovrto avvaywyorario km layvpordra) iv
rote irpwTOiQ eyevtjaev, ottw
q avrip ra iravra avveyoiev, &C.
eirolei Otavg pev, dvOptoiratv ivipekifrag, avOpwirovQ §e (hwv
Oepairexrrae re Kal virifpirae, &C. iravra 8c iravrayov Aide
ftttrra, Kal airavrtuv OetSv evepyecrtai, Aide c«nv fpyov, &C.
All tbe several kinds of gods are but a defluxion
and derivation from Jupiter; and, according to
Homer’s chain, all things are connected with him
and depend upon him. He, amongst tbe first,
produced love and necessity, two the most power­
ful holders of things together, that they might
make all things firmly to cohere. He made gods
to be the curators of men, and he made men to
be the worshippers and servers of those gods.
All things are every where full of Jupiter, and the
benefits of all the other gods are his work, and to
be attributed to him, they being done in com­
pliance with that order, which he had prescribed
them.
It is certain, that all the latter philosophers
after Christianity, whether Platonists or Peripa­
tetics,, though for the most part they asserted the
eternity of the world, yet universally agreed in
the acknowledgment of one supreme Deity, the
cause of the whole world, and of all the other
gods. And as Numenius, Plotinus, Amelius,
Porphyrius, Proclus, Damascius, and others,
held, also a trinity of Divine hypostases, so had
some of those philosophers excellent speculations
concerning the Deity, as particularly Plotinus;
■who, notwithstanding that he derived matter and
all things from one Divine principle, yet was a
contender for many gods. Thus in his book in-
THEMISTIUS.
382
Ed
.ii.nb.ii. scribed against the Gnostics: X
p»}*
»
capw-
c.ix.[p.40T.] rov TrapaoOai -ylvfcr&ai,pt)ftovov L avrov
vofuCftv apiirrov B
’
ivaaOai yeviaQai, ovrto yap oviro) apurroe,
aXXa k<
u avflpwirovc aXXovc ap'urrovg, in k m Saipovag aya-
$wc «vai* 7roXw SI fiakXov Btovg, rove re *v rtpSs ovraf
Kaxsl j3Xtirovrac’ irarraw Si fiakiara rov Vy^fiova rowSe to*
iravroc, ipvytiv paKaptwrartp/’ evreuOev Ss x?Sx| Kal rows von*
rovC vfivtiv OiovQ, v
tf>
’ airam Si i)Sr)j rov fisyav rov hc« fiam-
Xia* Koi iv to 7rXij0et paXicrra rwv Ottov, to /ueya avrov ev
&ucw/ievovc* O v yap to avoraXai ac aXXa ro So^m
iroXv ro 0eiov oaov tStt^ev avroc, rovreon Swva/utv fleow «So-
rwv, orav ftivwv oe e<m, iroXXovc iroip, wavrac tic <wrov
avT)ffft)fitvovq, k m St’ckuvov km trap tKtlvov ovrac* <c«l o «»*■
poc oSe St' exrttvoOtort kojcu fiXerru, teat a it, teal 0twvfK€urro(.
Every man ought to endeavour, with all his might,
to become as good as may he, but yet not to
think himself to be the only thing that is good,
but .that there are also other good men in the
world, and good demons, but much more gods;
who, though inhabiting this inferior world, yet
look up to that superior; and, most of all, the
prince of this universe, that most happy soul.
From whence he ought to ascend yet higher,
and to praise those intelligible gods, but above
all that great King and Monarch; declaring his
greatness and majesty by the multitude of gods
which are under him. For this is not the part
of them, who know the power of God, to contract
all into one, but to shew forth all that Divinity,
which himself hath displayed, who, remaining
one, makes many depending on him; which are
by him and from him. For this whole world is
by him, and looks up perpetually to him, as also
doth every one ofthe gods in it.—And Themistius,
the Peripatetic (who was so far from being a
ST. CYRIL. 383
Christian, that, as Petavios probably conjec­
tures, .he perstringes our Saviour Christ under
the name of Empedocles, for making himself a
god), doth not only affirm, that one and the
same supreme God was worshipped by Pagans,
and the Christians, and all nations, though in
different manners; but also, that God was de­
lighted with this variety of religions: 0rat xii ^
Taira vom& yavvvaOai rrj TrouaX
larov rovirav- 156*e?it*
% • / #/1/\ ^ , Htrdami.
to c ap'Xnyerrpf* aAAwg jZvpovc tveAei ttoair a w -
O
ai, aX
X
a>c ^EAArjvac, aXXaic Aiyvirriove, icai o
t5
S
*aurouc
^Supovc ofioiwg, aX
X
*vSrjK
araK
SK
eppariaTaisecpuepa* The
author and prince of the universe'seems to be
delighted with this variety of worship; he would
have the Syrians worship him one way, the
Greeks another, and the Egyptians another; nei­
ther do the Syrians (or Christians) themselves all
agree, they being subdivided into many sects.
We shall conclude, therefore, with this full
testimony of St. Cyril, in his first book against
Julian: *Aira«nv ivapyec»on km rote ra 'EXAij- p
■vuv ijn\o<ro<j>uv uwOomv, eva fiiv cSo k u 0 eov ilvai
aww/uoXoyeiv, rov rwv oA
a»i> Stifuovpyov, K
ai iravrwv «rl-
jettva Karaijiixnv auroi, votrrovc n K
al acaOirrovc* It is ma­
nifest to all, that amongst those, who philosophize
•in the Greek way, it is universally acknowledged
that there is one God, the maker of the universe,
:and who is by nature above all things; but that
there have been made by him, and produced into
generation, certain other gods (as they call them)
•both intelligible and sensible.
xxvn. Neither was this the opinion of philoso­
phers and learned men only, amongst the Pagans,
but even of the vulgar also. Not that we pre-
. tend to give an account of all the most sottish
3 8 4 PAGANS a c k n o w l e d g e d o n e g o d .
vulgar amongst •them, who as they little consi­
dered their religion, so probably did they not
understand that mystery of the Pagan theology
(hereafter to be declared), that many of their gods
were nothing but several names and notions of
one supreme Deity, according to its various ma­
nifestations and effects; but because, as we con­
ceive, this tradition of one supreme God did run
current amongst the generality of the Greek
and Latin Pagans at least, whether learned
or unlearned. For we cannot make.a better
judgment concerning the vulgar and generality
of the ancient Pagans, than from the poets and
mytbologists, who were the chief instructors of
them. Thus Aristotle in his Politics, writing of
music, judgeth of men’s opinions concerning the
h. Yiii. c. r. g 0 ^ 8 from the poets: S kothv S’ «jv
m ope ^]t0nl W ' lrtP* T“ v ou ®
Zev? ovtoq $8u Kai KiOapiZju rote Troiijrate-* We
may learn what opinion men have concerning the
gods, from hence, because the poets never bring
in Jupiter singing or playing upon an instrument.
—Now we have already proved from sundry tes­
timonies of the poets, that (however they were de­
pravers of the Pagan religion, yet) they kept up
this tradition of one supreme Deity, one king and
father of gods : to which testimonies many more
might have been added, as of Seneca the trage­
dian, Statius, Lucan, Silius Italicus, Persius and
Martial, but that we then declined them, to avoid
tediousness. Wherefore we shall here content
ourselves only to set down this affirmation of Dio
Chrysostomus, concerning the theology of the
Orat. xxxvi p o e ts : OvtoiS’ ovv iravree ol iroafrod Kard rav-
p. 447. to, tov TTpatTov Kai (UEyuTrov Otov Trarepa Ka~
PAGANS ACKNOWLEDGEDONE GOD AND MANY. 385
neat
Xovn ovXXijfiSt)v airavrcu; rov Xoyucov -yEvovc, (cat
fiaoiXta' <
h
cvtiOopevoi ot avOpwiroi Atog (iaoiXiws iBpvov-
rat ftwftove’ kcu Sr) teat iraripa avrov owe okvovoi irpottayo-
pevuv €vrate m eats’ All the poets call the first and
greatest God, the father, universally, of all the ra­
tional kind; as also the king thereof. Agreeably
with which of the poets, do men erect altars to
Jupiter king, and stick not to call him father in
their devotions.
Moreover, Aristotle himself hath recorded this
in his Politics, * wdvrtc Xlyown 0e
o
v
c (3tunXevfff0ai,
that all men affirmed the gods to be under a
kingly power; or, that there is one supreme
King and Monarch over the gods.—And Maxi­
mus Tyrius declareth, that as well the unlearned
as the learned, throughout the whole Pagan
world, universally agreed in this, that there was
one supremeGod, the father of all the other gods:
Et awayayiav eMcXijotav rwv myvwv rovrw, .
% f rf ' / * , , , Dim.i.p.4,5.
KfAtvae airavrac aupoovg out y-i^ur/uaroc e
v
o
c
dwoKpivaaOai 7T
£pt rov Btov, out aXXo ftiv av rov ypafia «i-
vftv, dXXo Be (cat rov ayaXparinroiov,.Kai rov voarrnv aXXo,
kcurov <juX6(ro(j)ov aXXo; aXX’ ovBt pa A/a rov 2icv0qv,
ovBt rov ^EXXijva, ovSe rov EUpot/v, rj rov Y7repj3op£tov*
aXXa iSotg dv iv pkv roig aXXa, iv Se roig aXXo, teal oti raw-
. ra \fa$iZofxivovg rove dvOpwirove, Trdvrac Se iraarc Biafepopi-
vovg* ov ro ayaOov to avro iracnv, ov to jcaicov o/lioiov, ov rd
al^rxpo'v, ov ro KaXov' vo/iog fiiv yap Srf icat S/jc
ij avw fcae
Karev tyeperat Sea<nr<v/uEva icae (nrapacraofieva' firj yap on ye-
voc yfVEi ofioXoyu iv tovtoiq, aXX' ovSe rroXig rroXu, aXX*
. pvSi ot/coc ocicy, ovSe dvrjp avSpt, ovSeavrac avra>* ev rooov-
T
<p Se 7roXifiip K a l a r a a u K a i S iacpiovia, Eva tSoee «v ev iradp
yp opo^evvov vdpov Kai Xoyov, ore GEOS E IS IIANTQN
iv f-a
B A SIA EY 2 KAI IIATHP, icae fool noXXol Otov tto
FSec,
- • Lib. iy. cap. xt. p. 510. tom. iii. oper.
VOL- II. 2 C
386 FAGANS ACKNOWLEDGED
Owap^ovTtqflty' ravra SIo^EAArjv\iyti kmoB«|)f3apo(X
e-
■yet, cat ontretpamfc <at o OoXarrtoc, ical o ao$oc, teat o aoofoc*
If there were a meeting called of all these several
trades and professions, a painter, a statuary, a
poet, and a philosopher, and all of them were re­
quired to declare their sense concerning God, do
you think, that the painter would say one thing,
the statuary another, the poet another, and the
philosopher another? No, nor the ^cytbian nei­
ther, nor the Greek, nor the Hyperborean. In
other things we find men speaking very discord­
antly to one another, all men as it were differing
from all. The same thing is not good to all nor
evil, honest nor dishonest. For law and justice
itself are different every where; aud not only one
nation doth not agree with another therein, but
also not one city with another city, nor one house
with another house, nor one man with another
man, nor, lastly, any one man with himself. Ne­
vertheless, in this so great war, contention, and
discord, you may find every where throughout
the whole world, one agreeing law and opinion,
that THERE IS ONE GOD THE KING AND FATHER
o f a l l , and many gods, the sons of God, co-
reigners together with God. These things both
the Greek and the Barbarian alike affirm, both
the inhabitants of the continent and of the sea-
coast, both the wise and the unwise.—Nothing
can be more full than this testimony of Maximus
Tyrius, that the generality of the Fagan world,
as well vulgar and illiterate as wise and learned,
did agree in this, that there was one supreme
God, the creator and governor of all. And to
the same purpose was that other testimony before
or»ma.p. cited out of Dio Chrysostomus, vtfi 81
*01. fftwv m e T£ KadoXov ijtwnwe, Kal ftakiara row
ONE GOD AND MANY. 387
iravrwv qytfiovoc, 8ot;a Kai fV/vota KOivrj tov l-v/iiravroG
avOfnomvov yivovg, o/io’
nag 8k EXXr/vwv, ojuouog 8t Bap/3a-
pwv, &c. that concerning the nature of the gods
in general, but especially concerning that Prince
of all things, there was one agreeing persuasion
in the minds of all mankind, as well Barbarians
as Greeks.—Where Dio plainly intimates also,
that there was a more universal consent of nations
in the belief of one God than of many gods.
it hath been already observed, that the several
Pagan nations had vulgarly their peculiar proper
names for theone supreme God. Foras the Greeks
called him Zeus or Zen, the Latins Jupiter or
Jovis, so did the Egyptians, Africans, and Ara-
bians, Hamrnon. Which Hammon therefore was
called by the Greeks the Zeus of the Africans,
and by the Latins their Jupiter. Whence is that
in Cicero’s De Natura Deorum, *“ Jovis Capitolini
nobis alia species, alia Afris Ammonis Jovis,” the
form of the capitoline Jupiter with us Romans is
different from that of Jupiter Ammon with the
Africans.”—The name of the Scythian Jupiter
also, as Herodotus tells us, was Pappaeus or
father. The Persians likewise had their Ztu'c ira-
rpwoc, as Xenophon styles him, their country Zeus
or Jupiter (namely Mithras or Oromasdes), who
in the same Xenophon is distinguished from the
sun, and called in Cyrus’s proclamation in the
Scripture, “ the Lord God of heayen, who had
given him all the kiugdoms ofthe earth.” Thus the
Babylonian Bel is declared by Berosus (a priest
of his) to have been that God, who was the maker
of heaven and earth. And learned men conceive,
that Baal (which is the same with Biel, and sig-
. »Lib. i. cap. xxix. p. 2923. tom. lx. oper.
2 C 2
388 ROMAN TRINITY.
nifies Lord) was first amongst the Phenicians also
a name for the supreme God, the creator of hea­
ven and earth, sometimes called Beel samen, -the
Lord of heaven: as likewise that Molech, which
signifies king, was, amongst the Ammonites, the
king of their gods; and that Marnas (the chief
God of the Gazites, who were Philistines) and
signifies the Lord of men, was that from whence
the Cretians derived their Jupiter, called the father
ofgods and men.
Origen *indeed contended, that it was not law­
ful for Christians to call the supreme God by any
of those Pagan names, and probably for these
reasons, because those names werethen frequently
bestowed upon idols, and because they were con­
taminated and defiled byabsurd and impure fables.
Nevertheless, that learned father does acknow­
ledge the Pagans really to have meant rov 0tov m
vaaiv, the God over all—by those several names:
which yet Lactantius Firmianus would by no
means allow of as to the Roman Jupiter, wor­
shipped in the capitol, be endeavouring to con-
l . i. o. si. fate it after this manner: “ Yana est per-
[P
.76.] suasio eorum, qui nomen Jovis sumrUo
Deo tribuunt. Solent enim quidam errores suos
hac excusatione defendere; qui convicti de uno
Deo, cum id negare non possunt, ipsum colere
affirmant, verum hoc sibi placere ut Jupiter no-
minetur, quo <juid absurdius ? Jupiter enim sine
tontubernio conjugis filiaeque, colioonsolet. Unde
quid sit apparet, nec fas est id nomen eo trans-
ferri, ubi nec Minerva est ulla nec Juno.” It is
a vain persuasion of those, who would give the
name of Jupiter to the supreme God. For some
*Contra Cebum,lib. i. p. 18.
ROMAN TRINITY. 389
are wont thus to excuse their errors, when thejr
have been convinced of one God, so as that they
could not contradict it, by saying, that themselves
worshipped him, he being called by them Jupiter:
than which what can be more absurd ? since Ju­
piter is not worshipped without the partnership
of his wife and daughter. From whence it plainly
appears what this Jupiter is, and that the name
ought not to be transferred thither, where there is
neither any Minerva nor Juno.—The ground of
which argumentation of Lactantius was this, be­
cause the great capitoline temple of J upiter had
three sacella or lesser chapels in it, all contained
under one roof, Jupiter’s in the middle, Minerva’s
on the right hand, and Juno’s on the left; accord­
ing to that ofthe poet;
Trina in Tarpeio fulgent consortia templo.
Which Juno, according to the poetic theology,
is said to be the wife of Jupiter, and Minerva his
daughter, begotten not upon Juno, but from his
own brain. Where it is plain, that there is a cer­
tain mixture of the mythical or poetical theology,
together with the natural, as almost every where
else there was, to make up that civil theology of
the Pagans. But here (according to the more re­
condite and arcane doctrine of the Pagans) these
three capitoline gods, Jupiter, Minerva, and Juno,
as well as some others, may be understood to have
been nothing else but several names and notiops
of one supreme Deity, according to its several at­
tributes and manifestations; Jupiter signifying the
Divine power and sovereignty, as it were seated
and enthroned in the heavens; Minerva, the Di­
vine wisdom and understanding; and Juno the
390 SAMOTHRACIAN TRINITY.
same deity, acting in tjhese lower parts of the
world. Unless we would rather, with Macro*
bius, * physiologize them all three, and make
Minerva to be the higher heaven, Jupiter the mid­
dle ether, and Juno the lower air and earth, all
animated; that is, one God, as acting differently
in these three regions of the world; Which yet
seems not so congruous, because it would place
Minerva above Jupiter.
Nevertheless it may justly be suspected, as G.
‘I. Vossiusbhath already observed, that there was
yet some higher and more sacred mystery in this
capitoline trinity aimed at; namely, a trinity of
Divine hypostases. For these three Roman or
capitoline gods were said to have been first
brought into Italy out of Phrygia by the Trojans,
but before that into Phrygia by Dardanus, out of
the Samothracian island; and that within eight
hundred years after the Noachian flood, if we may
believe Eusebius. And as these were called by
the Latins Dii Penates, which Macrobius thus
interprets,0 “ Dii per quos penitus spiramus, .per
quos habemus corpus, per quos rationem anitni
possidemus,” that is, the gods, by whom we live,
and move, and haveour being;—butVarro in Arrio-
bius, “ Dii, qui sunt intrinsecns, atque in intimis
penetralibus cceli,” the gods, who are in the most
inward recesses of heaven;—so were they called
by the Samothracians Ka'/3«pot,or Cabiri, that is, as
Varro8rightly interprets theword, Owl Si.varoJ.ordi-
vi potentes.the powerful and mightygods.—Which
»Satumal. lib. iii. cap. iv. p. 391,392. -
bDe Theolog. Gentili, lib. viii. cap. xii. p. 750, 751.
c Satumal. lib. iii. cap. iv. p. 391.
dAdvers. Gentes, lib. iii. p. 155*
*De Lingua Latin, lib. iv. p. 66.
SAMOTHRACIAN TRINITY. 301
Cabiri being plainly the,Hebrew D'T'M. gives just
occasion tosuspect, that thisancienttraditionofthe
three Divine hypostases(unquestionably entertain­
ed by Orpheus, Pythagoras, and Plato amongst
the Greeks, and probably by the Egyptians and
Persians) sprung originally from the Hebrews;
the first of these Divine hypostases, called Jove,
being the fountain ofthe godhead; and the second
of them, called by the Latins Minerva (which, as
Varro1 interprets it, was, that wherein “ ideee et
exempla rerum,” the ideas and first exemplars or
patterns of things were contained), fitly express­
ing the Divine Logos; and the third Juno, called
“ amor ac delicium Jovis,” well enough D
e
answering (as Vossius thinks) to the Di- G
eo
-i.^m.
vine Spirit.
ButLactantius hath yetanother objec­
tion against the Roman Jupiter's being •
63’
the supreme G od;“ Quid? quod hujus nominis
proprietas non divinam vim sed humanam expri-
mit? Jovem enim Junonem que a Juvando esse
dictos Cicero interpretatur. Et Jupiter quasi Ju-.
vans pater dicitur. Quod nomen in Deum mi-
nime convenit, quia juvare hominis est, &c. Nemo,
sic deum precatur, ut se adjuvet, sed ut servet,
&c. Ergo non imperitus modo, sed etiam impius
est, qui nomine Jovis virtutem summae potestatis
imminuit.” What if we add, that the propriety
of this word Jupiter does not express a Divine,
but only a human force? Cicero deriving both.
Jove and Juno alike ajuvando, that is, from help­
ing : for juvans pater, or a helping father, is not
a good description of God; forasmuch as it pro-
*
■Apud Augustinum de Civitate Dei, lib. vii. cap. xxviii. p. 141,
tom. vii. oper.
3 9 2 CAPITOLINE JUPITER,
perly belongeth to men to help. Neither doth any
one pray to God to help him only, but to save
him. Nor is a father said to help his son, whom
he was the begetter of, &c. "Wherefore he is not
only unskilful, but impious also, who, by the
name of Jove or Jupiter, diminishes the power of
the supreme God.—But as jthis of Lactantius
seems otherwise weak enough; so is the founda­
tion of it absolutely ruinous, the true etymon of
Jupiter (though Cicero knew not so much) being
without peradventure, notjuvanspater, but Jovis
pater, Jove, the father of gods and men; which
Jovis is the very Hebrew Tetragrammaton (how­
ever these Romans came by it) only altered by a
Latin termination. Wherefore, as there could be
ho impiety at all in calling the supreme God Jove
or Jovis, it being that very name which God him­
self chose to be called by; so neither is there any
reason, why the Latins should not as well mean
the supreme God thereby, as the Greeks did un­
questionably by' Zeus, which will be proved after­
wards from irrefragable authority.
Especially if we consider, that the Roman vul­
gar commonly bestowed these two epithets upon
that capitoline Jupiter (that is, not the senseless
statue, but that God who was there worshipped
in a material statue) of Optimus and Maximus, the
best and the greatest; they thereby signifying him
to be a Being infinitely good and powerful. Thus
Cicero in his De Nat. Deorura,* “ Jupiter a poetis
dicitur divum atque hominum pater, a majoribus
autem nostris optimus, maximus.” That same
Jupiter, who is by the poets styled the father of
gods and men, is by our ancestors called the best,
* Lib. ii. cap. xxv. p. 2902. iom. ix. opcr.
THE SUPREME GOD. 393
(he greatest.—And in his Orat. pro S. Roscio, *
“ Jupiter optimus maximus, cujus nutu et arbitrio
coelum, terra, mariaque reg u n tu rJu p iter the
best, the greatest, by whose beck and command,
the heaven, the earth, and the seas are governed.
As also the junior Pliny, in bis panegyric oration,
“ Parens hominum deorumque, optimi prius, de-
inde maximi nomine c o l i t u r t h e lather of men
and gods is worshipped under the name, first of
thebest, and then of the greatest.—Moreover Ser-
vius Honoratus informs us, that the pontifices in
their public sacrifices were wont to address them­
selves to Jnpiter in this form of words; “ Omni-
potens Jupiter, seu quo alio nomine appellari
vdlueris;” Omnipotent Jupiter, or by whatothe'
name soever thou pleasest to be called.—From
whence it is plain, that the Romans, under the
name ofJupiter, worshipped the omnipotent God.
And, according to Seneca, the ancient Hetrurians,
who are by him distinguished from philosophers,
as a kind of illiterate superstitious persons (in
these words, “ Haec adhuc Etruscis et
philosophis communia sunt, in illo dis-
sentiunt”) had this very same notion an- Smff^per.j
swering to the word Jupiter, namely, of
the supreme Monarch of the universe. For, first,
he sets down their tradition concerning thunder­
bolts in this manner: “ Fulmina dicunt a Jove
mitti, et tres illi manubias dant. Prima (ut aiunt)
monet et placata est, et ipsius consilio Jovis mitti-
tur. Secundam quidem mittit Jupiter, sed ex
consilii sententia; duodecim enim deos advocat,
&c. Tertiam idem Jupiter mittit, sed adhibitis in
consilium diis, quos superiores et involutos vo-
a Cap. xlv. p. 048. tom. iii. oper.
3 9 4 CAPITOL1NE JUPITER,
cant, qu® vastat,” &c. The Hetrurians say, that
the thunderbolts are sent from Jupiter* and that
there are three kinds of them; the first gentle and
monitory, and sent by Jupiter alone; the second
sent by Jupiter, but not without the counsel and
consent of the twelve gods, which thunderbolt
doth some good, but not without harm also ; the
third sent by Jupiter likewise, but not before he
bath called a council of all the superior gods:
and this utterly wastes .and destroys both private
and public states.—And then does he .make a
commentary upon this old [^etrurian doctrine,
that it was not to be taken literally, but only so
as to impress an awe upon men, and to signify,
that Jupiter himself intended nothing but good,
be inflicting evil not alone, but in partnership with
others, and when the necessity of the case..re­
quired. Adding, in the last place, “ Ne hoc qui-
dem crediderunt (Etrusci) Jovem qualem in capi-
tolio, et in cseteris sedibus colimus, mittere manu
sua fulmina; sed eundera, quern nos, Jovem-in-
telligunt, custodeni rectoremqueuniversi, animum
ac spiritum, mundam hujus operis dominum et
artificem, cui nomen omne convenit.” Neither
did these Hetrurians believe, that such a Jupiter,
as we worship in the capitol and in the other
temples,did fling thunderbolts with his own hands,
but they understood the-very same Jupiter, that
w(
e now do, the keeper and governor of the unir
verse, the mind and spirit of the whole, the lord
and artificer of this mundane fabric, to whom
every name belongeth.—And, lastly, that the vul­
gar Romans afterward, about the beginning ,of
Christianity, had the same notion of Jupiter, as
the supreme God, evidently appears from what
THE :SUPREME GOD. 395
Tertulliati bath recorded in his book Ad Scaptt-
lam, ‘ that when Marcos Aurelius in his German
expedition, by the prayers of the Christian sol-
diers madeto God, had obtained refreshingshowers
from heaven in a great drought, “ Tunc populus
adclamans Jovi D e o d e o r u m , q u i so lu s p o t e n s
e s t , in Jovis nomine Deo nostro testimonium red­
didit:’1 that then the people with one consent cry­
ing out, Thanks be to J u p i t e r t h e G o d o f g o d s ,
w h o a l o n e is p o w e r f u l , did thereby in the name
of Jove or Jupiter give testimony to our God.—
Where, by.the way, we see also, that Tertullian
was not so nice as Lactantius, but did freely ac­
knowledge the Pagans by their Jupiter to have
meant the true God.
As nothing is more frequent with Pagan writers,
than to speak of God singularly, they signifying
thereby the one supreme Deity, so that the same
was very familiar with the vulgar Pagans also, in
their ordinary discourse and common speech,
hath been recorded by divers of the fathers. Ter­
tullian in his book De Testimonio Animae,b and
his Apologet.einstanceth in several of these forms
of speech then vulgarly used by the P a g a n sa s
■
“ Deus videt, Deo commendo, Deus reddet, Deus
inter nos judicabit, Quod Deus vult, Si Deus vo-
luerit, Quod Deus dederit, Si Deus dederit,” and
the like. Thus also Minutius Felix:d “ Cum ad
ccelum manus tendunt, nihil aliud quam Deum
dicunt, Et magnus est, et Deus verus est, &c. vul-
gi iste naturalis sermo, an Christiani confitentis
oratio ?’ When they stretch out their hands to
•
a Lib. iv. bCap. ii. p. 35. opcr. edit. Venct.
c Cap. xvii. p. 175.
dIn Octavio, cap.xviii. p. 171. edit. Gronov.
396 PAGAN WRITERS
heaven, they mention only God; and these forms
of speech, He is great, and God is true; and, If
God grant (which are the natural language of the
vulgar), are they not a plain confession of Christ­
ianity ? And, lastly, Lactantius, *“ Cum jurant,
et cum optant, et cum gratias agunt, non deos
multos, sed Deum nominant; adeo ipsa veritas,
cogente natura, etiam ab invitis pectoribuS erum-
pit:” When they swear, and when they wish,
and when they give thanks, they name not many
gods, but God only ; the truth, by a secret force
of nature, thus breaking forth from them, whether
they will or no.—And again: “ Ad Deum cou-
fugiunt, a Deo petitur auxilium, Deus ut subve-
niat oratur. Et si quis ad extremam mendicandi
necessitatem redactus, victum precibus exposcit,
Deum solum obtestatur, et per ejus divinum at-
que unicum numen hominum sibi misericordiam
quserit.” They fly to God, aid is desired of God,
they pray that God would help them; and when
any one is reduced to extremest necessity, he begs
for God’s sake, and by his Divine power alone im­
plores the mercy of men.—
-Which same thing is
fully confirmed also by Proclus upon Plato’s Ti-
maeus; where he observes, that the oue supreme
God was more universally believed throughout
the world in all ages, than the many inferior gods:
P *86 ™X« ^ K
a*T0^
T0av *«rotc, in 8«| ai rw»
iavratc irpootytartpwvOarrovtTiXav&avovrat,t w v
Si mrepriparv ap^wv fiaXXov fivnftovziown* yap fiaX-
Xov tie avrove St’WEpo^ijv Swafiftoc, Kai SoKOvmv avrate JTfl-
puvaiSt evtpyuav'o SriKalirtpiryv o\ptv ylyverairttv y/uertfmv'
iroXXa yap twv tv yrj Ktifiivwv ov^ opwvrtQ, ofiwg avrtfv opfv
SoKWfxtv rijv dirXavtt, Kat avrovt roue a’empae, Store KaraXd/u-
*Institut. Divin. lib. ii. cap.-i. p. 159.
SPEAR OF GOO SINGULARLY. 307
xmmv »
i/itSvn}v oifiiv rw iavrwv furl. MaXXov ovv k<
u to ofi-
fia rriQipvyjis, Xiidriy uf\u Kal aopaaiavTwvxpoatytaripwv, 4
T(ovavtortpwv k m Ouoriptov apyjLv’ ovro>Tijvxpamarrivapyjhv
xami OpiffTKelai K a l alpeaetc avyyuptwaiv ttvai, k m Otovxavrtc
avOp*nroi txucaXavm(3or)6ov‘ OtovQ81aval fur avrtjv,Kalrpo*
voiav ax' avriHv cv Tip xavri, ov xaaai xiorevovai• ivapyia-
rtpov yap avratc KaratyuvvrM to tv rov rXtjOovc* And
perhaps you may affirm, that souls do sooner lose
their knowledge of those things, which are lower
and nearer.to them, but retain a stronger reinem-
brance of those higher principles; because these
do act more vigorously upon them, by reason of
the transcendency of their power, and by theid
energy seem to be present with them. And the
same thing happens as to our bodily sight; for
though there be many things here upon earth,
which none of us see, yet every one observes that
highest sphere, and takes notice of the fixed stars
in it, because these strongly radiate with their light
upon our eyes. In like manner does the eye of
our soul sooner lose the sight and remembrance of
the lower than of the higher and diviner principles.
And thus all religions and sects acknowledge that
one highest Principle of all, and men every where
call upon God for their helper; but that there are
gods, after and below that highest Principle, and
that there is a certain providence descending down
from these upon the universe, all sects do not be~
lieve; the reason whereofis, because the one or
unity appears more clearly and plainly to them,
than the many or a multitude.
Moreover, we learn from Arrianus’s Epicte­
tus. that that very form of prayer, which hath been
now so long in use in the Christian church, Kyrie
Eleeson, “ Lord, have mercy upon us,” was an-
398 KYR1E ELEESON
ciently part of the Pagans’ litany to the supreme
God,'either amongst the Greeks, or the Latins,
L.H. o.Til. Or both, rov Oeov ivucaXovpfvot (saith Epic-
&
• tetus), Stopf$a avTOV, Kvpte iXsiprov, invok­
ing God, we pray to him after this manner, Lord,
have mercy upon us. Now this Epictetus lived
in the times ofAdrian the emperor; and that this
passage of his is to be understood of Pagans, and
not of Christians, is undeniably manifest from
the context, he there speaking ofthose, who used
emguria, or divination by birds. Moreover, in the
writings ofthe Greekish Pagans, the supreme God
is often called Kvpcoc, or Lord. For, not to urge
that passage of the tU
X
ooe Xo-yoc, or Asclepiaq Dia­
logue, cited by Lactantius, *wherewe read ofd’Kv-
j»oc itai wavrwv woarnK, the Lord and maker ofall-—
Menander in Justin Martyr6styleth the supreme
'God rov ovra vavfutv Kuptov yevtKt&rarov, the lD08t
universal Lord of all.—And Osiris in Plutarch is
called avavrwv Kvjptoc, the Lord ofall things.— And
this is also done absolutely, and without any ob­
jection, and that not only by the LXX. and Christ­
ians, but also by Pagan writers. Thus in Plu­
tarch’s de Iside et Osiride, we read of rov irptSrov,
Kal KYPIOY, icat vor/rov yvuffic, the knowledge of
the first intelligible, and the Lord—that is, of the
supreme God. And Oromasdes is called oKvptoc,
the Lord, in Plutarch’s life of Alexander; as Nwe
D
e A
n. i. i. also, Kvptoc, by Aristotle, that is, the su-
j^ig to
m
< preme Ruler over all.—Thus likewise
ii.op«r.] Plato in his sixth epistle ad Hermiam,
&c. styles bis first Divine hypostasis, .or the abso­
lutely supreme Deity, rov yyepovoe km turiov iraripa
Kvptov, the father of the prince, and cause of-the
*Instit. Div. lib. ii. cap. vi. p. 419. hDe Monarch. Dei, p. 108.
THE PAGAN’S LITANY. 399
117011(1(that is, of the eternal intellect) the Lord.
Again, Jamblichus writeth thus of the supreme
God, Ae(v ofioXoyurai irapa rowKvpiou ayaOov ^ ^
Znriiv, It is confessed, that every good 8
9." 3 P
thing ought to be asked of the Lord.— pTj.ed!"
that is, the supreme God; which words K
u,ter‘l
are afterwardsrepeated in him also, p. 139. but de­
prived in the priuted copy thus, A«vSeopoXoyilvire-
pi rowicvpiov t ayaOov am. Lastly, Clemens Alexan-
drinus* tells us, that the supreme God was call-;
6d not by one only name, but by divers diversely,
namely, rjro*Ev„ Vr ’AyaOov, VNowv, rjawro to*0v,»
j
iiarepa, v 0eov, rjAqjutowpyovv Kvpiov, either the One,
or the Good, or Mind; or the very Ens, or the
Father, or the Deminrgus, or the Lord.—Where­
fore, we conclude, that this Kyrie Eleeson* or
Domine Miserere, in Arrianus, was a Pagan lita­
ny or supplication to the supreme God. Though
from Mauritius the emperor’s Stratage-
mata it appears, that in his time a Kyrie
Eleeson' was wont to be sung also by the Christ­
ian armies1
before battle.
And that the most sottishly superstitious and
idolatrous of all the Pagans, and the worshippers
of never so many gods amongst them, did notwith­
standing generally acknowledge one supreme Der
ity over them all, one universal Numen, is posi­
tively affirmed, and fully attested by Au- v
relius Prudentius, in his Apotheosis, in er‘
these words;
Ecquis in Idolio rqcubans inter sacra mille,
Ridiculosque deos venerans, sale, caespite, thure,
Non putat esse Deum summum, et super omnia solum?
Quamvis Saturnis, Junonibus, et Cytheraws,
a Stromat. lib. v. p. 695.
400 p l a t o ’s ety m o lo g y o f 0hu.
Portentisque alris, fumantes consecret aras;
v Attamen in coelum qtioties suspexit, in uno
Conslituit jus omne Deo, cui serviat ingens
Yirtutum ratio, variis instructa mimstri*.
We are not ignorant, that Plato in his Cratylus*
where he, undertakes to give the etymologies of
words, and amongst the rest of the word 6eol, wri-
teth in this manner concerning the first and most
ancient inhabitants ofGreece; “ that they seemed
to him, like as other Barbarians at tha( time, to
have acknowledged no other gods than such as
were visible and sensible,as the sun, and the moon,
and the earth, and the stars, and the heaven.
Which they perceiving to run round perpetually,
therefore called them flawc, from 6k>
, that signifies
to run. But that when afterward they took no*
tice of other invisible gods also, they bestowed
the same name of O
tolupon them likewise.” Which
passage of Plato’s Eusebius somewherebwould
make use of, to prove, that the Pagans universally
acknowledged no other gods but corporeal and
inanimate; plainly contrary to that philosopher’s
meaning, who as he no where affirms, that any
nation ever was so barbarous, as to worship sense­
less and inanimate bodies, as such, for gods, but
the contrary; so doth he there distinguish from
those first inhabitants of Greece, and other Bar­
barians, the afterward civilized Greeks, who took
notice of invisible gods also. However, if this
of Plato should be true, that some of the ancient
Pagans worshipped none but visible and sensible
gods (they taking no notice of any incorporeal
beings), yet does it not therefore follow, that
* P. 263. oper.
b Praeparat. Eyangel. lib. i. cap. ix. p. 29.
Pl a t o ’s e t e r n it y of Q e o l . 4 0 1 -
(hose Pagans had no notion at all amongst them
of one supreme and universal Numen. The con­
trary thereunto being manifest, that some of those
Corporealists looked upon the whole heaven and
ether animated as the highest God, according to
.that of Euripides cited by Cicero,
Vides sublime fasum, immoderatum aethera,
Qui tenero teiram circuinvectu amplectitur;
Hutto sumtnmo habeto difam, banc perhibeto
Jovem.
As also that others ofthem conceived, that subtile
fiery substance, which permeates and pervades the
whole world, (supposed to be intellectual) to be
the supreme Deity, which governs all; this opinion
having been entertained, by philosophers also, as
namely, the Heraclitics and Stoics. And, lastly,
since Macrobius,* in the person of Vettius Prae-
textatus, refers so many of the Pagan gods to the
sun; this renders it not improbable, but that some
ofthese Pagans might adore the animated sun, as
the sovereign Numen, and thus perhaps invoke
him in that form of prayer there mentioned/
rfHXit w
avTO
K
parw
p, K
oapovirvcvpa, O omnipotent sun,
the min'd and spirit of the whole world, &c.-—And
even Cleanthes himself, that learned Stoic, and
devout religionist, is suspected by some to have
been of this persuasion.
Nevertheless, we think it opportune here td
observe,' that it was not Macrobius’s design, in
those his Saturnalia, to defend this either as his
own opinion, or as-the opinion of the generality
of Pagans, that the animated sun was absolutely
the highest Deity, (as some have conceived) nor
• Saturnd. lib. 1. c»p. x\ii. p.270. fc Ibid. cap. xxiii. p. 313.
VOL. II. 2 D
De N. D.
p. as. [Kb.
ii. o. itr.
p. 2993.J
402 THE SUN, ACCORDING TO MACSOBIUS,
yet to reduce that multiplicity of Pagan gods, by
this device of bis, into a seeming monarchy and
nearer compliance with Christianity ; he there
plainly confininghis discourseto the “diiduntaxat,
qni sob ccelo.Sunt,” that is, the lower sort of mun­
dane gods;—and undertaking to shew, not -that
all of these neither, but only that many of them
were reducible to the sun, as polyonymons, and
called by several names, according to his several
virtues and effects. For, wbat Macrobins’s own
opinion was, concerning the supreme Deity, ap­
peared! plainly from his other writings, particu­
larly this passage ofhis commentary upon Sdpio’s
dream, where the highest sphere and starry hea-
ii.i . o. x»h. ven was called Sumraus Deus, the sui-
tp.67.] preme God—“ Quod hunc extimum glo-
bum, sumtnum Deum vocavit, non ita accipien-
dum est,utiste prima causa, et Deus ille omnipo­
tentissimus existimetur; cum globus ipse, quod
ccelum est, animae sit fabrics, anima ex mente
processerit, mens ex Deo, qui vere summus est,
procreata sit. Sed summum quidem dixit ad cae-
terorum ordinem, qni subjecti sunt; Deum vero,
quod non modo immortale animal ac divinum sit,
plenum inclyt» ex iliapurissima menterationis,sed
quod et virtutes omnes, quae illam primae omnipo-
tentiam summitatis sequantur, aut ipse faciat, aut
contineat; ipsum denique Jovem veteres vocave-
runt, et apud theologos Jupiter e&t mundi anima.”
That the outmost sphere is/here called the su­
preme God, is not so to be understood, as if this
were thought to be the first Cause, and the most
omnipotent God of all: for this starry sphere
being but a part of the heaven, was made or pro­
duced by soul. Which soul also proceeded from
NOT THJ8 SVPRRMB O E m « , . 4 0 3
a perfect quod or intellect; and.again, mind was
begotten, from that God, who is truly: supreme;
But. the highest sphere is here called the supreme
God. only in respect to those lesser spheres or
gods, that are contained under it; and it is styled
a Godi because it:is not only an immortal and Dp-
vine animah full of reason derived from that
purest Mind, but also because it maketh or con*
taineth within itself all those virtues, which fellow
that omnipotence of the first summity. Lastly,
this was called by the ancients Jupiter, and Jut
piter to- theologers is •the soul- of the -workL-~
Wherefore, though Macrabius, aS generally thd
other- Pagans, did-undoubtedly worship thesud
as a great god, and probably wouldnot stick to
call him Jupiter, nor xain-ocparwp neither (m a cert
tam sease) omnipotent, or . the governor Of allj
nor perhaps Deum SnouUum, as wed as the start
ry heaveu was so styled in Sciplo’s dream, he
being the chief moderator in this lower world)
yet nevertheless, it is plain, that ;he was fer from
thinking tbesunto b6fmmat*cau8*iu, ar-amfcf-
poteMis^um fteum.f ihQ&rfit Cause, or the/most
omnipotent God of all. Heacknowledgingabove
the sua and heaven, first, an eternal Feyohe*
which was the maker or creator of thenrbotk^
and-then, above this Psyche* a perfect m m det
intellect; and,lastly, abovethatmindaGod, Who
was vere summits, truly and properly supreme,
the first<Cause, and the most omnipotent of 'Oil
gods. Wherein Macrobins plainly- Platonized*
asserting; a trinity of:archkal or Divine hypos*
tases. Which same doctrine is elsewhere, also
further declared by him after this manner: “ Deus,
2 d 2
4 0 4 THE SUN, ACCORDING TO MACHOBIUS,
■—
f g^jp- qui prims cross est,et vocatur unus otn-
frVsf T
' ' n*
utn>
9oaeqoesunt,quaequevidenturesse,
: - principiura etorigo est. Hie superabun­
dant! majestatis fcecunditate de se mentern creavit.
Haec mens, quae Novc vocatur, quapatrem inspicit,
plCnara similitudinem servat anctoris, animdm
tero de se Croat posteriora respiciens. Rursus
anima partem, quam intuetur, induitdr, ac panla-
tim regrediente respectu infabricam corporum,
in ccrrporea ipsa degenerat:”: God,who is, and is
called the fijst Cause, is alooe the fountain and
original of all things, that are or seem to b e ; he
by- his superabundant fecundity produced from
himself uiind> which mind, as it looks upward
towards its father, bears the perfect resemblance
of its author, bqt as it looked downward, pro­
duced soul. And this'soul again, as to its supe­
rior: part, resembles that miad, from, whence it
whsbegotten; but working downwards, produced
the corporeal fabric, and .acteth upon body.—*
Besides which, the Same Macrobias tells as,* that
“ Summi etprincipis omnium Dei nullum simu-
lachrura finxit ahtiquitas, quia supra anitnaoi et
naturam est, quo nihil fas est de febulis pervO-
nire; die diis autem cseteris, et de anima, non
friistra se ad fabulosa convertuntT he Pagan
antiquity made no image at all of the highest
God, or prince of all things, because he is above
soul and nature, where it is not lawful for any
fabulosity to be intromitted. But as to the other
gods, the soul of the world, and those,below it,
they thought it not: inconvenient hereto make use
o f images, and fiction or fabulosity.—
-From all
* Ibid. lib.i« .cap. ii. p. 9.
NOT THB SUPREME DEITY. .405
which it plainly appears, that neither Macrobius
himself, nor the generality of the ancient Pagans,
according to his apprehension, did look upon the
animated sun as the absolutely supreme and high­
est Being.
And perhaps it may not be amiss to.suggest
here, what hath been already observed,; that the
Persians themselves also, who of all Pagan na­
tions have been most charged with this, the wor­
shipping of the sun as the supreme Deity, under
the name of Mithras, did notwithstanding, if vve
may believe.Eubulus* (who wrote.the history of
Mithras at large), acknowledge another invisible
Deity superior to it (and which was, the pm^or
thereof, and of the whole world), as the true'and
proper Mithras. Which opinion is also plainly
confirmed, not only by Herodotus, distin? N131
guishing their Jupiter from the sun, but :\. ’
also by Xenophon in sundry places,, as particular*
ly where he speaks of Cyrus’s being admonished
in a dreambfhis approaching death,and thereupon
addressing his devotion by sacrifices and prayers
first to the Ztv? irarpyoQ, the Persian Jupiter—and
then to the sun, and the other gods.' 'E9v
e Cjri.jut>
Att re iraxpiftp Kai jJA/y Kal role aXXotg Oioig tjrl.
T(Z>v aicpwv, wg I I tfxrai Qvovaiv, <vSe tTrsv^o/utvog, Z fv irctrpyE
K a l ijXit Kat iravreg Scot, BiyeaBt ra$c yaptornpta, $CC, He
sacrificed to their country(or the,Persian) Jupiter,
and to the sun, and to the other gods, upon the
tops of the mountains, as the.custom of the Per­
sians is; praying after this manner: Thou, our
Cjountry Jupiter (that is, thou Mithras or Oro-
masdes), and thou sun, and all ye other gods; ac-
• • * ApadPoiph;r.de AntroNymphar. p.253, &o.
406 THE SUM, MOT
'ctept, I pray you, these my eucharistic sacrifices,
Ac.—And we find also the like prayer used by
Darius in 'Plutarch, Zcvror^E n ^ v v , ThOu our
D e p o r t.A ie x . country Jupiter, or supreme God of the
• a. Persians.—Moreover, Herodotus and
Gurtius record, that in the Persian pomp and
procession there was wont to be drawn a chariot
uUfcred to Jupiter, distinct firom that of the sun.
But Cyrus’s proclamation, in the book of Es-
dras, putteth all out of doubt; since that Lord
God of heaven, who is there said to have given
GyirUs all the kingdoms of the earth, and com­
manded him to btaild him a house at Jerusalem,
cannot be understood df the sun.
The Ethiopians in Strabo’s time may well be
looked upon as Barbarians; and yet did they not
only acknowledge one supreme Deity, but also
such as Was distinct from the World, and there-
yofdCov&
c They believe, that there is oneimmortal
God, and this the cause of all things; and an­
other mortal one, anonymous; but for the most
part they account their benefactors and kings
gbds also.-—And though Caesar *affirm of the an-
debt Germans, “ Deorum nutnero eos solos du-
cunt, quos cernunt, et quorum opibus aperte ju-
tUUtur, Solem, et VulCanum, et L u n a m y e t is be
contradicted by Tacitus, who coming after him,
had better information: and others have recorded,
fore invisible; he writing thus concerning them:
* De Bello G&llico, lib. vi. cap.XKi. p. 126. edit CellariL
THE PERSIAN JU PITER, 4Q7
that they acknowledged one supreme
God, under the name of Thau first, and D iaG nlt
then of Thautes, and Theutates. Lastly,
the generality of the Pagans at this
very day, as the Indians, Chinese, Siamenses and
Guineans, the inhabitants of Peru, Mexico, Vir­
ginia, and .New England (some of which are suf­
ficiently barbarous), acknowledge one supreme or
greatest God; they baring their several proper
names for him, as Parmiscer, Fetisso, Wiracocba,
Pachacamac, Vitziliputzti, &c. though worship?-
ping wjthal other gods and idols. And we shall
conclude, this -with the testimony of Josephus
Acosta: “ Hoc commune apud oinnes D < I n _
pene Barbaras est, ut Deum quidem om- SaI'-T
-
nium rerum supremum et summe bonum
fateantur; spirituum vero quorundam perverso-
rum non obscura opinio sit, qui e nostris Barbaris
Znpay vocari solent. Igitur et quis ille summus,
idemque Sempiternus rerumomnium opifex, quern
tlli ignorantes colunt, per omnia doceri debent $
mox quantum ab illo, illiusque fidelibus ministris
angeiis, absint gens pessima cacodaemonum.”
.This is common almost to all the Barbarians, to
confess one supreme God over all, who is per­
fectly good; as also they have a persuasion
amongst them of certain evil spirits, which are
called by our Barbarians Zupay. Wherefore they
ought to be first well instructed, what that su?
prerae and eternal maker of all things is, whom
they:ignorantly worship; and bow great a differ­
ence there is betwixt those wicked demons and
his faithful ministers, the angels.-
: xxviii, It bath been already declared, that ac­
cording to Themistius and Symmachus, two zeal-
408 PlrVTAROtt’s- AGREEMENT
ous Pagans, one and the same'supreme God was
worshipped in all the several Pagan religions
throughout,the world, though after different man­
ners. Which diversity of religions, as in their
opinion it was no way inconvenient in itself, so
neither was it ungrateful nor unacceptable to Al­
mighty’God, it being more for bis honour, state,
and grandeur, to be worshipped with this variety,
than after one only manner.' Now; that this was
also the opinion of other ancienter Pagans before
them, may appear from this remarkable testimony
6f Plutarch’s in his book De Iside, where defend­
ing the Egyptian worship (which was indeed the
main design of that whole book); but withal de­
claring, that no inanimate thiug ought to be looked
upon or worshipped as a god, he writeth thus:
P 377 °^v ^ a\f.v*gov avOpwirotg 6 Oeog, rode S
Soipovftbovg y/uv k m irapeyovrag atrvaa k m
8lapKtj, 0eovc fvoftttmfitv, ov% ertpovg jrap* iripovg, o*8*
Bapflapovc Kat rfEXXqvac, ov81 varetovc coi j3opfiovg''
aXXa wtnrtp qXtoc, Kai atXtjioj, Kai otlpavoe, Kat yij, km
AfXawa, Koiva iraaiv, ovoftdtprat 81 aXXftig w *XXw,
ourft>e 'EN O S AOrOY too raora Kooftwvrog K a i M IAS
ITPONOIAS tir(rp«ffEvovin)$, K a t 8vv«jt*t&>v wrorpyoo en
vdvra TETayjUEVwv, trepai irap’ eripotg Kara vdfiov ytyo-
vam Ttfial Kai irpoorjyopiai* Kat ovju/3oXotc yepworat Kaftt-
pdfitvoi, ot pkv a/ivBpdtg, oi 81 rpavtoTEpme, etti ra 0tta
vorinv oStiyovvrec ovk aKtv8vva>c* No inanimate thing
ought to be esteemed for a god, but they, who
bestow these things upon us, and afford us a
continual supply thereof for our use, have been
therefore accounted by us gods. Whiob gods
are not different to different nations; as if the
Barbarians and the Greeks, the southern and
the northern inhabitants' of the globe/ had not
.. O r PAGAN RELIGIONS. 409
soy the same, but all other different gods. But
as the sun, and the- moon, and the heaven,
and the earth, and the sea, are common to all,
though called by several names in several coun­
tries ; so o n e .R e a so n ordering these things, and
o n e P r o v id e n c e dispensing all, and the inferior
subservient ministers thereof, having had several
names and honours bestowed upon them by the
laws of several countries, have been every where
worshipped throughout the whole world. And
there have been also different symbols conse­
crated to them, the better to conduct and lead on
men’s understandings to Divine things; though
this bath not heen without some hazard or danger
of casting men upon one or other of these two
inconveniences, either superstition or Atheism.—
Where Plutarch plainly affirms, that the several
religions of the Pagan nations, whether Greeks
or Barbarians, and among these the Egyptians
also, as well as others, consisted in nothing else,
but the worshipping of one and the same supreme
Mind, reason, and providence, that orders all
things in the world, and of its virQvpyol Swfouc ini
wavra rerayyivai, its subservient powers or minis­
ters! appointed by .it over all the several parts of
the world; though under different names, rites,
and ceremonies, and with different symbols.
Moreover, that Titus Livius wasof the very same
opinion, that the Pagan gods of several countries,
though'.called by several names, and worshipped
with so great diversity of rites and ceremonies, yet
werenot for all that different, but thesame common
to'all, may be concluded from this passage of his
where he writeth of Hannibal: “ Nescio ^ x„ U
it
an mirabilior fuerit in adversis, quam se- **•[p-679-J
4 if t LIVY ; THE SAME GODS EVSEY WHERE.
cundisrebus. Quippe qui mistoSex collavione om­
nium gentium, quibus aliusritus, alia sacra, alii
p s o p e dii essent, ita uno vinculo copulaverit, u t
nnlla seditio exstiterit.” I know not whether Han­
nibal were more admirablein his adversity or pros­
perity ; who having a mixt colluvies ofall nations
under him, which bad different rites,differentcere­
monies, andalmost differentgodsfrom one another,
did notwithstanding so unite them all together in
one common bond, thatthere happened no sedition
at all amongst them.—Where Livy plainly inti­
mates, that though there was as great diversity of
religions rites and ceremonies among the Pagans,
as if they had worshipped several gods, yet the
gods of diem all were really the same, namely,
one supreme God, and his ministers under him.
And the same Livy elsewhere declares this to
have beeto the general opinion of the Romans and
Italians likewise at that time; where he tells ns
how they quarrelled with Q. Fulvius FiaccuS,
for that When being censor, and building a new'
temple in Spain, he uncovered another temple de­
dicate*! to Juno Lacinia amongst the Brutii, and
taking off the marble tiles thereof, sent them into
Spain to adorn his new-erected temple withal;
and how they accused him thereupou publicly in
^ the senate-house in this manner, “ Quod
' T
* ruinis templorum templa aedificaret, tan-
quam non iidem nbique dii immortales essent, sed
Spoliis aliorum alii colendi exornandiqueThat
With the ruins of temples he built up temples;
hs if there were not every where the same im­
mortal gods; but that some of them might be
worshipped and adorned with the spoils of others.*
* Lib. xlii. cap. iii. p. 1113.
ASCLEPIADE8*8 SYSiPHOtoYOFTHEOLOGIES. 411
The Egyptians Were doubtless the most singu­
lar Of oil the Pagans, atid the most oddly discre­
pant from the rest in their manner of worship;
yet nevertheless, that these also agreed with the
Test in those fundamentals of worshipping one
Supreme and universal Nnmen, together with his
inferior ministers, A
SPhitatcb sets himself indus­
triously to.meintain it, in that fofementioned book
De Iside; So was it further Cleared and made out
^4s l)Ama8ciiis informs us) by two famous Egyp­
tian philosophers, Asclepiades and Heraiscus, in
'Certain writings of theirs, that have been since
lost: AiywrrWS ojulvEv&i/toc ovSva*p«/3ic d d
01 & AlyvitYMH Kaff mtac Princ. M.8.
7 . - , ryideWolfii;
'ytfyowi'cc* ttyiveyica v a vrw v n \v a A iftk ia v K& cpv/i- Anecdot*
fjivnvf tvpovree cv Alyvnrtocc riai Xoyocc, m!/p.^6o!]#
Vic «n kar avtovc ij /m> pua rtvv oXwv
dr^oroc ayVartfrov, &C. urrlov Si /c<u cjcctito Tnpl rwv Al*yw
W«v, ori SiaipferlKol tun iroXXa^oVj r iv jtaff evfexrtv
. v^trtrcircuv* €lr€i icai ro voiyrov &tip^Kaaiv etc woXXwv Otwv
HidrrftaCj lie c&art paduv toiq tKelvwv avyypdfifiaeriv iv-
r&fcdvcrtv rote /3ovXo
/l
i
£vocc* X£yo> Si 'Hpaurtcov avayf>a<py,
Aiywrrlou icaOoXov XffyoN, 7rpoc tov IIpolcXov ypafeurg
rov (/uXd&fxpoVj km ry apZjoLfiivy ypifedOai avfapovuji vwo
'A<ncX>pnd8cto reJv Axytnrrlojv irpog iWc aXXouc OeoXoyauc"
Ttieagh Eudemus hath given us no certain ac­
count of the Egyptians, yet the Egyptian philo­
sophers of latter times have declared the hidden,
truth of their theology, having found hi some
Egyptian monuments, that, according to them,
tUefe is one principle of all things, celebrated un­
der the name of the unknown darkness, and this
fchriee repeated, &c. Moreover, this is to be ob­
served concerning these Egyptians, that they are
wont to divide and multiply things, that are one
412 , ASCLEPIADES, HIS
and the same. And accordingly have they di­
vided and multiplied, the first Intelligible, or the
one supreme Deity, into the properties of many
gods; as any one may find, that pleases to con­
sult their -writings: I mean that of Heraiscus, en­
titled, the Universal doctrine of the Egyptians,
and inscribed to Proclus the philosopher; and
that symphony or harmony of the Egyptians with
other theologers, begun to be written by Ascle-
piades, and left imperfect.—Of which work of
Asclepiades the Egyptian Suidas also maketh
mention upon the word Heraiscus; o&'AmcXq-
irtaStic iirl irAtTov tv rote A ty w rto tf /3t/3Xtotc avarpafeic,
iuspifUartpoe Iv afiipl ScoXoylav rqv narpiov, d p \d t n ovt^c
KtCl filaa iumet/ifUvog, (I>
ct£«OTtv tidlvai a t q t r b tuiv vfivaiv,
2>v a vyytyp a tytv tic roiic A iy y m lw 6iov$, tsat d v b rijc v p a y -
fiantae, »jvS>p/itiat ypdipuv irtpifyovoav rwv &toXoytwvd tra a iv
avfi<pu>vi<}' But Asclepiades having been more con­
versant with ancient Egyptian writings,- was more
thoroughly instructed, and exactly skilled in his
country theology; he having searched into the
principles thereof, and all .the consequences re­
sulting from them; as manifestly appeareth from
those hymns, which he composed in praise of the
Egyptian gods, and from that tractate begun to
be written by him (but left unfinished), which con­
tained the symphony of all theologies.-—
Now,
we say that Asclepiades’s symphony of all the
Pagan theologers, and therefore of the Egyptian
with the rest, was their agreement in those two
fundamentals expressed by Plutarch; namely,
the worshipping of one supreme and universal
Numen, Reason and Providence, governing all
things; and then of his subservient ministers (the
instruments of providence) appointed by him over
SYMPHONY O t THEOLOGIES. 418
all the parts of tbe world: which being honoured
under several names, and with different rites and
ceremonies, according to the laws of the respec­
tive countries, caused all that diversity of reli­
gions that was amongst them. Both which fun­
damental points of the Pagan theology were in
like manner acknowledged by Symmachus," the
first of them being thus expressed: “ JEqiium
est quicquid omnes colunt, unum p u t a r i t h a t
all religions agreed in this, the worshipping of one
and the same supreme Numen:—aiid the second
thus; “ Varios custodes urbibus mens divina dis-
t r ib u i t th a t the Divine Mind appointed divers
guardian and tutelar spirits under him, unto cities
and countries.—He there adding also, that “ suus
cuique mos est, sunm cuique jus,” that every na­
tion had their peculiar modes and manners in
worshipping of these;—and that these external
differences in religion ought not to be stood upon,
but every one to observe the religion of his own
Country. Or else these two fundamental points
of the Pagan theology may be thus expressed;
first, that there is one self-originated Deity, who
was the Sjfjdiovpyoc, or maker ofthe whole world;—
secondly, that there are besides him other gods
also, to be religiously worshipped (that is, intel­
lectual beings superior to men) which were not­
withstanding all made or created by that E«i.Pbj>.e.i
one: Stoboens thus declareth their sense: t|,b K
p *-l
•to ir\ii9oc Twv flfcwv ipyov tort tov Srj/iiovpyov, a/ua tw
xofffif ytvofuvov, that the multitude of gods is the
work of the Demiurgus, made by him, together
with the world.
* Epistolaiv lib, x. Epist. W
, p- 44?.
4 1 4 ' PAGANS HELD THE W^OLE
xxix. And that the Pagan theologers did thus
generally acknowledge one supreme and universal
Numen, appears plainly from hence, because they
supposed the whole world to be an animal.' Thus
the write? De Placitis Philos, and out of turn
Plat.l.ii.eliii. StobtEUS, ot fuv aXXot n-avrcc ip\pvyov Toy
P h J i^ x x T K° af10V vp o vo 'n f SlOUCOVftfVOV' A cva civtoC
■Si xai AtyMMcpiroc (Cat ’Evucovpoc, teal omu ra
aro/ia tunrypvvrat /cat to « voV, ours ifdfiyj(ov ovre xpovo^t
StM
K
m
aO
aiyfiqti Sirm ilXo-yy' All others assert the
world to’be an animal, and governed by. provi­
dence; only.Leucippus, Democritu?, and Epi­
curus, and those, who make atoms and vacuum
the principles of all things, dissenting, who nei­
ther acknowledge the world to be animated, nor
yet to be governed by providence, but by an irra­
tional nature.—Where,; by the way, we may. ob­
serve the fraud and juggling of Gassendus* who
takes occasion from hence highly ,to extol and
applaud Epicurus, as one who approached nearer
to Christianity than all the other,philosophers, in
that he denied the world to be an animal; where­
as,. according to the language and notions of those
times, to deny the world’s animation, and to be
an Atheist or to deny a God, was one and the
same thing; because all the Pagans, who then as­
serted Providence, held the world also to be ani­
mated : neither did Epicurus deny the world’s
animation upon any other account than this, be­
cause he denied Providence. And the ground,
upon which this opinion of the. world’sanimation
was built, was such as might be obvious even to
vulgar understandings ; and it is thus expressed
by Plotinus, according to thesense ofthe ancients:
WORtpTO BE ONE ANIMAL. 44$
aroirov row aupavo a\fnryev Xlytiv, yp*jy, pi Vp,ir. L}#.:
pipot: ffwjuaroc typptv row iravroc, yvynv tyoy- blU J i,_ |
ir o t v ' rw c y ip av to jucpoc w^tv, axpvyov row P*576-]
iravroc q
v
to
q; it is absurd to affirm, that the hea­
ven or world is inanimate, or devoid of life end
soul, when we ourselves, who have but a part of
the mundane body in us, are endued with soul.
For how could a part have life and so.ul in it, the
whole being dead and inanimate?—Now, if the
whole world be one animal, then must it needs be
governed by one soul, and not by many. Which-
one soul of the world, and the whole mundane
animal, was by some of the Pagan theologers,(as
namely the Stoics) taken to be the jrpwrofO
toe, the
first end highest God of all.
Nevertheless, others of the Pagan theologerg,
though asserting the world’s animation likewise,
yet would by no means allow the mundane soul „
to be the supreme Deity; they conceiving the
first and highest God to be an abstract and im­
moveable mind, and not a soul. Thus tbe Pane^
gyrist, cited also by Gyraldus, inyokefr$he;suT
preme Deity doubtfully and cautiously, w iw
as not knowing well what to call him, p-1*
-
whether soul or mind : “ Te, summe.rerum sator,
cujus tot nomina sunt, quot gentium linguas esse
voluisti; quern enim te ipse did velis, scire nop
possumus: sive in te qusedam vis mensque divina
est, quae toto infusa mundo omnibus miscearis
elementis, et sine ullo extrinsecusaccedente vigor
ris impulsu, per te ipse movearis; sive aliqua
supra omne coelum potestas es, quae hoc opus to?
turn ex altiore nature arce despicias: Te, inquam,
oramus,”&c. Thou supreme Original pfaU things,
who hast as many names as thou hast pleased
410 PAGANS HELD THE WHOLE
there should be languages; whether thou beest a
certain Divine force and soul, that infused iuto
' the whole world art mingled with all theelements,
and without any external impulse moved from
thyself; or whether thou beest a power elevated
above the heavens, which lookest down upon the
whole work of nature, as from a higher tower;
thee we invoke, &c.-*—
And as the supreme Deity
Was thus considered only as a perfect mind su­
perior to soul, so was the mundane soul and
Whole animated world called by these Pagans
frequently &wrcpoc 0«>c, the second god.—Thus
in the Asclepian Dialogue Or Perfect Oration,
is the Lord and maker of all said to have made
a second god visible and sensible, which is the
world.
But, for the most part, they who asserted a
God, superior to the soul of the world, did main­
tain a trinity of universal principles, or Divine
hypostases subordinate; they conceiving that as
there was above the mundane soul a perfect mind
or intellect, so that mind and intellect, as such,
was not the first principle neither, because there
must be votirov in order of nature before vovc, an
intelligible before Intellect. Which first intelli­
gible was called by them to «v and rayaOov, the
One and the Good, or unity and goodness itself
substantial, the cause of mind and ail things.
Now as the tagathon, or highest of these, three
hypostases, was sometimes called by them d
irpwroc Otoe, the first God—and vovc or intellect o
Sevrspocfcoc, the second god;— so was the mundane
soul and animated world called rpcroc 9toc, the third
god.—Thus Numenius in Proclus upon Plato’s
’ P. 93. Timaeus, Nov/afaioc fiiv yap tptXg A
vvfivhaai
WORLD TO BE OflTE ANIMAL. '<**7
warlpa filv Ka\u top wpCtrov, TTOirfrrfy Si
Toy Sevrtpov, roli/fta S i t o p rpirop' b yap Koqfiog ■ " .
far ai/Toy 6 rphog |<ni Qiog, wg 6 tear aiirov Sq(uovpyog
S irrb g , fire vrpUrrogm i b Stvnpog Stag, toS i Sqfuovpyobfitpop,
p rpiTag' Numerous praising three gods, calls the
father the first God, the maker the second, and
the work the third. For the world, according to
hjra, is the third god; as he supposes also two
Officers, the first and the second God.—
rPlotinus
?n like manner speaks of this also, as very fa­
miliar language amongst those Pagans, Eq&, r>
«o2 b Koafiog Slog, kftrjrtp ffvvqOeg bdyuv, rphog, £•6-
.and the world, as is commonly said, is **
the third god.
But neither they, who held the supreme Deity
to be an immoveable mind or intellect, superior
to the mundane soul (as Aristotle and Xenocra-
tes), did suppose that mundane soul and the
whole world to have depended upon many such
immoveable intellects self-existent, as their first
Cause, but only upon, one : nor they, who ad­
mitting a trinity of Divine hypostases, ra^de the
supreme Deity properly to be a mopad ^Bove
mind or intellect, did conceive that intellect to
|iave depended upon many such monads, as first
principles co-ordinate, bnt upon one only. From
whence it plainly appears, that the Pagan theo-
logersdid always reduce things undera monarchy,
pnd acknowledge not many independent deities,
but one universal Numen (whether called soul, of
mind, or monad) as the head of all. Though it
hath been already declared, that those Pagans,
•who were trioitarians, especially the PlatonistS-
,
.do often take those their three hypostases su&.
.ordinate (a monad, mind, and soul) all togepmr,
VOL.-II. 2 e •
4 1 8 THE WORLD NOT CUT OFK
for the t o O
tiov, or one supreme Numen; ais sup­
posing an extraordinary kind of unity in that
trinity of hypostases, and so as it were a certain
latitude and gradation in the Deity.
Where by the way two things may be observed
concerning the Pagan theologers: First, that ac­
cording to them generally the whole corporeal
system was not a dead thing, like a machine or
automaton artificially made by men, but that life
and soul was mingled with and diffused through
it all: insomuch that Aristotle himself taxes
those, who made the world to consist of nothing
but monads or atoms altogether dead and in­
animate, as being therefore a kind of Atheists.
Secondly, that how much soever some of them
supposed the supreme Deity and first Cause to
be elevated above the heaven and corporeal
world, yet did they not therefore conceive, either
the world to be quite cut off from that, or thait
from the world, so as to have no commerce with
it, nor influence upon it; but as all proceeded
fromgjjibis first Cause, so did they suppose that to
P. 100. par.
be closely and intimately united with all those
emanations from itself (though without mixture
and confusion), and all to subsist in it, and be
pervaded by it. Plutarch, in his Platonic Ques­
tions, propounds this amongst the rest,
tn> at ' » ' fl ' r ' *
Li crj 7TO
T6 rov av(oraT(o ueov irarepa wavrwv jcat
7
T
0
1
7
7
T
7
J
V irpoaeimv$ Why Plato called the highest
God the father and maker of all ?—
-To which he
answers in the first place thus; rwv fih
>O
u
S
vyannrrwv
Kal t io v avOptiwioviraryp lore, voarnie Si Ttov aXoyiov k«
u tiHv
rnpvywv’ That perhaps he was called the father of
all the generated gods, and of men, but the maker
of the irrational and inanimate things of the
I
PROM THE DEITY. 410
World.—But afterward he adds, that this highest
God might therefore be styled the father of the
whole corporeal world also, as well as the maker,
because it is no dead and inanimate thing, but
•endued with life: ifiipvyoo yap ytvpaig ij ytvpa'ig fan’
#cat aoiifrov /uev, otog oucoSdfioc V wpavr p c , V Xvpag Sijptovp-
yog jj dvSpiavrog, dar/XXoKTai to ytvdfifvov ipyov' dad Ss
rou ytwpaavTog dpyrj Kal Svvaptg iyKtKparai Tip nKi>u>0evri,
Kal avvc^H tijv ipvaiv, dadowao/ia ical jtioptov owrav too rtK-
wdoavroc« ’Eire! rolvw av ataXaa/iivotg o KOtx/xog, ovSs avv-
Tjpfioafiivoig vroidfiaoiv iouctv, aXX’ iartv avnp fioitpa aoXXij
Zwortiroc Ka'i Otidrrfrog, rjv o 6tog tyKartcnruptv dtp tavrov
ry vXp K a l xarifu^ev, djcdratg dfia irartJpTt too tcoofiov Z/tdov
ytyovdrog, Kal aoviTVQ taovofidferai’ Generation 18
the making or production of something animate.
And the work of an artificer, as an architect or
statuary, as soon as it is produced, departeth and
is removed from the maker thereof, as haying no
intrinsic dependance upon him; whereas from
him, that begetteth, there is a principle and
power infused into that which is begotten, and
mingled therewith, that containeth the wbdjftpas­
ture thereof, as being a kind of avulsion from the
begetter. Wherefore since the. world is not like
to those works, that are artificially made and com­
pacted by men, but hath a participation of life
and divinity, which God hath inserted into it,
and mingled with it, God is therefore rightly
styled by Plato, not only the. maker, but also the
father, of the whole world as being an animal.—
.To thesame purpose also Plotinus:ytvo- En.iv.j,
fitvog Si) olov otKog rig KaXdg KcuaouctXog, owe “ •I*-379'1.
ajrfr/ui)0i) top ataouiKorog, oils’ av SKolyioaev avrov* tjja
■yap xpvypv Kparovp.evog ov Kparwv, teat f^optvoc.aXX owe
xarat yap tv ry tyvyjy aviyowry avrov, Kat ovk a/uot-
2 E 2
UfeO T H l H£fcREW$’ NOTION
|Jot> t&rtv atrite, M? at> Vv $ a m Sfachwv riyyOjaevo* %
,*>
*$'
“
The world being made as a large and statelyedb
ffce, Was neither cat off and separated from its
•fcnaker, nor yeit mingled and eonfoonded with
him. Forasmuch as he still remaineth above, pre­
siding over it; the world being so animated, as
father to be possessed by seal, than to possess it,
rt lying in that great Psyche, which sustaineth it,
ns a net in the waters, all moistened with life.—
Thus Plotinus, supposing the whole corporeal
world to be animated, affirmeth it neither to he
cut off. from its maker (by which maker be here
understands the mundane soul), itself to be ina-
taetsed into its body, the world, after the same
manner as our human souls are into these bo­
dies ; but So to preside over it, •and act it, at a
thing elevated above it. And though, according
to him, that second Divine hypostasis of nous or
intellect be in like manner elevated above this
mundane soul; and again, that first hypostasis or
Supreme Deity (called by him unity and good­
ness^‘above Intellect; yet the corporeal world
Could not be said to be cut off from these neither^;
they being all three (monad, mind, and son!)
closely and intimately united together.
xxX. 'The Hebrews were the only nation, Who
before (Christianity for several ages professedly
opposed the Polytheism and idolatry ofthe Pagan
world. Wherefore it may be probably concluded,
that they had the right notion of this Pagan Poly­
theism, and understood What it consisted in, tat.
Whether in worshipping many unmade, self-orb
ginated deities, as partial creators of the world ;
or else in worshipping, besides the supreme'tied,
other created beings superior to men? Now Phdo
OF THE; PAGAN POLYTHEISM. m
pflAiulyunderstoodthe Pagan Polytheism afterthis
latter way; as may appear from this passage ofhis
inhis book concerning theCoufusion ofLanguages*
where speaking of the supreme God (the Maker
and Lord of the whole world), and of his $iWp«c
Qft^yot, his innumerable.assistant powers—
"both
visible and invisible, be adds, caTanXaytur (
rc§ ouv nvcc tiiv exarepov ri«iv ko<
t/uu>
u futn v, ou
ftovov oXovg fhAouirav, aXXd *<u ra KaW urra tiov tv «u-r
iw c (Ufm v, rfXtov, Kai <7fXflv»/v, cal rdv avpiravra ovpavdv,
djrEpmj&v aiStvOlvrtQ (jtovc tKaXtvav, uv n}w eriraav tear*
t$wv Mwvtnic xvpic Kvpt f3a<
rtX
n>rwv 6ttov, tvSst£ty
tic rap vtv
k
o
o
v
cap^ovToc Siapapdc* Wherefore some
tnen being struck with admiration of both these
worlds, the visible and the invisible, have not on*
ly deified the whole of them, but also their several
parts, as the sun, and the moon, and the whole
heaven, they not scrupling to call these gods.
Which notion and language of theirs Moses re­
spected in those words of bis, Thou Lord, the
king of gods; he thereby declaring the transr
ceadency of the supreme God above all those his
subjects called gods.—To the same purpose Phils
writeUr also in his Commentary upon the Deca­
logue, irwrav ovv njv ratavniv npBpdav otw- ■•
/ ' -v , t , t \ "t • " a f. 753.
pai&uok tq v c <*o$A
^ouc tp va u fin T p o n xn vh > fa v9 u
K«i xaQ
apwrspag km dOavarwripag ovalac sXa\i*v, adikjfrk
$ d X k f a t w raysmfuva, xaff oyiyovw^iirelxal ararftf awfab
f«fV a W
Q
H
fnJc rwy oX
<
ouf fcai vrpwrov revro xai uptirptw
mtpdyysXfianrnXtrtvffW
fiiv iv avrotc, evarovdpurrdritxvoftlr
fair T
* kmrififv 0eov* Wherefore removing 3 II such
imposture, let us worship no beings, that are by
nature, brothers and german to us, though en-
-dued with far more pure and immortal essences
than we are. For aU ejreated things, as such,
4 2 2 THE HEBREWS’ NOTION
have a kind ofgerman and brotherly equality with
one another, the Maker of all things being their
common father. But let us deeply infix this first
and most holy commandment in our breasts, to
acknowledge and worship one only highest God;
—And again afterwards, wnnfiivijXwu, «u <rcXtiW
,
ieat row aifnravro^ ovpavov re teal mfo/tov, teal rww iv av-
roig b\oa\tgi<narbiv ptpHv <
I»
edcwv rpAroWrt ical dtpavw
ral, Siapapravovai, rove wrijiafovc row apyovroe aep.vCvovng'
They, who worship the sun, and the moon, and
the whole heaven and world, and the principal
parts of them as gods, err, in that they worship
the subjects of the prince; whereas the prince
alone ought to be worshipped. Thus, according
to Philo, the Pagan Polytheism consisted in giving
religious worship, besides the supreme God, to
other created understanding beings, and parts of
the world, more pure and immortal than men.
Flavius Josephus, in his Judaic Antiquities,*
extolling Abraham’s wisdom and piety, writeth
thus .concerning him; irpwroe o5v roX/i^t 0cov mro^f-
vaaBai Stipiovpyov rwv o\wv tva, which Some would
understand in this manner, that Abraham was
the first, who publicly declared, that there was
one God, the Demiurgus or maker of the whole
world;—as if all mankind besides, at that time,
bad supposed the world to have been made not
by one, but by many gods. But the true mean*
ing of those words is this; that Abrabam was the
first, who, in that degenerate age, publicly de­
clared, that the maker of.the whole world'was
the one only God, and alone to be religiously
worshipped; accordingly, as it follows after­
wards in the same writer, kg\ wq povtp riyv ti-
-• *Lib. Lcap. vii. p. xxviii. tom. i. oper. edit, Havercamp.
OF THE PAGAN POLYTHEISM. 423
xat rijvtvyapurrlav awovifmv, to whom alone men
ought to give honour and thanks.—And the rea­
son hereof is there also set down; t«
3
vSi XoartSv, u
Kai ti irpog evSat/toviavtrwrfXet, xara irpoffrayqwrqv rovrou
traptyfiv acaorov k
« o
vtear ouctiav ur^vv* Because all
those other beings, that were then worshipped as
gods, whatsoever any of them contributed to the
happiness of mankind, they did it not by their
own power, but by his appointment and com­
mand ;—he instancing in the sun and moon, and
earth and sea, which are all made and ordered
by a higher Power and Providence, by the force
whereof they contribute to our utility. As if he
should have said, that no created being ought to
be religiously worshipped, but the Creator only.
And this agreeth with what we read in Scrip­
ture concerning Abraham, that he called upon
the name of the Lord, the God G
en xxi J3.
of the whole world—that is, he wor-
shipped no particular created beings, as the
other Pagans at that time did, but only,that su­
preme universal Numen, which made and con­
tained! the whole world. And thus Maimonides
interprets that place, piw Qj6 JmnrfoVwm D
eM
oi.c.i.
aViyn M nvato Abraham be-
gan to teach, that none ought to be reli­
giously worshipped, save only the God of the
whole world.-—Moreover, the same Josephus: af­
terwards in his twelfth book* brings in Aristaeus
(who -seems to have been a secret proselyted
.Greek) pleading with Ptolem?eus. Philadelphus,
in behalf of the Jews, and their liberty, after this
manner; rqv fiaaiXdav aov Sdwovrog, rm> Sffdvov robg
v6ftovg avroig. tov yap ayravra <jv<rri}<jafxtvoi> Oeov, Ka\ ovtoi
»Capi 2. §. 2. p. 686. tom. i. oper. !
434 THE PAGANS’ MANY 0Q9S ; <
k
o
I ilfia c oifiSptOd, Zffta «oXbvvric adrev, srbfyui^ I r i vbZ
l
oitparavn ift^Okiv to tjfV ) rr)v enheXstvtp airrov v o f ie a m c ,
It Would well agrete with your goodness and
magnanimity, to tree the Jews from that mister*
dble captivity, which they ate tinder; since the
same God, who gbverueth jrour kingdom, gave
laws to them, as I haVe by diligent search found
out. For both they and we do alike worship the
God, Who made all things, we calling him Zene,
because be gives life to all. Wherefore, for the
honour of that God, whom they worship after a
singular manner, please you to indulge thetn the
liberty of .returning to their native country.—
*
Where Aristseus also, according to the sense of
Pagans, thus concludes; Know, O king, that I
intercede not for these Jews, as having any cogni­
tion with them, fravrwv dvdpoiirw v Styuodjryti/M d vr
Twy TOV 0EOV, Kdl yiVOJWKh)i> a in d v rl&JfliVOV t (MC EVtTOCOVOti^
tirl rovr^i teal vs nopaxaXu, but all men being.the
Workmanship of God, and knowing* that be Is
delighted with beneficence, I therefore thus ex*
hort yon;
As for the latter Jewish writers and Rabbins*
it is certain, that the generality of them supposed
the Pagans to have acknowledged one supreme
and universal Numen, and to have worshipped all
their other gods only as his ministers, or as me*
diators between him and them: Maimonidesin
Halacothaa w describeth the rise of the Pagan
Polytheism in the days of Enosh, after this man*
ner: 'art /w .rnjaji ^r»3/two m «n 'n wo won w i
ttd
n :DriW3 rtnvnnrmoyiBnio 10
20
?loom-rmvm
DSyn /in nron1
? d*
W
?
,si i't
n d m n-q lvm >nh
rjoVonoDwon pnwso am tod on1
?p'm nnoctaarci'i
1i.e. De Idololatria, cap.i. §. 1. p. iiL
WORSHIPPED Aft MTEDlAfO&S. 426
T«ninnm s ofiaiitfi
•raabnam t^dtwidd rosi i!ra& 'a i 3 sto bia? *in
T^a‘
atarob vuivas1
?nnmin In the days of Enosh,
the sons of men grievously erred, and the wise
men of that age became brutish (even Enosh
himself being in the number of them); and their
error was this, that since God bad created the
stars and Spheres to govern the world, and plac*
ing them on high, had bestowed this honour up*
On them, that they should be his ministers and
subservient instruments, men ought therefore to
praise them, honour them, and worship them;
this being the pleasure of the blessed God, that
ineit should magnify and honour those, whom him--
Self hath magnified and honoured, as a king will
hare his ministers to be reverenced, this honour re­
dounding to himself.—Again, the same Maimo-
nides in the beginning of the second chapter of
that book writeth thus; vbtf iTHfTTftJfil man Tpty
rV
»33W *61 h1
?Dwnn b3b imt tqi^
,*b)f ski pro Domini hao irw hV
i nrncm p m *
ntrr htojti i3iy Him dt^hh nm o r m jrrr* 1311m
rm m uy iay nmnrfcnn rm w3Hucn3Hi3 iw *pi ht
The foundation of that commandment Against
strange worship (now commonly called idolatry)
is this, that no man should worship any of the
creatures whatsoever, neither angel, nor sphere,
nor star, nor any of the four elements, nor any
thing made out of them. For though he, that
Worships these things, knows, that the Lord ig
God; and superior to them all, and worships those
Creatures no otherwise than Enosh and the rest
of that age did, yet is he nevertheless guilty of
strange worship or idolatry.—And that, after the
times of Enosh also, in succeeding ages, the Poly­
theism of the Pagan nations was no other than
426 THE pa g a n s’ many gods
this, the worshipping (besides one supreme God)
of other created beings, as the ministers of bis
providence, and hs middles or mediators betwixt
him and men, is declared likewise by Maimonides
1 . (iu his More Nevochim) to have been the
p.l.e.xxxvi. universal belief of all the Hebrews or
Jews: nan m w vb mtaToytt naiyp bipyiv nnai
nan*aVimaum p yp oViyonma^i rr»rro^a rrfta raw
opnan p ia manan p r w -ton rrfKnw ontan p
$oa pant D»awn ntna nwa rm avm rrrctrw orsyni
p i djo sraaa m lorbxKn avw is rrrqyi a m
pmm ^ a o im» ia piVrp vtb&nan mi rrfran You
know, that whosoever committeth idolatry, he
doth it not as supposing, that there is no other
God besides that which he worshippeth, for it
never came into the minds of any idolaters, nor
never will, that that statue, which' is made by
them of metal, or stone, or wood, is that very
God, who created heaven and'earth; but they
worship those statues and images only as the re­
presentation of something, which is a mediator
between God and them.—Moses Albelda, the
author of the book entitled, Tail JlbiyGnolath
Tamid, resolves all the Pagan Polytheism and
idolatry into these two principles, one of which
respected God, and the other men themselves:
• f 1 i4r rrD;i wn d™ ns» n6 WD an
. 0* aroaa ois&tottn y *n ia panrfc.aai m u
sraaa y rrfraw’ ipp no rf?m b)mh mmnw p Y?an
>n •
•rrv by vfran yam “m r6 na ayn nma c ro pVi
Yrann1
?bw wa PtP man hrn p rmnosy nxa. pyaa
p n 6 m en vmy wma no i n rtu o w xb aa pxya
Tram im am in pmjwnbpsy The idolaters first
argued thus in respect of God ; that since he was
ofsuch transcendent perfection above men, it was
not possible for men to be united to, or have com-
WORSHIPPED AS MEDIATORS. 427
munion with him, otherwise than by means of
certain middle beings or mediators; as it is the
manner of earthly kings, to have petitions convey­
ed to them by the hands of mediators and inter­
cessors. Secondly, they thus argued also in re­
spect of themselves; that being corporeal, so that
they could not apprehend God abstractly, they
must needs have something sensible to excite and
stir up their devotion and fix their imagination
upon.—Joseph Albo, in the book called Ikkarim,
concludes that Ahab, and the other idolatrous
kings of Israel and Judah worshipped other gods
upon those two accounts mentioned by Maimo-
nides and no otherwise, namely, that the supreme
God was honoured by worshipping of his minis­
ters, and that there ought to be certain middles and
mediators betwixt him and men : iKTOt P 3 e X
T
ii] i
m nanro* irra rn rm m Vittn^DOVYin
o/tvvt oy n a nytona^w dji m aav rrrc \nwa rn b&yn
Tab o u w r i r o o a vmnm oral rrcwtDi airaxa
b*yxDN"i ncnD nw y1
? rnitrirr w a am rra o tn rot
a/U oiWl yil DM Ahab, and other kings of Is­
rael and Judah, and even Solomon himself, erred
in worshipping the stars, upon those two accounts
already mentioned out of Maimonides, notwith­
standing that they believed the existence of God
and his unity; they partly conceiving that they
should honour God in worshipping of his minis­
ters, and partly worshipping them as mediators
betwixt God and themselves.—And the same
writer determines the meaning of that first com­
mandment, (which is to him the second) “ Thou
shalt have no other gods before my face,” to be this
v ro t d d t 6 zn tw vw w “\yy\ ry a o*ysD N a rm * m t h
arrrnya Thou shall not set up other inferiorgods
426 t h e p a g a n s ’ MANY GODS '
as mediators betwixt me add thyself, or worship,
them so, as thinking to honour me thereby.—
R. David Kimchi (upon 2 Kings xvii.) writeth
thus concerning that Israelitish priest, who, by
the King of Assyria’s command, was sent to Sa­
maria. to. teach the new inhabitants thereof to wor­
ship the God of that land (of whom it is after­
wards said, that they both feared the Lord, and
served theiridols;) mOVOnaiy1V
T
*abt Dr6 TO
R
*DR
rnown tain 'knmi n rvwd'tdrdm vb bbi rm
ito arh tdr ir iw i ‘
psttno dx>o^ir R'lm Dipt)
ruva Rnrw T& n c ru iy n w ids di-itt^ r jtr om u?
fwro DR '3 w rV
i“
uni vbo'nfrRn r^r •
o 0 : 6 1 bm
m un fit d m o*jttBR nmvb o m t o *dw R^R bvsn
. If he should have altogether prohibited them their
idolatry, they would not have hearkened to him,
that being a thing, which all those eastern people
Were educated in from,their very infancy, inso­
much that it was a kind of first principle to them:
Wherefore he permitted them to worship all their
several gods, as before they had done; only he
required them to direct the intention of their
minds to the God of Israel (as the supreme), for
those gods could do them neither good nor hurt,
otherwise than according to his will and pleasure;
but they worshipped them to this purpose, that
they might be m e d ia t o r s betwixt them and the
Creator. In the book Nitzachon, all the Poly?
theism and idolatry of the Pagans is reduced to
these three beads ; first, nQ3t>- Wttn Trips nay
When they worshipped the ministers of God; as
thinking to honour him thereby;—and, secondly,
otjd avbn vrw onw ra y When they worship?
ped them as orators and intercessors for them
with God ;-r-and, lastly, ro ^ pm \ybrt2Jt When
■
W
o r s h ip p e d as m ed ia to r s. 499
they worshipped statues of wood and stone for
memorials of him. And though it be true, that
Isaak Abrabanel (upon 2 Kings xvii.) does enu­
merate more species Of Pagan idolatry, even to
the number of ten, yet are they all of them but so
many several modes Of erdature-Worship * and
there is no such thing amongst them to be found,
as the worshipping'of many unmade independent
deities, as partial Creators of the world.
Moreover, those rabbinic writers commonly
interpret certain places of the Scripture to this
sense, that the Pagan idolaters did notwithstand­
ing acknowledge one supreme Deity, as that (Je­
remy x. 7.) “ Who is there that wiH not fear thee;
thou King of nations ?• For amongst all their wise
men, and in all their kingdoms, there is nonelike
unto tbee; though they are become all together
brutish, and their worshipping of stocksis a doc­
trine of v a ni t yf or Maimonides thus glossetb
upon those words: yra^ ton nmw oijnv bon Terfra
wnyren bxm mo ovnav Dmbvj) nrrm bix As if
be should say, all the 'Gentiles know, that thou
art the only supreme God, but their-error and
folly consisteth in this, that they think this vanity
Of worshipping inferior gods, to be a thing agree­
able to thy will.—And thus alse Kbncbi in his
Commentaries, DW?»ntnayn D'njmVsN *|HT
bam o y n •canVantartf>p nna ’a -ram? tar6 *#ri
t&a D'aatan anaiy Drto yoa paa cnoiM cama^a
d w on ia d ' an■
’
oan namoipai yu. nwj&aKD/rrti^
yea aba anay* abtraapn n a r om ofa bran *a
dtps©#am rb-p/maaprop Who will not fear thee?
It is -fit, that even the nations themselves, who
worship idols, should fear thee, for thou art tbeir
King; and indeed amongst all the wise men of
430 THE PAGANS* KNOWLEDGE OF ONE SUPREME
nations, and in all their kingdoms, it is generally
' acknowledged, that there is none like unto thee.
Neither do they worship the stars otherwise than
as mediators betwixt thee and them. Their wise
men know, that an idol is nothing; and though
they worship stars, yet do they worship them as
thy ministers, and that they may be intercessors
for them. Another place is that, Malachi i. 1 1 ,
which though we read in the future teqse, as a
prophecy of the Gentiles, yet the Jews understand
it of that present time, when those words were
written, “ From the rising of the sun to the going
down thereof, my name is great among the Gen­
tiles ; and in every place incense is offered to my
name, and a pure oblation, for my name is great
amongst the Gentiles, saith the Lord of Hosts.
But you profane it, &c.—Upon which words R.
Solomon glosseth thus, m 1
?# XVf $ l1
?
mown sn 'ouhD’zmno Dtpo d r o bykvto The
Pagan Polytheists and idolaters know, that there
is one God superior to all those other gods and
idols worshipped by them; and in every place
are there free-will offerings brought to my name,
even amongst the Gentiles. And Kimchi agreeth
with him herein, D'Qltfn NI26 '9 ‘WBN
o n w c r a w T vm rn m a n a t r r e
D'WON Although the Pagans worshipped
the host of hea.ven, yet do they confess me to be
the first Cause, they worshipping them only as in
their opinion certain mediators betwixt me and
them.—Whether either of these two places of
Scripture does sufficiently prove what these Jews
would have, or no; yet, however, is it evident
from their interpretations of them, that themselves
supposed the Pagans to have acknowledged one
GOD, ASSERTFD BY THE HEBREWS. 431
supreme Deity, and that their other gods were all
but his creatures and ministers. Nevertheless,
there is another place of Scripture, which seems
to sound more to this purpose, and accordingly
hath been thus interpreted by Rabbi Solomon and
others, Psal. Ixv. 6. where God is called to nDDD
O 'pm Dn JHN nyp The confidence of all the ends of
the earth, and of them that are afar off in the sea
—that is, even of all the Pagan world.
Thus we see plainly, that the Hebrew doctors
and rabbins have been generally of this persua­
sion, that the Pagan nations anciently, at least the
intelligent amongst them, acknowledged one su­
preme God of the whole world; and that, all their
other gods were but creatures and inferior minis­
ters ; which were worshipped by them upon these
two accounts, either as thinking, that the honour
done to them redounded to the supreme; or else
that they might be prto> DHIDTD. and O^QH. their
mediators, and intercessors, orators, and negotia­
tors with him. Which inferior gods of the Pagans
were supposed by these Hebrews to be chiefly of
two kinds, angels, and stars or spheres. The lat­
ter of which the Jews, as well as Pagans, con­
cluded to be animated and intellectual: for thus
Maimonides expressly; o to to T)0O3DTI t o je«ndeHatto-
Dnoun cm Dmon toiwnmm tww'toi f r a taho-U
i-*•9:
wfn ito «n -iron t o to Dton mm "iD
N
ty ■
>
a m pam
oa» ton um cmnb anttSDi rratoo intoo The stars
and spheres are every one of them animated, and
endued with life, knowledge and understanding.
And they acknowledge him, who commanded and
the world was made, every one.of them, according
to their degree and excellency, praising and ho­
nouring him, as the angels do. And this they would
482 THE PAGANS* KNOWLEDGE OP THE TRUE
confirm from that place of Scripture, Neh. ix, 6.
*
*Thon, even thou, art Lord alone; thou hast
made heaven, the heaven of heavens with all their
host, the earth with all things that are therein, the
seas and all that is therein, and thou preservest
them all; and the host of heaven worshippeth
t h e e t h e host of heaven being Commonly pnt far
the stars.
xxxi. But, lastly, this same thing is plainly
Confirmed from the Scriptures.of the New Tes­
tament also; that the Gentiles and Pagans, how­
ever Polytheists and idolaters, were not un*K>
quainted with the knowledge of the true God,
that is, of the one only self-existent-and omnipor
tent Being, which comprehendeth all things un­
der him: from whence it must needs follow, that
their other many gods were all of them supposed
to have been derived from this one, and to be de­
pendent on him.
For first, St. Paul, in his Epistle .to the Ro­
mans," tells us, that these Gentiles or Pagans did
njv dXrfiuav tvaSocif Kartyeiv, hold the truth in un­
righteousness, or unjustly detain and imprison
the same.—Which is chiefly to be understood of
the truth concerning God, as appears from th a t
which follows, and therefore implies the Pagans
hot to have been unfurnished of such a know­
ledge of God, as might and ought to have kept
then! from all kinds of idolatry, however by
their default it proved ineffectual to that end; as
is afterwards declared; ovk iBoKi/iaaav rov
0£ov f^eiv cv£
7
rcy
v
(v
<
T
£
t, they liked not to re­
tain God in the agnition, or practical knowledge
pf him.—Where there is a distinction to be ob
*Cap. i, 26. " 1
OOD, TESTIFIED IN SCRIPTURE. 433
served betwixt yw*meaud iirlyvoxnQ
, the knowledge
and the agnition of God—the former whereof, in
this chapter, is plainly granted to the Pagans,
though the latter be here denied them, because
they lapsed into Polytheism and idolatry; which
is the meaning of these words: ptryX- y ^
Xa£av njv aXtjOeiav rov Otov tv rtf xptvSu, they
changed the truth of God into a lie.—Again, the
same apostle there affirmeth, that the to yvwarov
rov Otov <j>avtpov «<mv tv avrotc, that, which may be
known of God, was manifest .within them, God
himself having shewed it unto them.—There is
something of God unknowable and incomprehen­
sible by all mortals, but that of God, which is
knowable, his eternal power and Godhead, with
the attributes belonging thereunto, is made mani­
fest to all mankind from his works. “The invi­
sible things of him, from the creation of the world,
being clearly seen and understood by the things
that are made.” Moreover, this apostle ex­
pressly declareth the Pagans to have known God,
in that censure, which he giveth of y
-them : Sion yvovrtc rov Otov, ov% (Jc 0*ov iSo£-
a<rav, that when they knew God, they glorified
him not as God;—because they fell into Poly­
theism and idolatry. Though the apostle here
instanceth only in the latter of those two, their
*
*changing the glory of the incorruptible God
into an image made like to corruptible man, and
to birds and beasts, and creeping things.” The
reason whereof is, because this idolatry of the
Pagans, properly so called, that is,-their.wor­
shipping of stocks and stones, formed into the
likeness of man or beast, was generally taken
amongst the Jews for the grossest of all their-re-
VOL. II. 2 F
'4 0 4 THE p a g a n s ’ k n o w l e d g e o f t h e t r u e
jigious miscarriages. Thus Philo plainly de-
: D
«Pi-ril clareth : 0001 ptv qXtov, mutrsAijvjje, K
<
>
4 r«v
p. 75S. pvpvayrpe pvpavov rt ica'iKoapov, km tidv tv av-
■Toif oXov^^HTarwv ptpwv d!( Otwv TfmroXof it mu Otpa-
'T^yfqi, Stapapravovqt piv' (v u f yap oi), rove wrijKoovc rov
ap^ovro?'Gtpvivovrtf) y
)ttov St rwv aXXtpv dSiKOvm, row
£vXa kal \iOov(, apyvpov rt Kal \pw?ov, ko* roc wapairXl<d-
ov$vXac popipivaavTwv, &c. Whosoeyer worship the
.sun, and moon, and the whole heaven, and world,
and the chief parts thereof, as gods, do unques­
tionably err, (they honouring the subjects of the
.prince) but they are guilty of the less iniquity and
iujustice than those, who form wood aud stone,
gold and silver, and the like matters, into statues,
to worship them, & c.~of which assertion be af­
terwards gives this account: TOyap koX
X
wtovtpttapa
fijc ipvyiK t^tKotpav, n}v«r«pttoo Zwvroc atl fhov wpooVKOv-
ffav vToXrppiv, because these have cut off the most
excellent fulcrum of the soul, the persuasion of
the ever-living God, by means whereof, like un­
ballasted ships, they are tossed up and down per­
petually, nor can be ever able to rest in any safe
harbour.—And from hence it came to pass, that
the Polytheism of the Pagans, their worshipping
of inferior gods (as stars and demons) was vul­
garly called also by the Jews and Christiana idol­
atry, it being So denominated by them afa m o sio rt
specie. Lastly, the apostle plainly declares, that
the error of the Pagan superstition universally
consisted (not in worshipping maby independent
gods and creators, but) in joining creature wor­
ship, as such, some way or other, with the wor-
y gs ship of the C reator: anfiaaOnoov mu eXarpotr
ffov t£ ktIou irapd rov xrurapro, Which WOWlt
are either to be thus rendered: They §religi&nsly]
... . : i ■ 7
GOD, TESTIFIED IN SCRIPTURE. . 435
worshipped the creature, besides the Creator”-1
—
that preposition being often used in this sense, as
for example, in this ofAristotle, where he affirmeth
concerning Plato, that he did totvulrwlc M
et. i.
eiptd/uov'cvapara itpayparaTroitjtrat, (not make “j,"' *7S"
numbers to be the things themselves, as
the Pythagoreans had done, but) unity and num­
bers to be besides the t h i n g s ■
or rove aptdpoik
rapa ra alofhrrd, numbers to exist by themselves*
besides the sensibles: he by numbers meaning,
as Aristotle himself there expounds it, ra^eiSn, the
ideas contained in the first Intellect (which was
Plato’s second Divine hypostasis) as also by ro' $v,
$ rote dScot irapf^erat t
o
' ti ijv tivai, that ipsuttl UltHM,
or unity, which gives being to those ideas-—
is un­
derstood Plato’s first Divine hypostasis. Or else
the words ought to be translated thus: “ And wor­
shipped the creature above or more than the Crea­
tor,” that preposition rapd being sometimes used
comparatively so as to signify excess, as for ex­
ample in Luke xiii. 2. “ Think you that these
Galileans were a/uaprwAoiirapa iravrac roucFaXiXalwf)
sinners beyond all the Galileans ?” And, (ver. 4.)
“ Think you, that those eighteen, upon Whom the
tower of Siloam fell, were d<
j>
u\brai itupd iravrac*
debtors above all the men, that dwelt in Jerusa­
lem?”Accordingto either ofwhich interpretations,
it is supposed, that the Pagans did Worship the
true God, the Creator of the whole world; though
they worshipped the creature also, besides him,
or (perhaps in some sense) above him, and tnore
than him also. But as for that other interpreta­
tion of irtjxi to
vKTioavra, which Beza chose rather
to follow, that “ they worshipped the creature, the
Creator being wholly passed by,” this is no trad
2 f 2
436 THE p a g a n s ' k n o w l e d g e o f t h e t r e e
literal version, but only a gloss or commentary
upon the words, made according to a certain pre^
conceived and extravagant Opinion, that the Pa­
gans did hot at all worship the supreme God or
Creator, but universally transfer all tlieir worship
upon the creature only. But in what sense the
Pagans might be said to worship the creatures
above or beyond, or more than the Creator, (be­
cause it is not possible, that the creature, as a
creature, should be worshipped with more inter­
nal and mental honour than the Creator thereof,
looked upon as'such) we leave others to inquire.
Whether or no, because when religious worship^
which properly and only belongeth to the Creator,
and not at all to the creature, is transferred from
the Creator upon the creature, according to a
Scripture interpretation and account, such may
be said to worship the creature more than the
Creator? Or whether because some of ttiiese
Pagans might more frequently address their de­
votions to their inferior gods (as stars, demons,
and heroes) as thinking the supreme God, either
above their worship, or incomprehensible, or-in­
accessible by them ? Or, lastly, whether because
the image and statue-worshippers among the Pa­
gans (whom the apostle there principally regards)
did direct all their external devotion to sensible
objects and creaturely forms ? However, it can-;
hot be thought, that the apostle here taxes the
Pagans merely for worshipping creatures above
the Creator, as if they bad not at all offended,
had they worshipped -them only in an equality
with him; but doubtless their sin was, that they
gave any religious worship at all to the creature,
though in way of aggravation of their crime-it be
GOD, TESTIFIED IN SCRIPTURE..' 437
said, that they also worshipped the creature more
than the Creator. Thus we see plainly, that the
Pagan superstition and idolatry (according to the
true Scripture notion of it) consisted not in wor­
shipping of many creators, but in worshipping
the creatures together with the Creator.
. Besides this we have in the Acts of the Apostles
an oration, which St. Paul made at Athens in
the Areopagitic court, beginning after this man­
ner : “ Ye men of Athens, I perceive, that ye are
every way more than ordinarily religious ;” for
the. word SfunSatfiovtorspovi seems to be taken there
in.a. good sense, it being not only more likely,
that St. Paul would in the beginning of his ora­
tion thus captare benevolentiam, conciliate their
benevolence, with some commendation,of them,
but also very unlikely, that he.would call their
worshipping of the true God by the name of su­
perstition, for so.it.folioweth: “ for as I passed
by and beheld your sacred things (or monuments)
I found an altar with this inscription, ’Ayvwtn-y Gey,
To. t h e u n k n o w n . God.” It is true, that both
Philostratus *and Pausaniasb write, that there
were at Athens ’A rp w o n » v. 0«Jv fSw/uol, altars, of
unknown gods:—but their meaning in this might
well be, not that there were altars dedicated to
unknown gods pluratly, but that there were se­
veral altars, which had this singular inscription :
To t h e u n k n o w n God. And that there was at
least one such, besides this Scripture, record, is
evident from that dialogue iu Lucian’s works en­
titled Pbilopatris,' where Critias useth this form
Of.Oath, Nij toi>’’Ayvfcxrrov tv AOqvcuc, No, by the UQ-
*D« Vita Apollonii, lib. vi. cap. iii. p. 232.
bLib. ▼
. p. 199. *Cap. ix. p. 122. edit. Gesneri.
438 THU ATHENIANS’ UNKNOWN GOD,
known god at Athens:—and Triephon in the
close of that dialogue speaketh thus :* ‘H/uac$ ro'»
tv ’Aftijvaic^Ayvawrrov tftvpovrtg, kal irpotncwipravrcc, y t f
«C ovpovov tKTilvavTtg, rovry tuya^urrioofttv, « e Ka~
ragewflevTtc, &c. But we having found out that un­
known God at Athens, and Worshipped hitn, with
hands stretched up to heaven, will give thanks to
him, as having been thought worthy to be made
subject to this power.—Which passages, as they
do unquestionably refer to that Athenian inscrip­
tion either upon one or more altars, sO does the
latter of them plainly imply, that this unkUowd
God of the Athenians was the supreme Governor
of the world. And so it follows in St. Paul’s ora­
tion i ov ovv dyvootlvrec tvaef3urt, ro5fov tytJ KarteyyiXXtt
vfilv, Whom therefore you ignoradtly worship (un­
der tkiis name of the unknown God) him de­
clare I unto you, the God that made the world,
and all things in it,;the Lord of heaven and earth.
—From which place we may upon firm Scripture
authority conclude these two things: first, that
by the unknown God of the Athenians was
meant the only true God, he who made the
world and all things in it; who in all probability
Was therefore styled by them 'Ayvworoc Btoc, the
unknown God—because he is not only invisible,
but also incomprehensible by mortals; of whom
Josephus against Appionb writeth thus, that he is
Svva/uet fiovov yjfjlvyvwpifios, oiroioc Si Kttrctovatav £ypu
knowable to us only by the effects of his power,
but, as to his own essence, unknowable or incom­
prehensible.—But When in Dion Cassius the God
of the Jews is said to be appr&c r«l daSt^, not only
invisible, but also ineffable, and when he is called
*Cap. xxiii. p. 203. ‘ Lib. ii. cap. xV. p. 482.
ANb ARATUS’tf ZEUS, THE TREE OOD. 4 3 9
in Lucan, Incertus Dens, an uncertain God—the
reason hereof seems to hare been, not only be­
cause there was no image of him, but also because
he was not vulgarly then known by any proper
name, the Tetragrammaton being religiously fot-
born amongst the Jews in common use, that it
might not be profaned. And what some learned
men have here mentioned upon this occasion, of
the Pagans sometimes sacrificing wpoanKovrt 0«j>,
to the proper and convenient God—without signi­
fying any name, seems to be nothing to this pur­
pose ; that proceeding only from a superstitious
fear of these Pagans (supposing several- gods to
preside over several things) lest they should be
mistaken in not applying to the right and proper
God, in such certain cases, and so their devbtion
prove unsuccessful and ineffectual. But that this
unknown God is here said to be ignorantly wor­
shipped by the Athenians, is to be understood
chiefly in regard of their Polytheism and idolatry.
The second thing, that may be concluded from
hence, is this, that these Athenian Pagans did tii«-
(3uv, religiously worship the true God, the Lord
of heaven and earth—and so we have a Scripture
confutation also of that opinion, that the Pagans
did not at all worship the Supreme God.
Lastly, St. Paul, citing this passage out of Ara-
tus, a heathen poet, concerning Zeus or Jupiter,
Too yog juu y«vo?ifffjur ...............
For we are his offspring—and interpreting the
same Ofthe true God, “ in whom we liveand move,
and bate our b e i n g w e have also here a plant
Scripture acknowledgment, that by the Zeus Of
the Greekish Pagans was sometimes at least meant.
440 THE ATHENIANS’ UNKNOWN GOD, •
the true God. And, indeed, that Aratus’s Zeus
was neither a man born in Crete nor in Arcadia,
■buttbe Maker and supreme Governor of the whole
world, is evident both from the antecedent and
the subsequent verses. For Aratus’s pheno­
mena begins thus:
*E
k Aio
? afxau/uw&a ■ ■ ■ ■
■ —
—-
(which in Tully’s version is “ ab Jove musarum
primordia”) and then follows a description of this
Zeus or Jupiter:
■ ■■ -tot oiHwor M fte iSbfAtt
"Appnror /xlCTcd Aidewacou fxb ayvteu,
Tlaaw y afSpafarw ayogai, fxterm )j
Km Xifxbtf warm M Awe**xjgfif*&* w iyn r
Tov y&pjui yivof icr/xiv.
To this sense: Him, of whom we men are never
silent; and of whom all things are full, bo per­
meating and pervading all, and being every where;
and whose beneficence we all constantly make
use of and enjoy: for we also are his offspring.-—
Where Theon the scholiast writeth thus: Wvu rpf
novTtot o "'Aparog rtjv r<Jv aarpwv 8it£iivai fxtXXwv deoiv,
tov iraripa tovtwv k<
u 8tf/xiovpyov, Ata, tv irpoirotc irpoafto-
vti' Ala 8? vvv tov Aq/utovpyov aKovortov' Aratus being
about to declare the position of the stars, doth, in
the first place, very decorously and becomingly
inv0ke>Zeu8, the father and maker of them: for
by Zeus is here to be understood the Hemiurgus
of the world—or, as he afterwards expresseth it,
o r d iravra Sti/utovpyn<xag 6tog, the God who made all
things.-—Notwithstanding which, we must con­
fess, that this scholiast there adds, that some of
these passages of the poet, and even that cited by
the apostle, rowyap yevog iofilv, may be understood
also in another sense, of the Zevc ^wroede, the phy-
A^D ARATUSS ZEUS, THE TRUE GOD. 441.
sical Jupiter; that is, the air; bat without the
least shadow of probability, and for no other rea­
son, as we conceive,.but only to shew his philolo­
gical skill.. However, this is set down by him, in
the first place, as the genuine and proper sense of
those words: IIpo? TO irarnp avSpwy rt Ouovre’ ti yap a u -
roc ravra tBrifuovpynae 7rpdc.ro roic avOptottoiq j3ut>tj>i\ec,
avrov av icXtiOtitiftsv, avrov irarspa icai Bt)fuovpyov eiriypafo-
ntvoc This agreeth with that title ofJupiter, when
he is called the father of gods and men: for if he
made us,, and all these other things for our use,
we may well be called his, and also style him our
father and maker.”—And that this was the only
notion, which the poet here had of Zeus or Jupi­
ter, appears undeniably also from the following
words; as,
■ —
—■
■■ oyS
tria
eM
p
&
w
o
trt
A
c£
t«m
paim
— ■ —
Who, as a kind and benign father, sheweth lucky
signs tomen;—which to understand ofthe airwere
very absurd. And,
Auto; yaprayt rh/jutr 2vovpctvSlornpi^cv,
*Ao*rget w*I4»to 5*lie iwavror
’K
rrifo
Q
'
For he also hath fastened the signs in heaven,
distinguishing constellations, and having appoint­
ed stars to rise and set at several times of the year.
—And from this,
TS (am ail nfirw t*koI urram IXaaxorrat,
Therefore is he always propitiated .and placated
both firstand last.—Upon which thescholiastthus:
mwc Be airo twv ottovBwv, rw rrjv jucv Trpwrjjv cnrovSqv tlvai
8twv twv QXvfnriwv, Bevrepav Be ijpotwv, xal rptrr/v Atoc
wr^poc- This perhaps refers to the libations, in
•142 THE ATHENIANS’ UNKNOWN GOO, '
that the first of them was for the heavenly gods;
the second for heroes, and the last for Jupiter the
Saviour.—From whence if plainly Appears also*
that the Pagans in their sacrifices (or religions
rites) did not forget Jupiter the Saviour, thdt is,
the supreme God.
' Lastly, from his concluding thus;
X
atjgc 9rartg fiUym Sauflm, pAy o m a f
Where the supreme God is saluted, as the great
Wonder of the world, and interest of mankind.
Wherefore it is evident from Aratus’s context,
that by his Zeus or Jupiter was really meant the
supreme God, the maker of the whole World;
which being plainly confirmed also by St. Paul
and the Scripture, ought to be a matter out of
controversy amongst US. Neither is it reasonable
to think, that Aratus was singular in this, but that
he spake according to the received theology of the
Greeks, and that not only amongst philosophers
and learned men, but even the vulgar also. Nor
do we think, that that prayer of the ancient Athe­
nians, commended by M. Antoninus for its sim­
plicity, is to be understood otherwise,
[$.8
*
.p.146.] T
^ <
tov v<
tov w 0tXt Ztw, Ktau Ttfc apovpag rwy
'A6t)v<
u<
*vKturun xtSut/v, Rain, rain, O good
(or gracious) Jupiter, upon the fields and pastures
ofthe Athenians:—upon which the Emperor thus:
y r o i ©
v B t i i v y t a B a i , y o v t o j i; airXwc k
o
i t X t v O t p w s ' We
should either not pray at all (to God) or else thus
plainly and freely.—And since the Latins had the
very same notion of Jupiter, that the Greeks had
Of Zens, it cannot be denied, but that they com­
monly by their Jupiter also understood the one
Supreme God, the Lord of heaven and earth. We
AND AftATUSS ZEOS, TliE TROE OOD. 44&
fcrtow nothing, that can be objected agaihst thiS
from the Scripture, unless it should be that pas­
sage of St. Paul, *'*In the wisdom of God the
World by wisdom knew not God.” But the mean^
ing thereof is no other than this, that the gene­
rality of the world before Christianity, by their
natural light, and contemplation of the works of
God, did not attain to such a practical know­
ledge of God, as might both free them from idol­
atry, and effectually bring them to a holy life.
xxxii. But in order to a fuller ex-
plication of this Pagan theology, and ' '
giving yet a more satisfactory account Concerning
it, there are three heads requisite to be insisted on;
first, that the intelligent Pagans worshipped the
One supreme God under many several names ;
secondly, that besides this one God, they worship­
ped also many gods, that were indeed inferior dei­
ties subordinate to him; thirdly, that they Wor­
shipped both the supreme and inferior gods, in
linages, statuesand symbols, sometimes abusively
called also gods. We begin with the first, that
the supreme God amongst the Pagans was polyol
nymous, and worshipped under several personal
names, according to several notions and consider­
ations of him, from bis several attributes and
powers, manifestations, and effects in the World.
It hath been already observed Ont of
■ P . 114^ 115.
Origen, that not only the Egyptians, but
also the Syrians, Persians, Indiabs, and other bar­
barian Pagans, had, beside their vulgar theology,
another more arcane and recondite one, amongst
their priests and learned men; and that the same
Was true Concerning the Greeks and Latins also,
a I Ctefinth. i. 21.
444 THE NATURAL AND TRUE THEOLOGY,
is unquestionably evident from that account, that
hath been given by us of their philosophic theo­
logy ; where,.'by the vulgar theology of the Pa­
gans, we understand not only their mythical or
fabulous, but also their political or civil theology,
it being truly affirmed by St. Austin concerning
„ , ’ both these, “ Et civilis et fabulosa ambae
o.Tiii. fabulosae sunt, ambeeque civi l esThat
* S i . p . I S O . . both the fabulous theology of the Pagans
was in part their civil, and their civil was
fabulous.—And by their more arcane or
recondite theology, is doubtless meant that, which
they conceived to be the.natural and true theology.
Which distinction of the natural and true theo-:
logy, from the civil and political, as it was acknow-,
ledged by all the ancient Greek philosophers, but
ippst expressly by Antistines, Plato, Aristotle,
and the Stoics; so was it owned and much insist­
ed. upon, both by Scaevola, that famous Roman
Pontifex, and by Varro, that most learned anti­
quary; they both agreeing, that the civil theology
then established by the Roman laws was only the
theology of the vulgar, but not the true; and that
there was another theology besides it, called by
them natural, which was the theology of wise men
and of truth: nevertheless granting a necessity,
that in cities and commonwealths, besides this
natural and true theology (which the generality
of the vulgar were incapable of) there should be
another civil or political theology, accommodate
to their apprehensions; which civil theology dif­
fered from the natural, only by a certain mixture
of fabulosity in it, and was therefore looked upon
by them as a middle, betwixt the natural and the
fabulous or poetical theology,.
DISTINCT FROM THE FABULOUS AND CIVIL. 445
Wherefore it was acknowledged, that the vul­
gar theology of the Pagans, that is, not only their
fabulous, but even their civil also, was oftentimes
very discrepant from the natural and true theology;
though the wise men amongst them, in all ages,
endeavoured as much as they could, to dissemble
and disguise this difference, and by allegorizing
the poetic fables of the gods, to bring that theology
into some seeming conformity with the natural
and philosophic; but what they could not in this
way reconcile, was by them excused upon the
necessity of the vulgar.
The fabulous theology both of the Greeks and
Romans did not only generate all the other gods,
but even Jupiter himself also, their supreme Nu-
men, it assigning him both a father and a mother,
a grandfather and a grandmother. And though
the Romans did not plainly adopt this into their
civil theology, yet are they taxed by St. Austid *
for suffering the statue of Jupiter’s nurse to be
kept in the capitol for a re]jgious monument. And
however this differed nothing at all from that
atheistic doctrine of Evemerus,bThat all the gods
were really no other than mortal men,—yet was it
tolerated and connived at by the politicians, id
way of necessary compliance with the vulgar, it
being so extremely difficult for them to conceive
any such living being or animal, as was nevermade,
and without beginning. Insomuch, that Callima­
chus, ewho would by no means admit of Jupiter’s
sepulchre, either in Crete or Arcadia (but looked
upon it as a foul reproach to him) for this reason,
*
■De Civitate Dei, lib. ▼
. cap. m p. 119.
bApud Augustin, ubi supra.
cHymno in Jovem, ver.9.
44(3 ; THE PAGANS FANTASTIC,
5
*
»
ig
*brnyfy*
1
4
,
Because he was immortal and could never die;—
did notwithstanding himselfattribute a temporary
generation and nativity to him, as Origen * and
others observe* Nevertheless, the generality of
the more civilized and intelligent Pagans, and even
of the poets themselves, did all this while con­
stantly retain thus much of the natural .and true
theology amongst them, that Jupiter was the
father both of gods and men; that is, the maker
of the whole world, and consequently himself
Without father, eternal and unmade, according to
that Peleadean oracle before cited out of Pausa-
nias,
ZfucSp
, Zinc te r n , Z s u f fr o tr e u * ------—
Again, the civil theology of the Pagans, as well
as the poetic, had not only many fantastic gods
in it, but also an appearance of a plurality of inde­
pendent deities; it making several supreme in
their several territories and functions; as one to
0 7
be the chief ruler over the heavens, another over
the air and winds, another over the sea, and ano­
ther over the earth and hell; one to be the giver
of corn, another of wine; one the god of learning,
another the god of pleasure, and another the god
of war; and so for all other things. But the natu­
ral theology of the Pagans (so called) though it
did admit a plurality of gods too, in a certain
Sense, that is, ofinferior deities subordinate to one
supreme; yet did it neither allow of more iude.
pendent deities than one, nor own any god5 at all,
but such as were natural, that is, such as had a
real existence in nature and the world without,
Advers. Celsum^ltb. iii. f>
. 137..
THBIB REAL AND NATURAL GODS. .447
and not in map’s opinion only. And these Varro*
concluded to be no other than, first, the Soul of
the world, and then the animated parts thereof
superior to men ; that is, one supreme universal
Numen unmade, and other particular generated
gods, such as stars, demons, and heroes. Where­
fore all the other gods besides these are frequently
exploded by Pagan writers (as Cicero and others)
under the name of dii poetici, that is, not philo­
sophical, but poetical gods; and dii commentitii
and fictitii, that is, not natural and real, but
feigned and fictitious gods.—They in the mean
time giving this account of them, that they were
indeed nothing else but so many several names
and notions of one supreme Numen, according
to his several powers and various manifestations,
and effects in the world; it being thought fit by
the wisdom of.the ancient Pagan tbeologers, that
all those manifold glories and perfections of the
Deity should not be huddled up, and as it were
crouded and crumpled together, iu one general
acknowledgment pf an invisible Being, the maker
of the world, but that they should be distinctly
and severally displayed, and each of them adored
singly and apart; and this too (for the greater
pomp and solemnity) under so many personal'
names. Which perhaps the unskilful and sottish
vulgar might sometimes mistake, not only for so
many real and substantial, but also independent
and self-existent deities.
We have before proved, that one and the same
supreme God, in the Egyptian theology, had se­
veral proper and personal uaraes given him, ac-
*Apud Augustin. deCivitate Dei, lib. v. cap. hr. v. p. 116. tom* vii.
©per. lib. vil. cap. v. vi. p. 128k : ,
448 THE SUPREME GOD POLYONYMOUS,
cording to several notions of him, and his several
powers and effects; Jamblichus himself, in that
passage already cited, plainly affirmingthus much;
De Mjst. jE- ® Srtfuovpyucot; vove, & C. 7T
)V atpavtj twv KtKpvfi-
fteei 8 c®
p ^ vo>v ^®7b>v Svva/uv etc <phJQ dyit>v, 'Afiuiv Kara
lii. p. 159.] -t»
jv rwv Acywrr«uw yXoxrffav Xiyerai, tnivreXdtv
8s aipfvBUg ocaora Kat rsyyucwQ 't’fla, ayaOwv 8e frotqrtKoc
«5v ’'Offiptc KHcXqTai, Kat aXXag St* aXXac Svva/t«c re Kat
tv tp yu a e, im rvvfilag s^st* the demiurgical Mind and
president of Truth, as with wisdom it proceedeth
to generation, and bringeth forth the hidden power
of the occult reasons, contained within itself, into
light, is called in the Egyptian language Ammon;
as it artificially effects all things with truth, Pbtba;
as it is productive of good things, Osiris; besides
which it hath also several other names, according
to its other powers and energies:—as, namely,
Neith, (or according to Proclus’s copy, Nqtda'?,
Ne'ithas) the tutelar god of the city Sais, from
whence probably the Greek 'AO
nvd was derived,
(the Athenians being said to have been at first a
colony of these Saites) and this is the Divine
wisdom diffusing itself through all. So likewise
Serapis, which though some would have to be the
sun, is by others plainly described as an universal
Numen. As Aristides in his eighth oration upon
this god Serapis; Oi pxv 8q r»je p tyd iX w
irpog Alyvirrit! troXtw^ iroXtrat, Kat tv a r o v r o v
avcLKaXovai Ata* ort ovk dvoXfXtiirrai Svvdpu irspirry, aXXa
Sid Trdvrwv jjkei, Kat ro irav TnirXypMKi’ rwv yap aXXiw fkdiv
Svgpi)vrai at SvvdfiuQ re Kat rifiat, Kat aXXovc «rfaXXa avdpto-
ttoi icaXovatv, o 8e wairep Kopv^atoc iravrwv, d p y d i Kat t
t
e
-
para e
t
^ei. They, who inhabit the great city in
Egypt, call upon this god Serapis as their only
Jupiter, he being supposed to be no. way defective
P .9 5 .
. AMONGST THE PAGANS. 449
in power, but to pervade all things, and to fill
the whole universe. And whereas the powers
and honours of the other gods are divided, and
some of them are invoked for one thing, and some
for another; this is looked upon by them as the
Coryphaeus of all the gods, who contains the
beginning and end of all things, and who is able
to supply all wants.—Cneph is also described by
Eusebius *as that Divine Intellect, which was the
Demiurgus ofthe world, and which giveth life to
all things, as he is by Plutarch1
’ said to be
dytvvijroc, or unmade—so that this was also an­
other Egyptian name of God; as likewise was
Erneph and Eicton in Jamblichus ;c though these
may be severally distinguished into a trinity of
Divine hypostases. Lastly, when Isis, which
was sometimes called Multimammea, and made
all over full of breasts, to signify her feeding all
things, thus describes herself in Apuleius,* “ Sum-
ma numinum, prima ccelitum, deorum dearumque
facies uniformis, cujus numen unicum multiformi
specie, ritu vario, nomine multijugo totus venera­
tor o r b i s a s she plainly makes herself to be the
supreme Deity, so doth she intimate, that all the
gods and goddesses were compendiously con­
tained in her alone, and that she (*. e. the su­
preme God) was worshipped under several per­
sonal names, and with different rites, over the
whole Pagan world.—Moreover, this is particu­
larly noted concerning the Egyptians byeDamas-
a Ex Porphyrio, Praepar. Evangel, lib. iii. cap. xi. p. 115.
b De Iside et Osiride, p. 357. oper.
c De Myster. jEgypt. §. 8. cap. iii. p. 158.
d Metamorph. lib. xii. p. 258, 259. edit. Elmenhorsti.
• MS. *npi vrprron
VOL, II. 2 g *
450 THE SUPREME GOD POLYONYMOUS,
cius, the philosopher, that to voyrov ScypyKaaiv tic
T
roX
X
aJy Otwv iSioTJ/rae, they multiplied' the first In­
telligible (or the supreme Deity) breaking and
dividing the same into the names and properties
of many gods.—Now, the Egyptian theology was
in a manner the pattern of all the rest, but espe­
cially ofthose European theologies, of the Greeks
and Romans.
Who likewise, that they often made many gods
of one, is evident from their bestowing so many
proper and personal names upon each of those
inferior gods of theirs; the sun, and the moon,
and the earth ; the first whereof, usually called
Apollo, had therefore this epithet of t
t
o
X
v
m
w
ju
o
?,
commonly given to him, the god with many names.
—Which many proper names of his Macrobios
insisteth upon in his Saturnalia, though probably
making more of them than indeed they were.
And the moon was not only so called, but also
Diana, and Lucina, and Hecate, and otherwise;
insomuch that this goddess also hath been styled
Polyonymous as well as her brother, the sun.
And, lastly, the earth, besides those honorary ti­
tles, of bona dea, and magna dea, and mater deo-
rum, the good goddess, and the great goddess,
and the mother of the gods, was-multiplied by
them into those many goddesses, of Vesta, and
Rhea, and Cybele, and Oeres, and Proserpina,
and Ops, &c. And for this cause was she (bus
described by iEschylus ;•
K<u Taut ?roXX5v ovoftarMV poppq fxitt*
Et Tellus muttorum nominam facies umu
* In Prometheo vincto, p. 29'. edit. Guil. Canteri, Antwerp. >1580.
12m
o.
AMONGST THE PAGANS. ' 4v>J
Now if these inferior gods of the Pagans had
each of them so many personal names bestowed
upon them, much more might the supreme iGqd
be polyonymous amongst them; and so indeed
be was -commonly styled, as that learned gram­
marian Hesy.chius intimates, upon that w,ord Qo-
Avwvufiov, t
.t
)vfiovaSa ouraic e
k
a
X
q
u
v
, teat iniOtrov ’AttpA-
A
cuvoc, they called the Monad thus, and it was
also the epithet of ApoUo—where, by tbe Monad,
according to tbe Pythagoiic language, is meant
the supreme Deity, which was thus styled bythe
Pagans iroA
vw
iui/uov, the Being that hath many
names.—And accordingly Cleanthes thus hegin-
ueth that iorecited hymn of his to him,
Kvhrr' adararw, TroXtwtufxt,
Thou most glorious of all the immonlal gods,
who art called by many names.—And Zeno, -his
master, in Laertius,* expressly declareth,o 0«>V
TroXXaig wpootiyopiaig ovofmCtrai Kara rag Svva/ncig, G o d
is called by many several names, according to his
several powers and virtues—whose instances shall
be afterwards taken notice of. Thus also the writer
De Mlllldo ;b Etc Se<iv vokvwvvfiOg tort, KarovofxaCofitvog
rote iraOetn ifatnv airtp <nm>c v to ^ tu God, though-he
he but one, is polyonymous, and variously de­
nominated from his several attributes, and the ef­
fects produced by him. “ Quaecunque vo]es(saith
Seneca) illi prppria nomina aptabis, vim oeBeo.i.i.
aliquam effectumqqe ccele^ipm rerpm t“P-™p-
contiuentia. Tot appellationes.ejus pos- op«r.]
punte^sequot munera.” You maygiveGod whatep-
* Lib. vii. segm. 147. p. 468.
b Cap. vii. p. 866. tom. i. oper. Aristot.
2 g 2
452 SEVERAL PROPER NAMES OP GOD,
ever proper names you please, so they signify some
force and effect of heavenly things. He may have
as many names as he hath manifestations, offices
and gifts.—Macrobius,* also, from the authority
of Virgil, thus determines, “ unius Dei effectus
varios pro variis censendos esse (or, as Vossius
corrects it, censeri) numinibus,” that the various
effects of one God were taken for several gods—
that is, expressed by several personal names; as
he there affirmeth, the divers virtues of the sun to
have given names to divers gods, because they
gave occasion for the sun to be called by several
proper and personal names. We shall conclude
with that of Maximus Madaurensis,bbefore cited
out of St. Austin : “ Hujus virtutes per inun-
danum opus diffusas nos multis vocabulis invo-
camus, quoniam nomen ejus proprium ignoramus.
Ita fit, ut dum ejus quasi quaedam membra carp*
tim variis supplicationibiis prosequimur, totum
colere profecto videamur.” The virtues of this
one supreme God, diffused throughout the whole
world, we (Pagans) invoke under many several
names, because we are ignorant what his proper
name is. Wherefore we thus worshipping his se­
veral divided members, must needs be judged to
-worship him whole, we leaving out nothing of him.
.-—
With, which latter words seemeth to agree that
.of the poet, wherein Jupiter thus bespeaks the
other god?;
Coelicolae, mea membra, Dei; quos nostra potestas
Officiis divisa facit. . ..
Where it is plainly intimated, that the -many Pa5
a Saturnalv lib. i. cap. xvfi. p. 272.
b Epist. ad AugustitK vide Augustin; Oper, tom.ii. epist. xvi. p. 15.
ACCORDING TO HIS UNIVERSAL NOTION. 453
gan gods were but the several divided members
6f the one supreme Deity, whether because, ac­
cording to the Stoical sense, the real and natural
gods were all but parts of the mundane soul; or
eUe because all those other fantastic gods were
nothing but several personal names, given to the
several powers, virtues, and offices of the one
supreme....
Now the several names of God, which the wri­
ter De Munldo *instanceth in, to prove him poly-
onymous, are first of all such as these; Bpovrato?,
and ’Aorpcnrcuos, the Thunderer and Lightner,
'Ytrwt, the Giver ofrain, ‘Eirucapwiog, the Bestower
of fruits, IIoXievc, the Keeper of cities, MhXi
'^ oc^
the Mild and Placable—
rUnder which notion they
sacrificed no animals to him, but only the fruits
of the earth; together with many other such epi^
thets, as 4>tXioe, Hmoe, Srpartoc, TpoiriuoiI)(oe, Kadap-
«oc, riaXa/uvaioc, &c. and, lastly, he is called
2wrqp and ’EXtufltpioc, Saviour and Assertor.— An-
swerably to which, Jupiter had many such names
given him also by the Latins, as Victor, Invictus,
Opitulus, Stator ; the true meaning of which last,
(according to Seneca)b was not that, which the
historians pretend, “ quod post votum snseepturn,
acies Romanorum fugientium stetit,” because
once after vows and prayers offered to him, the
flying army of the Romans was made to stand—
“ sed quod stant beneficio ejus omnia,” but be­
cause all things by means of him stand firth and
are established.—For which same reason he was
called also by them (as St. Austin informs us)'
, a Cap. vii. p.866. tom. i. oper. Aristot.
b De Bcncfic. lib. iv. cap. Vii. p. 427. tom. i. oper.
c De Civit. Dei. lib. vii. cap. xi. p. 131.
454 SEVERAL PROPER NAMES OF GOD,
Centnpeda, as H were, standing firm Open an
hundred feet; and Tigillns, the beam, prop, and
Supporter of the world.—-He was styled alsO by
the Latins (amongst other titles) Alrims and Bu­
rnmbs, i. e. He that nourishetb all things
R
am
aM
am
au. \^itb bis breasts.—Again, that
A
cad.q.i.i. writer Da Monde addeth another sort of
^.tom.TUi. names, which God was called by; as
o
p
*
*
-] ’Aittyoj, Necessity—because be is an im­
moveable essence; though Cicero gives another
reason for that appellation; “ Irtterdum Deom
necessitated) appellant, quia nihil allter esse pos-
sit, atque ab eo constitutum s i t t h e y sometimes
call God Necessity,,because nothing can be other­
wise, than as it is by him appointed.—Likewise
Eijidpfiein), because all thibgs ate by him connected
together, and proceed from him unhinderdbly<
IIciqx.)ju£vif, because all things in the world are by
hiift determihed, and riothing left infinite (or un­
determined). Moipa, because he makes an apt di­
vision and distribution of all things. ’Atyamtta,
because his power is such, as that ndne Can pos­
sibly avoid or escape him. Lastly, that itageni-
oiiS fable, (as he Calls it) of the three fatal sisters,
Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, according to him,
meant nothing but God neither, tvvra Se iraWa «mv
ouv aXXo Tt, 7rX»Jv o 0 eoc, KaSalrep teal 6 yiwuloe FIXarMp
;—all this is nothing else bht God; as the noble
and generous Plato also intimates, when he af-
firmefh God to contain the beginning; and middle,
and end of all things.—And both Cicerb and Se­
neca tell us, that, amongst the Latins; God Was
not only called Fatum, but also Natnra, and
Fortuna. “ Quid aliud est natura (saithSeri'eca)*
* Ut supra..
ACCORDING TO HIS UNIVERSAL NOTION. 455
quam Deus, et divina ratio, toti mundo et par-
tibus ejus iuserta ?” What is nature else, but
God and the Divine Reason, inserted into the
whole world and all itsseveral parts ?—He adding,
that God and nature were no more two different
things, than Annaeus and Seneca, And, “ Non-
nunquam Deum (saith Cicero) Fortunam appel­
lant quod efficiat multa improvisa, et nec opinata
nobis, propter obscuritatem ignorationemque cau-
sarum;” they sometimescall God also by the name
of Fortune, because he surpriseth us in many
events, and bringeth to pass things unexpected to
ns,by reason oftheobscurityofcausesand our igno­
rance.—Seneca thus concludes concerning these,
and the like names of God, “ Omnia ejusdem Dei
nomina sunt, varie utentis sua potestatethese
are all names of one and the same God, variously
manifesting his power.
But concerning most of these forementioned
names of God, and such as are like to them, it
was rightly observed by St. Austin, that CDl
they had no such appearance or shew ^
px
il31j
of many distinct gods; “ Haec omnia
cognomina iroposuerunt uni Deo, propter causas
potestatesque diversas, non tamen propter tot res,
etiam tot deos eum esse coegerunt,”&c. Though
the Pagans imposed all these several names upon
one God, in respect of his several powers, yet
did they not therefore seem to make so many
gods of them; as if Victor were one god, and In-
victus another god, and Centupeda another god,
and Tigillus another, and Ruminus another, &c.
Wherefore there are other n&mes of God used
* Acad. Quaeit. lib.i. cap. tii. p.2233, tom. viii. oper.
456 PAN, JANUS, GENIUS, SATURN;
amongst the Pagans, which have a greater show
and appearance of so many distinct deities, not
only because they are proper names, but also be­
cause each of them had their peculiar temples
appropriated to them, and their different rites of
worship. Now these are of two sorts; first, such
as signify the Deity according to its universal
and all-comprehending nature; and, secondly,
such as denote the same only according to certain
particular powers, manifestations, and effects of
it in the world. Of the first kind there are not
a few. For, first of all, P an, as the very word,
plainly implies him to be a universal Numen, and
as he was supposed to be the Harmostes of the
whole world, or to play upon the world as a mu­
sical instrument, according to that of Orpheus*
(or Onomacritus)
*A
flu
.o
vtftvK
O
fffjM
oxftxon /b
to
X
«
rj>
,
So have we before shewed, that by him the Ar­
cadians and Greeks meant, not the corporeal
world inanimate, nor yet as endued with a
senseless nature only, but as proceeding from an
intellectual principlepr Divine spirit,which framed
it harmoniously; and as being still kept in tune,
acted and governed by the same. Which there­
fore is said to be the universal pastor and shep­
herd of all mankind, and of the whole world, ac­
cording to that other Orphic passage,
BMrxttV aydgofarw yivinv, >uu ariflxfva yaTaf,
Pascens huraanum genus, ac sine limite terrain.
And this Pan Socrates, in Plato’s Phaedrus,
a InHymno in Panem, p. 109. edit. Eschcnbach.
NAMES OF THE SUPREME DEITY. 457
plainly invokes as the supreme Nuinen. Pan
therefore is the one only God (for there cannot
possibly be more than one Pan, more than one
all or universe) who contained all within himself,
displayed all from himself, framing the world
harmoniously, and who is in manner all things.
Again, J a n u s , whom the Romans first invoked
in all their sacrifices and prayers, and who was
never omitted, whatsoever god they sacrificed
unto, was unquestionably many times taken for a
universal Numen, as in this of Martial,*
-----------Nitidiqne sator pulcherrime mundi.
And again in this of Ovid; [**uV!j
Quicquid ubique vides, coelum, mare, nabila, terras,
Omnia sunt nostra clausa patentque manu:
Me penes est unum vasti custodia mundi.
From which passages it also appears, that Janus
was not the mere senseless and inanimate matter
of the world, but a principle presiding over it.
And without doubt all the beginnings of things
were therefore referred to this Janus, because he
was accounted the most ancient god, and the be­
ginning of all things. St. Austin concluding him
to be the same with Jupiter, therefore quarrels
with the Pagans, (that is, with their civil theology,
for thus making two gods of one: “ Cum ergo Ja­
nus mundus sit, et Jupiter mundus sit, c„ , tH
unusque sit mundus, quare duo dii sunt °-*-&
*
•1311
Janus et Jupiter? Quare seorsura habent templa,
seorsumaras, diversa sacra, dissimilia simulacra?
Si propterea, quia alia vis est primordiorum, alia
b Epigr. lib. x. epigr. xxviii. p. 411.
458 . PAM, JANUS, GBNIUS, SATURN ;
causarum, ex ilia Jani, ex ista Jovk nomen acce­
pt!: nuuquid si unus homo in diversis rebus duas
habeat potestates, aut daas artes, (quia singu-
larum diversa vis est) ideo duo dicuntur arti­
fices ?” &c. Since therefore Janus is the world,
and Jupiter is the world, and there is but one
world, how can Janus and Jupiter be two gods ?
Why have they their temples apart, their altars
apart, distinct sacred things, and statues of
different forms? If because the force of begin­
nings is one, and the force Of causes another, be
is therefore called Janus from the former, and
Jupiter from the latter; I ask whether or no, if
one man have two several arts about different
things, he therefore be to be called two artificers ?
Or is. there any more reason, why one and the
same god, having two powers, one over the be­
ginnings of things, and another over the causes,
should thereforebe accounted two gods?—Where,
when Jupiter and Janus are both said to be the
world, this is to be understood properly not of
the matter, but the soul or mind of the world, as
St. Austin himself elsewhere declares; “ Sit Ju-
c. d . i.it. P 'te r corporei hujus mundi animus, qui
[pX
?6] universam istam molem, ex quatuor de­
mentis constructam atque compactam,
implet et m o v e t L e t Jupiter be the mindof this
corporeal world, which both filleth and moveth
that whole bulk, compounded and made up of the
four elements.—Nevertheless, as the soul and
body both together are called' the man, so was
the whole animated world, by the Pagans, called
God.. Now the forementioned argumentation of
St. Austin, though it be good against the Pagans’
civil theology, yet their other arcane aud natural
NAMES OF THE SUPREME DEITY. 459
theology was unconcerned in it, that plainly ac­
knowledging all to be but one God, which for cer­
tain reasons wasworshipped under several natnes,
and with different rites. Wherefore Janus and
Jupiter, being really but different names for one
and the same supreme God, that conjecture of
Salmasius seems very probable, that the Ro­
mans derived their Janus from Zavoc, the iEtolian
Jupiter.
G e n iu s was also another of the twenty select
Roman gods; and that this was likewise a uni­
versal Numen, containing the whole nature of
things, appears from this of Festus,* “ Genium
appellabant Deuni,' qui vim obtineret rerum om­
nium generandarum They called that God, who
hath the power of begetting or producing all
things, Genius.—And St. Austin also c . D .i.v ii.
plainly declareth Genius to be the same .
with Jupiter; that is, to be but another L
P
name for the one supreme God; “ Cum alio loco
[Yarro] dicit, Genium esse uniuscujusque aninium
rationalem; talem autem mundi animum Deura
esse,ad hoc idemutique revocat, ut tanquam univer­
salis Genius, ipse mutidianimus esse credatur. Hie
est igitur, quern appellant Jovem.”—And after­
wards, “ Restat ut eum singulariter et excellenter
dicantdeura Genium, quern dicunt mundi animum;
ac per hoc Jovem.” When Varro elsewhere calleth
the rational mind ofevery one, a genius, and affirm-
eth such a mind of the whole world, to be God;
he plainly implied), that God is the universal
Genius of the world, and that Genius and Ju­
piter are the same. And though Genius be some­
times used for the mind of every man, yet the gad
* De Verborutn Significat. lib. tii. p. 292. edit. Godofrcdi.
460 PAN, JANUS, GENIUS, SATURN;
Genius, spoken of by way of excellency, can be'
no other than the mind of the whole world, or
Jupiter.
Again, that C h r o n o s or S a t u r n was no par^
ticular Deity, but the universal Numen of the-
whole world, is plainly affirmed by Dionysius of
Halicarnassus, where commending the fertility of
Italy, he writeth thus: o&
Slv o5« Sav/iaerov rove **«■
Rom A
nt XalovQ itpav vwoXafiiiv t o v Kpovou t t )V \<H>(>av
I.i. p. *4. radrtiv, t o v fiiv Saifiova rovrov olofdvovg tlvat
Stepli. icforqg tvBaifiovla? Sorijpa, icai wXqpwrrtv av9pw-
x o iq ' tin Xpovov airrov Set koX u v , a>c"EAArivte a^tovmv, tin
Kpovov wc 'Vwfiaioi, iraaav St TrepitiXi)<p6ra rrjv t o v KOtryuou
fvatv, ovonpov av ri£ bvojidcmi' Wherefore it is no:
wonder, if the ancients thought/this country to
be sacred to Saturn, they supposing this god to be,
the giver and perfecter of all happiness to men ;
whether we ought to call him Chronos, as the
Greeks will have it, or Cronos, as the Romans; he
being either way such a god, as comprehends the
whole nature of the world.—But the word Sa­
turn was Hetrurian (which language was origi­
nally Oriental) and being derived from -j/lD sig­
nifies hidden; so that by Saturn was meant that
hidden principle of the universe, -which contain-
eth all things; and he was therefore called by the
Romans Deus Latius, the hidden God—as the
wife of Saturn in the pontifical books is Latia
Saturni, and the land itself (which in the Hetru­
rian language was Saturnia) is in the Roman
Latium; from whence the inhabitants were called
Latins, which is as much as to.say, the worship­
pers of the hidden God. Moreover, that Saturn
could not be inferior to Jupiter, according to the
fabulous theology, is plain from hence, because
NAMES OF THE SUPREME DEITY. 401
he is therein said to have been his father. But
then the question will be, how Saturn and Jupiter
could be both of them one and the same univer­
sal Numen? To which there are several answers.
For, first, Plato, who propounds this difficulty in
his Cratylus, solves it thus; that by Jupiter here
is to be understood the soul of the world, which,
according to his theology, was derived from a
perfect and eternal mind or intellect (which
Cbronos is interpreted to be) as Chronos alsode-
pended upon Uranus or Ccelus, the supreme
heavenly God, or first original Deity.—So that
Plato here finds his trinity of Divine hypostases,
arcbical and universal, .TayaQov, Nov« and
in Uranus, Chronos and Zeus; or.Ccelus, Saturn
and Jupiter. Others conceive, that, according to
the plainer and more simple sense of Hesiod’s
Theogonia, that Jupiter, who, together with Nep­
tune and Pluto, is said to have been the son of
Saturn, was not the supreme Deity, nor the soul
ofthe world neither, but only the iEther, as Nep­
tune was the sea, and Pluto the earth. All which
are said to have been begotten by Chronos or
Saturn, the son of Uranus; that is as much as to
say, by the hidden virtue of the supreme heavenly
God. But the writer, DeMundo,* though making
Jupiter to be the first and supreme God,.yet
(taking Chronos to signify immensity of duration
or eternity) will have Jupiter to be the son of Cbro?
.nos in this sense, because he doth Sivkhv alwvoc
aripfiovoc etc trepov a'uJpa, continue from one eternity
to another—so that Chronos and Zeus are to him
in a manner one and the same thing. But.we ate
apt to think, that no ingenious aud learned Pa-
* Cap. vii. p<809. tom.i. oper. Aristot. - -
46* .CXELVS, J**N£«IVA, APOLLO, & £.
gau, who well understood, ftbe natural theology,
would deny, hut that the best answer of ail
to-this difficulty is this, that there is no eobereut
sense to be made of all things in the fabulous
theology. St. Austin,* from Varro, gives us this
account of Saturn, that it is he, who produceth
from himself continually the bidden seeds and
forms of things, and reduceth or reoeiveth them
again into biinself; which some think to have
been the true meaning of that fable concerning
Saturn, bis devouring bis male children, because
the forms of these corporeal things are perpetu­
ally destroyed, whilst the material parts (signi­
fied by the female) still remain. However, it is
plain, that this was but another Pagan adumbra­
tion of the Deity, that being also sometimes thus
defined by them, as St. Austin likewise informs
c.d.i.w
. us> “ Sinus quidam naturae in seipso
continens omnia,” a certain bosom, or
deep hollow, and inward recess of na­
ture, which contaiueth within itself all things.—
And.St. Austin himselfconcludes, that according
to this Varronian notion of Saturn likewise, the
Pagans’.Jupiter and Saturn were really but one
and the same Numen. De Civ. D. 1. vii. c. s;iii.
Wherefore we may with good reason affirm, that
Saturn was another name for the supreme God
amongst the Pagans, dt signifying that
Thusin that ? . . . . . ^ 6 , ®
old inscription^ecret and hidden power, which com-
°P
A
” m
u
I c
c
e
-prehends, pervades, and supports the
ms *tes- whole world; and which produceth the
seeds or seminal principles and forms of
all things from itself. As also Uranus or Ccelus
,.C. XU.
*De Civit.,Pei. lib. vii. cep. *iii. p. 133. tom. vii. oper.
OTHER NAMES OF GOD. 468
■was plainly yet another name for the same su­
preme Deity, {or the first Divine hypostasis)
comprehending the whole.
In the next place, though it be true, that Mi­
nerva be sometimes taken for a particular god,
or for God according to a particular manifesta­
tion of him in the jEther, (as shall be shewed
afterwards ;) yet was it often taken also for the
supreme God, according to his most general no­
tion, or as a universal Numen diffusing himself
through all things. Thus hath it been already
proved, that Neifch or JVeithas was the same
amongst the Egyptians, as Athena amongst the
Greeks, and Minerva amongst the Latins; whidh
that it was a universal Numen, appears from that
Egyptian inscription in the temple of this god, “ I
am all that was, is, and shall be.” And accord­
ingly Afhenagoras tells us,* that Athena of the
Greeks was q $povq<nc Smwavruv Sufnwmi, r
W;isdotn
passing and 'diffusing itselfthrough all things—
as in the book -of Wisdom it is called i| vavrw
Ttyv’
iTig, the Aitifex of all things, and is said.&q*«v
Kalyjopuv &d iravm>, to pass and >move through aU
things.—Wherefore this Athena or Minerva of
the Pagans was>either the first supreme 'Deity, a
perfect and infinite mind, the original of all
things ; or else a second Divine hypostasis, the
immediate offspring and first-begotten of that’first
original Deity. Thus Aristides in bis oration
upon Minerva," wavra fiiv wtvtotcaXXurm'Tepi 'AQr/van
re Kal ’A&jvoe' KtjtaXatov He cnretp, too -nuvriouSrffuovp-
yov-Kat j3a<nX««t»c irate tart /udvtj Sv-ftavov" .ov .yap t l \ t v ^
orou oporlftov woiyatuv avrqv* <»X
X
‘ avaywptiaa^ avrec «<?
avrov, avroc i ^ a v r o v y e w ^ r t -»cat rucret Ttjv fltov'-taMprE-wm
2Legat pro Christiania. cap. xix. p. 86. bPag. 192.
464 CGEXUS, MINERVA, APOLLO, &C.
fiovt) fitfiatwg yvrpia tow varpoQ, toov Kal dftoXoyovvrog
iawbi row •ytvowc ytvofievri, &c. Wherefore all the
most excellent things are in Minerva, and from
her : but, to speak briefly of her, this is the only
immediate offspring of the only maker and king
•of all things; for he had none of equal honour
with himself, upon whom be should beget her,
and therefore retiring into himself, he begot her
and brought her forth from himself: so that this
is the only genuine offspring of the first father of
all.— And again, Iltvdapoe S* aw &£idv Kara \<upa
tow varpog awnjv K a B tf /o p iv tiv , rag ivroXag role Bsoie o t t o -
ayyeXov [itv yap ion ijSl riov dyyiXan/
aXXotg aXXa iirvrarru wptirrf irapa. row varpog irapaXafi-
(Sdvovoa, avr ifyiyrrrw nvog owaa rote diolg, K a l t'loaywysutg
orav km row
rowS
ep* Pindar also affirmeth concern­
ing Minerva, that sitting at the right hand of her
father, she there receiveth commands from him
to be delivered to the gods. For she is greater
than the angels, and commandeth them some one
thing and some another, accordingly as she had
first received of her father; she performing the
office of an interpreter and introducer to the
gods, when.it is needful*—Where we may observe,
by the way, that this word angel came to be in
use amongst the Pagans from Jews and Christians*
about this very age that Aristides lived in ; after
which we meet with it frequently in the writings
of their philosophers. Lastly, Aristides thus com
cludetb his oration upon Minerva; <rx£
3°v 7“PS
w
*»a-
puv row Aide stvai Xtywv rig auYjjv ek t o v t w v , o vk av a/uapra-
vot* wore n Si} fJUKpoXoytiodai rag iv ftipu irpa^eig avrrjg
Styyow/uEvov, o v o t tlpon ra row Aide tpya KOiva row Aide
tivai Kal Ttjg Adqvag' He that from what we
have said will determine, that Minerya is as it
ofrH&R1F a m e s ' o f g o O. 466
Werethe power and virtue of Jupiter himself, will
not err. Wherefore (not.to enirmerateall the iiiH
nlite things belonging to' Minerva) 'ire conclude
thus concerning her, that all the works of Jupitet
are common with Jupiter atid Minerva. Where*
fore that conceit, which the learned and ihdust
trious Vossius* sometimes seems to favour;:that
the Pagans’ universal Numen was n6 other thaii
a senseless nature, or spermatic reason Of tire
whole world,' undirected by any higher intel­
lectual principle (Which is-indeed no better than
downright Atheism), is plainly confuted frOtri
hence, they making wisdom and understandings
under these names of Neith,1Athena, and Mi­
nerva, to be either the absolutely supreme Deity;
Or the first begotten offspring of it; ''
To Minerva may"beadded Apollo, who, though
Often taken for the sensible sun animated,- and so
an inferior deity, yet was not always Understood
in this sense, nor indeed then When he was reckOii-1
Od amongst the twelve consentes, because the sUti
Was afterwards added to them, in the number Of
the eight select gods. And that he was sometimes
taken for the supreme universal Numen, the
thaker of the sUn and of the whole world, iii
plainly testified by Plutarch (who is a competent
Witness in this Case, he being a priest of this
Apollo), writing thus concerning him in his Defect
Of Oracles: Eire rJX
ioeiativ tilt icupiogt
JX
/o
v
, *
Kai tramp, /cat nrtKttva rov oparbv iravrbg, ovk
iiKog atra^iovv ipwvrjg rov? vvv av6pdirovg, big iutiog cirri
yevitrecog /cal Jpoiprfg, /cat fov uvai /cal (j>poi>nv. Whether
Apollo be the sun, Or whether he be the lord
and father of the stin, placed far above aH sen*
‘Aeldolohtt. lib. vii. cap. i. ji. 719.
VOL. II. 2 H
pp» i/r*h?**
m
ship and,;qo?ppreal. Mtow> i f .w *mt H M ?
tbst fe^ g M d now deny pracles to then?* to
Wbfiffl ^iteftelf hMite O?n»eof gen^tiop and
?P«JM
*W
en*,:g f liffsapd understanding.
Mppeover, Ui?p»ia Aphrodite, the heavenly Ve­
nus pr JyQve, w^f a universal jNuinpn also, or
ftqpsthep p ^ e .p f God, accprdMtg to his more ge­
neral motion* O
Sopreprehending the whole world;
it being jtfie samp with fltat''^f>uf, or Love, which
Orpheus, and Others inArjstoitle* made to be the
first qrjgipal of all things; for it is certain, that
tbe^angients distinguished concerning a double
end JLove. Thus Paosanias in Plate’s
p 108 ^ymppsiuip : 'H pkv yk vov xp&rfiyripa Kti
,ypyrtup Oypayoy tvyari|p, *y Sq n il ovpavlay
eirovofiajCflfnv' i} S«yy^rkpfit Aide Kyi Atwviic, yy ?•>
f/ifkv Ka)\ovy4v’ ayayKcyov By icai ’
'Epwra, rov ylv ry eripy
trvytpyvy, vavBypoy opdtOQ KaXturdyi, tov St, odpavwy"
There ore two Venules, and therefore tw.p Loyes ;
one die older and without a mother, the danghr
ter of yrapue or heaven, which we call the hea-
yeqly yepus; another younger, begotten froip
Jupiter and Dione, which we call the vulgar Ve-r
nus: and accordingly are there of necessity two
Jyoves, ansyreripg to these two Venuses, the one
ynlgnr apd the qther heavenly.—TJ^e elder of
these two Venules is ip Plato said tp be senior to
Japhet and Saturn, and by Orpheus* the oldest
of all things, and xpuroq ytvkrwp, the first begetter
of all.—-Upon which account, perhaps, it was nail-:
gd by the oriental nations Mylitta or Genitrjx, as
being the fruitful mother of all. This was alsp the
ssupje with Plato’s toxpwTov yaXyvf the first fair;—
the capsp ofall pulchritude, order apd haijmphy*
aIn Hymnoin Venerenji, p. 151,oper.
THE tfPA V pi& Y VENUS, OR LOVE. 4Q7
in the world. And Pausanias *the writer tells us
that there were temples severally erected to each
of these Venuses qr Loves, the peavenly and the
vulgar; and that Urania, or the heavenly Venus,
Was SO Called, £7ri tp w ri Kc&apy k «u avqXcquivf* au>~
fiartov, because the lqve belonging to it was pure,
and free from all corporeal affection :—which, as
it is in men, is bqt a participation of that first
Urania, or heavenly Venus and Love, God him*
self. And thus is Venus described by Euripides
in Stob<EUS,bas the supreme Numen:
Tnv ’AfpoMrvr o&
%off? fan Qifa;
*AXX* oi>
yetrilnroif, o&N kt,
"Om triftau xed i<
p
*oaov kiifatr*r
Aunt rfa ti H xa/xt xai vrarraj £gerouc, &c.
Tojthis sense: Do you not see how
a god this Venus is ? But you are never
able to declare her greatness, nor to measure
the vast extent thereof. For this is she, which;
nonrisheth both thee and use, and all mortals*
apd which mahes heaven and earth friendly to
eqpspire together, &q.-—
But by Ovid this is morn
fully expressed, in bi» Fasterw i :c
IHa quidem totem digqisnma tempera! orbem,
JUh t^^ouW p ppgna minora P«p:
Jjuraque dat coelp, terra*, natalibjns undis;
Perque suositaitus continet omne genus.
Mia deo&omnes (fangumEnumerate) cre&vit;-
Iila$a*j$ ctpjsas aifcQrjtBi^jiedpdi^
Where all the gods are Baidto have been createdor
made by Venus, that is, by theone supreme Deity.
But, lastly, this is best of all performed by Seve­
rinus Boetius, a Christian philosopher d. com. i.ii.
and poet, in. this manner:
aInBoeotic. lib. ix. cap. xvi; p. 742.
*Eclog. PhyS'lib* i. cap. xvii. p. 97. cLib i*. ver. 94-
2 H 2
Tims also bj
jEschjlns,•*rf
fW
V o
h
g
*
-
vof, &c. 9
E(*(9i
yeuav Xa/u£d-
vsi,&c.— r m .
468 ftOD CALLED URANIA,
Quod muudus stabili fide
Concordes variat vices.
Quod pugnantia semina
Foedus perpetuum lenent;
Quod Phoebus roseum diem
Curru provehit aureo; &c.
Hanc rerum seriem ligat,
Terras ac pelagus regehs,
£ t coelo imperitans, amor, &c.
Hie si froena remiserit,
Quicquid nunc amat invicem,
Bellum continuo geret
Hie sancto populos quoque
Junctos foedere continet;
Hie et conjugii sacrum
Castis nectit amoribus, &c.
: O felix hominum genus,
Si vestros animOs amor,
Quo coelum regitur, regat.
And to thisUrania, or heavenly Venus, was' near
of kin also that third Venus in Pansanias called
’AnoarpoQla, and by the Latins Venus verticordia,
pure and chaste Love—expulsive of all unclean
lusts, to which the Romans consecrated a statue,
as Valerius M. tells us, (1. viii. c. xv.) “ quof faci-
lius virginum mulierumque mentes a libidinead
pudicitiam converterenturto this end, that the
minds of the female sex might then the better be
concerted from lust and wantonness to chastity.—
We conclude, therefore, that Urania, or the hea­
venly Venus, was sometimes amongst the Pagans
a name for the supreme Deity, as that which is
the most amiable,being, and first pulchritude,
the most benign and fecund begetter of all things,,
and the constant harmonizer of the whole world.
Again, though Vulcan, according to the meet
common and vulgar notion of him,, .be to be.
reckoned amongst the particular gods, yet had
he also another more universal consideration.
THE HEAVENLY VENUS, OB LOVE. 469
For Zeno m Laertius Vtells us, that the supreme
God was called rfH^oiaroc, or Vulcan, kara n|v «c
ro Tv^vucov irvpSidraaiv tow ^ytfxo viK o v avrov, as his
hegemonic acted in the artificial fire.—Now Plu­
tarch1
’ and Stobceus' testify, that the Stoics did
not only call nature, but also the supreme Deity
itself (the Architect of the whole world), rt\vuc6v
jrvp, an artificial fire—they conceiving him to be
corporeal. And Jamblichus4'making Phtha to
be the same supreme God, amongst the Egyp­
tians, with Osiris and Hammon, or rather, more
properly, all of them alike the soul of the world,
tells us, that Hephaestus, in the Greek.ish theo­
logy, was the same with this Egyptian,Phtha;
rfEXXijvfc «e ^Hipatarov (ttraXafifiavovoi r o v '(frOa, rto
vtx(p fiovov irpoofiaWovrtG, amongst the Greeks He­
phaestus (or Vulcan) answers to the Egyptian
Phtha.—Wherefore as the Egyptians by Phtba, so
the Greeks by Hephaestus,.sometimes understood
no other than the supreme God, or at least the
soul of the vvorld, as artificially framingall things,
Furthermore, Seneca gives us yet oeBe*.i.ir.
other names of the supreme. Deity, ac- c' ,^u,'
cording to the sense of.the. Stoics ; “ Hunc et
liberum patrem, et Herculejn, ac Mercurium nas-
tri putant, Liherum Patrem, quia onmium pa­
rens, &c. Herculem, quod vis ejus invicta sitj
Mercurium, quia ratio penes illnm est, numerus-
que, etordo, et scientia.” Furthermore,.our phi­
losophers take this auctor of all things to ,be Li­
ber Pater, Hercules, and Mercury; the first, be-
* Lify vii. segm. 147. p. 458.
v lie Placit. Philos. ’lib. i. cap. vii. p. 881. oper.
Eclog. Physlib. i. cap. ii. p*17.
, * De Myster. ^Eg^ptibr. sect. 8. cap. iii. p. 15M
,
470 JUPITER,.NEPTUNE, ANl> PLUTO,
cause he is parent of sill things, &C. the secdncf,
because his force and power are unconquerable,
&d. and the third, because there is in and from
hilb reason, number, order, arid knowledge.—
-And
now we see already, that the supreme God W
fi$
sufficiently polyonyrrious amongst the Pagans5
and that all these, Jupiter, Pan, Janus, Genius,
Saturn, Ccelus, Minerva, Apollo, Aphrodite Ura­
nia, Hephaestus, Liber Pater; Hercules, and
cory, were not so many really distinct and Sub­
stantial gods, much less sfelf-existent and inde­
pendent ones; but only several names of that
one supreme, universal, and all-fcotbptebending
Nritnen, according to several notions and consi­
derations of him.
But, besides these, there were many other PagSu
gods called by Servius dii specicdei, special or
particular gods;—whichcrinnot be thought neither
to have been so many really distinct and sttbStam
tial beings (that is, natural gods), mnoh leSS self
existent and independent, but only so' mrihjr neve*
ral names or notions ofode and the same Sriprttne
Deity, according to certain particular powers and
manifestations of it. It is trne, that some late
Christian writers against the Polytheism and idrib
atry of the Pagans, have charged them with at
least a trinity of independent gods, viz. Jupiter,
Neptune, and Pluto, as sharingthe government
of the whole World amongst these three, and com
sequedtly acknowledging no one universal Nuj
men. Notwithstanding Which, it is certain, that,*
according to the more arcane doctrine and ca­
bala of the Pagans, concerning the natural ‘^rue
theology, these three considered as distinot and in­
dependent gods, were accounted but dii poCtici
one And the Same nateEaL sod. 491
et comnientitii, poetical Aid fictitiohs gods^—
and
they Wferereally CsteCmed ho Other than so thatiy
Several names said liotiotasOfotle afid the' same SU-
pTefiie Nilmen, as acting Variously in those several
parts of the World, the heatehi the Sett, the earthi
and belt. For, first, k§ to Pluto anfd Hades, called
also by the Latins (ffcOs, had Die (which latter
word seems to haw Heed a contraction Of Diftjd
to answer the Greek Plate), as fialbUS ih Cifcei-
ro* attributes to him, « bmheirt vim terfenam,” aH
terrene power,—so others Commonly Assigh him
the regimeri Of Separate Souls after death; Now
it is certain, that, according to this latter tiOfioh;
it Whs by Plato Understood no otherwise ibdif stk
a name for that part of,the Divine Pfovidehc£,:
which exercises itSelf upon the SoulS Of men aftOF
death. This Ficinus observed Upon Platons CrA-
tylns: “ Animadverte prm ceteris, Plutonom hie
sighificare praecipue provideutiara ditiham adsC-
parAtas animas pertinCntem1
;” You ate to take
notice, that by Pluto is here meant titat part Of
Divine ProtideUce, Which beiongeth to separate-
sbulfe.—For this is that, Which, according ttf
Plato, “ binds add detains pure SoulS i t i tfiat sey
parate state,' with the best tiiniuMtti of aft, Which
is ubt necessity, but love and desire; they bOiff^
ravished and Charmed aS it WerC With thOfee ]i)hre
delights, which they there enjoyi” And thUsilr
he also to tie understood ik hie book Of Laws,'
writing in this manner Concerning Piuto; iA. V
ai. fai
Kat ati $trtytpavrkov TroXs/aocotc ovfijiwirotc rov1
^ ' ^
roiovrov 0eov, aXXa Tifirirlov, atc ovra act r<j5 rwv dvOpol-
itniv y i m tpurrW Hddlbi&d +f&p *&&)&tfdi <jhl)i&ri;
atujS ovk £<m
v y KpHrrovi *
>
£i-ywfa ty v av, tnrou&p X
£
y
<
rfv
*
* De Natifo D M * fib. ii. cap;xkvii. p. oper.
\T% jyPIT&g, NEPTUNE, AMpyyUTO,
^either ought military pa^n to be troubled or of-
foqded at this God Pluto, but highly to honour
him, as who; alwaya is tba-mpsi beneficent to
mankind. For I affirm, with the greatest serious^
ness, that the union pf the soul with this terres­
trial body is never better than,the dissolution' or
separation of them.—Pluto, therefore,according to
Plato, is nothing else but a name for that part
of the Diviqe Providence, that is exercised upon
the souls of men, in their separation from, these
earthly bodies. And upoq this account was Plu-
tp styled by Virgil,* the Stygian Jupiter* But
by others Pluto, together with Ceres, is taken
iji.a larger sense, for the manifestation of the Dei­
ty in this whole terrestrial globe; aod thus is the
writer De Mqodobto he understood, when he tells
US, that jGfpdorJu piter is ovpavtfeirtxql ^fldpioe, vbvc
ctfiM
jU
O
Cojv re icat rvyvi^r art frayreuv qvroc:airtpc.
<
3
v
* both celestial and terrestrial,-he being denomi?
nated from every nature, .forasmuch as he is the
cause of all things.—
-Platp therefore is Zcv$ \<la-
uo{ or jcara^Oowoc, the terrestrial (also as .well as
the Stygian and subterranean) Jupiter; and that
other Jupiter, which is distinguished both from
Pinto and Neptnne, is properly Zptg otipaywc, the
heavenly Jupiter—(Jod us manifesting himself in
the heavens. £[ence is it, fhat Zeus and'ifades,
Jupiter and Pluto, are ma^e to he one and the
saipe thipg, in that passage, jrhiph Julianc cites
U
S an oraqle qf Apolip, but pthyrs Impute tU
Orpheus,
i B
tf 7
J
tb
s
>*
tffA
f&
H
f,
* ’ . . 4 % ’! . \ *
Jupiter and Pluto are one and the sameOod^ As
* -fEney. lib. vii. ver. 327, » Cap. vii. p. 869. opcr. Atistot.
. <
j Orat.iT, in Regain Sotem,^ i36. •
QNE AND THE SAME NATURAL 6 0 0 . 473
also that Euripides, in a place before produced,'
is so doubtful whether he should call the supreme
God (tov x a v T w fu & im r r a , that takes care of all
things here below) Zeus or Hades
■ ----- Zfuc, ilr
'OtoftatifAtnc rri& tif
Whether thou hadst rather be called Jupiter or
Pluto.
Lastly,' Hei*mesianax the Colophonian poet, in
those verses of bis (afterwards to be set down)
makes Pluto in the first place (with many other
Pagan gods) to be really one and the same with.
Jupiter.
That Neptune was also another name of the
supreme God, from another particular considera­
tion of him, namely, as acting in the seas (at least
according to the arcane and natural theology of
the Pagans), is plainly declared by divers of the
ancients. Xenocratesin Stobceus,* and Zeno in'
Laertius,baffirm, that God as acting in the water
is called Posidone or Neptune. To the same pur­
pose Balbus in Oicero: “ Sed tamen his ^ ND,..
fabulis spretis ac repudiatis, Deus per- [<
w
»
-**▼
«.
tinens pernaturam cnjusque rei, per ter- p 2" 6^
ras Ceres, per maria Neptunus, alii per alia, pote-
runt intelligi, qui qualesque sint,” &c. But these
poetic faibles concerning the gods being despised
and rejected, it is easy for us to understand, how
God passing through the nature of every thing,
may be called by several names, as through the
earth Ceres (and Pluto), through the seas Nep­
tune, and through other parts of the world by
qtber names :*-so that all these titular gods were
* Eclog. Physic, lib. i. cap. ix. p. 56.
b Lib.vii. scgm. 147. p. 458.
474 SfOfrB POp Ul Ar a n d DofiTtc CodS,
but at) many Several detiotttinatiotis bfoni ^tipretne
U
«n.d.i. And Cotta afterward thiiS rte£fe-'
Seats the sense of this theology * '*Nepf-
P' tunuin eSsediets ammum bum inftelligen-
tia per mare pergentem, idem de Cerere.” Your
meaning is, Neptnne is a mind, which with under­
standing pushedthrough the sea, and die tike bfCb-
res through the earth.—Lastly, to name no mnrdj
i;, „ MaxitnuS Tyrius agreeth alSd herewith,
[tap. xxik; p, icoAtr rov fiev A ta vovv irpeapvrdrovj &C« rav el
390'] IloauSu), wvtvpk Sut yvi ifdl flaX
ctTTj/cic>*, oica-
vtifibi>vwiruv ti}♦dranv rat n)wdpjiovlav" You are t6
call Jupiter that princely mind, which all thingd
folio# and obey, &c. and Neptune that spirit,
which passing through the earth and sea,' causes
their state and harmony.
. Lastly, That these three, Jupiter, Neptnne and
Pluto, were not three really distinct Substantial
beings, but only sO many several natbes for one
supreme God (according to the true and natural
theology ofthe Pagans)* is thus plainly declared
by Pausanias in bid Corintbiacs f he there ex­
pounding the meaning of a certain statue of Jupi­
ter with three eyes (called the country Jupiter of
the Trojans) in this manner: rpnc SidyfaXpooc
«rt T $ S e a v t iq r u c fid ip o tr o awrov* A ta y a p ev a v p a v ip f i a -
diX p h ttV i ovroc fttv Xdyoc nfevoc v a v r w v i o n * d v O p to tta v .
* 0 v Si S p y t i v f a a 'tv vwd y if g , tarn . eiroc t» v 'O firip to v A ia
a v o fia ffiv Km roufov* >
Zivf ti w a n w o u liratWI IUfTKpfni*.
Attiyfiidk K o Kdktt Hid Ktt\ idit ii>
T{n£n* o o p w titd iito irffh ir d f f f a X /io ie o d r i c t n d S v 6 c»*
• Lib. H. epp. itxiv. p. 166.
*H E SAME MATVkAi odd* 4 $ 5
i t t (v rats Tpiorl rate Xt-fb/tivaK X^&ow fy^bfora avr^V
tdvnov O e d r ’ Ndw that- this Statue Of Jupiter WaS
taaade to have three eyCS, one may guess this to
have beeti the reason; because first thecommori
Speech of all irieri makes Jupiter to reign in thd
heaven. Again* be that is Said tO tale Udder the
earth, h id a certain VeTse of fitoffler Called Zeui
or Jdpiter too, namely, the inferrial or subterra­
neous Jupiter, together With PfOSeTpina. Add;
lastly, JEschylus, the sou of BdpHdribn; calls that
God, who is the king of the Seri also, Jupitert
Wherefore this statuary made Jupitef With three
eyes, to signify, that it is Ohe and the Britoe Godj
which ruleth iii those three several parts of the
world,the heaven, the sea,and tbeearth.-^W hether
Pausaniafe were in the right Of dd, as to his con­
jecture concerning thisthree-eyed Startle of Jupi­
ter, it is eVideut, that himself, add Other aheient Pa­
gans, acknowledged Jdpiter, Nepturie,- arid Plutoi
to be but three several Uatads, add partial consr1
derations of one and the sacue God, WliO ruletli
over the Whole world. Ahd Since bdtft Proier-
pina arid Ceres were really the sattie with Pluto*
and Salritfri With Neptdrie ; We may Well conclude;
that all these, Jupiter, Neptuue, Sslkcia, Pluto*
Proserpina, arid Ceres, though several poetical
and political gOdS* yet were really taken but fbf
one and the Safri£ natural aud philosophical God.-
Moreover, as Neptdrie Whs a Oriide' for God; as
manifesting himself iri the SOU, Arid ruling over it,
so Was Jurio SnOther riatoO of Grid, as acting ifl
the air. This is CkpresSty affirmed both by Xe<
riocrates in StOboeUS,* riftd Zetio in LaerfitfS.h
* Ubi B»t>rab b Ubi sOpr*.
476 MORE POPULAR AND POETIC:GODS,
And St. Austin* propounding this query, why
Juno was joined to Jupiter as his wife and sister ?
makes the Pagans answer thus to it, “ QuiaJovem
(inquiunt) in aethere accipimus, in aere Junonem
because we call God in the ether Jupiter, in the
air Juno.—But the reason, why Juno was femi­
nine and a goddess, is thus given by Cicero,”
“ EffaepiinarUnt autemeum, Junonique tribuerunt,
quod nihil est aere mollius;” they effeminated the
air, and attributed'it to Juno a goddess, because
nothing,is softer than it.—Minerva was also some­
times tak,en for a special or particular god, and
then was it nothing (as Zeno informs' us) but a
name for the supreme God, as passing through
the (higher) ether: which gave occasion to St.
Austin thus to object against the Pagan
theology: “ Si aetheris partem superio-
rem Minerva tenere dicitur, et bac oc-
casione fingere poetas, quod de Jovis capite nata
sjl, cur non ergO ipsa potius deorum regina depu-
tatur, quod sit Jove superior?” If Minerva be said
to possess the highest part of the ether; and the
poets therefore to have feigned her to have been
begotten from Jupiter’s head, why is not she ra­
ther called the queen of the gods, since she is su­
perior to Jupiter ?-*-Furthermore, as the supreme
God was called Neptune in the sea, and Juno in
the air, so by the same reason may we conclude,
that he was called Vulcan in the lire.. Lastly,
as the sun and moon were themselves sometime
worshipped by the Pagans for inferior deities,
they being supposed to be animated with partis
cular souls of their own; so was the supreme
C.D.l.iv.
c. x.
a DeCivit. Dei, lib. iv. cap. x. p.74.
b De Natur, Peor. lib. ii. cap. xxvi. p. 2994. tom. ix. opcr,
THE SAME NATURAL GOD. . 417
God also worshipped in them both (as well as in
other parts of the world), and that under those
names of Apollo and Diana. Thus the Pagans,'
appointing a God to preside, over every part of
the world, did thereby but'make the supreme.
God polyonymous, all those gods of theirs being
indeed nothing but several names of him. Which’
theology of the ancient Pagans, Maximus Tyrius,
treating concerning Homer’s philosophy (after he'
had mentioned his tripartite empire of the world,
shared between Jupiter, Neptune, and Pluto),
thus declareth: Euooic S’dv ical aW ag vap
I ’ \ \ , O
, - > , Di*»ert. xri.
KJpyptp ap%ag Kai yeveoeiQ iravrooaTrwv ovoparwv. p. 163.
wv o pev avoiyrog <J? pv6u>v axovei, 6 Se (piXotro-
fog tag npaypartav. eoriv avrto Kal aperyg apyjl’ aXX*
’Aflijva'Xlytrai, &c. You may findalso in Homer
other principles and. the originals of several:
names: which the ignorant hear as fables, but a
philosopher will understand,as things and reali­
ties. For he assigns a principle of virtue and
wisdom, which he calls Mineirva; another of love
and desire, which he calls Venus; another of ar­
tificialness, and that is Vulcan, who rules over
the fire. And Apollo also with him presides
over dancings, the muses over songs, Mars over
war, jEolus over winds, and Ceres over fruits.—'
And then does he conclude thus, Kcuov&v pipoc
QpriptpaOsov, oi!8e Swaorov airopov, ovSe apyyg iptjpov,
aXXa Trama psora Oe'uov ovopartov, Kai Oelatv Xoyiav, Kal
Oelag rty v w ' So that no part neither of nature, nor
of the world, is to Homer godless (or void of a'
God) none destitute of a ruler, or without a su­
perior government; but all things full of Divine-
names, and of Divine reason, and of Divine art.—
Where his foia ovopara, his Divine names—are
MANY O ftypft PAOAtS p o p ? , *N ?£ . AUSTIN,
pothing but sjeveital names qf God, as mani~
testing hiwself variously in the several things qf
nature, apd the parts of the wo^ld, and as pre-
mdjpg over thew-
\Yherefpre, beside? those special god? of the
Pagans, already mentioned, that were appointed
to preside over several part? of the world, there
are others, which are but several names of the
supreme God neither, as exercising several offices
apd functipns in the world, and bestowing several,
gifts upon mankind: as when in giving corn apd
fruits, be is called Ceres; in bestowing wine,
Bacchus; ip men’s recovery oftheir health, iEscu-
lapius; in presiding over traffic arnd merchan­
dising) Mercury; in governing military, affairs,
Mars | iu ordering the winds, jE oIus ; and the
like,
Xh.at the more philosophic Pagans did thus
replly interpret the fables of the gods, and make
their many poetical apd political gods to be aU
qf them hot ope pod the same supreme natural
Gpd, is evident from the testimonies of Antis-
thepes, Plato, Xenocrates, Zeno, Cleanthes, and
Chrysippus (who allegorised all the fables of the
tods accordingly), and of Scsevola the Roman
/ontifex, of Cicero, Varro, Seneca, and many
others. But that even their poem also did some?
times venture to broach this arcane theology, is
manifest from those fragments preserved of H.er-
mesianax the Colophonian amongst the Greeks,
gnd of Valerius Soranus amongst the Latins; the
former thus enumerating the chief Pagan gods,
and declaring them to he all bat one and the same
Numen;
moor**, TUptf&fii, An/ttaTng, KvtrgfC, "Efurtf,
AU, QtJ? AND THE SA»1* .JUPITf:*, 479
y "H fcurT tiri kXutoc, niy, 2 ii; r$
"Afrtfu?, W it&ipyoe 'AitoXXvy, if; 9to; lm *
Plato, Pereepjione, pores, et Venus alma, et Amores, . .
Tritones, Nereus, Tetljys, Neptupus et i^pse,
Mercurius, Juno, VuJcanus, Jupiter, et Pan,
Diana, et Phoebus Jaculator, sunt Deus unus.
Tfcs Utter *pronouncing universally, that Jupiter
Qnuupptens is
-----------Deus unus et omnes,
one God, and all gods. Whether by his Japiter
he here meant the soul of the world only, as
Varro would interpret him, agreeably to his own
hypothesis, Or whether an abstract mind superior
to 'it; but probably he made this Japiter to be
all gods, upon these two accounts; first, as he
was the begetter and creator of all the other na­
tural gods, which were the Pagans’inferior deities
(as the stars and demons); secondly, as that aH
the other poetical and political gods were nothing
else but several names and notions ofbim.
We shall add, intbe last place, that St. Austin,
making a more full and particular enumeration of
tbe Pagan gods, and mentioning amongst them
many others besides the select Roman gods
(which are not now commonly taken notice of)1
,
doespronounce universally of them all, according
to the sense of more intelligent Pagans, that they
were but one and the same Jupiter: “ Ipse in
sethere sit Jupiter, ipse in aere Juno, ipse ciy D
>
in mari Neptunus, in inferioribus etiam ‘
maris ipse Salacia, in terra Pinto, in terra - • ' ■
inferiors Proserpina, in focis domesticis Vesta, iti
480 MANY OTHER PAGAN GODS, IN ST*. AUSTIN,
fabrorumfornaceVulcanus, indivinantibus Apollo,
in merce Mercurius, in Jano initiator, in Termino
terminator, Saturnns in tempore, Mars et Bellona
in bellis, Liber in vineis, Ceres in frumentis, Diana
in silvis, Minerva in ingeniis. Ipse sit postremo
etiam ilia turba quasi plebeiorum deorura, ipse
praesit nomine Liberi virorum seminibus, et nomine
Liberae foeminarum. Ipse sit Diespiter, qui par-
tum perducat ad diem: ipse sit dea Mena, quam
praefecerunt menstruis foeminarum, ipse Lucina,
quae a parturieutibus invocatur, ipse opem ferat
nascent)bus, excipiens eos sinu terrae, et vocetur
Opis. .Ipse in vagitu os aperiat, et.vocetur, Deus
Vagitanus. Ipse levet de terra, et vocetur deft
Levana. Ipse cunas tueatur et vocetur dea Cu-
njna. Sit ipse in deabus illis, quae fata nascen-
tibus canunt, et vocantur Carmentes. Praesit
fortuitis, voceturque Fortuna. InD iva Rumina
jmammam parvulis immulgeat. In Diva Potina
potionem immisceat. In Diva Educa escatn prae-
beat. De pavore infantium Paventia nuncupetqr.
De spe quae venit Venilia; de voluptate Volupia.
De actu Agenoria. Destimulis, quibus adnimium
actum homo impellitur, dea Stimula nomiqetur.
Strenua dea sit, strenuum faciendo. Numeria
quae numerare doceat; Camaena quae canere. Ipse
sit et Deus Consus praebendo consilia; et Dea
Sentia sententias inspirando. Ipse dea Juventas,
quae post praetextam excipiat juvenilis aetatis ex­
ordia. Ipse sit Fortuna. Barbata, quae adultos
barba induit, quos honorare voluerit. Ipse in.Jq-
gatino Deo conjuges jungat; et cum virgini uxori
zona solvitur, ipse invocetur et dea Virgipensis
invocetur. Ipse sit Mutinus, qui est apud Grae-
cos Priapus, si non pudet. - Haec omnia qute dixi,
ALL ONE AND THE SAME JUPITER. 4 8 1
et quaecunque non dixi, hi otnnes dii deaeque sit
unns Jupiter; sire sint, ut quidam yolunt, om­
nia ista partes ejus, sioui eis videtur, quibus enm
placet esse inundi animum; sire virtutes ejus,
quae seutentia velut magnorura multoruraque doc*
torum est.” Let as grant, according to the Pa­
gans, that the supreme God is in the ether Jupiter;
in the air Juno; in the sea Neptune; in the
lower parts of the sea Salacia; in the earth Pluto;
in the inferior parts thereof Proserpina; in the
domestic hearths Vesta; in the smiths’forges Vul­
can ; in divination Apollo; in traffic and mer­
chandize Mercury ; in the beginnings of things
Janus; ,in the-ends of them Terminus ; in time
Saturn; in wars Mars and Bellona; in the vine-
yards Liber; in thie corn-fields Ceres;- in the
woods Diana; and in wits Minerva. Let hiqi
be also that troop of plebeian gods; let him pro*-
sideoyer the seeds^of-men udder the name of Li­
ber, and of women under the name of Libera;
let him be Diespiter, that brings forth the birth to
light-; let him be the goddess Mena, -whom they
have set over women’s monthly-courses; let him
be Luciba, invoked by-women in child-bearing;
let him be Opis,' wHo aids the-new-born infants;
let - him be •Dens' Vagitamis, -that -opens their
mouths to--ctry; let him -be the goddess Lev&na*
which is said to lift them up firo.mthe earth ; and
the goddess Cunina, that defends tbehr cradles;
let him be the Cafmentes also, who foretel the
fetes of infants; let him be Fortune, as presiding
over fortuitous events; let him be Diva Rumina,
which snckles the infant- with the breasts; Diva
Potina, which gives it drink-;-and Diva Educa,
which affords it m eat; let him.be called-the god-
VOL. II. 2 1
482 THE PHILOSOPHIC THEOLOGY: .
dess Parentis, from the fearof infants; the god*
dess Yenilia, from hope; the goddess Volupia,
from pleasure; the goddess Agenpria, from acting;
die. goddess. Stimula, from provoking; iheged-
dess Strenua, from making strong and vigorous;
the goddess Numeria, which teacheth to number ;
the goddess Caiiiaena, which teaches to sin g le t.
him be Pens Census, as giving counsel; and Dea
$entia, as inspiring men with sense; let him be
Jhe goddess. Juventas, whieh has the. guardian­
ship of young men; and Fortuna Barbata, which,
upon some more thap othert liberally bestowetb
beards; let. him be Deus Jugatinus, which joins
mail and wife together;; and Pea Viiginensis,
which is then invoked, when the..girdle of the
bride is loosed;. lastly, let him be Mutiuua also
. (which is the same with Priapus amongst the
Greeks^ if you will not beasbamed to'say it.
Letall these gods and goddesses, and many, more
(which I have not mentioned)*be.one and the same
Jupiter, whether as parts of him, whicb.iaagree­
able to. their (pinion, who hold, him to be the soul
of the; world; or else, as his virtues opiy, which.
is the seuse of many and great Pagan doctors.
But that the authority and. reputation of a>late
learned and industrious writer, G. I, Yassins,
may not here stand in our way,:or he &prejudice
to us> we think it necessary to take notice of one
passage of his, in. his book P e Tbeolegia.GeniiIt
add freely to censure the same;; where, treating
Concerning that: Pagan goddess Venus, lie writetb
thus ; •“ Ex philosophies de diis doctfina, Venus
e»t yel Luna (ut vidimus) yel Luciferi,sive Hes­
perus, Sed ex.poetics ac civjli, supra hos ceelos
De'Ehtolug. lib, ik cup*XXxi. p. 192s • v .7
NOT THE SAME WITH THE FKYMOMKHCAL. 4&3
statuuntur mentes quaedam asyderibus diverse?
quomodo Jovem,-Apollinem, Junonem, Venerepr,.
cseterosque Deos CoDsentes, considerare ju b et
Apuleius. Quippe eos (inquit), nature visibos
' nostris denegavit: necnon tamen intellectu eon
mirabundi contemplamur, aeie mantis acrius coth
templantes. Quid apertius bic, quam ab eo pee
Deos Consentes iatelligi, bon corpora coeieads
vel subcoelestia, sed sublimiorem quaadaunstiH.
ram, nec nisi animis conspicnam?” According
to the philosophic doctrine concerning the godty
Venus is either the moon, or Lucifer, or Hespes
rus; but'according to the poetic and civil tbe*M
logy of the Pagans, there were, certain eternal
minds, placed above the heavens, distinct from
thp stars: accordingly as Apuleius nequireso®
to consider Jupiter and Apollo, Juno and Venusi
and all those other gods catled ConsenieS f bq
affirming of them,that though nature had denied
them to our sight, yet notwithstanding, by tbe d*
ligent contemplation of our minds, we apprehend
and admire them. Where nothing can be morel
plain (saitb Vossius) than that the Dii Consentes
were understood by Apuleius, neither'to be ce->
lestial nor subcelestial bodies, but a certain higher
nature perceptible only to our minds. Upon which
words of his we shall make these followingrfe*
marks; first, that this learned writes,seems hefep
as also throughout that whole bookofbis, tonus*
take the philosophic theology of Scsrvola and
Varro, and others, for that which was physiols* v
gical only (which-physiological theology of the
Pagans will be aftevwards declared by as)* Poe .
the philosophic theology of tbe Pagans did hot
deify natural and sensible bpdies pply?but, the
484 THE PHILOSOPHIC THEOLOGY
principal part thereof Was the asserting of one
supreme and universal Numet), from Whence all
their other gods were derived. Neither was Venus,
according to this,philosophic and arcane theology,
taken only for the moon, or for Lucifer, or Hes­
perus, as this learned writer conceives, but, as we
have already proved, for the supreme Deity also,
either according to Its universal notion, or some
particular consideration thereof. Wherefore the
philosophic theology, both of Scmvola and Varro,
and others, 'was called natural, hot as physiolo­
gical only (in another sense), as real and true; .it
being the theology neither of cities, nor of stages,
or theatres, but of the world, and of the wise
men in it r philosophy being that properly, .which
considers the absolute troth and nature of tbingg.
Which philosophic theology therefore was op­
posed, both to the civil and poetical, as consisting
in opinion and fancy only. Our second remark
is, that Vossius does here also seem incongru­
ously to make both the civil and poetical theo­
logy, as such, to philosophize; whereas the first
of these was properly nothing, but the law of ci­
ties and commonwealths, together with vulgar
opinion and error; and the second nothing but
fancy, fiction, and fabulosity. “ Poetaruui ista
sunt,” saith Cotta in Cicero “ nosabtem philo-
sopfai esse volumns, rerum adthores, nbn fabula-
rum.” Those things belong to poets*, but wo
Would be philosophers, authors of thidgs (or real­
ities), and not!of fables.—But the main, thing
which we take notice of in these words of Vos­
sius is this, that they seem to imply the Consented,
. and select, and other civil and poetical.gbds of
;i* De Natur.'beor. ift.iii. cap.ixxt 1
>
.3098. tom. islopet. -
NOT THE SAME WITH THE PHYSIOLOGICAL. 485
the Pagans, to have been generally accounted so
many substantial and eternal minds, or under^
standing beings'supercelestiai and independent }
their Jupiter being put only in an. equality with’
Apollo, Juno, Venus, and the rest. For which,
since Vossins pretends no other manner of proof
than only from Apuleius's De Deo Socratis, who
was a Platonic philosopher; we shall here make it
evideut, that he was not rightly understood by
Vossius neither: which yet ought not to bethought
any derogation from this eminent philologer(whose
polymathy and multifarious learning are readily,
acknowledged by us),-that he was not so well
versed in all the niceties and punctilios of the
Platonic school. For though Apuleius does in
that book, besides those visible gods the stars;
take notice of another kind of invisible ones, such
as the twelve Consentes, and others, which (he
saith) we may “ animis conjectare, per varias ufi-
litates in vita agenda, animadversas in iis rebus;
quibus eorum singuli curant,” make a conjeo
ture of by our minds from the various utilities in
human life, perceived from those thiugs, which
each of these take care of:—yet th&t he was ho
bigot in this civil theology, is manifest fromhence;
because in that very place, be declares as -weljl
against superstition, as irreligious profahemess.
And his design there was plainly no other; than
to reduce the civil and poetical theologies of the
Pagans into some handsomeconformity and agree­
ment with that philosophical; natural, Ond' real
theology of theirs, which derived all the godh
from one supreme and universal Numeii t butthis
he endeavours to do in the Platonic [way,, himself
being much addicted to that philosophy., “ Hos
4 9 $ ; APVLBIJJS’S REDUCTION OF THE .
decs inmibUmi aetheri? vertice locates, Plato ex-
istirrrat veroa, incorporates, aniraales sine ullo
ueque fine neque exordio, sed promts ac retro'
tttfiternas, corporis cpntagione sua qaidem natura
rSmdtos, ipgenio ad eummatn beatitudinem por-
tecto, &c. Quorum parenlem, qai omnium re*
rut® dommator atque auctor est, solum ab omni­
bus nexibtts patiendi aliquid gerendive, nulla vice
ad alicigus rei mutua obstrictura, cur ego nunb
dicere exordiar ? Cum Plato coelesti facundia
pr0
Bditus,frequenti«sime praedicet,hunic solum ina-
jestatis iocredibili quadam nimietate et ineffabili,
non posse penuria sertriouis humani quavis ora*
tiOne vel modice comprebendi.” All these gods
placed in the highest ether Plato thinks to be
true, incorporeal, animal, without beginning or
end, eternal, bappy In themselves without any ex­
ternal. good. The parent of which gods, who is
the Lord and author of all things, and wbd is
alone free from all bonds of doing and suffering,
why should I go about in words to describe him?
since Plato, who was endued with most heavenly
eloquence, equal to the immortal gods, does often
declare, that this highest God, by reason of his
excess of majesty, is both ineffable and incom­
prehensible,—
rFrom which words of Apuleius it
is plain, that, according to him, the twelve Qon-
sentes, aud all the other invisible gods were de­
rived from One original Deity, as. their parent and
-author. But-then if you demand, what gods of
Plato these should be, to which Apuleius would
■here accommodate the civil and poetic gods con­
tained in those two verses of Ennius,
Juno, Vesta, Minerva, Ceres, Diana, Venus, Mars,
Marcums, Jarf, -Neptunus, Vtricamu, Apollo,
PAGAN GOD* TO PfeATO’i IDBAS. 487
And the rest of this kind, that is, oil their other;
gods (properly so called) invisible? we reply,
that these are no other thab Plato’s ideas,or first
paradigms and patterns of things in the arcfae^
typad wdrld, which is the Divine Intellect (and
his’ second hypostasis) derived from his first
original Deity, and most simple monad. For as
Plato writeth in his Timteut; Avayici) rovw -
f to v , cucovanvocclvca,This sensible world tnuSt needs
be the image of another intelligible one. And
again afterwards, rtvt tw Z
/*w>o
m
tov cic pjlt0j„
b p o io r rr ra 6' ^wtorac £vv& m ^e; r i v p i n o*»ev p. so. [cap. ’
filpmtf ttSei vE^iw(ruir pi|Scvl Kara&
*5a«/»cv' arc- P'
Act yip totKOCovStv war av ylvotro kbAov. p i S’ toft raAAa
Z ia Koff tv mt Kara yiwn ftopia, wmnwv bpotarmrov avrtf
«7vat TiBifuv. Ta yip' Si voi/ra Xjiw ,ravra Ik£vo lt>iavnp
wtpt\a(ibv Ka&ajrep oSt 6 aicftoc lifMft Satf re oAA«t
$pififtara avvionpccv opara* What animal' WBS tb (
pattern; according to whose likeness he thal
made this great animal of the world, formed it?
Certainly, we must not think it to be any parr
ticular animal, Bince nothing can be perfect*
which is made according to an imperfect copy.
Let us therefore conclude it to be that animal,
which contaiueth all other animals jn it as its
parts. For that intelligible world contained! all
intelligible animals in it. in the same manner ns
this sensible world doth us, and other sensible
animals.—-Wherefore Plato himself, hereand else­
where, speaking obscurely of this' intelligible
world, apd the ideas of it, no wonder, if many of
his Pagan followers,have absurdly made so many
distinct animals and gods of them, Amongst
whom Apuleius accordingly would refer all the
4 8 8 APULEIUt’S REDUCTION OF THIS
civil and poetic gods of the Partins (I mean, their
gods,'properly 80 called invisible) to this intel­
ligible world Of Plato's, and those several ideas
of it. Neither was Apnleins singular in this, but
others of the Pagan theologers did the like ; as,
for example, Julian in his book :against the
s Cjrii Christians: 0£oi»cbvopi&unA£rwv
oont. Jol. vAg, qXtov, Kal ffiXtvyv, atrrpm Kttl •$pavov,aXX’
‘ P' ' ofrot rwV ajxtvHiv tlmv ciicqwec* 6 $wv6fUVQg t®
*C
IxpOaXpo'ig {fXtoc, roil voijroil Kal fir) fatvopivW teed iraXtw, n
Qaivo/dvii ro«c tySaX/teic rifulrv oeX^vi, icai rwv w rjw v
hcaarov, fhe6vtg iloi tww wotirwv- hctlvovg ovv r o b e afavtig
Oeovg hnnrapxovrac ieat nm nroj^ovni;, teal avnw row Sir-
fuovpyov yewyOiirrag, KalirpoeXSrdvrag, 6TlXar«t»w oISsw* *hco-
rwg oww jaiv S Sri/utovpyogi>trap’ avrtjt, dtol, vpbgrovga^a-
vug Xlytw, Otiiv, now ififaviSv StiXowort" tcotwoc St a/t^ar^pwv
Sqfuoupy&g ovr6g iortw, 6 Ttyyi\adp.n>og oupavov teal y^w, Mi
DaXatjrxav, teal aarpa ytvfcrag ra ro6r<ow op^lnnra* Plato,
indeed, speaketh of certain visible gods, the sun,
and the moon, and the stars, and the heaven; but
these are all but images Of other invisible gods ;
that visible sun, which we see with our eyes, is but
an.image of another intelligible and invisible one:
sOlikewise the visible moon, and every one of the
stars, are but the images and resemblances of
another moon, and of other stars intelligible
Wherefore Plato acknowledged' also these other
invisible gods, inexisting and coexisting with the
Demiurgus, from whom fhey were generated and
produced. That Demiurgus in him thus bespeak­
ing these invisible and intelligible gods; Ye gods
of gods, that is, ye invisible gods, who are the
gods and causes of the visible gods. There is
one common maker therefore of both these kinds
'-FAGAN GODS TO PLATO*! ID BAS.: 4 8 9
of g ods; who first of all made a heaven, earth,
sea, and stars, in the intelligible world, as the
archetypes and paradigms of these in the sen­
sible.— Where St. Cyril in his Confutation writetli
thus ; "Eo
u
c
e& Sia toOrtov b yEvvaioc ripZv ’ItvXioidf, rap
iSfaf fioiXeodai KaraStjXouv, ip, xari plv owlap, ml vfut-
Tavai mff tavrac Suir^vpl^erai JJXAtuw, trori St cal iwofap
rival Stow StoplZerai’ xXtjv fiirwp ftv?xoj, cal totp o»ro*
paSifrcGc arap68aemv rival faal rbv M rq>Si Xdyov oi
ravra rt%v(rat' tA yapriSn \aipkr*>
, frjalv i ’Apianrftv,
rsperlapara yap lari,, cal el eotiv, pvSlv irpbp rbv X6-
-yov. T hisonr excellent Julian, by his intelligible
and invisible gods, seems here to mean those
ideas, which Plato sometimes contends to be sub­
stances, and to subsist alon'e by themselves, and
sometimes again determined] to be nothing bat
notions or conceptions in the mind of God.. Bat
however the matter he, .the skilful in this kind of
-Jeaitoing -affirm,' that these ideas have been:re­
jected by Plato’s own disciples; Aristotle dis­
carding them as figments, or •at least such, as
being mere notions, could .have no real causality
and influence upon things.—But the meaning of
this Pagan theology may be mere fully under­
stood from what the same!iBb Cyril thus further
ebjecteth againdt i t : npootirvyu St-&n *»lr&v ip^ tviv
kcu rw v ,m i)cw *Sriptovpryfc M v b,t<
vv SXurv & pp, b yvv cal
Mvpavav Tf\vifdapavoc* tin Tofvyv, kg&a W
ed,ovr6p 8wpeiA4r
’7 Vdn> ivbpytbsi ravrwv.rt ap afo w ytvunovpyfe eotiv b Aylvr
svpropf k b e ,) r t f e & a v r o v y E y f v v v o 9 a if a a W a v r o v c , afwflr
\ttv te toolimnrapxeai abnj>, xtic, rini pot, •np aytwfrft.St.ov
awvrap^u to ytvvrpiiv; ivtnrbp^Ei Si Kara iroiov Tpbxov;
yprippiv.yAp aylyjfrav oprftrbv.rt& Qeov XSyov, avvviriipxW
Mvuynaimgr^jj^bmvrt Suayvpi^6ptda,ml iwpapxuv plvairry,
opofXdttv SiyEinnfrtxtf ifcavrttw* oSbyt i% IlXarwyop ctysit*
490 THE, IOTELI.IOIBLB COB* OK JOBJAN,
v tfar nn^yofW f «k(m|3k »ayivi+irov pin %ivai fitmlray iumrfi
i»9e& ’ itmrafijguv di kcH *£ avrov ytvytt&iivm *ni wpetXdtty
rove wf> ovroS ysjov6rac, tb Travrm tetomiy y i <my\i<0v'
The sense whereof seems to he tins: Julias .add-;
etb, that the God of the universe, who made
heaven and earth, is alike the Deroiurgns, both
of these sensible, and of the other intelligible
things. If therefore the ingenite God be alike the
creator of both, how can he affirm those things*
that are created by him* to coexist with and in-
exist in him ? How can that, which is created;
coexist with the ingenite God? but much less
can it inexist dn him. For we Christians indeed
affirm, that the unmade Word, of God doth of
necessity coexist with and inexist in the Father,
it proceeding from him, not by way. of creation,
but of generation. But this, defender of P la­
tonic trifles, acknowledging the supreme God
to-be ingenite, affirmetb, notwithstanding; those
things, which were made and created by hint,
to inexist in him; thus mingling and confound­
ing all things.—Where, notwithstanding, Julian
and the Platonic Pagans would in all proba­
bility reply, that those ideas of the intelligible
and:archetypal world (which is the first N<we, or
'intellect) proceeding from the highest, hyposta­
sis, and original Deity, by way of necessary and
eternal emanation, are no more to he accounted
creatures, than the Christian Aoy*c; and therefore
might; with as little absurdity, be said to exist
with and in that first original Deity. Bat besides,
the same Julian, elsewhere in that book of his,
accommodates this Platonic notion also to the
Pagan gods in particular, in like manner as Ape-
leins had done before*, be writing, of iEsculapius
AND OTHERS, THE DIVINE IDEAS,. 491
after this canting way : *0 yap Z*u<, tv fih> cyr.c. *d.
ro*g votrrotc iavrov rov ’Aok\ t
}tiov ey&tnnmv, L ” •?• *00‘-
mc Si tijv yqv 8ui tqc iJXtov yovifiov %vic i$/fyyvtv‘ ovroc
tin y if t£ ovpmvoi mtoodfttvot rpooSov, ivouSwc jutv tv a v
Qpiivcw popfy ntfi w
b
> EriSmvpov ifavn, &C. Jupiter,
amongst the intelligible, things, generated out of
himself JEsculapius, and by the generative life of
the sun manifested him here upon earth, he com­
ing down from heaven, and appearing in a human
form, first about Epidaurus, and from thence
extending his salutary power or virtue over the
whole earth.—Where J&culapius is, first of: all,
the eternal idea of the medicinal art or skill ge­
nerated hy the supreme God in the intelligible
world; which afterward, by the vivific influence
of the sun, was incarnated, and appeared in a
human form at Epidaurus. This is the doctrine
-ofthat Julian, who was so great an opposer of the
incarnation of the eternal .Logos ,in our Saviour
Jesus Christ. Neither was this doctrine of many
intelligible gods, and powers eternal (of which
the archetypal world consisteth), first invented by
Platonic Pagans, after the times of Christianity,
as some might suspect; but that there was such
a thing extant before amongst them also, may be
concluded from this passage of Philo’s : D
«C
oB
f«..i.
E
»Cwvo Oticd/ivdirroue irtplovrov SvvdftOf 0
C
0
*It‘p“”
mpvyovc xml (JbmfpMuc rov ytvofttvov n u n c ' &’ mi rw rw *
twv 8wa/umn>, o ddtSfUtroc Xal votpdc ixaytt xoapos, to rov
jm vofUvov tow
Sedpylnnrav, (Slate aoparoic owmafeic, mtrnnp
o iro t atl/tamtv dparwc* xaxmarXayimrtt am rwee n jv ixm-
ripati run moofttm fuaiv, oil pdm v dXovc s£t6tUikrav, aXXd
Kal rd Kakkunu rwr tv « m i( fttpaiv, qXiov, teal <rtXijv*?v,
■
K«t rov av/umnrra ovpavdv, marep ovStv ai&oflfvrt{ -fcdvc
tKaXtoat Though Qod bo but one, yet bath he
492 THE INTELLIGIBLE GQDS OF JULIAN,
about himself innumerable auxiliatory powers, tfll
of them saluliferous, and procuring the good
of that which is made,&c. .Moreover, by these
-powers, and out of them, is the incorporeal and
intelligible world compacted, which is.the arche­
type of this visible world,, that consisting of in­
visible ideas, as this doth ofvisible bodies. Where­
fore, some admiring* with a kind of astonishment,
the nature of both these worlds^ baveuotonly
deified the.whole of them, but also the most ex­
cellent parts in them, as the son, and, the moon,
and.the whole heaven,' which they scrnple not at
all to call gods.—Where Philo seems to speak of-
a double sun, moon, and heaven, as Julian did,
the one sensible, the other intelligible. Moreover,
■Plotinus himself sometimes complies with this
notion, be calling the ideas of the Divine Intellect
.vounrneA
bove,intelligible gods;—as in that place be­
fore cited,,where he exhorteth men*ascending up­
ward above the soul of the world, flsotle vpvtiv voir
rove, ,to praise the intelligible gods—that is, the
Divine intellect, which, as he elsewhere? writeth,
is both tic K
ai xoXAoi, one and many.
We have now given a full account ofApnleius’s
sense, in that hook De Deo Socratis, concern­
ing the civil and poetical Pagan gods; which was
not to assert a multitude of substantial and eter­
nal deities or minds independent in .them,' but
only to reduce the vulgar theology of the Pa-
>gans, both theircivil and poetical, into some con­
formity .with the natural, real,.and philosophic
theology ; and this according to Platonic prin­
ciples. Wherein many other of the Pagan Pla-
tonists, .both before and after Christianity, con-
• Vkic-Ennead. v. lib. villi cap.ix. ^>
.664.
A N D ,o th e r s; THH DIVINE IDEAS.' 495
curred with' h i mt he y making the many- Pagan
invisible gods to be really nothing bat the eternal
ideas of the Divine Intellect (called by them the
parts, of the intelligible and archetypal world),
which they supposed to have been the paradigms
and patterns,, according to which this sensible
world, and all particular things therein, were
made, and upon which they depended, they being
only participations of them. Wherefore, though
this may well be looked upon as a monstrous ex­
travagancy in these Platonic philosophers, thus
to talk of the.Divine ideas, or the intelligible and
archetypal paradigms of tilings, not only as sub*
8tantiai, but alsoas so many several animals, per­
sons, and gods; it being their humour thus upon
all slight occasions to multiply gods:/yet never­
theless must it be. acknowledged, that they did at
the very same time declare all these to have been
derived from one supreme Deity, and not only so;
but also to exist in it ; as they did likewise at
other times, when unconcerned in this business of
their Pagan Polytheism, freely acknowledge all
these intelligible ideas to lie really nothing else
but votj/iaro, conceptions in: the mind of God—or
the first Intellect (though not such slight acci­
dental and evanid ones,'as those conceptions and
modifications ofour human souIsare); and,’conse­
quently,: not :to be so many distinct.substances;
persons; and gods (much less independent ones);
bdt only so: many partial considerations of this
Deity» . ,
*/What a rabble of invisible gods and'goddesses
the Pagans had, besides those their dii nobilto,
and dii majorum-gentium, their noble and great­
er god? (which were the bonsentes and selecti);
494 THE PAGANS* INVISIBLE GODS, THE
hath been already shewed oat of S t Austin, from
Vanro, and others; asnamely, DeaMaaa, DerisVa*
gitanus, Dea Levans, Dea Grinina, Diva Rumina,
Diva Potina, Diva Edaca, Diva Paventina, D*q.
Venilia, Dea Agenoria, Dea Stimnla, DeaStrw-
nua, Dea Numeria, Dens Consus, Dea Scotia,
Dens Jugatinus, Dea Virginensis, Deos Mutinna
To which might be added more oat ofother places
ofthe same St. Austin, as Dea Deverra, Deqs Do*
miducas, Deus Domitins, Dea Mantarna, Deni
Pater Subigus, Dea MaterPrema, DeaPertunda,
Dea Rusina, Dea1Collatina, Dea Vallonia, Dea
Seia, Dea Segetia, Dea Tutilina, Deqs Nodotus;
Dea Volutina, Dea Patelena, Dea Hostilitta; Dea
Flora, Dea Lacturtia, DeaMatura, DeaRuncinfc
Besides which, there are yet so many more of
these- Pagan gods and goddesses'extant-in other
writers, as that they cannot be all mentioned or
enumerated by us; divers whereof have very
small, mean, and contemptible offices assigned to
them, as their names for the most part do imply;
some of which are sacb, as that they were not fit
to:be here interpreted. From whence it plainly
appears, that there was pij8e
» aO
m
v, nothing at all
without a God—to these Pagans, they having so
strong a persuasion, that Divine Providence ex*
tended itself to:all things, and expressingit after
this manner, by assigning to every thing,in nature;
and every part of. the world, and whatsoever was
done by men, soine particular god or goddess by
name, to preside over it. Now„ that the intellb
gent Pagans should believe in good earnest, that
aU these> invisible gods arid goddesses of theixs
weresoinany several‘
substantial minds; or under*
standing beings eternal and unmade, really exist-
DtVIHB. YMtTUS* AXD FOW IX* D B m W 4 9 *
login the world, 19 a thing in;itself utterly iufcredir
b|e. For t)owcould any possibly persuade thenar
selves, that there was one eternal unmademind or
spirit; which,- for example, essentially presided
over the rookings of infant's cradles, and nothing
else? another over the sweeping ofhouses ?another
over ears ofcorn ?another over the husks ofgrain ?
and another oyer the knots of straw and grass, and
the like ? And the case is the very same for those
other qoble gods of theirs{as they call them), the
consent#* and selecti; since there can be nolfeai-
son given, why those should, all of them, be so
many substantial and eternal spirits self-existent
or unmade, if pone of the other were such. Where-
fore, if these be not all so many several substan­
tial and eternal minds, so many self-existing and
independent deities, .then mast they, of necessity)
be. either several partial considerations of the
Deity, via, the several manifestations of the Di­
vine Power Und Providence personated, or else in­
ferior ministers of the same. And thus have We
already shewed, that the more bigb-flown and Pla-
tonic Pagans (as Julian, Apuleius, and others) un*-
derstood these consentes and select gods, and all
the other invisible ones, to be really nothing else
b u t,the ideas of the intelligible and archetypal
world (which is the Divine Intellect); that is, in­
deed,hut partialconsiderations ofthe Deity,asvfc>
tually aodexemplarUycontaioiugallthings: whilst
others of them, going in a more plain and easy
way, concluded these gods of theirs to be aH of
them bpt several names and notions of the one su ­
preme Deity,, according to the various manifesta­
tions pfjte power in the,world:; as Seneca*ex**
a D© 4b. iv»£ap, viii.p. 427, 428.
49$ TKAtt GOD* ACCORDING TO THB PAOATf^
presely affirmeth, not only concerning Fate, Na-i
tnre, and Fortune, &c. but also Liber Pater, Her­
cules, and Mercury (before mentioned by bim),
that they were “ omnia ejtisdem Dei nomina, varie
ntentis sua potestate,” all names of one and tbe
same God, as diversely using -his power;—and ns
Zeno in Laertius* concludes of all tbe rest:- or
else (which amounts to the same thing), that they
were the several powers and virtues of one God
fictitiously personated and<deified; as the Pagans
in 'Eusebius apologize for themselves, that they
Pr.By
.1
.ili. did 'O
eoT
O
W
iv'roc aojMrdvf Swafictf avrov rov .
.*
•*
“*
•p*ul-H
r*iraaiv, deifynothing but the invisible
powers ofthat God, which is overall,—-Nevertbe*
less, because those several powers ofthe supr-eme
God were not supposed to be all executed’imme­
diately by himself, but by certain other v*tivjo7M
Swdfxtis,subservient ministers underhim, appointed
to preside over the'several things of nature, parts
of the world, and affairs-of mankind1(commonly
called demons); therefore were those gods some­
times taken also for such subservient spirits or de­
mons collectively; as perhaps in this of Epictetus;
' L . o i Ilort o T rvtva u ; o ra v avrtp So£p, <
3(3sX-
P- 85. 'tictte, >
7tu AioXy’ ai yap ovKs i r o i t f O T P o S e o c
[apudA
rnan.] T
(^v avkfiwv, aXX«rov AtoXov' ' When
will Zephyrus, or the west wind, blow? When
it seemeth good to himself or to jEolus;- for God
hath not made thee steward o f;the winds, but
JEoliis.
; •But for the-fuller clearing of the whole Pagan
theology," and especially this-one point thereof
that their IloXvOetd was in great part nothing else
but noXuwwjuaa, their Polytheism, or multiplicity
' * Lib. vS. fcegm. I47i p. 488.- -
THEOLOGY, PERVADETH ALL THINGS. 497
ofgods—nothing bat the polyonomy of one god,
or his being called by many personal proper
names, two things are here requisite to be further
taken notice of; first, that, according to the Pagan
theology,God wasconceivedtobediffused through-
out the whole world, to permeate and pervade.all
things, to exist in all things, and intimately to act
all things. Thus we observed before out of Horns
Apollo, *that the Egyptian theologers conceived
of God, as row iravrOg Koapov to Suikov irvevpa, a spirit
pervadingthe whole world;—as likewise theyct^v-
fcluded ?St'^a B
eaupr$ev o
Xm
qaintoravai, that nothing
at all consisted without God;—Which same theo­
logy was universally entertained also amongstthq
Greeks. For thus Diogenes the Cynic, in Laer­
tius^ avYowm ivra irXijpjf, all things are full of him.—?
And Aristotle, or the writer De Plantis, makes
God not only to comprehend the whole world,
but also to be an inward principle of life in ani­
mals ; rtc oSv e<rriv 1} opx<) Vev rp f a y y row lab.i.eap. I.
gwov; « aXXo, « /tw
j to euyevec&oov, o row ov- ope!?.'’Ariot.
pavov irepioSeuei, tow yXcow, ra •aarpa, kcu rang P
*49*0
irXavyrag. What is the principle in the life or son!
of animals? Certainly no other than that noble
animal (or living being) that encompasses andsur­
rounds due whole heaven,' the sun, the stars, and
the- planets.-—Sextus Empiricus thus represents
the sense of Pythagoras, Empedocles, and all the
Italic philosophers; pypwov ypi»irpoc «X-
X
iiX
ovC K
ai irpac rove Btovg etvai rivatcauxovldv, tbem
.p.SSi.
aXXaieal irpoera aXoyarwv Zeibw' evyapVirap- phytic!
yew irvevfiatS But irovroc Koa/iovfkrjicov, ifwyye P"
rpovov, to k<
u svowwi|jua£ Tpog eKtiva' That we
* Hieroglyph, lib. i. cap. lxiv. p. 77. . bIbid. lib. i. cap. xiii, p. 28.
c Lib. vi. segm.37. p .333. ‘
2 K
VOL. II.
498 THAT GOD, ACCORDING TO THB PAGAN
men have not only a conjunction amongst our-
selves with one another, bat also with the gods
above ns, and with brute animals below ns; be­
cause there is but one spirit, which, like a soul,
pervades the whole world, and unites all the
parts thereof together.— Clemens Alexandrinus
writeth thus of the Stoics, &dirdeqc vX
vc> to! BidtH
k
Protrept. p. drifioririK ro Quov SuiKfiv Xiyovai", they af-
w firm, that God doth pervade all the mat-
aT 'J ter of the universe, and even the-most
vie parts thereof—which that father seems to dis­
like? as also did Tertullian, *'when he represented
their doctrine thus; “ Stoici volunt Deum sic
per materiam decucurrisse, quomodo mel per ia-
v o s t h e Stoics will have God so to run through
the matter, as the honey doth the combs. Strap
bo testifies of the ancient Indian Brachmans, ■V
lib. xt. p. iroXXwv rote rfEXX»joxv ojuoSo&tv, on yap yevifroc
7S0‘ o Koajuoc km fOaproc Xiytiv k$icecvovc, ®te &-
oucdv avrov km irouHv Otoe, Bi oXov BiaTtipolrrfKtv avrov*
That in many things they philosophized after the
Greekish manner, as when they affirm, that the
world had a beginning, and that it would be cor­
rupted, and that the maker governor thereof per­
vades the whole of it.—The Latins also fully
agreed with the Greeks in this; for though Seneca
somewhereb propounds this question, “ Utrum
extriusecus open suo circumfusus sit Deus, an
toti inditus ?” Whether God be only extriusically
circumfused about his work, the world, or in­
wardly insinuating do pervade it all? yet himself
elsewheree answers it, when he calls God “ Di-
• Advers.Hermogen. cap. xliv. p. 149.
bDe Otio Sapientis, cap. xxxi. p. 347. tom. i. oper.
c De Consol, ad Helviam. cap. ?iii. p. 106.
THEOLOGY, PERVADETH ALL THINGS. 409
vinum spiritum -per omnia, maxima, ac minima,
aequali intentione di f f usui na Divine spirit, dif­
fused through ail things, whether smallest or
greatest, with equal intention. God, in Quinti­
lian’s1theology, is “ spiritus omnibus partibus im»
mi s t u s a n d “ Ille fusus per omnes rerum naturae
partes spiritus,’’ a spirit which insinuates itself
into, and is mingled with, all the parts of the
world; and that spirit, which is diffused through
all the parts of nature.—Apuleiusb likewise sir
firmeth “ Deura omnia permeare,” that God doth
permeate all things; and that “ nulla res est tans
praestantibus viribus, quae viduata Dei auxilio, sui
natura contenta sit;” there is nothing so excellent
or powerful, as that it could be content with its
own nature alone, void of the Divine aid or influ­
ence. And again, “ Dei praestantiam, non jam
cogitatio sola, sed oculi, et aures, et sensibilis sub­
stantia comprehendit;” that God is not only pre­
sent to our cogitation, butalso to our very eyes
Gud ears, in all these sensible things.—Serving,
agreeably with this doctrine of the ancient Pagans,
determined), that “ nulla pars elementi sine Deo
est,” that there is no part of the elements devoid
of God.—And that the poets fully closed with the
.same theology, is. evident from those known pas­
sages of theirs, “ Jovis omnia plena,”c and par­
rot Se Atoe rwoi fta> ayvu u , d &C. t. 6 . “ All vh^,Geoi*.
the things of nature, and. parts of the l>er\
world, are full of G o d a s also from.
this of Virgil:
EInstit. Orator,lib.vii. cap.iii. p. 412.
bDe Mundo, p. 68. edit EfcnenhorstiL
cVirgil. Eclog.iii.
dArati PhaeDomen. apod Clement Alexand. Stromat lib. v.
p. 768.
2 k 2
5 0 0 THAT GOD, ACCORDING TO TH E FAGAN
■ ■ ...... Deum namqiieire per omnes ,
Terrasque, tractusque maris, coelumque profundum*
Lastly, We shall observe, that both Plato and
-Anaxagoras, w ho neither of them confounded
God with the world, but kept them .both distinct,
and affirmed God to be ou&vt pe/juyutvov,
•craty,p.4i3. unmjQ
g|e(j withany thing;—nevertheless
concluded, avrov wdvra Kooffeiv rd vpay/utra Bta wdvrmv
towra, that he did order and govern all things pass-
ingthrough and pervading all things ;—which is
life very same with that doctrine of Christian theo-
lOgers,* rov 0cov Sia wavrtDv afuywc Suik
eiv, that God
permeates and passes through all things, unmix-
edly.—Which Plato also there, in his Cratylus,
plainly making Bhcautv to be a name for God, ety-
moldgizetb it from Sta. low
, i.e.passing through all
things, and thereupon gives ustlie best account of
Heraclitus’s theosophy, that is any where extant
(if not'rather a fragment of Heraclitus’s own) in
these words; o<roi yap qyovvrat rd wav tlvat cv wopti<f,
to ftev troXv avrov vwoXafi/3avovoi rotourov n em u , ouw
ouSev aXXo V yotpeiv' Bid Be rowrov xavroc etwat ri Bu^idv, St
ov wavra rdytyvofieva yiyveoOai’ elvai Be raytarov tovto teat
Xtirrorarov, ou yap av BvvaoBai aXXwc Sta row ovrog Uvat
wavrog, Et firj X earorarov re ijv, w ortavro fitfBtv ortyeiv, teat
Tayurrov, ware yjpqaOat wowtp am oat rote aXXotc, first Se ovv
iwirpowevti rd aXXa wavra Statov, tovto ro ovo/ua eteXq0«j
opOatg Blxaiov, tvotofilae evtica, rijv row k Bvvafiiv wpoaXa-
fiov' They who affirm the universe to be in constant
motion, suppose a great part thereofto do nothing
else but move and change; but that there' is some*
thing, which passes through and pervades this
whole universe, by which all those things that are
" '.Job. Dam&scen. de orthodoxa fide, lib. i. cap. xiii.p. 140. tom.
i. oper. edit. Leqoien.
THEOLOGY, PERVADETH ALL THINGS. 501
made, are made: aod that this is both.the .most
swift and most subtile thing; for it could not
otherwise pass through all things, Were it not sO
subtile, that nothing could keep it out .or binder
it; and it must be most swift, that it may use all
things, as if they stood still, that so.nothing might
escape it. Since therefore this doth preside over,
and order all things, permeating and passing
through them, it is called $ «< m ov, quasi Siaiov; the
letter cappa being only taken in for the more
handsome pronunciation.—Here webavetherefore
Heraclitus’s description of God, namely this;
Xsirrprorov KaiTorayyrrov, Sia iravroe 8tt£iov, St ov irdvra
ra ytyvofieva ylyvtrai, that most subtile and roost swift
substance, which permeates and passes through
the whole universe, by which all things that are
made, are made.—Now, saith Plato, some ofthese
Heraclitics say, that this is fire, others that it in
heat; but he, deriding both these conceits, con*
eludes, with Anaxagoras, that it is aperfectmind,
unmixed with any thing; which yet permeating
and passing through all things, frames, orders,-
and disposes all.
Wherefore this being the universally-received
doctrine of the Pagans, that God was a spirit op
substance diffused through thewholeworld,which
permeating and inwardly acting all'things, did
order all; no wonder if they called him, in several
parts ofthe world and things of nature, by several
names; or, to use Cicero’s language,' no wonder,;
if “ Deus pertinens per naturam ciijusque rei, per
terras Ceres, per maria Neptunus,” &c. if God,
pervading the nature of every thing, were in the
earth called Ceres, in the sea .Neptune,. .in the air
*DeNatur. Deor.lib. ii. cap. xxviii.p. 2990.oper.\
502 A HIGHER STRAIN OF THE PAGAN
Jano, &c.-—
And thii very account does Paulas
Orosius (in his historic work against the Pagans,
dedicated to St. Austin) give of the original of the
i,. Ti. o. >
. Pagan Polytheism; “ Outdare, dam in
IM16.]. multis Deum credant, inhltos Deos, in-
discrete timore, finxerunt;” that Sotae, whilst
they believe God to be in many things* have there­
fore, ont of an indiscreet fear, feigned manygods:
—in which words he intimates, that the Pagans’
many gods were really hut several names of one
God as existing in many things, or in the several
parts of the world, as the same ocean is called by
several names, as beating upon several shores.
* Secondly, The Pagan theology went sometimes
yet a strain higher, they not only thus supposing
God to pervade the whole world, and to be dif­
fused through all things (which as yet keeps up
some difference and distinction betwixt God and
the world), bat also himself to be in a manner all
things. That the ancient Egyptian theology, from
whence the theologies of other nations were de­
rived, ran so high as this, is evident from that ex­
cellent monument of Egyptian antiquity, the Saitic
inscription often mentioned, “ 1 am all that was,
iB, and shall be.” And the Trismegistic books in­
sisting so much every where upon this notion, that
God is all things (as hath been observed) renders
it the more probable, that they were not all coun­
terfeit and supposititious; but that, according to
the testimony of Jamblichus, they did at least con­
tain So£a« 'Eppaiucac, some of the old Theutical or
Hermaical philosophy in them. And from Egypt,
in all probability, was this doctrine by Orpheus
derived into Greece, the Orphic verses themselves
running much upon this strain, and the Orphic
THEOLOGY, THAT GOD IS ALL THINGS. 5 0 3
theology being thns epitomized by Timotheus,
the chronographer; “ T hat all. things were made
by God, and that himself is all things.” To this
purpose is that of JEschylus,
Zti't bmt aM(, Ztiv ii yi, Ztk »' Grot.Bxe.
Zivf to
i rk wirra, %jirtraff U t farffnpr p. 57.
Ettenra, e t aether, etpoliantest Jupiter,
EtCunctasolrts, et aliquid aublimiliB.
And again,
— — -neri f&h&
c Q
m
t
n
r
a
i
*Avr\marmoff***flrtri I*fttog, w ri Hytipor lb. p. 58.
K
o2dugo-lravrdc yinreu vapfxtyifif,
9
Arif**, rtyit n, uaurrpavrr:, kfonf,
— — Njinc ut implacabilis
Apparet ignis: nnnctenebris, none aquae
Par illecerni: simulat interdum fenun,
Tonitrua, rentes, falmina, et nubila.
As also this of Lucan, amongst the Latins,
\
— — Superos quid quserimus ultra? ifo. j*. ‘
Jupiterest quodounque rides, quoqunque ipoveris. 580.
W hereunto agree also these passages of Seneca
the philosopher,* “ Quid est Deus ? Quod Tides
totum, et quod non Tides, totum.” A n d b “ Sic so­
lus est om nia; opus suum et extra et intra
t e n e t W h a t is God ? he is all that you see, and
all that you do not see. And be alone is all things,
he containing his own work not only without, but
also within.—Neither was this the doctrine only
of those Pagans, who held God to be the soul of
the world, and consequently the whole animated
world to be the supreme Deity, but of those
».Natural. Quaest. lib. L Praefat. p. 485. tom* i. oper.
b De Benefic, lib. iv. cap* viii* p*247*
504 THE PARTS OF THE WORLD, AND THINGS
others also, who conceived of God as ah abstract'
mind, superior to the mundane soul, or rather as
a simple'monad, superior to mind also; as those'
philosophers, Xenophanes, Parmenides, and Me-;
lissus, who described God to be one and all things,
they supposing, that, because all things were
from him, they must needs have been first in a
manner in him, and himself all things. W ith
which agreeth the author of the Asclepian D ia­
logue, when he maketh Unus omnia, and Creator
omnium, One all things and the Creator of all
things, to be but equivalent expressions; and
when he affirmetb, that before things were made,
“ in eo jam tunc erant, unde nasci habuerunt
they then existed in him from whom afterwards
they proceeded .-—
So likewise the other T ris-
megistic books, when they give this account of
God’s being both all things that are, and all
things 'that are not, rd pkv yap ovra l^avIpWc, ra Se'
pi} ovra iy ti tv tavrio, because.those things, that
are, he hath manifested from himself, and those
things, that are not, he still containeth within
himself;— or, as it is elsewhere expressed, he .
doth KpvTrruv, hide them and conceal them in
himself. A nd the Orphic verses gave this same
account likewise of God’s being all things, ndvm
raSt Kpwpaf, &c. because he first concealed and
bid them all within himself beforethey were made,
and thence afterward from himselfdisplayed them,
and brought them forth into light: o r because
-----— Zwocy h i yaprip ovff* vt<pvxtt.
before they were produced, they were all con­
tained together in the womb of God.
Now this-was not only a further ground of that
P. J19.
OF NATURE, PERSONATED AND DEIFIED. 50&
seeming Polytheism amongst the Pagans, which
was really nothing but the polyonymy of one
God, an d 'th eir personating his several powers ;
but also of another more strange and puzzling
phenomena in their theology, namely, their pei*-*
sonating also the parts of the world inanimate,
and things of nature, and bestowing the names 6f
gods and goddesses upon them. It was before
observed out of Moschopulus, that the Pagans
did svi ovofiari rort n|» Svva/utv xal tov-
Hnorarovvra rovry dtov ovo/iaZfiv, call the
things in nature, and the gods, which presided-
over them, by one and the same name.—As for
example, they did not only call the god, which:
presideth over those arts that operate by fire,:
Hephaestus or Vulcan, but also fire itself: and
Demeter or Ceres was not only taken by them foil
that god, who was supposed to give com and:
fruits, but also for corn itself. So Dionysus or
Bacchus did not only signify the god that giveth
wine, but also wine itself. And he instancing
further in Venus, and Minerva, and the • •^ ^
( Muses, concludes the same universally ^
of all the rest. Thus Arnobius, in his book
against the Pagans, “ in usii sermonis vestri*
M artem pro pugna appellatis, pro aqua Neptu-’
uum, Liberum Patrem pro vino,Cererem pro pane,'
Minervam pro stamine, pro obsccenis libidinis Ves
nerem.” Now we Will not deny, but that (this
was sometimes done inetonymically, the efficient
cause and the ruling or governing principle, being
put for the effect, or that which was ruled and
governed by it. And thus was war frequently,
styled M ars; and that of Terence may be taken
506 THE PARTS OF THE WORLD, AND THINGS
D
«i«.eto.. also in this sense, “ Sine Cerere et Li-
P
-3T
9. bero friget Venus.” And Plutarch (who
declares his great dislike of this kind o flanguage
conceives, that there was no more at first in it
than this; uoirtp it/trnc to m
v
o
v
jju
v
o
v fiifiXia IlX onm c,
livtuOtu ijxtfitv IlXarwva, km MivavSpog rov wroteptmafiat
lit MtvavBpov mviftaTa vnortdipevov, ovrtof inivot, rote
tuv Oauv ovofian r i rwv O
hO
v 8t*pa Kal vonj/uarct KaXtiv
owe c^etSovro, rifutvng wni \ptlag km tnfivwovrtg' A s
we, when one buys the books of Plato, com­
monly say, that he buys P lato; and when one
acts the plays of Menander, that he acts M enan­
der; so did the ancients not spare to call the gifts
and effects of the gods, by the names of those
gods respectively, thereby honouring them also
for their utility.— B ut he grants, that afterward
this language was by ignorant persons abused,
and carried on further, and that not without
• great impiety ; d 8t vanpoi d-KaiMriog
fisvoi m l apadwg avaoTptyovrtc, farl rode dead?
va wi£ti\ rwy Kapvwv k
al rap irapovolag ru v dvaym lm t m i
airoicpinpuc, Srtwv yeviaug m l <f>8opag, o i vpoaayopeiovng
fiSvov, aX
X
a m l vo^ovnc, ardirwv m l vapavdpwv mlrc-
rapaypiviov 8o?wv odrodc iviirXnaav' Their follow- *
ers mistaking them, and thereupon ignorantly
attributing the passions of fruits (their appear­
ances and occultations) to the gods themselves,
that preside over them, and so not only call­
ing them, but also thinking them to be the ge­
nerations and corruptions of the gods, have by
this means filled themselves with absurd and
wicked opinions.—W here Plutarch well con­
demns the vulgar both amongst the Egyptians and
Greeks, for that, in their mournful solemnities,
they sottishly attributed to the gods the passions
Or NATURE, PERSONATED AND DEIFIED. 507
belonging to the fruits of the earth, thereby in
*
*
deed making them to be gods. Nevertheless tb&
inanimate parts of the world, and things of na­
ture, werefrequently deified by the Pagans, not;
only thus metonymically, but also in a further
sense, as Cicero plainly declares; “Turn illud,
quod erat a Deo natum, nomine ipsius Den.d.ml
Dei nuncupabant, ut cum fruges Cere-
remappellamus,vinumautem Liberum: *
9
8
7
-J '
turn autem resipsa, inquavis inest major, sic ap­
pellator, ut ea ipsa res norainetur Deus.” Both
that which proceeds from God, is called by the
name of agod, as corn is sometimes thus called
Ceres, and wineLiber; andalso whatsoever hath
any greater force in it, that thing itself is often
called agod too. Philo also thus representsthe
religion of the Pagans, as firstdeifying-corporeal
inanimatethings, andthenbestowingthoseproper
personal names upon them: eKreOewKam D
eD
eclJ “
“
yap oc fisv rag rtooapag apyag, y>iv, Kal vStup, p.7**»r5S-
Kal aepa, k at irvp' oi S’ r/Xiov k m <reXijv)jv k m root
aXXovc irXavqrag, k m arrXavug a<rrepag' dt 'Be ftovov rSv
ovpavov, ot Be ovprravra Koapov' rov S’ aworirto k m wpea^
ftvrarov, rov ytvtiTrjv, rov apyovra Trig jj.tyaX.rig iroAtwg,
rov arpanapyriv rvg ar/rrjjrov arpanag, tov kv/3fpvi}rt|v Sc-
oucovo/m aarnipiutg ael airavra, iraptKaXwpavro, \ptvBwvvpovg
wpoopr)<retg tKttvoig erriftiptaavreg, erspag erepot* KaXovot y ip
rijv ynv Kopijv, AgpriTpa, IlXovrevva* rtjv Si OaXaaaav
IIoo’
EtSwva, Saipovag evaXiovg virapyovg attnp rrpoaava-
nXaTTovreg, &C. ’Hpav Se rov atpa, Kal to irvprfH$ai~
otov, Kal r/Xiov ’ATroXXwva, Kal (T«X
»/vtjv ’
'Aprtpiv, & C.-
Some have deified the four elements, theearth,
the water, the air and the fire: somethe sun and
themoon, andtheplanets and fixed stars: others
the heaven, others the whole world. But that
508 TBS PARTS OP THS WORLD, AMD THINGS
highestand most ancient Being, the parent of all
things, the chiefprince of this great city, and the
emperor of this invincible army, who governeth
all things salntiferdusly, him have they covered,
concealed, and obscured, by bestowing counter­
feit personal names of gods upon each of these
things. For the earth they called Proserpina,
Pluto, and Ceres; the sea Neptune, under whom
they place many demons and nymphs also as his
inferior ministers;the air Juno; the fireVulcan;
the sun Apollo; the moon Diana, &c. and dis­
secting the heaven into two hemispheres, one
above the earth, theotherunderit, they call these
theDioscuri, feigning themtolive alternately one
one day, and the other another.—
-We deny not
here, but that the four elements, as well as the
sun, moon, and stars, were supposed by some of
the Pagans to be animated with particular souls
of their own, (which Ammianus Marcellinus*
seemsprincipally to call “spirituselementorum,”
the spirits ofthe elements—worshipped by Juli­
an) andupon that account to be so many inferior
gods themselves. Notwithstanding which, that
the inanimate parts of these were also deified by
the Pagans, may he concluded from hence; be­
cause Plato, who in his Cratylus etymologizeth
Dionysiusfromgivingofwine, andelsewherecalls
d, teg. the fruits of the earth rd A iipvrpoc & Jpa,
p
.788. tim gifts of Ceres—doth himselfnever­
theless, in compliance with this vulgar speech,
call wine and waterasmingled togetherin aglass
(or cup) to be drunk, gods: where he affirmeth,
De Leg. that acityOughtto be Bbcyv jcpart)po$ Keicpa-
!• pevrjv, o«5 fic u v o fitvo Q pew olvoc eyic^upewoc £ a ,
* Vide lib. xxi. cap. i. p, 363.
OP NATURE, PER80NATED AND DEIFIED. 5 0 9
KoXaCo/uvos S
evxovn</x>vroc trlpo*Otov, KaAifv KMvbtv'utv
Aafiojv, dyadov wd/ta k
« juirptov dmpyd£erat, 80 tein-
pered, as inacop, wherethefurious wine poured
out bubbles and sparkles, but being corrected
by another sober god,.(that is, by water) both
together make a good and moderate potion.—
*
Cicero also tells us, thatbeforethe Roman admi­
rals went to sea, they were wont to offerupa
sacrifice to the waves. But of this more after­
ward. However, it is certain, that mere acci­
dents and affections of things in nature were by
these Pagans commonlypersonated and deified;
as Time, in Sophocles’Electra,* is agod; Xpe-
vo?yap cv'fxapvg 0£oc, for Time is an easy, god:—
and Love, in Plato’s Symposium, whereit is won­
dered at, that no poet had evermade a hymn r£
>
'Eptm T
j/X
u
c
o
v
T
<
f> 6vri tea
ltooovtw>Otip, to Love, being
such andsogreatagod.—Though thesamePlato,
in his Pbilebus, when Protarchus had called
Pleasure a goddess too, was not willing to com­
ply so far therewith vulgarspeech; roS
’ifjtov S
^
o
C
,
<
3IIpolrap^t, aftirpocra rw
w0tvv ovo/tara ovk faretear
avOpwrov, dWa irlpa ro
wfuylarov tpofiov' km vvv t
*
/v/uv
'A
^poStrqv, o
t
d
)ticelvy flAov, ravrtivirpoaayopevtj, n)v3
1
q
S
ovq
v olSa u
»
ct<
m tro
u
ctX
o
v
* My fear, O Protar­
chus, concerning the names of the gods is ex­
traordinary great: wherefore, as: to Venus, I
am willing to call her what she pleases to be
called; but Pleasure, I know, is a various and
multiform thing.—
•Wherefore, it cannot be de­
nied, but that the Pagans did in some sense or
other deify or theologize, all the parts of the
* Ex Stobaeo aptid Hug. Grot. Excerpt, veter. Comicor. et Tragic.
p.flG.:
610 THE PAGANS*
world, and thingsofnature. Whichwe conceive
to have been done at first upon no other ground
than this, because God was supposed by them,
not only to permeate and pervade all things, to
be diffused through all, and to act in and upon
all, but also to be himself in ftmannerall things;
which they expressed after this way, by person­
ating the things of nature severally, and bestow­
ing the names ofgods and goddesses upon them.
Only we shall.here observe, that this was done
especially (besides the greater partsofthe world)
to twosortsof things; first, such inwhich human
Utilitywas most concerned: thus Cicero, “ Mul-
N .D .i.ii,p. tsealiaenaturae deorutn ex inagnis bene-
*
*
*
• ficiis eorum, non sine causa, et a G
rae-
cise sapientibns, et a majoribusnostris, constitutae
nominataeque suntMany other naturesof gods
have beenconstitutedandnominated, both bythe
wisemenof Greece, andbyourancestors, merely
for the great benefits received fromthem.—The
reason whereof is thus given by him; “ Quia
quicquid magnam utilitatem generi afferrethu-
mano, id non sine divina bonitate erga homines
fieri arbitrabantur:” Because they thought, that
whatsoever brought any great utility to mankind,
this was not without the Divine goodness.—Se­
condly, such as were most wonderful and extra­
ordinary, or surprising; to which that ofSeneca
seems pertinent, “ Magnorum fiuminum capita
Bp. 41. [p. veneramur; subita et ex abdito vasti
o
p
c
r]H
a' amn*
s eruptio aras habet: coluntur
aquavum calentium fontes; et stagna
quaedam vel opacitas vel immensaaltitudo sacra-
yit,” We adore the rising heads and springs of
great rivers; every sudden and plentiful eruption
PHYSIOLOGICAL THEOLOGY. All
Of waters out of the hidden caverns of the earth
hath its altars erected to it; and some pools have
been made sacred for their immense profundity
and opacity.
Now this is that, which is properly.called the
physiological theology of the Pagans, theirper­
sonating and deifying (in a certain sense) the
things of nature, whether inanimate substances,
or the affections of substances. A great part of
which physiological theology was allegorically
contained in the poetic fables of the gods. Eu­
sebius, indeed, was of opinion, that those poetic
fables were atfirstonly historical andherological,
but thatafterwardssomewentaboutto allegorize
them into physiological senses, thereby to make
them seem the less impious and ridiculous:
rotavrti ijw ra rife iraXaiag OeoXoylag, ijv fxrraf3a~ pr ^ ^
Aovrtc viot rtvie, yf&t; icat rrptSrjv im fvivn g , \o -
yucwTtpov rt fikooofetv av^ovvrtg, ttjv Bk fw n -
Kwripav rne irepi 9ttov iarop ia; §o£av «<nrfi<ravro, trtfivo-
rspac evpeoxoAo-y/ac ro lj fivOotg irpootTrivotyravrtg, &C. 0epa-
irtvaai Bi ovv ofitog otSe to varpucov afiapnifia irpodvfiifiev-
rtg, «rt QvoucaQ Biiyyrittu; Ktu Oftopiaq rove pvOovg fieriaK eua-
oavto’ SuchwastheancienttheologyofthePagans
(namely, historical, of men deceased, that were
worshipped for gods) which some late upstarts
have altered, devising other philosophical and
physiological senses of those histories of their
gods, that they might thereby render them the
more specious, and hide the impiety of them.
For they being neither willing to abandon those
fopperies of their forefathers, noryet themselves
able to bearthe impiety of these fables (concern­
ing thegods) according totheliteral senseofthem
have gone aboutto cure them thus by physiolo-
5 1 2 f - THE PAGANS’
gical interpretations.—Neither can it be doubted;
but that there was some mixture of herology and
history*>in the poetic mythology; nor denied,
that the Pagans of latter times, such as Porphy-
rius and others, did excogitate and devise cer­
tain new allegorical senses of their own, such as
never were intended; Origen, before both him and
,i.la.o.ceis. Porphyry, noting this ofthe Pagans, that
r.i*3. , , when the absurdity of their fables con­
cerning the gods was objected and urged against
them, some O f them did Trepi tovtwv a ir o X o y o v fitv o i or
aXXiryoptac K
ara<
f>
evyuv, apologizing for these things,
betake themselves to allegories.—But long before
the times of Christianity, those first Stoics, Zeno,
Cleanthes and Chrysippus, were famous for the
great pains which they took in allegorizing these
poetic fables of the gods. Of which. Cotta in
Cicero1 thus; “ Maguam molestiam suscepit et
tainime necessariam primus Zeno, post Cleanthes,
deinde Chrysippus, commentitiarum fabularum
reddere rationem, et vocabulorum, cur quidque
ita appellatum sit, causas explicare. Quod cum
facitis, illud profecto confitemini, longe aliterrem
se habere atque hominum opinio sit; eos, qui Dii
appellantur, rerum naturas esse, non figures Deo-
rum.” Zeno first, and after him Cleanthes and
Chrysippus, took a great deal more pains than
was needful, to give a reason ofall those commen-
tatious fables of the gods, and of the names that
eyery thing was called by. By doing which they
confessed, that the matter was far otherwise than
according to men’s opinion, inasmuch as they,
who are called gods in them, were nothing but
* DeNat Dew. lib.ii. cap. xxiv. p.8069. ton. is. oper.
PHYSIOLOGICAL THEOLOGY. 513
the natures of things. From whence it is plain,
that, in the poetic theology, the Stoics took it for
granted, that the natures of things were person­
ated and deified, and that those'gods were not
animal, nor indeed philosdphical, but fictitious,
and nothing but the things of nature allegorized.
Origen also gives us a taste of Chrysippus’s
thus allegorizing, in the interpreting an
obscene picture or table of Jupiter and ,T
'P
Juno, in Samos J Xiyu yap iv rots iavrov avyypdp/tamv
o atfivof <
f>iX
o<ro<poc, ort rove airtpparucovg Xoyovc rov fftai
V vXij xupaBeZ/uft&ni, tyti iv iamy, tie KaraKoaptfaiv r«3v>'
dXtvv* vXtj yap ij iv np xara rijv Sapov ypcK^ij, ij rfHpa, teal o
fledcoZe
»c‘ This grave philosopher, in his writings,
saitb, that matter having received the spermatic;
reasons of God, containetb them within itself for
the adorning of the whole world; and that Juno,
in this picture in Samos, signifies Matter, and Ju ­
piter God.—Upon which occasion that pious fa­
ther ad(ls, teal Sid Taira St) tifmg, xal Sid rove roiovrovc.
juvdovc kal aXXove pvptovg, odSt p i\p i ovdfiarog 6eXoptv
Ala Ka\uv rov iir\vdtn fftdv, aXXa Kaffapav tvaij3fiav etg tdv
SrifuoupyovdaKovvrtg, ovSi psypiovoparog \palvopsv ra ffia'
For the sake of which, and innumerable other
such-like fables, we will.never endure to call the1
God over all by the name of Jupiter, but, exer­
cising pure piety towards the Maker of the world,
will take care ;not to defile Divine things with
impure names.—And here we see again, accord­
ing to Chrysippua’s interpretation, that Hera :or:
Juno was no animal nor real god, but only the;
nature of matter personated and. deified; that is,
a mere fictitious and poetic god. And we think
it is unquestionably.e'videbt.froin Hesiod’s Theo-
gonia, that many of these poetic .fables, accord-
VOL. II. 2 L
614 THIS PHYSIOLOGICAL THEOLOGY
ing to their first intention, were really nothing'
else but physiology allegorized; and consequently
those gods nothing but the natures of things per­
sonated and deified. Plato himself, though no
friend to these poetic fables, plainly intimates as
p. m. much, in his second De Rep. mi fe o p a -
£p. 430.] \la c oauc ^Oprjpoc irtnoltiKtv, ov rdfxtStKriov
etc tiiv troXiv, ovt iv virovotatc mrooifilMC, (At avtv
vvovouov' o yap vtoc, ou^ oioq te Kplmv o, n r t vwOvota
m
m o fin' The fightings of the gods, and such
other things, as Homer bath feigned concerning
them, ought not to be admitted into our common­
wealth, whether they be delivered in way of alle­
gory, or without allegories; because young men■
■
are not able to judge when it is an allegory, and
when not.—And it appears from Dionysins Ha-
licarnass. that this was the general opinion con­
cerning the Greekish fables, that some of them
were physically, and some tropologically allfe-
L fi p 68 8°rical '• ptjSuc u?roXdj3oi pc ayvoeiv, art run)
EX
X
jjvucw
v ftvOwv tu n TivtgavOpolirotc\pv<npot,.
otptv EtriSeucvvpcvMra tijcjAatioc epya St aXXiryojptac, ot
St mpttfxvQlaf tvttca avyKttftevot rwvdvOpurrtuov <rvp^op<Jv,
&c. Let no man think me to be ignorant, that
some of the Greekish fables are profitable to
men, partly as declaring the works of nature by
n. d. i. s. ^allegories, partly as being helpful for
|&p**xiT. hdmanlife, &c. Thus also Cicero, “ Alia
p.2990.] quoque ex ratione, et quidem physica,
maguafluxit raultitujlo Deorum, quiinduti specie
humana fabulas podtis suppeditaverunt, hominum
autem vitam superstitione omni refercerunt.”
Eusebius,* indeed, seems sometimes to cast it
as an imputation upon the whole Pagan theology,
* Pr»par. Bvsng. lib.iii. cap.i. '
NOT VARRO’s NATURAL. 615
that it did Oeid&tv n}v'arpvyov ovoiav, deify the inani­
mate nature—but this is properly to be under­
stood of this part of their theology only, which
was physiological, and of their mythology or poe­
tic fables of the gods allegorized ; it being other­
wise both apparently false, and all one as to make
them downright Atheists. For he that acknow­
ledges no animant God, as hath been declared,,
acknowledges no God at all, according to the
true notion of him; whether he derive all things
from a fortuitous motion of matter, as Epicurus
and Democritus did, or from a plastic and or­
derly, but senseless nature, as some degenerate
Stoics, and Strato the Peripatetic; whose Athe­
ism seems to be thus described by Manilius :*
Ant neque terra patrem novit, nee flamma, necaer,
Aut humor, faciuntque Deum per quatuor artus,
£ t rnuudi straxere globum, probibentque reqniri
Ultra se quidquam.
Neither ought this physiological theology of
the Pagans, which consisted only in personating^
and deifying inanimate substances, and the na­
tures of things, to be confounded (as it hath been
by some late writers') with that philosophical
theology of Scaevola, Varro and others, (which
was called natural also, but in another sense, as
true and real) it being indeed but a part of the po­
etical first, and afterward of the political theolo­
gy, and owing its original much to the fancies of
poets, whose humour it was perpetually to per­
sonate things and natures. But the philosophic
theology, properly so called, which, according to:
Varro,b was that, “ de qua multos libros philo-
* Astronomic, lib. i. ver. 137. - ,
bApud Augustin, dc Civit Dei. lib. v. cap. v. p. 110. tom. viLoper.
2 l 2
516 THIS PHYSIOLOGICAL THEOLOGY
sophi reliquerunt;” as it admitted none but animal
gods, and such as really existed in nature, (which
therefore werecalled natural)namely one supreme,
universal Numen, a perfect soul or mind compre­
hending all, and his wrovpyoi Swajuac, other inferior,
understanding beings his ministers created by
bim, such as stars and demons, so were all those
personated gods, or natures of things, deified in
the arcane theology, interpreted agreeably there­
unto. V
St. Austin often takes notice of the Pagans
thus mingliug, and, as it were, incorporating phy­
siology with their theology, he justly condemning
the same: as in his forty-ninth epistle; a<
<Neque
illinc excusant impii sua sacrilega sacra et simul-
achra, quod eleganter interpretantur quid quaeque
significant: oronis quippe ilia interpretatio ad crea-
turatn refertur, non ad creatorem, cui uni debetur
servitus religionis, ilia quae utio nomine Latria
Graece appellatur.” Neither do the Pagans suf­
ficiently excuse their sacrilegious rites and images
from hence,; because they elegantly (aud ingeni­
ously) interpret, what .each of those things signi­
fied!. For this interpretation is referred to the
creature, and not to .the Creator, to whom alone
belongeth religious worship, that which by the
Greeks is called Latria.—And again in his book
De Civ. D. 1. vi. c. viii. “ At enitn habent ista phy-
siologicas quasdam (sicut aiunt) id est, natura-
liura rationurn interpretationes. Quasi vero nos
in hac disputatione physiologiain quaeramus, et
non theologiam; id e|t, rationem naturae, et non
D ei., Quamvis enim qui verus Deus est, non
! Epist cii. Q uaestiii.xx. p. 212. torn, ii. oper. edit. Renedictin.
NOT VARROS NATURAL. 517
opinione sed natura sit Deiis; non tamen ononis
nature Deus est.” But the Pagans pretend, that
these things have certain physiological interpret
tattoos, or according to natural reasons; as if in
this disputation we sought for physiology, and
not theology, or the reason of nature, and not of
God. For although the true God be not in opi­
nion only, but in nature God, yet is not every
nature God.—But certainly the first and chief
ground of this practice of theirs, thus to theolo­
gize physiology, and deify (in one sense or other)
all the things of nature, was no other than what
has been already intimated, their supposing God
to be not only diffused through the whole world,
and in all things, but also in a manner all things;
and that therefore he ought to be worshipped in
all the things of nature, and parts of the world-.
Wherefore these personated gods of the Pa­
gans, or those things of nature deified by thein,
and called gods and goddesses, were for all that
by no means accounted,, by the intelligent amongst
them, true and proper gods. Thus Cotta in Ci­
cero: “ Cumfruges Cererem, vinum Li-DoN.n.i.as.
bernni dicimus, genere nos quidem ser- 307/.°'
monis utimur usitato: sed ecquem tamtom
-“*
3
amentern esse putas, qui illud, quo vescatur, Deura
esse credat ?” Though it be very common and fa­
miliar language amongst us, to call corn Ceres,
and wine Bacchus, yet who can think any one to
be so mad, as to take that to be really a god,
which he feeds upon ?-—
1
The Pagans really ac­
counted that only for a god, by the worshipping
-and invoking whereof they might reasonably ex­
pect benefit to themselves, and therefore nothing
was truly and properly a god to them, but what
5 1 8 NOTHING INANIMATE, KEALLY
was both substantial, and also animant and intel-
l . i, d« Lag. lectuai. For Plato wiites, that the athe-
[p. 663.] istic wits of his time therefore con­
cluded the sun and moon, and stars, not to be
gods, because they were nothing but earth and
stones (or a certain fiery matter) devoid of all un­
derstanding and sense; and for this cause,, ©
u$ev
rvv dvBpunruwv irpayitaruv fpovn£«v Swdfifva, unable
to take notice of any human affairs.—And Aris­
totle s affirmeth concerning the gods in general,
Zpv rc x d v r t c vvaXitfanv avrovc, teat t v t p y t t v ipa, &C.
that all men conceived them to live, and conse­
quently to act, since they cannot be supposed to
sleep perpetually as Endymion did.—The Pagans
universally conceived the gods to be happy ani­
mals; and Aristotle there concludes the happiness
Ofthem all to consist in contemplation. Lucretius
himself would not debar men of that language
(then vulgarly received amongst the Pagans) of
calling the sea Neptune, corn Ceres, wine Bac­
chus, and the Earth the mother of the gods too,
provided that they did not think any of these, for
all that, to be truly and really gods:
L. ii. p. i 65. Hie siqois mare Neptunian, Cereremque vocare
[ver. 654. Constituit fruges, et Bacchi nomine abuti
p.380. ed. Mavolt, quam laticis proprium proferre vocamen;
Harereamp.j Concedamus, ut hie terrarum dictitet orbem
Esse doom matrem, dum non sit re tamen apse.
And the reason, why the earth was not really a
goddess, is thus given by him;
Terra quidem vero caret omni tempore sensu.
Because it is constantly devoid of all manner of
N.n.Mi. sense.—Thus Balbus in Cicero tells us,
p.22o. that the first thing included in the notion
*Magn. Moral, lib. v. cap. viii. p» 184. tom. iii. oper.
A GOD TO THE PAGA1*0. 5 1 9
or idea of a god is this: “ Ut sit aaunans,” That it
be animant;—or endued with life, sense, and un­
derstanding. And he conceiving the stars to be
undoubtedly such, therefore concludes them to be
gods: “ Quoniam tenuissimus est aether, et semper
agitatur et viget, necesse ,est, quod animal in eo
gignatur, idem quoque sensu acerrimo esse. Qua-
re cum in aBthere astra gignantur, consentaneum
est in iis sensum inesse et intelligentiam. Ex quo
efficitur in deorum nunaeroastra esse ducenda.”—
Because the ether is most subtile, and in conti­
nual agitation, that animal, which is begotten in
it, must needs be endued with the quickest and
sharpest sense. Wherefore since the stars are be­
gotten in the ether, it is reasonable to think them
to have sense and understanding; from whence
it follows, that they ought to be reckoned in the
number ofgods.—And Cotta in the third n.h.d.
book affirms, that all men were sofer p-**1 ?-
from thinking the stars to be gods, that •
“ multi ne
animantes quidem esse conqedant,” many would
not so much as admitthem to be animals—
1
-plain­
ly intimating, that unless they were animated, they
could not possibly be gods. Lastly. Plu- d*is.<*o«.
taroh,•for this very reason, absolutely p 377‘
condemns that whole practice.of giving tbenameS
of gods and goddesses to inanimate things, a$ ab­
surd, impious, and atheistical; «w
»ch**
vqwwh $o£ac, avaiaO^rmc, *<u
dvayKaiue Sir’ avOptlviwv &opfvft>p jyxufdwwt fwttn
vpayjioaiv oyo/itn* fkfOy ijriftgfnrrtc' J
O
buth per -yap «m*
vonaai 0«aue o|ok tertv’ ,«i yap of*, wills aifajfov dvOpsmac
6 foot* They, who give'tl^namesof gods to sense-
less and inanimate naturesaud things, and; such
as are destroyed by men in.tbe use of them, beget
620 NOTHING INANIMATE, REALLY
roost wicked and atheistical opinions in the minds
of men; since it cannot be conceived, how these
things should be gods, for nothing, that is inani­
mate, is a god.—And now we have very good rea^
son to conclude, that the distinction or division of
Pagan god8 (used by some) into animal and natu­
ral (by natural being meant inanimate) is utterly
■to be rejected, if we speak of their true and pro*
per gods; since nothing was such to the Pagans
but what had life, sense and understanding.
Wherefore those personated gods; that were no­
thing but the natures of things deified, as such,
were but “ dii commehtitii et fictitii,” counterfeit
and fictitious gods—or, as Origen calls them in
that place before cited, r a 'EAXtfvwvavairXdtXfxara, <r«-
fiaTanoiuadai S
o
k
o
v
vra aVo ruv irpay/tarcov, figments of
the Greeks (aiid other Pagans) that were but
things turned into persons and deified.—"Neither
can there be any other sense made of these per­
sonated and dei6ed things of nature, than this,
that they were all of them really so many several
names of one supreme God, or partial considera­
tions of him, according to the several manifesta­
tions of himselfin his works. Thus, according to
the old Egyptian theology before declared,-God
-is said to have both no name, and every name; or,
as it is expressed in the Asclepian Dialogue,
“ Cum non possit uno quamvis e multis composito
nomine nuncupari, potius omni nomine vocandus
est, siquidem sit unus et omnia; ut necesse sit,
•aut omnia ipsius nomine, aut ipsum omnium no­
mine nuncupari.” Since he cannot be fully de­
clared by any one name; though compounded of
never so many, therefore is he rather to be called
tby every -'name, -he being -both ,one and all things:
A GOD TO THE PAGANS. 521
so that either every thing must be called by his
name, or he by the name of every thing.—With
which Egyptian doctrine Seneca* seemeth also
folly to agree, when he gives this description of
God, “ Cui nomen omne convenit,” He to whom
every',name belongeth—and when he further de­
clares thus concerning bim, “ Quaecunque voles
illi uominaaptabis;”and, “ Tot appellationes ejus
possunt esse, quot munera,” You may give him
whatsoever names you please, &c.—and, There
may be as many names of him as there are gifts
and effects of his;—and, lastly, when he makes
God and nature to be really one and the same
thing, and every thing we see to be God. And
the writer De Mundo* is likewise consonant here­
unto, when he affirmeth, that God is iraonciirww
f/og art iravrbw avro$ am o? wv, Or, may be de>
nominated from every nature, because he is the
cause of all things.—We say, therefore, that the
Pagans in this their theologizing of physiology,
and deifying the things of nature and parts of the
world, did accordingly call every thing by the
name God, or God by the name of every thing.
■Wherefore these personated and deified things
of nature were not themselves' properly and di­
rectly worshipped by the intelligent Pagans (who
acknowledged no inanimate thing for a god) so
as to terminate their worship ultimately in them;
but either relatively only to the supreme God, or
else at most in way of complication with him,
•whose effects and images ihey are; so that they
were not so much themselves worshipped, as God
was worshipped in them. For these Pagans pro-
a De Bencfic. lib. iv. cap. vii. p. 427, tom. i. oper.
............* Cap. vii. p. 869. tom. r. oper. Arbtot.. . . .........
522 NOTHING INANIMATE, REALLY
P . *86.
joiim
n,O
r»t. fessed, that they did rov ovpaiiQv^ui waf-
4. [p. 148.] ipypQi pffig (iawtp tu fiamaififvra (kotp&v, look
upon the beaveu (and world) not slightly and su­
perficially ; nor as were brute animals, who take
notice of nothing, but those sensible phantasms,
which from the objects obtrude themselves upon
them—or else, as the same Julian, in thatoration,
again more hilly expresseth it, nv ovpavov
o v \ irrirovt kuI fi««c ofH}v, iri rwv aXo-
■ywv ical a/i«0<iiv Zfiivv' aXXd avrov rov Qavspov ryv a^a-
vij TTokvxpaypiw
tu><
j>
w
n
v' Not view and contemplate
the heaven and world, with the same eyes that
oxen and horses do, but so as from that, which is
Visible to their.outward senses, to discern and
discover another invisible nature under it.—That
is, they professed to heboid all things with reli­
gious eyes, and to see God in every thing, not
•only as pervading all things, and diffused through
all things, but also as being in a manner all things.
Wherefore they looked upon the whole world as
a sacred thing, and as having a kind of divinity
in:it; it being, according to their theology, no­
thing but God himself visibly displayed. And
thus was God worshipped by the Pagans, in the
whole corporeal world taken all at once together,
or in the universe, under the name of Pan. As
•they also commonly conceived of Zeus and Jnpi-
ter, after the same manner; that is, not abstractly
only (as we now use to conceive of God) but con­
cretely,. together with all .that .which proceedeth
and emaneth from him, that is, the whole world.
And as God was thus described in that old Egyp­
tian monument, to be “ all that was,'is, and shall
be;” so was it before observed out of Plutarch,
that the Egyptians took the first God, and the
A GOD TO THE PAGANS. . 523
Huiverse, for one and the same thing; not only be­
cause they supposed the supreme God virtually
to contain all things within himself, but also be­
cause they were wont to conceive of him, together
with his overflowing, and all the extent of his fe­
cundity, the whole world displayed from him, all
at once, as one entire thing. Thus likewise do
the Pagans in Pla.to confound rov fdyur- DeL«g. i.wi.
to* fleow
, and oAov rov K
pof*»v, the greatest p*821-
God, and the whole world together, as being but
one and the same thing. And this notion was so
familiar with these Pagans, that Strabo .
himself,, writing of Moses, could not con- p‘
ceive of bis God, and of the God of the Jews, auy
otherwise than thus; to w t p i y w o/uac airavrac, k« y**,
iccu OaXarrav, 6 KaXovfitv ovpavov jcat Koapiov, ical n]v rciiv
oA
w
v fvm v, namely, that which containetb us all,
and the earth, and the sea, which we call the hea-
yeu and world, and the nature of the whole.—By
which, notwithstanding, Strabo did not mean the
heaven or world inanimate, and a senseless nature,
bat an Understanding Being, framing the whole
world, and containing the same which was con­
ceived together with it: of which therefore he tells
us, that, according to Moses, no wise man would
go about to make any image or picture, resem­
bling any thing here amongst us. From whence
we conclude, that when the same Strabo** writing
of the Persians, aflirmeth of them, that they did
rov ovpavov qyturO
atA«», take the heaven for Jupiter;
and also Herodotus" before him, that they did
k
v
k
X
o
v xavra rov ovpsvou Am
i jc
o
X
c
m
i, call, the whole
circle of the heaven Jupiter—that is, the supreme
God ;: the meaning of neither of them was, that
the body of the heaven inanimate was to them the
' tih.n.f.007. hIuib.icxxxi.p.65.
52 1 THE PAGAN THEOLOGER8 APPROVING
highest God, but that though he were an under­
standing nature, yet framing the whole heaven or
world, and containing the same, he was at once
conceived together with it. Moreover, God was
worshipped also by the Pagans, in the several
parts of the world, under several names; as, for
example, in the higher and lower ether, under
those names of Minerva and Jupiter; in the air,
under the name of Juno; in the fire, under the
name of Vulcan; in the sea, under the name of
Neptune, &c.' Neither can it be reasonably
doubted, but that when the Roman sea-captains
sacrificed to the waves, they intended therein to
worship that God, who acteth in the waves, and
whose wonders are in the deep.
But, besides.this, the Pagans seemed to appre­
hend a kind of necessity of worshipping God,
thus, in his works, and in the visible things of
this world, because the generality of the vnlgar
were then unable to frame any notion or concep­
tion at all ofan invisible Deity; and, therefore, un­
less they were detained in a way of religion, by
such a worship of God as was accommodate and
suitable to the lowness of their apprehensions,
would unavoidably run into Atheism. Nay, the
most philosophical wits amongst them confessing
God to be incomprehensible to them, therefore
seemed themselves also to stand in need of some
sensible props, to lean upon. This very account
-is given by the Pagans, of their practice, in Eu-
Pr Er 1 iii S c b iu s; acRtijuarwc icai afavwe ev waaiv ovra
•c. xiii. 0 to v , Kat S ia ira v rw v Siy/covra, jcai tovtOv tuco-
rwc &atio
v StSriX
ojfitvcov ffffieiv $am, that God being
jncorporeally and invisibly present in all things,
and pervading or passing through all things, it
was reasonable, that men should worship him, by
OF WORSHIPPING GOO IN HIS WORKS. 525
and through those things that are visible and
manifest.—Plato likewise represents this D
e^ , v
S
as the opinion of the generality of Pagans p-8*i-ip-
in his time, TOP fityiarov diov, Kat dX
ov t o v ^
Koopov (pafitv ovrt £»rrttv & tv, oure iroXuirpaypovttv, tae «*•
riaf tpewiovrac" o«I yapovS ooiov tivai' That as for the
greatest God, and the whole world, men should
not busily and curiously search after the know­
ledge thereof, nor pragmatically inquire into the
causes of things, it being not pious for them so to
do.—The meaning whereof seems to be no other
than this, that men ought to content themselves
to worship God in his works, and in this visible
world, and not trouble themselves with any fur-
ther curious speculations concerning the nature of
that, which is incomprehensible to them. Which
though Plato professeth his dislike of, yet does
that philosopher himself elsewhere plainly allow
of worshipping the first invisible God in those vi­
sible images, which he hath made of himself, the
sun and moon, and stars. Maximus Ty- Di»»rt.:.
rius doth indeed exhort men to ascend 12‘^ ’
up, in the contemplation of God, above all cor­
poreal things ; r& oc rye 0S00 ov% o ovpavoc, ovSt to
tv rip ovpavw oujfiaTa, (tcaXd piv y<*p ravra icai Oeaireoia,
«te tKtlvov iyyova aKpifUr km yvyaia, km irpog ro /cdXXur-
tov yppooptva) dXXd km t o v t w v ktrikuva tXfluv Set, leal
virtptcwpai t o v ovpavov, iv i rov akrfiy riirov, &C. The
end of your journey (saith he) is not the heaven,
nor those shining bodies in the heaven; for though
those be beautiful and Divine, and the genuine
ofifspriug of that supreme Deity, framed after the
best manner, yet ought these all to be transcended
by you, and your head lifted up far above the
starry heavens, &c.—Nevertheless, he closes his
5 3 6 TH E PAGAN THBOLOGERS APPROVING
discourse thus:' « % c ^ m ic irpoe «}v row r« p p
kcu Srjfjuovpyov Oiav, acKti «m ra fpya iv rtf vapovri opar,
teal irpoaicvvuv fa tyyova, iroXXa km travroStira ovra, ow-^
ova o Boiunoc ironpiic Xiyn* ow «ydp Tpiopvptot ftovov 5hn
0cov iratSeg icat tpiXot, aXX' aXjjwrot dpiBfitp' rowro fiiv tear*
tfvpavov at aaripw<f>vaug, &c. But if you be too week
and unable to contemplate that father and maker
of all things; it will be sufficient for yon for the
present to behold his works, and to worship his
progeny or offspring, which is various and mani­
fold. For there are not only, according to the
Boeotian poet, thirty thousand gods, all the sons
and friends of the supreme God, but innumerable.
And such in the heaven are the stars, in the ether
demons, &c.—Lastly, Socrates himself also did
not only allow of this way of worshipping God,
(because himself is invisible) in his works that are
visible, but also commend the same to Euthyde-
Xeooph Me- ® u8 i ®
rl ^ 7* dXtfiti \ty u , ical <nJ yvwrtj, av
6 3 3 *
]1' ir-[p- j«ij dvapkvyg, tug ow rac pop<j>dg ru v Btuv tSi/g,
aXX’ e%apicg <
tm, ra ipya avruv opuvri oifitaBai
K
al npfv to
w
cO
tovg' That I speak the truth, yourself
shall know, if you will not stay expecting, till yon
see the forms of the gods themselves, bnt count it
sufficient for you beholding their works to worship
and adore them.—Which afterward he particu­
larly applies to the supreme God, who made and
containeth the whole world, that being invisible,
he hath made himself visible in his works, and
consequently was to be worshipped and adored in
them. Whether Socrates and Plato, and their ge­
nuine followers, would extend this any further than
to the animated parts of the world, such as the
sun, moon, and stars were to them, we cannot
P. 14,15.
OP WORSHIPPING GOD IN HIS WORKS. 527
certainly determine. Bat we think it very proba­
ble, that many of those Pagans, who are charged
with worshipping inanimate things, and parti­
cularly the elements, did notwithstanding direct
their worship to the spirits of those elements, as
Ammianus Marcellinus tells us Julian did, that
is, chiefly the souls of them, all the elements being
supposed by many of these Pagans to be animat­
ed, (as was before observed concerning p
Proclus;) and partly also those demons,
which they conceived to inhabit in them, and to.
preside over the parts of them; upon which ac­
count it was said by Plato, and others of the an-'
cients, that irdvraO
em
v irXiipq, all things are full of
gods and demons.
x x x i i i . But that these physiological gods, that
is, the things of nature personated and deified,
were not accounted by the Pagans true and pro­
per gods, much less .independent and self-ex­
istent ones, may further appear from hence, be­
cause they did not only thus personate and deify
things substantial, and inanimate bodies, but also
mere accidents and affections of substances. As,
for example, first, the passions of the mind ; rd
T
fa
B
r) O
tow
; ivofuaav, V O
covg tri/njtrav, saith St. Greg.'
Nazianzen,* They accounted the passions of the
mind to be gods—or at least worshipped them as
gods; that is, built temples or altars to their
names. Thus was Hope, not only a goddess to
the poet Theognis,1
’
’EXmc iv atywrourt /xS
mBiosi*4xil Ivttmv,
*AXX« 9*oi'KvfxnrofVix^oXiwom; sBetr
(where he fancifully makes her to be the only Nu-
*Orat. xxxiv. tom. i. oper. p. 546.
bIn SentojitHs, ver. 1131>1132, p. 115.
528 ACCIDENTS AND AFFECTIONS PERSONATED
men, that was left to men in heaven, as' if the
other gods had all forsaken those mansions and
the wOvld;) but also had real temples dedicated
to her at Rome, as that consecrated by Attilius
in the Forum Olitorium, and others elsewhere,,
wherein she was commonly pictured or feigned,
as a woman, covered over with a green pall, and.
holding a cup in her hand.* Thus also Love and
Desire were gods or goddesses too, as likewise
were care, memory, opinion, truth, virtue, piety,
faith, justice, clemency, concord, victory,' &c.
Which victory was, together with virtue, reck*
oned up amongst the gods of Plautus in the pro­
logue of his Amphitryo ; and, not only so, but
that there was an altar erected to her also, near
the entrance of the'senate-house at Rome, which
having been once demolished, Symmachus earnest­
ly endeavoured the restoration thereof,- in the
reign of Theodosius; he amongst other things
writing thus concerning it,b “ Nemo colendam
neget, quam profitetur o p tan d am L et no man
deny that of right to be worshipped, which he
acknowledgeth to be wished for, and to be desir­
able.—Besides all which, Echo was a goddess
to these Pagans too, and so was Night (to whom
they sacrificed a cock) and Sleep and Death
itself, and very many more such affections of
things, of which Vossius has collected- the
largest catalogue, in his eighth book De Theolo-
gia Gentili. And this personating and deifying
of accidental things was so familiar with these
Pagans, that, as St. Chrysostom hath observed,
St. Paul was therefore said by some of the vulgar
* Vide Vossium. de Idololatr. lib. viii- cap. x. p. 748.
bEpistolur. lib. ix. Epist. Ixi. p. 441.
AND DEIFIED BY fH E PAGANS. 629
Athenians to have been a setter forth of strange
gods, “ when he preached to them Jesus and the
resurrection,” because they supposed him, not
only to have made Jesus a God, but also Anasta-
sis, or resurrection, a goddess too. Nay, this
humour of theologizing the things of nature trans­
ported these Pagans so far, as to deify evil things
also, that is, things both noxious and vicious.
Of the former Pliny thus: “ Inferi quo- h.n . i.a.
que in genera describuntur,' morbique,
et multae etiam pestes, dura esse placatas tre-
pido metu cupimus. Ideoque etiam publice febri
fanum in palatio dedicatum est, Orbonae ad aedem
lariurn ara, et malae fortune Exquiliis.” So great
is the number of these gods, that even hell, or the
state of death itself, diseases and many plagues
are numbered amongst them, whilst with a trem­
bling fear we desire to have these pacified. And
therefore was there a temple publicly dedicated
in the palace to the Fever, as likewise altars else­
where erected to Orbona, and to evil fortune.1
—
Ofthe latter, Balbus in Cicero; “ Quo ex n . d .i.ii.
geriere Cupidinis et Yoluptatis, et Lu- 1^88
bentinae Veneris, vocabula consecrata °P
*r]
sunt, vitiosarum rerum et non naturalium.” Of
which kind also are those names of lust, and
pleasure, and wanton venery, things vicious, and
not natural, consecrated and deified.—Cicero,
in his book of Laws,* informs us, that at Athens
there were temples dedicated also to contumely
and impudence, but withal giving us this censure
of such practices; “ Quae omnia ejus- GroterW._
modidetestandaetrepudianda sunt,” All »urn*'
which kind of things are to be detested otherw
l>
e’
s Lib- ii. cap. xi. p. 3354. tom. ix. open ’
■
VOL. II. 2 M
530 ACCIDENTS AND AFFECTIONS PERSONATED
and rejected, and nothing to be deified, but what
is virtuous or good.—Notwithstanding which,
it is certain, that such evil things as these were
consecrated to no other end, than that they might
be deprecated. Moreover, as these things of na­
ture, or natures of things, were sometimes dei­
fied by the Pagans plainly and nakedly in their
awn appellative names, so was this again some­
times done disguisedly, under other counterfeit
proper names: as pleasure was deified under the
names ofVolupia, and of Lubeqtina Venus; time,
(according to the opinion of some) under the
name of Cronos or Saturn, which as it produceth
all things, so devours all things into itself again;
prudence or wisdom, likewise, under the names
of Athena or Minerva. For it is plain, that Ori-
c . c e i s . I . ™ , gen understood it thus, when Celsus
421' not only approved of worshipping God
Almighty, in the sun, and in Minerva, as that
which was lawful, bat also commended it as a
thing highly pious; he making this reply ; ev+vnov-
fiev ijAiovtic JcaX
oy Oeov Stifuovpyti/ta, See. AQtfvav fievroi
ftera viXiov raaaofievnv, t/ivQowolipav oi EAAijvtov A
o-yot,
£»t tv vvovolatc, tire %<op($ xmovoiwv, ^amcovri? «e rife
row Aide yiysvvaOai (ce^aAijc, K
aO
&
nrX
urjuatyv, &C. We
speak well of the sun, as a good work of God’s,
&c. but as for that Athena or Minerva, which
Celsns here joineth with the sun, this is a thing
fabulously devised by the Greeks, (whether ac­
cording to some mystical, arcane, and allegori­
cal sense, or without it) when they say that she
was begotten out of Jupiter’s brain all armed.—
And again afterwards, iva Se k« rjm roX vpnu mu
ksyrjrtu fpmninc <mu v A6iim, If it be granted, that
by Athena, or Minerva be tropologically meant
V
AND D EIFIED BY THE PAGANS. 531
prudence, &c.—Wherefore, not only according to
the poetical, but also to the political and civil
theology of the Pagans, these accidental things
of nature, and affections of substances, personal
ed, were made so many gods and goddesses;
Cicero himself in his book of Laws approving of
such political gods as these: “ Benevero,
quod mens, pietas, virtus, fides, con- ri“
p
'.3j3 J.j
secratur manu ; quarum omnium Romas
dedicata publice templa sunt, ut ilia, qui habeant
(babent autem omnes boni) deos ipsos in animis
suis collocatos putent,” It is well, that mind,
piety, virtue, and faith, are consecrated» (all
which have their temples publicly dedicated Bit
Rome) that so they, who possess these things,
(as all good men do) may think, that they have
the gods themselves placed in their minds.—And
himself makes a law for them in his own common­
wealth, but with a cautionary provision, that no
evil and vicious things be consecrated amongst
them: " Ast olla, propter quae datur bomini ad-
scensus in coelum, mentem, virtutem, pietatem,
fidera, earumque laudum dejubra sunto. Nec
ulla vitiorum solemnia obeunto.” Let them also
worship those things, by means whereof mop
ascend up to heaven; and let there be shrines' or
temples dedicated to them. But let no religious
ceremonies be performed to vicious things.
Notwithstanding all which, according to that
theology of the Pagans, which was called by
Varro natural, (whereby is meant not that which
was physiological only, but that which is true
and real) and by Scasvola philosophical; and
which is by both opposed, not only to the poeti-
2 m 2
6 $ 2 THOSE PERSONATED AND D EIFIED .THINGS OF
cal and fabulous, but also to the political, and
civil: I say, according to this theology of theirs,
these accidental things of nature deified could by
no means be acknowledged for. true and proper
gods;' because they were so far from having any
life and sense in them, that they had not so much
as vwoaraaiv K
al ovo'tav, any real subsistence or-sub­
stantial essence of their-own. And thus does
Origen-dispute against Minerva’s godship, as tro-
Pag 4*2 pologicaily interpreted to-prudence, iva
Be kai TpOTroXoyiirai Kal Xtyifrai tppovrtaig elvai »
i
’AOr/va, irapaffTrjirara) tic; a ilrit n |» vtrodraoiv Kal -rq*>
oialav, ole afean/Kvlac Kara tijv rpoiroXoylav ravrriv" • If
Athena or Minerva be tropologized into pru­
dence, then let the Pagans shew what substantial
essence it hath, or that it really subsists.according
to this tropology.—-Which is all one, as if he
should have said, let the Pagans then shew, how.
this can be a god or goddess, which hath not so
much as any substantial essence, nor subsists by.
itself, but is a mere accidental affection of sub­
stances only. And the same thing is likewise
urged by Origen, concerning other such kind
of gods of theirs, as Memory the mother, of the
muses, and the Graces all naked, in his first.book;
where Celsus contended for a multiplicity of gods
against the Jews; that these things having not
vnoaraaiv K
al ovalav, ' any substantial essence or
subsistence, could not possibly be accounted
gods, and therefore were nothing else but ’EX
X
if-
vaiv avanXatjfiaTa aatfiaroiroufievra. airo .rwv irpayfiarwv,
mere figments of the Greeks, things made to have
human bodies, and so personated and deified.—
And we think, there cannot be a truer commen-
NATURE, NOT'TRUE AND PROPER GODS. 533
tary upon this passage of Origen’s, than these
following verses, of Prudentius, in his Pa 885
second book against Symmachns; **'
Desine, si pudor est, gcntilis ineptia, tandem
Kcs incorporeas simulatis fingere membris:
Let the Gentiles be at last ashamed, .if they have
any shame in them, of this their folly, in describ­
ing and setting forth incorporeal things, with coun­
terfeit human members.—Where accidents and
affections of things, such as victory was, (whose
altar Symmachus there contended .for the resto­
ration of) are by Prudentius called “ res incor-
poreae,” incorporeal things—accordingly as the
Greek philosophers concluded, that iroidTijree, were
aawfiarot, qualities incorporeal.—Neither is it pos­
sible, that the Pagans themselves should be in­
sensible hereof; and accordingly we find, that
Cotta in Cicero.doth for this reason ut- N
.D ,...
terly banish and explode these gods out p*
of the philosophic and true theology:
“ Num censes igitur subtiliore ratione opus esse
ad haec refellenda? Nam inentem, fidep), spem,
virtutem, honorem, victoriam, salutem, concor-
diam, caeteraque ejusmodi, rerum vim habere vi-
demus, non deorum. Aat enim in nobismet in-
sunt ipsis, ut mens, ut spes, ut tides, ut virtus, ut
concordia; aut optandae nobis sunt, ut honos, ut
salus, ut victoria. Quare autem in his. vis deorum
sit, turn intelligam, cum cognovero.” Is there any
need, think you, of any great.subtilty to confute
these things? For mind, faith, hope, virtue, ho­
nour, victory, health, concord, and the like, we
see them to have the force of things,, but not of
gods. Because they either exist in us, as mind,
6M THOBE NATURES OP TMJKGS D E IF IE D
hope* virtue, concord; or else they are desired
to happen to ns, as honour, health, victory (that
is, they are nothing but mere accidents or affec­
tions of things), and therefore how they can have
the force of gods in them cannot possibly be un­
derstood.—And again, afterwards he affirmeth,
“ Eos,, qui dii appellautur, rerum naturae esse,
non figures deornm,” that those, who, in the
allegorical mythology of Pagans, are called gods,
are really but the natures of things, and not the
true figures or forms of gods.
Wherefore since the Pagans themselves ac­
knowledged, that those personated and deified
things of nature were not true and proper gods;
the meaning of them could certainly be no other
than this, that they were So many several names,
and partial considerations of one supreme God,
as manifesting himself in all the things of nature.
For that vis or force, which Cicero* tells us, was
that in all these things, which was called G od or
deified, is really no other, than something o f God
in every thing that is good. Neither do We other­
wise understand those following words of Balbus
„ „ t .. in Cicero, “ Quarum rerum, quid vis erat
[c*p.xx»i. tanta, ut sine Deo regi non posset, ipsa
p.89*8.] res deornm nomen obtinnit:” O f which
things because tbe force is such, as that it could
not be governed without God, therefore have the
things themselves obtained tbe names of gods;—
that is, God was acknowledged and worshipped
in them all, which was paganically thus signified,
N»t.rt.la. by calling of them gods. A nd Pliny,
«<*“• though no very divine person, yet being
ingenious, easily understood this to be the mean-
•Be Natnr. Deer. lib. ii. cap. xxiii. p. 2968. tom. ix. oper.
BUT SBVERAX NAMES OF GOD. 536
ing ofit; “ Fragiliset laboriosa mortalitas in partes
ista digessit, infirmitatis suse memor, ot portioni-
bus quisque coleret, quo maxirae in d ig e re tfra il
and toilsome mortality has thus broken and
crumbled the Deity into parts, mindful of its own
infirmity ; that so every one, by parcels and
pieces, might worship that in God, which him­
self most stands in need of.—Which religion ofthe
Pagans, thus worshipping God, not entirely all
together at once, as he is One most simple Being,
unmixt with any thing, but as it were brokenly,
and by piece-meals, as he is severally manifested
in all the things of nature, and the parts of the
world, Prudentius thus perstringeth in bis second
book against Sym m achus;
Tu, me praeterito, meditaris numina mille, 236.
Quas simtilesparere meis virtuiibiis, ut me [p. 289.]
Per varias partes minuas, cui unlla recidi
Pars aut forma potest^ quia spin substantiasimplex,
Nec pars esse queo.
From which words of his we may also conclude,
that Symmachus, the Pagan, who determined, that
it was one thing, that all worshipped, and yet
would have victory, and such-like other things,
worshipped as gods and goddesses, did by these
and all those other Pagan gods beforementioned,
understand nothing but so many several names,
and partial considerations of one supreme Deity,
according to its several virtues or powers: so
that when he sacrificed to Victory, be sacrificed to
God Almighty, under that partial notion, as the
giver of victory to kingdoms and commonwealths.
It was before observed out of Plutarch, that the
Egyptian fable of Osiris being mangled That o**
and cut in pieces by Typhon, did allego- w
“ th®8a'
536 TBE PAGANS BREAKING AND CRUMBLING
prone Deity, s ig n ify th e S am e th in ?> v iz - t h e
»«tiwBgjp- one simple Deity’s being as it were di­
tto^'^tiL. vided (in the fabulous and civil theolo-
SemTc.^wii. gies of the Pagans) into many partial
considerations of him, as so many noroi-
O'VK.Oeiri. ^nal and titular gods; which Isis, notwith-
kingor iSP1
*0 standing, that is true knowledge and
*
hiogI' wisdom, according to the natural or phi­
losophic theology, unites all together into one.
And that not only such gods as these, Victory,
Virtue, and the like, but also those other gods,
Neptune, Mars, Bellona, &c. were all really but
one and the same Jupiter, acting severally in the
world, Plautus himself seems sufficiently to inti­
mate in the prologue of his Amphitryo in these
w ords;
Nam quid ego memorem, ut alios in tragoediis
Vidi, Neptunum, Virtutem, Victoriam,
Martem, Bellonam, commemorare quae bona
Vobis fecissent? Queis benefactis meus pater,
Deum regr.ator, architectus omnibus.
W hereas there was before cited a passage out
of G. I. Vossius’s book D e Theolog. Gent, which
we could not understand otherwise than thus,
that the generality of the Pagans by their politi­
cal (or civil) gods, meant so many eternal miuds
independent and self-existent; we now think our-
selves concerned to do Vossius so much right, as
to acknowledge, that we have since met with ano­
ther place of his in that same book, wherein he
either corrects the former opinion, or else declares
.himself better concerning it, after this manner:
That the Pagansgenerally conceived their political
gods to be so many substantial minds (or spirits)
not independent and self-existent, nor indeed eter-
OF THE SIMPLE D E lfY INTO PARTS. 537
nal neither, but created by one supreme Mind or
trod, and appointed by him to preside over the
several parts of the world, and things of nature,
as his ministers. Which same thing he affirmeth
also of those deified accidents and affections, that
by them were to be understood so many substan­
tial minds or spirits created, presiding over those
several things, or dispensing of them. His words
in the beginning of his eighth book, * (where he
speaks concerning these affections and accidents
deified by the Pagans) are as followeth: “ Hujus-
modi deorum prope immensa est copia. Ac in
civili quidem theologia considered solent, tan-
quam mentes quaedam, hoc honoris a sumrno Deo
sortitae, ut affectionibus istis praeessent. Nempe
crediderunt Deum, quern optimum, max. voca-
bant, non per se omnia curare, quo pacto, ut dice-
bant, piurimurn beatitudini ejus decederet, sed,
instar regis, plurimos habere ministros et minis-
tras, quorum singuloshuic illive curse praefecisset.
Sic justitia, quae et Astraea ac Themis, praefecta
erat actibus cunctis, in quibus justitia attendere-
tur; Comus curare creditus est comessationes;
et sic in caeteris id genus diis, nomen ab ea affec-
tione sortitis, cujus cura cuique commissa cre-
deretur. Quo pacto si considerentur, non aliter
different a spiritibus sive angelis bonis malisque,
quam quod hi revera a Deo conditi sint; iliac
vero mentes, de quibus nunc loqtiimur, sint fig-
mentuiii mentis human*, pro numero affectionura,
in quibus vis esse major videretur, comminiscentis
mentes affectionibus singulis praefectas. Facile
autem sacerdotes sua commenta persuadere sim-
plicioribus potuerunt, quia satis videretur verisi-
* Pag. 736.
6 3 8 THE p a g a n s ’ p o l it ic a l g o d s , s o m e t im e s
mite, sumrnse illi menti, deorum om nium regi.in-
numeras servire mentes, ut eo perfectior sit summi
dei beatitudo, tninusqne curis im plicetur; inqoe
tot famulantium numero, summi numinis majestas
magis eluceat. Ac talis quidem opinio erat tbeo-
logiae civilis.” O f such gods as these there was
an innumerable company amongst the Pagans.
And in their civil theology they were wont to be
considered; as certain minds (or spirits) appointed
by the supreme God, to preside over the affec­
tions of things; they supposing, that God, whom
they called the best, and the greatest, did not im­
mediately himself take care of every thing, since
that must needs be a distraction to him, and a
hinderance of his happiness; but that he had, as
a king, many he and she ministers under him,
which had their several offices assigned to them.
Thus justice, which was called also Astraea and
Themis, was by them thought to preside over all
those actions, in which justice was concerned ;
and Comus over all revellings; and the like.
Which gods, if considered after this manner, will
no otherwise differ from angels, good and bad,
than only in this, that these latter are beings really
created by God, but the former the figments of
men only; they, according to the number of affec­
tions, that have any greater force in them, devising
and imagining certain minds to preside over each
of them, And the vulgar might therefore be the
more easily led into this persuasion by their priests,
because it seemed reasonable to them, that that
supreme Mind, who is the King of all the gods,
should have many other minds as his subservient
ministers under him, both to free him from soli­
citous care, and also to add to his grandeur and
TH E M INISTERS OF ONE SUPREM E. 689
majesty. And such was the doctrine of the civil
theology. W here, though Vossius speak particu­
larly of that kind of Pagan gods, which were no­
thing but affections and accidents deified, (which
no man in his wits coaid possibly suppose to be
themselves true and proper gods, they having no
subsistence of their own) that these by the gene­
rality of the vulgar Pagans were conceived to be
so many created minds or spirits, appointed by
the Supreme God, to preside as his ministers over
those several affections of substances; yet does
he plainly imply the same ofall those other politi­
cal gods of these Pagans likewise, that they were
not looked upon by them, as so many unmade,
Self-existent, and independent beings, but only as
inferior minds or spirits, created by the supreme
God, and by him appointed to preside over the
several parts of the world, and things of nature,
and having their several offices assigned to them.
Wherefore, as to the main, we and Vossius are now
well agreed,viz. that the ancient Pagans asserted
no-such thing as a multitude of independent dei­
ties ; so that there only remain some particular
differences of smaller moment betwixt us.
Ourselves have before observed* that iEolus
was probably taken by Epictetus in Arrianus,
(not indeed for one, but) for many created minis­
ters of the supreme God, or demons collectively,
appointed by him to preside over the winds, in aH
the several parts of the world. And the Pagans
in St. Austin seem to interpret those deified acci­
dents, and things of nature, after the same man­
ner, as the names of certain unknown gods or
demons, (one or more) that were appointed 'to
preside over them respectively, or to dispense
5 4 0 THE p a g a n s ’ p o l it ic a l g o d s , s o m e t im e s
Or. d.i.ir. the same. “ Quoniam sciebant majores
[p. e3.,T
tom
. oostri nemini talia, nisi aliqno Deo lar-
th
. «p«r] giente eoncedi, quorum deorum nomina
non' inveniebant, eairum -rerum nominibus appel-
labant deos, quas ab iis' sentiebant d ari; aliqua
vocabula inde flectentes; siciit a bello Bcllouam
nuncupaverunt, non Bellum ; siciit a cunis Ciini-
nam, non Cunam ; sicut a segetibusSegetiam, don
Segetem; sicut a pomis Pomonam, non Pom um ;
sicut a bobus Bobonam, non Bovem. A ut certe
nulla vocabuli declinatione sicut res ipsae noini-
nantur; ut Pecunia dicta est dea, quae dat pecu-
niam, non omnino pecunia dea ipsa putata: Ita
virtus, quae dat virtutem, honor qui honorem, con-
cordia quae concordiam, victoria quae victoriam
dat. Ita, inquiunt, cum felicitas dea dicitur, non
ipsa quae datur, sed numen illud attenditur, a quo
felicitas datur.” Because our forefathers' knew
well, that these, things do not happen to any, with­
out the special gift and favour of some god; there­
fore were those gods, whose names they knew
not, called from the names of those very things
themselves, which they perceived to be bestowed
by them, there being only a little alteration made
in them ; as when the god, that causeth war, was
called not Bellum, but Bellona; the god, which
presideth over infants cradles, not Cuna, but Cu-
n in a; that which giveth corn, Segetia; aud that
which affordeth apples, Pomona, &c. But, at other
times, this was done without any declension of
the word at all, they calling both the thing, and
the god, which is the bestower of it, by one and
the self-same name. As Pecunia doth not only
signify money, but also the goddess, which giveth
THE MINISTERS OF ONE SUPREME. 541
mpney; Virtus, the goddess,' whichgiveth virtue;
Honor, the god, that bestoweth honour; Concor­
dia, the goddess, that causeth concord; Victory,
the goddess, which affordeth victory. So also
when Felicityiscalledagoddess, byitisnot meant
that thing, whichis given, but that Divine power,
fromwhence it is given.—Here, I say, the Pagans
may seem to have understood, by those deified
things of nature, certain inferiorgods ordemons
(one or more) the ministers of the supreme God,
appointed by him to preside over those several
things respectively, or to dispense thesame. Nei­
ther can we deny, but that in so much ignorance
and diversity ofopinions, as there was amongst
tbePagans,somemight possibly understand those
political gods, and deified things also, after the
way of Vossiiis, for so many single minds or
spirits, appointed to preside over those several
things respectively throughout the whole world,
and nothing else. Nevertheless, it seemeth not'
at all probable, that this should be the general
opinion amongst the civilized Pagans, that all
those gods of theirs were so manysingle created
minds or spirits, each of them appointed to pre­
side over some one certain thing every where
throughout the whole world, and nothing else.
As, forexample, thatthegoddess Victory wasone
single created sbe-spirit, appointed to bestowvic­
tory, to whosoever at any time enjoyed it, in all
parts ofthe world; and so, that the goddess Jus­
tice should be suchanother single mind orspirit,
created todispensejusticeevery where, and med­
dle with nothing else. And the.like of all those
other accidental: things, or affections deified, as
yirtue, honour, concord, felicity, &c.
6 4 2 THE p a g a n s ’ p o l it ic a l g o d s , s o m e t im e s
And Lactantius Firmianus, taking notice of
D
eE
ii.R
ei. that profession of the Pagans, to w
cnv
sth'om
o ship nothingbut one supreme God, and
lib. Leap, his subservient ministers, generated or
T
"
’p
'5
1
‘^ created by. him, (according to that of
Seneca in his exhortations, “ Genuisse regni sni
ministros Deum Thatthesupreme God hadge»
nerated other inferior ministers of his kingdom
under him,” which were called by them also
gods) plainlydenies all the Pagan gods save one,
to be the created ministers of that one supreme,
be makingthis reply; Verumhi nequedii sunt;
neque deos se vocari, aut coli volunt, &c. Nee
tamen illi sunt, qui vulgo coluntur, quorumet
exiguus et certns est numerus.” But these m
inisr
tersoftheDivine kingdom, orsubservientcreated
spirits, areneithergods, norwouldthey be called
gods, or honoured as such, See. Nor indeed are
they those gods, that are now vulgarly worship^
ped by the Pagans, of which there is but a small
and certain number.—That is, the Pagan gods
arereduced intocertain ranks, andthe numberpf
themis determined by the utilities of human life;
of which their noble and select gods are but a
few. Whereas, saith he, the ministers of the
supreme Godare, according totheirown opinion,
not twelve nor twenty, nor three hundred and
sixty, but innumerable, stars and demons.
Moreover, Aristotle, in his book against Zeno,
fa (supposing the idea of God to be this,
Zen. Gor. p. the most powerful of all things, or the
St most perfect Being)objecteth thus, that
JP"* accordingtothelaws ofcities and conn*-
tries, (that is, the civil theology) there
seems to be no one absolutely powerful Being,
THE MINISTERS OF ONE SUPREME. 5 4 3
but one god is supposed to be most powerful as
to one thing, and another as to another: tw
rep
mravra tirucpaTiorov rov Oeov \a/i(3avu tovto Swarwrarov
Ktu (3tXrujroy Xtywv, ov Soku t o v t o Kara rov vopov,
aAAa iroXXa Kpsirrove etvat aXXijXwv oi Otoi ovkovv ek
rov Sokovvtoc EtXq^t ravrqv Kara rov Ocov tjjv opoXoyiav’
Whereas Zeno takesitfor granted, that men have
an idea in their minds of God, as one the most
excellent and most powerful Being of all; this
doth not seem to be according to law, (that is,
the civil theology) forthere thegods aremutually
better one than another, respectivelyas toseveral
things; and therefore Zeno took not this consent
of mankind, concerning God, from that which
vulgarly seemeth.—From which passage of Aris­
totle’s we may well conclude, that the many poli­
tical gods of the Pagans were not all of them
vulgarly looked upon as the subservient minis­
ters of onesupreme God; andyet theygenerally
acknowledging, (as Aristotle himselfconfesseth)
a monarchy, and consequentlynotmanyindepen­
dent deities, it mustneeds follow, as Zeno doubt­
less would reply, that these their political gods
were but oneand the same supreme natural God,
as it were parcelled out, and multiplied: that is*
receiving several denominations, according to se­
veral notions of him, andas he exercisetb differ­
ent powers, and produceth various effects. And
this w e have sufficiently provedalready to have
been the general sense of the chief Pagan doc­
tors; that these manypolitical and popular gods
were butthepolyonymy ofone natural God, that
■is, either partial considerations of him, or his
various powers and virtues, effects and manifest
5 4 4 THE p a g a n s ’ POLITICAL GODH, g e n e r a l l y
tations in the world, severally personated and
deified.
And thns.dotesVossius himself,afterwards con­
fess also, that, according to the natural theology,
the many Pagan gods were but so many several
denominations of one. God; though this learned
philologer doth plainly straiten and confine the
notion of this natural theology too much, and im­
properly call the Godthereofthenatureof things.;
however, acknowledgingit such a.nature, as was
endued withsenseandunderstanding. His words .
cj are these: “ Dispar vero sententia theo-
logorum naturalium, qui non aliud nu-
raen agnoscebant,.quam naturam rerum, eoque
omnia gentium numina referebant, &c. Nempe
mens eorumfuit, sicut natura essetoccupatacirca
hanc vel illam affectionem, ita numina nomina-
que deorumvariare. . Cumigitur ubicunque vim
aliquam majorem viderent, ita divinum aliquid
crederent; eo etiam devenere, ut immanent deo­
rum dearumque fingerent catervam.. Sagaciores
interim hsec cuncta, unumesse numen aiebant;
puta rerum naturam, quae licet una foret, pro va-
riis tamen effectis varia sortiretur nomina, vario
etiamafficeretur cultu.” But the caseis very dif­
ferent as to the natural theologers, who acknow­
ledged no other god, but the nature of things,
and referred all the Pagan gods to.that. For
they conceived, that as nature:was occupied
about several things, so were the Divine powers
and the names ofgods multiplied and diversified.
And wherever they saw any greater force, there
did they presently conceit something Divine, and
by that means came they at length to feign an in-
THE POLYONOMY OP ONE OOI>.< 6 4 5
numerablecompanyofgodsandgoddesses. But
the more sagacious in the mean time affirmed all
these tobe butoneandthesame God; to wit, the
nature of things, which, though really but one,
yet according to its various effects, both received
divers names, and was worshipped after different
manners.—Where Vossius calls thesupremeGod
of these natural theologers the nature of things,
as if the natural theology had been denominated
fromphysics, ornaturalphilosophyonly; where­
as we have already shewed, thatthenatural theo­
logy of Varro and Scsevola, was ofequal extent
with die philosophic; whose only Numen, that it
wasnotablindandunintelligiblenature of things,
doth sufficiently appear fromthat history thereof
before given by us: as also that it was called na­
tural in anothersense, as real, and as opposite to
opinion, fancy, and fabulosity, or what hath no
reality of existence any where in the world.
Thus does St. Austin distinguish be- c D, v
!
twixt “natura deorum,”the true nature ^
of the gods—and “hominuminstituta,”
theinstitutesofmenconcerningthem.—Asalsohe
sets down the difference betwixt the civil and na­
tural theology, according to the mind of Varro,
in this manner: “ Fieri potest, ut in urbe, secun­
dum falsas opiniones ea colantur et credantur,
quorum in mundo vel extra mundum natura sit
nusquamIt maycometo pass, thatthosethings
may beworshipped and believed incities, accord­
ing to false opinions, which have no nature or
real existence any where, either in the world, or
without it.—Wherefore, if instead of this nature
of things, which was properly the god of none
VOL. II. 2 N
5 4 0 THE EGYPTIANS ALSO REDUCED
bat only of sachatheisticphilosophers,as Epicu­
rus and Strato, we substitute that great Mind'or
Soulofthewholeworld,whichpervadethallthings,
and is diffused through all; (which was the true
God of the Pagan Theists); this of Yossius will
be .unquestionably true, concerning,their natural
theologers, that, according to them,, those many
poetical and political gods beforementioned were
but oneandthesame natural orreal god;.who, in
respect ofhisdifferent virtues, powers,andeffects,
wascalled byseveral names, andworshippedafter
different manners; yet nevertheless so, as that,
according to those theologers, there were really
also many other inferior.ministers of this.one su­
preme God (whether celled minds or demons),
that were supposed to be the. subservient execu­
tioners of all those several powers of his. And
accordingly we had before this full and true ac­
countofthePagans’naturaltheology setdown out
of Prudentius :*
----— -■ —Id uno
Constituit jus omne Deo, cui serti&t ingens
Virtutum ratio, variis instructa mioistrte.
viz. That it acknowledged one supreme omnipo­
tent God, ruling over all, who displayeth andex-
erciseth his manifold virtues and powers in the
world (all severally personated and deifiedin the
poetic andcivil theologies), togetherwith the sub­
servient ministry of other inferiorcreated minds,
understanding beings, or demons, called also by
them gods.
* In Apotheosi, ver. 191.
THEIR GODS TO 'p E DIVINE IDEAS. 547
It is very true, as we have already declared,
that the.more high-flown Platonic Pagans did re­
duce those many poetical and political gods, aud
therefore doubtless all the personated and deified
things of nature too, to the Platonic ideas, or
firstparadigms andpatternsofthingsinthearche­
typal world, which they affirmed to have been
begotten from the supreme Deity, thatis, from
the first hypostasis of the Platonic trinity; and
which were commonly called by themvonroideal,
intelligible gods,—as if they had been indeed so
many distinct substances and persons. And, as
we have also proved out of Philo, that this high-
flown Paganic theology was ancienter thaneither
Julian or Apuleius; so do we think it not un­
worthy our observation here, that the very same
doctrineis, by Celsus, imputed also to the Egyp­
tian theologers, as pretending to worship brute
animals no otherwise than as symbols of those
eternal ideas: Kai yt w/uac rwv fisv orig.c.Cei«.
Atyuirrtwi/ KarayeXqv, Kai roe 7roXXa Kai ov *•ulp 120‘
<j>av\a TraptyovTwv alviy/iara, errav ISttav aiSlwv K a l
(a>C SoKouffi ot 7roXXot) tfxibiv i<j>r)fupi<
t>v rt/uac eivai ro
rotavra StSdaKomv’ Celsus also addeth, that we
Christians deride the Egyptians without cause,
they having many mysteries in theirreligion, for­
asmuch as they profess, that perishing bruteani­
mals are not worshipped by them, but the eternal
ideas.—According to which of Celsus it should
seem, that this doctrine of eternal ideas, asthe
paradigms and patterns of all things here below
in this sensible world, was not proper to Plato,
nor the Greeks, but common with them to the
Egyptians also. Which eternal ideas, however
2 n 2
5 4 8 . THE EGYPTIANS ALSO SEDUCED
.supposed to have been generated from that first
Divine hypostasis of the Platonic and .Egyptian
trinity, and called intelligible gods, 'were never­
theless acknowledged by them all to exist in one
Divine intellect, according to that of Plotinus,*
otic t&> row vow ra voip-a, that the intelligibles exist
no where of themselves, without Mind or Intel­
lect;—which Mind or Intellect being the second
Divine hypostasis, these intelligible and invisible
gods (however generated from God), yet are there­
fore said by Julian, in his book against the Christ­
ians, both to coexist with God, and to inexist in
him. To which purpose also is this other pas­
sage of Julian’s in his sixth oration:
P- 347. — , i > i > * . » » • -
1lavra "yap avroc «mv, Ecrcp km tv toww
Kal rap’ uvrw fj(ot rivv ovrwrovv ovrwv rac curiae" urt
aOavarwv aOavaravc« titt tTrucripwv ow tlxirac ovSl tn*
icnpowe, atStowc SI leal fitvovaag ad, at Kat rowrotc daiv
atrtat rqc auytvtaiag. For God is all things, for-
asmucb as he containeth within himself the
causes of all things that any way are; -whether
of immortal things immortal; or of corruptible
and perishing things, not corruptible but eternal
also, and always remaining; which therefore are
the causes of their perpetual generation, and
new production,—Now these causes of all things
contained in God are no other than the Divine
ideas. Wherefore, from hence it plainly appears,
that these Platonic and Egyptian Pagans* who
thus reduced their multiplicity of gods to the
Divine ideas, did not therefore make them to be
to many minds or spirits, really distinct from the
• Enncad. ▼
. lib. y. p. 619.
THEIR GODS TO THE DIVINE IDEAS. 5 4 9
supreme God (though dependent on him too),
but indeed only so many partial considerations of
one God, as being all things, that is, containing
within himself the causes of all things. And ac­
cordingly we find in Origen, that, as the 0rig e C
al<
Egyptian theologers called their religi- p- 10S-
ous animals, symbols of the eternal ideas, so did
they also call them symbols of God. Tdtw
vAiyujr-
riutv atfivoXoyovvTuiv km to irepi r<5v aXoywv km
tfraoKOVTWv ftveti rtva avra Kal Qeov ovju/3oXa* GelsUSap­
plauds the Egyptian theologers talking so mag­
nificently and mysteriously of those brute animals
worshipped by them, and affirming them to be
certain symbols of God.
And now we have given some account of the
Polyonymy of the one supreme God, in the theo­
logies of the Pagans; or of his being called by
many proper personal names, carrying with them
an appearance of so many several gods. First,
that God had many several names bestowed upon
him, from many different notions and partial con­
siderations of him, -according to his universal and
all-comprehending nature. Janus, as the begin­
ning of the world, and the first original of the
gods. Whom therefore that ancient lyric poet,
Septimius Apher, accordingly thus invoked ;*
O catc reram Sator! o principium deorum !
Stridula cui liraina, cui cardinei tumultus,
Cui reserata jnngiunt aurea clauistra mundi:
Genius, as the great mind and soul of the whole
world. Saturn, as that hidden source and prin-
a Apud Terentium Mauram de Litteris, fisc, inter Grammaticos
veteres a Pulschio editos, p. 2396.
5 5 0 THE EGYPTIANS ALSO REDUCED
ciple, from which all forms and lives issue forth
and into which they again retire; being there laid
up as in their secret storehouse: or else, as one
ofthe Egyptian or Hermaic writers expresseih it,
that which doth travra iromv Kal Etc favrov aV orotav,
make all things out of*itself, and unmake them
into itself again;—this Hetrurian Saturn, answer­
ing to the Egyptian Hammon, that likewise signi­
fied hidden, and is accordingly thus interpreted by
Jamblichus,* o ri}v a<pavrj t w v KtKpvftptvwr \oyw v Bwapiv
etc aywVf he that bringeth forth the secret power'
of the hidden reasons of things (contained within
himself) into light.'—God was also called Athena
or Minerva, as wisdom diffusing itself through all
things: and Aphrodite Urania, the heavenly Ve­
nus or Love. Thus Phanes, Orpheus’s supreme
God (so called according to Lactantius),b “ Quia
cum adhnc nihil esset, primus ex infinito appa-
ruerit;” because when there was yet uothing, he
firet appeared out of that iufinite abyss;—but ac­
cording to Proclus, because he did tK^tdvwv rag
voitrag evaBag, discover and make manifest the intel­
ligible unities (or ideas) from himself;—though we
think the conjecture of Athanasius Kircherus'
to be more probable than either of these, that
Phanes was an Egyptian name); this Phanes, I
say, was in the Orphic and Egyptian theology, as
Proclus upon Plato’s Timaeus informs us, styled
aj3pog tptog, tender and soft Love.—And Pherecy-
des Syrusdlikewise affirmed, etgepwr«fura(it(3Xna6ai
* pe Mysteriis AEgyptior. sect. 8. cap. iii. p. 159.
b Institut. Divin. lib. i. cap. v. p. 31.
c In CEdipo ASgyptiaco, p.498.
d Apud Produrn in Comment, in Tiinseum Platon.lib. iii. p. 156.
THEIR GODS TO THE DIVINE IDEAS. 551
rovAia ftiWovra SvfuovpytHv, thatJupiterwas turned
all into love, when he went about to make the
world.—Besides which, there were other such
names of the supreme God, and more than have
been mentioned by us: as for example, Sumrna-
nus amongst the ancient Romans, that afterward,
grew obsolete : of which St. Austin thus; “ R
o^
mani veteres nescio quern Suminanum, CDlir
cui nocturna fulmina tribuebant, colue- «
•*
*
*
“•C
m
- ,
runtmagtsquarnJovem,ad querndiurna oper.]
fulmina pertinebant. Sed postquam Jovi tern-
pluminsigne ac sublime constructum est, propter
sedis dignitatem, sic ad eum multitudo confiuxit,
ut vix inveniatur, qui Summani nomen, quod au-
dirijam non potest, se saltern legisse meminerit.”
The ancientRomans worshipped I know,not what
god, whom they called ,Summanus more than
they did Jupiter. But after that a stately and
magnificent temple was erected to Jupiter, they
all betook themselves thither;insomuch that the
name of Summauus, now not at all heard, is
scarcely to be found in ancient writings.
Again, as the Pagans had certain othergods,
which they called special; so were these but. se­
veral names of that supreme God also, according
to particular consideratious of him, either as pre­
siding over certain parts of the world, and acting
in them; or as exercising certainspecial powers
and virtues in the world ; which several virtues
and powers of one God, personated and deified
by the Pagans, though they had an appearance
also of many distinct gods, yet were they really
uothingbutseveral denominationsofonesupreme
God ; who as yet is considered as athiug distinct
fromthe world and nature.
5 52 £LL THESE PAGAN GODS
But lastly, as God as supposed by these Pa­
gans, not only to pervade all things, and to fillall
things, but also, he being the cause of all things,
to be himself in manner all things; so was be
called also by the name of every thing, orevery
thing called by his name: that is, the several
things of nature and parts of the world were
themselves verbally deified by these Pagans, and
called gods and godesses. Not that they really
accounted themsuch in themselves, butthatthey
thought fit in this manner to acknowledge God
,-inthem, as theauthor of them all. Forthus the
Pagans inSt. Austin:• “Usqueadeone, inquiunt,
majores nostros insipientes fuissecredendumest,
ut baecnescirent munera divina esse, non deos
Can you think, that our Pagan ancestors were so
sottish, as not to know, that these things are but
Divine gifts, and not gods themselves?—
And Ci­
cero also tells us, that the meaningof their thus
deifying these things of nature, was only to sig­
nify, that they acknowledged the-force of all
things to be Divine, and to be governed by God;
and that whatsoever brought any great utility to
mankind, was not such without the Divine good­
ness. They conceiving also, that the invisible
andincomprehensible Deity, which wasthecause
of all things, ought to be worshipped in all its
works and effects, in which it had made itself
visible, accordingly as they declare in that place
Pr.fjvan.l.iii. Eusebius before cited in part; fin ra
lZi'j*' at*flaTa ^X'tov Ka* otXnvnc k<
u aorpunr,
. finSsys ra aiafhrra fiepn row Koa/iov ^>r|<rov<n
Ofoiroteltt, aXXa rag tv rovrotc aoparovg SvvdfiHc, avrov'dn
* Ubi supra.
POETICAL AND FANTASTICAL. 663
row txt rainy' Iva "yap ovra fltov, nravrotatc Swdfutn ra
wavra rX^xnlv, /cat &a rayraiy Sni/cav, ral role waatv
ixurraTilv' acrwjuarwc & /cat a<j>avu>f *v iraoiv ovra, /cat &«
vdvnuv Stq/covra, /cal rovrov cucorweSta rwv SeSr)Xwplvan><
re-
/3av* that they did notdeify thosevisiblebodiesof
thesuo,andmoon, andstars,northeothersensible
parts of the world themselves, but those invisi­
ble powers of the God over all, that were dis­
played in them. For they affirm, that thatGod,
who is but one, but yet filleth all things with.his
various powers, and passes through all things,
forasmuch as he is invisibly and incorporeally
present in all, is reasonably to beworshipped in
and by those visible things.
Athanasius bishop of Alexandria, in his book
against the Greeks, reduces all the false gods of
the Pagans under two general heads; the first,
poetical, fictitious,' or fantastical gods; the se­
cond, creatures or real things of nature deifiedby
them. His words are these: Ei yap Sv rove»apa
Tottrratc Xryo/iEvov£ Qeovq, ova Eivai Otove 6 Xoyof eSafe,
/cat towc n jv icrimv fcoffotovvrac vXtyfe TXavwftevovf, & C .
Since this reason or discourse of O
urs hath suf­
ficientlyconvinced, boththepoetical gods of the
Pagans to be no gods at all; and also that they,
who deify the creatures, areinagreaterror; and
sohathconfuted thewholePaganidolatry,proving
it to be mere ungodliness and impiety; there is
nothing now but the true piety left; he, who is
worshipped by ns Christians, being the only true
God, the Lord of nature, and theMaker of all
substances.—Fromwhencewemayobserve, that,
according to Athanasius, the Pagan poetic gods
were no real things in nature, and therefore they
654 ALL THESE PAGAN GODS
could be no other, than the several notions and
the powers of the one supreme God deified, or
several names of him. So that Athanasius's po­
etic gods, Or ot irapa irottrraZc fivBtuofttvM Otol, gods
fabulously devised by the poets—were chiefly
those two kinds of Pagan gods, first mentioned
by us; that is, the various considerations of the
one supreme Numen, according to its general no­
tion, expressed by so many proper names; and,
secondly, his particular powers diffused through
the world, severally personated and deified.
Which, considered as so many distinct deities,
are nothing but mere fiction and fancy, without
any reality. And this do the Pagans themselves
p. 14.[tom
. Athanasius acknowledge: 'W c yap
1?°]” ' *
*
' aVTot <
l>a<n, teal ra ovofiara irivXaorm, teal owe
tori fdv oXo>c Ztwc, ov$t KpovoCj oiiSl rfH pa,
oiiSe^Apifc" wXarrovrai Serovrove, wc ovrac, oi iroiqrcM irpJc
airarijv rwv aKovovruv' They say, that the names of
those gods are merely fictitious, and that there does
no where really exist any such Jupiter, or Saturn,
or Juno, or M ars; but that the poets have feigned
them to be so many persons existing, to the de­
ception oftheir auditors.—Notwithstanding which
that third sort of Pagan gods also mentioned by us,
which were inanimate substances and the natures
of things deified, may well be accounted poetical
gods likewise; because though those things them­
selves be real and not feigned, yet is their person­
ation and deification mere fiction and fancy: and
however the first occasion thereof sprung from
this theological opinion or persuasiou, that God,
who is in all things, and is the cause of all things,
ought to be worshipped in all things, especially
POETICAL AND FANTASTICAL. 655
he being himself invisible? yet the making of
those things themselves therefore to be so many
persons and gods, was nothing but poetic fiction
and phantastry, according as their old mythology
and allegorical fables of the gods run much upon
this strain.
END OF VOL. II.
.Printed bj J. F. Dove, St. John’s Square.
T H E
W O R K S
OF
RALPH CUDWORTH, D.D.
CONTAINING
T H E T R U E IN TELLEC TU A L
SYSTEM OF THE UNIVERSE,
SE R M O N S, &c.
A NEW EDITION, WITH REFERENCES TO THE SEVERAL QUOTATIONS IN Jilt
INTELLECTUAL SYSTEM, AND A LIFE OF THE AUTHOR,
BY THOMAS BIRCH, M. A. F.R .S.
IN FOUR VOLUMES:
VOL. III.
O X F O R D , D . A. TA LBO Y S.
MDCCCXX1X.
m . l .
At).
THE TRUE
IN T E L L E C T U A L .SY STEM
THE UNIVERSE.
CHAP. IV . CO N TIN U ED .
xxxiv. H itherto have we declared the sense
of, the Pagans in general, those also being in­
cluded, who supposed God to be a being ele­
vated above the world, that they agreed in
these two things: First, the breaking and crum­
bling, as it were, of the simple Deity, and par­
celling out of the same into many particular
notions and partial considerations, according to
the various manifestations of its power and pro
yidence in the world; by the personating.and
deifying of which severally they made, as it were,
so many gods of one* The chief ground whereof
-was this.: because they considered not the Deity
according to its simple nature, and abstractly
only, but concretely also with the world, as ho
displayeth himself therein, pervadeth all, and
diffuseth his virtues through all. For as the sun,
reflected by grosser vapours, is. sometimes mul­
tiplied, and the same object beheld through a.
polyedrous glass, by reason of those many super-
VOL. I II. B
S OF THOSE PAGAN THEOLOGERS WHO MADE
ficies, being represented in several places at once,
is thereby rendered manifold to the spectator;
so one and the same supreme God, considered
concretely with the world, as manifesting his
several powers End Virtues in it, was multiplied
into several names, not without the appearance
of so many several gods. Whereas iroXvwwpov
with those ancient Pagans, was the same thing
with voXvBvvttfiffv, that which hath many names, all
one with that which hath many powers: accord­
ing to this of Callimachus *concerning Diana,
fxot flrctfdfvfav alwiar, amra, tyvX&miv,
Kail IloXiww/ufov*
And this of Virgil concerning Alecto,b
« Tfoinamitia tnillfe,
, Mille nocendi antes.
And accordingly the many Pagan gods are, in
Plato’s Cratylus, interpreted as tbe many powers
-of one God diffused through the world. And
tbe Pagan theologers seemed to conceive this to
be more Suitable to the pomp, State and grandeur
of tbe supreme God, for him to be considered
diffusively, and called by many names, signifying
Iris many several virtues and powers (polyonymy
being by them accounted an honour) rather than
to be contracted and shrunk all up into ope gene-
fail notion of a perfect mind, the maker or creator
of the whole world. The second thing, in which
the Pagans agreed, istheir personating and deify­
ing also the parts of the world, and things of
^nature themselves, and so making them so many
-gods and goddesses too. Their meaning therein
being declared to be .really no other than this;
a tJymn. in Dranam, ver. 5,6. b iEneid. lib. vii. ver. 324.
GOD THC SOUL OFTHB WORLD. . Z
that God, who doth not only pervade all things,
but also was the pause of all things, and therefore
himself is in a manner all things, ought to be
worshipped in ail the things of nature and parts
pf the world : as also, that the force of every thing
was Divine, and that in'all things, that were bene­
ficial to mankind, the Divine goodness ongbt to
'be-acknowledged. .
We shall now observe, bow both those fore-
mentioned priucjples, of God’s pervading all
thiagjs, and his being all things, which were the
ohief grounds of the seeming Polytheism of the
Pagans, were improved and carried on farther by
those amongst them, who had no higher notion
-of•the supreme Deity, than as the soul of the
world. Which opinion, that it fonnd entertain­
ment amongst so many of them, probably might
be from hence, because it was so obvious for
those of them, that were religions, to conceive,
that as themselves consisted of body and spul,
'SO the body of the whole world was not without
its soul neither; and that their human spnla were
as well derived from the life and spul of the
world, as the-earth and water in their bodies was
from the earth and water of the world. Now
whereas the more Defined Pagans, as was before
observed, suppose God to pervade and pass
through all things dfuyvt, unmixedly—these con­
cluded God to be (according to that definition of
-him in Qninctjli&n, taken in a rigid sense) “ Spi­
ritual omnibus pariibus immistum;” a spirit im-
mingied with all the parts of the world—or else
in Manilias’s language,
Infusumque beam coelo, terrisquc fretoqae,
B 2
flf t h e PARC'S OP THE WORLt) COfiSlD^RED
principally Set in some one part of the tody,'
which therefore hath been called the hegemoni-
coil and principale, some taking this to be the
brain, others the heart, but Strato in Tertullian*
ridiculously, the place betwixt the eyebrows; so
the Stoics did suppose the great Soul or Mind of
the world, to act principally in some one part
thereof (which what it was notwithstanding they'
did not all agree upon), as the hegemonicon or
principafe; and this was sometimes called by
them emphatically God. But nevertheless they1
all acknowledged this mundane soul, as the souls
of other animals, to pervade, animate, or enliven
and actuate, more oi; less, its whole body, the
world. This is plainly declared by Laertius in'
the life pf Zeno :b Tdi> Sij Koapov Sio
u
c
e
M u icari w5v
•cal irpovotav, ini? dirav aurov plpo£ Sifaovroe rt>3 Vow, KaOi-
irep ej>’ 'ljphiv riic ‘
4/v\ vq’ nXX’ t
$ t
) Si- wf pev pdXXov, St
«v fuv ydp aic tayiipTiKCv, toy iia rtov btnrtoV Kat vwv
vkvpwv’ St tow Sk tie Vow?, to? Sid V
ow‘
qytpovricov' owrw Btj
/cat t&
v iXov Kotr/iov U
<Sov ovra /cal ipipo%ov teal Xoyocdv,
e%etv ij-yt/tovticov '/n
ewrov aSepa, rj rov ovpavov, rj vowi?A
ioV
"
o a
c
o
i rrpwrov Qtov Xtycmotv dutBcirikHg wairep KtyXoprjKlvai,
Sid rtSv €v dipt, Vat 8ta •rtov frotov awdvrhiv vat tfvrto'v, 8ict
St riJc durtre KdffiZiv* The Stoics affirm, that the
world is governed by mind And providence, this
mind passing through all the parts of it, as the
soil! doth in ns: Which yet doth not act in all
parts alike, but in some more, In some less; it
passing through some parts only as a habit (as
through the bones and nerves), but through others
its mitid or understanding (as through that which
is called the hegemonicon or principale). So
* De Anima, cap. xv. p. 169.
^ Lib. Vii.&egm. 138,189. p. 452.
AS THE PARTS AMD MEMBER* OF GOD. 7
the whole world being ft living end ratibnal ani­
mal. hath its fcgewonieCHi or principal part too/
which Recording to Antipater ia the ether, to Pos-
sidoniqs the air, to Cleantbea the son, Ac, And
they say also, that this first God is, as it were,
Sensibly diffused through all animals and plants*
hot through the earth itself cpriy as a habit—.
Wherefore the whole world, being thus acted
and animated by one Divine Soul, is itself, accord-,
mg to these Stoics, also the supreme God. Thus
Didymus in Eusebios, eXov &rJv Koajxqv p.Et, j.*t
.
■xpomyoptvQvm ftepv, the Stoic* call the 8i”]T
i.T
P
.' •
whole world G od;—and Origen against p-*35-
Celsos, trmjHoc $i) top 0Xop K&QfHtv Xtyo\xT^i> ilvai 6<ov,
Srvwfli fm> tow The Greeks universally
affirm the world to be a god, bpt the Stoics, the
first and chief God.—And accordingly Manillas,?
Qua pateat muntfum divino dumine verti
Atqtie ipsum esse Deum:
Whereby it may appear the world to be governed
by a Divine Mind, and also itself to be God.—As
likewise Seneca,kthe philosopher, “ Totmn hoe,
quo continemur, et nnnm est, et Deus e s t t h i s
whole world, within which we are contained, ip
both one thing and God.—Which is not to be
understood of the mere matter of the world, as it
is nothing but a bpap of atoms, or as endued with
a plastic and senseless nature oqly; but of it as
animated by such a soul, as besides sense was
originally endued with perfect understanding;
and as deriving all its godship from thence. For
a Lib. i. ver. 484, 486,
b Epistol. xcii. p. 833. tom. ii. open. Vide etiam Bpiat xer.
p. 355. /
6 THE PA&T8 OT THE WoUUV COtfSlDBUEtt
c. 0 . i. Tii. t^us Varro in St. Austin declares botfr
c-vi' his own and the Stoical sense concern*
ing this point, “ Dicit idem Varro, adhuc de
liaturali theologia praeloquens, Deum se arbi-
trari esse animam mundi (quern Graeci vocant
«oajuoi/) et hunc ipsum munduin esse Peutn. Sed
sicut hominem sapientem, cum Bit ex corpora et
animo, tamen ab auitno dici sapientem; ita mun-
dum Denm dici ab animo, cum sit ex animo et
corpore.” The same Varro discoursing concern­
ing natural theology, declareth, that, according
to his own souse, God is the soul of the world
(which the Greeks call Cosmos), and that this,
world itself is also God. But that this is bo to
be understood, that as a wise man, though con­
sisting of soul and body, yet is denominated wise
only from his mind or soul; so the World is de­
nominated God, from its mind or soul only, it
consisting both of mind and body.
Now if the whole animated world be the su­
preme God, it plainly follows from thence, that
the several parts and members thereof must be
the parts and members of God ; and this was
readily acknowledged by Seneca;* “ Membra
sumus corporis magni;” We are all members of
one great b o d y -a n d b “ Totum hoc Deus est,
socii ejus et membra sumus;” this whole world
is God, and we are not only his members, but
also his fellows or companions—as if our human
souls had a certain -kind of fellowship also with
that great Soul of the universe. And accordingly,
the Soul of the world, and the whole mundane
animal, was frequently worshipped by thePagans,
in these its several members; the chief parts of
* JSpist. xcv. p. 35$, b Epist. xcii. p. 323. *
AS THE PARTS AN1> MEMBERS OF GOD. 9
flie world, and the most important things of na­
ture, as it were by piece-meal. Nevertheless it
doth not at all follow from thence, that these
were therefore to them really so many several
gods; for then not only every man, and every
contemptible animal, every plant and berb, and
pile of grass, every river and bill, and all things
else whatsoever, must be so many several gods.
And that the Pagans themselves did not take
them for such, Origen observes against that asser­
tion of Celsus, “ That if the whole were .
Ifry , p,
God, then the several parts thereof mast
needs be gods,” or divine too: wc*«va* Qua ou povov
ivQp(tnrovg> dXXd Kal travra ra aXoya £a>a, pipy ovra rov
Kwrfwvy TTpoe Si rovroig Kai ra <j>vra* u Si pipy row Koapov
kal oc worapol, Kal ra opij, Kal ai OaXaaaaC ap wrcl oXoc
o jcoo/uoc 0eoc cotcv, $Sy Kal oc irorapol kcu ai QaXaaacu Qtol
flaiv* d \ \ ’ bvSf rovro <
f>
y<
rov<
riv'‘EWyvtg* rowc $ crrcora-
rowwrac (cc dpa Saipovag^ t| Ocowc, wc c
jc
c
c
v
o
c ovopaCovai)
vrorapoig Kal 0aXaooacc, rowrovc ov Xc^otcv Qfovg. Kai ro
jcaOoXucdv KiXoov ylverai Kal Kaff ^EXXrrwac ^evSoc, ore
iavri oXov y 0 cde, wivrMQ ra pipy ravrov care Qua* Kara
rovro yap Qua iarai £<wd, Kal pvuu, jeae OKvufeg, Kal oKwXy-
Kfc, Kal ira v ro rw v otptwv fiSog, dXXd kal ro rwv dpview,
Kal to ro iv lyQvtirv' a m p ovS oi Xlyovrcc 0coV ccvac rov
%
Koapov9ipyoownv* From hence it would follow* that
not only men must be divine and gods, bnt also
all brute animals too (they being parts of tbe
world) and plants to boot. Nay, rivers, and
mountains, and seas, being parts of the world
likewise (if the whole world be God), must, ac­
cording to Celsus, needs be gods also* Whereas
the Greeks themselves will not affirm this; but
they would only call those spirits or demons,
which preside over these rivers and seas, gods.
1 0 TH IS MUNDAHE a n i m a l W Q K SHIPPEP
kt
Wherefore this universal assertion of Celaus is,
false, even according to the Greeks themselves;
that if the whole be God, then all the parts there­
of must needs be divine, or gods. It following
from thence, that flies, and gnats, and worms,
aud all kinds of serpents, and birds, and fishes,
are all divine animals, or gods: which they them­
selves, who assert the world to be God, wiU not,
affirm.—
Wherefore, though it be true, that the Pagans
did many times personate and deify the chief
parts of the world, and things of nature, as well
as they did the several powers and virtues of the
mundane soul, diffused through the whole world;
yet did not the intelligent amongst them therefore
look upon these, as so many true and proper
gods, but only worship them as parts and mem­
bers of one great mundane animal; or rather,
worship the Soul of the whole world, their su­
preme Deity, in them all, as its various manifesta­
tions. This St. Austin intimates, when writing
against Faustas, the Manichean, he prefers even
the Pagan gods before the Manichean;* “ Jam
vero coelum, et terra, et mare, et aer, et sol, et
luna, et caetera sydera omnia, baec manifesta ocU-
lis apparent, atque ipsis sensibus prsesto sunt.
Quae cum Pagani tanquam deos colunt, vel tan-
quam partes u n iu s m a g n i D e i (nam universum
mnndum quidam eorum putant m a x im u m D ev m )
ea colunt, qose sunt Vos aufcem, cum ea colatis,
quae otnnino non sunt, propioquiores essetis verm
pietati, si saltern Pagani essetis, qui corpora co­
lunt, etsi non colenda, tamen vera.” Now the
heaven, earth, sea, and air, sun, moon, and stars,
. * Lib. xx. contra Faustitm, cap. v. p. 238. tom. viii. pper.
IK ITS SEVERAL PARTS AMD MEMBERS. I j
•re things ell manifest and really present to oar
senses; which, when the Pagans worship as gods,
or as parts of one great God(tor some of them
think the whole world to be the greatest God),
they worship things that are; so that yon, wor­
shipping things that are not, would be nearer to
true piety than yon are, were yon Pagans, and
worshipped bodies too; whiob though they ought
not to be worshipped, yet are they true and real
things.'—
-But this is further insisted upon i*i*.«.*i.
by the same S t Austin, in his book ^ 76‘-
1
De C. D. where after that large enumeration
of the Pagan gods before set down, he thus con­
vinces tbeir tolly in worshipping the several di- <
vided members, parts and powers, of the one
greatGod, after that manner personated: “ Hac
omnia qu® dixi, et quaeCunque non dixi (non enim
omnia dicenda arbittatns sum) hi omnes dii dea-
que sit unns Jupiter; sive sint, ut quidam volunt;
omnia ista partes ejus, sive virtntes ejus, sicnt eis
videtur, quibus eum placet esse mnndi animom;
quae sententia velot magnornm, multorumque
doctorum est. Haec, inquam, si its sunt, quod
quale sit, nondum interim qnaero, quid perderent,
si onurn Denm colerent prndentiori compendio?
Qaid enim ejOs contemneretur, cam ipse colere-
t«r? Si autem metaendam sit, ne prfcetermiss®
sive neglect* partee ejus- irascerentur ■
; non ergo,
at velunt, velut unins animantis h*c tola vita esf,
qu* omnea simnl cootjnet deos, quasi suas vir-
tvtes, vel membra, vel partbs : sed suaro
quaque pars habet vitam a catena separatam,
si prteter alteram irasci altera potest, et alia pla-
oari, alia concitari. .Si autem dicitnr omnia simul,
id est, totum ipsum Jovem potuisse offendi, si
12 THIS M
UNDANEANIM
ALW
ORSHIPPED
partes jgus non etiam sifigillatim minutatimque
colerentur, stulte dicitur. Nulla quippe earum
praetermitteretur, cum ipse unus, qui baberet
omnia, coleretur.” All these things, which we
have now said, and many more, which we have
not said (for we did not think fit to mention all),
all these gods and goddesses, let them be one
and the Bame Jupiter: whether they will have
them to be his parts, or, his powers, and vir­
tues, according to the sense of those, who think
God to be the soul or mind of the whole world;
which is the opinion of many and great doctors.
This, I say, if it be so, which, what it is, we
will not now examine; what would these Pagans
lose, if in a more prudent compendium, they
should worship one only God ? For what of him .
could be despised, when his whole self was wor­
shipped ? But if they fear, lest his parts preter-
mitted, or neglected, should be angry, or take
offence; then it is not, as they pretend, the life
of one great animal, which at once contains all
the gods, as bis virtues, or members, or parts,
but every part hath its own life by itself, separate
from the rest, since one of them may be angry,
when another is pleased, and the contrary. But
if it should be said, that altogether, that is, the
whole Jupiter might, be offended, if his parts
were not worshipped all of them severally and
singly; this would be foolishly said, because
none of the parts can be pretermitted, when he,
that hath all, is worshipped.
Thus do the Pagans in Athanasius * also de­
clare, that they did not worship the several parts
of the world, as really so many true aud proper
*O
rat.qO
ntraG
rsecos,p.3J, torn,i oper*
IN ITS SEVERAL PARTSANOM
EM
BERS. 13
gods, bat only as the parts, or members, of their
one supreme God, that great mundane animal (or
whole animated world) taken all together as one
thing I «X
X
*{wc 8iaipovfttva ftkv, Kal Kaff iavfa Xapifiavfr-
fiiva, twtStil avra xalavrol trwoftoXoyoomv, ojtov 8) wavra
xrwdlTTOVnc, mu tlf tv dworfXovvTff fiiya <nHfta, to oXov
6*ov uv<u^rioowsc Bat the Pagans themselves will
acknowledge; that the divided parts of the world,
taken severally, are but indigent and imperfect
things; nevertheless do they contend, that as they
are by them joined all together into one great body
(enlivened by one soal), so is the whole of them
truly and properly God.—And now we think it
is sufficiently evident, that though these Pagans
verbally personated and deified, not only the se­
veral powers and virtues of the one supreme God,
or mundane soul, diffused throughout the whole
world, but also the several parts ofthe world itself
and the natures of things; yet their meaning
herein was not to make these in themselves really
so many several true and proper gods (much less
independent ones), bnt to worship one supreme
God (which to them was the whole animated
world) in those his several parts and members, as
it were by piece-meal, or under so many inade­
quate conceptions.
'The Pagans therefore were plainly divided in
their natural theology, as to their opinions con­
cerning the supreme God; some of them conceiv­
ing him to be nothing higher than a mundane soul:
whereas others of them, to use Origen’s language,
did v7rep/3aiveiv iraaav tijv aiaQrrrr(v <
j>
v<
nv9 Kal /uqSa/ttov
avrijc vojuitjuv iSpvaOai rov 0cov, avw Kal Scvirep Copt. Gelt.
rd awfxara frirriv avrov, transcend all the sen* 260,
sible nature, ?nd thinking God not at all to be
14 TQ8 WORLD ACCOUNTBP T«E-pODY O F£O D ;
'ideated there, looked fop him above all corporeal
•thinge.-~Now the former of these PagaBs wor­
shipped tbe nrhole corporeal world, ap the body
4f God; but the tatter of them, though they bad
higher thoughts of God, than as a mundane soul,
yet supposing him to bare been tbe cause of all
things, and so at first to hare contained all things
within himself, as likewise that the world, after it
Was made, was not out off from him, nop sub­
sisted alone by itself, as a dead thing, but was
closely united to him, and livingly dependent on
him : these, I say, though they did not take the
world to be God, or the body of God, yet did
they also look upon it •as &i>v, as that which was
Divine and sacred; and supposed, that God was
to he worshipped in all, or that the whole world
was to he worshipped as his image or temple.
Thus Plutarch, *though much disliking the deify-
■
ing of inanimate things, doth himself nevertheless
approve of worshipping God iu the whole corpo­
real world, he affirming it to be UpovaymW w iw
■
ffi<M
rpeirlaT«r«v, a most holy, and most god-becoming
‘temple.—And the ancient Persians, or magi, who
by no means would allow of worshipping God in
any artificial temples made with men’s hands, did
notwithstanding thus worship God, sub dio, and
upon the tops of mountains, in the whole, corpo­
real world, as his natural temple, as Cicero tes-
peug.i.ii. tifieth: “ Nec sequor mages Persarun?,
quihus auctoribus Xerxes inflammasse
templa Graecize dicitur, quod parietihus include-
rentdeos, quibus omnia deberent esse patentia ac
libera, q,uorumque hie rauudus omjais tempium
esset et domicitium:” Neither do I adhere, to the
*Do Iside cl itoir.p. 382,
15
ALSO, HIS IMAGE OB TEMPLE.
(Persian magi, by whose Suggestion and persua­
sion Xerxes is said to hare burnt all the temples
of the Greeks, because they inclosed and shut up
their gods within walls, to whom all things ought
to be open and free, and whose temple and habi­
tation this whole world is.—And, therefore, when
Diogenes Laertius" writeth thus ofthese magi, that
they did &ovc miroQaivtfOu trip Kmyijv xalvStop, rwv SI
IoS
miv KamyevuaKHv, make fire and earth and water
to be gods, but condemn all statues and images
—we conceive the meaning hereof to he no other
than this, thatas they worshipped God iu no tem­
ple, save only that of the whole world, so neither
did theyallow any other statues or images of him,
than the things of nature, and parts of the world,
such as fire, and earth, and water, called there­
fore by them, in this sense and ao other, gods.
For thus are they clearly represented by Clemens
AleXandrinus, and that according to the express
testimony of Dino; 0v«*v tv vtrn/fljw rove Hntr^tp.
Mayovc o Auwv Xiya, Qe
«Jv iyaX pan pova rd ^66°^dh?
vrvp iuu vSwp vopiCovroQ. Owe 'iirucpuipdptiv Pott*rl'l
ovK riiv rovrwv ayvotav. EJ yap teat ra pdXi<rra mrafm-
•yuv owvrai ric irXaviKr, aU’ etc iripav KaroXttrOiaivmaw
■Airdrnv. *AydXpara pev 9uSv oil £»Xa «catXlBouf vwuXd^Mai,
iitnrcp 'EXXtivfC* ouSe piv *I/3t$«c <*u lyyevpovat, Ka&nnep
;Aiyi5imot* •aXXa irvp re teat u&ip «c ^tXoao^ot* Dinon
Uffirmeth, that the Persian magi sacrificed Under
the open heavens, they accounting fire and water
to be the only statues and images of the gods.
For I would not here conceal their ignorance nei­
ther, who, thinking to avoid one error, fall into
another; whilst they allow not wood and 6tanes
to be the images of the gods, as the Greeks do,
*Proem, oper, aogm. 0. p. 6.
I
16 THE WORLD ACCOUNTEDTHE BODY-OF dOD$
nor Ichnenmones and Ibides, as the Egyptians,
but only fire and water, as philosophers.—Which
difference betwixt the Pagan theologers, that some
of them looked upon the whole world as God, or
as the body of God, others only as the image, or
the temple of God, is thus taken notice of by Ma-
crobius upon Scipio’s dream, where the world
ijb i oxiv was ca^e<^a temple. “ Bene autem unl-
' versus mundus Dei tempium vocatur,
propter illos, qui sestimant, nihil esse aliud Deum,
nisi coelum ipsum, et coelestia ista quae cernimns.
Ideo ut summi omnipotentiam Dei ostenderet
posse vix intelligi, nunquam posse, videri, quic-
quid hutnano subjicitur aspectui templum ejus
vocavit; ut qui haec veneratur ut templa, cultuiU
tamen maximum debeat conditori; sciatque quis-
quis in usum templi hujus inducitur, ritu sibi vi-
vendum sacerdotis.” The whole world is well
called here the temple of God, in way of op­
position to those who think God to be nothing else
but the heaven itself, and those heavenly things
which we see (or the whole sensible world ani­
mated) : wherefore Cicero, that he might shew the
omnipotence of the first supreme God to be such
as could scarcely be understood, but not at all
perceived by sense, he calleth whatsoever falleth
under human sight, his temple; that so be, that
worshippeth these things as the temple of God,
might in the mean time remember, that the chief
worship is due to the maker and creator of them;
as also that himself ought to live in the. world
like a priest or mysta, holily and religiously.—
And thus we see, that the Pagans were universally
Cosmolatrae, or. world-worshippers, in one sense
or other; not that they worshipped the world as
ALSO, HIS IMAGE OR TEM PLE.. 17
a dead and inanimate thing, but .either as the
body of God, or at least as the temple or image
of him. Neither of which terminated their wor­
ship in that, which was sensible and visible only,
but in that great Mind or Soul, which framed
and goveraeth the whole world understanding^;
though this was called also by them (not the na­
ture of th.ings, but) fvmt icotvii, the common nature,
and tov Tavros, or r<Jv oXfcrv, the nature of the
universe, because it contained under it the sper­
matic reasons, or plastic principles, of the whole
world.
Furthermore, these Pagan Theists universally
acknowledging the whole world to be an animal,
and that mundane animal also to be a god; those
of them, who supposed it not to be the first and
highest God, did consequently all conceive it,
as hath been already observed, to be either a se­
cond, or at least a third god. And thus OrigeU,*
T
O
V 'oXoV KOOftOV XtyOlKJlV tilku '0EOV, SmilXM
fiev t o v Ilpwrov, oi St aw o IlXarowoc tov Atvrepov, r iv if
&avrwv tov Tpt'rov* The Greeks do plainly affirm
the whole world to be a god; some of them, as
the Stoics, the first G od; others, as the Plato-
nists, (to whom may be added the Egyptians also)
the second god; though some of these Plato-
nists call if the third god. Those of the Plato-
nists, who called the mundane animal, or ani­
mated world, the second god, looked upon -that
Whole Platonic trinity of Divine hypostases (T«-
yadov, Novc and ^vyri) all but as one first. God:
but those others of them, who called it a third
god, supposed a great distinction betwixt those
three hypostases, and made so many several gods
*Contra Celsum, lib. i. p. 235.
C
VOL. III.
18 THE WORLD ACCOUNTED THE BODY OP GOD ;
of them; the first, a monad, or simple goodness ;
the second, mind or intellect; the third, Psyche,
or the universal son], which also without any
more ado they concluded to be the immediate
soul of this corporeal world, existing likewise
from eternity with it. Now this second god,
which was the whole animated world, as well to
the Egyptians as the Platonists, was.by them
both said to be, not only the temple and image,
but also the Son of the first God. That the
p. 3*9,sso, Egyptians called the animated world
831, the Son of God, hath been already
proVed; and that the other Pagans did the like
also, is evident from this of Oelsus, where he
pretends, that the Christians called their Jesus
the Sob of God, in imitation of those ancient
orig. contn Pagans, who had styled the world so:
Cei*P *Oiro$tv Ss teat awro rowro tirrj\8ev awrole, Oeow
' ttoif icaXttv, <nyialvo>’ *AySpec iraXaiot, rdvSc $1 rov Koopov,
«c Otov yevopevov, iraiSa re avrou km qWmv wpootlirov.
flaw yap ojuotoc owroc re relieftvoc Tralc 0eow- Whence
these Christians came to call their Jesus the Son
of God, I shall now declare; namely, because
our ancestors bad called the world, as made by
God, the Son of God, and God. Now is there
not a goodly similitude (think you) betwixt these
two sons of God, theirs and ours?—Upon which
O
rig.oontra words of his, Origen writeth thus: w
if&
r
Cel*,p. *08. viov 0eow qpac Xeyetv, irapairotipmvrae ra
wtpl row Koapow, etc Biow ytvopevov, kcu wtow ovroc awrow
teat 6eov‘ Celsus supposed us Christians to have
borrowed this appellation of the Son of God from
the Pagans, they calling the world, as made by
God, the Son of God, and God.-r-Wberefore
these Pagans, who looked upon the whole ani-
ALSO) HIS IMAGE OK TEMPLE. 19
mated world only as the second God) and Son of
God, did unquestionably also worship the first
God, in the world) and that probably by person­
ating and deifying his several parts and members
too. Thus do we understand, what that was,
which gave occasion to this mistake of late wri­
ters, that the Pagans worshipped the inanimate
parts of the world, as such, for true and proper
gods; viz. their not perceiving, that they wor­
shipped these only, as the parts or living mem­
bers of one great mundane animal, which was to
them, if not the first God, yet at least the second
God; the temple, image, and Son, of the first
God.
And now have we, as we conceive, given a full
account of the seeming Polytheism ofthe Pagans,
not only in their poOtibal and fabulous^ but also
their political Or civil, theology; the former of
which was nothing but fancy and fiction, and the.
conforming of Divine to human things; the latter
nothing but valgar opinion and error, together
with the laws and institutes of statesmen and
politicians, designed principally to amuse the vul­
gar, and keep them the better in obedience and
subjection to civil laws. Besides which, the in­
telligent Pagans generally acknowledged another
theology, which was neither fiction, nor mere
opinion and law, but nature and philosophy, or
absolute truth and reality; according to which
natural and philosophic theology of theirs, there
was only one unmade self-originated Deity, and
many other created gods, as his inferior minis­
ters. So that those many poetical and political
gods could not possibly be looked upon other­
wise, than either as the created ministers of one
c 2
20 PAGAN DOCTRINE; THE VULGAR
supreme God, whether taken singly or collect
lively-; or else as the polyonymy and various de­
nomination of him, according to several notions
and partial conceptions of him; and his several
powers and manifestations of the world perso­
nated and deified. Which latter we have already
proved to have been the most generally-received
opinion of the Pagan theologers; according to
that of Euclides* the philosopher, evTdyaOoy iroA-
Aote ovofiaai KaXovfitvov, there is-one supreme- Good
(or highest Deity) called by many names :—and,
according to that of Antisthenes before cited,
That the many popular gods were but one and
the same' natural God, viz. as Lactantius adds,
, . “ Summse totius artifex,” The maker of
the whole world.
We shall conclude with repeating what hath
been already suggested, that though the intelli­
gent Pagans did generally disclaim their fabu­
lous theology; St. Austin telling us, that when
the absurdities thereof were urged against them,
they would commohly make such replies as these:
C. D. I.ir. c. " Abait, inquiunt, fabularum est ista
[p-75.] garrulitas;” and again, “ Rursus, inqui­
unt, ad fabulas r e d i s F a r be it from us (say
they) to think so or so,.this is nothing but the
garrulity of idle fables; and, You would bring
us again to fables.—And though they owned
another theology besides their civil, which was
the natural and philosophical, as the only true;
yet .did they notwithstanding acknowledge a kind
of necessity, that, in ,those times at least, there
should be, besides the natural and philosophical
theology, which the vulgar were not so capable
. »Apud Diogen. Laert lib. ii. segm. 106. p. 142.
TO BE DECEIVED IN THEIR RELIGION. 21
of, another theology framed and held forth, that
might be more accommodate to their apprehen­
sions. Thus that Roman pontifex, Scaevola, in
St. Austin, declareth,' “ Expedire existimat falli
in religione civitates,” That it was expedient (as
he thought) that cities and commonwealths should
be deceived in their religion, or have something
false or fabulous intermingled with i t ; —
he giving
this reason for the same, because the natural and
philosophic theology contained many things in it,
which, though true, yet would be hurtful for the
vulgar to know; as, for example, “ Quod verus
Deus nec sexum habeat, nec aetatem, nec definita
corporis m e m b r a T h a t the true God bath nei*
ther sex, nor age, nor bodily members; and that
Hercules and oEsculapius, See. were not gods,
but men, obnoxious to the same infirmities with
others—and the like. And the learned Varro,
in his book of religions,bpublicly maintained .the
same doctrine: “ Varro de religionibus loquens,
evidenter dicit, multa esse vera, quae vulgo scire
non sit utile; multaque, quae tametbi falsa sint,
aliter existimare populum expediat: et ideo Grae-
cos teletas et mysteria taciturnitate parietibusque
clausisse,” &c. That there were many things true
in, religion, which it was not convenient for the
vulgar to know; as likewise many things false,
of. whieh it was expedient they should think
otherwise: and that for this cause, the Greeks
inclosed their teletae or mysteries within walls,
and kept them under a seal of secrecy.—Upon
which of Varro St. Austin thus noteth: “ Hie
certe totum consilium yrodidit sapientium, per
»De Civit. Dei, lib. iv. cap. xxvii. p. 84. tom. vil. oper.
>Apjld Augustin, ubi supra, p. 88,
22 SAGAN DOCTRINE ; THE VULGAR
quQS chutetes et populi regerenturV anro here
plainly discovers and hetrays the whole counsel
and secrecy of statesmen and politicians, by
whom'cities and nations were,governed, and their
very, arcanum of government, namely this, That
people were to be deceived in their religion, for
their own good, and the good of their govern,
ore.-—The same father there adding, That evil
demons were much gratified with.this doctrine,
and liked this fraud and imposture very well,
which gave them an advantage,to rqle and tyran­
nize, as well over the deceivers as the deceived.—
Lastly, Strabo also,* though otherwise a grave
and sober writer, speaks freely and broadly to
the same purpose 5 oWyap o^Xst* re ywautwv Kat vav~
roc yyBaiov irXydovQ eltayayetv Xoyip Suvarov ^i\o aw
f><f>, tad
vpoaicaXeaaxfBtu irpdg euai(3eiav Kat dmorr/ra cat vlartv’
aXXa Bel xat Bid BeunBat/ttyylae, rovro Be ovk avev ftvBotrouaf
kal repaniae' It is not possible, that women, and
Others of the vulgar sort, should be conducted
and carried on towards piety, holiness, and faith,
merely by philosophic reason and troth; but this
must be done by superstition, and that Hot with­
out the help of fables and prodigious or wonder­
ful narrations.-—
From whence it is plain, that
Strabo did not only allow a necessity of a oivil
theology, besides the natural and philosophical;
but also pf a fabulous and poetical one too. And
this is a thing the less to be wondered at in these
Pagans, because some Christians also seem to
acknowledge a kind of truth herein; Synesius
himself writing after this manner :bto &p q rrro v Ka-
TKtytXaotrai o Brj/toc’ Beirai ydfreparttas' That, which is
* Lib. i. p. 18.
b In Encomio Calvitiei, p. 73. oper. edit. Potavii.
TO fiB DECEIVES IK THEIB RELIGION. 9 3
easy and ordinary, will be contemned by the vul­
gar, or common people; and therefore there is
need of something strange and prodigious in
religion for them. Flavius Josephus c,A
p. LH
-
making this free acknowledgment, con- ^ ^ £
corning the wise men among the Greeks, edit!h»
t
w
-
„ ° ^ „ , f w camp.]
ravra mpt Btou Qpoviiv oi aotywarot SoK
O
ixn
rapa rwc'fiXAipt, That they held the same things
concerning God which the Jews did—adds not­
withstanding afterwards, tic irXq0oc $o$cuc wpoKorar
Xttftfifvov, ri}v a \0 tta v row Sttyjuaroc i^svtjKfiv ow
e eroX-
fn/aav, that they were afraid to declare the truth
of this their doctrine to the vulgar, prepossessed
with other opinions.—And indeed they did not
think it safe to declare the natural and true the­
ology promiscuously to all; Plato* himself inti
mating as much in these words: rov vottrniv km wa-
ripa rovBe rpv iravroc, etciravracaSvvarovX
e-yttv* That as
it was bard to find out the maker of this universe,
so neither, being found out, could be be declared
to the vulgar.—Wherefore since God was so hard
to be understood, they conceived it necessary,
that the vulgar should be permitted to worship
him in his works, by parts and piece-meal, ac­
cording to the various manifestations of himself;
that is, should have a civil theology at least, dis­
tinct from the natural and philosophical, if not
another.fabulous one too.
xxxv. We have now dispatched the first of
those three heads proposed to be insisted on, viz.
that the Pagans worshipped one and the same
supreme God, under many personal names, So
that much of their Polytheism was but seemihg
and fantastical, and indeed nothing but the
bJn Tiiaaeo, cap. xiii. p. 236* edit. Fabrjeii,
2 4 t h e p a g a n s h a d a r e a l p o l y t h e is m ,
polyonyray of one supreme God, they making
many poetical and political gods of that -one
natural God ; and thus worshipping God by
parts and piece-meal, according to that clear
.acknowledgment of Maximus Madaurensis * be­
fore cited: “ Unius summi Dei virtutes, per
mundanum opus diffusas, nos multis vocabulis
invocamus; etdnmejus quasi quaedam membra
carptim variis supplicationibus prosequimur, to-
tum colere videmur.” The virtues of the one
supreme God diffused throughout the whole
world, we (Pagans) invoke under many several
names; and so prosecuting, with our supplica­
tions, his. as it were divided members, must needs
be thought to worship him whole, we leaving out
nothing of him.—We shall proceed to thesecond
head proposed, that besides this polyonymy of
one supreme God in the poetical and civil theo­
logy of the Pagans, which was their seeming and
fantastic Polytheism, they had another real
Polytheism also; they acknowledging in their
natural and philosophic theology likewise a mul­
tiplicity of gods, that; is, of substantial under­
standing beings, superior to men, really existing
in the world. Which though they were Called
by them gods, yet were they not therefore sup­
posed -to be dysvvtfroi and avroyevtig, unmade and
splf-existent, or independent beings—but all of
them (one only excepted) yowirol (kal, generated
voi i 500 gods—according to the larger notion of
that word before declared; that is,
though not Kara yj>ovov, yet at least, air atrtag ytvvtf
rot, though not as made 1n time, yet as produced
from- a superior cause.—Plutarch propounding
* Apud. Augustin. Epist. xvi. p. 15. tom.'ii. oper.
AND -MANY SUBSTANTIAL POWERS. 25
this for one amongst his Platonic questions, why
o dv&
n-drw Otoe, the highest and supreme God—
was called by Plato, both the father and maker
of all things, gives this reply to it in the words
before cited; v «5v iuiv duav r«» yiwirrwv «u rwv
avdfxoTrwv xonjp «mv (w g 'O fiiip o t evovo//a£«), rocqnic S i
rw v aX»yw icalatpv^ w v, that perhaps be was said to
be the father of all the generated gods, and of
men (as he is also styled in Homer), but the
maker of all other irrational and inanimate
beings.—From which passage of Plutarch’s it
plainly appears, that the o avwario 0toc, the one
highest God—being every way dylw^oc, unmade
and unproduced—was thought to be the maker or
father of nil the other gods, therefore called y«v-
vr/roi Which is further plainly declared elsewhere
by the same Plutarch in these words: Sjm
po, ,
llXdrwvoc ira rtp a kcu irottfnjv rovrt Kovftov kou *
• [p.
rwv oXXuv •yswijrwv,' rov a y tw ifro v Kai atSiov
0iov iTrovofiatovro^ ’ Plato calletb the one unmade
and eternal God the father and maker of the
world, and of all other things generated.—And
though some of those many gods of Plato’s were
by him also called dtStot, or eternal—yet were they
likewise y tw itro i too, in another sense, that is,
produced and derived, by way of emanation,
from that one, who is every way d y iv v y ro c , unde­
rived and independent upon any other cause.—
And thus Prod us universally pro- ,
Bounces: To slva t Otot, ira v rtc oi Qtol Sid “*
• »i>-[p.
rov irpwrov E^ovn fltov* All the gods Owe ^ '
their being gods to the first God—be adding,
that he is therefore called mryd rvc fleonrroc, the
fountain of the Godhead.—
Wherefore the many gods of the intelligent
26 TH EM IS; THE ETERNAL
Pagans were derived from one God, and but
vTTwpyol Swdfittc (as Plutarch somewhere calls
them), the subservient powers, or ministers of
the one supreme, unmade Deity.—Which (as
hath been before observed) was frequently called
by these Pagans 0toc, God—kax t£oyriv, or in way
of eminency; as likewise were those other in­
ferior, or generated gods, in way of distinction
from -him, called O
tol, the gods.—And accordingly
. • the sense of Celsus is thus represented
L.1T. p.J00. . _ . , , , , r ,
in Ungen : Bcove etifjnovpyaug aval Travrwv
<r<t>fiarct>v, juO
vifc ipyov ovtrqg Geov* That the
gods were the makers of the bodies of .all ani­
mals, the souls of them only being the work of
God.—Moreover, these inferior gods are styled
. by Ammianns Marcellinus, substem-
tiales potestates, substantial powers—
probably in way of distinction from those other
Pagan gods, that were not substantial, but only
so many names mid notions, of the one supreme
.God, or his powers severally perspnated and
deified, which substantial powers of Am. Mar-
cellinus * (as divination and prophecy was, by
their means, imparted to meti), were all said to
be subject to that one sovereign Deity called
Themis; “ whom (saith he) the ancient theolo-
gers seated in cubili et solid Jovis,” in the bed­
chamber and throne of Jupiter—as indeed some
of the. poets have made her to be the wife of
Jupiter, and others bis sister. And Anaxarchus
ya.Aiex. Plutarch styles her *dptBpov rm A»c,
fp-5*>-tom
-.Jupiter’s assessor—though that philo-
- sopher abused the fable, and grossly
flepraved the meaning of it, as if it signified irav
* Histor. lib. xxi. cftp. i. p. 283.
*
LAW, OB GOD. 27
ro m rni Kporovvroc Otfurov e!m i nu Saratov,
that whatsoever is done by the sovereign Power,
is therefore just and right—whereas the true
moral thereof was this, that justice or righteous­
ness sits in council with God, and in his mind
and will prescribes laws to nature and the whole
world. Themis therefore was another name of
God, amongst the Pagans, according to his uni­
versal consideration, besides those beforemen-
tioned: and when Plato, in his book of Laws, *
would have men to swear by the names of those
tbreegods, Jnpiter, Apollo, and Themis; D.De«Tw
these were but so many several .partial m
M
ie
>p-39-
notions of the one supreme Deity; the meaning
thereof being no other than this, as Pighius ob­
served), “ Timore divino, veritate ipsa, ac aequi-
tate sanciri debere juraraenta. In Jove enim
summi numinis potestatem, falsi ac perjurii vin-
dicem; in Apolline verkatis lumen; in Themide,
jus, fas, atque licitum eSse intelligitur. Est enim
Themis ipsa lex zeterna atque universalis, mundo
ac naturae prascripta;” or, according to Cicero,
t* Ratio recta summi Jovis.” And Ficinus, in
his commentary as to the main agreeth herewith.
So that, when the Pagan theologers affirmed the
Numen of Themis to preside over the spirits of
the elements, and all those other substantial
powers, from whom divination was participated
to men.; their meaning therein was clearly no
other than this; that there was one supreme
Deity ruling over all the other gods, and that
the Divine Mind, which prescribed) laws, to na-;
ture and the whole world, and contains aH the
fatal decrees in it, according to the evolution of
* Lib. xii. p, 685. opcr.
28 HOW GOD IS
which things come to pass in the world, was the
fountain, from whence all divination proceeded;
as these secrets were more or less imparted from
thence to those inferior created spirits. The phi­
losophy of the Pagan theology amongst the
Greeks was plainly no other than this; that there
is one unmade self-existent Deity, the original of
all, and that there are many other substantial
powers or spirits, created by it, as the ministers
of its providence in the world: but there was
much* of poetry, or poetic fancy, intermingled
with this philosophy, as the .flourish to it, to make
up their Pagan theology.
Thus, as hath been before declared, the Pagans
held both one God, and many gods, in different
senses; - one unmade self-existent Deity, ' and
many generated or created gods; Onatus * the
Pythagorean declaring, that they, who asserted
one only God, and not many, “ understood not
what the dignity and majesty of the Divine tran­
scendency consisted in, namely, in ruling over
gods;” and Plotinus conceiving, that the-supreme
God was most of all glorified, not by being “ con­
tracted into one,” hut “ by having multitudes of
gods, derived -from him, and dependent on him ^
and that the honour done to them redounded
unto him. Where there are two things to be
distinguished ; first, that, according to the Pagan
Theists, God was no solitary being; but that there
were multitudes of gods, or substantia) powers,
and living understanding natures, superior to
men, which were neither self-existent, nor yet
generated out of matter, but all generated or
a Libro ir»
g
2ecou x al & u w , apud Stoboeum in Eolog. physic, lib. i,
cap. i, p. 4.
NO SOLITARY BRING. 20
created from one supreme. Secondly, that for­
asmuch as these were all supposed to have some
influence, more or less, upon the government of
the world, and the affairs of mankind, they were
therefore, all of them conceived to be the due
objects of men’s religious worship, adoration and
invocation; and accordingly was the Pagan de­
votion scattered amongst them all. Nor were
the gods of the oriental Pagans neither mere dead
statues and images, as some would conclude from
the Scripture, but living understanding beings,
superior to men (though worshipped in images)
according to that reply of the Chaldeans in Da­
niel to Nebuchadnezzar, when he required them
to tell his dream: “ There is none other; that can
.shew this thing before the king, except those
gods, whose dwelling is‘not with f l e s h t h a t is,
the immortal gods, or who are exalted above the
condition of human frailty. Though some, con­
ceive, that these words are to be understood of a
peculiar sort of gods; namely, that this was such
a thing, as could not be done by those demons
and lower aerial gods, which frequently converse
with men, but was reserved to a higher rank of
gods, who are above human converse. Now, as
to the former of these two things, that God is no
solitary being, but that there are multitudes of
understanding beings superior to men, the crea­
tures and ministers of one supreme God; the
Scriptures both of the Old and New Testament
fully agree with the Pagans herein. “ Thousand
thousands ministered unto him, and ten d«. io.
thousand times ten thousand stood be-? H
eb' ”*•**•
fore h i m a n d “ Ye are come to an innumerable
company of angels.” But the latter of them, that
so HOW GOD IS
religions worship and invocation doth of right
belong to these created spirits, is constantly de­
nied and condemned in these writings, that being
a thing peculiarly reserved to that one.God, who
was the creator of heaven and earth. And thns
is that prophecy of Jeremy to be understood, ex-
pressed in the Chaldee tongue, that so the Jews
might have it in readiness for those Chaldean
idolaters, when they came into Babylon >“ Thus
shall ye say nnto them, The gods, that
have not made the heavens and the
earth, shall perish from the earth, and from under
these heavens.” That 16, there shall come a time,
when none shall be religiously worshipped any
where upon the face of the whole earth, save only
that God, who made the heavens and the earth,
and he without images too. Which prophecy,
but in part yet fulfilled, shall then have its com-
k«t xi 15 P^ete accomplishment, when “ the king­
doms of this world shall become the
kingdoms of our Lord and of his Christ.” And
thus is the controversy rightly stated betwixt the
l.i.[cap. Pagans and the Christians by Lactan-
so, tius: “ Sed fortasse quserat aliquis a
nobis, quod apud Ciceronem quaerit
Hortensius; Si Deus unus est, quae esse beata
solitudo queat? Tanquam nos, qui unum esse
dicimus, desertum ac solitarium esse dicamus.
Habet enim ministros, quo® vocamus nuntios.
E t est istud verum, quod dixisse Senecam supra
retuli; gennisse regni sui ministros Deum. Ve­
rum hi neque dii sunt, neque deos se vocari aut
coli volunt; quippe, qui nihil prater jussum ac
voluntatem Dei faciant.” As if we who say,
there is but one God, therefore made a solitary
NO SOLITARY BEING. 31
and deserted Deity; Whereas we acknowledge,
that God hath his ministers, whom we call an*
gels: and we grant that to be true, which was
before cited out of Seneca, that God hath gene­
rated or created ministers of his kingdom. Bnt
these are neither gods, nor would they be called
gods, nor worshipped; forasmuch as they only
execute the will and command of God.-—
And
again afterward to the same purpose: “ Si eos
roultitudo delectat, non duodecim dicinms, nec
trecentos sexaginta quinque (ut Orpheus) sed in-
numerabiles, et arguimus eorum errores in diver-
sum, qui tarn paueos putant. Sciant tamen quo
nomine appellari debeant; ne Deum verum vio­
lent, cujus nomen exponunt, dum pluribus tri-
bnunt,” &c. If multitude delight them, we say
not, that there are twelve, nor yet three hundred
sixty-five, as Orpheus, but innumerable. And
we tax their error, on the contrary, who think
them to be so few. Nevertheless, let them know,
by what name they ought to be called, lest they
violate the true God, whose name is profaned,
when it is given to many.—From which passages
of Lactantius it plainly appearetb, that the main
controversy between the Christians and the Pa­
gans was then only this: Whether or no, the
created ministers of the supreme God might be
called gods, and religiously worshipped. But
this Pagan objection against the solitary Deity
of the Christians is by some ancient Christian
writers also otherwise answered; namely, from
those three hypostases or persons of the.1
Trinity ;
they affirming, upon that account,, that though
Christians did not acknowledge such a multitude
of gods as the Pagans, yet did they not therefore
32 t h e Pla to n ists’ SUPER MUNDANE
make God a solitary and sterile being, before ilte
creation, neither, as the Jews did» but went in
a .middle way betwixt Jews and Pagans, they
interpreting Moses’s faciamus hominem, to •this
sense.
xxxvi. We shall now shew particularly what
these .many gods of the Pagans were. It hath
been often observed, that,the Pagans were divided
.in their philosophic or natural theology, as to their
opinions concerning the supreme G od; some of
them thinking, to 0«oy tlvairye oX
t
jc
th a t. the supreme Deity was an abstract being,
elevated above nature and the whole world—but
Others, that he was nothing higher than an anima
mundi, or soul of the world.—Now the former of
these two were chiefly amongst the Greeks, the
Pythagoreans and the Platonists, who had ac­
cordingly several distinctions amongst them con­
cerning, their gods, as between the wrepKoo/uoi Otol
and the EyKoa/uoi, the supermundane and the mun­
dane gods— the fool diBiot and the yewirrol, the eter­
nal and the generated gods ; that word latter
being,now taken in. a narrower and more confined
sense, for such as .were made in time, or bad a be­
ginning of their existence: and, lastly, the vojjtw
Oeoi and the alaOrrrol, the intelligible and the sensi­
ble gods. And the virepicoa/uai, alBioi and voifrot 6eol,
supermundane, eternal, and intelligible gods, of
these Pythagoreans and Platonists, were first of
all, and principally, those rpste apyucal vnoardasig,
(as. Plotinus calls them) those three divine hypo­
stases, that have the nature of principles in the
universe, viz. Tagathon or Hen, Nous and Psyche,
or Monad, Mind and Soul. That this trinity was
not first of all a mere invention of P lato ’s, but
AND ETERNAL GODS. 33.
tmlfch •ancienter'than he, is plainly affirmed by
Plotinus in these w ords: Kal ilvat rove Ao- En.5.1.i.
■yovcrovffSe fitj jcqivovc* f«) ^ vvv, aXXa iraXai fttv ^
fiprjtrOcufirj avdTTUrTafiixntt^, rove .Si vvvXoyovc i&ryi)rii( txtl-
v<tivyryovirat' pa'prvploicTiimoao/Mvoic roe So^ae ravrae iro*'
Xpiac tivai, role avrtiv tov IlXarawoc ypapfiaatv*qim ro fttv
wvxai nopptw&rt srporepov rqe rouninje So^e' That these-
doctrines are not new, nor of yesterday, but have
been very anciently delivered, though obscurely
(the discourses now extant being but-explica*
tions of them),; appears from Plato’s own writings;
Parmenides before him having insisted on them.
Now it is well known*, that Parmenides was ad­
dicted to the Pythagoric sect, and therefore pro­
bable, that this doctrine of a -Divine triad was one
of the arcanums of that school also. Which is
further confirmed from hence, because Numenius
a famous Pythagorean entertained it as such.
And Moderatus (as Simplicius informetb us)
plainly affirmeth this trinity of principles to have'
been a Pythagoric cabala: odroc yap Kara in A
r. Phy«.
rove. TluOayopttovct o /itv Upwrov tv wrip t o o v W ' 50‘
Ka'i naaav ovalav uirofatvtrai' t o S I Atvrepov tv, wrep earl'
rd ovrwf ov jcai voTfrov, ra tiSi) <pr]<nv tivai' ro St TptVov
dwep am ipvyiKov, fitrtytiv tov tvOc K
«&rwv tiSwv' This
(Moderatus) declareth, that, according to the Py­
thagoreans, the first one or unity is above all es­
sence; that the second one, which is that, which
truly is, and intelligible,.according to then), is the
ideas; and that the third, which is psychical or
soul, partaketh both of the first unity and of the
ideas.—Lastly, we have Jamblichus’s testimony
also in Proclus to the same purpose; rpae tivai
Otovg rovrovccat ffapa roig II v&ryopswce vpvovptvovQ’ T hat •
there were three gods also' praised by the Pytha-
VOL. III. d
$4 THE PLATONISMS* SVPEBM&NDAN& ,
goreans.-—Now we have before shewed, that F1
^
thagoras’s philosophy was derived from tile Or­
phic cabala, which P ro d us* ia another placer
fh«oL put. thus fully testifieth; amaaa yap VTap'Ekr
Xj/tn ©eoAoyta r is rOp$ucifQ fcrrl fivarayaryiac
tKyovo^' rptSr&v ftev IlvOayopov vapa ’AyXadfy-
fiOv to irepi Beatv opyux 8i&a%dhrro$’ Aeuripov Be HXdrwvog
vwoBt^afievov rtjv TavrcXj ir*pt rovrwv nr«mfjuijv, «c re rwv
IIuOayopemv leal 'Opfucwv ypa/i/idrarv' A ll the theology
of the Greeks was derived from the Orphic M ys-
tagogia; Pythagoras being first instructed by
Aglaopheraus in the Orphic Orgia, or mysteries
concerning the gods; and Plato being the next,
who received a perfect knowledge of all these
Divine things, both out of the Pythagoric and th e
Orphic writings.— A nd that a trinity was part
of that Orphic cabala, we have already proved
out of Amelins, he affirming (in Proclus) that
Plato’s three kings were the same with Orpheus’s
trinity, of Phanes, Uranus, and Cronus. More-,
over, since all these three, Orpheus, Pythagoras,
and Plato, travelling into Egypt, were there ini­
tiated in that arcane theology of the Egyptians
(called Hermaical) it seemeth' probable (as was-
before observed)that this doctrine of a'Divinetriad
was also part of the arcane theology of the Egyp­
tians. It hath been also noted, that there were
some footsteps of sueh a trinity in the Mithraic
mysteries amongst the Persians,, derived from
Zoroaster; as likewise that it w as expressly con­
tained in the magic or Chalday oracles, of w hat­
soever authority they may be. Moreover, it hath
been signified, that the Samothracians had very
anciently a certain trinity of gods, that were th e
‘ Comment in Timsettm Platon, lib. ii. p. 94.
AND ETfiRNAL GODS. SIt
highest of all their gods, and that called- by a
Hebrew name too, Cab birim, or the mighty gods:
and that from thence the Roman capitoline trinity
of gOds was derived; the second whereof was
Minerva, which among the Latins, as Athena
amongst the Greeks, was understood to signify
the Divine wisdom. Lastly, the ternary, or triad,
was not only accounted a sacred number amongst
the Pythagoreans, but also, as containing some
mystery in nature, was therefore made use of by
other Greeks and Pagans, in their religious rites;
as Aristotle informeth u s : Bio irapd rtK DeCcio.u.
fvff£6»c ttXij^orec Aairtp vopovc skuwk, k m rpoc £ 6io!*iom!
file ayurrtlattwv9fH
>
v•yjawfiSa rif apidfuoro v ry *
•°P*r-3
Wherefore from nature, and as it were observing
her laws, have we taken this number of three,
making use of the same in the sacrifices of the
gods, and other purifications.—
Now since it cannot well be conceived, how
such a trinity of Divine hypostases should be first
discovered merely Jby human wit and reason,
though there be nothing in it (if rightly understood)
that is repugnant to reason; and. since there'
are in the ancient writings of the Old Testament
certain significations of a plurality in the Deity,
or ofmore than one hypostasis, we may reasonably
conclude that, which Proclus asserteth of this tri­
nity, as it was contained in the Chaldaic Oracles,
to be true, that it was at first dtorapaBoroc BtoXojia,
a theology of Divine tradition or revelation—or a
Divine cabala, viz. amongst the Hebrews first, and
from them afterward communicated to the Egyp­
tians and other nations. Neither ought it to be
thought any considerable objection to the con­
trary, because the Platonists, Pythagoreans, and
d 2
30 THE TRINITY OF THE PAGANS
othei1Pagan, theologers, did not express this their
trinity, in the very words of the AthanasianCreed,
nor according to the form of the Nicene council.;
Forasmuch as this mystery was gradually imparted'
to the world, and that first but sparingly to the
Hebrews themselves, either in their written or,
oral cahala; but afterwards more fully under;
Christianity, the whole frame whereof was built
thereupon. Nevertheless was it not so distinctly,
and precisely determined, nor so punctually and
scrupulously stated among the Christians neither,’
till after the rising up. of heresies concerning it..
N or when all was done, did the orthodox them­
selves at first universally agree, in the signification
of the word ‘Opoownoc, coessential or consubstan-
tial.—Nor, lastly, is it a thing at all to be won­
dered at, that in such a difficult and mysterious,
point as this, there should be som e.diversity of.
apprehensions amongst the reputed orthodox
Christians themselves; and much less therefore
amongst Pagans, apd philosophers. However,,
we freely acknowledge, .that as this Divine cabala
was but little understood by. many of those who
entertained it among the Pagans, so was it by
divers of them much depraved and adulterated,
also.
For first, the Pagans universally called. this,
their trinity of gods, rowTljwjrov, to
w Aevrtpov, and.
tow T jw to v Otov, the first, the. second, and the third;
god;—as the m ore.philosophical amongst them :
called it also a trinity of causes, and a trinity of
principles, and sometimes a trinity of opificers..
inTim*.put. Thus is this cabala of the'trinity styled
p'^ 3' in P ro d U8, twv Tpiuiv Otdtv irapaSoeig, the-
tradition of the three gods.—And accordingly is
DERIVED FROM A DIVINE CABALA. 37
it said of Numenius by him, ihatrpctc aV ^
vpvdoacO
tavg,he did rpaytpStO
vfcaXctv, vamrov, ?'9S*
tKyovov, airoyovov, having praised the ihree gods,
tragically or affectedly called them, the grand­
father, the son, and the nephew ;—Numenius
thereby intimating, that as the second of these
gods was the offspring of the firstgod, so the third,
called the nephew of the first, was derived both
from him and from the second ; from the first as
the grandfather, and from the second as the fa­
ther of him. Harpo'cration, likewise, Atticus, and
Amelius, are said by Proclus to have entertained
this same cabala or tradition of the three gods,
the latter of these styling them j3am\tae rpuc, and
Tpirov $1tfiiovpyov, three kings, and three opificers,
or makers of the whole world. In iike manner
Plotinus, speaking of the second of these E
m
.5. i.t.
three hypostases, (that is, vowc, the first 0
mind or intellect) calls him Sfvrtpov 0 *ov, thesecond
god; Kai 0*oc awn) >
j<
j>
v
a
ig
, K
ai 0toe Aewrfpoc, irpofai-
vtav tavrov, vplv op<jrv tKUvov' ,o 81 vmpicaOrirai Acai virtpc-
Spvrai *7Tt naXtie ovrivgotov KpiprlBoe, rj *£ atlrov t^T/prrjrai"
fSu yap tKUvov (3aivovra pi} fir mpvyov tivoc, pij S’ aw firl
ipvyrjg tv&vg (3tf3rjK^vai, aXX’ tivai avrip xdXXoe api}j(avov
irpo'avrov irpoiov' And this nature is God, Isa y
a second God, offering himself to view, before
that other God can be seen, who is seated above,
this being as it were the glorious throne of him.
For it is not fit, that he should be immediately
seated in any that is inanimate; nor in mere soul
neither; but that there should be such an immense
pulchritude and splendour shining before him, like
the pomp and procession before the great king.—
■
-
He also elsewhere mentions all these three gods
together, making this world to be an image of
58 THE TRINITY OP THE PAGANS
Bp. 3.1.21. c. them a ll;'Eueofuc wv Xiyermt ooroc o koff/Mp
xriii.fp. 148.] » « • \ > v t ’ « > x - o
tuctov, au eucovt£a/uevoc eonjicoram jiiv too
rOu, nu Bmttpov, row SI rpirov, m|Koro( /aiv Kai avrou,
aXX’ tv r£ »Xp, Kai Kara arvp(3i(3^koc Kt,vovptyev‘ WbefO*
fore this world may well be called an image, it
depending upon that above (as an image in n
glass), which is threefold. W hereof the firstand
second God always stand immoveably; the third
likewise is in itself stable too, bat accidentally
moved, by reason of the mobility of matter and
things below it.—A n d that we may here give a
taste of the mystical theology and enthusiasm o f
these Platonists too, Porphyrins in the life of Plo­
tinus a affirmetb, that both Plotinus and himself
had sometimes experience of a kind of ecstatic
Union with the first of these three gods, that which
is above mind and Understanding: iroXXaKtc iviyovn
cavrov tic rov irpwrov Kai eTrhcava Otov rate evvoiatc, itpavt),
wc«voc o /tiqrt fiopfyrjv, fir\ re nva IStav e^wv, inrip %vovv,
Kai wav to voqrov ISpvpevof" tv 8q a
c
at kytv UppfvptoQ iuede,
Xtytv tr\t)aiaaai /cai tvad^vat* Plotinus often endea­
vouring to raise up his mind to the- first and
highest .God, that God sometimes appeared to
him, who hath neither form nor idea, but is placed
above intellect, and all that is intelligible ; to
whom I Porphyrius affirm myself to have been
once united in the sixty-eighth year of my age.—-
A nd again afterward, riXoc avry k«
u woroV nv, ro'
Evotdqvat Kai trtXatrai rtv eirl warn irvye 8e rirpaK ic irov
ore owifpnv a v r tp r o v oko ttov t o v t o v ’ Plotinus’s chief
aim and scope was, to be united to and conjoined
with the supreme God, whu is above.all; which
scope he attained unto four several times, whilst
myself was with him, by a certain inefiable energy.
1Cap. xxiii.p. 187. in FabrioUBibUoth. Greec.lib.iv.cap. xxri.
DERIVED F*0H A DIVINE CA»ALA. 29
>—
"That is Plotinus aimed at each a kind of rap­
turous and ecstatic union with the To «v, and T*
nyaOov, the first of the three highest gods, (called
the one and the good) as by himself is described
.towards the latter end of this last book,* where
•he calls it and mfovmv bnornunt irrova,
•and to iavTwv icfyrpov tw otov m vrtw *c£vrpy tw oim iv,
a kind, o f tactual union, and a certain presence
better than knowledge, aad the joining of oar
-own centre, as it were, with the centre of the uni­
verse.-—T hus w e,see, that the Platonic trinity
is a trinity of gods, of whieh three gods therefore,
;the second and the third m ust of necessity be
•inferior gods, because otherwise they would be
three independent gods ; whereas the Pagan the­
ology expressly disclaims a plurality of indepen­
dent and self-originated deities.
B ut since, according to the principles of Christ­
ianity, which was partly designed to oppose and
bear down the Pagan Polytheism, there is one
only God to be acknowledged; the meaning
whereof notwithstanding seems to be chiefly di­
rected against the deifying of created beings, or
giving religious worship to any, besides the un­
created, and the creator of a ll: moreover, since
in the Scrjpture, which is the only true rule and
measure of this Divine cabala of the trinity,
though the XSyt pr W ord be said to have been
with Gpd, (that is, God toe Father) and also it­
self to be God, (that is, not a creature) yet is it
do where called another, or second God. There­
fore cannot we Christians entertain this Pagan
language of a trinity of Gods, but m ust call it
either a trinity of Divine hypostases, or subsist*
••-«DtsBouq toI Uno* J2nae*d. Ti. tibv ix.cap. %
.p. 773.
4 0 THE TRINITY O f PAGANS, '
ences, jot persons, or the like. Nevertheless it
is observable, that Philo," though, according to
his Jewish principles, he was a zealous opposer
of the Pagan Polytheism and idolatry, yet did he
not, for all that, scruple to call the Qilov Aoyov,
the divine W ord, after the Platonic way, Awt^ ov
©tov, a second G o d ; as hot suspecting this ,to
' clash with the principles of his religion, or that
second commandment of the decalogue, Thou
Shalt have no other gods before my f a c e p o s s i ­
bly because he conceived, that this was to be
understood of creature-gods only: whereas bis
.second God, the divine Xdryoe or W ord, is declared
by him to be otStoc, eternal, aud therefore, ac­
cording to the Jewish theology, uncreated. How­
ever, this language of a second and third God is
not so excusable in a Jew, as it might be in a
P ag an ; because the Pagans, according to the
principles of their religion, were so far from
having any scrupulosity against a plurality of
gods, (so long as there was only one fountain^ of
the Godhead acknowledged) that they rather ac­
counted it an honour to the supreme God, as'hath
been .already shewed, that he should have many
other, not only titular gods under him, but also
such as.were religiously.worshipped: wherefore,
besides this second and third God, they also did
luxuriate in their other many creature-gods. A nd •
indeed St. A ustin:doth upon this accoqnt seem
somewhat to excuse the Pagans for this their
trinity of gods, and principles, in these words :
c. d. L i. c. ‘ Liberia enim verbis loq uuntur philoso-
*3- phi, nec in rebusad intelligendum diffi-:
cillimis odensionem religiogariim aurium perti-
aYide EuseUium,.Prsepar. Evangel. lib.vii. cap.xiii.p*.323.
A TRINITY OF GODS. 41
'mescunt. Nobis autem ad certain regulam loqui
fas est, ne verborum licentia, etiam in rebus, qu®
in his significantur, itapiam gignat opinionem.
•Nos antem non dicimus duo vet tria principia,
cuta de Deo loquim ur; sicut nec duos deos vel
tres, nobis licitum est dicere, quamvis de uno-
quoque loquentes, vel de Filio, vel de Spiritu
Sancto, etiam singulura quemqye Deum esse fa*
teamur.” The philosophers use free language;
nor in these things, which are extremely difficult
to be understood, did they at alt fear the offend­
ing of any religious and scrupulous ears. ' But
the case is otherwise with us Christians; for
we are tied up to phrases, and ought to speak
according to a certain rule, lest the lioentious
use of words should beget a wicked opinion in
any concerning those things, that are signified by
them.—That is, though this might be in a man­
ner excusable in the Pagans, because each of
those three hypostases is God, therefore to call
them severally gods, and all of them a trinity of
gods and principles; they having no such rule
then given them to govern their language by as
th is; “ That though the Father be God, the Son
God, and the Holy Ghost God, yet are they not
three" Gods, but one God yet is not this allow­
able for us Christians, to speak of a second or
third;God or principle, or to call the holy Trinity
a trinity of Gods, notwithstanding that when we
speak of the"Father, or of the Son, or of the Holy
Ghost severally, we confess each of them to be
God.
And indeed when the Pagans thus spake of a
first, second, and third god, and no more, though
having innumerable other gods besides, they did,
THE WORLDS TO SO?fR
<48
by this language, plainly imply, that these three
gods of theirs, were of a very different kind from
all the rest of their g o d s; that is, not O
h
mytvrnrol,
but «i8iot, not created, bat eternal and uncreated
ones. A nd that many of them did really take
this whole trinity of gods for the ro 0»ov in gene­
ral, the Divine Numen, and sometimes call it the
first God too, in way of distinction from their
generated gods, will be shewed afterward. So
that the Iljwroc Otoe, the first God, was used in
different senses by these Pagans, sometimes in a
larger sense, and in way of opposition to all the
•ytwqroi (koi, the generated or created gods, or the
gods, that were made in time, together with the
w orld; and sometimes again, more particularly,
in way of distinction from those two other Divine
hypostases eternal, called by them the second
and third god. W hich first of the three gods is
also frequently by them called 0ed$, God, empha­
tically and by way of excellency, they supposing
a gradual subordination in these principles.
Neither was this trinity of Divine subsistences
only thus ill-languaged by the Pagans generally,
when they called it a trinity of gods; but also
the cabala thereof was otherwise much depraved
and adulterated by several of the Platonists and
Pythagoreans, For first, the third of these three
hypostases, commonly called Psyche, is by sorCe
of them made to be cyKoa/moc, the immediate
soul of the corporeal world, informing, acting
and enlivening it, after the same manner as the
souls of other animals do their respective bodies;
insomuch that this corporeal World itself, as to­
gether with its soul it makes up one complete
animal, was frequently called the third godL
THE TH IRD GOD. 43
This Pcoclus* affirmeth of Numefiiiis the Pytha­
gorean, q yap icoapoe Kar ayrqv i TptTOc tori fltoc, T h at
the world, aocordiug to him, was the third god.—*
A nd Plotinus, being a great reader of this No*
luenius, seems •to hare been somewhat infected
by him with this conoeit also, though contrary to
his own principles, from those words before cited
Out of hirn,b d jcdopoc &0C, wnrtp awifik^ Xiyfiv, rp«roc,
the world, as is commonly said, is the third god.
Now, if the world be not a creature, then is
there no created being at all, but all is God. B ut
not only Tim aus Locrus, but also Plato himself,
calls it Btiov yewtrrw, that is, a created god, the
word ytwijTQv being here put for that, which, after
it once was not, is brought into being; which is
the proper notion of a creature. So that the ani­
mated world is, by Plato, made to be only the
chief of all the ytwiftoi Am, that is, the creature-
gods. Wherefore it is plain, that in this trinity
of some Platonists and Pythagoreans, wherein
the world is made to be the third god, there is a
confused jum ble of created and uncreated brings
together. For the first of those gods is the father
and fountain of all, or the original of the god­
head. ' And the second, forasmuch as he is called
by them, both voutnlc, and Sti/ampyoc, the maker
and the opificer of the whole world, he therefore
can be no creature neither: whereas the third,
which is said to be the world, was by Numenius
himself also expressly called both nolnpa and to
Stifuovpyovftevov, the work, or thing made, that is
1Comment in TimfemnPlaton, lib. ii. p. 93.
bThis is a mistake, for Dr. Cudworth had not cited these words
before, but they arc to be found in Plotinus, Enncad. iii. lib* v. cap,,
vi. p.296.
44 . THE CABALA OF THE TRINITY
■plainly, the creature o f both the former. Proclus
' thus fully represents, his sense; JIaripa fdv. <caX«
■
t o p irpiorov, Toirfrij'v Si rov Stvrtpov, iroir\fia Si row rptrov’
wore 6 tear avrav Stifiiovpyoc Sirroc, on irpuroc km 6 .Stir
rtpog Otoe, to 8e Srtfuovpyaifitvov o rpirof' Numeoius
called the first of the three gods the father, the
second, of them the maker, and the third the
.work, or thing m ade; so that, acoording to Nu-
menius, there were two opificers, or creators of
the. world, the first and the second god ; and the
world itself, (that is, the thing made and created
by them both) is said to be the third god.
And that this notion of the Trinity is an adul­
terated one, may be also further concluded, from
hence, because, according to this hypothesis, they
-might have said, that there were three, hundred
and more gods, as well as that there are three;
^ince all the other ytwip-at fool, generated gods—
r
might have come into the number too, a* well as
the world, they being parts thereof, and gods
that differ not in kind from it, but only in degree;
Wherefore these philosophers ought not to have
made a trinity of gods, distinguished from all the
rest, but rather first to have distributed their gods
into foot atSioi and y tw n rc i, that is, eternal or unr
created, and created gods, and then to have sub­
divided those created gods into the whole worlds
and the parts thereof animated.
B ut because it may be here alleged in favour
of this spurious hypothesis p f the Trinity, that
the world was accounted the third god, only by
accident, in respect of its soul, which is properly
that third god; though Numenius, with others,
plainly affirm the world itself, as w
olti/mand Snr
, aComment, ipTimaeum Platon, lib. ii. p. 93*
ADULTERATED BY SOME PLATON 1STS. 46
fiiovpyovftivov, as the work and thing made, to be
the third; we shall therefore reply to this, that
even the soul of the mundane animal itself, ac­
cording to Timeeus, and Plato, and others, is
affirmed to be yewnroe 8toc, a generated god—that
is, such as was produced from non-existence into
being, and therefore truly and properly a crea-.
tune. Which Aristotle *observing, therefore took
occasion to tax Plato as contradicting himself, in
making: the soul of the world a principle, that is,
the third god, and yet supposing it to be wntpov
kmifia Tf ovpavif, not eternal, but made or created
together with the heaven—of which something
before. Wherefore we conclude, that this an--
cient cabala of the Trinity was depraved and.
adulterated by those Platonists and Pythago­
reans, who made either the world itself, or else
xlnrxnv.syKovfuov, an informing soul of the world—
to be the third hypostasis thereof, they mingling
created and uncreated beings together, in that
which themselves, notwithstanding, call a trinity
of causes and of principles.
And we think it highly probable, that this was.
the true reason, why Philo, though he admitted
the second hypostasis of the Platonic and Pytba-
goric (if not Egyptian) Triuity, called by him
Oaoc Xo*yoc, the divine W ord—and styled &vrepoc
fed?, the second god—and, as Eusebius" adds,
Stvrtpov alnov, the second cause—yet he would not
Platonize or Pythagorize any further, so as to ;
< take in that third god, or cause, supposed by.
many of them to be the soul of the whole world,
a 'Vide Metaphys. lib. i. cap. Tii. p. 278. tom. iv. ©per. et Physic.
Auscultat lib. viii. cap. i. p. 578. tom. i. dper. '
b Praeparat. Evang. lib. vii. cap. xiii.
4® THE CABALA OF THE. TRINITY . ’
as an anim al; because he must then bave offered
violence to the principles of his own religion* in
making the whole created w orld a g o d ; which
practice is, by him, condemned in the Pagans*
It is true, that he somewhere sticks not to call
God also the soul of the world, as well as the
mind thereof, whether he meant thereby tov irpo
t®5 X o y o v 0 e o v , that God, who is before the W ord—
or else rather the W ord itself, the second God
(according to him the immediate creator and go­
vernor of the sam e); nevertheless, he does not
seem to understand thereby such a deeply im­
mersed soul, as would make the world an animal,
and a god, but a more elevated one; that is, 4>v\nv
w
repKoafuov, a super-mundane soul.
To this first depravation of that O
tovapaSorogr
(koXoyla, that theology of Divine tradition— and
ancient cabala of the Trinity, by many of the
Platonists and Pythagoreans, may be added an­
other, that some of them declaring the second
hypostasis of their Trinity to be the archetypal
World, Or t o v at rwv ’
tSewv Trayevra icoopov, as Philo
calls it, * the world that is compounded and made
up of ideas—and contained) in it all those kinds
of things intelligibly, that are in this lower world
sensibly; and further concluding, that all these
several ideas of this archetypal and intelligible
world, are really so many distinct substances, ani­
mals and gods, have thereby made that second
hypostasis not to be one God,, but a congeries
and heap of gods. These are those gods com­
monly called by them v o W 0«ol, intelligible gods
—not as before in way of distinction from the
P.357. aioB
tfrol, the sensible gods—(which is &
» De Opificio Mandi, p. 4. '
ADULTEBATEb BY sorts PLATONIITS. 49
ttO fe general notion of the word), but from
those other gods of theirs (afterwards to be
insisted on also) called votpo* (hot, intellectual
gods.— Proclus upon Plato’s Politia* concludes,
that there is no idea of evil, for this reason, be­
cause if there were, kb! 1} rw v k o k &v U(a Otoe ttrra tf
ivt'tw tp watra ISSa 6to c IIa|yimSiK etpijictv’ that very
idea of evil also would itself be a god, because
every idea is a god, as Parmenides hath affirmed.
— Neither was Plotinus himself, though otherwise
more sober, altogether uninfected with this fan­
tastic conceit of the ideas being all of them gods,
be writing thus concerning the second God, the
first Mind or Intellect: ytvo/uvov SI jf8»i En.▼
.1.i.e.
\ rf t * - - - \ % *
* tu. [p. 489.1
fa ovra avv avrtp yewrfaai, wav fikv to rarv tr 3
Uiwv JcdXAoCy fram e Se Oeovg vo rjro vg , that he being
begotten by the first God (that is, by way of
emanation, and from eternity), generated all en­
tities together with himself, the pulchritude of
the ideas, which are all intelligible gods.—
Apuleius * also (as hath been already noted)
grossly and fulsomely imputes the same to Plato,
in those w ords; “ Quos deos Plato existimat*
Veros, incorporates, animates, sine ullo neque
fine neque exordio, sed prorsus ac retro aeviter-
nos, ingeBio ad summam beatitudinem porrecto,”
&c.—And he with Julian and others reduce the
greater part of the Pagan gods to these ideas of
the intelligible, or archetypal world, as making
Apollo, for example, to be the intelligible sun,
the idea of the sensible; and Diana the intelligi­
ble moon, and the like for the rest. Lastly, it
hath been observed'also, that the Egyptian theo-
logers pretended, in like manner^ to worship these
* Pe Deo Socratis, p. 43.
4 8 tDfiAS MADE
intelligible gods, or eternal ideas, in their religions
animals, as symbols of them.
Philo iudeed Platonized so far, as to suppose.
God,to have made an archetypal and intelligible,
world, before be made this corporeal and sensible:
DeMoB.Opif. BouXijOtJe (o 0 eO
c) rov oparo'v rovrovt Koopov
p.6. [p.3,4.] g ^ 0W
pY^<rat, irpot$trvirow rov voj/tov, tva ^p«-
fitvcx; aaiofiartf) km OtostStordrip. vapaStlyfutn, rov ot*/ut-
tu co v anepyaariTai, 7rpsirj3t>Tipov vtivrtpov amiKoviapa, t o o -.
avra vtpie^ovra tuaOifra yevn, ooairtp tv activip voijrd.
rov St sk rwv (Stwv owtorwra koo/iov iv rovtp rivl wrovostv.
aSvvarov* God intending to make a visible world,
first formed an intelligible one; that so having;
an incorporeal and most godlike pattern before--
him, he might make the corporeal world agree­
ably to the same, this younger an image of that,
older, that should contain as many sensible kinds,
in it,'as the other did intelligible. But it is not
possible (saith he) to conceive this world of ideas,
to exist in any place.—Nay, according to him,.
Moses himself philosophized also after the same,
manner in his Cosmopaeia, describing, in the first
five verses of Genesis, the making of an intelligi-.
_ _ ble heaven and earth before the sensible:
• - * \ - t « -
irpwrov ovv Trapa rov vo tjto v Kovfiov o irotw v .
tTTplu ovpavov dowfunov km yijv aoparov, Kal dtpoi (S cav.
Kal Ktvov, off v S a rp c dowfidrov ovolav km .w cv ju a r.o c, •
xai iirl jraoiv IfOopov tjxindc, o vaXiv aoiofurrov »|v
km vorjrov jJXiov TrapaSuypa, &c. The Creator,
first of all made an incorporeal heaven and.
an invisible earth; the ideas of air and. vacuum ;
incorporeal water and a ir; and last of all light,
which was also the incorporeal and intelli­
gible paradigm of the sun and .stars,.and' that,
from whence their sensible light is derived.—
ANIMALS AND GODS. 49
B at Philo does not plainly make these ideas of
the intelligible and archetypal world to be so.
many distinct substances and animals, much less
gods; though be somewhere* takes notice of
those, who, admiring the pulchritude ofboth these
worlds, did not only deify the whole of them, b a t
also their several p arts; that is, the several ideas '
of the intelligible world also, as well as the greater
parts of the sensible, an intelligible heaven and
earth, sun and moon; they pretending to worship
those Divine ideas in all these sensible things.
W hich high-flown Platonic notion, as it gave
sanctuary and protection to the grossest and
foulest of all the Pagan superstitions and idola-
tries, when the Egyptians would worship brute
animals, and other Pagans all the things of na­
ture (inanimate substances, and mere accidents),
under a pretence of worshipping the Divine ideas
in them; so did it directly teed to absolute im­
piety, hrreligion, and A theism ; there being few
that could entertain any thoughts at all of those
eternal ideas, and scarcely any who could tho­
roughly persuade themselves that these had so
much reality in them, as- the Sensible things Of
Mature; as the idea of a house in the mind of an
architect hath not so much reality in it as a ma­
terial bouse made up of stones, mortar, and tim­
ber so that their devotion must needs sink down
wholly into those sensible things, and themselves
naturally at length fall into this atheistic persua­
sion, T hat the good things of nature are the only
deities.
Here therefore have we a m ultitude of Pagan*
gods supermundane and eternal (though all de-
* De CbnfiisioimLingutr. p. 34n
VOL. I I I . E
50 THE HENAOE9, AND NOES,
pending upon one supreme), the gods by them
properly called vtmrol, intelligible—or the Divine
ideas. And we cannot but account this for an­
other depravation of the ancient Mosaic cabala
of the Trinity, that the second hypostasis, thereof
is made to be thearchetypal world, and all. the
Divine ideas, as so many distinct substances, ani­
mals^ and gods j that is, not pne god, but a;whole
world of gods.
B ut over and besides all this, some of these
Platonists and Pythagoreans did further,deprave,
and adulterate the ancient Hebrew or Mosaic ca­
bala of the Trinity (the certain rule; whereof is.
now only the Scriptures .of.the New Testament),
when they concluded, that as from the third hy­
postasis of their Trinity, called n irpurv 'pvxv, the
first sou}'—there, were innumerable other particu­
lar souls derived, namely,, the souls, of all inferior,
animals, that are parts of the,w orld; so in,like
manner, that from their second hypostasis, called
o wp&roQ vov$, the first: mind or intellect—there,
were innumerable other ./ugucd Nose, particular .
minds—or intellects substantial derived, superior
to the first soul; and. not only so,, but also, that
from thatfirst and highest hypostasis of all, called
To «v, and Ta-yaftlv, the one, and the good—there
were derived likewise many particular 'EvaS??, and
'Ayadan^nc, unities and goodnesses.substantial— ;
superior to the first intellect. Thus Proclus in
N^*xi. ro«p. his Theologic Institutions, Msra.S^ni'.tv.
x x l p. 426.1 *
f y ** « , < \ " \ .
m apa to irpwrqv, evaofc /ca* p tra vo yv Toy jrpaitpv^
vote* Kal fitra rt}v rfnfj(r}v rijv 7rpwiyv, Kai fiefa ti).v>
oXqv fia««* After the first One (and from U)> ,
there are many p a ^ e u la r hehades or unities ;
after the first Intellect tmd from it, many particu-
OF SOME. PLATONISitS. i t
ljar noes, minds, or intellects; after, the- first Sonl,.
many particularand.derivative souls; and;lastly,i
after the universal Nature, many particular, na­
tures, and spermatic reasons.—Where it may be
obiter observed, that these Platonists .supposed,)
below the universal Psyche, or! mundane soul, a,
universal or substantial:nature also;.but so­
ns, that besides it there were.otber particular Xayot-
airtpfiannol, seminal reasons—or. plastic principles:
also. . . .
A s for these noCs, and that besides:the first*
universal M ind or Intellect, there are other pui*
tkmlar.minds or . intellects substantial, &rank, of
beings not only immutably good, and wise, but
also every way immoveable, and therefore,above
the rank of all souls,, th a t. are -self-moveable
beings ; Proclus. was not singular in.this, but had
the. concurrence, of many other Platonists w ith
him ; amongst whom Plotinus, may seem ,to. be
one, from .this passage of. his besides others, ort
aQdvarot JSt qi ipvyjti, m ! vowc v5c, tv, aXXptc 8u} itXhoinuv
tipyrar that; souls are immortal,, and ,every mind
or;intellect, we have.elsewhere largely proved,—
Upon which wordsJFjcinus thus: “ Hie, p 653 tKnt/
et supra at infra .s$epe, per verba Plotipii*^,
ngtajbjs, plures esse ipentium animarum- **p*
.
qpe substantias infer sedistinctas, quamvis inter
eas; unio sit mirabijis.” Here, ,and, fanprm^py
ofherplaces, before and after, you may observe,
that, according to Plotinus,, thereare many:snbt
stpntial minds distinct from souls, tbough there
be a wonderful union betwixt them.—Moreover,
that there was also, .above these noes,-or imy
moveable but mpltiform minds, not oply ope
perfectMonad, and first Good, hut alsoa rank
e 2
52 THE HENADE8, AND NODS,
KM.
of many particular henades or monades, and
agathotetes; was, besides Proclus and others*
intyiet. asserted by Simplicius also: df iavrov
9. ayeSov irdvra Trapayu, r i n irptOra, $
sm rd
fUiMif tali tti & tyora’ dXX<t rd ptv vpuira m i iavrtp irdpayti,
/da ayaflonjcVoXXd^ayaO&njrat, /cat pia «*df »
>virep xaaac,
xoAAde (t>dSac‘ The highest good (saith be) pro*
duceth all things from himself, in several rank*
and degrees; tbe. first, the middle, and the last
or lowest of all. But the first and the next to
himself doth he produce like himself, one good­
ness many goodnesses, and one unity or henade
bonny hsn4des>—
And that by these henades and
Eutoagathdtetes he means substantial beings, that
are conscious of themselves* appears also from
these following w ords: *£ /Jv ow irpttta
fwvviro rob fl-pwrov Ayd$ovvdpnyopwiav, &d ro
irpoi a& i-tym fveg, ovk eclair/ row eivdt dyadd* akewrrra o vta
Sal fed! cv rVr aJry a ti pakapidxvri iSpii/usra,
«
M
m
t ivSer} fob dyafiob, t n hdrbayaOdHrri^ tlinT T h o se
beings, which are first produced from the first
good/ by reason of their Sameness of nature with
him* are itotnovedbly and unchangeably good, al­
ways fixed in the same happiness, and never indi­
gent of good or falling from it, because they are
all essential goodnesses.—W here afterward ho
adds something concerning the vote also* that
though these were a rank of lower beings, and
n o t avtoJyuOa, not essentially goodnesses, but only
by participation; yet, being by their own nature
also immoveable, they can never degenerate, nor
fid! fiom that participation of good* Notwith­
standing Which* We must confess, that Some Of
thefce Platontets seem to take the word henades
smnetuneS in another sense, and .to understand
o r s o u k P U T O s u m $3
•fotbiog else thereby blit foe intelligible ides bo*
foretatentionnd; though tbe ancient Pfetoniet*
end Pythagoreans were not wont to call those
vtotiee, but numbers.
i s d now have we discovered more of the
Pagans’inferior gods, supermundane and eternal*
via; besides those mvrol <W, those intelligible gods
—troops of beoades asd autoegathptetes, unities
and goodnesses; and also of noes, immoveable
minds or intellects; or, as they frequently call
them, O
mI ivuuoif'and fc« t'oapnl, hensdicel (or mo*
nodical) gods, and intellectual gods.
B ut since these noes, or w
tm
po10w«, suns said to
be all of them in their own nature a rank o f
beings above souls, and therefore superior to
that first Soul, which is the third hypostasis
of this T rinity: as all those beuades or im h
tow, those am ple monadical gods, are likewise
yet a higher rank of beings above toe noes, and
therefore superior to the second hypostasis also,
thb first M ind; and yet all these benades and
Pons, however supposed by these pbilosopbem
to be eternal, forasm uch.as they are particular
beings duly, and not universal, cannot be .placed
higher than is the rank cf creatures; it follows
from hence unavoidably, that both the suepnd
and third hypostases of this Trinity, as well tb#
first Mind as the first Soul, m ust be accounted
creatures also; because no created being can be
superior to any toting uncreated,. Wherefore Pro*
d a s, and some others of those Platpnists, plainly
understood this Trinity no otherwise, than as a
certain scale or ladder of beings in the universe;
er a gradual descent of things from the first, or
highest, by steps downward, lower and lower, so
64 THE SPURIOUS PLATONIC TRINITY,
far as to (lie souls of a ll animals. For which
cause, P ro d ns, to make up this scale complete,
adds to these three ranks and degrees, below that
third of souls, a fourth of natures also’; under
which there' lies nothing but' the passive part of
the universe, body and: matter. So that their
whole-scale of all that is above body was indeed
not a Trinity, but a quaternity, or four ranks'and
degrees of;beings, one below another; the first
of’henades or unities, the second of noes, minds
or intellects; the third of souls, and the last of
natures; these being; as it were, so many orbs
and-spheres, one within and below: another. In
all which several ranks of being, they supposed
one first universal, and unparticipated, as the
head of each respective rank, and- many particu­
lar or participated ones: as one first universal
tienade, and many secondary particular henades;
One first universal Nous, Mind, or. Intellect; and
many secondary and particular noes or minds’;
one first universal Soul, and many particular'
souls; and lastly, one universal Nature, and
many particular natures. In which scale" of
beings, they deified, besides the first To ev, and
Tayofldv, One, and good—not only the first Mind,
and the first Soul, b u t also those other particular
henades and noes universally; and all particular
souls above human: leaving out, besides them
and inferior souls, that fourth rank of natures;
because they conceived, that nothing was to b e
accounted a god, b at wb&t was intellectual and
superior <
to men. Wherein, though they made
several degrees of gods, one below another, and
called some di&ovc and sdine ytvvqrovc, s6me eter­
nal, and some generated—or made in tim e; yet
, SOT A SCALE OR LADDER OF NAtURR. 55
did they no where clearly distinguish betwixt the
D eity properly so called, and the creature, nor
ibfew how far iii this scale the true Deity went;
end where the creature began. But as it were
tnelting the Deity by donees, and bringing it
down -lower and low er,'they made the juncture
and commissure betwixt God and the creature so
smooth and close, that where they indeed parted
was altogether undiscernible; they rather imply-
iUg them to differ only in degrees, or that they
were hot absolute but comparative terms, and
Consisted but in more and less. All which was
doubtless a gross mistake of the ancient cabala
of the Trinity.
This is therefore that Platonic Trinity which
wie oppose to the Christian, not as if Plato’s own
Trinity; in the very essential constitution thereof,
were quite a different thing from the C hristian;
itself in all probability having been at first de­
rived from a Divine or Mosaic cabala; but be-'
cause this cabala (as might well come to pass in'
a thing so mysterious and difficult to be con­
ceived) hath been by divers of these Platonists
and Pythagoreans misunderstood, depraved, and'
adulterated, into such a Trinity, as confounds the
differences between God and the creature, and
removes all the bounds and land-marks betwixt
them ; sinks the Deity lower and lower by de­
grees (still multiplying of it, as it goes), till it have
a t length brought it down to the whole corporeal
world ; and when it hath done this, is not able to
stop there neither, but extends it further still to
the animated parts thereof, stars and demons;'
the design or direct tendency thereof-jbeing no­
thing else, but to lay'a ’foundation for infinite
$0 THE CHRISTIAN TBItUTV, AS OPPOSBP
Polytheism, coseaolatry (or world-idolatry), and
creature-worship. W here it is by the way ob­
servable, that these Platonic Pagans were the
only public and professed champions against
Christianity; for though C dsus were suspected
by Origin to hare been indeed an Epicurean, yet
did Jbe at least personate a Platooist too. The
reason whereof might be, not only because the
Platonic and Pytbagoric sect was the dirineat of
all the Pagans, and that which approached near­
est to Christianity and the truth (however it might
by accident therefore prove the worst, as the cor­
ruption of the best thing), and by that means
could with greatest confidence hold np the buck­
lers against Christianity and encounter it; but also
because the Platonic principles, as they m ight be
Understood, would, of all other,serve most plausi­
bly to defend the Pagan Polytheism and idolatry.
Concerning the Christian Trinity, we shall here
observe only three things; first, that it is not a
Trinity of mere names or words, nor a Trinity o f
partial notions and inadequate conceptions of one
and the same thing. For such a kind of Trinity
as this might be conceived in that first Platonic
hypostasis itself, called ro» and rayoAlv,the one
and the good—and perhaps also in that first
person of the Christian T rinity; namely, of good­
ness, and understanding or wisdom, and will or
active power, three inadequate conceptions there­
of. It is true, that Plotinus was so high-flown, as
to maintain, that the first and highest principle of
all, by reason of its perfect unity and simplicity,
is above the multiplicity of knowledge and under­
standing, and therefore does not so much as wow
ovrd, in a proper sense, understand itself; not-
TO THE PSEUDO-PLATONIC. 57
Wfchstandingwhicb, this philosopher himselfadds,
that it cannot therefore be said to be ignorant nor
unwise neither; these expressions belonging
only to such a being, as was by nature En.ru.Tii.e.
intellectual, povc yip p i mwv, dvovroc i *7‘^ 7,9'1
Intellectus, nisi intelligat, demens merito judica-
tu r.—And he seems to grant, that it hath a certain
simple clarity and brightness in it, superior to that
of knowledge; as the foody of the sun has a cer­
tain brightness superior to that secondary light,
which streamed! from i t ; and that it may be said
to be voqmc ain|, knowledge itself—that does not
understand, as motion itself does not move. B ut
this can hardly be conceived by ordinary mortals,
that the highest and m ost perfect of all being!
shoald not fully comprehend.itself, the extent of
its own fecundity and power, and foevconscious of
all that proceeded! from it, though after the most
simple manner. And therefore this high-down
conceit of Plotinus {and perhaps of Plato himself
too) has been rejected by latter Platonists, as
fantastical and unsafe: for thus Simplicius,dXAd
km ytw»0iv tf^eiv i-vaytcn rnv dcpordrijv, ou ip Epiet. p.
<ydpup rt tmv w avrai nmpayofiivmr ayvoyatup'
B at it must needs have also the mostperfect know­
ledge, since it cannot be ignorant of any thing,
that is produced from itself.—And St. Austin,*in
like manner, confutes that assertion of some
Christians, that the Aoyot, or eternal W ord, was
that very wisdom and understanding, by which
the Father himself was wise; as making it nothing
but an inadequate conception of God. B ut this
opinion, that the Christian Trinity is but a Trinity
of words, or mere logical notions and inadequate
• De Trinit lib. vi. cap. ii. iii.p. 608, 5 0 9 . tom. viii. oper.
58 THE, CHRISTUM TRINITY, A
S OPPOSED
conceptions of God, hath been plainly condemned
by the Christian chnrch in Sabellius and others.
Wherefore we conclude it to be a Trinity of hypo­
stases, or subsistences^ or persons.
The second thing, that we observe concerning
the Christian Trinity, is th is: that though the se*
Coqd hypostasis, or person thereof, were begotten
from the first, and the third proceedeth both from
the first and second; yet are neither this.second^
rot third, c re a tu re s a n d that for these following
reasons- - First, because they were not made <£
q»ic ovrow, as A rius maintained, that is, from an.
antecedent non-existence brought forth into beings
nor can it be said of either of them, “ E rat .quaado:
rod erant,” that once they were,not, but theirgoing
fprthw asfrom eternity—and they were both coeve
qnd coeternal, with the Father- Secondly, because
they were not only eternal emanations (if we may'
SOcall them) but also necessary, and therefore are-
they both also absolutely nndestroyable and urn
' annihilable. Now, according to true philosophy
and theology, no creature could have existed from
eternity, nor. be absolutely undestroyable; a n d
therefore that, which is both eternal and unde*,
stroyable, is ipsofacto uncreated. Nevertheless,,
because some philosophers have asserted (though
erroneously) both the whole world's eternity, and ’
its being a necessary emanation also from -the'
Deity, and consequently, that it i&undestroyable;
we shall therefore further add, that these second
and. third hypostases or persons of the holy Tri­
nity are not only therefore uncreated, beoause
they were both eternal and necessary emanationsy
and likewise are unannibilable; . but also because
they are universal, each of them comprehending
TO THE PSEUDO-PLATONIC. S»
4b« whole world, and all created things under it:
which universality of tbeira is the same thing with
infinity; whereas all other being*, besides this
holy Trinity, are particular and finite. Now we
say, that no intellectual being, which is not only
eternal, and necessarily existent, or undestroyable,
but also universal, or infinite, can be a creature. ■
Again, in the last place, we add, that these three
hypostases, or persons, are truly and really one
God. Not only because they have all essentially
one and the same will, according'to that of Origen,
8ptioKtvofuv ovv rov iraripa n)c oXifOttac, xai rov C.CtU. p. ■
m f m - * t ■ V 336, fl. Tui.l
vtov rriv a\tiuuavf ovra ova rg virootmau irpay- . . L. f
ftara, tv 81 rrj p/iovola Ktu rji m fu^uvuf M i.ry tw ro n in rvc
{3ovXii<n*>c* W e worship the Father of truth, and
the Son the truth itself,'being two things as to hy­
postasis ; but one in agreement, consent,' and
sameness of will:—but also because they are phy­
sically (if we may so speak) one also; and have a
mutual and uwrap&c, inexistence.and
permeation of one another-—according to that .of
our Saviour Christ, ‘‘ I am in the Father, and the
Father in m e; aud the Father that dwelleth in
"me, he doeth the works.” W e grant, indeed, that
there can be no instance of the like unity or one­
ness found in any created beings; nevertheless^
we certainly know from our very selves, that it is
not impossible for two distinct substances, that are
of a very different kind from one another, the one
incorporeal, the other corporeal, to be so clpsely
united together, as to' become one animal and per­
son ; much less therefore should it be thought
impossible for these three Divine hypostases.to be
ohe God.
We shall conclude here with confidence, that
6P THU PLATONIC TRINITY, NOT
the ChristianTrinity, though there be very mttdb
ofmysteryinit, yet is therenothing at all o f plain
contradiction to the undoubted principles of hit­
manreason,thatis, of impossibility, to he found
therein, as the Atheists 'would pretend, who ery
downall fornonsense andabsolute impossibility,
which theirdullstupiditycannotreachto, ortheir
infatuated mindseasilycomprehend,andtherefore
eventhe Deity itself. And it wereto bewished,
that some religionists and Trinitarians did not
here symbolize too much with them, in affecting
torepresent themystery of the Christian .Trinity
as a thing directly contradictions to all human
reason and understanding; andthatperhaps out
ofdesign to make men surrender np themselves
and consciences, in a blind and implicit faith,
wholly totheirguidance; asalsoto debauchtheir
understandings by this means, to the swallowing
down of other opinions of theirs, plainly repug­
nant to human faculties/ As who should say, ho
thatbeliCvesthe Trinity (asweall mustdo,ifwo
will be Christians), should boggle at nothing in
Religion never after, nor scrupulously chew or
examine any thing; as if there could be nothing
movecontradictious, or impossible to human m
a*
devstanding propounded, than this article of the
Christian faith.
Bat, forthepreseat, we shall endeavour onlyto
shew, that the Christian Trinity (though aray's-?
tsry, yet) is muchmoreagreeable to reason,than
that Platonic,or Pseudo-Platonic Trinity before
described; andthatinthosethreeparticularsthen
mentioned. For,first,whenthose PlatouistSand
Pythagoreans interpret their third God, or last
hypostasis oftbeirTrinity, tobe eithertheworld,
seasonable; as the chsistian. 01
or else a (ycw/mc, each an immediate sept '
thereof, as,together withtheworldits body, make
«p one animal god; as there is plainly toogreat
aleap here betwixt their second and third hypo­
stasis, so do they debase die Deity therein too*
much, confound God and the creatnre together,
laying a foundation, not only for cosmolatry, or
• world-idolatryingeneral, bnt also for thegrossest
andmost sottish ofall idolatries, theworshipping
of the inanimate parts of the world themselves,
in pretence as parts and members of this great
mundaneanimal, and sensible god.
It is true, indeed, that Origen andsome others
of the ancient Christian writers have supposed,
that God may be said, in some sense, to be the
Soul ofthe world. ThusinthatbookrkpTAp^wv,
“Sicat corpusnostrumunumex multis
membris aptatumest, et ab una aniraa
continetur,itaet universummundum,velutanimal
qnoddamimntane, opinandum puto; quodquasi
ab Una anima, virtute Dei ac ratione teneatur.
Quod etiama sancta Scriptura indicari arbitror
per illud, quoddictumestperprophetam; Nonne
ccelum et terram ego repleo, dicit Dominus?et
coelommibi sedes, terra autemscabellum pedum
meefum; et quod Salvator, cumait, nonessejn-
randum neque per cceluno, quia sedes Dei est,
veqpse per terram, quia scabellum pedum ejns.
Sed et illud quod ait Paulus, Quoniam m ipso
vivimuset movemur et sumus. Quomodo enim
inDeo vivimus, et movemur, et soraus, nisi quod
in virtute sna universum coostringit et continet
mundum As ourown body is madeupofmany:
members, and contained by one soul, so do I
conceive, that the. whole world is to be looked
02 . THE PLATONIC TRINITY, NOT
'■
f
ipon as one huge, 'great animal, which is con*
tained, as it were, by onesoul, the virtueandrea-
.son ofGod. Andso much seems tobeintimated,
by the Scripture in sundry places; as inthat of
theprophet, “Do notI fill heavenandearth?’’And
' again, “Heaven is my throne, and the earth my
footstool.”AndinthatofourSaviour, “Swearnot.
atall,neitherbyheaven, becauseitis thethroneof •
God, norby theearth, because it is hisfootstool.”
, And, lastly,inthatofPaul tothe Athenians, “For
mhimwelive, andmove,andhaveourbeing.” For
howcanwe besaidto'live, and move, and haveour
beinjg.inGod, unlessbecausehe, byhis virtue and
. power, does constringe and!contain the. whole,
world? and how canheavenbethethrone of God,
and theearth,his footstool,,uniess his virtue and
power fill all things both in heaven and earth?
—
Nevertheless, God isberesaidby Origentobe but
quasi anitna, as it were thesoul ofthe.worldas
if he should have said, that all the perfection of a
sbul is to be attributed to God, in respect of the .
world; he quickeningand(enliveningall things, as
much as if he were the very soul ofit, andall the
partsthereof were his livingmembers. And per- .
haps thewhole Deityoughtnottobelookedupon,
accordingto Aristotle’s notion thereof, merelyas
a/tcWocovaia, animmoveableessence;—
forthenit
is not conceivable, how it could either act upon
the W
orld, or be sensible ofany!thingtherein; or.
to what purpose any devotionaladdresses should ,
be made byus to such an unaffectible, inflexible,
rocky, and adamantine Being. Whereforeallthe
perfection of a mundane soul may perhaps, be at­
tributed to God, in some sense, and he called,
quasi anitna m m idi,aa it were the soul thereof.
r ea so n a ble; as t h e Ch r is t ia n . 6 3
(hough St. Cyprian would hare this properly to
belong to the third hypostasis or person of the
ChristianTrinity, viz.theHoly Ghost. Butthere'
is.somethingof imperfection also plainly cleaving
andadhering to thisnotionofamundanesoul, be­
sides something of Paganity likewise, necessarily
consequent thereupon, which cannot be admitted
by us. Wherefore God, or the third Divine hy­
postasis, cannot be called the soul of the world
inthis sense, as if it were so immersed thereinto,
and so passive from it, as our soul is immersed
into, and passive from, its body; nor as if the
world, andthis soul together, madeup one entire
animal, each part whereof wereincomplete alone
by itself. And that God, or thethird hypostasis
of the Christian Trinity, is not to be accounted,
inthis sense, properly the soul of the world, ac­
cording to Origen himself, we may learn from
these words of his; “Solius Dei, id est, nift '
Patris, et Filii, et Spiritus Sancti, natu- L, c
*&
re, id proprium est; ut sine materiali substantia,
et absque ulla corporate adjectionis societate, in-
telligatur subsistera ” It is proper to the nature
of God alone, that is, of the Father, and of the
Son, and of the Holy Ghost, to subsist without
any material substance, or body,’vitally unitedto
it. —Where Origen affirming, that all created souls
and spirits whatsoever, have always Somfe body or
Other, vitally united to them; and that it 'is .the
property only of the three persons of the holy
Trinity, not to be vitally united to any body,
as the souL thereof; whether this assertion of his
be true or no (which is a thing not here to be dis­
cussed), he does plainly hereby declare, that God;
or the third hyposta^is qf the Trinity, is nbt to be
6 4 600 NOT X
accounted, in a true and proper sense, the sonl of
the world.
And it is certain, that the more refined Plato-
nists were themselves also of this persuasion; and
that their third God, or Divine hypostasis, was
neither the whole world (as supposed to be ani­
mated) nor yet \fntyri lycotf/uoc, the immediate sonl
of this mundane animal—but only^v^n vnpuoefuoe,
a supermundane soul;—that is, such a thing as
though it preside over the whole world, and taka
cognizance of all things in it, yet it is not properly
an essential part of that mundane animal, but a
being elevated above the same. For thus Pro-
hTW p. clus plainly affirmeth, not only of Arne*
95.94. ]ius, but also of Porphyrias himself, who
likewise pretended to follow Plotinus therein;
fieri Be rov 'AftiXiov o Ilop^vptoc ciofievoc r$> IlW tiy
evpfSuvt rqv piv ipvyrjv rqv vmpicoofiiov arfoKaXtl j
S
»
j-
fiwvpyov, rov B
e vovv avrqc, wpoc Bv airi&rpairrai, to av-
to£wov, a
J
f tlvai to irapaSeiy/ua rov Bri/uovpyov Kara rowrov'
After Ameiius, Porphyrius, thinking to agree
with Plotinus, calls the supermundane soul the
immediate opiftcer or maker of the world, and
that mind or intellect, to which it is converted,
not the opificer himself, but the paradigm thereof.
-—And though Proclus there makes a question,
whether or no this was Plotinus’s true meaning,
yet Porphyrius is most to be credited herein, he
having had such intimate acquaintance with him.
'Wherefore, according to these three Platonists,
Plotinus, Ameiius, and Porphyrius, the third hy­
postasis of the Platonic Trinity is neither the world,
nor the immediate soul of the mundane animal ;
but a certain supermundane soul, which also was
Stjyuioupyoc, the opificer and creator of the world,—
UlUNDANE SOtJL. %
and therefore no creactare. Now the corporeal
worM being supposed, by these Platonists also,
to be an anitnatl, they most therefore needs ac­
knowledge a double send, one \pvytfv iyKoofuov, the
immediate soul of this mundane animal, and ano­
ther pu-^rjv wrtpKoofuov,a supermundane soul, which
was the third in their trinity of gods, or Divine
hypostases, the proper and immediate opificer of
the world. A nd the same, in all probability, was
Plato's opinion also; and therefore that soul,
which is the only Deity, that in his book ofLaws
h e undertakes to <prove, w as ipyx1
^wrap****/*10*’ a
supermundane soul, and not the same with that
fax* tyKoofitoe, that mundane soul, whose genesis,
or generation, is described in his Thnaens; the
former of them being a principle and eternal; and
the latter made in time, together with the world,
though said to be dlder than it, because in order
of nature before it. And thus we see plainly,
that though some of these Platonists and Pytha­
goreans either misunderstood, or depraved (he
cabala of the trinity, so as to make the third hy­
postasis thereofto be die animated world, which
themselves acknowledged to be ffoni/m and iiffuovp-
yov/ievov, a creature and thing m ade; yet others, of
the Tefined of them, supposed this third hyposta­
sis of their trinity to he not a mundane, but a su­
permundane soul, and Svfuovpyov, not a creature,
but the'C reator or opificer of the whole world.
And as for the second particular proposed, it
was a gross absurdity in those Platonists also, to
make the second, in their trinity of gods, and hy­
postasis, not to be one 'God, or hypostasis, but a
multitude ofgods and hypostasis; as also was that
a monstrous extravagancy of theirs, to suppose
VOL. III. F
06 ID EA S, NO A N IM A LS,
the ideas,, all of them, to be so many distinct sub­
stances and animals. Which, besides others, Ter-
F.sso. 1%. tuHian in his book D e Anima thus imputes
to P lato : “ Vult Plato esse qoasdam sub-
stantias invisibles, incorporeales, supermundiales,
divinas, et seternas, quas appellat ideas, id est, for­
mas etexem pla, et causas naturalium istorum ma-
nifestorum, et subjacentium corporalibus; et illas
quidem esseveritates, haec autem imagines earurn.”
Plato conceiveth, that there are certain substances,
invisible, incorporeal, supermundial, divine, and
eternal; which be calls ideas, that is, forms, ex­
emplars, and causes of all these natural and sen­
sible things; they being the truths, but the other
the images.—Neither can it be denied, but that
there are some odd expressions in Plato, sound­
ing that way, who therefore may not be justified
in this, nor I think in some other conceits of his,
concerning these id e a s: as when he contends,
that they are not only the objects of science, but
also the proper and physical causes of all things
here below; as, for example, that the ideas of
similitude and dissimilitude are the causes of the
likeness and unlikeness of all things to one ano­
ther by their participation of tbem. Nevertheless,
it cannot be at all doubted, but that Plato him­
self, and most of his followers, very well under­
stood, that these ideas were, all of them, realty
nothing else but the noemata, or conceptions, of
that one.perfect Intellect, which was their second
hypostasis; and, therefore, they could not look
upon them in good earnest, as so many distinct
substances existing severally and apart by them­
selves out of any mind, however, they were guilty
of some extravagant expressions concerning them.
NOR GODS. 67
Wherefore, when they called them oiolae, essences
or substances, (as they are called in Philo avay-
icworarai ovalai, the most necessary essences,) their
true meaning herein was only this, to signify, that
they were not such accidental and evanid things,
as our conceptions a re ; they being the standing
objects of all science, at least, if not the causes
also of existent things. Again, when they were
by them sometimes called animals also, they in*
tended only to signify thereby, that they were
not mere dead forms, like pictures drawn upon
paper, or carved images and statues. A nd thus
Amelius," the philosopher, plainly under- s«ciem. At.
stood that passage of St. John the Evan- Aog^d*'
gelist, concerning the eternal Xoyoc, he 0,her UtiB’-
pointing the words otherwise than our copies
now do, o yiyovtv tv avr<p far} jji», that,* which was
made, in him was life: this philosopher glossing
after this manner upon1it, iv <
3 to ycvo/utvov fav,
xal tm v, Kai ov -irt<f,vKtvai, in whom whatsoever, was
made, was living, and life, and true being.'—Lastly,
no wonder, if from animals these ideas forthwith;
became gods too, to such men as took all occa­
sions possible to multiply gods; in which there
was also something of that scholastic notion,
“ ‘Qnicqufd est in Deo, est D e u sW h a tso e v e r
is in God, is God.—B ut the main thing therein
was a piece of Paganic poetry; these Pagan the-
ologers being generally possessed with that poe­
tic humour of personating things and . deifying
them. Wherefore, though the ideas were so
many titular gods to many of the Platonic Pa­
gans, yet did Julian himself, for example, who
made the most of them, suppose them all <
*
v
wrap-
aApud Euseb. Prsppar. Evangeh lib. ix. cap. xix.p. 540.
F 2
MO C R EA T ED H EN A D ES,
68
%
uvKatiws-ajp^uv, .to co-exist with God aad io-exist
io him—that is, in the first mind, or second hypos­
tasis of their trinity.
Lastly,W hereas Proclus, and others of the Pla-
tonista, intermingle many particular gods with
those three universal principles o r hypostases,
pf their Trinity, as noes, minds, or intellects, su­
perior to the first soul; and henades and aga-
thotetes, unities and goodnesses superior to the
first intellect to o ; thereby making those particu­
lar beings, which m ust needs be creatures, supe­
rior tp those hypostases, that are universal and
infinite, and by consequence creaturizing of them:
this hypothesis of theirs, I say, is -altogether ab­
surd and irrational also ; there being no created
' beings essentially good and wise, hut all by par­
ticipation, -nor any immoveable natures amongst
them, whose ©
ioia is their iw p-yao, their essence,
their operation 4 but all mutable and changeable^
and probably, as Origen and others of the fathers
a? l^P^ble and peccable. “ Nulla
i.i.«.TuTp. natura est.qusenon recipiat honum e t
malum, excepta D ei natura, quae bono*
rum omnipm fans est.; et Christi sapientia, sapi-
entise enim fans est, e t sapientia ntiqne stultitiam
recipere non p otest; e t justitia test, quae nun-
quam profecto injustitiam capiet; et yearbtuu est
vel ratio, quae utique irrationalis ^ffici non potest-;
sed e t lux est, et lucem certum est, quod tenebne
non coroprehendent. Similiter et natura Spiritua
Sancti, quae sancta est, non.recipit poUutionem:;
naturaliter enim vel substantialiter santfta est.
Siqua autem alia natura sancta est, ex assusap>
tione hoc vel inspiratione Spiritus Sancti hubet,
u t sanctificetur, non ex sua natura hoc possidens,
k o b m a ro t a b l e k o e s .
aed: lit. ftceidens; propter quod et d e a d e r p»
teat, quod, aceidit.” There is no nutttrot which is
not capable both ofi good and eviH excepting! ouiy
th,e nature o€ God, who is the fouhliam of all
goad, and the wisdom of Christ fee he is; the
fountain of wisdom, and wisdom itself never can
receive tolly; he is also justice itself which can
nearer admit of injustice; and the reason and
word itself, which can never become irrational ;
he is: also the light itself, and it is. certain; that
darkness cannot comprehend tins tight, nor insi*
nuate itself with it. In tike manner the nature
of the Holy Ghost is such; as. can never receive
pollution, it being substantially and essentially
holy. B ut whatsoever other nature is holy, it is
only snch in way of participation and by the inn
spiration of this Holy S p irit; so that holiness is
not its very nature and essence,, but only an acci­
dent to i t ; and! whatsoever is b it accidental may
fail. All created beings therefore having hut acn
qidental goodness and wisdom, may degenerate
and fall into evil and folly.—Which, of Origen’s
is all one, as if be should have said, there is no;
snch rank: of beings as autoagathotetes, essential
goodnesses, there being only one Being essentially
good, or goodness itself. Nor no such particu­
lar created beings existing in nature as the Pla-
tonists call noes neither, that is, minds or iutel-
lecte immoveable, perfectly and essentially wise,
or wisdom itself, whose ovaia is their ttxpyua, whose
essence is their operation, and who consequently
have.no flux at all in. them, nor successive action;
(only the. eternal word and wisdom of God being
such) who also are absolutely ununitable to any
bodies. It is true, that Origen did somethaea
7 0 MO C R EA T ED & R N A D E8,
jn a k e mention of v<fce, minds or intellects, but it
was id another sense, he calling all souls, as first
created by God, and before iheir lapse, by that
nam e; which was as much as if 'he should have
said, though sortie of the Platonists talk' mufch of
their noes, yet is there nothing answerable to
that name, according to their notion of them ; but
the only noes really existing in nature, are un-
fallen, but peccable souls; he often concluding,
that the highest rank o f created beings are in­
deed no better than those, which the Platonists
commonly call or souls. By which souls
he understood first of all, beings in their own na­
ture self-moveable and active; whereas the noes
of the' Platonists are altogether im'moveable and
above action. And then again, such beiugs or
spirits incorporeal, as exist not abstractly and
separately from all matter, as the noes of the
Platonists were supposed to do, but are vitally
unitable to bodies, so as, together with those ben-
dies, to compound and make up one animal.
Thus, I say, Origen conceived even of the highest
angelical, and arch-ahgelical orders, that they
were all of them souls, united to bodies,
but such as were pure, subtle, and ethereal: how­
ever, he supposed it not impossible for them to
sink down into bodies, more gross and feculent.
And it is certain, that many of the ancient Christ­
ian writers concurred with Origen herein, that
the highest created spirits were no naked and'
abstract minds, but souls clothed with some cor­
poreal ihdument. Lastly, Ongen’s souls were
also supposed to be, all o f them, endowed with
liberum arbitrium; or free will, and consequently
to be self-improvable' and self-itUpairable; and
NOB IMMUTABLE NOES. 71
no particular Created spirits to be absolutely iir
their own nature impeccable, but lap sib lein to ’
Vicious habits: whereas the Platonic•ooes are
supposed to be such beings, as could neverfall
nor degenerate. And the generality of the Christ­
ian writers'seemed to have consented,’ or con­
spired with Origen in this also, they supposing
him, Who is now the prince of devils, to have been
once an angel of the highest orders Thus does
St. Jerome *determine; “ Solus Deus est, in quern
peccatum non cadit; caetera, cum sint.liberi ar-
bitri, possunt in utramque partem suam flectere
voluntatem.” God is the only being, that is ab­
solutely incapable of sin ; but all other beings,
having free-will in them, may possibly turn their
will to either way;—that is, to evil as well as to
good. It is certain, that God, in a sense of per­
fection, is the most free agent of all, neither is
contingent liberty universally denied to him ; but
here it is made the only privilege of God, that is,
of the holy Trinity, to be devoid of liberum dr-
bitrium, namely, as it implieth imperfection, that
is, peccability and lapsibility in it.
It is true, that some of the Platonic philoso­
phers suppose, that even in that rank of beings,
called by them souls, though they be not essen­
tially immutable, but all self-moveable and active,
yet there are some of them of so high a pitch and
elevation, as, that they can never degenerate, nor
sink down into vicious habits.’ Thus Simplicius
for one ; aXXa at fitv irpturat rwv ipvywv, airs Epj,t< p_
irpootywc wiro avroayaOwv vapayBuaai, icav 11,13- ’
toyov ri irpoc tKiiva v<j>tifitvov, Bia ro juif ttvat ayaflorijrtf,
dXXa optytaOai row ayaOov, ir\ijv twc trwyymlc Trpof aw
’ro,
*Epistol. cxli.
T% JMFEERROT REGRESS.
(np^miiic ** <nwow> fo l d u a m p m U n a g . o g i y o v r c u , m m - t»
w>
tupum /mimmSiSc *y<»c ***&
»> zsiapbnfih «vS*ir®ne
awocXaramrat trpoc fl# ^sipav* *a* unp v ypgqigfgte «w'
aiAtv mac; 8W» a*pt<n£, to^ o. ovk a»tar irpa<4pe*e. cm**
voiet u fM&tc avnjv> uptm gm * <Ju r* vpuam> 0706a mpett-
fitmrKafr*' B at the first sad highest o£ souls,
which wore immediately produced from what ace
essentially good, although they have some abator
m eat in them, they heiag not. goodnesses essen­
tially, hut desirous of good,, nevertheless are they
so near a-kin to that highest good, of all, as that
they do naturally and indivulsively cleave to the
same, and have; their volitions always uniformly
directed towards it, they never declining to the
worser. Insomuch th at if proseresis be taken for
the chasing of one thing before another,, perhaps
there is no such thing as proeecesis to be imputed
to- them, unless one should call the chasing of
the first goods prcueresis.-—By these higher souls
Simplicius m ust needs understand, either the
souls of the son, moon, and stars, or else those
of the superior orders of demoniac or angelic be­
ings. W here though he; m akea question, whether
■proseresis or deliberation belong to them, yet
does he plainly imply, that they have none at all
of that lubricous, liberum arbitrium or free-will,
belonging to them , which would make. them, car
pahle.of vice andi immorality as well as. virtue.
B ut whatever is to be Said of this, there seems
to. be no necessity at all for admitting; that asser­
tion of Origen’a, th a t all. rational souls whatso­
ever, even those of men. and those of the highest
-angelical orders, are universally of one of the
same natnre, and have no fundamental o r essere*
tial difference in their constitution; and conse-
or souls. 73
qpantly tint all the difference, that is now he»
twixtlbeis, did. arise only from the difference of
theirdemeanor,,or use of thatpower and liberty,
which,they alLalike once bad. So that thrones,
and dominions^ and principalities, and powers,
wereall made,such by their merits; and human
seals,though now sunk so low, yet are not ab­
solutelyincapable of commencing angels, or as­
cending to those highest altitudes: as it is not
impossible, according to him, neither, but that
the highest angels also, the seraphimand cheru­
bim might, in length of time, not only degenerate
into devils; but also sink down into human bo­
dies; his reasonfor which monstrous paradox is
only this, that the Divine justice cannot other,
wisewellbesalved,,butGodmustneedsbeatt-p
m
r
-
ftu
roX
ijirn
K
, an accepterofpersons,,should he have
arbitrarily made such vast differences amongst
intellectual beings. Which ground he also ex-
tendeth so far, as to the human aonl of ous
Saviour Christhimself,, as beingnotpartially ap­
pointedto that transcendent dignity of its hypos­
tatic union>. hut by reason of its most faithful
adherence;to the Divine word and wisdom, in a
preexistent state, beyondall othersouls; which
beendeanroursthus to prove from theScriptures
wQnod defectionis>perfectio,et affectus n^'M ^
sincerilafl) ei inseparabilem cum Deo fe- l‘1
'c
'T
i>
cerit unitatem, itaiat non fortuita.fuerit*ant cum
personae acceptione, animae ejus assumtio, sed>
virtufunasnarnmsibi.uaeritodelata; audi adeuna
prophetam dieentem, Dilexiati:justitiam et odisti
iniquitatem;:proptereauaxitte Deus, Dens taus,
oleo leetitisejw»participibuatrie: dilectionisergo*
merito ungitur oleo laetitiae anima Chrieti, id est.
74 DIFFERENT DEGREES
cumverbo Dei ununiefficitur. Unginamqueoleo
laetitiae, non aliud intelligitur quamSpiritu Sanc-
to repleri. Prae participibus autem dixit; quia
non gratia spiritussicut prophetis ei data est, sed
ipsius verbi Dei in ea substantial inerat pleni-
tudo.” That theperfection oflove, andsincerity
of Divine affection, procured to this soul its in­
separable union with the Godhead, so that the
assumption of it was neither fortuitous nor par­
tial, or with prosopolepsy (the acception of per­
sons) hut bestowed upon it justly for the merit
of its virtues; hear (saith he) the prophet thus
declaringtohim, “Thouhastloved righteousness
andhated iniquity: thereforehathGod, even thy
God, anointed thee with the oil ofgladness above
thy fellows.” The soul of Christ therefore was
anointed with the oil of gladness, or made one
with the word of God, for the merits of love and
faithful adherence to God*and nootherwise. For
to he anointed with the oil of gladness here pro­
perly signifies nothing else, but to be replenished
with the Holy Ghost. But when it is said, that
he was thus anointed above his fellows, this in-
timateth, that he had not the Holy Ghost be­
stowed upon him, onlyas the prophets and other
holy men had, but that the substantial fulness
of the word of God dwelt in him.—But this
reason of Origen’s seems to be very weak ; be­
cause if there be a rank of souls below human,
specifically differing from the same, as Origen
himselfmust heeds confess, (he not allowing the
souls of brutes to have been human souls lapsed,
as some Pythagoreans and Platonists conceited,
but renouncing and disclaiming that opinion, as
monstrously absurd and irrational) there can be
or souls. 75
no reason given, why there mightnot be as well,
other ranksand orders of souls superior,tothose.
ofmen, withouttheinjusticeofprosopolepsy; as,
besidesSimplicius, Plotinus and thegenerality of
other Platonists conceived.
But least of all can we assent,to Origen, when
fromthis principle, thatsouls, assuch, areessen­
tially endowed with liberum, arbitrium, or free-
will, and therefore never in their own nature im­
peccable, he infers those endless circuits of souls
upwards and downwards,, and so make,sthemto
be never at rest, denying them any fixed stateof
holiness and happiness by.Divine grace; suchas
wherein theymightbefree fromthefear anddan­
gerofeverlosingthesame. Of whomSt. Austin*
thereforethus: “Iliumetpropteralianonnolla,.et
maxime propter alternantes sine cessatione,beati-
tudiqes et miseries, et.statujtis secnlorum inter-
vallis ab istis ad illas, atque ab illis ad istasipts
ac reditusioterminabiles, nonimmeritoreprobavit
ecclesia; quiaet hoc quod miserieors videbatur,
amisit, fa^iendosanetis veras misprias,.quibus pee
nas luerent, et falsas beatitudines, in quibus ve-
rumac secUrum, hoc est, sinetimorecerium sem-
piternibonigaudium non haberent.” The church
hath deservedly rejected.Origen, both for certain
ether opinionsof his, and especially forthose his
alternate beatitudes and miseries, without end,
and for his infinite circuits, ascents and descents
ofsouls, from one- to the other, in restless vicissi­
tudes and after periods of time. Forasmuch as
hereby he hathquite lost that very title ofpitiful,
or merciful, which otherwise he seemed tp have
deserved, by making-so .many true miseries for
* De CiViUte Dei, lib; xxi. c*p. xvii. p. 481..torn viii. qper.
76 AGAINST OKIGEN’s
the best of saints, in which they should succes­
sively undergopunishment and)smart; and none
but falsehappmessforthem, sockasw.herekithey
could never have anytrueorsecurejoy, freefrom,
the fear of losing thatgood which they possess.
—For this Qrigenical hypothesis seems directly
contrary to the whole tenor of the gospel, pro*
raising eternal snd everlasting life to those, who
believe in Christ, and persevering!y obeybun;
(1 Johnii.}“Thisis thepromise,thathehathpro*
raised as, even eternal, life:” and Tit. k %. "In
hope of eternal fife*, which God, that cannotlie,
hath promised.” And, “Godso lovedthe world,
that begave his only-begotten Son, that whoso*
everbetieveth in hmrshouldoat perish, buthave
everlastinglifeand lestall thisshonkl be taken
fpraperiodical eternity only, (John iih 26.)* “ Ha
that believeth in me, shall neverdie.” Andpea*
sibly this might be the meaning ef St. Paul,
(2Tim. i. 10-.) whenhe affirmed*of ourSaxtons
Christ, that “he hath abolished death, and
brought Fife and immortality to light, through
thegospel;”netbecause bewas-thefirstv^hohad
discovered', aH
d publishedto the world, thesonl’s
immortality, which wasbelieved.’before, not only
by all;the Pharisaic Jews, but also by the gene*
rality of Pagans too; bnt because these, for the
mostpart, heldtheir endlesscircuits'and transmi­
grations of souls: therefore washe the*first, whm
broughteverlastingKfetolight,andgavethewwrld
assurance, inthefaithofthegospel, ofa fixedand
permanentstate*of happiness, and a never-fading
crown of gloryto
*be obtained; “Him thatover-
cometh will I m
ake*a piH
ftrin the temple of ray
G
od*, and heshall go nomoreout.” Apoc. iii. 12.
CNDLC88 CIBCDITS. 73
Now the season, why we mentioned Ohrigm
hem,'W
asbecausethewas a person, not only tho­
roughly skilled in all the Platonic learning, but
also one, who was sufficiently addictedto. those
dogmata, hefeeingcommonly concerned to hare
had'toogreatakindness forthem1
;and, therefore,
had there been any solidity of reason foreither
those .particular .benades or Doesof theirs, cre­
ated beings abovethe rank of sards, and'Conse­
quently, according to the Platonic, hypothesis,
superior to the(Universal Sfrychealso(which was
thethirdhypostasis iia theirtrinity, andseems to
answer tothe Holy Ghostinthe-(Christian):; Ori­
ganwas as likely to have been favourabletbene-
uqto as any other. But it is indeed manifestly
repugnant to reason, that there should -be any
such particular, that is, created benades, and ■*£-
reayat&
npvc,essential-goodnesses—
(Superior to .the
PlatonicfirstMind;oraaysuchnoes,aad>
a
i!rM
w
-
fiat, essential wisdoms—
superiorto their univer­
sal Psyche; itbeingall one,asif, intheChristian
Trinity,besidesthefirstperson, orthe Bather, one
should supposea multitude of particularpaterni­
ties superiorto thesecond.; andalso, besides the
seoond person, the Son, or Word, a multitude O
f
particular sons, orwords, all superiorto thethird
person, the.Holy Ghost. For this is plainlyto
make a breachupon the Deity, to confound the
Creatorand creature together; andto supposea
companyof such creature!ygods, as implya ma­
nifest contradiction indieverynotion ofthem.
’
Wherefore, weshall hereobserve, thatthiswas
not the Catholic doctrineof the Platonic school,
that there were such henades andnoes, but only
a private opinion ofsome doctors amongst them,
78 THE HEHADES A H DHOES,
and that of:the latter sort too. For, first, as for
those henades, as therearenot theleastfootsteps
ofthemtobefoundany whereiu Plato’s writings,
so may it be plainly gathered fromthem, that he
supposed no such thing. Forasmuch as, in his
secondepistle^wherehedescribes histrinity** he
dothnot 8ay of the first, irepl to irpurov r« irpwra,
about the first are.the first—ashedoth of the se­
cond, Sevrepov Trept ra Sevrcpa, and of the third, rp/rov
irepl ra rpira, about the second are the second, and
about thethirdthethird—butofthefirst he saith,
Trtpi tov vavruw BooiXIci vavr tori, ieal ticuvovtvaca rravrej
Kal tKtivo airiov airatnwv w Kakwv, about the king of
all things are all things, and for.his sake are all.
things; and he is the cause ofall things, thatare
good.—Whereforehereareno particular henades
and autoagathotetes, unities and goodnesses;
about the firstTo'Ev andTa-yaO
ov, One and Good;
but all gocil things are.about him, he being both
the efficient and final cause of all. Moreover
Plotinus, throughoutall his.works, discovers not
the least suspicion neither of these henades and
agathotetes, this language being scarcely to be
foundany whereinthe.writings ofany Platonists
senior to Proclus; whoalso, as .if hewere con­
scious, that this assumentum tothe Platonic theoT
logy were not so defensible a thing, doth himself
sometime, as it were, tergiversate and decline it^
by equivocating in the word henades, taking
them for the ideas, or the intelligible gods before
mentioned. As perhaps Synesius also uses the
word,inhisfirst hymn,whenGodiscalled byhim
'Enrfirw «v«c
' Movofov (xwas Ti'flrplrv,
* P. 707. oper.
FIGMENTS OF LATTER PLATON1STS. 70
the first Henad of Henad^s, and the first Monad
of Monades; that is, the first idea of good, and
cause of all the ideas.— And as for the particular
noes, minds or intellects, these indeed seem to
have crept up somewhat before Plotinus’s time;
he, besides the passage before cited, elsewhere
giving some intimations of them, as Enn. ■
6. 1. iv. C. iv. AAXa i r t i f ip v y a i 'iroXXot mi voi
woXXoi; but how c&n there be many souls, and
many minds, and not only one, but many entia ?
— From which, and other places of his, Ficinus
concluded Plotinus, himself really to have assert­
ed, above the rank of souls, a multitude of other
substantial beings, called vote or v&t,miuds'or in­
tellects. Nevertheless, Plotinus speaking of them
so uncertainly, and making such an union betwixt
all these noes and their particular respective
souls, it may well be questioned, whether he really
' took them for any thing else but the heads and
summities of those souls; he supposing, that all
souls have a mind in them, the participation of
the first M ind; as also unity too, the participation
of the first Unity ; whereby they are capable of
being conjoined with both: Stt vovv iv tjpiv
v \ • \ y • r ' Enn. I. V. c.
ftvat, icat vov apyi}v> kcu atrun/, /cat u tov uxnrtp to xS
. [lib. i. p.
/ *,* * - * . i f ' * * 492.1
K tvrpov t<f> ta vro v botiv t^ ei of scat ucacrrov rtvv J
iv r<pkvk\^> oyfiaov iv avrip’ km at ypaju/uat to tStov irpop-
tfxpovoi irpot; tovto* tu>yap rotovrtp rwv iv qfuv ij/ut? ifav-
rofttOa, k m ovvtaptv, k m avqprnptBa iviiSpvptQa Si, oi'. av
ewvevwptv Ua' There must needs be mind in us, as
also the principle and cause of mind, God. Not
as if he were divided, but because, though remain­
ing in himself, yet he is also considered in many,
as capable to receive him. As the centre; though
it remain in itself, yet is it also in every line drawn
80 Tins HEHADES AHO NOES,
'from the circumference, each of them, by ascertain'
point of its own, touching it. Aud by some sudh
thing in us it is, that we are capable of toodring
'God, and of being united to him, when w e direct
<mr intention towards hiin.—And in the next chap­
ter he adds, e^ovrtc ra Totavta vuk <rvnAa/^3avo/je8a,
aXXapyov/jxv Tale rocauratc svspytwtte ra voXha* o» o u f
ffX «f ivtpyovxrcv' ixuva fttv iortv evranf iawra)vtv^wytfiKC’aitt,
vovq SI teal t o irpo vow iv taw ry, &C. T hat though W
>e
have these things in us, yet do wenotperceive them,
being for the m ostpart idle and asleep, as to these
higher energies4 as some never at all exercise
them. However, those do always a c t; mind,
and that which is before mind, unity; but every
thing, which is in our souls, is not perceived by
ns, unless come to the whole, when we dispose
ourselves towards it, &c.—W here Plotinus seems
to make the' noes, or minds, to be nothing else
but something in sonfs, whereby they partake of
the first Mind. And it is said of Porphyrins,
who was well acquainted with Plotinus's philo­
sophy, that he quite discarded and rejected these
noes or intellects, as substances really distinct
from the first Mind, and separate from souls.
And it is certain, that such minds as these are no
where plainly mentioned by Plato, he speaking
only of minds in souls, but not of any abstract
and separate minds, save only one. And though
some might think him to have given an intimation
of them in his Stvrtpop wept ra Scvrcpa, (beforemen-
tioned) his second about the second things, or se­
cond things about the second—yet by these may
very well be understood the ideas ; as by the third
things about the third, all created beings. W here­
fore we may conclude, that thisPlatonic, or rather
FIGMENTS OF LATTER .PLATONISTS. 81
Pseudo-Platonic trinity, which confounds the dif­
ferences betwixt God and the creature, and that
probably in favour of the Pagan Polytheism and
idolatry, is nothing so agreeable to reason itself,
us that Christian Trinity before described, which
distinctly declares, how far the Deity goes, and
where the creature begins; namely, that tbe Deity
extends so far as to this whole Trinity of hypo­
stases ; and that all other things whatsoever, this
Trinity of persons only excepted, are truly and
properly their creatures, produced by the joint
concurrence and influence of them all, they being
really but one God.
But, it is already manifest^ that all the foremen-
tioned depravations and adulterations of that Di­
vine cabala of the Trinity^ mid that spurious tri­
nity, described, (which, because asserted by some
Platonists, was called Platonical, in way of dis­
tinction from the Christian) cannot be justly
charged, neither upou Plato himself, nor yet upon
all his followers universally. But, on the con­
trary, we shall now make it appear, that Plato
and some, of the Platonists retained much of the
ancient genuine cahala, and made a very near ap­
proach to tbe true Christian Tyinity; forasmuch
as their three hypostases, distinguished from all
their other gods, seem to-have been none of them
accounted creatures, but all other things whatso­
ever the creatures of them.
First, therefore, we affirm, that Plato himself
does, in the beginning of his Timseus, very; care­
fully distinguish betwixt God and the creature,
he determining the bounds between them after
this m an n er: * ’'Eonv ovv Kar’ t/ufjv8o%av irjotSfov
* Cap. xii. p. 235. Fabricii.
VOL. III. * G
8 2 'THE GENUINE -CABALA OF THE TRINITY
f ttio v raSt' t i to ov puv a ti, ykvtoiv Sf ovK e%ov‘ k<
u ri to
yiyvo/uvov-piev, o v 81ovSbroTe’ to puv Si}, voi)<rei piera Xoyoo
WcpiAirJirov, a u Kara ravra ov' to S’ aS $o£p p u r' (UoUquaiic
dXo-yov, S oldatov, yiyvopuvov kcu airoXXvfUvov, ovriVe Seav~
Slirore o V irav Si av To yiyvopuvov, mr alrlov tivog
avaymK y'tyvtoBai’ Webeing here to treat concern­
ing the universe, judgeit necessary to begin with
a distinction betwixt that, which always is,■
and
hath no ortus, or generation; and that, which is
made, butnevertruly is. The former of which,
being always like itself and thesame, is compre­
hensibleby intellection with reason, or is the ob­
jectofknowledge; thelatter Of them, that which
is made and perisheth, but never truly is, is not
properly knowable, but opinable only, or the ob*-
ject of opinion, together with irrational sense.
Now everything, thatis made, must of necessity
bemadebysomecause.—Thereason', why Plato,
being to treat of the universe, begins here with
this distinction, was, as Prochis* well observes,
because curateKotvaicij/tw
vtw otaic aw oK tirai,t
o tlvai rt
adov’ it is eitheroneofour common notions; or'a
thing mathematically demonstrable, that there
must be something eternal, or which was never
made, but always was, and had no beginning—
Andit is evident bysense andexperience, thatall
thingsarenotsnch, butthatsomethingsaremade
and perish again, or generated and corrupted.
Now the latter Platonists, being strongly pos­
sessedwith aprejudice ofthe world'seternity, or
that it hadno beginning, haveofferedStrange vio­
lence to Plato's text in this place, and wrested
his words to quite a different sense fromwhat he
-intended; asif byhisto yiyvopuvov, that which is
* Comment inTimaeomPlaton, lib. Lp. 10.
IN PART RETAINED BY PLATO, &C. S3
made—he did notat all mean that, which had a
beginning, but only that, whose duration is flow­
ing and successive, or temporary, which might
^notwithstanding be without beginning; and as if
be supposedthe wholecorporealworld tobesuch,
whichthough it hath asuccessive and temporary
duration, yet was without anybeginning. And
-thecurrentran so strongthis way, that even Boe­
thius, thatlearned Christianphilosopher,washim­
self also carried away with the force thereof, he
taking itforgranted, likewise, that Plato held the
•eternityofthe worldinthissense,thatis, its being
-withoutbeginning: “Nonrecte quidam c « moi. pin.
(saithhe)qui’cumaudiunt visumPlatoni *'T
*
P
r
0
‘8
*
niundum huncnec habuisse initiumtemporis/nec
habiturum esse defectum, hoc modo conditori
conditum mundumfiericosternum putant. Aliud
ostenim, per interrainabilem duci vitam, quod
tnundo Plato tribult; aliud interminabilis vitae
totain pariter complexum esse prSsentiam; quod
divinae mentis proprium essemabifestumest. Ne-
que.Deus conditis rebus antiquior videri debet,
temporis quantitate,, sed simplicis potius proprie-
tatenaturae.” Some,whenthey hearPlato tohave
held, that the world had no beginning, norshall
'neverhave anend, do not rightlyfromthence in­
fer, that Plato therefore made the world coeter-
T
ial with God, because it is one thing always to
be, and another thing to possess an endless life
■
all at once,-which is proper to the Divine mind.
-Neither ought God to be thought older than the
world, inrespectof time, but only in respect of
the simplicity of his nature.—To which purpose
headdsafterwards, “Itaquesi dignarebusnoraina
■velimus imponere, Platonem seqnentes, Deum
g 2
84 pla to ’s pl u r a lity .
quidemsternum, roundumvferodteemusesseper-
petuum.” Therefore, if we would give proper
names to things agreeable to their natures, fol­
lowing Plato, we should say, that God was eter-
nal; but the world only perpetual.—
-Bnt as this
doctrine of the latter Platonists quite frustrates
Plato’s design in this place, which was to prove
or assert a God;because,ifthe worldhad no be­
ginning, though its duration be never so much
successive, yet would it not follow from thence,
that therefore it must needs have been made by
some other cause; so is it directly contraryto
that philosopher’s, own words, himselfthere de­
claring, that by his to yi-yvofievov, ortum, or that
which is made—he did not understand only that,
whose duration is successive, but alsoro ytvitmos
apxnvE
^
ov, that which had a beginningofitsgene­
ration-1
—
and to av ap^jK nvog ap^a/ievov, that which
begun from a certain epocha of time—or that
which once was not, and therefore must needsbe
-brought into beingby someothercause. So that
Plato thereplainlysupposed all temporarybeings
once to have had a beginning of their duration,
as hedeclareth in that very Timseus of his, that
Time itself was noteternal, orwithout beginning,
butmadetogetherwiththeheavenorworld;—and
fromthence does he infer, that there must of ne­
cessitybeanothereternal Being, viz. such as hath
both a permanent duration, and waswithout be­
ginning, and was the cause both of time and the
world: forasmuch as nothing can possibly be
made without a cause; that is, nothing,.which
once was hot, oould ofitself comeinto being, but
must beproducedbysomeotherthing; and so at
last we must needs come to something, which
IN THE DEITY. M
had nO beginning. Wherefore Plato, thus taking
it for granted, that whatsoever hath a temporary
and flowing duration, was not without beginning;
as also that whatsoever was without beginning,
hath a permanent duration or standing eternity;
does thus state the difference betwixt uncreated
and created beings, or betwixt God and creature;
namely, that creature is that, whose duration being
temporary or successive, once bad a beginning;
and this is his to ytyvdfuvov plv, ov Si ovShrorc, that
which is made, but never truly is,— and that which
v»r alriov rtvoc avaytciKyiyvtrai, must of necessity
be produced by some cause—but. that whatsoever
is without beginning, and hath a permanent dura*
tion, is uncreated or D ivine; which is 'his t
o
' o*
ftiv au, ytvtaiv Si ovk t^ov, that which always is, and
hath no generation, nor was ever made.—Accord­
ingly as God is styled in the Septuagint translation
of the Mosaic writings, o*Qv, he that truly is.
Now as for this atSiog owria or fim c, this eternal
nature—which always is, and was never made,
Plato*speaks of it, not singularly only, as we
Christians now do, but often in the Paganic way
plurally also; as when, in this very Tiinmus, he
Calls the world rov diSluv 0«3v ytyo vic uyaXfta, a
made or created image of the eternal ,gods.— By
which eternal gods he there meant doubtless that
to i r p u r o r , and to £evrtpov, and to r p i T o v , that first, and
second, and third, which, in his second epistle to
Dionysius, he makes to be the principles of all
things; that is, bis trinity of Divine hypostases,
by whose concurrent efficiency, and according to
whose image aud likeness, the whole world was
m ade; as Plotinus also plainly declareth in these
words of his before cited: ovroeftivdicva/u
ogebcw
vad
6$ T#E PLATONIC
UKWiXjpitvoQ,iartiKOTtuv (ikv tov irpdrdv k<
h tov Stvripovy Kti
TovTpirpv• This world is an image always iconized, .
or .pepetually renewed (as the image in a glass is)
of that first, second, and tbird principle, which
are always standing—that is, fixed in eternity,
and were never made, f o r thus Eusebius re­
cords, that the ancient interpreters of Plato ex­
pounded this first, second, and third of his in the
forementioned epistle, of a trinity of gods; rauro
Pr. Ev. 1
.xi. ot tov nAarwva 8taaa<fntv vtiptofitvot, an nJit
vponov 6sov avayovmv, arlrt .to Aevrtpov amov,' -
K«i Tptrov rnv rov Kooftw ^v^nv, ©tov.Tptrov Ktu aun}v-
optloptvmtlvai’ These things do the interpreters
of Plato refer to the first God, and to the second
cause; and to the third the soul of the world, they*
calling this also the third god.— Wherefore we.
think there is good reason toconclude, that those
eternal or uncreated gods OfPlato in his Timaensr
whose image ot statue this whole generated o r
created world iBsaid by him to be, were no other
than his trinity of Divine hypostases, the makers
or creators thereof. A nd it was before (as w e
conceive) rightly guessed, tbat.Cicero also was.to*
be understood of the same eternal gods, as Pla-
tonizing, when he affirmed, “ A diis omnia a prin­
ciple facta,” that all things were at first made by.
the gods—and “ a providentia deorum mundum.et
oihnes raundi, partes constitutes esse ;” .that the.
world and all its parts, were constituted by the.
providence of the gods. *
B ut that the second hypostasis, in Plato's tri­
nity, viz. mind or intellect, though said to have
been generated, or-to have proceeded by wpy of.
emanation from thp first called.Tagathoo, the.
*- PJ*t. Timae.p. 528. oper.
NOUS ETERNAL. 87
Good, was notwithstanding unquestionably ac­
knowledged to have been eternal, or without be­
ginning, might be proved by many express testi­
monies of the most genuine Platonists: but we
shall here content ourselves only with two, one
of Plotinus writing thus concerning it, Enn. 5.
1. i. C. vi. imro&tov SI ij/ilv ta rt* y iv ttn c ij tv ^povy, rov
Xoyov m pi.twv att ovrwv toov^ wic^ &c. Let all tem­
poral generation here be quite banished from our
thoughts, whilst we treat of things eternal, or
such as always are, we attributing generation to,
them only in respect of causality and order, b n t
not of time.-—And thopgb Plotinus there speak,
particularly of the second hypostasis or nous,
yet does he afterwards extend the same ajso to
the third hypostasis of thaf trinity, called Psyche,,
or the mundane soul; which is there said by
him likewise to be the word of the second, as
that second was the word of the first; Kal ro ysv-
vwjucvov a r o icp tirro vo c Nov, Novv ttv a i, cal K p u rrw v avdv-
run> Nov?, on r a X X a fu r avrdv, olov Ktu >
) rf/vj^n X oyoc
vov, cat tvip yttd tic, w m rtp a vro c «ctivov* T hat which
is generated from what is better than mind, can
be no other than mind, because mind is title
best of all things, and every thing else is after it,
and junior to it, as Psyche or soul, which is ip
like manner the word of mind, and ,a certain
energy thereof, as mind is the word and energy
of the first Good.—The other testimony is of Por­
phyrins, cited by St. Cyril out of the fourth book
of his philosophic history, where he sets down
the doctrine of Plato after this, m anner: g e
u vo vto q nXdrwvoc Trad rov A yaB ov ovrwc* awo Jol. 1
.i.p.
/ f t >o f • f .- 32.
0$rovrov Tpoirov tivclavtfpwvoig avtirivorpov V
Q
U
V
% ytvivOtu rt oXov Kal KaO tavrop v^<rnHra9 Si ro ovrwg
88 NOUS OR LOGOS
ovra, Kal ij Traaa ovala t w v o v t w v ’ o t s k m irptarwQ koA o v
Kal avroKaXov, Trap tavrov ttjq KaXXovtfc* t\ov. t o eIS o c "
irpoiiAde Se irpoauivioe air airlov rov 6eov <dpftt/fi(vog, avro-
ytvnroe wv Kal avToirdrwp’ ov yap halvov Kivavfiivov jrpoc
yivtaiv rrjv t o v t o v »
j irpooBoC ytyovtv, aXX<
i t o v t o v iraptX-
QovfOc auroyovwe u Oeov, TrapcXOovroc Se owk air’ apyttC
tivoc \povucrjg, ovwtv yap 'S^poVoc Jv‘ aXXa owSe ^povov
ytvofiivov TtpoQ ayrdv errl n 6 ^x>vo$,'a^xn<6; ytip att ral
u
6i>
oga’
udvtoQo vov$* Plato thus declareth concern­
ing the first Good, that from it was .generated a
certain mind incomprehensible to m ortals; in
which subsisting by itself, are contained the things
that truly are, and the essences of all beings.
This is the first fair, and pulchritude itself, which
proceeded or sprung opt of God from all eternity
as its cause, but notwithstanding after a peculiar
manner, as self-begotten, and as its own parent.
F or it was not begotten from that, as any way
moved towards its generation; but it proceeded
from God .as it were self-begottenly. And that
not from any temporal beginning, there being as
yet no such thing as tim e: nor when time was
afterward' made, did it any way affect h im ; for
mindis always timeless, and alone eternal.— Here,
besides the eternity of mind or intellect, the se­
cond Divine hypostasis in the Platonic trinity,
there are other strange and unusual expressions
concerning i t ; for though it be acknowledged to
have been generated from the first original Deity,
yet it is called avroirarup and awp)iroc» its own
parent, and its own offspring, and said to have
sprung, out avroyowoe, self-begottenly.
Now because this is so great a riddle or mys­
tery, it is worth the while to consider its true
meaning and the ground thereof; which is thus
CALLED AUTOPATER. 89
declared by Porphyrias. Mind, though it sprung
from the first Good or supreme Deity from eter­
nity, yet it is said to be self-begotten, because it
did not spring from that, as any ways moved to­
wards its generation, but as always standing still
or quiescent. Which doctrine was before deli­
vered by Plotinus after this m anner: oil bb. 5. u . c.
KwtfiivroQ Qarkov yiyvta&u, ei yap KivrfitvTOf T*
‘fr*
avrov n ytyvowo, rptrov aw ixtlvov to yivofisvow fiera njw
kivtpnv av ytyvoiro, «coi oil Stvrtpov’ Su oSv axivvrov ovrof,
fin Btvrspov fter aiifo, oil ■wpoovtvaavroe, ov$l (iovXf-
devroc, ovSi oXuc KtvqOfvroci vwoerryva1 00to. That,
which was immediately generated from the first,
did not proceed from it as any ways moved to­
wards its generation, because then it would not
have been the second, but the third after that mo­
tion. Wherefore, if there be any second after that
first Good, it must needs proceed from that first,
as remaining immoveable, and not so much as ac­
tively consenting thereto, nor willing it, which
would be motion.—Now this in Porphyrias’s
language is paraphrased to be, a being produced
from the first Good or original Deity, avroydvwc,
self-begottenly—or in a way of self-generation.
B ut the plain meaning thereof seems to be no
other than th is: that though this second Divine
hypostasis did indeed proceed from the first God,
yet was it not produced thence after a creaturely,
•or in a creating way, by the arbitrary will and
command thereof, or by a particular fiat of the
supreme Deity, but by way of natural and neces­
sary emanation. Neither wqs Porphyrius singu­
lar in this language, we finding the very same
expression, of airowdrwp and aiiroyovoc, self-parent
and self-begotten, in Jamblichus’s M ysteries;
90 ARIUS MO
wtfere it is likewise by him applied not to the
first Principle of all, but to a second Divine hy­
postasis,* a iro S I t o v iv o f t o v t o v , 6 a v ra p iO K fltoc cavrov
Sto kcu amwaTdjp ic a i auToyovoe. From this
one, the self-sufficient God made himself to shine
forth into lig h t; and therefore is he called Sui-
Pater, and Seipso-genitus, his own father, and
self-begotten.-—B ut of this God or Divine hypos­
tasis in Jamblichus more afterward. We cannot,
justify such kind of’language as this in the Christ­
ian Trinity, because we have no warrant for it
from the Scripture; though we are not ignorant
that some late divines have ventured to call the
Christian Logos after the same manner a v ro d to v ,
and ex seipso Deum, God from himself.
Dionysius Petavius having rightly declared the
doctrine of Arius, after this manner, that the
Father was the only eternal God, and that the
Son, or Word, was a creature made by him in
time, and out of nothing; that is, after he had
no t been produced into being; subjoins these
words: “ In ea vero professione, quod
«.vH
Lf*. supra memoravi, plamssime constat, ger-
D
>
o^m
at.' manum PJatonicuin Arium exstitisse.”
£*38]*' ^ rom profession of this doctrine*it
is most undeniably manifest (wbat was
before affirmed) that Arius was a german or
genuine disciple of Plato’s.—B ut from what we
have now cited out of Plato himself, and others
of his most genuine followers, it is certain, that
Petavius (though otherwise learned and indusr
trious)was herein grossly, mistaken, and that Arius
was'no Platouist at all.: And, indeed, for either
Plato or Plotinus to have denied the eternity of
aJamblich. de Mysteriis 45gyptior. sect. viii. cap. ii. p, Id8.
PLATON1ST. 01
that second hypostasis of his, called Nous, or
Logos, and the son of the first, would have been
all one ns if they- should have denied the eternity
of.wisdom and understanding itself; because, ac­
cording to them,, this second hypostasis is essen­
tially nothing but ovromfia, .original wisdom it­
self—and, consequently, that very wisdom, by
which'God himself is wise. Which how far, or
in w.hat sense it is true, we do not here dispute.
Nevertheless, Athanasius seems to have been fully
of the-same opinion with them herein, from this
passage of bis : K<u cofit K
O
I aXridua■
ftmv DaSraUM
m
.
6 tip to e , k m o v K u r r i v a X X t K o o f i a c $ t p r * p o f , tom ' *'
aXXa /uovoc ovrof Bi ov ra vavra weKoapcfv q Tan)p, &C.
Our Lord is both wisdom and truth, neither is
lie second from any other wisdom; but it is be
alone, by whom the Father made all things. A nd
again, oirrt yap Xo-yoc sartv o rov Xoyov warnp, for the
Father of the Word is mot properly himself, the
W ord. And O
U
Knv Aoyoc ©rov Aoypv vpotpsvoc,- rpf
yap i Aoyof vpot rov 6cov. 2o^tii ytytwtfrai o Kvptoc* owe
»|v ouv aofla 6 rqv ooifoav avtu;" syia yap rtpufv* fvn v, p
vpoaijpM
ptv" That was not Word, which produced
the W ord, for the W ord was with God, The
Lord is Wisdom; therefore that was not Wisdom,
which produced Wisdom, that speaks thus of
herself, His delight was with me.”—]3ut those
latter words he citetb with approbation out of
IHonysius, bishop, of Alexandria. And the same
Athanasius affirmeth Arius, on the contrary, to
have maintained, that there was another W ord
and Wisdom senior to that Word and Wisdom in
our Saviour Christ. To conclude, no Platonist-
ip the world ever denied the eternity of that nops;
pr universal mind, which is the second hypos-
9 2 n o n e o f p l a t o ’s -
tasis of their trinity; but, on the contrary, as hath
been already observed, some of them seemed
rather to attribute too much to it, in calling it
avrmrarwp and ‘avrayovos, its own parent and its
own offspring, as that which was self-begotten,
though this ■but in a certain ' mystical sense;
they otherwise not denying it to have proceeded
also from the first Good, and to be the offspring
p 119 ‘ thereof. Wherefore Plato, who sup-
pom. l posed the world not to have been eter-
D
ispnt onm nal, asserting the eternity of that second
A
rio^ hypostasis of his trinity, thereby plainly
made it to be no creature, according to Athana­
sius’s own doctrine: « aiSioe «m v o vide, ovk f o
KTtofia, st 81 Krlxr/ia Tvy^avu, ovk jJv ch8io£. If the Son be
eternal, he was no creature; and, on the con­
trary, if he be a Creature, he was not eternal.—-
Neither is there any force at all in that testi­
mony of Macrobins,* which Petavius urgeth to
the contrary; wherein the first Cause is said de
se mentem cream, to have created Mind from
itself;—and again this Mind, animam se cream,
to have created from itself soul;—because it is
certain, that these ancient Pagans did not then
so strictly confine that word creare,(as we Christ­
ians now do) to that narrow sense and notion, of
the production of things in time; but used it
generally for all manner of production or efficacy.
But the chief ground of Petavius’s mistake here­
in, besides his prejudice against Platonism in
general, was his not distinguishing betwixt that
spurious trinity of some Platonists, wherein the
third hypostasis was the whole animated world,
(which gave him occasion to write thus: “ Tertius
*1
11Somn. Scipion. lib. i. cap. xiv. p. 73.
TRINITY, CREATURES. 03
▼ero Deus manifeste ereatus ab iisdem PlatOnicis
putatur, quern et volvfia Dominant;”) and that
other doctrine, of those, who made it not to be
the world itself, that is a creature, but the Opi-
ficer or creator thereof.
But we grant, that there may be some more
reason to make a question, whether Plato him­
self held the eternity of the mundane soul (com­
monly said to be the third hypostasis of his tri­
nity) or n o ; because in his Timaeus, though he
acknowledged it to be senior to the world, yet-
does he seem to attribute a temporary generation,
o r nativity to it. Nevertheless, it is no way pro­
bable, that Plato’s third principle of all things,
in his epistle to Dionysius, and that Psyche, or
soul of bis, which is the only God, and in his
tenth D e Legibus he goes about to prove against
the Atheists, should ever not have been; and
therefore it is most reasonable to compound this
business, thus, by supposing, with Plotinus and
others, that Plato held a double Psyche, or soul,
one t-yK
oa/M
ov, or mundane—which is, as it were,
the concrete form of this corporeal world ; where­
by this world is properly made an animal, and a
second, or created g o d ; another ihrcpKoo/uov, sii-
pramundane, or separate; and which is not so
much the form, as the artificer of the world.
The first of which two Plotinus, calling it the
heavenly Venus, thus describeth: rih
>$4 3. 1. T
.
ovpavtav Xsyofiivtjv, he Kpovov vow ovrof hetlvov,
qvdyKi) ipv\i]v Setordrifv ilvai, c&Sftp t£ avrov tuef^arov lueij-
parov, julyaaav avat uc juij St tic r“ rpSt IXOtiv, fifot i&tXff
murav, fiijrt Svvaftimjv, ■
&rt j|v pvauuc Kora rd Karat <
f>
{i(rav
fialveiv. Xatpitrrrjv ovaav nvd vtr6<namv, m i dfi&roypv vAjjc
ovatav' 66eu avrrjv rolrrip tjvIttovto, rtf dfitfropa ilvai, rjv Si
. none of pl a t o ’s
04
■col Othvav rig Sucalwg, oh Saiftova throt,iftxrov ovtrav, tint
«adaj>ay i<p' lavnjC) &C> 8&tv.ovSJ av hariaoi, vov t£qprq/«fvi)
•sroXv fiaXkov, rj r/Xtoc «v t\o t. avrov, ■
Saov avrov irspt-
XAfunt fug, tig avrov owijprtj/iivov' ttfitwofilvt) S
trtf KjxJv^,
j et fioiXti r<$ irarpii rov Kptfvov Ovpavtj!, ivftgynak rt irpog
avroiKical yatuft), icat IpaaSttiaa ipivra iyiwuat. This hea­
venly Venus,,which they affirmto have,been be­
gotten from
. Saturn, that is, from a perfect mind
or intellect, must needs be that most divine
soul (the third archical hypostasis) which being
immediately begotten, pure from that which is
pure, always remains above, so that it neither
can, nor will, ever descend down to these low­
er things, so as to be immersed in them; it
being ofsuchanature,as is notinclinabletosink*
or lapse downward. A certain separate sub­
stance, which doth not at all partake of matter,
as the.fable intimated, when it called it mother­
less; and therefore may it well be styled by ns,
not a demon, but a god. Whence it comes to
pass, that this soul can never fall, it being much
more closely united and connected with that im­
moveableMindorIntellect, thanthatlight, which
is circumfused about the sun, is connected with
the.sun* This Venus therefore following Chro-
nus, orrather the father of.Chronus, Uranus, act­
ing towardsit, and being enamoured with it, be­
gat .love, X
w
p
tortjv S
t halvin' t
t
j
v\fsv)(rfv Xlyovrtg, r^v
rpurwg tWa/ivovoav rtf ovpavtp, \wpurrhv kat rbv tpatra
rovrov dnai/uQa. Moreover, as we call this soul
itself separate, so is this love of it, orbegotten by
it, a separate love.—After which, he speaks of
anothersoul of the world, which is not separate
from it, but .closely conjoined therewith, he call­
ing it a lower Venus and Love; namely, that
TRINITY, CREATUfeES. 9 3
other Venus, which in the fable is said to have
beenbegotten fromJupiter himself (the superior
soul of the world) and Dione, a watery nympb.
We conclude, therefore, that though this lower
mundane soul, might, according to Plato, have a
temporary production together with the world,
or beforeit; yet that other superior and mostdi­
vinesou), whichPlotinuscallstheheavenlyVenus
and Love, the son of Chronus withouta mother,
andwhichwastrulythethirdhypostasis of Plato’s
trinity,waseternal, and withoutbeginning. And
thus, according to the foremetitioned principle of
Athanasius, none of these three hypostases of
Plato’s trinity were creatures, but all of themdi­
vine anduncreated.
Which, to make yetmore evident, we shall fur-
.therobserve, first, that Plato himself, in that se­
condepistleofbis to Dionysius, afterhehadmen­
tioned his first, second, and third; that is histri­
nity of Divine hypostases, immediately subjoins
these words: ’If «J» avBpmrlvti mpl ra airra 6pi-
-ytrotfiaQtiv ro f arra iorl, f&Xhrowra. tie ra avrqc avyyevji,
owStv ucavtof %
xu' T0® nipt «al Siv ttrov, ov&'»
l<
mroiovro’ Themind of man (as parturient) has
always a great desire to know what these things
are, andto that end does it look upon things cog­
nate to it, which are all insufficient, imperfect and
heterogeneous. Butin that King of all things,
andin the other,second and third, which I spake
of, thereis nothing of this kind; that is, nothing
liketo thesecreated things.
'Secondly,ThethreehypostasesofPlato’strinity
arenotonly all eternal, but alsonecessarily exist­
ent, andabsolutely undestroyable. For the first
ofthemcannomore exist withoutthesecond, nor
96 pla to ’s t r in it y
the first and second without the third, than original
light can exist without its splendour, corusca­
tion,- or effalgency. And Plotinus, writing against
some Gnostics in his time, who would make more
of these Divine hypostases, or principles, than
three, concludes, that there can be neither-mote
of-them, nor fewer, in this manner; oi rolvw &l. ty’
Ba 2 1ix c ajox^Cd v a i, aXXarovro irpoarrpja/livovQ , ilr a
Mp.199.] vovv fier avrb koI voow wpwruig, dra
vovv’ avrt) yap ra&c xara <
j>
{>
oiv, jirfre v\do> rldtd&ai eUrip
vor/rif), fiffre skarrw' dre yap tXarrat, r) rfrvjfrpt teal vovv ravto
ty{)aovaiv, rj vovv ical to wpairov, aXX’ tin erepa aXXqXwv
ir-oXXaxs* Xotw&v Si hrundipaaSrai iv nji vapovri, el
v\duirafnidv, &c. Wherefore we ought not to en­
tertain anyotherprinciples; but having placed first
the simple good, to set Mind, or the supreme In­
tellect next after it, and then the universal Soul in
the third place. For this is the right order, ac­
cording to nature, neither to make more intelli-
gibles, (or universal principles) nor yet fewer than
these three. For he, that will contract the num­
ber, and make fewer of them, must of necessity
either suppose Soul and Mind to be the same, or
else Mind and the first Good; But that all these
three are diverse' from one another, hath beta
often demonstrated by us. It remains;now to
consider, that if there be more than these three
principles, what natures they should be, &c.—
Thirdly, As,all these three Platonic hypostases
are eternal and necessarily existent, so are they
plainly supposed by them, not to be particular,
but universal beings; that is,- such as do mpefyav
•nSoX
ov, contain and comprehend the whole world
under them—and preside over all things; which
is all one as to say, that they are each of them in-
H0M0009IAN. 07
finite and omnipotent. For which reason are
they also called, by Platonic writers, apx«* and
tuna, and Sv/uovpyol, principles, and causes, and
opificers of, the whole world. First, as for Novc,
Mind, or understanding; whereas the old pbilor
sophers before Plato, as Anaxagoras, Archelaus,
&c. and Aristotle after him, supposed Mind and
Understanding to be the very first and highest
principle of all; which also the magic or Chaldee
oracles take notice of, as the most common opinion
of mankind.
‘Or vfirtn KXirffcrai JBna Av&gSh,
That Mind is generally by all men looked upon,
as the first and highest God—Plato considering,
that unity was, in order of nature, before number
and multiplicity; and that there must be No
ijt
o
V
before No£c, an Intelligible before Intellect— so
that knowledge could not be the first; and, lastly,
that there is a good transcending that.of know­
ledge; made one most simple Good, the fountain
and original of all things, and the first Divine hy­
postasis ; and mind or intellect only the second,
next to it, but inseparable from it, and mostnearly
cognate with it.. For which cause, in his Phile-
bus,1 though he agrees thus far with those other,
ancient philosophers, «Jc «« rov rravroc Novc
that Mind always rules over the whole universe—,
yet does he add afterward, on Novc am p
yevouimte tov rravrwv alrlov, that Mind is
foot absolutely the first principle,* but) cognate
with the cause of all things; and that therefore it
rules over all things, with, and in a kind of subor­
dination to that first principle, which is Tagathon,
* Oper.,p. 80. edit. Ficini. # 1. ,
H
VOL. III.
9 6 p l a t o ’s t h ir d
or the highest Good: .where, when Plato affirms,
that Mind, or his second Divine hypostasis, is
■
yivow
ffT
ifcwith the first, it is all one as if he should
have said, that it is myytvijs, and o/upei$>
}c, and opo-
ytvnc, with i t ; all which words are used by Atha­
nasius, as synonymous with o/toowno?, coessential,
or consubstantial. So that Plato here plainly
and expressly agrees, or symbolizes, uot with the
doctrine of Arius, but with that of the Nicene
council, and Athanasius; that the second hypo­
stasis of the Trinity, whether called Mind, or
Word, or Son, is not cr^ovnoc, but ytvowmjc or
ojuoovmoc, coessential or consubstantial with the
first; and therefore not a creature.
And then, as for the third hypostasis, called
Psyche, or the superior mundane soul, Plato in
his Cratylus, bestowing the name of Zeus, that is,
of the supreme God upon it, and etymologizing
the same from &jv, adds these words concerning it;
ov yap eoriv wpiv ical rote aXXotc va n v, Strrtg iarlv alriOQ
pjakXov tov Zyv, % 6 ap\w v re ku\ fiatrtXevc r£n> ravruv*
There is nothing, which is more the cause of life
to us and other animals, than this prince and king
of all things; and that therefore God was called
by the Greeks Zeus, because it is by him that all
animals live.—And yet that all this was properly
meant by him of the third hypostasis of his trinity,
called Psyche, is manifest from those words of
his that follow; where he expounds the poetic
mythology beforeraentioned, making Zens to be
the SOn of Chronos ; tvXoyov SI, ptyaXw rivo? Siavolac
ikyovov ttvtu tov Ala, it is agreeable to reason, that
Zeus should be the progeny or offspring of a cer­
tain great mind.—Now ityovoq and ytvowmtQ aTe
equivalent terms also; and therefore Plato here
NO. CREATURE. 9 9
makes the third hypostasis of his trinity likewise
to be oftowmoQ, coessential with the second; as he
elsewhere made the second coessential with the
first.
It is true, that by the ftj/nwpyoc, or opificer in
Plato, is commonly meant nous or intellect, bis
second hypostasis; (Plotinus affirming as much,
Bitfumpyw;o v»vcIUantw, The deminrgus j, Tj |
to Plato is intellect.) Nevertheless, both
Amelius, and Plotinus, and other Pla-
tonists, called his third hypostasis also Styuovpydv,
the artificer or opificer of the whole world; some
of them making him to be the second from Mind
or Intellect; othersthe third from the first Good,
the supreme cause of all things; who was by At-
ticusand Amelins styled Demiurgus also. Where­
fore, as was before suggested, according to the
genuine and ancient Platonic doctrine, all these
three hypostases were the joint-creators of the
whole world, and ofall things besides themselves;
as Ficinus more than once declares the tenor
thereof, “ Hi Tree uno quodam consensu i n riot. n .
omnia producunt,”These three with one u ' “■
common consent produce all things—and before
him ProclllS,* v a v r a ainjprijTcu rou tvoc & d v o u f i t v i c a l
all things depend upon the first One, by
-Mind and Soul—-and accordingly we shall con­
clude in the .words of Porphyrius, that the true
and real Deity, according to Plato, extends to
three Divine hypostases, thelast whereofis Psyche
or Soul.
From all which it appears, that Arius did not
so much Platonize, as the Nicene fathers and
Athanasius; who, notwithstanding, made not
* Comment in TimaeumPlaton, lib. i. p.60.
h 2
100 THE DEPENDANCE AND SUBORDINATION
Plato, but the Scripture, together with reason
deducing natural consequences therefrom, their
-foundation. And that the Platonic trinity was a
certain middle thing also betwixt the doctrine of
Sabellius and that of Arias, it being neither a tri­
nity of words only, or logical notions, or mere
modes, but a trinity of hypostases; nor yet a
jumbled confusion of God and creature (things
heterousious) together; neither the second nor
third of them being creatures, or made in time,
but all eternal, infinite, and creators.
But that it may yet more fully appear, how far
the most refined Platonic and Parmenidian, or
Pythagoric trinity, doth either agree or disagree
with the Scripture doctrine, and that of the Christ­
ian church in several ages; we shall here further
observe two things concerning it. . The first
whereof is this, that though the genuine Platonists
and Pythagoreans 'supposed none of their three
archical hypostases to be indeed creatures, but all
of them eternal, necessarily existent and univer­
sal or infinite, and consequently creators of- the
whole world; yet did they nevertheless assert an
essential dependence of the second hypostasis
upon the first, as also of the third both upon the
first and second ; together with a gradual subor­
dination in them. Thus Plotinus, writing of the
generation of the eternal Intellect, which is the se­
cond in the Platonic trinity, and answers to the
Ena.t.i.s. Son or Word in the Christian: To&«u
e.»i.ip.487.] T|X£l0Vj ad Kal a tSio v y tv v a , kat EAATTON Si
iavrO v ytvvq.- Ti o vv \p rj irepl ro v reX tio ra ro v X iy civ ; /xtfSiv
air a vro v y tv v q v , t
j ra p iy u rra fter' a in 6 v*M iy io ro v Si fttr
airrbv Nove ical AeUrcpov. Kal ya p opa 6 Novc tK iivo V , Kal
Sp ira l avrov p ovov’ hctivos S i rovrov o vS iv . Kal toy tv v w p t-
IN THE PLATONIC TRINITY. 101
vov curb Kptlrrovoc vov, vovv ilvai" Kai upthrow oacavr'iav 6
N aif, Sri r •SXXa [ter airr6v. Otov teal ii \6yoe vow
itai jj fvtpyiia ng. That which is always perfect, ge­
nerates what .is eternal, and that which it gene­
rates, is always less than itself. What shall we
therefore say of the most absolutely perfect Being
of all ? Does that produce nothing from itself?
or rather does it not produce the greatest of all
things after it? Now the greatest of all things
after the most absolutely perfect Beiog, is mind
or intellect; and this is second to it. For mind
beholdeth this as its father, and standeth in need
of nothing else besides it: whereas that first Prin­
ciple standeth in need of no mind, or intellect.
What is generated from that, which is better than
mind, must needs be mind or intellect; because
mind is better than all other things, they being all'
in order of nature after it and junior to i t ; as
, Psyche itself, or the first Soul; for this is also the
word or energy of mind, as that is the word and
energy of the first Good.—Again, the same is more
particularly declared by him, concerning the third
hypostasis called Psyche, that as it essentially
dependeth upon the second, so is it gradually
subordinate, or some way inferior to it. i'v^wv
yap yivva Noi»c» vowc wv rAeiof. Kai yap r(-
Xtiov 6vra, ytw qv 2Sa, ical fit) hbvaptv ovaav too-
abrtfv ayovov ilvai’ Kpeirrov St o v\ ol6vrt Jjv ilvai, ou'S’ ev-
ravdarb ysww/ttvov, aXX’ EAATTON ov, USoXov ilvai abrov'
Perfect Intellect generates soul; and it being per­
fect, must needs generate, for so great a power
could not remain sterile. But that, which is here
begotten also, cannot be greater than its begetter;
but must needs be inferior to it, as being the image
thereof.—Elsewhere the same philosopher, calling:
102 THE DEPENDENCE AND SUBORDINATION
£•S5
*
* the first hypostasis of this trinity Ura-
lib.tiii. nus, the second Chronos, and the third
c*
p‘xm
'-* Zeus (as Plato bad done before) and
handsomely allegorizing that fable, concludes in
this manner concerning Chronos, or the second of
these; jutrtt£v <5v warpo? re afulvovog, km forovoc vlitoQy
That he is in a middle state or degree betwixthis
father, who is greater, and his son, who is less and
inferior.-^-Again, the same thing is by that philo-
p.5i3. sopher thus asserted in general, tv roic
from eternity, or produced by way of natural ema­
nation,there is no progress upwards, but all down­
wards, and still a gradual descent into greater
multiplicity.~W e shall cite bnt only one passage
more out of this philosopher, which containetb
something of argumentation in it also: ov ravnwrd.
Eb
.t. i.iii.c. e^tKuvov ttcuvy, ct ovvpi) ravrdv, ovS&yi (3f\nov*
[p.si*.] wijictj is generated, or emanated),
immediately from the first and highest Being, is
not the very same thing with it, as if it were no-'
thing bnt that repeated again and ingeminated;
x and as it is not the same, so neither can it be bet­
ter than it.—From whence it follows, that it must
needs be gradually subordinate and inferior to it.-
.Which gradual subordination and essential de­
pendence of the second and third hypostasis upon
the first is by these Platonics illustrated several
ways. Ficinns resembles it to the circulations of
water, when some heavy body falling into it, its
superficies is depressed, and from thence every
way circularly wrinkled. “ Alius (saith he) sic
ferine profluit ex alio, sicut in aqua circulus de-
pendet a circulo;” one of these Divine hypostases
IN THE PLATONIC TRINITY. 103
doth in a manner so depend upon another, as one
circulation of water depends upon another.—
Where it is observable also, that the wider the
circulating wave grows, still hath it the more sub­
sidence and detumescence, together with an abate­
ment of celerity, till at last all becomes plain and
smooth again. But, by the Pagan Platonists
themselves, each following hypostasis is many
times said to be fyyoe km rovog, a print, stamp or
impression, made by the former, like the signa-
. tUreof a seal upon wax. Again, it is often called
by them euc&
Jv, and dSwAov, and nipufut, an image,
and representation, and imitation; which if con­
sidered in audibles, then will the second hypos­
tasis be looked upon as the echo of an original
voice; and the third as the repeated echo, or echo
of that echo: as if both the second and third hy­
postases were but certain replications of the first
original Deity with abatement; which though not
accidental or evanid ones, but substantial, yet
have a like dependence one upon another, and a
gradual subordination. Or if it be considered
in visibles, then will the second hypostasis be re­
sembled to the image of a face in a glass, and the
third to the image of that image reflected in ano­
ther glass, which depend tipon the original fhce,
and have a gradual abatement of the vigour there-„
of. Or else the second and third may be con­
ceived as two parhelii, or as a second and third
sun. For thus does* Plotinus call the Universal
Psyche, or third hypostasis, eacova v65 awZwaav «
eKilvou,the image of mind (which is the second)
retaining much of the splendour thereof.—Which
similitude of theirs, notwithstanding, they would
a Etmeatl. v. lib. i. cap. vi. p. 487.
J04 THE DEPENDANCE AND SUBORDINATION
not have to be squeezed or pressed bard ; be­
cause they acknowledge, that there is something
of dissimilitude in them also, which then would be
forced out of them. Their meaning amounts to.
no more than this, that as an image in a glass is
said eripau ilvai, essentially to belong to something
else, and to depend upon i t ; so each following
hypostasis doth essentially depend upon the for­
mer or first, and hath a subordination to it. But
we meet with no expression in any of these Pagan
Platonists so unhandsome and offensive, as that
of Philo’s, in his second book of allegories,* mda
Se Otov o Aoyoc avrov eariv, $ Kadamp opydvtp jrpoa-^pif
oapcvoe w w /m roia, The word is the shadow of God,
which he made use of, as an instrument, in the
making of the world.—Notwithstanding which,
the same writer doth call him elsewhere, more
honourably, a second god, and the son of the
first God. As in the same place he doth also de­
clare, that this shadow and image of God is itself
the archetype of other things, avry Si n mda, *ai
(txravei amtx6vi<jpa, iripiov tariv ap\bvm v, wcnrtp 6 &oc
irapd8tiy/ia r g c euedvo?, V o kI clv vvvl k ( kS.i}k a, ovrwe V eikcuv
‘ oA
A
oyIveru wapaBtiyim' This shadow, and ‘
as it were
image (of the first God) is itself the archetype
and pattern of other things below it. As God is
the pattern of this image, (which we call his
shadow;) so is this image itself another pattern
or paradigm .also.—But this dependance and sub­
ordination of the Divine hypostasis is most fre­
quently illustrated in Platonic writings, by the
ii(\afjLipLQor avavyaopa, the effulgency or outshining
of light and splendour from the sun, and other
luminous bodies; the nous, or second hypostasis
*P. 79. Oper.
. IN THE PLATONIC TRINITY. 105
being resembled to thatradious effulgency, which
immediately encompassing them, is beheld toge­
ther with them, and, as the astronomers tell us,
augments their apparent diameter, and makes
it bigger than the true, when they are beheld
through telescopes, cutting off those luxuriant
and circumambient rays. And the third hypos­
tasis is resembled to the remoter aud more dis­
tant splendour, which circling still gradually de~
creaseth. Thus Plotinns, vwg obv m \ ri P 487 [Eb.
Sa voijaai 7rtpl iietivo fUvov, mptXafitpiv abrov petd. ». lib.
ph>, eK abrov 8l fiivovroc, otov i)\lov to repl abrb *
’ C
4p‘,l‘^
Xafiirpbv, Stamp mpiSflov, abrov ati ytw w pevov plvovrog.
How should we consider this second hypostasis,
otherwise than as the circumfused splendour,
which encompasseth the body of the sun; and
from that always remaining is perpetually gene­
rated anew.
But this essential dependence, and gradual sub­
ordination of hypostasis, in the Platonic trinity,
will yet more fully appear from those particular
distinctive characters, which are gfven to each of
them. For the first of these is often said to be
*Ev irpo navrwv, one before all things—a simple
unity, which virtually containeth all things. And
as Plotinus writes, obrut *Iv«•wavra l i w .
Scojccicpc/ulva, ra S
ckv SevrkptpSiuck/cpiTOrat Xoytp’ nead. t. lib.
This so containeth all things, as not being U
1
‘cap*X
T
yet secrete and distinct; whereas in the second
they are discerned and distinguished by reason—
that is, they are actually distinguished in their
ideas; whereas the first is the simple and fecund
power of all things. Wherefore the second was
called by Parmenides *Ev iravra, one. actually all
things—
'that is, in their distinct ideas. And the
106 THE DISTINCTIVE CHARACTERS
third, according to the same philosopher, as Plo­
tinus* tells ns, was'Ev «u vavra, one and all things;
—as having still more multiplicity and alterity in
it. One effectively all things. That which doth
actively display, and produce into being, what
was virtually or potentially contained in the first;
and ideally or exemplarily in the second. Ac­
cordingly, the first of these is sometimes said to
be Ilavra e
v
o
c
w
?, all things unitively;—the second
ndvra voepwc, all things intellectually ;—and the
third, Tlavra ipuxucwc, all things animally ;—that is,
self-moveably, actively and productively. Again,
the first of these is commonly styled TdyaBov, the
Good, or Goodness itself, above mind and under­
standing—and also wrcpownov, above essence—in­
effable and incomprehensible. And sometimes'
also avXovv, a.simple light—the second Novc,
Aoyog, 2o0»a, Unity and Goodness—only by partici­
pation,or’AyaOoeiSfc,Boniform—but essentiallyand
formally; mind, or understanding, reason and wis­
dom, all-comprehending, or infinite knowledge.
The third,¥i%n, Self-moveable soul—goodness and
wisdom by participation, but essentially and for­
mally, infinite self-activity, or effectiveness; infi­
nite, active, perceptive, and animadversive power.
Sometimes it is .styled also ’A^poSmj and ■'Epw
c,
Venus and Love; but differently from that of the
First Good, which is Love too ; but a love of re­
dundancy, or overflowing fulness and fecundity:
FIot.494.[En- ®W7 “P T& £MW> r V tvTUV, pq 81 «X*IV, p n '
fle a d .T . lib . ii. $£ BtlffOat, OlOV VjrsptppVtf, KM T O V T T C p T rX tfp fC
e*
p‘^ avrov Tsirolt/Ke wavra, That which being ab­
solutely perfect, and seeking, or wanting nothing,
as it were, overflowed; and by its exuberant re-
*Ennead. v. lib. i. cap. viii. p. 490. oper.
o r p l a t o 's t h r e e h y po st a s e s . 107
dundancy produced all things.—Whereas this
latter is a lore of infinite activity.- Of the first,
it is said, by Plotinus, that it is aWlp-ytrroc, above
all manner of action—for which cause,the making
of the world is not properly ascribed to him,
though he be the original fountain of all: accord*
ing to that of Numenius, K« yap oSrt &r Eo| Pr Er
fuovpyiiv to n m o w top Trp&rov, km too e-»viU.
famJpyovvroe Usov (row wov) yjpri tivai, /cat
vofuttoOtu r a r i f t a rov vpwrov 6tov" Neither is It fit to
attribute the architecture of the world to the first
God, but rather to account him the father of that
god, who is the artificer.—Who again speaks
further to the same purpose thus: top /nip rpvrop
0sov flpyov uvat ipywv IZvfiiravriov k
&
i (iaoikia' It is tO
be acknowledged, that the first God is void of all
manner of work or action, he being the King of all
things.—Of the second, to whom the energy of
intellection is attributed, it is said, notwithstand­
ing, that his ovala in his spipyaa, his essence, his
operation; and that he is ««c<
v>
irocovoia, though a
multiform, yet an immoveable nature. He there*
fore is properly called the demiurgus, as the com
triving architect, or artificer, in whom the arche*-
typal world is contained, and the first paradigm,
or pattern oftire whole universe. But the third is
a kind of moveable deity, ro vovv Kivo&ptvav (as
Plotinus speaks) catvow K
iat$x.voct&iprvpivovtKti-
vov‘ That, which moveth about mind, or intellect,
the light or effulgency thereof, and its print or sig­
nature, which always dependeth upon it, and act-
eth according to it.—This is that, which reduces
both the fecundity ofthe firstsimple good, and also
the immoveable wisdom and architectonic contriv­
ance of the second info act or energy. This is the
108 PLATONISTS MAKE MIND AND WISDOM
immediate, and, as it were, manuary opificer of the
whole world, and to ljytfiovovv tov wttvros, that which
actually governs, rules, and presideth over all.—
Amelius, in that passage of his before cited out
of Prod us, calling these three Divine hypostases
three minds, and three kings, styles the first of
them Tov dvr«, Him that is—the second Toviyovra,
Him that hath—and the third TeV dpwvra, Him
that beholds.—In which expressions, though pe-
.culiar to himself, he denotes an essential depen-
dance, and gradual subordination in them.
Now that which is most liable to exception, in
this Platonic scale or gradation of the Deity,
seems to be the difference betwixt the first and
the second. For whereas the essential character
of the second is made to be understanding, reason,
and wisdom, it seems to follow from hence, that
either the first and the second are really nothing
else but two different names, or inadequate con­
ceptions of oue and the same, thing; or else, if
they be. distinct hypostases, or persons, that the
first of them must needs be avovc and aXoyoe, de­
void of mind, reason, and wisdom—which would
be very absurd. To which all the reply we can
make, is as follows: First, that this is indeed one
peculiar arcanum of the Platonic and Pythagoric
theology, (which yet seems to have been first de­
rived from Orpheus and tbe Egyptians, or rather
from the Hebrews themselves) thjit whereas the
Pagan theologers generally concluded, vow ira'v-
twv 7
rpoy£V
€O
Tarov, that Mind and Understanding,-
properly so called, was the oldest of all things—■
the highest principle and first original of the
world; those others placed something above it,
and consequently made it to be not the first, but
MOT THE FIRST, BUT SECOND. 109
the second; which they did chiefly upon these
three following grounds. First, because under­
standing, reason, knowledge, and wisdom, cannot
be conceived, by us mortals, otherwise than so
as to contain something of multiplicity in them ;
whereas it seems most reasonable to make the
first principle of all, not to be number or multi­
tude, but a perfect monad, or unity. Thus Plo­
tinus, aopurrov /xlv voting womp oipii;, opiCoptvt) p 5(B
St vVo rov voifrov’ & o Kai tiptrrai IkttJc aopurrov
SvaSog Kal too evo? ra « Si) Kal el apiB/ioi rovro
BnDead. r.
i b . i r . c . i i . l
•yap o vovc*&oov)£a7rX
ovc>aXXa 7roXXa,&C. Intellection,
as well as vision, is in its own uature an indefinite
thing, and is determined by the intelligible: there­
fore it is said, that ideas, as numbers, are begotten
from infinite duality and unity; and such is in­
tellect, which consequently is not simple, but
many, it contemplating many ideas; and being
compounded of two, that which is understood;
and that which understands.—And again else­
where, T O VpO TOO KOOftOV VOT/TOU, OVTt VOVQOVTt p
xoofioQ v o j j t o c , airXovorepov S t 6v yap tK iroWoii T\
t t o X u , aXXa t o iroXv rovro ov iroXXov, & C .
The principle of every thing is more simple than
the thing itself. Wherefore the sensible world
was made from Intellect, or the Intelligible; and
before this, must there needs be something more
simple still. For many did not proceed from
many; but this multiform thing, Intellect, pro­
ceeded from that, which is not multiform, but sim­
ple, as number from unity.—To this purpose does
fie also argue in these words: El TO VOOVV T l p
7rXf)0oc* Set ev rw /uv 7rXijdei to voeiv /lit) aval* rjv [Eonead. r.
\ H b . v i . 0. i i i . J
CE TOVTO TO TTpfOTOV EV TOIQ VtJTEpOl£ ap(l OVTOV TO
voeiv9 Kal vovg iarac If that which,understands be
110 PLATONISTS MAKE MIND AND WISDOM
P. 586.
many, or contain multitude in it, then that which
contains no multitude, does not properly under­
stand ; and this is the first thing: but intellection
and knowledge properly so called are to be placed
among things, which follow after it, and are se­
cond.—And he often concludes, n*ry &vripp 4
>
v<
m
aval to yivuoicciv" That knowledge (properly so
.called, by reason of its multiplicity) belongs to
the second rank of being, and not the first.—Ano­
ther ground or reason is, because, in order of na­
ture, there must be Notp-ov before Node, something
Intelligible before Intellect; and from hence does
Plotinus conclude, ro vottv ov 7rp<i>rov, ovrc
Tto aval, owe ry t'i
jmov civai' dXXaStvrtpov, nu
yivofiivov, iTreiSt} wrtory to ayaOdv.. /cat yevdftevov CKivyot
wpoc avro, &c. That to understand is not the first,
neither in essence, nor in dignity, but the second;'
a thing in order of nature, after the first Good,
and springing up from thence, as that which is
moved with desire towards it.—Their third and
last grouud or reason is, because intellection and
knowledge are not the highest Good, that there­
fore there is some substantial thing, ip order of
nature superior to intellect. Which consideration
Plato much insisteth upon, in his sixth book D e
Republics. Now upon these several accounts do
plot. p.si*. ^ e Platonists confidently conclude, on
j p n n e o d . 0 e o £ KoitTTtnvAoyovKaivov /cal euo0tjoeii>c, irapa~
aywv ravra ovk avrog covravja* tn&t tne SU-
preme Deity is more excellent and better than the
Ao-yoc (Reason, or the Word) Intellect and Sense,
he affording these things, but not being these him-
P . 5 1 4 . [ c o p . Self.— And T O yivdfitvov e £ a u T O iJ XoyocwoXwc
^ /cal irat' to Sc nv StjXovoTt ov Aoyog' nwg ovv
o ’k Aoyov Aoyoc* K
al vwg t o ayaSouSeg ayaOov' that,
NOT THE FIRST, BUT SECOND. H I
which was generated from the first principle, was
.Logos (Word or Reason) manifold; but the first
principle itself was not W ord: if you demand,
therefore, bow Word, or Reason, should proceed
from that which is not Word or Reason? we an­
swer, as that, which is boniform, from goodness it­
self.—With which Platonic and Pythagoric doc­
trine exactly agreeth Philo the Jew also,*o«rfwro»
Aoyov, 0 tot Kpuaawv cortv q waoa Xoyuni <j>votc, ru 8k vwip
tmv v a w w tv rp /3tXr«rrp koi iw ifyupbnp KaOurrUrt (Sep,
ovSi* Qtfueqv yivirrov c^o/uoutf9qv«u’ that God, which
is before the Word or Reason, is better and more
excellent than all the rational nature; neither is
it fit, that any thing, which is generated, should
be perfectly like to that, which is originally from
itself and above all.—And, indeed, we should not
have so much insisted upon this, had it not been
by reason of a devout veneration, that we have
for all the Scripture-mysteries; which Scripture
seems to give no small countenance to this doc­
trine, when it makes in like manner an eternal
Word and Wisdom to be the second hypostasis
of the Divine Triad, and the first-begotten Son,
or offspring of God the Father. And Athanasius,
as was before observed, very much complieth
here also with the Platonic notion, when he de­
nies, that there was any X
o-yoc or a
o
<
f>
la
, any Rea­
son or Wisdom—before that Word and Son of
God, which is the second bypo'stasis of the holy
Trinity. What then? shall we say, that the first
hypostasis or person in the Platonic trinity (if
not the Christian also) is avovc and aXoyoc, sense­
less and irrational—and altogether devoid of
mind and understanding? Or would not this be to
* Apud Euseb. Prtepar. Evang. lib. vii. cap. xiii.p. 323.
J12 PLATOXISTS m ake m in d and w is d o m .
introduce a certain kind of mysterious Atheism ;
and, under pretence of magnifying and advancing
the supreme Deity, monstrously to degrade the
same ? For why might not senseless matter as
well be supposed to be the first original, of all
things, as a senseless, incorporeal being ? Ploti­
nus, therefore, who rigidly and superstitipusly ad­
heres to Plato’s text here, which makes the first
and highest principle of all to be such a being, as,
by reason of,its absolute and transcendent per­
fection, is not only above understanding, know­
ledge, and reason, but also above essence itself
(v^hich therefore he can find no other names for,
but only Unity and Goodness substantial); and,
consequently, knowledge and wisdom to be but
a second, or postnate thing,- though eternal;, but,
notwithstanding, does seem to labour under this
metaphysical profundity; he sometimes endea­
vours to solve the difficulty thereof after this man­
ner, bv distinguishing of a double light; the one
simple and uniform, the other multiform, or mani­
fold ; and attributing- the former of these to the
supreme Deity only, (whose simple original light
he resembles to the luminous body of the sun it­
self;) the latter of them to the second hypostasis,
as being the ocX
a/K
i/*c or aVai^yaajua, the circumam­
bient fulgor, or outshining splendour of that sun.
Thus Enn. V. 1 . vi. C. 4. * t o irapeyovt o v t o t o
icrriv dirXovv, that from which this multiform light
of Novc, or Intellect (the second hypostasis,) is de­
rived, is Q
w
q airXovv, another, most simple light.-1
?
As he elsewhere accordingly writeth of the first
Principle, or supreme Deity, that it is iv wwm «■
«-
p
u
>
Gv -K
ararrjv vow vdijatv, in knowledge ■
or underr
* P. 536.
MOT THE FIRST, BUT SECOND. 113
standing, bat of a different kind from that under­
standing of the second hypostasis, called Intellect.
— Sometimes again, this philosopher subtilly dis­
tinguished betwixt voiprcc mini, intelligence itself,
-and ro voovv, or re' <x.ov n|v voqotv’ that which doth
understand, or which hath intelligence in it;
making the first principle to be the former of these
two, and the second hypostasis of their trinity to
be the latter: ov8’ i}voqmc vo«, aXXa to l^ov p
m'v voijatv’ Svo oiv vakiv av tv T
<
j> voovvn yt-
vtrat" tovto Sq ovSajijj $vo‘ Intelligence itself doth
not understand, bnt that which hath intelligence:-
for in that, which doth understand, there is a
kind of duplicity. But the first principle of all
hath no duplicity in it — Now that duplicity,
which he fancies to be in that, which hath intelli­
gence, is either the duplicity of him, that hath this
intelligence, and of the intelligence itself, as being
not the same; or else of him, and the to vonrov, the
intelligible, or object of his intellection—intellect
supposing an intelligible in' order of nature before
it. And from this subtilty would he infer, that-
there is a certain kind of imperfection and indi­
gence in that which doth understand, or hath in­
telligence, cvScec to voovv, uxrrrep to dfxov, That which
understandeth is indigent as that which seeth.—
But perhaps this difficulty might be more easily
solved, and that according to the tenor of the
Platonic hypothesis too, by supposing the abate­
ment of their second hypostasis to consist only in
this, that it is not essentially r dyaOov, goodness
itself, but only aya&m&ic, boniform, or good by
participation—it being essentially no higher than
Nw$, Aoyoc and Sofia, Mind, Reason, and Wisdom
— for which cause it is called by those names, as
vo’
u. h i. I
114 THE GROUND Of THIS PLATONIC
the proper characteristic thereof. Not as if the
first were devoid of wisdom, under pretence of
being above it; but because this second is not
essentially any thing higher. As, in like manner,
the third hypostasis is not essentially wisdom it­
self, standing or quiescent, and without motion or
action; but wisdom as in motion* or wisdom
moving and acting.
The chief ground of this Platonic doctrine
of an essential dependance, and therefore gra­
dual subordination, in their trinity of Divine
hypostases, is from that fundamental principle of
their theology, that there is but one Original of all
things,' and ftia rniyvf^ Oamjroe, only one Fountain
of the Godhead; from whence all other things
whatsoever, whether temporal or eternal, created
or uncreated, were altogether derived. And
therefore this second hypostasis of their trinity,
since k must accordingly derive its whole being
from the first, as the avavyaafta from the ft*e, the
splendour from the original light—must of neces­
sity have also an essential dependance upon the
same; and, consequently, agradual subordination
to it.
For though they commonly affirm their second
hypostasis to have been begottien from their firsts
and their third from their second; yet do they by
no means understand thereby any sirch generation;
as that of men; where the father, son, and grand­
son, when adulti at least, bate no essential depend*-
ance one upon another, nor gradual subordina­
tion in their nature, blit are all perfectly coequal;,
and alike absolute. Because this is but an im­
perfect generation, where that, which is begotten,
doth not receive its whole being originally from
GRADATION IN THE DEITY. 115
that which.did beget, but fronj God and nature\
the begetter being but either a channel or an in­
strument, and haring been himselfbefore begotten
or produced by some other. Whereas the first
Divine hypostasis is altogether unbegotten from
any other, he being the sole principle and original
of all things, and therefore must the second needs
derive its whole essence from him, and be gene­
rated after another manner, namely, in a way of
natural emanation, as light is from the sun; and,
consequently, though coeternal* have an essential
dependance on him, and gradual subordination to
him.
Moreover, the Platonists would recommend
this their gradation in the Deity, or trinity of hy­
postases subordinate, from hence; because by
this means there will not be so vast a chasm and
hiatus betwixt God and the highest creatures, or
so great a leap and jump in the creation, as other­
wise there must needs be: nor will the whole
Deity b'e screwed up to such a disproportionate
height and elevation, as would render it altogether
incapable of having any intercourse or commerce
with the lower world ; it being, according to this
hypothesis of theirs, brought down by certain
steps and degrees nearer and nearer to us. For
if the whole Deity were nothing but one simple
monad, devoid of all manner of multiplicity, as
God is frequently represented to be, then could
it not well be conceived by us mortals, how it
should contain the distinct ideas of all things
within itself, and that multiform platform and pa­
radigm of the created universe, commonly called
the archetypal world. Again, were the Deity
only an immoveable mind; as Aristotle’s god is
>
i 2
116 PLATo’8 t h r e e h y p o s t a s e s
c«civ>rrocov<rla, an absolutely immoveable substance
—whose essence and operation are one and the
same; and, as other th'eologers affirm, that what­
soever is in God, is God; it would be likewise
utterly inconceivable, not only, how there should
be any ‘liberty of will at all in God (whereas the
same theologers, contradicting themselves, zea­
lously contend notwithstanding, that all the ac­
tions of the Deity are not necessary, and but few
of them such), but also, how the Deity should
have any commerce or intercourse with the lower
world; how it should quicken and actuate the.
whole, be sensible of all the motions in it, and act
pro re nata accordingly ; all whidh the instincts
and common notions of mankind urge upon them.
Neither can they be denied, without raising the
very foundations, of all religion, since it would be
to no more purpose, for men to make their devo­
tional addresses to such an immoveable, inflexible,
and unaffectible Deity, than to a senseless ada­
mantine rock. But these difficulties (as the Pla-
tonists pretend) are all removed by that third hy­
postasis in their trinity; which is a kind of move-
able deity. And thus are all the phenomena of
the Deity, or the different common notions in the
minds of men concerning it, though seemingly re­
pugnant and clashing with one another, yet, in
their opinion, fairly reconciled and' sblved by this
trinity of Divine hypostases subordinate.
Lastly, They pretend also, that according to
this hypothesis of theirs, there may be some rea­
sonable satisfaction given to the mind of man,
both why -there are so many Divine hypostases,
and why there could be no more: whereas, ac­
cording to other ways, it would seem to have
REALLY ONE DIVINITY. 117
been a mere arbitrary business; and that there
might have been either but one solitary Divine
hypostasis, or but a duality of them; or else they
might have been beyond a trinity, numberless.
The second thing, which we shall observe con*
cerning the most genuine Platonical and Parme-
nidian trinity, is this; that though these philoso­
phers sometimes called their three Divine hypo­
stases, not only rpsic fwrae, three natures, and three
principles,, and three causes, and three opificers,
but also three gods, and a first, and second, and
third god; yet did they often, for all that, suppose
all these three to be really one 6«ov, one Divinity,
or Numen. It hath been already proved from
Origen and others, that the Platonists most com­
monly called the animated world the second god,
though some of them, as for example Numenius,
styled it the third god. Now those of them, who
called the world the second god, attributed in­
deed (not more, but) less divinity to it, than those,
who would have it to be tbe third god. Because
. these latter supposed, that soul of the world to be
the third hypostasis of their trinity; but the other
taking all these three Divine hypostases together,
for one supreme and first God, called the world
tbe second god; they supposing the soul thereof
to' be another soul inferior to that first Psyche,
which was properly their third hypostases. Where­
fore this was really all one, as if they should have
called the animated world the fourth god; only
by that other way of reckoning, when they called
it a second god, they intimated, that though those
three Divine hypostases were frequently called,
three gods, yet were they, notwithstanding, really:
all but one Qtlov, Divinity or Nnmen; or, as Plo-
118' pla to ’s t h r e e hypostases
tiros speaks, to evt y i r a v r i B a to v , the,Divinity which'
is in the whole world.—Thus when God is so oft-,
en spoken of in Plato singularly, the word is not
always.to be understood of.the first .hypostasis..,
only, or the Tagathon, but many times plainly, of
the irpwrov, and Scvrtpov, and rprov, the first, and se­
cond, and third.all together; or that whole Divi­
nity, which consisteth or is made up of these three
hypostases. And this will further appear from,
hence, because when the whole world is said in,
Plato to be the image of the eternal gods, as also,
by Plotinus, of the first, second, and third, by
whom it is always produced anew, as the image
in a glass is; this is not to be understood, as.-if
the world being tripartite, each third part thereof,
was severally produced or Created by one of those,
three; nor. yet can it he conceived, how there
could be three really distinct creations of one and.
the same thing. Wherefore the World having but
one creation, and being created by those three
Divine hypostases.; it follows, that they are all
three really but one Creator and one God. Thus
when, both in Plato and Plotinus, the lives and
souls of all animals, (as stars, demons and men)
are attributed to the third hypostasis, the first
and great Psyche, as their fountain and cause
after a special manner; accordingly as in our
Creed, the Holy Ghost is styled “ the Lord and
giver of life ;”this is not so to be understood, as if
therefore the first and second hypostases were to
be excluded from having any causality-therein.
For- the first is .styled by Plato also, ainov dvavraw
rwv koXwv" the cause of all good things-—
and
therefore doubtless chiefly Of souls; and the se­
cond is called by him and others too, dfftov and
REAIXY ONg DIVINITY. 110
&ifuovpyo?, the cause and artificer of the whole
world—We conclude, therefore, that souls being
created by the joint concurrence and influence of
these three hypostases subordinate, they are all
really but one and the same God. And thus it
is expressly affirmed by Porpbyrius in St. Cyril,*
SX/* vrofrrdffeaw njv fhtov irpoeXOuv avotav’ ilvtu Bi
tqv fuv, nvarrarto Oedv to dya8dvt per avrov SI K<uBeorepov,
t«v SijyiQvp-yqv' rpirtjv Se teat rijv row icoopov ipvyyv' i \ p t
ypf niv Oeort/ra irpotX
O
eiu’ that the essence of
the Divinity proceeds or propagates itself (byway
of descent downwards) unto three hypostases or
Subsistences. The highest God is the Tagathon,
or supreme Good; the second next after him is
the Pemiurgus so called, the architect or artificer
of the world; and the soul of the world, that is
the.third: for the Divinity extendeth so far as to
this soul,—Here we plainly see, that though Por­
pbyrius calls the three Divine hypostases three
gods; yet does he at the very same time declare,
that n (M
ovo
w
cfi'fl and (horse, the essence of the God-,
bead and the Divinity extends itself to all these
three hypostases, including the third and last also-
(which they call the mundane soul) within the
compass of it. And, therefore, that even accord­
ing to the Porphyrian theology itself, (whichcould
not be suspepted to affect any compliance with
Christianity) the three hypostases in the Platonic
trinity are opoavmx, coessential, both as being each
of them God, and as being all one God. St. Cyril
hjfpself also acknowledging as much; where he
writeth thus of the Platonists :b rpsie a p y u c a s vtto-
ajfidHQ,V7roT(0%tvot jcai odtoc, kcu rpiwv viroaratntov
rqp q v o U v t q v Qtov irpotnprav la^vpicra/xcvoT That SUp-
* Contra Julian. lib. viii. p. 271. h Ibid. p. 270.
120' HOW PLATO'S TRINITY,
posing three hypostases, which have the nature
of principles (in the *universe), they extend the
essence of God to all these three hypostases.
Indeed, many conceive, that the Platonists
making the three hypostases of their trinity to be
thus gradually subordinate one to another, could
not, for that very reason, acknowledge them to
be One Divinity: but the Platonists themselves do,
upon this very account, and no other, declare all
these three to be one Divinity, because they have
an essential dependance and gradual subordina­
tion in them the second being but the image of
the first, and the third the image both of the first
and second. Whereas, were these three supposed
to be perfectly coequal, and to have no essential
dependance one upon another, they could not by
these Platonists be concluded to be any other
than three co-ordinate gods, having only a gene-
rical or specifical identity ; and so no more one,
than three men are one man : a thing, which the
Platonic theology is utterly abhorrent from, as
that which is inconsistent with the perfect monar­
chy of the universe, and highly derogatory from
the honour of the supreme God and first Cause.
For example, should .three suns appear in the
heaven all at once, with coequal splendour, and
not only so, but also be concluded, that though
at first derived (or lighted and kindled) from one,
yet they were now all alike absolute and inde­
pendent ; these three could not so well be thought
to be one sun, as three that should appear gra­
dually differing in their splendour, two of them
being but the parhelii of the other, and essen­
tially depending on it; forasmuch as the second
would be but the reflected imago of the first, and
ONE ENTIRE DIVINITY; 121
the third bat the second refracted. At least
those three coequal sans coaid not so well be
thought to be one thing, as the son, and its first
and secondary splendour, (which can neither be
beheld without the sun, nor the sun without them)
might be accounted one and the same thing.
The Platonists, therefore, first of all suppose
such a close and near' conjunction betwixt the
three hypostases of their trinity, as is no where
else to be found in the whole world. To this pur­
posePlotinus: opf SIavrSv, ov a\X En_^| j 0
ori fttr avrov km /iCTa^v ovSev’ log ovSe \pvyijg T
1
, 488,3
icai vov* irodu Sc 7rav to ytwijaav km tovto ayairif, Kal.fta-
Xurra 6rav tom juovot, to ytvv^aav Kal to ytytwt)fdwv’ orav
Sc km to apitrrov y to yewiiaav, <£ dvayKr/g avvtanv avrif,
tog T
rj cTcpdrrjTt fiovov KtytopiadM’ Intellect is said to
behold the first Good; not as if it were separated
from it, but only because it is after it, but so as
that there is nothing between them; as neither is
there betwixt intellect and soul. Every thing,
which is begotten, desires and loves that which
begat it; especially when these two (that which
begat, and that which is begotten) are alone, and
nothing besides them. Moreover, when that
which begot, is absolutely the best thing, that,
which is immediately begotten from it, must.needs
cohere intimately with it and so as to be separated
from it only by alterity.—Which is all one as if
he should have said, that these three Divine hy­
postases are so intimately conjoined together, and
united with one another, as that they are tantum
non, only not—the very self-same. Again, the
Platonists further declare, that these three hypo­
stases of their trinity are ahaiperot, absolutely in­
divisible and inseparable, as the dravyaofia is dSuu-
WP now p l a t o ’$ t r in it y ,
perw from th e^ c, the splendour indivisibly coo-.,
joined with the light or suo.-r—
Which similitude,
also Athanasius often makes use of to the same
purpose. Thirdly, these Platonists seem likewise
to attribute to their three Divine hypostases just.
’such an 'Ef«r«ptX
wpitme, cjrcumin&essiou, or mutual
in-beiug, as Christians do. For as their second
and third hypostases most needs be in the first,
they being therein virtually contained; so must
the first likewise be in the second and third; they
being as it were but two other editions thereof;
or itself gradually displayed and expanded. But
to speak particularly, the first must needs be in.
the second, the Tagathon in the Nous, and so
both of them really one and the same God; be­
cause the common notions of all mankind attri­
bute understanding and wisdom to the Deity;
but according to tbe principles of Plato, Plotinus,,
and others, the Deity does not properly under­
stand any where hut in the second hypostasis,,
which is the mind and wisdom of it. And tbe
empericboreais of the second or third hypostases
was thus intimated by Plato also; letfa unv <
c
«
*
Pbileb. p. 30. Nowc p v ttl ^ v ^ n c OVK «V 7TOTS y l V O t o Q t r V . OvKW
V.
£p>.
80*
3 tvfih ry row ZWc ipue fiaoiXiKtjv fjutv
/3aotX
o<ov 8t vwv tyylyvtodcu. Where having
spoken of that Divine wisdom and mind, which
ordersall things in the world, be acids; “ But wis­
dom and mind can never be without soul (that is,
cannot act without it): wherefore, in the nature of
Jupiter, is at once contained both a kingly.mind
and a kingly soul.” Here be makes Jupiter to.
be both tbe second and .third hopostases of his
trinity, Nous and Psyche; ppd, consequently,
those two to be but one God. Which Nous is
. OKB BKTIftB DIVIK1TY. 123
also said to bo both the ytvwvorwc, i. t. of tbe same
kind, and coesseotial with tbe first Cause of all
things. To conclude: as that first Platonic hy­
postasis, which is itself said to be above mind
and wisdom, is properly wise and understanding
in the second; so do both the first and the second
move and act in the third. Lastly, all these
three hypostases, Tagathou, Nous, and Psyche,
are said by tbe Platonists to be one Otiov, or Di­
vinity; just in the same manner as tbe centre, im­
moveable distance, and moveable circumference
of a sphere, orglobe, are all essentially one sphere.
Thus Plotinus expressly, writing of the third hy­
postasis, or Psyche: a y u yap r» mu »
} p ^
a/w^i}nroupirtt, oilou kukXoq »rpooapfxifnuv tesv~
rpiy, £vd«c fttru ndvrpov au^Buc, 8iaartffia «8ia-
<rrarov' ovra yap t^u t/carra, «i rmyadov rtf teatr<f Ktvrpov
ra£ns, tow vouv Kara kvkXov axtvqrav, Tpv-^v 8k Kara tcv-
kXov Kivovfisvovavra$«E* For this Psyche, or third
hypostasis, is a venerable and adorable thing also;
k being tbe circle fitted to the centre, an indistant
distance (forasmuch as it is no corporeal thing).
For these things ;are just so, as if one should
make the Tagathon, or first Good, to be the centre
of the universe; in the next place, Mind or In­
tellect to be the immoveable oircle, or distance;
and, lastly, Soul to be that, which turna round,
oar the whole moveable circumference, acted by
love, or desire.'—These three Platonic hypostases,
therefore, seem to be really nothing else but infi­
nite goodness, infinite wisdom, and infinite active
love and power, not as mere qualities or accidents,
but as substantial things,.that have some kind of
subordination one to another; all concurring to­
gether to make up one thiov, or Divinity, just as
124 THE AGREEMENT AND DISAGREEMENT OF
the centre, immoveable distance, and moveable
circumference, concurrently make up one sphere.
We have now given a full account of thie true
and genuine Platonic and Parmenidian or Pytha-
goric trinity; from which it may clearly appear,
how far it either agreeth or disagreeth with the
Christian. First, therefore, though some of the
latter Platonists have partly misunderstood, and
partly adulterated that ancient cabala of the Tri­
nity, as was before declared, confounding therein
the differences between God and the creature,
and thereby laying a foundation for infinite Poly­
theism ; yet did Plato himself, and some of his
genuine followers' (though living before 'Christ­
ianity) approach so near to the doctrine thereof,
as in some manner to correspond therewith, in
those three fundamentals beforementioned. First;
in not making a mere trinity ofnames and words,
or of logical notions and inadequate conceptions
of one and the same thing; but a trinity of hypo­
stases, or subsistences, or persons. Secondly, in
making none of their three hypostases to be crea­
tures, but all eternal, necessarily existent and uni­
versal ; infinite, omnipotent, and creators of the
whole world, which is all one, in the sense of the
ancients, as if they should have affirmed them
to be homoousicLn. Lastly, in supposing these
three Divine hypostases, however sometimes pa-
ganically called three gods, to be essentially one
Divinity. From whence it may be concluded,
that as Arianism is commonly supposed to ap­
proach nearer to the truth of Christianity than
Photinianism, so is Platonism undoubtedly more
agreeable thereunto than Arianism; it' being a
certain middle thing betwixt that and Sabel*
Plato ’s a n d t h e Ch r is t ia n t r in it y . .125
lianism, which in general was that mark, that the
Nicene council also aimed at.
Notwithstanding which, there is a manifest dis­
agreement also betwixt the Platonic trinity, as.
declared, and the now received doctrine in the
Christian church; consisting in a different expli­
cation of the two latter points mentioned. First,
because the Platonists dreamed of no such thing
at all, as one and the same* numerical essence, or
substance of the. three Divine hypostases. And,
secondly, because, though they acknowledged
none of those hypostases to be creatures, but all
God ; yet did they assert an essential dependance
of the second and third upon the first, together
with a certain gradual subordination; and there­
fore no absolute coequality. And this is the
true reason, why so many late writers have affirm­
ed Platonism to symbolize with Arianism, and
the latter to have been indeed nothing else but
the spawn of the former; merely because the Pla­
tonists did not acknowledge one and the same
numerical essence, or substance of all their three
hypostases, and asserted a gradual subordination
of them; but chiefly for this latter ground. Upon
which account some of the ancients also have
done the like, as particularly St. Cyril (contra
Jul. lib. i.); he writing thus concerning Plato:
TtOatofn/ice /uev ovv ov% vyu ie turairav, aXXa toIp ^
ra Apelov xttypovrfKoaiv, sv lotp Suupei, km vf?
(trrqoiv, vvoKadtfdvag re aXXifXaic Tap mroaratrue
Plato did not thoroughly perceive the whole
truth of the Trinity, but, in like manner with those
who follow Arius, divided the Deity, or made a
gradation in it, and introduced subordinate hy­
postases :—as elsewhere the same pious father
126 THE AGHEEMENT AND DISAGREEMENT DP
also taxes tbe Platonists, for not declaring tbe
three hypostases of their trinity to be, in his sense,
homoousian, that is, absolutely coequal. But
though we have already proved, that Platonism
can by no means be confounded with Arianism,
because it directly confronted the same in its main
essentials, which were, Erat quando non erat, or
the second hypostasis being made eg owe ovtuv, to­
gether with its being mutable and lapsable; since,
according to Platonism, the Nous is essentially
both eternal and immutable: yet that the most re­
fined Platonism differed from the now-received
doctrine of the Christian church, in respect of its
gradual subordination, is a thing so unquestion­
ably evident, as that it can by no means be dis*
sembled, palliated, or excused.
Over and besides which, it canpot be denied,
but the befet of Plato’s followers were sometimes
also further extravagant in their doctrine of the
Trinity, and spake at random concerning it, and
inconsistently with their own principles; especi­
ally where they make such a vast and dispropor- *
tionate distance betwixt the second and third hy­
postases thereof; they not descending gradually
and orderly, but as it were tumbling down from
the former of them to the latter. Thus Plotinus
himself, when having spoken magnificently of that
soul of the world, which is his third hypostasis,
J?nn. y. 1. i. he subjoins immediately, o/ioaSt}c & ko I
e .11. [jh 483.] Kaljyrav avev r w v n,pofft\96vrwv VKOiryc,
Xaj3cJv KtKaBapfihtiv, tvpfaiiQ to avro rlfiiov o vv ipv\»>'
That this soul of ours is also uniform (or of the
same species) with that mundane soul; for if any
one (saith he) will consider it as in itself pure and
naked, or stripped from all things adventitious to
pla to ’s and t h e Ch r is t ia n t r in it y . 127
it, he shall find it to be in like manner venerable.
—Agreeably whereunto doth this same philoso­
pher elsewhere call that mundane soul vpterfivrtpav
<nua$e\<
pr)v, that is, but the elder sister of our hu­
man souls.—Which, as it rankly savours of phi­
losophic pride and arrogancy, thus to think so
magnificently of themselves, and to equalize in a
manner their own souls with that mundane soul;
so was it a monstrous degradation of that third
hypostasis of their trinity, and little other than an
absolute creaturizing of the same. For if our hu­
man soul be cpou&ic, of the same kind or species
with the third hypostasis of the trinity; then is it
not only opon/ioc, of like honour and dignity, but
also, in the language of the Christian church,
o
ju
o
o
w
io
c, coessential with our human souls (as
our Saviour Christ, according to the Arians in
Athanasius, is said to be opoownoQ »ijuw
vTom.i.p.557.
tu
>
v avOptivutv, coessential with us men). Sm
teiua
From whence it will follow, that either 9"b
j,-3
that must be a creature, or else our human souls
l^Divine. Wherefore, unless these Platonists would
confine the Deity wholly to their fir&t hypostasis,
which would be monstrously absurd for them, to
suppose that first eternal Mind and Wisdom, by
which the world was made, to' be a creature.; they
must of necessity make a vast leap or jump be­
twixt the second and third of their hypostases;
the former of them being that perfect Wisdom,
which was the Architect or Demiurgns of the
world, whilst the latter is only the elder sister of
all human souls. Moreover, these Platonists, by
their thus bringing down the third hypostasis of
their trinity so low, and immersing it so deeply
into the corporeal world, as if it were the inform-
128 THE PLATONIC
ing Soul thereof, and making it to be but the elder
sister of our created souls, did doubtless therein
designedly lay a foundation for their Polytheism
ami creature-worship (now vulgarly called idol­
atry) that is, for their cosinolatry, astrolatry, and
demonolatry. For thus much is plaiuly intimated
p 483. iu this following passage of Plotinus: Sia
[Bnnead. v. raVTtfV O KOffflOc oSc Oeog' tOTl Si KOI TjX
lO
? 0£O?
P on tpxpvyot;, Kal ra aXXa aorpa* This whole
corporeal world is made a god by the soul thereof.
And the sun is also a god, because animated; as
likewise are all the stars therefore gods.—Where
he afterwards adds, njv Si Stoic alrlav Yov (hole ilvai,
dviyieg Trp£<yf5vripay Beov avrwv ilvai' That which is to
these gods, or goddesses, the cause of their being
gods, must needsitselfbe the elder god or goddess.
■
—So that this third hypostasis of the Platonic tri­
nity, called the mundane soul, isbutakind ofsister
goddess with the souls of the sun, moon, and stars,
though elder indeed than they; they beingall made
goddesses by her. Where there is a confused jum­
ble of things contradictious together; that Soul o ^
the world being at once supposed to be a sister to
other souls, and yet, notwithstanding, to deify
them; whereas this sisterly relation and consan­
guinity betwixt them would, of the two, rather de»
grade aiid creaturize that mundane soul, which is
their third god, or Divine hypostasis, than advance
and deify those particular created souls. Here
therefore we see the inconvenience of these Pla-
tonic (3a0fiol, stories, stairs and gradations in the
Deity, that it is a thing liable to be much abused
to creature-worship and idolatry, when the. dis­
tances are made so wide, and the lowest of the
Deity is supposed to differ but gradually only
m
Bad/tol CENSURED.
from the highest of created beings. And because
Porphyrins trod in Plotinus’s footsteps here, as
elsewhere, this was, in all probability, the trne
reason, why the Arians (as Socrates recordeth *)
were by Constantine called Porphyrianists; not
because their trinities were exactly the same, but
because Arius and Porphyrius did both of them
alike (though upon different grounds) make their
trinity a foundation for creature-worship and idol­
atry. But, nevertheless, all this (as many other
things) was but heedlessly and inadvertently
written by Plotinus; he, as it were, drowsily
nodding all the while, as it was also but supinely
taken up by Porphyrius after him: it being plainly
inconsistent with the genuine tenor of both their
hypotheses, thus to level the third hypostasis of
the trinity with particular created souls, and
thereby to make so disproportionate a distance,
and so vast a chasm, betwixt it and the second.
For Plotinus himself, when in a more sober mood,
declares, that third hypostasis not to be the im­
mediate, informing soul of the corporeal world,
but a higher separate soul, or superior Venus,
which also was the Deminrgus, the maker, both
of other souls and of the whdle world. As Plato
had before expressly affirmed’him to be the In-
spirer of all life, and Creator of souls, or the Lord
.and Giver of life: and likewise'declared, .that
amongst all those things, which are avOpuirlvttc
V
't’X
’K<wyyn"»
» congenerous and cognate with our
human souls—there is ovBiv rotovro, nothing any
where to be found at all like unto it.—So that
Plato, though he were also a star-worshipper and
idolater, upon other grounds, yet in all probabi-
* Vide lib. i. cap. ix. p. 32.
K
VOL. IJI.
THE PLATONIC
ISO
lity would lie not at all have approved of Ploti-
husV<V°M&ic &k<
x
\ tfisripa, our souls being of the
same species with that third hypostasis of thC
Divine triad; bntrather have said, in the language
of the Psalmist, “ It is he that hath made os, and
not weourselves; we are his people, and the sheep
of his pasture.**
Notwithstanding all which, a Christian Plato-
nist, or Platonic Christian, would,' in all probabi­
lity, apologise for Plato himself, and the ancient
and most genuine Platonists and Pythagoreans,
after this manner. First, that since they had no
Scriptures, councils, nor creeds, to direct thehr
steps in the darkness of this mystery, and to con­
fine their language to a regular uniformity; but
theologized alt freely and boldly, and without
any scrupulosity, Overy one according to his Own
private apprehensions; it is no wonder at all, if
they did not only speak, many times unadvisedly,
and inconsistently with their own principles, but
also plainly wander out of the right path. And
that it ought much rather to be wondered at, that
living so long beforeChristianity, as some ofthem
did, they should in 30 abstruse a point, and dark
a mystery, make so near an approach to the Christ­
ian truth afterward revealed, than that they
should any where fumble or fall short of the ac-
"ctrracy thereof: they not only extending the true
and real Deity to three hypostases, but also call­
ing the second of them, \6yov, reason or word too,
(as well as vovv, mind or intellect) and likewise
the Son of the first hypostasis, the Father; and
affirming him to be the Sti/uovpyof and ofnov, the ar­
tificer and cause of the whole world; and, lastly,
describing him, as the Scripture doth, to be the
Ch r is t ia n ’s a p o l o g y . 1 3 i
image, the figure and character, and the splen­
dour or brightness of the first. This, I say, our
Christian PIatonist supposes to be much more
•wonderful, that this so great and abstruse a mys­
tery, of three eternal hypostases in the Deity,
should thus by Pagan philosophers, so long be­
fore Christianity, hare been asserted, as the prin­
cipal and original of the whole world; it being
more indeed than was acknowledged by the- Ni-
cehe fathers themselves; they then not so much
as determining, that the Holy Ghost was an hy­
postasis, mueh less that he was God. - ■
But particularly as to their gradual subordina­
tion of the second hypostasis to the first, and of
the third to the first and second; our Platonic
Christian, doubtless, would therefore plead them
the more excusable, because the generality of
Christian doctors, for the first three hundred years
after the apostles* times, plainly asserted the same;
as Justin Martyr, Athenagoras, Tatianas, Ire-
aseus, the author of the Recognitions, Tertulliao,
Clemens Alexandrians, Origen, Gregorios Tbau-
maturgus, Dionysius of Alexandria, Lactantrus,
and many others. All whose testimonies, because
it would be too tedious to set down here, we shall
content ourselves only with one of the last men­
tioned : wBt Pater et Filins Deus est; ia.«5
t.i.ir. c.
eed ilie quasi exuberans fons, hie tan-
quara defluens ex eo rivus: Hie tanquam sol, hie.
tsnqnam radius a sole porrectus.” Both the Fa­
ther and the Son is God; but he as it were an
exuberant fountain,' this as a stream derived from
him : fee like to thesqu, tfeis like to a ray extended
from the snn.—And though it be true that Atha-
&2
IN WHAT SENSE PLATO'S TRINITY
nasius/ writing against the Arians, does appeal
to the tradition of the ancientchurch, and amongst
others cites Origen’s testimony too; yet was this
only for the eternity and divinity of' the Son of
God, but not at all for such an absolute coequality
of him with the Father, as would exclude all de-
pendance, subordination, and inferiority; those
.ancients so unanimously agreeing therein, that
they are by PetaviusB therefore taxed for-Plato­
nism, and having by that means corrupted the pu­
rity of the Christian faith, in this article of the
Trinity. Which how it can be reconciled with
.those other opinions of ecclesiastic tradition being
a rule of faith, and the impossibility of the visible
church’s erring in any fundamental point, cannot
easily be understood. However^ this general
tradition or consent of the Christian church, for
three hundred years together after the apostles’
times, though it cannot justify the Platonists, iu
any thing discrepant from the Scripture, yet may
it in some measure doubtless plead their excuse,
.who had no Scripture-revelation at all, to guide
them herein; and so at least make their error
more tolerable or pardonable.
Moreover, the Platonic Christian would further
apologize for these Pagan Platonists after this
manner: That their intention in thus subordinat­
ing the hypostases of their trinity was plainly no
.other, than to exclude thereby a plurality of co­
ordinate and independent gods, which they sup-
*Vide EpiatoJ. de Synodi Nicaenas oontraHseresin Arian. Decreti*.
tom, i, oper. p. 277.
b Vide 1^. i- de Trinitate, cap. iii. p. 20. et cap. ir. p. 24. tom. iL
Dogmat. Theolog.
H0M00VSIAN, AND COEQUAL. 133
posed an absolute coequality of them would in­
fer. And that they mode only so much subordi­
nation of them, as was both oecessary to this pur­
pose, and unavoidable; the juncture of them
being -in their opinion so close, that there was
uttagu, nothing intermedious—or that could
possibly he thrust in between them. But now
again, on the other band, whereas the only ground
of the eoequaliiy of the persons in the holy Tri­
nity is, because it cannot well be conceived, bow
they should otherwise all be God; since the es­
sence of the Godhead, being absolute perfection,
Can admit of-no degrees; these Platonists do on
the contrary contend, that notwithstanding that
dependanee and subordination, which they com­
monly suppose in these hypostases, there is none
of them, for all that, to be accounted creatures,
but that the general essence of the Godhead, or
the uncreated nature, truly, and properly belong-
eth to them all: according to that of Porphyrins
before cited, a^p* Tpt®
*
v wrooritnwv rijv Belov npotXBeev
ovolav, the essence of the Godhead proceedeth to
three hypostases.—Now these Platonists con­
ceive, that the essence of the Godhead, as com­
mon to all the three hypostases of their trinity,
consisteth (besides perfect intellectuality) in these
following things: First, in being eternal, which,
as we have already shewed, was Plato’s distinc­
tive character betwixt God and the creature.
That whatsoever was eternal, is therefore un­
created; and whatsoever was not eternal, is a>
creature: he by eternity-meaning, the having^
not only no beginning, but also a permanent du­
ration. Again, in having not a contingentbut ne­
cessary existence, and therefore being absolutely
134 IN WHAT SENSE PLATO’S TRINITY
undestroyablewhich perhaps is included also in
the former. Lastly, in being not particular, but
universal U mi wavrm, one and all things, or that
which comprehends die whole; which is all one
as to say, in beiDg infinite and omnipotent, and
the creator of the whole, world. Now, say these
Platonists, if any thing more were to be added to
the general essence of the Godhead besides this,
then ndust it be self-existence, or to be underived
from any other, and the first original, principle,
and cause Of all s but if this be made so essential
to the Godhead, or uncreated nature, as that what­
soever is not thus originally of itselfi is therefore
ipsd facto to be detruded and thrust down into
the rank of creatures; then must both the second
and third hypostases, as well in the Christian as
the Platonic Trinity, upon this supposition, needs
be creatures, and not God; the second deriving
, its whole being and godship from die first; and
the third, both from the first and second; and so
neither first nor second being the cause of all
things. But it is unquestionable to these Plato-
nists, that whatsoever is eternal, necessarily exist­
ent, infinite, and omnipotent, and the creator of all
things, ought therefore to be religiously worship­
ped and adored as God, by all created beings.
Wherefore this essence of the Godhead, that be*
longeth alike to all the three hypostases, being,
as all other essences, perfectly indivisible, it might
be well affirmed, according to Platonic grounds,
that all the three Divine hypostases (though hav­
ing some subordination in them) yet in this sense
are coequal, they being all truly and alike God
or Uncreated. And the Platonists thus distin­
guishing betwixt maria and vvoormne, die essence
HQMOOUSIAN, AND COBOVAL. 13$
of the Godhead, and the distinct hypostases or
personalities thereof, and making the first of them
to be common, general, and universal, are not
without the consent and approbation of the ortho?
dox fathers herein; they determining, likewise,
that in the Deity, essence or substance differs
from hypostasis, as. ro jcoiinw from ry *a(f fKaqrePp
that which is common and general, differs from
that which is singular and individual.—Thus, be?
sides many others, S t Cyril/ »
}
«iyp. Sta^opdv rd y t
voq, 9 »l8oc, W
Triprd arapov, tavrriv »j owrlavpdc njv vw€r
arasnv iytc The esseuce or substance of the Deity
differs from the hypostasis, after the same manner
as a genus or species differs from an individuum,
—So that, as .well according to these fathers as
the Platonists, that essence or substance of tbe
Godhead, which all tbe three persons agree in,
is not singular, but geuerical or universal; they
both supposing each of the persons also to have
their own numerical essence, Wherefore, accord­
ing to this distiqetioq, betwixt tbe essence or sub­
stance of the Godhead, and the particular hypo­
stases, (approved by the orthodox fathers) neither
Plato, ucur any intelligent Platonist, would scruple
to subscribe that form ofthe Nicene council, that
the Son or Word, is ofmovaut, coessential, con-
substantial, and coequal with the Father. . And
we think it will be proved afterwards, that this
was the very meaning of the Nicene coqncilitself,
that the Son was therefore coessential or consub-
standal with tbe Father, merely because he was
God, and not a creature.
• This teems to bea instate for T h ep d tre t, in whomwe find theta
verywords: Dialog- i. advert. Haeres. tom. ii. oper. p. 297. Though
the same thingis said inother words lit St Cyril: Dialog. Lde TVini-
tate, p. 408. tom. ?. oper. ed»Anberth
13d IN WHAT SENSE PLATO’S TRINITY
Besides which, the genuine PlatOnists would
doubtless acknowledge also all the three hypo­
stases of their trinity to be homoousian, coessen­
tial or consubstantial, yet in a further sense than
this; namely, as being all of them one 0aov or Di­
vinity. For thus, besides that passage of Porphy-
rius before cited, may these words of St. Cyril
be understood concerning them ;* rpt«Sv wro-
oraanav n jv ' ovaiav row 0eov irptxnjfcetv ’
ur^ypiZ,ovrai‘ That,
according to them, the essence of God extendeth
to three hypostases, or comprehendeth three hy­
postases in it that is, not only so as that each
of these three is God; but also, that they are not
so many separate and divided gods, but all of
them together one God or Divinity. For thpngh
the Platonists, as Pagans, being not so scrupu­
lous in their language, as we Christians are, do
often call them three gods, and a first, second,
and third god; yet, notwithstanding, as philoso­
phers, did they declare them to be one Oiiwor
Divinity; and that, as it seems, upon these se­
veral accounts following: First, because they are
indivisibly conjoined together, as the splendour
is indivisible from the sun. And then, because
they- are mutually inexistent in each other, the
first being in the second, and both first and second
in the third. And, lastly, because the entireness
of the whole Divinity is made up of all these three
together, which have allpuu* tvtpyuav* one and the
same energy or action ad extra. And therefore
as the centre, radious distance, apd moveable cir­
cumference, may be all said to be coessential to .
a sphere; and the root, stock, and boughs, ojr
branches, coessential to an entire tree: so, but in
* Contra Julian, lib; vui. p. 270.
HOMOOUSIAN, AND COEQUAL. 137
mocha more perfect sense, are the Platonic Ta-
gathon, Nous, and Psyche, coessential to that
kv rw iravrl dilov, that Divinityin the whole universe.
Neither was Athanasius a stranger to this notion
of the word o/uoom
nocalso, he affirming rd m sent.
xXvjuara opoovma. Kat aStalptra elvai rpe a/nri- sse'rtom. i.
Aw, that the branches are coessential oper'J
with, and. indivisible from, the vine;—and illus­
trating' the Trinity by that similitude. Neither
must it be thought, that the whole Trinity is one,
after the very same manner that each single per­
son thereof is in itself one, for then should there
be a Trinity also in each person. Nor that it is
so called undivided, as if three were not three in
if; (which were to make the mystery contempti­
ble:) but because all the three hypostases, or
persons, are indivisibly aud inseparably united to
each other, as the sun and the splendour, and
really but one God. Wherefore, though there be
some subordination of hypostases, or persons, in
Plato’s trinity, (as it is commonly represented.)
yet this is only adintra within the Deity itself, in
their relation to one another, and as compared
amongst themselves; but, ad extra, outwardly,
and to ns, are they all one and, the same God,
concurring in all the same actions; and, in that
respect, without any inequality, because in iden­
tity there can be no inequality.
Furthermore, the Platonic Christian would, in
favour of these Platonists, urge also, that, accord­
ing to the principles of Christianity itself, there
must of necessity be some dependance and subor­
dination of the persons of the Trinity, in their re­
lation to one another; a priority and posteriority,
not only ra&w?, but also agw/uaroc, of dignity as
138 W
HAT INEQUALITY,
well 4s order, amongst them. First, because thaf
which is originally of itself, and nnderived from
any other, most needs bare some superiority and
pre-eminence over that, which derives its whole
being and godship from it, as the second doth
from the first alone, and the third from the first
with the second. Again, though all those three,
hypostases, or persons, be alike omnipotent, ad
extra, or outwards, ad intra, inwards, or within
the Deity itself, are they not so; the Son being
not able to beget the Father, nor the Holy Ghost
to produce either Father or Son; and therefore
neither of these two latter is absolutely the cause
of all things, but only the first. And upon this
account was that first of these three hypostases
(who is the original fountain ofall) by Macrobius *
styled, omnipotenti'ssimus Deus,tbe most omnipo­
tent God; he therein implying the second and third
hypostases, Nous and Psyche, to be omnipotent
too, but not in a perfect equality with him, as
within the Deity they are compared together;
however, ad extra, or outwardly, and to us, they
being all one, are equally omnipotent. And Pin?
r 5 1 7 [Em
. *‘nus wr*teth a^S0 to the same purpose: d
r. lib. it. riXfIOV COTt TO WpUVW, KOI BvvUfUf If wpdrt), Sat
“P
*5
*
] wivraw rwv o
v
tw
v Swardrarov uvat, &C. If
the first be absolutely perfect, and the first Power,
then must it needs be the most powerful of all
beings; other powers only imitating and partak­
ing thereof.—And accordingly hereunto would
the Platonic Christian further pretend, that there
are sundry places in the Scripture, which do not a
little favour some subordination and priority,both
oforder and dignity, in the persons of the holy
» InSomnhimScipion. lib. i. cap. p. 87.
IN THE CHRISTIAN THIN ITY. 139
Trinity; of which none is more obvious than
that ofour Saviour Christ, “ My Father is greater
than 1 which, to understand of his humanity
only, seemeth to be less reasonable, because this
was no news at all, that the eternal God, the crea­
tor of the whole world, should be greater than a (
mortal man, born of a woman. Ancf thus do
divers of the orthodox fathers, as Athanasius
himself, St. Basil, St. Gregory Nazianzen and St.
Chrysostom, with several others of the Latins,
interpret the s&me to have been spoken, not of
the humanity, but the Divinity of our Saviour
Christ. Insomuch that Petavius himself, ex-,
pounding the Athanasian Creed, writetb in this
manner: “ Pater major Filio, rite et ca- De thb.
tholice pronuntiatus est a plerisque ve- p' ^
terum ; et origipe prior sine reprehensione dici
solet.” The Father is, in a right catholic manner,
affirmed, by most of the ancients, to be greater,
than the Son; and he is commonly said also,
without reprehension, to be before him ia respect
of original.—Whereupon he concludeth the true
meaning of that Creed to be this, that no person
in the Trinity is. greater or less than other, in re­
spect of the essence of the Godhead common to
them all: “ Quia vera Deitas in nullo esse aut minor
aut major p o testbecause the true Godhead can
be no where greater or less:—but that, notwith­
standing, there may be some inequality in them,
as they are hie Deus, and hcec persona; this God,
and that person.—It is trae, indeed, that many of
those ancient fathers do restrain and limit this in%
equality only to the relation of the persons, one to.
another, as the Father’s begetting, and the Son’s
being begotteu by the Father, and the Holy
140 WHAT INEQUALITY,
Ghost proceeding from both; they seeming to
affirm, that there is otherwise a perfect equality
amongst them. Nevertheless several of them do
extend this difference further also;as,for example,
St. Hilary, a zealous opposer of the Arians, he in
his book of Synods writing thus :* “ Siquis unum
dicens Deum, Christum autem Deum, ante se-
cula Filium Dei, obsecutum Patri in creatione
omnium, non confitetur, anathema sit.” And
again, “ Non exaequamus vel conformamus Filium
Patri, sed subjectum intelligimus.” And Atha­
nasius himself, who is commonly accounted the
very rule of orthodoxality in this point, when he
doth so often resemble the Father to the y\tog, or
to the 4
>
a>
e, the sun, or the original light, and the
Son to the airavyaa/ia, the splendour or brightness
of it, (as likewise doth the Nicene council and
the Scripture itself;) he seems hereby to imply
some dependance Of the second upon the first,
and subordination' to i t ; especially when he de-
clareth, that the three persons of the Trinity are
not to be looked upon as three principles, nor to
be resembled to three suns, but to the sun, and its
cont. Ar. or. splendour, and its derivative light: ov’Sl
ir.'p. 467. -yap rpccig apyag uadyofitv, kva fii)Strpiwv jjXtaw
vnzutfitva tijv eitcova, aAAa qAiov/cata7rauya<rjia,
Kai tv to e£ t
jXiou tv tw aVav-yacrpcm <ph
>(;' ovtw fiiav apyyv
o&afitv’ For it appears from the similitude used
by us, that we do not introduce three principles
(as the Marcionists and Manicheans did) we not
comparing the Trinity to. three suns, but only tu
the sun and its splendour; so that we acknowledge
only one principle.—As also where he approves
of this of Dionysius of Alexandria, o S
e ye 0a>c
* P. 1178 and 1182. oper. ed. Benedict
IN TEN CHRISTIAN TRINITY. , 141
mtivtov tart Qwq, «vn «p£d/uvor, o v n ' Aq£ov p. 5^5 p;j,v
Tore' ovkovv aiwviov wpootcttrai /calovvtariv avrw Jf. s*JlUn,i*
to airaoyao/ia, ovop^ov #c«t aetysvec irpofaivopt- tn Antm
*ov avrov* God is an eternal light, which tom
‘'■
*
never began, and shall never cease to be ; where-
lore there is an eternal splendour also coexistent
with him, which had no beginning neither, but
was always generated by him, shining ont before
him.—
-For if the Son of God be as the splendour
of the sun tUtycvqc, always generated—then must
he needs have an essential dependance upon the
Father, and subordination to him. And this same
thing further appears from those other resem­
blances, which the same Dionysius maketh of
the Father and the Son, approved in like manner
also by Athanasius; viz. to the fountain and
the river; to the root and the branch; to the
water and the vapour; for so it ought to be read,
v£arog, and not imvparo«, as appeareth from his
book of the Nicene synod, where he affirmeth the
Son to have been begotten of the essence or sub­
stance: of the Father : tic tow ^ iro c airav- p, {75. [tom.
ytuxfia, we vSaroe dr/uc, as the splendour of Loper*
J
the light, and as the vapour of the water;—add­
ing: ovte yap to airavyatrpa, ovrc ij arpl?9avro to v$u>
p
am v, v avTog*o qAtoc owe aAAorpiov, aAAa avoppoea n jc
tov irarpoe ovalae' For neither the splendour nor the
vapour is the very sun and the very water; nor
yet is it alien from it, or a stranger to its nature;
.but they are both effluxes from the essence or
substance of them; as the Son is an efflux from
the substance of the Father, yet so as he is no
way diminished or lessened thereby. Now all
these similitudes, of the fountain and the river,
142 PLATO** TRINITY RECTIFIED lN *0 AN
the root and the branch, the water and the ra-
pour, (as well as that ofthe sun and the splendour)
seem plainly to imply some dependance and sub­
ordination. And Piooysius doubtless intended
them to that purpose, he asserting, as Pbotius in-
fornoeth ns, an inferiority of power and glory in
the second, as likewise did Origen before him;
both whose testimonies, notwithstanding, Atha­
nasius maketh use of,without any censure or re­
prehension of them. Wherefore, when Athana­
sius, and the other orthodox fathers, writing
against Arius, do so frequently assert theequality
ofall the three persons, this is to be understood
in way of opposition to Ariite only, who made
the Son to be unequal to tbe Father, as mpoownov,
of a different essence from him—one being God
and tbe other a creature; they affirming, on the
contrary, that he was equal to the Father, aS
opoovirtoe, of the same essence with him;—that is,
as God, and not a creature. Notwithstanding
which equality, there might be some subordina­
tion in them, as Me Deus and hac persona (to use
Petavius’s language), this God and that person.
And thus -does there seem not to be so great a
difference betwixt tbe more genuine Piatonists
and the ancient orthodox fathers, in their doctrine
concerning the Trinity, as is by many conceived.
However, our Platonic Christian would further
add, that there is no necessity at all from the
principles of Platonism itself; why the Platonists
should make any other or more subordination in
their Trinity, than the most sererely-orthodox
fathers themselves. For, according to the com­
mon hypothesis of the Platonists, when the cba->
AGREEM ENT W ITH TH E C H B U T IA N . 143
racter of the first hypostasis is supposed by them
to be infinite goodness; of the second, infinite
wisdom; and of the third, infinite active love and
power, (these not as accidents and qualities, bat
ns all substantial) it is more easy to conceive, that
nil these are really but one and the same God,
than how there should be any considerable infe­
riority in them. But, besides this, there is another
Platonic hypothesis (which St. Austin hinteth’
from Porphyrins, though he professeth ^ D
he did not well understand it) where the i.x. c. xxiK.
third hypostasis is made to be a certain £™
a™
n<m
middle betwixt the first and second.
And thisdoes Produs also sometimes
follow, calling the third in like manner ju&
m
v
fjuv, a middle power, and *%£nv dfifyoiv, the relation
of both the first and second to one another.—
Which agreeth exactly with that apprehension of
some Christians, that the third hypostasis is as it
were the nexus betwixt the first and second, and
that love, whereby the Father and Son love each
ether. Now, according to this latter Platonic
hypothesis, there would seem to be not so much
a gradation or descent, as a kind of circulation in
the Trinity. Upon all which considerations, the
Platonic Christian will -conclude, that though
some junior Platonists have adulterated the no­
tion of the Trinity, yet either there is no such
-great difference betwixt the genuine Platonic Tri­
nity, rightly understood, and the Christian; or
else, that as the same might be modelled and rec­
tified, there need not to be.
But though tbe genuine Platonists do thus sup­
pose the three hypostases of their Trinity to be all
of them, not only God, but also one God, or fda,
1 4 4 ESSENCE OF-THE GODHEAD, UNIVERSAL.
ftorijc, one entire Divinity;—upon which latter
account, the whole may be said also by them, to
. have one singular or numerical essence: yet not­
withstanding must it he acknowledged, that they
no where suppose each of these three hypostases
to be numerically the very same, or to have no
distinct singular essences oftheir own ;• this being,
in their apprehensions, directly coutradictious to
their very hypothesis itself, and all one as if they
should affirm them, indeed not to be three hypo­
stases, but only one. Nevertheless, the Christian
Platonist would here also apologize for them after
this manner; that the ancient orthodox fathers
of the Christian church were generally of no other
persuasion than this, that that essence or sub­
stance of the Godhead, which all the three per­
sons or hypostases agree in, as each of them is
God, was not one singular and individual, but
only one common and universal essence or sub­
stance ; that word substance being used by them
as synonymous with essence, and applied to uni­
versale likewise, as it is by the Peripatetics, when
they call a man, or animal in general, substantial*
secundam, a second substance.—Now this is evi­
dent from hence, because these orthodox fathers
did commonly distinguish in this controversy of
the Trinity, betwixt Ovom and ’YrnWamc, the es­
sence or substance of the Godhead—and the hy­
postases or persons themselves, after this manner;
namely, that the hypostasis or person was singu­
lar and individual, but the essence or substance
common and universal. -Thus does Theodoret
. pronounce of these fathers in general,
Dial. i. adr. V , , _ , s 5, . , * rf.
Hwr. [tom. ii. Karayt rqv rwv irarcptoV CtoaaKaAiav, ijv eyti
op«r.p*?97^ 8ta^opdv ro Kotvov wrtp to ffiiow, t} ro yivoc dittp
ESSENCE OP TH E GODHEAD, UNIVERSAL. 145
r i ctSoc n ro aroftov, ravmv ( \ti 'H O^TfSl’A irpot TH'N
’Y II0'2TA 2IN * According to the doctrine of the
fathers, as that which is common differs from that
which is proper, and the. genus from the species
or individuum, so doth essence or substance, dif­
fer from hypostases; that is to say, that essence
or substance of the Godhead, which is common
to all the three hypostases, or whereby each of
them:is God, was concluded by the fathers, not
to be one singular or individual, but one general
or universal essence and substance; Theodoret,
notwithstanding, there acknowledging, that no
such distinction was observed by other Greek
writers betwixt those two words ovma and wtoora-
otc>essence or substance and hypostasis, as that
the former of them should be restrained to uni-
versals only, generical or specifieal essences or
substances; but that this was peculiar to the
Christian fathers, in their doctrine concerningthe
Trinity. They in the mean time not denying,
but that each hypostasis, prosopon, or person, in
the Trinity, might be said in another sense, and in
way of opposition to Sabellius, to have its own
singular, individual, or existent essence also; and
that'there are thus, rp«c three sin- G
ng.N
y«»en.
gular existent essences in the Deity, as r^n^soi.
well as rp«c wroaraffae, three hypostases; *
“"•“•°F
*
rl
an hypostasis being nothing else to them but an
existent essence.: however, for distinction’s sake,
they here thought fit thus to limit and appropriate
the signification of these two words, that a singu­
lar and existent essence should not be called es­
sence, but hypostasis; and by ovaia, essence or
substance, should be meant that general or uni­
versal nature of the Godhead, only, Which ibeorn-
VOL. III . L
1 4 6 ESSENCE OF THE .GODHEAD; UNIVERSAL.
momto all those three singular hypostases ot per-
sons, or in .which they all agree. We might.here
heap up many, more testimonies for a further con-
fep.369.[EP
. firmaiionaf this;; as that .of St. Basil: ov
Ilojier p
°m
"
' Xoyev 'tv Koivov irpoc ro rovrair tya.
1046.«djt,. jj o
w
etin.vpJe/Ttpv inoaramv’ What commoA
Pari*1638.1 . .
•J. ia to proper, the same is essence-or.sub-
Maoce (in the Trinity) to. the hypostases.-—Bnt
we* .shall Content ourselves only..'with'this, hill
i)eTrin.i.i». acknowledgment ofD .P etavius: “ In
p'evs^iom uno Grsecorum praesertim.omnium
ii’
. judieia concordant, ot>?fov, id.est, essen-
liieoiog.] tiam . SiVe a/ubstantiam,. ant .-nbturam
(quEm.<fafv Vocant).general© esse aliquid et com-
«a«ne, aq mrnime definitiun; vnonmaiv vero pro-
prium, jMognlare, et circumscriptum, quod ex
i.Uo. eommuni et peculiaribes quibusdam notis
ac,prpprietatibus v.eluti conaponifcur,” In this
one thing do. the judgments and opinions of all.
the.Grc^k&eepecially agree, that Usia, essence or
substance, pnij.nature,. whichthey callPbysis (in
the Trinity), is. something general* common and
undetermined; hutbypostasis.is that, which is
proper, singular, and circumscribed, and. which
is, as it were, compounded and.made up. of that
common essence Or substance,,awl certain pecu­
liar uotes aud properties* or iudividuating cir-
comstaoces. ...
. But, besides this, it is .further, certain, that not
a fewcof those ancient fathers,.who.were there­
fore reputed orthodox, because they zealously
opposed Ariauisiq, didentertaiu this opinion.also,
that the three hypostases or persons of the Trinity,
had not only one general-aud universal.essence of
the Godhead, belonging to them all, they being
ESSENCE OF TBE GODHEAD, UNIVEHSAL. 147
all God; bat were also three individuals,, under
one and the same ultimate species, or specific es-
-sence and substance of the Godhead; -just as
three individual men (Thomas, Peter, and John),
under that ultimate species of mat*; or that spe­
cific essence of-humanity; which have only a .nu­
merical?difference from one anotheh Wherefore
an hypostasis, or -person (in the Trinity) was ac­
cordingly thus defined by some of these fathers
(viz. Anastasias and Cyril *) to be “ Essentia eum
.snis quibusdam proprietatibus ab iis, quae sunt
ejiisdem speciei, nunaero differens;” an essence or
>
substance, with its certain properties (or indivi­
duating circumstances), differing only numerically
.from those of the same species with it-r-This doc­
trine was plainly asserted and indtutriotisly pur­
sued (besides several.others both pf dip Greeks
and Ladas), especially by Gregory Nyssen, Cyril
of'Alexandria, Maximus-the Martyr, and Da-
mascot*; whose words; because Petavius*’ hath
set them down at luge, we shall not here insert.
Now these were they, -who principally insisted
upoh the absolute coequaiity and> independent
•
'coordination of the>three hypostases or persqns
in the Trinity, as? compared with one another.
Because, as three menj though one of them were
•a father, another a sou, and the third a nephew,
yet haveno essential dependance oneupon another,
but are naturally ooeqoal and unsubordinate,
there being only ft numerical difference betwixt
them; so-did they in like manner conclude, that
the three hypostases, or persons of the Deity
. * Vide Exposition. Compendiar. Fidei Orthodox, in Bibliothee.
' Patrtnrt, p.677. tom. xy. edit. Paris, 1645.
fc
.JJlviv, de Trinit. cap. ix. §.ir. tom.ii. Dogma!Thealog*
L 2
148 Essence of t h e g odhead, u n iv eb sa l.
(the Father, Son, and Holy Gho&t), being like­
wise bat three individuals/ Under the Same ulti­
mate species or specific essence of the Godhead,
.and differing only numerically ftom one another,
were absolutely coequal, unsubordinate, and in­
dependent: and this was that, which was com­
monly called by them their oftoovaionig, their co-
essentiality or cotisubstantiality. Wherefore it
is observable, that St. Cyril, one of these tbeolo-
gers, finds no other fault at all with the Platonic
'trinity, but only this, that such an homdonsiotes,'
"such a coessentiality or -consubafahtiality as this,
coot, jni.i. was not acknowledged therein: iXtkoimi
v e ay ttjooc rovra clvtoiq ovoev, u rov njc opoov-
■f i ^ r o t \6yov {f«jifiorrav jffeXov. viroaramtn rate rpm v,
tuaxal fua vooilro TtJc (konrrpe ^!m {,;ro t^ovoa
irpoc treporriTa fveudiv, k m to y i St) Suv aXXijX<*v iv ptlomv
'■
apaoBotvmxTrdeetc. There would have been nothing
at all wanting to the Platonic trinity for an abso-
i lute agreement of it with the Christian, had they
but accommodated the right notion Of coessen­
tiality orconsubstantiality to their three hypo­
stases; so that there might have been but one
specific nature or essence of the Godhead, not
further distinguishable by any natural diver­
sity,but, numerically only, and so no one hypo­
stasis any way inferior or subordinate to another.
Tbat is, had. these Platohists complied with
.that hypothesis of St. Cyril and others, that the
three persons of the Trinity were but.three inde­
pendent and co-ordinate individuals, under the
same ultimate speeies or specific,essence of the
Godhead, as Peter, Paul, and John, under, that
species or common nature of humanity, and so
taken in this coessentiality or consubstantiality
A TRITHEI8TI0 TRINITY. 149
of theirs, then bad they been completely orthodox..
Though we have, already shewed, that this Pla-
tonic.trinity was, in another sense, hotnoousian ;:
and perhaps it will appear afterwards, that it;
was .so also iu the very sense of the Nicene fathers;
and of Athanasius. Again, these theologers sup­
posed the three persons of their trinity to haye
really no other than a specific unity or indentity;
and because it seems plainly to follow from hence,
that therefore they must needs be as much three
gods, as three men are three men; these learned
fathers endeavoured with their logic to prove,
that three men are but abusively and improperly,
so .called three, they being really and truly but
one, because there is but one and the same spe­
cific essence qr substance of human nature in
them all* pp.d seripusly persuaded men to lay
aside.that kiqd qf laqgqage. By which same lo­
gic of theirs, tfcpy might as well prove also, that
all the men in thp yrqrlfl aye tyut one man, and
that all Epicurps’s gods yyere but one god neither,
But pot Jo urge here, that, according to this hy­
pothesis, there cannot possibly be any reason
given, why there should be so many as three such
individuals in the species of God, which differ
only numerically from one another, they being
but the very same thing thrice repeated; apd yet
that there should be no more than three such nei­
ther, and- not three hundred, qr three thousand,
or as poany as theye are individuals in the species
of naan; wq spy, not to urge this, it seems plain,
that this trinity is no other than a kind of tri­
theism, and that of gods independent and co­
ordinate too. And therefore some would think,
that the ancient and genuine Platpnic trinity.
ISO HOMOOUSIANS; ANTI-SABBLLIA'NISTS.
taken with all its faults, is to be preferred before
this trinity of St. Cyril and St. Gregory Nyssen,’
and several other reputed orthodox fathers-; add
more agreeable to the principles both of Christ
ianity and of reason. However, it is evidentfrotn
hence, that these reputed orthodox fatberSi who
were not a few,’were far from thinking the 'three
hypostases of the Trinity: to have the sa'mesingu­
lar existent essence, they supposing them to have
no otherwise one and the same essence of the
Godhead in them, nor to be one god, than three
individual men have; one common specifical es­
sence of manhood In them, and are alt one mart.
But as-this trinity came afterwards to be decreed
for tritheistic; so in the room thereof started
there up that other trinity of persons numerically
the same, or having all one and the same singular
existent essence; a d octrine, which'seemeth not
to have been oiwned by any:public authority in
the Christian church, save that of the liateran
council#only ’ :
And that no such thing was ever entertained
by the Nicene fathers and those first opposers of
Arianism, might be rendered probable in th# first
place from the free confession and acknowledge­
ment of D. Petavius (a person well acquainted
with ecclesiastic antiquity); and for this reason
especially, because many are much led by su£h
D
eT
rin.i.iv. new names and authorities : “ In eb
e. xiii. [j-rij. prsecipuam vim collocasse patres, ut
p. toip. . , . ■ ii . ,
H
.D
o^m
ftt. aequalem patn natura excelletttsaque
T
h»
olor-] rilium esse defenderent, citra ‘eXpressatrt
siNGVLARiTATismentionem, licet ex eoconjieere.
P * ?< >
'•* The fourth general Late^an council held in 1215, under Pope
Innocent III.
HOMOOUAIANS; ANTU-SABELLIANlStS. 951
Efcenira Nicaeni iati praefeules, quibus nets© melius
A name! secfeS areada cngnoyit, tiemo,qaa:re!opr
primendamaxime fotet; acriosidijudScare pokuit,
nihil inprofessianis'SuaefbPinuA&BpectarHbtaHBd,
nisi ut seqnalitatdin iilain: eteentim, dignitatisj.fap-
teniitatis^adtruerebtii .Testater hoc o/M
xwyio* vox
ipsa; q Uae ^arx quteddm .fuifc catholicixloghiaiia
H «c enim sequAlitatem: potius essentia?, quaip
aiBio^x.AKis’ATBM: sjgniiicat^ ut capita quinta do*
cui; , Denude, ctetera ejukdemmodi sunt in illo
jkicretov ut,. fitc. The chief,farce, which the aai-
cient,fathers opposed again&t' the Arian heretics,
Avas iniasseStingc*dythe:dqualityof ihe Son with
the? Father, ad fanature: or essence, without, ariy
excess: laeqtianaJfr'the!Singularity of the-apme.
Fori thosh Nicene; bishops themselves, ’who did
understand ^best of any the secrets of the Arisen
factiod,' apd (whidh-’w a y it should especially be
oppugned, aim ed;at nothing else, in their confess
sionof faithf bat obly to establish ,that equality1
of
esseuce, dignity, and eternity, between them* This
does the wordhomoousios itself declarh, it sig­
nifying raiherequality, than s in g u l a r it y , of es-
sencey as we have before shewed. And: the like
do those other >
passages in the'same decree; as,
That: there was no time when the Sou was not$
andkThat he was;hot.made of Bathing, norofia
different hyposOasis, or essetiec.-^Thns does Pe-
taviys clearly;confess, that this same singularity
of numerical essence was! riDt asserted by! the
Nicene council, nor the .most ancient fathers,'but
only.an,equality or.a&meoes^of geudrical essence^
or else that the Father- and,!Son .agreed only m
one commonessenceorisubstdnce of the^Godhead,
that is, the eternal and uncreated uataw.
15* HOMOOUSIANS, ANTI-SABELLIANISTS.
But the truth of this will more fully appear
from, these followiug particulars : First, because
these orthodox auti-arian fathers did all of them
zealously condemn Sahellianism, the doctrine
whereof is no other than this, that there was but
one hypostasis, or singular individual essence, of
the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost; and, conse­
quently, that they were indeed bnt three several
names, or notions, or modes, of one and the self­
same thing. From whence such absurdities as
these would follow, that the Father’s begetting
the Son was nothing but one name, notion, or
mode of the Deity's begetting another; or else
the same Deity, under one notion, begetting itself
under'another notion. And when again the Son,
or Word, and not the Father, is said to have been
incarnated, and to have suffered death for us upon
the cross, that it was nothing but a mere logical
notion or mode of the Deity, that was incarnate
and suffered, or'else the whole Deity under one
particular notion or mode only. But should it be
averred notwithstanding, that this trinity, which
we now speak of, was not a trinity of mere names
and notions, as that of the Sabellians, but ofdis-
linct hypostases or persons; then must it needs
follow (since every singular essence is an bypo-
stasis aecording to the sense of the ancient fathers)
that there was not a trinity only, but a quaternity
of hypostases, in the Deity. Whieh is a thing,
that none ofthose fathers ever dreamedof.
Again, the word homoousios, as wag beforein-
timated by Petavius, was never used by Greels
Writers otherwise than to signify the agreement of
things, numerically differing from one another in
some common nature or universal' essence, oj'
THE TRUE NOTION OF HO»IOOU8IO$. 153
their having a generical unity or identity, of which
atindry instances might be given. Nor indeed is
itirkely, that the Greek tongue should have any
name for that, which neither is a thing in nature,
nor falls under human conception, vis. several
things having one and the same singular'essence.
And, accordingly, St. Basil interprets the force
of this word thus : avtupil n?v ravrorqra rife InR
piat.
<»tro<rreum
ac,ovyap a%nV Tl f<rnv o/L
toow
triov, * j^o. to<
^
aX
X
* trtpov ertpfi* That it plainly takes «•<*«'•]
away the sameness of hypostasis, that is, of sin­
gular-numerical essence (this being that, which
the ancient fathers meant by the word hypostasis):
for the same thing is not honaoousios, coessential
or consnbstantial with itself, but always one thing
with another.—Wherefore as to ofioovmov and trvy-
yivtia are used by Plotinus as synonymous, m
these words concerning the soul, B tltoV En.iv.l. vii.
fit<rrrj 8ia <n)yyiveiav koi to o/toownov, that it 0**‘ ^
is full of Divine things, by reason of its being
-cognate or. congenerous, and homoonsius with
them; so doth Athanasius in like manner use
them, when he affirmeth r<
2nXytara uvai Ep!ll,deSenU
Ofioowna kw miyytvri ric d/tviXov, that the D
jo".p-S56._
branches are bomoonsios (coessentialL°”’’’uper’
or consnbstantial) and congenerous with the vine,
or with the root thereof—Besides which, the
same father uses o/toytvii?, and o
/iohSik , and opofw}c,
indifferentlyfor opoownbe, in sundry places; none
pf-which words can be thought to signify an iden­
tity offSingular essence, but only of generical or
sped deal. 'A nd thps was the word homoousips
plainly used by the council of Chalcedon,* they
affirming, that onr jSaviour Christ was opoowoc r<
p
* Vide torn. ii. Concjlior. p. 456. edit. Harduiui,
164 TflE TRVE NOTION OF HOMOOVSIO?.
#aTpi Kara r*» OtoTipa, .K
aiopoavoioq npiv Kara rtjv'avO(M
t-
vornra, coessential <or coasubstantial with the 'Fa­
ther, as to bis Divinity^ butooeSsential dr eon-
substantial with us men, as to his humanity^—
<
-
Where it cannot reasonably be suspected* that
one and the same word should be- take* in;two
different senses in the same sentence, so as* in the
first place, to. signify .a numerical identity, but, in
the second, a generical or specifical only* But*
lastly* which is yet more, Athanasius himself
speaketh in like manner of our Saviour Christ’s
Tom.i.p,556. being bomoousios- with us men: :# ah'
Trie ft^nlpnt t * f i * * " « % 1 t ' » < • -
Dionys.}1* °lM
*ovW £ *0*1* WiV Wtff* KOI T*V «VT*V
tyn ytv&riv, taxi* Kara rovr.o o vmc dAAorpiac
Kar ovalav row Trarpoc, aMnrfp kki ij dfiirtXoG rov, yttvpy%m‘
If the Son be coessential or coosubstantial,(or.of
the same essence or substance), with us men* be
having the very same nature with us, then let him
be in this, respect a stranger, to the. essence or
substance of the Father, even as -the' vine is to
the essence of the husbandman.'—And again,
a little after, in the same epistle,jjXty<wv pn.uvai
row Xoyov iStov, rni rov Trqrpoe.ovomq, bppocvst rovrov
opoovoiov tiputv etvai rufv avQpwmw' Or did Dionysius*
Tho.«isob think you, when be affirmed the Wood
ht« first ep is- . v i* i
tietoSerapioo.not to be proper to the.essence of.t-he
Father, suppose him therefore to be cor
essential or consubstantial with ns men?
fwifftuaX
- 1''rOUl all which it is unquestionably
m
enbeing8 evident, that Athanasius, did not, by the
tagthe^el* word bomoousios, understand that which
SreO
T
w
Sb”’-ha^b the same singular and numerical •
'itanU
aiw
ith essence with,another, but-the same comr
A
nd,P.170. mon generical or specmcal only; atid,
t
o
* consequently, that he conceived the Son
THE TRUE MOTION OF HOMOOUSIOf. }5 ft
to be coessential pr consubstantial with
the Father after thatmanner.
Furthermore, the true meaning of the
Nicene fathers may more fully and
thoroughly be perceived,-by considering
what that doctrine of Ariuf was; which
they opposed and condemned. '' Now
Arius maintained the Son pr Word to
be triofui, a Creature, made in time, and
mutable or defectible; and, for that rea­
son, as Athanasius tells us,
ym t t$? olx/oy
ifMMfcw rw
•tKttylM U, JMt2,
to rxa$ocrov
leupnyn, <&-'
raff nrftirov-
raafb n q ti-
.oroi, jrarro
t/llv ijuaoixrH*
i7m vaS mu*
tow wargcf
It weremad*
H
0MtOM
y,
tn lO
V
is coessenti^l
orconsabstan-
iialerill tfco
builder, or a
atripwith the
and dWorptoumop* of a different essence
or substance' from the Father,. (that ***•»£».
which is created bein^ supposed to dif-
fer essentially or substantially from that
which is; uncreated.) —Wherefore the j£jjrith
Nicene fathers, in way of opposition to
this doctrioe of Arias, determined, that the Son
or Word was not- thus :enpivirtw, nor ^hipuiimc,
but o^opwirioc tw 'IlarjjJ, coessential or jconsubstan-
tial with the Father;—that is, not a creature, but
God; or agreeing with the Father in that com­
mon nature or'essence of the Godhead, So that
this is that awrM, essence or substance of the am
cient fathers, which is said to be the 'same in all
the- three hypostases of the Trinity, as they are
called God; not a 'singular existent essence, but
-the common,'general, or universal essence of the
Godhead, Or of the uncreated nature, called by St.
Hilary^ “ Natnra una, ton unitate per- D
eSrnbditi,
sou®, sedgeDe r i s one nature, pot by teJSS!.
wnity of -person, but of 'kind.—Which j
unity pf'toe common or general essence
of the Godhead is the something also with that
equality, which some of the ancjent fathers so
156 THE TftUE NOTION OF HOMOOUSIO&.
much insist upon against Anns; namely, art
equality of nature, as the Son and Father are
both of them alike God, that essence of the God­
head (which is common to all the three persons)
being, as all other essences, supposed to be indivi­
sible. From which equality itself also does it
appear, that they acknowledged no identity of
singular essence, it being absurd to say, that one
and the self-same thing is equal to itself. And
with this equality of essence did some of these
orthodox fathers then)selves imply, that a certain
inequality of the hypostases or persons also, in
their mutual relation to one another, might be
consistent. As for example, St. Austin writing.
C
ant.Seno. thus against the Arians: “ Fatris, ergo
et Filii,. et Spiritus Sancti, etiamsi dis-
»iu.oper.] parem cogitant potestatem, naturam sal­
tern confiteantur eequalem Though they con­
ceive the power of the Father, Sort, and Holy
Ghost, to be unequal, yet let them, for all that,
confess their nature at least to be equal.—And
3. coot.£a- St. Basil likewise: “ Though the Son
79. be in order second to the Father, be-
cttt. rw.' • cause produced by him, and in dignity
also, (forasmuch as the Father is the
cause and principle of his being) yet is he not,
for all that, second in nature, because there is one
Divinity in them both.”—And that this wps iih
deed the ineaning, both of the Nicene fathers, and
of Athanasius, in their Homoousiotes, their cpes-
sentiality pr consubstantiality, and coequality of
the Sop with the Father; namely, their haviog
both the same common essence of the Godhead;
or that the Son was no creature, as Arius con­
tended, but truly God or uncreated likewise, yrill
ITS SENSE WITH THE NICENE FATHERS. 167
appear undeniably from many passages in Atha­
nasius^ of which we shall here mention only some
few. In his epistle concerning the Nicene coun­
cil, be tells us how the Eusebian faction sub-
scribed the form of that council, though afterward
thiey recanted i t : navrw re vnoypmpivruv ^
'uxtypaipav /cat o* vijii ILvoifitov rewrote rote p»J-
ftaaiv ole airtbjvrat wv dvr©t* \iyw Si Tifex rift owatdc, km
ry dptooudty, /cat ore jitqrt Krtafiaq Trotqpa, /uqre revv ytvqrewv
corn* o row 0<ow vtoc' a’XXd ylwqjuq km rqe rod irarpoc co­
mae o Xoyoe. All the. rest subscribing, the Euse-
•biadists themselves subscribed also to these very
words, which they now find fault w ith; -I mean,
of the essence or substance, and coessential, or
consubstantial, and that the Son is no creature or
facture, or any of the things made, but the ge­
nuine offspring, of the essence or substance of the
Father.—Afterwards be declareth, how the Ni­
cene council at first intended to have made use
only of Scripture words and phrases against the
A liens: rjf mvoSov (Sovkoftivitc rdepiv reiv
'’A p n q rv v rqe aatfieuu: ayiX u v’ ra$ Si raw
y p a jx H v o f io X o y o v f iiv a q i p w d c y p a ip a i, on re v io e i a r i v owe
t£ ovk ovtwv, aXX’ c/c tow ©tow, /cat \6 y o f tori* /cat'' oo^/f,
dXX’ ou Krtafia ow&irotqpa* tStov Si o
k rqw ircfrpoc ■ytwvq/ta*
A s that Christ was the Son'of God, and not from
' nothing, but from God, the word and wisdom of
God; and consequently, no creature, or thing made.
B at when they perceived, that the Eusebian fac-
' tion would evade all those expressions, by equivo­
cation, qvayjcaafiqoav Xo
m
to
v Atwicorepdv uiritv to h
c row
Oeow. /cat y p a x p a i tic r t j c owmac row ©cow tlvat rov wtdv,m r ip
row juq t o tic row ©tow Kotvov /cat taov, row re wtow /cat rwv
■ysvqcaiv vofuZsoOat' They conceived themselves ne­
cessitated, more plainly to declare, what they
P . 967.
156 ITS SENSE WITH THE NICEVTC FATHERS.
meant by being from God, or out of him; aqd
therefore added, that the Sou was out of the sub­
stance of God, thereby to distinguish him from
all created beings.—Again, a little after, in the
same epistle, he adds: ijaM oc rovro vooHaa, teaX
«5c
o/toownor iypaif/tv, tva ryvrt rwv atptruavv KMdijftuiv ava-
otpnf/toat' Kal $ti£tootv aXXov fivai rwv yivyrmv rov \6yav'
km yap rovro ypaifravrtg tvffvf iiryyayov’ rove 8* X«yovr«c
t£ ovk qvtwv rov viov rov Otov, y tcrurrov4y rpewrov' y r o a r
fta* y erepac ova'iag, rovrovc dvaOtpartZu y iyia Kal koBo~
\ucy ’Eju
c
X
t
px
m
- The synod perceiving this, rightly
declared, that the Son was bomoousios with the
Father; both to cutoff the subterfuges of here­
tics, and to shew him to be different from the
creatures. For after they had decreed this, they
added immediately, They who say, that the Son
of God was from things that are not,-or made, or
mutable, or a creature, or of another substance
or essence* all such does the holy and catholic
church anathematize. Whereby .they made it
evident, that these words, Of the Father, and do-
essential or consubstantial with the Father, were
opposed to the impiety of those expressions of
the Arians, that the Son was a creature, dr thing
'made, and mutable, and that he was not'before
he was made; which he that affirmed),-contra­
dicted) the synod, bnt whosoever-dissents-from
Arias, mast needs consent to those forms of the
synod.—In this same epistle, to cite but onepas-
. sage mote out of-it, ^o
X
k
o
c
, anXjStov nu
^puaoc, &C. dXX’ srtpofvy xal trtpovata aW y-
A w ' ii fiev ©Jv Kal vtoc ovrwc arrlv,iarat Krlopa uompKal
ypeis, Kal pydpoovaioc, « 8evtoc tan Xdyoc, ao$iar tjxwv rov
trarpoc, airavyaapa, cucorw$ dpoowux av «p|* Brass and
-gold, silver and tiu, arealike in their shining and
ITS SfiJJSfe W ITH TH tt NlCEtfE FATHERS. 1.59
colour; nevertheless in their essence and nature
are they-very differentfrom one another. If thereA
fore the Son be such, then let him be a creature
as we are, and not eoessential (or consobstantial);
bat if he be a Son, the word, wisdom, image of
theFatber, and his splendour, then of -
right should he'be accounted coesseu-
tial and consubstantial.—
-Thus, in his epistle
‘concerning Dionysius, we have *vo iuv p v w
Ih v m tov vioi', and f l i 'i ofioownov rip Trarpt" the Soil’s
being one of the creatures, and his' not being co*-
essential or consubstantial with the Father—put
for synonymous expressions, which signify one
and the same thing.
Wherefore it seemeth to be unquestionably evi­
dent, that'when the ancient orthodox fathers of
the Christian ohurch maintained, against Arius,
the Son to be homoousion, eoessential or consub-
stantial with.the Father, though that word be thus
interpreted, Of the same essence or substance,
yet they universally understood thereby, not a
saneness of singular, and numerical, but of com­
mon or universal, essence only; that is, the gene-
•rical or specifical essence of the Godhead; that
the Son was no creature, but truly and properly
God.. But if it were needful, there might be yet
more testimonies cited out of Athanasius to this
purpose. As from his epistle De Synodis Ari-
roiniet Seleuciae, where he writeth thus, concern­
ing the difference betwixt those two words ;
'Qpotovaiov, of like substance—and 'Ofioovmov, of
P. 929.
the same substance *
—O iSare y a p Kal vp«<;
vtn to.ojuoiov owe nrlrwv.ovmivv; aXA’ ml <ryii-
fiaThtv Kal wator^TOiv Xiyerai o/uoiov' ml yap ratv avamvovy^
*P. 838..tom. i. oper.
160 ITS SENSE .WITH THE NICENE FATHERS.
"OfUMortKt a\Xa ravroritg av XtyOut)’ avOptnrog yovv av~
Opting opoiog Xiytrat ov Kara n}v ovaiav— rp yapovata ■
'Opofveig not' kai iraXtv avQpmtog Kwt owe Avopotog Xfcyt-
Ttti aXX’ E/repo^w}?' O’v kovvto OpotjivfgKal '0 /i«»wwov,to
Si 'Ercpo^uccKat trepovaiov’ For evenyourselves l^o^jw,
that similitude is not predicated of essences, or
substances, but of figures and .qualities only. But
of essences or substances, identity or samenesses
affirmed, and not similitude; For a man is not
said to be like to a man, in respect of the-essence
or substance of humauity, but only as to figure; or
form; they being said, as to their essence, to be
congenerous, of the same nature or kind with one
another. Nor is a man properly said to be unlike
to a dog, but ofadifferent nature or kind from him.
Wherefore that, which is congenerous, of the
same nature, kind, or species,- is also homoou-
sion, coessential or consubstantial (of the same
essence or substance), and that, which is of a. de­
ferent nature,-kind or species, is heterousion, (of
a different essence or substance.)—Again, Atha­
nasius, in that fragment of his against the hypo­
crisy of Meletius, &c. concerning consubstan­
tiality, writeth in this manner: * ’O roivw avaipwv to
uvai tov viov opoovaiov rti varpL, XiyarvSi opotov, avatpu
rdtivai 6 cov* (iaavrtvg §£ Kai oi£,riyovpivog.rt> 'Qpoovtnov,
tig opotov ttq ovauf, ' trtpav rt}v ovaiav Xiyti, 6 ^ & opoav-
pivnv’ ov rotwv ovSi to bk rijg ovalag, ttvat irptiravrtog Xtyet
pat ippovtiv opoovaiov, we avQpivitogiic rpg avtiptiirov ovalag’
Et Si juij oig avOpanrdg e£ avQponrov Kara ovaiav, ix Otpv o
vide, aXX’ tig ivopouipasi KaQa.irtpavSpidgavQpti'Kifi' i) tig
avOpwwog 0 ttp, SpXog iariv 6 rouwroc opoovaiov piv X fyw v,
opoovaiov Si ov ippovtvv' Ov yap Kara rdvirwiiA(iav |3miXera(
to 'Opoovaiov aicoviaOai, pirtp iorlv, mpt ptag nat rig avrng
* Tort. i. oper. p, $72.
ITS SENSE WITH THE NICENB FATHERS. 161
\
ovalac" aXXa irapd rifv oWH&uav, /cat tva 8ut(3aXXy rawin','
'EAAifvucjJv prj<ttvuptiicivaito opoovautv prjpa row tt/EAArKnv
tftowc hr’ ov&vi eriptp Ktlptvov 9 art njv awnjv ^votv vapa*
arrival, &c. He that denies the Son to be homoon-
sion, consubstantial with the Father, affirming
him only to be like to him, denies him to be God;
In like manner, he, who retaining the word homo*
ousion or consubstantial, interprets it notwith­
standing only of similitude or likeness in sub­
stance, affirmeth the Son to be ofanother different
substance from the Father, and therefore not God;
biit like to God only. Neither doth such a one
rightly understand those words, “ Of the sub­
stance of the Father,” he not thinking the Son to
be so consubstantial, or of the essence and sub­
stance of the Father, asone man is consubstantial
or of the essence or substance of another who be­
gat him. For he who affirmeth, that the Son is
not so of God, as a man is of a man, according
to essence or substance; but that he is like hiqi
only as a statue is like a man, or as-a man may
be like to God, it is manifest, that such a one,
though he use the word homoousios, yet he doth
not really mean it. For he will not understand
it, according to the customary signification there­
of, for that, which hath one and the same essence
or substance; this word being used’by Greeks
and Pagans in no other sense, than to signify that,
which hath the same nature; as we ought to be-,
lieve concerning the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost.’
—Where we see plainly, that though the word
homoousios be interpreted, That-which hath one;
and the same essence or substance, yet is this un-*
derstood of the same common nature, and as one
man is of the same essence or substance with an-
VOL. III. M
103 ITS SENSE WITH THE NI6ENE FATHERS.
other. We might here also add to this the con­
current testimonies of the other orthodoxOthers;
hut, to avoid..tediousness,; we shall emit, them,
and only insert some passages out of St. Austin
to the .same purpose. ; For he, in his first book,
contra Maxim, (chap, xv.*) writeth thus.: u Duo
veri homines, etsi nullus eorum*filius:sit alterius,
uhius tamen et ejusdem suntsubstantiaa. Homo
autem alterius hominis verus filius. nullo modo
potest nisi ejusdem cumpatre esse substantiss,
etiamsi non sit per omnia similis patrn Quooirca
verus. Dei.filius, et .unius cum patre substantiae
est, quia verus filius est; et per omnia est.patri
similis, quia est Dei filius.” Two true men,
though neither of them be son to the. other, .yet
are they both, of one and the same substance..
But araaa, who is the true son of another man,
can by no means be of a different substance from
bis father, although.he be not in.all respects like
unto him.' .Wherefore the true Son of God is
both ofione substance with the Father, because
be is a true Son, and he is also in ail respects like
to. him, because he is the Son of -God. . Where
Christ, or. the Son of God,*is said to be no other**
wise of one substance with God the Father, than
here amongst men.the son is of the samp substance
with his father,. or any .one man with another.
Again, the same St. Austin, in his Resppns. ad
Sermonem Arianorum,b fcxpressetb himself thus:
Tothe«
am
e “ Ariani nosvpcitant hoinoousianos, quia
contraeomm errhrem^ Graeco vqcabulo
‘
^Dir^P
q
n
L
‘ofioovmou de&qdimos, Pattern, Filium.et
»ab«*titi»SpjritumSanctum; id est,uniusejusdem-
•dap. xvi.§.H.' p. 603. tott. viii.‘
6p<er.ed1
. l&nedict, ', ' . " *
* Cap. xxxvi. p. 468. tom. viii. oper.
ITS SENSE WITH THE NICENE FATHERS. 163
que substantiae, vel, ut expressing dica- •tDen.p*-
mos, easentise^qnee owria Greece appeHa-
tor) quod plauius dicitur unius ejusdem-
. quenature. Et tamen siquis istorum, qui f‘
nps hofiftoousiaoos vocaut, filium suum tieotnon•*
»
'
neu cujus ipse*esset, sed divers« diceret
esse natures,exheeredariab ipso mallet
filius, quam hoc putari. Quanta igitur
impietate isti caecantur, qui cum coofiteautur uni-
cum Dei filium, uoluot ejusdem nature oujug pa­
ter est confiteri, sed divers® atque imparis, et mul-
tis modis rebusque dissimilis, tanquamnondeDeo
natus, sed ab illo de nibilo sit creatus; gratia filius,
nonnatura.” The Arians call us homoousians, be­
cause, in opposition to their error, we defend the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, to be in the language
of the Greekshomoousios, that is, of one and the
same substance; or, to speak more clearly, essence,
tbis being in Greek called ousia, which is yet
more plainly thus expressed, of one and the same
nature.. And yet there is none of their own sons,
who thus call us homeousiaus, who would not as
willingly- be disinherited, as be accounted of a
different nature frpm-his father. Hcrw great im­
piety therefore are they blinded with, who* though
they acknowledge, that there is one only Son of
God, yet will not confess him-to be of the same
nature with his Father, but different and unequal^
and many ways unlike him, as if he were not bora
of God, but created out of nothing by him, him­
self being a creature, and so a-sou, not by nature,
but grace only.—Lastly {to name no more places)
in bis first book De Trinitate/ he hath these
words: “ Si filius creatura non est, ejusdem cunt
* Cap. yi. p. 534,^36. tom. viii. oper.
I
164 HOMOOOSIAN TRINITY NOT MONOOUSIAN,
patre substantiae est. Onrais enirn substantia, quae
Deus non est, creatura est; et quae creatura non
est,' Deus est. si non est filius ejusdem sub*
stantiae, cujus est pater, ergo facta substantia
est.” If the Son be not a creature, then is be
of the same substance with the Father; for what­
ever substance is not God, is creature; and what­
ever is not creature, is God. And therefore, if the
Son be notofthe same substance with the Father,
he must needs be a made and created substance,
and not truly God.
Lastly, That the ancient orthodox fathers, who
used the word homoousios against Arius, in­
tended not therein to assert the Son to have one
and the same singular or individual essence with
the Father, appeareth plainly from their disclaim­
ing and disowning those two words, Tavroowrtov and
•Movoownov. Concerning the former of which, Epi*
O n.76. N.7. phanius thus: Kat wi \iyoptv Tavroouaiov, iva
pv >|XI£tc irapa run Xtyopivq, SafleWip antutae-
tom. i;.op.] Q y - TavrovSe \tyoptv ry Otorrjri, Kat ry ova'uf,k c u
rySwipu. We affirm not the Son to be tautoousion,
(one and the same substance with the Father) lest
this should be taken in way of compliance with
Sabellius; nevertheless do we assert him to be the
same in Godhead, and in essence, and in power.—
Where it is plain, that when Epiphanius affirmed
the Son to be the same with the Father in God­
head and essence, he understood this only of a
generical or specifical, and not ofa singular or in­
dividual, sameness; namely, that the Son is no
creature, but God also, as the Father is: and this
he intimates to be the true and genuine sense of
the word homoousios; he therefore rejecting that
other word tautoousios, because it would be lia-
HOMOOU8IAN TRINITY NOT MONOOV8IAN. 165
ble to misinterpretation, and to.be taken, in the
Sabellian sense, for that, which bath one and the
same singular and individual essence, which the
word homoousios could not be obnoxious to.
And as concerning that other word monoousios,
Athanasius himself, in bis Exposition of Faith,
thus expressly condemns it: ovrt yap vunraripa fpo-
vov/iev, ale <
>
« 2aj3lAXtot Movoovcrtov ical o v \ *0poownov*
We do not think the Son to be really one and
the same with the Father, as the Sabellians do,
and to be monoousios, and not homoousios;
they thereby destroying the very being of the
Son.—Where ousia, essence or substance, in
that fictitious'word monoousios, is taken for sin­
gular or existent essence, the whole Deity being
thus said, by Sabellius, to have only one sin­
gular essence or hypostasis in it: whereas in
the word homoousios is understood a common
or universal, generical or specifical essence; the
Son being thus .said to agree with the Father in
the common essence of the Godhead, as not being
a creature. Wherefore Athanasius here disclaim­
e d a monoousian trinity, as Epiphanius did be­
fore a tautoousian; both of them a trinity ofmere
names and notions, or inadequate conceptions
of one and the same singular essenceorbypostasis;
they alike distinguishing them from, the homoou-
sian trinity, as a trinity of real hypostases or per­
sons, that have severalty their own singular es­
sence, but agree in one common and universal,
essence of the Godhead, they being none of them
creatures, but all uncreated, or creators. From
whence it is plain, that the ancient orthodox
fathers asserted no such thing as one and the same
singular or numerical essence, of the several per-
166 HOMOOUSIAN TRINITY NOT MONOOUSIAN;
sons of the Trinity ; this, according to them, being
not a real trinity, bat atrinjty o( mere:napae^no-
tions, and inadequate conceptionsonly, which,i*'.
thus disclaimed and. declared against by Athana­
sius ;* Tp«ac SI arrw wx h>S oyoparoK povm,.tan <pqvr<
\~
oi^.XI&wc, qXXa.«Xq&('p t e a l v i r a p & i Tptac’ Tbp Trinity
is not a trinity 0/ mere names and words opjy, but
of hypostases, truly and really existing.^-But the
homoousian Trinity pf the orthodox,went exactly
in the middle, betwixt that tnonoonsian trinity .pf
$abellius, which was a trinity of different notipps
or conceptions only of one and,the self-same thing,
and that,otherheteroousian trinity of.Arius, which
was a trinity of separate and heterogeneous,sub­
stances (one of which oply was God, and.the
other creatures); this being a,trinity .ofhypostases
or persons numerically differing froroone another,
hut all ofthem agreeing in.one common or general
essence, of the Godhead; or the uncreated nature,
which is eternal, andinfinite. Which was also thus
particularly declared.by Athanasius; pfc tkmjoyn
A
SSw
ap, fpovu s fcadoX
un) 'Em
cXipAta (va pn «fW »5»
R
p.p.*08. carp Katagav ’Iov$<uovc, fa)etc2«s/3IX
X
#oy7i;*pt-
»r^' ovrtffhw m v o i i t i v a , p n etcryv EXXjjvjpiy vgXyQfdr
r y r a icarcocuX
tsO
y' The catholic .church,doth neither
believe less than,this homoousian Trinity, lest it
should comply with Judaism, or sink idto Sabel,-
lianism; nor yet more than this,, lest,,on the other
hand, it should tumble down into Arianisro,
Which is. the same with Pagan Polytheism and
idolatry;—it introducing,m like manner the, wor­
shipping of. creatures together with thp Creator.
. And now, upon all these considerations, pur
Platonic Christianwould conclude, thatthe ortho-
aEpfetol. adSerapion. tom. i. oper. p. 203.
. UNITY NOT IMPLIED IN COBSSKNTIAIJLTT. 167
dox Trinity of 'the ancient Christian church 'did
herein agree 'with the genuinely Platonic trinity,
that it was not roonooiisian, one sole' singular
essence, under three notions, conceptions,'or
modes only, bikt three hypostases or persons. As,
likewise, the right Platonid trinity does agree 'with
the Trinity of the ancient orthodox Christians
in this, that it is not heteroousian, but homoo&t-
«ian, coessential, or cousubstabtial; none df their
three hypostases being creatures, or particular
•beings, made in time; but all of them uncreated,
eternal, and infinite.
Notwithstanding all which, it mast be granted
■that though this homoousiotes, or coessentiality
ofthe threepersdns in the Trinity, doesitriply thetii
to be all God, yet does it not follow from thente
of necessity that they are therefore oneGod. What
then? shall we conclude, that Athanasius himself
alsd entertained that opinion beforemedtioned and
exploded, of the three persOnsin theTrinity bethg
but thred individuals' under tbe Same species (as
Peter, Paul, andTimotby)* and having no other
natural tthityor1
identity tbanspecifical dnljr ? In­
deed^some hate confidently fastened this updn
Athanasius, because, in those Dialogues of the
■Trinity,* published amongst bisworks, and there
untitled to him, tbe same is grossly owned; and in
defence thereof this absurd paradox maintained,
that Peter, Paul,, and Timothy, though they bfe
three hypostases, yet are not to be accounted
three men* but only then when they dissent froth
one another, ,or disagree in will or'opinion. BQt
. it is certain, from several passages in those dia­
logues-themselves, that they-conld not be writteh
«>-by AtbahasiuS ;and there bath been also another
‘Dialog. I. p. 160. tom. it opcr.
168 UNITY NOT IMPLIED IN COESSENTIALITY.
father found for them, to wit, Maximus the mar­
tyr. Notwithstanding which,.thus much must
not-be denied by us, that Athanasius, in those
others his reputedly-genuine writings, does some­
time, approach so near hereunto, that he lays no
.small stress upon this homoousiotes, this coessen­
tiality and common nature of the Godhead, to all
the three persons, in order to their being one God.
For thus, in that book entitled, Concerning the
common Essence, of the Three Persons, and the
,.chapter inscribed, 'O n ovk dal rpilg Osol, That there
are not three gods—doth Athanasius lay his foun­
dation here. When to that question proposed,
How it can be said, that the Father is God, the
Son God, and the Holy Ghost God, and yet that
there are, not three gods? the first reply which
he makes is thi8 ! 07row icotpa ra t ijc tyVotuK;, koivov k at
ovofia rrj( a^lag' olov o fttoQ ra tie $ngpt)pkva afro ptac
m dvopari KaXti" Kut art opyiZtrai rote avOpwiroic,
rdv vavra avdpunrov rrj dpyy vvoKtlpfvov, %
va- avOpanrov
KaXu* /cat art StaXXdavcrat rip Kooptp, tdq evt avBpiowip StaX-
X
dfffferai* Where there is a communion of nature,
there isalsoone commonname ofdignity bestowed.
And thus doth God himself call things, divided
into multitudes from one common nature, by one
singular name. For both when he is angry with
men, doth he call all those, who are the objects of
.his anger, by the name of one man; and when
he is reconciled to the world, is he.reconciled
thereto as to one man.—The first instances, which
he gives hereof, are in Gen. the sixth, 3d and
7th verses;. “ My Spirit shall-not always strive
with man, and I will destroy man whom I
have created.”—Upon which, Athanasius makes
tbisreflection; kmtoi oilv ijv d?, dXXd^xupid&
can&poi'
dXXa rip ovopart rfjs tj>vows> rov nivra avBpwirov tva itca-
i
.UNITY. NOT IMPLIED' IN GOE8&ENTIALITY. .109
X
k
t£
vaxSptJirov Sut to icotvov rt}c ovolae’ Though.there
was.not then ,only one man, but infinite myriads
of men, nevertheless by the name of one nature,
doth the Scripture call all those men one. man,
by reason of their community of essence or sub-
stance.—Again, he commenteth in like
_ , n • j *• 214*
manner upon that other Scripture pas­
sage, Exodus xv. 1. “ The horse and his rider
hath.he thrown into the sea ^Oree
£»)X
0e$apaai Kara
rtjv OaXatroav, irwrraivpErdpvpiwv.apparant iv ry OaXdaay, Kal
iyouv iroXXoi dv0pa>iroi oi fivOiodivrtg per e
k
e
iv
o
v
, koi tinroc
iroXXoi' o Si Muxrrig tiSaJc, ore irdvraw ralv /3vOurdivrktv
pla iarlv (j>
v<
T
L
G
, koI mpl raJv iirtnov Kal irepl twv
•Xeyu9 itnrov kal dva(5drriv ippapev sic OdXaoaav* rd w\qOfi
'rail/ avSpalv e
k
o
X
e
it
e
v Eva av0pa>7rov, Kal ,ra vX^On raJv
ittttw
v eKaX&nv vtnrov Eva, &d r?)v Koevan/tav rijg (jivoeiog'
-When Pharaoh went out to the Red Sea, and fell,
with infinite chariots in the same; and there were
many men, that were drowned together with him,
and many horses; yet Moses knowing, that there
was but one common nature of all those, that
.were drowned, speaketh thus both of the men and
horses;.The Lord hath thrown both the horse
and the rider into the sea: he calling such a mul­
titude of men but one singular man, and such a
multitude of horses but one horse.—Whereupon
Athanasius thus concludetb; n ovviv roig p ^
•dv0po/7rotc, ottov <rvyK£%yrai rd rijg </>voeo)e' oirov '
Sidfpopa rd rryc pop<j>ng Kal SvvaptMQ teal /3ovX
ric- o
i5yap
iariv ovte yvi&fiii un|, ovrt floppy, oiJre ixryyg' Kal Sid<f>opoi
yXwrrai, Sio Kal.avOpwiroi pepoireg Xiyovrai' ■
dXXd &d rd
K
ocvovTrig (ftvfJEwg waaa if oiKovpivt} digavOpwirog e
k
X
t
)0i?
*
ottov Si dpepurrog if a^ia, pla fiaatXtla, pia Svvapig, k
o
c
flovXrj, Kal Evepyeia, iStaCovaa rtjv rpidSa o
t
t
o rrjg Krtoeiog,
•Eva Xeyw. 0cov. If therefore amongst men, where
170 UNITY NOT IMPLIED IN C0K8SENTIALITT.
4be things of nature are confirmndedyand where
there are differences of form, power and will (aH
men, not haring the same disposition of mind, nor
form,' nor -strength), as also different languages
(from whence men* are called by the poets Mero-
pes), nevertheless, by reason of the community of
nature, the whole world is called one m an; might
not that Trinity ofpersons, where there is an un­
divided dignity,'one kingdom, one power, one
will, and one energy, -be<
much rather called one
God ?—But though it be true, that Athanasius in
this place (if at least"this were a genuine foetus of
Athanasius) may-justly be thought to attribute
-too much to this K
otvovni$ muovtftac, a com­
mon nature, <essence, or substance—of all the
three persons^ as to the making of them to be „
truly and properly one God ; and that those Scrip­
ture passages are but weakly urged to this pur­
pose: yet it'is plain, that he did not acquiesce in
this only; but addeth other things to it also; as
their havingnot only onewill, but also one energy
or action, of which more afterwards. Moreover,
. Athanasius elsewhere plainly implieth,
that this, common essence or nature of
the Godhead is not sufficient alone to make all
the three hypostases one. God. As in bis fourth
oration against the Arians, where be tells us; that
his Trinity of Divine hypostases cannot therefore
be accounted three gods, nor three principles,
because they are not resembled by him to three
original suns, but only to the sun, and its splen­
dour, and the light from both. Now, three tons,
according to the language of Athanasius, have
Koivov ric ^v«u( km ov<
riaer a common nature, es­
sence, and substance—and therefore are coesseft-
COESSENTIALITY NECESSARY TO UNITY. 171
tial;Qr<,CGMObstaatral;.aiMl since-they cannot be
accounted ode suu, ittis manifest, that,-according
to Athanasius,, this specific identity or unity, ie
not sufficient to make the three.Divine hypostases
one God. Again, the same Athanasius, in his
Exposition of Faithy* writeth thus; ovrerpEtc wrwr-
r«HC'\/iffupwftivas icaff awrdc, wnrtp w/taro^vut «r*
W
^pwriiW
! tori- XoylaaaBat, tva.fti voXvfcurv tic ra iO
v*
^povnvufian'.Neither do .we acknowledge three hy­
postases, divided or separate by;themselves (as is
to. be..seen corporeally in men) that we may
not comply with the Pagan Polytheism.—From
whence it is evident, that neither three separate
men, though coessential to Athanasius, were ac­
counted by. him to be one man, nor yet the com­
munity of the .specific nature and essence of the
Godhead ean.alone, by itself, exclude Polytheism
from the Trinity. .Wherefore, the true reason,
why Athanasius laid so great a stress upon this
bombousiotes, or coessentiality of the Trinity, in
order to the unity of the Godhead in them, was
not because this .alone Was sufficient to make
them,one God, hut because, they could not be so
without it. This Athanasius often urges against
the Asians,,as in bis fourth.oration, where he tells
them, troXXovcavticrayouv [0covg]Sutto’mpoaSecavrtuv,
that they.imust needs introduce a plurality of
gods, because of the. .heterogeneity of their tri­
nity.—.And, again afterwards determining, that
there is w «&c rijefiamiroc, one species of the God­
head, in. Father, Son, and Spirit, he adds;* ovrw
Kal sva Sia owc rpcaSoc dfiokoyovfuv uvai rov Otov' kcu iro\v
fjuaXXov fuaefiioTEpov Xeyo/uev tijg iraXvttSovg twv aiptriKia#
(koTtfroi;, on rqv fxlav iv rpidSi fleorr/ra typovovfitv' ei yap
*Tom. i. opef. p. 241. bP.408.
172 COESSENTIALITY NECESSARY TO UNITY.
P . 275.
Hn qvtws i\ u , aXX IS ov/c ivrwv 'vwufta xat icrlafia anw #
X0 7 0 C ■ '.avayKn Xfytiv avrevg 8wo Stove, tva plv ktuj-
tiJv
, rov.8* mpotncrwrov* And thus do we acknow­
ledge one only God in the Trinity; and main­
tain it .more religiously, than those- heretics
do, who introduce a multiform deity, consist­
ing of divers species; we supposing only one
universal Godhead in the whole. For ifit be not
thus,, hot the Son .be a creature, made out of
nothing, however called god by these Arians,.
then must he and his Father of necessity be two
gods; one of them a creator, the-other a creature..
-—
In like manner, in his book of the Nicene
council, he affirmetb, concerning the
Arians, t^u
qO
tovgrpoxov rtva K
rtpvTTO
vaivtiQ
rpsu; vxoprdaHg aXXijXwv iravrawaai Ktytoptaptme,
SiaipovvTtg njvayiav pov4Sa, that they make in a man­
ner three gods, dividing .the holy monad info
three heterogeneous substances, separate from
one another.—Wbereas the right orthodox Trinity,
on the contrary, is elsewhere thus described by
Ep. adSerap. him; TjWC t o Iw v ayla xat rtXtia etrrlv, ev xa-
p. 202. rpl, koi vito, Kat rip dyup mteipan OsoXoyovpsytr,
ov8tv aAAorpiov v e£<oSti>t x t / u y v v f t t v o v i y o v o a , oi!8e 4c 817-
/uovpyov xat yevVijrov awfarapkvt}, aXX' 0X17 row kti£Uv xat
S n f u o v p y tiv ov<ra* The holy and perfect Trinity tbeo-
logised in the Father, Son, and Spirit, bath no­
thing alien, foreign, or extraneous intermingled
with it; nor is it compounded of heterogeneous
things, the creator and creature joined together.
—And whereas the Arians interpreted that of our
Saviour Christ, “ I and ray Father are one,” only
in respect of consent or agreement of will, Atha­
nasiusshewing the insufficiency hereof, concluded)
thus, avdyxti \ 017rdv Karar»)v ovalav vottv k
at rijv vlovxat
COESSENTIALITY NECE8SLARY TO UNITY. 17$
narpoi b>
ortrra, wherefore, besides this consent of
will, there must of necessity be another unity of
essence or substance also, acknowledged in the
Father and the Son.—Where by unity of essence
or substance, that Athanasius did not mean a
unity of singular and individual, but of general or
universal'essence only, appears plainly from these
following Word-8 : ra uiv yap ytvtfra K
av
. . , , s 1 .
a
v/u
<
p
<
o
via
v tyy wpoc rov im
roirfK
O
Ta, aA
A tv A
rim
,etSel.
_ • \ t t ’ it 4 « t , p . 9 2 3 .
Kivif^u Kai fierovaia ravriyv t \ H* w<rir*P ° H
*! r v~
Aa£ac £je/3fj3Xqra( rtov ovpavtov, o SI woc tic rqc ovotaf toil
yivvTffia^ ovtrta koI tv torn* avroc icat a ytwi\aaq Tranjp’
for those things, which are made or created,
though they may have an agreement of will with
their Creator, yet have they this by participation
only, and in a way of motion; as he, who retain*
ing not the same, was cast out of heaven. But
the Son, being begotten from the essence or sub­
stance of the Father, is essentially or substan­
tially one with him.—So that the opposition here
is betwixt unity of consent with God in created
beings, which are mutable, and unity of essence
in that, which is uncreated, and immutably of the
same will with the Father. There are also many
other places in Athanasius, which though some
may understand of the unity of singular essence*
yet were they not so by him intended, but either
of generic Or specific essence only, or else in such
other sense as shall be afterwards declared. As,
for example, in his fourth oration, niv piav
iy rpuiScOeonjra tppovovfttv,we acknowledge
only one Godhead in the Trinity;—where thd
following words plainly imply this to be'under*
stood, in part at least, of one common or general
essence of’the Godhead, d yappti ovnociyu, aX
X
*
P . 4 6 8 .
174 ATHANASiys’ OPINIONS ON THE TRINITY.
ovko v r w v w oln fia Kal K rlo fia ta r lv o Xo-yoc, &C. B ecause
if it benotso, but the Word be a creature, made
out of nothing, he is either not. truly God, or if be
he called) by that name, then most they be two
gods,;one a creator, the other a creature.—Again,
p ' when in the same book it is said, tv •
woe koi o vornp rp ibuynm *<h fMKuornri rrjc
<
rew
g
,Kal ryravT
O
T
vyriT
rigfuacfeorqroc’That the SpD C
iQ
(}
the Father are ods thing jnthe propriety of nature,
and in the sameness ofone Godhead;—it is evident
from the context* tbatthis is not to be understood
of a sameness, of singular-essence, but partly of
a common and generieal one, and partly of such
another sameness or unity, as will be hereafter
expressed. ; Lastly, when the three hypostases
are somewhere* said by him to be plaovtr(ot,one
essence or substanoe—this is not to be under-
stood neither in that place, as if they had all three
the same singular essence, but in>some of those
othersenses beforementioned.
■But -though Athanasius no where declare the
three hypostases of the Trinity to have only one
arid- the same singular essence, but, on the eon*
trary, denies them tobe monoousian ;*and though
he lay a great stress, upon their. tiSuoi tvorw, their
specific or geaerio unity, and coessentiality, in
orderto their being, one God, forasmuch as with­
out this they could not be God at all; yet doth he
not rely wholly upon this, as alone sufficient to
that purpose, but addeth certain other considera­
tions thereunto, to make it out, in manner as fol-
loweth. First, that this Trinity is not &trinity of
principles, but that there is only one principle or
fountain of the Godhead in it, from which the
* YjdoQmestion.Ti. p.442. tom. ii. open Attunur,
ATHANASIUS' OPINIONS ON THR TRIM IT * . 175
other Arederived. Thus doth he write in his fifth
onsUion/./x* apxvt mu K«n rovro dcfedc, there is bat
one priaoiple, end accordingly but one God;—
Again* ia .his .book against the Sabellianists, owe
eivi.&io, 6toi,.on uijSi $vo irar&jec, fii$k erepovexoc _ • • •
* w .y&vriawTJOf n ytytvnpivoe o 7*11 yap ap-<
apiyutr Sva, .Svo«vpvr«t, Qtavc* MapKwvoc 4
S
y
«r<
rc/3c(a* There are not two gods, both because
there are not two fathers, and because.that, which
is begotten, is not of a different essence from that
which begat. For he that introduceth two prin­
ciples,. preacheth two gods; which was the im­
piety of Marcion.—Accordingly, the same Atha­
nasius declareth, ;t^vovaLav rai vurpdc dp- B
tSjn.A
rim
.
\ y *ry ^ 1 t f - • - *1,^ 1, De&el. p.920.
ynv xan pcia** k
c
umynv cmu rov vtovf tnat r
the essence or. substance of the Father is the
principle, apd root, and fountain of the Son.—
And in like manner doth he approve of this doc­
trine of Dionysius, on niyj rmv dyadwvaxavruv etfrlv
d Cede, Tarapoc % vtr avrm irpoytO
fitvpGovide’ That
God (the. Father) is the .first fountain of all good
things, but the Son:a river poured. Outfrom him.
•—
Tothe same purpose, is it.also, when he com-
pareth the Father and the Son to the water and
the vapour arising from it ^ to the light and the
splendour; to the.prototype andthe image. And
he concludeth the unity .of the Godhead from
hence,.in this manner: njv ddav rpuiSa etc DeSjn.sic.
fw
a wmrep of icopv^jv nva, rov (hov run oX
atv
rov travroicpdropa Xtyto, nyKE^aXaiowAu mi awayeaOat
Tamaavayiaf The Divine Trinity must needs be col­
lected and gathered up together, under that Om­
nipotent God.of the whole world, as under one
head.r—
But the chief force of this consideration
» P. 609. .
176 ATHANASIUS’ OPINIONS ON THE- TRINITY;
is onlytoexcludethe doctrine of the Marcionists^
who made more independent and seif-existent.
principles and gods. Notwithstanding which, it
might still be objected, that the Christian Trinity
is a trinity of distinct subordinate gods; in op­
position whereuoto, this argument seems only to
prepare the way to what follows; namely, of the
close conjunction of these three hypostases into
one God: forasmuch, as were they three inde­
pendent principles, there could not be any coales­
cence of them into one.
In the next place, therefore, Athanasius further
addeth, that these three Divine hypostases-are
not and iayo>
pvTiiivat, separate and dis­
joined beings, but d&aipirot, indivisibly united' to
one another. Tbus in his fifth, oration ; * vartpa
Kal vlov sv oVrag rp deorriri, Kal rip avrov, a/utpiarov, Ka}
dSiatpirov Kal a^wpiarov tlvcu tov Xoyov airo rov irarpoc*
The Father and the Son are both one thing'in
the Godhead, and in that the Word, being begot­
ten from him, is indivisibly and inseparably con­
joined with him.r-r-Where, when he affirriieth the,
Father.and the Son to be one in. the Godhead, it
is plain, that he doth not mean them to have one
and the same singular essence, but only geuerical
and universal; because in the following words he
supposes them to be two, but indivisibly and in­
separably united together. Again,’in his, book
De Sent. Dionys. iortv dBuuptroc TOV irarpoeo vide, a tf
■
cart toairavyaofia vpdg to (jxo
Q
, the Son is indivisible
from the Father, as the splendour is from the
light.—And afterwards, in the same book, he
insisteth further upon this point, according to
4he sense of Dionysius, after this Planner; b d Se
» P .529. b p.see.
ATHANASIUS’ HOMOOU8IAN TRINITY. 177
JStov j
c
o
u aSufjxrov rrjc too varpoc ovatac tov vldp upat &-
Saaxu, tie ttrriv o Xoyoe irpoe rov. vovv ca! irorapde irpoe njv
TrjjyjJv it pcv ovy Suuptiv teal airo&vovv top Xoyop kat rov
vovv rtc Svvarat, if tov xorapov /cat njv inryifv ptpvaai «u
ruyloai SuXuv, v to diradyaofta a/xa SuXtiv dvo rov farroe,
Sec. Dionysius teacheth, that the Son is cognate
with the Father, and indivisible from him, as rea­
son is from the mind, and the river from the foun­
tain. Who is there, therefore, that would go.
about to alienate reason from the mind, and to
separate the river from the fountain, making up a
wall between them ? or to cut off die splendour
from the light?—Thus also in his epistle to Sera-
pion, that the Holy Ghost is not a creature, n &
*-
Xtnwav irpwrov avroi rov dwavyitfffiarocrd <fnie> _
n rrjv aofiav rov aapov, if fii) uirarwaav, iru>G
ion raura’ Let these men first divide the splendour,
from the light, or wisdom from him that is wise;
or else let them wonder no more how these things
can be.—Elsewhere Athanasius calls the whole.
Triuity rptdSa dSialperov teal ijvufiiniv 7rpoc cavrifv, &
Trinity undivided and united to itself.—Which
Athanasian indivisibility of the Trinity is not so
to be understood, as if three were not three in it;
but, first of all, that neither of these could he
without the other, as the original light or sun
could not be without the splendour, nor the splen­
dour without the original light, and neither one
nor the other of them without a diffused deriva­
tive light. Wherefore God the Father being an
eternal sun, must needs have also an eternal
Splendour, and an eternal light. And, secondly,
that these are so nearly and intimately conjoined-
together, that there is a kind of owt^aa, conti­
nuity, betwixt them; which yet is not to be un-
VOL. i n . N
176 »XfttCROItE*IS IN TUB TRINITY.
derstood in the way of corporeal things, but so as
is agreeable to the nature of things incorporeal.
Thirdly, Athanasius ascendeth yet higher, af­
firming the hypostases of the Trinity not only to
be indivisibly conjoined with one another, but
also to have a mutual inexistence in each other,
Which later- Greek fathers *have called
<nv, their circutninsession. To this purpose does
P.«65.[tem
. he cite the words of Dionysius, awoppota
ie'smtedt™ 7«p vov Xoyoc, Kdi KapSutc 8m tnoparoit
Dm}i.|hM$.]^0^ t, t|'(rU) Irepoc yevdjusvoc rod *v t c a p S l f Xo-
you. t e a t o o r u t c wrtv kcrt^d$ O i t c a r t p i p , arepoc w d a r i p o v,
mu tv tunv ovrtc B t l o ' ooral cat o tfarijp xat o Xoyoc *V, («i
tv dXXdXotc *X
i^0ij<r«v emu* for reason is the efflux
of the mind, which in men is derived from the
heart into the tongue, where it is become another
reason or word, differing from that in the heart;
and yet do these both mutually exist in each
other, they belonging to one another; and so
though being two, are one thing. Thus are the
Father and the Son one thing, they being said to
exist in each other.—And Athanasins farther i t
fastrates this also by certain similitudes; as that
again of the original light and the splendour, be
affirming <jx^Cduu at tip ittavyiapartf jcttt atravyaapaat
«jXfy, that the original light is in the splendour,
and again the splendour in the s u n - a n d also
that of the prototype and the image, or the king
and his picture; which be thus insisted) upon:
OrA i*.p. e v r t j a t c o v t rod \ i t t f r<J t l i o c t e a l q p o p f v
i t t r i f t e a l iv rd> fiat/lXato Orrrj tucovt w n*"
In the picture is contained the form and figure of
the king, and in the king the form and figure of
* See Petav. lib. iv. de Trinitate, cap. xvi. p. 263. tom. li. Dogmat.
theeleg.
PEHICHORESIS IN THE TRINITY. 17&
the picture. And therefore if any one, when he
had seen the picture, should afterward desire to
see the king, the picture would by a prosopopoeia
bespeak him after this manner : iyu ical ontir.p.
O(3a<nXtv£ tv itf/uv, iyti yap ev tKiivtp apt, Ktfxti- ^
Doc (v tjuot' icat o op^ic tv tpoi, rovro cv tKttvtp (iXimie, teal
i uipaKas iv ixeivtp, rovro /SXbruc iv ipoi’6 yap r^M nnw i
rijv tucova, iv avry irpoann/u rov (3aot\ia‘ I and the
king am one, for I am in him, and be is in me;
and what yon take notice of in me, the same may
you observe in him also; and what you see in him,
you may see likewise in m e: he, therefore, that
worshipped the image, therein worshipped the
king, the image being nothing but the form of the
king.—Elsewhere, in the fourth oration, he thus
insisted upon this particular: *<myip o p
oioc iv r«v irarpi, &oyt vottv i^tariv, etretSt) ovp-
rrav to ctvat rov otov, rovro rnc trarpoc ovoiac fStov icrriv,
tie «c ^w oc airavyaapa, /cat oc mjync irorapog, ware rov
ipwvra rov otov opav r® rov irarpoc tStov. ’
fEtrri 81 (cat o
mtrt/p iv rtp vitp, hr«8ij to ik row irarpoc t8tov, rovro o otof
rvyyavtt wv, a>c tv rw aravyaopari 6 »jXioc, Kai iv rip \6ytp
o v o iie, k m i v r tp m r a / u p i) v u y n . The Son is in the
Father, as may be conceived from hence; be*
cause the whole being of the Son is proper to d e
essence of the Father, he being derived from
it, as the splendour from the light, and the river
from tbefountain: so that he, who sees the Son;
sees that which is the Father’s’own and proper:
Again, the Father is in the Soil, because' that
which is the Father's own and proper, that is th£
Son ; accordingly as the sun is also in the splen­
dour, the mind in reason; and the fountain in the
fiver.—What cavils the Arlans had against this
doctrine; Athanasius also informs ns : npZavro S
«
%
-
' ' • * 2 • ' ■
" "" ' ,Jr
180 PERICHORE8IS IN THE TRINITY.
Or»t-ir. [p. mipBvrovTO rov Kvptou Xtyofitvov, ’Eyw tv ry
• rarp t, jeat ovanip iv iftoi’ Xiyovrtc, 7rwf Svva-
«w ovroc tv heavy, k<ficuvo<; iv rowTy %<uptlv; q twc oX«c
Silvarat e narnp fiuCfoy tiv, cv ry vi(j> tXdrrovi ovrt ^topeiv'
kairoi rl BaVyaarov tt o bloc tv ‘
t«
5 ’irdrpl, oravyc n u irtpl
tyuiuv y*yp«7rrai, ’Ev avr<j5 yap fyHifitvteat Kivov/itBa «cate<x-
piv. Here the Arians begin to quarrel with that
ofour Lord, “ I am in the Father, and the Father
in me;” objecting, How is it possible, that both
the former should be in the latter, and the latter
in the former? or how-can the Father, being
greater, be received in the Son, who is lesser?
And yet what wonder is it if the Son should be
in the Father; since it is written of us men also;
that “ in him we live, and move, and have our be­
ing ?”—In way of reply whereunto, Athanasius
first observes, that the ground of this Arian cavil-
lation was the grossness of their apprehensions,
and that they did ra aatifiara aufuiTiKwc: ticXapj3avHV,
conceive of incorporeal things after a corporeal
manner.— And then does he add, ov yap <Jc m nw
vofilZovmv, avTtyfiifia%ufitvot etc aXkfjXovQ tlalv, Sxnrtp tv
ayyt/otc Ktvoic U aXXjjXwv vXqpov/tivoic, Start rov fliv vtov
vAqpovv r» icotXov rov warpoc, rov St varlpa vXiipovv t o koZ -
Xov rov viov, Kai iieanpov airrwv fit) tlvcu irX^pi) teal rtXttov!
For the Father and Son are not, as they suppose,
iransvasated and poured out one into another, as
into an empty vessel; as if the Son filled up the
concavity of the Father, and again, the Father
that of the Sou; and neither of them were full or
perfect in themselves. For all this is proper to
bodieis: wherefore though the Father be, in some
sense, greater than the Son; yet notwithstanding
!pay he be in him after ah incorporeal manner.—
And he replieth to their last cavil thus: “ That
ANOTHER NOTION OF HOMOOUSIOS. 181
the Son is not so in the Father, as we ourselves
are said to live and move, and be in G o d <nm>c
yap <uchemryqc rovirarpJc ion %wrl,iv ip ra iravr« Ztaayoviir-
rat kal avvitrrriKtv, ov yap q £tuq Iv {up &C. For he
himself, from the fountain of the Father, is that
life, iu whom all things are quickened and con­
sist ; neither does he, who is the life, live in ano­
ther life, which were to suppose him not to be the
life itself.—“ Nor (saitb he) must it be conceived,
that the Father is no otherwise in the Son, than
he is in holy men corroborating of them; for the
Son himselfis the power and wisdom of God, and
all created beings are sanctified by a participation
of him in the Spirit.” Wherefore this perichoresis;
or mutual in-being of the Father and the Son, is
to be understood after a peculiar manner, so as
that they are really thereby one;.and what the
Son and Holy Ghost doth, the Father doth in
them, according to that of Athanasius,* q rov viov
fltorjjc row irarpoe foorqc sari' jcoi ovruc iv rip viip rqv ray
TravTbwv-povoiav irontrat’ The Godhead of the Son is
the Godhead of the Father; and so the Father
exercises a providence over all things in the Son.
Lastly, The same Athanasius, in sundry places,-
still further supposes those three Divine hypos*-'
tases to make up one entire Divinity, after the'
same manner as the fountain and the stream make
up one entire river; or the root, and the stock,
and the branches, one entire tree. And in.this
sense, also, is the whole Trinity said by him to be
plaOsoriK, and fu a fm c, and plaoxSaia,and «c one
Divinity, and one nature, and one essence, and-
one God.—And accordingly the word bomoon-'
sios seems here to be taken by Athanasius in a
*F*S. 467.
18$ ANOTHER NOTION OF HOMOOUSI09.
furthersense, besides that before mentioned; not
only for things agreeing in one common and gene*
..ral essence, as three individual men.are.coessen-
tial with one another; but alsoforsuch as con­
currently together make up one entire thing, and
are. therefore jointly essential thereunto. For
when he affirmeth, .ro.^vrdv ilvatp*&
»c6po^utc, and™
K
X
dfM
tra.oftoooma rqc optriXov, that the tree is conge*
herons or homogeneal with the root, and the
branches coessential with the vine;—his meaning
is, that -the root, stock, and branches, are net
only ofone kind, but also all together make up the
entire essence of one plant or tree. In like man­
ner, those three hypostases, the Father, Son, and
Holy Ghost, are not only congenerous and coes*
sential, as having all the essence of the Godhead
alike in them, bnt also as concurrently making
up one entire Divinity. Accordingly whereunto,
Athanasius further concludes, that these three
Divine hypostases have nota consent of will only,
but essentially one and the self-same will, and that
they do alsojointly produce ad extra, plav ivipyuav,
one and the self-sameenergy, operation, or action;
nothing being peculiar to the Son, as spch, but
only the economy of the incarnation : 'Opaa tawny
Bp. id Senp. icqi dScatptroc f*Tl rf fwm ij Tpt*c* Kalpla m«-
P' 20*’ r,K «
i ivipytia" o yap IIanip Sid rowAoyav, tv
r<
j> Itw vpan m iyup tv wavra trots" icot ovrwc d ttwvc
>vs.ay*K TpiaSot twZ^rw' teat outwc dc 0 toe tv rjji skkXv*
asf. Kvpvrrtrtu o ttrt trdvrwv, tea*Sid trdvrwv, ipu br .minv*
tSt trdvrtuv fdv u
>
ctranip, «c ap^tj kcu tri|-yd‘ Sudirdvrw $
Sid row X
oyov* tv iron St, tv ry rvtvpari rip dyitff The
Tiinityis like itself, and by nature indivisible, and
there is one euergy or action of it; for the Father
by the Word, in the Holy Ghost, doth all things.
ANOTHER MOTION G T HOMOOU8IO8. 183
And tbor.ii the unity of Die holy Trinity cotw
served, and one God preached in the church:
namely, such as is above all, and by or through
' ell. and in all. Above all, ad the Father, the prin­
ciple and fountain; though all, by Due W ord;
and in all, by the Holy Spirit.—And elsewhere
be writeth often to tbe same purpose. Tbns base
we given a true and full acoount, bow, accord­
ing to Athanasius, tbe three Divine hypostases,
though not mouoousios, but homoousios only,
are really but one God or Divinity. In all which
doctrine of his there is nothing but what a true
and genuine Platonist would readily subscribe to.
From whence it may be concluded, that the
right Platonic trinity differs not so much from
the doctrine of the ancient church, as some late
writers have supposed.
Hitherto hath the Platonic Christian endear
vcured partly to rectify and. reform the true
and genuine Platonic trinity, and pardy to re­
concile it with tbe doctrind of the ancient
church. Nevertheless, to prevent all mistakes,
we shall here declare, that wheresoever this most
genuine Platonic trinity may be found to differ,
not only from tbe. Scripture itself, (which yet not*
withstanding is the sole rule of frith) but also
from tbe farm of the Nicene and ConstanDnopo-
lifrn councils; and further from tbe doctrine of
Athanasius too, in his genuine writing, (whether it
be in their inequality, or in any thing else) it is
there utterly disclaimed and rejected by as. For
as for that Creed, commonly called Athanasian,
which was written a long time after by some other,
handsince at first it derived all its authority,
either from the name of Athanasius, to whom it
184 REASONS FOR THE
was entitled, or else because it was supposed to
be an epitome and abridgment of bis doctrine;
this (as we conceive) is therefore to be interpreted
according to the tenor of that doctrine, contained
in the genuine writings of Athanasius. Of whom
we can think no otherwise, than as a person highly
instrumental and serviceable to Divine Providence,
for the preserving of the Christian church from
lapsing, by Arianism, into a kind of paganic
and idolatrous Christianity; in religiously wor­
shipping ofthose, which themselves concluded to
be creatures ; and by means of whom especially,
the doctrine of the Trinity, (which before fluc­
tuated in some loose uncertainty) came to be more
punctually stated and settled.
Now the reason why we introduced the Pla­
tonic Christian here thus apologizing was, first,
because we conceived it not to be the interest
of Christianity, that the ancient Platonic tri­
nity should be made more discrepant from the
Christian, than indeed it is. And, secondly, be­
cause, as we have already proved, the ancient
and genuine Platonic trinity was doubtless anti-
Arian, or else the Arian trinity anti-Platonic;
the second and third hypostases, in the Platonic
trinity, being both eternal, infinite, and immutable.
And as for those Platonic (3a0ftol, or gradations,
so much spoken of, these (by St. Cyril’s*leave)
were of a different kind from the Arian, there
being not the inequality of creatures in them to
the Creator. Wherefore Socrates, the ecclesiastic
historian, not without cause wonders, how those
two presbyters, Georgius and Timotheus, should
adhere to the Arian faction, since they were ac-
*'Advers. Julian, lib. Y
iii.p. 270. ct lib. i. p. 34.
PLATONIC CHAIStlAN’s APOLOGY. 185
counted such great readers of Plato and x. T
a.«. tl
O rigen ; davftaaai oSv fioi iwttat, ir«c ovrot ot ^
avSptc, rj 'ApfumJv OptpKUf irapifiuvav, wvb ftkv IlXarowa
att fttcra yupaQ o $ tov'ClpiylvTiv avbrvtcv* ovSl yip
IlXaruv to Aturtpov icat toTptrov atriov, o; awro'covojua-
fecv tiw$ev, ipyvv virapZetoc, uXt^bat fv<rl‘ Kat QpiyiviK
ovvaf&ov vavrayov opoXoyu tov vtov tw rsrpi' It seeais
to me wonderful, how those two persons should
persist in the Arian persuasion; oneofthembaviug
always Plato in his bands, and the other con­
tinually breathing Origen. Since Plato no where
affirmeth his first and second cause (as he was
wont to call them) to have had any beginning of
their existence; anil Origen every where confess^
eth the Son to be coeternal with the Father.
Besides which, another reason for this apology
of the Christian Platonist was, because as the Pla­
tonic Pagans after Christianity did approve of the
Christian doctrine concerning the Logos, as that
which was exactly agreeable with their ow n; so
did the generality of the Christian fathers, be­
fore and after the Nicene council, represent the
genuine Platonic trinity as really the same thing
with the Christian, or as approaching so near to
it, that they differed chiefly in circumstances, or
the manner of expression. The former of these is
evident from that famous passage of Amelius con­
temporary with Plotinus, recorded by Eusebius,
St. Cyril, and Theodoret; K«1 oJroc apa p _ . .
w ' « A ' n i A M t / * / . V
.' ‘ X U
7iv o Aoyog, kou ov am ovra, ra yivo/itva tyi- ©.«. [cap.
« a \ «itj ; \ * y 9 \ ^ a »
» xix.p.540.J
VETO, WQ a v KCLl O HpajCAEtTOC d^lONXEtE, Kat Vtf A t
ov o Bapj3apog d^iqtkv ry rrjQ T®££1 T€ Kal dJ&yJca0Efr-
■nj/tora, irpoc tov O e o v Etvac, #cat 0 e o v eivai' Si ov iravff a w -
Xwc ytytvijcrOai' kv $ ro ytvo/uevov £wv /cat Zwijv teal ov t t e -
(pVKtvai' teal tig rd awfiara ttItttuv kcu tropica kvSvamfitvov,
OPINION OP THE FATHGM
im
Q
avraZfoQ
cuivSptttrw, fieri kw r«J wmcmm 8*ucvwivrite
fvoetac r® fityaXtiov ofisXii’ k«( avaXu0«i»r« iraX»v awo0*ov<r-
Sou, iciu 0eov iiroL, owe nv irpe row «« to <wpa, k<
u rpw avOfm-
TWK«r«xflww‘ And this was the Logos or Word,
bywhom existing from eternity, according to He*
raciitus, all things were made, and whom that
barbarian also placetb in the rank and dignity of a
principle, affirming him to have been with God,
and to be God ; and that all things were made by
him, and that whatsoever was made, was Me and
being in him. As also, that he descended into a
body, and, being clothed in flesh, appeared as a
man, though not without demonstration of the
Divinity of his nature. But that afterwards being
loosed or separated from the same, be was deified,
and became God again, such as he was before he
came down into a mortal body,—In which words,
Amelins speaks favourably also ofthe incarnation
of that eternal Logos. The same is further mani­
fest from what St. Austin writeth concerning a
d<
>
cir. ns. Platonist in bis time: “ Ioitium sancti
[M02*to«. evangelii, cuinomen est secundumJohan*
rii.oper.j neua, quidaon Platonicns, sicuta sanctp
sene Simpliciano, qui postea Mediolanensi eccle*
»ise prwsedit episcopus, solebamus audire, anreis
literis conscribenduro, e.t per omnes eedesias in
locis eminentissimis proponendum esse dicehat.”
We have often heard from that holy man Simpti*
cianus, afterward bishop of Milan, that a certain
Platonist affirmed, the beginning of St John’s
Gospel deserved to be writ in letters of gold, and
to beset up in all the most eminent places through­
out the Christian churches.—And the latter will
sufficiently appear from these,following testimo­
nies: Justin Martyr, in his apology afitrmeth of
ON TUB GENUINE PLATONIC TRINITY. 187
Plato, StvrqMv \tipa* w«pdOfov Xdy«J»' h|.W.
^ W i ' n j v 8 * rptntv r y XtyQevn in + tp*oQmi r p [ A P °, - “ ]
«&mirvfufutrt,&c. That he gave the second place to
the Word of God; and the third to that Spirit,
'which is.said to have moved upon the waters.-—
Clemens Alexandrians, speaking of that passage
in Plato’s second epistle to Dionysius, concerning
the first, second, and third, writeth thus: ow
e
aX
X
<
i«; e - y w y t t $ u c v v « ■», n n j v ayiav rpio ia p * v v ~ S trom . 1. * .
g
\ t V V T w - . t p . 5 9 8 . [ p .
a n w u , r p t r o v f la p y a p eivcu t o a - y n o v w v c v f i a r o v 7* 0. e d it P o t-
w » v Be Sevrtpm/, Si ov vavra iyivtro Kara (5ov- U r L J
hum r«v xurpc*’ I understand this no otherwise,
than that the holy Trinity is signified thereby,
the third being die Holy Ghost, and the second
the Son, by whom ,all things were made, ac*
cording to the will of the Father.—Origen also
atfirnieth the Son of God to hare been plainly
spoken of by Plato, in his epistle to Hermias and
Coriscas, o a-dvr irayytXXofitvos dShm KiX- l.,1.«.ca»,
90$ *;ai t
t
o
X
X
h r w r nXdrowoc irapanOifiivot, &*'
«ftyv, oifwt9iVW
?rovTtplviov0eoiA
d-yov, rovmpa IlAd-
T«m\ty6/Myov tvry rpoc ‘Eftf/fta* aal K
cpM
nepvhrwrpAfj'
Celsus, who pretendeth to know all things, and
who ciieth so many other passages out of Plato,
doth purposely (as 1 suppose) dissemble and con­
ceal that, which be wjrote concerning the Son of
God, in his epistle to Hermias and Coriscn&t
‘where he calls him the God of die whole uni­
verse, and the prince of all things, both present
and future; afterwards speaking of the Father of
this prince and cause,—And again, elsewhere in
that hook, he writeth to the same pur- C
o
b
,.C
a.^
pOfiCs dA
A
’ «$p*Ad09-rp »rapd IJkdnm ev*
*
•P'308*
aThe following.are not Qrigen’s words, but Dr. Cudworth's, who
thus explains the passage of Plato cited by Origen.
1&8 o p in io n of t h e fa th ers
rate tinaroXcu? XcXey/ulvov, ou iy toZ
c avurrlpw ifivrytfhifuv,
»ep» t o v SuuaxrpqoavTOC ro& to rav, wf ovro( vtov, 6tov,
VapaditrQai' iva firj m m avroc viro t o v IlXaruvog, ov iraXXa-
Sic iaifxvwtv, avayiceurOy rapaS^affiat, O n o jutv Sipuovpyoc
rouSe rov iravroc, vide ttri row Otov, o % rpuroc Kat tri
r a n 6h>
c iraryp tanv avrov* Neither would CelSUS
(here speaking of Christians making Christ the
Son of Cod) take any notice of that passage in
Plato’s epistle beforementioned, concerning the
framer and governor of the whole world, as being
the Son of God ; lest he should be compelled by
the authority of Plato, whom he so often magni-
fietb, to agree with this doctrine of ours, that the
Demiurgus ofthe whole world is the Son of God;
but the first and supreme Deity, his Father.*—
Moreover, St. Cyprian, or whoever were the auJ
thor of the book inscribed De Spiritu Sancto, af-
firmeth the Platonists first and universal Psyche,
to be the same with the Holy Ghost in the Christ­
ian theology, in these words: “ Hujus sempiterna
virtus et divinitas, cum in propria nature, ab in-
qnisitoribus mundi antiqnis philosopbis proprie
investigari non posset; subtilissimis tamen intuiti
conjecturis compositionem mundi, et distinctis
elementorum affectibus, presentem omnibus ani-
mam adfuisse dixerunt; quibus, secundum genus
et ordinem singulorum, vitam praeberet et raotum,
et intran8grest>ibile8 figeret metas, et stabilitatem
assignaret; et universam hanc vitam, hunc mo-
tum, hanc rerum essentiam, animam mundi voca-
verunt ” In the next place, Eusebius Csesariensis
p { . gives a full and clear testimony of the
•.xx.T
|>.' concordance and agreement ofthe Plato-.
M
1'l nic, at least as to the main, with the
Christian Trinity, which be will have to have been
ON THIS GENUINE PLATONIC TRINITY. 189
the cabala ofthe ancient Hebrews, thus: r«J» wop
'Efipato*c Xoyutv pera rov irepi irarpoc n i Vlow A«yw, w
rptrp ra£ai ro *Aynv Tlveifitt m raX iyovrw ' teatrijv f t mytav
teat fuucapiav TpeaSa rovrov vxort8tpiivt>rv rov rpoirov, wc
av rqc rplrtK dw iftatf waaav vwcp(3t(3ifKwac ytvtfnjv pvotv'
w nw TpoJrifv /dv n iv Sea rov Vtoo ovoraowv votptSv ovnw ,
tytnjv SI axo rov rpwrov Atriov* 01a m e m i o lU tra v
rmavra rtva vvt£aro Sta rw trpoc Aunwnav cinoroX^c. &C.
The oracles of the Hebrews, placing the Holy
Ghost after the Father, and the Son in the third
rank, and acknowledging a holy and blessed Tri­
nity after this manner, so as that this third power
does also transcend all created nature, and is the
first of those intellectual substances, which pro­
ceed from the Son, and the third from the first
cause: see bow Plato enigmatically dedareth
the same things in his epistle to Dionysins, in
these words, &c. These things the interpreters of
Plato refer to a first god, and to a second cause,
and to a third the soul of the world, which they
call also the third god. And the Divine Scrip­
tures in like manner rank the holy Trinity of
Father, Son, and.Holy Ghost, in the place or de­
gree of a principle.—But it is most observable
what Athanasius affirmeth of the Platonists; that
though they derived the second hypostasisoftheir
trinity from the first, and the third from the se­
cond, yet they supposed both their second and
third hypostases to be uncreated; and therefore
does he send the Arians to school thither, who,
because there is but one 'A^wip-oc, one^se!^origi­
nated. Being—would unskilfully conclude, that
the Word or Son ofGod must therefore needs be'
a creature. Thus in bis book concerning the de­
crees of the. Nicene council; pv.tn.
190 OPINION OP THE FATHERS
Trap’ 'E^X {nw Aotirb v rt)v Xfi&vrov ’Aytw^row* b o vpof&nt
not ro6rov rw 6v6futroi, iv ro*c ynnfrdif waXiv not rote *rf»-
fuutt nvapO /tw n rov rov Oeov A6jhv‘ &’ ov avra f i 7t»i|fA
y iy o v tv ' cljttlv oSv ayvoovvrec ruSvofta ovrvc av«u*)(vvr«v<riv,
ISct/jmO
uv avrov? irapa n iv avrotc Sc
So
m
c
^twv airrb, &ri n ) Sir
Xfyovotv Ikrov’Ayaflov Nouv, leal ri» 6crov Nov ifo x fiv kafro
yivMTKOvrs£ ro l£ <*v tiertv,- owe o/3lj&»|<xav ofiat? tai avrur
ttirtiv ’Aylwira* tl&Jrcc &rtkoIrovro X tyovrte owe eXarrown r i
TrpCrrov 1$ a i m l r e in rritfmKt' m l 4 m l a M f oUnt X iyttv, $
ft^oXutQXkyttvircpl<
5vo
v
k«nunv*The Ariaus borrow­
ing the word Agennetos from the Pagans, (who ac­
knowledge only one such) make that a pretence
to rank the Word or Son of God, who is the crea­
tor of all, amongst creatures or things made;
Whereas they ought to have learned the right
signification of that word Agennetos from: those
very Platonists, who gave it them: who, though
acknowledging their second hypostasis of Nous
or Intellect, to be derived from the first called
Tagathon, and their third hypostasis or Psyche
from the second; nevertheless doubt not'to affirm
them both to be ageneta or uncreated,:knowing
well,' that hereby they detract nothing from the
majesty of the first, from whom these two are de-‘
rived.- Wherefore, the AHans either ought so to-
speak as the Platonists do, or else to say nothing*
at all concerning these things; which they are
ignorant of. In which words of Athanasius, there
is a plain distinction made betwixt ayfvwfroc and'
ayevtjroc, that is, uobegotten and uncreated; and
the second person ofthe Trinity, the Son or Word
of God, though acknowledged by him not to be
’Aylwitroc, unbegotten, (he being begotten of the
Father, who is the only Agennetos) yet is he- -
here said to be ’Ayevsroc, uncreated; he declaring
ON THE GENUINE PLATONIC TRINITY. 101
the Platouists thus to have affirmed the second
and third hypostases of their triaity, not to bo
creatures, but uncreated. Which signal testi­
mony of Athanasius, concerning the Platonic
trinity, is a great vindication of the same. We
might here further add St. Austin’s con*L
fession also, that God the Father, atidvPib*. eap.
God the Son, were by the Platonists',“,“^
acknowledged in like manner, as by the Christ*
ians; though, concerning the Holy Ghost, he ob­
serves some difference betwixt Plotinus and Por-
phyrius, in that the former did postponere ani-
mae naturam paterno intellects; the latter, in*
terponere: Plotinus did postpone his Psyche,*
or soul, after the paternal Intellect; but Porpby*
rius interponed it betwixt the Father and the
Son, as a middle between both.—It was before
observed, that St. Cyril of Alexandria affirmeth
nothing to be wanting to the Platonic trinity, but
only that homoousidtes of his and some other la­
thers in that age, that they should not only ail be
God, or uncreated, but also three coequal indivi­
duals, under the same ultimate species, as three
individual men; he conceiving that gradual sub­
ordination, that is in the Platonic trinity, to be a
certain tang of Arianism. Nevertheless, he thus
conclildetb,* *Xfv owe liyvoisctv 6 \o rf> 6 m i> $ re a k tf i k f ,
that Plato notwithstanding was not altogether ig­
norant of the truth, but that he had the know­
ledge of the -only-begotten Son of God, as like­
wise of the Holy Ghost, called by him Psyche;
and that he would have every way expressed
himselfrightly, had he hot been afraid of Anitas'
and Melitus, aad that poison, which Socrates
• Advcni. Julian, lib. i. p. 34.
102 OPINION OF THE FATHERS
drunk. Now, whether this were a fault or no irt
the Platonists, that they did not suppose their hy­
postases to be three individuals under the same
ultimate, species, we leave to others to judge.
We might here add the testimony of Chalcidius,
because be is unquestionably concluded to. have
been a Christian; though his language indeed be
too mucVpaganical, when he calls the three Di­
vine hypostases, a chief, a second, and a third
p. CT.[tap. god: “ Istins rei dispositio talismente
346^347!P concipiendaest; originem-quidem rerum
edit.Pabricii.]esse sumraum et ineffabilem Deum ; post
providentiam ejus secundum Deum, latorem legis
utriusque vitae tarn aeternae quam temporariae;
tertium esse porro substantiate, quae secunda
mens intellectusque dicitur, quasi quaedam custos
legis aeternae. His subjectas esse rationabiles
animas, legi obsequentes, ministras vero potes-
tates, &c. Ergo summus Deus jubet, secundus
ordinat, tertius intimat. Animae vero legem
agunt.” This thing is to be conceived after this
manner; that the first Original of things is the
supreme and ineffable God; after his providence,
a Second god, the establisher of the law of life
both eternal and temporary ; and the third (which
is. also a substance, and called a.second mind or
intellect) is a certain keeper of this eternal law.
Under these three are rational souls, subject to'
that law, together with the ministerial powers,
&c. So that the sovereign or supreme God com­
mands,the second orders, and the third executeis.
But souls are subject to the law.—Where Chal­
cidius,. though seeming indeed rather more a
Platonist than a Christian, yet acknowledgeth no
such beings as benades and noes; but only three
' ON THE GENUINE PLATONIC TRINITY. 193
Divine hypostases, and under them rational souls.
But we shall conclude With the testimony of The-
odoret in his book De Principio ;• n}v nXarwvoc &-
d v o ta v a v a x T v a o o v r tc o IU w w oc ko* 6 Noujuiivtoc, rpia f a o t v
■oW
rovu fn u c h ta t w ip^pova teat tu S tm , r i y a B d v , K tu vow, m i
rov xavroc rqv rftvyqv’ ov /ucv li/ucic Ilaripa icaXowjuiV T*a-
7«W» ovopiaZovrif, NdvvSi Sv ij/uic Aoyov n-poaayopevojutv,
t w Si f<l w a v r a r f m y o v a a v k m {uovonw w S w a p w ,
m Xovwc, h Ilvw/ua a-ytov ot Bu m w p o v a y o p t i o v n Xoyot*
K a i ravra Si ck i*ec Effimfov f iX o a o f i a Q km B t o k o y i a t tr t-
avXirrai. Plotinus and Numenius,explaining Plato’s
sense, declare him to have asserted three super*
temporals or eternals, Good, Mind or Intellect,
and the Soul of the universe; he calling that
Tagatbon which to us is Father; that M inder
Intellect, which to us is the Son or Word ; and
that Psyche, or a p<>wer animating and enlivening
all things, which our Scriptures call the Holy
Ghost. And these things (saith he) were by Plato
purloined from the philosophy and theology of
the Hebrews.
Wherefore, we cannot but take notice here of a
wonderful providence of Almighty God, that this
doctrine of a trinity of Divine hypostases should
find such admittance and entertainment in the
Pagan world, and be received by the wisest of all
their philosophers, before the time of Christian*
ity; thereby to prepare a more easy way for the
reception of Christianity among the learned Pa­
gans: which that it proved successful accord­
ingly, is undeniably evident from the monuments,
of antiquity. And the junior Platonists, who
were most opposite and adverse to Christianity,
became at length so sensible hereof, that besides
• Tom. ii, oper. p. 496.;
O
VOL. III.
194 CABALA ALTEKBD BY JUNIOR PLATONI STB.
their Other adulterations of the Trinity before-
naeutiooed, for the countenancing of their poly-
theism and idolatry, they did, in all probability
fbrthis very reason, quite innovate, change* and
pervert, the.whole cabala, and nolonger aekaow-
ledge a trinity,but either a quaternity, or a qtrina.
ry, ormoreofDivinehypostases; theyfirstofallcOn-
tondiug, that before the .Trinity, there whs another
supreme and highest hypostasis, not to be reckon*
ed with the others, but standing alone by hisasdlfi
Andwe conceive the first innovator in this kind
to havebeenJim blichus,who, inhis Egyptian Mys*
terie8,*where he seeqds to make the Egyptian the-»
okfgy to agree with his own hypotheses, wiiteth in
tbiS matmer 3 qnl rov ovrwc bru» K(inlv d \u u ap%u»,
io n tiede tig ifpttroe m 2nu rjiSFoii 8*.v.'/cat.(dhaikitti;’ «
itd\
N M tiv.fiw oh|n f t t iaurbiiiM niroc /linin’"oursyelp itorplii
ttdnp iimrXii&rot, o&ri iXXo « ' t'apo&ryfia/ SI tdpvrai too
adraimTopoe wiroyoMi» K
at pavaitldtopei? Htoi rail oMial
OyaHui' /xeiZfii)yip ti ««u o/udrov tal Kiiyti rtZi/itavruu,. K«£
irvOfitfv twv voov/itvwv vptZriov ISecilv ovrwv"-turd£j‘
rbv tuit
roiroa, a ivrnjakwo M c, Sb t m tH&ap\pet'S tand avtoariatriDp
xi>
2hirdptcTic' iffin yapnoS/oc- K
tuHide Hndv’ /iovtic it,am
2vac,wpomowe^olap^nrienuriie- Beforethose thingh
which truly.are;aad the principles dfall,,thete is
bnei God superior to the first God drid king, kftt-
moveable* and alwayb remaining in tbesOlitttde
efhis own. unity^ there being nothing inteUigiblev
theparadigmof that God.truly godd,tfthich itself
begotten and his evKmpatent.. For thtsis^greater,
arid before hita; tod the .fountain of idl tbiogst
the foundation:of all thn. first ioteUigiblei idean
.Wherefore,; from this one did that srilfisudheieRt
* Sect. viii.cap.iLp. 168.
PROCC.U3' MONAD BEFORE THE TRINITY. 19 5
God, wild is autdpater, or bis owh Cause
himself toshine forth; for- this is also a princi­
ple, Rod the God of gods, a monad from the first
one, before all essence.—Where, so far aB we can
understand, Jambliehus’s meaningis, thatthere ish
ample unity in order of nature, before that Taga-
thoa, or modad, which is the first of the three Di­
vine hypostases. ' And this doctrine wan inTi»».ub.
afterwards taken Up by Piroclus, he de~ u,p‘,3‘ •_
clarihgit in this manner; wu
frXnflowc W t&c twiShc d larj^ iw tttiadtv" ftii.Wo'v Si rt)
irpo tow IlXatewWoc 'jcbrd fT)P riHv jrptrffjcd'rtin) tetHjrn irpo foC
wXjJfloiiC'evit i tart, tui rrSaa Oeid ami fatWStc
rat* St? |iilv yip'tK rpka&oQ irpoi^ral rdv •api&fiov iov.Btiod,
tl\Xa irpd V
tjc rpulSoc tj fiovaf' tart* )Av loh total fyfid-
bwpyucoi rpiti; aXXa tie o irpo run) rfiittir tie, cdSepia y&p Ww
HtUrv ra£c<4v herXi(ftw; Apyerai’ oweapa thro rpidSoc apx*^"
Bdi ®tlrov $t)jtiovfrftkdv dpkOfdov, aXX* M ftoitdSac' PfeW)
everywhereascendsfrommultitudetounity,’from
whence alsothe order ofthe manyproceeds jbut
before Plato, and according id thenatural order
ofthings, *oneis beforemultitude* and evei-yDb-
vihe order begins from a monad.- Whcrbfotd,
thoughtheDivinenumberproceedfua trinity; yet
before thistrinity must thterebe a tabuad. -Let
there'bethrCedemiurgical hypostases ; aetarthe*
less; befoirethese musttherebehue, becanfetenone
of foeDivine otd&s begfos frommultitude. We
conclude, that the detnkiigtfeaimlinberdefes hot
begin from a ttfaity,butfr4m h-mofladyfetaodm^
alone byitselfbeforethat'trfmty.r^liem Pfdiclos;
though endeavoariiig togaits1some: ceuoienaaoe
forthis doctrineout of Plato, yet,:&sfeafrieglest
that should fell him
* does he dybotfcte ordes-;bf
nature, and fromthence would infer,-‘
that -'befdre
o 2
196 PROCLU8’ MONAD BEFORE THE TRINITY.
■the trinity of demiurgic hypostases, there must
-bea single roouador henad, .standing alone by it­
self, as the head thereof. And St. Cyril of Aleaq-
.aodris, who was.junior to.Jamblichus, but senior
.to Proclus, seems to. take.notice of. this innova­
tion in the Platonic theology, as a thing thennew­
ts. Jo),i viiLly crept up, and after.tbe time of Por-
,P *71' phyry : aXX’oi yc ^potipupivot Ml *jkS
croSiro
avtiXtyovaif famcovrtsfit} &«vT*ArAOO'N tArvqptQfiuvT<uc
«V avrov' ({ppiN^u ytip am naotK koowmk Bm ro &itat
awXqvv irdvrq- teal aStxrov rivoc <rvp(5qath>£’'’Airo S r#*
NO'Y, (djo^rj yap ovroc) rqv rpiuSa ftiav ffMditvai* -.But
-those beforementioned contradict this doctrine (of
,Porphyrins and the ancient Platonists), affirming
that theTagathon ought nottobe connuuierated or
reckoned together with those which proceed from
it, but to be exempted front all communion, be­
cause it is altogether simple, and incapable ;of
sany commixture or consociation with any other.
Wherefore these begin their tripity with Nous ;or
Intellect, making that the first.—The only differ
ence here is, that Jamblichus seetns.to .ma.kCjtfce
.first hypostasis of the trinity, after a monad to be
Tagathoo, bat St. Cyril, Nous. However, they
both meant the same thing, as also.did. ProcluS
after them. Wherefore, it is.evident, that.wbe#t
from the time, of the NicCne couocil.and Athaua-r
sins, .the Christian, doctrine of the Trinity came
to be punctually stated and Settled, and much to
be insisted upon by Christians,.JambUch.Qs, and
other Platonists, who were great antagonists.Of
the same, perceiving what advantage the Christ*
ianshad from, the Platonic trinity, then first of
all innovated this doctrine, introducing a quarter-*
nity of Pivine hypostases, instead of.a trinity,'the
HIS OTHER FANTASTIC TRINITIES.'- 197
first of them being not co-ordinate with the other1
three, nor consociated or reckbued witlrthem;
bat all of them, though subordinate, yet univer­
sal, and such as comprehend the whole; that is,'
infinite and omnipotent; and therefore none of
them creatures. For it is certain, that before this
time, or the age that Jamblichus lived in, there
was no such thing at all dreamed of by any Pla-
tonist, as an unity before and above the Trinity,
and soaquaternityof Divinehypostases; Plotinus
positively determining, that there could neither
be more nor fewer than three; and Proclus him­
self acknowledging the ancient tradition, or ca­
bala, to have ran only of three gods; and Nume­
rous; who was senior to them both,
writing thus of Socrates, Tpeic 0«w
5criBt- i.X
iV
.c.V
fiivovSoM
cparovc, that he also (before Plato) k-7f8^
asserted three gods;—that is, three Divine hypos­
tases, and no more, as principles; therein follow­
ing the Pythagoreans.
Moreover, the same Proclus, besides his he-
naeles and noes beforetaentioned, added certain
other fantastic trinities of his own also; as this,
for example, of the first essence, the first life, and
the first intellect (to omit others); whereby'that
ancient cabala and OtowapaSoroc BeoXoyla, theology
of Divine tradition—
^>fthree archical hypostases,
and:no more, was disguised, perverted, and adul­
terated. •
'
But,-besides this advantage from the ancient
Pagan Platonists and Pythagoreans admitting a
trinity into their theology, in like manner as.
Christiahity-' doth (whereby Christianity was the
mote recommended to the philosophic Pagans),
there is another advantage of the same extending
190 AJUAUS CHARGED SY THE FATHEBS
even to friS present time, probably nOt unintended
qlao by Divine Providence; that ,whereas bold
and cqpceitqd wits, precipitately condemning the
doctrine qf die Trinity for nonsense, absolute re­
pugnancy to human faculties, and impossibility,
bare thereupon some of them quite shaken off
Christianity, and all revealed religion, profess­
ing Only Theism; others have frustrated thedesign
thereof, by paganizing it into creature-worship or
idolatry; this ignqrant or conceited confidence of
bpth uiay be returned, and confuted from hence,
because the moat ingenious and acute of all the
Fagan philosophers, the Platoniats and Pythago­
reans, who had no bias at all upon them, nor any
Scripture.revelation, that might seem <to impose
upon their faculties, but followed the free senti­
ments and dictates of their own minds, did not­
withstanding not only entertain this trinity of Di­
vine hypostases eternal and uncreated, but were
also fond of the hypothesis, and made it a main
fundamentalef their theology.
It upv appears from what we have declared,
that as tp the ancient and genuine Platonists and
Pythagoreans, nope of their trinity ofgods, or Di­
vine hypostases,were independent, so neitherwere
they 7mrol jM, creature-gods,—but uncreated;
they being all of them not only eternal, and ne­
cessarily existent and immutable, hut also uni­
versal, that is infinite and omnipotent; Causes,
principles, and creators ofthe Whole World..Prom
whence it follows, that these Platonists could not
justly he taxed, for idolatry, in giving religious
worship to each hypostasis of this their trinity,
And we have the rather insisted so long upon this
Platonic trinity, because we shall make nse of this
WITH PAGAN IDOLATRY. 190
doctrine afterwards, in our defence of Christiani­
ty, where we^are to shew, that one grand design
of Christianity being to abolish the Pagan idola*
try* or creature-worship* itself cannot justly be
charged with the same from that religions worship
given to our Saviour Christ* and the Trinity (the
3on and Holy Ghost), they being none of them,
according to the true and orthodox Christianity*
creatures; however the Arian hypothesis made
them such. And this was indeed the grand rea­
son, why the ancient fathers so zealously opposed
Arianism, because that Christianity, which .was
intended by Cod Almighty for a means to extir­
pate Pagan idolatry, was therebyitself paganized
and idolatrized, and made highly guilty of that
very thing* which it so much condemned in the
Pagans, that is, creature-worship. This might be
proved by. sundry .testimonies of Athanasius, Bar
ail, Gregory Nyssen, Gregory Nazianzen, Epi-
phanius, Chrysostom, Hilary, Ambrose, Austin,
JFaustiqius, and Cyril of Alexandria; all of them
charging the Arises as gnilty of the very same
idolatry with the Gentilesor Pagans, in giving ra-
Jigious worship even to the Word and Son of God
himself(add consequently to our Saviour Christy
as he Was supposed by them to be but a creature.
But we shall content ourselves hero only to cite
one remarkable passage out of Athana- . -
sins, in his fourth oration against the
Acians: Swri «S
y« 'Ajanfuvpnv routura \oyi/£,6fuvoi
*«J yQ
Q
V
H
E
E
C
*cw.Mv«pt(^ouw savrovc p*ra rw *EX\nvi*v>
ft«2 yap aymvat «&nr«p owrot rjj ktU
m \arrpk»ae*i Ttmpa top
dcrW
irar d T fivra Q to v " B io l p
J
v
'T
B
X
X
ijv
a
ce v ld y e v q r y
*«2 icoXXotc yfvrprolq \o trp w m xn v,o m Q i S i m ytvitrtp kcu
dyoigritt, ovB' ovrto Btaftpovaiv d W q k w o •re yap nap
200 ARIANS CHARGED BY THE FATHERS
avr«v Xeyo/ievoc hc yevrrroc cic iro^Xaiv i<m, Kai oi iroXXoi
$4TTaXiVirwv'EXXtjvw
v rnv avrqv rtf m rovrtpfwnv i-^oven,
<ccuovTii>c yap k^kuvoi KTurpara cunv* adXtoi icat tXIov oaat
ifSXaj3qvav Kara Xptirrou fpovovvrec' $*tm w yap rijc aX*r
Otiag' K<t\ n|v /ulv ’Iov&uwv wpoSomav virepi/3»f«av apvovjtttvot
rovXptarov* rot? 8t ’
’EXXnm av-yicvXiovrai, KTufpa&i Ktu&a-
f6poig OttkQ Xarptuovrtcoi ftomycic' Why therefore do
not these Arians, holding this, reckon themselves
amongst the Pagans or Gentiles, since they do in
like manner worship the creature, besides the
Creator ? For though the Pagans worship one nn-
created and many created godsj but these Arians
only one uncreated and one created, to wit, the
Son or Word of God ; yet will not this make any
real difference betwixt them; because the Arians’
one created is one Of those many Pagan gods;
and thosemany gods of the Pagans or Gentiles
have the same nature with this one, they being
alike creatures. Wherefore these wretched Ari­
ans are apostates from the.truth of Christianity,
they betraying Christ more than the Jews did, and
wallowing or tumbling in the filth of Pagan idol­
atry ; worshipping creatures, and different kinds
of gods:—-where, by the-way, we may take notice
that when Athanasius affirmeth of the Arians^
what St. Paul doth of the Pagans, that they did
r j nrfmi Xorptueiv irapa rov Kritravra, his meaning could,
not well be, that they worshipped the creature
more than the Creator.; forasmuch as the Arians
constantly declared, that they gave less worship
to Christ the Son or Word of God, he being by
them accounted bnt a creature, than they did to
the Father the Creator; but either that they Wor­
shipped the creature besides the Creator, or the
creature instead of the Creator* or in the room of
k
WITH PAGAN ID0LATKY. 201
him, who was alone of right to be religiously wor­
shipped. Again, when the same Athanasius de-
clareth, that die Greeks, Gentiles, or Pagans, did
universally worship m iytvnry, only one uncre­
ated,—he seems to imply, that the Platonic trinity
of hypostases, affirmed by him to be all uncre­
ated, were by them looked upon only as one en­
tire Divinity.
But the principal things, which we shall ob­
serve from this passage of Athanasius, and those
many, other (daces of the lathers, where they pa­
rallel the Arians with the Pagans, making the
former guilty of the very same idolatry with the
latter, even then, when they worshipped our Sa­
viour Christ himself, or the Word and Son of God,
as he was by them supposed to be nothing hut a
creature, are these following; first, that it is here
plainly declared by them, that the generality of
the Pagans did not worship a multitude Of inde­
pendent gods, but that only one of their gods was
uncreated or self-existent, and all their other many
gods looked upon by them as his creatures.
This, as it is expressly affirmed by Athanasius
here, that the Greeks or Pagans did wl ayontry k
o
!
w
o
X
X
o
ic ytviirotc Xarpevav, worship only one uncre­
ated, and many created g o d s s o is it plainly
implied by all those other forementioned fathers,
who charge the Arians with the guilt of Pagan
idolatry : because, had the Pagans.worshipped
many uncreated and independent gods, it would
not therefore follow, that the Arians were idola­
ters, if the Pagans were. Bnt that this was in­
deed the sense of the fathers, both before and af­
ter the Nicene council, concerning the Pagan po­
lytheism and idolatry, that it consisted not in wor-
2 0 i ASIANS CHARGED BY TH E FATHERS
shipphtgmany uncreated and independent godsj
but anlyone uncreated and many created, hath
been already otherwise manifested-; and it might
be further confirmed by sundry testimonies of
them; as this of St. Gregory Nazianzen in his
37th o ritio n T 18atov£ikm *EX
\n<Mt^aU
vpv Mia
Qtox9S> oi tb riAuirepa oraft ixdvotc ^tXoiro^ovvrtQ;
What then, would some say, is there not one Divi­
nity also amongstthe Pagans, as they, who philo­
sophize more fully add perfectly amongst them,
do declare ?r-Apd thatfull and remarkable oneof
Irenaeus, where he plainly affirmeth of -the Gen*
t.ii.o.it.[p. tiles; “ Ita creature ptitios quam Creator!
serviebanfc. et his quinon suntdii, ut pri-
Jtosoeti.] waro dsitatis locum attribiierent uni ali­
en; et minimafabrication bujus universitatis Deo:”
that they so’served the- creature, and those who
are opt gods, rather than the Creator; that not­
withstanding they attributed the first place of the
Deity to ope certain supreme God, the maker of
this universe,--The second thing is, that Athana­
sius, and all those other orthodox fathers, who
charged the Arisns with Pagan idolatry, did
thereby plainly imply, those dot to be incapable
ofidolatry, who wprehip one sovereign Npmen, or
acknowledge one supreme Deity, the maker of
the whole world; since not only the Arians un­
questionably did so,butalso, according to thesefa­
thers the veryPagans themselves. The third thing
ip, that, in the judgment of Athanasius, and all the
orthodox anti-Avian fathers, to give religious
worship to any created being whatsoever, though
inferior to that worship which is given to the su­
preme God, Upd therefore, according to the mO*
• Pag. 001. tom. L oper.
W rra BAQAlf ISOlAVRVi 060
d e n dntuitioij, not bet &HjUa(' is abso­
lutely idolatry. Because it is certain, that the
Arkmsgave orach an inferior worship to Christ,
the Son, or Word of God, ’whom they contended
to he a mere cdeatate, made in time, mutahle anj}
defective, than they did to that eternal God, who
was the Creator of him. As those fathers imply,
the Pagans themselves to have given much an in*
ferior worship to their iroX
X
ol ytvnrtihoi, their many
gods,—whom themselves looked upon as crea-r
tares, than they did m dytvvrtp, to that one un?
created God,
Now if the Arians, who zealously contended
for the unity of the Godhead, were nevertheless,
by the fathers, condemned as guilty of idolatry,
fer bestowing bat an inferior kind of religions
worship upon Christ, the Son or Word of God
himself, as he was supposed by them to be a crea­
ture; then certainly cannot they be excused from
that guilt, who bestow religious worship upon
these other creatures, angels aud souls of men,
though inferior to what they give to the supreme
omnipotent God, the creator of all. Because the
Son or Word of God, however conceived by these
Arians to be a creature, yet was looked upon by
them as the first, the most glorious, and most ex­
cellent of all creatures, and that by which, as an
Instrument, all other creatures, as angels and
sotils, were made; and therefore, if it were id’
oU
atry in them, to give an inferior kind of religions
worship to this Son and Word of God himself,
according to their hypothesis, then can it not pos­
sibly be accounted less, to bestow the same upon
those other creatures, made by him, sis angels and
men deceased. Besides which, the Word and
204 ORTHODOX CHRISTIANS WORSHIPPED
Son of God, however supposed by therie Arians
to be a creature, yet was not really such ; and is in
Scripture unquestionably declared to be a true
object of religious worship (“ Worship him, all ye
gods”) ; so that the Anans, though formally idol­
aters, according to-their own false hypothesis,
yet were riot', materially and really so : whereas
these religious angel and saiut-worshippers must
be aswiell materially as formally such. And here
it is observable, that these ancient lathers made
no such distinction ofreligious worship, into La-
tria, as peculiar to the supreme God, it being that
whereby he is adored as self-existent and omni­
potent, or the Creator of a ll; and Doulia, such
an inferior religious worship, as is communicable
to creatures: but concluded of religious worship,
universally, and without distinction, that the.due
object of it all was.the Creator only, and not any
creature. Thus Athanasius plainly in his third
oration :* « yap 0
>
cT
ip .vfrtplyM
r*,vptK
Jt/cvvhero,'iSet
k m a c tu n a v rwv v i r o f itf iv K o r tt v , r p v w cp^ovra rpomcwfivT
aXX’ owe etrriv avrwc, Krur/ian yjlp Ktla/ua ov Trpoacuvft,
. aXXa KTurpa 9tov‘ If the Son or W.Ord of God were
to be worshipped (though a creature) because
transcending us in glory and dignity, then ought
every inferior being to worship wbat is superior
to it: whereas the case is otherwise; for a crea-i
ture doth not religiously worship a creature, but
only'God the. Creator.—No.w they, who distin­
guish religious worship into L atm and Doulia,
must needs suppose the object of it in. general to
be that, which is superior to u&.and not tbe Cre­
ator only; which is here.contradicted by Atba-
nasiu$. But: because it was. objected agaiost
• Pag. 394. tom. i. oper.
THE DIVINITY OF CHRIST. 205
these orthodox fathers by the Arians, that the hu­
manity of our Saviour Christ, which is unques­
tionably a creature, did share in their religious
worship also; it is worth the while to see what
account. Athanasius•gives of this: ou AdA<Wphp
KTUTfia xpotKXJVOVfnv, fitj yivotro' 'Bfoucwv y ip !»• [Tom
. i.
m i ’Aptmvtiv q rotovrq rXavq* aXXiitiv Kuptov ,p* '
rqc uriamf m/uctvQivra niv raw flsov Aoyov wpomcwwifuv*
a yap $cal q atlp£ avrq Kaff tavrri*fiipot *«V
*ruv icritrfiarmv,
iXXi Qtov yiyovf tnSfia leal awrc ro rouwrov <n*/ua, m f
eavro Svmpovvrtf avo too Xoyov, Tpooiewovfuv, o6rt row
Aoyod tfowM qrai tfto m f, fuucpvvoptv awrow ato rqc
oapKoc* aXX’ H&trtc, ro, o Aoyof trap£ syivtro, rowrov icai tv
ttjx ! ytv&juvov ttnyiiniaicofuv Qtov' We give DO religi­
ous worship toany creature, for be it from u s; for
this is the error of the Pagans and ofthe Arians;
but we worship the Word of God, the Lord of the
creation incarnated. For though the flesh of
Christ, considered alone by itself, were but a part
of the creatures, nevertheless was it made the
body of God. And we neither worship this
body by itself alone, divided from the Word, nor
yet, intending to worship the Word, do we remove
it at agreat distance from this flesh; but knowing
that ofthe Scripture, “ the Word was made flesh,”
we look upon tins Word even iu the flesh as God.-
—And again to the same purpose, Kai ye p ’
vwlciriww i n tow Kv/xovtv aapKt xpoaiewovv-
«Ci o» Ktiofuert xpoMwovfitv, aXXa row rrujrqv, cvSvadpc-
vov rd Krartov ou/ta. Let these Arians know at
length, that we, who worship the Lord in flesh,
worship no creature, butonly the Creator clothed
with a creaturely body.—And for the same cause
was it, that Nesforins afterwards, dividing the
Word from the flesh, the Divinity of Christ from
2 9 ft NBSTORIU8 AN IDOLATER.
the humanity, and. not acknowledging such an
hypostatic union betwixt.them as he. ought, but,
nevertheless, religiously worshipping our SaViour.
Christ, was therefore branded!by the Christian
church with the name of ’AvOporroharpfc, amanr:
worshipper, or idolater*
—To conclude, theywho-
excuse themselves from being idolaters no other­
wise than becaiiSe they.do. not give that.very
same religions worship to saints and angels* which-
is peculiar to God Almighty, and consists.mbo-
nouring him as self-existent, and the. Creator, of
all things, but acknowledge those others to be.
creatures; suppose that to bd necessary to.idol­
atry, which is absolutely impossiblej viz. to ac­
knowledge more omhipiotents,- as creators, of all*
than one, or to account creatures aa such crea­
tors; as they imply all thosh to beiiicapabte.of
idolatry, who acknowledge ode supreme God the
creator of the whole World; Which is directly,
contradictious to the ancient church. . . >
Hithetto, in way of answer to ad atheistic bb^
jectioh against the naturaiity of the idea ofaGod,'
as including Ondiness iqit*froHa the Pagan Poly­
theism, have we largely prated, that at least the.
vcivilised and-: intelligent .Pagans generally ae-
khowledged oue sovereign Nurfien ; and that their
polytheism was partly, bat fantastical,. nbthing
but the polyonymy of one. suptetde God, or the
worshipping himuader different names and ao-
tions, according to.his. several.virtues and tnani-.
festations; add that though,.besides, this, tfceyi
had another, natural and real polytheism, also y
yet this was onlyof many inferioror created gotiin­
subordinate to one supreme ;’
AyWoe, or uncre­
ated. . ,
HUMAN NATURE DEPEAVABLE. M t
Which, notwithstanding, is not so to bci under-'
stood, as if we did confidently affirm, that tbe opw
nion of mtsy independent deities, never to.have
so ntncb as Onteriad into the mirid of any mortal;
For since human nature is *q .teutahie add de-
pravable, as that, notwithstanding the connate
idea and prolepsis of God in the minds of men,
some cnrqdestioOabty do degenerate and lapse in­
to Atheism; there can be no reason,- why it should
he thought absolutely impossible, for any eVer to-
entertain that h h e conceit of ihore independent
deities* But as for independent gods ipvisibtay
we Cannot trace the footsteps Of such a polythe~
isth as this day itheve, tior find Say*more than a:
Dkheisni,of a good aad evil principle: only Philo:
and others seem to have Conceived, that aynonget
the ancient Pagans, some were so grossly sottish,'
as to snppote a plurality of independent gods vi­
sible, atod to take the sun, and moon, and all the
stars, for such. However, if there were any such,-
and these writers wete not ihifetaken, as
quently happened, it is certain, that they yrin> but
very few; because, amongst the most barbarian
Pagans at this day, there is hardly any nation to
be found, without an acknowledgment of a sove­
reign Deity, as appears from all those discoveries
which have been made of them, since tbe improve­
ment of navigation.
Wherefore, what hath been hitherto declared
by us, might well be thought a sufficient answer
to the forementioned atheistic objection against
the idea of God. Notwithstanding which, when
we wrote the contents of this chapter, we intended
a farther account of the natural and real Polythe­
ism of the Pagans, and their multifarious idolatry,
. CONCLUSION.
206
chiefly in order to the vindication of the truth of
Christianity against Atheists; forasmuch, as one.
grand design hereof was unquestionably to de-.
stroy the Pagan Polytheism and idolatry, which
consisted in worshipping the.creature besides the
Creator.
But we are very, sensible,-that we have been,
surprised in the length of this chapter, which is
already swelled.into a disproportionate bigness;
by means whereof we cannot comprehend, within
the compass of this volume, all that: belongs to
the remaining, contents, together with such a full
and copious confutation of the .atheistic grounds,
as was intended. Wherefore we shall hqre divide
the chapter, and reserve those remaining contents,
together with a further, confutation of.Atheism, if
need be, for another volume, which,'God afford­
ing life, health, and leisure, weintend shall,folldw.:
Only subjoining,.in the. mean time, a short.and:
compendious confutation o f,all.the atheistic ar*.
guments .proposed*.
. The reader will observethat the foregoing paragraph refers to the
4to. edit,of1743,as published byDr. Cudwortb.
A
C O N F U T A T I O N
Of
ATHEISM.
CHAP. V.
H aving in the second chapter revealedall the;
dark mysteries ofAtheism, and produced the ut­
most strength of that cause; and in the third
made an introduction to the confutation of those
Atheistic grounds, by representing all the several
fOrin&and schemes ofAtheism, and shewing both
their disagreements' amongst themselves, and
wherein they all agree together against TheistS;
we have been hitherto prevented of that full and
copious confutation of them, intended by us, by
reason ofthatlarge account given ofthe Pagan Po*
lytheism: which yet was no impertinentdigression1
neither, it removing the grand objection against '
the naturality of the idea ofGod, asincluding one-
liness in it; as also preparing a way.for thstt de* ’
fence Of Christianity, designed by Us against
Atheists. Wherefore, that we may not here he
quite excluded of wbat:was principally intended,
we shall -subjoin a contracted and compendious
confutation of all the promised Atheistic princi­
ples. The first whfereof was this, that either miri
have no idea of God at all, or else none but such
as is compounded and made up ofimpossible and
contradictious notions; from whence these Atfae-;
VOL. III. p
210 SENSE NOT-KNOWLEDGE,
ists would iufer him to be an inconceivable no­
thing. In answer wbereunto, there hath been
something done already, it being declared in the
beginning of the fourth chapter, what the idea of
God is, viz. a perfect understanding nature, neces­
sarily self-existent, and the cause of all other
things. And as there is nothing either unconceiv­
able or contradictious in this idea, so have we
shewed, that these confounded Atheists do not
only, at the same time when they verbally deny
an idea of God, implicitly acknowledge and con­
fess it, forasmuch as otherwise, denying his ex­
istence, they should deny the existence of nothiog;
but also that they agree with Theists in this very
idea; it being the only thing that Atheists contend
for, that the first original and head of all things
is no perfect understanding nature, but that all
sprung from Tohu and Bohu, or dark and sense­
less matter fortuitously moved. Moreover, we
have, not only thus declared the idea of God, but
also largely proved, aud made it clearly evident,
that the generality of mankind in all ages have
had a prolepsis or anticipation in their minds,
concerning the real and actual existence of such
a ,being; the Pagans themselves, besides their
other many gods (which were understanding be­
ings superior.to men), acknowledging one chief
and sovereign Numen, the maker of them all, and
of the whole world. From whence it plainly, ap-.
pears, that those few Atheists, that formerly have
been, and still are, here and there up and down
in the world, are no other than the monsters and
anomalies of.human kind. And this alone might
be sufficient to repel the first Atheistic assault,
made against the idea of God. • ••
PROVED PROM THE ATOMIC PHILOSOPHY. 211*
Nevertheless, that we may not seem to dissem­
ble any of the Atheists’ strength, we shall here
particularly declare all their most colourable
pretences against the idea of God, and then shew
the folly and invalidity of them. Which pretenees
are as follow : first, That we have no idea nor
thought of any thing not subject to corporeal
sense; nor the least evidence of the existence of
any thing, but from the same. Secondly, That
Theists themselves acknowledging God to be in­
comprehensible, he may be from thence inferred
to be a nonentity. Thirdly, That the Theists’
idea of God, including infinity in it, is therefore
absolutely inconceivable and impossible. Fourth-
ly, That theology is an arbitrations- compilement
of inconsistent and contradictious notions. And,
lastly, That the idea and:existence of God'owes
all its being, either to the confounded nonsense of
astonished minds, or else to the fiction and im­
posture of politicians.
' We begin with the first: That we can have no
idea, conception, or thought, of any thing, not
subject to sense; nor the least evidence-of the
existence ofany thing, but from the same. Thus
a modern Atheistic writer ;* Whatsoever we can
conceive, hath been perceived first by:sense, ei­
ther at once or in parts ; and a man can have no
thought representing any thing not subject to
sense.” From whence it follows, that whatsoever
is not sensible and imaginable, is utterly uncon­
ceivable, and to ns nothing. Moreover, the same
writer adds, that *
’
?the only evidence, which we
have of the existence of any thing, is from sense
the consequence whereof is this, that there being
* Hobbes’s Leviathan, part i. cap: i.
P 2
212 SENSE NOT KNOWLEDGE*
no corporeal sense of a Deity, there can be no
evidence at all of his existence. Wherefore, ac­
cording to the tenor of the. Atheistic philosophy,
all is resolved into sense, as the only criterion of
truth, accordingly as Protagoras in Plato’s The-
sstetus* concludes knowledge to be sense; and a
late writer of our own, determines sense to be ori­
ginal knowledge. Here have we a wide OGean
before us, but we must contract our sails. Were
sense knowledge and understanding, then he,
who sees lights and colours, and feels heat and
cold, would understand light .and colours, heat
and cold, and. the like of all other sensible things:
neither would there be any philosophy at alt con­
cerning theip. Whereas the mind ofman remain^
eth altogether unsatisfied concerning the nature
of these corporeal things, even after the strongest
sensations of them, and is but thereby awakened
to a further philosophic inquiry and search about
them, what this light and colours, this heat and
cold, &c. really should be; and whether they be
indeed qualities iq thp objects without us, or only
phantasms and sensations in ourselves.; Now.it
is certajn, that there could be no suspicion of any
such thing as this, were sense the highest faculty
in us; neither can sense itself ever decide this
.controversy; since one sense cannot judge of an­
other, or correct the error in it; all sense as such
(that is, as fanpy and apparition) being alike true.
And had not these Atheists been notorious dunces
in that atomic philosophy which they so much
pretend to, they would clearly have learned from
thence, that sense is not knowledge and under­
standing, nor the criterion of truth as to sensible
* P. 118.
• PROVED FROM THE ATOMIC PHILOSOPHY. 213
things themselves; it reaching not to the essence
or absolute uature of them, but only taking notice
of their outside, and perceiving its own passions
from them, rather than the thiugs themselves; and
that there isa higher faculty iu the soul, of reason
and understanding, which judges of seuse; de­
tects the fantastry and imposture of it; disco­
vers to us that there is nothing in the objects
themselves, like to those forementioned sensible
ideas; and resolves all sensible things into intel­
ligible principles ; the ideas whereof are not fo­
reign and adventitious, and mere passive impres­
sions upon the soul from without, but native and
domestic to it, or actively exerted from the soul
itself; no passion being able to make a judgment
either of itself, or other things. This is a thing
so evident, that Democritus himself could not but
take notice of it, and acknowledge it, though he
made not a right use thereof; he iu all probabi­
lity continuing notwithstanding a confounded
and besotted Atheist; Sextus Empiricus having
recorded this of him :* ’Ev roTe Kavotn Svo foot# uvai
yvcioug, rijv /uev Sta rwv aloQriaiutv, n)v SI Sta trie Smvolag'
tov tt)v /liv Sia rife Siavolag yvtotnv Karayu, irpotrfiaprvptov
avTrj t o iriardv etc aXij0£U»e Kplaiv, njv Ss Sul t io v auxOqtfiiov
o k o t Itiv ovofiafai, dipaipovfitvog ourife to irpoe Siayvioaiv t o v
dXtiOovg avXaveg' Xlyti Si Kara Xe^iv, Tvto/xvi St Svo tlfftv
iSiai‘ V filv yvTfalr]' t
| S* o k o t 'i
t]' kcu tncoruje filv, roSs ervp.-
navra,oipig, axov, oSfiy, yevoig, Tptvaig'vSl yvtiolydirotcsKpvff
ftivt) Sirawnjc’ Democritus in his Canons affirmeth,
that there are two kinds ofknowledges; one of the
senses, and another by the mind. Of which that
by the mind is only accounted knowledge, hebear­
ing witness to-the faithfulness and firmness thereof
* Lib. vii. advers. Mathcmat. §. 138, 139. p. 400.
214 THOUGHTS NOT SUBJECT TO; SENSE.
for the judgment of truth. The other by the
senses he calleth dark, denying it to be a rule and
measure of truth. His own words are these;
There are two species of knowledge, the one ge­
nuine, the other dark and obscure. The dark
and obscure knowledge is seeing, hearing, smell­
ing, tasting, touching. But the genuine know­
ledge is another more hidden and.recondit.—To
which purpose there is another fragment also of
this Democritus preserved by the same Sextus;»
Nofitf yXvicv, k«
u vofjup irucpov, vofuf dtpfiov, yofitp
pov' vofito xpoo}' flirta Se arofia ical ksvov’ oirep vofilZfrat
(iev etvai xal So%a£trai ra aloOijrd, ovk io n St tear aXtiOeiav
rowra* Bitter and sweet, hot and cold, are only
in opinion or fancy. Colour is only in opi­
nion; atoms and.vacuum alone in truth and real­
ity, That which is thought to be are sensibles;
but these are not according to truth, but atoms
and vacuum only. Now the chief ground of this
rational discovery of the ancient Atomists, that
sensible things, as heat and cold, bitter and sweet,
red and green, are no real qualities in the objects
without, but only our own fancies, was because
in body there are no such things intelligible, but
only magnitude, figure, site, motion, and rest. Of
which we have not only sensible ideas, passively
impressed upon us from without, but also intelli­
gible notions, actively exerted from the mind it­
self.. Which latter, notwithstanding, because they
are not unaccompanied with sensible phantasms,
and by many unskilfully confounded with them.-
But, besides these, we have other intelligible no­
tions, or ideas, also which have no genuine phan-.
tasms at all belonging to them.. Of which who-
»Id ibid. §. 135. p. 399.
THOUGHTS NOT SUBJECT TO SENSE. 215
soever doubts, may easily be satisfied and con­
vinced, by reading but a sentence or two that he
understands in any book almost that shall coide
next to his hand; and reflexively examining him­
self, whether be have a phantasm, or sensible idea,
belonging to every word or no. For whoever is
modest and ingenuous will quickly be forced to
confess, that he meets with many words, which
though they have a sense or 'intelligible notion,
yet have no genuine phantasm belonging to them.
And we have known some, who were confidently
engaged in the other opinion, being put to read
the beginning of Tully’s Offices, presently non­
plussed and confounded in-that first word qua*-
quant; they being neither able to deny,, but that
there was a sense belonging to it, nor yet to affirm,
that theyhad anyphantasm thereof, saveonly ofthe
sound or letters. But to prove that there are Co­
gitations not subject to corporeal sense, we need
go no further than this very idea or description of
God; a substance absolutely perfect, infinitely
good, wise, and powerful, necessarily self-exist­
ent, aud the cause of all other things. Where
there is not one word unintelligible to him, that
hath any understanding in him, and yet no con-
siderative and ingenuous person can pretend, that
he hath a genuine phantasm, or sensible idea, an­
swering to any one of those words, either to sub­
stance, or to absolutely perfect, or to infinitely, or
to good, or to wise, or to powerful, or to neces­
sity, or to self-existence, or to cause; or indeed
to all, or other, or things. Wherefore it is nothing
but want of meditation, together with a fond and
sottish dotage upon corporeal sense, which hath
so far imposed upon some, as to make them be-
2 1 6 EVIDENCE OF THING8 NOT SENSIBLE.
lieve, that they have not the least cogitation of
tiny thing not subject to corporeal sense; or that
there is nothing in human understanding, or con*
ception, which was not first in bodily sense ; a
doctrine highly favourable to Atheism. But since
it is certain, on the contrary* that we have many
thoughts not subject to sense, it is manifest, that
whatsoever falls not under external sense, is not
therefore unconceivable, and nothing. Which
whosoever asserts, must needs affirm life and co­
gitation itself, knowledge or understanding, rea­
son and memory, volition and appetite, things of
the greatest moment and reality, to be nothing
but mere words without any signification. Nay,
fancy and sense itself, upon' this hypothesis* could
hardly escape from becoming nonentities too, foras­
much as neither fancy nor sense falls under sense,
but only the objects of them; we neither seeing
vision, nor feeling taction, nor hearing audition,
much less hearing sight, or seeing taste, or the
like. Wherefore, though God.should be never so
mhch corporeal, as some Theists have conceived
him to b e; yet since the chief of his essence, and
as it Were his inside, must by these be acknow*
ledged to consist in mind, wisdom and understand­
ing, he could not possibly, as to this, fall under
corporeal sense (sight or touch) anymore than
thought can. But that there is substance incor­
poreal also; and therefore in itself altogether in­
sensible, and that the Deity is such, is demon­
strated elsewhere.
We grant, indeed, that the:evidence of particu­
lar bodies, existing hie et nunc, without us, doth
.necessarily depend upon the information of sense;
but yet, nevertheless, the certainty.of this very evi-
EVIDENCE OF THINGS NOT SENSIBLE. 2 1 7
'deuce is hot from sense alone, bat from a complin-
cation of reason and understanding together with
it. Were sense the only evidence of things, there
could be no absolute truth and falsehood, nor cer­
tainty at all of any thing; sense, as such, being
only relative to particular persons, seeming and
fantastical, and obnoxious to much delusion.
For if our nerves and brain be inwardly so moved,
and affected, as they would be by such an object
present, when indeed it is absent, and no other
motion or sensation in the mean time prevail
against it and obliterate it; then must that object
of necessity seem to us present Moreover, those
imaginations, that spring and bubble from the soul
itself, are commonly taken for sensations by as
when asleep, and sometimes in melancholic and
fanciful persons also when awake. That Atheistic
principle, that there is no evidence at all of any
thing as existing, but only from corporeal sense,
is plainly contradicted by the atomic Atheists
themselves, when they assert atoms and vacuum
to be the principles of all things, and the exuvi-
ous images of bodies to be the causes both of
sight and cogitation.: for single atoms, and those
exuvious images, were never seen nor felt; and
vacuum, or empty space, is so far from being sen­
sible, that these Atheists themselves allow it to
be the one only incorporeal. Wherefore they
must here go beyond ,the ken of.sense, and ap­
peal to reason only for the existence of.these prin­
ciples': as Protagoras, one of them in Plato,.pro­
fessedly- dOth ; aOpsi irepwKOirdjv jutj Thert.p.155,
.afiv^rwv iirtucovy’ cun ovrot, ot oilSo; aXXo Staph,
otojuevot tlvai, n oil av Svvu>vrai airpt£ rail* \tpdlv Xaj3str6ai,
irav to aoparov owe dwoSeyofitvoi, <Jg tv ovatacfiipa' Have
2 1 8 OOD INCOMPREHENSIBLE,
a care that none of theprofane'and uninitiated in
mysteries overhear you. By the profane I mean
(saith he) those, who think nothing to exist but
what they can feel with their fingers, and exclude
all that is invisible out of the rank of being.—
Were existence to be allowed to nothing, that
doth not fall under corporeal sense, then must we
deny the existence of soul and mind in ourselves
and others, because we can neither feel nor see
any such thing. Whereas we are certain of the
existence of our own souls, partly,from an inward
consciousness of our own cogitations, and partly
from that principle of reason, that nothing cannot
act. And the existence of other individual souls
is mauifest to us, from their effects upon their re­
spective bodies, their motions, actions, and dis­
course. Wherefore, since the Atheists cannot
deny the existence of soul or mind in men, though
no such thing fall under external sense, they have
as little reason to deny the existence of a perfect
mind, presiding over the universe, without which
it cannot be conceived, whence our imperfect ones
should be derived. The existence of that God,
whom no eye hath seen nor can see, is plainly
proved by reason from his effects, in the visible
phenomena of the universe, and from what we
are conscious of within ourselves.
The second pretence of Atheists against theidea
ofGod, and conseqnentlyfiis existence^, because
Theists themselves acknowledging God to be in­
comprehensible, it may be from thence inferred,
that he isa nonentity. Which argumentation ofthe
Atheists supposes these two things: first, that
what is incomprehensible is altogether uncon­
ceivable ; and then, that what is unconceivable is
YET NOT INCONCEIVABLE. 219
nothing. The 'latter of which two, perhaps* may
be granted to them, that what is so utterly incon­
ceivable is nothing, as that no man can frame
any manner of idea or conception of it, is there­
fore either in itself or at least to us, nothing. Be­
cause though that of Protagoras be not true, in ,
hlS sense, vavruiv ygnpartitv furpov ivQpwrov PlatoT
feeat.
* - \ tf « 1
9 - t [p. 118.1
eivai, tu)v fitv ovrurv a>c *art, rwv ck fit) ovtwv, Lr J
ovk toriv’ That man is the. measure of all things,
either as existing or not existing?—he meaning in­
deed nothing else thereby, but that there was no
absolute truth or falsehood of any thing, but all
was relative to particular persons, and fantastical
or seeming only. And though it must not be
granted, that whatsoever any man’s shallow un­
derstanding cannot easily and fully comprehend,
is therefore presently to be expunged out of the
catalogue of beings; which is the reason, or ra­
ther infidelity of the anti-trinitarians; yet is there
notwithstanding some truth in that of Aristotle*
that 4n>
x* xavra, the rational soul or mind is in
a manner all things;—it being able to frame some
idea and conception or other of whatsoever is in
the nature of things, and hath either an actual or
possible existence, from the very highest to the
lowest. Mind, and understanding is, as it were,
a diaphanous and crystalline globe, or a kind of
notional world, which hath some reflex image, and
correspondent ray, or representation in it, to what­
soever is in the true and real world of being. Aud
upon this account may it be said, that whatsoever
is in its own nature absolutely inconceivable, is
indeed a nonentity.
But the former is absolutely denied by us, that
whatsoever is incomprehensible is inconceivable;
2 2 0 GOD INCOMPREHENSIBLE,
and therefore when we affirm, that God is incom­
prehensible, our meaning is only this, that our im­
perfect minds cannot have snch a conception of
his nature, as doth perfectly master, cone)tier, and
subdue, that vast object under i t ; or at least is so
fully adequate and commensurate to the same, as
that it doth every way match and equalize it.
Now it doth not at all follow from hence, because
God is thus incomprehensible to onr finite and
narrow understandings, that he is utterly incon­
ceivable by them, so that they cannot frame any
idea at all of him, and he may therefore be con­
cluded to be a nonentity. For, it is certain, that
we cannot fully comprehend ourselves, and that
we have not such ao adequate and comprehen­
sive knowledge of the essence of any-substantial
thing, as that we can perfectly master and con­
quer it. It was a truth, though abused by the
Sceptics, that there is acaraXiprrovrt, something in­
comprehensible—iarthe essence of the lowest sub­
stances. For even body itself, which the Athe­
ists think.themselves so well acquainted with, be­
cause they can feel it with their fingers, and which
is the only substance, that they acknowledge ei­
ther in themselves or the universe, hath snch puz­
zling difficulties and .entanglements in the specu­
lation ofit, that they can never be able to extricate
themselves from. We might instance also in some
accidental things, as time and motion. Truth is
bigger than our minds, and we are not the same
with it, but have a lower participation only Of the
intellectual nature, and are rather apprehendera
than comprehenders thereof. This is indeed one
badge of our creaturely state, that we have not a
perfectly comprehensive.knowledge, or such as is
YET NOT INCONCEIVABLE. 2*21
adequate and commensurate to the essences of
things; from whence we Ought to be led to this
acknowledgment, that there is another perfect
Mind or understanding Being above us in the
universe, from which our imperfect minds were
derived, and upon which they do depend. Where­
fore if we.can have no idea or conception of any
thing, whereof we have not a full and perfect com­
prehension, then can we not have an idea or con­
ception of the naturO of any substance. But
though we do not comprehend all truth, as if our
mind were above it, or master of it, and cannot
penetrate into, and look quite through the nature
of every thing, yet may rational souls frame cer­
tain ideas and conceptions, of whatsoever is m
the orb of being proportionate to their own nature*
and sufficient for their purpose. And though we
cannot fully comprehend the Deity, nor exhaust
the infiniteuess of its perfection, yet may we have
an idea or conception of a being absolutely per­
fect ; such a one as is ndstro nlodulo conforms,
agreeable and proportionate to our measure and
scantling—as we may approach near to a moun­
tain, and touch it with our hands, though we can­
not encompass it all round, and enclasp it within
our arms. Whatsoever is in its owa nature abso­
lutely inconceivable, is nothing; but not whatso­
ever is not fully comprehensible by our imperfect
understandings.
It is true, indeed, that.the Deity is more incom­
prehensible to us than any thing else whatsoever,
which proceeds from the fulness of its being and
perfection, and from the transcendency .of its
brightness; but for the very same reason may it
be said also, iu some sense, that it is more know-
2&2 GOD INCOMPREHENSIBLE,
able and conceivable than any thing. As the sun,
though by reason of its excessive splendour, it
dazzle our weak sight* yet it is notwithstanding
far more visible also, than any of the nebulosee
slellee, the small misty stars. Where there is more
oflight,thereis more ofvisibility ; so where thereis
more ofentity, reality, and perfection, there is there
more of conceptibility and cognoscibility; such
an object filling up the mind more, and acting
more strongly upon it. Nevertheless, because
Our weak and imperfect minds are lost in the vast
immensity and redundancy of the Deity, and over­
come with its transcendant light and dazzling
brightness, therefore bath it to us an appearance
Of darkness and incomprehensibility; as the un­
bounded, expansion of light, in the clear trans­
parent ether, hath to us the apparition of an azure
obscurity ; which yet is not an absolute thing in
itself, but only relative to our sense, and a mere
fancy in us.
The incomprehensibility of the Deity is so far
from being an argument against the reality of its
existence, as that it is most certain, on the con­
trary, that Were there nothing incomprehensible
to:us, who are but contemptible pieces, and small
atoms of the universe; were there no other being
in the world, but what our finite and imperfect
understandings could Span or fathom, and en­
compass round about, look through and through,
have a 'commanding view of, and perfectly con- '
quer and subdue under them ; then could there
be nothing absolutely and infinitely perfect, that
is, no God. For though that of Empedocles be
not true in a literal sense, as it seems to have been
YET MOT INCONCEIVABLE. 2S3
taken by Aristotle,* yaia fitv yip yamv, See. that by
earth we see earth, by water water, and by fire
fire; and understand every thing by something of
the same within ourselves: yet is it certain, that
every thing is apprehended by some internal con-
grnity in that which apprehends, which perhaps
was the sense intended by that noble philosophic
poet. Wherefore it cannot possibly otherwise be,
but that the finiteness, scantness, and imperfec­
tion, of our narrow understandings must -make
them asymmetral, o r.incommensurate, to that
which is absolutely and infinitely perfect.
And nature itself pfainly intimates to us, that’
there is some such absolutely perfect Being, which
though not inconceivable, yetis incomprehensible
to our finite understandings, by certain passions,
which it hath implanted in us, that otherwise
Would want an object to display themselves upon;
namely those of devout veneration, adoration, and
admiration, together with a kind of ecstasy and
pleasing horror; which, in the silent language of
nature, seems to speak thus much to us, that there
is some object in the world, so much bigger and
vaster than our mind aiid thoughts, that it is the
' very same to them, that the ocean is to narrow
vessels; so that when they have taken into them­
selves as much as they can thereof by contempla­
tion, and filled up all their capacity, there is still
att immensity of it left without, which cannot en­
ter in for want of room to receive it, and therefore
must be apprehended after some other strange
and mysterious manner, viz. by their being as it
Were plunged into it, and swallowed up or lost in
it. To conclude, the Deity is indeed incompre-
1De Anima, lib.j, cap. ii. p. 3. tom. ii. oper.
224 IN FIN ITY INCONCEIVABLE.
hensible to our finite add imperfect understand­
ings, but not inconceivable; and therefore there
is no ground at all for this atheistic pretence, to
make it a nonentity.
We come to the third atheistic argumentation ;>
That because infinity (which according to theo­
logy is included iu the idea of God, and pervadeth-
all his -attributes) is utterly inconceivable, the'
Deity itself is therefore an impossibility and non­
entity. To this sense sound sundry passages of
a modern writer; as, “ Whatsoever we know, we
learn fromour phantasms; but thereis no phantasm’
of infinite, and therefore no knowledge or concep­
tion of it.” Again, “ Whatsoever we imagine is
finite, and therefore there is no conception or idea
of that which we call infinite. No man can have;
in his mind an image of infinite time, or of infinite,
power. Wherefore the name of God is used not
to make us conceive him, but only that we may
honour him.” The true meaning whereof(as may:
be plainly gathered from other- passages of the
same writer) is thus to be interpreted; That there
is nothing of philosophic truth and; reality-in the.
idea or attributes of God; nor any other sense in
those words, but only to signify the veneration
and astonishment of men's own confounded minds.
And, accordingly, the word infinite is declared,to .
signify nothing at all in that which is so called
(there being no such thing really existing), but;
only the inability of men’s own minds, together;
with their rustic astonishment and admiration.
Wherefore when' the same writer determines, that -
God must not be said to be finite, this being no-
good courtship nor compliment; and yet the.wor-d -
infinite signifieth nothing in the thmg itself, nor
INFINITY INCONCEIVABLE. 226
hath any conception at all answering to it,; he
either does plainly abuse his reader, ;or else he
leaves him to make up this conclusion, That since
God is neither finite nor infinite, he is an incon­
ceivable nothing. In like manner, another learn­
ed well-wilier to Atheism declareth, That he, who
calletb any thing infinite, doth but “ rei quam non
capit, attribuere noraen, quod non intelligit,” at­
tribute an unintelligible name to a thing.incon­
ceivable; because, all conception is finite, and it
is impossible to conceive any. thing that hath no
bounds or limits. But that, which is mistaken
for infinite, is nothing but a confused chaos of the
mind, or an unshaken embryo of thought; when
men going on farther add. farther, and making a
continual progress, without seeing any end before
t;hem ; being at length quite weary.and tired out
with this, their endless journey, they sit down,,
and call the thing by this hard and unintelligible
name, infinite.—And from.hence does he also in­
fer, that because we can have no idea of infinite,
as to signify any. thing in that whiph is so called,
we therefore cannot possibly have “ germauam
idefun Dei,” any true and genuine idea or nption
of God.—Of which they, who understand the lan­
guage of Atheists, know very well the meaningto
be this; that there is indeed no such thing, or
that.he is a non-eutity.
Now since this expeption against the idea of
God, and consequently his existence, is made by <
our modern and neoteric Atheists; we shall, in
the first.place, shew how contradictious they are
herein to their predecessors, the old philosophic. '
Atheists; and consequently, how.inconsistent and
disagreeing Atheists in several; ages havp been
VOL. I II. Q
226 c e r t a i n ; t h a t ,
with one another. For whereas these modem
Atheists would have this thought a sufficient con­
futation of a Deity, that there can be nothing in­
finite; it is certain, that the ancient philosophic
Atheists were so far from being of this persuasion,
that some, of them, as Anaximander expressly
madea
'Airapov, or Infinite, the principle.ofall things;
that is, infinitely extended and eternal matter, de­
void of all life and understanding. For though
Melissus’s ’
’Anupov, or Infinite, which he made
the first principle, was a most perfect Being emi­
nently containing all things (as hath been already
shewed) and therefore the true Deity; Anaxi­
mander’s "Airnpov, or Infinite, yet however called
0«ov, or Divine by him, (ft being the only divinity
which he acknowledged) was nothing but sense­
less matter, an atheistic infinite. Wherefore both
Tbeists and Atheists in those former times did
very well agree together in this one point, that
there was something or other infinite, as the first
principle of all things; either infinite mind, or in­
finite matter; though this latter atheistic infinity
of extended matter be indeed repugnant to con­
ception (as shall be proved afterwards) there being
no true infinite, but a perfect Being, or the holy
Trinity. Furthermore, not only Anaximander,
but also after him Democritus and Epicurus, and
many others of that atheistic gang, heretofore as<
serted likewise a numerical infinity of worlds, and
therefore much more than an infinity ofatoms, or
particles of matter. And though this numerical'
infinity of theirs were also inconceivable and im­
possible; yet does it sufficiently appear from
hence, that these ancient philosophic Atheists
were so far from being abhorrent from infinity, as
NEVER NOTHING. 227
a thing impossible, and a non-entity, that they
were on the contrary very fond thereof; and
therefore never went about to disprove a Deity
after this manner, because there can be nothing
infinite. * i
But, in the next place, we shall make it mani­
fest, that these modern Atheists do no less con­
tradict plain reason and their very selves also,
than they do their predecessors in that impiety,
when they thus go about to disprove the existence
of a God, because there can be nothing infinite^
neither in duration, taor in power, nor in any other
regard. For, first, though' it should be doubted
whether there be a God or no; yet must it needs
be acknowledged to be as indubitable as any
thing in all geometry, that there was something
or other infinite in duration, or eternal, without
beginning: because,:if there had been once no­
thing at all, there could never have been any thing}
that common notion, or principleofreason, having
here an irresistible force, that nothing could ever
come from nothing. Now, if there were never
nothing, but always something, then must there
of necessity be something infinite in duration, and
eternal without beginning. Wherefore it cannot
be accounted less than extreme sottishness and
stupidity of mind in these modern Atheists, thus
to impugn a Deity from the impossibility of infi­
nite duration without beginning. But, in the next
place, we must confess it seems to us hardly con­
ceivable, that any Atheist whatsoever could pos­
sibly be so prodigiously sottish, or so monstrously-
infatuated, as really to think, that once there was>
nothing at all, but that afterwards senseless mat­
ter happened (nobody knows how) to come into
q 2
228 NOB WORLD, NOR
being, from whence allother things were derived.
According to which hypothesis it wauid* follow
also, that matter might as well sorae time or other
.happen again, to cease-to be, and so all things va­
nish into nothing. To conclude, therefore, these
Atheists must of necessity be guilty of one or
other of these two things; .-either of extreme.sot­
tishness and stupidity in acknowledging neither
.God, nor matter, nor any thing, to have existed
infinitely from eternity without beginning; or else,
if they do acknowledge the pre-eternity of mat­
ter,:or its infinite past duration without beginning,
then, of the most notorious impudence, in making
that an argument against the existence of a God*
which themselves acknowledge to matter.
Nevertheless we shall here readily comply with
these modern Atheists thus far,, as to grant them
these two following things: .First, That we can
have not proper and genuine phantasm of.any infi­
nite whatsoever, because we.never bad corporeal
sense of any, neither of infinite number nor of in­
finite magnitude, and. therefore much less of infi­
nite time or duration, and of infinite power; these
two latter things, time and power, themselves not
falling under corporeal sense. ■Secondly, That
as we have no phantasm of any infinite, so neither
is infinity fully comprehensible lj>
your.human u n ­
derstandings, that are but finite. But since it is
certain, even to mathematical evidence, that there
was something infinite in duration; or without be­
ginning, insomuch that no intelligent Atheist,
upon mature consideration,'’will ever venture to-
contradict it; we shall from hence extort from
these Atheists an acknowledgment of. the false­
ness of these two theorems of theirs, that wbatso-
TIME ETERNAL. 229
ever-we have do fantasm or-sensible idea-of, as
also; whatsoever is not fully, comprehensible by
us, is therefore a pure non-entity or .nothing; and
enforce them to confess; that there is something
really existing in nature, which we have neither
any phantasm: of, not yet can fully, comprehend
with our imperfect understandings.
Nay, we will yet go further in Compliance with
thero.and acknowledge likewise, that as for those
infinities, of number, ofcorporeal magnitude; and
of time or. successive duration,, we have not only
no phantasm, nor full intellectual comprehension
of them, but also, no manner of intelligible idea,
notion, or conception. For though it be true,
that' number be somewhere said by Aristotle* to
be infinite, yet was his meaning there only in such
a negative sense as this; that we. can never possi­
bly come to an end thereof by addition, but may
in our minds still add number toi number infinite­
ly ; which is- all one as if he should -indeed have
affirmed, that there can be. no number actually
aud positively ,infinite, according to Aristotle's
own definition of infinite, elsewhere given,1
*name-'
ly, that to which- nothing can be added; no num­
ber being ever so great, but that oue or m ore may
still be added to it: And as there can benoin finite
number, so neither can there.be-ainy infinity of Cor-*
poreal magnitude; not onfybecause if there were,1
the parts thefeof-must needs be infinite in nnihber,
but also because, as no number can be so great,-
hut that more may be added to i t s o neither can
any body or magnitude-be-ever so vast, but- that-
'* * • ‘ 1 *
, 1* • * ' t■ * ' / '
■*
» Metapliys. lib. xi. cap. xi. p. 434. tom. ijr. oper. et PJiys. Auicul-
tat. lib. iii. cap. V. p. 486. tom. i, oper. et cap. viii. pi 4Sl. *
' “ Pbys. Ausciritat. lib. iii. cap. ix.-p.-493. tom.i. opor. .
230 NOR WORLD NOR
more body or magnitude may be supposed stilt
further aud further; this addition of finites never
making up infinite. Indeed, infinite space, be­
yond the finite world, is a thing which hath been
much talked of; and it is by some supposed to be
infinite body, but by others to be an incorporeal
infinite; through whose actual distance notwith­
standing(mensurable by poles and miles) this finite
world might roll and tumble infinitely. But as
we conceive, all that can be demonstrated here is
no more than this, but how vast soever the finite
world should be, yet there is a possibility of more
and more magnitude and body, still to be added
to it, further and further, by Divine power infi­
nitely ; or that the world could never be made so
great, no not by God himself, as that his own. om­
nipotence could not make it yet greater. Which
potential infinity, or indefinite increasableness of
corporeal magnitude, seems to have been mis­
taken for an actual infinity of space. Whereas,
for this very reason, because more could be added
to the magnitude of the corporeal world infinitely,
or without end, therefore is it impossible, that it
should ever be positively and actually infinite;
that is, such as to Which nothing more can pos­
sibly be added. .Wherefore we conclude con­
cerning corporeal magnitude, as we did before of
number, that there can be no absolute and actual
infinity thereof; and that how much vaster soever
the world may be, than according to the supposi­
tion of vulgar astronomers* who make the starry
sphere the utmost wall thereof; yet is it not ab­
solutely infinite, such as really hath no bounds or
limits at ail, nor to which nothing more could, by
Divine power, be added. Lastly, We affirm like-
TIME ETERNAL. 231
wise concerning time, or successive duration, that
there can be no infinity of that neither, no tem-
poral eternity without beginning: and that not
only because there would then be an actual infi­
nity and more than an infinity of number ;-but also
because, upon this supposition, there would al­
ways have been an infinity of time past, and con­
sequently an infinity of time past, which was ne­
ver present. Whereas all the moments of past
time must needs have been once present; and, if.
so, then all of them, at least save one, future too;
from whence it will follow, that there was a first
moment, or beginning of time. And thus does
reason conclude,, neither the world, nor time it­
self, to have been infinite in their past duration,
nor eternal without beginning.
Here will the Atheist think presently, he hath
got a great advantage to disprove the existence of
a God; “ Nonne, qui seternitatem mundi sic tol-
lunt, eadem opera etiam mundi conditori aeterni-
tatein tollunt ?” Do not they, who thus destroy
the eternity of the world, at the same time destroy
also the eternity of the Creator? For if time itself
were not eternal, then how could the Deity, or
any thing, be so?—the Atheist securely taking it
for granted, that God himself could not be other­
wise eternal, than by a successive flux of infinite
time; but we say, that this will on the contrary
afford us a plain demonstration of the existence
of a Deity. For since the world and time itself
were not infinite in their past duration, but bad a
beginning, therefore were they both certainly
made together by some other Being, who is, in or­
der of nature, senior to time, and so without time,
before tim e; he being above that successive flux,
232 ETEBNITY, A PHILOSOPHIC*
and comprehending in the stability and immuta­
ble perfection of his own being, his yesterday, and
to-day, and forever. Or thus; Something was
of necessity infinite in duration, and without be­
ginning; but neither the world, nor motion, nor'
time, that is, no successive being was such;
therefore is there sotnething else; whose being
and duration is not successive and flowing, but
permanent to whom this;irifinity belongeth. The
Atheists here can only smile, or make faces, and
shewtheir little wit in quibbling upon minc-slatts,!
or a standing now of eternity; as if that standing
eternity of the Deity (which with so much reason
hath been contended for by the ancient genuine
Theists) werenothing but a pitiful small moment
of time standing still, and as if the duration of all
beings whatsoever must needs be' like out’own;
whereas the duration of every thing must of ne­
cessity be agreeable to its nature: and, therefore,
as that, whose imperfect nature is ever flowing
like a river, and consists in continual motion and
changes One after another, must needs have ac­
cordingly a successive and flowing duration,
sliding perpetually frOm present into past, and al­
ways posting on towards the future, expecting
something of itself; which is not yet in being, but
to come;‘so must that, whose perfect nature is
essentially immutable, and always the same, and
necessarily existent, have a permanent duration^
never losing any thing of itself once present^ as
sliding away from it, nor yet running forwards to
meet something of itself before, which is not yet
in being ; and it is as contradictious for it ever to!
have begun, as ever to cease to be.
( Now whereas the modern Atheists pretend to:
■ ATTRIBUTE OF THE DEITY. ’ 23S
have proved, that there is nothing infinite, neither
in duration nor otherwise, and consequently nd
Deity, merely because we have no sense nor phan­
tasm of infinite, nor cah fully comprehend the
same; and therefore will *
needs conclude, that
the words infinite and eternal signify nothing in
the thing itself, but either men’s own ignorance
and inability to conceive, when, or whether, that
which is called eternal, began; together with the
confounded nonsense of their astonished minds,'
and their stupid veneration of that, which their
own fear and fancy has raised up as a bug-bear
to themselves; or else the progress of their
thoughts fiirther and further backward indefi­
nitely, (though they plainly confute themselves in’
all this, by sometimes acknowledging matter and*
motion infinite and eternal, which argues either
their extreme sdttishness or impudence :) we have
shewed, with mathematical evidence and certain­
ty, that there is really something infinite in dura­
tion, or eternal; by which•
•therefore cannot be*
meant men's own ignorance, or the confounded'
nonsense of their devotion, nor yet the idle,pro-1
gress of their minds further and further indefi-1
nitely, which never reaches -infinite, but -a reality-
in the thing-itself, namely thisi—that it never was
not, nor had any beginning. Moreover, hav-'
ing demonstrated concerning this infinity and
eternity, without beginning/ that it cannot possi-i
hiy-belong to any'successive being, we confident­
ly conclude against these Atheists' also, that it
was not matter and motion,- or this' mundaue*
system, but a perfect immutable nature, of a per­
manent duration (that-is,’a God), to whom it be-'
longed. To sum up all, therefore, we say, that;
234 OMNIPOTENCE NOT TO BE EXTENDED
infinite and eternal are not words, that signify no^
thing in the thing itself, nor mere attributes of ho*
nour, compliment, and flattery, that is, of devout
and religious nonsense, error, and falsehood ; but
attributes belonging to the Deity, and to that
alone, of the most philosophic truth and reality.
And though we, being finite, have no full compre­
hension and adequate understanding of this infi­
nity and eternity (as not of the Deity), yet can we
not be without some notion, conception, and ap­
prehension thereof, so long as we can thus de­
monstrate concerning it, that it belongs to some­
thing, and yet to nothing neither, but a perfect
immutable nature. .But the notion of this infinite
eternity will be yet further cleared in the follow-
ing explanation and vindication of infinite power.
For the Atheists principally quarrel with infi­
nite power, or omnipotence, and pretend, in like
manner, this to be utterly inconceivable and im­
possible, and subjected in nothing. Thus a mo­
dem atheistic writer concludes, that since no man
can conceive infinite power, this is also but an at­
tribute of honour, which the confounded nonsense
of astonished minds bestows upon the object of
their devotion, without any philosophic truth and
reality. And here have our modern Atheists in­
deed the. suffrage and agreement of the ancient
philosophic Atheists also with them, who, as ap­
pears from the vefses before cited out of Lucre-
tins, concerned themselves in nothing more, than
asserting all power to be finite, and omnipotence,
or infinite power, to belong to nothing.
First, therefore, it is here observable, that this
omnipotence,or infinite power,asserted byTheists,
has been commonly either ignorantly mistaken,
TO THINGS CONTRADICTIOUS. 235
or wilfully misrepresented by these Atheists, out
of design to make it seem impossible and ridicu­
lous, as if by it were meaut a power ofproducing
and doing auy thing whatsoever, without excep­
tion, though never so contradictious; as a late
atheistic person, seeming toassert this Divine om­
nipotence and infinite power really and design­
edly, notwithstanding abused the same with this
sceptic irony, That God by his omnipotence, or
infinite power, could turn this tree into a syllo­
gism. Children, indeed, have sometimes such
childish apprehensions of the Divine omnipotence;
and Ren. Cartesius* (though otherwise an acute
philosopher) was here no less childish, in affirm­
ing, that all things whatsoever, even the natures of
good and evil, and all truth and falsehood, do so
depend upon the arbitrary will and power of God,
as that, if he bad pleased, twice two should not
have been four; nor the three angles of a plain
triangle equal to two right ones, and the like; he
only adding, that all these things, notwithstand­
ing, when they were once settled by the Divine de­
cree, became immutable; that is, I suppose, not
in themselves, or to God, but unto us: than which
no paradox of any old philosopher was ever more
absurd and irrational. And certainly, if any one
did desire to persuade the world that Cartesius,
notwithstanding all his pretences to demonstrate
a Deity, was indeed but an hypocritical Theist,
or personated and disguised Atheist, he could
. not have a fairer pretence for it out of all his
writings than from hence; this being plainly to
destroy the Deity, by making one attribute thereof
* Vide Respons. ad Objectiones sextas, $. vi. p. 160. edit Amstel.
1685. in4to.
23fe OMNIPOTENCE NOT TO BE EXTENDED
to devour and swallow up another; infinite will
and power, infinite understanding and wisdom;
'For to suppose God to understand, and to be wise
only by his will,- is all one-as to suppose him to
have really no understanding at all. Wherefore
we do not affirmx
God to be so omnipotent, or -in­
finitely powerful, ias that he is able to destroy or
change the intelligible natures of things at plea­
sure; this being all one as to say, that God is so
omnipotent and infinitely powerful, that he is able
to destroy, or to baffle and befool his own-wisdoitf
and understanding, which is the very* rule and
measureof his power; We say not, therefore, that
God by his omnipotence^ or infinite power, could
make twice two not to be four, or turn a tree into
a syllogism; bnt we say, that omnipotence, or in­
finite power, is that- which can produce and do
all whatsoever is possible, that is, whatsoever is
conceivable, and implies’no manner of contradic­
tion ; the very essence of possibility being no
other than conceptibility. - And thus has .the
point been stated all along, not only, by Christian
Theists, .but even the ancient Pagan theologers
themselves, -that omnipotence, or infinite power,
is that which can do all things; that do not impty
a contradiction, or- which are not inconceivable.-
This appearing from-that of Agatho, cited before
out of Aristotle,* That nothing is exempted from
the Divine power, but only to make mirpajfilva aye-'
vi»ra, what hath been done tobe-undone, or the like
hereunto.’ Now infinite power being nothiugelse
but .a power of-doing whatsoever is conceivable,’
it is plainly absurd-to say, that a power of dding
nothing but what is conceivable isinconceivable.
- * Lib. vi. ad Nicomach. cap. iLp. 98. tom. iii. oper.
TO THINGS CONTRADICTIOUS. 237
r But, because the Atheists look upon infinity
assucb a desperate.and affrightful thing* we shall
bere render it something more easy, and take off*
that frightful vizard from it, which makes it seem
such a mormo, or bug-bear to them, by declaring,
in the next place, that infinity is really npthing
else but perfection. For infinite understanding
and knowledge is nothing else but perfect know­
ledge, that which hath no defect or mixture of
ignorance with it, or the knowledge of whatso­
ever is knowable. So, in like manner,- infinite
power is nothing else but perfect power, that
which bath no defect or mixture of impotency in
it;, a power of producing and doing all whatso­
ever is possible, that is, whatsoever is conceiv­
able. Infinite power can do whatsoever infinite
understanding can conceive, and nothing else;
conception being the measure of power, and its
extent, and whatsoever is in itself inconceivable
being therefore impossible. Lastly, infinity of
duration or eternity, is really nothing else but per­
fection, as including necessary existence and im­
mutability in i t : so that it is not only contradic­
tions to such-a Being, to cease to be or exist, but
also to have had a newness or beginning of being,
or to have any flux or change therein, by dying to
the present, and acquiring something new to it­
self, which was not before. Notwithstanding
which, this being comprehends the differences of
past, present, and future, or the successive prior­
ity and posteriority of all temporary things: and.
because infinity is perfection, therefore can no­
thing, which includeth any thing of imperfection,
ip the very idea and. essence of it, be ever truly,
and properly infinite, as number, corporeal mag-
240 .THEOLOGY NOT
lately perfect, we having a notionor idea of the lat-
•ter, must needs have of the former* From whence
.we learn also,, that though the word infinite be in
the form thereof negative, yet is the sense of it, in
those things which are really capable of the same,
positive,.it being all one with absolutely perfect;
as likewise the -sense of the word finite is negar
tive, it being the saine with imperfect. So that
finite is- properly the negation of infinite, as that
.which in order of nature is before it; and not in­
finite the negation of finite, however, in those
.things which are capable of no true.infinity, be­
cause they are essentially finite, as number, cor­
poreal magnitude, and time, infinity .being there a
mere imaginary thing, and a non-entity, it can.only
be conceived by the negation of finite; as we also
conceive nothing by the negation of-something;
that is, we can have no positive conception
thereof.
We conclude, to assert an infinite Being, is no­
thing else but to assert a Being absolutely, per­
fect, such as never was not, or bad no beginning,
which could produce ail things possible and con­
ceivable, and upon which, all other things must
depend. And this is to assert a God; oue absoT
lately perfect Being, the Original of all things:
God, add Infinite, and. absolutely Perfect,, being
butdifferent names for one and the same thing.
• We eome now.to the fourth atheistic objection,
That theology is nothing but an arbitrarious.com-
pilement. of inconsistent and contradictious no­
tions. Where, first, we deny not, but that as soma
theologers (or bigotical religionists) of.later times
extend the Divine omnipotence-to .things.contra­
dictious and impossibly, as to the making of one
CONT8ADICTIOVS. 411
And the saraebody, to- be aU Of it in several dis­
tant places at once; «o may others sometimes un­
skilfully attribute to the Deity things inconsistent
or contradictions to one another, because seeming
to them to be all perfections. As. for example,
though it be concluded, generally, by theplo&nfi,
that there is a natural justice and sanctity in the
Deity, yet do some notwithstanding contend, that
the will of God is not determined.by any antece­
dent rule or nature of justice.and,sanctity in tbe
Deity, yet do somenotwithstanding contend, that
the will of God is not determined by any antecer
dent rule or nature of justice, but that wbatsor
ever be could be supposed to ;will arbitrarily,
would therefore be ipsofacta ju st; which is called
by them the Divine sovereignty, and looked upon
as a great perfection; though it be certain, that
these two things are directly contradictious to.one
another, w>. That there is something plm, in its
own nature just and unjust, or a natural sanctity
in God; and that the arbitrary will and command
of the Deity is the only rule of justice *Hid;ipj«s<-
lice. Again, stole theologers determining,. That
whatsoever is in God, is God, or essential to. the
Deity; they conceiving such an immutability to
be a necessary perfection thereof, seem thereby
not only to contradict all liberty of will in the
Deity, which themselves notwithstanding contend
for in a high degree, that all.tbipgs we arbitrarily
determined by Divine decree.; but also to take
away from it all power of acting and of
perceiving or animadverting things, done sycccs-r
fiively here in the world. But it will not follow
from these and the like contradictions of mistaken
theologers, that therefore theology itself is contra-
VOL. III. R
2 4 2 g o d ’s u n d e r s t a n d in g , w it h o u t
dictibus, and bath nothing of philosophic truth
at all in it; no more than because philosophers
also bold contradictory opinions, that therefore
philosophy itself is contradictious, and that there
is nothing absolutely true or false, but (according
tothe Protagorean doctrine) all seeming and fan­
tastical.
But in the next place we add, that though it be
true, that the nature of things admits of nothing
contradictious, and that whatsoever plainly im­
plies a contradiction, must therefore of necessity
be a non-entity; yet is this rule, notwithstanding,
obnoxious to be much abused, when whatsoever
men’s shallow and gross understandings cannot
reach to, they will therefore presently conclude
to be contradictious and impossible. As, for ex­
ample, the Atheists and Materialists cannot con­
ceive of any other substance besides body, and
therefore do they determine presently, that incor­
poreal substance is a contradiction in the very
terms, it being as much as to say, incorporeal
body:* wherefore when God is said by tbeo-
logers to be an incorporeal substance, this is
to them an absolute impossibility. Thus a natf-
dern writer: “ The universe, that is, the whole
mass of all things, is Corporeal; that is to say,
body. Now every part of body is body, and
consequently every part of the universe is body;
and that which is not body, is no part thereof.
And because the universe is all, that which is no
part of it, nothing. Therefore when spirits are '
called incorporeal, this is only a name of honour,
and it may with more piety be attributed to God
* Hobbes’s Leviath. cap. x*xiv.
BRAINS, NO CONTRADICTION; ' 34$
himself, in whom we consider, not what attribute
best expresseth his nature, which is incomprehen­
sible, but what best expresseth our desire to ho­
nour him.” Where incorporeal is said to be an
attribute of honour; that is, such an attribute;
as expresseth only the veneration ofmen’s minds*
but signifielh nothing in nature, nor hath any phi­
losophic truth and reality under it; a substance
incorporeal being as contradictious as something
and nothing. Notwithstanding which, this con­
tradiction is only in the weakness and childish^
ness of these men’s understandings, and not the
thing itself; it being demonstrable, that there is
some other substance besides body, according to
the true and genuine notion of it. But because
this mistake is not proper to Atheists only, there
being some Theists also, who labour under this
same infirmity ofmind, not to be able to conceive
any other substance besides body, and who there:
fore assert a corporeal Deity; we shall in the next
place shew, from a passage of a modern writer,
what kind of contradictions they are, which these
Atheists impute to all theology, namely, such as
these; that it supposes God to perceive things sen­
sible, without any organs of sense; and to under­
stand and be wise without any brains. “ Pious
men (saith. he) attribute to God Almighty, for ho­
nour’s sake, whatsoever they see honourable in
the world, as seeing, bearing, willing, knowing,
justice, wisdom, &c. But they deny him such
poor things, as eyes, ears and brains, and other
organs, without which we worms neither have*
nor can conceive, such faculties to b e: and so for
they do well. But when they dispute of God’s
actions philosophically, then do they consider
r 2
9 4 4 g o d ’h u n d e r s t a n d in g , w it h o u t
them Again, as if ha had indeed stoeh faculties.
This is not well, and thence is it, that they fall
into so many difficulties. We ought not to dis­
pute bf God’s nature. He is no fit subject of.our
philosophy. True religion oonsisteth in obedi­
ence to Christ’s lieutenants, and in giving God
such honour, both in attributes and actions, as
they in their several lieutenancies shall ordain,”
Where the plain and undisguised meaning of the
author seems to-be this: That God is no subject
of philosophy, as all real things are;, (accord­
ingly as he declareth elsewhere, thata Religio
non est philosophia, sed lex R elig io n is not a
matter of philosophy, but only of law and arbi­
trary constitution)—
rhe having no real nature of
his own, nor being any true inhabitant of the
world or heaven, but (as all other ghosts and
spirits) ad inhabitant of men’s brains only, that is,
a figment of their fear and fancy, or a mere poli­
tical scajrercrow. And therefore such attributes
are to be given to him, without any. scrupulosity,
as the civil law of every country shall appoint
and no other; the wise and nasute very well un­
derstanding, that all this business of religion is
nothing but mere pageantry, and that the.attri­
butes of the Deity indeed signify neither true.nor
false, nor any thing in nature, but only men’s re­
verence and devotion towards the object of their
fear: the manner of expressing:which.is.deter­
mined by civil few. Wherefore to say, that God
sees all things, and yet hath no eyes; and.that he
hears all things, and yet bath no ears apd that
he understands, and is wise, and yet bath no
Do Homme, cap. *iv;
BRAINS, MO COhfRADtCTION. 2 4 6
brains; and whatsoever else you will please to say
ofhim, as attributes ofhonour, and only as signify­
ing devotion, is thus far well enough. But when
men, not understanding the true cabala, will needs
go further, they mistaking attributes of honour for
attributes of nature* and of philosophic truth, and
making them premises to infer absolute truth, and
convince falsehood from, or matters to dispute'
and reason; that is, when they will needs snppOse
such a thing as a God really to exist in the world,
then do they involve themselves in all manner of
contradiction, nonsense, and absurdity; as,for ex-*
ample, to affirm seriously, that this God really
sees all things in the world, and yet hath no eyes;
and that he indeed hears all things, and yet hath
no ears; and, lastly, that he understands and iS
Wise, and yet hath no brains, which things are all
absolutely contradictious, unconceivable and im­
possible. The sum of all is this, that when reli­
gion and theology, which is indeed nothing but
law and ftmtastry, is made philosophy, then is it
all mere jargon and insignificant nonsense. Abd
now we see what those contradictions are, which
the Atheists charge upon theology; Such as owe
all their being only to the grossness, sottishness,
and brutishness ofthese men’s ownapprehenslons.
From whetice proceedeth likewise, this following
definition of knowledge and understanding,* That
k is nothing bat a tumult of the mind, raised by
external things, pressing the organioal parts of
man’s bodyt ' O ye brutish among the people,
when) will ye understand? and ye fools, when
will ye be wise ? He that planted the ear, (and
gave man’s soul a power of hearing thereby) shall
3 - pdibUS&B, o tp . s a i /e t E i c i t W l 46 C S V c,«»p. x y .
2 4 6 THIS ATTRIBUTES OF GOD, NO
not be (though himself have no ears) hear ? He!
that formed the. eye (and gave the human soul a
power of seeing, by it as an instrument) shall not
he (though himself have no eyes) see ? Lastly, he.
that teacheth man knowledge, (or gave him an
Understanding mind, besides brains) shall not he
(though, himself be without brains) know and un­
derstand?”
It is: certain, that no simple idea, as that of a
triangle or a square, of a cube or sphere, can pos­
sibly be contradictious to itself; and therefore
much less can the idea of a perfect Being (which
is the compendious idea of God), it being more
simple than any of the other. Indeed this simple
idea of a perfect Being is pregnant of. many attri-.
butes; and therefore, the idea of God, more fully
declared by them all, may seem to be in this
respect a compounded idea, or one idea and
conception, consisting or made up of many;
which, if they were really contradictious, would
render the whole a non-entity. As, for example,
this; a plain triangle, whose three angles are
greater than two right ones, it being contradic­
tious and unconceivable, is therefore no true idea,
but a non-entity. But all the genuine attributes
of the Deity, of which its entire idea is made up,
are things as demonstrable of a perfect Being, as
the properties of a triangle or a square are of
those ideas respectively, and therefore cannot they
possibly be contradictious, neither to it, nor to
one another, because those things, which agree in
one third, must needs agree together amongst
themselves.
. Nay, thegenuine attributes ofthe Deity, namely
such as are demonstrable of an absolute perfect
DEVOUT RELIGIOUS NONSENSE. 247
Being, are not only not contradictious, but also
necessarily connected together, and inseparable
from one another. For there could not possibly'
be one thing infinite,in wisdom only, another thing
infinite only in power, and another thing only infi­
nite in duration or eternal. But the very same
thing, which is infinite in wisdom, must needs be
also infinite in power, and infinite in duration, and
so vice versa. That, which is infinite in any one
perfection, must of necessity have all perfections
in it. Thus are all the genuine attributes of the
.Deity not only not contradictious, but alsp inse­
parably concatenate; and the idea of God no
congeries either of disagreeing things; or else of
such, as are unnecessarily connected with one
another.
In very truth, all the several attributes of the
Deity are nothing else but so many partial and
inadequate conceptions of one and the same
-simple perfect Being, taken in as it were by piece­
meal, by reason of the imperfection of our human
.understandings, which could not fully conceive it
all together at once ;"and therefore are they really
all but one thing, though they have the appear­
ance of multiplicity to us. As the one simple
light of the son, diyersely refracted and reflected
from a rorid cloud, hath to us the appearance of
the variegated colours of the rainbow.
Wherefore the attributes of God are no bundle
of unconceivables and impossibles, huddled up
together; nor attributes of honour and compli­
ment only, and nothing but the religious nonsense
of astonished minds, expressing their devotion
towards what they fear; but all of them attri­
butes of nature, and of most severe philosophic
THE ATTRIBUTES OP GOD, NO
truth. Neither is the idea OfGod art arbitrations
complement of things unnecessarily connected*
and separable from one another; it is no facti­
tious, nor fictitious thing, made up by any feigning
power of the sou), but it is a natural and most
simple uncompounded idea; suoh as to which no*
thing can be arbitfariously added, nor nothing
detracted from. Notwithstanding which, by rea­
son of the imperfection of human minds, there
taay be, are, different apprehensions concerning
it. tb r as every One, that hath a conoeption of a
plain triangle in general doth not therefore know,
that it includes this property in it, to have three
abgies equal to two right Ones; nor doth every
one, who hath an idea of a rectangular triangle,
presently understand, that the square of the sub­
tense is equal to the squares of both the sides;
so neither doth every one, Who hath a conception
ofa perfect Being,therefore presently know all that
is included in that idea. Moreover, men may ear
sily mistake things for absolute perfections, which
are not such, as hath been partly already shewed.
Add now, Whereas the Atheists protend, in the
next place, to give an account of that supposed
contradictiousuess in the idea and attributes of
God, ndinely, that it proceeded principally from
fear, or the confounded nonsense ofmen’s astonish­
ed minds, huddling uptogetherall imaginable attri­
butes ofhonour, courtship, and Compliment, with­
out any philosophic truth, sense, or signification;
us also, in part, from the fiction and imposture of
politicians: all this hath been already prevented,
and the foundation thereof quite taken away, by
our shewing,' that there is nothing in the genuine
idea of God and bis attributes, but what is demon-
BEVOtJT fttLlOIOOS MONSENSfc. 2 4 0
strable of a perfect Being, and thht there caduot
be the least either added to that idea, or detract*
ed from it, any more than there can be any thing
added to or detracted from the idea of a triangle,
or of a square. From whence it follows unavoid­
ably, that there cannot possibly be any thing ei­
ther contradictious or arbitrarious in the Divine
idea, and that the genuine attributes thereof are
attributes of necessary philosophic truth: namely,
such as do not only speak the piety, devotion,
and reverence of men’s own minds, but declare
the real nature of the thing itself. Wherefore,
when a modem atheistic writer affirmetb of all
those, who reason and conclude concerning God’s
nature from his attributes, “ That, losing their un­
derstanding in the very first attempt, they foil from
one inconvenience (or absurdity) to another with­
out end; after the same manner, as when one, ig­
norant of oourt ceremonies, coming into the pre­
sence of a greater person than he was wont to
Speak to, and stumbling at his entrance, to' save
himself from foiling, lets slip his cloak;' to reco-
-ver his cloak, lets foil his hat; and so, with onedis>
order after another, discovers his rusticity and as­
tonishment:1
’ we say, that, thOugh there be some­
thing Of wit and fancy in this, yet, as it is applied
to theology, and the genuine attributes Of the
Deity, there is hot the least of philosophic truth.
However, we deny not but that some, either out
of superstition, or else out of flattery, (for thus
are they styled by St. Jerotrie,* “ stulti adulatores
Dei,” foolish flatterers of God Almighty)—have
sometimes attributed such things to him as are
incongruous to his nature, and, under a;pretence
a Comment*in Habacuc. Mb. i. p. 148.tom. vi.Dper.
2 6 0 FEAR, AND IGNORANCE OF CAUSES,
of hooooribg him, by magnifying his power and
sovereignty, do indeed most highly dishonour
him; they representing him to be snch a Being as
is no way amiable or desirable.
But the Atheists are most of all concerned to
give an accouht of that unquestionable pheno­
menon—the general persuasion of the existence of
a God in the minds of men, and their propensity
to religion in all ages and places of the world;
whence this should come, if there be really no
such thing in nature: and this they think to do
hi the last place, also, partly from men’s own
fear, together with their ignorance of causes, and
partly from the fiction of law-makers and po­
liticians, they endeavouring thereby to keep men
in civil subjection under them ; where we shall
first plainly and nakedly declare the Atheist’s
meaning, and then manifest the invalidity and
foolery of these pretences to solve the foremenr
tioned phenomenon.
First, therefore, these Atheists affirm, That
mankind, by reason of their natoral imbecility,
are in perpetual solicitude, anxiety and fear, con­
cerning future events, or their good and evil for­
tune to come; and this passion of fear inclining
men to imagine things formidable and fearful,
and to suspect or believe the existence of what
really is not; I say, that this distrustful fear and
jealousy in the minds of men, concerning their
future condition, raises up to them the phantasm
of a most affrightfnl spectre, an invisible under­
standing Being, arbitrarily governing and sway­
ing the affairs of the whole world, and at plea­
sure tyrannizing over mankind. And when men’s
exorbitant fear and fancy has thus raised up to
THE ATHEIST’S SEEDS OF RELIGIOW. 851
itsdf sdch a mormo, or bug-bear, such an af-
frigbtful spectre, as this, a thing that is really no
inhabitant of the world, or of heaven, but only of
men’s brains, they afterward stand in awe of this
their own imagination, and tremblingly worship
this creature and figment of their own fear and
fancy, as a thing really existing without them, or
a God;.devising all manner of expressions of
honour and reverence towards .it, and anxiously
endeavouring, by all ways conceivable, to propi­
tiate and atone the same. And thus have they
brought upon themselves a most heavy yoke of
bondage, and filled their lives with all manner of
bitterness and misery.
Again, to this fear of future events the Atheists
add also ignorance ofcauses, as a further account
ofthis phenomenon of religion, so generally enter­
tained in the world. For mankind (say they) are
naturally inquisitive into the causes of things; and
that not only of the events of their own good and
evil fortune, but also of the phenomenon of the
world, and the effects of nature: and such is their
curiosity, that wheresoever they can discover no
visible and natural causes, there are they prone to
feign and imagine other causes, invisible and su­
pernatural. As it was observed of the tragic dra­
matists that, whenevertheycould not wellextricate
themselves, they were wont to bring in a god upon
-the. stage : and as Aristotle *recordeth of Anax­
agoras, that he never betook himself to Mind, or
■Understanding, that is, to God for a cause, but
only when be was at a loss for other natural and
necessary causes. From whence these Atheists
would infer, that nothing but ignorance of causes
* Metaphjs.lib. i. cap.iv,p. 267. tom. iv. oper.
252 PgAR, AND IGNORANCE OP CAUSES)
rtiade Anaxagoras to Assert a Deity. Wherefore
it is no wonder (say they) if the generality of matt-
kind, being ignorant of the causes almost Of all
events and effects of nature, have, by reason of
their natural curiosity and fear, feigned or intro*
duced one invisible poorer or agent omnipotent,
as the supreme cause of all things; they betaking
themselves thereto, as to a kind of refuge, asylum,
or sanctuary for their ignorance.
■ These two accounts of the phenomenon of re*
ligion, from men’s fear and solicitude about future
events, and from their ignorance of causes, to­
gether with their curiosity* are thus joined to­
gether by a modern writer :* “ Perpetual fear of
future evils always accompanying mankind) in the
ignorance of causes, as it were in the dark, must
needs have for object something. And therefore
when there is nothing to be seen, there is nothing
to accuse for their evil fortune, but some power
Or agent invisible.” Moreover, it is concluded,
that from the same originals sprang, not only that
•vulgar opinion of inferior ghosts and spirit! also,
subservient to the supreme Deity (aB the great
ghost of the whole world, apparitions being nor­
thing but men’s own dreams and fancies takeR
by them for sensations), but also men’s taking
things casual for prognostics, and their being so
superstitiouSly addicted to omens and portents,
oracles, and divinations and prophecies; this pro­
ceeding likewise from the same fantastic, suppo­
sition, that the things of the world Are disposed
of, not by nature, but by some understanding And
iutfending agent or persons
*Nobbes, Leviath.eap. xii. bThis is levelled against Hobbes
De Homine, cap. xiii*and leviathan, cap, xii.
THE ATHEIST’S SEEDS OS RELIGION. iS A
’ But lest these two fbremeBtioned aooounts o f
that phenomenon of religion, and the belief of a
Deity, so epidemical to mankind, should yet seem
insufficient; the Atheists will superadd a third to
them, from the fiction and imposture of civil
sovereigns, crafty law-makers, and designing poli­
ticians ;. who perceiving a great advantage to be.
made, from the belief of a God and religion, for
the better keeping of men in obedieuce and sub-*
jection to themselves, and in peaoe and civil
society with one another (when they are per­
suaded, that besides the punishments appointed
by laws, which can only take place upon open and
convicted transgressors, and are often eluded and
avoided, there are other punishments, that'will be
inflicted even upon the secret violators of them,
both ip this life and after death, by a Divine, iuViai,
ble, and irresistible hand) have thereupon dex-,
terously laid hold of men’s fear and ignorance, and
cherished those seeds of religion in them (being
the infirmities of their nature) and further con­
firmed their belief of ghosts and spirits, miracles
and prodigies, oracles and divinations, by tales
or fables, publicly allowed and recommended;
according to that definition of religion given by a
modern writer,* “ Fear of power invisible, feigned
by the mind, or imagined from tales publicly al­
lowed, religion; not allowed, superstition.” And
that religion, thus nursed up by politicians, might
be every way compliant with, and obsequious to,
tbeir designs, and no way refractory to the same;
it hath been their great care to persuade the peo­
ple, that their laws were not merely their own in­
ventions, but that themselves were only the inter-
• Leviathan, cap. Yu
2 5 4 OF THE ORIGIN OF RELIGION. ::
pretera of the gods therein, and that the same
things were really displeasing to the gods, which
were forbidden by them; God ruling over the
world no otherwise, than in them, as his vicege­
rents ; according to that assertion of a late writer;
Tr»ci. T
heoi. “ Deum nullum regnnm in homines ha-
spiSoJX'. here, nisi per eos, qui imperium tenent,**
fx. p. si*.] that God reigneth over men, only in the
civil sovereigns.—This is therefore another atheis­
tic account of religion’s so generally prevailing in.
the world, from its being a fit engine of state, and:
politicians generally looking upon it as an arca­
num imperii, a mystery of government—to.possess
the minds of the people with the belief of a God,
and to keep them busily employed in the exercises
of religion, thereby to render them the more tame
and gentle, apt to obedience, subjection, peace,
and civil society.
Neither is all this the mere invention o'f modern
Atheists, but indeed the old atheistic cabal, as
may appear partly from that known passage of
the poet,8That the gods were first made by fear—
and from Lucretius’s so frequently insisting upon'
the same, according to the mind of Epicurus.'
For in his first book he makes “ terrorem animi, et
tenebras,”terror ofmind, and darkness—the chief
causes of Theism; and in his sixth, he further pur­
sues the same grounds, especially the latter of
them, after this rnauner:
Lamb. £28. Caetera quae fieri io terns coeloque tuentur.
[▼
er. 49.] Mortals, pavidis quom pendent tnentibu’ saepe,
Efficiunt animos humiles formidine diyum;
Depressosque premunt ad terrain, propterea quod
I gnorantia causarum conterre deorum
Cogit ad imperi'um res; et concedere regnum, et,
*Petron. in Fragment, p. 676. edit. Burman.
THE OLD ATHEISTIC CABAL* 255
Quorum' opernm ciitms nulla nttiooe ridtn
Peasant, baec fieri divino uuminc rentur.
To this sense; Mortals, when with trembling
minds they behold the objects both of heaven and
earth, they become depressed and sink down un­
der the fear of the gods; ignorance of causes
setting up the reign and empire of the gods. For
when men can find no natural causes of these
things, they suppose them, presently, to have been
done by a Divine power.
And this ignorance of causes is also elsewhere
insisted upon by the same poet, as the chief source
of religion, or the belief of a God* •
Praeterea coeli rationes ordine certo,
Et varia annorum cernebant tempora verti;
Nec poterant quibus id fieret cognoscere causis*
Ergo pbrfugium sibi habebant, omnia divis
Tradere, et ipsorum nutu facere omnia flectL
Moreover, when a modern writer declares the
opinion of ghosts to be one of those things, in
which consisteth the natural seeds of religion : as
also that this opinion proceedeth from the igno­
rance how to distinguish dreams, and other strong
fancies from vision and sense; he seemeth herein
to have trod likewise in the footsteps of Lucretius,
giving, not obscurely, the same account of religion
in his fifth book.*
None quae causa deum per magnas tmmiiia gentes
Pervolgarit, et ararum compleverit urbes, See..
Non ita difficile est rationem reddere verbis.
Quippe etenim jam turn divum uiortalia secla
Egregias ammo facies vigilante videbant,
Et magis in spmnis, mirando corporis aueta.
His igitur sebsum tribuebant, Scc»
That is, How the poise of the gods came thus to
*v«.ueo.
Lib. v. Lamb,
p. A00. [var. *
1182.]
850 ‘CHE OLD ATHBJSTIC CABAL.
ring over the whole world, and to fill all places
with temples and altars, is not a thing very diffi­
cult to.give anaccount of; it proceeding first from
men’s fearful dreams, and. their phantasms when
awake, taken by them for visions and sensations.
Whereupon they attributed not only sense tci thesis
things, as really existing, but also immortality end
great power. For though this were properly an
account only.of those inferior and plebeian gods,
called demons and genii, yet was it supposed,
that: the belief of these things did easily dispose
the minds of men also to the persuasion of one
supreme omnipotent Deity over all.
Lastly, that the ancient Atheists, as well as the
modern, pretended, the opinion of a Cod and
religion to have been a political invention, is fre­
quently declared in the writings of the Pagans;
as in this of Cicero,a “ Ii, qui dixerunt totam de
diis immortalibus opinionem fictavn esse ab horai-
nibus sapientibus, reipublicae causa, ut quos ratio
non posset, eos ad officium religio duceret; nonne
omnem religionem funditus sustulerunt ?” They,
who affirmed the whole opinion of the gods to
have been feigned by wise men for the sake of the
commonwealth, that so religion might engage
those totheir duty, whom reason could not, did
they not utterly destroy all religion ?—And the
sense of the ancient Atheists is thus represented
De Leg. 1.x. hy Plato ; 0eowc, w fiaK apit, u v a i irpw rov <pa-
[p. 666.] all/ ovtoi Tt^vp, ow <j>vcrtt, aXXa ru n vofioig' Kal
tovtouq aXXovc aXXote, ottt) tK aaroi avvw fw X oy^ aav vofio-
Oerovjievoi' They first of all affirm, that the gods
are not by nature, but by art and laws only ; and
that from thence it comes to pass, that they are
* De N et Deor. lib. i. *l#i. p. 2946. tom. ix. oper.
THE OLD ATHEISTIC CABAL. 2 5 7
different to different nations and countries, accord­
ingly as the several humours of their law-makers
did chance to determine.—And before Plato, Cri-
tias, one of the thirty tyrants of Athens, plainly de­
clared religion' at first to have been a political in?
trigne, in those verses of his recorded by Sextus*
the philosopher, beginning to this purpose; “ that
there was a time at first, when men’s life was dis­
orderly and brutish, and the will of the stronger
was the only law: after which they consented and
agreed together to make civil l a w s t h a t so the
disorderly might be punished. Notwithstanding
which, it was still found, that men were only
hindered from open but not from secret injus­
tices : whereupon some sagacious and witty per­
son was the author of a further invention, to de­
ter men as well from secret as from open injuries:
'Em #» o
Z
ryrJ flaw* denyfowrr
*Ac fori A$6tr«BaXXm
N6* r oxetMff tud faivon, fg ovam*
'T f' w arav f*b nd b tbuform,
ft irSv litTr‘forfoiT *i.
Namely, by introducing or feigning a God immor­
tal and incorruptible, who hears, and sees, and
takes notice of all things.—Critias then conclud­
ing his poem in these words;
O&ra M trgSfam olofxai. mXa-al rnw
Gvurwcn i a i p i t o n a7vai ybof.
And in this manner do I conceive, some one at
first to have persuaded mortals to believe, that
there is a kind of gods.b
* Lib. viiL advers. Mathemat §. 54. p. 552.
b To these passages ofthe ancients, whereinthporiginof all religion
is ascribed to state-policy, add Seneca, Quaest Natur. lib. ii. cap.
xlii p. 536. tom. ii. pper and Sextus Empiric, lib. viii. advers. Ma­
themat. p. 551.
VOL. III. S
258 GOD, NO FIGMENT OF FEAR,
Thus havtewe fully declared the sense of the
Atheists, in their aceount of the phenomenon of
religiob and the beliefofa God;namely, that they
derive it principally from these three Springs or
originals; first, from men’s own fear and solicitude
concerning future events, or their good and evil
fortune. Secondly, from their ignorance of the
causes both of those events, and the phenome­
na of nature; together with their curiosity. And,
lastly, from the fiction of civil sovereigns, law­
makers and politicians. The weakness and fool­
ery of all which we shall now briefly manifest.
First, therefore, it is certain, that such an excess
of fear, as makes any one constantly and ob­
stinately to believe the existence of that, which
there is no manner Of ground neither from sense
nor reason for, tending also to the great disquiet
of men’s own lives, and the terror of their minds,
cannot be accounted other than a kind of crazed-
ness or distraction. Wherefore, the Atheists
themselves acknowledging the generality of man-
,kind to be possessed with such a belief of a Deity,
when they resolve this into such an excess of
fear; it is all one, as ifthey should affirm, the ge­
nerality ofmankind to befrighted out oftheir wits,
or crazed and distempered in their brains: none
but a few Atheists, who being undaunted and un­
dismayed have escaped this panic terror, remain­
ing sober and in their right senses. But, whereas
the Atheists thus impute to the generality Of man­
kind, not only light-minded Credulity and phhtt-
tastry, but also such an excess of fear, as differs
nothing at all from crazedness and distraction or
madness; We affirm, oh the contrary, that their
supposed courage, stayedness and sobriety, is
NOR MORMO, OR TERRICVLVM. 2 5 9
really nothing else but the dull and sottish stu­
pidity of their minds; dead and he^vy incredu­
lity, and earthly diffidence or distrust; by reason
whereof they will believe nothing but what they
can feel or see. , ,
Theists indeed have a religious fear of God,
which is consequent from him, or their belief of
him (of which more afterwards); but the Deity
itself, or the belief thereof, was not created by any
antecedent fear, that is, by fear concerning men’s
good and evil fortune; it being certain, that none
are less solicitous concerning such events, than
they who are most truly religious. The reason
whereof is, because these place their chief good
in nothing that is aXXorpcoy, aliene, or in another’s
power—and exposed to the strokes offortune; but
in that which is most truly their own, namely, the
right use of their own will. As the Atheists, on
the contrary, must needs, for this very reason, be
liable to great fears and solicitudes concerning
outward events, because they place their good
and evil in the iraffot iS w i; «cat Avjpic* the passion
ofpleasure and p a i n ■
or at least, denying natural
honesty, they acknowledge no other good but
what belongs to the animal life only, and so is un­
der the empire of fortunes And that the Atheists
are indeed generally timorous and fearful, sus­
picious and distrustful things, seems to appear
plainly from their building all their politics, civil
societies, and justice (improperly so called), upon
that only foundation of fear and distrust.
But the grand error of the Atheists,here is this,
that they suppose the Deity, according to the
sense of the generality of mankind, to be nothing
but a mormo, bug-bear, or terriculum, an af-
s 2
260 THE SENSE OF
frightful, hurtful, and most undesirable thing:
whereas men every where invoke the Deity in
their straits and difficulties for aid and assistance,
looking upon it as exorable and placable; and by
their trust and confidence in it, acknowledge its
goodness and benignity. Synesius affirms, that
though men were otherwise much divided in their
De Regno, Opinions, yet ayadov rov 0£ovvfivovaiv axav-
[oj»r. edit. «C avavra^oo jcot aotfun xal axnxjxH, they all
Fetteii.] every where,both wise and unwise, agree
in this, that God is to be praised, 3 s one who is
good and benign.
If among the Pagans there were any who un­
derstood that proverbial speech, fOovtpdvto &
u/io-
vtovf in the worst sense, as if God Almighty were
ofan envious and spiteful nature;—these were cer­
tainly but a few ill-natured men, who therefore
drew a picture of the Deity according to their
own likeness. For the proverb, in that sense,
was disclaimed and cried down by all the wiser
Pagans ; as Aristotle, who affirmed the poets to
have lied in this, as well as they did in many
M
etaph.i.i. other things; and Plutarch, who taxeth
c.t. [P.^ - Herodotus for insinuating to 0«ov wav
•5
t
«ro
d
ito
v ^Oovcpov t£ k
o
a Tapa^w&c* the Deity uni-
t t S E versally (that is, all the gods) to be of an
Zfiiad?*”
' envious and vexatious or spiteful dispo-
Mdig**^' sition;—whereashimselfappropriated this
857.tarnii. only to that evil demon or principle as-
o
p
er^ serted by him, as appeareth from the
life of P. iEmilius,* written by him, where he
affirmeth, not that to dtiw wav f&ovepov, the Deity
universally was of an envious nature :■
—but, that
there is a certain deity or demon, whose proper
a Tom. ii. oper. p. 273.
261
To 0t(OV <p$ovtpov.
task it is, to bring down all great and over-swell­
ing human prosperity, and so to temper every
man’s life, that none may be happy In this world,
sincerely and unmixedly, without a check of ad­
versity ;—which is, as if a Christianshould ascribe
it to the devil. And Plato *plainly declares the
reason of God’s making the world at first, to have
been no other than this, ayaOoc i$v, ayaQt# Si ovStlc
*(pi ovStvof ovSiirort tyyiyverai tpdovoc ? because h.6
was good, and there is no manner of envy in that
which is good.—From whence he also concluded,
iravra on fiaXiara i(Sov\qdn ytvtaBai vapavXriata avrip,
that God therefore willed all things should be
made the most like himself;—that is, after thebest
manner. But the true meaning ofthat ill-languaged
proverb seems, at first, to have been no other,
than wbat, besides Hesiod, the Scripture itself
also attributes to God Almighty, that he affectetb
to humble and abase the pride of men, and to pull
down all high, towering, and lofty things, whether
as noxious and hurtful to the men themselves, or
as in some sense invidious to him, and derogatory
from his honour, who alone ought to be exalted,
and no flesh to glory before him. And there hath
been,so much experience of such a thing as this
in the world, that the Epicurean poet himself
could not but confess, that there was some hid­
den force or power, which seemed to have a spite
to all over-swelling greatnesses, and affect to cast
contempt and scorn upon the pride of men;
Usque adeo res humanas vis abdita qusedam Lamb. 505.
Obterit, et pulchrojf fasces, ssevasque secures, [lib. v. ver.
Proculcare, ac ludibrio sibi habere videtur. 1232.]
a In Timaeo, cap. xiv. p. 237. edit. Fabricii.
262 HOW GOD THE
Where be plainly reeled and staggered in his
Atheism, or else was indeed a Theist, but knew
it Hot; it being certain, that there can be no
such force as this, “ in regno atomornm,” in
the reign or empire of senseless atoms.—And as
for those among Christians, who make such a
horrid representation of God Almighty, as one
who created far the greatest part of mankind, for
no other end or design, but only this, that be
might recreate and delight himselfin their eternal
torments; these also do but transcribe or copy
out their own ill-nature, and then read it in the
Deity ; the Scripture declaring on the contrary,
that God is love. Nevertheless these very per­
sons, in the mean time, dearly hug and embrace
God Almighty in their own conceit, as one that is
fondly good, kind, and gracious to themselves;
he having fastened his affections upon their very
persons, without any consideration oftheir disposi­
tions or qualifications.
It is true, indeed, that religion is often express­
ed in the Scripture by the fear of God, and fear
hath been said to be “ prima mensura Deitatis,”
thefirst measure of the Divinity in us,—or the first
impression, that religion makes upon men in this
obnoxious and guilty state, before they have ar­
rived to the true love of God and righteousness.
But this religious fear is not a fear of God, as a
mere arbitrary omnipotent Being, much less as
hurtful and mischievous (which could not be dis­
joined from hatred); but an awful regard of him,
as of erne who is essentially just, and as well a
punisher of vice and wickedness, as a rewarder of
virtue; Lucretius himself, when he describes this
religious fear of men, confessing it to be conjoined
OBJECT QF FEAR. 909
«
with a conscience of their duty, or to include the
same within itself;
Tone populi gentesque tremunt, fee. p. 503, [lib. ?.
Ne quod ob admisBum foede dictnmvc superbe, vers. 1223.]
Poenarum grave sit solvendi tenfpw adactum.
And this is the sense of the generality of man­
kind, that there being a natural difference of good
and evil moral, there is an impartial justice in the
Deity, which presideth overthe same,and inclines
it as well to punish the wicked, as to reward the
virtuous: Epicurus himself acknowledging thus
much, evOep Kai fuylaraQ j3Xaj3ag oiovrai, r o t f Ep.adMehao.
KaKoiQ ek Ot(ov tiraytaBai, Kal t&feXuac roic o'per.
ayaOotc, Theists suppose, that there arelj?ee^ l
rt
both great evils inflicted upon the wick-ub°*.$.T*4.
ed fromthe gods; and also great rewards p-665*
!
by them bestowed upon the good.—And this fear
of God is not only beneficial to mankind in gene­
ral, by repressing the growth of wickedness, but
also wholesome and salutary to those very persons
themselves, that are thus religiously affected/ it
being preservative of them both from moral evils,
and likewise from the evils of punishment conse­
quent thereupon. This is the true and genuine
fear of religion, which when it degenerates into a
dark kind, of jealous and suspicious fear of God
Almighty, either as a hurtful, or as a mere arbi­
trary and tyrannical Being, then is it looked upon
as the vice or extreme of religion, and distin­
guished from it by that name of Sam&u/iovla, super­
stition.—Thus is the character of a superstitious
man given by Plutarch, oferai (kmJc emu,
X«inipo«c 8e km fi\af3epovg, that he thinks ii. oper.]
there are gods, butthat they arenoxious and hurt­
ful ; and avayKrj KM fuauv tov SemBaifiova, km fojiturdM
2fi4 a t h e i s t s ; h o n a t u r a l
rowc dsow
c, A superstitious man must needs hate
God, as well as fear him.—“ The true fear of God
(as the son of Sirach speaks) is the beginning of
his love, and faith is the beginning of
ap.xxr. . c|eavjng t0 fjim<” As if he should have
said, The first entrance into religion is an awful re-
gard toGodasthe punisherof vice; the second step
forwards therein is faith or confidence in-God,
whereby men rely upon him for good, and cleave
to him; and the top and perfection of all religion
is the love of God above all, as the most amiable
Being. Christianity, the best of religions, recom-
mendeth faith to us, as the inlet or introduction
into all true and ingenuous piety; for “ he that
cometh to God, must not only believe that he is,
but also that he is a rewarder of those
H
eb.xu6. gggk hjm ” Which faith is better de­
fined in the Scripture than by any scholastic,to be
the substance of things (that are to be) hoped for,
and the evidence of things not seen; that is, a
confident persuasion of things that fall not under
sight (because they are either invisible or future),
and which also are to be hoped for. So that
religious fear consisteth well with faith, and faith
is near of kin to hope, and the result of both faith
and hope is love; which faith, hope and love, do
all suppose an essential goodness in the Deity.
God is such a being, who, if he were not, were of
all things whatsoever most to be wished for; it
being indeed no way desirable (as that noble Em­
peror concluded) for a man to live in a world
void of a God and providence. He that believes
a God, believes all that good and perfection in the
universe which bis heart can possibly wish or
desire. It is the interest of none, that there should
JUSTICE, NOB CHABITY. 205
be no God, batonly ofsuch wretched persons as
have abandoned tbeir first and only true interest
ofbeinggood, &
nd friends to God, and are de­
sperately resolved upon ways of wickedness.
The reason why the Atheists do thus grossly
mistakethe notion ofGod, and conceive of him
differently from the generality of mankind, as a
thingwhich is only to be feared, and mast con­
sequently be hated, isfromnothingbut theirown
vice and ill-nature. For, first, their vice so far
blinding them, as to make them think, that the
moral differences of good and evil have no foun­
dationinnature, but only inlawor arbitrary con­
stitution (which law is contrary tonature, nature
being liberty, but law restraint); as they cannot
but really bate that which hinders them of tbeir
true liberty and chief good,.so mast they needs
interprettheseverityofthe Deity so muchspoken
ofagainst wickedness, to be nothing elsebutcru­
elty and arbitrary tyranny. Again, itis a wretch­
ed ill-natured maxim, which theseAtheists have,
thatthere is “nullanaturalischaritas,”nonatural
charity,—but that “omnis benevolentia c
u
>
.d
«n. d.
oriturex imbecillitate etmetn,”all bene- i«p
.jui.p.'
volence arisethonly fromimbecilityand *
9
4
8
'o
p
e
r
'J
fear;—that is; frombeing either obnoxious to an­
other’s power, orstanding in needofhis help. So
that all that is now called love and friendship
amongst men, is, according to these, really no­
thing, bat either a crouching under another’s
power, whomthey cannot resist, orelse “merca-
tura quaedamutilitatum,” a certain kind of mer­
chandizingfor utilities.—And thus does ^ ;b
;d
CottainCicero declaretheir sense; “Ne ° ’
hominesquidemcensetis, nisi imbecilli essent, fu-
266 a t h e is t s ; n o n a t u r a l
turos benefieosaut benignos;” You conceivethat
nomanwouldheanywaybeneficentorbenevolent
to another, were it not for bis imbecility or indi­
gence.—Butas forGod Almighty, these Atheists
conclude, that upon the supposition ofhis exist­
ence, there could not be so much as this spuri­
ous love or benevolence in him neither towards
anything: becauseby reasonofbis absolute and
irresistible power, hewould neither standinneed
ofany thing, andbe devoid of all fear. Thus the
cicib
id
. forementioned Cotta: “ Quid est pr«-
stantius bonitate et beneficentia? Qua
cumcarereDeum vultis, neroinemDeo necDeum
nec hominem carum, neminemab eoamari vultis.
Itafit,ut non modohominesadiis,sedipsidiiinter
se ab aliis alii negligantur.” What is there more
excellent than goodness and beneficence? which
when you will needs have God to be utterly de­
void of, you suppose, that neither any god nor
man is dear to the supreme God, or beloved, of
him. From whence it will follow, that not.only
men are neglected by thegods, but also the gods
amongst themselves areneglectedbyoneanother.
—Accordingly a late pretendertopolitics, whoin
this manner discards all natural justice and char
rity, determines concerning God,* “ Regnandi et
puniendi eos, qui leges suas violant, jus Deo esse
asola potentia irresistibilithat hehas no other
rightofreigningover men, andofpunishingthose
who transgress his laws, but only fromhis irre­
sistible power.—Whichindeedisalloneastosay,
that God has no right at all of ruling over man­
kind, and imposing commands upon them, but
* Hobbes, Elcra. de Cive, cap. xv.•§. 4. p. 112. ct alias.
JUSTICE, NOE CHARITY. 267
what be doth inthiskind, hedothitonlybyforce
andpower, right audmight(or power) beingvery
different thingsfriomone another, andthere being
no ju s or rig h t without natural justice; so that
the word rig h t is here only abused. And con­
sentaneously hereunto, the same writer farther
adds,* “ si jus regnandi habeat Deus ab omni-
potentia sua, manifestum est obljgationem ad
praestandamjpsi obedientiam incumbere boraini-
bus propter irobecillitatemthat if God’s right
ofcommanding be derived only from bis omni­
potence, thenit is manifest, thatmen’sobligations
to obey him lie upon them only from their im­
becility,—Or, as it is farther explained by him,
“homines ideo Deo subjectos esse, quiaomnipo-
tentes non sunt, aut quia ad resistendum satis
virium non habentthat men are therefore only
subjectto God, becausethey are notomnipotent,
or have not,sufficient power toresist him.—Thus
do we see plainly, how the Atheists, by reasonof
their vice and ill-nature (which make themdeny
all natural justice and honesty, all natural cha­
rity and benevolence), transform the Deity into
a monstrous shape; such an omnipotent Being,
as, if be were, could have nothing neitherof jus­
tice in him, nor ofbenevolence towards his crea­
tures ; and whose only right and authority of
commandingthemwouldbehisirresistiblepower;
whom his creatures could not place any hope,
trust, and confidence in, nor have any other obli­
gation to obey, than that of fear and necessity,
proceeding from their imbecility, orinability to
resist him. And such a Deity as this is indeed
* Ibid. $.7. p. 114. •
268 NO FAITH, NOR'
a mormo or bug-bear, a most formidable and
affrightful thing.
But all this is nothing but the Atheists’false
imagination, true religion representing a most
comfortable prospect of things from the Deity;
whereas on the contrary, the atheistic scene of
things is dismal, hopeless, and forlorn, thatthere
should be no other good, than what depends
upon things wholly out of our own power, the
momentarygratification ofourinsatiate appetites,
and the perpetual pouring into a “ dolium pertu-
sum,”a perforatedandleaking vessel:—that our­
selves should be but a congeries of atoms, up­
on the dissolution of whose compages our life
should vanish into nothing, and all our hope pe­
rish: thatthere should be no providence over us,
nor any kind and good-natured being above to
take care of us, there being nothing without us
but dead and senseless matter. True, indeed,
therecouldbenospitefuldesigninsenselessatoms,
or a dark unconscious nature. Upon which ac-
count, Plutarch would grant, that even
DeSapent. , ? . ’ .
[p
.1
6
4
.to
m
. this atheistic hypothesis itself, as bad
.u
.o
p
e
r
.] ag -t were> notwithstanding, to be
preferred before that of an omnipotent, spiteful,
and malicious being (if there canbe anysuch hy­
pothesisasthis),amonarchyoftheManicheanevil
principle,reigningallaloneovertheworld,without
any cor-rival, and havingan undisturbed empire.
Nevertheless itis certain also, that therecouldbe
no faith nor hopeneitherin thesesenseless atoms,
both necessarily andfortuitously moved, no more
than there could befaith andhopeinawhirlwind,
orin a tempestuous sea, whose merciless waves
are inexorable,,and deaf to all cries and suppli-
HOPE, IN ATHEISM. 269
cations. For which reason Epicurus*
himself confessed, that it was better to p
-49•G
“*
-
give credit to the fableof gods(as he calls it),
than to serve the atheistic fate, or that material
necessity ofall things, introduced by those athe­
istic philosophers, Leucippus and Democritus:
xpcrrrov ijv ra> trepi Ouov pvOy mmuoXovOw, j| ry rwv ^mai-
Kutv tipapplvy' o pev yap ikiriSa npaini'inuc wroypafei fltalv
Sia npijg' 1} Si atrapalritrov iyju njv avaympi’ Because
there is hopes, that the gods may be prevailed
with by worship and prayer; but the other(ne­
cessity) is altogether deafand inexorable.—And
though Epicurus thought to mend the matter,
and maketheatheistichypothesis moretolerable,
by introducing into it (contrary to the tenor of
those principles) libertyof will in men; yet this,
beingnot apower overthingswithout us,but our­
selves only, could alter the case verylittle. Epi­
curus himself was in a panic fear, lest the frame
ofheavenshould sometime upon asudden crack,
and tumble about his ears, and this fortuitous
compilement ofatoms be dissolved into a chaos;
b ------------------- Tria talia texta
Una dies dabit exitio; multosqne per annos
Sastentaia ruet moles et machina mundi.
Andwhat comfort could his liberty of will then
affordhim,whoplacedallhishappinessinsecurity
from external evils ? TIXoc rov py vopifctv drove, pv
fofiturOai (saith Plutarch): The atheistic D
#S
n
p
e
r
st
designin shakingoffthebeliefof a God, [p.i«>.tom.
was to be without fear;—but by m eanso
p
*
r'1
hereof, they framed such a system of things to
themselves, as under which they could not have
» Vide Diog. Laert lib. x. segm. 134. p. 650.
* Lucret. lib. v. ver. 95.
370 ATHEISM FOUNDED
theieast hope, faith, or confidence. Thus running
from fear did they.plunge themselves into fear;
forthey, who arewithout hope, canneverbe free
from fear. Endless of necessity must the fears
andanxieties ofthose men be, whoshake offthat
one fear of God that would only preserve them
fromevil, and have no faith nor hope in them.
Whereforewemightconcludeuponbettergrounds
than the*Atheists do of Theism, that Atheism
(which hath no foundation at all in nature nor in
reason) springs first fromthe imposture of fear.
For the faith of religion being die substance or
confidence of such things not seen as are to be
hoped for; atheistic infidelity must needs, on the
contrary, be a certain heavy diffidence, despond­
ence,andmisgivingofmind, oratimorousdistrust
and disbeliefofgood to be hoped for, beyondthe
reach ofsense; namely, ofan invisible Being om­
nipotent,thatexerciseth ajust,kind,andgracious
providence, over all thosewhocommit theirways
to him,withanendeavourtopleasehim, bothhere
-ip this life and afterdeath. But vice, or thelove
oflawless;liberty,.prevailing over such disbeliev­
ing persons, makes them by degrees more and
more desirous, thatthere shouldbe no God;that
is, no such hindereroftheir liberty;andtocount
it a happiness to be freed fromthe fear of him,
Whose justice (if it were) they must needs be ob­
noxious to.
And now have we made it evident, that these
Atheists, who make religion and the beliefof a
Godtoproceed fromtheimpostureoffear, dofirst
of all disguise the Deity, and put a monstrous,
horrid, and affrightful vizard upon it, transform­
ing it into such a thing, as can only be feared
271
IN DISTRUST.
and hated; and then do they conclude concern-
ing it (as well indeed they may), that there is no
such thing as this really existing in nature, but
that itis only a tnormo or bug-bear, raised upby
men’s fear andfancy. Ofthetwo, it mightbetter
be said, that the opinion of a God sprung from
men’s hope of good, than fromtheir fear ofevil;
but really it springs neither from hope nor fear
(howeverin differentcircumstances it raises both
those passionsin ourminds); noris it the impos­
ture of any passion, but thatwhose beliefis sup­
ported and sustained bythe strongest and clear­
est reason, as shall be declared in due place.
But thesense of a Deity often preventing ratioci­
nation in us, and urging itself moreimmediately
upon us, it is certain, that there is also, besides a
rational belief thereof, a natural prolepsis or an­
ticipation in the minds of men concerning it,
W
hich, by Aristotle, is called M
avrea, a vaticina­
tion.
Thus have we sufficiently confuted the first
atheistic pretence to solve the phenomenon of re-
*ligion, and the beliefofaGod, hogenerally enter­
tained, fromthe imposture offear. Wecomenow
to the second, That it proceeded fromthe igno­
rance ofcauses also, ormen’swantofphilosophy;
they being prone, by reasonof theirinnate curio­
sity, where they find no causes to make or feign
them; and fromtheir fear, in the absence of na­
tural andnecessary causes, to'imaginesupernatu­
ral hod Divine; this also affording thema hand­
some cover and pretext for.their ignorance: for
which cause these Atheists stick not to affirmof
God Almighty, what somephilosophers.doofoc­
cult qualities, thatheisbut“perfugiumetasylum
272 THEISM NOT FROM
ignorantiae,” a refuge and shelter for men’s igno­
rance;—that is, in plainand downright language,
the meresanctuary offools.
And these twothings are here commonlyjoin­
ed togetherby these Atheists, bothfear, andigno-
rance of causes, as which jointly concur in the
production of Theism; because, as the fear of
children raises up bug-bears, especially in the
dark, so dotheysupposeinlikemannerthefearof
men, in the darkness oftheir ignoranceofcauses
especially, to raise up the mormo, spectre, or
phantasm of a God; which is thus intimated by
the Epicurean poet,*
And accordingly Democritus save this
amove; that when, in old times, men observed
strange and affrightful things in the meteors and
the heaven, as thunder, lightning, thunderbolts,
and eclipses, they not knowing the,causes there­
of, and beingterrified thereby, presently imputed
themto the gods.—And Epicurus declares this
to have been the reason, why he took suchgreat
pains in the study ofphysiology, that, by finding
out thenatural and necessarycauses ofthings,he
might beable tofreebothhimselfandothers from
the terror of a God, which would otherwise in­
vadeand assault them; the importunity ofmen’s
minds, whenever they are at a loss for natural
In tenebris metuunt.
* Lucrpt. lib. ii. ver. 54,55.
IGNORANCE OF CAUSES. 273
Causes, urging themso muchwith thefear, suspi­
cion, andjealousy, ofa Deity.
Wherefore theAtheiststhus dabbling inphysi­
ology,andfinding out, as theyconceive, material
and mechanical causes for some ofthe phenome­
na of nature, and especially for such of them as
the:unskilful vulgar sometimes impute to God
himself, when they can prove eclipses (for exam­
ple) to be no miracles, and render it probable,
that thunderis not the voice of God Almighty
himself, as it were roaring above in the heavens,
merely to affright, and amaze poor mortals, and
makethem quake and tremble; and thatthunder­
bolts are notthere flung byhis own hands, asthe
direful messengers of bis wrath and displeasure;
they presently conclude triumphantly thereupon,
concerningnatureor matter, that itdoth
* Ipsa sua per se, sponte, omnia Diis agere expers,
do all things alone ofitself without a God.—
-But
we shall here make it appear in afew instauces,
as briefly as W
e,may, that philosophy, and the
true knowledge of causes, leads to God; and
that Atheism is nothing but ignorance of causes
andofphilosophy.
■ For, first, no Atheist, who derives all from
senseless atoms, or matter, is able to assign any
causeat all of himself, or give any true account
of the original of his own soul or mind, it being
utterly inconceivable and. impossible,, that soul
andmind,sense,reason,and.understanding,should
ever arise from irrational and senseless matter,
however modified; or result from atoms, devoid,
olalL manner of qualities, thatis, frommeremag-
mLucret. lib. ii. ver. 109J. .
VOL. III. T
274 ATHEISTS IGNORANT OF CAUSES :
nitttde, figure, Site, ami motion of parts: fot
though it be indeed absurd to say (as these Athe*
ists allege) that laughing andf crying things are
b la d e oat of laughing and crying principles,
* Et ridere potestnon ex riientibu’foetus,
yet does it not therefore follow, that sensitive and
rational beingsmightresult from£ compositionof
irrational andsenseless atoms ; which, according
to the Democritic hypothesis, have nothing in
thembat magnitude, figure, site, and motion, or
rest, because laughing and crying are motions*
whichresultfromthemechanismofhumanbodies*
in .sucha minner organized;.but sense and un­
derstanding;areneitherlocal motion, nor.mfechatt-
ism
.; And the case will be the very,same* both
in theAnaximandrianor Hylopathian, and in the
StratonicorHylozoicAtheism;becausesenseand
conscious understandingcould nomore result, ei­
therfromthose qualities of heat and cold, moist
and dry, contemperddtogether; orfromthe mere
organization 6f inanimate add senseless m
atter*
tbdn it could fromthe
* ■1 •
b Concursus, motus, ordo, positura, figurae,
of atoms devoid ofall manner ofqualities. Had
there been once nothing but senseless matter, for­
tuitously moved, there could never have emerged
into being anysoul ormind, Bense or understand­
ing; becauseno eflboican possibly transcend the
perfection ofits cause. Wherefore Atheists, sup­
posing>thetnsel7eB, and all souls and minds, to
have Sprung from stupid and senseless matter*
and all that- wisdom, which is any where idthe
*Lucret. lib.' 11.Ter; d85. kM.1i£. i. Ter. 686.
OF TOE CAUSE OF THEMBBL-VE&i '276
world, both political and philosophical, to be the
result ofmerefortune andchance, must needs be
concluded tobegrosslyignorant ofcauses;which
badthey not been, they could never have been
Atheists. . So that ignorance of causes is the
need; not of Theism, but of Atheism; true,phi­
losophy, and the knowledge.of the cause ofjour-
•selves,leading necessarily to a Deity.
Again,Atheists areignorant ofthecauseof mo­
tion in bodies also; by which, notwithstanding,
they suppose all things to bedone; that is, they
are never able to solve this phenomenon so long
as they are Atheists, and acknowledge no other
substancebesfdes.naatteror body. For,,first, it is
undeniablycertain, that motion is not essential to
allbody,asaucb,becafusethennoparticlesofmat­
ter conldever rest; and consequentlythere could
-havebeen no’generation,.nor. no such.-mundane
system produced asthis is, whichrequires axen-
taihprorportionatecommixtureofmotionandrest.;
no sun, nor moon, nor earth, nor bodies of ani­
mals; 'since there could be no.coherent consist­
ency ofiany thing,,when all things flattered and
weie in continual'separation and divulsiOn fronti
one another.. /Again, it is certain likewise, that
imatteror body, as such, bath n
Opowerofmoving
-itself freelyer spontaneously neither, 'by will or
appetite; both because the same /inconvenience
would from henCe ensue likewise, and because
the>phenomeha-or appearances doplainly evince
the/contrary. And asfdr that prodigiously-ab-
surdparadoxofsomefewhyloaoicAtheists,;thatall
matter, as such, andthereforeevery smallest par­
ticle thereof,bhth bat only life essentially belong­
ing to it, but also.perfectwisdom and knowledge,
t 2
1276 ATHTEISTS; MO C^USE OF MOTION, .
together With appetite,' and self-moving! pdwer,
though without animat sense Or consciousness ■
:
'thia, I sayi’will be elsewhere in due place further
Confuted. But the generality of the ancient Athe­
ists, that is, the Anaximandriahs and DetnoCii-
tics, attributed no manner oflife to matter, as such;
and 'therefore could ascribe no voluntary of ppori-
taneous motion'to the same, but fortuitous only;
according to that Of the Epicurean poet* already
cited, '
Nam certe neque consilio, primordia return
Online se quaeque, atque sagaci mente locaruut;
. Necquos quaeque darent motua pepigere profecto.
Wherefore these Democritics, as Aristotle some­
where1
1intimates, were able to assign no other
cause of motion, than only this, That one body
•movedanotherfrometernityinfinitely,sothatthere
was no -irp w ro v k iv o v v , no first unmoved mover,—
ever to be found ; because there is no beginning
'nor first in eternity.' From whence, probably,
that doctrioe of some atheistic Stoics in Alex.
A
iexah Aphrodisius «ras derived, That there is
fib
.-d
eF
»
to
, no first inthe rank and order ofcauses.
ii8?edu.P
" —Inthefootsteps of whichphilosophers
■
U
n
d
-] a modernwriterseemethtohavetrodden,
when declaring himself after this manner;* “ Si
quis ab.effectuquocunque, adcausamejus imme-
diatam, atquemdeadremotiorem,acsicperpetuo
ratiociniatkme ascenderit, non tamen in sternum
procederepoterit, sed defatigatus aliquando defi-
ciet.” Ifany one will from whatsoevereffect as­
cend upward to its*immediate cause, and from
« Lib. i. ver. 1020. ' '
v Vide Physic, tib. viii. cap. i. f. 3. p. 796.. tom. i. oper. et $. 27.
p.579.
* Hobbes, Elera. Philosoph. part iv. cap. xxri. p. 204.
NO* OP THE MUNDANE SEOULAltITY. 2 7 ?
thence to arem
ofcer, andso onwardsperpetually;
in his*ratiocination; yet shallbe.never b
e>ableto
hold onitbroughall eternity ; but.atiedgth being
quitetired-outwithhisjourney, beforcedtodesist;
orgiveover<—Which seems to be alloneiasif be
should bave>said,>one thing moved or cansed.an*
otherinfinitelyfrometernity, inwhichthere heiog
o^ibeginwing, thereis consequentlyno.first.nuover
orcause to be reachedunto. But thisinfinitepror
gheesoftheseDefriocritics, iptheorder,ofcauses*
and their shifting off the. cause of.motion;,from
onethingtieanother, withoutendorbeginning,,was
rightly understood byAristotle,*,to be.indeed;the
assigning of no cause <
o
f motion at .all, ticanupav
limit, tt fitfti iotat Kora <
f»J<
siv ictvovv irpurov, they'SC*
fcnowledging (saith he) no-first,mover according
to nature, must'needsmake ‘an idle progressidfit
pitely;;
—
that is, in the language of this philoso*
pber, assign nocauseat all ofmqtiou. Epicurus
therefore, to mend the matter, though according
tothe principles ofthe atomicphysiology, hedis­
carded all other qualities, yet did he notwith­
standing admit this one qualityof gravity or p
on
r*
derosityin atoms,pressingthemcontinuallydow
n*-
W
ards in infinite space. In which, as nothing
coaid be more absurd nor unphilosophical than
to make upwards and downwards in infinite
space, ora gravity tending to nocentre, nor place
ofrest; so did he not assign anycause of motion
neither, but only in effectaffirm, theatoms there­
fore to tend downwards, because they did-so; a
quality ofgravity; signifyingonlyan endeavour to
tend downwards; but why or wherefore, nobody
knows. And it is all one as if Epicurus should
* Physic. Auscultat. lib. vii. cap. ti. p. 365. tom. i.oper;
278 'ATHfEISD&r MO CAUSE QF MOTIOK,
have said, that atoma raowedi dmwsuwardskyam
oCcult quality,' he:either betaking.himself:to ■
this
as an asylum,.<a sanctuaay^ os refuge, for hia igno­
rance; or: else indeed, more, absurdly, making bis
very- ignorance itself (disguised .under that .name
of a quality) to be the cause of motion. Thus
the Atheists.universally either assigned no cause
at all for motion, as the Anaximandrians aqd.De-
mocritics ; or else no .true, one, as the Hylozoists;
when, to avoid incorporeal substance, they would
venture to attribute perfect understandings, appe­
tite or will, and selftmaving power, to all senseless
matter.whatsoever. But since,it appears plainly,
that matter or body cannot more itself, either the
motion, of all bodies must have no manner of
cause; or else must there of necessity be some
other substance besides body, snchiss is self-active
and hylarchical, or hath a natural power of ruling
over matter. Upon which latter account Plato
rightly determined, that, cogitation, which is self­
activity, or autokinesy, was, in-order of nature,
hefbre the local .motion of body, which is hetero-
kinesy. Though- motion considered passively in
bodies,, or taken for.their translation, or change
of distance and place, be indeed a corporeal
thing, or a mode of those bodies themselves mov­
ing; yet, as it is considered actively for the vis
movena, that active force,, which causes this ,trans­
lation, or. change of place, so,is it an incopereal
thing ; the energy of a self-active substance upon
that sluggish matter or body, which cannot at all
move itself. Wherefore, in the bodies of animals,
the. true and proper cause of motiou, or the deter­
mination thereofatleast, isnotthematteritselforga­
nized, but the soul either as cogitative, or plasticly
NOR OF T H £ M,UN1>ANE REGULARITY. $ 7 9
gelfi-actiye, yitfljy jinked thereunto,,t^nd riaturally
ruling over it. jBut in the whole world jit is either
God himself, originally impressing a certain quan­
tity of motion uppnthe matter of the universe,
anfd constentlyconserying the same, according to
thidpftbeScripture, “ Inhim we liyeand A
ot( ^ M
naoye” (which seems to have been the ,
sense alsp of that noble Agrigentjne poet and phi-
losopher,* when he desoribed Gpd tp be .only a
pure or holymind.ithatwith swiftthoughts agitates
the whole world”); prelsp it is iostrumentally an
inferior created spirit, soul,or life ofnature;that is,
a subordinate hylarchipai principle, which bath a
•powerpfmoving matter regularly, according tp the
(directioUiOfasuperipr perfect Mind. And thus.do
we see again, that ignorance of qapses is the seed
pf Atheism, and not of Theism;.no Atheists being
able to assign a true pause of motion, the know­
ledge whereof plainly leadeth to a God.
Furthermore, those Atheists, who acknow­
ledge no other principle of things but senseless
matter fortuitously moved, must needs be igno­
rant also-of.the caosp pf that grand phenomenon,
palled -by Aristpfjle, -the.- *
v km k
o
A
w
c, the well
and -fit in nature ;^r-that.is, of .the most artificial
frame of the .whole mundane system ip general,
ppd pf the bpdies ofanimals ip.particular, together
(with the conspiring harmony of all. For they,
iSho 'boasted 4bemsflyes able to give natural
papsps of *11things whatsoever, withouta Q.od,
pan give no-pthpr cause at all of this phenomenon,
(hut(Only that the world happened by .chance,to be
thus .made as it is. Now, they, who make fortune
» Empedocles, cujus versus duos vide apud Ammonium Comm, in
librum Aristot. *ipl 'Epfir/veiag, p. 107. edit. Aldinse.
280 : ; ’ GOD AND NATURE,
and chance to be the only cause of this so-admi­
rable phenomenon, the most regular and artificial
frame and harmony of the universe, they either
make the mere absence and want of a cause, to
be a cause, fortune and chance being nothing else
but the absence or want of an intending cause; or
else do they make their owu ignorance ofa cause,
and they know not how, to be a cause; as the
author of the Leviathan* interprets the meaning
hereof: “ Many times (saith he) men put forcause
of natural events their own ignorance, but dis­
guised in other words; as when they say, that
fortune is the cause of things contingent; that
is, of things whereof they know no cause.” Or
they affirm, against all reason, one contrary to be
the cause of another, as confusion to be the cause
of order, pulchritude, and harmony; chance and
fortune, to be the cause of art and skill; folly
and nonsense, the cause of the most wise and re­
gular contrivance: or lastly, they deny it to have
any cause at all, since they deny an intending
cause, aud there cannot possibly be any ether
cause of artificialness and conspiring harmony,
'than mind and wisdom, counsel and contrivance*
But because the Atheists here make some pre­
tences for this their ignorance, we shall not con­
ceal any of them, but bring them all to light; to
the end that we may discover their weakness and
foolery. ‘ First, therefore, they pretend, that the
world is tiotso artificially and well made, but that
it might have been made much better, and that
there are many faults and flaws to be found
therein; from whence they would infer, that it was
not made by,aperfect God, he being supposed by
*Cap. xi. ct alias.
ALL PO R’t'H* BEST. 2 8 f
Thefets to be no bungler, but a perfect Mind, dr
a Being infinitely good andWise, who- therefore
should have made all things for the best.
But this being already set down by itself, as a
twelfth atheistic objection against a Deity, w'e
mustreserve'the confutation thereoffor its proper
place. Only we shall observe thus much here by
the way; that those Theists of later times, who,
either because they fancy a mere arbitrary Deity; 1
or because theirfaith in the Divine Goodness is but
weak; or because they judge of things according
to their own private appetites and selfish passions,
and not with a free uncaptivated universality of
mind, and an impartial regard to the good of the
whole; or because they look only upon the pre­
sent scene of things, and take not the future in-,
to consideration, nor have a comprehensive view
of the whole plot of Divine Providence together;
or lastly, because we mortals do all stand upon
too low a ground; to take a commanding view and
prospect upon the whole frame of things; and our
shallow understandings are not able to fathom the
depths of the Divine wisdom, nor trace all the
methods and designs of Providence; grant, that
the world might have been made much better than
now it is; which indeed is all one as to say, that
it is not well made: these neoteric Christians (1
say) seem,hereby to givea much greater advantage
to the Atheists, than the Pagan Theists themselves
heretofore did, who stood their ground, and gene­
rously maintained against them, that Mind being
the maker of all things, and not fortune or chance,
nor arbitrary self-will, and. irrational-humour om­
nipotent, the rd fitXriorov, that which is absolutely
the best in every case, so far as the necessity of
$ 8 $ THINGS F p *
things ?fould admit, and in GpmpUan.Ce with the
good pf the whole, was the measure and rule both
of nature and Providence, 1
Again, the atomic Atheists farther allege; that
though tbfre be many things in the world, Which
serve well for uses, yet it does not at all follow,
that therefore they were made intentionally and
designedly for those uses; because, though things
happen by chance to be so or so made, yet may
they serve for something or other afterward, and
have their several uses consequent. Wherefore
all the things of nature happened (say tbey)by
chance to be so made as they are, and their sevens!
uses notwithstanding were consequent, or follow­
ing thereupon. Thus the Epicurean poet;
Lncret. 1. iv, -----------Nil ideo natum est in corpore, ut uti
[w* Possemus, sed quod natum est id procreat usum.
fas.]
Nothing in man’s body was made out of design
for any use; but all the several parts thereof,
happening to be so made as they are, their uses
were consequent thereupon.—In like manner the
phys. i. ii. c. °W atheistic philosophers in Aristotle
w
ii.[p
v4
7
5
.^ concluded, to
v
qoSdvrac foayiOKdvamiXcu,
' rove fdv ifiirp o a B io v c o&cc, e n m S t u w s itp o c t o
fyoupftv, rove S* yofitjilovc TrXartic, kcu ygiya'tfuniQ Tfoe t o
Xfalv&v rijv rpo^jv' im l ov rovrov {veeb yeveaBat, a\Xm
fvfiiHouv' opovvi $ weft ra>v aXXvv ftepwv, kv OToec
Sana inrapytiv no SW* +
9v" That the former teeth
were made by material or mechanical necessity,
thin and sharp, by mdans whereof they became
fit for cutting; but the jaw-teeth thick and broad,
whereby they became useful for tbe> grinding of
food. But neither of theip were intended to be
E#JQS
su*ch„fo:r ^be.spke.qf these upes, but happened by
chance oqly. And the like poncpruing,ail the
other, pwte.pf the body, which seem to be made
for euds,-rrAccordipgly the same Aristotle repre­
sents thesense of those ancient Atheists, concern­
ing the other parts of the universe, or things of
nature,, that they were all likewise made such, by
the necessity of material (or mechanical) motions
Undirected, and yet had nevertheless their several
uses consequent upon this their accidental struc­
ture. Tt kw\ vu Tt)v ipvaiv fir/ tviKa rov iroitiv, art
/3eXtiov, qXX’ w m ttp vet o Z*vc, O V \ ot« c rdv avrov
aXX* e$ avayKn«, &c. What binders but that nature
might act without any respect to ends or good and
better, as Jupiter, or the heaven, raineth not in­
tentionally, to make the corn grow, but from ne­
cessity ? because the vapours, being raised up into
tbe middle region, and there refrigerated and
condensed, must needs descend down again in tbe
form of water. But this happens by mere chance,
and without any intention, that tbe grain is made
to grow thereby; as the contrary sometimes hap­
pens by the excess of it.
But to this we reply, that though a thing, that
happens accidentally to be so or so made, may
afterward, notwithstanding, prove often service­
able for some use or other; yet, when any thing
consisteth.of'tnpny parts, that are all artificially
proportioned together, and with much curiosity
accommodated one to another, any one of which
parts.having heen wanting, or otherwise in the least
placed and disposed of, would have rendered the
w^ole altogether inept.for such a use ;.thpn may
we well conclude it not to have been made by
chance,,but by counsel and desjgn, intentionally,
2 8 4 NATURE, •BOTH -
for such uses. As, for example, the eye, Whose
structure and fabric consisting of many parte
(humours and membranes), is so artificially com­
posed, no reasonable person, who considers'the
whole anatomy' thereof, and the curiosity of its
Structure, can think otherwise ofitj but that if was
made but of design for the use of seeing; unddid
hot happen accidentally to be so made, and-then'
the use of seeing follow; as the Epicurean poet
whhld fain persuade us, , •••’ • »
•
• •
, •
• . . . . • . ■ . i r ' . H i .
p. $6*. Lamb. ' Lumina ne faoiasoculoram dant'cre&v . •>
- \ v\
32J
5]^* **** P^ospic^e utpossimus.
’ '•*' ' ’ ‘ ■' .ill
You are by ail means to take: heed ofehtertainiog
that so-dangerous opinion {to Atheism), that eyes
were made for the sake of seeing, and- ears for tbe
Sake Ofhearing.—But for a man to, thinkj that ndt
only eyes happened to beso made; and.the<uSe.of
seeing- unioteuded foljo-wed ; but also-, that in.aU
the same animals, ears happened tobeso .made
too, and the use of hearing followed them; and a
mouth and tongue happened to be so made like-
wise, and tbe use of eating, and (in men) of speak­
ing, was also accidentally consequent thereupon;
and feet were in the same animals made by chance
too, and the use of walking followed; and hands
made in them by chance also, upon which so
many necessary nses depend; besides innume­
rable other parts of the body, both similar and
organical, none of which could hare been SvanSf
ing, without rendering the-whole inept or useless;
I say, to think, that all these things should hap­
pen by chance to be thus made in every one aad
the same animal, and not designed by nrind or
MECHANICAL AND VITAL. 386
counsel,-that they might jointly concur and con*
ttibutle to the good>of.the whole; this argues the
greatest tiaSensibility: of mind limaginable^ Bilt
this absutxl and ridiculous conceit hath been .long
sinoe -so -industriously Confuted;. and' the folly
thereof taanifetted;by- tbpt leailned- Pagan:phi*
Losophdrand physician, Galen, in his book :Of
the ;Usd ofj Parts, that it.wonld be altogether su­
perfluous to inbist any more uponit.*.
Wherefore, that the former, teeth!are made thiq
and sharp, and the jaw-teeth thickand broad, bp
chtoce only, anid not for use,, was one of ■
the De*
mocritic dotages; as also, that nothing in the
clouds and meteors was intended for the good of
this;.habitable, earth, within whose atmosphere
thby are contained,-hot all proceeded from mate*
rial and. mechanical necessity. Which conceit,
though Cartesius. seem to have written his.whole
book of Meteors in favour,of,he beginning it with
the derision ofthose, Who “ seat God in the clouds,
and. imagine his bands to be employed in opening
and shutting the cloisters of the winds, in sprink*
ling the flowers with :dewa, and thunder-striking
the tops of mountains.;” and. dosing his discours*
With this; boast,: that be had now made itinam-
fest; there<w^s no need: to, fly;to miitaoles,(tbat is,
tobringia a God; upon the stage) to.solve those
phenomena; yet were it easy enough, to demon­
strate the .defectiveness of those his mechanical
undertakings in sundry- particulars, and to evince
that all. those things could not be carried on with
sudk constant .regularity, by mere fortuitous me­
chanism, without any superior principle to guide
and steer them. Nevertheless, w.e acknowledge,
* Vide Lactant, de Opificio Dei, cap, yi. p. 1003.
2 8 6 THE a t h e is t s ’ o n c e -i n e p t w o r l d .
that God and nature do things every where, in
the most frugal and compendious way, and with
the least operoseuess4
; add therefore that the nae-
ehahic powers are not rejected, but; taken in, so
for As they could comply serviceably with tbe in­
tellectual tnodel and platfohh; but still -so, as
that all is supervised by one andehitanding and
intending Cause, and nothing passes without his
approbation, Who, when either those mechanic
potoers fall short, or tbe stubborn necessity of
matter proves uncompliant, dobs overrule the
sable; 'and supply the defects thereof hy that
which is vital; and that without setting his own
hands iusnfed&tbiy to every work too, there being
a subservient minister tinder him, ati artificial ad*
tore, which, as an Archetts of the whole world;
governs the fluctuating mechanism thereof, asd
does alt things feithfwlly, for ends wad purposes,
intended by its director.
Bat ©hr atomic Atheists still further allege,
tbit though it might well seem strange, that mat­
ter fortuitously moved should, at die Very first
jump, fall into such a regular frame as ibis is,
having so many aptitudes for uses, so knarry 'cor­
respondences between several things; and such
an agreeing harmdny in the whole; yet ought it
not to seem a jot Strange, if atords, by motion;
making all possible combinations andeantextures;
and trying all banner of conclusions and experi­
ments, should, after innumerable other freaks, and
discongmous forms produced, in length of time
foil into such a system as this is. Wherefore they
affirm, that this earth of oars, at first, brought
forth divers monstrous and irregular shapes of
animals;
THE a t h e is t s ’ o n c e -i n e p t w o b l d . 287
Oibapedumpartioi,nuuramhwfaBUTwissiin( JUient. t n '
Malta rine ore etiain, aine rolta cseoa reperta. P-476. Lamb.
[t
«.W8.]
Sotne without feet, sortie without hands, some
with a mouth and face, some wanting fit muscles
and nerves for the motion of their members.—
And the old philosophic Atheists were so frank
and lavish herein, that they stuck not to affirm,
amongst those monstrous shapes of animals, there
were once produced centaurs, and scyllas, and
chimaeras; fiovytvii k<
uavSpoirpwpa,mixedlybo.viform
and hominiform—biform and triform animals. But
Epicurus, a little ashamed of this, as that which
must needs look oddly and ridiculously, and
seeming more cantions and castigate, pretends to
Correct the extravagancy of this fancy;
Sed nequeoentauti fuerunt, neque temporeinuHo Iwwti 1. g.
Esse queat duplici nature et oorpore bino, f • 47^:
Ex alienigenis membris compacta poteatas. ^T#r*
Nevertheless, there were hot then any cehtaura,
nor biform and triform a n i m a l s h e adding, that
they, who feigned such things as these, might as
well fancy rivers flowing with golden stream^
and trees germinating sparkling diamonds and
such vastly gigantean men, as could stride over
seas, aud take up mountains in their clutches^
and turn the heavens about With the strength of
their arms. Against all which, notwithstanding,
he gravely gives sUeha reason, a§ plainly over­
throws his own principles $
Res sic quaeque suo ritu procedit, et omnes P. 480.
Foedere naturae certo discrimin^ servant tTW
*
Because things, by a certain covenant of nature,
always keep up their specific differences, ’without
288 THE a t h e is t s ’ d h c e -i h e p t :
-w o r l d .
beings confounded together:^—
For wbat covenant
of naturecan therebe ininfinite chance? or what
law can there be set.to the. absolutely-foftuitous
motions of atoms, to circumscribe .them by.^
'Wherefore it must be acknowledged, that, acj
cording to the genuine hypothesis of the atomic
Atheism, all imaginable forms of inanimate bo­
dies, plants, and animals, as centaurs, scyllas
and chimaeras, are producible by the fortuitous
motions of matter, there being nothing to hinder
it, whilst it doth .
* Omnimodiscoire, atque omnia pertentare,
Quaecunque inter se poisint oOngressa creare ; '
put itself intoall kind of combinations,- play all
manner of freaks, andtry all possible conclusions
and experiments.
But they pretend, that these monstrous irre­
gular shapes of animals were not therefore now
to be found, because by reason of their inept fa:
brie, they could not propagate their kind by ge­
neration, as neither indeed preserve their own in*
dividuals. Thusdoes Lucretiusdeclarethesense
of Epicurus; ..
— :---- Quoniam natura abstemrit anctum,
fubl^yerT^.l ^ ec Potue,:e copitom aetatis tangere florem,
11 *# Necrepenre cibum, nec jnngi per veneris rei..
And: that this;atheistic .doctrine was older than
Epicurus, appeareth from these words of Arisr
totle; ojtov ftkv ovv mravra awl/3q, ravra ftev
Nat. Au8c.
I. ji. c.Tiii.
[>.475. tom. ^
i. open] otra
arro rov avrofiarov ervaravra E7rirfySeu«>c*
*T
firi ovraic, airwXero, KaSavep ’E/l
c
t
t
c
-
,> l^uareU li^. v. vor. 101.
a t h e is t s ’ i n f i n i t e w o r l d s . 2 8 9
SwXrjcXrytt i*a j3ovjtvtjxal avSpovpo>pa’ Whenanimals
happened at first to be made, in all manner of
forms, those of themonly were preserved, and
continued to the present time, which chanced to
be fitly made (for generation), but all the others
perished, as Empedocles affirmeth of the partly-
ox and partly-man-animals.—Moreover, the an­
cient both i^naximandrian and Democritic Athe­
ists concluded, that, besides this one world of
ours, there were other infinite worlds (they con­
ceiving it as absurd to think, there should be but
one only world in infinite space, as that, in a vast
ploughed and sowed field, there should grow up
only one ear of corn, and no more); and they
would have us believe, that amongstthese infinite
worlds (all of them fortuitously made) there is
not one of athousand, or, perhaps, of ten thou­
sand, that hath such regularity, concinnity, and
harmony in it, as this world that we chanced,to
emergein. Nowitcannot be thoughtstrange(as
they suppose), if, amongst infinite worlds, one or
two should chance to fall into some regularity.
They would also confidently assure us, that the
present system of thing's, in this world of ours,
shall not long continue such as it is, but after a
while fall into confusion and disorder again;
»— ;
----- Mandi naturam totius aetas '
Itfatai, et ex alio terrain status excipit alter,
Quod potuit nequeat, possit quod non tulit ante:
The same wheel of fortune, which, moving up­
ward, hath brought into viewthis scene of-things
that now is, turning round, will, some time or
* Lucret. lib. v. ver. 832.
VOL. III. U
i
290 NEVER ANY IN EPT gYSTEftf.
other, carry it all away again, introducing a new
one in its stead:—and then shall we have Cen­
taurs, and Scyllas and Chinraerasagain, all man­
ner of inept forms of animals, as before.
But because men may yet be puzzled with the
universality and constancy ofthis regularity, and
its long continuance through so many ages, that
there are no records at all of the contrary any
where to be found; the atomic Atheist farther
adds, that the senseless atoms, playing and toy­
ing up and down, without any care or thought,
and from eternity trying all manner of tricks,
conclusions, andexperiments, wereatlength(they
knownothow)taught,andbythenecessityofthings
themselves, as it were, driven, to a certain kind
of trade of artificialness and methodicalness; so
that though their motions were at first all casual
and fortuitous, yet in length of timethey became
orderly and artificial, and governed by a certain
law, they contracting as it were upon themselves,
by long practice aud experience, a kind of habit
of moving regularly; or else being, by the mere
necessity of things, at length forced so to move,
as they should have done, had art and wisdom
directed them. Thus Epicurus in his epistle to
_ „ i Herodotus,* aAAa u y v wroAijirflov x a l n}v
Jt• (sr&
S
S
* j ^ ^ t \ * — m
<j)V(TLV TTOAAa KCLl TTCLVTQUL VITO T(OV CLVTVJV TWV
Trpayfiarwv SiBaydrjval re jcac aWyfca<r0t)vctt” It must be
held, that nature is both taught and necessitated
by the things themselves:—or else, as Gassendus
interprets the words, “quadam velnti natural!
necessariaque doctrina sensimimbuta—bylittle
a Apud Diog, Laert. lib. x. segno. 75. p. 633.
NEVER ANY INEPT SYSTEM. 291
and little embued with a certain kind of natural
and necessary doctrine.
To which atheistic pretences we shall briefly
reply, first, That it is batanidledream, orrather
impudent forgery, of these Atheists, that hereto­
fore there werein this world of ours all manner
ofmonstrous andirregular shapes ofanimalspro­
duced, Centaurs, Scyllas, andChimseras,&c.and
indeed at first none but such; there being not
the least footstep of any such thing appearing in
all the monuments of antiquity, and traditions of
former times: and these Atheists being not able
to give any manner of reason, why there should
not be such producedas well at this presenttime,
however the individuals themselves could not
continue long, or propagate by generation; or at
leastwhyit shouldnothappen, that, in some ages
or countries, there were either all Androgyna, of
both sexes, or else no animal but of one sex,
male or female only ; or, lastly, none of any sex
at all. Neither is there any more reason to give
credit to these Atheists, when (thoughenemies to
divination) they would prophesy concerning fu­
ture times, that, in this world of ours, all shall
some time fall into confusion and nonsenseagain.
And, as their infinity of worlds is an absolute
impossibility, so, to their bold and confident as*
sertion concerning those supposed other worlds;
as if they bad travelled over them all, that,
amongst ten thousand of them, there is hardly
one, that hath so miich regularity in it as this
world of ours, it might be replied, with equal
confidence, and much moreprobabilityof reason,
that were every planet about this sun of ours a
habitableearth, andeveryfixed star a sun,having
v 2
2 9 2 CHANCE, NOT ARTIFICIAL.
likewise its several, other planets or habitable
earths moving round about it, and not any one
of these desert or uninhabited, but all peopled
with animals; we say, were this so extravagant
supposition true,'that there would not be found
any one ridiculous or inept system amongst them
all, but that the Divine art and wisdom (which
being infinite, can never be defective, nor any
where idle) would exerciseits dominion uponall,
andevery whereimpress thesculptures andsigna­
tures of itself. : '
In thenext place we affirm, That thefortuitous
motions of senseless atoms, trying never somany
experiments and conclusions, and making never
so: many combinations and aggregate forms of
things, could never be able to produce so.much
as the form or system of one complete animal,
with all the organic parts thereof so artificially
disposed (each of these being as it were a little
world), muchless the system of this great world,
with that variety of animals in it; but least of
all could it constantly continue such regularity
andartificialnesseverywhere: for, thatthefortuir
tous motions of irrational, senseless, and stupid
matter should in length of timegrow artificial,
and contract a habit of acting as regularly and
methodically, as if perfect art or wisdom had dir
reeled them, this is the mostprodigious nonsense
imaginable, and can be accounted no other than
atheistic fanaticism.
. It is no more possible, that the fortuitous mo-,
tionofdead andsenseless matter,shouldeverfrom
itself betaught and necessitated to produce such,
anorderlyand regularsystemastpe frameqf this,
whole world is, together with the bodies of ani-.
CHANCE, NOT ARTIFICIAL. ' 293
mala, and constantly to continue the same,,than
that a man perfectly illiterate, and neitherableto
writenorread, takingupapen into his hand, and
making all mannerof scrawls, with ink upon pa­
per, should at length be taught and necessitated,
bythethingitself, to writeawhole quire of paper
together, with such characters, as being deci­
phered by acertain key, would all prove cohe­
rent philosophicsense; or than that we ourselves
writing down the mere letters of the alphabet,
transposedly, any how, asit happens, withoutthe
least thought, either of words or sense, afteroor
scribblingalongtimetogetherwhatwas altogether
insignificant, should at length have been taught
and necessitated by the thing itself, without the
least study andconsideration ofourown, to write
thiswholevolume.Or,touseauotherinstance, this
is nomorepossible, than that tea or a dozen per­
sons,altogetherunskilled inmusic, havingseveral
instruments given them, and striking the strings
orkeys thereof, any how, as it happened, should,
after some time of discord andjarring, at length
betaught and necessitated tofall intomostexqui­
site harmony, and continue the same uninterrupt­
edly forseveral hours together.
Wherefore, if it be ridiculous forone, that hath
read over the works of Plato or Aristotle, or
those six books of T. Lucretius Carus, De Na­
ture Rerum, to contend, that possibly the letters
ofthosebooksmightbeall puttogetherbychance,
or scribbled at random, without the leastthought
or study of the writer, hehaving also no manner
of philosophic skill in him; orforone, that hears
ten or a dozen persons playing in concert upon;
instruments of music, and making ravishing har-
2 9 4 n a t u r e ’s i n t e n d i n g g a u s e .
mony, to persuade himself, that none of those
players had, for all that, the least of musical art
or skill in them, but struck the strings as it hap­
pened ; it must needs be much moreridiculous
and absurd, to suppose this artificial system of
the whole worldto have resulted fromthe fortui­
tous motion of senseless atoms, withoutthedirec­
tion of anyartorwisdom, there being muchmore
of sense, art, and philosophy therein, thaninany
philosophicvolume orpoem ever writtenbymen;
andmoreofharmonyand proportion, thanin any
compositionofvocal music. We concludethere­
forewithAristotle, aSvvarov 8e ravra tovtov
ao.ri&
[p!‘*Xetv T
®
vrpoirov' that it is absolutely im-
op
er]°m' possible things'should have come to
P passafterthis manner;—thatis, by mere
fortune and chance, and without the direction of
any Mind or God. The Divine Mind and Wis­
dom hath so printed its seal or signature upon
the matter of the whole corporeal world, as that
fortune and chance could never possibly have
counterfeited the same.
Notwithstanding all which, the ancient Athe­
ists would undertake, by their wonderful skill in
logic, to demonstrate, that the frame of nature
could not possibly be made by any intending
cause, and for the sake of ends and uses; as, for
example, that eyes could not be first of all made
intentionally fortheuse of seeing, nor ears inten­
tionally for the use of hearing, and so for the
rest; because, forsooth, these things were all of
them, in order of time and nature, before their
several uses. The argument is seriously pro­
poundedby Lucretius, after this manner:—
n a t u r e ’s in t e n d i n g c a u s e . 2 9 5
' Nac fait ante, videre, oeaiorum lamina nata, Ijwab.p.36?.
Nec dictis orare, prius quam lingua creata est; ir>ver-
Sed potius krage linguae prsecessit origo 88 *
•
*
Sermonem, multoque oreatae sunt prius aures,
Quam sonus est auditus; et omnia denique membra
Ante faere, ut opinor, eorum quam fait usus.
Haud igitur potuere utendi crescere causa.
To this sense: There was do such thingasseeing
before eyes were made, nor hearingbefore ears,
norspeaking beforethetongue. But theoriginal
ofthetonguemuch preceded speech : so likewise
eyes and ears were made before there was any
seeing of colours or hearing of sounds. In like
manner, all the other members of the body were
produced beforetheirrespectiveuses. And there­
fore they could not be made intentionally, for the
sakeofthose uses.—The forceofwhich argument
consisteth inthisproposition: That whatsoever is
made for the sake of anotherthing, must exist in
time after that other thing, for whose sake it was
made: or, That, for which any thing is made,
must not only be, in order of nature, but also of
time, before that which is made for it.—And this
that Epicurean poet endeavours to proveby sum
-
dry instances;
At contra conferre manu certamina pugnae,
Ante fait multo quam luclda tela volarent, &c. 81 *
Darts were made for the sake of fighting, but
fighting was before darts, or else they hadnever
been invented.. Bucklers were excogitated and
devised, for the keeping offofblows and strokes,
but the. declining of strokes was before buck­
lers. So were beds contrived for the sake of
restingandsleeping, butrestingandsleeping were
older than beds, and gave occasion for the in*
296 THE LOGIC OF ATHEISTS.
vention of them. Caps were intended and de­
signed for thesake ofdrinking, whichthey would
not have been, had there not been drinking be­
fore.—According to the force of whichinstances,
the poet would infer, that whosoever affirms eyes
to have been made for the sake of seeing, must
.suppose, in like manner, there was some kind of
seeing or other before eyes. Bnt since there was
no seeing at all before eyes, therefore conld not
eyes be made for the sake of seeing. And this
is the atheistic demonstration, that the parts of
men’s bodies, and other things of nature, could
not be made by any intending cause, forthe sake
of ends and uses.
But it is evident, that this logic of Atheists dif-
fers from that of all other mortals, according to
which, the end, or that for which any thingis
made, is only in intention before the means, or
that which is.made for it, but in time and execu­
tion after it. And thus was the more effectual
way of fighting and doing execution, for whose
sake darts were invented, in timeafterdarts, and
only in intention beforethem. It is true, indeed,
that fightingin general was beforedarts, sleeping
beforebeds, and drinkingbeforecups; and there­
by did they give occasion for men to think of
means for the more effectual fighting, andmore
commodious sleeping and drinking; men being
commonly excited fromthe experience of things,
and the sense of their needs aod wants, to exco­
gitate and provide fit means and remedies. But
it dothnot thereforefollow, thattheMakerofthe
world could not have at once beforehand a pre­
ventive knowledge ofwhatsoever would be useful
andfor the good of animals, and so make them
THE LOGIC OF ATHEISTS. 297
intentionallyfor those uses. Whereforetheargu­
ment should have beenframed thus; Whatsoever
any thing is made for, as theend, thatmostneeds
be, inthe knowledge and intention of the maker,
before the existence of that which is made forit.
And, therefore, if eyes were madefor the sake or
end of seeing, seeing must of necessity be in the
knowledge and intention of the maker of eyes,
before there wereany eyes actually existing. But
therecould benoknowledgeofseeingbeforethere
wereanyeyes. Whereforeeyes couldnot bemade
for the sake of seeing.
And this indeed is the genuine scope anddrift
of the premised atheistic argument, however it
were disguised by them in their manner of pro­
pounding it. The reason whereof was, because
they took it for granted, that all knowledge, as
such, is derived by sense from the things them­
selves known pre-existing. From whence it fol­
lows, that there could be no knowledge of vision
orseeing, beforetherewasactual seeingand eyes;
and so they think it to be demonstrated, that
eyes could not be made by any Deity for the
sake of seeing before there was seeing; no more
than spectacles by men for the sake of eyes,
before there were eyes. Thus does
the Epicurean poet conclude triumph- n
b
!"
i
"
! 6
8
'
antly;
Ilia quidetn seorsum sunt omnia, quae prius ipsa
Nata, dedere suae post notitiam utilitatis.
Quo genere imprimis sensus et membra videmus.
Quare etiam atque etiam procul eat, ut credere possis,
Utilitatis ob officium potuisse crearL
That is, The members of men’s bodies, andor­
gans of sense, were first madebythemselves, and
298 KNOWLEDGE OLDER
then did they afterward give the notice or know­
ledgeoftheirseveralutilities;noneofwhichcould
havebeenhadbefore. Wherefore weaffirmagain
andagain, thatitis impossiblethese things should
have been made designedly for their uses.
Sothatthecontroversyis atlastresolved wholly
into this; Whether or no, all knowledge and un­
derstanding, as such, universally does arisefrom
things antecedently existing without the knower?
Which being asserted by Atheists, they conclude
from thence, that the things of the world could
not bemadebythepreviouscounsel, contrivance,
and intention of any understanding Deity, but
that they all blundered out themselves, one after
another, according to the train or sequel of the
fortuitousmotionsofmatter; and thatfromthence
knowledge and understanding, counsel andinten­
tion, sprung up afterward, asjunior tothings, and
the world. But this being already made the ele­
venthatheisticargumentagainsta Deity, viz. That
all knowledge and mental conception is the infor­
mation of the things themselves known, existing
before and without the knower, and a passion
from them; and therefore that the world must
needs be before,any knowledge or conception of
it, and no knowledge or conception before the
world, as its cause—
we shall refer the answer to
it,andconfutation ofit, toitsproperplace; where
we shall plainly demonstrate, that knowledge or
understanding is not, in its own nature, ectypal,
butarchetypal; andthatitis olderthanthe world
and the Maker of all things.
But the Atheists yet further urge, against the
proving of a God from the ro t v *al k o X w q , the re­
gular frame of the whole world in general, and
THAN THINU8.
the artificial structure of the bodies of animals,
after this manner; That itis altogether unreason­
able to suppose, there should be no cause in na­
ture for the phenomena thereof, especially for
those things, whicharedaily generated, asthebo*
dies of animals; but (as by the tragic poets) a
god should be introduced, as it were fromama­
chine,forciblytosolvethem. And, indeed, though*
there were a god, yet they think heought not to
be detruded to such mean offices as this, v iz. to
make the body of every the most contemptible
animal, asit were with his own hands miracu­
lously; nor ought nature or the world to be sup­
posed so imperfect, as if it must be bungled and
botched up every where after this manner. It is
nature, therefore, which is the cause of these na­
tural productions and generations. Which na­
ture, that it doth not intend nor act designedly
for ends and uses, appears not only fromhence,
because it never consults or deliberates (which
Aristotle* intimates to have been the reason,
why some of old denied the things of nature
to have been made for ends), but also because
it hath no animal sense or consciousness, no
understanding or appetite. Wherefore this opi­
nion of intending, and final causality in nature,
can be accounted no other than anidolum specus
(as some1
*affect to phrase it), or a prejudice of
men’s minds, when they apply their own pro­
perties to things without them,'and think, be­
cause themselves intend, and act for ends, that
therefore nature doth the like. And they might
as well say, that nature laughs and cries, speaks
aVide de Nat. Auscultat. lib. ii. cap. viii. p. 477. tom. i. oper.
b Lord Bacon in his Novum Organum, p*ii*$•53. p. 47.
3 0 0 GOD NOT avrovpyuv mravra.
aud walks, syllogizes and philosophizes, because
themselves do so. Bnt, as a modern philosopher
concludeth, “The universe, as one aggregate of
things natural, hath no intention belonging to it.”
And, accordingly, were all final causes rightly
banished by Democritus out of physiology, as
Aristotle* recordeth of him, to o3 ?vaca afuQ Xlyav,
travra avayu oIq ^ptjrai ij tyvaiq' That he reduced all
things to natural and necessary causes, altogether
rejecting final.
To all which we briefly reply: That there are
indeed two extremes hereto be avoided; the one.
of those, who derive all things fromthefortuitous
motions of senseless matter, which is theextreme
of the atomic Atheists; the other, of bigotical re­
ligionists, who will needs have God avrovpyav
a ira vra , to do all things himself immediately— as
if all in nature were miracle. But thereis amid­
dle betwixt both these extremes; namely, to sup­
pose, that besides God, and in subordination to
him, there is anature (not fortuitous, but) artifi­
cial andmethodical,whichgoverningthemotionof
matter, and bringingitintoregularity,is asecond­
ary or inferior cause of generations. Now, this
natura artifidosa, this artificial,nature, though it­
self indeed do not understand the reasonof what
it doth, nor properly intend the ends thereof, yet
may it well be conceived to act regularly for the
sake of ends understood and intended by that
perfect Mind, upon which it depends. As the
manuary opificers understand not the designs
of the architect, but only drudgingly perform
their several tasks imposed by him; andastypes.
* Dc General. Animal, lib. v. cap. vni. p. 713. tom. ii. oper.
301
GOP NOT avrovfryEH’ avavra.
or forms of letters, composed together, print co­
herent philosophic sense, which themselves un­
derstand nothing of. (Upon which artificial or
spermatic nature, we havelargelyinsisted before,
in the Appendix to the third chapter.) And
thus, neither are all things performed immedi­
ately and miraculously by God himself; neither
are they all donefortuitously and temerariously,
but regularly and methodically, for the sake of
ends, though not understood by nature itself, but
by. that higher Mind, whichis thecauseof it, and
doth, as it were, continually inspire it. Some,
indeed, have unskilfully attributed,theirown pro-,
perties, oranimal idiopatbiestoinanimatebodies;
as when they say, that matterdesires forms, as
the female doth the male; and that heavy bodies
descend down by appetite towards the centre,'
that so they may rest therein; and that they
sometimes again ascend in discretion, to avoid a
vacuum. Ofwhich fanciful extravagances, ifthe
Advancer of Learning be understood, there is
nothing to be reprehended in this following pas­
sage- of his; “ Incredibile est quantum agmen
idolorum philosophise immiserit naturalium ope-
ratiopumad similitudinem actionum humanarum.
reductioIt is incredible, howmanyerrorshave
been transfused intophilosophy, fromthisonede-,
lusion, ofreducing natural actionstothe mode of
human; or of thinking, that nature aqteth as a
man doth.—But if that of his be extended fur-,
ther, to take away all finalcauses fromthethings,
of nature, as if nothing were done therein for
ends intended by a higher miud, then is it the
very spirit of Atheismandinfidelity. Itis noidol
ofthe cave or den (to use thataffected language),
302 FINAL CAUSALITY NO
1
tbat is, no prejudice or fallacy imposedupon our­
selves, from the attributing our own animalish
properties to things without us, to think, that the
frame and system of this whole world was con­
trived by a perfect understanding Being or Mind
(now also presiding over the same), which hath
every where printed the signatures of its own
wisdom upon the matter. As also, that though
nature itself do not properly intend, yet it acteth
according to an intellectual platform prescribed
to. it, as being the manuary opificer of the Divine
architectonic art, or this art itself as it were trans­
fused into the matter, and embodied in it. Thus
Cicero’s * Balbus long since declared concerning
it, that it was not “ vis qusedam sine ratione, ciens
motus in corporibus necessarios; sed vis particeps
ordinis, tanquam via progrediens, cujus solertiam
nulla ars, nemo artifex consequi potest imitando:”
Not a force unguided by reason, exciting neces­
sary motions in bodies temerariously; bnt such
a force, as partakes of order, and proceeds as it
were methodically; whose cunning or ingeniosity
no art or human opificer can possibly reach to by
imitation.—For it is altogether unconceivable,
how we ourselves should have mind and inten­
tion in us, were there none in the universe, Or in
that highest principle, from whence all proceeds.
Moreover, it was truly affirmed by Aristotle,bthat
there is much more of art in some of the things
of nature, than there is in any thing artificially
made by men; and therefore intention, or final
and mental causality, can no mote be secluded
from the consideration of natural, than it can
» De Natnr. Deor. lib. ii. cap. xxxii. p.3001. tom* ix. oper.
b Vide Natnr. Auscult. lib. ii. cap.x. p.476. tom.i. oper.
IDOLUM SPECOS. 3 0 3
from that ofartificial things. Now it is plain, that
things artificial, as a house or clock, can neither
be understood, nor any true cause of them as­
signed, without design or intention for ends and
good. For to say, that a house is stones, timber,
mortar, iron, glass, lead, &c. all put together, is
not to give a definition thereof, or to tell what in­
deed it is, it being such an apt disposition of all
these materials, as may make up the whole fit for
habitation, and the uses of men. Wherefore this
is not sufficiently to assign the cause of a house
neither, to declare out of what quarry the stones
were dug, nor in what woods or forests the timber
was felled, and the like: nor, as Aristotle addetb,
etric rov rolyov ytytvtiar6ai *e£ dvdyKiK vopt£ot, Nst.Aaio.l.n.
o n ra fiiv (3apfa Karat wfyvice ,^iptaBai, ra 8e o.«.#[p.478.
Kovipa Sio ol Xtdoi fitv Karat Kat ffe/uiXut,
VSi yi aval8ianjv jcov^orqra, tirnroXqc ^ fiaXiorara £uAa'
k o v f o r a r a y i p • If any one should go about thus to
give an account of a house from material necessity
(as the atheistic philosophers then did ofthe world
and the bodies of animals), that the heavier things
being carried downward of their own accord, and
the lighter upward; therefore the stones and foun­
dation lay at the bottom, and the earth for the
walls, being lighter, was higher; and the timber,
being yet lighter, higher than that; but above ali
the straw, or thatch, it being the lightest of all.-—
Nor, lastly, if, as the same Aristotle elsewhere*
also suggesteth, one should further pretend, that
a house was therefore made such, iummvro^ r6v
opyavov, &c. merely because the hands of the lar
bourers, and the axes, and hammers, and trowels,
and other instruments, chanced all to be moved
* De Partib. Animal, lib. i. cap.i. p. 473. tom. ii. oper.
3 0 4 FINAL CAUSES
so aod so; we say, that none of all these would
be to assign the true cause of a bo.use, without
declaring, that the architect first framed in his
mind a model or platform of such a thing to be
made out of those materials, 60 aptly disposed
into a foundation, walls, roof, doors, rooms, stairs,
chimneys, windows, &c. as might render the
whole fit for habitation, and other human uses.
And no more certainly can the things, of nature
(in whose very essence final causality is as much
included) be either rightly understood, or the
causes of them assigned* merely from matter and
mechanism, or the necessary and unguided mo­
tion thereof, without design or intention for. ends
and good. Wherefore to say,athat the bodies of
animals became such,, merely because the fluid
seed, by motion, happened to make such traces,
and beget- such stamina and lineaments, as out
of which that compages of the whole resulted; is
not to assign a cause of them, but to dissemble,
smother, and conceal their true efficient cause,
which is the wisdom and contrivance of that -Di­
vine Architect and Geometer, making them every
way fit for the inhabitation and uses of their re­
spective souls. Neither indeed can we banish all
final, that is, all mental causality, from philosophy
or the consideration of nature, without banishing
at the same time reason and understanding from
ourselves, and looking upon the things of nature
with no other eyes than brutes do. However,
none of the ancient Atheists would ever under­
take to assign necessary.causes for all the parts
of the bodies of animals, and their efiormation,
*This seems to be levelled against Des Cartes’book De formation©
Foetus.
PHILOSOPHICAL. m
from.merematter, motion, and mechanism; those
small,and pitifi^attempts in.order.,tbereunto,that
Jbave been ,made by.some of.them in a few in­
stances (as.that.the spina (torsi* came,from the
flexure*of the bodies of animals, when they,first
sprung oat of the earth, the intestines; from the
flax of .humours excavating a crooked and. .wind­
ing channel for itself, and that the nostrils were
broken open b.ythe.eruptiou of breath);.theset I
say, only shewing the unfeasableneps and impos­
sibility thereof. And therefore Democritus ,W8S
so .wise; as never to pretend, to give 'Oti account
in this way of the formation of the •foetus, be
looking upon it as a thing absolutely desperate;
por would he venture to say any more concerning
it (as Aristotlebinformetb ns) thanioft qvtps <
J
«iZ
av&
yKiKf'wtrai, tbat.it always cometh soto:pass of
necessity—but stopped all further inquiry con­
cerning it after this manner, to ipw$v t o .Bia .ti,
7rspi rw v Totovrwv rtvoc, to £»jteu/ elvat rov airflpov af>%nVf
that to demand, about any of these..things* for
what cause it. was thus, was.to demand a begin­
ning of infinite.—As if all the motions from'eter­
nity had an influence upon, and contribution to,
whatsoever corporeal thing was now produced.
And Lucretius, notwithstanding.all, bis swagger
ing and boasting, that he and Epicurus,wereable
to assign natural and necessary causes for every
thing without a God, hath no wbere so ruuchas
one word concerning it: We conclude therefore
that Aristotle’s judgment concerning,finalcausea
in philosophy is much to be preferred before that
* Vide Aristot. de Partib. Animal, lib.i. cap. i: p. 471; 472. ' 1
> DeGenerat. Animal, lib. ii. cap.vi. p. 629. tom. ii. oper.
VOL. III. X
306 THE MECHANIC
N a t . A n s c .
J . i i . c . i x .
[ p . 4 7 8 .
of Democritus, km afifro ftlv r<p <
f>
tK
TiK
to
XcKTeai al atrial, ‘
fiaW ov St, n rivoc evtica' amov
t o m . i . oper.] foiro rrjc vXtfc, aXX’ ov% avrq rov ri\ov$,
that both kinds ofcauses (material and final) ought
to be declared by a physiologer, but especially
the final: the end being the cause of the matter,
but the matter not the cause of the end.—And
thus do we see plainly, that the atomic Atheists
are utterly ignorant of the cause rov tv km KaXtSc,
of the regular and artificial frame of the things in
nature,—and consequently the vvhole mundane
system, the true knowledge whereof necessarily
leadeth to a God.
But it is prodigiously strange, that these Athe­
ists should, in this.their ignorance an^l sottishness,
be justified by any professed Theists and Christ­
ians of later times, who atomizing in their physio­
logy also, would feign persuade us in like manner,
that this whole mundaue system, together with
plants and animals, was derived merely from the
necessary and unguided motion of the small par­
ticles of matter, at first turned round in-a vortex,
or else jumbled all together in a chaos, without
any intention for ends and good, that is, without
the direction of any mind ; God in the mean time
standing by, only as an idle spectator of this Ittsus
atomorum, this sportful dance of atoms.—and of
the various results thereof. Nay, these mechanic
Theists have here quite outstripped and outdone
the atomic Atheists themselves, they being much
more immodest and extravagant than ever those
were; for the professed Atheists durst never ven­
ture to affirm, that this regular system of things
resulted from the fortuitous motions of atoms at
the very first, before they had for a long time to-
THEISTS CENSURED. . 307
gether produced many other inept combinations
or aggregate forms of particular things, and non-i
sensical systems of the -whole. And they sup*
posed also, that the regularity of things here in
this world would not always.continuesuch neither,
but that some time or other confusion and disorder
would break in again. Moreover, that, besides
this world of ours, there are at this very instant
innumerable other worlds irregular, and that there
is but one of a thousand, or ten thousand, amongst
the infinite worlds, that have such regularity in
them. The reason of all which is, because it was
generally taken for granted, and looked upon as
a common notion, that tw
v ami nJ^ijc km tw avrofid-
tov, ovOiv atl ovrui ylvtrat, as Aristotle expresseth it,*
that none ofthose things, which are from fortune or
chance, come to pass constantly and always alike.
—But our mechanic or atomic Theists will have
their atoms never so much as once to have fum­
bled in these their fortuitous motions, nor to have
produced any inept system, or incongruous forms *
at all; but from the very first all aloug, to have
taken up their places, and have ranged themselves
so ,orderly, methodically, and discreetly, as that
they could not possibly haive done it better, had
they been directed by the most perfect wisdom.
Wherefore these atomic Theists utterly evacuate
that grand argument for a God, taken from the
phenomenon of the artificial frame of things,
which hath beeu so much insisted on in all ages,
and which commonly makes the strongest impres­
sion of any other upon the minds of men, they
leaving only certain metaphysical arguments for a
Deity; which, though never so good, yet, by rea-
* Natnr. Auscult.lib.ii. cap.iv. p. 469. tom. i. oper.
X 2
3 0 8 A CONFUTATION OF THE
son of their subtilty, can do but little execution
upon the minds of the generality, and even amongst
the learned do sometimes beget more of doubtful
disputation and scepticism, than of clear convic­
tion-and satisfaction; the Atheists in the mean
time laughing in their sleeves, and not a little tri­
umphing, to see the cause of Theism thus betrayed
by its professed friends and assertors, and the
grand argument for the same totally slurred by
them; and so their work' done, as it were, to their
hands, for them.
Now, as this argues the greatest insensibility of
mind, or sottishness and stupidity in pretended
Theists, not to take the least notice of the regular
and artificial frame of things, or of the signatures
of the Divine art and wisdom in them, nor to look
upon the world, and things of nature, with any
other eyes than oxen and horses do; so ate there
many phenomena in‘nature, which, being partly
above the force of these mechanic powers, and
partly contrary to the same, can therefore never
be solved by them, nor without fltial causes, and
sbme vital principle. As'for example, that of
gravity, or the tendency of bodies downward, the
motion of the diaphragma in respiration* the sys­
tole and diastole'of the heart,- which Was before
declared to be a muscular cOUStrictioh and Relax­
ation, and therefore not mechanical but vital. We
might also add, amongst many others, the inter­
section of the plains of the'equator and ecliptic,
or the earth’s diurnal motion, upion An axis -not
parallel with that of the elliptic, nor perpendicu­
lar to the plain thereof- For tho'ugh Cartesius*
* Vide Pnncipiaeju* Philpsoph. part iii. §. 155. p. 136. et part ir. §.
2. p. 19/.
MECHANIC THEISTS. . 3Q9
would needs imagine this earth of oors once to
have been a son, and so itself the centre'of-a lesser
vortex, whose axis was then directed after, this
manner, and which therefore still kept the same
site or posture, by reason of the striate particles,
finding no fit pores or traces for their passage
through it, but only in this direction ; yet does
he himself confess, that because these two mo*
tions of; the earth, the annual and diurnal, would
be mnch more conveniently made upon parallel
axes, therefore, according to the laws of median*
ism, they should perpetually be brought nearer
aqd nearer together, till at length the equator
and the ecliptic come to have their axes paral­
lel to one another, which, .as it hath not.yet
come to pass, so neither hath there been, for
these last tvyo thousand years (according to the
best observations and judgments of astronomers),
any nearer apprbach made of them to one another,
therefore the continuation of these two motions
of the earth, the, annual and diurnal, upon axes
different or not parallel, is resolvable into no­
thing, but a final and mental cause, or the ro
j3fX
r«TToy, because it was best it should, be so,
the variety of the seasons of the year depending
hereupon. But the greatest of all the particular
phenomena is the organization and formation of
the bodies of animals, consisting of such variety
and curiosity, which these mechanic philosophers
being noway able to givean account of from the
necessary motion of matter, unguided by mind
for ends, prudently therefore break.off" theirsys*
tem there, when they should come to animals, and
so leave it altogether untonched. We acknow­
ledge indeed, that there is a posthumous piece
31 0 A CONFUTATION OF THE
extant, imputed to Cartesius, and entitled, De la
Formation du Foetus, wherein there is some pre­
tence made to solve all this by fortuitous mechan­
ism. But as the theory thereof is wholly built upon
a false supposition, sufficiently confuted by the
learned Harvey, in his book of Generation, “ that
the seed doth materially enter into the composi­
tion of the e g g s o is it all along precarious and
exceptionable; nor does it extend at all to the
differences, that are in several animals, or offer the
least reason, why an animal of one species or kind
might not be formed out of the seed of another.
It is here indeed pretended by these mechanic
Theists, that final causes therefore ought not to
be of any regard to a philosopher, because we
should not "arrogate to ourselves to be as wise as
God A taagbty is, or to be privy to his secrets.
Thus in theMetaphysical Meditations;* “ Atque
ob banc unlearn rationem toturn illud causarum ge­
nus,' quod a fine peti solet, in rebus physicis nul­
lum usum habere existimo; non euim absque te-
meritate me puto, investigare posse fines Dei.”
And again likewise in the Principles of Philoso­
phy :b ‘ Nullas unquam rationes circa res natn-
rales a fine, quern Deus aut natura in iis faciendis
sibi proposnit, admittimus, quia non tantnm nobis
debemus arrogare, ut ejus consiliorum participes
esse possimus.” But the question is not, whether
we can always reach to the ends- of God Al­
mighty, and know what is absolutely best in
every case, and accordingly make conclusions,
that therefore the thing is, or ought to be so; but,
whether any thing at all were made by God for
* IVIeditat. i». p, 36. edit. Amstelpd. 168.}.
k Vide part i. §. 28. p. 8. el part iii. §. 2,3, p. 60.
MECHANIC THEISTS. 311
ends and good, otherwise than would of itself
have resulted from the fortuitous motion of mat­
ter. ■Nevertheless, we see no reason at all, why
it should be thought presumption, or intrusion
into.the seerets of God Almighty, to affirm, that
eyes were made by him for the end of seeing'
(and accordingly so contrived as might best con­
duce thereunto), and ears for the end of hearing,
and the like. This being so plain, that nothing but
sottish stupidity, or atheistic incredulity (masked
perhaps under a hypocritical veil of humility), can
make any doubt thereof. And therefore Aristo­
tle* justly reprehended Anaxagoras for that ab­
surd aphorism of bis, Sid to yupag wipwrarov
uvai tw
v £
<
■
>
<
ovrov avO
pwwov, that man was therefore
the wisest (or most solert) of all animals, because
he chanced to have hands. He not doubting to
affirm on the contrary, tvAoyov Sul Vo ippov^iwrarov
uvai twv %wwv \upac f^uv" V yap ail Blavifiu KaOatrip
avdpwvot ^MWfiac, rip Svvafiivtp ^>q<Au ucaorov' irpoaqicu
yap r<p ovrt avXtrrp Bovvai jiaXXov avXovc, V Tip atiAouc
iyovTt irpoaOuvat'avXvriKqv' that it was far more rea­
sonable to think, that because man was the wisest
(or most solert and active) of all animals, there­
fore he bad hands given him. For nature (saith
he) distributeth, as a wise man doth, what is suit­
able to;every one; and it is.more proper to give-
pipes to; one that hath musical skill, than upon
him, that pipes, to bestow musical skill.
Wherefore these mechanic Theists would fur­
ther allege, and that with some more colour.of
reason, that it is below the dignity of God Al­
mighty to condescend to all those mean and tri­
vial offices, and to do the things of nature himself
* De Partib, AniraaL. lib. iv. cap. x. p. 569,560. tom,ii. oper.
3 1 2 A CONFUTATION OF THE
itm nediatdy as abb, that it would be b u tab o tch
in nature* if the defects thereof were every where
{o'be Supplied-by miracle. But to this also the
reply is easy, vthat: though tbe> Divioe'wisdom
itself contrived, the system o f the whole world fbr
ends and gOod, y tt nature,-as an inferior minis-'
ter, immediately executes the safae; I say, not
a-dead, fortuitous, and merely medhauical, but a
vital, orderly, and artificial nature. Which nature,
hssbrted by most of the ancient philosophers, who
were' T heists,;is tha^ described; by P ro d us :» ^
Steph. Pbei.‘ tj)V
(T
M
; ttfyatri ftiv £<m rwt» ro (fojfidroei^QrOvi-al
Phjloa.. ^ Kal cuaOtirov Stffiiovpyouvrwv airititv, liai roiripdQ
tov ‘
i w aaw/MiTwv ovauHv irXarovg’• TpXriptff;'&
e Xoyow jckti-
Svvafitwv St otv Karev&vvei ra eyKoa/xia’ rotavrtj 81 dh&a
WpQtXiiXvOtv dv.o rij$ %woym>ov 0e«Ci ■ - ’ '
, 1 ' N»Tot$5?a y j f i 6icLc; <pvo-ic oirXrrof aufyirriu*
a4
> VQ natra £
<
*
>
*
) ngotiaw, t[ re voepa kal 1} dj(tipt<rrocTtUrf
Stoueauftiinav' k^qpttifihrt} 8* bc&Btv Kcu aTrr)u)prjifj.evYi9
Std; 7ruvTa 'okwXjo
t
o
^ , Kal Trdvra i/iirvu, Si i\v ra d\pfyq>rd
, tcv&C'r /cat *
ra (pOa^ificva 'fikvei Siattoititoc kv
rcj> KoerfXtpi raig iv ftvryrwv nSuiv aitlaiQ avvtypp&Wf
• '■ *A??C
6‘ ^ <pvri{ oxa fxciT n HMrfXoM ft v a \ i% y m t '
fprial n 5 A^yiov,
?
. :• OufftW
f o f y a 9(tj ty fjio v a ftio v K A T ctrvfa ir
Kalra e
£tc*Nature is thelast ofall causes, that fabri­
cate this corporeal and sensible world, and the ut­
most bound Ofincorporeal substances. Which, be­
ing full of reasons and power, orders aud presides
ovet all mundane affairs. It proceeding (accord­
ing to the Magic Oracles) from that supreme god-
defes, the Divine wisdom, which is the fountain of
all life, as well intellectual, as that which is cotp-
crete with , matter. Which wisdom this nature
a Comment. in Timaeoxn Platon, lib. i. p. 4. edit*Grteo.
MECHANIC TUBISTS. 3IS
always essentially depending, upon, passe&through
all things unhinderably; by means whereof even
inanimate things partake o f.a kind of life, and
things corruptible remain eternal in their species,
they being contained by its standing forms or
ideas, as tbeir causes. And thus does the oracle
describe nature, as presiding over the whole cor­
poreal world, and perpetually turning round the
heavens.—
*Here have we a description of one uni­
versal, substantial life, soul, or spirit, of nature,
subordinate to the D eity: besides which, the same
Proclus elsewhere* supposeth other particular
natures, or spermatic reasons, in those words•of
bis: Merd Ttjy vpumjv, \puyai' K
O
Ifitra ttjvoXffv
tpiatp, flaae" After the first soul, are there particu­
lar souls, and after' the universal nature,, particu­
lar batures. W here it may be-observed, by' the
Way, that this Proclus, though, he were-a super­
stitious Pagan, much addicted to the multiplying
of gods (subordinate to one supreme) or bigotic
Polytheist, who bad a humour of deifying alm ost
every thing, and therefore would have this nature;
forsooth, to be called a goddess too; yet does' be
declare it not to be properly such, but abusively
only (viz. because it Was no intellectual thing),as
he saith the bodies of the sun, moon, and stars,'
supposed to be animated, were called gods too*
they being the .statues of the.gods. This is the
meaning of those w ords: K<u 0eoc v&» rw eicdtoioOai,
k,<
u ovie avtofftv to t\vai 0«dc' K
tti-ydp ra (kta adfiara,
Otovc KaXwfttv, tic ayaXftura Ttov Ottov' N a tu te 18 a
god, or goddess; not as having godship properly
belonging toit, but as the Divine bodies are called1
gods, because they are statues of the gods. *
» Ibid, r - 119.
3 1 4 THESE MECHANIC THE1STS SMITTEN
Wherefore we cannot otherwise conclude con-.
cerning these oar mechanic Theists, who will thus-
needs derive all corporeal things from a dead and
stupid nature, or from the necessary motions of
senseless matter, without the direction of any
mind or intention for ends and good; but that
they are indeed cousins-german to Atheists, or
possessed, in a degree, with a kind of atheistic
enthusiasm, or fanaticism, they being so far forth
inspired with a spirit of infidelity, which is the
spirit of Atheism.
But these mechanic Theists are. again counter­
balanced by another sort of Atheists, not mechani­
cal nor fortuitous; namely, the Hylozoists, who
are unquestionably convinced, that “opera naturae
sunt opera intelligent*,” the works of nature are
works of understanding; and that the original of
these corporeal things was not dead and stupid
matter fortuitously moved : upon which account-
Strato derided Democritus's rough and crooked
atoms, as mere dreams and dotages. But these
notwithstanding, because they would not admit
of any other substance besides matter, suppose
life and perception essentially to belong to all
matter as such; whereby it hath a perfect know­
ledge ofwbatsoeveritself'could door suffer(though
without animal consciousness), and can form itself
to the best advantage, sometimes improving itself
by organization to sense in brutes, and to reason
and reflexive understanding in men. Wherefore,
according to the principles of these Hylozoists,
there is not any need of a God at a ll; that is, ,of
one perfect mind or understanding being presid­
ing over the whole world; they concluding accord­
ingly, the opinion of a God to be only a mistaking
WITH AN ATHEISTIC BLAST. 315
•f the inadequate conception of matter in general,
its life and energetic nature taken alone abstractly,
for a complete substance by itself. Nevertheless
these hylozoic Atheists are no way able, by this
hypothesis of theirs neither, to solve that pheno­
menon of the regularity and harmony of the whole
universe; because every part of matter being, ac­
cording to them, a distinct percipient by itself,
whose knowledge extendeth only to its own con­
cernment ; and there being no one thing presiding
over all, the things of the whole world (tv$ wavra
ffwreratcrcu, in which all things are co-ordered toge­
ther-—
) could never have fallen into one such
agreeing and conspiring harmony.
And as for those other Cosmo-plastic Atheists,
who suppose the whole world to be as it were but
one huge plant, tree, or vegetable, or to have one
spermatic, plastic, and artificial nature only, or­
derly and methodically disposing the whole, but
without sense and understanding; these can no
way do the business neither, that is, solve the fore-
mentioned phenomenon, it being utterly impossi­
ble, that there should be any such artificial and re­
gular nature, otherwise than as deriving from, and
depending upon, a perfect mind or wisdom.
And thus do we.see plainly, that no Atheists
whatsoever can solve the phenomena of nature,
and this particularly of the regular frame and har­
mony of the universe; and that true philosophy,
or the knowledge ofcauses, necessarily leadeth to
a God.
But besides these phenomena of cogitation, or
soul and mind in animals, local motion in bodies,
and •the artificial frame of things for ends and
uses, together with the conspiring harmony of the
3 1 ft PH ilN Q M iN O N OF TjHB,'
vihole/which;can. no way be. solveduwitha&t&
D«ity.; we mighthere farther add, thatthefbr-
tuitous/thatis, the Anaatimamditian and<Democra­
tic Atheists, who universally assertedthetiavky
efthis^rtundanesystena, wiezenbtableto give any
tolerable account neither ofthe.first beginning of
men, and those greater animals, that are uoother-
wise-begotten, than in the way pf generation, fay.
the commixture of male >and female. .
Aristotle, in his book of the Generation of Ani-
yb.:0i.c.»n. malg writeth thus:JI«p( m rwudvQpwrav
u.u
j
w
iv
] ko
li terpairo$<j»v^ytv&tretoG, .woXopot rtctiv, tmfp
ey'tyvovro-nort •yfjyEiJtu;, uairtp tj>aairivei;, Stio.rpojroJv ya>t<r-
Bai tov erepov' y ydpwgaK<dXyKQ^qxrvi<rTapbiov to irpfd-
rov, rt wtov’ If men and four-footed animals.were
ever generated out of the earth/ as.some affirm,-.it
may be probably conceived to have heen one. of
these two ways, either that they were produced,
as worms, out of putrefaction, or else.: formed' in
Certain eggs,-^growing out ofthe earth. And' then,
after a while, he concludes again,* etxepyv tic «pxs
fifeytvtattoQ iraat to
iqt/dotg, eiXoyov Svuv rayrmisivatryv
eripav, that if there were any beginning Pf the ge­
neration of all animals, it is reasonable to‘think it
to have been one ofthese two fprementioned ways.
It is well known, that Aristotle, though a Theist,
elsewhere affirmeth the world’s eternity; accord­
ing to which hypothesis of his, there was never
any first male nor female in any kind of animals,,
but one begat another .infinitely, without, any be­
ginning : a thing utterly repugnant to our human
faculties, that -are never able to frame any Concep­
tion of such an infinity ofmunher and:time, andof
a successive generation- from eternity. But hjere
»Ibid. p. 666.
B B G tim n ro o r 3 1 ?
Aristotle himself seenis staggering, orsceptfaht*
about it, “ if men were ever generated out :0fth4
earth, and if there were any beginning'of the gene­
ration of anim alsashedoth also, in his -Topics;
propound it for an instance of a thing disputable,'
IToTEpov o K
ixrficn; aiSiocfi ov$ Whether the1iib. t.«.i*1
.
world were eternal or no ? he ranking it
amongst irepl iSv Xoyov fi1}iyoptv Svrwvpe- •wwi]
■
yoX
w
v, those great things, for which' we can gtte
no certain reason one way nor another. Now
(saith he) if the world had a;beginning, and- if
men were once ytiyevek, or avtoyOoVts, earth-born-
then must they have1
been, in all probability, either
generated, as worms, out of putrefaction, or else
out ofeggs; he supposing (it seems) those eggs to
have grown out of the earth. But the generality
of Atheists in Aristotle’s time* as welhas Tfoeista-;
denying this eternity of the mundane system, as
not so agreeable with their hypothesis, becauseso.
Constant and invariable' an order in'the world)
from eternity, hath not such an appearance or
semblance of chance, nor can be easily supposed
to have been without the providence of a perfect
mind presiding over it, and senior to it (as Aris­
totle conceived) ib nature, though not in- time )
they therefore, in all probability,1
conctadediftikei
wise, men at first to have beetf-generated-ohfcsof
these two ways, either out of putrefaction, w frbin
eggs; and this by the fortuitous motion of matter*
without the providence or'direction of atiy d&ityI
But, after Aristotle, Eplcnrns- fancied' those first
inen and other animals to have bCenr foruaed'iq
certain wombs or bags growingeui olf'tlih bbrthff
Crescebant uteriterrde radrciibusaptf;'
; Lneret.Hb<
'*fcV
rti8O
0«
3 1 8 THE PHENOMENON OF THE
And this no otherwise than by the fortuitous mo­
tion ofatoms also.
- But if nien had been at first formed after this
manner, either in wombs or eggs (growing, out of
the earth), or generated out of putrefaction, by
chance; then could there be no reason imaginable,
why it should not sometimes so happen now, the
motions of atoms being as brisk and vigorous as
ever they were, and so to continue to all eternity:
so that .there is not the least ground at all for that
precarious fancy and pretence of Epicurus,, that
the earth, as a child-bearing woman, growing
old, became at length effete and barren. More­
over, the men thus at first excluded out of bags,
wombs or egg-shells, or generated out of putre­
faction, were supposed by these Atheists them­
selves to have been produced, not in a mature and
adult, but an infant-like, weak, and tender state,
just such as they are now born into the world ;
by means whereof they could neither be able to
feed and nourish themselves, nor defend them­
selves from harms and injuries. But when the
same Epicurus'* would here pretend also, that
the earth, which had been so fruitful a mother,
became afterward, by chance too, as tender and
indulgent a nurse of this her own progeny, and
sent forth streams or rivers of milk after them out
of those gaps of her wounded surface, which they
had before burst out of, as Critolaus long since
M
iu
^ bmr °bserved* be might as well have feigned.
fe>. 945.] the earth to have had breasts and nip­
ples too, as. wombs and milk; and ■
then :what
should hinder, but that she might have arms and
a Vide Lucret lib.v. ver. 823,824. et lib. ii. ver. 1149.
b Vide Lucret.lib.-v. ver. 810.
BEGINNING OF ANIMALS, 319
hands also, and swaddling-bands to boot ? Nei­
ther is that less precarious, when the same athe­
istic philosopher adds, that in this imaginary state
of the new-born world, there was for a long time
-neither any immoderate heat nor cold, nor any
rude and churlish blasts of wind, the least to An­
noy or injure those tender earth-born infants and
nurselings. All which things being considered,
Anaximander* seems of the two to hare conclud­
ed more wisely, that men, because they require a
longer time than other animals to be hatched up
in, were at first generated in the bellies of fishes,
and there nourished up for a good while, till they
were at length able to defend and shift for them­
selves, and then were disgorged, aud cast up upon
dry land. Tbus do we see, that there is nothing
in the world* so monstrous, nor prodigiously ab­
surd, which men, atheistically inclined, will not
rather imagine, and swallow down, than entertain
the notion ofa God.-
Wherefore here is “ dignns vindice nodus,” and
this phenomenon ofthe first beginningof mankind,
and other greater animals, cannot be solved other­
wise than according to the Mosaic history, by ad­
mitting of (kov av6 priyavte, aGod out of a machine,
—that is, an extraordinary manifestation of the
Deity, in forming man, and other animals, male
and female, once .out of the earth ; and that not
in a rude,,tender, and infantdike state, but mature
aud adult, that so they might be able.iramediately
to shift for themselves, multiply and propagate
their kind, by generation: and. this being once
done, and now. no longer any necessity of such an
extraordinary way of proceeding, then putting a
a Vide Censorinum de Die Natali, cap. iv. p.26. edit. Lindenbrogii.
3 8 0 OTHER. PHENOMENA. NOT
stop immediately there«ntovthat sorao mbreterri-
gente, nor autochthones; earth*bomriien,-r
—
should
be any longerproduced. For allthesecircum-
staitces beingput together, itplainlyappears, that
this wholephenomenon surpassesnot onlytheme­
chanical,but alsotheplastic powers; there being
much of discretion in it, which the latter of these
cannotarrivetoneither,they always actingfatally
andnecessarily. Nevertheless, weshall not here
determine, whether God Almighty might not
make use ofthe subservient ministry ofangels or
superior spirits, created before,man, in this first
extraordinaryefformationof the bodies ofanimals
out of the earth, in a mature and adult state; as
Plato, in his Timaeus*, introduced] the supreme
God (whom he supposeth to be the immediate
Creatorofall immortal souls) thus bespeakingthe
junior gods, and setting thema work in the fabri*
taction of mortal bodies: To81 Aonrdv vfie^, dOavary
Ovrjrov npcxrvfaivovTeg, airepyaZjeoOe £w
akcu ycvvare. It is
your worknow to adaptate the mortal to theim­
mortal, and to generate or make terrestrial ani­
mals he afterwards adding1
*
,fieri rov oiropov, ro*c
vtoig 7rapeS<t>K
C 6e
(hqt tnifiara w
A
d
rratv ftvt/rd
, that after
the sowing ofimmortal souls (the.supreme God)
coromittedto these junior gods<tbetask,ofform­
ing mortal bodies.—Which of Plato’s some con­
ceive to barerbeen derived from that of Moses,
“ Let nsmakemanafterourownimage.”
Moreover, these Atheists are no more able to
solve that other common and.ordinary pheno­
menon neither, ofthe conservation of the species
of all animals, by keepingbip constantly in the
world a due numerical ^proportion, between the
. §. 27. p. 250. b$..20. p 2S2.
SOLVABLE BY ATHEIST*. 321;
sexes ofmale and female. *For did thisdepend!
only uponfortuitous mechanism, it:cannot \rell
be.conceived, bat-that, in some ages,or other,!
thereshould happen-to.beeither, all inales'dr a)l-
females; landso.the species fed;. Nay*, it cannot)
well be thought otherwise,butthatthereis ihithte
a providencealso, superiorto that ofthe*plastic*
or spermaticnature, which hath not so much<of
knowledgeand discretionallowedtoit,as where?
by tobeableabatetogovern th&affair. ■ .i
Lastly, there are yetother phenomena,no less
real, though not physiological, which Atheist*
canno way solved as.that ofnatural justide^and.
honesty, duty andObligation; thetruefoundation
both O
f ethics and politics; and'the ro ip' yftar,-
liberty of will,—properly so called; -not that of
fortuitous determination; when there-is a perfect
equality orindifferCncy of eligibility in.objects.;
bat thatwherebym
en'deservecommendationand
blame, rewards and punishments,>and;sobecome
fit objects for remunerative justice’to display
itself upon, a main hinge upon'which religion
turneth; (though those two be not.commdnly so
well distinguished as thejr «uight). For when
Epicurus (an absolnte Atheist), departing here
from Democritus, pretended to- solve this by hia
“exiguum dinamen principiornm,”this attempt
ofhis was nootherthanaplaindelirancy, orathe­
istic frenzy in him.
And now have we already preventively con­
futed the third atheistic pretence also, to solve
the phenomenon of religion and the belief of.a
God, so generally entertained; namely; fromthe
fiction and imposture of politicians: we!having
not only manifested, that there is a natural pro-
VOL. u i . Y
382- GOD AND RELIGION, NO
lepsisand anticipation of a God, inthe mindsof
men, astheobjectof theirfear, preventingreason;
‘but also that the belief thereof is sustained and
upheld by the strongest reason; the phenomena
of nature being no way solvable, nor the causes
of things assignable, without a Deity; so that re*
Hgion being founded, both upon the instincts of
nature, and upon solid reason, cannot possibly
beanyfictionorimpostureofpoliticians. Never­
theless, we shall speak something particularly
to this also. The Atheists therefore conceive,
that though those infirmities of human nature,
men’s fear and ignorant credulity, do much dis­
pose and incline them to the belief of a God, or
else of arank ofbeingssuperior to men (whether
visible or invisible), commonly called by the Pa­
gans, gods; yet would not this be so generally
entertained as it is, especially that of the one
supreme Deity, the first Original of all things,
and Monarch of the universe, had it not been
for' the fraud mid fiction of law-makers and civil
foreigners, who, the better to keep men in peace
and subjection under them, and ina kind of reli­
gious and superstitious observation of their laws*
anddevotion to the same, devised this notion of
al.God, and then pdssessed the minds of men
with a belief of his existence, and an awe of
him. :
Now, we deny not, but that politicians may
sometimes abuse;religion,' and make it serve*for
the promoting of their own private interests and
designs; which yet they could not do so well nei­
ther, werethethingitselfamerecheatandfigment
of their own, and had ho reality at all in nature,
nor any thing solid atthe bottomofit. Butsince
, POLITICAL PIGMENTS. 323
religion- obtains so universally every -where, it is
not conceivable, how civil sovereigns throughout
the whole world, some of which are so distant,
•and have so little correspondence with one an­
other, should, notwithstanding, all so well agree
in this one cheating mystery of government, or
piece of state-cozenage; nor, if they could, how
they should be able so effectually to possess the
•generality of mankind (as well wise as unwise)
with such-a constant fear, awe, and dread, of a
mere counterfeit thing, and an invisible nothing;
and whichbath not only no manner of foundation
neither in sense nor reason, butalso (astheAthe­
ists suppose) tends to their own great terror and
disquietment, and so brings themat once under a
miserablevassalagebothof mindand body. E
s-»
;pecially since men are not generally so apt to
think,that howmuchthe moretheyhaveof power
anddignity, theyhave thereforeso much the more
.of knowledge and skill in philosophy and the
things of nature, above others. And is it not
strange, that the world should not all this while
have suspected or discovered this cheat and jug­
gle of politicians, and have smelt put aplot upon
themselves, in the fiction of religion, to takeaway
their liberty, and enthral them under bondage;
and that so many of these politicians, and civil
■sovereigns themselves also, should have been un­
acquaintedherewith, and assimply awed withthe
fear of thisinvisible nothing, as any othersl AH
other cheats and juggles, when they,are once
never so little detected, are presently thereupon
dashed quite out of countenance, and have never
any more the confidence to obtrude themselves
upon the world. But though the Atheists have,
y 2
3 2 4 GOD AND RELIGION, NO
for these two thousand years past, been continu-
ally buzzing into men’s ears, that religion is no­
thing hut a merestate-juggle and political impos­
ture; yet hath not the credit thereof been the
least impaired thereby, norits power and domi­
nion overthe minds ofmenabated: from whence
it may be concluded, thatit is no counterfeitand
'fictitious thing, but what is deeply rooted in the
intellectual nature of man; a thing solid at the
bottom, andsupportedbyitsownstrength. Which
yet may morefullyappear fromChristianity, a re­
ligion foundedin nohumanpolicy, nor tendingto
promote any worldly interest or design; which
yet by its own, orthe Divine force, hathprevailed
overthepower and policy, the rageandmadness,
of all civil states, Jewish and Pagan, and hath
‘Conqueredsogreatapartofthepersecutingworld
under it; and. that not by resisting, or opposing
force, but by suffering deaths and martyrdoms
in way ofadherence to that principle,* “ That it
is better to obey God than men.” Which thing
was thus presignified in the prophetic Scrip­
ture;b“Why dothe heathenrage,and thepeople
imagine a vain thing? Thekings ofthe earth set
themselves, and the rulers take counsel together,
against the Lord, and against his- Christ,” &c.
“ He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh; the
Lord shall havethem in derision. Then shall he
speak untothem inhis wrath,”&c. “ Yet have I
. set my King upon my holy hill of Sion. I will
give thee the heathen'for thine inheritance, and
'the uttermost parts of the earth for thy posses­
sion. Bewise-nowtherefore, Oye kings,”&c.
• Acts v. 29.’ bPsal. ii. 1..
POLITICAL FIGMENTS. 3 2 5
But thatTheism, or religion, is no gullery or
imposture, will be yet further made unquestion­
ably evident. That the generality of mankind
haveagreedintheacknowledgmentofonesupreme
Deity, as a beingeternal andnecessarilyexistent,
absolutely perfectandomnipotent, andthemaker
of the whole world, hath been already largely
proted in the foregoing discourse. To which
purpose is thisofSextus the philosopher:*Kmvnv
yap npokiffyv c^ow
nnavrif avQpwnot vepl Qeov, icaff qv
paxapi6v rttari £<5ov Kal atpBaprov koi riXtcov iv tvSatfto-
vufi km Tavroc Kakov dvtiriSucrdv’ All men have this
cdmrooh prolepsis concerning God, that be is a
living being; incorruptible, perfectly happy, and
incapable ofall manner of evil.—And the notion
of that God, which Epicurus opposed, was no
otherthanthis, “AnunderstandingBeing,having
all happiness, with incorruptibility, thatframed
the whole world.” Now, I say, thatiftherebeno
such thing as this existing, andthisideaof God
be'amere fictitious thing, thenwas it altogether
afbitrariouS. But it is inconceivable, how the
generality of mankind (a few Atheists only ex­
empted) should universally agree in one and the
same arbitraridus figment. This argumentation
hath been formerly used by some Theists, as ap­
peared fromthe forementioned Sextus:T
cX
fw
cSS
ecrriv aXoyov, t o jeora r v \w wavfag t o !c w r o t e M . , i,
vttif3dXXav IBuSfiamv, -aXXa /lit) tyvaucwg cvrtog ^
aekamadat' It is altogether irrational to ^
think, that all men should by chance light upon
the same properties (in the idea of God) without
*L
ib
.i. a
d
v
ers. P
h
y
&
ic
o
s,sivelib
.viii. a
d
v
ers.M
a
th
em
a
t.sect.1
.
33. p
.5
56. ed
. F
ab
ricii.
326 COD AND RELIGION, NO
being naturallymoved thereunto. Neitheris that
any sufficient account, which the Atheists would
here give, that statesmen and politicians every,
where thus possessed the minds of men with one.
and the same idea; thedifficulty still remaining,
how civil sovereigns and law-makers, in all the
distant parts of the world, and Such as had no
communication nor intercourse with oneanother,
shpuld universallyjump in one and the same fic­
titious and arbitraricns idea.
Moreover, were there no God, it is not con­
ceivable how that forementioned idea should ever-
have entered into the minds ofmen. orhow it could
have been formed in them. And here the Atheists
again think it enough to say, that this notion or
idea was put into the minds of the generality of
mankind by law-makers and politicians, telling
them of such a being, and persuading them to
believe his existence; or that it was, from the
first feigner or inventor of it, propagated all along
and conveyed down by oral tradition. But this
argues their great ignorance in philosophy,, to
think, that any notion or idea is put into men’s
minds from without, merely by telling, or by
Words; we being passive to nothing else from
words but their sounds and the phantasms there­
of, they only occasioning the soul to excite such
notions as it had before within itself (whether,in­
nate or adventitious) which those words, by the
compact and agreement of men, were made to. be
signs of; or else to reflect also further upon those
ideas of their own, consider them more distinctly
and compare them with one another. And though
all learning be not the remembrance of what the
POLITICAL? IQMKMT8. 337.
sool once before actually understood, in a pre­
existent state, as Plato somewhere would have it,
according to that of Boetius,*.
Quod siPl&tonis masa personat Tetam,
Quod qnisqae discit,immemor recfcfd&tar: *
• . i
yet is all human teaching but maieutical, or ob-
stetricious; and not the filling of the soul as a
vessel, merely by pouring into it from without,
but the kindling of it from within; or helping it
so to excite and awaken, compare and compound,
its own notions, as whereby to arrive at the know­
ledge of that, which it was before ignorant of: as
the thing was better expressed by the foremen--
tioned philosophic poet, in these words,
Haeret profectosemenintrorsumyen.
Quod excitatur ventilante doctrina.
Wherefore the mere telling of men, there is a
Qod, could not infuse any idea of him into their
minds; nor yet the further giving this definition
of him, that he is a being absolutely perfect;
eternal, and self-existent, make them understand
any thing of his nature, Were they not able to
excite notions or ideas from within themselves,
correspondent to those several words. How­
ever,, the difficulty still remains, how those ci­
vil sovereigns and law-makers, or how Critiass
very first inventor of that cheat of a god,
could form that idea within themselves; since
upon supposition of his nonexistence, it is the
idea of nothing, or of a nonentity. And this
was judiciously hinted also by the same. Sex-
* De Consolat. Philos, lib. iii. p. 79, 80.
5^3 THE IDEA OF GOD FROM NO
Aiik tus ; -or'Ss StajLUftoSotovvTts if«cnv, o n wfioOtnU
fp35&
6]' ’ ei/firoit)<rav to»
c 'mSpvlr4tQ, injw
- mpt Stov
8o£av, fit} ttSttTtc-#fi-ro apy^t}dcv arovnv (rot#^
vtptfiivu, ZifrrioavTOG av rivog, iroflevSI ot vo/ioderai, /mj&voc
irportpov 7rapaSovroc, t
JX
O
o
v«ciirlvoiav Oeov ; The Athe­
ists affirming, that certain law-makers first put
this notion of. a God into the minds of men, do
noti consider; that they still remain entangled in
the difficulty,' if any one further demands* of.them;
how those: 1aWrmakers themselves could .first
ffam’that idea i'ti-tFrom' whence .it1
is ■afterwards
concluded^ - o i w*wn> 8kr«, ou8eH a v a n v a - v 4 f io $ t liia v ,
TmpfZlip&toi :<
v
i TaXdtoo riiiv avOptotruv'tfvai d iw ^ tb a t
therefore the ..notion of a. God sprung not from
the arbitrations fiction; ■
of law-makers and poli­
ticians.
B ut some A theistsw ill yet further reply, that
there is a feigning power in the human soul,
whereby it can. frame ideas or conceptions of
such things, >as actually never were nor will be,
a s .of a centaur, or; of a golden mountain>
; and
that by such a feigniog power a s this, the .idea of
God,, though there be no such thing existing,
might’ bb framed.- And here we deny nht but
that the human soul hath a power of Compound­
ing ideas and things together, whioh exist seve­
rally, and apirt in natnre, but never-were,.'nor
will be, in that conjunction : and this indeed is
all .the feigning power that it bath. For the
mind cannot make any new cogitation, which
was hot before, but only compound that which i&
A s the painter cannot feign colours, but m ast
use such as exist in nature; only he can variously
* Ibid. p. 557.
FEIGNING POWER OF THE SOUL. 339
compound them together, and by his pencil draw
the figures and lineafneuts of such things as no
where ate; as-he cab add to the head and face
of a .man the neck, shoulders, and body, of a
horse. In like manner, that more subtile painter
or limner, the mind and imagination of man, can
frame compounded ideas of things, which no
where exist, but yet bis simple colours, notwith­
standing, must be real; be Cannot feign any cogi­
tation which was not in nature* nor make a posi­
tive conception of that which is absolutely no­
thing; which were no less than to make nothing
to be something, or create sometbing out of no­
thing. And though the whole of these fictitious
idea*(asof a golden mountain) does not any where
actually exist, yet forasmuch as it doth not abso­
lutely imply a contradiction for it so to do, there­
fore hath it also a possible entity too; and other­
wise it could not be conceivable. As a triaogolar
square, for example, being a contradictious thing;
hath not so much as a possible entity, and there­
fore is not conceivable as such (though both a
triangle and a square severally be Conceivable); it
being mere nonsense, nothing, and no idea a,t all.
Nay, we conceive, that a Theist may presume
with reverence to say, that God Almighty him­
self, though he can create more or fewer really
existent things, as he pleaseth, and cobid'make a
whole world .out of nothing, yet can he not make
more cogitation or conception, than is, or was be4
fore contained in his own infinite mind and eter­
nal wisdom, nor have a positive idea of any thing,
which bath neither actual nor possible entity.
But the idea of God is not a compilement or
aggregation of things* which exists scatteredly
330 THE IDEA OF GOD FROM NO
and apart in the world; for then would it be a
mere arbitrarious thing, and it might be what
every one pleased, one adding more things to­
gether, and another fewer, bat each of them
writing the name or title of God, as bungling
painters did under these their several figments:
whereas we have already proved, that the idea
of God is one most simple idea of an absolutely
perfect being, though having several partial and
inadequate conceptions, so that nothing can be
added to it, nor detracted from it, there being
nothing included therein but what is demonstra­
ble of a perfect being, and therefore nothing at
all arbitrarious.
Moreover, many of those partial conceptions
contained in the entire idea of God are no where
else to be found in the whole world, existing
singly and apart; and therefore, if there be no
God, they must needs be absolute nonentities;
as immutability, necessary existence, infinity, and
perfection, &c. So that the painter, that makes
this idea,, roust here feign colours themselves, or
create new cogitation and conception out of no- '
thing, upon the atheistic supposition.
Lastly, if there be no God now existing, it is
impossible that ever there .should beany, and so
the whole idea ofGod would be the idea of that,
which hath no possible entity neither; whereas
those other fictitious ideas, made by the mind of
men, though they be of such things as have no
actual existence, yet have they all a possible
entity, as was said before.
But that we mayconceal nothing ofthe Atheists’
strength, we must here acknowledge, that some of
them have yet pretended further, that besides this
FEIGNING P0WEB OF THE SOUL, 331
power of compounding things together, the hu­
man soul hath also another ampliating, or increas­
ing and improving power;-by.both which toge­
ther, though there be no God existing, nor yet
possible, the idea of him may be fictitiously made;
those partial ideas, which are no where else to be
found, arising, as they say, from a nerafiairiQaV
<
J
rwv avBptivwv, a transition and gradual procession,
from men, in way of amplification, augmentation,
and improvement.—Thus do we read in Sextus:
To aiStov etvat w>v0 tov,nu afOaprov, Kat rtXaov ^ Mlt],
cv tvBaifioviq, xapfjXOt Kara tt
jv awo twv avOpti-
v w fierafiaoiv' v; yap rov koivov avdpanrov Pbjiio.lib.i.'
au£jj<ravr*c rp javraaltf, voipnv iyofuv KukXio
- $,46. p.559,,
woft auratf avdptinrov tv&ufiova votiaavrtQ k<
u ‘ ■ '
fM
oicapunf Kat mfixtirXtjpotfiivov warn toIj ayaAotc, (Irtt
rain a ivirtivavrec, rov •cv avrotc acctvotc &Kpov ivor\a<ifui>
©cov* koi jraXiv.woXvj^wvtovrtva $avraaia>&evrtc avdpurrov
q
ciraXatot, irniu%
t)<rav,rov Xpovov cic amipov, ura tvrtvBtv
«c cvvotav tov irapaytvofitvot, ijaoav oat aiBtov emu,
rov 0 eo
v
. The ideas of the eternity, incorrupth
bility, and perfect happiness, of the Deity, were
fictitiously made by way of transition from men;
for as, by increasing a man of an ordinary stature
in our imagination, we fictitiously,make the phan­
tasm of a Cyclops; so when beholding a happy
roan, that aboundeth with all good things, we
amplify, intend, and, as it were, swell the same
in our minds higher and higher, we then arrive at
length to the idea of a being absolutely happy,
that is, a God. So did the ancients, taking notice
of a very longeve man, and increasing this length
of age further and further infinitely, by that
means frame the notion or idea of eternity, and
attribute the same to God.
332 THE IDEA OF GOD NOT FROM
Bat: to this we reply, first, that; according to
the -principles of the Atheists themselves, there
could not possibly, be any such amplifying and
feigning power of the soul, as whereby it could
piake more.than is ; because they suppose it to
base,no.active power at all, but all bur concep­
tions to be nothing but mere passions from the
objects without; according to that of Protagoras
. . 167 s it *
**^ ^ ° ’8 Thesetetus. ; O&rtyap r«. fit}ovm
SvrnrJu Sofyunu, ovrs aXXa Tap.a av
It is neither possible for a man to conceive that
which is not;. nor anymore or otherwise, than he
suffers.—Again, as Sextus* the philosopher also
intupates, the Atheists are here plainly guilty of
that fallacy or error in ratiocination^ which is
commonly-called, a. circle, or & aX
X
ijA
w
*. For
whereas.•they could not 'Otherwise judge the
greatest perfection and happiness, which ever
they had.experience of in. men,' to be imperfect^
than by.un-anticipated.idea of perfection andhap*
piqess, with, which it was in their minds com­
pared (by virtue of which idea also it comes to
pa88,that>they are able to.amplify those lesserper-
fections of men farther, and farther, and can take
occasion, from;imperfect things, to thftk- of that
which is absolutely pefect) : thatis, whereas these
Atheists themselves first make the idea of impei*-
fection from perfection ; they, not attending to
this, do again go about to make up the notion or
idea of that which is absolutely perfect (by way
of amplification) from that which is imperfect.
But that men have a notion ofabsolute perfection
in them, by which, as the rule or measure, they
a Vide lib. viii. adv, Matheraat. sect. 2. §. 47. p. 560.
AMPLIATION OF IMPERFECT THINGS. 383
(comparing other things therewith) judge them
to be imperfect, and which is therefore in order
of nature-first, may appear from hence, because
all theologers, as well Pagan as Christian, give
this direction, for the conceiving of God, .that
it should principally de done “ per viam remoti*
onis,” by way of remotion of all imperfection
from him.—Thus Alcinons :*Tlpiirti fdv airav voipte
q icardaQaipmnv.' The first way ofconceiving of God
is by remotion or abstraction.—We add, id the
last place, that: finite things, put together cah
never make up infinite, as may appear froth that
instance of human longevity proposed; for; ifone
should amplify thaktnever so much, by.adding of
more and more past',time or years to it; yet would
he never thereby be aide to arrive at eternity
without beginning. God differs not froth theSe
imperfect created things in degrees only, but tin
the whole kind. Aitd though infinite space mag
perhaps be here objected, as. a. thing taken .fet
granted, which being nothing bat extension be
magnitude, mast therefore consist, or be made
up, of finite parts, as it was before declared, .we
have no certainty of any.more than this,'that the
finite world' might have been made -bigger>
and
bigger infinitely, or without end; wbibh infinity.bf
magnitude is bat liketh at of number,- potential;
from whence it may be inferred as well of the one
as the other,' that it can never be actually infinite;
Wherefore, were there nO ipfinitely-perfect being
in nature, the idea thereof could ,never he mddfe
up by any amplifying power of the soul, or.bythe
addition- of finiies. Neither is that ofanytao-
aIntroduce in Dootrila*Platon. cap.x. p.602. printed'fit the efid of
Dan. Heinsius'sedit, of Ma*iarafrTy«ius.
3 3 4 CIVIl POWER FOUNDED ON RELIGION ;
ment which Gassendus. so much objecteth here
to the contrary, that though there were no God,
or infinite being, yet might the idea of him as
well be feigned by the mind, as that of infinite
worlds, or of infinite matter, was by some phi­
losophers : for infinite worlds, and infinite mat­
ter, are but words ill put together, infinity being
a real thing in nature (and no fiction of the mind),
as well as the world or matter, but yet proper to
'the Deity only. But it is no wonder, if they, who
denied a God, yet retaining this notion of infinity,
should misapply the same, as they did also other
properties ofthe Deity, to matter.
To conclude this; our human soul cannot feign
or create any new cogitation, tor conception, that
Was not before, but only variously compound
that which is; nor can it ever make a positive
idea of an absolute nonentity, that is, such as
hath neither actual nor possible existence: much
less could our imperfect beings create the entity
of so vast a thought, as that of an infinitely-per-
fect being, out of nothing; this being indeed
more than for God Almighty, or a perfect being;
to create, a real world out of nothing ; because
there is no repugnancy at all in the latter, as
there is in the former. We affirm therefore, that
were there no God, ■
the idea of an absolutely
or infinitely perfect being could never have
been made or feigned, neither by politicians,
nor by poets, nor philosophers, nor any other.
Which may be accounted another argument for-a
Deity.
■ But that religion is no figment of politicians,
*IIIDisquint Metaphys. seudubitationibaset instantiisad Cartesii
Metaphys.dubit iv. p. 336. tom. iii. oper.
HUT DISOWNED BY POLITICIANS. 33 5
will farther unquestionably appear from that,
which now shall follow. As the religion of an
oath is a necessary vinculum of civil society; sb
obligation in' conscience, respecting the Deity as
its original, and as the punisher of the violation
thereof, is the very foundation of all civil sove­
reignty: for pacts and covenants (into which
some would resolve all civil power), without this
obligation in conscience, are nothing but mere
words and breath; and the laws and commands
of civil sovereigns do not make obligation, but
presuppose it, as a thing in order of nature be­
fore them, and without which they would be in­
valid. Which is a truth so evident, that the writer
De Cive could not dissemble it (though he did
not rightly understand this natural obligation),
but acknowledgethit in these words; “ Obligatio
ad obedientiam civilem, cujus vi leges Im
per c xir
civiles validae sunt, omni lege civili prior *
»
•
est.----- Quod si qui8 pnnceps summus
legem civilem in banc formulam conciperet, Non
rebellabis, nihil efficeret. Nam nisi prius obli-
gentur rives ad obediendum, hoc est, ad non re-
bellandurn, omnis lex invalids est; et si prius
obligentttr est superflua.” The obligation to civil
obedience, by the force of which all the civil laws
become valid, is before those civil laws. And if
any prince should make a.law to this purpose,
That no man should rebel against him, this would
signify nothing, because unless they, to whom it
is made, were before obliged to obey, or not to
rebel, the law is invalid ; and if they were, then
is it superfluous.—Now this previous obligation
to civil obedience cannot be derived (as the fore-
mentioned writer De Cive, and of the Leviathan
3 3 6 CIVIL POWER FOUNDED ON RELIGION ;
supposes) from men’s private utility only; be­
cause every man being judge of this for himself,
it would then , be .lawful for any subject to rebel
against his.sovereign prince, and to poison or
stab him, whensoever he could reasonably per­
suade himself, that it would tend to his own ad­
vantage, or that he. should thereby procure the
sovereignty. Were the obligation to .civil obedi­
ence. made only by .men’s private utility, it would
as easily be dissolved by the same. It remain-
eth therefore, that conscience, and religious ob­
ligation to duty, is the only basis, and essential
foundation, of a polity or commonwealth ; with­
out which there could be no right or authority of
commanding in any sovereign, nor validity in any
laws. Wherefore religious obligation cannot1
be
thought to be the fiction or imposture of civil
sovereigns, unless civil .sovereignty itself be ac­
counted a .fiction and imposture, or a .thing which
hath no foundation in.nature, but is either wholly
artificial or violent.
Moreover, had a religious regard to.the Deity
been a mere figment or:invention of politicians, to
promote their own ends, and keep men in obedi­
ence and subjection under them, then would they
doubtless have so framed,and contrived it, as that
it Should.have .been every way flexible and com­
pliant; namely, by persuading:the world,, that
whatsoever was commanded by themselves, was
agreeable to the Diviue will, and whatever was
forbidden by their laws, was displeasing to God
Almighty, and would be punished by him; God
ruling over the world no otherwise than by and
in these civil sovereigns, as his vicegerents, and as
the only prophets and interpreters of his will to
BUT DISOWNED BY POLITICIANS. 3 3 7
meo. So that the civil law of every country,
and the.arbitrary will of sovereigns, should be
acknowledged to be the only measure' of just
and unjust (there being nothing naturally such),
the only rule of conscience and religion: for,
from religion thus modelled, civil sovereigns might
think to have an absolute power, or an infinite
right, of doing dr commanding whatsoever they
pleased, without exception, nothing being un­
lawful to them, and their subjects being always
obliged, in conscience, without the least scruple,
to obey.
But this is but a mere larva of religion, and
would be but a mocking of God Almighty; and
indeed this is the only religion that can be called
a political figment. Neither could the generality
of mankind be ever yet thus persuaded, that the
arbitrary will of civil sovereigns was the only
rule of justice and conscience; and that God Al­
mighty could command nothing, nor. reveal his
will concerning religion to mankind otherwise
than by these, as his prophets and interpreters.
True religion and conscience are no such waxen
things, servilely addicted to the arbitrary wills of
men, but immorigerous, stiff, and inflexible; they
respecting the Deity only, his eternal or everlast­
ing laws, and his revealed will; with which when­
soever human laws clash (a thing not impossible)
they conclude, that then God ought to be obeyed
and not men. - For which cause the profane poli­
ticians declare open war against this religion, as
a thing utterly inconsistent with civil sovereignty
because it introduces a fear greater thau the fear
pf the Leviathan, namely, that of him, who can
vol. h i. z
3 3 8 CIVIL POWER FOUNDED ON RELIGION ;
inflict eternal punishments after death; as also
because it clashes with that monstrous, infinite,
and unlimited power of theirs, which is such a
thing, as is not attributed by genuine Theists to
God Almighty himself; a power of making their
mere arbitrary will the rule of justice, and not
justice the rule of their will. Thus does a mo*
dern writer of politics condemn it for seditious
doctrine, tending to the dissolution of a common-
^ ^ wealth; That subjects may make ajudg-
*p
> ment of good and evil, just and unjust;
or have any other conscience besides the law of
D
eciv*ox
fi* land. As also this, T^hat subjects
may sin in obeying the commands of
P their sovereign. He likewise adds, That
it is impossible a commonwealth should stand,
where any other than the sovereign hath a power
of giving greater rewards than life, and of inflict-
L«r. ing greater punishments than, death,
p. U
l' Now, eternal life is a greater reward than
the life present, and eternal torment than
the death of nature. Wherefore, God Almighty
beingthe dispenser of eternal rewards and punish­
ments, this is all one as if he should have said,
It is impossible a commonwealth should stand,
where the belief of a God, who can punish with
eternal torments after this life, is entertained!
Thus does the same writer declare, That if the
, o superstitious fear ofspirits (whereofGod
Ley. p.8. . , . _ » „ . ,
is the chief), and things depending there­
upon, were taken away, men would be much more
fitted than they are for civil obedience: and that
they, who assert the immortality ofsouls, or their
capability of receiving punishments after death;
BUT DISOWNED BY POLITICIANS. 339
fright men from obeying the laws of their country,
with empty names, as men fright birds p> ^
from the corn, with an' empty doublet, H
a hat, and a crooked stick. And accordingly he
concludes, that civil sovereigns do not only make
justice, but' religion also; and that no Scripture
or Divine revelation can oblige, unless it be first
made law, or stamped with their authority. Now,
since that which can make religion and gods
must' itselfneeds be greater than all gods, it fol­
lows, according to the tenor of thiR doctrine, that
the civil sovereign is in reality the supreme Nu-
men; or else at least, that the Leviathan (the
king over all the children of pride) is the highest
deity next to senseless omnipotent matter; the
one of these being the Atheists’natural, the other
their artificial god. Nevertheless we shall here
observe by the way, that whilst these atheistic
politicians thus endeavour to swell up the civil
sovereign, and to bestow upon him an infinite
right, by removing to that end out of his way
natural justice, conscience, religion, and God
himself, they do indeed thereby absolutely divest
him of all right and authority, since the subject
is now no longer obliged in conscience to obey
him: and so instead of true right and authority,
they leave him nothing but mere brutish force.
Wherefore, since Theism and true religion are
thus plainly disowned and disclaimed by these
politicians, as altogether inconsistent with their
designs, they' cannot be supposed to have been
the figments of civil sovereigns, or the mere crea­
tures of political art And thus have we abund­
antly confuted those three atheistic pretences,
to solve the phenomenon of religion; from fear,
z 2
$40 PHENOMENA EXTRAORDINARYt,
and the ignorance of causes, and the fiction of
politicians.
But since, besides those ordinary phenomena
beforementioned, which are no way solvable by
Atheists, there are certain other phenomena ex­
traordinary, that either immediately proye a God
and Providence, or else that there is a rank of
understanding beings, invisible, superior to men,
from whence a Deity may be afterwards inferred ;
namely, these three especially, apparitions, mira­
cles, and prophecies (where the Atheists obsti­
nately denying matter of fact and history, will
needs impute these things, either to jugglipg fraud
and knavery; or else to men’s own fear and fancy,
and their ignorance hpw to distinguish dreams,
and other strong imaginations, from vision and
sense; or lastly, to certain religious tales or le­
gends, allowed by the public .authority of civil
sovereigns,.for political ends): we shall, here sug­
gest something briefly, to vindicate the historic
truth of those phenomena against Atheists..
First, therefore, as for apparitions, though there
be much of fabulosity in these relations, yet can
it not reasonably be concluded, that there is no­
thing,at all of truth in .them; since something of
this kind hath, been averred, in all ages, and many
times attested by persons of unquestionable pru-
,deuce, and unsuspected veracity. And whereas
.the Atheists impute the original of these things to
men’s mistaking both their dreams, and their
waking, fancies, for real visions and sensations;
they do hereby plainly contradict ope main fun­
damental principle of their own philosophy, that
sense is the only ground, of certainty, and. the
criterion of all truth: for if prudent and intelli-
THAT CONFUTE ATHEISM. 341
gent persons may be so frequently mistaken, in •
confounding their own dreams and fancies with
sensations, bow can there be any certainty of
knowledge at all from sense? 'However, they *'
here derogate so much both from sense, and from
human testimonies, as that if the like were done
in other cases, it would plainly overthrow all hu­
man life.
Wherefore other Atheists, being apprehensive
of this inconvenience, of denying so many sensi­
ble appearances, and testimonies,, or relations of
fact, have chose rather to acknowledge the reality
of apparitions; nevertheless concluding them to
be things caused and created, by the power of
imagination only: as if the strength of imagina­
tion were such, that it could not only create fan-'
cies, but also real sensible objects, and that at a
distance too from the imaginers, such as whereby
the sense of others shall be for the time ailected,
though they quickly vanish away again. From
which prodigious paradox, we may take notice of
the fanaticism of some Atheists, and that there is
nothing so monstrously absurd, which men in­
fected with atheistic incredulity will not rather
entertain into their belief, than admit of any thing
that shall the least hazard or endanger the exist­
ence of a God. For, if there be once any invisi­
ble ghosts or spirits acknowledged as things per­
manent, it will not be easy for any to give a
reason, why there might not be one supreme
ghost also, presiding over them all and the whole
world.
In tiie lastplace therefore weshall observe, that
Democritus was yet further convinced by these
relations of apparitions, so as to grant, that there
342 PHENOMENA EXTRAORDINARY ;
. was a certain kind of permanent beings, and iude-
pendent npon the imagination, superior to men,
whichcould appearin differentforms,andagaindis-
*appear at pleasure, called by himidols, or images;
he supposing them to be of the samenature with
those exuvious effluxes, that stream continually
from the surface of bodies: only he would not
allow them to have any thing immortal at all in
them, but their concretions to be at length all
dissolvable, and their personalities then to va­
nish into nothing. Thus Sextus the philosopher:
Adv. Hath. Aq/uoKgxroc oSwXa row ^qmv anrtXa&tv rote
P
»311. [lib. » a ; \ r \ \ * 9 n %
▼
iii.$.19* avt/pwiroic, kcu tovtwv Ttt fi&v Hvcu ayatmrota,
p. 55*.] T(i Se K w c o iro ta ' e v 9 e v k m eu^erat wXoywv r v j^ e tv
aSuXtiy* ctvai Si r a v r a -/ueyaXa re k m v ire p fiey iO ri, teal
$ v o $ 6 a p r a f i t v , o v k a f O a p r a SI, w p o rn ifta lv e iv r e ret fuXAovra
rote a v O p e iiro ic , O w p o v p e v a k m (jywvciQ a f t e v r a . DemOCll-
tus affirmetb, that there are certain idols or spec­
tres, that dpoften approach to men, some of which
are beneficent, and some maleficent. Upon which
account he wisheth, that it might be his good bap
to meet with fortunate idols. And he addetb, that
these are of a vast bigness, and very longeye, but
not incorruptible; and that they sometimes do
foresignify unto men future events, both yisibly
appearing to them, and sending forth audible
voices.—Now, though Democritus were much
blamed for this concession of hie by his fellow
Atheists, as giving thereby too great an advan­
tage to Theists: yet, in his own opinion, did he
sufficiently secure himself against the danger, of a
God from hence, by supposing all these idols of
his to be corruptible, they being indeed nothing
but certain finer concretions of atoms, a kind of
aerial and etherial animals, that ^vere all body.
THAT CONFUTE ATHEI8M. 348
and without any immortal soul, as he,supposed
men also to be: so .tb?t a God could be no more
proved from them, than from the existence of open.
For thus he adds in Sextus:''Odtv rovrw «vruv favra-
fflav Xafiovrte ol woXmoI, vmvoqtrav uvat Qeov, ptfStvo^
aXXov x a fi Taira of 0 toi, rov afBaprov fvaw i\ovrot'
Men, in ancient times, haviug a sense of these
apparitions or idols, fell from thence into the opi­
nion of a God, although there be, besides these
idols, no other God, that hath an incorruptible
nature.—However* though Democritus continued
thus grossly atheistical, yet was he further con­
vinced than our modern Atheists will be, that the
stories of apparitions were not all fabulous, and
that there are not only terrestrial, but also aerial
and etherial animals; nor this earth of ours alone
peopled and inhabited, whilst all those other vast
regions abovelie desert, solitary, and waste. Where
it may be observed again, that divers of the ancient
fathers* though they agreed not so far with De­
mocritus, as to make the angelical beings to be
altogether corporeal, yet did they likewise sup­
pose them to have their certain subtile etherial or
aerial bodies. In which respect St. Austin, in his
115th epistle,* calleth angels athereos, and devils,
aereos ammantes. Thns Psellus in his Dialogue:
Ilfft evepyelae Saipmwv’ aXX’ owe datiparov, & ^ ^
ytw du, to Satpomov eon fiXov,perd oeiparof p-**,45.edit
Si ye, km dpj& otSparog SuiTerpvfe' Ka< tovto
ioripsv Kal Trap avruv paOiiv twv oepvwv xaripmi’ Kat
BaajXaoc Sti o Boot, 06 Siilpoot poydv, aXXa *<u role
ajipavroeg ayyfXocc,' tvuvai otopara StaretverM, ola nVa
meufiara Xfirra uti aepdSn Ktd a^pdvra, k<
u %{. But
yon are to know, that demons or devils are not
*Epict ix. ad Nebridiom, p. 9. tom. ii. oper. edit Benedict'
3 4 4 OP APPARITIONS, SPIRITS,
altogether incoporeal, but that they are joined to
bodies, and so converse with bodies; which may
be learned also from the fathers, the ditine Basil
contending, that there are bodies,not only in devils,
but also in the pure angels themselves, as certain
subtile, airy, defecate spirits. Where'afterwards
he shews, how the ovpfvtQ ayyOXoiqaiHfia, that body
\hich is connate with angels,—differs from that
which devils are united to, in respect of the ra­
diant splendour of the one,-and the dark fuliginous
obscurity of the other. Moreover, that devils are
not without bodies, he endeavours further to con­
firm from the words of our Saviour, that they
shall be punished with fire; which (saith he) were
a thing impossible, were they all of them incor­
poreal. And some perhaps will attempt to prove
-the same concerning angels too, from those other
words of our Saviour, where, speaking of the re­
surrection state, he affirmeth, that they, who shall
be accounted worthy thereof, shall neither many
nor be givenin marriage, but be urdyyeXoi,' equal to
theangels:—-whichcomparativeexpression ofmen,
as to their bodies with angels, would be thought
not so proper, were the angels absolutely devoid
of all body. But of this we determine not.
To this phenomenon of apparitions might be
added those' two others of magicians or wizards,
demoniacs or energumeni ; both of these proving
also the real existence of spirits, and that they are *
not mere fancies, and imaginary inhabitants of
men’s brains only, but real inhabitants of theworld.
As also, that among those spirits there are some
foul, unclean, and wicked ones (though not made
«uch by God, but by their own apostacy), whicfh is
•Luke xx. 34. 33.
WITCHES, AND DEMONIACS. 3 4 5
some confirmation of the truth of Christianity, the
'Scripture insisting so much upon these, evil de­
mons or devils, and declaring it to be one design
of our Saviour Christ’s coming into the world, to
oppose these confederate powers of the kingdom
of darkness, and to rescue mankind from the
thraldom and bondage thereof. As for wizards
and magicians, persons who associate and con­
federate themselves in a peculiar manner with
these evil spirits, for the gratification of their own
revenge, lust, ambition, and otherpassions; besides
the Scriptures, there hath been so full an attesta­
tion given to them by persons unconcerned in all
ages, that those our so-confident exploders of
them, in this present age, can hardly escape the
suspicion of having some hankering towards
Atheism. But as for the demoniacs and energtt-
meni, it hath been wondered, that there should be
so many of them in our Saviour’s time, and hardly
any, or none, in this present age of ours. Certain
it is, from the writings of Josephus, in sundry
places, that the pharisaic Jews were then gene­
rally possessed with an opinion of these S<uuovc£o-
ptvot, demoniacs, men possessed with devils, or in­
fested by them. And that this was not a mere
phrase or form of speech only amongst them for
persons very ill affected in their bodies, may ap­
pear from hence, that Josephus* declares it as his
opinion concerning the demons or devils, that
they were irovijpwv at4pwr(Wirveifiararoic £
<
3
<
rtvtiaSvo-
ptva, the spirits or soiils of wicked men deceased
getting into the bodies of the living. From hence
it was, that the Jews, in our Saviour s time, were
*De Bello Judaico, lib. vii. cap. vi. §3. p. 417. tom. ii. edit Ha-
vercamptii.
OF APPARITIONS, SPIRITS,
346
•not atiall surprised with <bis casting out of devils,
it being usual for them also to exercise the same;
an art wbioh they pretended to have learned from
A
nt Jna iib Solomon, Of whom thus Josephus: n«-
*iii. 0.il. [p.| ptffVE S’ C
tV
T
WUa&ltV O 0H>C,KOI 1T
)V KOTd T
«
U
V
419,440.J *7 \ , T . . . . ’ . , -
Saipavwv rtyvqv, tic uav km vepamtav rote
dvOpwiroig' iwwSdclrt awra^apevog <
*
*
Cirapqyopstrot ra vo-
^f/ara, </ca!rpoiravc t^ojKwiaw tcarskuirev, otc c
v
So
w
/ucim
i,
ra Saiptdvut «c juiK&r iiruvtkQtlv, ckSm
m
covoi. Kat avrq
fti^pi vvv q Ofpamia rXiwrov ta^yu. God also taught
Solomon an art against demons and devils, for the
benefit and cure of men; who composed certain
incantatipns, by which diseases are cured, and
left forms of exorcisms, whereby devils are ex­
pelled and driven away. Which method of curing
prevails much amongst us at this very day.'—Not­
withstanding which, we think it not at all proba­
ble what a late atheistic writer* hath asserted, that
the heads of the Jews were then all of them so
full of demons and devils, that they generally
took all manner of bodily diseases, such as fevers
and agues, and dumbness and deafness, for devils.
Though we grant, that this very thing was imputed
by Plotinus afterward to the Gnostics, that they
supposed all diseases to be devils, and therefore
not to be cured by physic, but expelled by words
or charms. Thus he, En. ii. lib. ix. c. xiv.bN5» 8e
WMnpm^/woi rac voaovc Sat/*ovta tlvai, /ecu ravra e^atpav
Xdyifi ^MicaiTEC Svvaoflmt, kat hrayysXXq/ttevoc,. oquvdrqpot
f/«vw aval $d£auv irafd role woXXoIc, ot rac trapd rote fta-
y«c Swafttue Q a v fu tfflw n , rove pivroi e o tjtp o v o v v r a Covk av
wtlBoua/, mc ovk at vooot rac atrtac e^oim , q irXqajuovaic, q
a/SnatC,.&CUSqXouat Ss k m at O tp a ird u u a v r h tv , y to r r p d g y af
p v tu r n c q <pao/_iaKOv S o O fv ro g , Stt^aSpqac Kara ro voaq/ua* Kat
*Hobbes. See Leviatbaq, cap. xl. •
>P. 212. oper.
WITCHES, AND DEMONIACS. 047
tufU
STO
Q tofapyUvov au fuStfo latj^ro’ niruywfawos rav
Saijtoylou, xa} rav tfapfMKOv vatq<ravrac rqiuaQqi. N o w
when they affirm diseases to be demons or devils,
and pretend,-that .they can expel them by words,
undertaking to do the name, they hereby indeed
render themselves considerable to the vulgar, who
are wont not a little to admire the powers of magi­
cians. But they will not be able to persuade wise
men, that diseases have no natural causes, as from
repletion, or imitation, or putrefaction, or the like;
which is a thing manifest from their cure, they
being oftentimes removed by purgation, and bleed­
ing, and abstinence; unless perhaps these menwill
say, that the devil is by this means starved, and
made to pine away.—Nor can we think, that the
Jews, in our Saviour’s time, either suppose all
madmen to be demoniacs, or .all demoniacs mad­
men (though this letter seems to be asserted by an
eminent writer of our own), we reading of devils
cast out from others besides madmen; and of a
woman, which had a spirit of infirmity only, and
was bowed together, and could not lift up herself,
which is said by our Saviour Christ to have been
bowed by Satan. Wherefore the sense of the
Jews formerly seems to have been this, that when
there was any unusual and extraordinary aympt-
toms in any bodily distemper, but especially that
of madness, this being looked upon as something
more than natural, was imputed by them to the
possessionorinfestation ofsomedevil. Neither we#
this proper to the Jews only at that time, to sup­
pose evil demons to be the causes of such bodily
diseases aahad extraordinary symptoms,audiespe­
cially madness; but the Greeks, and other gen­
tiles ialso, were imbued with the same persuasipn;
3 4 8 ENERGCMENI, OR DEMONIACS,
as appeareth from Apollonius Tynaeus’s curing
a laughing demoniac* at Athens, be ejecting that
evil spirit by threats and menaces, who is said,
at his departure, to have tumbled down a royal
porch in the city with great noise; as also,* from
his freeing the city of Ephesus from the plague,
by stoning an old ragged beggar, said by Apollo­
nius to have been the plague, which appeared to
be a demon, by his changing himself into the form
of a shagged dog.
But that there is some truth in this opinion, and
that at this very day evil spirits, or demons, do
sometimes really act upon the bodies of men, and
either inflict or augment bodily distempers and
diseases, hath been the judgment of two very ex­
perienced physicians, Sennertus and Fernelius.
The former in his book De Mania, lib. i. cap. xv.
writing thus; “ Etsi sine ulla corporis morbosa
dispositione, Deo permitteete, hominem obsidere
et occupare daemon possit, tamen quandoque
morbis, et pracipue melancholicis, sese immiscet
daemon ; et forsan frequentius hoc accidit, quam
saepe creditor.” Although the devil may, by Di­
vine permission, possess men without any morbid
disposition, yet doth he usually intermingle him­
self with bodily diseases, and especially those of
melancholy; and perhaps this cometh to pass oft-
ener than is commonly believed or' suspected.-—.
The other in his De abditis Rerum Causis, where,
having attributed real effects upon the bodies of
men to witchcraft and enchantment, he addeth,
“ Neque solum morbos, verum etiam daemonas,
scelerati homines in corpora immittunt. Hi qui-
*Vide Pbilostrat de VitaApollonii Tyan»i,lib. x. cap. xx. p. 157.
* Id ibid. lib. iv. cap. x. p.147.
A BEAL PHENOMENON. 3 4 9
dem visuntur furoris qnadam specie distorti; hoc
ooo tamen a simplici furore distant, quod summe
ardua obloquantur, praeterita et occulta rennn-
tient, assideotiumque arcana reserent.” Neither
do these wicked magicians only inflict diseases,
upon men’s bodies, but also send devils into them;
by means whereof they appear distorted with a
kind of fury and madness, which yet differs from
a simple madness (or tbe disease so called) in
this, that they speak of very high and difficult
matters, declare things past and unknown, and
discover .the secrets of those that sit.by.—Of
which he subjoins two notable instances of per­
sons, well known to himself, that were plainly de­
moniacal, possessed or acted by an evil demon ;
one whereof shall be afterwards mentioned. But
when maniacal persons do not only discover se­
crets, end declare things past, but future also,
and, besides this, speak in languages which they
had never learned.; this puts it out of all doubt
and question, that they are not mere madmen, or
maniaei, but demoniacs or energumeni. And
that since the time of our Saviour Christ there
have been often such, may be made evident from
tbe records of credible writers. Psellus in his
book Iltpt Evspys/ac Aot/iovon), De Operat. Dem.
avers it of a certain maniacal woman, that though
she knew nothing but her own mother-tongue,
yet, when.a stranger, who was an Armenian, was
brought into the room to.her, she spake to him
presently in the Armenian language: 'Hpttc81rtftj-
srorec q/uev, on tear ’Ap/uvluy fyOiyyero, ywvij1
/iqSenrore fir$ tlg6\l*v afyiyfuvt) rovrotc, /iq8s Ktp-
ttStiia7rA
!ovovBev' We allstood amazed whenwe
heard a woman, that had never seen an Armenian
P.69.[p.l05.]
350 ENERGUMENI, OR DEMONIACS,
before in all her life, nor had learnt any thing but
thense of her distaff, to speak the Armenian lan­
guagereadily.—
Wheretherelateralsoaffirmeththe
same maniacal person to hare foretold certain fu­
ture events, which happened shortly after tohim-
P 65 [p. 99]Se^ : ^ U
' <
J
T
Pa'P
c'
lGw/x>C£/**>ptyaXwv tvyptp
(WfKpopwv m tm jiif' yap <roi&nwc fa 8m-
ftovta trapaXiovri rac aurwv \arpelac* apeXu rot xat ^«Xt-
Towc tvippaxpcvat teat fiapue ictvBvvove, ovc ovt av Staiptu-
£aadai Suvij^enjc, eipcr\ri^ 8wa/uc Kptifroiv, rj Kard Bal/uovac,
air avrwvc^Xp* Then looking upon me, she (or ra­
ther the demon) said, Thou shalt suffer wonder­
ful pains and torments in thy body, for the de­
mons are extremely angry with thee for opposing
their services and worship; and they' will inflict
great evils upon thee, out of which thou shalt Pot
be able to escape, unless a porter, greater than
that’ of demons, exempt thee from them. All
which things (saith he) happened shortly after to
me, and I was brought very low, even near to
death,1
by them; but was by my Saviour wonder­
fully delivered.—Whereupon Psellus concludes,
Tlf’
o$vtKavov top yptjapov ihipaktog, iptiras fiaviaf traaac,
wXt|c irkiififtsXovs KivyatiQ, aXXd irafh) rpayued 8aipovtov’
Who is theretherefore that, considering this oracle
or predictionj will conclude (as some physicians
do) all kind of madnesses to be nothing but the
exorbitant motions ofthe matter or humours, and
not- the tragic passions of the demons.—But be­
cause this instance is remoter from our present
times, we shall set down another remarkable one
of a later date, out of the forementioned Ferae-
lius, who was an eye-witness theireof. A young
man of a noble family, who was strangely con­
vulsed in his body, having sometimes one member,
A REAL PHENOMENON. 361
and sometimes another, violently agitated, inso­
much that four several persons were scarcely able
to hold them; and thisat first withoutany distem*
per at all in bis head, or crazednessin brain. To
whom Fernelius, with other skilful physicians,
being called, applied all manner of remedies;
blisters, purgations,cupping-glasses,fomentations,
unctions, plasters, and strengthening medicines ;
but all in vain. The reason whereof is thus given
by the same Fernelius: “ Quoniam onmes longe
aberamus acognitione veri, nam mense tertio pro-
mum deprehensus daemon quidam totius mali au­
thor, voce, insuetisque verbis ac sententiis turn
Latinis turn Gratis (qaanquam ignarus lingua
G race laborans esset), seprodens; is multa assi-
dentium maximaque medicorum secreta detege-
bat, ridens, quod irritis pharmacis corpus hoc
pene jugulassent.” Because we were all far from
the knowledge of the truth; for in the third
month, it was first plainly discovered to us, that
it was a certain demon who was'the author of
all this mischief; he manifesting himself by his
speech, and by unusual wordsand sentences, both
in Greek and Latin (though the patient <
were al­
together ignorant of Greek tongue): and by his
revealing many of the secrets of- those who stood
by, especially of the physicians, whom alsohe de­
rided for tormenting the patient in that manner
with their frustraneous remedies.-r—
Here there*
ford have wean unquestionable instance of ade*
moniac in these latter times of ours, and such;an
one, who at first, for two months together, had no
manner of madness or mania at all upon him,
though afterward the demon possessing his whole
body, used his tongue, and spake therewith*
352 of m ir a c l e s; and how
Fernelius concludes his whole discourse in this
. manner: “ These things do I produce, to make
it manifest, that evil demons (or devils) do some­
times enter into the very bodies of men, afflicting
and tormenting them after an unheard-of manner;
but that at other times, though they do not enter
into and possess their whole body, yet partly by
exagitating and disturbing the profitable humours
thereof, partly by traducing the noxious into the
principal parts, or else by obstructing the veins
and other passages with them, or disordering the
structure of the members, they cause innumerable
diseases.” There are many other instances of
this kind, recorded by modern writers unexcep­
tionable, of persons either wholly demoniacal,
and possessed by evil demons (this appearing
from their discovering secrets, and speaking lan­
guages which they had never learnt), or else other­
wise so affected and infested by them, as to have
certain unusual and supernatural symptoms;
which, for brevity’s sake, we shall here omit.
However, we thought it necessary thus much to
insist upon this argument of demoniacs, as well
for the vindication of Christianity, as for the con­
viction of Atheists; we finding some so stagger­
ing in their religion, that from this one thing
alone of demoniacs (they being so strongly pos­
sessed, that there neither is nor everwas any such)
they are ready enough to suspect the whole gos­
pel, or New Testament itself, of fabulosity and
imposture.
We come now to the second head proposed, of
miracles and effects supernatural. That there
hath been something miraculous or above nature,
sometimes done even among the Pagans (whether
THEY CONFIRM A PROPHET. 353
by good orevil {spirits), appears not onlyfrotn their
own records, but also from the Scriptare itself.
And it is well known, that they pretended (besides
oracles) to miracles also, even after the times of
Christianity; and that not only in Apollonius
Tyanaeus, and Apuleius, but also in the Roman
emperors themselves, as Vespasian and Adrian,
but especially in the temple of Ataculapius; thus
much appearing from that Greek table therein
hung up at Rome,* in which amongst other things
this is recorded ; '' that a blind man being com­
manded by the oracle to kneel before the altar,
and then passing from the right side thereof to
the left,' to lay five fingers upon the altar, and
afterwards lifting up his hand, to touch his eyes
therewith; all this being done accordingly, he re­
covered his sight, the people all applauding, that
great miracles were done under the Emperor An-
toninus/’&c. But we have in the Scripture art
account of miracles, both greater in. number, and
of a higher natore; done especially by Moses,
and our Saviour Christ and his apostles;
Wherefore it seems, that there are iwo sorts of
miracles or effects supernatural. First, suoh as
though they could not be done by any ordinary
and natural causes here amongst us, and in that
respect may be called supernatural; yet might
notwithstanding be'done; God permitting only;
by the ordinary and natural power of other invi­
sible created spirits, angels or demons. As for
example, if a stone' or otheF heavy body should
ascend upwards, and then bang in the air; wtth-t
out any visible either mover or supporter, this
would be to us a miracle or effect supernatural \
» Vide Gruteri Inscription, tom. i. p. bun. : / '
VOL. III. 2 A ....................
354 of miracles; and how
and yet according to vulgar opinion, might this be
done by the natural power of created invisible be*
ings, angels or demons; God only permitting,
without whose special providence it is conceived
they cannot thus intermeddle with onr humanafi
fairs, Again* if a perfectly illiterate person should
readily speak Greek or Latin, this also would be
to us a miracle, or effect supernatural; for-so. is
the apostles :speaking with tongues accounted;
and yet in demoniacs is this sometimes done by
evil demons, God oUly permitting. Such, also
amongst the Pagans was .that “ miraculum cotis”
(as Apuleius calls it), that miracle of th e whet*
stone, done by Accius Navius,. when, a t bis cook
mand, it was divided into two with,a razors But;
secondly* there is another sort of miracles, or ef­
fects supernatural, such as are above the power
of all second causes,,or any natural created being
whatsoever* and so ;can be attributed to none.but
God Almighty himself, the author of.nature, who
therefore can control it at pleasure.
As fpr that late theological politician;: who,
writing against miracles* denies aa well those of
the former aa of tins, latter kind, contending that
a miracle is nothing but a name; whiehijthejgaor
rant vulgar gives to “ opus naturalinsolitnim” any
Unwonted work of nature, or to what themselves
cauassign do.cause o f;—as also* that ifthere were
any such thing done contrary to nature, or-above
it, it would rather weaken than confirm our ber
lief of the Divine existence ;b we find his discourse
every way so weak, groundless, and.inoonsidera*
ble; that we -could not think. it here, to /deserve a
confutation*
* Vide Livium, lib. i. cap. xxxvi. p. 67.-
b Vide Spinosae Tractat. Theolo^ico-politic. cap. Ti. ; ,
THEY CONFIRM A PROPHET. 355
, But of the former sort of those miracles, is that
to be understood, Deut. xiii. " I f there arise
amongst you a prophet, or dreamer of dreams,
and giveth thee a sign or a wonder, and the sign
or wonder come to pass whereof he spake unto
tbee, saying, Let us go after other gods, and serve
them; thou sbalt not hearken to the words of
that prophet, or dreamer of dreams; for the
Lord your God proveth you, to know whether
you love the Lord your God with all your heart;
and with all your soul:” For it cannot be sup­
posed, that God Almighty would himseff pur­
posely inspire any roan to exhort others'to idol­
atry^ and immediately assist such an one with'his
own supernatural power ofdoing’miracles, id
confirmation of such doctrine. Bnt the meaning
is, that by the suggestion of evil spirits, Borne'false
prophets might be raised up to tempt the Jews td
idolatry; Or at least,’that by the assistance of
them, such miracles might be wrought in confirm­
ation thereof, as those sometimes done by the
Egyptian sorcerers or magicians, God himselfnot
interposing in this case to hinder' them, for this
reason, that he might hereby prove and tr^ their
faithfulness towards him. Forasmuch as both,
by the pure light of nature, and God’s revealed
will, before confirmed by miracles,'idolatty, or
the religious worship of any but God Almighty,
had been sufficiently condemned: From whence
it is evident, that miracles alone (at least such
miracles as these) are no sufficient confirmation
of a true prophet, without consideration bad- of
the doctrine taught by him. For though a man
should have done never so many true and real mi­
racles amongst the Jews, and yet should persuade
2 a 2
356 MIRACLES, IN WHAT CASE
to idolatry, he was by.them confidently to be con­
demned to death for a false prophet.
Accordingly in the New Testament do we read,
that our Saviour Christ forewarned his disciples,
that* “ false prophets and false Christs should
arise, and,shew great signs or wonders, insomuch
that, if it were possible, they should seduce the
very elect.” And St. Paul foretelleth concerning
the.man of sin, or antichrist,b “ that his coining
should be after the workingof Satan, with all
power, and. signs, and wonders (or miracles) of a
lie.” For we conceive, that by repara ^cvSovcin this
place, are not properly feigned and counterfeit mi*
racles, that is, mere chieating and juggling tricks,
but true wonders and real miracles (viz. of the
former.sort mentioned), done for the confirma­
tion of a lie, as the doctrine of this man of sin is
there afterwards called; for otherwise how could
his coming be said to be “ according to the .work­
ing, of Satan, with all power?” In like manner
also, in St. John’s Apocalypse, where the coming
of the same man of sin, and the mystery of ini­
quity, are.again described, we read chap, xiii.of
a two-horned beast like,a Iamb, “ that he: shall do
great wonders, and .deceive those, that dwell on
the earth, by means of those miracles, which he
bath power to do, in the sight of the beast.” And
again, chap. xvi. “ of certain unclean spirits like
frogs, coming out of the mouth of the dragon,
and of the beast, and of the false,prophet, which
are the spirits of devils working miracles, that go.
forth to the kings of the earth.” And, lastly, chap,
xix. “ of the false prophet, that wrought mira­
cles before the beast.” All which seem:tO be uni-
• Luke.xxiv.24. b 2Thess. ii. 9.
DONE ' BY FALSE PROPHETS'. 357
derstood, not of feigned and counterfeit miracles
only, but of true and real also, effected by the
working ofSatan, in confirmation of a lie, that is,
of idolatry, false religion, and imposture; God
Almighty permitting it, partly in way of proba­
tion or trial ofthe faithfulness of his own servants,
and partly in way of just judgment and punish­
ment upon those, who “ receive not the love of
the truth, that they might be s a v e d a s the apo­
stle declareth,* Wherefore those miracles, pre­
tended, for divers ages past, to have been done
before the .relics of saints and images, &c. were
they all true, could by no means justify or war­
rant that religious worship by many given to
them; because true and real miracles, done in or­
der to the promoting of idolatry, are so far from
justifying that idolatry, that they are themselves
condemned by it to be rfpara ijw&wc, the miracles
of a lie,—done by the working of Satan.
Blit as for the miracles of our Saviour Christ,'
had they been all of them only of the former kind,
such as might have been done, God permitting, by
the natural power of created spirits, and their as­
sistance ; yet forasmuch as he came in the name
of the Lord, teaching neither idolatry, nor any
thing contrary to the clear light and law of na­
ture, therefore ought he, by reason of those mira­
cles, to have been received bythe Jews themselves,
and owned for a true prophet, according to the
doctrine of Moses himself: who, both in theN
13th
and 18th chapters'of Deuteronomy, plainly sup-
poseth,.that God would in no other case permit
any false prophet to do miracles by the assist­
ance of evil spirits, save only in that of idolatry
. - . » Thcss. ii. 10.
\
• MIRACLES, IN WHAT CA$B
(whicji is.always understood of what is plainly
discoverable by the light of nature to be false, or
eyil). The reason whereof is manifest, because if
he should,, this would be an invincible temptation,
which it is inconsistent with the Divine goodness
to expose men qnto. And our Saviour Christ
was unquestionably that one eximious prophet,
which God Almighty by Moses promised to send
uqto the. Israelites, upon occasion of their own
desire made to him at Hpreb. “ Let me not hear
again the voice of the Lord my Gqd, nor Jet me
see this great fire any more, that l die not.”
_ Whereupon the Lord said, “ They have
well spoken that which(hey havespoken;
I will raise them up a Prophet from among their
brethren, like unto thee, and ppt my words in
his .mouth, and he shall speak unto ,them all that
I shall command him; and whosoever will not
hearken to the words which he shall speak in my
name, I will require it of him.” Which is all one
as if he should have said, I will no more speak
to them with thunder and lightning, nor reveal
my will with a terrible voiqe outof flaming fire; but
the next great manifestation of myself, or farther
, revelation of my will, shall be by a Prophet from
amongst their own brethren, I putting my words
into his month, and .speaking to them by him.
Whose words they shall be as much obliged to
hearken to, as if I had spoken, them (as before)
from the top of the fiery mount. And that they
niAy have no colour for their disbelieving this
great prophet especially, or their disobeying of
him, I plainly declare, that whosoever cometh in
my name, and does true and real miracles, shall
be acknowledged undoubtedly for a true prophet
DOME BY FALSE PBOPHETS. 360
sent by me, and accordingly believed and obeyed;
and none rejected under the notion of false pro­
phets, but only such, as either do not real mira­
cles, or else if they do, come in the name of other
gods, or exhort to idolatry. Nevertheless, our
Saviour Christ wrought other miracles also, of a
higher nature, by the immediate power of God
Almighty himself; as for example, when before
bimself he raised Lazarus,' who had been dead
four days, to life, since it cannot be conceived to
be in the power of created spirits (whether bad or
good), whenever they please, to bring back the
souls of men deceased to their bodies again, or
change the laws of nature and fate. However, it
must not be thought, that God will ever set this
Real of his to a lie, or that which is plainly con­
trary to the light and law of nature.
The conclusion is, that though all miracles pro­
miscuously do not immediately prove the exist­
ence of a God, nor confirm a prophet, or whatso­
ever doctrine; yet do they all of them evince, that
there is a rank of invisible understanding beings,
superior to men, which the Atheists commonly
deny. And we read of some such miracles also,
as could not be wrought, but by a power perfect­
ly Supernatural, or by God Almighty himself.
But to deny and disbelieve all miracles, is either
to deny all certainty of sense, which would be
indeed to make sensation itself miraculous ; or
else monstrously and unreasonably to derogate
from human testimonies and history. The Jews
would never have so stiffly and pertinaciously ad­
hered to the ceremonial law of Moses, had they
not all along believed it to have been unquestion­
ably confirmed by miracles ; and that the Gen-
360. .MIRACLES, AND ORACLES,
•
til.es shbuld at first; have entertained tbe faith of
Christ without miracles, would itself have been
the greatest of miracles.
The last extraordinary phenomenon proposed
was that of divination, oracles, prophecies, or
predictions of future events, otherwise unfore-
knowable to men; which either evince a God, or.
at least that there are. understanding beings supe­
rior to men. For if there be presension or fore­
knowledge of such future events, as are to human
understanding alone altogether unforeknowable,
then is it certain, that there is some more perfect
understanding, or knowledge in the world, than
that of men. And thus is that maxim of the an­
cient. Pagan Theists,* in the.genuine and proper
sense thereof, unquestionably true; “ Si djvinatio
est, dii s n n t I f there be divination, or presen­
sion of future events (undiscOverable by men),
then are there gods :—which, in their language,
was no more than to say, understanding beings
superior to men.
Wherefore we must here distinguish of oracles,
and predictions, after the same manner as we did
before of miracles, that they may be of two kinds.
First, such as might proceed only from the natu­
ral presaging power of created spirits superior to
men, whether called angels or demons. For these
being supposed to have not only .clearer under­
standings than men, and a greater insight into;
nature, but also by reason of their agility and in­
visibility, opportunity of knowing things remotely
distant, and of beiug privy to uieu’s secret machi­
nations and consultations; it is easily conceivable
■The Stoics. Vide Ciceron. deDivinat. lib.i. cap. v, vi. p.3113,
3114. tom, ix. oper.
PROVE INVISIBLE BEINQS. 361
that many future eventsnigji at hand, which,can-
not be foreknown by men, may. be {probably at.
least).foreseen by them; and that without any
miraculous Divine revelation, their causes being
already in being. As men learned in astronomy
can foretel eclipses of the sun and mooh,.which
to the vulgar are altogether unforeknowable; and
as princ.es or statesmen, that are furnished with!
great intelligence, foreign and domestic, can pre­
sage more of war and peace, either, at home or
abroad, and of the events, of kingdoms, than ig-.
.norant plebeians. And such were those predic—
tions, which Democritus, though otherwise much
addicted to Atheism, allowed of; Cicero writing-
thus of him: “ Plurimis locis, gravis D
#IM
r l,b L
auctor Democritus pratsensionem rerum-[<
>
•«
*
.p.sm.
1 t ton. ix.oper.]
futurarum comprobat;” Democritus, a . . .
grave writer, doth in many places approve-of the
presension of future events.—The reason whereof
was, because be supposed certain understanding
beings superior to men, called by him idols, which
having a larger comprehension ofthings, and other
advantages of knowledge, could therefore foretel
many future events, that men were ignorant of.
And though perhaps it may be thought, that De­
mocritus would not have entertained this opinion
of the foreknowledge of human events, had .he
not asserted the necessity of all human actions
and volitions, but held liberty of will, as Epicu­
rus afterwards did (as if this were inconsistent
with all manner of presage, and probable or con­
jectural foreknowledge); yet is it certain, that
there is not so much contingency in all human
actions, by reason of this liberty of will, as here­
tofore was.by Epicurus, and still is by many sup-
MIRACLES AND OftAGLBS
posed; it being plain, that men act according to
an appearance of good, and that in many cases
and circumstances it may be foreknown, without
any Divine revelation, what such or such persons
would do. As for example, that a voluptuous
person, having a strong temptation to satisfy his
sensual appetite, and that without incurring any
inconvenience of shame or punishment, would
readily close with the same. Besides which, such
invisible spirits, as angels or demons, may some­
times predict also what themselves cause and
effect.
>Secondly, There is another sort of predictions
of future events, which cannot be imputed to the
natural presaging faculty of any.such created spi­
rits, but only to the supernatural prescience of
God Almighty, or a Being infinitely perfect: as
when events remotely distant in time, and of
which there are yet no immediate causes actually
in being, which also depend upon many circum­
stances, and a long series of tilings, any one of
which being otherwise would alter the case; as
likewise upon much uncertainty of human voli­
tions, which are not always, necessarily linked
and concatenated with what goes before, but
often loose and free; and upon that contingency
that arises from the indifferency or equality of
eligibility in objects. Lastly, such things as do
not at all depend upon external circumstances
neither, nor are caused by things natural ante-
ceding, but by some supernatural power; I say,
when such future events as these are foretold,
and accordingly come to pass, this can be as­
cribed -to no other but such a being as compre­
hends, sways, and governs all, and is, by a pe-
VBOV.fi IMTl81BL.fi BEINGS. M3
culiar privilege or prerogative of its own nature,
omniscient. fSpicurus, though really'he there­
fore rejected divination and prediction of future
events, because be denied Providence; yet did he
pretend this further reason also against it, be­
cause it was a thing absolutely inconsistent with
liberty of will, and destructive of the same; i»
fiavruni a v v x a p c r o c ' ei Si teat w r a p e r u a f , m iSh Diq. Lurt.
tr a p i / t a t q8q r a -ytvo/Mva* Divination is a
thing, which hath no existence, nor pos-l3^ p-“ “-l
sibility in nature: and if there were such a thing,
it would take away all liberty of will, and leave
nothing in men’s own power.—Thus also Car-
neades, in Cicero *, maintained, “ Ne Apollinem
quidem futura posse dicere, nisi ea, quorum cau-
sas natura ita contineret, ut ea fieri necesse
e s s e t t h a t Apollo himself was not able to
foretel any future events, ether than such, as had
necessary .causes in nature antecedent—And
some Christian Theists of later times have, in
like manner, denied to God Almighty all fore­
knowledge of human actions^ upon the same pre­
tence, as being both inconsistent with men’s li­
berty of will, and destructive, thereof. For, say
they, if men’s actions be free, then are they no-
foreknowable, they having no necessary causes;
and again, if there be any foreknowledge of
them, then can. they not be free, they being ipso
facto necessitated thereby. But as it is cer­
tain that prescience, does not destroy the liberty
of man’
s will, or impose any necessity upon
it,' men’s actions being not therefore future, be­
cause they are foreknown, but therefore fore-
1 De Fato, cap. xiv. p. 3281. tom. ix. oper.
8 0 4 THE-.SCRIPTURES TRIUMPHING
known, because future; .and , were.! a thing’
never so.contingent, yet .upon supposition that'
it. will be done, it must needs have been fu­
ture from all eternity:, so is it extreme.arro­
gance,for men, because.themselves can. naturally
foreknow nothing, but by some, causes antece->
dent, as an eclipse of the sun or moon, therefore
to presume to measure the knowledge of God Al­
mighty according to .the same scantling, .and to
deny him the prescience of human actions, not
considering, that, as his nature is incomprehen­
sible, so his knowledge may well be looked upon
by us as such too; that which is past our find­
ing out, and too wonderful for.us. However, it
must be. acknowledged for an undoubted truth,
that no created being .can, naturally, and of it­
self, foreknow any future events, otherwise than'
in .and by their .causes anteceding.. If therefore
we shall find, that there have been predictions of
such future events as had no necessary antece--
dent causes; as we cannot but grant such things
therefore to be foreknowable, so must we needs
from thence infertile existence of a God, that is, a
Being supernatural, infinitely perfect and omni­
scient, since, such predictions as these could have
proceeded from no other, cause.
. That there is foreknowledge of future events
to men naturally unforeknowable,-hath been all
along the persuasion ofthegenerality ofmankind.
. ,. Thus Cicero: “ Vetus opinio est, jam us--
que ao heroicis ducta temportbus, eaque
et pppuli Romani, et omnium gentium firmata
consensu, ,versariquandam inter homines divina--
tioneni, quatn Gra:ci pavrtKqv appellant, id est,
OVER PAGAN ORACLES. 3&>
prsesensionem et scientiam rerum futuraruni.**
This is an old opinion derived down all along
from.the heroic times (or the mythical age), and
not only entertained amongst the Romans, bdt
also confirmed by the consent ofall nations, that'
there is such a thing as divination, and presension
or foreknowledge of future events.—And the
same writer elsewhere, in the person of BalbuS :
“ Quamvis nihil tarn irridet Epicurus, D«N.n.i.a.‘
qnam praedictionem rerum futurarum,
mihi videfur famen vel maxime confir- W ’
.tom. is.
mare, Dedrum provideutia consuli rebus op*r‘*
humanis. Estenim profectodivinatio; quae tnul-
tis locis, rebus, temporibus apparet, cum in pri-
vatis turn maxime in publicis. Multa cerniint
aruspices, multa augures provident, mqlta ora*
culis providentur, multa vaticinationibiis, multa'
soinniis,. multa portentis.” Although Epicurus
deride nothing more than the prediction of future
things; yet does this seem to me to be a great
confirmation of the providence of the gods over
human affairs, because there is certainly divina­
tion, it appearing in many places, things, and
times, and that not only private, but especially-
public. Soothsayers foresee many things, the
augurs many; many things are declared by ora­
cles, many4>y prophecies, many by dreams, and
many by-portents.—And indeed that there were
even amongst the Pagans predictions’of future
events^ not discoverable by any human sagacity,
which accordingly came to pass, and therefore'
argue' a knowledge superior to that of men, or-
that there are’ certain invisible understanding'
beings or spirits, seems to be undeniable from
history. And that the augurs themselves were
9 6 0 THE SCRIPTURES TRIUMPHING
sometimes not unassisted by these officious genii;
is plaiq from that of Attius Navids beforemen­
tioned, as the circumstances thereof are related
by historians; that Tarquinius Prtscus having a
mind to try wbat there was in this skill of augury,*
“ dixit ei se cogitare quiddam; id possetne fieri,
coqsuluit. Ille augario acto, posse responded
Tarquinius aatem dixit se cogitasse cotem nava-
cula posse precidi; torn Atrium j ussisse experiri;
ita cotem in coinitium illatam, inspectanteet rege
et populo, novaculaessediscissam;” toid Navius,
that he thought ofsomething* and he would
know of him, whether it could be done or no.
Navius haying performed his augurating ceremo­
nies, replied, that the thing might be done.
Whereupon Priscus declared what his thought
was, namely, that a whetstone might be cut in
two with a razor. Navius willed them' to make
trial : wherefore a whetstone being brought im­
mediately into the court, it was in the/sight of
the king and all the people divided with a razor.—
But the predictions amongst those Pagans were,
for the most part, only of the former kind, such
as proceeded merely from the natural presaging
faculty of these demons; this appearing from
hence, because their oracles were often expressed
ambiguously, so as that they might be taken*
either way; those demons>
themselves, it seems,
being then not confident of the event; as also,
because they were sometimes plainly mistaken in
the events. And from hence it was, that they
seldom, ventured to foretel any. events remotely
distant, but only what were nigh at hand, and
* Cicero de Divinat. lib. ii. cap. xrii, p^3129. tom. ix. oper.
OVER PAGAN ORACLES. 367
shortly to come to pass; and therefore might be
probably conjectured of. from things then in be-*
ing. Notwithstanding which, we acknowledge*
that there are some few instances of predictions
amongst the Pagans, of the other kind. Suoh as
that intimated.by Cicero in his book of Diviaa*
tion, * where he declareth the doctrine of Diodo*
rus concerning necessity and contingency; “ non
necesse fuisse Cypselnm regnare Corintbi, quan*
quam id millesimo ante anno AjmUinis oracnlo
editnm esset:” that it was not necessary. Gypselus
the tyrantshouldreign at Corinth,thooghtbatwere
a thing predicted by Apollo’s oracle a thousand
yean before.. As also this recorded byiVarro,1
'
of Vectios Valens, an augur in the time of'Room*
Ins, who when Rome was a building, from the
flying of twelve vultures presaged; that the con<t
tinuance of that city would be for twelve fauna
dred years: which seems to have been accord*
ingly fulfilled, in the year of our Lord four-faun*
dred and fifty-five* immediately after the death of
the third Valentinian (whom some make to be the
last real emperor of the west or Rome), when
GensericoB the Vandal took the city the*second
time and fired it. But above all, that of the sn
byls $ of whose prophecies such things are record*
ed by pagan writers,- as makes it very suspicious*
that they did foretelthe coming of o u r1
Saviour
Christ, and the times of Christianity: But were
these* and the like pagan prophecies, real, thew
mast they needs-have had some-higher original
than the natural presaging faculty oftheir demons
1 It shouldhe, DeFato, cap* vii. p. 3269,
b In the Fragments of the 18th book of his Antiqnitates Rcram
Hamaaamm.
3 6 8 THE SCRIPTURES TRIUMPHING
especially those of the sibyls; who, for aught we
know, might be as well assisted supernaturally to
predict our Saviour Christ, amongst the Pagaos
in the west, as Balaam was in the east.
But here the Scripture triumpheth over Pagan­
ism, and all its Oracles and divinations; there
being contained in it so many unquestionable pre­
dictions of events to follow a long time after, and
such as can be imputed to nothing but the super­
natural foreknowledge and omniscience' of God
Almighty. As for example, those concerning the
Messiah, or our SaviourChrist,delivered by Jacob,
Moses, David, Isaias, Jeremy, Daniel, and most
of the-prophets: foretelling sundry particular cir­
cumstances of his coming, and that grand event,
which followed after, of the Gentiles or Pagans’
so general reception and entertainment of Christ­
ianity; that is, the belief of the Messiah pro­
mised to the Jews; together with the shaking off
of their gods and idols. Amongst which Scrip­
ture prophecies, concerning our Saviour Christ,
we must needs reckon for one, and none of the
least considerable neither, that of Daniel’s weeks,
or of four hundred and ninety years, to commence
from the going ,forth of the word, or the decree
made by Artaxerxes the son of Xerxes,, in the
seventh year of his teign,> for the return of the
people of Israel, priests and Levites/ to Jerusa­
lem ; and to terminate in the death of the Messiah
and the preaching of the.gospel to the Jews only;
though we ate not ignorant, how some learned
men, both 'of the former and latter times;' have
stretched their wits, they sometimes using no
small violence to divert this prophecy another
way. For that these prophecies, concerning our
OVER PAGAN ORACLES. 369
Saviour Christ, could have do other original than
the immediate supernatural revelation of God Al­
mighty, is evident from the thing itself; it being
such as depended on no natural causes, much
less upon those constellations of the astrological
Atheists,* but only upon his own secret will and
counsel.
But besides these prophecies concerning our
Saviour Christ, there are others contained in the
Scripture, concerning the fates and successions
of the chiefkingdoms, empires, and polities of the
world; as of the rise of the Persian monarchy;
of its fall and conquest by the Macedonian
Alexander; of the quadripartite division of this
Greekish empire after Alexander’s death; of the
succession of the Seleucidse and Lagidae, a pro­
phetic history, so agreeable with the events, that
it was by Porphyriusbpretended to have been
written after them; and, lastly, of the rise and
continuance of the Roman empire. For notwith­
standing the endeavours of some to pervert all
those Scripture prophecies that extend to the
present times, it is clearly demonstrable, that this
was Daniel’s fourth ten-horned beast, or the legs
and toes of Nebuchadnezzar’s statue, that fourth
empire, strong as iron, which came at length to
be broken or divided into ten or many principa­
lities, called in the prophetic language, and ac­
cording to the eichon, horns; amongst whom was
to start up another horn with eyes, speaking great
Words against, the Most High, and making war
with the saints, and prevailing against them, for
. * Cardan, &c.
b Vide Hieronymum Comment in Daniel, torn. y. oper. p. 481.
'VOL. III. ’ 2 b
370 seBIFTOftE PROPHECIES
a time, time®, and half a time. Which prophecy
of Oakttel’
e is the ground-work «£ S t John’s
Apocalypse, it being there further insisted Upon,
filled up, and dalarged, with the addition of seve*
ral particulars; so that both Daniel and John
have each of them, from their respective ages, feCt
down a prophetic calendar of times, in a conti­
nued series, (the former more compendiously and
generally, the latter more copiously add parti­
cularly), to the very end of the world.
And thus do we see plainly, that the Scripture-
prophecies evince a Deity ; neither dan these pos­
sibly be imputed by Atheists, as other things, to
men’s fear and fancy, not yet to the fiction of po­
liticians. Nor do they only evince a Deity, but
confirm Christianity also; partly as predicted by
them in its several circumstances, a grand one
whereof was the Centiles’ reception of it ; and
partly as itself predieting future events, this spirit
of prophecy being the testimony ofJesus. Both
which Scripture-prophecies, of Christ in the Old
Testament, and from him in the New, are of
equal if not greater force to us ia this present
age, tor the confirmation of our faith, than the
miracles themselves recorded in the Scripture;
we having now certain, knowledge ourselves of
many of those events, and being no way aide
to suspect, but that the prophecies Wete written
long before.
. To conclude; all these extraordinary pheno­
mena t>f apparitions, Witchcraft, possessions,
miracles, and prophecies, do evince that spirits,
angels or demons, though invisible to us, are no
fancies, but real and substantial inhabitants of the
world; which favours not the atheistic hypothe-
fcVINCE A O0t>. a n
nis1 blit 'some of them, as the higher kind of mi­
racles and predictions, do also immediately en­
force the acknowledgment of a Deity; a being
superior to nature, which therefore can check and
controlit; and which comprehending the whole,
foreknows the most remotely distant and contin­
gent events.
And now have we not only fully answered and
confuted all the atheistic pretences against the
idea of God, tending to disprove brs existence;
bet also occasionally proposed several solid and
substantial arguments for a Deity: as, that all
successive things, the world, motion, and time,
are in their own nature absolutely incapable of
an ante-eternity; and, therefore, there must of
necessity be something else of a permanent dura­
tion, that wan eternal Without beginning: that no
Atheist, according to his principles, can possibly
give any account of the original of his own soul
or mind: that the phenomenon of motion cannot
be solved without an incorporeal principle, pre­
siding over the whole: that the to iv'ical #caX
«c» the
artificial, regular, and orderly frame of things—
together With the harmony of the whole, demon­
strate an understanding and intending cause of
tire world, that ordered things for ends and good.
Besides, that there are several other phenomena,
both ordinary and extraordinary, which Athe­
ists, being no way able to solve, are forced to
deny.
True indeed, some of the ancient Theists have
themselves affirmed, that there could be no de­
monstration of a G od: which assertion of theirs
hath been by others misunderstood into this sense,
as if there were therefore no certainty at all to be
2 b 2
372 WHETHER OOD
had of God’s existence, but only a conjectural
probability; no knowledge dr science, but only
faith and opinion. Whereas the true meaning of
those ancient Theists, who denied that there
could be any demonstration of a God, was only
this, That the existence of a God could not be
demonstrated a priori, himself being the first
cause of all things. Thus doth Alexander Aphro-
disius, in his Physical Doubts and Solutions,
after he had propounded an argument for a God,
aocording to Aristotelic principles,’from motion,
L ^ declare himself, i So&cKaradvaXvtrtv, ouydp
[p.2. edit. O
tovre Ttfc TrpuTtK ap^ij; tival, aXXa
1 1 5 3 6 . fcl]*** “ tro rtov varipuv re K
ai tpavtpwvap^aftfvovc,
Karan}v jrpoc ravra ffv/tifH
oviav avaXutm yjpt»~
fiivwc ffvorrjaai niv iku
vo
v tyimv' that this argu­
ment or proof of his was in way of analysis only;
it being not possible, that there should be a de­
monstration of the first principles of all. Where­
fore (saith he) we must here fetch our beginning
from things that are after it, and manifest; and
thence, by way of analysis, ascend to the proof
of that first nature, which was before them.—
And to the same purpose Clemens Alexandrinus,
strom
. i.». having first affirmed,aieSvafuraj^ftptarotaroe
p. 388* [c$p. < \ \ t .» t < » t t f
xii. p. $95. o irEpi (feov Aoyog ettei yap apyj) travroc irpay-
edit. Potted.] ^aT0^ Svasuptrof, wavrwf trow tj irpomi W
7rpea(3vTati) ap-^rj SvorScurroc,.fyne K
ai rote aXXoie aireunr
atria rov ytviadat, K
ai yevojulvqvc ttvot* that God IS
the most difficult thing of all to be discoursed of;
because; since the principle of every thing is
hard to find out, -the first and most ancient prin­
ciple of all, which was the cause to all. other
things of their being made, must needs be the
hardest of all to be declared or manifested;—he
DEMONSTRABLE. 373
afterwards subjoins, *AXXa ovSi tmanj/uy \a/if3aptrat
ry axoSeucruc^‘ avrif yap vc vporipmv /cal yiwpijU&rrfpiov
tTwiararcu' tov 81a'yewijrou ovSIv wpowrapyti’ But nei­
ther can God be apprehended by any demonstrap
tive science: for such science is from things
before in order of nature, and more knowable;
whereas nothing can exist before that which is
altogether unmade.—And certain it is, that it
implies a contradiction, that God, or a perfect
being, should be thus demonstrated by any
thing before him as his cause. Nevertheless it
doth not therefore follow, that there can be no
certainty at all had of the existence of a God, but
only a conjectural probability; no knowledge,
but faith and opinion only. For we may have a
certain knowledge of things, the Sion whereof
cannot be demonstrated apriori, or from antece­
dent necessary causes: as for example, that there
was something eternal1of itself, without begin­
ning, is not at all demonstrable by any antecedent
cause, it being contradictious to such a thing to
have a cause. Nevertheless upon supposition
only, that something doth exist, which no man
can possibly make any doubt of, we may not only
have an opinion, but also certain knowledge,
from the necessity of irrefragable reason, that
there was never nothing, but something or other
did always exist from eternity, and without be­
ginning. In like manner, though the existence of
a God or perfect being cannot be demonstrated
a priori, yet may we notwithstanding, from our
very selves (whose existence we cannot doubt of),
and from what is contained in our own minds, or
otherwise consequent from him, by undeniable
principles of reason, necessarily infer his exist-
3 7 4 THE C A RTfflA K SOUPTICISM, THAT
once* And whensoever any thingis thus neces­
sarily inferred from wbat is undeniable a»d in­
dubitable, this i«a dewoiratratian, thoughnotof
the ?w
r*
» yet pf the fa qf it } that the ttoipg «,
though not wby it is, Andmany ofthegeometri­
caldemonstrationsare00other,
It bath been asserted by a late eminOUt philo­
sopher,1 that there is D
Opossible certsppty to be
had qf any thing, before we be pertain qf the ex*
istenqe of a God essentially gpod; because we
can never otherwise free our mind8 from the im­
portunity of that suspicion, which with irresisti­
ble force may assault them \ that ourselves ought
possibly be so made, either by chance,, or fate, or
by the pleasure of some evil demon, or at least of
an arbitrary omnipotent deity* as that we should
be deceived in all onr most clear and evident per*
ceptions; and therefore in geometrical theorems
themselves, and even in our common notions*
Put when we are once assured of the existence of
such a God as is essentially good* who therefore
neither will nqr can deceive; then, and not he*
fore, will this suspicion utterly vanish, and our­
selves become certain, that our faculties of reason
and understanding are. npt false and. hupostprous,
but rightly made. From which hypothesis it
plainly follows, that all those Theists, who sup*
pose God to he a were arbitrary being, whose
will is not. determined by any nature of goodness
or rule of justice, but itself is the first rule
of both (they thinking this to bo the high*
est. perfection, liberty, and power), can never ho
reasonably certain of tbo truth of any thing, not
so much as that two and two are four; because*.
9 Deft Cutes. See his fttotftat Metaphjts. m p. 2& and
OUR FACULTIES NIOHT BE FAL8E. tT H
m long aa they adhere to that perswasien, they
ea» never he assured, but that such an arbitrary
omnipotent deity might designedly make them
each, as should be deceived in all their clearest
perceptions.
Now though there bo a plausibility of piety in
this dootrine, as making the knowledge of a God
essentially good so necessary a prscognitum to
all other acience, that there can be no certainty
of truth at all without it; yet does that very sup*
position, that our understanding faculties might
posfihly be so made, as to deoeive ua in all oar
clearest perceptions (wheresoever it is admitted),
render it utterly impossible ever to arrive to any
certainty concerning the existence of a God es­
sentially good $ fqrasmttch an this cannot be any
otherwise proved, than hy the use of oar facul-
ties of understanding, reason, and discourse. For
to say, that the truth of our understanding faofclt
ties is put out of all doubt and question, aa sooti
aa ever we are assured of the existence of a Gad
essentially good, who therefore cannot deceive;
whilst b it existence of a God is in the mean time
itself no otherwise proved-, than by our under­
standing faculties; that is, at once to prove the
truth of God’
s existence from oar faculties of
reason and understanding, and again to prove the
troth pf those faculties from tfaie existence of a
God essentially good : this, I say, is plainly to
move reuqd in a circle, and to prove nothing at
all; a gross Oversight, which the forsmentiooed
philosopher seems plainly guilty of.
Wherefore, according to this hypothesis, we avd
of necessity condemned to eternal scepticism,
both concerning the existence of a God, when.
376 NO FALSE KNOWLEDGE
after, all our arguments and demonstrations for
the same, we must at length gratify the Atheists
with this confession in the conclusion, that it is
possible notwithstanding there may be none; and
also concerning all other things, the certainty
whereof is supposed to depend upon the certainty
of the existence of such a God as cannot deceive.
So that if we will pretend to any certainty at
all concerning the existence of a God, we must
of necessity explode this new sceptical hypothe­
sis of the possibility of our understandings being
so made, as to deceive us in all our clearest per­
ceptions ; by means whereof we can be certain of
the truth of nothing, and to use our utmost en­
deavour to remove the same. In the first place
therefore we affirm, that no power, how great
soever, and therefore not Omnipotence itself, can
make any ■
thing to be indifferently either true or
false,' this being plainly to take away the nature
both of truth and falsehood, or to make them no­
thing but words, without any signification. Truth
is not factitious; it is a thing which cannot be
arbitrarily made, but is. The Divine will and
Omnipotence itself(now supposed by us) hath no
imperium upon the Divine understanding; for if
God understood only by will, he would not un­
derstand at all. In the next place we add, that
though the truth of singular contingent propo­
sitions depends upon the things themselves exist­
ing without, as the measure and archetype thereof;
yet, as to the universal and abstract theorems of
science, the terms whereof are those reasons of
things, which exist no where but only in the
mind itself (whose noemata and ideas they are)
the measure and rule of truth concerning them
■
■OR UNDERSTANDING. 377
can bo no foreign or extraneous thing without the
mind, but must be native,and domestic to it, or
contained within the .mind itself, and therefore
can be nothing but its clear and distinct percep­
tion. In these intelligible ideas of the mind,
whatsoever is clearly perceived to be, is; or,
which is all one, is true; Every clear and dis­
tinct perception is an entity or truth, as that,
-which is repugnant to conception, is a nonentity
or falsehood. Nay, the very essence of truth here
is this clear perceptibility, or intelligibility; and
therefore can there not be any clear or distinct
perception of falsehood: which must be acknow­
ledged by all those, who, though granting false
opinions, yet agree in this, that there can be.no
false knowledge. For the knowledge of these
universal abstract, truths is nothing but the clear
and distinct perception of the several ideas of the
mind, and their necessary relations to one an­
other : wherefore, to say, that there can be no false
knowledge,isall one as to say, that there can be no
clear and distinct perceptions of the ideas of the
mind false. In false opiniqns, the perception ofthe
understanding power itself is not false, but only
obscure. It is not the understanding power or
nature in us, that erreth, but it is we ourselves,
who err, when we rashly and unwarily assent to
things not clearly perceived by it. The upshot,
of all is this, that since no power, how great
soever, can make any thing indifferently to be
true; and since the essence of truth, in universal
abstract things is nothing but clear perceptibility,
it follows, that Omnipotence cannot make any
thing, that is false, to .be clearly perceived to be,
or create such minds and understanding faculties.
99$ NO FALSIE BMOWLEDflE OR UNDERSTANDING.
as shall have as clear conceptions of falsehoods,
that is, of nonentities, as they hare of truths or
entities. For example, no rational understand­
ing being, that knows what a part is, and what
a whole, what a canse and what an effect,
could possibly be so made, as clearly to conceive
the part to be greater than the whole, or the
effect to be before the cause, or the like.
Wherefore, we may presume with reverence
to say, that there could not possibly be a world
of rational creatures made by God, either in the
moon, or in some other planet, or elsewhere,
that should clearly and distinctly conceive all
things contrary to what are clearly perceived by
us; nor could our human faculties have been so
made, as that we should have as clear concep­
tions of falsehoods as of truths. Mind or under­
standing faculties in creatures may he made more
or less weak, imperfeet, and obscure, but. they
could not be made false, or such as should have
dear and distinct conceptions of that which is
not, because every dear perception is an entity;
and though Omnipotence can make somethingout
of nothing, yet can it not make something to be
nothing, nor nothing something. All which is no
more than is generally acknowledged by theolo-
gers, when they affirm, that God Almighty him­
self cannot do things contradictions; there being
no other reason far this assertion, but only this,
because oontradictionsnesa is repugnant to con­
ception. So that conception and knowledge are
hereby made to be the measure of all power,
even Omnipotence, or infinite power itself, being
determined thereby; from whence it follows, that
power hath no dominion over understanding, truth
S9US® fan?a»t*
,qaj, M lativ*. 8TO
994 knowledge; nor can infinite power make any
thing whatsoever to he clearly conceivable* For
conic) it wake contradiction* things clearly con­
ceivable, then would itself he able to do them;
because whatsoever can he clearly conceived by
any, may unquestionably he done by infinite
power.
It is true indeed, that sense, considered alone
by itselfi doth not reach to the absoluteness either
of the natures, or of the existence of things withr
out ns, it being, as such, nothing but seeming, apr
pearance, and fancy. And thus is that saying of
some ancient philosophers to he understood, that
4»yr<wwa.Xijdoc,every phantasy is truer-Haame-
ly, because sense and fancy reach not to the abso­
lute truth and falsehood of things, but contain
themselves only within seeming and appearance;
and every appearance must needs be a true apr
pearauce. Notwithstanding which, it is certain,
that sense often represents to ns corporeal things
otherwise than indeed they are, which though it he
not a formal, yet is ita material falsity. Wherefore
aeose in the nature ofit is not absolute, but *yn9«,
or *1
*1, relative to the sentienta, And by sense
aloqet without any mixture of reason or under*-
'standing, we can he certain of no more concerning
the things without us, but only this, that they so
seem to us. Hence was that ofthe ancient atomie
philosophers in Plato. *H <
n
) om
» p 1M
av wc olov trot <palverai ckootov yj>u>fia, roiovrov ®
di*
-
km ctvi km ortpovvEw
y* Neither you nor
any man else can be certain, that every other man
and brute animal hath all the very same phan­
tasms of colours, that himself hath.—Now-were
there qo other perception ip us hut that of sense
380 SENSE FANTASTICAL AND RELATIVE.
(as the old atheistic philosophers concluded
knowledge to be sense), then would all our human
perceptions be merely seeming, fantastical and
relative; and none of them reach to the absolute
truth of things. Every one in Protagoras’s
language would then ra avrov fiovov8o£a&tv, think
or opine only his own things—all his truths being
private and relative to himself. And that Prota-
gorean aphorism were to be admitted also in the
sense of that philosopher, that nvruv yjpuparosv
pbpov avO
ptiH
roc, every man is the measure of all
things to himself; and, that no one man’s opinion
was lighter than another’s,—butro <
f>
aiv6fitm
vhcwrrp,
that which seemed to every one,' was io him true,
to whom it seemed—all truth and perception
being but seeming and relative. But here lies
one main difference betwixt understanding, or
knowledge, and sense; that whereas the latter is
fantastical and relative only; the former reach-
eth beyond fancy and appearance to the absolute­
ness of truth. For as it hath been already de­
clared, whatsoever is clearly and distinctly per­
ceived in things abstract and universal, by any
one rational being in the whole world, is not a
private thing, and true to himself only that per­
ceived it: but it is, as some Stoics have called it,
aXtf&c K
adoX
tK
ov, a public, catholic and universal
truth: it obtains every where, and, as Empedo­
cles sang of natural justice,
b ■ ■ ------ ---------AlcL V fufl/pf '
At&ffof, bnziox;rirarai, ita r ttarXirou avy?c' -
It is extended throughout the vast ether, and
mVide Platon, in Theaeteto, p. 118.
b Apud Aristot. Rhetoric, lib. i. cap. xiii. p. 737. tom. lit. opcr.
MIND RRACBES ABSOLUTE TRUTH. ,381
through infinite light or space.—And were there
indeed infinite worlds, all thicklypeopled with ra­
tional animals, it would be alike true to every one
of them. Nor is it conceivable, that Omnipotence
itself could create any such understanding beings,
as could have clear and distinct perceptions of the
contrary to all that is perceived by ns, no more
than it could do things contradictions. But in all
probability, because sense is indeed but seeming,
fantastical and relative, this is the reason, that
some have been so prone and inclinable to sus­
pect the like of understanding, and all mental per­
ception top, that this also is but seeming and re­
lative ; and that therefore men’s minds or under­
standings might have been so made, by an arbi­
trary omnipotent deity, as clearly and distinctly
to perceive every thing that is false. But, if not­
withstanding all that hath been said, any will still
sing over the old song again; that all this, which
hath been hitherto declared by us, is indeed true,
if our human faculties be true,or rightly made;
but we can go no farther than our faculties; and
whether these be true or no, no man can ever be
certain; we have no other reply to make, but that
this is an over-stiff and heavy adherence to a pre­
judice of their own minds; that not only sense,
but also reason and understanding, and all human
perception, is merely seeming or fantastical, and
relative to faculties only, but not reaching to the
absolnteness of any truth; and that the human
mind hath no criterion of truth at all within
itself.
Nevertheless, it will probably be here further
objected, that this is too great au arrogance, for
created beings to pretend to an absolute certainty
30fc MIND -REACHES ABSOLUTE TWUTlf.
of any thing, it beingthe solo privilege and prero­
gative of God Almighty to be infallible* whofe
therefore styled in Scripture, o ^*voc- wo^oVthe
only wise ;-“-td which we briefly answer, that the
Deity is the first original fountain of wisdom and
truth, which is said to be the brightness of the
everlasting light, the unspotted minor of the
power of God, and the image of his goodness.
The Divine Word is the archetypal pattern of all
truth; it is ignorant of nothing, aadkooweth all
things infallibly. But created befogs have but
a derivative participation hereof,their understand*
mgs being obscure, and they erring in many
things, and being ignorant of more. And it seems
to be no derogation from Almighty God to sup*
pose, that created minds, by a participation of the
Divine mind, should be able to know certainly
that two and two make four ; that equals added
ti>equals will makeequals: that a whole is greater
than the part; and the cause before the effect;
and that nothing can be made without a cause;
and such-like other common notions, which are
the principles from whence all their knowledge is
derived. AndindeCd, weferatiottalcreatures never
able to be certain of any such thing as this at all,
what would their life be but a mere dream or sha­
dow? and themselves but a ridiculous and pomp­
ous piece of fantastic vanity ? Besides, it is no
way congruous to think, that God Almighty
should make rational creatures, so as to be an ut­
ter impossibility of ever attaining to any certainty
of his own existence; or of having more than an
hypothetical assurance thereof, if our faculties be
true (which possibly may be Otherwise), then*is
there a God. We shall oonclude this discourse
A CtiftfA tilty OF SdMETHiSG. 383
against the Cartesian scepticism with that tiffOrb
gen’S, Movov (w 6d t m > jS^jStN
o*tettfnj/un, Ktf&wlWlgfi
is the only thing in the work!, which creatures
have, that is m its own nature firm they having
here something of certainty, but no Where else.
Wherefore We having now that, which Archi*-
medes required, Some firm ground and footing to
stand upon, Such a certainty of truth in our com­
mon notions, as that theycannotpossibly be false;
without which, nothing at all could be proved by
reason: we shall in the next place endeavour, not
tb shake or dissettle any thing thereby (which
was the undertaking of that geometrician), but to
confirm and establish the truth ofGod’s existence,
and that from die very idea of him, hitherto made
good and defended against all the assaults of
Atheists.
It is Well known, that Cartesius* hath lately
made a pretence to do this, with mathematical
evidence and certainty, and be dispatches the bu­
siness briefly after this manner: God, or a perfect
being,includethnecessaryexistenceinhisveryidea;
and therefore he is. But though the inventor of
this argument, or rather the reviver of that, Which
had been before used by Some scholastics, affirm­
ed! ft to be as good &demonstration for the exist­
ence of a God, from his idea, as that in geometry,
for a triangle’s having three angles equal to two
right, is from the idea of a triangle; yet neverthe­
less it is Certain, that, by One means or other, this
argument hath not hitherto proved so fortunate
and successful, there being many, who cannot be
made sensible of any efficacy therein, and not a
.* Vide Principia ejus Philosophise, part i. §. 13.p. 4. et Meditat
Metaphysic, v. p. 31. et alias.
3 8 4 AGAINST THE CARTESIAN ,
few, who condemn it for a mere sophism. As for
ourselves, we neither have any mind to quarrel
with other men’s arguments pro Deo; nor yet
would we be thought to lay stress, in this cause,
upon any thing which is not every way solid and
substantial. Wherefore we shall here endeavour
to set down the utmost that possibly we can, both
against this argument, and for it, impartially and
candidly; and then, when we have done, leave
the intelligent readers to make their own judg­
ment concerning the same.
Against it in.this manner; first, because we can
frame an idea in our own minds of an absolutely-
perfect being, including necessary existence in it,
it will not at all follow from thence, that therefore
there is such a perfect being really existing with­
out our minds; we being able to frame in our
minds the ideas of many other things, that never
were, nor will be. AH that can be certainly in­
ferred. from the idea of a perfect being seems to
be this, that if it contain nothing which is contra­
dictious to it, then it is not impossible but that
there might be such a being actually existing.
But the strength of this argument, not lying mere­
ly in this, that because we have an idea of a per­
fect being, therefore it is ; but because we have
such an idea of it as includeth necessary exist­
ence in it, which the idea of nothing else besides
doth; therefore may it be here further objected
in this manner: That though it be very true, that
a perfect being doth include necessary existence
in it, because that cannot be every way perfect,
whose existence is not necessary, but contingent;
yet will it not follow from hence, that therefore
there is such a perfect being actually existing;
d e m o n s t r a t io n ; a n d fo b i t . 385
but all that pan be deduced from;it, w illbe' no
more than this, that:whatsoever hath no necessary
and eternal existence, is no: absolutely perfect
being. And again, that if there be anyabsolute-
ly perfect,being, then was its existence always ne­
cessary, and will be always such; that is, it did
both exist of itself, from all eternity, without be­
ginning, and must needs exist to eternity incor-
ruptibly; it being never able.to cease to' bel' It
seems indeed no more to follow,' that' because a
perfect being includes necessary' existence in its
idea, therefore there, is' such a perfect being ac-
tually existing; than because a perfect being in­
cludes necessary omniscience and omnipotence in
it, that therefore there is such a perfect.dmnisci-
ent and omnipotent beiDg: all that follows in both
cases, being only this; that if there be any being
absolutely, perfect, then it is .both omniscient and
omnipotent,'and it did exist of itself necessarily,
and 'can never cease to be. Wherefore, here lies a
fallacy in this argumentation, when from the ne­
cessity Ofexistence affirmed only hypothetically,or
upon a supposition of a perfect being, the conclu­
sion is made concerning it,absolutely. As some
would prove the necessity of all human events, as
for example of Adam’s sinning, in this manner,
that it always was true before, that .either Adam
.would eat the forbidden fruit, or not eat it; and
.if he would eat it, he would certainly;eat. it, and
not contingentlyand again,, if he would ;not eat
it, .then' would he certainly and necessarily,not eat
it: wherefore whether he will eat it, or npt eatit,
he will do either necessarily, and not contingent
ly. Where it is plain, thatan absolute necessity
is wrongly inferred in'the conclusion from an by-
vol. h i. 2 c
386 ■AGAINST THE CARTESIAN
pothetical one topremises. In like manner, when
upon supposition of an absolutely perfect being,
it is affirmed of it, that its existence must not be
contingent, but necessary, And from ’thence the
conclusion is made absolutely, that there is such
a perfect being; this seems to be the very, same
fallacy. From the idea of a perfect being in*
eluding necessary existence in it, it follows unde*
niably, that if there be any thing absolutely per*
feet, itmustexi8tnecessarily',and not contingently:
biit it doth not follow* that there must of neces­
sity be such a perfect being existing; these two
propositions carrying a very different sense from
one another. And the latter of tbem, that there
must of necessity be a God, dr perfect being ex­
isting, seems to be a thing altogether indemonstra­
ble, it implying, that the existence of God, or a
perfect being, may be proved a priori, or from
some antecedent necessary cause; which was be­
fore declared to be a thing contradictions and im­
possible.
And now'in jtistice aTe we obliged to plead the
best we can-also' bn the. defensive side. Thus,
therefore, thei idea of God, or an absolutely per­
fect being; including inf it not an impossible, nor
a contingent, but a necessary bfchesis; or relation
to existence, it 'follows from thence absolutely,
and without any ifs add dhds, that he doth exist.
For as ofthings contradictions, having therefore
in the idea of them an impossible sCfaesisto exist­
ence, We can cOOfi'dentty conclude,’that they ne­
ver Wh'ere, nof Win be ; And as ofbther things not
cohtradictious or impossible, but imperfect only,
which therefore have a contingentSehesis to exist­
ence; we Chn prOhodrtce also; that possibly they
' i * ‘i .
d e m o n s t r a t io n ; a n d f o r . i t . 3 8 7
might be, or might qot.be: in like manner* a per-
feot being including in tboidoaof it aijecessary
schesis to existence, or:a&impossible one. to non*
existence, or containing existence in.its very es­
sence ; we may by parity of.reason conclude con­
cerning,it,.that itisneither impossible to be, nor
yetcontiogept to be, or not tp.be ] but that it cer­
tainly is, and cannot but b e; or that it is, impos­
sible it should not be. And indeed when we say
o fimperfect beings, implying:no -contradiction in
them, that they may ppssjbly-either be,-or notbe,
•W
e hereto tacitly suppose the. existence of-a.,per­
fect being, because nothing, which is not, could be
possible to be,,were there not something,actually
in:being; that hath Sufficient*power to cause, or
produce it True, indeed,-we have the ideas of
•ntany: tbtogS in our. minds, that never,were, nor
will be;. but these are only such ,as include no
necessary, butcontrogenteoueteBoeintheiri nature;
and it does:not therefore follow,.that a .perfect
■being, which includes necessity.of.existence in
its idea, may,-notwithstanding, not .be. \Vhere­
toretliis necessity ofcxisteoee, or impossibility,of
nonexistence, contained in the idea of a.perfect
being, must pot-be. taken ,hypothetically only .or
-Consequentially after this manner, that if there be
.any thing absolutely perfect,, then its existence
both,was, and will be necessary; but absolutely,
that though:contradictions things cannot possi-
bly be, and things imperfect may possibly either
be, or not be, yet a perfect being cannot but be;
oTit is impossible-that it: Bhould not be. For
otherwise were the force of the argumentation
.merely hypothetical, in'this manner; If.there be
a perfect being,.then.its existence both, was, and '
2 c 2
: 3 8 6 - OTHER DEMONSTRATION'S
will benecessary; this would plainly imply, that
a perfect being, 'Notwithstanding that necessity‘of
existence included initsnaturei might either be,
t>r not be, or were contingent to existence ; which
is a; manifest contradiction, that* the ‘same thing
should exist-both contingently and necessarily.
"And this hypothetical absurdity will more plainly
-appear, if the- argument be expressed- in other
'Words, as that necessity of existence, and impos­
sibility of honexistenOe, and actual existence, be­
long to the very essence of a perfect being; since
-it would be then-ridiculous.-to go about to evade
in this manner, that if there be a perfect being,
then it is, and cannot but be. Which•identical
proposition is true ofevery thing else, butabsurd.
•Whereforethere issomething more to-be inferred
from the necessity- of-existence included in the
idea ofa perfect being than so; which can be-no­
rthing else but this, that it absolutely--and actually
-is. Moreover, no Theists can be able toprove, that
‘God, or a perfect being (supposed by them to
-exist), might not happen by chance -only to b e i f
•from the necessity of existence included in the
5dea<vf God, it cannot be inferred, that he-could
not but be. Notwithstanding which, hefe is-no
-endeavour (as is pretended) to prove the exist-
-ence of a God, nr perfect being, apriori, neither,
.of from any necessary cause antecedent; butibnly
from; that necessity, which is included within it-
:self, or is concomitant-and concurrent with it;
;the necessity of its own perfectnature.’ -Atid -now
*<w
eshall leave the intelligent andimpartial reader
‘to make his own judgment concerning the ■
foro-
-uaentioned Cartesian argument for a Deity, drawn
from its idda, as including necessity of- existeqoe
38»
OF GOD,• FROM HIS.IDEA*
io it,,that therefore it is; whether it be merely-so
phigtical, or bath something of solidity and reality
in’ it....However, it is not-very probable, that
many Atheists will be-convinced thereby, but
that they will rather be ready to say, that.this is
no probation at alLof a Deity,; but only,an affirm? '
ation of the. thing in.dispute,; and a mere begging .
of the question; that.therefore. God is, because
heJs, or cannot but be.
. Wherefore we shall .endeavour to-make out an
argument,-or demonstration for.theexistence of a
God, from his .idea, as including necessary exist­
ence*in it,, some other ways : and, first, we shall
make an offer,towards it ip this manner. Though
it will not follow- from.hence, because we can
frame* an idea of- any thing in our minds, that
therefore such a thing really exiateth ; yet nevpn-
tbeless, whatsoever we can frame an idea of, iip?-
plying no manner of contradiction in its conpepr
tion, we may certainly conclude thus much of it*
that such a thing was not impossible to be; there
being nothing to us impossible, but what is conr
tradictious-and repugnant to conception. Now*
the idea of God, or perfect being, can imply no
manner of contradiction.in it, because it is only the
idea of such.a thing; as hathall possible and conj- ■
liv ab le perfections in it;, that is, all perfections,
* which are.neither contradictious in themselves^
nor to oneanother. And they, who will not allow
pf this consequence, from the idea of a perfect
being, including necessity of existence in it, that
it doth therefore actually exist, yet cannot deny,
but that this at least will follow, from its implying
no manner of. contradiction in it, that it is there-
fore a thing possible, or not impossible to be.
390 0*THER DEMONSTRATIONS
For thus much being trhe of alt other contingent
things, whose idfea implieth no contradiction, that
they are therefore possible; it must needs be
granted of'that,' whose very idea and essence con*
taineth a necessity of existence-in it, as the es-
sencenf nothing elsC but a perfect being-doth.
And this iS the first step, that we now make in
way of argumentation, from-tfie idea of>;God, or
a perfect being, having nothing contradictions in
it, that therefore •God is at least possible, or no
way im^Ossible to'have been. In the next place,
as tbisparticular idea Of that, 'which is ‘possible,
included necessity of existence in it ;from these
two things put together at least, the possibility of
such a-being, and its Accessary existence (if net
from the latter alone) will it according to reason
follow,'that He actually'is. If God, or a perfect
being, in' whose essence is contained necessary
existence, be possible- or nO way impossible td
have been-; then he is ‘
. because upon supposition
of his nonexistence, it WOuld be absolutely im­
possible that he should ever have been.' Itdoes
not thus' follow cdheermng irtiperfect befogs, that
are contingently possible, that if they be not, it
was therefore' impossible forthetnever to have
been ; for that which is contingent, though it -be
not;Jyef m ight!it for all that possibly have
been; But a peffeethe'cefesarity existent ’being,
upon the' bare supposition of its1UonCxIsterice,
could bo more possibly have beenjtfaair it could
possibly hereafter td } ‘
because if it tnight have
been, ihdugh it be nOt, thCn would it notbe ane-
cessary existent being. The Sum ofall is this, a
necessary existent' being, if it be possible, it is’
;
because, upon.supposition of its nonexistence, it
Of g o d , f r o m h is id e a . 391
would- bo iaipossible for it ever to have been.
Wherefore .God is either impossible to bare been,
or else he is... For if God were possible, and yet
be not, then is be not a necessary but contingent
being; which is contrary to the hypothesis.
But because this argumentation piay perhaps
run the same fate also'with the former, and, by
reason of its subtlety, do but little execution nei­
ther, if not be accounted sophistical to o ; men
being generally prone to distrust the firmnessand
solidity ef such thin and subtle cobwebs (as these
and the like may seem to be), qr their ability to
support the weight of so great a truth; and to
suspect themselves to be illaqueated, and circum­
vented in them: therefore shall we lay no stress
upon this neither, but proceed to something
which is yet more plain and downright, after this
manner. Whatsoever we can frame an jdea of in
our minds, implying no manner,of contradiction,
this either actually is, or else if it be not, it is pos­
sible for it to be. But, if God be not, he is not
possible hereafter to be; therefore he is. The
reason and necessity of the minor is evident; be­
cause, if God be not, and yet possible hereafter
to be, then would he’not be an eternal and necessa­
rily existent being, which is contradictious to his
idea. And the ground of the major, Upon which
all the weight lies,, hath been already 'declared,
where we proved, before, that if there were no
God, of perfect being, we could never have had
any cobception or idea of him in our minds, be­
cause there Can be no positive conception of aa
absolute nothing, that which hath neither actual
nor possible Existence. Here the posture of the
argutndot.is only inverted ; because we have an
3 9 3 A NECESSARY ■
idea,of .God,.or a perfect being, implying ho>man-.
ner of contradiction in it, therefore mnst it needs
have, some kind of.entity or other, either an.actual
or possible one ; but God,.if he be not, isnotpos- .
sible to be, therefore he doth actually exist.
Biit perhaps this argumentation also, how firm
and,solid,soev.er, may prove less convictive of the ,
existence of a God to the .generality; because
whatever is received, is received according.to the
capacity of the recipient: .and though a demon- „
stration be never so.good in itself, yet is it.more .
or less such to particular persons,.according to .
their abilitytocomprehend.it; therefore shall we,
in the next place, form [yet a plainer demonstra- .
tion for a God from the idea, of him, including n&
cesSary-existence in i t i t being first, premised,
that .unquestionably something or other did exist
from all eternity, without.beginning. For it is ,
.certain, &at every thing ,could not be, made, be- ..
cause; nothing could come, from nothing, or. be
made by .itself; and therefore if once, there.had
been nothing, there copld never have[been any
thing. Whence. it is undeniable, that ,there was
always something, and consequently there was .
something unmade, .which existed of itself .from
all eternity.. Now all the question, is, and.indeed
this is the only question betwixt .Theists and
Atheists; since something did certainly exist;of.
itself from all eternity, what that thing is, whether
it.be,a perfect, or..an imperfect being? We say,
therefore, that whatsoever existed of itself .from
eternity, and without beginning, did so exist na­
turally and necessarily, or by the necessity of its
own, nature. Now, nothing could; exist of.itself
from eternity, naturally and .necessarily, but that
BEING, CERTAIN.; 3 9 3
which Containeth necessaryand eternaliSelf-ei- -
istence.in its own nature. But there is nothing
which containeth’necessary eternal existence in
its own nature.or;essence, but only an absolutely
perfect.being; all other imperfect things being in :
their.nature contingently possible, either-to be, on -
not.to.be.. Wherefore since something or other'
must and doth exist of.itself naturally and neces­
sarily from.eternity unmade, and nothing could
do this, but what included necessary.selfiexistence
in its; nature.or. essence; it is certain, that it was ,
a perfect being, or God, who did exist of; himself
from eternity, and nothing else; all. other imper­
fect,things which have no necessary self-existence
in their nature, deriving their:being from him.
Here therefore, are the Atheists infinitely absurd
and unreasonable, when they will, not ackno.w- -
ledge that, which containeth independent self-ex­
istence, or necessity of existence (which indeed is .
the same with an impossibility of nonexistence), .
in its nature and essence, that is, a perfect being,
so >much, as to exist, at all;. and yet.in :the mean .
time assert that, which hath no necessity .of exist­
ence in its nature, the mostimperfect,©fall beings, „
inanimate body and matter, to have existed,of it­
self necessarily from all eternity.
We might, here add, as.a farther,confirmation ;
of.this argument, whathath.been already proved; ,
that no.temporary. successive being (whose dura­
tion is in a continual flux, as if it were every mo­
ment generated ■
anew),; and therefore neither our
own souls, nor the world, nor:matter moving,
Could possibly, have existed from eternity, and: in­
dependently upon .any. other thing, but.must have
had a beginning, and. been caused, by. something
THE CONTROVERSY
3 9 4
else; namely, by an absolutely perfect being,
whose duration therefore is permanent, and with­
out any successive generation, or flux.
But besides all these arguments, we may other­
wise from the idea of God (already, declared) be
able both exactly to state the controversy betwixt
Theisls and Atheists, and satisfactorily to decide
the same. In order wherieunto there is yet some­
thing again to be premised ; namely this, that as
it is certain every thing was not made, but some­
thing existed of itself from eternity unmade; so is
it likewise certain, that every thing was not un­
made neither, nor existed of itself from eternity,
but something, was made and had a beginning.
Where there is a full agreement betwixt Theists
and Atheists, as to this one point, no' Atheist as­
serting every thing to have been unmade, but they
all acknowledging themselves to have been gene­
rated, and to have had a beginning; that is, their
own souls and personalities, as likewise the lives
and souls of all other men and animals. Wherefore,
since something certainly existed of itself from
eternity, but other things were made, and had a
beginning(which therefore must needs derive tbeir
being from that which existed of itself unmade),
here is the state ofthe controversy betwixt Theists
and Atheists, whether that, which existed of ifkelf
from all eternity, and was the cause of all other
things, were a perfect being and God, or the most
imperfect of all things whatsoever, inanimate and
senseless matter. The former is the doctrine of
Theists, as Aristotle affirraeth of those Met. 1. xU. c.
ancients, who did hot write fabulously
concerning the first principles, otov & ip t- °Pfcr0
KvSqc, Kat ertpot nv*c, ro ytvvwrav irpwrov ra ’
'Apiorov
STATED. 895
n$iaai, m i -.m ' M ayti' .iau TtuV wrripwv Sc emu
'EfM
rtSiM
cXnc're'M
kl ’Ava^o-yopac; A*, namely, Phere.
cides, andtheiMagi, and Empedocles and Anaxa­
goras, and many others; that they agreed in;this,
that the first original of all .things was the best,
aud moat petfdct^Wbere* by the way we may
observe also, that, according to Aristotle, the an­
cient magi.did not ;acknowledge a substantial
evil principle, they makitig that, which is the best
and most perfect being', alone by itself; to be the
first begetter of all. This, I say, is the hypothe­
sis of TbeistSj that there is one absolutely perfect
being, existing of itself from all eternity, from
whence all other lesser perfections, or imperfect
beings, did .gradually descend, till at last they
end in senseless matter, or inanimate body. But
the atheistic hypothesis,'on the contrary, makes
senseless matter the most imperfect thing, to be
the first principle, or the only self-existent being,
and the cause of all other things; and consequent­
ly all higher degrees of perfections that are in the
world, to have climbed np or emerged by way of
ascent from thence; as life, sense, understanding,
and reason, from that which is altogether dead
and senseless. ' Nay, as it was before observed,
there hath- been amongst the ancient Pagans* a
certain kfaiHofreligious Atheists, such as acknow­
ledging verbally a God, or soul of the world pre-
sidihg'over the whole, supposed this notwithstand­
ing to have first emerged also, out of senseless
matter, night and chaos; and therefore doubtless
to be likewise dissolvable again into the same.
And Of*;these Is that place in Aristotle •\ ..
r Met. 1. xn. c.
to b e u n d e r sto o d , ^ctotXEVav* ical a p \ u v 6a~ '** [p-446.
* > t 7 ■ ■
■ T tvt'< ' r \ * % * tom.iF.oper.]
<
rev ov rove 7rpwrovc oiov IVuktci, teat Uvpavov, v
398 NOT ALL. FROM
Xaocr »| km ’
£lictavov,.aXXa.rov. Ala* They: suppose,
not the first; things, as Night, andthe Heaven,
and.Chaos, and. the Ocean, but Jupiter, (or God)
to rule land- govern all.—Where.it is intimated;
thatthe Heaven, Night,Chaos,andthe Oceansac­
cording to these, were seniors to Jupiter, or in or­
der ofnature hefore him ; they apprehending that
things did ascend upward from that, which was
most imperfect, as Night .and Chaos, to the. more
perfect,-and at length to:Jupiter himself,.the.mun:
dahe soul, who.goverqeth; the whole world,, as
our.sonl doth oor body. .Which same.opinion is
afterwards.again taken notice of, and reprehended
Meu.xH.a..by Aristotle in -these words; ovKopfa*
c
fp. 448.tom. o viraA
'C
Lfipaveiovc emc iropeoco^ct rag rov oaov
lr.oper.] ap^i(, rf T
U
>
vt<
*>
Wjcoi^nrralv' on. aop'urT
W
V&
i-
aa.rarfXdorepa* avdptnrot.yapavQpunrovytwa; xal ovx;«rri
avkpfia ,TpwTQ
v\ Nor would he think rightly, who
should resemble the principle of the universe to
that of animals and plants :.where, from indeter­
minate,and imperfect things (as seeds) do always
arise the more perfect. - For.even, here also is the
case;Otherwise than they suppose; for it is a man
thatgenerates a man ; nor-is the seed.the first. .
. The controversy being thus clearly stated be­
twixt Theists and:Atheists, it may now with great
ease, and to the.full conviction of allmindsun-
prejudiced and. unprepossessed with false prin­
ciples, be determined ; it being op the,one hand
undeniably evideut, that lesser-perfections may
naturally, descend from, greater,-or at least from
that which is absolutely perfect, and which vir­
tually containeth all; but,.on the. other hand, ut­
terly impossible,.that greater perfections, •and
higher degrees of; being, should rise and ascend
THE-MOST IMPERFECT. • 397
out of lesser. and lower, ‘so as that, which is the
i most absolutely imperfect of all things* should be
- the first fountain-and original ofa ll; since no ef­
fect can possibly transcend the power of itscause.
Wherefore it is certain, that in the universe things
did not thqs ascend and mount, or climb up from
lower perfection to higher; but, on the-contrary,
descend and slide down from higber to lower: so
that the first original of all things was not -the
•most imperfect, but the most perfect being. - But
to speak more particularly; it is certain, notwith­
standing all the vain pretences of Lucretius, and
other Atheists, or semi-Atheists; to the contrary,
'that life and sense could never >
possibly spring
■outof dead and senseless matter, as its only ori­
ginal, either in the way of atoms (no composition
•of magnitudes, figures, sites, and motions, being
-ever able to produce1
cogitation),or in-the way-Of
qualities* since life and perception oahno raOre
•result from any mixture, of elements, or combina­
tions ofqualities ;of heat and cold, moist and dry,
■&c. than from unqualified atoms. :This being Un­
deniably demonstrable from that very principle of
•reason,:which the Atheists are so fond of, but mis­
understanding abuse (as shall be-manifested-af­
terward); that’ nothing can come -from nothing.
-Much less could understanding and reason in men
Over have emerged out of stupid matter; devoid of
iall manner -of life. " -Wherefore’we mustueeds
-here freely-declare against the<
darkness of that
philosophy, which hath been-sometimes unwarily
•entertained -by- such ias; were'no:Atheists, that
-sense may rise from a certain- modification, mix­
ture, or- orgauization of; dead and senseless mat­
ter; as also that understanding and neahoni may
result from sense: the plain consequence of both
398 MIND ETERNAL
which is, that senseless matter may prove the ori­
ginal. of all things; and the only Named* Which
doctrine therefore is, doubtless, a main piece of
the philosophy of the kingdom of darkness* But
this darkness hath been of latein great measure
dispelled by the light of the atomic philosophy,
restored, as it was. in its,first genuine and virgin
state, andeflowered as yet by Atheists ;th isclear­
ly shewing, how far body and mechanism; can go,
and that life and cogitation can never emerge ont
from thence; it: being bajlt upon that fundamen­
tal principle, as,>we have made it evidentin the
firstchapter, that Nothing can camefrom,, nothing.
And Strato and the hylozoic Atheists were so
well aware, and so sensible of this, that all-life and
understanding could not possibly:be generated or
made, bat that there must be some fundamental
and substantial* or eternal unmade life and know­
ledge, that they therefore have thought necessary
to attribute life,mid perception (or understanding),
with appetite, and self-moving power, to all mat­
ter as such, that so it might be thereby fitly qua­
lified to be the original of all things; than which
opinion as nothing can be more monstrous, so
shall we elsewhere; evince the impossibility there­
of, In the mean time,,we dOObt not to aver, that
the argument proposed iBa sufficient demonstra­
tion of the impossibility of Atheism; which will
be further manifested in our answer to the second
atheistic objection against a Divine creation, be*
cause nothing; can come from nothing.
. . But this controversy betwixtTheists and Athe­
ists may be yet more particularly stated from the
idea of&ad, as including mind or ^understand­
ing inifeessentially, viz*. Whether mind be eter-
AND UNMADE. 309
Da) and unmade, as being the maker of all; or
else. Whether all mind were itself made or gene­
rated, abd that out of senseless'matter? For, ac­
cording to the doctrine of the Pagan Theists,
mind was npoyswarame, k
c
u Ktsptoc kora fifaw, the
oldest of all things, senior to the world and ele­
ments, and by nature hath a princely and lordly
dominion overall.—But, according to those Athe­
ists, who make matter, or body, devoid ofall life
and understanding, to be the first principle, mind
must be tlarepoyevtjc, a post-nate thing—younger
than the world; a weak, nmbratile, and evanid
image, and next to nothing:
And the controversy, as thus stated, may be
also clearly and satisfactorily decided. Fof, first,
we say, that as it is certainly true,' that if there
bad been once nothing at all,'there could never
have been any thing; so is it true likewise, that
if once there had been no life in the whole uni­
verse, but all had been dead, then could there
never have been any life or motion in it; and
if once there had' been no mind,' understand­
ing* or knowledge, then could there never have
been any mind or understanding produced.
Because, to suppose life and understanding to
rise and spring up out of' that which is alto­
gether dead and senseless, as its only original,
is plainly to suppose something to come out of
nothing. It cannot be said bo of other things, as
of the corporeal world and matter, that if once
they had not been, they could never possibly
have boon; because, though thbre had been no
world nor matter, yet might these have been pro­
duced from a perfect, omnipotent incorporeal
being, which in itself eminently cOfitdinefh all
400 KNOWLEDGE,: NO FANTASTIC
things. Dead and senseless maitter could never
have created or generated'mind and understand­
ing, but a perfect omnipotent mind could create
matter. Wherefore, because there is mind, we
are certain, that there was some mind or other
from eternity without beginning; though not be­
cause there is body, that therefore there was body
or matter from eternity unmade. Now these im-
perfect minds of ours were by no'means them­
selves eternal nr without beginning, but'from an
antecedent nonexistence brought forth into being;
*
•but since no mind’could spring out of dead and
senseless matter, and all minds could not possibly
be made,’nbr one produced from another infinite­
ly ; there must of necessity be an eternal unmade
-minid, from whence those imperfect minds,of ours
-were derived. Which perfect,omnipotent mind
' rwas as well the cause of: all other ,things, as of
human' souls.
>But before we proceed to' any-further argu
mentation, we must needs take notice here,-: that
the Atheists suppose no small part of: their
strength -to lie -in this very thing, namely* their
disproving a God/rom the nature of understand­
ing and knowledge: nor!do they indeed swagger
in any thing more, than this. We have already
.set'it;for the eleventh atheistic argument, that
kdowledge being the information of the- things
themselves known, and all conception the action
of that‘which is conceived, and the passion'of
the conceiver; the world and all sensible things
imust needs be before there, could be-any know­
ledge or conception of them, and no .knowledge
: .or conception before the world as its cause.
Or more-briefly-thus: the-world could not:be
IMAGE OF SBNSIBLE8. 401
made by knowledge and understanding, because
* there could be uo knowledge or understanding
of the world, or of any thing in it, before it was
made. For, according to these Atheists, things
made knowledge, and not knowledge things; they
meaning by things here such only as are sensible
and corporeal. So that mind and understand­
ing could not be the creator of the world and
these sensible things, itself being the mere crea­
ture of them ; a secondary derivative result from
them, or a fantastic image of them; the young­
est and most creaturely thing in the whole world.
Whence it follows, that to suppose mind and un­
derstanding,to be the maker of all things would
be no. better sense, than if one should suppose'
the images in ponds and rivers to be the makers
of the sun, moon, and stars, and other things re­
presented in them. And upon such a ground as
this, does a modern writer presume to determine,
that knowledge and understanding are not to be
attributed to God Almighty, because they im­
ply imperfection, and.dependence upon corporeal
things without:. “ Quoniara scientia et D
eC
iveR
eI :
intellectus .in nobis -nibil aliud sunt, * « o t . i 4 .
quam suscitatus a rebus extends organa premen-
tibus animi tumultus, non est putandnm aliquid
tale accidere Deo. Signum enirn potential ab alio
dependentis:” Which is again Englished
thus: Knowledge and understanding
being in us nothing elsebut'a tumult in the mind,*
raised ; by external things, that press the organ-
ical parts of man’s hody; there is no such thing
in God, .nor can they .be:attributed to him,.they
beiogthings,.which depend upon natural causes.—
Where this writer thus denying knowledge and
VOL. i n . 2 D
4(19 KNQWJ.KPGE, NO FANTASTIC
understanding to God, upon pretence, that it
speaks imperfection, and dependance upon ex- ■
ternai corporeal things (it being npthing but m
tumult raised by the motions and pressures of
them), he must needs absolutely deny the first
principle of all things to be any kuowing under*
standing nature, unless be bad asserted some
other kind of knowledge distinct from that of
men, and clearly attributed the same to God Al­
mighty. Hitherto the sense of Atheists.
Now we shall, for the present, only so far forth
concern ourselves in confuting this atheistic doc­
trine, as to lay a foundation thereby for the de­
monstration of the contrary, namely, the exist­
ence of a God, or a mind before the world, from
the nature of knowledge and understanding.
First, therefore, it is a sottish conceit of these
Atheists, proceeding from their not attending to
their own cogitations, that not only sense, but
also knowledge and understanding in men, is bat
a tumult, raised from corporeal things without,
pressing upon the organs of their body; or else,
as they declare themselves more distinctly, no­
thing bat the activity of sensible objects upon
them, and their passion from them. For if this
Were true, then wonld every thing, that suffered
and reacted motion, especially polite bodies, as
looking-glasses, have something both of sense and-
of understanding in them. It is plain, that there
Contes nothing to us from bodies without os, bnt
only local motion and pressure. Neither is sense
itself the mare passion of those motions, but the ..
perception of their passions in a way of fancy.
Bnt sensible things themselves (as, for example,
tight and colours) ape not known or understood
IMAGE OF INSENSIBLE8. 4 09
either by the*passion, or the fancy of sense, nor
by any thing merely foreign and adventitious, but
by intelligible ideas exerted from the mind itself;
that is, by something native and domestic to it?
nothing being more true, than this of Boetius,*
that, “ Omne, quod scitur, non ex sua, sed ex
comprehendentium natura, vi, et facultate cog-
noscitur;” Whatsoever is known, is known not
by its own force and power, but by the force and
power, the vigour and activity, of that thing itself,
which knows or comprehends it.—Wherefore, be*
sides the phantasms of singular bodies, or of sen­
sible things existing without us (which are not
mere passions neither), it is plain, that onr human
mind bath other cogitations or conceptions in it;
namely, the ideas of the intelligible natures and
essences of things, which are universal, and by
and under which it understands singulars. It is
a ridiculous conceit of a modern atheistic writer,
that universals are nothing else but names, attri­
buted to many singular bodies, because whatso­
ever is is singular. For though whatsoever exists
without the mind be singular, yet is it plain, that
there are conceptions in our minds objectively
universal. Which universal objects of our mind,
though they exist not as such any where without
it, yet are they not therefore nothing, but have an
intelligible entity for this very reason, because
they are conceivable; for since nonentity is not
conceivable, whatsoever is conceivable, and an
object of the mind, is therefore something. And
as for axiomatical truths, in which something ts
affirmed or denied, as these are not all passions
•'T itrC aiN M . Pbilosoph. Kb. r..p. HI.
2 D 2
404 KNOWLEDGE, NO FANTASTIC
from bodies without us; (for what local motions
could impress this common notion upon our
minds, that things which agree in One third, agree
amongst themselves, or any other?) so neither are
these ,things only gathered by induction from re­
peated and reiterated sensations; we clearlyappre-
hending at once, that it is impossible,they should
be otherwise. Thus Aristotle* ingeniously: OvSe
tirurraoOai Si aicrOrjacwc «mv, ore k<
u tt qv aioQdvioOai, on
t o rpi'-ycovov Svaiv opOati; e%u rac yiovlac, c£qrovpcv av
avoSti^iv, Kai oti^ cue Qaol nvt$ brurraftsOa' aloQavtcrQai pev
yap avaymi Kaff woorov, q $6 nrwrqjuq rtp KaOoXov yviopi^uv
core. • It is evident, that there is no knowledge (of
the universal theorems of geometry) by sense.
For if we could perceive by sense, that the three
angles of a triangle were equal to two right; yet
should we not rest satisfied in this, as having
therefore a sufficient knowledge hereof; but would
seek further after a demonstration of it: sense
reaching only to singulars, but knowledge to uni-
versals.—When from the universal idea of a tri­
angle, which is neither here, nor there, nor any.
where, without our mind, but yet hath an, intelli­
gible entity, we see a plain necessity, that its three
angles must be equal to two right; then do we
know the truth of this universal theorem, and not
before: as also we understand, that every.singu­
lar triangle (so far as it is true) hath this property
in.it.; Wherefore the. knowledge of this, and the
like truths, is. not derived from singulars, nor do
we. arrive to them in way of ascent from singu­
lars to universals; but, on the contrary, having
first found them in the universals, we afterward
Analytic, posterior, lib. i. p. 226. tome i..oper..
IMAGE' OF SENSIBLES. 405
descending,.apply them to singulars: so that bur
knowledge here is not after singular bodies, and
secondarily or derivatively from them, but in
order of nature before them, and proleptical to
them.
Now these universal conceptions, some ofwhich
are also abstract (as life, sense, reason, knowledge,
and the like), many of them are of such things,
whose singulars do not at all fall under sense;
which therefore could never possibly be impress­
ed upon ns from singular bodies by local motion:
and again some such, as though they belong to
corporeal and sensible things, yet, as their accu­
racy cannot be reached to by sense, so neither
did they ever exist in that matter of this lower
world, which here encompasseth us, and there­
fore could.not be stamped upon us from without:
as for example, the ideas of a perfect straight line,
and a plain superficies, or of an exact triangle,
circle, sphere, or cube; no material thing here
amongst us being terminated in so straight lines,
but that even by microscopes there may be dis­
covered much irregularity and deformity in them;
and very probable it is, that there are no perfectly
straight lines, no such triangles, circles', spheres, or
cubes, as answer to the exactness of our concep­
tions, in any part of the whole material universe,
nor never will be. Notwithstanding which, they
are not absolute nonentities, since we can demon­
strate things concerning them, and though they
never were nor will be, yet are they possible to
exist, since nothing can be conceived, but it either
is, or else is possible to be. The human mind
therefore bath a power of framing ideas and con­
ceptions, not only of what actually is, but also of
'<#06 KNOWLEDGE AND INTELLECTION
things, which never were, nor perhaps will be,
they being only possible to be. But when, from
oar conceptions, we conclude of some things,
<that though they are not, yet they are possible
to be, unless there be something actually iu being,
which hath sufficient power to produce it; we do
implicitly suppose the existence of a God or om­
nipotent being thereby, which can make what*
soever is conceivable, though it yet be not to
exist; and therefore material triangles, circles,
spheres, cubes, mathematically exact.
The result of what we have hitherto said is
this, that since singular bodies are not the only
objects of our mind and cogitation, it having
also universal and abstract ideas of the intelli*
gible natures or essences of things (some of
which are such, whose singulars do not at all fall
under sense; others, though they belong to bo­
dies, yet sense can never reach to them, nor were
they ever in matter); moreover, since our mind
can conceive of things, which no where actually
. exist, but are only possible, and can have such a
demonstrative science of universal truths, as sense
can never ascend to : that therefore human know­
ledge and understanding itself is not the mere
image and creature of singular bodies only; and
so derivative, or ectypal from them, and in order
of nature junior to them, but that, as it were ho­
vering aloft over all the corporeal universe, it is a
thing independant upon singular bodies, or pro-
leptical to them, and in order of nature before
them.
But what account can we then possibly give of
knowledge and understanding, their nature and
original ? since there must be voqrov, that which
SUFFOS* IN FIN ITE POWER. 901
is intelligible—in order of nature, before «o«no
or intellection.—Certainly no other than this, that
the first original knowledge is that of a perfect
being, infinitely good and powerful, comprehend*
ing itself, and the utmost extent of its own fecun­
dity and power, that is, the possibilities of all
things; their ideas, with their several relations to
one another; all necessary and immutable truths.
Here therefore is there a knowledge before the
world and all sensible things, that was arche­
typal and paradigmatical to the same. Of which
one perfect mind and knowledge all other imper­
fect minds (being derived from it) have a certain
participation; whereby they are enabled to frame
intelligible ideas, not only of whatsoever doth ac­
tually exist, but also of such things as never
were nor will.be, but are only possible, or objects
of Divine power.
■ Wherefore, since it is certain, that even human
knowledge and understanding itself is not a mere
passion from sensible things, and singular bodies
existing without (which is the only foundation of
that forementioned atheistic argument, that things
made knowledge, and not knowledge tbingB), and
consequently it must needs have some other origi­
nal : moreover, since knowledge and understand­
ing apprehend things proleptically to their exist­
ence (mind being able to frame conceptions of all
possible entities and modifications), and therefore
in their nature do plainly suppose the actual exist­
ence of a perfect being, which is infinitely fecund ^
and powerfuland could produce all things possible
or conceivable; the first eriginul Knowledge, or
Mind, from whence all other knowledges and
minds are derived, being that of an.absolutely
408 ETERNAL TRUTHS;
perfect and omnipotent Being, comprehending it­
self, and the extent ofits own power,or of its com­
municability, that is, theideas ofall possibilities of
things, that may be produced by it, together with
their relations to one another, and their necessary
immutable truths ; accordingly as wisdomand uri-
• derstanding are described to be, druie rqg
Wisd. o. vii. - « - s r » » .. - - . .1
tov aeov bwaficwc, anoppoia t ij q t o v iravroKparo-
aroirrpov rtjg row-. Otov evepyeiag, «cat tuctiv rue
dyadoTirrosavrov, the breath (or vapour)of the power
of God,and an efflux (oremanation)froth the glory
of the Almighty, a clear mirror (or looking-glass)
of his active energy or virtue, and the image of
his goodness:—I say, the result of all is this, that
the nature of knowledge and understanding is
so far from being a ground of disproving a Deity
(as the Atheists ignorantly pretend), that it af-
fordeth a firm demonstration to us, on the con­
trary, of the existence of a God, a perfect omni­
potent being, comprehending itself, and the ex­
tent of its own power, or all possibilities of things;
a mind before the-world, and senior to all things;
no ectypal, but archetypal thing, which compre­
hended in it, as a kind of intellectual world, the
paradigm or platform, according to which this
sensible world was made. • • *
And this may be further confirmed from what is
generally acknowledged, and indeed cannot rea­
sonably be denied by any, viz. that there are eter-'
nal verities, such as were never made, nor can
.ever be destroyed, or cease to be: as for example,
such common notions as these, that equals added
toequals make equals; that the caiise is in-order
of nature before the eflect, &c. together with all
geometrical theorems; as Aristotle himself de-
AND INTELLIGIBLES. 409
clareth, be writing in his Ethics *after this man­
ner : irtpl aiSliov ovStle j3ov\tveTcu, oiov ir-tpl rrjg itafiirpov
Kal rqc nXevpag on aovpnerpoc Concerning eternal
(and immutable) things no man does consult; as
for example, concerning the diameter or diagonal
of a square, whether it should be incommensu­
rable to the sides, or no.—Where he plainly af-
firmeth this geometrical theorem, that the diame­
ter or diagonal of a square is incommensurable
to the sides, to be an eternal truth. Neither are
there such eternal truths as these only in mathe­
matics, and concerning quantity, but also in
ethics concerning morality; there being here «iwvm
i'uccua, as Justin. Martyr calls them, things eter­
nally just—which were not made such at certain
times by law and arbitrary command, but, being
such in their own nature immutably, were from
everlasting to everlasting, and (as it is said of that
eternal Word, which comprehends all truth) the
same yesterday, to-day, and for ever.b For of
these is that famous passage of Sophocles in his
Antigona,'
Ou yap vt Turyt xd^Big, aXX* ait mom
Zjj TauTa, xoiiht; oth* i£ orov
These are not things of to-day, or yesterday, but
they ever live, and no man knows their date, or
from whence they camel—No man can declare
the time, when all common notions, and geome­
trical truths, were first made and generated out of
nothing, or brought out of antecedent nonexist­
ence into being. . Certain it is, that such truths as
these, that the diameter and sides of a square are
*Ethicor. ad Nicomach. lib. iii. cap. v. p. 39*tom. iii. opcr.
bHcb. xiii. 8. . cVcr. 467,468. *
410 ETBRNAL TRUTHS;
incommensurable, or that the power of the hypo*
thedeuie in a rectangular triangle is equal to the
powers of both the sides, were not made by ahy
man’s thinking, or by those first geometricians,
who discovered or demonstrated the same; they
discovering and demonstrating only that which
was. Wherefore these truths were before there
was any man to think of them, and they would
continue still to be, though all the men in the
world should be annihilated : nay, though there
were no material squares and triangles any where
in the whole world neither, no, nor any matter at
all: for they were ever without beginning before
the world, and would of necessity be ever after it,
should it cease to be.
Now, if there be eternal truths, which were
never made, and could not but be, then must the
“ rationes rerum,” the simple reasons of things
also, or their intelligible natures and essences,
out of which those troths are compounded, be of
necessity eternal likewise. For how can this be
an eternal truth, that the diameter of a square is
incommensurable with the sides, if the rationes,
the reasons of a square, diameter, and sides, or
their intelligible essences, were not themselves
eternal ? These are therefore called by Plato (a
man of much meditation, and no contemptible
philosopher) not only att favra'muMaiiruc f^om,
things which are always the same, and un­
changeable— but also ra pti yiyvo/itva, dXX* <t! orra,
things which were never made, but always are
—and sometimes, pan ytyvo/ttva, fujn diroXXvjucwt,
things that were neither made, nor can be de­
stroyed—sometimes, raayiwnraK
alavtiXeOjM
, things
ingenerable and incorruptible. —
Of which Cicero
AND INTELLIGIBLE* .411
4 h « s *
*Hsec Plato Begat gigtii, sed semper esse,
«t ratione et intelligeotia contiueri.” These things
Plato affirmeth to have been never made, but al»
ways to be, and to be contained in reason and
understanding.— And, though perhaps it may
seem strange, even Aristotle1
*himself also, not­
withstanding his so often clashing with Plato’s
ideas, here really agreeth in the main, that the
forms and species, or the universal intelligible es­
sences of things, which are the proper and imme­
diate objects of science, were eternal and never
tnade: thus in his Metaphysics, To dSoc ovSac n w
oti& ytwirai, No man makes the form, or species
of a thing, nor was it ever generated ; and again,
Tow ffrpaipa uvai ouk t<rrt yivtm c, There is no genera­
tion of the essence ofasphere;—and/Avtv ytviotut
kmfOopatra dSq, The forms or species of things are
without any generation or corruption.—And he
sometimes calletb these objects of science d/ctWov
wanav*or f&mv, an immutable essence ofnature.—
Lastly, where he writeth against the Heraclitics,
and those other sceptics, who denied all certainty
Of science he first discovers the ground of their
error herein to have been this, that they supposed
singular bodies, of sensibles existing without, to
be the only things or objects of the mind, or
knowledge :dAtnov me S
o£»iCTourotc, ort t r t twv ovrwv
r^v vXiifctaveaKonovv, rd St ovra vir*Xa/3ovitvat ra a'laBrfrd
jadvov, tv Strovrotc iroXXift)rov dopurrowtpvmc twirapyet—
m SI m aav ofm vne ravrriv tayaufityqv rqv fvoiv, kardye
raw fttrafidXXovroc ovStv dXifltvdptvov, m piyt rd nuvrut
■
* De Orator© ad Brutam, cap. ii. p. (dt> tain. iii. oper.
k Vide Metaphysic. lib. vii. cap. viii. p. 361. et lib. xiv. cap, iii. p,
473. tom. iv. oper.
c Ibid. lib. xiv. dap. ii. p. 473. et cap.vi. p.477.
•d Ibid. lib. iv. cap. v. p. 313.
412 OBJECTS OF
. irivra furafiaW ov, ovk tK&yeaOai aXifitvav. The Ori­
ginal of these men’s mistake was this, because
truth was to be looked for in things, and they con­
ceived the only things to be sensibles, in which it
is certain there is much of the indeterminate na-
' ture. Wherefore they, perceiving all the nature
of sensibles to be moveable, or in perpetual flux
and mutation, since nothing can possibly be veri­
fied or constantly affirmed concerning that; which
is not the same but changeable, concluded, that
there could be no truth at all, nor certainty ofsci-
ence; those things, which are the only,objects of
it, never continuing the same.—And then he sub- t
joins, in way of opposition to this sceptical doc­
trine of theirs, and the forementioned ground
thereof, A£iw<ro/iev aurovc viroAa/ifidvtw teal aXXi/v ova'iwv
iivai r<5v ovrwv, y ovrs ictv»j<Tic w rdj^n ovre if>9opa ovre yt~
veaiQ to vapairav’ We would have these men there­
fore to know, that there is another kind of es­
sence of things, besides that of sensibles, to which
belongeth neither motion, nor corruption, nor any
generation at all.—By which essences of things,
they have no generation nor corruption, he could
understand nothing else but those intelligible na­
tures, species, and ideas, which are the standing
and immutable objects of science. And certain
it is, that there could be no constant and immuta­
ble science at all, were there uo other objects of
the mind, but singulars and sensibles, because
these are all mutable. Wherefore the proper
and immediate objects of the geometrical science
are no singular and material triangles, squares,
spheres, and cubes, &c. not only because none of
these are found mathematically exact, and because
geometricians, in all the several distant ages and
GEOMETRY IMMUTABLE. 41*
places of the world, coaid not have the same sin-’
gular bodies before them, but also because they-
do-none of them continue immutably the same;
all corporeal things being more or less in perpe­
tual motion and mutation; whereas, that of which
any geometrical theorem is verified and demon­
strated, must be immutably and unalterably the:
Same. The triangles and circles, spheres and-
cubes, of Euclid, Archimedes, Pappus, Apollo­
nius, and all other ancient and modern geometri-'
cians, in all the distant places and times of the
world, were both indivisibly one and the same,
and also perfectly immutable and incorruptible,
the science of geometry being such. For which
cause it is affirmed also of these mathematical
things, by the forementioned Aristotle, ’
that they are no where as in a place, as ms!
all singular bodies are/Aroirov &tealrovrd- to“*” oper,l
rrovajiarotc orepeotg rote M
oSty/iarucotciroirjaai, 6fxivyap
Tow
ogrwvK
a(?hcaarov tStoc*Sibywpiarar6
w
<
p
*ri SeMaSifr
fiaruca,ovnov. It is absurd to make mathematical
things to be in a place, as solid bodies are; for
place belongeth only to singulars, which are there­
fore separable•from one another by place; but
mathematical things are not any where.—Because
they being universal and abstract, are only in
minds: nevertheless, for the same reason are they
also every where, they, being in every mind that-
apprehends them. Lastly, these intelligible es­
sences and ideas ofthings are called also by Philo,*
ayayiccuoTanv.ovalai, the most necessary essences;--,
as being not only eternal, but having likewise ne->
cessary existence belonging to them : for though
there be no-absolute necessity, that there should
•* Legis Allogor. lib. i. p, 68. oper.
4 1 4 ALb MINDS
be matter or body, yet is there an absolute neces-’
sity that there should be truth.
If therefore there be eternal intelligibles or
ideas, and eternal truths, and necessary existence
do belong to them; then must there be an eternal
mind necessarily existing, since these truths and:
intelligible essences of things cannot possibly be
any where bnt in a mind. For by the essences of
things, when they are said to be eternal, must not-
be meant their very substances, as if every thing
were in itself eternal and uncreated ; or that God
in creation, did only, as a modern writer abusive­
ly expresseth it, “ sartoris instar, vestire essentias
rerum nova existentia,” clothe the antecedent es-
sencesofthings with a newgarment ofexistencej—
butonly theiressecognitum, their possibleandintel-
ligible natures,—as they were objects of infinite
power and understanding before they were made.:
There must be a mind senior to the world, and alt
sensible things, and such as at once comprehends
in it the idea of all intelligibles, their necessary
scheses and relations to one another, and all their
immutable truths; a mind, which doth not Art plv
voetv, 6ri & ov voftv (as Aristotle* writeth of it),
sometimes understand, and sometimes not un­
derstand, as if it were sometimes awake, and
sometimes asleep, or like an eye, sometimes open,
and sometimes shut; but oU i ivtyytta, such a
mind as is essentially act and energy, and hath
no defect in it. And this, as we have already de>:
dared, can be no other than the mind of an om-'
nipotent and infinitely perfect being, comprehend-:
ing itself, and the extent of its own power, or how-
far itself is communicable, that is, all the possibi
h Vide Metaphys. lib. xw. cap. ix. p.483.
PARTAKE OP ONE. 41ft
lities of things, that nay he made by it, and their
respective truths; tnind and knowledge, in the
very nature of it, supposing the actual existence
ofan omnipotent or infinitely powerful being, as
its vomiv, or intelligible;—it being nothing but the
comprehension of the extent of infinite or Divine
power, and the measure of the same.
And from hence it is evident also, that there
ean be but one only original mind, or no more
than one understanding being self-existent; all
other minds whatsoever partaking of one original
mind ; and being, as it were, stamped with the
impression or signature of one and the same seat.
From whence it coroeth to pass, that all minds, in
the several places and ages of the world, have
ideas or notions of things exactly alike, and truths
indivisibly the Same. Truths are not multiplied
by the diversity of minds that apprehend them ;
because they are all butectypal participations of
one and the same original or archetypal mind and
truth. As the same face may be reflected in se­
veral glasses; and the image of the same sun may
be iq a thousand eyes at once beholding it; and
one and the same voice may be in a thousand ears
listening to itt so when innumerable created minds
have the same ideas of things, and understand the
same truths, it is but one and the same eternal
light, that is reflected in them all (“ that light
which enlighteneth every man that cometh into the
world”) ; or the same voice of that one everlasting
Word, that is never silent, re-echoed by them.
Thus was it concluded by Themistius, that one
man by teaching, could not possibly beget in the
mind of another the very same notions, concep­
tions, and knowledges, which himself had in his
416 ALL MINDS
own A
)ind, u fit)rotirdv nv t
o
' voij/ua'rov &SaaKOvroc xai
rov /uavOavoproci were not the minds both of the
teacher aiid of the learner, as it were, printed and
stamped' alike.—As also that men could not pos­
sibly so confer together as they do, presently ap­
prehending one another’s meaning, and raising up
the very same senses in their minds, and that mere­
ly by occasion of words and sounds, « /nine nvEtc
Naveov iravreeeKoiiwvov/itv, were there not some one
mind which all men did partake of.—As for that
anti-monarchical opinion of many understanding
beings; or minds, self-originated, and indepen­
dent (none of which therefore could be omnipo­
tent), it is neither conceivable, how such should
all agree in the same truth's, there,being no com­
mon measure of truth betwixt them, no more than
any common rple of their wills; nor indeed how
they should have any knowledge of understand­
ing at all, properly so called, that being the com­
prehension of the possibilities of things, or of the
extent of infinite power: whereas, according to
this hypothesis, there is no infinite power at all,
the power of each of those many supposed prin­
ciples or deities being limited and finite, and
therefore indeed not creative of any thing neither,
since that, which could create one thing, could
create all, and consequently would have all der
pending upon it. We conclude therefore,.that
from the nature of mind and knowledge it is de­
monstrable, that there can be but one original and
self-existent mind, or understanding being, from
which all other minds were-derived. And now
have we, more copiously than we designed, con-,
futed the first atheistic argument; we having not
only asserted the idea of God, and fully answered
PARTAKE OF ONE. 417
and refelled all the atheistic pretences against the
same; bat also from this very idea of God, or a
perfect being, demonstrated his existence. We
shall dispatch the following atheistic objections
with more brevity.
We come, in the next place, to the Achilles of
the Atheists, their invincible argument against a
Divine creation and omnipotence; because, “ No­
thing could come from nothing.” It being con­
cluded from hence, that whatsoever substantially
or really is, was from all eternity of itself unmade
or uncreated by any deity. Or else thus; by
God is always understood a creator of some real
entity or other out of nothing; but it is an un­
doubted principle of reason and philosophy, an
undeniable common notion, that “ Nothing can be
made out of nothing,” and therefore there can be
no such creative power as this. And here we
shall perform these three things; first, we shall
shew, that, in some senses, this is indeed an un­
questionable truth, and common notion, that ‘‘No­
thing can come from nothing,” and what those
senses are. Secondly, we shall make it evident,
that in the sense of this atheistic objection, it is
absolutely false, that “ Nothing can come from no­
thing,”or be made outofnothing; and thata Divine
creation and omnipotence can be no way impugn­
ed from the forementioned principle rightly un­
derstood. Thirdly, and lastly, we shall prove,
that as from this principle or commbn notion,
“ Nothing out of nothing,” there can be no execu­
tion at all done against Theism, or a Divine crea-
v o l . h i . 2 E
4 1 8 IN WHAT SENSE TRUE,
tion; so from the very same, rightly understood,
the impossibility of all Atheism may be demon­
stratively proved, it bringing something out of
nothing in an impossible sense, as also the exist­
ence ofa God evinced.
We grant therefore, in the first place, that this
is in some sense an undoubted principle of rea­
son, or an undeniable common notion, that “ No­
thing can come from nothing.” For, first, it is un­
questionably true, that “Nothing, which once was
not, could ever of itself come into b e in g o r, that
“ Nothing could bring itself oat of nonexistence
into b e in g th a t “ Nothing can take beginning of
existence from its e lf o r , that “ Nothing can be
made or produced without an efficient cause.”
And from hence, as hath been already intimated,
• it is demonstratively certain, that every thing was
not made, but that there is something necessarily
self-existent, and which could not but be. For
had every thing been made, then must something
of necessity have beenrfnade out of nothing by it­
self; which is impossible.
Again; As nothing, which was not, could ever
of itself come into being, or be made, without an
efficient causey so is it certain likewise, that no­
thingcan beefficiently caused or produced bythat,
which hath not in it at least equal (if not great­
er) perfection, as also sufficient power to produce
the same. We say, nothing which was nof, could
ever be brought into being by that which hath
not formally equal perfection in it; because no
thing can give what it hath not, and therefore so
much of the perfection or entity of the effect, as is
greater than that of the supposed cause, so much
thereof must needscome from nothing, or be made
4 19
NOTHING GUT OF NOTHING.
without a cause. Moreover, whatsoever hath
equal perfection to another thing, could not there­
fore cause or produce that other thing; because
it might either have no active power at all, as mat­
ter hath not, it being merely passive, or else no
sufficient active and productive power. As for
example, though it be not impossible, that mo­
tion, which once was not, should be produced;
yet is it impossible, that it should be ever pro­
duced Without a sufficient cause. Wherefore, if
there wereonce nomotion at allin the whole world,
nor no life, or self-active power, in any thing, but
all were dead; then is it certain, that there could
never possibly arise any motion or mutation in it
to all eternity. There being no sufficient cause
to produce the same; since nothing can produce
motion but that which hath life or self-activity in
i t ; and if motion, or any thing else, should begin
to be, without a sufficient cause, then must it
needs be caused by itself, or of itself come into
being: which is a thing impossible. Now no im­
perfect being whatsoever hath a sufficient emana-
tive power to create any other substance, or pro­
duce it out of nothing; the utmost that can be
done by imperfect beings, is only to produce new
accidents and modifications; as human souls can
produce new cogitations in themselves, and new
local motion in bodies. No imperfect being is
substantially emanative, or can produce another
substance out of nonexistence. Therefore, for
any substance to be brought into being by an im­
perfect substance, which hath n'ot sufficient ema­
native or creative power, is a thing plainly impost
sible; it being all one as to say, that a substance
might of itself come out of nothing into being.
2 e 2
420 NOTHING FROM NOTHING ; NOT
And thus is it granted, that no substance could
be created, or. brought out of uonexistence into
being, but by the sole efficiency of an absolutely
perfect being, which hath both greater perfection
(it eminently containing all things in it), and also
a sufficient emanative or creative power.
And now have we given an account of two
senses, wherein it is impossible for “ any thing to
come from nothingone, for a thing, which was
not, to bring itself into being, or to be made with­
out an efficient cause. Another, for a thiug to be
efficiently, caused by that, which hath not at least
equal perfection in it, or a sufficient emanative
or productive power. Both which senses of this
axiom respect the efficient cause ; and thus was
it frequently understood by divers ofthe ancients,
and particularly by Cicero.4 We shall now pro­
pound a third sense, wherein this axiom is also
verified, that “ Nothing can be made out of no­
thing,” respecting chiefly the material cause. For
since no imperfect natural being hath any creative
power, or can efficiently produce any new sub­
stance, or real entity, which was not before, into
being, but only act upon, pre-existing matter by
motion, and modify the same, and since matter,
as such, being merely passive, cannot cause any
thing that was not before, or will not result from
the composition or modification of i t ; it follows
undeniably, that in all natural generations and
productions out of pre-existent matter (without a
Divine creation), there can never be any new sub­
stance or real entity brought out of nonexistence
into being. And this was that very thing, and no
other, which the ancient physiologers meant,
• Vide lib. eju» de Fato.
AGAINST DIVINE CREATION. 421
when (as Aristotle, tells us) they so much insist*
ed upon,this principle, To ytyvo/itvov tK firj 6\nwv yi-
vtaOat aSvvarov, That it was impossible, that' any
real entity should be (naturally) made or gene*
rated out of nothing;—or, as it is also otherwise
expressed. b OilSIv ov$6 yiveoBai ovfte <p9tipta9ai t w v ov-
tw
v, that no real entity was either generated or
corrupted.—That is, that in natural generations,
corruptions, and alterations (where God is sup­
posed not miraculously to interpose), there is no
creation of any new substance, or real entity, out
of nothing, nor annihilation, or destruction of any
into nothing.
We are not ignorant, that the generality of mo­
dern writers have interpreted this doctrine of the
old physiologers in Aristotle into quite different
sense; as designing therein to take away all Di­
vine creation out of nothing (or nonexistence);
they making all things to have sprung out of mat­
ter (existing of itself from eternity) either without
a God, or else rather (because Parmenides and
Empedocles, and other assertors of this doctrine,
were undoubted Theists) with him. So that God-
could not create any new entity out of nothing,
•but only make things out of pre-existing unmade-
matter, as a carpenter doth a house, or a weaver
a piece of cloth. And thus it is commonly taken
for granted, that no Pagan philosopher ever went
so far, as to acknowledge a Divine creation of
any thing out of nothing, in the sense of Christian
tbeologers. And here we grant indeed, that, be-'
sides the Stoics, there have been some, other phi­
losophic Theists amongst the Pagans of this per-
1 Natural. Auscultat. lib. i. p. 451* tom. i. oper. vide etiam. cap.
viii. p. 457, et alias.
b Ibid. lib. i. cap. viii. p. 457.
4 2 2 NOTHING FROM NOTHING ; NOT
.suasion, that nothing was, nor could be made by
God, otherwise than out of something pre-exist­
ing ; as Plutarchus Cbmronensis for one, who in
a place already cited positively affirmeth/ rovfuv
tc6<rpov vttq Stou ysyovtvai, rjjv oixrlav koI SXi|V »!c
yovev, ov yew>juivyv, aXXa {nroKUftivnv oil n f Sq/buoypycp’
that though the world were indeed made by God,
yet the substauce or matter, out of which it was
made, was not made.—And then he subjoins this
very reason for it, ov yUp Ik tov pn 6vtoq ybt<ne, aW*
ovk tov firj koXwc, /*»)§’ ucavu>c e^ovroc, v c olic/ap kat iparlov
ical avSptavroc* because there can be no making of
any thing out of nothing, but only out of some­
thingpre-existing, not rightly ordered, or sufficient­
ly disposed; as in a bouse, garment, or statue.—
From which conceit of Plutarch’s, though he were
otherwise ingenious, it may well be supposed,
that the dull Bceotic air had too much effect upon
him. However, neither Plutarch nor the Stoics,
as we conceive, are for this to be accounted ab­
solute and downright Atheists, but only imper­
fect, mongrel, and spurious Theists. And there­
fore were Atheists never so much able to prove,
that there could be no creation out of nothing
pre-existing, which they cannot at all do; yet
would not this overthrow Theism in general, there
being a latitude therein, Nevertheless, it will
undeniably appear from what shall follow, that
tfiose ancient Italics and Pythagorics were so far
from intending here any such thing, to deduce all
things out of matter, either without or with a God,
as that they plainly designed the very contrary;
namely, to prove that no new real entity could
be made out of matter, and particularly thatsouls
'* Libro de Procreat. Animas ex Timaeo, p. 1014. tom. il oper.
AGAINST DIVINE CREATION. 423
could not be generated out of the same; which
therefore of necessity must, according to them,
have another Divine original, mid be made by
God, not out of matter, but out of nothing pre­
existing ; since it could not be Supposed by any,
that all souls existed of themselves from eternity
unmade. Aod indeed all those Pagan philoso­
phers, who asserted the incorporeity of souls,
muBt of necessity, in like manner, suppose them
not to have been made out of pre-existing matter,
but by God out of nothing. Plutarch being only
here to be excepted, by reason of a certain odd
hypothesis which he had, that was peculiarly bis
own, ofa third principle, besides God and matter*
a disorderly soul, or evil demon self-existent, who
therefore seems to have supposed all particular
human souls to have been made neither out of no­
thing, nor yet out of matter or body pre-existing,
but out ofa certain strange commixture of the sub­
stance of that evil soul and God blended together:
upon which account does he affirm souls to be, not
so much epyov as ftipoc few, not so much the work
of God, as a part of him.—And now let any one
judge, whether upon Plutarch’s account, there be
not yet further reason to complain of this Boeotic
air. Wherefore we conclude, that those old phy-
sk>logers in Aristotle, who insisted so much upon
that principle, that no real entity could bq made
or generated out of nothing, acted only as physi-
ologers therein, and not as theologers or meta­
physicians ; they not opposing a Divine creation
out of nothing preexisting, but only contending,
that no new entity could be made out of matter,
and that in natural generations and corruptions
there was no creation or annihilation of any thing.
424 ATOMOLOGY AND INCORPOREITY
But what the true scope and meaning of these
physiologers indeed was, will more plainly ap­
pear from that use or improvement which them­
selves made 'of this philosophic principle; and
this was twofold. For, first, it is certain, that
upon this foundation, they all of them endea­
voured to establish a peculiar kind of physiology,
and some atomology or other, either a honace-
omery, a similar or dissimilar atomology. For
Anaxagoras looking upon this maxim of the Italic
philosophers, that nothing could be physically
made out of nothing, or no real entity generated
or corrupted, as an undoubted principle of rea­
son ; and being also not able to conceive other­
wise of the forms and qualities of bodies, than
that they were real entities, distinct from the sub­
stance of matter, or its modifications; concluded,
that therefore in generations, corruptions, and al­
terations, these were not created out of nothing,
and annihilated into nothing, but that every thing
Was naturally made, k Trpouirap^ovrtuv »cal ewnrap^ov-
Ttov, out of pre-existent, and in-existent things;—:
and consequently that there were, in all things,
similar atoms and particles of every kind, though
by reason of their parvitude insensible to us, and
every thing seemed to be only that which was
most predominant and conspicuous in it. To wit,
that bqpe was made out of bony atoms, and flesh
out of fleshy, hot things out of hot atoms, and
cold things out of cold, black out of black, and
white out of white, &c. and nothing out of no­
thing, but every thing out of pre-existing similar
atoms. Thus was the sense of Anaxagoras plainly
declared by Aristotle,* that because contraries
Natural. Auscultat. lib. cap. y. p. 451. tom. i. oper.
OF SOULS, FROM THAT PRINCIPLE. 4*25
were made oat of one another, they were there*
fore before in-existent. For since every thing
mast of necessity be made, either oat of some­
thing, or out of nothing, and all physiologers
agree, that it is impossible for any thing to be
made out of nothing; it follows unavoidably, that
whatsoever is generated, must be generated out
of things pre-existing Rnd in-existing, though by
reason of their parvitude insensible to us; that
is, out of similar or homogeneal atoms, of which
there are some of all kinds in every thing; every
thing being mingled in every thing. Here there­
fore have we the Anaxagorean homceomery, or
similar atomology, built upon this principle of
reason, as its foundation, that “ Nothing can na­
turally be made or generated out of nothing.”
But the Italics or Pbythagorics, as well be­
fore Anaxagoras as after him (with whom also
hitherto concurred Leucippus, Democritus, and
Epicurus, those atheizers of the Italic physiology),
did with much better reason from the same fun­
damental principle conclude, that since these
forms and qualities of bodies were unquestiona­
bly generated and corrupted, they were therefore
no entities really distinct from the substance of
matter, or its modifications, but only different
dispositions or modifications of the insensible
parts thereof, causing in us different phantasms:
and this was the first original of the dissimilar
atomology. In matter or body therefore, as such,
there was nothing else to these philosophers con­
ceivable, but only magnitude of parts, figure,
site, and motion, or' rest; and these were those
few elements, out of which in-existing, and vari­
ously combined together, they supposed all those
I
4 2 6 ATOMOLOGY AND INCORPOREITY
forms and qualities ofbodies (commonly so called)
in generations to result, without the production of
any new real entity out of nothing. For as out of
a few letters in the alphabet of every language, dif­
ferently placed and combined, do result innume­
rable syllables, words, and sounds, signifying all
the several things in heaven and earth; some­
times from all the very same letters, neither more
nor fewer, but only transposed, are begotten very
different phantasms of sounds in us, but without
the production of any new real entity out of no­
thing: in the very same manner, from those fewer
letters in the alphabet of the corporeal nature,
variously combined, or from the different modifi­
cations of matter, in respect of magnitude of parts,
figure, site, and motion, are made up and spelled
out all those syllables of things, that are in the
whole world, without the production of any new
real entity. Many times the very same numerical
matter, neither more nor less, only differently
modified, causing very different phantasms in us,
which are therefore vulgarly supposed to be forms
and qualities in the things; as when the same
water is successively changed and transformed
into vapour, snow, hail, and ice. And to this
very purpose is the forementioned similitude ele­
gantly pursued by the Epicurean poet, in these
following verses;
tu il. p. 191. Quin etiam refert nostra In versibnsipsfs,
Unb. Cum quibus et qaaK sint online qroeqne locate.
[ver.1012.] Namque eadem coelnm, mare, terras, flumina, solemn
Significant, eadem frnges, arbusta, animantes.
Sic ipskin rebus itemjam material
CononrauS) motns, ordo, positura, figiurae,
Com permutantur, mutari res quoque debent.
For were those supposed forms and qualities^
OF SOULS, FROM THAT PRINCIPLE. 4 2 7
.produced in generations and alterations, entities
really distinct from the substance of matter, or
its different modifications, in respect of the mag­
nitude, figure, site, and motion of parts (there be­
ing no such things before in-existing, as Anaxa­
goras supposed); then would they materially
proceed from nothing, which is a thing impossi­
ble. And this dissimilar atomology of the an­
cient Italics, so far as to these material forms and
qualities, seems to be undoubtedly the only true
physiology; it being built upon this sure principle
pf reason, that because nothing can give what it
hath not, therefore no new substance of real entity
can be materially produced in the generations
and alterations of nature as such, but only mo­
difications. As when an architect builds a house,
pr a weaver makes a piece of cloth, there is only a
different modification of the pre-existent matter.
This is the first improvement which the an- •
dent Italic philosophers made of this principle,
that “ Nothing can be (physically and materially)
generated out of n o th in g o r that “ No real entity
is naturally generated or c o rru p te d th a t there­
fore the forms and qualities of bodies were no
real entities, but only different modifications. But
besides this, there was also another thing, which
these philosophers principally aimed at herein,
as a corollary deducible from the same principle
concerning souls; that since the souls of ani­
mals, especially human, are unquestionably en­
tities really distinct from matter, and all its mo­
difications (no magnitudes, figures, sites, and
motions;, being ever able to beget cogitation or
consciousness, much less a power of understand­
ing eternal verities); that therefore these could not
428 GENERATION AND CORRUPTION.OF ANIMALS;
be generated out of matter, nor corrupted into
the same. Because forms and qualities are con­
tinually generated and corrupted, made out of
nothing, and reduced to nothing again ; therefore
are they no entities really distinct from matter,
and its different modifications: but because souls,
at least human, are unquestionably entities really
distinct from matter, and all its modifications ;
therefore can fbey not possibly be generated out
of matter, nor corrupted into the same. For
if human souls were generated out of matter,
then must some real entity be materially produced
of nothing, there being nothing of life and co­
gitation in matter; which is a thing absolutely
impossible. Wherefore, these philosophers con­
cluded concerning souls, that being not generated
out of matter, they were insinuated or introduced
into bodies in generations. And this was always
a great controversy betwixt Theists and Atheists
concerning the human soul, as Lucretius express-
eth it;*
Nata sit, an contra nascentibns insinnetur,
Whether it were.made or generated out of matter
(that is, indeed, out of nothing), or else were Ovpa-
. Otv, from without,—insinuated into bodies in gene­
rations? Which latter opinion of theirs supposes
souls as well to have existed before the genera­
tions of all animals, as to exist after their deaths
and corruptions; there being-properly nothing of
them •generated, but only their union with those
particular bodies. So that the generations, and
corruptions, or deaths of animals, according to
this hypothesis, are nothing but an anagramma-
tical transposition of things in the universe, pre
Lib. i. ver. 114.
ANAGRAMMATICAL TRANSPOSITION. 429
and post-existent souls being sometimes united
to one body, and sometimes to another. But it
doth not therefore follow, because these ancient
philosophers held souls to be thus ingenerable,
and to have pre-existed before the generation of
animals, that therefore they supposed all souls to
have existed of themselves from eternity unmade:
this being a thing which was never asserted any
more by Theist than Atheist; since even those phi­
losophic Theists, who maintained ceternitatem ani-
morum, the eternity of human minds and souls,—
together with the worlds, did notwithstanding as­
sert their essential dependence upon the Deity,
like that of the lights upon the sun; as if they
were a kind of eternal effulgency, emanation, or
eradiation, from an eternal sun. Even Prod us*
himself, that great champion for the eternity of
the world and souls in this very case, when he
writes against Plutarch’s, self-existent evil soul,
expressly declaring, that v i v a y t v n u a «rr» tow
Osov, there is no self-existent soul; but every soul
whatsoever is the work, effect, and production, of
God.—Wherefore, when they affirmed souls to
be ingenerable, their meaning was no more than
this, that they were not mere accidental things, as
forms and qualities are, nor any more generated
out of matter, than matter itself is generated out
of somethiug else; upon which account, as Aris­
totle1
’informs ns, souls were called also by them,
apyal, principles,—as well 'as matter, they being
botb of them substances in the universe alike ori­
ginal; that is, neither of them made out of the
other. But they did not suppose them to be ayt-
1 Comment, in Timaeum Platon, lib. ii. p. 116.
b Vide lib. i. de Aniina. cap. ii. p. 5. tom. ii. oper.
430 GENERATION AND CORRUPTION OF ANIMALS;
*rrouc, ingenerate or unmade1
—in the other Sense,
as if they had been self-originated, and independ­
ent, as Plutarch's second and third principles, his
evil soul, and matter, were by him imagined to
be; but so doubtless, as that if the world had
had any beginning, they should then have been
all created together with it out of nothing pre-ex­
isting. But as for the perpetual creation of new
souls, in the successive generations of animals,
this indeed is a thing which these philosophers
were extremely abhorrent from, as thinking it in.
congruous, that souls, which are in order of na
tore senior to bodies, should be in order of time
juniors to them; as also not reasonable, that Di­
vine creation (as it were prostituted) should with­
out end perpetually attend and wait upon natural
generations, and be intermingled with them.
But as for this pre-existence of souls, we have
already declared our own sense concerning it, in
the first chapter. Though we cannot deny, but
that, besides Origen," several others of the an­
cient lathers before the fifth council, seem either
to have espoused it, or at least to have had a fa­
vour and kindness for it; insomuch that St. Au­
gustineb himself is sometimes staggering in this
point, and thinks it to be a great secret, whether
men’s souls existed before their generations or
no ; and somewhere concludes it to be a matter
of indifferency, wherein every one may have his
liberty of opening either way without offence.
Wherefore, all that can be certainly affirmed in
this case is, that human souls could not possibly
* Vide Petr. Dan. Hnetinm in Origenianis, lib. ii. Qusest. vi. §. 4.
p. 93. et §. 10. p. 97.
b Vide Hep* Noris. Vindie. Augnstian. cap. ir. p. 101.
AKAORAMMATICAL THANSP08ITION. 431
be generated out of matter, but were some time
or other created by God Almighty out of nothing
pre-existing, either in generations or before them.
Lastly, as for brute animals, we must confess,
that if they be not mere machines or automata, as
some seem inclinable to believe, but conscious
and thinking beings; then from the same princi­
ple of reason it will likewise follow, that their
souls cannot be generated out of matter neither,
and therefore must be deriyed from the fountain
of all life, and created out of nothing by him;
who since he can as easily annihilate as create, and
does all for the best, no man need at all to trouble
bimself about their permanency or immortality.
And now have we given a full and particular
account of all the several senses wherein this
axiom must be acknowledged to be undeniably
true, that “ Nothing can possibly be made out of
nothing,” or “ come from nothing;” namely, these
three. First, that “ Nothing, which was not, could
ever bring itself into being, or efficiently pro­
duce its e lfo r, that “ Nothing can possibly be
made without an efficient cause.” Secondly, that
“ Nothing, which was not, could be produced, or
brought into being, by any other efficient cause,
than such as hath at least equal perfection in it,
and a sufficient active or productive power.” For
if any thing were made by that, which hath not
equal perfection, then must so much of the effect,
as transcendeth the cause, be indeed made with­
out a cause (since nothing can give what it hath
not), or be caused byitself, or by nothing. Again,
to suppose a thing to be produced by that which
hath no sufficient productive power, is really to
suppose it also to be produced from itself with-
432 NOTHING FROM NOTHING, CAUSALLY.
out a cause, or from nothing. Where it is ac­
knowledged by us, that no natural, imperfect
created being can create, or emanatively produce
a new substance, which was not before, and give
it its whole being. Hitherto is the axiom verified
in respect of the efficient cause. But in the
third place, it is also true in respect of the mate­
rial likewise. Not that “ nothing could possibly
be ever made” by any power whatsoever, but
only out of pre-existent matter; and consequent­
ly, that matter itself could be.never, made, but
was self-existent. For the falsity of this is suffi­
ciently evident from what hath been already de­
clared concerning human souls, their being un­
doubtedly substances incorporeal,which therefore
could never be generated out of matter; and it will
be further manifested afterwards. But the third
and last sense is this; that “ Nothing, which is
materially made out of things pre-existing (as some
are), can have any other real entity,” than what
was either before contained in or resulteth from
the things themselves so modified. Or, that there
can be no new entities,or substances naturally
generated out of matter; and therefore that all na­
tural generations are really nothing else but mix­
tures, or new modifications of things pre-existing.
These, I say, are all the senses wherein it is
impossible, that any thing should be made out
of nothing, or come from nothing; and they
may be all reduced to this one general sense*
that “ Nothing can be made out of nothing
causally;” or, that “ Nothing cannot cause any
thing, either efficiently or materially.” Which as
it is undeniably true, so is it so far from making
any thing against a Divine creation, or the exist-
HOW NOTHING OUT OF NOTHING FALSE. ^3?
ea£e«f a God, that the same may he demoostra-
tively proved, and evinced from it, as shall be
shewed afterward.
But there is another sense, wherein things dm?
be said to be made «£ovkovrwv, or out of nothing,
r—
when those words are .not taken causally, but
only so as to signify the terminus a quo, or term
from which—they are made, to wit, an antecedent
nonexistence. And then the meaning of this pror
position, that “ Nothing can possibly be made
.out of nothing,” will be this; that nothing, which
once was not, could by any power whatsoever h$
afterwards brought into being. And this is thf
sense insisted on in this second atheistic argpr
mentation, framed according to the principles of
the Democritic or Epicurean Atheism; that no
real ,entity, which once was not, could by any
power whatsoever be made, or brought out of
nonexistence into being; and consequently, that
no creative power out of nothing pan possibly
belong to any thing, though supposed uever so
perfect.
Iu answer wbereunto, we shall perforin these
two things; first, we shall make it appeaiy thsf
“ Nothing out of pptbing,” taken in this sepse de­
clared, is so far from being a common notion, that
it is pot at all true. And secondly, we shall
prove, thpt if it were true, yet would it,of the troy
make mpre against Atheism, than it does,agajast
Theism, and therefore ought by po means to he -
used by Atheists, as an argument against a
ity. First, therefore, it is unquestionably eertabv
that this cannot be universally true, that nothipg,
which opce was not, could possibly be made or
brought out of nonexistence into being; becaiisf
VOL. III. 2 F
434 HOW NOTHING O tJt
if it were true, then could there be no such thing
as making or causing at all '; no action nor mo^
tion, and consequently no generation nor muta­
tion in the corporeal universe, but the Whole world
would belike a stiffimmoveable adamantine rock;
and this would doubtless be a better argument
against motion than any of-Zeno's was. But we
have all experience within ourselves of a power
of producing new cogitations in our own minds,
new -intellectual and moral habits, -as also new
local motion in our bodies, or at least new deter­
minations thereof, and of causing thereby new
modifications in bodies without us. And there­
fore are the Atheists forced to restrain the sense of
this proposition to substantial things only, that
though there may be new accidents and modifica­
tions produced out of nothing, yet there can be no
new substances made; however they be not able
in the. mean time to give any reason, why one of
those should be in itselfmore impossible than the
other, or why no substance should.be makeable.
But that some are so staggered with the seeming
plausibility of this argument, is chiefly upon these
following accounts. First, by reason of the con­
fusion of their own conceptions; for, because it
is (certain, that “ nothing can possibly be made
out of nothing,” in one sense, to wit,‘causally;
they not distinguishing senses, nor being aware
of the equivocation, that is, in this owe ovtwv, out
of nothing,—inadvertently £ive their ’assent to
those words in a wrong sense; that no substance
(as matter) could possibly be brought out of non­
existence into being. Secondly,-byjeason of their
unskilful arguing from artificial things; when,
because nothing can be artificially made but out
o r NOTHING FALSE. 435
of pre-existing matter, as a house or garment, and
the like (there being nothing done in the produc­
tion of these things, but only a new modification
of what before substantially was), they over hastily
conclude, that no power whatsoever could pro­
duce any thing otherwise than out of pre-exist­
ing matter, and that matter itself therefore could
not possibly be made. In which conceit they are
again further confirmed from hence, because the
old physiologers maintained the same thing con­
cerning natural generations likewise, that nothing
was in them produced o
v
kovrwv, out ofnothing—
neither: or that there was no new substance or
entity made in them really distinct from the pre­
existing matter and its modifications; they unwa­
rily extending this beyond the bounds of physics
into metaphysics, and unduly measuring, or limit­
ing infinite power accordingly. Lastly, because
it is undeniably certain concerning ourselves, and
all imperfect created beings, that none of these
cati create any new substance which was not be­
fore ; men are therefore apt to measure all things
by their own scantling, and to suppose it univer­
sally impossible, according to human reason, for
any power whatsoever thus to create; whence it
follows, that theology must in this be acknow­
ledged to be contradictious to the principles oifna­
tural light and understanding. But since it is cer­
tain, that imperfect created beings can themselves
produce some things out of nothing pre-existing;
as new cogitations, and new local motion, new
modifications and transformations ofthings corpo­
real; it is very reasonable io think, that an abso-
lutely-perfect being could do something more,
that is, create new substances out of nothing, or
2 f 2
ONLY ONE
430
give them their whole being. And it may well
.be thought to be as easy for God, or an omnipo­
tent being, to make a whole world, matter and
•all, «£ ow
e ovrwv, out of nothing—as it is for ns to
create a thought, or to move a finger, .or for the
aim to send out rays, or a candle light; or lastly,
for any opaque body to produce the image of it­
self in glasses or water, or to project a shadow;
all these imperfect things being but the energies,
■rays, images, or shadows, of the Deity. For a
substance, which once was not, to be made by
God, or a being infinitely perfect, this is not for
it to be made out of nothing, in the impossible
sense, it coming from him who is all. Nor can
it be said to be impossible, for any thing whatso­
ever to be made by that, which hath not only in­
finitely greater perfection, but also a sufficient ac­
tive power to produce the same, it being substan­
tially emanative. It is true, indeed, that infinite
power itself cannot do things in their own nature
impossible; and this is therefore the only thing
{Which the Atheists have to prove, that it is in it­
selfabsolutely impossible, for a substance (though
not for an accident or modification) to be pro­
duced out of nonexistence into being. Whereas
nothing is in itselfabsolutely impossible but what
implies a contradiction; and though it be contra­
dictious for a thing to be, and not be, at the same
itiroe; yet is there no manner of contradiction at
all in this, for any imperfect contingent being,
ythich before was not, afterwards to be. Where­
fore, this being in itself no way impossible, it
must be acknowledged to be a due object of infi­
nite power, or that which may be done by a per­
fect omnipotent being existing.
SKLF-BXISYBNT. m
If nothing could be made eg o
Jk ivruv, out of
nothing,—in this latter sense, that is, nothing
which before was not, afterwards brought into1
being; then most the reason hereof be, beeanse
no substance or real entity can be caused by any'
other substance, so as to receive and derive its*
whole being from it: and consequently whatso­
ever substance or realentity is in the whole world,*
was not only from eternity without beginning, but*
also existed-of itselfnecessarily and independent­
ly upon any thing else. But, first, it hath beeifr
already declared, that it is repugnant to the hu-*
man faculties, that any temporary successive be*
ing whatsoever, or that time itself, should be eter­
nal without beginning because upon that hypo*
thesis there would always have been an seeEaoU
r.
infinity of time past; and if so, then net.**
would there of necessity have been time past,
which was never present. Bot, to make every
substantial thing, not only to have existed front'
eternity without beginning (which hath yet been
done by some mistaken Tbeists), but also to have
existed independently upon any thing else as its*
cause, or original, and therefore of itself necessa­
rily ; this, I say, is itself to make “ something to-
come from ,nothing in the impossible Sense,” to
wit, causally. For as when some Atheists affirm,'
that “ Nothing could ever move itself,” and yet
suppose, notwithstanding, that there bath been
motion from all eternity, they plainly make this*
motion (however supposed to be eternal) to come*
from nothing in the impossible sense: so, in like
manner, they, who suppose things to have existed'
of themselves necessarily, which have no self-ex*,
istence, and necessary existence contained in their
438 SOULS SUBSTANTIAL, •
nature (as nothing but a perfect being hath), do
.make this necessary existence of such things to
have come from nothing. Wherefore though it
be certain, that something did exist of itself ne­
cessarily from all eternity, namely, a perfect be~
ing (whose, necessary existence is therefore not
from nothing, because essentially included in its
own nature), yet is it certain, likewise, that there
can he but one such thing; necessity of existence
being natural andessential to no more. But as for
all ether things, which are in their own nature
contingently possible to be or not to be, reason
pronounces of them, that they could not 'exist of
themselves necessarily, but were eaused by some­
thing else; and. derived their original froth that
ope absolutely-perfect, and necessarily-existent
being. So that Plato’s*distinction mast needs be
here allowed of betwixt two kinds of beings, r*
1fdv ailov, yh&nv Si ovtc t\ov, that which always is,
apd was never made, nor bad beginning;—and to
yiyvo/itvev pev, ov Be ovBiirore, that which was made,
or had beginning, but never truly is;—
-it having
not a permanent, but successive or flowing dura­
tion. Accordingly whereunto, Aristotle also af-
firpieth,,, That there is no necessity all things
should be unmade or self-originated ; but some
things might be made from others unmade.
. Lastly, We shall disprove the truth, of this as­
sertion, that whatsoever substantially and realjy
is, did exist of itself from all eternity unmade,
after this manner. Because it would follow from
thence, that not only matter, and unqualified
ajtqms (as the Democritic Atheists suppose), but
mVide Phaedon. p. 384,385. et de Repub. lib. vi. p. 479.
! Vide lib. ii. de Coelo. cap. ii. p. 674. turn. i. opcr.
439
f£ O
VK OVTMV.
also souls, especially human, mast needs have
existed of themselves too, from eternity unmade.
For as no man can be so sottish, as to conceive
himself, or that which thinketh in him, bis own
soul or mind, and personality to be no real entity,
whilst every clod of earth is sach; so is it cer­
tain, that mind can never be generated out ofdead
and senseless matter or body, nor result, as a
modification thereof, out of magnitudes, figures,
sites, and motions, and therefore must needs b<j a
thing really distinct from it, or substance incor­
poreal ; the Democritic . Atheists being here
grossly deceived in thinking, that because forms
and qualities of bodies may be resolved into these
forementioned elements of matter, and conse­
quently concluded to be no entities really dis­
tinct from the substance thereof, but only differ­
ent modifications of the same, that therefore the
like may be said of souls too, the rational not ex­
cepted. Wherefore, if no substance or real en­
tity could ever be brought out of nonexistence
into being, or be caused by any thing else, then
must all human souls and personalities, as well as
matter and atoms, have existed not only front
eternity, without beginning, but also of them­
selves independently upon any other thing. But
the Atheists are so abhorrent from this eternity
of human souls, that they will by no means admit
of their post-existence or immortality ; they ap­
prehending that if any living understanding being
should prove immortal, they could not sufficient­
ly secure themselves against the possibility and
danger of a God. Some Theists, indeed, have as­
serted eetemitatem animorum, not only the pre-ex­
istence, but also the eternity of all human minds,
446 . SOULS SUBSTANTIAL,
together with the wbrld, as Cicero more than once
doth; who also, in his book of Divination,* thus
further declares himself concerning it: “ Animas,
4uisl vixit ab omni aeternitate, versatusque est
cuminnumerabilibns animis, omnia, quaeinupatura
reram sunt, v i d e t O u r mind, because it hath ex­
isted from all eternity, and conversed wijm innu­
merable minds, seeth all things that are in na­
ture:—and again, “ Cum animi hominum semper
fuerint futurique si nt Si nc e the minds of men
ever were, and ever will be.—Nevertheless none of
these evermaintained, that human minds, and their
distinct personalities, were thus all, ofthemselves,
independently upon any thing as their cause or
original. And, as it was before demonstrated
from the nature of knowledge and understanding
(it Comprehending the possibilities of all things,
and therefore supposing infinite power), that there
can be but one mind, or understanding being,
self-existent, all minds partaking ofthat one mind;
so is it hardly possible for any one in good earn­
est to entertain such a conceit as this, that his own
particular soul, mind, and personality, and con­
sequently all human souls, though subject to such
laws of fate as now they are, did not only pre­
exist before their respective bodies, and were from
eternity without beginning, but also existed of
themselves necessarily and independently upon
any thing else. Wherefore, ifhuman souls, minds,
and personalities, being unquestionably substan­
tial things and really distinct from matter (which
therefore could not possibly be generated out of
it), did not all exist from eternity of themselves,
necessarily and independently, it is certain, that
* Lib. i. cap. li. p. 3174. tom. ix. oper.
c£ owe Svnn>. 441
they must derive theirwhole being from the Deity,
or bie created oti/c ovrwv, out of nothing,—or
nonexistence by it. And if human souls were un­
questionably thus created, it cannot reasonably
be doubted, but that matter or body itself was
created likewise out of nothing, or caused by the
D eity: forasmuch as that, which created one
thing out of nothing, could create every thing;
and there is really more of substance, that is, a
higher degree of entity, in minds and souls, con­
scious self-movingand understanding beings, than
in senseless matter, or unactive bulk.
But forasmuch as this doctrine of a Divine crea­
tion out of nothing pre-existing lies under no small
prejudice upon this account, because it is so ge­
nerally taken for granted, that none of the Pagan
Theists, who are supposed to have kept close to
the simple light of nature, did ever acknowledge
in the Deity any such creative power out of no­
thing, or that God was the cause of any substance;
we must of necessity here declare this, how com­
mon soever it be, to be a great mistake. For be­
sides that Plato, in his Sophist,* having defined
the efficient or effective power in general after this
manner, iroitrruci}v iraaav tipapiv aval Svva/uiv, tjnc av
alrta ylyviyrai role fiy irporepov ou<nv vorepov y'lyvtadai, to
be a power or casuality, whereby that, which was
not before, was afterwards made to be;—and then
dividing this efficiency into Divine and human, he
immediately subjoins concerning the former, Z
Si} iravra, &C. juw
vaX
A
ovnvoc »
}Osov Stf/uovpyovvros fqcro-
fitv uonpov ylyveoflat, irportpov owe ovra ; Shall we not
then say, that all animals, and other things, were
by the Divine efficiency alone, after they had not
* Pag. 168. oper. edit. Ficini.
442 CREATION OUT OF NOTHING PRE-EXISTING,
been made to be?—Where thus much at least is
certain, that Plato did not at all question the pos­
sibility of a thing’s being made out'of nothing in
this sense; that is, brought into being, after it had
not been, by a Divine power. But because it may
be thought that he meant this no further than of
the first compages of animals, in which notwith­
standing every thing, souls, and all, might be made
out of pre-existing matter; we shall here farther
add, what in his Timaeus* he declaretb concerning
t))6Soul, t»
}vifn>xt}vov^«!{ vvv varipav ivtxupovptv Xtyuv,
ovrwg ifittyavTiaroro Jtai o Otog vturipav, ov yap av ap£aadcu
Trpeofivrepov m vtantpov ttaotv, o St kcu •ytvttm kcu apery
rportpav k m npcaf5vripav \pvyjiv aa>parog, wg Shttotcv km
ap£ovaav ap^opivov ffvmrrqvaro' that God did not
make it after body, and junior to i t ; since it was
not fit that the elder should be ruled or governed
by the younger; but he made soul before body,
older than it, and superior to it, as well in respect
of time as dignity.—Which notion is further pur­
sued by him in his tenth de Legibus:b’Opflwc apa
KM Kvpuog aXififarara rt Kal rtAtalrara tipyKOTtg av v/ttv,
ptv wporipav ytyovtvai outparog pplv’ atapa St Stwrt-
pov re Kal varepov rf/v^nt dpxpv<nig apyopevov Kara (jfiaiv.
Wherefore it was rightly, properly, and most truly
affirmed by us, that soul was made first, as that
which ruleth; but body afterward, as that which
is to be ruled and governed thereby.—From
whence also he draws this consectary, «c « ij\pvyn
tyavui} irparfivripa oulparog oZaa, kcu ra \pvyjlQ tuv tov ati-
parog terocro irpta^vrepa' rpoxoi kcu iffh) km fimtXnaug Kal
Xoyiapol kcu So£acaXifOug, eTTiptXtiai re kcu pviipai, rrponpa
priKovg atopartov kcu vXiiTOvg Kal {3a9ovg, iti} yeyovora av,
ilm p K
al ouiparog" that if the soul be older than
*Pag. 638. open ■
>Pag, 60S.
ACKNOWLEDGED BY PHILOSOPHERS. 443
the body, then must the things of the soul also.be
older than those of the body; and therefore cogi­
tation, and the several species of it, must be, in
order of nature, not only before local motion, but
also, before longitude, latitude, and profundity of
bodies.—From whence it is plain, that Plato’s
first ytvnnc, or production of souls by God, could
not be out of any pre-existing body or matter,
they being affirmed by him to be before,,not. only
this and that particular body, but all body what­
soever, before longitude, latitude, and profundity.
'Which may be further confirmed from hence, be­
cause in his SophistV.be plainly condemns that
opinion of some, r t j v i p v y y v avrqv o tiif ta ri Kacripr&v,
that the soul itself had something of body in i t ;—
and he often elsewhere declares the soul to be in­
corporeal. It is certain also, that not only Plato,
but all those other Pagan philosophers too, who
asserted the incorporeity and immortality of hu­
man souls, could not possibly conceive souls to
have been made out of pre-existent matter, but
either it- ow
e ovraw, out of nothing,—they being not
eternal, but having a newness.of being (as Plato
himself seemed to suppose); or else, if they were
conceived to be eternal by them (which was the
opinion of most of the junior Platouists, yet), to
have derived their whole substance from theDeity,
and always to depend upon it; as eternal light
would depend upon an eternal sun. Plutarch and
his followers being only here to be excepted, who
would neither have souls made out of nothing by
God, nor yet out of corporeal matter pre-existing
(they being themselves incorporeal); but out of a
strange commixture of the substance of God him-
*Pag. 170.
444 MATTER MOT TO ALL
self with the substance of a certain disorderly
soul, self-existent and uncreated; of which we
have spoken already. But that the genuine Pla-
tonists did universallysuppose, that one substance
might be caused by another, and derive its whole
being from it, is undeniably evident from hence,
because their second Divine hypostasis or sub*
stance (though eternal) was according to them
derived from, or begotten by, their first, and their
third hypostasis or substance produced both from
the first and second; and other inferior orbs of
being, as the particular souls of demons and men,
from that whole trinity of Divine hypostases joint­
ly concurring. And as for matter or body itself,
it is certain also, that Proclus and other Plato-
nists expressly denied it to have been a-yfvwirw,
unmade or self-existent,—
-and conceived it to have
derived its whole being from the Deity.; who ac­
cordingly is styled by Proclus,* appvrot dirla ris
w
X
ijc, the ineffable Cause ofmatter.—In like man­
ner have we already shewed, that, according to
the Chaldee oracles, matter itself was also,caused,
or produced by the Deity, to which purpose is
this verse cited by Proclus,b'Ev&v aSqv dpuaiea. yt-
vtatc woXwouclXov vXijg. Front whence (that is, from,
the Deity) abundantly springs forth the genera­
tion of the multiform matter.—The metre here re­
quiring, that it should be read aSvv, and not £p$*v,
as it is in P-roclus’s copy. Moreover, Jambli-
ehus hath recorded in his Mysteries,* that Hermes,,
and the old Egyptian theologers likewise, held
matter not to be ayiwvrw, that is, self-existent,
*Comment, in Timaeum Platon, lib. ii. p. IIS. kIbid. p. 118.
*DAMysteriis jEgyptior. sect. y. cap. xxiii. p. 138. sect. viii. cap. iii.
p 160.
44ft
VA0A>1S UNMADE,
unmade, of underived—from the Deity,
bat to have been caused by it. Whence i"P
b
<
^ l
does Prod us*cohcludeit probable, that &*"#***■
Plato was of the same persuasion also; Im
^ n
C
c
as likewise Orpheus before had been, he
deriving this, as is supposed, with other
things, from the Egyptians. It is true,
indeed, that many of these philosophers
asserted matter, souls, and the whole
world, to have been eternal without be- gj*
ginning, and consequently not created ’ °'
«S ovk ovtuv, in that stricter sense, that is, out of
au antecedent nonexistence in time. Notwith­
standing which, they did suppose them to have
received their whole being from the Deity, and to
have depended on it every jot as much, as if, hav­
ing once not been, they had afterward been made
by it. And that, which, gives to any substance
its whole being, though from eternity, so that it
never was not; the same upon supposition, that
it once had not been, could unquestionably have
produced it, <£ «w
c ovrw, out of nothing,—or an
antecedent nonexistence.
We have now sufficiently disproved the truth
of thatassertion, that “ Nothing could be made out
of nothing,”in the atheistic sense thereof; viz. that
“ Nothing, which before was not, could afterwards
possibly be made to b e t h o u g h this should not
be extended so far, as to accidental things, and
modifications, but restrained and confined only to
substantiate; ‘‘That nosubstancewhatsoevercould
have a newness of being, or be caused by any
othersubstance:” but.whatsoever substantial thing
any where is in the world, the same did exist of
eComment in Timsenm Platon, lib. ii.
446 THIS SPbHlOVS THltlSH
itself from eternity, and independently upon any
thing else; nothing bat different modifications
being made or produced. Which same assertion
has been also sometimes otherwise thus express­
ed ; “ Nothing can be made but out ofpre-existing
substance:” the meaning hereof being this, that
nothing can be made, but new accidental modifi­
cations of what before substantially was; no sub­
stance itself being makeable or producible by any
other substance, neither in time (so as -to have a
newness or beginning of being), nor yet from eter­
nity. Where the Atheists and some others taking
it for granted, that there is no other substance be­
sides body, or matter, do further limit and-restrain
the seuse ofthat proposition in this manner; “ No­
thing can be made but out ofpre-existing matter;”
that is, nothing can be made but out of corporeal
substance pre-existing. An idolum specus (if I
may use that language) which in all probability
had its first original chiefly from men’s measuring
the extent of all power by their own produc­
tion of artificial things. Because, forsooth, a car­
penter or architect cannot make a house, but out
of pre existing timber, bricks, and stones; nor a
tailor a garment, but out of pre-existing cloth;
nora cook, puddings or pies,butoutofpre-existing
materials or ingredients; that therefore no power
whatsoever, no, not that of God Almighty, can
extend any further, than to the new-modifying of
pre-existent matter, but not to the production or
causing of any substance. We shall in the next
place make it appear, that were this assertion true,
That no substance or real entity, which once was
not, could be caused or produced, yet would it
notwithstanding, ofthe two, moreimpugn Atheism
dF PLUTARCH AND OTHERS. - 4 4V
than Theism (it being possible for. falsehoods,
though not for truths, to disagree), forasmuch as
the Atheists do bring more out of nothing, or non*
existence, than the Theists do; and therefore
ought not to make this an objection against The*
ism. For though, according to the true and ge­
nuine theology, God, or a perfect being, be sup­
posed to be the only necessary self-existent thing,
and the cause of all other substance, and conse­
quently to have produced all imperfect things,
not only souls, but also matter itself, o
v
kovrcov,
out of nothing,—or an antecedent nonexistence;
yet is there, by reason of the weakness of human
understandings, a latitude in Theism. 'Wherefore
some there are, who though imposed upon by that
idolitm specus, or imprisoned in it, that “ nothing
can possibly be made, but out of pre-existing mat­
ter,” by the new modification thereof; do notwith­
standing devoutly worship a Deity, according to
their notion of it, a perfectly understanding being
unmade; though not the creator of matter, yet
the maker of the whole world out of it, and the
supreme governor of the same; they thus suppos­
ing two principles in the universe, an active and a
passive one, God and matter. Besides which, it
is not impossible for others to think, that though
matter or body be not the only substance, but hu­
man souls are incorporeal, yet the substance of
these souls was not created out of nothing, no
more than that ofbody, but they were made either
out of some pre-existing common soul (as their
' intelligible matter), or out of the substance of the
Deity, itself; or else existed of themselves from
eternity unmade: and yet nevertheless may these
acknowledge one supreme understanding being
44 8 ATHEISTS MORE OUT OF NOTHING, THEISTS;
self-existent also, though neither the creator of
natter, nor of souls, yet the supreme governor
and orderer of all. And it is certain, that Pitt*
tareb’8 god was no better than this; and yet was
that Pagan, notwithstanding, a devout religionist
in his kind, as well as a hearty moralist. .And such
a Theism or theology, as either of those foremen*
tioned (though not genuine and sincere, but im­
perfect and mongrel things), would perhaps be to
the Atheists little less troublesome and queasy
than the truth. Thus have weshewed, that this prin­
ciple, “ That nothing can come out of nothing,”
or be made, otherwise than out of pre-existing sub­
stance or matter, though it be indeed cootradicr
tious to the true and genuine theology, yet it if
not absolutely inconsistent with all manner of ro?
ligion; there being certain spurious or imperfect
forms of Theism built upon this foundation, Put
now, ,ou the contrary, we shall make it manifest,
that this,very principle, made use of by the Atho­
ists, is in truth and reality contradictious to all
manner of Atheism, and destructive of the earner
the Atheists universally generating and corrupt­
ing real entities, and substantial things, that ift
producing them out of pothjng,.or nonexistence
and reducing them to nothing again: forasmuch
as they make all things whatsoever, the bare sub­
stance of matter only excepted (which to these
is either.no determinate thing, pr else nothing hot
mere bulk, or resisting and divisible magnitude), to
come oat of nothing, and to go to nothing. Thus
does Aristotle,* in a place before cited, declare the
atheistic, sense:.Eipi yif nvw, 9* fapw ovStv4ybmtgp
«M
«U rtiv vpayparwv, aXX« r#vr« yiyvtvQw’ There are
^ ‘ DeCoelo, lib. iii.iop.i. g.d68.tom.i.?p«r.
THEIR ARGUMENT RETORTED. 4 4 9
certain men, who affirm, that nothing is unmade,
but all things generated or made.—Whose sense
is afterwards more distinctly thus proposed by
him, rofiivaWa yiyvtoOairt kmptw, tlvaiSfrrayuoeovStv'
tv Se n |uovov viropivuv, owrowr« iravra psraayitpari-
£to(ku nsfvKtv' that all other things are generated
and flow, and none of them firmly is (they being
perpetually educed out of nothing, and reduced to
nothing), but that there is only one thing which
remaineth; namely that, out of which all the
other are made, by the transformation thereof.—;
Which one thing (to wit, matter) as the same
Aristotle further adds, they affirmed to be the
only substance, and from eternity unmade; but
all other things whatsoever, being but w
a&
nkmt£ac
km Staffftrtic, passions, affections, and dispositions
thereof, ylyvtaOai km <
j>
6
e
lf>
£
<
r0
a
i aVetpafac, to be gene­
rated and corrupted infinitely ;—that is, to.be pro­
duced out of nothing, or nonexistence, and re­
duced again to nothing without end. And doubt­
less, this is the true meaning of that passage in
Plato’s tenth de Legibus,* not understood by the
Latin interpreters; where, being to represent the
atheistic hypothesis of the system of'the universe,
he discovereth their grand arcanum, and that,
which they accounted, aoQfSrarovairavrwv Xoytov, the
wisest and most mysterious ofall doctrines,—after
this manner; Xeyovai vowtiV
sq (i!$ irdvra tori ra irpay-
fiara yiyvoptva icat ytvoptva, km ytvyoopeva’ ra piv ipvati,
ra^r^vp, rd 8*Sid . Certain men affirm, that
all things are made, and have been made, and will
be made ; some by nature, and some by art, and
some by fortune or chance.—For unquestionably
here, Plato’s Xiyavoi jrowruxg oJciravra wr! ra irpdypara
» Pag. 666. oper.
VOL. I I I . 2 G
450 ATHEISTS MORE OUT OF NOTHING, THEISTS ;
yiyvofieva, certain men affirm, that alt things are
generated or made, &c.—is the very same with
Aristotle’s « « yap rivtc, 01 <pa<Tiv, ovSiv dyivviyrov tivai
tq>
v vpayfiarwvt aXXa iravra ylyvt&Bui, certain men af­
firm, that there is nothing unmade, but that all
things are made or generated.—And perhaps this
of Aristotle’s was taken out of that of Plato’ht
which yet nevertheless is so to be understood as
it is afterwards explained by Aristotle; all things
whatsoever, the bare substance of matter only ex*
cepted. Wherefore it is certain, that either there
is no real entity in the whole world, besides the
bare substance of matter; that is, besides divisible
and separable extension, or resisting magnitude;
and consequently that life and cogitation, sense
and consciousness, reason and understanding, aH
our own minds, and personalities, are no real en­
tities; or else, that there are, according to the
atheistic hypothesis, real entities produced out of
nothing, and reduced to nothing again. Whereas
Theists suppose all the greatest perfections in the
universe, as life and understanding, to have been
eternal and unmade in a perfect being, the Deity;
and neither brought out ofnothing or nonexistence;
nor reducible to nothing; only imperfect beings
to have been made out of nothing, or produced
out of nonexistence, by this one perfect being or
Deity : the Atheists, on the contrary, supposing
the lowest and most imperfect of all beings, mat­
ter, bulk, or divisible and resisting extension, to
be the only self-existent and- unmade thing, Con­
clude all the greatest perfections in the universe;
life, cogitation, and understanding, to be made otit
of nothing or nonexistence, as also to be reduced
to nothing again. Indeed the hylozoic Atheists,
THEIR ARGUMENT RETORTED. 451
being sensible somewhat of this inconvenience of
making all life and understanding out of nothing,
and that there must of necessity be some funda­
mental life and perception, which is not accidental
bnt substantial, and which Was never generated,
and cannot be Corrupted, have therefore attributed
a kind of life and perception to all matter,-as such-.
Notwithstanding which, even these also, fora&
much as they deny to matter animal sense, and
consciousness, suppose all animal life orsense, and
conscious understanding, to be generated and con-
rupted, produced out of nothing, and reduced tO
hbthing again. Neither can life, cogitation, and
understanding, be reckoned amongst the modes
of matter, that is, of magnitude, or divisible and
antitypous extension, since they may be con­
ceived without the same: whereas modes cannot
be conceived without their substance. Standing,
sitting, and walking, cannot be conceived without
a body, and that fitly organized too; and therefore
are they nothing but different modes Gf such a
body. When that human body, which before did
Stand, doth afterwards sit, or walk, no mart can
think, tbat here is the miraculous production of
any new real entity out of nothing; nor when the
same matter, which Was square or cubical, is made
spherical or cylindrical. Biit.when there is life
and understanding, which Wds not before, then is
there unquestionably a new real entity produced.
But the Democritic and Epicurean Atheists them­
selves, according to the tenor of-the atomic phy­
siology, acknowledge no other modes ofmatter or
body, bnt only more or less magnitude of parts,
figure, site, motion, or rest. And upon this very
account do they explode qualities, considered as
2 g 2
462 THE ABSOLUTE IMPOSSIBILITY OF ATHEISM ;
entities really distinct from these modes; because
in the generation and alteration of them, there
would be real entities made out of nothing, or
without a cause: whereupon they resolve these
qualities into mechanism and fancy. But life, co­
gitation, and understanding, are things which
have more real entity in them, and can no way be
solved by mechanism and fancy; wherefore un­
doubtedly they are no modes of matter or body,
but attributes of another kind of substance incor­
poreal. All cogitative beings, especially human
souls, and personalities, are unquestionably sub­
stantial things; and yet do the Atheists bring
jthese, and consequently themselves, out ofnothing
or nonexistence, and reduce them to nothing again.
The conclusion is; that these very Atheists, who
contend against Theists, that “ Nothing can be
madeoutofnothing,”do themselves,bring all things
put ofnothing or nonexistence, and perpetually re­
duce them to nothing again; according to whose
principles, as once there was no life nor under­
standing at all in the universe, so may there be
none again. They who deny a God, because there
can be no creative power belonging to any thing,
dp themselves notwithstanding attribute to matter
(though a mere passive, sluggish, and unactive
thing) a creative power of things substantial (as
human.souls and personalities) out of nothing.
And thus is thatformidableargument ofthe Athe>
ists,;that there can be no God, because nothing
can be made out of nothing, not only proved to be
false, but also retorted upon these Atheists them-
selves, they bringing all things besides senseless
and unqualified matter out of nothing.
.. We have now declared, first, in what sense this
PROM NOTHING OUT OF NOTHING. 453
proposition is unquestionably true,' that nothing
can be made out of nothing, or come from nothing,
viz. causally, that nothing which before was not,
could afterward be made without a cause, and a
sufficient cause. Or more particularly these three
Ways; first, that nothing which before was not;
could afterward be brought into being by itself, or
without an efficient cause. Secondly, that nothing
Which once was not, could be made or produced
efficiently by any thing, which had not at least
equal perfection in it, and a sufficient active or'
productive power; and consequently that no new
Substance can be made, but by a perfect being,
which only is substantially emanative. Thirdly
and lastly, that when things are made out of pre­
existing matter, as in artificial productions, and
natural generations, there can be no new real en­
tity produced, but only different modifications of
what before substantially was; the material cause,
as such, efficiently producing nothing. And thus
was this axiom understood by Cicero, that “ No­
thing could be made out ofnothing,” viz. causally,-
in bis book de Fato,1where he reprehendeth Epi­
curus for endeavouring to avoid fate, and to es­
tablish liberty of will by that absurd figment of
atoms declining uncertainly from the perpendicu­
lar. “ Nec cum haec ita sint, est causa, cur Epi­
curus fatum extimescat, et ab atomis petat pre­
sidium, easque de via deducat; et uno tempore
susdpiat res duas inenodabiles, unam, ut sine
causa fiat aliquid, ex quo existet, ut de nihilo
quippiam fiat; quod nec ipsi, nec cuiquam physico
placet.” Nor is there for all that any reason, why
Epicurus should be so much afraid of fate, and.
*Cap. ix. p. 3273. tom. ix. oper.
4 H THE AMOLVTE IMPQBSIPJWTY OF, ATHEISM ;
seek refuge in atoms, be supposing them, in their.
Infinite descents, to decline uncertainly from the,
perpendicular, and laying this as a foundation for
liberty of will; whereby he plunged himself at
once into two inextricable difficulties, the first
whereof was the supposing of, something to bp
made without a cause, or, which is all one, out of
nothing; a thing that will neither be allowed by
any pbysiologer, nor could Epicurus himself bo
pleased or satisfied therewith.—The reason where­
of is, because it was a fundamental principle of
tfie atomic philosophy, that “ Nothing (in this
sense)could bemadebut ofnothing.” Moreover, we
hate in the next place declared, in what other sense
this proposition, that" Nothing can be made out of
nothing,”is false, namely, when this out ofnothing,
is not taken causally, but so as to signify the ter-
w&nut from which; that pothipg can be made oat
of an antecedent nonexistence: that no real entity
Or substance which before was pot, could by any
power whatsoever be afterwards brought into be­
ing : or, that nothing can possibly be made, but
out of something pre-existing, by the new modifi­
cation thereof. And it appears from that of
Cicero, that the true and genuine sense of this
proposition, “ J)e pihilo nihil fit” (according to
thetnind of those ancient physiologers, who laid
so great stress thereupon), was not, that nothing
cqpld by any power whatsoever he brought out of
nonexisteqce into being; but only, that “ nothing
could bp made without a cause.” Nor did they
here by cause mean the material only, in this
sense, as if nothing could possibly be made but
out ofpre-existing matter; Epicurus being taxed
by Cicero, for introducing that his third motion
FROM, NOTHING OUT OF NOTHING. 466
of atoms, of clinamen prtndpiorum * oiit of no­
thing, or without an efficient cause; as indeed all
motion also was, to those atomic Atheists in this
sense, from nothing. Nevertheless, we have also
shewed, that if this proposition, “ Nothing out of
nothing,’’in that atheistic sense (as levelled against
a Deity), were true; yet would it of the two more
impugn Atheism itself, than it does Theism; the
Atheists generating and corrupting all things, the
substance of matter only excepted, all life, sense,
and understanding, human souls, minds and per­
sonalities, they producing these, and consequently
themselves, out of nothing, add resolving them all
to nothing again. We shall now in the third and
last place, make it manifest, that the Atheists do
not only bring real entities and substantial things
put of nothing in the second sense, that is, ont of
an antecedent nonexistence (which yet is a thing
possible only to God, or a perfect being), but also
that they bring them out of nothing in the abso-
lutely impossible sense; that is, suppose them to
be made without a cause, or “ nothing to be the
pause of something.’’
But we mast prepare the way hereunto, by
sotting down, first, a brief and compendious sum
of tbe whole atheistic hypothesis. The Atheists
therefore, who contend, that nothing can be made,
but only new accidents, or modifications of pre­
existing substance; taking it for granted, that
there is no other substance besides body Of map-
ter, do conclude accordingly that nothing can be
made, but ont of pre-existing matter Or body.
And then they add hereunto, that matter being
the only substance, the only unmade self-existeqt
» Vide Lneret. lib. ih vcr. 2^2.
4 5 6 ' ATHEISTS PRODUCE SOUL
thing, whatsoever else is in the world, besidesthe
bare substance of this matter, was made'out of
it, or produced by it. So that there are these
three things contained in the atheistic hypothesis;
first, that no substance can be made or caused
by any thing else, but only new modifications.
Secondly, that matter or body is the only sub­
stance; and therefore whatsoever is made, is
made out of pre-existing matter. Thirdly, and
lastly, that whatsoever there is else iu the whole
world besides the substance of matter, it is made
or generated out of matter. And now we shall
demonstrate the absolute impossibility of this
atheistic hypothesis, from that very principle of
the ancient physiologers, that “ Nothing can be
made out of nothing,” in the true sense thereof;
it not only bringing real entities, and substantial
things, out ofan antecedent nonexistence (though
nothing but an infinitely-perfect being neither can
thus create), but also producing them without a
cause.
First, therefore, when they affirm matter to be
the only substance, and all things else whatsoever
to be made out of that alone, they hereby plainly
suppose all things to be made without an efficient
cause, which is to bring them out of nothing, in
an impossible sense. For though it be not true,
that nothing can be made, but out of pre-existing
matter (and consequently that God himself, sup­
posed to exist, could in this respect do no more
than a carpenter or tailor doth); I say, though
it be not universally true, that every thing that is
made must have a material cause (so that the
quaternio of causes in logic is not to be extended
to all things caused whatsoever); yet is it certain
AND K IN D 'W ITH O U T A CAUSE. 457
fhat nothing, which once was not, could possibly
he made without an efficient cause. Wherefore,
if there be any thing made,.which was not before,
there must of necessity, besides matter, be some
other substance existing, as the efficient cause
thereof; forasmuch as matter alone could not
make any thing; as marble cannot make a sta­
tue, nor timber and stones a house, nor cloth a
garment. This is our first demonstration of the
impossibility of the atheistic hypothesis; it sup­
posing all things, besides the' bare substance of
matter, to be made out of matter alone, without
any other active principle or Deity, or to be made
without an efficient cause; which is to bring them
from nothing, in an impossible sense. To which
may be added, by way of appendix, that whereas
the Democritic and Epicurean Atheists admit of
no other efficient causality in nature, than only
local motion, and allow to matter or body, their
only substance, no self-moving power, they here­
by make all the motion that is in the whole
world to be without a cause, and from nothing:
action without any subject or agent, and the effi­
ciency of all things without an efficient.
In the next place, should we be so liberal as
to grant to the atomic Atheists motion without a
Cause, or permit Strato and the hylozoic Atheists
to attribute to matter a self-moving power; yet do
we affirm, that this matter and motion both toge­
ther could not possibly produce any new real en­
tity which was not before; matter, as such, effi­
ciently causing nothing, and motion only chang­
ing the modifications of matter, as figure, place,
site, and disposition of parts. Wherefore, if mat­
ter, as such, have no animal sense and conscious
4 6 $ . ATHEISTS F80PVCS »(MU4
understanding, essentially belonging to it (which
no Atheists a# yet have bad the impudence to as­
sert) ; then can no motion or modification of mas­
ter, no contexture of atoms, possibly beget'sense
and understanding, soul and mind ; because this
would be to bring something oat of nothing, in
the impossible sense, or to suppose something to
be made by itself without a cause. Which may
serve also for a confutation of. those imperfect
and spurious Theists, who will not. allow to God
Almighty (whether supposed by them to be tor->
poreal or incorporeal) a power of making any
thing, bat only oat of pre-existent matter, by the
new-modifying thereof; as a carpenter makes a
house out of pre-existing timber and stone, and
a tailor a garment out of pre-existing cloth. For
since animal life and understanding are not by
them supposed to belong at all to matter, as such;
and since they cannot result from any modifica­
tions or contextures thereof, it would plainly
follow frotp hence, that God could not possibly
make animals, or produce sense and understand*
ipg, souls and minds, which nevertheless these;
Theists suppose him to have done; and therefore
ought in reason to acknowledge him, not only to
he the maker of new modifications of matter,
(and one, who built the world only as a carpenter
doth a house), hut also of real entities distinct
from the same.
And this was the very doctrine (as we have al­
ready declared) of the most ancient atomic pbysi-
ologers; not that every thing whatsoever might be.
made oat of pre-existing matter; bat; on the con*,
trary, that in all natural generations there is no.
real entity produced out of tbe matter, which was
AJJ© HIND WITHOUT A CAUSE. 4 £ 0
-not before in it, but only new modifications ; and
consequently, that souls and minds being not
mere modifications of matter in respect of mag­
nitude, figure, site, and motion, could never be
produced out of it, because they must then of
necessity come from nothing; that is, be made
either by themselves without a cause, or without
a sufficient cause. It hath also been before noted
put of Aristotle, how the old atheistic material­
ists being assaulted by those Italic philosophers
after that manner, that nothing, which was not
before in matter, besides its modifications, could
possibly be produced out of it, because nothiog
can come out of nothing, and consequently, that
in all natural generations and corruptions, there
is no real entity made or destroyed; endeavoured,
without denying the words of that proposition,
to evade after this manner; 8m rovro oSre ylvt<r$at
mi8eu otovrai, ovrt dwoXXvoOat, ole rye rotawtie ad
ouiXftfteviK, vtnrff SI rov SwKparitv, &c. That there is
indeed nothing generated or corrupted (in some
sense), forasmuch as the same substance of mat­
ter always remains, it being never made or de­
stroyed. For, as men do not say, that Socrates
is made, when be is made musical or handsome;
nor destroyed, when he loseth these dispositions,
because the subject Socrates was before, and still
remaineth; so neither is any substantial thing,
or real entity in the world, made or destroyed in
this sense; because matter, which is the substance
of all, perpetually remains;—and all other things
whatsoever are but vaty id *£«e xal Smdiaug, pas­
sions and affections, and dispositions thereof,—as
musicalness and unmusicalness, in respect of So­
crates. Which is all one, as if they should say,
460 . LIFE AND UNDERSTANDING,
that all thiogs whatsoever, besides matter, being
but accidents thereof, are generated out of it,
and corruptible into it, without the production of
any real entity out of nothing, or the deduction
of any into nothing, so long as the substance of
matter, which is the only real entity, remains al­
ways the same. Wherefore, though life, sense,
and understanding, all souls and minds, be ge­
nerated out of matter; yet does it not follow
from thence, that therefore there is any real entity
made or produced, because these are nothing but
accidents, and modifications of matter. This was
the subterfuge of the old hylopathian Atheists.*.
Now it is true indeed, that whatsoever is in
the universe, is either substance, or accidents;
and that the accidents of any substance may be
generated and corrupted, without the producing
of any real entity out of nothing, and reducing
of any into nothing; forasmuch as the substance
still remains entirely the same. But the Atheists
taking it for. granted, that there is no other sub­
stance besides body or matter, do therefore falsely
suppose that, which is really incorporeal sub­
stance, or else the attributes, properties, and
modes thereof, to be the mere accidents of mat­
ter, and consequently conclude these to be ge­
nerate out of it, without the production of any
real entity out of nothing. We say, therefore,
that it does not at all follow, because the same
numerical matter (as for example a piece of wax)
may be successively made spherical, cubical, cy­
lindrical, pyramidal, or of any other figure; and
the same man may successively stand, sit, kneel,
and walk; both without the production ofany thing
* Vide Aristot. Metaphys. lib. i. «ap. iii. p. 264. tofti. iv. open
NO ACCIDENTS OF MATTER. 4 6 1
out of nothing; or because a heap ofstones, bricks^
mortar, and timber lying all together disorderly
and confusedly, may be made into a stately palace,
and that without the miraculous creation of any
real entity out of nothing; that therefore the same
maybe affirmed likewiseofevery thingelse, besides
the bare substance of matter, as namely, life and
understanding, soul and mind, that though there
be no such thing in matter itself, yet the produc­
tion of them out of matter would be no produc­
tion of something out of nothing. One ground
of which mistake hath been from men’s not right­
ly considering what the accidents of a substance
are, and that they are indeed nothing but the
modes thereof. Now, a mode is such a thing as
cannot possibly be conceived, without that where­
of it is a mode ; as standing, sitting, kneeling, and
walking, cannot be conceived, without a body or­
ganized, and therefore are but modes thereof; but
life and cogitation may be clearly apprehended
without body, or any thing of extension; nor in­
deed can a thought be conceived to be of such a
length, breadth, and thickness, or to be hewed
and sliced out into many pieces, all which laid to­
gether, as so many small chips thereof, would
make up again the entireness of that whole
thought. From whence it ought to be concluded,
that cogitation is no accident, or mode of matter,
or bulky extension, but a mode or attribute of
another substance, really distinct from matter, or
incorporeal. There is indeed nothing else clearly
conceivable by ns in body or bulky extension,
but only more or less magnitude of parts, figures,'
site, motion, or rest'; and all the different bodies
that are in the whole world, are but several com-:
V8S trPE a rd u n d bh sta n d in ^ ,
bioatiboe or syllables, made up out of these few*
letters: but no magnitudes, figures, sites, and
motions, can possibly spell or compound life and
erase, cogitation and understanding, as the sylla­
bles thereof) and therefore to suppose these to
be generated out of matter, is plainly to suppose >
Some real entity to be brought out of nothing, or
something to be made without a cause; which is
impossible.
But that which hath principally confirmed men
m this error, is the business of sensible qualities
and forms, as they are vulgarly conceived to be
distinct entities, from those forementioned modi­
fications of matter, in respect of magnitude of
parts, figure, site, motion, or rest. For since these
qualities and forms are unquestionably generated
rad corrupted, there seems to be no reason, why
the same might not be as well acknowledged of
life, sense,' cogitation, and understanding, that
these are but qualities or accidents of matter also
(though of another kind), and consequently may
be generated out of it, without the making of any
real thing oat of nothing. Bat the DemocrltiC
and Epicurean Atheists themselves have, from the
principles of the atomic philosophy, sufficiently
confuted and rectified this mistake concerning
sensible qualities; they exploding and banishing
them all, as conceived to be entities really distinct
from the forementioned modifications of matter,
and that for this very reason, because the genera­
tion of them would, upon this supposition, be the
production of something out of nothing, or with­
out a cause; and concluding them therefore to be
really nothing else but mechanism, or different
modifications of matter, in respect of thetiwgni-
NO ACCIDENTS OP MATTER. 4(15
tade of parts, figure, site, and motion, or rest7
;
they only causing different fanciesand apparitions
in us. And, in very truth, this vulgar opinion of
real qualities of bodies seems to have no other
original at all, than men’s mistaking their own fan­
cies, passions, and affections, for things really exp­
iating in the objects without them. For as sensible
qualities are conceived to be things distinct from
the forementioned modifications of matter, so are
they really nothing but our own fancies, passions,
and affections; and consequently no accidents or
modifications of matter, but accidents and modifi­
cations of our own souls, which are substances
incorporeal. Now if these Democratic and Epi­
curean Atheists themselves concluded, that real
qualities, considered as distinct from the modifi­
cations of matter, could not possibly be gene­
rated out of it, because this would be the produc­
tion of something out of nothing; they ought
certainly much more to have acknowledged the
same, concerning life and cogitation; sense and un­
derstanding, that the generation of these out of
senseless matter would be an impossible produc­
tion of something out of nothing; and consequent­
ly, that these are therefore no corporeal things;
but the attributes, properties, or modes of sub­
stance incorporeal; since they‘
can no way be re­
solved into meehanism and fancy, or the modifl:
cations of matter, as the vulgar sensible qualities
may, and ought to be. For though the Democri-
ties and Epicureans did indeed suppose all human
cogitations to be caused or produced by the in­
cursion of corporeal atoms upon the thinker; yet
did never any of them arrive to such a degree, ei­
ther of sottishness or impudence, as a modern
464 e p ic u r e a n s ’ l ib e r t y o f :
.writer* hath done, to maintain, that cogitation;in­
tellection, and volition, are themselves- really no­
thing else.but local motion or mechanism, in the
inward parts ofthe brain and heart; or that “ mens
nihil alind praeterquam motus in partibus quibus-
dam corporis organici,” that mind itselfis nothing
but motion in some parts ofthe organized body;—■
who therefore, as if Cartesius had not been suffi­
ciently paradoxical; in making brute animals
(though supposed by him to be devoid of all co-r
gitation) nothing but mere machines, and not,con­
tented herewith, hath advanced much further, in
making this prodigious conclusion, that all cogi­
tative beings, and men themselves, are really no-;
thing else but machines and automata; whereas
he might as well have affirmed heavento be earth,
colour to be sound, number to be figure, or any
thing else in the world to be any thing, as cogita­
tion and local motion to be the very self-same
thing. Nevertheless, so strong was the atheistic
intoxication in those old Democritic and Epicu­
reans, that though denying real qualities of bo­
dies, for thisvery reason, because “'Nothing could
be produced out of nothing,” they notwithstand­
ing contradicting themselves, would make sense,
life, and understanding, to be qualities of matter,
and therefore generable out of it; and so unques­
tionably produced real entities out of nothing, or
without a cause.
Moreover,-it is observable, that Epicurus hav­
ing a mind to assert contingent liberty in men, in
way of opposition to that necessity of all human.
. * Hobbes. Tide Physic, cap. xxv. et Leviathan, part i. cap* u.
et ii. .
WILL FROM KOTHIHO. 465
actions, which had been before maintained by
Detaocritus and hie follower^, plainly acknow-*
ledges, that he could not possibly do this, ac^
COfding to the grounds of his own philosophy,
Without supposing something of contingency in
the first principles, that is, in the motion of those
atoms, out which men and other animals are
made:
— ,gi semper motnft connectitur amnis, L. li; p. 134*
Kt vetere exoritar semper nevus ordine oerto, t?er*
Nec deelinando faciunt primordia motus J
Principium quoddam, quod fati foedera rumpat,
Ex infinite ne causdftt causa sequatur;
libera per terras unde haecaninlantibua extat,
Unde est bee, inquam, fatis avolsa voluntas?
The reason for which is afterwards thus express­
ed by him, quondam de nildlo toil fit, because
nothingcan be made oat of nothing.—Upon which
account he therefore ridiculously feigned, besides
his two other motions of atoms from pondus and
plaga, weight and strokes,—a third motion of
them which he calls clinamen principiorum, a con­
tingent and uncertain declination,—every way
from the perpendicular; out of design to solve this
phenomenon of free-will in men, without bring'-1
rag something oat of nothing, according as he
thus subjoiueth,
Quare in seminibus qnoque idem fateare necesse estj
Esse aliam praeter plagas et pondera causam
Motibus, unde haec est nobis innata potestas;
De Nihilo quoniam Fieri nil pesse videmus.
Pondus enim probibet, ne plagis omnia fiant
Externa quasi vi. Sed ne mens ipsa necessum
Intestinum habeat cunctis in rebus agendis,
Et devicta quasi cogatur ferre patique,
Id faoit exiguum Cunamen P rincipiorum,
Nec ratione loci certa, nec tempore certo.
Lucre!* Kb.iL ver. 283* «
2 H
VOL. III.
406 . NO SOULS EDUCED
Now if Epicurus himself conceived, that liberty
of will could not possibly be generated in men
out of matter or atoms, they having no such
thing at,all in them (that is, no contingent un­
certainty in their motion), without bringing of
something out of nothing; which was contrary
to the fundamental principles of the atomic phir
losopby), though this were intolerably absurd in
him, thus to suppose contingency, and a kind of
free-will in the motions of senseless atoms, so
that indeed he brought his liberty of will out of
nothing); certainly sense and understanding, soul
and mind, in animals and men, could not possibly
be generated out of atoms or matter, devoid of
all sense and understanding; for the very same
reason, quoniam de nihilo nil Jit, because no­
thing can be made out of nothing. For unques­
tionably, were all life and understanding, all souls
and minds, generated out of dead and., senseless
matter; and were there no substantial or essen­
tial life and understanding in the whole universe;
then must it of necessity be all made out of no­
thing, or without a cause, and consequently real
entities and substantial things be made out of no­
thing, which is absolutely impossible. For though
we do not say, that life and cogitation, sense and.
understanding, abstractly considered, are sub­
stances ; yet do we affirm them to be entities
really distinct from matter, and no modifications
or accidents.thereof, but either accidents and mo­
difications, or rather essential attributes, of sub­
stance incorporeal, as also that souls and minds,
which are the subjects of them, are indeed sub­
stantial things. Wherefore, we cannot but here
again condemn the darkness of that philosophy,
OUT OF MATTER. 467
which educes not Only species visible and audi­
ble (entities perfectly unintelligible), and real
qualities, distinct from all the modes of body,
and even substantial forms too (as they call them),
but also sensitive souls themselves, both in men
and brutes, ex potentia materia, out of the
power of the matter;—that is, indeed, out of no­
thing. Forasmuch as this prepares a direct
way to Atheism; because, if life and sense, cogi­
tation and consciousness, may be generated out
of dead and senseless matter, then might this
, well be supposed the first original of all things;
nor could there reasonably be any stop made at
rational souls, especially by these men, who also
conclude them to be rasa tabula, mere white
sheets of paper,—that have nothing at all in them,
but what is scribbled upon them by corporeal ob­
jects from without; there being nothing in the un­
derstanding or mind of man, which was not be­
fore in sense: so that sense is the first original
knowledge, and understanding but a secondary
and derivative thing from it, more umbfatile and
evanid.
Hitherto have we demonstrated, that all things
whatsoever could not possibly be made out of
matter, and particularly that life and sense, mind
and understanding, being no accidents or modes
of matter, could not by motion be generated out
of it, without the production of real entities! out
of nothing. But because some may possibly'ima-
gine, that matter might otherwise than thus by
motion, by a miraculous efficiency, produce souls4
and minds, we shall add in the last place, that
nothing can efficiently produce any real entity or
substantial thing that was not before, unless it
2 H 2
4 0 8 THBISH PS0T1D , VBOM
have at least equal perfection to it, and a substan-
tiaily emanative or creative power. But scarcely
any man can be so sottish, as, to imagine that
every atom of dust hath equal perfection in it to
that of the rational soul in man, or to attribute
a creative power to alt matter (which is but a
passive thing), whilst this is in the meantime de­
nied by him to a perfect being; both these asser­
tions also, in like manner as the former, pro­
ducing real entities out of nothing causally. And
thus have we demonstrated the impossibility and
nonsense of all Atheism, from this very principle,
by which the Atheists would assault Theism in
the true sense thereof, that Nothing can be made
without a cause, or that Nothing cannot be the
cause of any thing.
Now, if there be no middle betwixt Atheism and
Theism, and all things must of necessity either
spring from senseless matter, or else from a per­
fect understanding being; then is this demonstra­
tion of the impossibility of Atheism a sufficient
establishment of the truth of Theism; it being
such a demonstration of a God, as the geometri­
cians call a deduction ad impossihile, which they
allow of for good, and frequently make use of.
Thus, either there is a God; or else matter must
needs be acknowledged to be the only self-exist­
ent thing, and all things else whatsoever to be
made out of it; but it is impossible, that all things
should be made out of senseless matter: therefore
'is there a God. Nevertheless, we shall here, for
further satisfaction, shew how the existence of a
God may be directly demonstrated also from this
very principle, which the Atheists endeavour to
take sanctuary in, and from thence to impugn
NOTHING OUT OF NOTHING. .400
Theism, De nihilo nihil, that Nothing canbe made
out of nothing causally, or that Nothing cannot
be the cause of any thing.
Id the first place, therefore, we shall fetch onr
beginning from what hath been already often de­
clared, that it is mathematically certain, that
Something or other did exist of itself from all
eternity, or without beginning, and unmade by any
thing else. The certainty of which proposition
depeodetb upon this very principle, as its founda­
tion, that Nothing can come from nothing, or be
made out of nothing, or that Nothing, which once
was not, can of itself come into being without a
cause; it following unavoidably from thence, that
if there bad been once nothing, there could never
have been any thing. And having thus laid the
foundation, we shall in the next place make this
furthersuperstructure, that because something did
certainly exist of itself from eternity unmade^
therefore is there also actually a necessarily-exisfc-
ent being. For to suppose, that any thing did
exist of itself from eternity, by its own free-will
and choice, and therefore not necessarily, but eon.-
tingeatiy, since it might have willed otherwise;
this is to suppose it to have existed before it was,
aud so positively to have been the cause of itself;
which is impossible, as hath been already de­
clared. When a thing therefore is said to be of
itself, or the cause of itself, this is to be under­
stood no otherwise, than either in a negative sense,
as having nothing else for its cause; or because
its necessary eternal existence is essential to the
perfection of its own nature. That therefore,
which existed of itself from eternity, independ­
ently upon anything else, did not so exist contiu*
470 MATTER NOT
gently, but necessarily; so that there is undoubt­
edly something actually in being, whose existence
is and always was necessary. In the next place,
it is certain also, that nothing could exist necessa­
rily of itself, but what included necessity of ex­
istence in its own nature. For to suppose any
thing to exist of itself necessarily, which hath
no necessity of existence in its own nature, is
plainly, to suppose that necessary existence of it
to come from nothing, since it could neither pro­
ceed from that thing itself, nor yet from any thing
else. Lastly, there is nothing, which includes
necessity of existence in its very nature and es­
sence, but only -an absolute perfect being. The
result of all which is,' that God, or a perfect
being, doth certainly exist; and that there is no­
thing else, which existed of itself from eternity,
necessarily and independently; but all other
things whatsoever derived their being from him,
or were caused by him, matter or body itself not
excepted.
That which hath staggered some Theists here,
and made them so inclinable and prone to be­
lieve, that matter also existed from eternity un­
made, is partly (as hath been already intimated)
an idiotical conceit, that because nothing can
be artificially made by men, otherwise than out
of pre-existing matter, as houses and garments,
puddings and pies; therefore there could be no
other making of any thing, by any power what­
soever : though even men themselves can produce
something out of no pre-existent matter, as cogi­
tations and local motion. And the same partly
proceedeth also from certain false opinions en­
tertained concerning matter. For some Theists
NECESSARILY EXISTENT. 4*1
have supposed «Xqv dadparov, an incorporeal first
matter;—out of which incorporeal matter, toge­
ther with an incorporeal form joined to it, they
conceived the essence of body to have been com­
pounded, and made. And no wonder, if these
same fanciful philosophers have further added
also hereunto, that from this incorporeal matter,
by an incorporeal form, were begotten likewise
incorporeal qualities of body. Now it is not con­
ceivable, what else should be meant by this incor­
poreal hyle, or matter, but only a metaphysical
notion of the potentiality, or possibility of things,
respectively to the Deity; which, because it is in­
deed eternal, and as much unmade as God himself
is, it being nothing but the Divine power consider­
ed passively or the reverse of it ; therefore, in all
probability, were these philosophers so prone to
ibink the physical matter of this corporeal uni­
verse tobave been eternal and unmade. Neither
was this incorporeal hyle, or matter, a novel opi­
nion, entertained only by some junior Platonists,
but older than Aristotle himself, as appeareth
plainly from these following words of his
in his Metaphysics: Ol/utv yap wt jri um
l! m
rijv dp%yv Xfyownv, iavrt awpa, idvrt aawparov
nOdimv. Some speak of the principle as n* •>
**
matter; whether they suppose this mat-
tter to be body, or to be incorporeal. —
But this incorporeal matter in physio-1^> «
•*
. . , 1 * , condom Vele-
logy can be accounted no better than a «», h
®»ont;
kind of metaphysical nonsense. Again,
others seem to have been the more prone
to think matter or body to have been fa^ncenti-
self-existent and unmade, because they **6.td*cin!"
both conceived it to be. really the same ub'-*
MATT** NOT
472
thing with space;, and also took it for granted1
,
that space was infinite and eternal, and conse­
quently necessarily existent. In answer where­
unto, yve reply, first, that though space and dis­
tance should be granted to be positively infi­
nite, or .to have no bounds nor limits at all, as also
to have been eternal; yet according to the opi­
nion of some, wonld it not follow from thence,
that matter was infinite, eternal, and necessarily
existent; not as if space or distance could exist
alone by itself, an accident without a substance,
it being plainly impossible, that nothing should
have any accidents, modifications, and attributes,
or be mensurable by yards and poles; bqt be­
cause this space is by them supposed, not to be
the extension of body, but the infinite and un­
bounded extension of the Petty. But, in the
next place, if space be concluded to be certainly
nothing else but the extension and distance of
body, or matter, considered in general (without
respect to this « that particular body),, and ab­
stractly in order to the conception of motion, and
the mensuration of things (for space thus consi­
dered, is necessarily immoveable, as to the parte
thereof respectively; as the two extremes of a
yard distance can never possibly come nearer to
one another); then do we say, that there appeareth
no sufficient ground tor this positive infinity of
space, we being certain of no more than (his, that
be the world, or any figurative body, never so
great, it is not impossible bat that it•might be
still greater and greater, without end.. Which
indefinite increasableness of body and space
Seei»s to be mistaken fpr a positive infinity there­
of. Whereas for this very reason, because it caa
NECESSARILY EXISTENT. 473
never be so great, but that more magnitude may
still be added to it, therefore can it never be *
positively infinite. Nor is there perhaps so great
an*absurdity in this, that another world could not
possibly be made a mile distant from this, foras-
-mucb as there being nothing between them, they
.must needs touch; or that this finite world could
have no mountains and valleys in the exterior
surface of it, since it might be either spherical,
cubical, or cylindrical, or of any other regular fi­
gure, whatsoever the maker pleased to form it io.
To conclude therefore, by space without the fi­
nite world, is to be understood nothing but the
possibility of body, further.and further, without
end, yet so as never to reach to infinity; and such
a space as this was there also, before this world
was created, a possibility of so much body to. be
produced. But space and actual distance, as
really measurable by yards and poles, though it
may be greater and greater without end, yet can
it not be positively infinite, so as that there could
be no more added to it; and therefore there can
be no argument from hence, to prove the neces­
sary existence of matter.
. Moreover, the existence of a Deity might he
further demonstrated from this common notion,
That nothing can come from nothing causally;
because, if there were no God, as we could not
have had any idea of bim, or a perfect being,
since it must have come from nothing, and have
been the idea or conception of nothing; so nei­
ther could there have been indeed any knowledge
or understanding at all. For singular bodies ex­
isting without us cannot enter into us, and put
understanding in us; nor is there any thing but
4 7 4 a t h e is t s ’ a r g u m e n t s a g a in s t a n
local motions propagated from them to oar organs
of sense. The mind most have its immediate
intelligibles within itself, for otherwise it coaid
not possibly understand any thing; which intel­
ligences and their relations to one another, or
verities, are (as was said before) eternal. More­
over, the mind can frame ideas or conceptions,
not only of things actually existing, but also of
all possibilities; which plainly implies and sup­
poses the actual existence of a being infinitely
powerful, that could produce them. So that the
proper object of mind and understanding is a
perfect being, and all the extent of its power;
which perfect being, comprehending itself and
the extent ofits own power; or the possibilities of
all things, is the first original mind, of which all
other minds partake. Wherefore, were there no
perfect omnipotent being, comprehending itself,
and its own power, or all thepossibilities ofthings;
the intelligible objects of the mind and ideas must
have come from nothing.
However, it hath been already proved from this
principle, Nothing from nothing, that the powers
of sense and understanding, or the entities ofsoul
and mind, could never have resulted from any
modifications of senseless matter whatsoever.
Wherefore, since it is mathematically certain, that
our human souls and persons could not possibly
have been generated out of matter, one of these
two things will undeniably follow; that eitherthey
•must all have existed ofthemselves, from eternity
unmade; or else have been created eg ow
e «vrwv,
put of an antecedent nonexistence,—by a perfect
understanding being unmade, or at least have de­
rived tbeir whole substance from it. So that it
INCORPOREAL DEITY CONFUTED. 476
is altogether as certain, that there is a God, as
that our human souls and persons did not all exist
from eternity of themselves. And that there must
be some eternal unmade mind, hath been already
demonstrated also from the same principle, No­
thing out of nothing. Thus, have we abundantly
confuted the second atheistic argumentation, that
there can be no omnipotence, nor Divine creation,
because nothing can be made out of nothing; we
have plainly shewed, that this very principle, in
the true sense thereof, affordeth a demonstration
for the contrary.
T he six following atheistic argumentations, driv­
ing at these two things, first, the disproving ofan
incorporeal and then of a corporeal Deity (from
both which, the Atheists conceive, it must follow
of necessity, that there can be none at all); we
shall take them all together, and, in order to the
confutation of them, perform these three things.
First, weshall answer the atheistic argumentations
against an incorporeal Deity (contained in the
third and fourth heads). Secondly, we shall shew
that from the very principles of the atheistic cor-
porealism (as represented in the fifth and sixth
heads), incorporeal substance is demonstrable.
And, lastly, that there being undeniably incorpo­
real substance, the two following atheistic argu­
mentations also, against a corporeal Deity (in the
seventh and eighth sections), prove altogether in?
significant.
We begin with the first of these; to shew the in­
validity of the atheistic argumentations against an
476 BODY, THE ATHEISTS'
incorporeal Deity. It hath been already observed,
that though all Corporealists be not therefore of
necessity Atheists, yet Atheists universally have
been Corporealists; this being always their first
and grand poetulatum, That there is no other sub­
stance besides body. Thus Plato long ago do-
dared concerning them:AiicrxypXflvrairow-
Ficf'ip.'ieo.j TO ®ru* fiovov o vaptyu irpoaj3oAqi* cat ara^qv
T iv a , ra v ro v m ap,a n u o u a lu v op^ jo/M voi' rwv St
iXXuv tinc <
pnpilW<
f(*>
pa iyov hwu, cara^pwovivric vovar
pairav, Kal ov&
evtftiXovrscaXXe aim5«v. They contend
strongly, that that only really is, which is tangible,
or can resist their touch; concluding body and
substance to be one and the self-same thing: and
if any one should affirm, that there is any thing in­
corporeal, they will presently cry him down, and
not hear a word niore from him.—For there can
be no doubt, hut that the persons here intended
by Plato were those very Atheists which himself
spake of afterward in the same dialogue:* MJ* r<
p
nov ToXXoUv Soyfian Kal piffian yptifiivoi ^ajm/uar, riw fun*
avra vavra ytwifv aura nvog striae awro/udnjc, cat avtv
Siavoias ^vovaqsj q fura Xoyau cat imerifUK Woe, «r*
fiwv yiyvoftkm tQ . Whether shall we assent to that
opinion now-a-days entertained by so many,
that nature geuerateth all things from a certain
fortuitous cause, without the direction of any
mind or understanding? or rather, that it pro-
, duceth them, according to reason and knowledge,
proceeding from God?—Indeed the philosopher
there tells us, that some of these atheistic persons
began then to be somewhat ashamed of making
prudence, and justice, and other moral virtues,
corporeal things, or bodies : ’Avocptvwrat rqv fdv
»P.W8<
ONLY SUBSTANCE. 477
‘
’
fto'Xnvavnjv Soksiv Oiplai wufti n Kucrijoftu, .^povt/atv Si kat
w aXXuv bcaarov «SvrtpwrqKag, aia^tiwvroi to rcikftfv, *i
fti$V tuv ovruv aura opokoyuv, rj wavr ehhu aufiara St-
ia^ypilia^ai. Though they affirm concerning the
soul itself, that this seems to them to be corporeal;
yet, concerning prudence, and those other virtues
mentioned, some have now scarcely the confidence
to maintain these to be either bodies or nothing.—
But this (saith be) was indeed no less than the
quite giving up of the cause of Atheism; a yip n
iau OftiKpov iOiXovai tuv Svtuv avyyupiiv iauparov, tfiap-
*«' because, if it be but once granted, that there is
never so little incorporeal, this will be sufficient
to overthrow the atheisticfoundation.—Wherefore
be concludes, that such as these were but mon­
grel and imperfect Atheists; iwu toutuv <*$ iv ev
ixauryyvdmv, ot ye avruv owaprbi teat avroyOovtc» «AX»
SuntlvoiVT iv, wav o j
u
i} Swaroi rale ovpwiifcuv, tig
ipd rovro ovSfv rowapiwav uni for they, who are
thorough-paced and genuine Atheists indeed, will
boggle at neither of those forementioned things,
but contend, that whatsoever they cannot grasp
with their hands, is altogether nothing.—That is,
that there is no other substance nor entity in the
world, but only body, that which is tangible, or
resists the touch. Aristotle also represented the
atheistic hypothesis after the same manner: Tovro
xai roaavrtfv tyaolv etvai njv awaaav ovoiav, ra 8e &\\a
vavra raft)tovtuv’ They affirm, that matter, or body,
is all the substance 'that is; and that all other
things are but the passions and affections thereof.
-—And again, in his Metaphysics: *Ev to w i . „
ra y , kai fuav eivat rtva ipvmv, ug vAifv ntkacn, Kai fp. 274. tan.
ravnp> auftarucnv Kai (ttydiog i^ovcrav. These W
’op*
r^
men maintain all to be one, and that there is but
478 ATHEISTS’ INCORPOREAL
one only nature, as the matter of all things, and
this corporeal, or endued with magnitude.—And
now we see plainly, that the ancient Atheists were
ofthe very same mind with these in our days, that
body, or that which'is tangible and divisible, is
the only substantial thing; from whence it follows -
that an incorporeal substance would be tbe same
with an incorporeal body, t. e. an impossibility,
and that there can be no incorporeal Deity.
But in the management ofthis cause, there hath
been some disagreement amongst the Atheists
themselves. For, first, the Democritics and Epi­
cureans, though consenting with all the other
Atheists, in this, that whatsoever was unextend­
ed, and devoid of magnitude, was therefore no­
thing (so that there could neither be any sub­
stance, nor accident, or mode of any substance,
unextended); did notwithstanding distinguish
concerning a double nature. First, that which is
so extended, as to be impenetrable, and tangible,
or resist the touch, which is body. And,.secondly*
that which is extended also, but penetrably and
intangibly; which is space or vacuum: a nature,
according to them, really distinct from body, and
the only incorporeal thing that is. Now since
this space, which is the only incorporeal, can nei­
ther do nor suffer any thing* but only give.place
or room to bodies to subsist in, or pass through;
therefore can there not be any active, understand­
ing, incorporeal Deity. This is the argumentation
of the Democritic Atheists.
To which we reply, that if space be indeed a
nature distinct from body, and a thing really in­
corporeal, as they pretend, then will it undeniably
follow from this very principle oftheirs, that there
SPACE, NONSENSE. 479
must be an incorporeal substance; and (this space
being supposed by them also to be infinite) an in­
finite incorporeal Deity. Because, if space be not
the extension of body, nor an affection thereof,
then must it ofnecessity be, either an accident ex­
isting alone by itself, without a substance, which
is impossible; or else the extension, or affection,
of some other incorporeal substance that is infi­
nite. But here will Gassendus step in, to help out
bis good friends the Democritics and Epicureans
at a dead lift; and undertake to maintain, that
though space be indeed an incorporeal thiug, yet
it would neither follow of necessity from thence,
that it is an incorporeal substance or affection
thereof; nor yet that it is an accident existing
alone by itself, without a substance; because this
space is,really neither accident nor substance, but.
a certain middle nature or essence betwixt both.
To which subterfuge ofhis, that we may not quar­
rel about words, we shall make this reply; that
unquestionably, whatsoever is, or hath any kind
of entity, doth either subsist by itself, or else is an
attribute, affection, or mode of something, that
doth subsist by itself. For it is certain, that there
can be no mode, accident, or affection of nothing;
and consequently, that nothing cannot be extend­
ed, nor mensurable. But if space be neither the'
extension of body, nor yet of substance incorpo­
real, then must it of necessity be the extension of
nothing, and the affection of nothing; and nothing,
must be mensurable by yards and poles. We con­
clude therefore, that from this very hypothesis of
the Democriticand Epicurean Atheists, that space
is a nature distinct from body, and positively in­
finite, it follows undeniably, that there must be
480 EPICURUS’S SfcLP-CorftllAfolCTION.
some incorporeal substance, Whose affection itA
extension is; and because there Can be nothing
infinite, but only the Deity, that it is the infinite
extension of an incorporeal Deity; just as some
learned Theists and Incorporealists have asserted.
And thus is the argument ofthese Democritic and
Epicurean Atheists, against an incorporeal Deity,
abundantly confuted; we having made it manifest,
that from that very principle of their own, by
which they would disprove the same, it is against
themselves demonstrable.
To which it might be here farther added, that
Epicurus, who professedly opposed Plato’s incor­
poreal God, as an impossibility, did notwithstand­
ing manifestly contradict himself, when he asserted
such a democracy of mouogrammotfs gods, as
were not compounded of atoms and vacuum
(though, according to hips, the only principles of
body), that so they might be incorruptible; nor
yet could touch or be touched, but were pene­
trable, as is declared in those verses of Lucretius,*
Tenuis enim natura deum, longeque remote
Sensibus a nostris, animi vix mente videtur.
Quae quoniam mannum tactum suffugit et ictnm,
Tactile nil nobis quod sit, contingeHB debet.
Tangere enim non quit, quod tasfgi non licet ipsum.
(though tangibility and impenetrability were else­
where made by him the very essence of body);
and, lastly, such as had not corpus, but quasi cor­
pus, and therefore must needs be really incorporeal.
Though there is no doubt to be made, but that
Epicurus colluded in all this; himself not believ­
ing a jot ofit, nor any such gods at all.
But other Atheists there were, who concluding
aLib. v. ver. 149.
w h e th er a n y t h in g v n e x t e n d e d . 481
likewise, that whatsoever was unextended was
nothing, were sensibleofthe.inconvenienceof mak­
ing space thus to be a thing really distinct from
body (from whence it would follow unavoidably
that it was an affection of incorporeal substance);
and therefore acknowledged, not two natures of
extended things, but as we bad it before-in Aris-
.tOtle, ftiav rtva tpvaiv Kal ravrijv ow/urructlv, one Only na­
ture, and that bodily;—space being therefore to
them, either a mere .imaginary thing, that hath no
reality without our minds, but only a phantasm of
our own, and, in their modern language, a kind of
ghost, apparition, or spectre of a body; or else,
indeed, the very extension ofbody itself, consider­
ed in general, and abstractly, from this or that
singular body, moveable. And these men there­
fore framed their argumentation against an incor­
poreal Deity after this manner: nothing truly is,
but what is extended, or hath a certain magnitude
(because that which is unextended,-and hath no
magnitude, is no where, and consequently no­
thing). But. whatsoever is extended, and in a place,
is body. Therefore is there no other substance
besides body; and consequently there can be no
incorporeal Deity. Dr else, to put the argument
into a more approveable syllogistic form; what­
soever is extended, is body, or corporeal ; -but
whatsoever is, is extended. Therefore whatsoever
is,-is body, or corporeal: and by consequence,
there can be no incorporeal Deity.
To- which argumentation the assertors of incor­
poreal ;substance have replied two manner of
ways. For, first, the generality of the ancient In-
corporealists taking it for granted, that whatso­
ever was extended in magnitude, and had parts
vo;,. h i . 2 i
482 PLATO A$D AHISTOTLfi ASSERTOBS
one without another, wen divisible, as also pro­
bably1
impenetrable by any thing else extended,
because there can be no penetration of dimen­
sions ; and therefore no one magnitude can be
imbibed Or swallowed up into another, but m ust
Of necessity stand without it, adding so much to
the quantity thereof: they readily gave their
assent to that proposition, That whatsoever is
extended into longitude, latitude and profundity,
is body. B ut being strongly persuaded of tbe
existence of some other substance besides body,
they denied that other proposition of theirs, T hat
whatsoever is, is extended; or what is unex­
tended, is nothing: maintaining, that besides
body, or extended substance, there was another
substance incorporeal, which therefore was a8id-
ororpe, and ■dptyfOw, and ovoooc, and aju^nic, and
aStalptroe, unextended, and devoid of quantity and
magnitude, without parts, and indivisible.-r-That
Plato himself philosophized after this manner,
might be proved from sundry passages of his
writings; as that in-his tenth De Legibus, where
he affirmetb, that the soul itself, and those
things which belong to it, as cogitative, arevponpa
jttifKovc' ewpdrtiv Kat fidOovglKai‘
jr\drovc, 10 Order ofna­
ture, before the longitude; and latitude, wad pro­
fundity of bodies.—Where, doubtless, bis mean­
ing was not, as if there -Were'longitude, latitude,
and profundity in souls, but of a different kind
from that longitude, latitude, and profundity *of
bodies, and before it; bat that longitude, lati­
tude, and profundity, being the essential proper­
ties of body only, soul and cogitation, as devoid
of these, was in order of nature b eftreth em .
Again, from that in his Tiinseus, where speaking
QF UNEXTENJJED IHCO&PORIALS. 463
ofpjace, spafce, and potter, heconderoneth this
for a vulgar error, That w hatsoever is, m ust of
necessity be in sope .place or other, and what is
in no place, is nothing* av.7hwv .r0 cqc
X
V
P*C
, ffyav trapiyovova e^a ybttmv,winv- . wpov o '
tealovet^o7ro\ovpuyfiXpravreCt tealjtkpivavaytcaitovtotal
iray, t
oov. «ur«v h rm roVv, nu.m^oiij^ujxiv rtva*. ro
Sijpyttev tv, pyri irov,tear ovpavov,.ou&iv uvai' .The
third hind.is that of gpaee, which.&ives ,roqm to
all; thjngstbat are generated. A nd when we look
Uppn this, we .dreanungly affirm, that every
thing that is(m ust of necessity, be in some place;
and;possess a. certain room and space, and that
whatsoever is not somewhere, either in earth, dr
jin heaven, is.notbingoWhich drowsy or dreaming
imagination (saith he), like a. ghost,, continually
baunteth and possessetb men, laud that even then;
when-they think df that true and awakened nature
o f the. Deity--*—
Whereas this philosopher himself,
discoursing elsewhere of God, underthe title Of
roXv rcXeyocvoti <caXov, the vast sea of pulchritude,
—descriheth him,after this m anner; ouSarovov, v iv
TV, n e
moypaytp, dXX’ avro, puffJtm
uov,juofWiSic«d ov, rd
StaXXa iravra KaXa ttcuvov furiyovra' AS that which
is, not any where, either, in earth, or in heaven,
but.itself alone by itself, and. with itself, all other
beautiful things partaking of it^-*And as for
Aristotle’s sense in this particular; that he here
departed not, as he did in some other things, from
his master Plato, may appear from that-w hole
chapter, or .section, at the end o f his Physics,
spent upon this very subject, to prove on rovr
•Htpk avayKtuovclvoi, nu pySiv e^av j^ytAoc, that his
first Immoveable Mover (which is God Almighty)
must of necessity be devoid of parts, or indivi-
2 1 2
4 8 4 PLATO AND ARISTOTLE ASSERTORS
sible, and have no magnitude at all.—The con­
clusion of which section, and his whole book o f
Physics,* is this: 'Aiwpurpiww $ e t o v t w v , <j>avtpov art
aSuvarov to irpdrov kivouv km axivirrov n piyeOog'
a yap ptytOog avayKH ijrot mirepaaptvov avro tivai, q
airupov' airupov piv owv oti ovk tvSeytrai ptytBo^ etvat,
B&tucrai irportpov iv role fvoucoit;' on 8e to vtmpaop&vov
aSvvarov t^etv airupov, Bvvapiv, SiSuicrai vvv’ tyavtpov
rolvw, on aSialptrov tart, Keu aptfa t Ka'
1 ovSev e
^ov pt-
yeO
oe’ These things being thus determined, it is
manifestly, impossible, that the first Mover should
have any magnitude. F o r if it hath magnitude,
that must of necessity, be either finite'or infinite.
B ut that there can be no infinite magnitude, was
before demonstrated in the Physics; and that
nothing, which hath a finite magnitude, can have
infinite.power, hath been now proved. Where­
fore it'is plain, that the-first Mover is indivisi­
ble, and devoid of.parts, and hath no magnitude
at all.—Which, same doctrine is again taught and
asserted by, Aristotle, in his M etaphysics: ''Ort
P 14 o rii °®v *<rr*
v oviria ng atStog kat atdvtrrog, Ka*
[{> .'4 8 0 . t o m . . Ktybipuspkvri- rtova’
urfhrnvv, favtpov a c tw v tlptr
i t . o p a r .] v t i i v . BtStucrat 8 e Ka* oti pkytQoi; ovBtv fvBtye-
rai f\tiv ravrtiv trrjv ovoiav, aXXa aptpng teal dSialptrog
torI' ovStv yap t p Bvvapiv'airupov irtirtpaopevov, Kaxokwg
ouk taT ivo » $ l v airupov* From w hat.hath been de­
clared, it is .manifest, that there is an eternal and
.immoveable, substance, separate fromsensibleS; afe
also, that this substance cannot possibly have any
magnitude, but is devoid of parts, and indivisible.
Because no finite thing can have infinite power,
and there is no such thing possible as infinite
< »P. 608. tom. i. oper.
1
OF UNEXTENDED INCORPOBEALS. 485
magnitude.—Neither doth Aristotle appropriate
this to the supreme :Deity, “ to be thus devoid of
magnitude and of parts; and consequently indi­
visible he somewhere* attributing the same also
to all other immaterial or incorporeal things, and
particularly to the human mind, aSudperovvav to
fit} vX
jjv i\o v, wtnrtp o avOptiirtvog vovg, every thing,
that is devoid .of matter, isindivisible, as the hu­
man mind.—And the like doth he assert, at once, '
both concerning the mundane and the human
soul, that they are no magnitudes, though ridicu­
lously (after his manner) imputing the contrary
opinion to P la to : 0» wXwc to X iytiv njv _ .
* , , , *x „ T ' De An. l.i o.
\pv^rrv ptyeuog aval. O oe vovc tie Kat ovve^g, iii. [p. 9,19.
rf ,« / , *bi / r ,i , « lom. ii. otoer.l
axncep km v vot/aic *1 oe voijcng ra votipara ravra ■ •
Si ry e<J>
e£»je tv , tic o apiQpog, aXX' ov-% tog'to peyeOog”
Sioirep ovSe vovg ovrto aw t^r/c. aXX’ vroi aptpj}c, rj oin^ tig
to fuytBog Tt avvtyyg' irwg yap Si jcat vopau /uiytOog wv,'
. orif) ovv Tiov popuov rotiv avrov i popuov Si ifroi Kara'
/dytOog, V Kara oriyppv’ a piv ovv Kara ariyppv, avrai S’
mrtipoi, SqXov oJe ouSbrore St^tunv’ et Se Kara peyt9og,
iroWaKig v airtipaKigivotjtm t o avro. "Eti Si Trdgvopatt ro
aptpig fitpiartp’ It is not rightly affirmed either of
the mundane, or rational soul, that they are mag­
nitudes. For the Intellect is one and continuous,
as Intellection is, which is the same with the In-
telligibles. But these are one, not as magnitudes,
but as numbers. Wherefore the Intellect is not
so continuous, , but either devoid of parts, or not
continuous as magnitude. For how, being magni­
tude, could it understand with any of its parts,
whether conceived as points, or as lesser magni­
tudes; since either way there would.be an innur
*Metaphys. 1. xiv, cap. ix. p. 484. tom. iv. oper.
480 ANCIENTS QENERAX.LT ASSERTED
mer&ble company1ofihtellections; moreover, Iww
can it conceive aby thing that' is'ipdivirible by
what is divisible ?—Farthermore, inr this same
book Be Anima/ Aristotle stiffly denies sonls
in general either to be in a place, o r to be! locally
moved, otherwise than by accident, as they are
said to be moved together with the motiohofthe
body. Thus Simplicius :b 'O pa wc xavra£o5tSgimpa-
ructie dwoattsTai mvtfoitc. See how!Aristotle:
doth every where remove, or exclude from the
sold, corporeal (or local) motions.-^And again:
• F lg ’AvayOptala p
rjK
tiJ
tu
x
O
c
uradtnopardm
j^icivvreuig
carna «£v vpwra p&v/ultra k&
v &r^arP1y, Aris“
totle will by no means alfoVv any incorporeal
things whatsoever, whether of the first, second*
or lowest rank (they being all the causes of md*
tion), themselves to be moved.—Philoponue' like­
wise : 'Ojtfc we wpot f'acotoftaracagKtrgmgaTofiklrm
uP,
wrote mrtfriv'axlvtjrov aiu! f |« ' « w ■yiy r l tv romp avftii
toriv. Yofi see how Aristotle, respecting oorpO1
real motions; pronounces- of the soul, th a t it »
immoveable. For whatsoever is m a place (and
moveable), is body. ~ Lastly, in that passage
before cited, Ari&ode plainly makes the essence
of corporeal substance, als opposed: to> incorpo­
real, ht consist in magnitude.
Besides P lato and Aristotle, we might Here in­
stance in stibdry other of the ancient Incorporeal-
ists, who: clearly maidtahifed the same doctrine.
Philo doth nbt only adseri id general a dowbfee^
1Lib. it c*p. ir,p. 12. tom. ii. op«r,
bComment in Libras A ristotde Anima, fol:6. ed. Graec. F/toe.
Asulani,V enet’1527. fol.
'Comment in Libras tres Aristot de Amma, fol. 13. ed. Gnec.
Venet 1353. fol.
UNEXTENDED. SUBSTANCE. 487
sence or substance, aStaararov, atld.SuMrypariKqv, a
distant, andindistant one;—but somewhere writeth
thus concermug the Deity.: 'Yira row Oeov d, cental
mirXi(jMinu r» wavra, irtpUyavros ow irtpuyo~ U*S<f '
juivov, <
j5rarn ^o v rc Kai ovSa/uou m/fiftefiriKiv uvai fiowp-’
miSofum juiv, on Kai yiipav Kai rowov awroc rolf aiipaa1
avyytybnnpct' to St iraroHpcoc m ovSai r«5v, ysyovorwv
OipK tiirijv vtpityiadai' iravrayov- St, on fa t Swapuf av-
rov Sta ^qc ko* vSaroc aipoc rt. tau ovpavow rtivas, &C.
All thiug&are filled witty.God, as containing them*
but nota g being contained by them, or in them ;
to whom alone it belongeth to be both every
where, and no where. No where, because him­
self created space and place, together with bo*
dies, and it is not lawful to include the Creator
within any. of his creatures. And. every where,
because, he extendeth his virtues and powers
throughout earth and water, air and heaven, and
leavethno partof the world destitute thereof; but*
collecting all things together under himself, hath
bpuhd them fast with invisible bonds.—
r-But none
bath, more industriously pursued, this business
than Plotinus, who every where asserts body and
magnitude to be one and the same, thing; and
toot, besides this, there is.another substance in*
corporeal, which, Consequently, is Aroooc, and
afttytihic, m id o/ucpnc, devoid of quantity, and of
magnitude, and of pasts, locally distant from one
another ; o tv rig avrov ovaiq. ro roaov uvai vTrtpfit($r)Ktv,
itbaviqg ini its nature transcended the imperfec­
tion of quantity.—And wty<? hath also written,two
whole books* upon this very, subject, «> k o .1
tavrov ap&fup apa »avrar^ov uvai oAov; that one and
the self-same numerical thing may be all of it ea*
*JLib.iv. et V
. BuwmI. f t
4 8 8 ANCIENTS GENERALLY ASSERTED
tirely every where.—Wherein his principal design
was to prove, that the Deity is not part of it here,
and part of it there; and so much thereof in one
place, and so much in another (as if the very sub­
stance of it were mensurable by yards and poles);
but the whole undivided Deity every where; IIpo
r«5v ivTawtp dvavrwv (saith he) ; “ God is before all
P 667 .things, that are in a place.” And *9m
>
-
pib. jv. u a ^ ,u y a v &i, et a v r o uj) ov i p t o t t w , Travrl r w i v
cap.ix.] , „ \ ' 1 \ r 1
T O irip ovti, o A io f i r a p i a T i , <j>ij<n yap o Aoyoc,
avayKi) avrtp ro ro v owk cWriyori, ip iraptor«, towry oXov
vapavai, it is not at all to be wondered at, that
God, being not in a place, should be present to
every thing, that is in a place, wholly and en­
tirely ; reason pronouncing, that he, having no
place, must therefore of necessity be oki«*, all of
him indivisibly present to whatsoever he is pre­
sent.—Neither is this, saith he, a thing only de­
duced by reason, but that, which is before reason,
suggested by the instincts of mankind ; ro tv ta!
ravrov aptfl/uy, iravrayov Spa okop ctvac, Koivrj tw o id <j>ir
otvtivat, orav iravrtc Ktvov/urvot avrotpvtoc Xrytm, top ip
ixaorip yptov 6fOv, toe fva icat rov atirov* that One and
the same numerical substance (to wit, of the Deity)
is at once entirely every where; is agreeable to the
common notions, as sentiments of mankind, when
we do so often by the instincts of nature speak of
that God, who is in every one of us, supposing: him
to be one and the same in all.—Where the philo­
sopher subjoins, KaiEim iravraiv fitfiaiorari) dp\Vi VP
tomrtp al ipv\al ijpeuv (fStyyoorai, &C. And this is the
firmest of all principles, that, which our souls do,
as it w ere,;naturally and of themselves, speak;
and which is .not collected by reason, but comes
aLib. iy. Enne&d. vi. cap. iii. p. 647.
UNEXTENDED SUBSTANCE. 48 9
forth from them before ratiocination.—Moreover,
he often affirmeth of the human' soul, or rather
takes it -as a thing for granted, that this is the
whole or all of it, in every part of the body, that
is, undividedly: ’Ea-l St riig rpvyng, to avro
dpiB/iw, to iv T
ip iroSl, teat rp ^api inrap^H.
A s for the human soul, it is one and the same
numerically in the hand, and in the foot.—And
again : Elra iriog tv voSl kat ^api n}v ovrijv, rrjv Siiv up
Si fdpti tov iravrog, ov njv avrtjv T
rjv iv upSt' Since we
commonly suppose our own soul to be the same,'
both in our foot and in our hand, why should we
not, in like manner, acknowledge that of the mun­
dane soul, or Deity,—which is in one part of the
universe, to be the same with that in another ?
In like manner, Simplicius,* proving that body is
not the first principle, because there must of ne­
cessity be something self-moving, and what is so,
must needs be incorporeal, writeth th u s: To Si rot-
ovtov dfttpig evtivg avayKi) tlvat m i aSuunarov, fttpurrov
yap Kal Sutararov virapjfov, ov Svvarai oAov oAy eavrip
ifapporruv, tog to oXov tlvat Ktvovv, teat oXov to avro
Ktvovfitvov. Because what is such, must of neces­
sity be indivisible, and indistant; for were it divi­
sible, and distant, it could not all of it be con­
joined with its whole self ; so that tbe whole
should both actively move, and' be moved.-—
Which same thing seems further evident in the
soul’s being all conscious ofitself; and reflexive of
its whole self; which could not be, were one part
of it distant-from another. Again, the same phi­
losopher expressly denieth the soul, though a self-
moving substance, to be at all locally moved,
otherwise than by accident, in respect- of the-
Ubi supra,fol. 7.
400 ANCIENTS GkENEBAliliY ASSERTED
body, which is moved by it, ovtac^w^mieoc juvou?
ptvov Kivqetig (K orayapU uvag cudvrftov ion) dAAa rag
rfaXucoQ, cue ovipara ion aucojrcMF0ai, /SouXeuerAai, Stavoeiv,
8o£o£hv, icivsi ra. cupara Kararag w/uarucac #ai»?rac* The
soul, being, not mo ved by corporeal, or local mo*
tions (for in r e je c t .of these it is immoveable), ,hut
by cogitative ones only, (the names whereof ace
Consultation and Deliberation, &c.) by these
moveth bodies loyally.—And .that this wasreally
Plato’s meaning also, wheh he determined, the
soul to be a self-moving substance, and the cause
of all bodily motion \ that moving itself in a way
of cogitation, it moved- bodies- locally (notwith-;
Standing that Aristotle would n o t take notice of
fit), sufficiently appears from his own words, and
is acknowledged by the Greek scholiasts them­
selves upon Aristotle’s D e Anima. Thus: again
Simplicius elsewhere: ’E ra S’ ovk ev rowy aSS-
okKivoira, rac rav ev rom# ovrwy Kivqauc. Since the
soul: is not in. a place, it is not capable of any lo­
cal motion.
"We should omit the testimonies of any mom
philosophers, were it not that we find Porphyrius
so full and express herein, who makes this the
very beginning of his djopfial wpoc ra vovrd, his mar
nuduction. tO
<intdligibles;-—
rav aiv/ia ev rojry, ou-
S v S I rwv Kaff iaurm aartpartov iv roVw, that though
every body be in a place, yet nothing, that is pro­
perly incorporeal, is in a place?—and who after-
P 22%2so. ^wards furtherpursues it in this manner:
Gwtob ]*' 0 »S i> o ir4 iC ftic'S «p yfra* to derwparov^ orrov f&ov~
Xerai* oyxif) yap (rwiMptararai rdnog* r o & a o y -
kou.TTftvTs\<og icai apeyt(hg9 v tr o ra !v iv oyKfp dkp&nfrov9
rwriKnq re Kxvrpewg apotp o v , BmOi&ei tolwv Trout ejpi svpl-
oKBTatj 07tov Kai SuucetTat' Kal e/c twv tpytov avTOv (pavipd
UKSXTCNDED SVBWAKCX; 481
n Tapnw
rimutrrav-•yiwai' N u th tr does that, which is-
incorporeal, move locally by wiH; place being re ­
lative only to magnitude and bulk. B ut that,
which is devoid of bulk- and magnitude, is like­
wise devoid Ofilocal motion. Wherefore, it is only
present by a certain disposition and inclination of
it to- one thing more than, another; nor is its pre­
sence there discernible otherwise, than by its ope-
rationsand effects;—Again, concerning the three
Divine hypostases be writeth thus.; o p j31
@eoc- ndvrayov on- wStynv, m o w ic T w r # '
ypv-oftovSofzov, niifhrxji iravm\m irt oiiapov, &C. T h e
supreme G od.is therefore everywhere, because
he ie no where; and.the same is true also of the
second and third Divine hypostases, Nous and
Psyche. The supreme God is every where and
nowhere, in respect of those thingB which are af­
ter him, and only his own, aud in himself. Nous,
or intellect, is in the supreme God; every where
and no where, as to those things that are after
him. Pysehe, or the mundane soul, is both in
intellect and the supreme God, and every where
and nd where; as to bodies. Lastly, body is both’
in the soul of the world and in God.—W here he
denies God to bd locally in the corporeal world,
and- thanks it more proper to say, that the corpo­
real world is in God, than God in if; because the
world in held and contained in the Divine power,
btftthet Deity Is n o t» the locality of the world.
Moreover, he farther declares his sense after thie
UiaDuei':* Qu$’ a «vdv' oSi> n im vorflan am Sparov, iv
KBKg d o r re u v y t New; otip& t®vpe» y a p Sscrucov a v a n *£■
Kevov. Nov SI iv ip ya a v ytupnaat apn'Xpvov, /cat totov Sov-
*InAppendice sententiarum, sive graduum ad intelligibilia, § 45.
p. 278. ed. Cantab.
4 9 2 ANCIENTS GENERALLY ASSERTED
vat etitpysuf. Nor, if there were conceived to be
such an incorporeal space, or vacuum (as Demo­
critus and Epicurus supposed), could Mind, or
God, possibly exist in this empty’space (as coex-
tended!with the same),, for this would be only re­
ceptive. of bodies, but it could not receive the
energy of miod or intellect, nor give any place or
room to that, that being no bulky thing.—And
again :* 'O fuv Koafioq ev, r<fi vw StatnaruaHc itdpttm, to
& aatofiarov Tip Koafitp a/uepwc teat aStaorartuc* to $ ajucptc
*v Staarartp oXov yivsrat teara wav pepoc,raorov ov teat ev
apt0/tip' avro a/uefxJc iraptari -km avXiflvvrus Kat aToirwc, ’
Kara njv avrov, <j>vcnv, rip fupumii, teat TrorXqtWjuiiKp, Kat'
ovrt.cv roTTtp. The corporeal world is distantly pre­
sent to the intelligible (or the Deity); and that'is
indivisibly and indistantly present with the world.
But when that, which is indistant and unextended,
is present with that which is distant and extend-’
ed; then is the whole of the former one and the
same numerically in every part of the latter. That
is, it is indivisibly and unmultipliedly, and illo-
cally there (according to its own nature) present
with that, which is naturally divisible, and mnl-'
tipliable, and in a place.—Lastly, heaffirmeththe
same likewise of the human soul, that this is also*
ovala d/uyffliK, a substance devoid of magnitude,—
and which is-not locally present to. this or. that'
body, but by disposition and.energy; and there-’
fore the whole of it in every part thereof undi-
videdly.b
And as for the Christian writers, besides Ori-
gen, who was so famous an assertor of incorpo-
a Par. ii. Sententianim ad intelligibilia docentium, §• 35. p-
241.
b Vide par. i. Sententiar. §. 18. p. 225.
UNEXTENDED SUBSTANCE. 493
real substance, that (as Socrates* recordeth) the
Egyptian monks and Anthropomorphites threat­
ened death to Theophilus the Alexandrianbishop,
unless he would at once execrate and renounce
the writings of Origen, and profess the belief of a
corporeal God of human form; and who also
maintained incorporeal substance to be unex­
tended, as might be proved from sundry passages,
both of his book against Celsus, and that Peri
Archon ; we say (besides Origen, and others of
the Greeks), St. Austin amongst the Latins clearly
asserted the same; he maintaining in his book
De Quantitate Animae,b and elsewhere, concern­
ing the human soul, that being incorporeal, it
hath-no dimensions oflength, breadth, and profun­
dity, and is illocabilis, no where as in a place.
We shall conclude with the testimony of Boe­
thius, who was both a philosopher and a Christ­
ian : “ Quaedam sunt (saith he)ccommunes animi
conceptiones, per se not*, apud sapientes tan-
tum ; ut incorporalia non esse in loco.” There are
certain common conceptions, or notions of the
mind, which are known by themselves amongst
wise men only; as this, for example, that incor-
poreals are io no place.—From whence it is ma­
nifest^.that tbe generality of routed wise men
were not formerly of this opinion, “ quod nusquam
est, nihil est,” that what is no’ where, or in no
certain place, is nothing;—and that this was not
mHistor. Eccles. lib.vi. cap. vii. p. 310.
b It is published in the, first volume of the Benedictine edition of
St Augustine's works.
c Dr. Cudworth seems to have quoted this passage from memory
out of Boethius's book, intitied, “ Quomodo Substantiae in eo, quod
tint, bohae tint, cumnon sint Substantial bona," p. 167.
404 HOW OBJECTIONS AGAINST AN
looked iupon by them as a common notion, but
only as.a vulgar .error.
B y:this.time we have made it unquestionably
evident, that this opinion ofincorporeal substance
being unextended, indistant, and devoid of mag­
nitude,- is no novel or recent thing, nor first started
in the scholastic age; but.that it was the general
persuasion of the.most ancientnnd learned .assert-
ors of. incorporeal substance, especially that the
Deity was not.part ofit here, and part of it there,
northe substance thereofmensurable by.yardsand
poles, as if there were so much of it contained,in
one room, and so much and no more:in.another,
according to their several.dimensions; hut that
the whole undivided.Deity was:at-once in every
part of the world,, and consequently no where lo­
cally after ,the manner of bodies. But, because
this opinion seems so strange and. paradoxical,
and lies under so great prejudices, we shall in the
next place shew, bow these ancient Incorporeal-
ists endeavoured to acquit themselves in repelling
the several efforts and. plausibilities made against
it. The first whereof is this, that to suppose in­
corporeal substances unextended and divisible, is
to make them absolute parvitudes, and by means
of that, to render them all. (even the Deity itself)
contemptible: since they must of necessity be
either physical minimums, that cannot;actually
be divided farther by reason of their littleness (if
there be any such thing), or else mere mathemati­
cal points, which are not so much as mentally, di­
visible: so that thousands of these incorporeal
snbstances, or spirits, might dance together at
once upon a needle’s point. To which it was long
UH£JCTENDKD DEITY ANSWERED. 495
sineethus replied byPlotinus: Qvyx&rw p ^
Sk ifttpic <Jc 'faKpov’ orip “
yap ovStv ijTrov mw ‘
fufpurrov itrrai' not ovTavriavro ifappoou' ovS* xiii.]
av av%aftlv(j> ro avro awitrrai' aXX owS* wrwe « c aiqucwv,
ou y ip ev tntfitiev o oyieof, dAA* mntpa tv a iry, ov$ :iu?
ifaptiiotc God, and all other incorporeal sub­
stances, are not so indivisible, as if they were
parvitndes* or little things, as physical points; for
so would they still be mathematically divisible;
nor yet as if they were mathematical points nei­
ther,1which indeed are no bodies nor substances,
bat only-the termini of a line. And neither ,of
these ways could •the Deity congruere with the
world;noruouls with their respective bodies, so as
to be all present with the whole of them.—Again,
he writeth particularly concerning the P 764
Deity thus: Qwif ovrwc dfM
jolci wc ro (T
jiii- ’*
•
Kpwtarov, fdyurrov yap mravrurv, ow /isyiBu,
aXXa Bwapa‘—~—Xrfirriov S i:cat Aampov awrov, ow rip
m8u&rnrq>,.%tow/uryddowc, V row aptBfiav,aXXa rip awtpi-
Xvimp riic Swa/umt;. Godis not'so indivisible, as if
he Were:the smallest or least of things, for he is
the greatest of all, not in respect of magnitude,
hut of power. Moreover, as he is indivisible,-so
is be also to be acknowledged infinite; not as if
he were a magnitude, or a number, which, could
never be passed through, but because bis power
is incomprehensible.—Moreover, the same philo­
sopher condemnetb this for a vulgar error, pro­
ceeding from sense and imagination,- that what­
soever is unextenddd, and.indistant, must there­
fore needs be little; he affirming, on the contrary,
the vulgar to be much mistaken, as to.p/645>
true greatness and.littleness: Mfya vopl- »j;j
favrte t o a’
utBtfrov, airopcivptv, ttw
c tv ptyaXtp
496 HOW OBJECTIONS AGAINST AN
Kai ToaovTip sjctlinj r| <j>wrig acraverai' to Si cart rovro to
Atyoptvov fiiya pucpov' o Si vofuCfrai pucpov a v a l p iy a .
in ti oAov «ri 7
rav rovrov pipog. fB avti, paXXov Si rovro
waivra^dfltv role avrov p tp ttn v . w tKtlvo to'v tvpioKU avro
wavra^ov w av real piUfiV tavrov. We COtDtnODly, look­
ing upon this sensible world as great, wonder how
that (indivisible and unextended) nature of the
Deity can every where comply, and be present
with it Whereas that, which, is. vulgarly called
great, is indeed little; and that, which is thus ima­
gined to be little, is indeed great. Forasmuch as
seat, p.243. the whole o£ this diffuseth itself through
[$.m
xt!.] every part of the other; or rather, this
whole corporeal universe, in every one of..its
parts, findeth that whole, and entire, and there­
fore greater than itself.—To the same purpose
also Porpbyrius: To ovrtvc ov ovr* pkya, ovrt pucpov
tori' (ro yap p iy a Kai pucpov Kvplaig oyKOv iSta) iicfitfitiKOG
SI ro p iy a K a i pucpov' k w . vwlp ro ptyurrov k m w rlp to
iX ayiorov, ravro K
ai e
va pS pw ov* a Kai tvpioKtTM dpa v7
ro
iravrog ptyiorov, K
ai viro ravro; tX ayiorov avpuncojuEvov*
fir/rt apa mg piyurrov avro wovoiftrac* ti St piJ, dwopw m e,
mag piyurrov ov rote iX aylaroig oyKoig n d p ta n , prj peuo&iv,
V avaraX iv’ p v r t ale tX a^iarov, tl St ptj, wdXiv airoppaug,
w ait tX ayloTov ov rote pty'urroig oyKcag irdptari, ptj woXXa-
wXaoiaoBfv, v avfaQtv. The Deity, which, is. the only
true being, is neither great nor little (forasmuch
as great and little properly.belong to corporeal
bulk, or magnitude); but it exceedeth both the
greatness of every thing that is great, and the
littleness of whatsoever is little (it being more in­
divisible, and more one with itself, than any thing
that is little, and more powerful than any thing
that is great); so that it is above both the greatest
and the least; it being found all one and the same
UNEXTENDED DEITY ANSWERED. 407
by every greatest, and every smallest thing parti­
cipating thereof. Wherefore you must neither look
upon God as the greatest thing (that is, in a way
of quantity), for then you may.well doubt, how be­
ing the greatest, he can be all of him present with
every least thing, neither diminished, nor contract­
ed ; nor yet must you look upon him as the least
thing neither: for if you do so, then will yoube at
a loss again, how, being the least thing, he can be
present with all the greatest bulks; neither mul­
tiplied, nor augmented.—In a word, the sum of
their answer amounts to this, that an incorporeal
unextended Deity, is neither a physical point, be­
cause this bath distance in it, and is mentally di­
visible ; nor yet a mathematical one, because this,
though having neither magnitude nor substance in
it, hath, notwithstanding, site and position; a
point being, according to Aristotle,* a monad hav­
ing site and position. It is not to be conceived as
a parvitude, or very little thing, because then it
could not congruere with all the greatest things*;
nor yet as a great thing, in a way of quantity and
extension; because then it could not be all of it
present to every least thing. Nor does true great­
ness consist in a way of bulk or magnitude, all
magnitude being but little; since there can be no
infinite*magnitude, and no finite magnitude can
have infinite power, as Aristotle before urged.
And to conclude, though some, who are far from
Atheists, may make themselves merry with that
conceit of thousands of spirits dancing at once
upon a needle’s point; and though the Atheists
may endeavour to rogue and ridicule all incorpo-
•De Animajib. ii. cap. vi. p. 13.videetiam Metaphy?.lib. xiii. cap.
xii. p. 471. tom. iv. oper.
VOD, III. 2 k
498 INCORPOREAL, NO POINTS NOR PARVITUDES.
real substance in that manner, yet does this run
upon a clear mistake of the hypothesis, and make
nothing at all against it; forasmuch as an unex-'
tended substance is neither any parvitude, as is
here supposed (because it hath no magnitude at
all), nor hath it any place, or site, or local motion,
properly belonging to it; and therefore can nei­
ther dance upon a needle’s point, nor any -where
else.
But in the next place, it is further objected,
that what is neither great norlittle, what possesses
no space, and hath no place nor site amongst
bodies, must therefore needs be an absolute non­
entity, forasmuch as magnitude Or extention is
the very essence of being or entity, as such; sd
that there can be neither substance nor accident
unextended. Now, since whatsoever is extended
is bodily, there can therefore be no other sub­
stance, besides body, nor any thing incorporeal,
otherwise than as that word may be taken for a
thin and subtile body; in which sense fire was,
by some in Aristotle,* said to be juaXtoratw
vo t m -
aotiftarov, and dvwftarwrarov, the most incorpo­
real of all the elements;—and Aristotlebhimself
useth the word in the same manner, when he
affirmeth, that all philosophers did define the
soul by three things, motion, sense, and incorpo­
reity ; several Of those there mentioned by him
understanding the soul to be no otherwise incor­
poreal, than as aw/m Xenroficpig, a thin and subtile
body.—In answer to which objection, we may
remember, that Plato, in the passage before cited,
declareth this to be but a vulgar error, that what-
• Do Anim%lib. i. cap. ii. p. 6. tom. ii. oper. bIbid.
EXTENSION AND ENTITY NOT THE SAME. 499
soever doth not take up space, and is in no place,
is nothing. He intimating the original hereof to
have sprung from men’s adhering too much to
those lower faculties of sense and imagination;
which are able to conceive nothing but what is
corporeal. And accordingly Plotinus: 'H
fuv auidqaic, J7 irpoai^ovrtt dwunovfuv rote Xt-
yofxivoiQ, Xtytt on SSe teat tS&' o So Xoyoc to wSe Kai «3St
ovk hcraBHaav wSe Kai uSs ytyovivat , aXXa t o iicra-
fltv m avTov jutraXq^lvat, &vroe dStaerrdrov avrov. Sense,
indeed, which we attending to, disbelieve these
things, tells us of here and there; but reason
dictates, that here and there is so to be under*
stood of the Deity, not as if it were extendedly
here and there, but because every extended thing,
and the several parts of the world, partake every
where of that, being indistant and unextended.—
-
To the same purpose Porpbyrius: Ac?roi- , J4J
vw *v t m q O K h f/tin Karu/tparouvrac r v t acarepov
IStorirroc fit} itraXXdrruv rac </>v<rciC
' juaXXov Si ra Trpoa-
ovra rote otdpamv, jj rotaura, fit} tjKtvrdteaDai Kai $o£a£ttv
Trspi to douifiarov' rutv fiiv yap autfidrtov, tv avvifStla irac".
EKtlvwv Si judXtf tv ywdou ylvtrat. dopurrdiv vipl avra, cue
dv wro favramac Kparqrat* We ought therefore, in our
disquisitions concerning corporeal and incor­
poreal beings, to conserve the property of each,
and not to confound their natures; but especial­
ly to take heed, that our fancy and imagination
do not so far impose upon oor judgments, as to
make us attribute to incorporeals what properly
belongetb to bodies only. For we are all accus­
tomed to bodies; but as for incorporeals, scarcely
any one reaches to the knowledge of them;
men always fluctuating about them, and dtffiding
them, so long as they are held under-the power of
2 k 2
600 . EXTENSION AND ENTITY
their imagination.—Where afterwards he pro­
pounded a form for this, bow we should think
of incorporeals, so as not to confound their na­
tures With COrporeals ; «v anupdis fdptai rov Smora-
t
o
v frapov oXov r« aSteutrarov, oitrt peploQtv iraptari, ry
fiipu SiSov pfpoc, our* ir\t)$vvObr r i v rXijtn irap^ov cavro
iroXXa ir X ifo ia o Q e v ' aXX’ oXov i r a a i rt tw
c f i f y t o i r o v ,
OjKiUfiivou, ivi rs ikaortp rov nXridovQ, afxtfMoq KaiaTrX
rjO
vv-
ra>ckm ti( tv apiOfiw' to SI fupuctuc xat Stppvpfvws airoXaV-
uv avrov. That the indistant and unextended Deity
is the whole of it present in infinite parts of the
distant world, neither divided, as applying part
to part; nor yet 'multiplied into many wholes,
according to the multiplicity of those things that
partake thereof. But the whole of it (one and the
same in number) is present to all the parts of the
bulky world, and to every one of those many
things in it, undividedly and unmultipliedly; that
in the mean time partaking thereof dividedly.—
It was granted therefore by these ancients, that
this unextended and indistant nature of inedr-
poreals is afavraarov, a thing altogether unima­
ginable and this was concluded by them to be
the only reason, why so many have pronounced
it to be impossible, because they attended only
to sense and imagination, and made them the
only measure pf things and truth; it having been
accordingly maintained by divers of them (as
Porphyrins tells us), that imagination and intel­
lection are but two different names for one'and
, the.same thing: OvoparocSiafapacirpoort-
P. *24. A^. f - - - « . / t , # .
tfcitnic nf rov vov viroaratra, feat n)c </>avra<uac,
jj yap cv Xoyuc<p 2u
m
j* tpavraoia tSiSoicro avroic voipnc.
There is a difference of names only, and no more,
betwixt fnind and fancy; fancy and imagination,
NOT THE SAME. 501
in rational animals, seeming to be the same thing
with intellection.—Bnt there are many things,
which no man can have any phantasm or ima­
gination of, and yet are they, notwithstanding,
by all unquestionably acknowledged for entities,
or realities; from whence it is plain, that we must
have some Other faculties in us, which extend
beyond fancy and imagination. Reason indeed
dictates, that whatsoever can either do or suffer
any thing, must therefore be undoubtedly some­
thing; but that whatsoever is Unextended, and
hath no distant parts one without another, must
therefore needs be nothing, is no common notion,
but the spurious suggestion of imagiqation only,
and a vulgar error. There need to be no fear at
all, lest a Being infinitely wise and powerful,
which acts upon the whole world, and all the
parts thereof, in framing and governing the same,
should prove a nonentity, merely for want.of
bulk and extension; or, because it swells not out
into space and distance, as bodies do, therefore
vanish into nothing. Nor do active force and
power, as such, depend upon bulk and exten­
sion ; because then whatsoever bad the greater
bulk, would have the greater activity. There
are therefore two kinds of substances in the uni­
verse; the first corporeal, which are nothing but
oyicot, bulks, or tumours,—devoid of all self-active
power; the second incorporeal, which are aoyxoi
Zwifiae, substantial powers, vigours,. and acti­
vities ;■
—which, though they act upon bulk and'
extension, yet are themselves unbulky, and de­
void of quantity and dimensions; however, they
have a certain (3a6oc in them in another sense, ran
essential profundity, according to this of Simpli-'
/
502 SENSE ANP IMAGINATION
In. Ar. Phjj. cius:Mtpum) fi&v airXwc V cruyiaruci) ovota waaa,
P-3- aXAuv aXXa^ov rcuv /itp'uov KUfUvuiv' dfl^w roc
tiAacpnwc 4 votpa, tto
Xv Be (3A0o^ tyouaa. All corpo­
real substance is simply divisible, some parts of
it being here, and some there; but intellectual
substance is indivisible, and without dimensions,
though it hath much of depth and profundity in it
in another sense..—But that there is something
atjM
vratrrov, unimaginable,—even in body itself, ia
evident, whether you will suppose it to be infi­
nitely divisible, or not, as you must of necessity
suppose one or other of these. And that we
ought not always to pronounce of corporeal things
themselves according to imagination, is manifest
from hence; because, though astronomical rea­
sons assure us, that the sun is really more than
a hundred times bigger than the whole earth, yet
can we not possibly, for all that, imagine the
sun of such a bigness, nor indeed the earth itself
half so big, as we know it to be. The reason
whereof is, partly because we never had a sense
or sight "of any such vast bigness at once, as that
of either of them ; and partly because our sense
always representing the sun to us, but mBuuw,
as of a foot diameter ;*—and we being accustomed
always to imagine the same according to the ap­
pearance of sense, are not jable to frame any ima­
gination of it, as very much bigger. Wherefore,
if imagination be not to be trusted, nor made the
criterion or measure of truth, as to sensible
things themselves, much less ought it to be, as to
things insensible. Besides all which, the ancient
Incorporealists argued after this manner, that it
*Tide Ciceron. Acad. Question, lib. iv. cep. xxvi. p. 2294. torn,vtii-
eper.
NOT THE MEASURE OF THINGS- 5 0 3
is as difficult for us to conceive a substance
whose duration js unextended or. unstretcbed out
in time, into past, present* and future, and there­
fore without beginning; as that which is unex­
tended as to parts, place, or space, in length,
breadth, and thickness; yet does reason pro­
nounce, that there, m ust needs be not only a du­
ration without beginning, but also aypoyoc auov, a
timeless eternity,^—or a. permanent duration, dif­
fering from that successive dux of time (which is
one of Plato’s* yevmrra, things generated,—or that
had a beginning), this parity of reason is by P lo­
tinus'thus insisted on: Aw o»V ev x^ovy, p . ^ . ^
a’XXa TTavroc vpovov e£a>, t o v ufv vpoyov atiSvd- lib.
, • *\ t « f ' - v . - • <
* oap.’xl.]
, fievov auinpocbiaaraoiv, t o v o auvvoc tv rtf) avrtp
ftivovroc icat Kparovvrof, Kal frXdovoc ovtoc Bvyajtu aiBup,
t o v «ri iroXXa Sokovvtoc Uvai ygovov. For the same
reason, that we deny local extension to the
Deity, must we also deny temporal distance to
the sam e; and affirm, that God is not in time, but
above time, in eternity. Forasmuch as time is
always scattered and stretched out in length and
distance, one moment following after another;
but eternity remaineth in the same, without any
dux,- and yet nevertheless outgoeth time, and
transcendeth the dux thereof, though seeming to
be stretched and spun out mote into length.
Now, the reason, why We cannot frame a concep­
tion of such a timeless eternity, is only, because
ourselves are essentially involved in time, and ac­
cordingly are our conceptions chained, fettered,
and confined, to that narrow and dark dungeon,
that ourselves are imprisoned in ; qotvrithstand-
*In Timao, p. 629. oper.
604 WHAT UNEXTENDED, MUST BE,
ing which, our freer faculties, assuring us of tbe
existence of a being, which far transcendeth our­
selves, to wit, one that is infinitely perfect; we
have, by means hereof, juavmav rcvd, a certain va­
ticination,— of such a standing timeless eternity,
as its duration.
B ut as for that conceit, of immaterial or incor­
poreal bodies, or that God and human souls are
no otherwise incorporeal than as <wjua Xemofitp*s, a
thin and subtile body,— such as wind or vapour,
air or ether; it is certain, that, according to the
principles of the most ancient atomic philosophy
(before it was atheized), there being no such real
quality of subtilty or tenuity (because this is alto­
gether unintelligible), but this difference arising
wholly from motion, dividing tbe insensible parts,
and every way agitating the same, together with a
certain contexture of those p arts; it is not impos­
sible, but that the finest and most subtile body
that is, might become as gross, hard, heavy, and
opaque, as flesh, earth, stones, lead, or iro n ; and
again, that tbe grossest of these bodies, by mo­
tion, and a different contexture of parts, might
not only be crystallized, but also become as thin,
soft, and fluid, as tbe finest ether. So that there
is no specific difference betwixt a thick and thin,
a gross and fine, an opaque and pellucid, a hard
and soft body, but accidental o n ly ; and there­
fore is there no reason, why life and understand­
ing should be thought to belong to tbe one rather
than to the other of them. Besides which, the
reasons of the ancient Incorporealists (afterwards
to be produced) will evince, that the human'soul
and mind cannot possibly be any body whatso­
ever, though never so fine, thin, and subtile,
. ALL IN EVERY PART. 505
;whose parts are by motion dividable, and sepa­
rable from one another.
But it is further objected against this unex­
tended nature, of incorporeal substances, as they
are said to be all in the whole, and all in every
part of that body, which they are united into, or
act upon; that this is an absolute contradiction
and impossibility, because'if the whole of the
Deity be in this one point of matter, then can
there be nothing at all of it in the next adjoining,
but that must needs be another whole, and no­
thing the same with the former. In like manner,
if the.whole human soul be in one part of this or­
ganized body, then can there be none at all of it
in any other part thereof; and so not the whole in
the whole. To which objection the ancient In-
corporealists made this two-fold reply: first, in
way of concession, T hat this is indeed an abso­
lute contradiction for an extended substance, or
body to be all of it in every one part of that space,
which the whole occupieth. Thus Plotinus:
Swjuart aSvvarov ev irXtloai t o u v t o oAov aval, gn
<4_
icot to /ucpoc oirfp ro oXov virap^uv. It i8 im- p' 460‘ •
possible for a body, or extended substance, to
be one and the same, all of it in every part of that
space which it possesses; and for every part
thereof to be the same with the whole.—But, se­
condly, as for an unextended and indistant sub­
stance, which hath no parts one without another,
it is so far from being a contradiction, that it
should be all of it in every part of that body,
which it acts upon; that it is impossible it should
be otherwise, only a part in a part thereof, so
that an equal quantity of both should coexist
together, because this is to suppose an unex-
606 WHAT UNEXTENDED, MUST BE,
tended substance to be extended. We say it is
contradictious to the nature of that substance,
which is supposed to be aprylfoc, airotros, aBtaara-
Toe, afitpw, aStaiptrot, devoid of magnitude, and of
quantity, and of parts indistant, and indivisible;
—that it should be otherwise united to, or con­
joined with, an extended body, than after this
way, which is looked upon as such conjuring;
namely, that the whole of it should be present
with, and act upon every part thereof. Thus
f Plotinus: Ovroc oXoyos l£o
v
t
o
wrowirpayfia-
rof, kcu rqc ovaias aXXorptovauSlv, ovS* Ikrijc
tripos ^wreas IX
kwoc. This form of doctrine, con­
cerning Incorporeals, is necessarily taken from
the thing itself (viz. the nature of them as unex-.
tended), and hath nothing in it alien from that
essence, as confounding the corporeal nature
therewith.-—Whatsoever is unextended and indis­
tant, cannot possibly coexist with an extended
substance, point by point, and part by part,
but it must of necessity be oXovtv *at ravrov apiOpif,
all ofit, one and th6 same numerically;—that is
(like itself), undividedly, in every part.of that
which it acts upon. Wherefore the word oXov,
in this form, when it is said, .that the whole Deity
is in every part of the world, and the whole soul
in every part of the body, is not to be taken in a
positive sense, for a whole consisting of parts,
one without another, but in a negative only, for
pv fu/ttpuxfiivov, an whole u n d iv id e d so that the
meaning thereof is no more than this, that the
Deity is not dividedly in the world, nor the bouI
dividedly in the body, a part here and a part
p ^ there; but the To 0 e
Iovis rrmrrayovoXov py
piptpuspkvov, every where all of it, undi-
ALL IN EVERY PART. 5 07
yidedly.—Thus again Plotinus: El ovv«ravra^ov Otoe,
ov^’ olov t£ (itptpioptvov' ov y a p av m v a v r a y o o a v r og
t i l l , aXX* a c a a r o v avrov juipog, t o p k v aJSl, to SI «oSl carat,
avrog ovx £‘C£rt *«ra», twir^p d rpifitiii rt pkytOoe tig woX-
Xa, teat ra pipn ndvra, o v k st i t o oXov (Ktivo carat' 7rpog
tovtoif SI teat ooifia' c| SI ravra a Si)vara, TrdXiv av dvtfavti
to atrtarov/tevov, tv ipvcrti dvOpwrov, d/ttov 0tov vofuCjuv k m
v-avra^ov to avro dpa oXov ttvat* If therefore God be
every where, it cannot possibly be, that he should
be so dividedly; because then himself would not
be every where, but only a part of him here, and
a part of him there, throughout the world; him­
self being not one undivided thing. Moreover,
this would be all one,^ as if a magnitude were cut
and divided into many parts, every one of which
parts could not be that whole magnitude.—Last­
ly, this would be the very same, as to make God
a body.—Now if these things be impossible, then
must that so-much>disbelieved thing (looked upon
as such a puzzling griphus, or rather as contra*-
dictious nonsense) be an undoubted truth, ac­
cording to the common notions of mankind, that
God is every where; to wit, that he is all Of him
the same whole, undividedly, every where. The
sum of all is, that though it be an absolute con­
tradiction, for a body, or quantum, to be opov wav,
all of it in every part of that space,—which the
whole is in ; yet it is no contradiction at all for
an unextended and indistant being, to be all of
it undividedly, in every part of .that body it acts
upon; but, on the contrary, it would be flatly
contradictious to it, to say, that it is only part of
it in a part; this being to divide an indivisible
thing into parts.
The fourth and last objection against incOrpo-
608 SOULS ALWAYS UNITED TO SOME
real and unextended substance is from that illo-
cality and immobility (which will follow there­
upon) of human souls, and other finite particular
spirits, such as demons or angels; that this is not
only itself very absurd, to suppose these finite and
particular beings, to be thus illocal and immove­
able, no where, and every where (from whence it
would seem to follow, that they might act the
whole corporeal universe, or take cognizance of
all things therein every where); but also, that this
conceit is contradictious to the very principles of
religionists themselves, and plainly confuted by
the same; they acknowledging universally, that
human souls (at death) departing out of this
body, do locally move from thence into a certain
other place, called Hades, Hell, or Inferi. Now
the latter part of this objection is first to be an­
swered. And this is indeed a thing, which the
ancient assertors of incorporeal substance, as un­
extended, were not unaware of; that the vulgarly-
received tradition, of human souls (after death)
.going into hades, might be objected against them,
fo r the satisfying whereof, Plotinus suggesteth
„ ' . these two things; first, To ub> «c "Ai&w
[cap. xtj. p. yivtovai, u juev tv r y Aioct to ywpiQ A tytrai
fi59'^ That if by hades be meant nothing but
ro aaStc, the invisible (as many times it is), then
is there no more signified by the soul’s going into
hades, than its no longer being vitally united to
this earthy body, and but acting apart by itself,
and so hath it nothing of place necessarily include
ed in it..Secondly: Ei Bi «»# x£
‘Pwtowov' ri Oavpa<rrov$
fTTE l * « U VVV OV T O <7(0jU a tjjUtOV tV T «0 TOTTtf) Katctivt) XiysrcU
acu‘ aXX’ ovk ovroc m aw/uaToc; >
7 ro et&oAov a pq aVo^-
ffwaoOtiwr v«$ ovk iicu ov ro EtStoXov* But if by hades
BODY, THE OLD PHILOSOPHIC CABALA. 5 0 9 .
be understood a certain worser place (as some-
times it also is), what wonder is this? since now
where onr body is, there in the same place is our
soul said to be also ? But you will reply, How can.
this be, *when there is now no longer any body
left? We answer, that if the idol of the soul be.
not quite separated from it, why should not the
soul itself be said to be there also, where its idol
is? Where, by the idol of the soul, Plotinus seems
to mean an airy or spirituous body, quickened
and vitalized by the soul, adhering to it after
death. But when the same philosopher supposes
this very idol of the soul to be also separable
from it, and that so as to subsist apart by itself
too, this going alone into hades, or the worser
place, whilst that liveth only in the intelligible
world (where there is no place nor distance),
lodged in the naked Deity, having nothing at all
of body hanging about it, and being now not a
part but the whole, and so situate neither here
nor there; in this high flight of his, he is at once
both absurdly paradoxical, in dividing the life of
the soul as it were into two, and forgat the doc­
trine of his.own school, which, as himself else­
where intimateth, was this; rqV li/umpav
§ . * . \ * \ / * En. 4.1. iii. c.
\pvyjnv Tocs fiBv ouxjuia AcaraActi/zeiv, ov iravrri be j-p
>
fffaijuaroc ioteOw? that our soul, though
it shall quit this body, yet shall it never be dis­
united from all body. Wherefore Porphyrius an­
swering the sameobjection, though he were other­
wise much addicted to Plotinus, and here uses
his language too, yet does he in this depart from
him, adhering to the*ancient Pythagoric tradition;
which, as will appear afterwards, was ^ ^
this, “ That human souls are always A p‘
5 1 0 SOULS ALWAYS UNITED TO 80ME
united to some body or other.” "(Imrep to' ivl yvc
tlvai fo x y tartv, ov to ywc tm fialvuv, tig ra atifidra' to St
irpocaravai atifiarog, $ yvg imfialvH’ ovrw Kal tv ySox> tlvai
tort fo x y , orav irpoeanjKti ttSwXoi), <j>vmv fitv iypvrog tlvai
tv TO
TTW
, (TKOTll St TIJWVjrOOTCHTlV KtKTrtfltVOV’ fo r t tl OrfA‘-
Stig virdytiog ta n roirog mcorttvog, v fo y ri tv IfBov ylyvtrai
t<j>t\icofitvT} to tlSutXov' i£tX9ovoy yap airy tow artptov <rtJ-
ftarog, to Uvtv/ia awofiapru, o Ik Twv afoupfo owtXl^aro'
lira St SiriKtt t o (3apv irvtvpux, Kai twypov, dypi rwv wroytuav
T07raiv, ovro* Kat aunj Xlytrai ^wpetv wro yrjv* o vx o n V «wrif
ovala fiera(3alvti ronovg, Kal tv roirotg yivtrai' aXX’ art ro)»
wttpvKOTtov owfiartov, roirovg ptra(3aivtiv, aytatig avaStytrai'
As the soul’s being here upon earth (saith he) is
not its moving up and down upon it, after the
manner of bodies, but its presiding over a body,
which moveth upon the earth; so is its being in
hades nothing but its presiding over that idol,
or enlivened vaporous body, whose nature it is to
be in a place, and which is of a dark subsistence.
Wherefore, if hades be taken for a subterraneous
and dark place, yet may the soul nevertheless be
said to go into hades, because when it quits this
gross earthy body, a more spirituous and subtile
body, collected from the spheres (or elements)
doth still accompany it. Which spirit being
moist and heavy, and naturally descending to the
subterraneous places, the soul itself may be said
in this sense to go under the earth also with it,
not as if the substance thereof passed from one
place to another, but because of its relation and
vital union to a body which does so. Where
Porpbyrius addeth, contrary to the sense of Plo­
tinus ; That the soul is never quite naked of all
body, but hath alway some body or other joined
with it suitable and agreeable to its own present
BODY, THE OLD PHILOSOPHIC CABALA. 511
disposition (either a purer or impurer one). But
that at its first quitting this gross earthy body,
the spirituous body, which accompanieth it (as
its vehicle), must needs go away fouled and in-,
crassated with the gross vapours and steams
thereof, till the soul afterwards by degrees pur­
ging itself, this becometb at length a dry splen­
dour, which hath no misty obscurity, nor casteth
any shadow.
But because all this doctrine of the ancient In-
corporealists, concerning the human soul’s being
always (after death) united to some body or
other, is more fully declared by Pbiloponus than
by any other that we have yet met withal, we ,
shall here excerp some passages out of him about
it. First, therefore, he declareth this _
for his own opinion, agreeable to the Arutot. do
sense of the best philosophers ; rijv piv A
n"
Xoyucnv ^a»p«rrj|w, rr)v SI aXoyov, rowrow plv ywpicrrdv,
aXXov ftlvroi rivog otifiarog dyjopurrov, Xiyw Si row Ilvtw-
juarucov, iariv dXrj&rjQ So£a, tog Sel^opev' that the ra­
tional soul, as to its energy, is separable from all
body; but the irrational part, or life thereof, is
separable only from this gross body, and not from
all body whatsoever, but hath (after death) a spi­
rituous or airy body, in which it acteth;—this I
say is a true opinion, as shall be afterwards
proved by us. And again: 'H SI dXoyoc o
w
'k m lv row-
ry £^a ro aval, iirtSiapivu yap km ptra e^oSov rt}v be row-
tov Trig "O^rifm teat 'YrroKupsvov iyovaa to irvtvfia-
rwcov awfia' o Kal avro tori fiiv etc twv rtoaapwv, Xiyerai
SI Ik tow vXsovatovroQ tow aepog’ warrtp Kot rowro yyivov,
X iytrai Ik row ‘
irXcova^ovroc* The irrational life of the
soul hath not all its being in this gross earthy
body, but remaineth after the soul’s departure out
51& SOULS ALWAYS UNITED TO SOME
of it, having for its vehicle and subject, the spi­
rituous body; which itself is also compounded
out of the four elements, but receiveth its deno­
mination from the predominant part, to wit-, air;1
as this gross body of ours is called earthy, from
what is most predominant therein.—Thus do we-
see, that, according to Philoponus, the human
soul after death does not merely exercise its
rational powers, and think only of metaphysical
and mathematical notions, abstract things, which
are neither in time nor place, but exerciseth also
its lower sensitive and irrational faculties, which
it could not possibly do, were'it not then vitally
united to some body; and this body then accom­
panying the soul he calls pneumatical, that is
(not spiritual in the Scripture-sense, but), spi­
rituous, vaporous, or airy. Let us therefore, in
the next place, see what rational account Philo­
ponus can give of this doctrine, of the ancients,
and of his own opinion agreeable thereunto :
Af°°irt' de ® q/twfpa, fura njv tK rov awfiarog rov-
An. rov t£o$ov, qftoXoyurai, fiaXkov St airoSihcwrai,
ttC fSov aiplKVHadai^ icat voivac tKU rwv ov xaXwt
fdvitiv itaptytiv' ov yap /uovov rov Aval rtfitov <ppovrl£ti q*
wpovoia, aXXd /tat rov tv Aval' Sto ov/t dfuXtnai q i/'VX’l
ttc to irapd <j>vaiv t£oXur0q<ra<ra, a’XXa T vyyavu tijc irpoaq-
k o v o ijc ttrt/utXttac* Kai tirttSq to ajuapravttv avrp Sid -yXv-
KvOvfilav iyivtro , t£ avaytcqc K«* to Kqdapflrjvai Si dXyvv~
otwc avrg ytvqotrat’ KavravOa yap to ivavria rov tvayrlivv
li/MTa. Sia rovro aXyvvtrai q KaOaipofxtvti tv rolg wrd yqv
Sucauvrtjploic Sid KoXaatotg’ ’AXX’ tt aadjuaroc q ^v^q a$v-
varov avrqv iraduv' v w q ovv <toXd£rrat; a’vayjcq ovv iraoa
atvjua rt avrqc t£q^0at, o Sta/cptvdjutvov dfitrpuH; q ovyicpivo-
fitvov, mro i/wSt/vc q Kavatwt dfiirpov, aAyvvtt rqv if/vynv
Sid rqv av/nrdOttav' jroiov ovv vwjua. tan ;ro t£q/tt/tfvev ay-'
feODY, THE OLD PHILOSOPHIC CABALA. 513
Vtfc i ov Sj
j
V ou touto avtAvflij yap Etc I'd 0£ wv ovvi<m)Ktv,
a\\a tovto, to Uvevftarucov, o At-yojutv, tv rovry ouv tl<n irdv-
twc Stq rovro (■
>
£ tv \nroKUfiivtp, O
v/ioq Kal imOv/iia' tcai ra
t&
ic* Our human soul (in those who are not purged
and cleansed in this life), after its departure out
of this body, is acknowleged, or rather demon­
strated, to go into hades, there to receive punish­
ment for its evil actions past. For Providence
does not only take care of our being, but also of
our well-being. Therefore is the soul, though
lapsed into a preternatural-state, yet not neglect­
ed by Providence, but hath a-convenient care
taken of it, in order to its recovery. !And since
sinning had its original from the desire of plea­
sure, it must of necessity be cured by pain: for
here also contraries are the cures of contraries.
Therefore the soul being to be purged, is pu­
nished and pained in those subterraneous judi­
catories and prisons, in- order to its amendment.
But if the soul be incorporeal, it is impossible' for
it to suffer. How then can it be punished ? There
must of necessity be some body joined with i t ;
which, being immoderately constringed or sgi-
.tated, concreted or secreted, and discordantly
moved by heat and cold, or the like, may make
the soul sensible pf pain, by reason of sympathy,
as it is here in thisjife. . ^ h a t body therefore is
that, whiph is then, combined with the soul,, after
the dissolution of that earthy body into its ele­
ments? Certainly it can be no other than this
.pneumatical,. or spirituous body, which we now
speak pf; for in this, are'seated, as their subject,
-the irascible and concupiscible passions, and
they are inseparable. frop> the same-; nor-could
they be in the soubdisufiite^ from all body: and
VOL. III. 2 L
5 1 4 THE s o u l 's s p ir it u o u s o r a ir y
that soul which is freed from these, would be
forthwith freed from generation; nor would it be
concerned in those subterraneous judicatoriesnnd
prisons, but be carried up aloft to the higher ce­
lestial regions, &c.—After which he endeavours
further to confirm this opinion from the vulgar
phenomena : Ar/Xov 8e in paXXov on rl son TO wsvpa-
tmcov oZpa, Kal tovtov dyjvptara Ovpog k m tmOvpla, e£ av-
rrjg rivv trpayparwv svspysiag4 iroBsv yap tv role ro^ote ra
oxiotiSrj tjMivovrai favraopara j ov -yap 8rjyt ij ^ i j
iojfrtpdnoTM, y 6Xu>g sot'i
v opart}4 aXXa <
j>
aot rag aicaftap-
rovg tfwj(ac, ptra ryv t£o8ov t o v t o v row owparog trXavaoOai
siri rtva ^povov pera row ITvtu/xaroe, Kal rovro vapaSsucvv-
v m xspt tw!{ rafyovg4 810 ippovnortov sv^unag" vtto t o v t o v
yap tpaoi row wvevparog, TrayyvOtvrog tK po-^Oypag 8iafa-ygf
KaraoTrdo&at irspl ra iraOy ryv Tpvyr\v' Furthermore,
that there is such a pneumatical (spirituous, va­
porous, or airy) body, which accompanied) souls
unpurged after death, is evident also from the
phenomena themselves. For what account can
otherwise be given ofthose spectres and phantoms,
'which appear shadow-like about graves Or sepul­
chres, since the soul itself is neither of any figure,
nor yet at all visible? Wherefore these ancients
say, that impure souls, after their departure out
of this body, wander here, up and down, for a
certain space, in their spirituous, Vaporous, and
airy body, appearing about sepulchres, and haunt­
ing their 'forlner habitations. For which cause
there is great reason, that we should take care of
living well, as also of abstaining from a foUler
and grosser diet; these ancients telling us like­
wise, that this spirituous body of ours, being
fouled and incrassatedby evil diet, is apt'to ren­
der the soul, in this life also, more obnoxious to
/BODY (SUPPOSED) AFTElt DEATH. 5 1 5
-the disturbances of passions.—And here Philo-
ponns goes on to gratify us with a farther account
of some other of the opinions of these ancients,
concerning this spirituous or airy body, accom­
panying the soul after death: ’
'E^n yap rt ml auro,
fool, rqc <j>vrtxiic Z,t>r\c, xal yap rpitjaaBai. rptytodai SI ov%
o vtw c cJc rovro to iwjua, aXXa arpwv ov &d juoptaw,
a’XX’ oXov St’ oXov, <fdpe ciirttv, tic oi airoyyoi, Beyovrai
roue ar/Mvc’ Sid rovro ippovrl^ovaiv ot airovSauM rijc X«r-
roripac Statrifc xal £qporipac, Bia to /ui) n ^v w a^at to
irvsvpa aXXa X orrm rA u' irpoc to v to icat rovc Kodappoic
^adi irapaXapfiavuv’ rovro p£v yap t o otupa vSart irXvvs-
rat, £K£»mo SI KaOappoic Sid t w v drpmv, Scd yap drptiv
Tivflov rp^erai rtvwv SI xaBalperai' ov SuvpyavivaSat 8£
jtatnv avro, a’XX’ oXov St’ oXov m p y w , Kara rdc auA |ni{,
Kal rwv aurOifrcuv dtmXapfidvtoBai" Sio m i ’Apwiwftfls
•fyaiv sv ro<c ptrd ra t^virtxd, on q icvpLuc aM q n c juia, m t
to Kuptuc aiaftjrqptov2v*They further add, that.there
is something of a plantal and plastic life also,
exercised by the soul, in those epirituons or airy
bodies after death ; they being nourished too,
though not after the same manner, as these gross
earthy bodies of ours are here, but by vapours;
and that not by parts oi* organs, but throughout
the whole of them (as sponges), they imbibing
every where those vapours. For which cause,
they, who are wise, will in this life also take care
of using a thinner and dryer diet, that so that
spirituous body (which we have also at this pre­
sent time within onr grosser body)l may not be
clogged and incrassated, but attenuated. Over
and above which, those ancients made use of
catharms, Or purgations, to the same end and
purpose also: for.as this earthy body is washed
by water; » is that Spirituous body cleansed by
2 l 2
5 1 6 THE s o u l ’s s p ir it u o u s o r a ir y
■cathartic vapours; some of these vapours being
nutritive, others purgative. Moreover, these an­
cients farther declared concerning this spirituons
body, that it was not organized, but did the
whole of it, in every part throughout, exercise
all functions of sense, the soul hearing,, and seer
iug, and perceiving all sensibies, by it every
.where. For which cause, Aristotle himself affirm­
ed), in his Metaphysics, that there is properly
but one sense, and but one sensory ; he, by this
one sensory, meaning the spirit, or sobtile airy
body, in which the sensitive power doth all of it,
through the whole,' immediately apprehend all
variety of sensibies. .And if it be demanded,
how it comes then to pass, that this spirit appears
organized in sepulchres, and most commonly of
human form, but sometimes in the form;of some
other animals? to this those ancients replied,
That their appearing so frequently in human form
proceedeth from their being incrassated:with evil
diet, and then, as it were, stamped upon with
the form of this exterior ambient body in which
they are, as crystal is formed and coloured like
to those things, which it is fastened'in, or reflects
the image of them; and that their having some?-
times other different forms proceedeth from the
fantastic: power of! the: souk itself; which can at
pleasore:transform ,this!e]iiiTitimu8'bodjr iptonaay
shape: for being aufy, .’
when' itis/conideased iand
fixed,: it bedbnbeth 'visible;.andr again -invisible,
and vanishing out of sight, when it !isexpanded
aadrarified.
< Now, from thesis passages cited onbof Philbpo-
nus, it farther appeareth, that the ancient as­
sertion'of the'soul’s immortality did not snppose
BODY (SUPPOSED) AFTER DEATH. 517
human souls, afterdeath, to be quitestripped stark'
naked' from all body ; but that the generality of
Souls had then a certain spirituous, vaporous, or
airy body accompanying them, though in different
degrees ofpurity or impurity respectively to tliem-t
selves. As also, that they conceived this spiritu­
ous body (or at least something of it) to. hang
about the sOul also here imthis life, before death,
ate its interior indymenit or vestment, which also
then sticks to it, when- that other gross earthly
part of the.body is, by death, put off as an outer
garment. And some have been inclinable to think
(by reason of certain historic, phenomena) these
two to be things so distinct, that it is not impos­
sible for this, spirituous, body, together with the
soul, to be locally separated from the other grosser
body, for some time before death, and without it.
And indeed thus much cannot be denied, that pur
sou] actetb, not immediately only upon bones,
flesh, and brains, and other such-like gross parts
of this body,, but flrst.and chiefly upon the animal
spirits, as the immediate instruments of sense and
fancy, and that, by whose vigour and activity the
Other heavy and tmwieldly bulk, of the body is so
nimbly moved. And therefore we. know no rea­
son but we may assent here to that of Porphyrius,*
fp aif\a vo/w K<u rpo^t} «m tqv irvcu/uaroc, to Bk.irveu/ia o^r/-
fia rjic i that the blood is the. food and nou­
rishment of the spirit (that is, that subtle body
called the animal spirits), and.that this spirit is
the.vehicleof the soul, or the more immediate seat
oflife. .............
; Nevertheless, the same Philoponus there add-
* Vide lib. de Antro. Nympliar. p. 267. 259.
5 1 8 TUB Atiyoct&c 2 . THIRD*
etb, that* according to these ancients, besides the
terrestrial body, and this spirituous and airy body
too, there is yet a third kind of body, of a higher
rank than either of the former (peculiarly belong­
ing to snch sonis after death, as are purged and
cleansed from corporeal affections, lusts, and pas­
sions), called by them adpa avyouSlc, and odpdvtov,
and cuO
iptov, &c. a luciform, and celestial, and
ethereal body. The soot (saith he) continaeth
either in the terrestrial or the aerial body so long
Ia*C *avn}v K a f b p p a a n a v t v e ^ O r } , r t j g y t v i t n u K a i r a X X a y t u r a '
r o r s r o b n t v K o l r o v O v f i o v , kcu. njv i t r S o p ' t a v aVorifcnu, p e r *
r o v r o v row o y y p a r o s , row i r v e i p a r o ^ X t y u ) ' etvat Si n kcu
pera rovro aXXort d i S w c ovrw d y i p p i v ov, < m p a o d p d v t o v
K a l S t a t o v t o a i S t o v , 6 f a o t v A v y o t i S l c r j ’ A c r r p o e i S e c ’ r w v
y a p i y K o o p i a m ovoav d v a y K i ) ira'vwc <Xttv T,v“ xXwpow, ov
S t o u c t i , p i p o t d v r * row K O o p o v ’ K a i ti d t u c i t n f r o c ton, K a l S n
awnjv ad k v t p y i i v , S u t^tiv a i S l o Q i l m p p i v o v to acwjua, o ad
£<woiroat<m* &d ravra ouv ro avyoaSfc f t n o t a p a a v r r i v d a
t^uv, until that, having purged itself, it be carried
aloft, and freed from generation. And then doth
it put off both the irascible and concupiscible pas­
sions at once, together with this second vehicle, or
body, which we call spirituous. Wherefore these
ancients say, that there is another heavenly body
always conjoined with the soul, and eternal, which
they call Incifonn, and star-like: for it being a
mundane thing, must of necessity have some part
of the world as a province allotted to it, which it
may administer. And since it is always moveable
and ought always to act, it must have a body
eternally conjoined with it, which it may always
enliven. And for these causes do they affirm the
soul always to have a luciform body.—Which lu-
LtJCIFORM AND HEAVENLY BODY. 519
cid and ethereal body of the soul is a thing often
mentioned by other writers also; as Pro- p
vclus, in his commentary upon the Ti-
maeus: Kat rife avOpwrumc ^v\iic C^pnirai rt rotovroit
oyj\fxaai^Npv, we avroe tp/3i/3affat ■
yovvtic o
yj)fj.<
x
K
tuavnfv rav Biffiiovpyov' Kat "yapiraoav tfatyjivavay-
K
q,xpo r*»v tfvqrwv trwjuaraw, ait&
totc Kat cvKtvqrotc \pn<
r~
f t* o v f ia a iv , tie K«r ovatav.t^ovaav to k iv u v -. The hu­
man soul hath also (saith he) such an ethereal ve­
hicle belonging to it, as Plato himself intimates,
when he affirmeth the Demiurgus at first to have
placed it in a chariot. For of necessity every soul,,
before this mortal body, must have an eternal and
easily moveable body, it being essential to it to
move.—And elsewherethesameProclus: f
V
Aiw fUvovrtf ovStv Stofitda rovriov t io v fttpioruv
opyavwv" a t}/uv owjjpnjrat KartXBovaiv tic ytvtfftv, aXX’
apxtt ro oytipa t o AvyottStc, “
tanac t^ov jjvw/utvac rac
aiaftfatic. Whilst we remain above, we have no need
of these divided organs, which now we have de­
scending into generation; but. the uniform, lucid,
or splendid vehicle is sufficient, this having all
senses united together in it.—Which doctrine of
the unorganized, luciform, and spirituous vehicles;
seems to have been derived from Plato, he, in his
Epinomis, writing thus concerning a good and
■
wise man after death \ ov xat ^iio^ypl^oficunaiZ&
vxat
oxouBafov a/tta; iavwtp Oavanp, njv avrov fioipav ava-
vX>foa, /utfrt iv in troXXwv rort, KaOamp vvv ataftfatcuv,
jutac /uotpac jutrttXtf^ora fiovov, xat ck toXXwv tva ytyovora.
svSai/iova ioeoBai’ of whom, whether 1 be in jest ox; *
earnest, 1 constantly affirm, that when dying he
shall yield to fate, he shall no longer have this
variety of senses, which now we have, but one
uniform body, and live a happy life.—Moreover,
5 2 0 THE Avyott&V 2 . THIRD,
Hierocles* much insistcth upon this, ayyoti^c <
r«J-
/ua, luciform and ethereal body,— o »caixpvyjiQ Xnrrov
oyrifia ol yj>rjanol KaXovai, which also (saith he) the
oracles call the thin and subtle vehicle or cha-
riot of the soul; he meaning, doubtless, by these
oracles, the magical or Chaldaic oracles before
mentioned. And amongst those now extant un­
der that title, there seems to be a clear acknow­
ledgment of these twovehicula of the soul, or
interior indumenta thereof; the spirituous and
the luciforra body, the latter of which is there
enigmatically called c
t
m
t
c
So
v
, or a plain superfices
in these words :bM)j IIv£u/ua fxoX
vvrjQ
, pt$f j3a&
vvytT
°
ErlwtSov. Take care not to defile or contaminate
the spirit; nor to make the plain superficies deep,
r—For thus Psellus glosseth upon that oracle: Auo
yj.rwvaQ £7r£vSvovui frjv oi XaXSatoi* Kal top fib/ Ilvtv-
fiarucov iovo/iaaav, airo row alaOifrov i£v$avO ivra aiirjj" rov
AvyoEtStf, Xejttov fcaJ dva<prj, o m tp Et
t
iVeSov' The
Chaldaic philosophers bestow upon the soul two
interior tunicles or vestments, the one of which
they called pneuraatical, or the spirituous body,
which is weaved out, as it were, to it, and com­
pounded. of the gross sensible body (it being the
more thin and subtle part thereof) ; the other the
luciform vestment of the soul, pure and pellucid,
and this is that which is here called the plain su­
perficies.—
-Which, saith Pletho,®is not so to be un­
derstood, as if it had not three dimensions (foras-
%
much as it is a body also), but only to denote the
subtlety and tenuity thereof. Wherefore, when the
aforesaid Hieroc)esd also calls this luciform and
*Comment in aorea Pythagor. Carmina, \>
. 214, 215.
bOracnI. Zoroastr. sect .10. ycrs. 275, p. 394.-ed. Clerici.
FCpmment. inhocOracuIum. d Ubi supra, p. 29?,
LUCIFORM AND HEAVENLY BODY. 521
etheeeal body, T
O IIi«u/uarucdv ’
'Oyitpa rrjc Xoyucvc
ipuj^vc, the spiritual vehicle of the rational soul—he
takes not the word irvev/xariK
ov, in that sense where­
in it is used by Philoponus and others, as if he
intended to confound this ethereal body with that
other spirituous or airy body, and to make but one
of them, but rather styles it spiritual, in a higher
sense; (and vrtiich cometh near to that of the
Scripture), as being a body more suitable and. cog­
nate with that highest arid divinest part ofthe soul,
mind, or reason, than the other, terrestrial body is
(which, upon that account, is called also* by the
same Hierocles,* as well as it is by St, Paul,berdip«
4>v\ucov, the animal or natural body). So that this
spiritual body of-Hierocles is not the airy, but the
ethereal body, and the 'same with Synesius’s,-
fetnrlfftav Divine body.—And that this dis-
tirictiori of two interior vehicles or tunicles Of the
soul, besides that outer vestment of the terrestrial
body (styled in Plato rd dorpdiStc, the crustace-
oua, or oistraceoqsbody)—is not a mere figment of
the latter Platonists since Christianity, but a tra­
dition derived down from antiquity, appeareth
plainly from Virgil, in his. sixth JEneid, where,
though not commonly understood, be writeth first
of the spirituous or airy body, in which unpurged
souls receive punishment after death, thus:
Quin et supremo cum famine vita reliquit,
Non tainen omne malum miseris, neo funditus omnes
Corpora* excedunt pestes; penitusque necesse est
MuKa diu concreta modis inolescere miris.
Ergo exercentur poenis, vcterumque malorum
Supplicia expendunt; alias panduntur inanes
JSuspebs* ad ventos; aliis sub gurgite vasto
lnfectum eluitur sceius, aut exuritur igni.
» UW*«pra, p. 214. b Cor. *v. 44. c D Insomnii*, p. 140 oper.
52% SOULS PRE-EXISTING, CREATED
And then again of the other pare etherea^and
fiery body, in this manner:
Donee kwgadips perfect©temporisorbe
Concretam exemit labetn, puramque relkjuit
i£therenn) sensam, atqae aural simplicia ignem.
" Now, as it was before observed, that tbe .an-*
cient assertors of the sonFs immortality, suppos­
ing it to have, besides' this terrestrial body,.an­
other spirituous or airy body, conceived this not
only to accompany the soul after death, but also
to hang about it here in this life, as its interior vest
or tunicle (they probably meaning hereby the
same with that, which is commonly called the
animal spirits, diffused from the brain, by the
nerves, throughout this whole body); in like man­
ner it is certain, that many of them supposing the
soul, besides those two farementioned, to have
yet a third luciform, or ethereal body, conceived
this in like manner to adhere to it even in this mor­
tal life too, as its inmost clothing or tunicle; yet*
so as that they acknowledged the force thereof to
be very much weakened and abated, and its splen­
dour altogether obscured by the heavy weight
and gross steams or vapours of tbe terrestrial
body. Thus Suidas, upon the word AvyouBrkt
tells us out of Isidore, w? * \|w
x»» Avyoo&c'Ox*-
fia, \eyo fitvo v a a rpoaSic re nat aiBiov' ka! towto fd v to Aw
-
-yotiStc ffwjua ry B t avoKtKXturrai mote TV
C
Xvtmthat, according to some philosophers, the
soul hath a certain luciform vehicle, called also
star, or sun-like* and eternal; which luciform body
is now shut up within this terrestrial body (as a
light in a dark lantern), it being supposed by some
of them to be included within the head, &c.—With
W ITH ETHEREAL BODIES. 523
which agreetb Hierocles: Ev ry fhrqrwifuZv p '
<r*»fiari, ro Aw-yowStc iynurai, wpooirvtov rip [p. 314. «4«ti
» * / t v i . \ \ • t * ~ Needhami.l
"r^X V ac^Liarc £ctitiv* km m v apfjLQViav avrov
m
/re%
ov> The splendid or luciform body lieth in
this mortal body of ears, continually inspiring it
with life, and containing the harmony thereof—
The ground of which opinion was, because these
philosophers generally conceived the human soul
to have pre-existed beforeit came into this earthly
body, and that either from eternity, or else from
the first beginning of the world’s creation; and
being never without a body, and then in a perfect
state, to have bad a lucid and ethereal body,
either coeternal, or coeve with it (though in or­
der of nature junior to it), as its chariot or vehicle;
which being incorruptible, did always insepara-
bly adhere to the soul, in its after-lapses and de­
scents, into an aereal first, and then a terrestrial
body; this being, as it were, the vinculum of
union betwixt the soul and them. Thus Pletho*
declares their senserAm
ISIroiaorov-miftarocrtf Sifirore
r<
p(hntTtpmjvyt avQ
ponr'ivrp) myyiyvtaOni, oAovS\tp
rip row tft(3pvov ZiortKi3 irvevfian Sid trvyyeveiav imirXtK0-
ftsvov i n irvevparocTtvoG icot avrovevroc* By this ethe­
real body is our human soal connected with its
mortal body; the whole thereof being implicated
with the whole vital spirit of the embryo, for as
much as this itself is a spirit also.—But long be­
fore Pletho was this doctrine declared and as­
serted by Galen,’ as agreeable both to D
ogH
ip et
Plato’s and his own sense; he first pre- l\’ii- •
raising, that the immediate organ or in- p.10+
3.'
strument of sight was avyou&c, a luci-to“‘,' pper^
form and ethereal spirit:—Afdvrwc oJv ipovp.iv av-
*In Orac. Chald.
524 SOULS PRE-EXISTING CREATED
yottBic fjtkv Aval to tvs ofaaic op'yavov,atpoetSiy S
I rorife
mxorji, arfiottSee Si to rye oSftie, Kal to p l v . rijc :y
«
w
a
«
«
>
c
vypov, to Si rjlt ifinc yttHStc, &c.. Wherefore we may
reasonably affirm, that the organ of sight is a lu?
ciforua or ethereal body ; as that of. hearing is
aerial; that of smelling vaporous; that, Of taste
moist or watery; and that of touch earthly; like
being perceived by like.—And he accordingly
thus understanding those.known verses of Emper
docles, which, as Aristotle* otherwise interprets
them, are nonsense: K
altoot a p ’ jv ofio vX trtu S yX ovv
o’EftTtSoxXic «
* ole T
ai'p ju
e
v yap yalav, &
C
. at-
oBavofitQa yap ovrwg T
ipytv ytfvStOTepiprtov alpQrrrrtplwv,
ykiSovf- funtic, rep 8’ avyoaStorip^ ris oifftoe, rqc
jAvyotiSovc’ And this was that, which Empedocles
meant to signify, in those famous verses of his;
it being certain, that by the most earthy of our
senses, the touch, we perceive.the earthy nature of
sensibles; and by the most luciforin, viz. that of
sight, the passions .of light; by that, which is
aereah sounds; by that, which is moist and
sponge-like, tastes; and lastly, by the organ ,of
smelling, which is the extremity of those former
.cavities of the brain, as. replenished withyapours,
odours*—After which be. writeth. of the essence
or substance of the soul, in this manner: E* 8* ko!
TTfpl yl/vyjK owiac awo<j>pvaoOai \pn> SvoZv Oarepov avay/cat-
ov tiw lv, rj tovt Aval to otov AvyoaSi(, xai •AtOtpAStc
mafia Xsjc
t
Iov avrrjv, «c o icav yv fSovXofvrai tear qicoXov
Slav a<j>iKv?WTqi arwiikol, 9 mJnjv fiev aawfmrov vvapyuv
ovalavf oyrifia n , rO rfw rov ayrqc Apqi tovti to qio/ta, Si
ov fxlaov tt)v irppi. t’ SXXa aA/tara Koiviyvlav Xa/uj3avu'
tovto. fiiv w ’ avro Si oXoy. Xucrioy Vfiiv ilCTtrdadai row
tyict^aXov’ r j Si yt vpoq avro Koivwv’
nf. to,Kara rac oiptic
avTwv vyevfia frorottSec yiyvtaOaC And if We should
WITH ETHEREAL BODIES. 6 2 5
now. declare any thing concerning the essence or
substance of the soul, we must needs affirm one or
other, of these two things; that either itself is this
Incifbrm-and ethereal body (which the Stoics,
whether they will or no, by consequence will be
brought unto, as also Aristotle himself), or else
that the soul is itself an incorporeal substance;
but that this Iuciform ethereal body is its first
vehicle, by which, as a middle, it communicates
with the, other bodies. Wherefore we must say,
that this ethereal lucid body is extended through-'
out the whole brain; whence is that luciform
spirit'derived, that-is the immediate instrument of
sight.—Now from hence.it was, that these philo­
sophers, besides the moral purgation of the soul,
and the ;intellectual Or philosophical, recom­
mended very much a mystical- or telestic way of
purifying this ethereal body in us, by diet and ca-
thartus. Thus, the 'forem entionedilie- _
x • 294.
rocles k m ry AvyotiSa fyufciv<7W/itari [p- 4i*.e<f. .
irpoai<pv atZfia Ovijrov, ov^ KaOapivaai Set m l Nee“
ravro, &c. Sincefoour lucid or splendid body, this
gross mortal body is come by;way, of accession,
we ought to purify the former also, and free .it
from sympathy with the latter.—
-A nd again after­
wards.: At rrjg A
o-yi/crJe faxVG mQapotit; m l row Aw-yost-
Sowc oyyparoQ wpofiifiovvTM, ottwq av avraiQ wwwrrtpov m l
rooro■
ytvofAtvov ju
*
Je/tiro&wv Wprat jrpoe rqr avw..itvprfav,
jcat ra t£>jc’>Together with the purgations of the ra­
tional soul, the purification ;o f:t h e l uciform. or
ethereal vehicle is also to be. regarded, that this
being, made. light, and elnte.or wingy, might, no
way hinder the spul’s.ascent ppwaiyl: but he that
endeavours to purify the mind only, neglecting
• Ibidvp.216.
520 THE PHILOSOPHIC
the body, applies not himself to the whole matt.—
Whereupon he concludes: Ttjv TtXsffruojv wipyttav
X
t-yo), Tnvrov AvyouSovctcaBaprudiv Svva/uv* 1 therefore
call this the telestic or mystic operation; which is
conversant about the purgation of the lucid or
ethereal vehicle.—And whereas philosophy was
by Plato and Socrates1defined to be a continual
exercise of dying (which Plinybthought to be no­
thing but an hypochondriacal or atrabilarian dis­
temper in them, in those words of his, which Sal-
masius, and other critics, can by no means un­
derstand, “ est etiam quidam morbus, per sapien-
tiam m o r i t h a t the dying by wisdom or philoso­
phy, is also but a certain kind of bodily disease or
over-grown melancholy)—though they supposed
this principally to consist in a moral dying to cor­
poreal lusts and passions; yet was the design
thereofpartly mystical and telestic also, it driving
at this further thing, that when they should put
off this terrestrial body, they might at once die
also to the spirituous or aereal; and then their
soul have nothing left hanging about it, but only
the pure ethereal body, its light-winged chariot:
in Virgil’s language is
---- :—Purumque relinqui
iEtheremn sensual, atque aurai simplicis ignem. .
Notwithstanding which, the Pythagoreans and
Platonists seem not to have been all of them of
this persuasion, that the same numerical -ethereal
body, which the soul was at first created with,
cofntiuuetb still about it, and adhereth to it inse­
parably to all eternity, during its deeoeets into
'* Vide Platon, in Phaedon. p. 378.
* H ist Natur-lib* vii. cap. 50.
DEATH. 527
other grosser bodies; bat rather to have supposed,
that, according to the moral disposition of the
soul, it always finds or makes a cognate and suit*
able body correspondency pare or impure; and
consequently, that by moral virtue and philoso­
phy, it might again recover that celestial body,
which was lost by its fall and descent hither. This
seemeth to have been Porphyrias’s* sense, in
these words of liis: ‘Qc «v Bisrtfhin 'K’
X’J, wplaicuotifta
ra£« Kai roZ
poixelotc Suopur/uivoo’ &o KaSafnortpoiH/jiv &
or
Kfifuvy (TVfifvTOv ro eyyvc rov avXov atw/ua,otetp tori to ttt-
ffipiov’ However the soal be in itself affected, so
does it always find a body suitable and agreeable
to its present disposition; and therefore to the
purged jsonls does naturally accrue a body, that
comes next to immateriality; that is, an ethereal
one.—And probably Platob was of the same
mind, when he affirmed the soul to be always in a
'body, but sometimes of one kind, and sometimes
^ f another.
' Now from what hath been declared, it appear-
eth already, that the most ancient assertors of the
incorporeity and immortality of the human soul
’supposed it, notwithstanding, to be always con­
joined with a body. Thus Hierocles p ^
plainly:*HXovuni owia ovuAwlc tvtfcwa <wwi) [p-iso. «iit.
. - • X " fiL Needbimi.1
e v T & ir a p a row C tffito v p y o o « c ro (ivat T«pqAocv, *
p in to Owfta ilvm (Uipreavev tnipteroi’ aXX axmrv
fib oowfiarov^ thtomparowadat ottpa ro 6\ov nirw
(Sue. The rational nature having always a cog­
nate body, so proceeded front the Demiurgus, as
that neither iteelf isbody, nor.yet can it be with-
* In Sententiis ad Intelligibilia ducentibus, §*32.p. 233.
bDe Legibm, lib. x* cP. 214.
528 DEMONS, SOUL, AND BODY.
out body ; but though itself be incorporeal, yet
its whole form, notwithstanding, is terminated in
a body.— Accordingly whereunto, the definition,
' p. 290. which he gives of a.man, is this, Xo-
[p. 21?.] yuctjftera avfi<j>vovcaOavarov<rwfiaroc, a rational
.soul, together with a .cognate immortal body.—
He concluding there afterwards, that this enli­
vened terrestrial body, or mortal man, is nothing
but EtSuX
ovavflpwou,* the image of the true man,—
or an accession thereunto, which is therefore se­
parable from the 6ame. Neither doth he affirm this
only of human souls, but also of all other rational
beings whatsoever, below the supreme Deity,
:and above men,, that they always naturally actu­
ate a body. Wherefore a demon or angel (which
words are used as .synonymous by Hierocles) is
also defined by him after the same manner, y>vx’>
Xoyucijftsra <f>wruvav.erwjuaroc, a rational soul together
with a lucid body.—And accordingly Proc/us
upon Plato’s Timaeusbaffirmeth, iravraSal/iova ru>v
rtHeriptpv Kftirrova ipvywv, kox votpav *x**v
pa aldepiov', that every demon, superior to.human
souls, hath both an intellectual soul and an ethe­
real vehicle; the entireness thereof being made up
or compounded of these two things.—So that
there is hardly any other difference left betwixt
demons or angels, and. men, according to these
philosophers, but only'.this,.that the'.fojrmef are
lapsable into aerehl bodies poly, apd no further.;
but the latter into terrestrial also,* .. Now1Hiero-
'> , ’ . i >
*
■» .> .• . * 'j- *. i , . . ; . , i *
: •. .
eVide Porpbyr, de Abstinent, ab Esu Animal lib. ii. §. 38. p. 81.
et alio#.
PLATONIC IDEAS OF THE SOUL. 629
cJes positively, affirineth a this to have ,been the
true cabala, and genuine doctrine of the aticient
Pythagoreans, entertained afterwards1
by Plato;
Kairovro t w v TlvOayoptuov yv Soy/ua, o By nXara/vwrfpov
aVeucanac ^v/utpvrt^) Bvva/un vironripov Z,tvyovQ rt
Kai yvioyov, iratmv Btlav rs /cat avdpunrtvyv rpv^yv. And
this was the doctrine of the Pythagoreans, which
Plato afterwards declared; he resembling every,
both human and Divine soul (that is, in our mo­
dern language, every created rational being) to a
winged chariot, and a driver or charioteer, both
together:—meaning by the chariot, an enlivened
body; and by the charioteer, the incorporeal soul
itself acting it.
And now have we given a full account, in what
manner the ancient assertors of incorporeal sub­
stance, as unextended, answered that objection
against the illocality and immobility of particular
finite spirits, demons, or angels, and human souls;
that these being all naturally incorporate, how­
ever in themselves and directly immoveable, yet
were capable of being in sense moved, by acci­
dent, together with those bodies, respectively,
which, they are vitally united to. But as for that
pretence, that these finite spirits, or substances in­
corporeal, being unextended, and so having in
themselves no relation to any place, might there­
fore actuate and inform the whole corporeal
world at once, and take cognizance of all things
therein ; their reply hereunto was, that these be­
ing essentially but parts of the universe, and there­
fore not comprehensive of the whole, finite or par­
ticular, and not universal beings (as the three hy­
postases of the Platonic trinity are), the sphere of
* Vbj supra, p. 213.
2 m
VOL. III.
530 OF FIN ITE SPIRITS.
their activity could not possibly extend any far*
tber, than to the quickening and enlivening of
some certain parts of matter and the world, allot-*
ted to them, and thereby of becoming particular
animals; it being peculiar to the Deity, or that
incorporeal substance, which is infinite,to quicken
and actuate all things.
J£NO o f v o l . m ,
.<
Printed by J. ? , Dove! St.John’s Square.
T H E
W O R K S
OF
RALPH CUDWORTH, D.D.
CONTAINING
THE TRUE INTELLECTUAL
SYSTEM OF THE UNIVERSE,
SERMONS, &c.
A NEW EDITIO N, WITH REFERENCES TO TUX SEVERAL QUOTATIONS IN 1 ii L
INTELLECTUAL SYSTEM, AND A LIFE OF THE AUTHOR,
BY THOMAS BIRCH, M. A. F.R.S.
IN FOUR VOLUMES:
VOL. IV.
OXFORD, D. A. TALBOYS.
MDCCCXX1X.
/ U ! ■ L .
THE TRUE
I N T E L L E C T U A L S Y S T E M
or
THE UNIVERSE.
CHAP. V. CONTINUED.
B u t it would be no impertinent digression here,
(as to the main scope of our present undertaking)
should we briefly compare the forementioned
doctrine and cabala of the ancient Incorporealists
(the Pythagoreans and Platonists) with that of;
Christianity : and consider the agreement, or dis­
agreement, that is betwixt them. First, therefore,''
here is a plain agreement of these best and most-
religious philosophers with Christianity in this:
That the most consummate happiness, and high- ‘
e'st perfection, that human nature is capable of)'
consisteth not in a separate stateof souls, stripped
naked from all body, and having no manner of
converse with matter, as some high:flown persons'
in all ages have been apt to conceit. For such
amongst the philosophers (and Platonists too)'
was Plotinus; the unevenness and unsafeness of
whose temper may sufficiently appear from hence,
that as he conceived human souls might possibly
ascend to so high a pitch, as quite to shake off
. VOL. iv . B
2 THE SOUL’S HAPPINESS DOES NOT CONSIST
commerce with all body; so did he on the other
hand again imagine, that they might also descend
and 'sink down so low, as to animate not only t
the bodies of brutes, but eveu of trees and plants
.too: two inconsistent paradoxes; the latter
whereof is a most prodigious extravagancy,
which yet Empedocles, though otherwise a great
wit, seems to have been guilty of also, from those
verses of his in Athenaeus;*
iror* *tw yttbym juogn re re,
QafAWf ▼
*
, oiowg Tt xa2civ A
X
<ZX
X
cxrog
And amongst the Jews, the famous Maimonides
was also Of this persuasion, it being a known
aphorism of his, in his great work, sp pa ion
Ejyystt rm IN: That in the world to come, or
state of consummate happiness, there shall.be
nothing at all of body, but pure incorporeity.—
Upon which account, being, accused as a denier
of the resurrection, (an article as well of the
Jewish as of the Christian faith) he wrote that
book entitled Iggereth Teman, purposely to
purge himself, and to reconcile those two asser­
tions together, which he doth after such a man­
ner, as that there should be indeed a resurrection,
at the. first coming of the Jewish Messias, of
some certain persons; to live here awhile upon
the earth, eat and drink, marry and be given in
marriage, and then die again; after which, in the
world to come, they should for ever continue
pure souls, ununited to any body. In which it
may be well suspected, that the design Maimo­
nides drove at, was against Christianity ; which,
notwithstanding, as to this particular, bath the
f Deipnosophist, lib. viii. p, 510.
IN SEPARATION FBOH ALL BOOT.. s
concurrent suffrages of tbe best philosophers,,
that the most genuine and perfect state of the-
human soul, which in its own nature is immortal,,
is to continue for ever, not without,-but with ar
body; and yet our high-flown enthusiasts gene­
rally (however calling themselves Christians),
are such great spiritualists, and so much for the
inward resurrection, (which we deny not to be a-
Scripture notion also; as in that of St. Paul, *“ If
ye be risen with Christ,” &c. And again, b“ If
by any means I might attain to the resurrection of
the dead,”) as that they quite allegorize away, to­
gether with the other parts of Christianity,the out­
ward resurrection of tbe body; and, indeed, Witt,
scarcely acknowledge any future immortality, or
life to come, after death, their spirituality thus end*
ing in Sadducism and infidelity, if not at length in
downright Atheism and sensuality.
But, besides this, there is yet a further corres­
pondence of Christianity with the forementioned
philosophic cabala, in that the former also sup­
poses the highest perfection of our human soak,
not to consist in being eternally conjoined with
such gross bodies as these we-nowhave, unchanged
and unaltered: for as the Pythagoreans and Pla-
tonists have always complained of these terrestrial
bodies, as prisons, or living sepulchres of the soul;
so does Christianity seem to run much upon the
same strain, in these Scripture expressions: *“ In
this we groan earnestly, desiring to be clothed
upon with our house which is from heaven:” and
again, d“ We that are in this tabernacle do groan,
being burdened, not for that we would be un-
b 2
a Col. iii. 1.
c 2 Cor. v. 2.
bPhil. iii. 2.
*2 Cor. v. 4.
4 Th e -a g r e e m e n t o f c h r isk tia Sj t y ';
clothed (that is, stripped quite naked of all body),,
but so clothed upon, that mortality might be swal­
lowed up,of life:” and, lastly, ““ Ourselves also,
which bave' the first-fruits ofthe Spirit, groan with­
in ourselves, waiting for the adoption (sonship or
inheritance), namely, the redemption of our bo­
dies that is, the freedom of them from all those
evils and maladies of theirs, which we here lje op-
ptessed under. Wherefore we cannot think,, that
the same heavy load and luggage, which the souls*
of.good men, beinghere burdened with, do so much
groan to be delivered from, shall, at the general re-:
ste flection, be laid upon them again, and bound
fast-tp them, to all eternity! .for, of such a resur­
rection as this, Plptinus(though perhaps mistaking
k for the true Christian resurrection), might have
sbrrie cause to affirm, that it would be but. avaoravK
«c aX
A
oi<vttvov, a resurrection to another sleep;—
the soul seeming not to be thoroughly awake here,
but, as it were, soporated with the dull steams and
opiatic vapours of this gross body. For thus the
author ofthe Cook of Wisdom, b“ The corruptible
body presseth down the soul, and the earthly ta­
bernacle Weigheth down the mind, that museth
upon many things.” But the same will further ap­
pear, from that account, which the Scripture itself
giveth us of the resurrection: and first, in general,
when St. Paul, answering that query of the philo­
sophic infidel, “ How are the dead raised, or with
what body do they come?” replieth in this manner,
Thou fool (that is, thou who thinkest to puzzle
qr baffle the Christian article of the resurrection,
which thou understandest not), that which thou
sowest is not quickened (to the production of any
>
.* Rom. Vfii, 23.. bChap. ix. 15.
/
W ITH THE PYTHAGORIC CABALA. ft
-thing),except itfirst dieto whatitwas.” And “ thou
sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain,”
as of wheat; or of barley, or the like; but God (in
the ordinary course of nature), giveth it a body, as
it hath pleased him (that is, a stalk, and an ear,
having many grains with husks in it, and therefore
neither in quantity nor quality the same with that,
which was sowed under ground), nor does he give
to all seeds one and the same kind of body neither,
but to every seed its own correspondent body; ns
to wheat one kind of ear, and to barley another.
As if he should have said: Know that this present
body of ours is to be looked upon but as a kind of
seed of the resurrection-body, which therefore is
accordingly in some sense the same, and in some
sense not the same with it. Besides which general
account, the particular oppositions, which the
Scripture makes betwixt the present and future
body, seem very agreeable to those of the philoso­
phic cabala: for, first, the present body is said ■
*to
besowed “ in corruption,”but the future “ raised in
incorruption.” For the children ofthe resurrection
cannot die any more.1
1 And then “ mortality shall
be swallowed up of life.”* Wherefore the Christian
resurrection-body,as well as thatof the philosophic .
cabala, is <
r*
»
ju
aatfavarov, and cuStovtoo, (2 Cor. v, 1.)
an immortal and eternal body. Again, the body
sowed is said* to be a dishonourable, ignominious,
and inglorious body; and therefore called also by
St. Paul,* t o autfia rtjg rawavowrewc V/iHv, the body of
our humility, or humiliation;—a body agreeable to
this lapsed state of the soul, 'but the body, whid}
b Lake xx. 36.
d 1Cor, xv. 43,
*Phil, iii, 21,
* 1Cor. xv.42.
ci Cor. xv. 34.
6 TH ft A»BBnV£M;T.OP CHRISTIANITY
•shall be rai$ed,shall be a gloriotts body; and tt»n-
'ftopfovrtp<
r<
£
fta
rirife'S
jJJm
cavToii, “ conformable to that
glorious body of Christ;” who. When bat external­
ly transfigured, bis face “ did shine as the son,” and
his “ raiment was white as the light.” The glory of
a body consisteth only in the comeliness of its pro­
portion, and the splendour thereof: thus is there*
•*
*one glory of the, sun, another glory of the moon,
and another glory of the stars;” that is; a different
splendour of them. Wherefore the future body of
the righteous, according to the Scripture also, as
’well as the philosophic cabala, W
ill be furu-
vov,and ow^aauyoaScc, and aarpotiS^c, a glorious,
Splendid,luciform, and star-like body(W isdom
•lie. 7.)w KtuptfiiiruTKoirrigawrwv ftcXapipovai, u The right­
eous, in the time of their visitation, shall shine
forth.”—(Dan. xii. 2,3.) “ They, that be wise, Shall
•shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they,
•that turn many to righteousness, as the stars for
ever and ever.” And (Matt. xiii. 43.) “Then shall
the righteous shineforth asthesunin the kingdom of
rtheir Father.” And therefore probably this future
•glorious resurrection-body is that “ inheritance of
the saints in light," which the Scripture speaks of,
Col. i. 12. Moreover; there is another difference
•betwixt this present and that future body of
the righteous, wherein St. Paulband Hierocles'do
.well agree; the first being called by both of them
trifM \pvyucov, “ an animal body”—the second awfw
TvtvftaTucov, “ a spiritual body.”—Which' latter ex­
pression, in Scripture, not only denotes the sub-
61ty and tenuity thereof; but also as this present
body is called an “ animal body,” because it is suit-
* I Cor. xv. 41. b 1 Coivxv. 44.
*Comment, in aurea Pythag. carmina, p. 214. edit. Needbami,
W ITH. THE PYTHAGORIC CABALA. 7
able and agreeable to that animal life, which men
have common with brutes, so is that future called
spiritual, as-bearing a fit proportion and correspon­
dency to souls renewed in the spirit of their, mind,
or in whom the Divine Spirit dwelleth and actetb,
exercising its dominion. There is an animal bo­
dy, and there is a spiritual body.” And, “ the
first Adam was made a living soul, the last Adam
a quickening spirit.” And thos are ^v^ucoi, in the
Scripture, taken for oi nvtv/ta jui) “ they who
have not the Spirit.” And b^v
^ik
o
ccv^wiroc ov 8i%t-
rairare5irveiparoevoi0nv, “.theanimal man receiyeth
not the things of the Spirit ofGod.” Which Spirit
is also said, in Scripture, to be the earnest of that
our future inheritance, (Eph. i. 14.)and the earnest
of this spiritual and heavenly body, (2 Cor. v. 5.)
I t is also said to he. that, by which (efficiently)
these mortal bodies shall be quickened. (Rom. viii.
11.) “ If the Spirit of him, that raised up Jesus from
the dead, dwell in you; he, that raised up. Christ
from the dead, shall also quicken your mortal bo­
dies-by bis Spirit, that dwelleth in you.” Neither
doth Hierocles fall much short of this Scripture
notion of a spiritual body, when he describes it to
be that j rjj votpqi TtXu&
nfri rqc rovair- P.^
■rfrai, which is agreeable to the intellectu- [?•*” •**!*•
al perfection of the soul.—
/liiis spiritual
body is- that, which the. ancient Hebrews called
4
1
W
3
JT
|'9X) eagle’s wings—we reading thus in the
Gemara of the Sanhedrin, (c. 11. fol. 92. cqI..2.)
cbsyixm tnrb /np/i •vaiw.a'jiy ’niK tn»/vo>*
cwon'2Bbyraiwa o b » jrf?wry ropn iraiym pa apm t
If you ask, What shall become of the righteous,
when God shall renew, the world ? the answer is,
. » 1 Cor. XT. 45. b iGor. ii, 14*
fl THE MYSTEBY OF THE r e s u r r e c t io n ;
.God shall make them wings like eagles, whereby
vtbey shall fly upon the face of the waters.—Again,
as this present body is called, in Scripture, an
,eatthly body, so is the future body of the righteous
styled by St. Paul, as well as the Pythagoreans,
.a heavenly body, and they, who shall then be pos­
sessors thereof, twovpavioidvO
punrm
, heavenly, men—
(-1 Cor. xv.) c
<As is the heavenly, such are they that
are heavenly.” Besides which, as philosophers
supposed both demons (or angels), and men, to
■
have one and. the same aia/xa wiyoutike, ovp&
vwv and
alO
eptov, or a like lucid, heayenly and ethereal body;
so from that of our Saviour, when he affirmeth,
thUt'they, who • *
*shall be accounted worthy to ob­
tain that world, and the resurrection from the dead,
will neither marry, nbr be given in marriage; nor
can die auy more; for they are IrdyyeXoi, equal to
the .angels.”—From heUce, I say, we may venture
to call this resurrection-body ofthe just also an an­
gelical or isangelical body; and.the rather because
the ancient Hebrews (as we learn from Nachmo-
nides, inShaar Haggemul), styled it WSin JWOh
>
JT
O
K
^>
O
T
»the angelical clothing of the soul;—and
Tertullian himself, “ angelificatam camera,” an-
gelified flesh.—But,. lastly, St’
. Paul is not only
Thas st:a as* positive in his doctriue here, but also ne-
M
geU
caT
and gative; b “ Now this I say, brethren, that
’angeloroai* desh and blood cannot inherit the king­
dom of God; neither doth corruption in­
herit incorruption.” Which place being undoubt­
edly not to be allegorized, it may be from thence
inferred, that ,the happy resurrection-body shall
not be this foul and gross body of ours only var­
nished and gilded over on the outside of it, it re-
»Luke xx. 36- »1 Cor. xv.-50.
ASPIRITUAL AND HEAVENLY BODY.' 9
Gaining still nasty, sluttish, and rninous within,
and having all the same seeds of corruption and
mortality in its nature, which it had before, though
by perpetual miracle kept off, it being as it were
by.violence defended from being seized upon and
devoured by the jaws of death; but that it shall
be so inwardly changed in its'nature, as that the
possessors thereof cannot die any more. ‘ But all
this, which hath been said of the resurrection-bo­
dy, is not so to be understood, as if it belonged uni­
versally to all, that shall be raised up at the last
day, or made to appear upon the earth in their own
persons, at that great and general assizes: that
they shall have all alike (wicked as well as good)
such glorious, spiritual and celestial bodies: but
it is only a description of the avJunametJc?w
5c»
-the
resurrection of life;—which is emphatically called
also by.our Saviour Christ,*dvomnc 4«c rwv vtkpwv,
the resurrection from the dead,—or to a happy
immortality; as they, who shall be thought worthy
thereof, are likewise styled by him vimavwmltraoc,
the children of the resurrection.—
*Of which resur­
rection only it is that St. Paul treateth in that fif­
teenth chapter of his to the Corinthians. And we
say, that this Christian resurrection of life is the
vesting and settling of the souls of good men in
their glorious, spiritual, heavenly and immortal bo­
dies. The complete happiness of a man, and all
the good that can be desired by him, was by the
heathen poet thus summed up: “ Ut sit mens.Sa­
na in corpore sano,” That there be a sound mind
in a sound body:—and the Christian happiness
seems to be all comprised in these two things;
$rst, ip being inwardly regenerated and renewe4
1Luke xx. 25.
<]0 fU B MY8TEKY OF THE RESURRECTION ;.
in jtbe spirit of their mind, cleansed from all pol­
lution of flesh and spirit, and made partakers of
the Divine life and'nature ; and then, secondly,-in
‘being outwardly clothed with glorious, spiritual,
celestial and incorruptible bodies. The Scripture
plainly declareth, that our souls are not at home
here, in this terrestrial body, and these earthly
mansions, but that they are strangers and pilgrims
therein; which the patriarchs also confessing,
plaibly declared, that they sought a country, not
th&t Whfch they came out from, but a heavenlyone.
From which passages of Scripture some indeed
WOuld infer, that souk being at first created by
God pure, pre-existed, before this their terrene na­
tivity, in celestial bodies; but afterwards straggled
Rnd-Wandered down hither, as Philo for one,*077-0-
Xtirowtra juev y a p *1 rdv owpaviov rdrov, -KaOawtp etc
$lvqvx<
£pavqX
0«-oaalfia’ Our soul (saith he), having
left its heavenly mansion, came down into this
earthly body, as a strange place.—But thus much
is certain, that ourhuman souls were at first in­
tended and designed by God Almighty, the maker
of themyfor other bodiesand other regions,as their
proper home and country; and their etefnal rest­
ing-place: however, to us, that “ be not first, which
is spiritual, but that which is natural; and after­
word that which is spiritual.” Now, though some,
from that-of St. Patti,bwhere he calls this happy
resurrection-body, ousirripiov ro ovpavoij, that
house of ours,1
-that is from heaven—;or which
cometh out of heavens—
would infer, that therefore
it will not be taken out of graves and charnel-
ADe Agricult. p. 197, et in libro, quis divinarum rcrum hasres, p.
5^9, ct alias.
b2 Cor. v. 1.
A SPfMfOAL AND HBAVENAY BODY. • 11
bouses; they conceiving, also, that the individoar-
tion and sameness of men’s persons, does not ne­
cessarily depend upon the numerical identity of
all the parts of matter, because wenevercontinue
thus the same, our bodies alwaysilowing like a
river, and passing away by insensible trauspirar
tion; and, it is certain*. that we hare not all the
tame numerical matter, and neither more nor less,
both, in infancy and in old age, though we be for
all that the self-same persons: yet, nevertheless,
according to the best philosophy, which acknow­
ledges no essential or specideal difference of mat­
ter, the foulest and grossest body that is, merely
by motion may. not only be crystallized, but also
brought into, the purity and tenuity of the finest
ether. And, undoubtedly, that same numerical
body of our Saviour Christ, which lay in the
sepulchre, was after his resurrection thus trans­
formed into a spiritual and heavenly body; the
subtilty and tenuity whereof appeared from his
entering in when the doors were shut, and his va­
nishing out of sight; however its glory were for
the time suspended, partly for the better convinc­
ing his disciples cf; the troth of his resurrection,
and partly because they were not then able to bear
the splendour of it. We conclude, therefore, that
the Christian mystery, of the resurrection of life,
Consisteth.not in the soul’s being reunited to these
vile rags of mortality, these gross bodies of oars,
(such asnow they are;) butin having them changed
into,the likeness of Christ’s glorious body, and in
this: mortal’s patting on immortality.
:Hitherto have we seen the agreement, that is
betwixt Christianity and. the old philosophic qa*
bala, concerning the soul, in these two things:
X% ' THE MYSTERY OF THE RESURRECTION;
First, th^t th6 highest happiness and perfectioirof
the human soul consisteth not in a state of pure
separation from all body; and, secondly, that i t '
does not consist neither in an eternal union with
such gross terrestrial bodies, as these unchanged 5
the soul being not at home, but a stranger and
pilgrim in them, and oppressed with the load of
them: but that at last, the souls of good men shall
arrive at glorious, spiritual, heavenly and im»
mortal bodies. But now, as to that point, whether
human souls be always united to some body or
other, and consequently when by death they put
off this gross terrestrial body, they are not thereby
quite divested, andstripped naked of all body, but
have a certain subtle and spirituous body, still ad­
hering to them, and accompanying them? or else*
whether all souls, that have departed out of this
life, from the very beginning of the world, have
,ever since continued in a state of separation from
all body, and shall s continue forwards till the
day ofjudgment or general resurrection V wemust
confess, that this is a thing not so explicitly de«
termined, or expressly decided in Christianity*
either way. Nevertheless, it is first of all certain
from Scripture, that souls departed out of these
D
eath,oiled terrestrial bodies are therefore neither
dead nor asleep, till the lest trump and
xar* sfyn- general resurrection, but still alive and
awake; our Saviour Christ affirming,
that they all live unto God; the meaning whereof
seems to be this, that they, who are said to be
dead, are dead only unto men here upon earth';
but neither dead unto themselves, nor yet unto
God, their life being not extinct, but only disap*
pearing to us, and withdrawn from our sight; fop*
A SPIRITUAL AND H£A%pNL.Y BODY. 13
dsmUch aS they are gone off this stage, which we
still continue to act upon. And thus it is said also
ofour Saviour Christ himself, and that after his re­
surrection too, that “ he liveth unto God.” (Rom.
vi. 10.) From whence it is evident, that they, who
are said to live to God, are not therefore supposed
to be less alive, than they were, when they lived
unto men. Now it seemeth to be:a privilege or
prerogative proper to the Deity only, to live and
act alone, without vital union or con- nfi
junction with any body. “ Quaerendurn ii p69_
(saith .Origen), si possibile est, penitus 0
P°r-]
incorporeas remanere jrationabiles creaturas, cum:
ad summum saqctitatis ac beatitudinis venerent?
An necesse est eas semper conjunctas esse cor-
poribus?” It is worth our inquiry, whether it be
possible for rational creatures to remain perfectly-
incorporeal, and separate from all body, when they
are arrived, to the highest degree of holiness and
happiness? or whether they be always of neces-;
sity conjoined with some bodies;—and afterward,
he plainly affirraeth it to be impossible: “ Vivere
prseter corpus ullam aliam naturam, praeter Pa-
frejqvet Fijium, et Spiritum Sanctum:” For any
Other,nature, besides the Father, and the Son, and;
Holy Ghost, to liye quite without a body.—In­
deed, ifthis were most natural to the human soul,
and: most perfective of it, to continue separate
from all body, then doubtless (as Origen implied),
should the souls of good men, rather after the day;
Qf judgment, continue in such a state of separa­
tion to all eternity. But, on the contrary, if it be
natural to souls to enliven and inform some body
or other, (though not always a terrestrial one) as.
quf.invvard sense inclines us to think, then can it
14 OF THE fTATE OF THE- SOUL.
not seem «o probable, that they should, by a kind1
of violence, be kept so long in an unnatural or
preternatural state of nakedness and separation
from all body, some of them even from Adam till
the day of judgm ent.
Again, the Scripture also intimates, that souls
departed out of this life have a knowledge of onto
another, and are also capable of the punishment
ofsenseor pain: “ Fear him (saithonr Saviour)who,
after he hath killed, hath power to cast into bell,9
(Luke xii.) And the soul o f the rich man is said
to be immediately after death in torments, before
the day of judgm ent; as likewise to have known
Abraham and Lazarus. And it seems neither
agreeable to our common notions, nor yet to piety,
to conclude, that the souls of wicked men, de­
parting out of this life, from the beginning of the
world in their several ages, till the day of judg­
ment, have all of them no manner of punishment
indicted- on them, save only that of remorse of
conscience and future expectation. Now it is
not conceivable, how souls after death should
know and be knowable, and converse with one
another, and have any punishment of sense or pain
inflicted on them, were they not vitally united
DeAn.p.3Q9. to some bodies. And thus did Tertullian
•g g * . reason long ago: “ D elet apud inferos
p.169.] anima cujusdam, et punitur in flamma,
et crucidtur in lingua, etde digito animse fcelicioris
implorat solatium roris. Imaginem existimas, exi-
tum ilium pauperis laetantis, et divitis meerentis.
E t quid illic Lazari nomen, si non in veritate res
est? Sed etsi imago credenda est, testimonium
erit veritatis. Si enim non habet anima corpus,
non caperet imaginem corporis. Nec mentifetur
OF THE •TATE' OF THE SOUL. 15
do corporatibusmembris scripture, si non erant.
Q uidest aniens illud, quod.ad inferna transfertmv
postdivortiumcorporis? quod detinetur, pt in diem
judicii reservatur? A d qnod et Christos rooriendo
descendit? puto ad animas patriarcbarum ? In*
corporalitas animas ab omni genere custodis li­
bera e st; imnranis a poena et a fovelsu Per quod
enim pum tur-autfovetur, hoc erit corpus. Igitur
si quid tormenti sive solatii anima praecepit in car*
cere, veldiversorio inferum, iuigni yelin sinuAbra-
h«, probata erit corporelitas anim®. Corporalitas
enim nihil patitur, non habeas per quod pati possit:
au tsib ab e t, hoc erit corpus. In quantum enim
omne corporate passibile est; in tantum quod pas->
sibile est, corporate est.” We read in Scripture of
a soul tormented in hell, punished with flames,
and .desirous of a drop of water to cool his tongue.’
Yon will say, perhaps, that this is parabolical and
fictitious. W hat then does the name of L azarus
signify there, if it were no real thing? But if it be
a parable neyer so much, yet must it, notwith*
standing, as to the main, speak agreeably to truth.
F or if*the soul (after death) hare no body at all,
then can it not have any corporeal image, shape;
or figure. N or can it be thought, that the Scrip*
ture would die concerning corporeal members, if
there'were none. But what is that, which, after
its separation from this body, is carried down into
hell, and there detained prisoner, and reserved till
the day of judgment? A nd wbat is that, which
Christ, dying descended down unto? I suppose
to the souls of the patriarchs. But incorporality
is free from all custody or imprisonment, as also
devoid of pain and pleasure. Wherefore, if souls
be sensible of pain after death, and tormented
1 6 OF THE STATE OF THE SOUL.
with fire, then must they needs have some corpo-r
reity; for incorpornlity suffers nothing. And as
every corporeal thing is passive or patible, so again
whatsoever is passive is corporeal. ‘Tertullian
would also confirm this from-a vision or revelation,
of a certain sister-prophet, (miracles and prophe-.
cy being said by him not to .be then altogether
extinct,) “ Inter caeteraostensa est roihi aniina cor-
poraliter, et spiritus videbatur, tenera et lucida,
et aerii colons, et, form® per omnia human®.”
There was (said she) amongst other things, a soul
corporeally exhibited to my view, and it was tender
and lucid, and o f aereal colour, and every way
of human form.—Agreeably to which, Tertullian
himself addeth; “ Effigiem non aliam anim® hu­
man® deputandam pr®ter humanam, et quidem
ejus corporis, quod unaquaeque circumtulit.”
There is no other shapeto be assigned to a human
soul but human; and, indeed, that .of the body,
which is before carried about.—It is true, indeed,
that Tertullian here drives the business so far, as
to make the soul itself to be corporeal; .figurate,
Sfcd colorate, and after death to have the very same
shape, whichits respective body had before in this
life;- he being one of those, who were not able to
conceive of any thing incorporeal, and therefore,
being a religionist, concluded God himself to be
a certain body.also.. B ut the reasons, which he
here insisteth on, will indeed extend no further
than to prove, that the soul hath after death some
body vitally united to it, by means whereof it is
both capable of converse, and sensible of pain,
forasmuch as body alone can have no sense of
any thing. .
*Ubi supra^ cap. ix. p. 166.
8. 1RENJ2US Yt
And this is that;! which Irenaeus from the same
Scripture gathereth; not that the soul is a body,
but that it hath a body, after death, conjoined with
it,,and that of the same form and figure with that
.body, which it had before here in this life: “ Ple-
nissime autem Dominus docuit, non 1
.ii.c.lxii*
solum perseverare, non de corpore in p^fcVdlt.
corpus transgredientes auimasy sed et
cbaracterem corporis, in quo etiam adaptantur
custodire euudem ; et meminisse eas operum,
quae egerunt hie, et a quibus cesSaverunt; in en«-
arratione, quae scribitur de Divite et deLazaro,
qui refrigerabatur in sinu Abrahae; in qua ait
Divitem cognoscere Lazarum post mortem; et
manere in -suo ordine unumquetnque ipsorum.”
Our Lord hath most plainly taught us, that souls
do not only continue after death, without passing
out of one body into another; but also, that they
-keep the character of body, wherein they are then
also adapted, the same, which they had before;
as .likewise, that they remember the actions and
omissions.of their life p a st; in that enarratioii,
which is written concerning the rich man and La­
zarus, who was refreshed in Abraham’s bosom;
-wherein he affirmeth the rich man to have known
-both Lazarus and Abraham after death, as also
each of them to remain in their own order.—'And
4hus again in the following chapter: CKiij >
“ Perhaec manifestissime declaratum est, [«p.
, P- 168.]
et perseverare animas; et non de corpore
in corpus exire; et habere hominis figuram; (ut
etiam cognoscantur)-et meminisse eorum, qu& hie
eint; ;et dignam babilationem.unamquamquegen*
tern percipere, etiam ante judicium.” By these
things it is most manifestly declared, that souls
VOL. iv. c
\
18 AND ORIGBN
do both persevere after death, and that they do
not transmigrate out of one body into another, and
that they have a human figure or shape (whereby
they may be know u); as also they remember the
things here upon the earth, and their own actions;
and, lastly, that each kind of good and bad have
their distinct and suitable habitations assigned
them, even before the judgment.— Now, that Ire-
naeus did not here mean, that souls are themselves
bodily substances, and consequently have a cer­
tain character, form, and figure of their own, but
only that they have certain bodies conjoined with
them, which are figurate, is first of all evident from
the words themselves: “ characterem corporis, in
quo etiam adaptantur, custodire e u n d e m th e na-.
fural sense whereof is this, that they keep the cha­
racter of body (wherein they are then also adapted
after death) the same with that, which these bodies
before had here in this life.—And it is further
manifest from hence, because be elsewhere plainly
declareth souls themselves to be incorporeal; as
in his fifth book and seventh chapter,* “ Flatus
autem vitae incorporalis est,” but the breath of life
is incorporeal.—
Furthermore, Origen was not only of the same
persuasion, that souls after death had certain sub­
tile bodies united to them, and that those bodies
of theirs had the same tlB
oexaP
a
K
T
1
>
p^ov>character­
ising form—which these their terrestrial bodies
before h a d ; but also thinks, that this, together
with the soul’s immortality, may be sufficiently
proved from the frequent apparitions or ghosts of
departed souls; in way of opposition to Celsus, en­
deavouring to invalidate the Scripture testimonies
•P.300.
CONCERNING SOULS 10
concerning the apparitions of our Saviour Christ,
and imputing them either to magical imposture,
or fanatic frenzy, or the disciples mistaking their
own dreams and fancies for visions and sensa­
tions, after the Epicurean way,* rovro & ov&v 3rro*
KaraomuaoTiKov iartv avay/catov 8oy/uaroc, a*c <fpa ij ipvyjli
vfearniKt rtov awoOavovrwV /cat ov fiartiv ir«rlartvKt ircptrijc
dOavaalai avrrjc, 6 rovro ro SoypadvitXiiQtis:' <
vc
iv rp 7T£pt ttjc Xt-ytt, aKtoaSti pavrdfffiara 7rtp! fivri/iaa
run yeyovivai rtov vSij teO
vtj/cotwv' Though this might
seem to have been smartly opposed by Celsus,
yet' are those very apparitions of ghosts, notwith­
standing, a sufficient argument or proof of a cer­
tain necessary opinion, that souls do subsist after
death. Neither did Plato vainly conclude the
immortality and permanency of the soul, besides
other things, from those shadow-like phantasms of
the dead, that have appeared to many about graves
and monuments.'—Whereupon he giveththis fur­
ther account of these apparitions \rdfih>wvyivofxeva
Ttpl ipvyjiQ Ttdvriicouov tpavraapara dwo rtvoc wro/cajafvov
ylvtrai, row Kara tijv vpearriKviav iv rip KaXov/xfvqy ’Avyocl-
8a Sufianpvyriv. For these apparitions ofthe dead
are not mere groundless imaginations, but they
proceed from souls themselves, really remaining
and surviving after death, and subsisting in that,
which is called a luciform body.— Where, notwith­
standing Origen takes this ’AvyoaSfe or luci­
form body, in a larger sense than the Greek phi­
losophers were wont to d o ; namely, so Us to com­
prehend under it that airy or valorous body also,
which belongeth to unpurged souls; who do therein
most frequently appear after death ; whereas it is
thought proper to the purged souls to be clothed
* Adv. Ce'sura, lib. ii. p. 97.
C 2,
A FTER .
20
with the.luciform body only.. Besides which, the :
same Origen tells us, that the thing, which St.
Thomas the apostle disbelieved, was not our
Saviour’s appearing after death, as if he had
thought it impossible for ghosts or souls departed
visibly to appear, but only his rising'and appear­
ing in that same solid body, which had been before
■crucified, and was laid in the.sepulchre; avyKarert-
0ero jucv yap ekeivo$ ttJ ipaaKovay o v to v cwpaicevai, ovk
ddwvarow ovroc, row n jv ^ tf^ T fv row te0vijKorogotpdrjvai' owketi
S’ evojui£tv clvai to tv awfian awrov dvmwiry tyrjyipOai'
Thomas also, as well as the other apostles, assent;-'
jed to the woman affirming, that she had seenJesus;
■as not thinking it at all impossible for the sonl of a
dead man to be seen: but he did not believe him
to have risen and appeared in that self-same solid
body, which before he lived in ; for which cause
he said, not only, unless I see him; but added
also, “ And unless I shall put my finger into the
print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his
side, I will not believe.”-—W here again Origen
.subjoins, Tawra .S’ tXiytro wiro row Otofia, Kpivovrog o n
Swvarai O^OaX/uoic aioOjjToie ipavrjvai xpvyijg Seduce jravra rw
irporeptf) ttSei,-------------ptys6oq te, »cai oftfiara koX ’ ioucvtai,
icat
ITaXXaxt Jo keur o t Xjp*ifftar*
These things were said by Thomas, not as doubt­
ing at all, but that the body of a soul departed
(to wit, condensed) might be seen with the eyes
of sense; every way resembling that form which it
had before in this life, both in respect of bigness,
figure, colour, and voice; and oftentimes alsp in
the same customary garments,—Wherefore, .ac­
cording to Origen, the Jews were at that time
DEATH. 2!
generally possessed with this opinion, that sonls
after death had certain bodies united to them,,
wherein they might visibly appear; neither is that,
of any great moment to the contrary, which a.
learned critic objectetb, that Josephus, writing p f
their opinions, maketh no mention hereof; he
omitting, besides this, other considerable dogmata
of theirs also, as that of the resurrection. How-,
ever this at least is certain from hence, that Origen
himself took it for granted, that human souls de­
parted were not altogether naked or unclothed.,,
but clothed with a certain subtile body, wherein
they could also visibly appear, and that in their
pristine form.
Moreover, it might be here observed also, that
when upon our Saviour’s first apparition to his.
disciples, it is said, that they were affrighted, as.
supposing that they had seen a spirit; our Saviour,
does not tell them, that a spirit or ghost had np,
body at all, wherein it could visibly appear; but-,
(as rather taking, that for granted),* that a spirit
had no flesh and bones (no <n»/uaavrirwrov), no such,
solid body .as they might find him to have; bid-,
ding them therefore handle him, to remove that
scruple of theirs. As if he should have said,
Though spirits or ghosts, and souls departed,;
have bodies (or vehicles), which may by them be-
80 far. condensed, as sometimes to make a visible,
appearance to the eyes of m en; yet have they not,
any such solid bodies as those of flesh and bone;,
and therefore by feeling and handling may you sa­
tisfy yourselves, that I am not a mere spirit, ghost,
or soul, appearing, as others have frequently done,
without a m iracle; but that I appear in that very
* Luke xxiv. 37,
22 WHAT COUNTENANCE FOR THE
same solid body, wherein I was crucified by the
Jews, by miraculous Divine power, raised out of
the sepulchre, and now to be found no more there.
Agreeable to which of our Saviour Christ is that
o f Apollonius in Philostratus ;* Xaj3ov not, ty*, k$v
Biarpvyti) ire, eiSwXov e'ifu' ft Be viro/isivaifu airrofitvoc,
irelBe k m Zyv r i fee, k m firi airofiefiXriKevai ro <rw/ta* Touch
me and handle me, and if you find me to avoid the
touch, then may you conclude me to be a spirit or
ghost (that is, a soul departed); but if I firmly re­
sist the same, then believe me really to live, and
not yet to have cast off the body.—And, indeed,
though spirits or ghosts had certain subtile bodies,
which they could so far condense, as to make them
sometimes visible to men; yet is it reasonable
enough to think, that they could not constipate or
fix them into such a firmness, grossness, and solidi­
ty, as that of fiesh and bone is, to continue therein;
or at least, not without such difficulty and pain,
as would hinder them from attempting the same.
Notwithstanding which, it is not denied, but
that they may possibly sometimes make use of
other solid bodies, moving and acting them, as in
that famous story of Phlegon’s,b where the body
vanished not, as other ghosts use to do, but was
left a dead carcass behind. Now, as for our Sa­
viour Christ’s body, after his resurrection, and be­
fore his ascension; which notwithstanding its soli­
dity in handling, yet sometimes vanished also out
of his disciples’ sight: this probably, as Origen
conceived, was purposely conserved for a time, in
a certain middle state, betwixt the crassities of a
aIn Vita ApoIIonii Tjanei, lib. ix. cap. xii. p. 366.
bIn Libello de Rebas Mirabilibus, cap. i. in Jac. Gronovii The-
sauro Antiq. Graecar. tom. yiii. p, 2694.
BODIES OF GHOST8y IN SCRIPTURE. 23
mortal body, and the spirituality of a perfectly
glorified, heavenly, and ethereal body.
B ut there is a place of Scripture, which, as it
-hath been interpreted by the generality of the an­
cient fathers, would naturally imply, even the
soul of our Saviour Christ himself, after his death,
and before his resurrection, not to have been quite
naked from all body, but to have had a certain
subtile or spirituous clothing, and it is this of St.
P eter ; Oavartadtte fiiv aapKt, Z
<
o
o
iro
i7
)8
eu
; t P(t>
nvfvfian, tv u icai rote b> irvtvfiaai wo- 19a
peuO
ae tKvpvfc Which being understood by those
ancients of our Saviour Christ’s descending into
Hades or hell, is accordingly thus rendered in the
vulgar Latin, “ P u t to death in the flesh, of‘hM
St.A
u»-
but quickened in the spirit: in which book, DeGen.
(spirit) also, he went and preached to those Etchriiai'qd-
spirits that were in .prison,” &c. — So
that the word wwo/tan, or spirit here, «>.«• •«»*.
according to this interpretation, is to be tores crucian-
taken for a spirituous body; the sense ^ n**°‘T
“lr
being this, That when Our Saviour Christ 8
®
,’;end“ °®
-
was put. to death in the flesh, or the j«stiUaj«dica-
fleshly body, he wag quickened in the rito creditor,
spirit, or a spirituous body: in which (spirituous
body) also, he went and preached to those spirits
that were in prison, &c.-—And doubtless it would
be said, by the assertors of this interpretation,
that the word spirit could not here be taken for
the soul of our Saviour Christ, because this being
naturally immortal, could not properly be said to
be quickened and made alive. Nor could he, that
is, our Saviour Christ’s soul, be so well said to go,
in this spirit neither, that is, in itself, the soul in
the sopl, to preach to the spirits in prison. They
2 4 WHAT COUNTENANCE FOR THE
"would add also, that spirit here could not be
taken for the Divine Spirit neither, which was the
efficient cause of the vivification of our Saviour’s
-body at his resurrection; because then there would
be no direct opposition betwixt being put to death
in the flesh, and quickened in the spirit; unless
they be taken both alike materially. As also the
following verse is thus to be understood; that our
Saviour Christ went in that spirit, wherein be was
quickened, when he was 'putto death in the flesh,
and therein preached to the spirits in prison. By
which spirits in prison also would be meant, not
pure incorporeal substances, or naked souls, but
souls clothed with subtile spirituous bodies; as
that word may be often understood elsewhere in
Scripture. But thus much we are unquestionably
certaiu.of from the Scripture,, that not only Elias,
whose terrestrial body seems to have been, in part
at least, spiritualized, in his ascent in that fiery
chariot, but also Moses appeared visibly to our
Saviour Christ and his disciples upon the mount,
and therefore (since piety will not permit us
to think this a mere prestigious thing) in real
bodies; which bodies also' seem to have been
’AvyoetSii, lucifortn or lucid, like to our Saviour’s
then transfigured body.
Again, there are sundry places of Scripture,
which affirm, that the regenerate and renewed have
here in this life a certain earnest of their future in­
heritance ; which is their spiritual or heavenly
body ; as also the quickening of their mortal bo­
dies is therein attributed to the efficiency of the spi­
rit dwelling in them. Which is a thing that hath
been taken- notice of by some of the ancients, as
lrensus: “ N uncautem partem aliquant, spiritus
BODIES OF GH08TS, IN SCRIPTURE. 2 $
ejus sumimus,ad perfectionem et praepa-, T
.0
.^ .^ . -
rationem incorruptelse, paulatim assue-
scentes capere et portare Deum. Qiiod
etpignus dixit apostolus; hoc est, partem ejus ho­
noris, qui a Deo nobis promissus est.-------Si ergo
pignus hoc habitans in nobis jam spirituales effe-
cit, et absorbetur mortale ab immortalitate.”—
Now have we a part of that spirit for the prepa­
ration and perfection of incorruption; we being ac­
customed by little and little to receive and bear
God. W hich also the apostle bath called an ear­
nest; that is, a part of that bouour which is pro?
.raised to us from God. If therefore, this earnest
(or pledge), dwelling in us hath made us already
spiritual, the mortal is also swallowed up by im­
mortality.—And N ovatian/ “ Spiritus Sanctus id
agit in nobis, ut ad aeternitatem et ad resurrectioT
nem immortalitatis corpora nostra perducat, dim)
ilia in se assuefacit cum ccelesti virtute misceri.”
This is that which the Holy Spirit doth in us,
namely, to bring and lead on our bodies to eter­
nity, and the resurrection of immortality; whilst
in itself it accustometh us to be mingled with the
heavenly virtue. Moreover, there are some places,
also, which seem to imply, that good men shall*
after death, have a further inchoation of their
heavenly body, the full completion whereof is not
to be expected before the resurrection or day of
judgment. We know, th a tb“ if our earthly house
of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a build­
ing'of God, a house not nrade with hands, eter­
nal in the heavens. For in this we groan ear­
nestly.” And, verse 5. “ He that hath wrought
- *De Trinitatc, cap. xxix. p. 450, ad calcetn Operum Tertulliani. -
*3 Cor, v. 1. '
2 6 WHETHER ANY CREATED SPIR IT
us for the self-same thing is God, who also hath
given us the earnest of the Spirit.” Now how
these preludiutns and prelibations of.an immortal
body can consist with the soul’s continuance after
death, in a perfect separation from all manner of
body, till the day of judgment, is not so easily
conceivable.
Lastly, It is not at all to be doubted, but that
Irenaeus, Origen, and those other ancients, who
entertained that opinion of souls being clothed
after death with a certain thin and subtile body,
suspected it not in the least to be inconsistent
with that of the future resurrection; as it is no
way inconsistent for one, who hath only a shirt or
waistcoat on, to put on a suit of clothes, or ex­
terior upper-garment. W hich will also seem the
less strange, if it be considered, that even here in
this life, our body is, as it were, two-fold, exte­
rior and interior; we having, besides the grossly
tangible bulk of our outward body, another inte­
rior spirituous body, the soul’s immediate instru­
ment, both of sense and motion; which latter is
not put into the grave with the other, nor impri­
soned under the cold sods. Notwithstanding all
which that hath been here suggested by us, we
shall not ourselves venture to determine any thing
in so great a point, but sceptically leave it unde­
cided.
T he third and last thing in the forementioned
philosophic or Pythagoric cabala is concerning
those beings superior to men, commonly called
by the Greeks demons, which Philo * tells us
are the. same with angels amongst the Jews, and .
accordingly are those words, demons and angels,
*De Insomniis, p. 586.
WITHOUT A COBBOREAL 1NDDH1NT. 27
by Hierocles * and Simplicius, and other of the
latter Pagan writers, sometimes used indifferently
as synonymous); viz. That these demons or angels
are not pure, abstract, incorporeal substances,
devoid of vital union with any m atter; but that
they consist of something.incorporeal, and some­
thing corporeal, joined together: so that, as Hie­
rocles writeth of them, ro fiiv cvu avrtov aawfiarof
ovvla, to Si Kano tru
/
u
a
ru
c
y
}
, They have a superior
and an inferior part in them ; and their superior
part is an incorporeal substance; their inferior
corporeal.-—In a word, that they all, as well as
men, consist of soul and body, united together,
there being only this difference betwixt them,
that the souls of these demons or angels never
descend down to such gross and terrestrial bodies,
as human souls do; but are always clothed either
with aerial or ethereal ones. And, indeed, this
Pythagoric cabala was universal, concerning all
understanding beings, besides the supreme Deity,
or trinity of Divine hypostases; that is, concern­
ing all the Pagan inferior gods; that they are no
other than souls vitally united to some bodies,
and so made up of incorporeal and corporeal sub­
stance, joined together. For thus Hierocles plain­
ly expresseth himself in the forecited place;b v A
o*
‘yun| ovtrla irapa rov Sri/uovpyov a ; ro uvat ovrai naptiXOev,
V
C/winto aiopa ilvai avnjv parrt avtv otoparos, &c. The
rational nature (in general) was so produced by
God, as that it neither is body, nor yet without
body; but an incorporeal substance, having a
cognate or oongenite body*—Which same thing
was elsewhere also thus declared by him, tan yap
*Comment, in AureaPytliagor. Carolina, sect. 67, p. 210,
»Ibid. 210.
28 . {WHETHER ANY .'CREATED'SPIRIT
-7rac fi&v o Xoyucdc Siokoo/Mq, fiera row ovfiife-
p. 17. [p.19.J . / » H » A/ t » M
fVK&rog avrxf) a<j>uaprov aiopdTOG, u k w v oaov
tow B tifu o v p y o v , the whole rational order, or rank
of being, with its congenite immortal body, is the
image of the whole Deity, the-maker thereof.—
Where, by Hierocles’s rational nature or essence,
and by the whole rationalorder,is plainly meant all
understanding beings created,of which he acknow­
ledged only these three kinds and degrees ; first,
the immortal gods, which are to him the animated
stars; secondly, demons, angels, .or heroes; and
thirdly, men, called also by him xarayOovtoi Stupo-
v
ec, terrestrial dem ons;—he pronouncing of them
all, that they are alike incorporeal substances,
together with a congenite immortal body; and
that there is no other understanding nature tban<
such, besides the Supreme Deity, which is com­
plete in itself, witbout.the conjunction of.any body.
So that, according to Hierocles, the ancient P y-
tbagoric cabala acknowledged no such entities at
all, as those intelligences of Aristotle, and thenoes
o f:some high-flown Platonists (that is, perfectly
unbodied minds); and much less any rank of he-
nades, or unities,, superior to these noes. And,
indeed, such particular created beings as these,
could neither have sense or cogpizance of- any
corporeal thing existing without them (sense, as
Aristotle hath observed, resulting from a corapli-<
cation of soul and body, as weaving results from’
a complication of the weaver and weaving instru-
<inents): nor yet could they act upon: any part of
the corporeal universe. So that these immovable'
beings would be but like adamantine.statues, and'
things unconnected with the rest of the world,
having no commerce with any thing at all but the
WITHOUT A
=CORPOREAL INDUMB NT. 3 0
D eity; a kind of insignificant metaphysical gazers
or contemplators. . Whereas the Deity, though it
be not properly ipvyti iyKoa/uoc, a mundane soul,—
such as, together with the corporeal world, as its
body, makes up one complete and entire anim al;
yet because the whole world proceeded from it,
and perpetually dependeth on it, therefore must
it needs take cognizance of all, and act upon all.
in i t ; upon which account it hath been styled by
these Pythagoreans, ifaxv wepKOff/woci (not a mun­
dane, ’but) a supra-mundane soul. Wherefore
this ancient Pythagoric cabala seems to be agree­
able to reason also, that God should be the only
incorporeal being in this sense, such whose es-
*sence is ’com plete,:and life entire within itself,
without the conjunction or appendage of any
body; but that all other incorporeal substances
created should be completed and made up by a
vital union, with matter, so that the whole of them
is neither corporeal nor incorporeal, but a compli­
cation of'both; and all the highest and divinest
thiugs in the universe, next to the Supreme Deity,-
are animals consisting of soul and body united
together. And after this manner did the ancient
assertors of incorporeal substance, as unextended,
decline that absurdity objected against them, of
the illocality of all finite created spirits, that
these being incorporeal substances, vitally clothed
with some body, may, by reason of the locality
and mobility of thejr respective bodies, truly be
said to be here and there, and to move from place
to place.
. Wherefore we are here also to shew what agreed
ment or-disagreement there is betwixt this part of
the Pythagoric uabala and the Christian philoso^
30 o r ig e n ’s f u l l Ag r e e m e n t w it h
phy. And, first, it hath been already intimated,
that the very same doctrine with this of the an­
cient Pythagoreans was plainly asserted by Ori-
gen. Thus, in bis first book, Peri Arcbon, c. vi.
“ Solius Dei (saith he) id est Patris, et Filii, et
Spiritus Sancti, naturae id proprium est, ut sine
materiali substantia, et absque ulla corporeae ad-
jectionis societate, intelligatur subsistere.” It is
proper to the nature of God bnly, that is, of the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, to subsist without
material substance, or the society of any corpo­
real adjection.—Again, 1. ii. c. ii. “ Materialem
substantiam opinione quidem et intellectu solum
separari, a naturis rationalibus, et pro ipsis, vel
post ipsas effectam videri; sed nunquam sine
ipsa eas vel vixisse, vel vivere: solius namque tri-
nitatis incorporea vita existere recte putabitur.”
Material substance in rational natures is indeed
separable from them in conception and under­
standing, it seeming to be made for them, and in
order of nature after them ; but it is not really
and actually separable from the same; nor did
they ever, nor can they, live without i t : for a life
perfectly incorporeal is rightly deemed to belong
to the trinity only.—So also, in his fourth book,
and his Anacephalaeosis, “ Semper erunt ratio-
nabiles naturae, quae indigent indumento corporeo.
Semper ergo erit natura corporea, cujus indu-
mentis uti necesse estrationabiles creaturas. Nisi
quis putet se posse ostendere, quod natura ratio-
nabilis absque ulto corpore vitam degere possit.
Sed quam difficile id sit, et quam prope impossi­
b le intellectui nostro, in superioribus ostendi-
mus.” There always will be rational natures,
which stand in heed of a corporeal indument.
TflE OLD PYTHAGORIC CABALA. 31
Wherefore there will be always corporeal nature,
as a necessary indument or clothing for these ra­
tional creatures. Unless any one could shew,
that it is possible for the rational nature to live
without a body. Which how difficult and almost
impossible it is to our understanding, hath been
already declared.— Aquinas affirmeth* Origen, in
this doctrine of his, to have followed the opinion
of certain ancient philosophers; and undoubtedly
it was the old Pythagoric cabala, which thelearned
Origen here adhered to; that v XoyunJ ouala, as it
is in Hierocles, and vac o Xoyucoc duxK
w
xfiot, the
rational nature made by G od;—that is, all created
understanding beings are neither body, nor yet
without body, but have always a cognate or con-
genite body, as their vehicle or indument. So
that angels or demons, as well according to Ori­
gen as Hierocles, are all of them incorporeal sub­
stances, not naked and abstract, but clothed with
certain subtile bodies, or animals compounded
and made up of soul and body together.
Wherefore Huetius,b and other learned men,
seem not well to have understood Origen here,
but to have confounded two different opinions to­
gether, when they suppose him to have asserted
angels, and all understanding creatures, not to
have bodies, but to be bodies, and nothing else;
and, consequently, that there is no incorporeal
substance at all besides the D eity: whereas Ori­
gen only affirmeth, that nothing besides the Tri­
nity could subsist and live alone, “ absque ulla
corporeae adjectionis societate,” without the so­
ciety of any corporeal adjection;—and that the
aIn Summa Tbeolog. part i. Qmest. li. p. 1.
bIn Origenianis, lib. ii. Quaest. v. p. 68.
32 o r ig e n ’s f u h l a g r e e m e n t -w it h
material nature is only a necessary indument Of
clothing of all rational or understanding crea­
tures. And in this sense is.it, that an incorpo­
real life is said by him to be proper only to the
Trinity; because all other understanding beings
are animals compounded of soul and body toge­
ther. B ut that Origen acknowledged even our.
human soul itself to be incorporeal, as also that
there is something in angels incorporeal, might be
made evident from sundry passages in his writ­
ings: .as this particnlarty in his sixth book against
Celsus; Tj/tme aawftarov ovalav ovk toper eKTru^ovfitvvVi ovS'
tig Trvp avakvoftivriv t»Jv av6po)Trov \pvyriv, v rrjv ayyeXwv
^ O
povtov, &c. viroorra<Tiv’ • We do not think an in­
corporeal substance to be combustible, nor that
the soul of man can be resolved into fire, or the
substance of angels, thrones, dominions, princi­
palities, or powers.—W here, by,the substance of
angels, he doubtless meant the souls of them;
Or'igen?
s sense, being thus declared by St. Je­
rome:* “ in libris irqw ap^wv, angelos, et thronos,
et douiinationes, et potestates, et rectores mundi
et tenebrarum, et oinne nomen quod nominator,
dicit, animas esse eorum corporum, quae vel desi-
derio vel ministerio susceperint:” that in his
book :of principles he affirmeth, angels, and
thrones, and dominions, and powers, and the go­
vernors of the darkness of this world, and eyery
name that is named (in St. Paul), to be all 'o f
them the souls of certain bodies, such as either
by their own desire and Inclination, .or the Divine
allotment, they have received.—Now there can be
no question made, but that he, who supposed
a Epist. lxi. ad Pauimachium de Erroribus Johan. Hierosotymitani,
tom. ii. oper. p. 118.
THE OLD PYXHAGOBIC CABALA.. SSI
the souls of men to be incorporeal, in a strict
philosophicsense, and such as could dot suffer
any thing from fire, did also acknowledge some­
thing incorporeal in angels. And thus doth he
somewhere declare himself, in thkt book, Peri
Archon,* “ P er Christum creata dixit (Paulus)
omnia visibilia et invisibilia; per quod declara­
tor, esse etiam in creaturis quasdam invisibles,
secundum proprietatem suam, substantiae; sed
hae, quamvis ipsa non sunt corporea, utuntur
tamen corporibus, licet ipsa sunt corpprea sub­
stantia meliores. 111a vero substantia trinitatis
neque corpus, neque in corpore, esse credenda
est; sed in toto incorporea.” When Paul affirm-
etk all things, visible and invisible, to have been
created by Christ, or the Aoyoc, he intimated, that
even amongst the creatures, there are some pro­
perly invisible substances. Which invisible sub­
stances created, though they be not bodies, yet
do they use bodies, themselves being better than
corporeal substance. But the substance of the
Trinity is .neither body, nor yet in body, but al­
together incorporeal.—Wherefore angelical and
human souls are not, as Huetius supposeth,
called incorporeal by Origen, only as subtile
bodies sometimes are by the more simple and un­
skilful, but in a strict philosophic sense; only
he supposed them to differ from the Deity in this,
that though they be not bodies, yet they are al­
ways in bodies, or clothed with bodies; whereas
the Deity is in both senses incorporeal, it having
not so much as any corporeal indument. So that
there is here no contradiction at all to be found
in Origen, he constantly asserting angels to have
* iv. cap. il.
D
VOL. IV
34 TO THB MAJORITY OF THE FATHERS
something incorporeal in them as their superior
part, and notin that vulgar sense of a subtile
body, but in the philosophic; nevertheless, to
have also a corporeal indument or clothing, as
their outside or lower part, and in that regard
only he calling them corporeal.
- It is true, indeed^ that there were, amongst the
ancient fathers, some, who were so far from sup*
posing angels to be altogether incorporeal, that
they ran -into the- other extreme, and concluded
them to have nothing at all incorporeal in them,
'but to be mere bodies. B ut these either asserted
•that there was no such thing at all as any incor­
poreal substance; and that not only angels, and
-human souls,-but also God himself was a body:
or at least they concluded, that nothing created
was incorporeal; and that God, though himself
incorporeal, yet could create nothing but bodies.
-These are here the two extremes; one, that an­
gels have nothing corporeal at all belonging to
'them; the other, that they are altogether corpo­
real, or have nothing incorporeal in them : a
middle betwixt both which is the Origenic hy­
pothesis,. the same with the Pythagoric; that in
ahgels there is a complication of incorporeal and
corporeal substance both together, or that they
are animails consisting of soul and body. We
shall; now make it appear, that the greater part
of the ancient fathers were for neither of the two
forementioned extremes, either that angels were
wholly incorporeal, or that they were wholly
corporeal; but rather for the middle hypothesis,
that they had bodies, and yet were not bodies,
but, as other terrestrial animals, spirits or souls,
clothed with etherial or aerial bodies. And that
DEMONS AND ANOELS BODIED. 3 5
the generality of the ancient and most learned
fathers did not conceive angels to be mere un­
bodied spirits, is unquestionably..evident -from
hence, because they agreed with the Greek
philosophers iu that conceit, that evil demons,
or devils, were therefore delighted with the blood
and nidours of sacrifices, a s .having their more
gross, airy, and vaporous .bodies nourished and
refreshed with those vapours, which they did,- as it
were, luxuriate and gluttonize in. For thus does
Porphyrius write concerning them, in his book
D e Abstinentia,* oeroiot yalpomtg Xoifip re; Kv'iaag re,
Si <3yavrwv t o fftujuarucov Kcu irvevfiarucov iria/vwai' Zg .yap
t o v t o arfiolq «ca! ava&vfuaftam' These are they, who
•take pleasure in the incense, fumes, and nidours
of. sacrifices, wherewith their corporeal and spi­
rituous part is as it were pinguified ;• for this lives,
and is nourished, by vapours and fumigations.
And. that, before Porphyrius, many other Pagan
philosophers had been of the same opinion, ap­
peared from this of Celsus: Xpj yap 0rig. Tiili
iaytSiOvk airumiv avSpatn aofotc, oi Btj tpam, tv- 417.]
Stori rutv fttv irtpiytlwv Satfiovtov to ttXiuttqv ytvtau o w -
.rertiKot, k c u irpocrrtX
iofitvov at/uati k c u K
v'iaag, &c. ’ We
ought to give credit to wise men, who affirm,
.that most of these lower and. circumterraneous
demons are delighted with geniture, blood, and
.nidour, and such-like things, and much gratified
.therewith; though they be not able to do any
.thing .moreiu way of recompence, than sometimes
.perhaps to cure the body, or to foretel good, and
evil fortunes to men and pities.—Upon co»tncei*.
which , account himself, though a zea- *•»“•p i ­
lous Pagan, persuadetb ,mea to moderation in
* Lib. ii. §. xlii. p. 86.
3 6 TO THE MAJORITY OF THE FATHERS
the use of thebe' sacrifices, as principally grati­
fying the inferior and Worser demons only. In
like manner Origen frequently rasisteth npon the
same thfng, he affirming, that devils were not
only delighted with the idolatry of the Pagans
in their sacrifices, but also o n rut* hwniv ava&vpti^
fiaoi Kdt faSf afro f6)v afpdfatv icat oXoKawrtytolTwVmo^o
*
fxU
Q tpi<pt(fQ
al ra diS/M
tra jtX
ttSbntm
'hrr<a* Toifc rotovrote’
T hat their very bodies were nourished by the
vapours and fumes arising from them, and that
these evil demons therefore did as if Were deli-
ciate and epicuriae in' them. And before Origen,
most of the ancient fathers, as Justin M artyr,
Athenagoras, Tafiamis, Tertullian, Ac. and also
many others after him, endeavour to disparage
those material and bloody sacrifices upon the
Same account, as things, Whereby evil demons
Were? principally gratified. We shall’ only cite
one passage to this purpose out of St.
p.s98.tt’
m
*l Basil, or whoever Were the' anther of
?pa' *“fi‘ that Commentary upon Isaiah, because
“ pp«» • j |j e r e j8 gomethiag philosophic in it:
Saipan Sia r6 ipiXifSovOV tea1IpWaBt^, oi Qvaiat tptpoVal nvit
i}8dv»}v (cat %ptlav eK&OpaopEvai, Std fijc Kavdaoc t^arpt^o-
pfvow toi aiparoe, teat ovrat Sta ri|CroiaVTJje XtTirOTroafmw^
Etc ti}
v avtrraaiv avtSv avdXapftavopivov’ oXol jap St dkwv
Tpifo&rat rote arpoic, ov Sta pdmnpttttc xdt KoiXiag, aAX*
at fp i\ti ffavrwV £a>wv teal ow^tg, teal offa rotavra at;
oXtfv E
avT
(i>i>r»}v ov<riai>, fjfv Tpo<f>t)VKataSlysrai. Sacri­
fices are things o f no small pleasure and advan­
tage to dem ons; because the blood, being eva­
porated by fire, and so attenuated, is taken into
the compages and Substances of their bodies:
the whole of which is throughout nonrished with
vapours, not by eating, and stomachs, or such-
DEMONS AND ANGELS BODIED. 87
like organs, but as the hairs and nails of all
Animals, and whatsoever other things receive
nourishment into their whole substance.—And
thus do we see it undeniably manifest, that many
of the ancient fathers supposed devils to have
bodies; oeijther can it at all be doubted, but that
they concluded the satne of angels too, these
being both of the same kind, and differing but as
good and evil men, A nd though they do not
affirm this of good angels, but of devils only, that
they were thus delighted and nourished with the
fumes and vapours of sacrifices, and that they
.epicurized in them ; yet was not the reason here­
of, because they conceived them to be altogether
incorporeal, but tp have pure etherial or heavenly
bodies; it being proper to those gross and vapor?
ous bodies of demons only to be nourished and
refreshed after, that manner. And now, that all
these ancient fathers did not suppose either angels
.or devils to be altogether corporeal, or to have no­
thing but body in them, may be concluded from
hence, because many of them plainly declared the
souls of men to be incorporeal; and therefore it
cannot be imagined, that they should so far de­
g ra d e angels below men, as not to acknowledge
.diem to have any thing at all incorporeal.
B ut we shall now instance in some few, amongst
many of these ancients, who plainly asserted both
devils and angels to be spirits incorporate, and
not to be. mere bodies, but only to have bodies;
that iq, to consist of soul and body, or corporeal
Uud incorporeal substance Joined together. T hat
. angels themselves have bodies, is every where de­
clared by Sft. Austin in his writings; he h ^
affirming, that the bodies of good men, '
38 TO ST. AUSTIN AND OTHERS
after the resurrection, shall be “ qualia sunt ange-
lorum corpora,” such as are the bodies of angels;
, ", —and that they shall be “ corpora ange-
. lica, in sOcietate angelorum, atagehcal
bodies, fit for society and Converse with angels—
and declaring the difference betwixt the bodies of
angels and of devils in this manner : “ Daemoues,
D e G e n . a d . antequam transgrederentur,coelestiacor-
tfisip! li*’poragerebant, quae conVersasintex poena
jn aeream qualitatem, ut jam possint ab
igne p a t i T h a t though devils, before the transgres­
sion, had celestial bodies, as angels how have, yet
might these afterwards, in way of punishment, be
changed into aerial ones, and such as now may
suffer by fire.-—
Moreover, the same St. Austin
sOmewhere* calleth good angels by the name of
“ anim* beat* atquesanct*,”happy and holy souls.
■ 1 rf ; ---And though it be true, that in his Re­
tractions he recalleth and correcteth this,
yet was this only a scrupulosity, in thatpiousfather
concerning the mere word, because he no where
found in Scripture angels called by the name of
souls; it being far from his meaning, even there,
to deny them to be incorporeal spirits joined with
bodies. And certainly he, who every where con-
cludes human souls to be incorporeal, cannot be
thought to have supposed angels to have nothing
at all but body in them. Again, Claudianus
Mamertus,* writing against Faustus, who made
angels to be mere bodies without souls, or any
thing incorporeal, raaintaineth, in way of opposi­
tion, not that they are mere incorporeal spirits,
without bodies (which is the other extreme), but
aDe Musica, lib. vi. cap. xvii. §. 59. p«401. tom. i. oper.
bDe Statu Animae, lib.iii. cap. vii. p. 178, edit. Bartiui,
ANGELS EMBODIED S PIglT Sl 39
that they consist of corporeal and incorporeal,
soul and body joined together; be writing thus of
devils: “Diabolus ex doplici diversaque substantia
constat; et carporeu? est e t incorporeus:” Thh
devil consisteth of a doable and different sub­
stance ; he is corporeal, and he is also in- u &
corporeal.—And again ofangels: “Patet
beatos angelos, utriusque substantiae, et incorpo-
reos esse in ea sni parte, qua ipsis visibilis D eus;
et in ea itidem parte corporeos, qua hominibus
sunt ipsi visibiles.” It is manifest, that the blessed
angels are of a two-fold substance; that they are
incorporeal in that part of theirs, wherein God is
visible to them, and again corporeal, in that other
part, wherein themselves are visible to men.
Moreover, Fulgentius writeth concern- L. m.D«Tri».
ing angels in this manner: “ Plane ex
duplici eos esse substantia asserunt mag- <
•*
•]
ni e t docti viri. Id est, ex spiritu incorporeo,
quo a Dei contemplatione nunquam recedunt; et
ex corpore, per quod ex tempore hominibus ap­
parent. Corpora vera aetherea, id est, ignea, eos
dicunt habere; daemones vero corpus aereum.”
Great and learned men affirm angels to consist of
a double substance ; that is, of a spirit incorpo­
real, whereby they contemplate G od; and of a
body, whereby they are sometimes visible to men:
as also, that they have etherial or fiery bodies,
but devils aerial.—And perhaps this might be the
meaniug of Joannes Thessalonicensis, in that
dialogue of his, read and approved of in the
seventh council, and therefore the meaning of that
council itself too, when it is thus declared, votpoug
fitv avrovg q <ca0oAucq itocXyola yivwoKii, ov ju
>
}
i>aow/iarovg
TravTt) Kal aoparovg, Xsirroffufiarovg Si Ktu atptoStig, V
4 0 TO ST. AUSTIN AND OTHERS
irupftJ&ic, &c. That the catholic church acknow­
ledges angels to be intellectual, but not altogether
incorporeal and invisible; but to have certain sub­
tile bodies, either aiery or fiery.— For it being
there only denied, that they wefe-altogether incor­
poreal, one would think the meaning should not
be, that they were altogether corporeal; nor indeed
could such an opinion be fastened upon the catho­
lic church; but that they were partly incorporeal#
and partly, corporeal; this being also sufficient in
order to-that design, which was driven at in that
council. However Psellns,* who was a curious
inquirer into the nature of spirits, declares it not
only as his own opinion, but also as agreeable to
the sense of the ancient fathers, «!? ovk aaiifiarov ro
Saiftdvtov io n </>v\ov, pera ocifiaroc Si y t’ That the
demoniac or angelic kind of beihgs is not alto­
gether incorporeal, or bodiless, but that they are
conjoined with bodies, or have cognate bodies
belonging to them.—Who there also further de­
clares the difference betwixt the bodies of good
angels and of evil demons, after this manner: ropiv
_ „ r _ yap dyyeXucov, avydq nvag i^avloyov £,evag, roic
P, S3. [p.48.j $ \ ~ * ». i t \ » t
iktoq ofvaAfioig eonv a^opr/rov t e kcu awwoora-
TOV* TO SalflOVlOV $£, El fjlv TOIOVTOV S^7TOT£ T?V, OVKOlSa E17TEIV9
ioucsv S* ovv, iwo<jf6pov ’Hoalov rov iKir&rovra Karovofia-
Zoyrog* vvv Se aXXa Zo<j>fo8eg oiov Kal djxavpov ion> xai t o ic
ofifiaffi Xwrrjpov, yvpvtoOlv rov ovZvyov Qwrog9 Kal t o fiiv
ayytXucov tcavrarraolv ionv aoXov* Sio K a l Sia wavrd io n
orepEOV SiaSvvov K a l SuoVf K a l TrigdXiaxrig atcrivog ov diraOea-
TEpov* t i )v jj.lv yap Sid owjjarwv Siatyavdv lovoav, airoorlya t o
yeojSrj Kal iXafiitri dg Kal KXdoiv virofiivttv, areSdivvXov
*iyovoav. rd Se QvSev ion irpooavreg, oia jirjSefiiav eyovn rrpog
firjSlv avrlOeoiv. t o 8e Saiftovia odfiara, #c$v viro XeirrOTTfrog
aDialog, dc Opcrationibus Daemonum, p. 44.
ANGELS EMBODIED SPIRITS., 41
a^avi KfMonutciv, (AX’ ^wiccwiXa m , kcu tfixaQtj, nu fta-
■Xtatf otra m if vwo •yjjvviroSeSjiictttwrovc* ravra yap rcxravrifis
ij(u n}v owrraaar, u ; k«
u dfcuQ wrowiirruv, kcu wXtfrro/uim
oSvyaaOat, kcu m pl rpoao/nAtjoravra Kaiscr(ku' The an­
gelical body sending forth rays and splendours,
such as would dazzle mortal eyes, and cannot be
borne by them; but the demoniac body, though it
seemeth to have been once such also, (from Isa­
iah’s calling him, that fell from heaveu, Lucifer,)
.-yet is it now dark and obscure, foul and squaliid,
and grievous to behold, it being deprived of its
cognate light and beauty. Again, the angelical
body is so devoid of gross matter, that it can pass
through any solid thing, it being indeed more im­
passible than the sun-beams; for though these can
permeate pellucid bodies, yet are they hindered
by earthy and opake, and refracted by them:
whereas the angelical body is such, as that there
is nothing so imporous or solid, that can resist or
exdude it. But the demoniac bodies, though, by
reason of their tenuity, they commonly escape our
sight, yet have they, notwithstanding, gross matter
in them,and are patible, especially those of them
which inhabit the subterraneous places; for these
are of so gross a consistency and solidity, as that
they sometimes fall also under touch; and, being
stricken, baveasense of pain, and are capable of
being burnt with fire.—To which purpose, the
Thracian there addeth more afterward from the
information of Marcus themonk, a person formerly
initiated in the diabolic mysteries, and of great'
curiosity : T
OSaiuovtov apa xptvfta SioXov ov P. 94.
\ , 9 *
• a \ \ - « - t [p. 142.]
K a r a fj)V(riv a u r u ^ r u c o v K a r a i r a v e a v r o v .ftf p o t; ,
dpe<Ta>c' opji re teal dxovei, kcu ra rijg a^r/c virofilvu xrafli;,
S i a i p o v / i t v o v o S v v a r a i K a r a ran/ trocaran/ ra a r e p ta * r a v r y
42 TO 8T. AUSTIN AND OTHERS
Tovruyv StcvcyKov, on ra fttv aXXa twv BuuptBtvrwv, juoXtcif
■
ooSa/udUcovXovrai, to Se Buupovftsvov evBvcmfifverai, xadamp
. aipoe if Kal vSaroc ^topu* fitna^v rtvoc s/tTrarrovra ortptov’
aXX’ tl Kal OarTov fj Xo-yogtovti to vvwfia mfupvtrat, TrXtfv
aviarot tear* avro ro ylvsoOai tijv Sialptmv’ The de­
moniac spirit or subtile body, being every part of
it capable of sense, does immediately see and
hear, and is also obnoxious to the affections
of touch;- insomuch that being suddenly divided
or cut in two, it hath a sense of pain, as the solid
bodies of other animals have; it differing from
them only in this, that those other bodies, being
once discontinued, are not easily consolidated to­
gether again; whereas thedemoniac body, being di­
vided, is quickly redintegrated by coalescence, as
air or water: nevertheless it is not without a sense
of pain at that time, when it is thus divided, &c.—
Moreover, the same Marcus affirmeth the bodies
of the demons to be nourished also, though in a
different manner from ours; rptyoimu ol /u£vS<’ ««-
' motK, <i)g to tv a’pn)pung kou tv vtvgxxc irmvfim.' ol St St’
wyponrrog, aXX’ oil aro/uart Kaff li/uag, aXXr w&rtp aroyyoi -
Kal oarpaicoStp/ua, tnrwvrtc /utv rijg xapa/cei/wvrfg vyportirqc
*£«&*•* They are some of them nourished by
inspiration, as the spirit contained in the nerves -
and arteries; others by sucking iu the adjacent
moisture, not-as we do by mouths, but as sponges
and testaceous fishes.— And now we may venture
to conclude, that this opinion of angels being not
mere abstract incorporeal substances, and un­
bodied minds, but consisting of something incor­
poreal, and something corporeal, that is, of soul or
spirit, and body joined together, is not only more
agreeable to reason, but hath also had more suf-
ANGBL8 EMBODIED 8M E ITS. 4 3
frages amongst the ancient lathers, and those of
greater weight too, than either of those two other
extremes, viz. T hat angels are mere bodies, and
have nothing at all incorporeal in them; or else,
that they are altogether incorporeal, without any
bodily indument or clothing.
Notwithstanding which, this latter opinion hath
indeed prevailed most in these latter ages; time
being rightly compared to a river, which quickly
sinks the more weighty and solid things, and beaife
up only the lighter and more superficial. Though
there may be other reasons given for this also; as
partly because the Aristotelic philosophy, when
generally introduced into Christianity, brought in
its abstract intelligences along with it; and partly
-because some spurious Platonists talking so much
of their henades and noes, their simple monads
and immoveable unbodied minds, as the chief of
their generated and created gods; probably some
Christians might have a mind to vie their angels
' with them : and, lastly, because angels are notonly
called in Scripture spirits, but also by several of
the ancients said to be incorporeal; whilst this,
in the mean time, was meant only either in respect
of that incorporeal part, soul or mind, which they
supposed to be in them, or else of the tenuity and
subtilty of their bodies or vehicles. For this
account does Psellusgive hereof: ko!roic p. 30.33.
' liper^pote K«u ro»c Ovpafkv, tuuftoc "tori, to vayy- ^
rtpa twv aaifidrtitv mu/urruli) Xiytiv. o 8e XtirTOjutptc *<rri Kal
Tjjv oiptv 8ia<f>vydvov Km tijv a^ijv aow/uarov, ov fiovov ol
k
q
.9 li/uac, a’X
X
a K
<
u iroXXot ruvtKroe a^iovm Xfyuv’- -It
is usual both with Christian writers, and P a­
gans too, to call the grosser bodies corporeal,
and those, which, by reason of their subtilty,
4 4 ANGELS CALLED INCORPOREAL,
avoid both our sight and touch, incorporeal. A nd
before Psellus, Joannes Thessalonicensis, in
his dialogue, approved in the' seventh council ;*
fi Se wow evpoif d&w/Mrovc' KaXovfifvovc tow
c cJyyiXouc
4 Saiftovat, V xpvyai;, wg /t*
»
)pvrac he oawtl£,ew€ rJv v\ui&p
rtoaaptt>v aroi^tlurv, ical rotavra aw/Aaja vayta A
cai,aKr«Vuwa,
•oiaVfieiQKffHKtlfuOa, ovTtae.mrmc vpoaqyopeuoav’ I f you
find angels, or demons, or separate souls, called
sometimes incorporeal, you m ost understand this
in respect of the tenuity of their bodies only ;' as
mot consisting of the .grosser elements, nor being
no solid and antitypons as those, which we are
.now imprisoned in. And, before them both, Orj-
gen, in the proeme of his Peri Archon, where,
citing a passage ont of anancient book, intituled.
The Doctrine of Peter, wherein our Saviour Christ
•is said to have told his disciples, that he was not
^tufiovtovvaviM
vrov, an incorporeal demon—though,
rejecting the authority of that book, he thus in­
terprets those w ords: “ Non idem sensus ex isto
sermone aau>fiarovindicator, qui Grsecis vel Geuti-
libus auctoribips ostenditur, quum de incorporea
.natnra a .philosophis disputatur. In hoc enim
jibello., iocorporeora daeomnium dixit, pro eo, quod
ipse ille quicunque est habitus vel circumscriptio
daemooici corporis, non est similis huic nostro
crassiori, vel visibili corpori; sed secundum sen-
sum, ejus qui composuit.illam Scripturam, intelli-
gendum est, quod dix it; non esse tale corpus,
quale habent daemones, quod est naturaliter sub­
tile, et velut aura tenue; et propter hoc vel impu-
tatura multis, veldicitur incorporeum; sed habere
se corpus solid um et palpabile.”-—The word Jaiopa-
»In Actis Concilii vii. Oecum. seu Nicaeni ii. Action, v. p. 293. tom. hr.
Concilior. edit. Harduini.
AS SAVING 8UBTILB BODIES. 4 5
row, or incorporeal, is not to be taken here in that
sense, wherein it is used by the Greek and Gentile
writers, When they philosophized concerning the
incorporeal nature* But a demon is here said to
be incorporeal, because of the disposition of the
demoniac body, not like to this gross and visible
body of Ours. So that the sense is, as if Christ
should have said, I have not such a body as the
demons have, which is naturally subtile, thin and
soft, as the air, and therefore is either supposed to
be by many, or at least called incorporeal; but the
body, which.I now have, is solid and palpable.—•
W here we see plainly, that angels, though sup*
posed to have bodies, may, notwithstanding, be
called incorporeal, by reason of the tenuity and
subtiky of those bodies, comparatively with the
grossness and solidity ofthese our terrestrial-bodies*
But that indeed which now most of aU incliueth
some to this persuasion, that angels have nothing
at all corporeal hanging about them, is a religious
'regard to the authority of the third Lateran coun­
cil, having passed its approbation upon this doc­
trine; as if the Oecumenical (so called) or second
Nicene,. wherein the contrary was before owned
and allowed, were not of equal force, at least to
counterbalance the other.
B ut though this doctrine of angels, or all creat­
ed understanding beings superior to men, having
a corporeal indunient or clothing, does so ex­
actly agree with the old Pythagoric cabala; yet
have we reason to think, that it was not therefore
merely borrowed or derived from thence by the
ancient fathers ; bat that they were led into it by
the Scripture itself. For, first, the historic phe­
nomena of angels in the Scripture are such, as
46 IN SCRIPTURE, ANGELS SINNING
cannot well be otherwise solved,, than by suppos­
ing them to have bodies; and then not to lay any
stress upon those words of the Psalmist,* “ who
maketh his atigels spirits, and ministers a flame of
'fire,” (though, with good reason, by the ancient
fathers interpreted to this sense) because they may
possibly be understood otherwise, as sometime
they are by rabbinical commentators; nor to insist
upon those passages of St. Paul,bwhere he speaks
.of the tongues of angels, and of the voice of an
archangel, and such-like; there are several other
places in Scripture, which seem plainly to confirm
this opinion. As, first, that of our Saviour before-
mentioned-to this purpose, Luke xx. 35. “ They
who shall be accounted worthy to obtain that
world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither
marry nor are given in marriage, neither can they
die any more; for they are equal unto the angels.”
For were angels utterly devoid of all bodies, then
would the souls of good men, in a state of separa­
tion, and without any resurrection, be rather equal
to angels, than after a resurrection of their bodies.
Wherefore the natural meaning of these words
D
eG
en. ad 8ecms to be this, (as St. Austin bath in-
lu. L.ia. terpreted them) that the souls of gdod
men, after the resurrection, shall have “ corpora
angelica,”angelical bodies—and “qualia sunt an-
gelorum corpora,” such bodies as those of angels
are.—Wherein it is supposed, that angels also have
bodies, but of a very different kind from those of
ours here. Again, that of St. Jude, where he
•writeth thus of the devils; “ the angels, which
kept not their first estate (or rather according to
the vulgar Latin, “ suum principatum,” their own
• Psalm civ. 4. b 1 Cor; xiii. 1. 1 Thess.hr. IQ. J
LOST THEIR HEAVENLY BO&Y. 47
principality)’but left tbeir proper habitation (or
-dwelling-house) hath be reserved in everlasting
chains, under darkness, unto the judgment of the
great day.” In which words it is first implied,
that the devils were created by God pure, as well
as the other angels, but that they kept not nj*
their own principality—that is, their
lordly power and dominion over tbeir worse and
inferior part, they having also a certain duplicity
in their nature, of a better and worser principle,
of a superior part, which ought to rule and'govem,
and of an inferior, which ought to be governed:
nor is it indeed otherwise easily conceivable, how
.they should be capable of sinning. Aud this
inferior part in angels seems to have a respect to
something that is. corporeal or bodily in them
also, as well as it hath in men. But then, in the
next place, St. Jude addeth, as the immediate
result and natural consequence of these angels sin­
ning, that theythereby left or lost rotStov oi*»rn)p«ov,
suum proprium doraicilium—that is, not only their
dwelling-place at large, those etherial countries
and heavenly regions above, but also their pro­
per dwelling-house, or immediate mansion; to wit*
tbeir heavenly body. Forasmuch as that heaven­
ly body, which good men expect after the resur-
.rection, is thus called by St. Paul," to oucijntjxov
tijuwvro eg ovpavov, our habitation or dwelling-house,
that is from heaven.—The heavenly body is the
•proper house or dwelling, clothing or indument,
both of angelical and human souls; and this is
■
that, which makes them fit inhabitants for the
heavenly regions. This, I say, was the natural
consequence of these angels sinning, their leaving
*2 Cor. v. 1.
48 IN 8CBIPTURB,. ANGEBS BINNING
op losing their pare and heavenly body, which
became thereupon forthwith obscured and incras-
sated; the bodies of spirits incorporate always
bearing a correspondent purity- or impurity to the
different disposition of their mipd or soul. But
then again, in the last-place, that,, which was thus
iu part the natural result of their sin, was also,: by
the just judgment of God, converted into their
punishment;’for their etherial- bodies being thus
ehanged into gross, aerial, feculent and- vaporous
ones, themselves were immediately hereupon, as
St* Peter in the parallel place expresseth it,*
raprapvOivree, cast down into 'Tartarus—and there
imprisoned or reserved in’chains under darkness,
until the j udgment of the great day. Where it is
observable, that the word raprapovv, used by St.
Peter, is the very same that Apollddorus and other
Greek writers.frequently make use of in a like
case, when they speak of the Titans being-cast
down from heaven; which seems to have been
really nothing else but this fall of angels poetically
mythologized. And by Tartarus here, in all pro­
bability, is meant this lower caliginous air or
atmosphere of the earth, according to that of St.
De g *o. ad Austin, concerning these angels: “ Post
{£'114’°'x* peccatum in hancsunt detrusicaliginem,
tom iii. ubi tamen et a e r t h a t , after their sin,
operd they were thrust down into the misty
darkness of this lower air.—And here are they, as
it were, chained and fettered also by that same
weight of their gross and heavy bodies, which first
sunk them down hither; this not suffering them to
reascend up, or return back, to those bright ethe­
rial regions above. And being thus for the pre-
*2Pet.ii.4.
LOST THEIR HEAVENLY BODY. 49
sent imprisoned in this lower Tartarus, or caligi-
nous air or atmosphere, they are indeed here kept
and reserved iu custody, unto the judgment of the
great day, and general assizes; however they may,
notwithstanding, in the mean time, seem to domi­
neer and lord it for a while here. And, lastly,
bur Saviour’s* “ Go ye cursed into everlasting fire,
prepared for the devil and his angels,” seems to be
a clear confirmation of devils.being bodied;
because, first, to allegorize this fire into nothing
but remorse of conscience, would endanger the
rendering of other points of our religion uncertain
also; but to say,* that incorporeal substances,
united to bodies, cambe tormented with fire, is,
as much as in us lieth, to expose Christianity, and
the Scripture, to the scorn and contempt of all
philosophers and philosophic wits. -Wherefore
Pselius lays no small stress upon this p. sr.
place ; tipi ptv irapa rwv row 2<irrrfpoc X
o-yw
v
irarcityibroc ravra, irvpi KoXaadriataOai fam covrw rove Sa/po-
vac* o irwe otov vaduv aVaiparovc ovrac; TO'yapaaiifiarov
afiqyavov iraBuv viro mwparoe* avayxt) yovv awfianv avrovc
rijv KoXainv mroSejffoOai vf^vKom I a m a lso
convinced of this, that-demons have bodies, from
the words of our Saviour, affirming, that they
shall be punished with fire: which how could it
be, were they altogether incorporeal? it being im­
possible for that, which is both itself incorporeal,
and vitally ununited to any body, to suffer from a
-body. Wherefore of necessity it must be granted,
by us Christians,: that devils shall,receive punish­
ment of sense and pain hereafter, in bodies capa­
ble of suffering. ......
Now if angels in general, that is,' all created
*Mattb. rix-v. 4lJ '
E
VOL. IV.
5 0 MORE OF THE BODIES^ OR
beingB superior to men, be substances incorpo­
real, or souls vitally united to bodies, though
not always the same, but sometimes of one kind*
and sometimes of another, and never quite sepa­
rate from all body; it may seem probable from
hence, that though there be other incorporeal
substances besides the Deity, yet'“ vita iiicor-
porea,” a life perfectly incorporeal in the fore-
mentioned Origenic sense, or “ sine corpora®
adjectionis societate vivere,” to live altogether
without the society of any corporeal adjection,—i
is a privilege properly belonging to the holy Trir
nity only:' and consequently, therefore, that hu­
man souls, when by death they are divested of
these gross earthly bodies, they do not then live
and act completely, without the conjunction of
any body, and so continue till the resurrection or
day of judgment; this being a privilege, which
not so much as the angels themselves, and there­
fore no created finite being, is capable of; the
imperfection of whose nature necessarily requires
the conjunction of some body with them, to
make them up complete: without which, it is
unconceivable, how they should either have sense
or imagination. And thus doth Origen, consen­
taneously to hjs own principles, conclude; * ry
Cont. Cels. iavrtjg <j>wnt d&
tojuarot; jcai ddparoc & '
1
.T
&p.863; travrl ma/iarucy roirtp rvy^avovaa, Secrett atoftq-
to
qoucciovrg fvau rov to
tto
v iieuvov’ oirepoirov filv <
j>
o
p
u
,
aimcSwra/tiini irporcpov avayKaiiov pep, rrepunrov Se «c irpot;
ra &vr*pa’ oirov Se hrevSixrafiivti d>.irportpov tl^e, Scojutvw
Kpctrrovoc -evSv/uaroc rove KaBapuripovf rai aiOeptouc'
Kai ovpaviovs rojrovc" Our soul, which in its owh
nature is incorporeal and invisible, in what­
soever corporeal place it existeth, doth always
VEHICLES OF SOULS, FROM ORIGEN. $1
stand in need of a body, suitable to the nature
of that place respectively; which body it some­
times beareth, having put off that, which before
was necessary, but is now superfluous for the
following state; and sometimes again putting on
something to what before it had, now standing
in need of some better clothing, to fit it for those
more pure, ethereal and heavenly places. But,
in what there follows, we conceive, that Origeu’s
sense having not been rightly understood, bis
words have been altered and perverted; and that
the whole place ought to be. read thus: K
<u
<r#rs (uv Eire njv *$$£ ysvteuv ipyofitv*, *o
np* ev rp wvrtpa tt)C kvoveK i «<>e qv tv aqrp* tvtSvoaro Si
wr ek« vo, o Jv avayKaiov i p Efrl y i i fitXovrt, iia^pv' tlra
irdXtv Svros n vd f mcqvovc, n u tm yuov outtoe dvayicalae
too rp EKilva, KaraXveoOai ftkv pttmi at Xoyot. n}v tnlyttov
ouctav row mnjinvf, to Se <ncifvo$ tiftvSioaaBat ouclav a^sipo-
Toltfrov, (MMimt ev rote ovfwvqi^ Xiyoixjt Si oi row Otov
avdptowot, to ftiy tpOaprov tvSvoaa&at avro df$apolav‘ T h e
sense whereof is this: The soul descending hither
into generation, put on first that body, which
was useful for it whilst to continue in the wpmb;
and then again afterward such a body, as was
necessary for it to live here upon the earth, in.
Again, it having here a two-fold kind of body, the
one of which is called mcqvoc, by 8 t. Paul, (being
a more subtile body, which it had before), the
other the superinduced earthly house, necessarily
subservient to this skenes here; the Scripture
oracles affirm, that the earthly bouse of this ske-
nos shall be corrupted or dissolved, but the
skenos itself, superindue or put on a house not
made with hands, eternal in the h eav en sth e
same declaring, that “ the corruptible shall put
e 2
5 2 MORE OF TH E BO D IES, OR
on incorruption, and the mortal immortality/'
Where it is plain, that Origen takes that m divog, in
St. Paul (1 Cor. v. 1.) for a subtile body, which
the soul had. before its terrene nativity, and
which continues with it after death; but in good
men will, at last, superindue, or put on (without
death) the clothing of immortality. Neither can
there be a better commentary upon this place of
Origen, than those Excerpta out of Methodius
the martyr, in Photius," though seeming to be vi­
tiated also ; where, as we conceive, the sense of
Origen and his followers is first contained in
Thus Origen th o s e W O td s: trtpov ro mcqvof, (cat 'to» (ric^-
plainly, in his , . « * t \ o \ ~
fifth book, voug n o u a a , K a i ertpov y/teig w v c<m to <
jk h v o g9
there is That in St. Paul the to (T/divog is one
thing, and the earthly house of this
t
o2*Wut«- fficijvov another thing; and we, that is,
our souls, a third thing, distinct from
brttKum both. And then it is further declared
pupam, (a
* m this that follows : r»ic C KaTa\vOti<nig
affUt&wrarQai, ■ ^ . » f ' v \ ~ • t tty
rS 2xfal Trig WKVfJLOpOV T W TTpO T1JC avCUTTCUTBtog €QOV<TiV
imvtivrao-Qar *r * \ — *
A difference OtlCTIOlV CLi y v y a i TTOpa Tip WW, twg a v a va K b tvo-
^turtUjVoage 7r0lT^ £*<rav 15
iu‘v aiTTw rov a va \a ($ id fu v tiJv otfctav*
in whioh the oOtv kcu GTtvaCofitv fii} OeXovreg to atjfuia a7re/cSu-
(tcutOch, aXX* tir ainp n)v Xonrtfv ititvdvaaoO ai
Z<vifv* ro y a p oi/crjrrjpiov to oopavou, o €ircv-
SvoaffOai im O vfiO Vfitv, tj aOavaala* That' this
short life of our earthly body being de-
tiwuheywoaid stroyed, our soul shall then have, before
putit off,imt tbe resurrection, a dwelling from God,
tautjnponit. until we shall at last receive it renewed,
restored, and so made an incorruptible house.
Wherefore in this we groan, desirous not to put
off all body, but to put on life or immortality
*Biblioth. Cod. ccxxiv. p. 919*
i»f that
will be dis*
solved; abd
the Zanvocit*
aelf, wherein
good men
groan, being
VEHICLES OF SOULS, FBOM QR1GEN. 53
upon the body which we shall then have. For-'
that house, which is from heaven, that we desire,
to put on, is immortality.—Moreover, that the
soul is not altogether naked after death, the same
Origen endeavours to confirm further from that
of our Saviour, concerning the rich man and La­
zarus ; aXXa teat o KoXaZflfitvog irXovatog, teal 6iv KoXmte
'Afipaa/i triviK avavavofuvog, jrpo r n c irapovatag t o o atv-
rijpog, teal vp6 tiJc mvrfXilac rowa’
lwvog, teal Sia rovro vpo
-nig dwwToocwc, SiBdtTKOvaiv on teal vvv tv rp airaXXayp
otiftan yjprtrai i| The rich man punished, and
the poor man refreshed in Abraham’s bosom, be­
fore the coming of our Saviour, and before the end
ofthe world, and therefore before the resurrection,
plainly teaches, that even now also after death,,
the soul useth a body.—He thinketli the same
also to be further proved from the visible appari­
tion of'Samuel’s ghost, aXXaKtu o Sa/towix Qatvofttvog,
wg SrjXov tarty optrrdg iSv, irapiarrtatv tin atHfta irtpUKuro*
Samuel also visiblyappearing after death, toaketh
it manifest, that his soul was then clothed with a
body.—To which he adds in Photius,* ro rr}g\fiv%
ig
a/ita rp airaXXayp ayy/ia, OftouStgrt^ va ytt « u yijivtf aw/tan,
&c. That the exterior form and figure of the soul’s
body after death doth resemble that of the gross
terrestrial body here in this life; all the histories
of apparitions making ghosts, or the souls of the
dead, to appear in the same form which their
bodies had before.—This, therefore, as was ob­
served, is that, which Origen understands by rd
tntnvog in St. Paul; not this gross terrestrial body,
but a certain middle body betwixt it and the
heavenly, which the soul after death carries away
with it. Now, this opinion of the learned Ori-
* Apud Pixot. ubi supra, p. 930.
34 JOANNES THESSAL0NICENSI8,
gen’s was never reckoned dp by the ancient fa­
thers, or bis greatest adversaries, in the catalogue
of his errors; nor does Methodius the martyr,
who was so great an ahti-Origenist, where he
mentions this Origenic opinion in Photius, seem
to tax it otherwise, than as Platonical, implying
the Soul to be incorporeal. Methodius himself,
on the contrary, contending, not' that the soul
hath a body conjoined with it after death, as a
distinct thing from it, but that itself is a body j
o talc /uovoc <jf§£Tm daw/xarog Mv, at & ^ a ! a«ro.row V
fuovpyoZ Kiu v arpo?' rtov oXtov, &eiftara Votpti
dc Xoyp 0£a>p*jra ftsXri Sitf/CEK
txTjurjrrat, ravrrjv XafioZaai r»)v
Starvnwmv" oStv (cat tv T
(j> teat yXumoaV, Kdl S&crv-
Xov, (tat ra aXX'a peXt) iaropouVrat t^ttv* ovj^ «!{ aa^uiraQ
irtpAv <rinrtBrap^ovft>e avriS? ifwyaitjaetSowc* ti-X
X
* jltt awTal
at fravroc-diroytfivtoQiiaAl vtpijSXrifmTO^ rotdvrat
Kartl rqv wolav -God alone is praised as
incorporeal and invisible-; but souls are made by
him (who is the father of all things), intellectual
bodies, ornamentally branched out (as it were)
into members distinguishable by reason, and
having the same form and signature with the out­
ward body. Whence it is, that in Hades (or hell)
we read of a tongue, and a linger, and other
members; not as if there then Were another invi­
sible body coexisting with these souls, but be­
cause the souls themselves are in their own na­
ture (when stripped baked of all clothing), ac­
cording to their very essence such. We say,
therefore, if one of these two opinions most needs
be entertained, that either the soul, itself is a
body, or else that it hath a body after death; the
latter of them, which was Origea’s, ought cer­
tainly much to be preferred before the former,
AND P8SIAUS. 65
whether held in Tertnllian’s sense, that all sub*
stance, and consequently God himself, is body;
or else in that of Methodius, that all created sub*
stance is such, God alone being incorporeal.
But we have already shewed, that Origen was
not singular in this opinion, Ireneeus before him
having asserted the same thing, that souls after
death are adapted to certain bodies (where the
word in the Greek probably was xpotrairrovrot),
which have the same character with these terres­
trial ones; and Philoponus after bim, who was
no Pagan, but a Christian philosopher, dogma­
tizing in like manner. We mighthere add, that
Joannes Thessalonicensis, in that dialogue of his,
read in the seventh synod,* seemeth to have been
of the same persuasion also, when he affirmeth of
souls, as well as angels and demons, that they
were opaflevree irapd irXamw .ato9trreif irXcovacte, ru
c
&
S
ei. ra*v ow
cetawavrdiv <ra>/iaraw
> often seen by many
sensibly, in the form of their own bodies. How­
ever, it is a thing, which Psellus took for grants
ed, where, speaking of devils, insinuating their
temptations into men’s souls, by affecting imme­
diately the fantastic spirit, be writeth after this
manner: o Aiywv, roppuDw fdv uv, ur^ypo* P 94_
tipag Setrat Kpavyije, «yx°® ^ ytvdfixvOQ, tic to [p-V*.J
tov okoO
ovtoq eve ip&vp(%ti>v vttoQojvu' koI d tvi}v abnp
■avveyyiaat rrvevfum rfe ovScvo? av iSerfiri ipoQov,
aXX’ tjv 6 Kara \6yoc cufiotptp ktXevOtp irpoc rb Be*
\6fUvov eyytvbfuvoQ, 6 fa n kav raiQ \pv\aU; e^tevaatg r£tV'
moftiruv tlvat* teal yap kat ratiraff axAq*Ta>c ofuXtiv eXX^)-
X
mc* When one man speaks to another from
afar off, he must (if he would be heard), make a
loud cry or noise; whereas, if he stood near to
*Vide Concil. cdit. Harduini. tom. iv. p. 293, 294.
5 6 s t . Au s t in ’s j u d g m e n t
him, he might softly whisper into his ear. But
could be immediately approach to the spirit (or.
subtile body of the .soul), he should not.then need
so much as to make a whisper, but might sk
lently, and without noise, communicate whatso­
ever thoughts of his own to him, by motions
made thereupon. And this is said to be the way
that souls, going out of these bodies, converse
together; they communicating their thoughts, to
oue another without any. noise. For Psellus
D
eG
enesi adhere.plainly supposetb souls after death
iitanun, o
. to have irvcvpa, that is, a certain subtile
body, adhering to them, by motions
upon which they may silently converse
with each other. It is true, indeed, that St. Aus­
tin, in bis twelfth book De Genesi ad Literam,
does not himself close with this opinion, of the
soul’s having a body after death, but much less
of its being a body: nevertheless does he seem:to
leave every man to his own liberty therein, in these,
words:•“ Si autem quaeritur, dum anima de cor-,
pore exierit, utrum ad aliqua loca corporalia fera-
tur, an ad incorporalia corporalibus similia; an
vero nec ad ipsa, sed ad illud, quod et corporibus
et similitudinibus corporum est excellentius; cito
quidem responderim; ad corporalia loca earn vel
non ferri nisi cum aliquo corpore, vel non loca-.
liter ferri. Jam utrum habeat aliquod corpus,
ostendat, qui potest; ego autem non puto. Spi-
ritalem enim arbitror esse, non corporalem; ad
spiritalia vero pro mentis fertur, aut ad loca pce-
nalia similia corporibus.” But if it be demanded,,
when the soul goes out of this body, whether it
be carried into any corporeal places, or to incor-
poreals like to corporeals, or else to neither, bu(
IN THE CASE. 57
to that, which is more excellent than both bodies,
and the likenesses of bodies? the answer is
ready; that it cannot be carried to corporeal
places, or not locally carried any whither, with'
out a body. Now whether the.soul have some
body, when it goes out of this body, let them
that can shew; but, for my part, I think other­
wise. For I suppose the soul to be spiritual,
and not corporeal; and that, after death, it is
either carried to spiritual things, or else to pe­
nal places, like to bodies, such as have been re­
presented to. some in ecstacies, &c.—Where St.
Austin himself seems to think the punishment of
souls, after death, and before the resurrection, to
be fantastical, or only in imagination: whereas
there could not be then so much as fantastic
punishments neither, nor any imagination at all
in souls, without a body, if that doctrine of Aris-
tp£leV be true, that fancy or imagination is no­
thing else but a weaker sense; that is, a thing,
which results from a complication of sOul and
body both together. But it is observable, that
in the forecited place that, which St. Austin
chiefly opposed, was the soul’s being a body, as
Tertullian, Methodius, and others bad asserted;
but as for its having a body, he saith only this:
“ Ostendat qui potest,” let him that can shew it;
he granting, in the mean time, that the soul can­
not be locally carried any whither at all after
death, nor indeed be in any place without a body.
However, the same St. Austin, as be elsewhere
condemneth the opinion of those, who would
fake the fire of hell metaphorically, acknowledg-
* De Anima, lib. iii. cap. ix. p. 63. tom. ii. oper.
58 st. Austin’s judgment
D
e civ.d. *D
S I* to to real and corporeal; so does
H
k
.xxi. •. i,e somewhere think it not improbable,
XXVI. [§. iv.p. ,
49o.tom. vif. but after death, and before the resur-
o
p
fer^ rection, the souls of men may suffer
from a certain fire, for the consuming and burn­
ing up of their dross: “ Post istius sane corporis
mortem, donee ad ilium veniatur, qui post resur-
rectionem-corporam futurus est damnationis et
remunerationis ultimus dies; si hoc temporis in­
tervals, ejusmodi ignem dicuntur perpeti, quern
non sentiant illi, qui non habuerint tales mores
et amores in hujus corporis vita, ut eorum ligna,
et foenum, et stipula consummantur ; alii vero
ftentiunt, qui ejusmodi secum aedificia portave-
ront, &c. non redarguo, quia forsitan verum est.”
If in this interval of time, betwixt the death of the
body, and the resurrection, or day of judgment,
the souls of the dead be said to suffer such a fire
as can do no execution upon those, who have no
woodj hay, nor stubble, to burn up, but shall be
felt by such, as have made such buildings or su­
perstructures, &c. I reprehend it not, because per­
haps it is true.—The opinion here mentioned, is
c. ceis. i. v. thus expressed by Origen, in his fifth
r. book against Celsus, which very place
St. Austin seems to have had respect to: ou
mtviSwv Stc &tnrip ‘EXXijww noiv %
So%t, rb Xvp Kadapmov ■
brdytrai tedofuf thebe S’ in koI ttedart^ rwv Sto/ibtwv rije
Sid row wpoeShaie tetUovroe filv teal ov mnmUovroe robe f**i-
tXOvraar vXijv Stofdvtiv ava\vnr(ku vtr heuvov rov wpoe'
kfUovroe Si Kal Kanucaiovroe robe iv nj StdrQv xpd^tfov wat
\6ywv Kal vortfidnov rpoxm&c Xeyo/xlvp oheoSofiy £i5Xa, \<ip-
rov, $ K
akdjjttx»olKoSoftfoavrae' Celsus did not under­
stand, that this fire, as well according to the He­
brews and Christians, as to some of the Greeks,
IN THE CASE. 89
will be purgatory to the world; as also to every
one of those persons, who stand in need of such
punishment and remedy by fire: which fire can
do no execution upon -those, who have no com*
bustible matter in them, but will be felt by such,
as in the moral structure of their thoughts,
words, and actions, have built up wood, hay and
stubble.—Now since souls cannot suffer from
fire, nor any thing else in way of sense or pain,
without being vitally united to some body, we
may conclude, that St. Austin, when he wrote
this, was not altogether abhorrent from souls
having bodies after death.
Hitherto have we declared, how the ancient
assertors of incorporeal substance, as unex­
tended, did repel the assaults of Atheists and
Corporealists made against it; but especially
how they quitted themselves of that absurdity,
of the illocality and immobility of finite created
.spirits, by supposing them always to be vitally
united to some bodies, and consequently, by the
locality of those their respective bodies, deter­
mined to here and there; according to that of
Origett t S t e m o t i f u r r o c, $cdroc
T&
jructlefitTaj3a&uc,Our soul stands in need p.’j44.*
’*
’r*
of a body in order to local motions.—
We shall in the next place declare, what grounds
of reason there were, which induced those an­
cients to assert and maintain a thing so repug­
nant to sense and imagination, and consequently
to all vulgar apprehension, as a substance in it*
self unextended, indistant, and indivisible, or de­
void of magnitude* and parts. Wherein we shall
only represent the sense of these ancient Incor­
porealists, so far as we can, to the best advantage,
in order to their vindication, against Atheists and
0© REASONS OP THE ANCIENTS,
Materialists: ourselves in the mean time not as>
serting any thing, but leaving every one, that can,
to make his own judgment; and so either to close
with this, or that other following hypothesis, of
extended ineorporeals.
Now it is here observable, that it was a thing
formerly taken for granted on both sides, as well
by the assertprs as the deniers of incorporeal
substance, that there is but one kind of extension
only: and, consequently, that whatsoever hath
magnitude and parts, or one thing without ano­
ther, is not only intellectually and logically, but
also really and physically divisible.or discerpible,
as likewise antitypous and impenetrable; so that
it cannot coexist with a body in the same place;
from whence it follows, that whatsoever argu­
ments do evince, that there is some other sub­
stance besides body, the same do therefore de­
monstrate, according to the sense of these an­
cients (as well Corporealists as Incorporealists),
that there is something unextended, it being sup­
posed by them, both alike, that whatsoever is
extended is body. Nevertheless we shall here
principally propound such considerations of
theirs, as tend directly to prove, that there is
something unextendedly incorporeal; and that
an unextended deity is no impossible idea; to
wit, from hence, because there is something un­
extended even in our very selves. Where, not to
repeat the, forementioned ratiocination of Simpli­
cius, that whatsoever can act and reflect upon its
whole self, cannot possibly be extended, nor have
parts distant from one another; Plotinus first
[Boead. 4
lib.vii. caj
P. 460.
FOR UNEXTENDED SUBSTANCE. 61
mrrtj! (To>fiaTi, ir&repovtKaoTov \f>v\Tjv, ota hrrl m 2 4 ^*1» m 2
traXiv tov plpavq rb fiipo^j ohSiv apa rb ftiyeOo^ (Tvvef3aXXero
rp ovelq airrijc' koItoi eSeiye woaovTivoc’ aXXa Kal SXov woX-
Xa^q, iirtp outftam waptivai aSvvarov, tv irXtlocn to axrrb
&Xov rival, teal rb /ilpoc birep to SXov xrrrap\tiv‘ el Si bcatr-
tov rwv ftep&v, oh ifwyriv ^vowwiv, wph\wv fox*) avrotf
vwapl-ei" What then will they say, who contend,
that the soul is a body (or extended) whether or
no will they grant concerning every part of the
soul in the same body (as that of it which is in
the foot, and that in the hand, and that in die
brain, &c.) and again every part of those parts,
that each of them is soul, such as the whole?
If this be consented to, then it is plain, that mag*
nitude, or such a quantity, would confer nothing
at all to the essence of the soul, as it would do
were it an extended thing; but the whole would
be in many parts or places, which is a thing, that
cannot possibly belong to body; that the same
whole should be in more, and that a part should
be what the whole is. But if they will not grant
every part of their extended soul to be soul, then,
according to them, must the soul be made up,
and compounded of soul-less things.—Which ar­
gument is elsewhere thus propounded by him;
u Se eicacrrov E\pt, Kal ev apKei* t! Be fttr
Sevog avrtilv £<tnjv t^ovroc q <n>vo$o€ nwoiqice ^.'457*]
£toqv, arCHrov’ •paXXov fie aSvvarov ovfupopifaiv
aoifiariov £anjv epyaCeodai, Kal vovv -yiwqcv ra avoqra* If
every one of the parts of this extended soul or
mind has life in it, then would any one of them
alone be sufficient. But to say, that though
none of the parts alone have life in them, yet the
conjunction of them altogether maketh life, is
absurd; it being impossible, that life and soul
6 2 REASONS FOR SOMETHING
should result from a congeries of life-less and
soul-less things, or that mind-less things put to­
gether should beget mind.—The sum of this
argumentation is this; that either every part of
extended soul is soul, and of an extended mind,
mind; or not. Now, if no part of a soul, as sup­
posed to be extended alone, be soul, or have life
and mind in it, then is it certain, that the whole,
resulting from all the parts, could have no life
nor mind, because nothing can (casually), come
from nothing. It is true, indeed, that corporeal
qualities and forms, according to the Atomic
physiology, result from a composition and com
texture of atoms or parts, each of which, taken
alone by themselves, have nothing of that quality
or form in them,
a -----------Ne ex albis alba rearis;
Ant ea, quae nigrant, nigro de semine nata.
You are not to think that white things are made
out of white principles, nor black things out of
hlack; but the reason of the difference here is
plain, because these qualities and forms are not
entities really distinct from the magnitude, figure,
site, and motion of parts, but only such a com­
position of them, as cause different fancies in us;
but life and understanding, soul and mind, are
entities really distant from magnitude, figure, site,
and motion of parts: they are neither mere fan­
cies nor syllables of things, but simple and un­
compounded realities. B.ut if every supposed
part of a soul, be soul, and of a mind, mind, then
would all the rest of it besides any one part be
superfluous; or indeed every supposed part
* Lucret. ii. ver. 730.735}.
UNEXTENDED, IN US. 63
thereof would be the same with the whole: from
whence it follows, that it could not be extended,
or have any real parts at all, since no part of an
extended thing can possibly be the same with
the whole.
Again, the same philosopher endeavours fur*
tber to prove, that the human soul itself is unex­
tended and indivisible, from its energies and op©r
rations, and that as well those of sensation as of
intellection. First, therefore, from external sensa­
tions, he reasons in this manner: un piXXu aloOa-
vtsOal rivoc £» avro Set tivat, k m rip avrep vavrog p_ ^gj
avrtXapfiaveoBM’ k m ct8ta toXXwv MaOtimputv C
°*P
' T
,/J
irXet'w ra umovra, n xoXXat 7T
£p< ev Jro/orijrte, K$v Si svoc
iroiKikov, olov irpoamrov" ou yap aXXo piv pivof aXXo Si
o<p6a\fuov, aXXa ravrov Ofiov iravrwv* Kal el ro piv Si
O
flfJM
L
T
iO
V TO oi Cl aKO*lQy B
V Tl O
B
I BlVOl £l£ O If Vi0Q
av «jnx art erepa ravra, prj eig ro auro o/uov twv aiaOtlaeutf
sXflovruv' That, which perceiveth in us, must of
necessity be one thing, and by one and the same
indivisible perceive all; and that, whether they
be more things, entering through several organs
of sense, as the many qualities of one substance,
or one various and multiform thing, entering
through the same organ, as the countenance or
picture of a man. For it is not one thing in us*
that perceives the nose, another thing the eyes,
and another thing the mouth; but it is one and
the self-same thing, that perceiveth all. And
when one thing enters through the eye, another
through the ear, these also must of necessity
come all at last to one indivisible, or else they
could not be compared together, nor one of them
affirmed to be different from another; the several
sentiments of them meeting no where together
6 4 REASONS FOR SOMETHING
in one. He concludes, therefore, that thiscone
thing in us, that sensibly perceives all things,
inay be resembled to the centre of a circle, and
the several senses to lines drawn from the cir­
cumference, which all meet in that one centre.
Wherefore, that which perceives and apprehends
all things in us, must needs be really one and the
very same; that is, unextended and indivisible.
Which argument is yet further pursued by him,
more particularly thus: If that, which sensibly
perceiveth in us be extended, so as to have dis­
tant parts one without another; then one of
these three things must needs be affirmed, that
either every part of this extended substance of
the soul perceives a part of the object only, or
every part of it the whole object, or else all
comes to some one point, which alone perceives
both the several parts of the object, and the
whole, all the other being but as circumferential
lines leading to this centre.: Now of the former
of these three, Plotinus thus: [uytOu ovn tovrtp,
ffvfifiepltoiTo av* ware aXXo aXXov ptpog, Kat /uqSiva' ti/uJv
oXov rov aiaOriTov avriXrfipiv t\« v ' wairsp av « sytS psv
aXXov* av Se aXXov aiaOoio' If the soul be a mag­
nitude, then must it be divided together with the
sensible object, so that one part of the soul must
perceive one part of the object, and another,
another; and nothing in it, the whole sensible;
just as if I should have the sense of one thing,
and you of another. Whereas it is plain by our
internal sense, that it is one1and the self-same
thiug, which perceives both the parts and the
whole. And of the second, he writeth in this
manner : si 6TtovvVavroe aloBfiasraC sic airsipa Staipst-
aOat tov fisytOovs its^vkotoc, aTrslpovg k
al aiaOriasig kaff
UNEXTENDED, IN US. 6 5
tmorov cuo&ifrbv trufj^ifiaercu yiyvtoOai itsaartf olov row awrow
ojrt/powctv r<
£ rrytfiovovvri ri/uiv e
u
c
Jv
o
;' But if every
part of the extended soul perceive the whole
sensible object, since magnitude is infinitely di­
visible, there must be in every man infinite sen­
sations and images of one and the same object.—
Whereas we are intimately conscious to our­
selves, that we have but only one sensation of one
object at the same time. And as for the third
and last part of this disjunction, that what sen­
sibly perceives in every one, is but one single
point, either mathematical or physical; it is cer­
tain, first, that a mathematical point, having nei­
ther longitude, latitude, nor profundity, is no
body nor substance, but only a notion of our
own mind, or a mode of conceiving in us. And
then, as for a physical point or minimum, a body
so little, that there cannot possibly be any less,
Plotinus asserting the infinite divisibility of body,
here explodes the thing itself. However, be fur*
ther iutimates, that if there were any such phy­
sical minimum, or absolutely least body or ex-
tensum, this could not possibly receive upon it a
distinct representation and delineation of all the
several parts of a whole visible object at once, as
of the eyes, nose, mouth, &c. in a man’s face or
picture, or of the particularities of an edifice;
nor could such a parvitude or atom as this be
the cause of all animal motions. And this was
one of Aristotle’s* arguments, whereby he would
prove unextended incorporeals, ir«Jc r
<
j>d/up« ro
Htpurrov’ If the soul were indivisible as a point,
how could it perceive that which is divisible?—
that is, take notice of all the distinct parts of an
* De Anima, lib. i. cap. iii. p. 10. tom. ii. oper.
VOL. IV. F
0 6 REASONS EOR s o m e t h in g
extended object, and have a description of the
whole of them at once upon itself? The snm of
the whole argumentation is this, that if the soul,
be an extended substance, then must it of neces­
sity be either a physical point or minimum, the
least extensum that can possibly be, (if there be
any such least, and body or extension be not in­
finitely divisible), or else it must consist of more
such physical points, joined together. As for
the former of these, it hath been already de­
clared to be impossible, that one single atom or
smallest point of extension, should be able dis­
tinctly to perceive all the variety of things: to
which inight be added, that to suppose every soul
to be but one physical minimum, or smallest ex­
tensum, is to imply such an essential difference
in matter or extension, as that some of the points
thereof should be naturally devoid of all life,
Sense, and understanding, and others again natu­
rally sensitive and rational.. Which absurdity,
though it should be admitted, yet would it be
utterly unconceivable,. how' there should come
to be one such sensitive and rational atom in
every man and no more, and how this should
constantly remain the same, from infancy to old
age, whilst other parts of matter transpire per­
petually. But as for the latter, if souls be1ex­
tended substances, consisting of more points,
one without another, all concurring in every sen­
sation; then must every one of those points,
either perceive a point and part of the object
only, or else the whole. Now, if every point of
the extended soul perceive only a point of the
object, then is there 'no one thing in us, that per­
ceives the whole, or which can compare one part
UNBXTRNDED, IK VS. 07
with another. But if every point of the extended
soul perceive the whole object at once, consist­
ing of many parts, then would there be innume­
rable perceptions of the same object in every sen­
sation ; as many as there are points in the ex­
tended soul. And from both those suppositions,
it Would alike follow, that no man is one single
percipient or person, but that there are innume­
rable distinct percipients and persons in every
man. Neither can there be any other supposi­
tion made, besides those three forem^ntioned; as,
that the whole extended soul should perceive
both the whole sensible object, and all its several
parts, no part of this soul in the mean time hav­
ing any perception at all by itself; because the
whole of an extended being is nothing but all
the parts taken together; and if none of those
parts have any life, sense, or perception in them,
it is impossible that there should be any in the
whole. But in very truth, to say, that the-wbole
soul perceiveth all, and no part of it any thing, is
to acknowledge it not to be extended, but to be
indivisible, which is the thing that Plotinus con­
tends for.
And that philosopher here further insists upon
internal setisations also, and that ’
SiupiraOua, or
'OftovaBm, that sympathy, or homopathy, which
is in all animals to the same purpose: it being
one and the same thing in them, which perceives
pain, in the most distant extremities of the body,
as in the sole of the foot, and in the crown of the
head; and which moves one part to succour, and
relieve another labouring under it, which could
not possibly be by traduction of all to one phy­
sical point, as the .centre, for divers reasons)
f 2
6 8 IN -ANIMALS, ONE THING
’Et toIw v k
«t« SiaSooiv o v \ o
Iovte rijv atoQnftv
. tov toiovtov ylyvsodat, fit) Si awfiarog Syrov
Svroc, aXXov m&6vros, aXXo yvaicriv e^tiv ( Travrog yap
ptylQouf to fiiv aXXo, to aXXo carlJ Set rotovrov rl9iv9at
t6 aio$av6fiivov, o!w ravra^oti avrov tavrtj> rS avro tlvaC
tovto Si aW tf>n vl ru v Svrcvv q omfian ttoiiiv irgoatiKtC
Since therefore these sympathetic senses cannot
possibly be made by traduction, at last to one
thing; and body being bulky or out-swelling ex­
tension, one part thereof suffering, another can­
not perceive it (for in all magnitude, this is one
thing and that another), it followetb, that what
perceives in its, must be every where, and in all
the parts of the body, one and the same thing
with itself. Which therefore cannot be itself
body, but must of necessity be some other entity
or substance incorporeal.—The conclusion is,
that in men and animals there is; one thing indi-
visibly the same, that comprehendeth the whole
outside of them, perceiveth both the parts and
the whole of sensible objects, and all transmitted
through several senses, sympathized with all
the distant parts of the body, and acted entirely
upon all. And this is properly called, I myself,
not the extended bulk of the body, which is not
one, but many substances, but an unextended
and indivisible unity, wherein all lines meet and
concentre, not as a mathematical point or least
extensum, but as one self-active, living power,
substantial or inside-being, that containeth, hold-
eth, and connected all together.
Lastly, The forementioned philosopher endea-.
vours yet furder to prove the human soul to be
unextended and devoid of magnitude, and indi­
visible, from its rational energies or operations,
COMPREHENDING THE WHOLE. 69:
its voqrwv vofouf, and dfuyiBmv avriXij^tic, intellec­
tions of intelligibles, and apprehensions of things
devoid of magnitude, moc yap ftiyeOot ov to ftti piye-
floc vor)<ni; teat rco /ntpumo to pi) fuptarov' For how
could the soul (saith he), if it were a magnitude,
understand that, which bath no magnitude ? and
with that, which is divisible, conceive that which
is indivisible?—Now, it is certain, that we have
notions of mauy things, which are dfavraora, alto­
gether unimaginable, and therefore have nothing
of length, breadth, and thickness in them, as
virtue, vice, See. duiytfoc St oluai k<
u to
\ * r tt / P l o t . p . 4 6 5 .
KaXov Kai .to cucaiov, scat if tovtwv apa vorjeng
wart k m vpootovra km ry dfttpti avriJc vtroSt^trat, ktu tv
awj tv dfttpti Ktlaerai’ Justice and honesty, and
the like, are things devoid of magnitude, and
therefore must the intellections of them needs be
such too. So that the soul must receive these
by what is indivisible, and lodge them in that
which is divisible.—We have also a notion, not
only of mere latitude or breadth, indivisible as
to thickness; and of longitude or a line, indivi­
sible both as to breadth and thickness; but also
of a mathematical point, that is every way indi­
visible, as to length, breadth and thickness. We
have a conception of the intention of powers and
virtues, wherein there is nothing of extension:or
magnitude. And indeed all the abstract essences
of things, (or the avrotKaora) which are the first
objects of intellection, are indivisible: « Strwv tv
vXp E
(§<>*v rat voqoctc <
t>
V<
fovtnv tlvai, aXka ytoptCopanov y*
yiyvovrai too v6v ywpiUfivrof, ov yap fitra oapKtov, &C.
And though we apprehend forms, that-are in
matter too, yet do we apprehend them as sepa­
rated and abstracted from the same; there being
70 WHETHER THOUGHTS, EXTENDED,
nothing of flesh in our conception of a man, &c.—
Nay, the soul conceives extended things them­
selves, unextendedly and iqdivisibly; for as the
distance of a whole hemisphere is contracted
into a narrow compass in the pupil of the eye, so
are all distances yet more contracted in the soul
itself, and there understood indistantly; for the
thought of a mile distance, or of ten thousand
miles, or semidiameters of the earth, takes up no
more room in the soul, nor stretches it any more,,
than does the thought of a foot or inch, or iu-
deed of a mathematical point. Were that, which
perceiveth in us, a magnitude, then could it not
be mov wavri equal to every sensible-^
and alike perceive both lesser and greater mag­
nitudes than itself: but- least of all could it per-
ceive such things as have no magnitude at all.
And this was the other part of Aristotle’s argu­
mentation, to prove the soul and mind to be un­
extended and indivisible,* t
i-w
c 7<
*
pvonra to ajtsp*c
fitptortv; for how could it perceive, that which is
indivisible by what i$ divisible 1—he having be?
fore demanded, how it could apprehend things
divisible, apd of a great extension, by a mete
point, or absolute parvitude, Where the soul;
or that which perceives and understands, is, ac-
cording to Aristotle, neither divisible, as a con­
tinued quantity, nor yet indivisible, either' as a
mathematical, or as a physical point, and abso­
lute parvitude; but as that, which hath in itself
no out-swelling distance, nor relation to any
place, otherwise than as it is vitally united to a
body, which (wherever it be), it always sympa­
thizes with and acts upon.
"* t)e Anima, lib. i. cap. iii. p. 10. toni. ii. oper.
DIVISIBLE AND FIGUBATE. 71
/ '
Besides which, these ancient assertors of unex­
tended incorporeal8 would, in all probability,
confirm that opinion from hence, because we
cannot only conceive extension without dogitat
tion, and again, cogitation without extension;
from whence it may be inferred, that they are en­
tities really distinct and separable from one anor
ther, (we having no other rule to judge of the
real distinction and separability of things, than
from our conceptions), but also are not able to
conceive cogitation with extension. We cannot
conceive a thought to be of such a certain length,
breadth, and thickness, mensurable by inches
and feet, and by solid measures. We cannot
conceive half, or a third part, or .a twentieth part
of a thought, much less of the thought of an in­
divisible thing; neither can we conceive every
thought to be of some certain determinate figure,
either round or angular; spherical, cubical, or
cylindrical, or the like. Whereas, if whatsoever
is unextended be nothing, thoughts must either
be mere non-entities, or else extended too into
length, hreadth, and thickness; divisible into
parts, and mensurable; and also (where finite) of
a certain figure. And, consequently, all veri­
ties in us (they being but complex axiomatical
thoughts), must of necessity be long, broad, and
thick, and either spherically, or angularly figu-
rate. And the same must be affirmed of volir
tions likewise, and appetites or passions, as fear
and hope, love and hatred, grief and joy; and of
all other things belonging to cogitative beings
(souls and minds), as knowledge and ignorance,
wisdom and folly, virtue and vice, justice and
injustice, &c. that these are either all of them ab-
72 WHETHER THOUGHTS, EXTENDED,
solute non-entities, or else extended into three
divisions of length, breadth, and profundity, and
mensurable not only by inches and feet, but also
by solid measures, as pints and quarts; and last
of all (where they are finite as in men), figurate.
But if this be absurd, and these things belonging
to soul and mind (though doubtless as great
realities at least, as the things which belong to
bodies), be unextended, then must the substances
of souls and minds themselves be unextended
also. Thus Plotinus of mind; Novc ov 8ia<rrde d f
tavrov, mind i$ not distant from itself:—and in­
deed were it so, it could not he one thing (as it
is), but many; every conceivable part of distant
and unextended substaqce being- a substance by
itself. And the -same is to be said of the human
soul, though it act upon distant parts- of that
body, which it is united to, that itself, notwith­
standing, is not scattered but into distance, nor
dispersed into multiplicity, nor infinitely divi­
sible; because then it would not be one single
substance, or monad, but a heap of substances.
Soul is no more divisible than life; of which the
forementioned philosopher thus: apayt rtju fo jv
fiepitiit;; aXX’ ti ro wav £<■))), ro ptpae .£«>} pv/c iWou'
Will you divide a life into two ? then the whole
of it being but a life, the half thereof cannot be a
life.—Lastly, -if soul and mind, and the things
belonging to them, as life and cogitation, under­
standing and wisdom, &c. be Outspread into dis­
tance, having one part without another; then
can there be no good reason given, why they
should not be as well really and physically, as
intellectually divisible; and one part of them
separable from auother: since, as Plotinus, w«v-
DIVISIBLE AND F1GURATE. 73
to( fjLtyiQovQ ro fikv a\Xo, to SI aX
X
o* In all magni­
tude or extension, this is one thing, and that an­
other;—At least, no Tbeist ought to deny, but
that the Divine power could cleave or divide a
thought, together with the soul, wherein it is,
into many pieces; and remdve them to the great­
est distances from one Another (forasmuch as
this implies no manner of contradiction, and
whatsoever is conceivable by us, may be done by
infinite power), in which case neither of them
alone would be soul or mind, life or thought, but
all put together make up one entire mind, soul,
life, and thought.
Wherefore, the sense of the ancient Incorpo-
realists seems to have been as follows: That
there are in nature two kinds of substances spe­
cifically differing from one another; the first,
'Oytcot, bulks, or tumours, a mere passive thing;
the second, Awajuuc, self-active powers or virtues,
or fwnc 8pa(TT»jptoc, the energetic nature. The for­
mer of these is nothing else but magnitude or
extension, not as an abstract notion of the mind,
but as a thing really existing without it. For
when it is called res extensa, the meaning is
not, as if the res were one thing, and the ex­
tension thereof another, but that it is extension
or distance, really existing, or the thing thereof
(without the mind) and not the notion. Now,
this in the nature of it is nothing but aliud ex­
tra aliud, one thing without another,—and there­
fore perfect alterity, disunity, and divisibility.
So that no extensum whatsoever, of any sensible
bigness, is truly and really one substance, but a
multitude or heap of substances, as many as there
are parts, into which it is divisible.- Moreover,
74 SUBSTANCE, THAT .HATH
oqn part of this magnitude always standing with­
out another* it is an essential property thereof to
be antitypous or impenetrable; that is, to jostle
or shoulder out all other extended substance
from penetrating into it, and coexisting with it,
so as to possess and take up the same room and
space. One yard of distance, or of length,
breadth, and thickness, cannot possibly be add­
ed to another, without making the whole ex­
tension double to what it was before, since one
of them must of necessity stand without the
other. Ooe magnitude cannot imbibe or swab
low up another, nor can there be any penetration
of dimensions. Moreover, magnitude or exten­
sion, as such, is mere outside or outwardness; it
hath nothing within, no self-active power or virr
tue; all its activity being either keeping out, or
hindering, any other extended thing from pene­
trating into it: (which yet it doth merely by its
being extended, and therefore not so much by
any physical efficiency as a logical necessity),
or else local motion, to which it is also but pas­
sive ; no body or extension, as such, being able
to move itself, or act upon itself.
Wherefore, were there no other substance in
the world besides this magnitude or extension,
there could be no motion or action at all in it;
no life, cogitation, consciousness; no intellection,
appetite, or volition, (which things do yet make
up the greatest part of the universe), but all
wonld be a dead heap or. lump: nor could any
one substance penetrate another, and coexist in
the same place with it. From whence it follows,
of necessity, that besides Ibis outside bulky ex­
tension, and. tumourous magnitude, there must
AN INTERNAL ENERGY. 75
be another kind of entity, whose essential attri-
bute or character is life, self-activity, or cogita­
tion, Which first, that it is not a mere mode or
accident of magnitude and extension, is plain
, from hence, because cogitation may be as well
conceived without extension, as extension without
cogitation; whereas no mode of any thing can be
conceived without that, whereof it is a mode.
And since there is unquestionably much more of
entity in life and cogitation, than there is in mere
extension or magnitude, which is the lowest of all
being, and next to nothing; it must needs be im­
puted to the mere delusion and imposture of
imagination, that men are so prone to think this
extension or magnitude to be only substance, and
all other things besides the mere accidents thereof,
generable out of it, and corruptible again into it.
For though that secondary and participated life
(asf it is called) in the bodies of animals be indeed
a mere accident* and such as may be present or
absent without the destruction of its subject;
yet can there be no reason given, why the primary
and original life itself should not be as well a
substantial thing, as mere extension and magni­
tude. Again, that extension and life, or cogita­
tion, are not two inadequate conceptions neither,
of one and the self-same substance, considered
brokenly and by piecemeal; as if either all ex­
tension had life and cogitation essentially belong­
ing to it, (as the Hylozoists conclude) or at least
all life and cogitation had extension; and, conse­
quently, nil souls and minds, and even the Deity
itself, were either extended life and cogitation, or
living and thinking extension; (there being nothing
in nature unextended, but extension the only
76 SUBSTANCE, THAT.HATH
entity ; so that whatsoever is devoid thereof, is,
ipsofacto, absolutely nothing.:) this, I say, will
also appear from hence, because, as,hath been al-.
ready declared, we cannot conceive a life, or mind,
or thought, nor anything at all belonging to a
cogitative being, as such, (as wisdom, folly, vir­
tue, vice, &c.) to be extended into length, breadth,
and thickuess, and to be mensurable by inches,
feet, and yards. From whence it may be con­
cluded, that extension, and life or cogitation, are
no inadequate conceptions of one and the self­
same thing, since they cannot be complicated
together into one, but that they are distinct sub­
stances from each other. Lives and minds are
such tight and compact things in themselves, and
have such a self-unity, intheir nature, as that they
cannot be lodged in that, ,which is wholly scatter­
ed out from itself into distance, and dispersed
into infinite multiplicity; por be spread all over
the same, as coextended with it. Nor is it con­
ceivable, how.all.the several parts of an extended
magnitude should jointly concur and contribute
to the production of one and the same single and
Indivisible cogitation; or how that whole heap
or bundle of. things should be one thinker. A
thinker is a monad, or one single substance, and
not a heap,of substances; whereas no body or
extended thing is one, but many substances;
every conceivable or smallest part thereof being
a real substance by itself.
But this will yet.further appear, if we consider
what kind of action cogitation:is. The action of
an extended thing, as snch, is nothing but locaj
motion, change of distance, or translation from
place to place, a mere outside and superficial
AN INTERNAL ENERGY. 77
thing; bat it is certain, that cogitation (faucy,
intellection, and volition) are no local motions;
nor the mere fridging up and down of the parts-
of an extended substance, changing their place
and distance; but it is unquestionably an internal
energy; that is, such an energy, as is within the
very substance or essence of that, which tbinketh,
or in the inside of it. From which two kinds of
energies we may now conclude, that there are also
two kinds of entity or substance in nature; the
one mere outside, and which hath nothing within
it; the other such a kind of entity, as hath an
eternal, energy; acteth from itself, and within'
itself, and upon itself; an inside thing, whose
action is within the very essence or substance
thereof; it being plain, that the cogitative or
thinking nature is such a thing, as hath an es­
sential inside or profundity. Now, this inside
of cogitative beings, wherein they thus act or
think internally within themselves, cannot have
any length, breadth, or thickness in it; because if
it had, it would be again a mere outside thing.
Wherefore had all cogitative beings (souls and
minds) extension and magnitude never so much
belonging to them, as some suppose them to
have, yet could this, for all that, be nothing but
the mere outside of their being; besides which,
they must of necessity have also an unextended
inside, that hath no outswelling tumour, and is
not scattered into distance, nor dispersed iuto mul­
tiplicity, which therefore could not possibly exist
a part in a part of the supposed extension, as if
one half of a mind or thought were in one half of
that extension, and another in another; but must
pf necessity be all undividedly, both in the whole
78 ANOTHER HYPOTHESIS
of it, and in every part. For had every twentieth
or hundredth part of (his extension not the whole
of a life or mind in it, bat only the twentieth or
hundredth part thereof, then could none of them
have any true life or mind at all, nor consequently
the whole have any. Nor indeed is it Otherwise
conceivable, how a whole quantity of extended
substance should be one thing, and have ohe per­
sonality, one I myself in it all, were there not one
indivisible thing presiding over it, which held it
all together, and diffused itself through all. -And
thus do we see, how this whole in the whole and
in every part (do men what they can), will, like a
ghost, still haunt them and follow them every
where. But now it is impossible, that one and
the self-same substance should be both extended
and unextended. Wherefore in this hypothesis
of extended understanding spirits, having one part
without another, there is an undiscerned compli­
cation of two distinct substances, extended and
unextended, or corporeal and incorporeal, both
together; and a confusion of them into one.
Where, notwithstanding, we must acknowledge,
that there is so much of truth aimed at, as that
all finite incorporeal substances are always natu­
rally united to some bodies; so that the whole of
these created animals is completed and made up
of both these together, an extended inside, and
an unextended outside, both of them substances
indeed really distinct, but yet vitally united each
to other.
The sum of all is, that there are two kinds of
substances in nature, the first extension of mag­
nitude, really existing without thejnind, which is
a thing, that hath no self unity at all in it, but is
OF EXTENDED INCORPOREALS. 79
infinite alterity and divisibility, as it is also mere
outside and outwardness, it having nothing within,
nor any other action belonging to it, but only
locally to move, when it is moved. The second,
life and mind, or the self-active cogitative nature,
an inside being, whose action is not local motion,
but an internal energy, within the substance or
essence of the thinker himself, or in the inside of
him; which, therefore, though unextended, yet
hath a certain inward recess, (3a(k>
e, or essential
profundity. And this is a thing, which can act all
of it entirely upon either a greater or lesser-quan­
tity of extended substance or body, and its several
parts, penetrating into it, and coexisting in the
same place with it. Wherefore it is not to be
looked upon either as a mathematical, or as a
physical point, as an absolute parvitode, or the
least extensum possible, it having not only snch
hn essential inside, bathos, or proftindity in it,
wherein it acteth and thinketh within itself, but
also a certain amplitude of active power ad extra,
or a sphere of activity upon body. Upon which
account, it was before affirmed by Plotinus, that
an unextended incorporeal is a thing bigger than
body, because body canuot existotherwise than a
point of it in a point of space; whereas this one
and the same indivisible can at once both compre­
hend a whole extensum within it, and be all of it
in every part thereof. And, lastly, all finite incor-
poreals are always naturally united to some body
or other; from both which together is completed
and made up in every created understanding being
one entire animal, consisting of soul and body,
and having something incorporeal, and something
corporeal in it, an unextended inside, and an ex-
80 ANOTHER HYPOTHECS
tended outside, by.means whereof it is determined
to here and there, and capable, of moving locally,
or changing; place.
Thus have we represented the sense of the an­
cient. unextendedIncorporealists to thebest advan­
tage that we could, in way of answer to the pre­
mised atheistic argument against incorporeal sub-:
stance, and in order to the vindication ofthem from
the contempt of-Atheists; and we do affirm, that
the forementioned arguments of theirs do evince,
that there is some other substance besides body,
which therefore, according to the principles of
these Atheists themselves, must be acknowledged
to be unextended, it being concluded by them,that
whatsoever is extended is body. But whether
they do also absolutely prove, that there is ovola
aptytdiiG)aSiacrraTO
C
t aptpr)g, and aSiatpcrot, a substance
devoid of magnitude, indistant, without parts,
and indivisible; this we shall leave others to
make a judgment of. However, it is certain,
that Atheists, who maintain the contrary, must
needs assert, that every thought, and whatsoever
belongeth to soul, mind, (as knowledge, virtue,
&c.) is not only mentally and mathematically
divisible, so that there may be half, a third part,
or a quarter of a thought, and the rest, supposed;
but also physically separable, or discerpible,
together with the soul, wherein it is. They must
also deny, that there is any internal energy at all,
or any other action besides that outside superfi­
cial action of local motion, and consequently
make all cogitation nothing but local motion or
translation. And, lastly, they must maintain, that
no substance, can coexist with any other sub*
stance (as soul with body) otherwise than by
Of EXTENDED INCOUPO&EALS. 81
juxtaposition only, and by possessing the pores,
or filling op the intervals thereof, as a net with
the water.
And this is the first answer to the forementioned
atheistic argument against incorporeal.substance;
That though whatsoever is extended be body;
yet every thing is not extended.) but that life,: dr
mjnd and cogitation, are an unextended, indistaei;
and. indivisible nature. But, as we have already
intimated, there are other learned assertors of it*
corporeal substance, who* lest God. and spirits^
being thus made unextended, sbould quite vanish
into nothing, answer that atheistic argumentation
after a different manner, by granting to. these
Atheists that proposition, that whatsoever is, is
extended; and what is unextended, is nothing ;
but then denying that other of theirs, that what­
soever is extended, is body; they aasertiqg another
extension* specifically differing from that of hoo­
dies i; for, whereas.corporeal extension is not only
impenetrable,.so. as that no .one. part thereof bad
enter into another, :but also both mentally .and
really divisible, one pari being in its nature sepanat
ble from another; they affirm, that there is anotlie*
incorporeal ^extension,, which is both penetrably
and also indiscer.pible, so that no one part thereof
can possibly be separated from .another, or the
whole; and that to such an incorporeal extension
as this belongeth life, cogitation, and understands
ing,. the'Deity? having such-an infinite extension;
but all created spirits a finite and limited one,
which also is in them supposed to be contractable
and. dilatable. Now it is .not onr part here to.'
oppose Theists, but Atheists; wherefore we.shall
lease these two sorts of Incorporealists to dispute
v o l . i v . a
82 INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCE, NOT FROM
it oat friendly amongst themselves; and indeed
therefore with the more moderation, equanimity,
and toleration of dissent mutually, because it
seemeth, that some are in a manner fatally inclined
to think one way in this controversy, and some
another. And whatever the truth of the case be,
it must be acknowledged, that this latter hypo­
thesis may be very useful and serviceable to retain
some in Theism, who can by no means admit of a
Deity, or any thing else, unextended; though,
perhaps, there will not be wanting others also, who
would go in a middle way betwixt these two, or
compound them together, by supposing the Deity
to be indeed altogether unextended, and all of it
every where; but finite incorporeals, or created
spirits, to have an unextended inside, a life or mind,
diffusing itselfinto a certain amplitude of outward
extension, whereby they are determined to a place,
yet so as to be all in every part thereof; which
outward extension is therefore not to be accounted
body, because penetrable, contractable, and di­
latable, and because no one part thereof is sepa­
rable from the rest, by the rushing or incursion of
any corporeal thing upon them. And thus is the
Atheist’s argument against incorporeal substance
answered two manner of ways; first, that there
is something unextended; and, secondly, that if
there were none, yet must there of necessity be a
substance otherwise extended than body is, so as
to be neither antitypous nor discerpible. And our­
selves would not be understood here dogmatically
to assert any thing in this point, save only what
all lncorporealists do agree in, to wit, that besides
body, which is impenetrably and divisibly ex­
tended, there is in nature another substance, that
ABSTRACT NAMES AND ESSENCES. 83
is both penetrable of body and iudiscerpible, or
which doth not consist of parts separable from
one another. And that there is at least such a
substance as this, is unquestionably manifest from
what hath been already declared.
But the Atheist will, in the next place, give an
account of the original of this error (as he calls
it) of incorporeal substance, and undertake to
shew from what mistake it proceeded, which is
yet another pretended confutation thereof; namely,
that it sprung partly from the abuse of abstract
names and notions, men making substances of
them; and partly from the scholastic essences*
distinct from the things themselves, and said to be
eternal. From both which delusions and dotages
together the Atheists conceive, that men have been
first of all much confirmed in the belief of ghosts
and spirits, demons and devils, invisible beings
called by several names. Which belief had also
another original, men’s mistaking their own fan­
cies for realities. The chief of all which affright­
ful ghostsand spectres, according to theseAtheists,
is the Deity, the Oberon, or prince Of fairies and
fancies. But then, whereas men, by their natural
reason, could not conceive otherwise of these
. ghosts and spirits, than that they were a kind of
thin, aerial bodies, their understandings have been
so enchanted by these abstract names (which are
indeed the names of nothing) and those separate
essences and quiddities of scholastics, as that
they have made incorporeal substances of them;
the atheistic conclusion is, that they, who assert
an incorporeal Deity, do really but make a scho­
lastic separate essence, or the mere abstract
notion of an accident, a substantial thing, and
o 2
84 I ItCORPOREAL SUBSTANCE, NOT FROM
a ghost or spirit presiding over the whole
world.
To which our reply in' general first of all is,
That all this is nothing but idle romantic fiction;
the belief of a Deity, and substance incorporeal,
standing upon none of those imaginary founda­
tions. And then, as for that impudent atheistic
pretence, that the Deity is nothing but a figment
or creature of men’s fear and imagination, and
therefore the.prince of fairies and fancies; this
bath been already sufficiently confuted in our
answer to the first atheistic argumentation, where
we have also over and above shewed, that
there is not only a natural prolepsis or anti­
cipation of a God in the minds of men, but
also, that the belief thereof is supported by the
strongest and most substantial reason, his exist­
ence being indeed demonstrable, with mathemati­
cal evidence, to such as are capable, and not
blinded with prejudice, nor enchanted by the
witchcraft of vice and wickedness, to the debauch­
ing of their understandings. It hath been also
shewed, that the opinion of other ghosts and
spirits, besides the Deity, sprung not merely from
fear and fancy neither, as children's bugbears, but
from real phenomena; true sensible apparitions,
with the histories of them in all ages, without
which the belief of such things could never have
held up so generally and constantly in the world.
As, likewise, that there is no repugnancy at all to
reason, but that there may be as well aerial and
etherial, as there are terrestrial animals; and that
the dull and earthy stupidity of men’s minds is
the only thing, which makes them so prone to
think, that there is no understanding nature supe^
85
ABSTRACT NAMES AND ESSENCES.
rtor to mankind, bat that in the world all is dead
about as; and to disbelieve the existence of any
thing, which themselves cannot either see or feel.
Assuredly, the Deity is no fancy, but the greatest
reality in the world, and that, without which there
could be nothing at all real, it being the only
necessary existent; and, consequently, Atheism is
either mere sottishness, or else a strange kind of
irreligious fanaticism.
We now further add, that the belief of ghosts
and spirits incorporeal; and, consequently, of. an
incorporeal Deity, sprung neither from any ridi­
culous mistake of the.abstract names and notions
of mere accidents for substances, nor from the
scholastic essences, said to be eternal. For, as
for the latter, none of those scholastics ever
dreamed, that there was any universal man, or
universal horse, existing alone .by itself, and
separate from all singulars; nor that the abstract
metaphysical essences of men, after they were
dead, subsisting by themselves, did walk up and
down amongst graves, in airy bodies: it being
absolutely impossible, that.the real essence of any
thing should be separable from the thing itself,
or eternal, when that is not so. And were the
essences of all things iQoked upon by these scho­
lastics as substances incorporeal, then must they
have made all things (even body itself) to be
ghosts, and spirits, and incorporeal; and acci­
dents also (they having their essences too) to be
substantial. But in very, truth, these scholastic
essences, said to be eternal, are nothing but the
intelligible essences of things, or their natures as
conceivable, and objects of the mind. And, in
this senses it is an acknowledged truth, that die
86 INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCE PROVED,
essences of things (as, for example, of a sphere
or triangle) are eternal, and such as were never
made; because there could not otherwise be eter­
nal verities concerning them. So that the true
meaning of these eternal essences is indeed no
other than this, that knowledge is eternal; or that
there is an eternal Mind, that comprehendeth the
intelligible natures and ideas of all things, whether
actually existing, or possible only, their necessary'
relations to one another, and all the immutable
verities belonging to them. Wherefore, though
these eternal essences themselves be no ghosts nor'
spirits, nor substances incorporeal, they being
nothing but objective entities of the mind, or
noemata, and ideas; yet does it plainly follow
from the necessary supposition of them (as was
before declared) that there is one eternal unmade
Mind, and perfect incorporeal Deity, a real and
substantial Ghost or Spirit, which comprehending
itself, and all the extent of its own power, the
possibility of things, and their intelligible natures,
together with an exemplar or platform of the
whole world, produced the same accordingly.
But our atheistic argumentator yetfurther urges,
that those scholastics and metaphysicians, who,
because life or cogitation can be considered alone
abstractly, without the consideration of body,
therefore conclude it not to be the accident or
action of a body, but a substance by itself (and .
which also, after men are dead, can walk amongst
the graves); that these, I say, do so far abuse those
abstract names and notions of mere accidents, as
plainly to make substances incorporeal of them.
To which therefore we reply also, that were the
abstract uotions of accidents in general made
FROM THE ATHEISTIC GROUNDS. 87
incorporeal substances, by those philosophers
aimed at, then mast they have supposed all the
qualities or affections of bodies, such as white­
ness and blackness, heat and cold, and the like,
to have been substances incorporeal also; a thing
yet never heard or thought of. But the case is
far otherwise as to conscious life or cogitation,
though it be an abstract also; because this is no
accident of body, as the Atheist (serving his own
hypothesis) securely takes it for granted, nor
indeed of any thing else, but an essential attri­
bute of.another substance, distinct from body-
(or incorporeal); after the same manner, as ex­
tension or magnitude is the essential attribute of-
body, and not a mere accident.
And now, having so copiously confuted all the
most considerable atheistic grounds, we are ne­
cessitated to dispatch those that follow, being O f
lesser moment, with all possible brevity and com­
pendiousness. The four next, which are the
fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth atheistic argumen­
tations, pretend to no more than only this, to
disprove a corporeal Deity; or from the suppo­
sition, that there is no other substance in the world
besides body, to infer the impossibility of a God
that is, of an eternal unmade Mind, the maker
and governor of the whole world: all which
therefore siguify nothing at airto the assertors of
a Deity incorporeal, who are the only genuine
Theists. Nevertheless, though none but Stoics,
and such other Corporealists, as are notwith­
standing Theists, be directly concerned in an an­
swer to them, yet shall we, first, SO far consider
the principles of the atheistic Corporealism, con­
tained in those two heads, the fifth and sixth, as
88 INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCE PROVED
from the obsolete impossibility of these hypothe­
ses to demonstrate a necessity of incorporeal sob*
stance, from whence a Deity will also follow.
Here, therefore, are there two atheistic hypo­
theses, founded upon the supposition, that all is
body: -the first, in the way of qualities, genera-
ble and corruptible, which we call the Hytopa-
thian; the -second, in the way of unqualified
atoms, which is the Atomic, Corporealism, and
Atheism. The former of these was the most an­
cient, and the first sciography, or rude delinea­
tion ofAtheism. For Aristotleatells us, that the
most ancient Atheists were those, who supposed
matter or body, that is, bulky extension, to be
the only substance^ and unmade thing, that, out
of'which all things were ;made, and into which
all things are again resolved; whatsoever is else
in -the world being nothing but the passions, qua­
lities^ and accidents thereof, generable and"cor­
ruptible* or. producible out of nothing, and re­
ducible to nothing again. From whence the neces­
sary consequence is, That there is no eternal un­
made life or. understanding; or that mind is mo
god, or .principle iii-the universe, >but essentially
a creature.
And this Hylopaithian .Atheism, which sup-
poseth whatsoever is in the universe to be either the
substance of matter and bulk, or eke the quali­
ties,and accidents thereof, generable and corrupt­
ible, hath been .called also by us Anaximandrian.
Though we deny not, but that there might be
formerly seme difference amongst the Atheists’of
this kind; nor are we ignorant, that’Simplicius
and .others oonceite Anaximander to have as-
Vl|6taphysif|il|.iv iii- p.284. ’tom. iv. toper.
FROM THE ATHEISTIC GROUNDS. 89
serted, besides matter, qualities also eternal and ■
Unmade, or an horaaeomery, and similar atomo-
logy, just in the same manner as Anaxagoras af­
terward did, save only that he would not ac­
knowledge any unmade mind or life; Anaximan­
der supposing all life and understanding whatso­
ever, all soul and mind, to have risen up, and
been generated from a fortuitous commixture of
those similar atoms, or the qualities of heat and
cold, moist and dry, and the like, contempered
together. And we confess, that there is some
probability for this opinion. Notwithstanding
which, because there is no absolute certainty
thereof, and because all these ancient Atheists
agreed in Ibis, that life and understanding are
either first and primary, or else secondary quali­
ties of body, generable and corruptible-; there­
fore did we not think fit to multiply forms of
Atheism,- but.rather to make but one kind of
Atheism of all this, calling itindifferently, Hylo-
pathiau, or Anaximandrian.
-The second atheistic hypothesis is that form of
Atheism described under the sixth -bead, which
likewise supposing body to be the only substance,
and the principles thereof devoid of life and un­
derstandings does reject all real qualities, accord­
ing- to the vulgar notion of them, and generate
allthings whatsoever, besidesrnatter* merely from
the combinations ofimagnitudes, figures, sites, and
motions,r. or the contextures of unqualified atoms,
Uf&andunderfetanding»not'excepted; which, there­
fore, ^according to .them,, being no simple ^primi­
tive and primordial thing,, but: secondary, com­
pounded, and derivative, the mere creature of
matter and motion, could not possibly be a God,
90 INCORPOREAL SUBSTANCE PROVED
or first principle in the universe. This is that ato­
mic Atheism called Democritical; Leucippus and
Democritus being the first founders thereof. For
though there was, before them, another atomo-
logy, which made unqualified atoms the princi­
ples of all bodies, it supposing, besides body,
substance incorporeal; yet were these, as Laer­
tius * declareth, the first that ever made apx<
*
e
T
(i»roX
oiv aroftovc, senseless atoms, the principles of
all things whatsoever, even of life and understand­
ing, soul and mind.
Indeed it cannot be denied, but that from these
two things granted, that all is body, and that
the principles of body are devoid of all life and
understanding, it will follow unavoidably, that
there can be no corporeal Deity. Wherefore the-
Stoics, who professed to acknowledge no other
substance besides body, and yet nevertheless had
a strong persuasion of the existence of a God, or-
an eternal unmade Mind, the maker of the whole
world, denied that other proposition of the athe­
istic Corporealists, that the principles of all bo­
dies were devoid of life and understanding, they
asserting an intellectual fire, eternal and unmade,
the maker, of the whole mundane system; which
postulatum, of a living intellectual body eternal,
were it granted to these Stoics, yet could not
this their corporeal god, notwithstanding, be ab­
solutely incorruptible, as Origen often incul-
L. i. o.Cel*. Cateth : 'O 0W J role Srwlicole cm (Wjoa, oilfc
P- 17’ «uSov/ulvot$ Xiyuv aiicov rpm ov, Kal &’ oXwv
aXXowrov icat fitrafiXtiTov, k«u atra^anXiog Svvdfitvov
fBapvvai, vapa to /uyStv a m ro ipdupov avrov* God
* Lib. ix. segm. 44. p. 673,
FROM THE ATHEISTIC GROUNDS. 91
to the Stoics is a body, and therefore muta­
ble, alterable, and changeable; and h? would
indeed be perfectly corruptible, were there any
other body to act upon him* Wherefore he is only
happy in this, that he wants a corrupter or de­
stroyer.—And thus much was therefore rightly
urged by the atheistic argumentator, that no cor­
poreal Deity could be absolutely in its own na­
ture incorruptible, nor otherwise than by accident
only immortal, because of its divisibility. For
were there any other matter without this world,
to make inroads-and incursions upon it, or to
disunite the parts thereof, the: life and unity of
the Stoical corporeal godf must needs be scattered
and destroyed. And therefore of this Stoical
god does the same Origen thus further write;
'O ro»v S ra n K w v 0 tdc, art atofia rvyyavtov, ore /iiv riytfiovt-
» rf I » I rf . « » / » M i I ,
Kove^ ci tjjv oatjv a v a ia v , o ra v v tK irvp axn g rj ore oc etri f it -
pave y iv t r a i avTrjg, o ra v y StaK
Ocr/iqcnc* ovSe y a p S e B v w iv
r a i o vto i rp a v w a a i rtjv fva u crjv row deov iv v o ia v , w f ira v -
tij atpOapTov K a l airXov, Kal aa vvO trov, (cal dStatjofrov*
The god of the Stoics being a body, hath some­
times the whole for its hegemonic in the confla­
gration ; and sometimes only a part of the mun­
dane matter. For these men were not able to
reach to a clear notion of the Deity, as a being
every way incorruptible, simple, uncompounded,
and indivisible.—•'Notwithstanding which, these
Stoics were not therefore to be ranked amongst
the Atheists, but far to be preferred before them,
and accounted only a kind of imperfect Theists.
But we shall now make it evident, that in both
these atheistic corpo realisms (agreeing in those
two things, that body is the only substance, and
that the principles of body are not vital), there is
9 2 LIFE s u b s t a n t i a l ; a n d
an absolute impossibility; not only because* as
Aristotle* © bjecteth, they supposed no active
principle; but also because their bringing of life
and understanding (being real entities) out of
dead and senseless matter is also the bringing of
something out of nothing. And, indeed, the
atomic Atheist is here of the two rather the
more absurd and unreasonable, forasmuch as
he, discarding all real qualities, and that, for
this very reason, because nothing can come out
of nothing, doth himself, notwithstanding, pro­
duce life, sense, and understanding (unquestion­
able realities) out of mere magnitudes, figures,
sites, and motions; that is, indeed, out of nothing.
Wherefore there being an absolute impossibility
ef both these atheistic hypotheses (neither of
which is able to solve the phenomenon of life
and understanding), from that confessed principle
of theirs, that matter, as such, hath no life nor
understanding belonging to it, it follows unavoid­
ably, that there must be some other substance be­
sides body or matter, which is essentially vital
and intellectual: Ov -yap ira vra yjpi\rai tTTaKTip
because^ all things cannot possibly have a pere­
grine, adventitious, and borrowed life—but some­
thing in the universe must needs have life natu­
rally and originally. All life cannot be merely
accidental, generable, and corruptible, producible
©ut of nothing, and reducible to nothing again,
but there must of necessity be some substantial
life, which point (that all life is not a mere acci­
dent, but that there is life substantial) hath been
of late, with much reason and judgment, insisted
upon, and urged by the writer of the Life of Na-
* Metapbysic. lib. i' cap. iii. p. 265. tom. hr. open
80MB UNMADE. 93
tare. Neither must there be o n ly such a substan­
tial life, as is naturally immortal for the future,
but also such as is eternal, and was never made;
all other lives and minds whatsoever (none of
which could possibly be generated out of matter)
being derived from this eternal unmade fountain
of life and understanding.
Which thing the hylozoic Atheists being well
aware of, namely, that there must of necessity
be both substantial and eternal unmade life, but
supposing also matter to be the only substance,
thought themselves necessitated to attribute to all
matter, as such, life and understanding, though
not animalish and conscious, but natural only;
they conceiving, that, from the modification there­
of alone by organization, all other animalish life,
not only the sensitive in brutes, but also the ra­
tional in men, was 'derived. But this hylozoic
Atheism, thus bringing all conscious and reflexive
life or auimality, out of a supposed senseless^
stupid, and inconscious life of nature in matter,
and that merely from a different accidental modi­
fication thereof, or contexture of parts, does again
plainly bring something out of nothing, which is
an absolute impossibility. Moreover, this hylo­
zoic Atheism was long since, and in the first emer­
sion thereof, solidly confuted by the atomic Athe­
ists, after this manner: If matter, as such, had
life, perception, and understanding belonging to
it, then of necessity must every atom, or small­
est particle thereof, be a distinct.percipient by.
itself; from whence it will follow, that there could/
not possibly be any such men and animals as nb*y
are compounded out of them, but every man
and animal would be a heap of innumerable per-
9 4 LIFE AND UNDERSTANDING NOT FROM
eipients, and have innumerable perceptions and
intellections; whereas it is plain, that there is but
one life and understanding, one soul or mind,
one perceiver or thinker, in every one. And to
say, that these innumerable particles of matter
do all confederate together; that is, to make
every man and animal to be a multitude or com­
monwealth of percipients,. and persons, as it
were, clubbing together, is a thing so absurd and
ridiculous, that one would wonder.the bylozoists
should not rather choose to recant that-their fun­
damental error of the life of matter, than endea­
vour to seek shelter and sanctuary for the same
under such a pretence. For though voluntary
agents and persons may many of them resign up
their wills to one, and by that means have all
but as it were one artificial Will, yet can they not
-possibly resign up their sense and. understanding
too, so as to have all but one artificial life, sense,
.and understanding; much less could this be done
by senseless atoms, or particles of matter sup­
posed to bedevoid ofall consciousness oranimality.
Besides which, there have been other arguments
already suggested, which do sufficiently evince,
that sense and understanding cannot possibly be­
long to matter any way, either originally or se­
condarily, to which more maybe added elsewhere.
And now, from these two things, that life and
understanding do not essentially belong to mat­
ter as such, and that they cannot be generated
out of dead and senseless matter, it is demon­
stratively certain, that there must be some other
fubstance besides body or matter. However,
the Anaximandrian and Deraocritic Atheists
taking it for granted, that the first principles of
9 5
FLESH, BLOOD, AMD BRAINS. .
body are devoid of all life and understanding,
must either acknowledge a necessity of some
other substance besides body, or else deny the
truth of that axiom, so much made use of by
themselves, That nothing can come out of nothing.
And this was our second undertaking, to shew,
that from the very principles of the atheistic Cor-
porealism, represented in the fifth and sixth heads,
incorporeal substance is against those Atheists
themselves demonstrable.
Our third and last was this; That there being
undeniably substance incorporeal, the two next
following atheistic argumentations, built upon the
' contrary supposition, are therefore altogether in­
significant also, and do no execution at all. The
first of which (being the seventh) impugning only
such a soul of the world, as is generated out of
matter, is not properly directed against Theism
neither, but only such a form of Atheism (some­
time beforementioned) as indeed cometh nearest
to Theism. Which, though concluding all things
to have sprung originally from senseless matter,
Night and Chaos; yet supposes things from
thence to have ascended gradually to higher dnd
higher perfection; first, inanimate bodies, as the
elements, then birds and other brute animals (ac­
cording to the forementioned Aristophanic tra­
dition, with which agreeth this of Lucretius,a
Principio gemu aliiuum, variaeque volucres;)
*
»
afterward tnen, and in the last place gods; and
that not only the animated stars, but Jupiter, or
a sonl of the world, generated also out of Night
.» Iib.T. ver.*707.
/
9 6 LIFE AND UNDERSTANDING NQT FROM
and Chaos, as well as all other things. We grant,
indeed, that the true and real Theists amongst
the ancient Pagans also held the world’s anima­
tion, and whosoever depied the same were there­
fore accounted absolute Atheists. But the world’s
animation, in a larger sense, signifies no- more
than this, that all things are not dead about us,
but that there is a living sentient and under­
standing nature eternal, that first framed the
world, and still presideth over i t : and, it is cer­
tain, that in this sense all Theists whatsoever
must hold the world’s animation. But the gene­
rality of Pagan Theists held the world’s anima­
tion also in a stricter sense ;• as if the world were
truly and properly an animal, and therefore a
god; completed and made up of soul and body
together, as other animals are. Which soul of this
great world-animal was to some of them the high­
est or supreme Deity, but to others only a second*-
ary god, they supposing an abstract mind supe­
rior to it. But God’s being the soul of the world
in this-latter Paganic sense, and the world’s being
an animal or a god, are things absolutely dis­
claimed and renounced by us. However, this
seventh atheistic argument is not directed against
the soul of the world in the sense of the Paganio
Theists neither (this being, as they think, al­
ready confuted), but in the sense of the atheistic
Theogonists; not an eternal unmade soul or mind,
but a native or generated one only, such as re­
sulted from the disposition of matter, and con­
texture of. atoms, the offspring of Night and
Chaos; the Atheists here pretending, after their
confutation, of the true and genuine Theism, to
take away all shadows thereof also, and so to
FLESH, BLOOD, AND BRAINS. 97'.
free men from all manner of fear of being obnox­
ious to any understanding being, superior to them­
selves. Wherefore we might here omit the con­
futation of this argument, without any detriment
at all to the cause of Theism: nevertheless, be­
cause this in general is an atheistic assertion, that
there is no life and understanding presiding over
the whole world, we shall briefly examine the
supposed groupds thereof, which alone will be a
sufficient confutation of it. The first of them
therefore is this, that there is no other substance
in the world besides body; the second, that the
principles of bodies are devoid of all Jife and un­
derstanding; and the last, that life and under­
standing are but accidents of bodies resulting
from such a composition or contexture of atoms,
as produceth soft flesh, blood, and brains, in
bodies organized, and of human form. From all
which the conclusion is, that there can be no life
and understanding in the whole, because it is not
of human form, and organized, and hath no
blood and brains. But neither is body the only
substance, nor are life and understanding acci­
dents resulting from any modification of dead
and lifeless m atter; nor is blood or brains that,
which understandeth' in us, but an incorporeal
soul or mind, vitally united to a terrestrial organ­
ized body; which will then understand with far
greater advantage, when it comes to be clothed
with a pure, spiritual, and heavenly one. But
there is in the universe also a higher kind of in­
tellectual animals, which, though consisting of
soul and body likewise, yet have neither flesh,
nor blood, nor brains, nor parts so organized as
ours are. And the roost perfect mind and intel-
VOL. IV. h
98 THE a t h e is t ’s a rg um en t
lect of all is not the soul of any body, but corn*
plete in itself, without such vital union and sym­
pathy with matter. We conclude, therefore, that
this passage ofa modern writer,* " We worms can­
not conceive, how God can understand without
brains,” is vox pecudis, the language and philo­
sophy rather of worms or brute animals, than o#
men.
The next, which is the eighth atheistic argu­
ment, is.briefly this: That whereas the Deity by
Theists is generally supposed to be a living being
perfectly nappy, and immortal or incorruptible;
there can be no such living being immortal, and
consequently none perfectly happy. Because all
living beings whatsoever are concretions of atoms,
which as they were at first generated, so are they
again liable to death and corruption; life being
no simple primitive nature, nor substantial thing,
but a mere accidental modification of compound­
ed bodies only, which upon the disunion of their
parts, or the disordering of their contexture,
vanisheth again into nothing. And there being no
life immortal, happiness must needs be a mere
significant word, and but a romantic fiction.
Where first, this is well, that the Atheists will
confess, that according to their principles, there
can be no such thing at all as happiness, because
no security of future permanency; all life per­
petually coming out of nothing, and whirling back
into nothing again. But this atheistic argument
is likewise founded upon the former error, that
body is the only substance, the first principles
whereof are devoid of all life and understanding;
* Hobbes.
FJlpM MOTION, CONFUTED. 9 9
whereas it is certain, that life cannot possibly re­
sult from any composition of dead and lifeless
things; and therefore must needs be a simple and
primitive nature. It is true, indeed, that the par­
ticipated life in the bodies of animals (which yet
is but improperly called life, it being nothing but
their being actuated by a living soul) is a mere
accidental thing, generable and corruptible; since
that body, which is now vitally united to a living
soul, may be disunited again from it, and thereby
become a dead and lifeless carcass; but the pri­
mary or original life itself is substantial, nor can
there be any dead carcass of a human soul. That
which hath life essentially belongipg to the sub­
stance of it, must needs be naturally immortal,
because no substance can of itself perish, or
vauish into nothing. Besides which, there must
be also some, not only substantial, but also
eternal unmade life, whose existence is necessary,
and which is absolutely unaonihilable by any
thing else; which therefore must needs have per­
fect security of its own future happiness; and
this is an incorporeal Deity. And this is a brief
confutation of the eighth atheistic argument.
B u t the Democritic Atheist proceeds, endea­
vouring further to disprove a God from the phe­
nomena of motion and cogitation, in the three
following argumentations, first, therefore, where­
as Tbeists commonly bring an argument from
motion, to prove a God, or first unmoved Mover,
the Atheists contend, on the contrary, that from
the very nature of motion,, the impossibility of
h 2
100 t h e a t h e is t ’s a rg um en t
any such first unmoved Mover is clearly demott-
strable. For, it being an axiom of undoubted
truth concerning motion, that whatsoever is
moved.is moved by some other thing; or that v
nothing Can move itself; it follows from thence
Unavoidably, that there is no ceternum Immobile,
ho eternal unmoved Mover; but, on the contrary,
that there was ceternum Moturn, an eternal
Moved; or, that one thing was moved by an­
other, from eternity infinitely, without any first
mover or cause, because, as nothing could move
itself, so could nothing ever move another, but
what was itself before moved by something else.
To which We reply, That this axiom, whatso­
ever is moved, is moved by another, and not by
itself, was by Aristotle, and those other philoso­
phers, who made so much use thereof, restrained
to the local motion of bodies only ; that no body,
locally moved, was ever moved originally from
itself, but from something else. Now it will not
at all •follow from hence, that therefore nihil
movetur nisi a moto, that no body was ever
moved, but by some other body—that was also
before moved by something felse; or, that of ne­
cessity one body was moved by another body, and
that by another, and so backwards, infinitely,
without any first unmoved or self-moving and self­
active mover, as the Democritic Atheist fondly
conceits; for the motion of bodiesmight proceed
(as unquestionably it did) from something else,
which is not' body, and was not before moved.
Moreover, the Democritic Atheist here also, with­
out any ground, imagines, that were there but
one push once given to the world, and no more,
this motion would from thenceforward always
FROM MOTION, CONFUTED. 1 0 i
continue in it, one body still movinganother to all
eternity. For though this be indeed a part ofthe
Cartesian hypothesis, that, according to the laws
of nature, a body moving will as well continue
in motion, as a body resting in rest, until that
motion be communicated and transferred to some
.other body; yet is the case different here, where
it is supposed, not only one push to have been
given to the world at first, but also the same quan­
tity of motion or agitation to be constantly con­
served and maintained. But to let this pass, be­
cause it is something a subtile point, and not so
rightly understood by many of the Cartesian^
themselves, we say, that it is a thing utterly im­
possible, that one body should be moved by
another infinitely, without any first cause or
inover, which was self-active, and that not from
the authority of Aristotle* only, pronouncing
o v t e Suvorov oOtv t
j TW
GKtvijotioc Uvai «c iireipoVf
&c. That in the causes of motion, there could
bot possibly be an infinite progress—but from
the reason there subjoined by Aristotle, be­
cause ttirep [itjS e v tori to irpwrov, oXwe avriov ovSev tort,
if there were no first unmoved mover, there could
be no cause of motion at all.—For were all the
motion, that is in the world, a passion from some­
thing else, and no first unmoved active mover,
then must it be a passion from no agent, or with­
out an action, and consequently proceed from
nothing, and either cause itself, or be made
without a cause. Now the ground of the Atheist’s
error here is only from hence, because he taketh it
for granted, that there is no other substance
besides body, nor any other action but local
* Physic. Auscult. lib. Tin. cap. v. p.537. tom.i. opei*.
10$ A FIRST MOVER -
motion; from whence it comes to pass, that, to
him, this proposition, No body can tnoye itself,
is one and the same with this, Nothing can act
from itself or be self-active.
And thus is the atheistic pretended demonstra­
tion against a God, or first cause, from motion*
abundantly confuted; we having made it manifest,
that there is no consequence at all in this argu­
ment, that because no body can move itself,
therefore there can be no first unmoved mover;
as also having discovered the ground of the Athe­
ist’s error here, their taking it for granted, that
there is nothing but body; and, lastly, having
plainly shewed, that it implies a contradiction
there should be action and motion in the world,
and yet nothing self-moving or self-active: so that
it is demonstratively certain from motion, that
there is a first cause, or unmoved mover. We
shall now further add, that from the principle
acknowledged by the Democritic Atheists them­
selves, That no body can move itself, it follows
also undeniably, that there is some other sub­
stance besides body, something incorporeal, which
is self-moving and self-active, and was the first
unmoved mover of the heavens or world. For if
no body from eternity was ever able to move it­
self, and yet there must of necessity be some ac­
tive cause of that motion, which is in the world
(since it could not cause itself), then is there un­
questionably some other substance besides body,
which having a power of moving matter, was the
first chuse of motion, itself being unmoved.
Moreover, it is certain from hence also, that
there is another species of action, distinct from
local motion, and such as is not heterokinesy,
D EM O N STRA TE. m
bat autoJcinesy, or self-activity. Foe since the
local motion of body is essentially h ei^kim tg i
not caused by the substance itself moving, bat
by something else acting upon it, that fiction* by
which local motion is.first caused, Cannot bo it-,
self lodal motion, but must be abtokiuesy, or self­
activity, that which is not a passion from any other
agent, but springs from the immediate ageni it­
self, which species of action is called cogitation*
All the local motion, that is in the world, was
firfet caused by some cogitative or thinking belpg,
wbich not acted updn by any thing without it,
nor at fill locally moved, but only mentally, la
the immoveable mover of the heavens, or vortices:
So that cogitation is, in order of nature, before
lodal motion, and incorporeal before corporeal
substance, the former having a natural imperium
upon the latter. And now have we not Only con­
futed the ninth atheistic argument from motion,
but also demonstrated against the Democritic
Atheists from their own principle, that there is
an incorporeal- and cogitative substance, the first
immoveable mover of the heavens, and vortices ;
that is, an incorporeal Deity.
But the Democritic Atheist will yet make a
further attempt to prove, that there can be no­
thing self-moving or self-actite, and that no think­
ing being could be a first cause; he laying his
foundation in this principle, that nothing taketh
its beginning from itself, but from the action of
sOme other agent without it. From whence he
would infer, that cogitation itself is beterokinesy,
the passion of the thinker, and the action of
something without it, po cogitation, ever rising
up of itself without a cause; and that cogitation
)0 4 SOMETHING r
is indeed nothing but local motion or meohanistn,'
and all living understanding beings machines,
moved from without; and then make this con­
clusion, that therefore no understanding being
could possibly be a-first cause: be further adding
also, that no understanding being, as such, can
be perfectly happy neither, as the Deity ..is sup­
posed to be, beeause dependent upon something
without it: and this is the tenth atheistic argu­
mentation.
. Where we shall first consider that, which the
Democritic Atheist makes his fundamental prin­
ciple, or common notion to disprove all auto-
kinesy, or self-activity by, that nothing taketh be­
ginning from itself, but from the action of some
other thing without it. Which axiom, if it be
understood of substantial things, then is it in­
deed acknowledged by us to be unquestionably
true, it being the same with this, That no sub­
stance, which once was not, could ever possibly
cause itself, or bring itself into being; but must
take its beginning from the action of something
else: but then it will make nothing at all against
Theism. As it is likewise true, that no action
whatsoever, (and therefore no cogitation) taketh
beginning from itself, or canseth itself to be, but
is always produced by some substantial agent;
but this will no way advantage the Atheist nei­
ther. Wherefore, if he would direct his force
against Theism, he ought to understand this pro­
position thus, that no action whatsoever taketh
beginning from the immediate agent (which is
the subject of it), but from the action of some
other thing without it; or* that nothing can move
or act otherwise, than as it is moved and acted
SELF-ACTtVE. 1 0 5
Upon by'something else. But this is only to beg
the question, or to prove the thing in dispute,
identically, that nothing is self-active, because
nothing, can act from itself. Whereas it is in the
mean time undeniably certain, that there could
not possibly be any motion or action at all in the
universe, were there not something self-moving
or self-active, forasmuch as otherwise all that
motion or action would be a passion from nothing,
and be made without a cause.
And whereas the Atheists would further prove,
that no cogitation taketh its beginning from the
thinker, but always from the action of some other
thing without it, after this manner; because it is
not Conceivable, why this cogitation, rather than
that, should start up at any time, were there not
some cause for it, without the thinker: here, in
the first place, we freely grant, that our .human
cogitations are indeed commonly occasioned by
the incursions of sensible objects upon us; as
also, that the concatenations Of those thoughts
and phantasms in us, which are.distinguished
from sensations (whether we be asleep or awake)
do many times depend upon corporeal aud mecha­
nical causes in the brain. Notwithstanding which,
that all our cogitations are obtruded and imposed
upon us from without; and that there is no tran­
sition in our thoughts at any time, but such as
had been before in sense (which the Democritic
Atheist avers), this is a-thing which we absolutely
deny. For, had we no mastery at all over our
thoughts, but they were all like tennis-balls, ban­
died and struck upon us, as it were, by rackets
from without; then could we not steadily and
constantly carry on any designs and purposes of
106 A PRODIGIOUS PARADOX OF ATHEISTS;
life* {But on the contrary, that Of Aristotle *Hi
most true (as will be elsewhere further proved)*
that mao, and all rational beings, are in some
sense a/»x»i rpa^ewv, a principle Of actions, subor­
dinate to the Deity; which they could not possi­
bly be, were they not also a principle ofcogitations*
and had some command over them; but these were
all as much determined by causes without, as the
motions of the weathercock are. The rational
soul is itself an active and bubbling fountain
of thoughts; that perpetual and restless desire,
which is as natural and essential to us, as our
very life, continually raising up and protruding
new and new ones in u s; which are as it were
offered to us. Besides which* we have also a
further self-recollective power, and a power of
determining and fixing our mind and intention
upon some certain objects, and of ranging our
thoughts accordingly. But the Atheist is here
also to be taught yet a further lesson, that an ab­
solutely perfect mind (such as the Deity is sup­
posed to be),, doth not (as Aristotle writeth of it)
ore fitv vow ore Se ov voetv, sometimes understand*
and sometimes not understand—it being ignorant
of nothing, nor syllogizing about any thing, but
comprehending all intelligibles with their relations
and verities at once within itself; and its essence-
and energy being the same. Which notion, if it
be.above the dull capacity of Atheists, who mea-f
sure all perfection by their, own scantling, this is.
a thing that we cannot help.
Bnt as for that prodigious paradox of Atheists,*
that cogitation itself is nothing but local motion
* Vide lib. iii. ad Nicomacb. cap. iii. p.37. tom. iii- et MAgnof.
Moral, lib. i. cap. ix. etca['.xii. p.202.204. ' >■-
THAT -COGITATION IS LOCAL MOTION* 107
or fnechani6m, we could not hare thought it-pos­
sible,. that ever anyman should have given enter­
tainment to such a conceit, but that this was
rather a mere slander raised upon Atheists; were
it- not certain from, the records of antiquity* that
whereas the old religious Atomists did. upon good
reason, reduce all corporeal action (as generar
tion, augmentation, and alteration) to local mo­
tion, or translation from place to place (there
being no other motion besides this conceivable in
bodies); the ancient atbeizers of that philosophy
(Leucippus and Democritus) not contented here­
with, did really carry the business still on further,
so as to make cogitation itself also nothing but
local motion. As it is also certain, that a mo­
dern atheistic pretender to wit hath publicly
owned this same conclusion, that mind is nothing
.else but local motion in the Organic parts of man’s
body. These men have been sometimes indeed
a little troubled with the fancy, apparition, or
seeming of cogitation that is, the consciousness
of it, as knowing not well what to make thereof;
but then they put it off again, and satisfy them-i
selves worshipful!y with this, that fancy is but
fancy, but the reality of cogitation nothing but
local motion; as if there were not as much reality
in fancy and consciousness, as there is in .local
motion* That, which inclined these men so much
to this opinion, was only because they were sen­
sible and aware of this, that if there, were any
other action besides local motion admitted* there
must needs be some other substance acknow­
ledged besides body. Cartesius indeed under-,
took to defend brute animals to be nothing else
but machines ; put then he supposed that there
108 A PRODIGIOUS PARADOX OF ATHEISTS ;
was nothing at all of cogitation in them, and con­
sequently nothing of true animality or life, no
more than is in an artificial automaton, as ft
wooden eagle, or the like: nevertheless, this was
justly thought to be paradox enough. But that
cogitation,itself should be local motion, andmen
nothing but machines; this is such a paradox, as
none but either a stupid and besotted, or else an
enthusiastic, bigotical, or fanatic Atheist, could
possibly give entertainment to. Nor are such
men as these fit to be disputed with any more than
a machine is.
But whereas the atheistic objector adds also,
over and above, in the last place, that no under­
standing being can be perfectly happy neither,
and therefore not a god, because essentially de­
pendent upon something else without it; this is
all one, as if he should say, that there is no. such
thing as happiness at all in nature; because it is
certain, that without consciousness or under­
standing nothing can be happy (since it could
not have any fruition of itself); and if no under­
standing being can be happy neither, then must
the conclusion needs be that of the Cyrenaics,that
tvSaiftovla awwapicrov, happiness is a raere chimera—■
a fantastic notion or fiction of men’s minds: a
thing, which hath no existence in nature. These
are the men, who afterward argue from interest
also against a God and religion; notwithstanding
that they confess their own principles to be so far
from promising happiness to. any, as that they
absolutely cut off all hopes thereof. It may be
further observed also,in the last place, that thereis
another of the Atheist's dark mysteries here like­
wise couched, that there is no scale or ladder of
THAT COGITATION IS LOCAL MOTION. 109
entity and perfection in nature, one above another;
tbe whole universe, from top to bottom, being
nothing but one and the same senseless matter,
diversely modified. As also that understanding,
as such, rather speaks imperfection; it being but
a mere whiffling, evanid, and fantastic thing;
so that the most absolutely perfect of all things
in the universe is grave, solid, and substantial
senseless m atter: of which more afterward.
And thus in the tenth atheistic argumentation also
confuted.
But the Democritic and Epicurean Atheists
will make yet a further assault from the nature of
knowledge, understanding, after this manner: If
the world were made by a God, or an antecedent
mind and understanding, having in itself an ex­
emplar or platform thereof, before it was made,
then must there be actual knowledge, both in order
of nature and time, before things; whereas things,
which are the objects of knowledge and under­
standing, are unquestionably in order of nature
before knowledge; this being but the signature
of them, and a passion from them. Now, the
only things are singular sensibles or bodies.
From whence it follows, that mind is the young­
est and most creaturely thing in the world; or
that the world, was before knowledge, and the
conception of any mind; and no knowledge or
mind before the. world as its cause. Which is the
eleventh atheistic argumentation.
But we have prevented ourselves here in the
answer to this argument (which would make all
knowledge, mind, and understanding junior to
the world', and the-very creature of sensibles),
baying already fully confuted it; and clearly
ilO •" MfND SENIOR TO THE WORLti ;
proved, that singular bodies are not the only
things, and objects of the mind, but that it con­
tained! its immediate intelligibles within itself;
which intelligibles also are eternal, a n d 'th a t
mind is no fantastic image of sensibles, nor the
stamp and signature of them, but archetypal to
, them ; the first mind being that of a perfect being,
comprehending itself, and the extent of its own
omnipotence, or the possibilities of all things. So
that knowledge is older than all sensible things ;
mind senior to the world, and the architect thereof.
Wherefore we shall refer the reader, for an answer
to this argument, to the preceding volume, where
the existence of a God (that is, a mind before
the world) is demonstrated also from this very
topic, viz. the nature of knowledge and under­
standing.
We shall in this place only add; that as the
Atheists can no way solve the phenomenon of
motion, so can they much less that of cogitation,
or life and understanding. To make which yet
the more evident, we shall briefly represent a
syllabus or -catalogue of the many atheistic hal­
lucinations or delirations concerning it. As, first,
that senseless matter being the only substance,
and all things else but accidental modifications
thereof; life and mind is all a mere accidental
thing, generable and corruptible, producible out
of nothing and reducible to nothing again; and
that there is no substantial life or mind any where.
In opposition to which, we have before proved^
that there must of necessity be some substantial
life, and that human souls being lives substantial,
and not mere accidental modifications of matter,
they are consequently in their own nature iinmoi*
AWD NO SYLLABLE OF THINGS. t i l
tft),'since no substance of itself ever vanisheth into
nothing.
Again, the Democritics, and other Atheists
conclude, that life and mind are no simple and
primitive natures, but secondary and compounded
things; they resulting from certain concretions
and contextures of matter, and either the com­
mixtures and contemporations of qualities, or else
(he combinations of those simple elements of mag­
nitude,* figure, site, and m otion; and so being
made up of that, which hath nothing of life or
mind in it. For as flesh is not made out of fleshy
particles, nor bone out of bony (as Anaxagoras of
old dreamed), so may life, as they conceive, be as
well made out of lifeless principles, and mind out
of that which hath no mind or understanding at all
in i t : just as syllables pronounceable do result
from combinations of letters, some of which are
mutes, and cannot by themselves be pronounced at
all,othersbutsemi-vocal. Andfromhencedo these
Atheists infer, that there could be no eternal un­
made life or mind, nor any that is immortal or
incorruptible; since upon the dissolution of that
compages or contexture of matter, from whence
they result, they m ust needs vanish into nothing.
Wherefore according to them, there hath pro­
bably sometime heretofore been no life nor under­
standing at all in the universe, and there may
possibly be none again. From whence the con­
clusion is, that mind and understanding is no:
god, or principle in the universe; it being essen­
tially factitious, native, and corruptible; or, as
they express it in Plato,* 0vnro? «c O
w
rrtov, mortal
from mortal things—as also, that thie souls of
* De Legrbus, lib. x. p. 666.
112 MIND SENIOR TO THE WORLD ;
men cannot subsist separately after death, and
walk up and down in airy bodies; no more than
the form of a house or tree, after the dissolution
. thereof, can subsist by itself separately, or ap­
pear in some other body. But all this foolery of
Atheists hath been already confuted, we having
before shewed, that life and understanding are
active powers, vigours, and perfections, that could
never possibly result from mere passive bulk, or
dead and senseless matter, however modified and
com poundedbecause nothing can come effecr
tively from nothing. Neither is there any conse­
quence at all in this, that because flesh is not
made out of fleshy principles, nor bone out of.
bony, red out of red things, nor green out of
green; therefore life and understanding may as
well be compounded out of things dead and
senseless: because these are no syllables or com­
plexions, as the others are, nor can either the
qualities of heat and cold, moist and dry ; or else
magnitudes, figures, sites, and motions, however
combined together, as letters spell them out, and
make them u p ; but they are simple and primitive
things. And accordingly it hath been proved,,
that there must of necessity be some eternal un­
made life and mind. For though there be no
necessity, that there should be any eternal un-'
made red, dr green, because red and green may
be made out of things not red nor green, they,
and all other corporeal qualities (so called) being
but several contextures of matter, or combina­
tions of magnitudes, figures, sites, and motions,
causing those several fancies in u s : and though
there be no necessity, that there should be eter­
nal motion, because, if there were once no mo-
AMD MO SYLLABLE OF THINGS. 113
tk>D at all in matter, b u ta ll bodies rested, yet
might, motion have been produced by a self-njo-
viqg or self-active principle: and, lastly, though
there be no necessity, that there should be eter­
nal unmade mutter or body neither, because bad
there been once no body at all, yet might it.be
made or produced by a perfect omnipotent incor­
poreal being: nevertheless, is there an absolute
necessity, that there should be eternal unmade
life, and mind, because were there once no life
nor mind at all, these could never have been pro--
ducedout of matter altogether lifeless and mind­
less. And though the form of a house cannot
possibly exist separately from the matter and
substance thereof, it being a mere accidental
thing, resulting from such a com pages of stone,
timber, and mortar, yet are human souls and
minds no such accidental forms of compounded
matter, but active substantial things, that may
therefore subsist separately from these bodies,
and enliven other bodies of a different contex­
ture. And however some, that are no Atheists,
be over prone to conceive life, sense, cogitation,
and consciousness, in brutes, to be generated out
of dead, senseless, and unthinking matter, (they
being disposed thereunto by certain mistaken
principles, and ill methods of philosophy) never­
theless is this unquestionably in itself a seed of
A theism ; because ifany life, Cogitation, and con­
sciousness, may be produced out of dead and
senseless, matter, then can no philosophy hinder,
but that all might have been so.
B ut the Democritic Atheists will yet venture
farther to deny, that there is any thing in nature
selfmoving or self-active, but that' whatsoever
VOL. IV. i
It4 THOUGHTS, NOT ACTION OV OBJECTS,
rtioveth and acteih, was before moved byaome-'
thing else, and made to act thereby; and again;>
that from some other thing, and so backward in-1
finite! y ; from whence it would follow, that there
is no first in the order of causes, but an endless
retroinfinity. But as this is all one, as to affirm,
that there is no such thing at all as life in the
world, but that the universe is a compages of
dead and stupid matter, so has this infinity in the
order of causes been already exploded for an ab­
solute impossibility.
- Nevertheless, the Atheists will here advance
yet an higher paradox; that all action whatsoever,;
dnd therefore cogitation, fancy, and conscious­
ness itself, is really nothing else but local motion,
and consequently not ouly brute-animals, but
alf*> men themselves mere machines, which is an
equal, either sottisbness or impudence, as to as­
sert a triangle to be a square, or a sphere a cube,
number to be figure, or any thing else to be any
thing: and it is really all one as to affirm, that
there is indeed no snch thing in ourselves as co­
gitation ; there being no other action in nature^
but local motion and mechanism.
furtherm ore, the Democritic and Epicurean
Atheists universally agree in this, that not only
sensations, but also all the cogitations of the
mind, are the mere, passions of the thinker, and
the actions of bodies existing without upon him ;
though they do not all declare themselves after
the same manner herein. For first, the Demo-
critics conclude,-that sense is caused by certain
grosser corporeal effluvia, streaming from the sur­
faces of bodies continually, and entering through
the nerves ; but that all other cogitations of mind
AMD PASSION OP THB THINKNR. 91&
and menV ehbersleeping orw aking imaginations
proceed from another sort of simul&chfa, idols,
and images of a more fine and subtile contexture,
eoming into the brain, not through those Open
tubes, or channels of the nerves, hot itatoOdp-
ately through all the sihaller pores of the b o d y :
so that, as we never have sense of any thing, but
by means of those grosser corporeal images, ob*
trading themselves .upon the nerves, so have we
not the least cogitation at any time in ourm rad
neither, which was not caused by those finer ceir*
poveal images, and exuvious membranes, or Of*
ftuvia, rushing upon th e brain or contexture Of
the SQul. *Atvmnroc1ical Aqjumcptroc njv AlaBitatv K*t
rtjv Noi><«v E lS v lw iifltdtv TpoUvrutv" /tqfkvl yip M r
(3d\\tiv /it/Ser.ipav \ojptt tow T(xxnr!imwro{. Leucippus
and Democritus determined, that as well Noesis
as Aisthesis, mental cogitation as external sensa­
tion, was caused by certain corporeal idols,
coming from bodies w ithout; since neither sen­
sation nor cogitation could otherwise possibly be
produced.*—And thus does Laertiusb also repre­
sent the sense of these atheistic philosophers, that
the effluvia from bodies called idols were the only
Causes, rwv Kara if/vyjjp Kivq/idrorv Kal fiovXtifldriiiv
ucaoTctiv Kai i)9uv Kat waO
tw, of all the-motions, pas­
sions, and affections, and even the very volitions
of the soul.—So that as we could not have the
least sensation, imagination, nor conception of any
thing otherwise than from those corporeal effluvia,
rushing upon us from bodies without, and beget­
ting the same in us, at such a tim e; so neither
Plutarch de Placit. Philo*, lib. hr. cap. Tiii. p. 8QP- fan. & <
>
Per*
b Laertius does not ascribe this opinion to Leucippus, but onjy to
Democritus, lib. ix. segm. 44. p. 573.
i 2
4 1 6 THOUGHTS, .NOT ACTION OF OBJECTS,
could we have any passion, appetite, or volition;
which, we were not in like manner corporeally
passive to. And this was the ground of the
J)emocritic fate, or necessity of all human ac->
tioos, maintained by them, in opposition to the
ri if tj/utv, or liberty o f will, which cannot be con­
ceived without Self-activity, and something of con­
tingency :? they.supposing human volitions also,
an well as all the other cogitations, to be mechani­
cally; caused and necessitated from those effluvious
judges of bodies com ing'in upon the willere.
And, however Epicurus sometime pretended to
assert ,liberty of .will against Democritus, yet, for­
getting himself, did he also here securely philo-r
sophize after the very same manner;
L
-
iAforet 1 »r ^ ol?c age,-qij» moveant aninram res, acdpe paucis;
p 353* Quae vcniuntveniant in meutem, percipc paucis,
[ver. 7*6j Principio hoc dico rerum simulaclird vagari, &c.
But Gthers there were amongst the ancient Atoin-
ists, who could not conceive sensations theni-
selves to be thus caused by corporeal effluvia,
or ekuvious membranes streaming from bodies
- continually, and that for divers reasons alleged
by them; but only by a pressure from them upon
the.optic nerve, by reason of a tension of the in-
termedious bir, or ether, (being that which is
called light;) whereby the distant object is
touched,and felt, otov Sid/3cucrqptac,a as it were, by a
staff. .'Which- hypothesis concerning the corpo­
real (>att Of sense is indeed much more iqge-:
* ‘ Vide* Plutarch, dc Placit. Philos, lib. iv. cap. xv. p. Oil. tom. ii.
oper. ^ L a e rt lib. fii. scgto. 157-p. 406.
AND PASSION OF THE THINKER. I l 7
rtious, and agreeable to reason, .than the former.
B ut the atheizers o f this atomology, as theysup-
posed sense to be nothing else, but such a pres­
sure frotni bodies w ithout; so did they coufclOdfr'
iniagination and mental cogitatidnto be but the
relies and remainders of those motions of sense
formerly made, and conserved afterwards in the:
brain (like the tremulous vibrations of a dock or
Bell, after the striking of the hammer, or -the'
rolling of the waVes after that the wind is- ceased ;)•
melting, fading, and decaying insensibly by de­
grees. So that, according to these, knowledge
and understanding is nothing but failing and de­
caying sense, and all our volitions bnt mechanic:
motions, caused from the actions, or trusions of
bodies upon us. Now, though it be true; that in
sensation there is always a passion antecedent
made upon the body of the sentient from with-
odt; yet is not sensation itself this very passion,
but a perception Of that passion: much less can
mental conception be -said to be the action of
bodies without, and the mere passion of the
thioker ; and least of all volitions such; there
being plainly here something if' ifuv, in onr own
power,—(by means whereof we become a princi­
ple Of actions, accordingly deserving commenda-:
tion, or blame), that is, something of self-activity.
Again; according to the Democritic and Epi­
curean Atheists, all knowledge and understand­
ing is really the same thing with sense; the dif­
ference between these two, to some of them, be­
ing only this, that What is commonly called sense,
is-prim ary and original knowledge, and know­
ledge but secondary, or fading and decaying
sense; but to others, that sense is caused by;
A itK ^ O W L ip G E T Q A T H E IS T S ,,
those Hfore vigorous idols, pr efiluyia frqm bodies.,
intromitted through the nerves; but understand'
ing and knowledge by those more weak; and;
thin, urabratile and evanid ones, that penetrate,
the; other smaller pores.of the body: so that both:
ways understanding and knowledge will be butt
a. weaker sensei Now, from this doctrine of tbe
atheistic Atoruists, that- all conception and cogi-;
tation of the mind whatsoever, is nothing else .butt
sense and passion from bodies without, this ab-,
surdity first, of all follows unavoidably ; that)
there cannot possibly be any error, or false judg­
ment, because, .it is certain, that all passion is true.
passion, and all sense or seeming, and a p p e a r
Once, true :seeming and appearance. Wherefore,:
though some sense and passion may be more ob-
acure than other, yet can there be none false, it­
self being the very essence of truth. And thnsi
Protagoras, one of these .atheistic Atpmists, hav-,
ing first asserted, that knowledge is nothing, else;,
b a t senses did thereupon admit this as a neces-:
sary consequence, that *£e<t $<>
$« aXiMtf every,
opinion'is true; because it is nothing but seem-,
ing and appearance, and; every seeming and ap­
pearance is truly such;, and because it is not-
possible for any one to opine that which is not»|
or to tbiukotherw ise than he suffers.—Where-;
fore Epicurus, being sensible of this inconveni­
ence, endeavoured to dissolve this phenomenon,
of error and false; opinion, or judgment, consist­
ently with bis own principles, after this m anner;
that though all knowledge be sense, and aU sense;
true, yet may error arise notwithstanding* .,e$.
* Vide Platon, in Tbeaeteto, p. 118.'and I*acrt. lib. lx. Segm. s i /
p;5$0.: . '...............•• : . ...........
PH^NTASTICAL AMO HELAT1VB. 1 )9
imimi opinatu,' from the opination of the tuiod,
adding somethingof its own, over and above, to
the passion and: fancy of sense. But herein be
shamefully contradicts himself; for if the mind,
in judging and opining, Can superadd any thing
of its own, over and above to what it suffers, then
is it not a mere passive thing, hut must needs
have a self-active power of its own, and conse­
quently will prove also incorporeal; because no
body can act otherwise than it suffers, or is made
to act by something else without it- We con­
clude, therefore, that since there is such a thing
as error, or false judgment, all cogitations of the
mind caunot be mere passions; but there must
be something of self-activity in the soul itself, by
means whereof it can give its assent to things not
clearly perceived, and so err.
Again, from this atheistic opinion, T hat all
knowledge is nothing else but sense, either pri­
mary or secondary, it follows also, that there is
no absolute truth nor falsehood, and that know­
ledge is of a private nature, relative and fantas­
tical only, or mere seeming, that is, nothing but
opinion;.because sense is plainly seeming, phan-;
tasy, and appearance; a private thing, and rela­
tive to the sentient only, And here also did
Protagoras,b according to his wonted freedom,
admit this consequence, that knowledge being
sense, there was no absoluteness at all therein;
and that nothing was true otherwise, than retry
cm rtvt, to this and to that man so thinking;— that
every man did but rd towrow juovov So£d£tiv, opine
only his OWn things;—that irdvrcw y j p n f i a r t D v i u f r p o v
a Vide Lucret. 1. i?. ver, 464.
b Vide Platon, in Theaeicto, p. 116.119.122.126.129.
ISO ALL KNOWLEDGE TO ATHEISTS,
avOpwroc, every mau was the measure of things
and truth to himself;— and, lastly, ro faivo/ttvov
ucaartp rovTip m i ctvoi falverai, that whatsoever
seemed to everyone, was true to him, to whom
it Seemed.—Neither could Democritus himself,
though a man of more discretion than Protago­
ras, dissemble this consequence from the same
principle asserted by him, that understanding is
fantastical,-and knowledge but opinion; he own­
ing it sometimes before be was aware, as in these
words of his :* yryvft>«c«v X
p>
iavdpanrovr^St r$>Jcavovt,
art alrltic airyWajcrai’ W e ought to know man,
according to this rule, that he is such a thing, as
hath nothing to do with absolute truth.—A nd
again, atrip (or rrtp) ovStv iaftevvspl ovStvoc, aX
X
* «rt*
pvaftln-ixaffroiaiv ij Sofa' We know nothing abso­
lutely concerning any thing; and all our know­
ledge is opinion.—Agreeably to which, he deter­
mined, that men’s knowledge was diversified by
the temper of their.bodies, and the things with­
out them.6 And Aristotle judiciously observ­
ing both these doctrines, That there is no error
or false judgment, but every opinion tru e; and
again, That nothing is absolutely true, but rela­
tively only; to be really and fundamentally one
and the same, imputeth them both together to
Democritus, in these words of his:c ovSiv «vat dAn-
flic* oAwc $e 8ta to mroXa/ifiavav ippovriaiv ptv n}v awrflij-
«nv, to ^atvOjuevov card rtjv atoflipnv avayKiK dXilfllc
tlpm
" Democritus held, that there was nothing
absolutely tru e ; but because he thought know-
. * Vide S e x ta in Empiric, lib. vii. advers. Mathematic, sea i. ad-
vers. Logicos. §. 137. p. 399,400.
b |bid. p. 369.
cAristot. Metaphysic. lib. iv. cap. v. p. 312. tom. iv. oper.
FANTASTICAL AND RELATIVE* 1 9 }
ledge or understanding to be sense, therefore did
he conclude, that whatsoever seemed according
to sense, mnst of necessity be true (not absolutely
but relatively), to whom it so seemed.—These
gross absurdities did the atheistic Atomists
plunge themselves into, whilst they endeavoured
to solve tbe phenomenon of cogitation, inind, or
understanding, agreeably to their own hypo-;
thesis. And, it is certain, that all of them, D e­
mocritus himself not excepted, were but mere
blunderers in that atomic physiology, which they
so much pretended to, and never rightly under­
stood the same; forasmuch as that, with equal
dearness, teaches these two things at once, that
sense indeed is fantastical and relative to the
sentient; but that there is a higher faculty of
understanding and reason in us, which thus dis­
covers the phantastry of sense, and reaches to
the absoluteness of truth, or is the criterion
thereof.
B ut the Democritic and Epicurean Atheists
will further conclude, that the only things or ob­
jects of the mind are singular sensibles, or bodies
existing without it; which therefore must needs
be, in order of nature, before all knowledge,
mind, and understanding whatsoever, this being
but a fantastic image or representation of them;
From whence they infer, that the corporeal
world, and these sensible things, could not pos­
sibly be made by any mind or understandiiig,
because essentially junior to them, and the very
image and creature of them* Thus does, Aris­
totle observe,* concerning both Democritus and
Protagoras, that they did vwokaftfiavuv rd jure
* Metapbywcor. lib. hr.cap. ▼
. p, 313*.ton. iv. oper.
11 2 MIND DEPRECIATED, AMD .TlfE SCALE
«**<**« abrO
tfra, suppose the only things Or?
objects of the mind to be sensibles;. And the#
this was the reason why they made knowledge tot
be sense, and therefore relative and fantastical!
B at we have already proved, that mind and an?
derstanding is not the fantastic image Of senst-
Me* or bodies, and that it is iu its own nature
not 'eictypal, bnt archetypal and architectonics!
o f alt i that it is- senior to the world,, and alt
sensible- things, it not looking abroad for its obn
jecife any where without, bnt containing theta
within itself; the first original Mind being.an ab?
sotutely perfect Being, comprehending itself, and
the extent of its own omnipotence, or all possii
hilities of things, together with the best plat?
form of the’ whole, and producing the same ac­
cordingly.
Bwt it being plain that there are, besides sin->
gnlflrt; other:objects of the mind universal, from
whence it seems to follow, that sensibles are not
the tody things; some modern atheistic wits
have therefore' invented this further device to
maintain the cause, and carry the business on,
that universal are nothing else but names or
words, by which singular bodies are called; and,
consequently, that in all axioms and propose
tions, sententious affirmations and negations (id
Which the predicate at least is universal), we do
but add or subtract, affirm or deny, names Ofsin?
gular bodies; and that reason or syllogism is no­
thing' but the reckoning or computing the con­
sequences of these names or words. Neither da
they want the impudence to affirm, that besides
those' passions- Or fancies,-, which, we have front
things by sense, we know nothing at aU of any
OF.SHTJTV, IMJ>U.UNB0*Y' AT«BIOTS; 123
th in g b u l only IhenauMs; by wbieh it is called;
than,wbieh ;thete canaot be- a greater sottishness
Or madness: for jfgeoraefcry ;were n o th in g b at
the knowledge of names, by which singular bo->
dies ,are called, as itself could not deserve that
Same of a science, so neither could its troths be
the same: in Greek .and in L atip ; and geometric
ciai)6,.ia all the:several' distant ages and .places
of the world,; must be supposed to have had the
same singular bodies before them, of which they
affirmed and denied those universal names.
-Jln the lastplace, the Epicurean and AnaxiJ
toaudriau Atheists, .agreeably to the premised
principles, and the tenor of their hypothesis; do
both of ■
them endeavour to depreciate aud un­
dervalue knowledge or understanding, as a thing,,
which hath not any higher degree of perfection or
entity in i t than is indead and senseless m atter;
h beings according to them, but a passion from
singular bodies existing without, and therefore
both junior and inferior to them ; a tum ult raised
in the brain, by motions made upon it from the
objects of sense;' that which essentially iucludeth
ia it dependance upon something else; at best
b u t a thin, and evauid image of senribles, or ra­
ther an image of those images of sense, a mere
whitting and fantastic dung-; upon which ac~
count they conclude it not fit to be attributed to
that, which is the first root and source of all
tilings, which therefore is to them no other than
grave and solid senseless matter, the only sub­
stantial, self-existent, independent thing, add
consequently the most perfect and Divine. Life
and understanding, soul and mind, are to them
mo simple and primitive aatures^ but secondary
124 MfND DEPRECIATED, AND THE -SCALE
and derivative, or syllables and complexions of
things, which sprung up afterwards, from certain*
combinations of magnitudes, figures, sites, and'
motions, or contemperations of qualities, contex­
tures eitherofsim ilar or dissimilar atoms. And
as themselves are juniors to senseless matter and
motion, and to those inanimate elements, fire,*
water, air and earth, the first and most real pro-'
ductions of nature and chance, so are their e f ­
fects, and the things that belong to them, com­
paratively with those other real things of nature,*
but slight, ludicrous, and umbratile, as landscape
in picture, compared with the real prospect-of
high mountains, and low valleys, winding o r
meandrous rivers, towering steeples, and the
shady tops of trees and groves; as they are, ac->
cordiugly, commonly disparaged under those
uames of notional and artificial. And thus was*
the sense of the ancient Atheists represented by<
DeLeg 1 x ’ 4
*
a(r‘> r“ |dv Miyvrra k m KaXAwra
f. 889. antpyaCtoBai 4>w<nv k m Tv^qv, ra SI lywcpe-
[p.663,666.] T^vqv" qv Sij xapa Xapfidvovaav
rqv ra*v fuyakwv cai Tjwruv yiveaiv ipywv, xXarruv n i
racralvtaQai vavra ra ofiucportpa, a 8q rtyvuca xpoaa-
yoptvofitv' They say, that the greatest and most
excellent things of all were made by senseless
nature and chance; but all the smaller and more
inconsiderable, by art, mind, and understanding;
which taking from nature those first and greater
things as -its ground-work to act. upon, doth
frame and fabricate all the other lesser things,
which are therefore commonly called artificial.—
And the mind of these Atheists is there also
further declared by that philosopher after this
manner: The first, most real, solid and substan-
OP KNTlTY IMPUGNED, BY ATHEIST*. 125
tial things in the whdle world, are those elements,
fire, water, air, and earth, made by senseless na­
ture and chance, without auy art, mind, or un­
derstanding: and next to these the bodies of the
sun, moon, and stars, and this terrestrial globe;
produced out of the aforesaid inanimate ele­
ments, by unknowing nature, or chance likewise,
without any art, mind, or God.—The fortuitous
concourse of similar or dissimilar atoms, beget­
ting this whole system and compages of heaven
and earth:' riftnjv SI v a n p o v ' ac rovrav v a r i p a v y t v o p l *
vqv, a v r i v O v t / T q v k d v t j r i v v i a r t p a y t y e v w c t v M r a t S t l a f
twaC) d k t f i t t a f o v a f o B p a f t m \ O v a a c t * X X ' u & t o X ’ t e r r a
^ v y y a n i i a v r i v , olov >
i y p a ^ u d i k m r a But that
afterwards art or mind, and understanding, being
generated also in the last place out of those
same senseless aud inanimate bodies or elements
(it rising up in certain smaller pieces of the uni­
verse, and particular concretions of matter called
animals), mortal from mortal things, did produce
certain o th er.ludicrous things, which partake
little of truth and reality, but are mere, images,
umbrages, and imitations, as picture and land­
scape; &c. but, above all, those moral differences
of Just and unjust, honest and dishonest, the
mere figments of political art, and slight umbra-
tile things, compared with good and evil natural,
th at consist in nothing, but agreement and dis­
agreement with sense and appetite: rd yap K
aX
a,
f i a u / i i v aXXa, v o f u p SI e r t p a , r a & Sucata ov$e r a n r a p a v a v
fwm* For, as for things good and honest, those,
that are such by nature, differ from those, which
are-such by law ; but as for just and unjust,
there is by nature no such thing ait all.—The up­
shot and conclusion of all is, that there is no
ISO H IM D DEPRECIATED, A»D THESOALB
$uch scale, or ladder in nature as Tbeiats and
metaphysicians suppose, :no degrees of. real per-
foction and entity one above another, .-as- of life
and sense above inanimate matter, of reason and
understanding above sense; from whence it
would be inferred, that the order of things in a&r
ture. was in way of descent from higher and
greater perfection, downward to lesser and.lower,
which isin d e e d to introduce a God. •And that
there is . no such, scale or ladder of perfection
and entity, they endeavour further to prove ftom
hence, because, according to that hypothesis, it
would follow, that every the smallest and most
contemptible, animal that could see the sun* had a
higher degree of. entity and perfection in-it, than
the sun itself; a thing ridiculously absurd; n r
else,, according to Cotta’s* instance; “ Idcirco
formicain anteponeedam esse huic palcberrimse
urbi, quod in .nrbe serous sit nulius, in formica
non modo sensus, sed etiam mens, ratio, memo-
jria.” .That, therefore every ant or pismine were
far to be preferred before this most beautiful city
of Rome; because m the city there is no sense;
whereas an aut.hath not only sense,, but also
mind, reason, and m e m o r y t h a t is, a certain
sagacity superior to sense. Wherefore: they
conclude, that there is: iio such,scale or ladtdet
.in nature, no such climbing stains of entity
apd perfection, one above another, but that the
whole universe is one -flat.and level, it being in­
deed all nothing but the same uniform matter*
.under several forms, dresses, and disguises;* or
variegated by diversity of accidental modifica-
■. * Apud Ciceron; de Nator. Deor. lib. iii. cap. ix. p. 3061. tom. ix.
W P * . ;
OF -ENTITY, IMPUGNED BY ATHEISTS. 127,
turns ; one of which is that of sticb beings asi
have fancy in them, commonly called animals;,
which are but some of sportful or wanton am**
t-urefi,- more trimly artificial and finer gamaieui,
or pretty toys; but by reason of this fancy they
Have no higher degree of entity and perfection'
in them, than is in senseless m atter: as they will:
also be all of them quickly transformed again
into other seemingly dull, unthinking and inani-
mate shapes; H itherto the sense of Atheists.
B at the pretended grounds of. this atheistic
doctrine (or rather madness), have been already,
also confuted over and over again. Knowledge
dnd understanding is not a mere passion from
the thing known, existing without the knower*
because to know and understand, as Anaxago­
ras * of old determined, is uparuv, to master and
Conquer the thing known, and consequently not
merely to suffer from it, or passively to lie under
it, this being jcfwrfuAu, to be mastered and con­
quered by it. The knowledge of universal.theo­
rems in sciences is not from the force of the thing
known existing without the kuower, but from
the active power, and exerted vigour or strength
of that, which knows. Thus Severinus, Boe­
thius: MVidesne, ut in cognoscendo,-
cuncta sua potius facultate, quarn eo- 4.[K
b. *
■
.pi >
rum.quee cognoscuotur, utantur ? Ne-13^
qtte id injuria, nam cum omne judicium judican-
tis actus existat, necesse est, a t suam quiaque
operam, non ex aliena, sed ex propria potentate
perficiat.” See you uot how all things, in know­
ing, use their own power and faculty rather than
that of the thing known ? For since judgment
* Apud Aristot, de Anima, Ub.iii, eaf* v. p. 48. tom. ii. oper.
128 A SCALE OF ENTITY A8SEBTED.
is the aictiooi of that which jndgeth, every thing,
must of necessity perform its own action, by its
own power, strength, and faculty, and not by
that of another.—Sense itself is not a mere pas­
sion, or reception of the motion from bodies
without the sentient, for if it were so, then would
a looking-glass, and other dead things see; but
it is a perception of a passion made upon the
body of the sentient, and therefore hath some­
thing of the soul's own self-activity, in it. B u t
understanding, and the knowledge of abstract
sciences is neither primary sense, nor yet the
fading an d .decaying remainders of th e motions
thereof, but a perception of another kind, and
more inward than that of sense; not sympathe-:
tical, but unpassionate, the noemata of the mind
being things ' distinct from the phantasmata of
sense and imagination; which are but a kind of
confused cogitations. And though the objects
of sense be only singular bodies, existing with­
out the sentient, yet are not these sensibles there­
fore the only things and cogitables; but there
are other objects of science, or intelligibles,
which the mind containeth within itself. T hat
dark philosophy, of some, tending so directly to
Atheism, that there is nothing in the thind or un-
derstanding, which was not at first in corporeal
sense, and derived in way. of passion from matter,
was both elegantly and solidly confuted by
i)«ct.coii».i-T. Boethius’s philosophic muse after this
m.4.[p.lii.j manner: ,
Quondam porticus athilit,
Obscures minium senes,
Qui sensus et imagines
E corporibus exttmis,
Credant mentibus imprimi;
.A SCALEOP ENTITY ASSEftTEt). '1 2 9
* ? * U t quondam celeri stylo
Mos est aequore paginm
Quae nullas habeat notas,
>• Pressas figere literal
- Sfcd menssipropriis vjgens
Nihil motibus explicat,
Sed tantam patiens jacet
' Notis subdita corporam,
v Cassasque in speculi vicem
Rerum reddit imagines,
Unde base sic animis viget,
' *Cernens omnia notio ?
- , Quae vis singula prospicit?
Aut quae cognita dividit?
»
" Quae divisa recolligit?
Alternumque leguns iter, '
Nunc summis caput inserit, . .
Nunc decidit in infima;
Turn sese referens sibi
Yens falsa redarguit?
Haec est efficiens magis, - •
Longe causa potentior
Quam quae materiae modo
Impressas patitur notas.
Praecedit tamen excitans
Et vires animi movens,
Vivo in corpore passio.
, Cum vel lux.oculos ferit,
Vel vo^ auribus instrepit:
! Turn mentis vigor excitus,
, . Quas intusspecies tenet,
Ad motus similes vocans,
Notis applicat exteris.
It is true indeed, that the Notirov, or thing
understood, is, in order of nature, before the
intellection and conception of it; and from
hence was it, that the Pythagoreans and Pla-
tonists concluded, that Nov?, mind or intellect,
was not the very first and highest thing in the
scale of the universe, but that there was another
Divine hypostasis, in order of nature, before
it, called by them *Ev and T* dya0ov> one and
the good—as the Noqrov or intelligible thereof.
VOL. iv . k • „
130 A SCALE OF .ENTITY ASSESSED.
B at as those three arcfaical hypostases of the
Platonists and Pythagoreans are all of them
really but one G etov or Divinity, and the first of
those three (superior to that which is properly
called by them mind or intellect), is not sup­
posed therefore to be ignorant of itself; so is the
first Mind or Understanding no other, than that
of a perfect Being* infinitely good, fecund, and
powerful, and virtually containing all things;
comprehending itself and the extent of its own
goodness, fecundity, virtue, and pow er; that is,
all possibilities of things, their relations to one
another, and verities; a mind before sense and
sensible things. An omnipotent understanding
Being, which is itself its own intelligible, is the
first Original of dll things. Again, that there
must of necessity be some other substance be­
sides body or matter, and which, in the scale of
nature, is superior to it, is evident from hence,
because otherwise there could be no motion at
all therein, no- body being ever able to move it­
self. There must be something self-active and
hylarchical, something that can act both from
itself, and upon matter, as having a natural im-
perium, or command over it. Cogitation is, in
order of nature, before local motion. Life and
understanding, soul and mind, are no syllables
or complexions of things, secondary and deriva­
tive, which might therefore be made out of
tilings devoid! of life and Understanding; but sim­
ple, primitive, and nncom pounded' natures: they
are no; qualities or accidental modifications of
natter, hat substantial things. For which cause
souls or noindscau no more be generated out of
natter, than matter itself can be generated out
A SCALE OF ENTITY ASSET?EJ». 131
of something else; and therefore are they both
alike (in some sense), principles, naturally inge­
nerable and incorruptible, though both matter,
and all imperfect souls and minds, were at first
created by one perfect, omnipotent, understand­
ing Being. Moreover, nothing can be more ari-
deot than this, that Bund and understanding hath
a higher degree of entity or perfection in it, and
is a greater reality in nature, than mere sense­
less matter or bulky extension. And, conse­
quently, the things which belong to souls and
m inds,. to rational and intellectual beings as
* such, must not hare less, but more reality in
them, than the things wbich belong to inanimate
bodies. Wherefore, the differences of just and
unjust, honest and dishonest, are greater realities
in nature,, than the differences.jef bard and soft,,
hot and cold, moist and dry. He, that does not
perceive any higher degree of perfection in a man
than in an oyster, nay, than in a clod of earth or
lump of ice, in a piece of paste or pie-crust,
hath not the reason or' understanding of a man
in him. There is unquestionably a scale or lad­
der of nature, a id degrees of perfection and en­
tity, one above another, as of life^ sense, and
cogitation, above dead, senseless, and unthink­
ing, matter; of reason and Understanding above
sense, &c. And if the sun be nothing but a
mass of ire, or inanimate subtile matter agitated,
then hath the most contemptible animal that can
see.the sun, and bath consciousness and self-
enjoyment, a higher degree of entity and perfec­
tion in it, than that whole fiery globe; as also
than the materials (stone, timber, brick and mor-'
tur)i of the most stately structure, or city. Not-
k 2
132 MIND OLDEST AND LORD OVER ALL.
withstanding which, the sun'in other regards,1
and as its vastly extended light and heat hath
so great an influence upon the good of the whole;
worlds plants and animals, may be said to be a
far more noble and useful thing in the. universe,'
thin any one particular animal whatsoever.
Wherefore there being plainly a scale or ladder-
of entity, the order, of things was unquestionably/
in way of descent,-from higher perfection* down-'
ward to> lower; it being as impossible for a
greater perfection -to be produced from a lesser/
as for something to be caused by nothing. Nei­
ther,are the steps or degrees of this ladder(eithCr-
upward or downward) infinite; but as the.foot/
bottom, or lowest round thereof, is stupid and-
senseless matter, devoid of all life and under-'
Standing ; so is the head, top, and summity of it>
:
a perfect omnipotent Being, comprehending it­
self, and all possibilities of things. . A perfect"
understanding Being is the beginning and bead'
of the scale of entity; from.whence things gra­
dually ;descend downward ; lower and lower, till'
they end in senseless matter. NoC? 7rdvrwv v^dyt--
varra-ros, Mind is the oldest of all things,—senior
to the, elements, and the w hole corporeal world ;•
and likewise, according to the same ancient The-'
ists,. it is Kupto?. Kara <pvmv, by nature lord over
all^-or hath a. natural imperium and dominion-
over all, it .being the most hegemonical thing.'
And .thus was it also affirmed by Anaxagoras,'
Nowc'./3*n\n5c ovpavov re Kal jvCy that Mind is-th eJ
-
sovereign King.of heaven and earth. . >
We have. now. made it evident, th at the Epi ­
curean. and Anaximandrian Atheists, who derive;
the original; of gll things from senseless.matter, ;
ALL SOULS SUBSTANTIAL. 'J33
'devoid ofalj manner of life, can ho "way-solve
-tile phenomenon of cogitation (life and nnder-
'standing, soul and mind), no more than they can
that of local' motion. And the reason why we
bare insisted so much upon this point, is; be*
cause these Atheists do not only pretend to solve
this phenomenon of cogitation without a God,
ands o to take away the argument for a Deity
from thence, but also to demonstrate the impos­
sibility of its existence, from the very nature of
knowledge, mind, and understanding. For if
knowledge be, in its own nature, nothing but a
passion from singular bodies existing without the
ktiower; and if life and understanding, soul and
mind, be junior to body, and generated out of
senseless matter, then could no mind or under­
standing Being possibly be a god, that is, a first
principle, and the maker of all things. A nd
though modern writers take little or no notice
of this, yet did Plato anciently make the very
state of the controversy betwixt Theists and
Atheists principally to consist in this very thing,'
viiz.' Whether life and understanding, soul and
mind, were juniors to body, and sprung out of
Senseless matter, as accidental modifications
(hereof, or else were substantial things, and in
Order of nature before it. For after the passages
before cited, he thus concludeth : «nv8u>- P
1 K,. De
tri&n o M ywv ravra, nvpr'Kal {*
&
■
>
{» /cat yrjv Kat fp"
iUpa, wptSra .yyetoOai rwv wavrmv etvai, xdt $vmV
•im/ad&tv ravra aura, ipvyyv Ss «c t o v t u v tltrrtpov’ eouct
8? eu fctvSuvEuav, a’XXa ovrwC (rrtftatveiv ravra tjjutv rtj/
M yip. "Ap euv 7rpoc Ato'c otov iryyyv rtva avoyrov '8o%yc
tfvtvpykafifv avSpwtrwv, onoaoi rwv Trtpt (j>vothx; ifyipavrb
tyrnpartov' These men seem to suppose fire, wa-
T34 AliL SOULS SUBSTANTIAL.
ter, air, and earth, to be the very first things
in the universe, and the principles of all, call­
ing them only nature; but soul and mind to have
sprung up afterwards out of them. Nay, they
do not only seem to suppose this, but also -in
express words declare the same. And thus (by
Jupiter) have we discovered the very fountain
of that atheistic madness of the ancient physio^
logers, to wit, their making inanimate bodies
senior to soul and mind.—And accordingly that
philosopher addresses himselfi to the confuta­
tion of Atheism, no otherwise than thus, by
proving soul not to be junior to senseless body,
or inanimate matter, and generated out of it;*
© irptorov ytviattas k m fOopdc alnov d ird vrw , rovro ov
Trpwrov, aXXa vortpov dwejrpvavro tlvai y t yfimg, oi rqv
tm v daeftwv ifiuyjiv d m p y w ijtiv o i Xoyot* o Se vartpHr
tp o n p o v’ o(kv q/iapTqkwi T ip. Sfwv rt}c opr**c owrlae’ f a -
dyvotpcevai KtvSwevown ptv ©Atyvv £vfiiravrt<;, owv Tt
ov r v y y iv u Kal Bvva/uv qv £ ^ « ‘ twv re aXXup avrqc V6pl
kat &
} Kal ytviatwQ, «c ev irpwrotQ i<rrl, awfiairw> i/w poa-
Qtv irivraw ytvofiivti, Kal fura/3oXqc travqc #pxo’ That
which is the first cause of the generation and
corruption of all things, the atheistic doctrine
supposes not to have been first ip^de; but what is
indeed the last thing, to be the first. And hence is
it, that they err concerning the essence ofthe gods.
For they are ignorant what kind of thing soul is,
and what power it hath, as also especially con­
cerning its generation and production, that it was
first of all made before body, it being that, which
governs the motions, changes, and transforma­
tions thereof. But if soul be first in prder of
nature before body, then must those things, which
* Ibid. p. 687.
a l l so u l s s u b s t a n t ia l . 13&
ate cognate to soul, be also before tbe things
which appertain to body; and so mind and un­
derstanding, art and law, be before bard and
soft, heavy and light; and that, which these
Atheists call nature (the motion of inanimate
bodies), junior to art and mind, it being governed
by the same.—Now that soul is in order of na­
tive before body, this philosopher demonstrates
only from tbe topic or head of motion, because k
is impossible that one body should move another
infinitely, without any first cause or mover; but
there must of necessity be something self-moving
and self-active, or which bad a power of chang­
ing itself, that was the first cause of all local mo­
tion in bodies. And this being the very notion
of soul, that it is such a thing, as can move or
change itself (in which also the essence of life
cbnsisteth), be thus inferreth,* K aiw rora SeStucrat
il*xn rwv wavrwv irptofivraTT), ytvo/uevi} rt ap^rj Kivtiotw^'
It is therefore sufficiently demonstrated from
hence, that soul is the oldest of all things in the
corporeal world, it being the principle of all the
morion and generation in it.—And his conclu­
sion is,b op&ic ope tiptpcorfg av %/iev P** irpore-
pttv •ysyovtmi mJjuara? tj/uct', <w/ t a $e Seunpw rt te a l vore-
pw, C dp^o/urrov K a r a f v m v * It hath
been therefore rightly affirmed by us, that soul
is older than body, and was made before it, and
body younger and junior to soul; soul being
that, which ruleth, and body that which is ruled.
From whence it follows, that the things of soul
also are older than the things of body; and
therefore cogitation, intellection, volition, and ap­
petite, in order of nature before length, breadth,
•Ibid, p.668. »>P;660.
136: THE GENERATION OF SOULS OUT OF MATTER.
and profundity.—Now it is evident, that Plato;
in all this understood,'not only the mundane
soul, or bis third Divine hypostasis, the original-
of that motion, that is in the heavens and the
whole corporeal universe, but also all other par-,
ticular lives and souls whatsoever, or that whole;
rank of beings called soul; he supposing it all.
to have been at first made before the corporeal ;
system, or at least to have been in order of nature
senior to it, as superior and more excellent (that'
which ruleth being superior to that which isi
ruled), and no soul or life whatsoever, to be ge-;
Derated but of senseless matter.
Wherefore we must needs here condemn that
doctrine of some professed Theists and Christ-
ians of latter times, who generate all souls, not-
only the sensitive in brutes, but also the rational,
in men, out of matter; forasmuch as hereby, not
only that argument for the existence of a God,
from. souls, is quite taken away, and nothing
could hinder, but that senseless matter might be!
the Original ofall things, if life and understanding-
soul and mind, sprung out of it; but also the-
Atheist will have an advantage to prove the im­
possibility of a God from hence; because if life
and understanding, ,in their own nature, be facti­
tious, and generable out of matter, then are they
no substantial things, but accidental only ; from
whence it will plainly follow, that no mind could
possibly be a God, or first cause of all things, it
being not so much as able to subsist by itself.
Moreover, if mind, as such, be generable, and,
educible out of nothing, then must it needs be in
i|s own nature corruptible also, and reducible to j
nothing again; whereas the Deity is both an un-
XHS GENERATION OF SOULS OUT.OF MATTER. J 3 7
made and incorruptible being. So that there
cpuld not possibly be, according to this hypo­
thesis, any other God, than such a Jupiter, or
apnl of .the world, as the atheistic Theogonists
acknowledged, that sprung out <of Night, Chaos,
and Nonentity, and may be again swallowed up
into that dark abyss. Senseless matter, therefore,
being the only unmade and incorruptible thing,
and the fountain of a|l things, even of life and un­
derstanding, it must needs be acknowledged to be
the only real Numen.
.. Neither will the case be much different, as to
some others, who, though indeed they do not pro­
fessedly generate the rational, but only the sensi­
tive soul, both in men and brutes; yet do never­
theless maintain the human soul itself to be but a'
mere blank, or white sheet of paper, that hath no­
thing at all in it, but what was scribbled upon it
by the objects of sense; and knowledge, or un­
derstanding, to be nothing but the result of sense,
■and so a passion from sensible bodies existing
without the knower. For hereby, as they plainly
make knowledge and understanding to be, in its
own nature, junior to sense, and the very crea­
ture of sensibles; so do they also imply the ra­
tional soul, and mind itself, to be as well gene­
rated as the sensitive, wherein it is virtually con­
tained ; or to be nothing but a higher modification
of matter, agreeably to that Leviathan-doctrine,
that men differ no otherwise from brute animals,
than only in their organization, and the use of
Speech or words.
. In rery truth, whoever maintainetb, that any
ljfe or soul; any cogitation or consciousness, self­
perception and self-activity, can spring out of
138 THE GENERATION OF SOULS OUT OF MATTES.
dead, senseless and unactive matter, the same
can never possibly have any rational assurance;
but that his own soul had also a like original, and
consequently is mortal and corruptible. For if
any life and cogitation can be thus generated,
then is there no reason, but that all lives may be
so, they being but higher degrees in the same
kind; and neither life, nor any thing else, can be
>in its own nature indifferent, to be either sub­
stance or accident, and sometimes one and some*
times the other; but either all life, cogitation'and
consciousness, is accidental, generable and cor­
ruptible, or else none at all.
That, which hath inclined so many to think the
sensitive.life, at least, to be nothing but a quality,
or accident of matter, generable out of it, and
corruptible into it, is that strange Protean trans­
formation of matter into so many seemingly un­
accountable forms and shapes, together with the
scholastic opinion thereupon of real qualities;
that is, entities distinct from the substance of
body, and its modifications, but yet generable
out of it, and corruptible into it; they conclud­
ing, that as light and colours, heat and cold, &c.
according to those fancies, which we have of them,
are real qualities of matter, distinct from its
substance mid modifications; so may life, sense,
and cogitation, be in like manner qualities of
matter also, generable and corruptible. But these
real qualities of body, in the sense declared, are
things, that were long since justly exploded by
the ancient Atomists, and expunged out of the
catalogue of entities, of whom Laertius/“hath re­
corded, that they did «c/3oXXav rag irotoTjjrac, quite
* Lib x. segm. xliv. p. 261.
TH S.££«IK tA V T0N Of SOULS OUT OF MATTSft. 130
•
cashier and banish qualities out of their philoso­
phy—-they resolving all corporeal phenomena,
.and therefore those of heat and cold, light and
colours, fire and flame, &c. intelligibly, into no­
thing but the different modifications of extended
substance, viz. more or less magnitude of parts,
figure, site, motion or rest, (or the combinations
of them,) and those different fancies caused in
ns. by them. Indeed there is no other entity, t
but substance and its modifications. Wherefore
file Democritios and Epicureans did most shame­
fully contradict themselves, when, pretending to
reject and explode all those entities of real qua­
lities, themselves nevertheless made life and under­
standing such real qualities of matter, generable
out of it, and corruptible again into it.
There is nothing in body or matter, but mag­
nitude, figure, site, and motion or rest: now it is
mathematically certain, that these, however com­
bined together, can never possibly compound, or
make up life or cogitation; which therefore can­
not be an accident of matter, but must of neces­
sity be a substantial thing. We speak oot here
of that life (improperly so called) which is, in
vulgar speech, attributed to the bodies of men
and animals; for it is plainly accidental to a
body to he vitally united to a soul, or not.
Therefore is this life of the compound corrup­
tible and destroyable, without the destruction of
any real entity: there beiag nothing destroyed,
nor lost to the universe, in the deaths of men and
animals, as such, bat only a disunion, Or sepa­
ration made of those two substances, soul and
body, oue from another. But we speak here of
140 THE GENERATION OF SOULS OUT OF MATTER.
the original life of the soul itself, that this is
.substantial, neither generable nor corruptible,
but only Creatable and annihilate by the Deity.
And it is strange, that any men should persuade
themselves, that that, which rules and commands
in the bodies of animals,' movibg them up and
down, and hath sense or perception in it, should
not be as substantial, as that stupid and senses
»less matter, that is ruled by if. Neither can
matter (which is also but a mere passive thing)
efficiently produce soul, any more than soul mas­
ter ; no finite, imperfect substance being able to
produce another substance out of nothing. Much
less can such a substance, as hath a lower degree
of entity and perfection in it, create that, which
hath a higher. There is a scale, or ladder of en*
tities and perfections in the universe, one above
another, and the production of things cannot pos­
sibly be in way of ascent from lower to higher;
but must of necessity be in way of descent from
higher to lower. Now to produce any one higher
rank of being from the lower, as cogitation front
magnitude and body, is plainly to invert this or­
der in the scale of the universe from downwards
to upwards, and therefore is it atheistical; and
by the same reason, that one higher rank or de­
gree m this Scale is thus unnaturally produced
from'a lower, may all the rest be so produced'
also. Wherefore we have great reason to stand
upon our guard here, and to defend this post
against the Atheists; that no life, or cogitation,?
can either materially or efficiently result from
dead and senseless body; or that souls, being alt
substantial and immaterial things, can neither be
souls’ substantiality objectionable, fill
generated oat of matter, nor corrupted into the
tmme, bat only created or annihilated by the
Deity.
: The grand objection against this substantiality
of souls sensitive, as well as rational, is from that
consequence, which will be from thence inferred,
of their permanent subsistence after death, their
perpetuity, or immortality. This seeming very
absurd, that the souls- of brutes also should be-
immortal, or subsist after the deaths of the re­
spective animals: but especially to two sorts of
men ; first, such as scarcely in good earnest be-:
lieve their own soul’s immortality; and secondly,
such religionists, as conclude, that if irrational,
or sensitive souls subsist after death, then must
they needs go presently either into heaven or hell.
And R. Cartesius was so sensible of the offen­
siveness of this opinion, that though he were fully
convinced of the necessity of this disjunction,
that either brutes have nothing of sense or cogi­
tation at all, or else they must have some other
substance in them, besides matter, he chose ra­
ther to make them mere senseless machines, than
to allow them substantial souls. Wherein, avoid­
ing a lesser absurdity or paradox, he plainly
plunged himself into a greater; scarcely any thing,
being more generally received, than the sense of
brutes. Though in truth all those, who deny the
substantiality of sensitive souls, and will.have
brutes to have nothing but matter in them, ought
consequently, according to reason, to do as Car-
tesii& did, deprive them of all sense. But, on the
contrary, if it be evident from the phenomena,
that brutes are not mere senseless machines or
automata, and. only like clocks or watches, -then;
1 4 2 THX PYTHAGOREAN CABALA.
0
oughtnot popular opinion and vulgar prejudice
sq fa r to prevail with us, as to hinder our assent to
that, which sound reason and philosophy clearly
dictates, that therefore they must have something
more than matter in them. Neither ought we,
when we clearly conceive any thing to be true, as
this, That life and cogitation cannot possibly rise
out of dead and senseless matter, to abandon it,
or deny our assent thereunto, because we find it
attended with some difficulty not easily extricable
by us, or cannot free all the consequences thereof,
from' some inconvenience or absurdity, snch as
seems to be in the permanent subsistence of
brutish souls.
For the giving an account of which, notwith­
standing, Plato and the ancient Pythagoreans
proposed this following hypothesis ; That souls,
as well sensitive as rational, being all substantial,
but not self-existent (because there is but one
fountain and principle of aH things), were there­
fore produced or caused by the Deity. But this,
not in the generations of the respective animals;
it being indecorous, that this Divine, miraculous,
creative power should constantly lackey by, and
attend upon natural generations; as also incon-:
gruous, that souls-should be so much juniors to
every atom of dust, that is in the whole world;
but either all of them from eternity^ according to
those, who denied the novity of the world; or.
rather, according to others, who asserted the cos-
mogonia, in the first beginning of the world’s
creation. Wherefore, itbeing also natural to souls,
as such, to actuate and enliven some body, or to
be, as it were, clothed therewith; these, as soon
as created, were immediately invested with cer-
THE PYTHAGOREAN CABALA. 143
tain thin and subtile bodies, or put into light ethe-
rial or aerial chariots and vehicles; wherein they
subsist, both before their entrance into other gross
terrestrial bodies, and after their egress out of
them. So that the souls, not only of men, but
also of other animals, have sometimes a thicker,
and sometimes a‘thinner indument or clothing.
And thus do we understand Boethius, not only
of the rational, but also of the other inferior sen­
sitive souls, in these verses of bis
Tu oaasis animas paribus yitasque minores
Provebis, et levibus sublimes curribus aptaiis,
la caelum tenpmque seris.
Where his light chariots, which all lives or souls,
at their very first creation by God, are placed in,
and in which being wafted, they are both toge­
ther, as it were, sowed into the gross terrestrial
matter, are thin, aerial and etherial bodies. But
this is plainly declared by Prod us upon the Ti-
piaeus, after he had spoken of the souls of demons
and men, in this manner: *coi yap waaav
, * . , ' ~ A. - ' - S ' ^ r . f . 9 9 0 .
ipvyijv avayKit v po rov mnptav owpavwv, aibtotf
«ai evKivifroic rwi \piadacoupaoiv, w
gk
o
t ovfftav iyovaav
tokivuv' And every soul must of necessity have,
before these mortal bodies, certain eternal and
easily moveable bodies, it being essential to them
to move*—There is indeed mention made by the
same Proclus, and others, of an opinion of akoym.
ialftovig, irrational or brutish demons, or demoniac
aerial brutes; of which he sometimes speaks
doubtfully, as tarspyaptiaivakoycnSaipovec, ^
alg « O
toupyol, If there be any irrational
demons, as the Theurgists affirm;—But the dis­
pute, doubt, or controversy here only was,
* De Consolat. Philosoph. lib.iii. p. 69.
144 THE PYTHAGOREAN CABALA".
Whether there were- any such' irrational demobs
immortal, or no. For thus we learn from these
words of Ammonius upon the Porphyrian Isa-
goge ; ot pev ,yap tpamv ilv a in Saipovutri> aXoywv ytvo<;
aOavarov, ot S* teat ro rotovrov ■ ytvoe O
vtjtov ttvat*
Some affirm, that there is a certain kind of irra­
tional demons immortal; but others, that all these
irrational or brutish demons are mortal.—Where*
by irrational demons immortal, seem to be under­
stood such, as never descend into terrestrial bo-,
dies (and these are there disclaimed by-Ammo-
nius); bpt the mortal ones, such as act also upon
gross terrestrial bodies, obnoxious to death and
corruption. As if Ammonius should have said£ •
There are no other brutish, or irrational demons*
than only the souls of such brute animals as are
here amongst us, sometimes acting only aerial;
bodies. Thus, according to the ancient Pytha-
goric hypothesis, there is neither any new sub-'
stantial thing now made, which was not before,'
nor yet any real entity destroyed into, nothing;
not only uo matter, but also no soul nor life;
God, after the first creation, neither making anyi
pew substance, nor yet annihilating any thibjg
made. He then creating nothing, that was not fit
to be conserved in being, and which'could not be.
well used and placed in the universe; and after­
ward never repenting him of what, he had before
done. And natural generations'and corruptions
being nothing but: accidental mutations, co'ncre-i
tions and secretions, or anagrammatical transput
sitions of pre- and post-existing things, the same
souls and lives being sometimes united to one
body, and sometimes to another; sometimes in;
thicker, and sometimes in thinner clothing; and
THE PYTHAGOREAN CABALA. 145
sometimes in the visible, sometimes in the invisi­
ble (they -having aerial, as well as terrestrial
vehicles); and never any soul quite naked of all
body. And thns does Proclus complain of some,
as 8purion8 PldtohistS, ot <f>0(tpovrtc to i \ m a avayK a-
tjovrai iron -iravroc rniparoQ iroiuv rijv InTim
. p.
ifa>
xvv, Who,'destroying the thinner ve- S3
0
'
■bides of souls, were therefore necessitated some­
times to leave them in a state of separation from
all body, or without any corporeal indument.—
Which Cabala, probably derived from the Egypt­
ians by Pythagoras, was before fully represented
by us out of Ovid; though that transmigration of
human souls there, into ferine bodies, bath- not
been by all acknowledged, as a genqjne part
thereof. And the same was likewise insisted upon
by Virgil, Georg, l. iv. as also owned and con­
firmed by Macrobius for a great truth; S
o
m
D8cip,
“ Constat secundum verse rationis asser- «• «•*“•
/
-1
. •. [p-161]
tionera, quam nec Cicero nescit, nec
Virgilius ignorat, dicendo, ^
a Nec raorti esse locum; --------
Constat, inquam, nihil intra vivum mundum pe­
rire, sed eoriim, quae interire videntur, solara mu-
tari speciem.” It is manifest, according to reason
and true philosophy, which neither Cicero nor
Virgil were unacquainted with (the latter of these
affirming, that there is no place at all left for
death); I say, it is manifest, that none of those
things,' that to us seem to die, do absolutely pe­
rish within the living world, but only their forms
changed!—
a Georg. lib. iv. vers. 221.
VOL. IV. L
146 THE SOULS OF BRUTES,
Now, how extravagant soever this hypothesis
seem to be, yet is there no question, but that a
Pythagorean would endeavour to find some coun­
tenance and shelter for it in the Scripture; espe­
cially that place, which hath so puzzled and non­
plussed interpreters, Rom. viii. 19, &c. “ For the
earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for
the manifestation of the sons of God. For the
creature was made subject unto vanity, not wilt)
ingly, but by reason of him, who bath subjected
the same in hope; because the creature itself
also shall be delivered from the bondage of coiS
ruption, into the glorious liberty of the children
of God. For we know, that the whole creation
groaneth, and travaileth in pain together until now.
And not only they, but ourselves also, which bave
the first-fruits of the Spirit, groan within our-,
selves, waiting for the adoption, even the redemp­
tion of our bodies.” Where it is first of all evi­
dent, that the k
tu
m
c
, creature, or creation spoken
of, is not the very same with the riicvaor viol row
©tow, the children or sons of God—but something
distinct from them. Wherefore, in the next place,
the Pythagorean will add, that it must of neces­
sity be understood, either of the inanimate crea­
ture only, or of the lower animal creation, or else
of both these together. Now, though it be readily
acknowledged, that there is a prosopopoeia here,
yet cannot all those expressions, for all that, with-,
out difficulty and violence, be understood of the
inanimate creation only, or senseless matter; viz.
that this bath airoxapoSoKtav, an earnest expec­
tation—of some future good to itself; that it is
now made subject /uaraidrqTi, to vanity—frustration
and disappointment of desire; and <
p
Q
o
p
q
., to cor-
OUT OF BODIES, INACTIVE. 147
ruption and death—and that o»x acouora, not wil-
ingly—but reluctantly; and yet «r eAirlSi too, in
hope—notwithstanding, of some further good to
follow afterward; and that it doth in the mean
time n m a n d ewtpStvtiv, groan and travail in
pain together, till it be at length delivered from
“ the bondage of corruption into the glorious liber*
ty of the children of God.” Moreover, in the ge­
nerations and corruptions of senseless bodies, as
of tninerals and vegetables, or when, for exam­
ple, oil is turned into dame, dame into smoke*
water into vapottr, vapour into snow or hail, grass
into milk, milk into blood and bones, and the
like; there is, I Say, in all this, no hurt done to
any thing, nor any real entity destroyed, all the
substance of matter still remaining entirely the
same, without the least diminution, and only ac­
cidental transformations thereof made. All this
is really nothing, but local motion; and there is
no more toil nor labour to an inanimate body in
motion, than in rest; it being altogether as natu­
ral for a body to be moved by something else, as
of itself to rest. •. It is all nothing, but change of
figure, distance, site, a<id magnitude of parts,
causing several sensations, fancies, and appa­
ritions in ns. And they, who would have the
meaning of this place to be, That all such-like
mutations, and alternate vicissitudes in inanimate
bodies, shall at length quite cease ; these groan­
ing in the mean time, and travailing in pain, to be
delivered from the toilsome labour ofsuch restless
motion, and to be at ease and quiet; by taking
away all motion thus, out of a fond regard to the
dase and quiet of senseless matter, they would
thereby, ipso facto, petrify the whole corporeal.
l 2
148 THE SOULS OF BRUTES,
universe, and consequently the bodies of good
men also after the resurrection, and congeal all
into rocky marble or adamant. And as vain is
that-other conceit of some, that the whole terres­
trial globe shall at last be vitrified, or turned into
transparent crystal, as if it also groaned in: the-
mean time for this. For whatsoever change shall
be made of the world in the new heaven and the
new earth to come, it is reasonable to think, that
it will not be made for the sake of the senseless
matter, or the inanimate bodies themselves, to
which all is alike; but only for the sake of men
arid animals, the living spectators and inhabitants
thereof, that it may be fitter, both for their use
and-delight. Neither indeed, can those words,
for the creature itself shall be delivered from the
bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty
Of the children' of God,” be understood of any
Other, than animals ; forasmuch as this liberty of
the children of God, here meant, is their being
clothed, instead of mortal, with immortal bo­
dies; of which no other creatures are capable,
but only such as consist of soul and body. And
that naad ktUiq
, that whole creation—which is
said afterward to groan and travail in pain toge­
ther,' may be Well understood of all that of the
Creation, which can groan, or be sensible of evil
Or misery. Wherefore, the Pythagorean Would
interpret this place of the lower animal creation
bniy,;wbich is sensible of good and evil; that as
this was unwillingly, or against its own inclina­
tion (after the fall of man, or lapse of souls) made
subject to vanity, and the bondage of corruption,
pain,:misery, and death, in those gross terrestrial
bodies ; in the manifestation of the sons of God,
149
OUT* OF BODIES, INACTIVE.
when they, instead of these mortal bodies, shall'
be clothed with celestial' and immortal ones,
then shall this creature also have its certain share
in the felicity of that glorious time,' and partake
in some measure of such a liberty, by being freed
in like -manner from these their gross terrestrial
bodies, and now living only in thin aerial and
immQrtal ones ; and so a period ’put to all their
miseries and calamities by him, who made not
death, neither hath pleasure in the destruction of
the living, but created whatsoever liveth to this
end, that it might have its being, and enjoy itself.
But however thus much is certain, that brute
animals, in this place, cannot be quite excluded ;
because the naaa icrlm
ei the whole creation—will’
not suffer that: and therefore a Pythagorist would-
conclude it a warrantable inference from this text-
of Scripture, that that whole rank in the creation-
of irrational and brutish animals below men shall
not be utterly annihilated in the consummation of
things, or future renovation of the world, quite-
stripped of all this furniture, men being then left'
alone in it; but that there shall be a continuation
of this, species or rank of being. And notonly:
so neither; as if there should still-be a constant'
succession of such alternate generations and cor­
ruptions, productions or births, and deaths of*
brute animals, to all eternity ;. but also, that the
individuals themselves shall continue the same,-
forasmuch as otherwise there would be none at*
all .delivered from the bondage of corruption.
And lastly, that these very souls of brutes, which'
at this time groan and travail in pain, shall them­
selves be made partakers of that liberty of the
children of God ; since otherwise they should be
160 THE SOULS OF BRUTES,
with child, or parturient of nothing; groaning not
for themselves, but others. But enough of -thia
Pytbagoric hypothesis, which, supposing all man­
ner of souls, sensitive as well as rational, to be
substantial things, and therefore to have a perma­
nency after death, in their distinct natures, allqws
them certain thin aerial ochemata, or vehicles,
to subsist in, when these gross terrestrial ones
shall fail them.
But let these aerial vehicles of the souls of
brutes go for a whimsey, pr mere figment; nor
let them be allowed to act or enliven any other
than terrestrial bodies only, by means whereof
they must needs be, immediately after death,
quite destitute of all body ; they subsisting never­
theless, and not vanishing into nothing, because
they are not mere accidents, but substantial
things; we say, that in this case, though the sub­
stances of them remain, yet roust they needs con­
tinue in a state of insensibility and inactivity, un­
less perhaps they bp again afterward united to
some other terrestrial bodies. Because, though
intellection be the energy of the rational soul
alone, without the concurrence of body, yet is
the energy of the sensitive, always conjoined
with it; sense being, as Aristotle* bath rightly
determined, a complication of soul and body to-,
gether, as weaving is of the weaver and weaving
instruments. Wherefore we say, that if the irra­
tional and sensitive souls in brutes, being suhstaife
tial things also, be after death quite destitute o f
all body, then can they neither have sense of any
thing, nor act upon any thing, but must continue
• De Aninja, lib. ii. cap. vu p. 27. tom. ii. opcr.
OUT OF BODIES, INACTIVE. 151
for so long a time, in a state of insensibility and
inactivity. Which is a thing therefore to be
thought the less impossible, because no man can
be certain, that his own soul in sleep, lethargies,
and apoplexies, &c. hath always an uninterrupted
consciousness of itself; and that it was never
without thoughts, even in the mother’s womb.
However, there is little reason to doubt, but that
the sensitive souls of such animals, as lie dead or
asleep all the winter, and revive or awake again,
at the approaching warmth of summer, do for
that time continue in a state of inactivity and
insensibility. Upon which account, though these
souls of brutes may be said in one sense to
be immortal, because the substance of them, and
the root of life in them, still remains; yet may
they, in another sense, be said also to be mor­
tal, as having the exercise of that life, for a
time at least, quite suspended. From whence it
appears, that there is no reason at all for that fear
and suspicion of some, that if the souls of brutes
be substantial, and continue in being after death,
they must therefore needs go either to heaven or
hell. But as for that supposed possibility oftheir
awakening again afterward, in some other terres­
trial bodies, this seemeth to be no more, than
what is found by daily experience in the course
of nature, when the silk-worm, and other worms,
dying, are transformed into butterflies. For there
is little reason to doubt, but that the same soul,
which before acted the body of the silk-worm,
doth afterward act that of the butterfly: upon
which account it is, that this hath been made by
Christian theologers an emblem of the resur­
rection.
152 .NOTHING CREATED, ; ;
Hitherto:have; vye declared two several opinions’
,
concerning the substantial souls of brutes sup­
posed therefore to have a permanent subsistence
after death; one of Plato’s and the Pythagoreans’;
that when .they are divested of these gross, ter­
restrial bodies, they live, and have a sense of them-,
selves, in thin aerial ones; the other of such, as
exploding these aerial vehicles of brutes, and
allowing them, none but terrestrial bodies, affirnr
the substances of them, surviving death, tp con­
tinue in a state .of inactivity and insensibility*
sleep, silence, or stupor. But now, to say the
truth, there is no absolute necessity, that these
8Qnls of brutes, because substantial, should there­
fore .have, a permanent subsistence after death to
all eternity; because, though it be true;, that no
substance once created by God .will of itself ever
vanish into nothing, yet it is. true also, that what­
soever was created by God out of nothing, may
possibly by him be annihilated and reduced to
nothing again. Wherefore, when it is said, -that
the immortality of the human soul is demonstrable,
by natural reason, the meaning hereof is no:more
than this, that its substantiality is so demonstra­
ble; from whence it follows, that it will naturally
no more, perish or vanish into nothing, than; the
substance of matter itself: and not that it is im­
possible either for it, or matter, by the Divide
power to be annihilated. Wherefore the assurance
that we have of our own souls’immortality, must
depend upon something else besides their sub­
stantiality,namely, a faith also in the Divine Good­
ness, that he will conserve in being, or not anni­
hilate, all such substances created by him, whose
permanent subsistence is neither inconsistent with
ABSOLUTELY UNANNIHILABLE. 153
his own attributes, nor the good of the universe,
as this of rational souls, unquestionably is not;
they having both morality and liberty of will, and
thereby being capable of rewards, and punish­
ments, and consequently fit objects for the Di­
vine justice to display itself upon. But, for aught
we can be certain, -the case may be otherwise as
to the souls of brute animals, devoid both of mo-;
rality and liberty of will, and therefore upcapable
of reward and punishment; that though they will
not naturally of themselves vanish into nothing*
yet, having been created by God in the generations
of the respective animals, and had some, enjoy­
ment of themselves for a time, they may by him
again be as well annihilated in their deaths and
corruptions; and if this be. absolutely the best,
then doubtless is it'so. Aud to this seemeth
agreeable the opinion of Porphyrius,* amongst the
philosophers, when be affirmed every irrational
power o.r soul to be resolved into the life of the
whole; that is, retracted and resumed into the
Deity, and so annihilated as to its creaturely na­
ture': though possibly there may be another inter­
pretation of that philosopher’s,meaning here, viz.
that all the sensitive souls of brutes are really
but< one and the same mundane soul, as it were,
outflowing and variously displaying itself, and
acting upon all the several parts of matter, that
are capable to receive it, but at their deaths re­
tiring again back into itself. But we have suffi­
ciently retunded the force ofthat objection against
the ingenerability of all souls, and the substan­
tiality of those of brutes also, from their conse-
* Vide Sentcntias ad Intclligibilia duccntes, par. i. § xxii. p. 227.
§xxiv. p. 228. et alias.
154 No t h in g c r e a t e d ,
quent permanence after death y we having shewed,
that, notwithstanding this their substantiality,
there is no absolute necessity of their perpetuity
after death, and permanency to all eternity, or
else, that if they do continue to subsist (God an­
nihilating no substance), unless they have aerial
vehicles to act, they must remain in a state of
inactivity and insensibility, silence or sleep.
Now therefore, if no souls, no life, nor cogita­
tion, could possibly be ever generated out of dead
and senseless matter, they being not mere acci­
dents, but substantial things, which must in this
case have come from nothing; then, either all souls
existed of themselves from eternity, or else there
must of necessity be some eternal unmade life
and mind, from whence all the other lives and
minds were derived. And that this was the doc­
trine of the ancient Theists, That no soul or mind,
Do life or understanding, was ever generated out
of matter, but all produced by the Deity, die sole
fountain of life and understanding, might be here
proved, were it,needful, at large, by sundry tes­
timonies; but it may sufficiently appear from
those verses of Virgil, first in his sixth JEneid,
where, after he had spoken of God, as a spirit
and mind diffused throughout the whole world,
be addetfa,
* lode bominum pecudumque genus, vitaeque vokmtnm,
£ t quae marmoreo fert monstra sub cequore pontus,
That from thence are the lives of all men and
beasts, birds flying in the air, and monsters
swimming in the sea.—And again in bis Geor­
gies, where, after these words,
» Vers 728.
ABSOLUTELY UNANKIHILABLB. 155
* — ■■ ■D ean namque Ire pet omne.
Temuque, tractasque mwi*, coelumque profundum,
That God passeth through all tracts of earths,
seas, and heavens,—he subjoinetb,
Hino pecudes, amenta, viros, genus omne ferarum,
Qoenqoe slbi tenues nasoentem aroeseerevitas.
Scilicet hue reddi deindc, et resoluta refyrri,
Omnia, nee mord esse locum.
And from hence, not only men, but also all man­
ner of brute animals and beasts, when produced
into this world, do every one derive their lives or
souls, as also at their deaths they render the same
back again to him, in whose hand or custody they
remain urfdestroyed; so that there is no place
any where in the world left for death.—This was
therefore undoubtedly the genuine doctrine of the
ancient Theists, however some of late have de­
viated and swerved from i t ; that no life was ge­
nerated out of matter, but all created by the
Deity, or derived from it, the sole fountain of lives
and souls.
And it is a truth so evident, that life being sub­
stantial, and not a mere accidental thing gene­
rated and corrupted,there most therefore ofneces­
sity be some eternal unmade life and mind, from
whence all other lives and minds are derived, that
the Hylosoic Atheists themselves (in this tar
wiser than the Atomics) were fully convinced
thereof; nevertheless being strongly possessed
with that atheistic prejudice, that there is no other
substance besides body, they attribute this first
original unmade life and understanding to all
* Lib. iv. verse321.
156 HYLOZOIC ATHEISM.
matter as such (but without animal conscious­
ness) as an essential part thereof, or inadequate
conception of it. From which fundamental life of
nature in matter, modified by organization, they
fancy the lives of all animals and men to have
proceeded. So that though the modificated lives
of animals and men, as such, according to them,
be accidental things, generated and corrupted,
produced out of nothing, and reduced to nothing
again ; yet this fundamental life of matter, which
is the basis, upon which they stand, being sub­
stantial, is also eternal and incorruptible... These
Hylozoists therefore, to avoid a Deity, suppose,
every atom of senseless matter to have been, from
all eternity, infallibly omniscient, that is, to know
all.things without either error or ignorance, and.
to have a knowledge before sense, and underived
from sensibles (quite contrary to the doctrine of
the atomic Atheists, vvho make all knowledge,
sense, or the product thereof;, though without
any animal consciousness and self-perception.
But, as nothing can be more prodigiously ab-,
sard, than thus to attribute infallible omniscience
to every atom of matter; so is it also directly
contradictious to suppose perfect knowledge, wis->
dom, or understanding, without any conscious­
ness or self-perception, consciousness being essen­
tial to cogitation: as also, that the substantial and
fundamental life in men and other animals should
never pe?ish, and yet notwithstanding their souls
and personalities in death utterly vanish into
nothing. Moreover, this hypothesis can never
possibly solve the phenomenon of men and ani-
jnals neither; not only because no organization
or modification of matter \\ hatsoeyer could ever
HYLOZOIC ATHEISM. 157
produce consciousness and self-perception in
what was before inconscious; but also because
every smallest atom thereof being supposed to be
a percipient by itself, and to have a perfect life
fend understanding of its own, there must be in
every one man and animal, not one, but a heap or
commonwealth of innumerable percipients. Last­
ly, whereas these hylozoic Atheists make every
atom of matter omniscient, but nothing at all
omnipotent, or assert perfect knowledge, without
any perfect power, a knowledge without sense,
and underived from sensibles; we demand of
them, where the intelligibles or objects of this
knowledge are ? and whence the ideas thereof are
derived ? . For since they proceed not in a way of
.passion from sensibles existing without, nor could
resultfrom those atoms neither, as comprehending
themselves, they must needs come from nothing,
and many of them, at least, be the conceptions of
nothing. There cannot possibly be any other
drigihal, by the wit of man devised, of knowledge
and understanding, than from an absolutely per­
fect and omnipotent Being, comprehending itself,
and the extent of its own infinite power, or all
possibilities of things, that is, all intelligibles.
But there can be b'ut one such omnipotent Being,
and therefore no niore'than one original, and eter­
nal unmade mind, from whence all the other minds
are- derived. Wherefore this hylozoic Atheism
is nothing but the breaking and crumbling of the
simple Deity, one perfect understanding Being,
into matter, and all the several atoms of it.
! And now have we made it manifest, that these
Atheists are so far from being able to disprove a
God from.this topic of cogitation, knowledge, or
158 HYL0Z01C ATHEISM.
understanding, that they cannot possibly solve the
phenomenon thereof, without a God; it indeed
affording invincible argnments of his existence*
For, first, if no life or cogitation, sonl or mind,
can possibly spring oat of matter or body, devoid
of life and understanding, and which is nothing
but a thing extended into length, breadth, and
thickness; then is it so far from being true, that
all life and understanding is janior to senseless
matter, and the offspring thereof, that of necessity
either all lives and souls were self-existent from
eternity, or else there must be one perfect unmade
life and mind, from whence all other imperfect
ones were derived: there mast be an eternal
knowledge before seme and sensibles; which is
that that bath printed the stamps and signatures
of itself, upon the matter of the whole world. In*
deed nothing can be more certain than this, that
nil knowledge and understanding in ourselves is
not a mere passion from singular sensibles ov
bodies existing without us, as the forementioned
Atheists also conclude; (from whence they would
again infer, that knowledge, as such, is in its own
nature junior to sensibles, and the mere ereafure
of them, and consequently no creator;)' there
being nothing, which comes to us from the objects
of sense without, but only local motion and pres-
sure, and there being other objects of the roihd,
besides singular sensibles; not only all universally
but also such intelligibles, as never were, nor can
be in sense. Now, if our human knowledge and
understanding be not a passion from things exist­
ing without u s; then can it have no other original
than in way of participation, from a perfect mind,
the mind of an infinitely fecund and powerful
ARGUMENTS AGAINST PROVIDENCE. 150
Being, comprehending itself, and iii itself all
things; all the possibilities of things before they
were made, their respects, and the verities belong*
ing to them. So that a perfect omnipotent Being,
togetherwith the possibilitiesofthings contained in
it, is the first NojfrtJv, intelligible, or object of mind
and understanding, by which all other singulars
are understood. And were there no such perfect*
infinitely fecund, and powerful Being, there could
have been no mind or understanding at all. As
also, were there no perfect mind, viz. that of an
omnipotent Being comprehending itself, and all
possibilities of things virtually contained in it;
all the knowledge, and intelligible ideas of out
imperfect minds, must needs have sprung from
nothing. And thus is the existence of a God
again demonstrated from that phenomenon of
knowledge or understanding.
H a v in g quite routed and vanquished the Athe­
ists’ main body, we shall now blow away the
remainder of their weaker and scattered forces,
viz. their objections against Providence, their
queries, and their arguments from interest, with
a breath or two. Their first objection is against
Providence, as to the fabric of the world, from
the faultiness of the mundane system, intellect
tually considered, and in order to ends; “ Quia
taota stat praedita culpa;”* That because it is so
ill-made,—therefore it could not be made by a
God. Where the Atheist takes it for granted,
that whosoever asserts a God, or a perfect mind,
' aIiucret. lib. i:. verr* 18&
160 ARGUMENTS OF ATHEISTS.
to be the origiual of. all things, does therefore ipso
fa cto suppose all things to be well made, and a®
they should be. And this doubtless was the
sense ofall the ancient Theologers, however some
modern Theists deviafe therefrom; these con­
cluding the perfection of the Deity not at all to
consist in goodness, but in power and arbitrary,
will only. As if to have a will determined by a
rule or reason of good, were the virtue of weak,
impotent, and obnoxious beings only,, or of such
as have a superior over them to give law- to them,:
that is, of creatures ; but the prerogative of a
being irresistibly powerful, to have< a will abso­
lutely indifferent to all things, and undetermined
by any thing but itself, Or to will nothing because
it is good, but to make its own arbitrary or con­
tingent and fortuitous determination the sole rea­
son of all its actions, nay, the very rule or.measure
of goodness, justice, and wisdom itself. And
this is supposed by them to be the liberty, sove­
reignty, and dominion of the Deity. Wherefore
such Theists as these would think themselves
altogether unconcerned in these atheistic objec­
tions against Providence, or in defending the
fabric of the world, as faultless, they being as
ready as the Atheists themselves, to acknowledge,
that the world might really have been much better
made'than it now is; only that it must be said
to be well, because so made, but pretending
nevertheless, that this is no impeachment at all of
the existence of a God, “ Quia Deus non tenetut/
ad optimum,” because God is no way bound or
obliged to the best;—he being indeed, according
to them, nothing but arbitrary will omnipotent.'
But what do these Theists here else, than whilst
AGAINST PROVIDENCE. 161
they deny the fortuitous motion of senseless matter
to be the first original of all things, themselves
in the mean time enthrone fortuitousness and con­
tingency in the will of an omnipotent Being, and
there give it an absolute sovereignty and dominion -
over all? So that the controversy betwixt the
Atheists and these Theists seems to be no other
than this, whether senseless matter fortuitously
moved, or a fortuitous will omnipotent, such as is
altogether undetermined by goodness, justice, and
wisdom, be the sovereign Numen, and original
of all things.' Certainly we mortals could have
little better ground for our faith and hope, in such
an omnipotent arbitrary will as this, than we
cotild have in the motions of senseless atoms
furiously agitated, or of a rapid whirlwind. Nay,
one would think, that of the two it should be
more desirable to be, under the empire of sense­
less atoms, fortuitously moved, than of a will
altogether undetermined by goodness, justice,
and wisdom, armed with omnipotence; because
the former could harbour no hurtful or mischiev­
ous designs against any, as the latter might. But
this irrational will, altogether undetermined by
goodness, justice, and wisdom, is so far from
beiog the highest liberty, sovereignty, and domi­
nion, the greatest perfection,'and the divinest thing
of all, that it is indeed nothing else but weak­
ness and impotency itself, or brutish folly and
madness. And therefore those ancients, who
affirmed, that Mind was Lord over all, and the
supreme King of heaven and earth, held at the
same time, that Good was the sovereign monarch
of the universe, Good reigning in Mind, and to­
gether with it, because Mind:is that, which
VOL. IV. M
163 DIVINE GOODNESS A8SERTE0.
P. 240.
orders all things for the sake of Good; and
whatsoever doth otherwise, was, according to
them, not Nouc, but'Am
m
o
, not Mens, but Dementia,
and consequently, no: god. And thus does Cel-
sus in Origen declare the nature of God, ov ymp
rijt irA
iptpeX
oO
c op^wc, ovUrifc weirXaihiftipiK
aidofftlae, «Xb! rj)f »pdifc val Sucalaf f«ww
6 nc mtiv -God is not the president’or
head of irregular ,and irrational lust or appetite;
and of.loose erratic disorderlioess, but of the
just and righteous nature.—And though this were
there misapplied by him against the Christian
doctrine of the resurrection (not understood)-, yet
is the passage highly approved by Origen ; he
adding further, in confirmation' thereof, and that
as the general sense of Christians too,* pet/ih>on mi
Smarai mayjpa 6 Otoe, hi! carat o 0 eo$ Sw
vO
fitvotpit emu
0 coc, et yap ata^or ft 8pf 6 0 toe, ©
iitccart dto$. We
Christians (who bold the resurrection) say as well
as yon, that God can do nothing, which is in
itself evil, inept, or absurd; no more than he is
soK
V
ew
he.p.able not to be God. For if God ddany
evil, he is no God;—And again,b o
<
©
<
T
tnfcae- pj nperov tavrtf o 0 coc/3owAerat, ivmpenkm
rvyyatov row emit avrov 0 cov, God wittetb
n°thing unbecoming himself, or what is
tegtoMaiaw
, truly indecorous; forasmuch as this is
Godcandono- .. * . • 1 ■• i i •
thing,thus> inconsistent with his Godship.—And to
•bkurd, or-be- ^ gam € p u rp 0 8 e P Io tim i8 ,* Tout ro 0itOK
«C rrt^wxt, TtipvKt SI cart! n»v avrov. ovatav, ij
ro xaXov tv rate evepyetatc atirov eti to SutatOv
avvex^cpu, tt yap pit exet ravra, tow av. etv»
The Deity acteth according to its own
nature, and essence'; and its nature arid
i r e a s o n ,
• P . 265. ’
[Libro d e
P r o v i d . E b - '
n e a d . iii. .
Lib. ii. cf»i>
.
P. 74^
f E a n e a t f . ? |J
•P.24G. hP. 247.
DIVINE GOODNESS ASSERTED i M 0
essence displayeth goodness and justice: us.T
iu.
for if these things be pot.there, where “pix-
*
should they else be found?—And again,
where,! 9 » { pwip <XiPSV. **v«u, ow ro iv y v , oyrw
«AV $$t% o ir tf to S’ (Set tovtp, r<*
*
v *8w. !^Jod
is essentially tbatf;which ought to be;.and there­
fore be did uot happen fo be such as he ip: and
this, first ought to he is the principle of all thwgP
whatsoever, that ought to be,—Wherefore;(bp
Deity is not to be conceived, as mere arbitrariness,
humour, or irrational will and appetite omnipo­
tent (which would indeed be but Qpipipptent
chance), but as an overflowingfountain ofloyeppA
goodness, justly and wisely, dispensing itself, and
omnipotently reaching all things. .The .will .of
Clod is goodness, justice, and wisdom; or deoPr
rousness, fitness, and ought itself, willing;, sp that
the To Be
Atwtov, that, which.is absolutely the best,
is vofU
K nVapo/3oroc, an indispensable law to it,
because its very essence.—God is fierpov%
avrwy,
an impartial balance,—lying even, equal and in­
different to all things, and weighing out heaven
and earth, and all the things therein, in the most
just: and exact proportions, and not a grain too
much or too little of any thing# Nor is the Deity
therefore bound pr obliged to do the best, fo
any way of servility (as men fondly imagine this
to be contrary to hiBliberty), much less by the lew.
and command of any superior (which is.acopr
tradiction), but only by the perfection of its own
nature, which it cannot possibly deviate from, up
more than ungod itself. In conclusion, therefore*
we acknowledge the Atheist’s argument to bp
thus far good; that if there be a God, then of
necessity must all things be well made, and as
164 INCLINATION OF THE EARTH’S AXIS.
they should be; elviceversa. But no Atheist will
ever be able to prove, that either the whole system
of the world could have been better made, or that
■so much as any one thing therein is made ineptly.
There are indeed many things in the frame of
natu+e, which We cannot reach to the reasons of,
they being made by a knowledge far superior and
transcendent to that of ours, and our experience
Rod ratiocination but slowly discovering the in­
trigues:and contrivances of Providence therein;
Witness the circulation of the blood, the milky
hiid lymphatic vessels, and other things (without
Which the mechanic structure of the bodies of
hhitnais cannot be understood), all but so lately
brought to light; wherefore we must not con­
clude, that whatsoever We cannot find out the
l*eason Of, or the use, that it serveth to, is there­
fore ineptly made. We shall give one instance
of this! the intestinum cdecum, in.the bodies, of
men and other animals, seems, at first sight, to
be btit a mere botch or bungle of nature* and an
odd impertinent appendix ; neither do we know,
that any anatomist Or physiologCr hath given a
rational afcconnt thereof, or discovered its use:
and yet there being a valve at the entrance of it,
these two both together are a most artificial con­
trivance of nature, Rnd of great advantage for
animals, to hinder the regurgitation of the faeces
upward towards the ventricle:
- The first atheistic instance, of the faultiness of
things, in the frame of nature, is from the consti­
tution of the heavens, and the disposition of the
equator and ecliptic, intersecting each other in an
angle of three-and-twenty degrees and upwards;
whereby, as they pretend, the terrestrial globe is
T H E WORLD NOT MADE SOLELY FOR MAN. 1 6 6
rendered much more uninhabitable than otherwise
it (Right be. * But this is built upon a false sup­
position of the ancients, that the torrid zone, or
all between the tropics, was utterly uninhabitable
by reason of the extremity of heat. Apd it is
certain, that there is nothing, which doth more
demonstrate a Providence than this very filing,
it being the most convenient site or disposition,
that could be devised, as will appear, if thp in­
conveniences of other dispositions be considered,
especially these three; first. If the axes of those
circles should be parellel, and their plains coin­
cident; secondly, If they should intersect each
' other in right angles; and thirdly (which is a
■middle betwixt both), If they should cut one
another in an angle of forty-five degrees. For it
is evident, that each of these dispositions would
■be attended with far greater inconveniences to
.the terrestrial inhabitants, in respect of the length
of days and nights, heat and cold. And that
these two circles should continue thus, to keep
the same angular intersection, when physical and
;mechanic causes would bring them nearer to­
gether ; this is a farther eviction of a Providence
also;
■1In the next place, the Atheist supposes, that,
according to the general persuasion of fheists,
the world and all things therein were created
only for the sake of man,b he thinking to make
:8ome advantage for bis cause from hence. But
ithis;seemetb, at first, to have been an opinion
only of some straight-laced Stoics, though after-
' ward indeed recommended to others also, by
I Vido Lucrct. lib. v. vers 201.
I
IId. lib. ii. vers. 174,175.
Iflfe THE WOfcLD NOT MADE SOLELY FOR MAN.
their own self-love, their over-weatiing and puffy
eoneeit of themselves. And so fleas and lice,
to d they understanding, Might conclude the
todies of other greater animals, and men also,
to have been made only for them. But the
Whole Was hot properly made for any part, to t
the parts for the Whole, and the whole for the
>Maker thereof. And yet may the things of this
lower World be well said to have been niade
principally (though not only) for man. For
T
hu«fiato. we ought not to monopolize the Divine
j ^ ^ g o o d n e s s to ourselves, there being other
W^ip*** animals superior to us, that are not ul-
De Legib. together unconcerned neither in this
p>«°a. risible creation ; and it being reasonable •
to ’think; that even the lower animals likewise,
Attd whatsoever hath conscious Hfe, was made
partly also, to enjoy itself. But Atheists can be
V
to fit judges of worlds being made well or ill,
either in general, or respectively to mankind,
-they having no standing measure for well and ill,
’Without a God and morality, nor any true know­
ledge of themselves, and what their own good
or evil conSisteth in. That was at first but a
froward speech of some sullen discontented per­
sons, when things falling not out agreeably to
their own private, selfish, aud partial appetites,
‘they Would revenge themselves, by railing upon
nature (that is, Providence), and calling her a
Stepmother only to mankind, whilst she was a
fond, partial, and indulgent mother to other -
>
animals ;* and though this be elegantly set dtf by
Lucretius,hyet is there nothing but poetic flourish
aVide Plin. Hist. Natur. Proem, lib, vii.
bLib. v. vers. 223.
THE TRUE ORIGINAL OF EV ILI. 167
Hi it all, without any philosophic truth; the ad-
vantages of mankind being so notoriously con*
spicuous above those of brutes.
But as for evils in. general, from whence the
Atheist would conclade the God of the Tbeist to
be either impotent or envious; it bath beenal­
ready declared, that the true original of them is
from the necessity of imperfect beings, and the
incemp08sibility of things; but that the Divine
art and skill most of all appeared) in bonifying
these evils, and making tbfem, like discords in
music, to contribute to the harmony of the
whole, and the good of particular persons.
‘ Moreover, a great part 'of those evils, which
men are afflicted with, is not from the reality of
things, but only from their own fancy and opi­
nions, according to that of the moralist, *Tapaoou
rove av^Htfirovc ov ra irpay/ttara, aAAa ra irtpi rcJv irpay/ia-
r«v ftara. It is not things themselves, that
disturb men, but only their own opinions con­
cerning things.—And therefore it being much in
our own power to be freed from these, Provi­
dence is not to be blamed upon the account of
them. Pain is many times nea?iy linked with
pleasure, according to that Socratic fable,6 That
when Qod could not reconcile thejr contrary
natures (as he would) he tied them bead and tail
together. And good men know, that pain is not
the evil of the man, but only of the part so affect­
ed (as Socrates al80), To aAyoyv tv r<£ ystXu fiivtt,
It goes no further than the leg where it is.-—
But
this is many times very serviceable to free us from
1Epictet. in Enchirid^o, cap. ▼
. Vide eliam M, Antoninuni, lib. iv.
§. 3. p. 97. et lib. v. §. xix. p. 159.
bApud Platon, in Phaedone, p. 376.
168 THE TRUE ORIGINAL OF EVILS.
the greater evils of the mind; upon which all our
happiness depeudeth. To the Atheists, who ac­
knowledge no malum culpa, no evil of fault
(turpitude, or dishonesty), death is the greatest
and most tragical of all evils. But though this,
according to.their forlorn hypothesis, be nothing
less than an absolute extinction of life; yet, acr
cording to the doctrine of the genuine Tbeists,
which makes all souls substantial, no life of itself
(without Divine annihilation)will ever quite vanish
into nothing,. any more than the substance of
matter doth. And the ancient Pythagoreans and
Platoqists have been here so kind, even to the
Souls of brutes also, as that they might not be
left in a state of, inactivity and insensibility after
death, as to bestow upon them certain subtile
bodies, which they may then continue to act in.
Nor can we think otherwise, but that Aristotle,
from this fountain, derived that doctrine of ,his
in his second book, De Gen. An. c. 3. *where,
after he had declared the sensitive soul to be
inseparable from body, be addeth ^aamow
Svvftftfe trtpov aa/fiaroe eouce Kucoivuvriictvai *at duortpoy
Tiov Kakovfitvwv aroqgdcpv* S* Sta^ipovai rtjutoritrt at
ifnjyeu k<
u arifucf. aXXiJXwv, oj/rw teat q toiavrq Siaftpa <pv<nQ'
All souls therefore seem to have another body,
and diviner than that of the elements; and as
themselyes differ in dignity and nobility, so do
these bodies of theirs differ from one another.—
And afterward calling this subtile body tvey/ia,
or a spirit, he affirmeth it to be, avaXoyov riprvv
aarpiov «not\u<p, analogous to the element of the
stars.—Only as Galen, and St. Austin, and others,
have conceived, Aristotle deviated here from the
a P. 618. tom. ii. oper.
THE TRUE ORIGINAL OF EVILS. 169
Pythagoreans in this, that he supposed the sensi­
tive soul itself to be really nothing else, but this
very subtile and star-like body, and not a distinct
substance from it, using it only as a vehicle.
Nevertheless, be there plainly affirmeth the mind
or rational soul to be really distinct from the
body, and to come into it from without pre-exist*
ing; and consequently should acknowledge also
its after-immortality. But whatsoever Aristotle's
judgment were (which is not very material) it is
certain, that dying to the rational or human soul
is nothing but a withdrawing into the tyring-
house, and putting off the clothing of this terres­
trial bpd.y. So that it will still continue after
death, to live to God, whether in a body, or
without it. Though according to Plato’s express
doctrine, the soul is never quite naked ofall body,
he;writing thus; act tm T tra yfitvtt o tifta n , totc
pcv aXAy rorc Sc aXAw* the soul is always pe^ x
conjoined with a body, but sometimes j^9
^-
of one kind, and sometimes of another—
which many Christian doctors also, as is before
declared, have thought highly probable. How­
ever, our Christian faith assures us, that the souls
of good men shall at length be clothed with spiri­
tual and heavenly bodies, such as are, inAristotle’s
language,avaXoya rip rwv acnfHou<rrot\sti{>,analogous to
the element of the stars.—Which Christian resur­
rection, therefore, to life and immortality, is far
from being,as Celsus* reproached it, <ncv\niaove\irv,
the mere hope of worms.—And thus much shall
suffice, in way of confutation, of the first atheistic
objection against Providence, which is the twelfth
argumentation propounded in the second chapter.
*Apud Origin, contra Celsum, lib. v. p. 240.
170 ARGUMENT FROM THE
The thirteenth atheistic argument, or second
objection against Providence, is from the seeming
confusion of human affairs; that all things fall
alike to all;' the innocent and the nocent, the
pious and the impious, the religious and the pro­
fane: nay, that many times the worser causes and
men prevail against the better, as is intimated in
that passage of the poet,* though in the person of
a Theist,
Victrix causa Deo placuit, sed victa Catoni;
And that the unjust and ungodly often flow in all
kind of prosperity, whilst the innocent and devout
worshippers of the Deity, all their-lives long, con­
flict with adversity. Whereas, were there a God
and providence, as they conceive, profane and
irreligious persons would be presently thunder­
struck from heaven, or otherwise made remark­
able objects of Divine vengeance, as also the
pious miraculously protected and rescued from
evil and harms.
Now we grant indeed, that this consideration
hath too much puzzled and staggered weak minds
in all ages. Becauseb“ sentence against an evil
work is not executed speedily, therefore is the
heart of the sons of men fully set in them to do
evil.” And the Psalmist himselfcwas sometime
much perplexed with this phenomenon, the pros­
perity of the ungodly, who “ set their mouths
against heaven, and whose tongue walketh through
the earth;” so that he was tempted to think, “ he
had cleansed his heart in vain, and washed bis
*Lucan, lib. i. vers* 131.
bEccles. viii. 11.
c Fsal. Ixxiii.
ECONOMY 0 7 HUMAN AFFAIRS. 1 7 !
hands in innocency;” (till at length, entering into
the sanctuary of God, bis mind became illumi­
nated; and bis soul fixed in a firm trust and con­
fidence upon Divine Providence; MWhom have I
in heaven bnttbee,” &c. “ Myflesh and my heart
fhilcth,* but God is the strength of my heart, and
nay portion fbr ever.’*) For, as some will from
hence be apt to infer, That there is no God at all,
but that blind chance and fortune steer all, (“ the
Ibol hath Baid in his heart, There is no God
so will others conclude, That though there be a
God, yet he either does not know things done
here below, ( “ how does God know? T h u n d i d s o m e
and is there knowledge in the Most ten
^,
e
*^n!ro“
High?”b
) or else will not so far humble ol“d
^'^a*.|
himself, or disturb his own ease and
quiet, as to concern himself in our low (unrD eLef.
human affairs.
First of all therefore, we here say, that it is al­
together unreasonable to require, that Divine Pro-
videuce should miraculously interpose upon every
turn in punishing the ungodly, and preserving the
pious, and thus perpetually interrupt the course
of nature (which would look but like a botch or
bungle, and a violent business), but rather carry
things on arpotyKskeiO
tf, in a still and silent path,
and shew his art and skill in making things of
themselves fairly unwind, and clear up at last into
a satisfactory close. Passion and self-interest is
blind, or short-sighted; but that, which steers the
whole world, is no fond, pettish, impatient, and
passionate thing, but an impartial, disinterested,
and uncaptivated nature. Nevertheless, it is cer­
tain, that sometimes we have not wanted in-
a Psal. xiv. 1. •^Psal. lxxii. 2.
172 ARGUMENTS FROM THE
stances, in cases extraordinary, of a 9aJc «uro
fwxavie, God appearing, as it were, miraculously
upon the stage,—and manifesting himselfin taking
immediate vengeance upon notorious malefactors,
or delivering his faithful servants from imminent
dangers Or evils threatened; as the same is often
done also by a secret and undiscerned over rulii)g
of the things of nature. But it must be granted,
tbat it is not always thus, but the periods of
Divine Providence here in this world are coni'
monly longer, and the evolutions thereof slower;
according to that'of Euripides,* which yet has
a tang of profaneness in the expression,
MiXXsi t3 9f?«t S’ W rotourwtyvati,
The Deity is slow or dilatory, and this is the
nature of it. For it is not from slackness and
remissness in the Deity, but either from his pa­
tience and long-suffering, he willing,.that men
should repent, or else to teach us patience by his
example (as Plutarchb suggesteth), or that all
things may be carried on with more pomp and
solemnity; or lastly, for other particular reasons,
as Plutarcbc ventures to assign one, why it might
not be expedient for Dionysius the tyrant, though
so profane and irreligious a person, to have beep
cut off suddenly. But wicked and ungodly per­
sons oftentimes tail not to be met withal at last,
and at the long-run, here in this life, and either in
themselves,or posterity, to be notoriously branded
with the marks of Divine displeasure: according
to that of the poet,d“ Raro antecedentem sceles-
*In Orcste, vers. 420.
bDe sera Numinis Vindicta, tom. ii. opcj\ p. 550.
«Ibid. p. 557.
dHorat. Odar. lib. iii. od. ii.
ECONOMY OF HOMAN AFFAIRS, 173
turn,” &c. It is seldom, that wickedness alto­
gether escapes punishment, though it come slowly
after, limping with a lame foot;—and those pro­
verbial speeches amongst the Pagans,a
*041 di£v {A,v\uf iXtoucrt X
jv ta .
Mills of the gods do slowly wind,
Bat they at length to powder grind.
and, “ Divine justice steals on softly with woollen
feet, but strikes at last with iron hands.”
Nevertheless we cannot say, that it is always
thus neither, but that wicked persons may possi­
bly sometimes have an uninterrupted prosperity
here in this life, and no visible marks of Divine dis­
pleasure upon them: but, as the generously virtu­
ous will not envy them upon this account, nor re­
pine at their own condition, they knowing thatbov-
&vkokov rip dyadipavtf ai ry ipavXyayaOdv, There is nei­
ther any thing truly evil to the good, nor good to
the evil;—so are they so far from being staggered
herewith in their belief of a God and providence,
that they are rather the more confirmed in their
persuasions of a future immortality and judgment
after death, when all things shall be set straight
and right, and rewards and punishments impar­
tially dispensed. That of Plutarch ' therefore is
n>08t true here, etc ow o Aoyoc o rim 6sov tijv vpovocuv
ifta Kat tjjv Sta/tiovtjv rijg avQpwirtvqc /3f(3aiwv, Kat
ddrepov ovk earn* atroXnrstv avaipovvra Oartpov, That
there is a necessary connexion betwixt those two
things, Divine Providence, and the permanence or
immortality of human souls, one and the same
• Vide Plutarch, ubi supra, p. 548.
‘VidePlaton, in Apolog.Socratis, p. 360. ot de Republic, lib. x. p. 518.
• Ubi supra, p. 560.
174 ARGUMENT FROM THE :
reason confirming them both;. neither can one of
these be .taken alone without the other.-—But
they, who, because judgment is not presently
executed upon the.ungodly, blame the manage*-
ment of things as faulty, apd Providence as de­
fective, are like such spectators of a dramatic
poem, as when wicked and injurious persons are
brought upon the stage, for awhile swaggeriug
and triumphing, impatiently cry out against the
dramatist, and presently condemn die: plot;
whereas, if they would but expect the winding
up of things, and stay till the last dose,: they
should then see them come off with shame and
sufficient punishment.a The evolution of the
world, as Plotinus calls it,bis a'Xnf&n-^owmint«*».*
truer poem )—and we men histrionical .actoes
upon the stage, who, notwithstanding, insert
something of onr own into the poem ton; but
God Almighty is thatskilful dramatist, who.alt-
ways connectetb that of ours, which went before*
with what of his follows after, into good coherent
serise, and will at last make it appear, that a
thread of exact justice did run through all, and
that rewards and punishments are measured cmi
in geometrical proportion.
: Lastly, It is in itself fit, that there should, be
somewhere a doubtful and cloudy state of things*
for the better exercise of virtue and faith. For,
as there could have been no Hercules, bad them
not been monsters to subdue;, so, were there no
such difficulties to encounter with, nO puzzles
and entanglements of things* no temptations and
trials to assault us, virtue would grow languid,
aVide Plutarch, ubi supra, p. 654.
bEnncad. iii. lib. ii. cap. xvi. p. 267. oper.
ECONOMY OF HUMAN AFFAIRS. 175
and that excellent grace of faith want due occa­
sions and objects to exercise itself upon. Here
have we therefore such a state of things, and this,
world is, as it were, a stage erected for the. more
difficult .part of virtue to act upon, and where we
are to live by faith, and not by sight; that faith,
which is “ the substance of things to be hoped
foiv and the evidence of things not seen;” a belief
in the .goodness, power, and wisdom of God,
when all things are dark and cloudy round about
us. “'The just shall live by his faith.”
We have now sufficiently confuted the second
atheistic objection also, against Providence, as-to
the conduct and economy of human affairs. Never­
theless this is a large field, and much more might
be said in defence of Providence, both as to these,
and other instances, had we room here to expar.
tiatein. Wherefore, for a supplement of what
remains, we shall refer the reader to the writings
of others, who have professedly undertaken apo­
logies for Providence, both as to the fabric and
economy of the world ; but especially the learned
and ingenious author *of the Divine Dialogues:
Only we shall here add some few considerations^
not so much for the confutation of Atheists, as
for the better satisfaction of such religionists^
who, too easily concluding, that all things might
have been much better than, they are, are there­
upon apt to call in questionthe Divine attribute of
goodness in its full extent, which yet is the only
foundation of our Christian faith.
First therefore we say, that in judging of the
works of God, we ought not to consider the parts
of the world alone by themselves; and then,.
*Dr. Henry More.
176 THE WHOLE WORLD, NOT PARTS,
because we could fancy much finer things, there­
upon blame the Maker of the whole. As if one1
should attend only to this earth, which is but the'
lowest and most dreggy part of the universe; or
blame plants, because they have not sense; brutes,
because they have not reaso n m en , because they
are not demons or angels; and angels, because
they, are not gods, or want Divine perfection.
Upon which account, God should either have:
made nothing at all, since there can be nothiiig
besides himself absolutely perfect, or else nothing,
but the higher rank of angelical beings, free from
mortality, and all those Other evils, that attend
mankind, or such fine things as Epicurus’s gods'
were feigned to be, living in certain delicious re­
gions, * where there was neither blustering winds;'
nor any lowering clouds, nor nipping frosts* nor
scorching heat, nor night, nor shadow, but the
calm and unclouded ether, always smiling with
gentle serenity, ,whereas were there but one’kind
of thing (the best) thus made, there coilld have'
been no music nor harmony at all in the world,
for want of variety. ; But we ought, in the first
place, to consider the whole, whether that be not
the best, that could be made, having all that be­
longed! to- it; and then the parts in reference to'
the whole, whether they be not, in their several'
degrees and ranks, congruous and agreeable
thereunto. B ut this is a thing, which bath been
p.256. ■ so well insisted upon by Plotinus, that
[£ib. ii. de w e cannot speak better to it, than in his.
P r o v i d e n t i a , 1 \ \ t t t % %
Ennead.iK. words: OAov yap Tt £
tT
O
llJ<
T
€ 7rayjtaAov, K
C
U
lib .ii. cap iii.l * \ , ' « - > ~ / _
_ - _
_ ~
avrap/cse, Kai avra>, teat rote fxepem rotc
avroVf rote re KVpuortpoig Kal rote iX arrom v uKTavTVJQ »po<T~
*Vide Lucrct. lib. iii.ver, 19.
177
TO BE CONSIDERED.
$opo«c* d rolvw «c twk fiepuv to oXov a!ri«pfvoc» iroirot
ov titirile alrlat^ ra rtyip flip'llirp
<
>
c odro to oXov &?nconiv
« o v /ifa rv a #cdt apporrovfa Efce/vy, tea! to oXov <neofrov/xtvov,
fty tfpo? plpjj arra puepa (3\tiruv' tavro yapov rov Kovftov
olnu/iivou aXXa nva ran avrov ^up!{ Xafiovra, ou>V ti,
Kai ra God made the whole most beautiful,
entire, complete, and sufficient; all agreeing
friendly with itself and its parts; both the nobler
and the meaner of them being alike congruous
thereunto. Whosoever, therefore, from the parts
thereof, will blame the whole, is an absurd and
unjust censured For we ought to consider the
parts, not alone by themselves, but in reference to
the Whole, whether they be harmonious and agree*
ableto the same. Otherwise we shall not blametbe
universe, but some of its parts only, taken by
themselves; as if one should, blame the hair Or
toes of a man, taking no.notice at all of his Divine
visage and countenance; or omitting all other
animals, one should attend only to the most coh-
temptible of them; or, lastly* overlooking all
'other men, consider only the moist deformed
Thersites. But that, which God'made, was the
-whole as one things which he that attends‘
-to
may hear it speaking to him after this manner:
*God Almighty bath made me, and from thence
came I, perfect and complete, and standing in
need of nothing, because in me are contained all
things; plants, and animals, and good Souls, and
men happy with virtue, and innumerable demons,
and many gods; Nor is the earth alone in me
adorned with all manner of plants,1and a variety
of animalS ; or does the power of soul <extend
at most no further than to the seas; as if the
whole air, and ether, and heaven, in the mean
VOL. IV . N
178 THE YASTNESS OF
time, were quite, devoid of soul, and altogether
unadorned with living inhabitants. Moreover,
all things in me desire good, and every thing
reaches to it, according to its power and nature.
For the whole depends upon that first and highest
€fqpd, the gods themselves, who reign in my
several parts, and all animals,, and plants, and
whatsoever seems to .be inanimate in me. For
some things in me partake oqly of being, some
of Ike also, some of sense, some of reason, and
aosqe pf intellect above reason. But no man
ought to require equal tbipgs from unequal; nor
•that the finger should see, but the eye; it being
enough for the finger tq be a finger, and to per­
form its own office.”—And agaip, afterwards,
wenrtp rt^vtrijc ov irjhrrq xd £v rip X/atf d^OaXpovs worn,
■fAriPC ov$ q Xoyos Tr&yra Oeov'c ipyf&rat' aXXd r<$ /uv
ra Ss SfUfiWfis Stvrlpav Q
iv<rtv, uja dvdpmrove* Ka<Z<va
Vpdifff, W qXXa X«ly^i'XOU(iX«avvofpav t^ovri* iiftue
Affttpt at 4irc(f)0( ypa^pcijc alruUvrai, a>c ov Ka\d
Wl yptifukra mvru^ov, 6 ft apa to irponnKOvra areSaiKcv
Ocoinrw v « Tt£ o
rtju
t}rrdvrtcnfw
tt. ty
w
i*u>
, K
*l ra!*Sns' As an artificer wppld not make
all things in nn:animal to be eyes; so neither has
•theDivine Aoyoc, or spermatic reasqn ofthe world,
madeall thingsgods; but some gods,and some.de-
'mons, and some mep>and some lower animals; not
‘outofenvy,butto displayitsown variety and fecun­
dity. But weare like unskilful spectators ofa pic­
ture, vbo condemn the limner, because he hath not
pat bright colours everywhere; whereas he had
Mtoited hascolours toevery part respectively, giving
to each such as belonged to.if. Or else are we
Uko those, who would blame a cqmedy or tragedy,
because they were not all kings or heroes,, that
THB UNIVERSE. 179
acted in it, but some servants and rustic clowns
introduced also, talking after their rude fashion.
Whereas the dramatic poem would neither be
complete, nor elegant and delightful, were all
those worser parts taken out of it.
Again, We cannot certainly conclude, that the
works of God and his creation do not transcend
those narrow limits, which vulgar opinion and
imagination sets them, that commonly terminates
the universe, but alittle above the clouds, or atraost
supposes the fixed stars, being all fastened in one'
solid sphere, to be the utmost wall, or arched roof,
and rolling circumference thereof. Much less
ought we, upon such groundless suppositions, to
infer, that the world might therefore have been
made mnch better than it is, because it might
have been much more roomy and capacious. We
explode the atheistic infinity of distant worlds;
nor can we admit that Cartesian, seemingly more
modest, indefinite extension of one corporeal uni­
verse, which yet really, according to that philoso­
pher's meaning, hath nuUosfinis, no bounds nor
limits at all. For we persuade ourselves, that
the corporeal world is as uncapable of a positive
infinity of- magnitude, as it is of time; there
being no magnitude So great, but that more still
might be added to it. Nevertheless, as we cannot
possibly imagine the sun to be a quarter, or an
hundredth part so big as we know it to be; so-
much more may the whole corporeal universe far
transcend those narrow bounds, which onr imagi­
nation would circumscribe it in. The new celes­
tial phenomena, and the late improvements of
astronomy and philosophy made thereupon, ren­
der it so probable, that even this dull earth of
n 2
180 FUTURE AND PAST, WITH PRESENT.
oars is a planet, and the sun a fixed star in the
centre of that vortex, wherein it moves, that many
have shrewdly, suspected, that there are other
habitable globes, besides this earth ofours, (which
may be sailed round about in a year or two) as
also more suns, with their respective planets, than
One. However, the distance of all the fixed stars
from us being so vast, that the diameter of the
great orb makes no discernible parallax in the
site of than; from whence it is also probable,
that -the other fixed stars are likewise vastly dis­
tant: from ope another: this, I say, widens the
corporeal universe to us, aud makes those “ flam-
mantia mcenia nnindi,” as Lucretius calls'* them
those flaming walls of the world, to fly away
. before ns. Now, it is not reasonable to think,
that all this immense vastness should lie waste,
desert, and uninhabited, and have nothing in it
that could praise the Creator thereof, save only
this one small, spot of earth. “ In my father’s
hpujSe>(seith our Saviour) are many mansions.”
And Baruch,(chapter iii. appointed by our church
lo be read publicly) “ Oh Israel, how great is the
bouse o f,God, and how large is the place of bis
possession? Great and hath no end, high and.
unmeasurable.” Which yet we understand not;
of an absolute infinity, bat only such an immense,
yastness, as far transcends vulgar opinion aud
imagination. . -
;.We shall add but one thing more, that, to make
a right judgment of the ways of Providence, and
the justice thereof,, as to the economy of mankind,
we must look both forwards and backwards, or
besides the present, not only upon the future, .but.
also the past time. Which rule is likewise thus,
*Lib. i.w . 73,74.
FUTURE. AHD-P&ST, WITJI PRR8BHT. 191
set down by Plotinus; o«B
‘wiWv avo^Xic
reow t o v A » y p y , o * ow x p o ? r o r a p o v o c a a r o r e ... .
f w (3XtXHl)‘ a’AXa xpoc T«c xpofffliv TffXoSottf, ®
»
P
r ;
xal av toptAW* Neither is that doctrine
of the ancients to be neglected, that, to give an
account of Providence, we ought to look back,
upon former periods, as well as forward to what
is future.—ludeed he, and those other philoso-;
pliers, who were religious, understood this so,.as
to conclude a pre-existent state of all particular
souls, wherein they were at first created by God
pure, but by the abuse of their own liberty degej
aerated, to be a necessary hypotheses, for tb&
solving that phenomenon of the depraved state
of mankind in.general here in this life: And not
only so, bat they endeavoured in like manner to
give an account also.of those different conditions
of particular persons as to morality*, from their
infancy, and their other different fates here, deriv­
ing them all w rwv « ( > o | 3 f r o m their seye-.
ral demeanors heretofore in a pre-existent state.—
And there have not wanted Christian doctors;
who hjaye complied ..with these philosophers in
both. But our common Christianity only agrees
thus far, as to suppose a kind of imputative; pro*,
existence in Adam, in whom all were created
pure, and so consequently involved in bis after
miscarriage; to solve the pravity of human nature;
upou which account we are all said to be. fvau
rtkvaopyHc, *by nature children of wrath.—But aa
for the different conditions, of persons, and theic
several fates, more disadvantageous tQ^_.Mtrr.^.
some than others, this indeed the gene-
rality of Christiau doctors have been rv*f*»c, «*•;
• Eph.ii.3.
183 PROVIDENCE NOT DISTRACTOOUB'•
eeX
(u
5
, . content to resolve only into an occult,
w^wj^x- but just Providence. And thus does
is7* Origen himselfsometimes raodestty.pass
* p 134. ** 0Ter’ as *n ^is third book against
Celsus,* iroXXoIgtcat ra ri}gavarpofiietoioW
twc
ytyivyrai, tig (ftavraaiav fmTpavijvai t w v Jcptirrovwv Xa-
/3sTv* aXX’ tm « u be irpwnje ^Xuctac *Jrot iv watSucote ewai
dKoXaerrwv avSpwv, jf Saairorwv ^ sv oXXjj rtvl *cwXvo(&ry
ti}v -avafiXiirttv KaKoSai/tovltf rac $£ irtpi towtww
dtrittg irdvrue ftlv tucoe «vai, sv role rife irpovotag Xoyoie’
irbtrtiv ?e avrac «C avOpwrove ovk tvytptq' It hap-
peneth to many, so to have been brought up from
their very childhood, as that, by one means or
Other, they could have no opportunity at all of
thinking of the better things, &c. And it is very
probable, that there are causes of these things in
the reasons of Providence, though they do not
easily fall under human notice.
-• Put- there is yet a third atheistic objection
against Providence behind, That it is impossible
any one-Being should animadvert and order all
things in the distant places of the world at once;
and, were this possible, yet would such infinite
negotiosity be very uneasy and distractious to it,
and altogether inconsistent with happiness. Nor
Would a Being, irresistibly powerful, concern it­
self in the good or welfare of any thing else, it
Standing in need of nothing, and all benevolence
and. good-will arising from indigency and imbe­
cility. Wherefore such a Being would wholly be
taken op in the enjoyment of itself, and its own
happiness, utterly regardless of all other things.
To which the reply is, first, That though our­
selves, and all created beings, have but a finite
animadversion, and narrow sphere of activity;
TO THE DEITY. m
yet does it not therefore follow, that the case must
be the same with the Deity, supposed to be a
Being infinitely perfect, (ivtijwSwa/wc, that hath
no manner of defect—either of knowledge *0r
power in’it. But this is a mere idolum ipecus, ED
idoi of the cave or den—men measuring the
Deity by their own scantling and narrowness.
.And, indeed, were there nothing at all but what
we ourselves could furlly comprehend, there could
be no God. Were the sun an animal) and bad
Hfe coextended with its rays and light, it would
see and perceive every atom'of matter, that its
Outstretched beams reached to, and touched.
Now all created beings are themselves, in Some
sense, but the rays of the Deity, which there*
fore cannot but feel and sensibly perceive all
these its own effluxes and emanations; Men
themselves can order and manage affairs in Several
distant places at once, without any disturbance;
End we have innumerable notions of things in dtir
mind, (hat lie there easily together) without croud-
ing one another, or causing any distraction to tos.*
Nevertheless, the minds of weak mortals may
here be somewhat eased and helped, by con­
sidering what hath been before1suggested; that
there is no necessity God Almighty*should aurdvp-
ytiv airavra, do all things himselfimmediately and
drudgingly—but he may have his inferior mini­
sters and executioners udder him, to discharge
him of that supposed encurnbcrment. As, first
of ail, an artificial plastic nature, which, without
knowledge and animal consciousness, disposes
the matter of the universe according to the plat-
* Vide Xenophonteta de Memor&bilib. Socratu, lib. i. p.575.
184 pr o v id en c e not d istra ctiou s
form or idea of a perfect mind, and forma the
bodiies of all apimals. And this was one reason,
why; we did before insist so much upon this arti­
ficial, regular, and methodical nature, namely,
that Divine Providence might neither be excluded
fropi having an influence upon all things in this
lower world, as resulting only from the fortuitous
motions of senseless matter, unguided by any
mind; nor yet the Deity be supposed to do every
thing,itself immediately andmiraculously, with­
out tire subservient ministry of any natural causes,
which would seem to us mortals, to be not only a
violent, but also an operose, cumbersome, and
molitninous business. And thus did Plato* ac­
knowledge, that there were ififyovos fvatve .turfai
qle w
7rj)p£T
Q
U
ffaic o ©toe' certain causes of a
prudent, that is, artificial and orderly nature,
which God makes, use of, as subservient to him­
self in ,the mundane economy.—^-Besides, which,
tho?e instincts al^o impressed upon animals, and
which, they are passive to, directing them to act
for epds. either apt understood, uot attended
to by them, in order,to their own good and the
good of the universe, are another, part of that Di­
vine Fate, which,.inserted into things, themselves,
is the servant and executioner of Providence^
Above all which, there are yet other knowing and.
understanding ministers .of the Deity, as its eyes
and hands; demoniac or. angelic beings, appoint
ed to preside over mankind, all mundane af­
fairs, and .the tilings ofnature; they having their
several fiistiuct offices and provinces assigned
them* 0 / which also Plato. thus; rovrotc ««w
*
• In Timaeo, §. xxxvi. p. 256.
TO THE DEITY. 18<>
ap^ovrtcvpooTtTayptvoiucdorotc, artto apucpd- p_go5.[D« •
t«to
v o*t vaOtit km Tpo&wc* There .are ;
certain rulers or presidents appointed by ,
the supreme God, who governs the whole world,
over all the several things and parts therein, -even,
to the smallest distribution of them.—All which
inferior causes are constantly overlooked and su­
pervised by the watchful eye of God Almighty,
himself, who may also sometimes, extraordinarily,
interpose. ■ ,
We need not, therefore, restrain and confine Di-.
vine Providence to a few greater things only, as
some do, that we may thereby consult the ease of
the Deity, and its freedom from distraction; but.
may and ought to extend it to all things whatso­
ever,, small as well as great. And, indeed, the,
great things of the world cannot well be ordered
neither, without some regard to the small and
little: *it
o
Seyap avtv aputpav rov$ puyaXouf faalv ot
X
tO
oX
oyot.X
tflovc tu K
tordar as architects affirm, that
great stones cannot be well placed together in a.
building without little.—Neither can generals of
armies, nor governors ofvfamilies, nor masters of
ships,- uor mechanic artificers, discharge their se­
veral .functions, and do their works respectively
as they ought, did they not mind small things
also, as well as the great. M* roivw (saith the
forementioned philosopher)" rovye ©
eo'v dZuooofU
*
wore O
v
ijtw
v Srjpiovpydtv fravXoripov, oi rd .jrpcxnjicovTa
avroiQ tpya, daipmp av d/ulvovf w
<
ri, roay dtcpifitartpa
k
c
u rtXtwrtpa pupre^vj/ apiKpaicat ptydka dtrtpyaCovTM
'
Let us not therefore make God Almighty inferior
to mortal opificers, who, by one and the same art,
can order small things as well as great; and so
* Plato de Logib. Jib. x. p, 071. - h Ibid.
1 8 6 PROVIDENCE, NOT DISTRACTIOUS, &C.
suppose him to be supine and negligent.—Never­
theless, the chief- concernment and employment
of Divine Providence in the world is the economy
of souls, dr government of rational beings, which
is by Plato contracted into this compendium
P. 90
9. ow$ev aXXoipyov ripxerrivty •Xelirerat irXtfu ftt-
. {f.67*.J r a r i Q^jja i r(J a/iuvovyivofttvov ijfloc EtcjSsXViw'
T&itovT
^etpov etctow^Etpora, &c. There is no other
work left for the supreme Governor of all, than
only to translate better souls into better places
and conditions, and worser into worser—or, as
he after addeth, to dispose of every one in the
wbrld iii such a manner, as might best render
vuccftrovaptn}v, wrufiW $1kokm
v, virtue vicforioiis,
add triumphant over vice.—And thus may the
slow and imperfect wits of mortals be satisfied,
that Providence to the Deity is no moliminons,
laborious, and distractions thing.
’But that there is no higher spring.of life in ra­
tional animals, thancontracted self-love, and that
all good-will and benevolence arises only from in­
digency and imbecility, and that no being What­
soever is concerned in the welfare of any other
thing, but only what itselfstands in need of; and,
lastly, therefore, that what is irresistibly powerful,
and needs nothing, would have no manner of be*
heVolence, nor concern itself in the good and wel­
fare of any thing Whatsoever; this is but another
idol of the Atheists’ den, and only argues their
bad nature, low*sunk minds, and gross immoral­
ity. And the same is to be said also of that other
inaxim of theirs,* That what is perfectly happy
would have nothing at all-to do, but only enjoy its
OW
n ease and quiet: whereas there is nothing
* Vide Diogen. Lacrt. lib.x. Scgtn. 139. p. 661#
187
ATHEISTIC QUERIES ANSWERED.
more troublesome to ourselves than this avpal-ia,
this having nothing to (Id—and the activity of the
Deity, or a perfect being, is altogether as easy
to it as its essence.
The atheistic queries come next to be answer­
ed ; which, being but three, are naturally to be
disposed in this order: First, If there were a
God, or perfect Being, who therefore was suffi­
ciently happy iu the enjoyment of himself, why
would he ^o about to make a world ? Secondly,
If he mast needs make a world, why did he not
make it sooner? this late production thereof
looking, as if he bad but newly awaked put of
a long sleep.throughout infinite past ages, or else
had in length of time contracted a satiety of his
solitude. -Thirdly and lastly, What tools or in­
struments? what machines or engines had he?
Or how could he move the matter of the whole
world, especially if incorporeal? because then he
would run through all things, and could not lay
hold nor fasten upon any thing.
To the first therefore we say, That the reason,
why God made the world, was from his own over­
flowing and communicative goodness, that there
might be other beings also happy, besides him,
and enjoy themselves. Nor does this at all clash
with God’s making of the world for his own glory
and honour; though Plotinus* were so shy of
that,- yikoiov tva rifitorai, /cat fiercupepovrwv mro ruv
dyaXftaTovrouHv ruv ivraSBa, it is ridiculous to Say,
that God made the world, that he might be ho­
noured ; this being to transfer the affections of hu­
man artificers and statuaries upon him.—Bat the
* Labro contra Gnoaticos, Ennead. ii. lib.ix. cap. if. p.S02.
188 WOULD INCAPABLE OF ETERNITY.
chief reason of life saying so was, l>ecause that phi­
losopher conceived the world to have proceeded,,
not so much from the will of the Deity, as the
necessity of its nature. Though this be true also,;
that God did not make the World merely to osten-
tate his skill and power, but to communicate his,
goodness, which is chiefly,and properly his glory;-,
as the light and splendour of the son is the glory
ofit; But the Atheist demands, What hurt had
it been for us never to have been made? and the
answer is -easy, We should then uever have en-
joyedLony good, or been capable Ofhappiness; and
had there .been no rational creatures at all made,
it must have been either from impotent sterility;
in the Deity, or else from an invidious, narrow,;
and contracted selfishness, or want of benignity,;
and communicative goodness; both which are in--
consistent with a perfect Being. But the argu-;
inent ttiay be thus retorted upon these Atheists ;
What hOrt would it be for us to cease to be, or-
becomenothing? Aud why then are these Atheists,,
as well.as Others, sp unwilling to die?
But.then in the next place they urge: Why-
was not the world made sooner, since this good­
ness of God was without date, and from ever-;
lasting? But this question may be taken in two;
different senses; either, Why was uot the world
from eternity, as God and his goodness are eter-:,
nal? or else, secondly, If the world could not.
he from eternity, yet, notwithstanding, why was it.
not sooner, but so lately made? In both which,
queries the atomic Atheists take it for granted,;
' that the system of the world was not from eter­
nity, but had a beginning. Now we say, that the
reason, why the world was uot made from.eter-
WORLD INCAPABLE OP ETERNITY. 189
nity, was not from any defect of goodness in the
Divine will, but because there is an absolute im­
possibility in the thing itself; or because the ne­
cessity and incapacity of such an imperfect being
hindered. For we must confess, that,' for our
parts, we are prone to believe, that could the
world have been from eternity, it shonld certainly
have been so. And just thus does Phi- p ^
loponus, in bis confutation of Proclus’s th*.
« i ■ *. etveK.1
arguments for the world s eternity, de-
clare himself, and no otherwise: Kat n^«c apa
pil tlvai rov Koopov aiSiov wronOepevm, wre to tivac row
Qfdv au ayaOov a<j>aipoiptOa, w rt aoOivtmv rife hpptovp-
•jrucrie avroti KaT-qyopovfitv Bwa/icio^' aXXa ftp SvvaaOat ati
etpatrov KOffpovSiavTqvrqvrov yevopivov ipvotvinronOtpt&a'
Ourselves also supposing the world not to have
been eternal, do neither ascribe this to any defect
either of gtiodnesa or of power in the Deity, bnt
Only tOtheimpOssibilityofthethingitself.—Where,
hi the following words, he gives a two-fold account
ofthis impossibility ofthe world’s eternity; onrero
dirtipov tear evloyuav vircxrrijvm, v Stt^trrjrovilvatvv aSvvarov
xal on awatStov ttvat tm irotoCvri rd ytvoptvov jtwnv ovk
First, because there can be nothing actually
infinite, and yet run .through, as all the past dura­
tion ofthe world hatbbeen; and, secondly, because
that, which is made, or brought-into being by
another, as a distinct thing from it, cannot be.Co­
eternal with its maker.—Where it is probable that
Philoponus, being a Christian, designed not to
oppose the eternal generation of the SonofGod,
but only to assert that nothing, which was prh-
perfy made or created by God, and nothing,
which was not itself God, could be from eternity,
or without beginning. And now we see, how
190 WORLD INCAPABLE OF ETERNITY.
those atheistic exceptions against the novity of
the Divine creation,as if God must therefore either
have slept from eternity, or else have at length'
contracted a satiety of his former solitude, and.
the like, do of themselves quite vanish into
nothing. But then, as to the second sense of the
question, Why the world, though it could not
possibly be from eternity, yet was no sooner, but
so lately made? we say, that this is an absurd
question; both because-time was made together
with the world, and there was no sooner or later
before time; and also because whatsoever bad a
beginning, must of necessity be once but a day
old. Wherefore the world could not possibly
have been so made by God in time, as not to be
once but five or six thousand years old, and no
more; as now it is.
And as for the third and last query; How God
could move and command the matter of the
whole world, especially if incorporeal? we reply,
first, that all other things being derived from God,
as their only fountain and original, and essentially,
depending on him, who, by his absolute power
also, could annihilate whatsoever he created; he
must needs have a despotic power over all; and
every thing whatsoever be naturally subject and
obsequious to him. And since no body can post
sibly iqove itself, that, which first moved matter,
mu.st of necessity be incorporeal; nor could it by.
local motion, as one body moves another, or as
engines and machines move by trusion or pulsion*
they being before moved, but must do it by ano­
ther kind of action, such as is not local motion,
nor heterokinesy, but autokinesy; that is, by cogi­
tation, Wherefore, that conceit of the Atheists,
NO INTEREST IN ATHEISM* 191
that an incorporeal Deity could not possibly move
the matter of the world, because it would run
through it, aud could not fasten or lay hold there­
upon, is absurd, because this moves matter pot me­
chanically but vitally, and by cogitationonly.. And
that a cogitative being, as such, hath a natural
imperium over matter, and power of moving it,
without any engines or machines, is unquestion­
ably certain, even from our own souls; which
move our bodies, and command them every way,
merely by will and thought. And a perfect
mind, presiding over -the matter of the whole
world, could much more irresistibly, and with
infinitely more ease, move the whole.corporeal
universe, merely by will and cogitation, than we
can our bodies.
The last head of atheistic argumentation is
from interest And, first, the Atheists would
persuade, that it is the interest of mankind in ge­
neral, and of every particular person, that there
should be no God, that is, no Being infinitely
powerful, that hath no law, but its own will; and
therefore may punish whom he pleases eternally
after death.
To which our first reply is, that if there be a
God, and souls be immortal, then is it not any
roan’s thinking otherwise that will alter the case,
nor afford the Atheists any relief against those
two imagined evils of theirs. For things are
sullen, and will be as they ate, whatever we
think them, or wish them to be; and men will at
last discover their error, when perhaps it may be
too late. Wishing is no proving; and therefore
this atheistic argument from interest is no argu-
192 NO INTEREST IN ATHEISM.
tnent at all against the existence of a God, it
being nothing but the ignorant wish and vain de- •
sire of besotted Atheists.
• In the next place, this wish of Atheists is alto­
gether founded upon a mistaken notion of God
Almighty too, that he is nothing but arbitrary
will omnipotent; which indeed is not the most
desirable thing.' But as it hath been often de­
clared, the will of God is the will of goodness*
justice, and wisdom itself omnipotent. His will
is not mere will,-such as hath no' other reason
besides itself; but it is law, equity, and chancery $
itisthe to Ssov, or Ought itself—decreeing, willing;
and acting. Neither does God punish any ont of
a delight in punishment, or in the evil and saffer-
ing of the persons punished; but to those, who are
not avlarot, altogether incurable, 8bc>t larpeta, lm
punishment is physic—in order to their recovery
and amendment; So that the source and fountain
thereof is goodness to the. persons themselves
punished.. But to such as are incurable, the
punishment inflicted on them is intended for the
good of the whole. So that this attribute of
justice in God doth not at all clash with the at­
tribute of goodness,.it being but a branch thereof,
or particular modification of the same.- Goodliest
and justice in God are always complicated toge^
ther; neither his goodness being fondness, nor
his justice cruelty v bnthe'being both good ra
punishing, and just in rewarding and:dispensing
benefits. Wherefore, it can be the interest of
none, that there should .be no'God nor immor­
tality, unless perhaps of such desperately and in­
curably wicked persons, who abandoning their
INFINITE HOPES FROM THE DEITY. 193
true interest of being good, haviug thereupon no
other interest now left them, than not to be, or be­
come nothing.
To be without a God, is to be without hope in
the world ; for Atheists can have neither faith,
nor hope, in senseless matter, and the fortuitous
motions thereof- And though an understanding
being have never so much enjoyment of itself for
the present, yet could it not possibly be happy,
without immortality, and security of the future
continuance thereof. But the Atheists conclude;
that there is nothing immortal, and that all life
perisbeth and vanisheth into nothing; and conse­
quently also, that cv&n/uovtaaviiircpKTov, happiness
is a thing that hath no existence in nature, a mere
figment and chimera, or idle wish and vain dream
of mortals. Wherefore it cannot be the interest
of mankind, that this hypothesis should be true,
which thus plainly cuts olf all hope from men,
and leaves them in an utter impossibility of being
ever happy.
God is such a being, as if he could be supposed
not to be, there is nothing, which any, who are not
desperately engaged in wickedness, no, not Athe­
ists themselves, could possibly more wish for or
desire. To believe a God,is to believetbe'existence
of all possible good and perfection in the universe;
it is tobelieve,that things areas they shotildbe,and
that the world is so well framed and governed, as
that the whole system thereof eould not possibly
have been better. For peccability arises, from
the necessity of imperfect free-willed beings, left
to. themselves, and therefore could not by omni­
potence itself have been excluded ; and though
sin actual might perhaps have been kept out by
VOL. iv. o
i 9 4 ATHEISTIC POLITICS '
force and violence, yet, all things cemputedj it
Was doubtless most for the good of the whole;
that it should not be thus forcibly hindered^
There is nothing, which cannot be hoped for, by
a' good man, from the Deity; whatsoever happi-
ness his being is capable of, and such things, as
4
<eye hath not seen, norear heard, nor cannoW
enter into the heart of man to conceive.”- Infiuite
hopes lie before us, from the existence of a Being
infinitely good and powerful, and our ownsoulsf
immortality ; and nothing can hinder or obstruct
these hopes, but our own wickedness of-life. To
believe a God, and do well, are two the most
hopeful, cheerful, and comfortable things, that
possibly can be. And to this purpose is that of
Linus, *
*E\moOcu %
gkvr&rr, 1nil ou»tor* *A«fcirrav •
'P&ia wArr* BtS r&Jrtu, xa&Avkinn,ovfa, . .
Wherefore, as for Democritus and Epicurus,
whose encomiums the Atheists here so loudly
sing forth, we say, that however they have made
so great a noise in the world, and have been so
much cried up of late, yet were they really* no
better than a couple of infatuated sophists; or
witty fools, and debauchers of mankind.
And now come we to the last atheistic argu­
mentation, wherein they endeavour to recommend
their doctrine to civil sovereigns, and to persuade
them, that Theism or religion is absolutely incon­
sistent with their interest; their reasons for which
are these three following. First, because the
civil Sovereign reigns only in fear; and therefore,'
if there be any power and fear greater than tiie
i' • ’ ' • . ‘ .
V* Apud JwnblicbumdeVita Pyth^gor, ^ x x jrik p. ll7r!l8; •
UNRAVELLED. ■
' m
porwerand fear of the Leviathan* civil authority
elm signify tittle, Secondly, because soVCmigrtty
is in its own' nature absolutely indivisible;' awf
must be Cither infinite,- or none at <aU
j; so that
Divine laws (eatoral atidrevealed) superior to*it,
circumscribingit, would-eonsequSfitlyidCS'trO'y it.’
Wherefbre religion and Theisai most of necessity
be displaced, and removed Out of thfe way,: tO
make room for theLeviathao to roMandtUmble
in. Thirdly and lastly, private judgment OfgoOd
arid evil, just and unjust, isalso* eOrttrftdicfiouS
to the*very being o fab o d y politic; Which is obo
artificial *man, made up of aiUnyflaturSlraett
united- under one head, having one common rea­
son, judgment, and will, ruling ever’the whole.
B at conscience, which religion ihtrddueeth, is
private judgment of good and evil, just and un­
just, and therefore altogether* inconsistent:With
true politics; that can admit of no private con­
sciences, but only one public conscience of the
law. - *•■••• ■
In way of answer to the first of Which, we tririst
here briefly unravel the atheistic OthiCs-and poli­
tics. H ie foundation Whereof id fifst’laid inf the
vftlanizing of human nature ; a s that, which baS
not so much as any the least se e d s.e ith e ro f
politicalness or ethicalness at all in* i t ; nothing
of equity and philanthropy (there being no other
charity or benevolence any where, according to
them, save what resulteth from fear, imbecilityi
and! indigency) ; nothing Of public andcom intm
concern, but all private and selfish; appetite arid
Utility, or the desires of sensual pleasure/and
honour, dominion, and preceUency-before others,
o 2
196 ATHEISTIC POLITICS
being the only measures of good in nature. So
that there can be nothing naturally just or unjust,
nothing in itself sinful or unlawful, but every man'
by nature.hath jus ad omnia, a right to every
thing—whatsoever his appetite inclineth him unto,‘
or himselfjudgeth profitable; even to other men’s
bodies and lives. “ Si occidere cupis, jus babes;”
if thou desirest to kill, thou hast then naturally a
right thereuntothat is, a liberty to kill without
any sin or injustice. Formas and lex, orjustitia,
fight and law, or justice, in the language,ofthese
atheistic politicians, are directly contrary to one
another; their right being a belluine liberty, not
made, or left by justice, but such as is.found­
ed in a.supposition of its absolute nonexistence.
Should therefore a son not only murder his own
parents, who had tenderly brought him' up, but
also exquisitely torture them, taking pleasure in,
beholding their rueful looks, and bearing their
lamentable shrieks and outcries, there would be.
nothing of sin or injustice at all in this, nor in any
thing else; because justice is no nature, but a
mere factitious and artificial thing, made only by
men and civil, laws., And, according to these
men’s apprehensions, nature: has been very,kind
and indulgent to mankind herein,.that it hath'
thus brought us into the world, without any fet­
ters or shackles upon us, free from all duty and
Obligation, justice and morality, these being :£oi
them nothing but restraints and hinderangesof
true liberty. From all which it follows* that
nature absolutely dissociates and segregates, men
from one another, by reason of the inconsistency
of those appetites of theirs, that are. all carried
UNRAVELLED.' 199
oat only to private good, and consequently, that
every man is, by nature, in a state of war and1
hostility against every man.
In the next place, therefore, these atheistic po-‘
liticians further add, that though this their state
of nature, which is a liberty from all justice and
obligation, and a lawless, loose, or belluine right
to every thing, be in itself absolutely the best;
yet nevertheless by reason of men’s imbecility,'
and the equality of their strengths, and incon­
sistency of their appetites, it proves by accident
the worst; this war with every one making men’*
right or liberty to every thing indeed a right or
liberty to nothing; they having no security of
their lives, much less of the comfortable enjoy­
ment of them. For as it is not possible, that nil
men should have dominion (which were indeed?
the meet desirable thing, according to these prin­
ciples), so the generality must needs be sensible-
of more evil in such a state of liberty with an-
universal war against all, than of good. Where-’
fore, when men had been a good while hewing,
and Slashing, and justling against one another,’
they became at length all'weary hereof, and con­
ceived it necessary by art to help the defect of
their own power here, and to choose a lesser evil'
for the avoiding of a greater; that is, to make a
voluntary abatement of this their infinite right,
and to submit to terms of equality with one an->
other, in order to a sociable and peaceable coha­
bitation : and not only so, but also for the secu­
rity of all, that others should observe such rules
as well as themselves, to put their necks under
the yoke of a common coercive power, whose
will, being, the will of them all, should be the
ATHEIST* VILbANIZE
m
very rule, and law / and measure of justice to
Here therefore these atheistic politicians, as
they first of all slander human nature, and mdke
a villain of it ; ,sodo they, in the next place, re­
proach justice and. civil sovereignty also, making
it !to he nothing .butap ignoble and bastardly
hrat ’of fear;:or else a lesser evil, submitted to
iperply out of necessity, for. the avoiding o f a
greater eyjl, tbatofw arw ith every pne,,by rea-<
son !0f;men’s natural imbecility. So:that, accord­
ing to this bypothesis, jnslice and civil govern?
ment1are plainly things not .good *in themselves;
Uor dCsiraWe (they being a hinderance of liberty;
apd nothing but shackles and ■
fetters), but by
accident only, as1necessary evilsand thus do
these politicians ;themselves sometitnes disthw
guisb ;betwtxt gdod and just, that “ bonuiti
amhtur per se> jnstqm per accidens;” good 19
that,;which is!loved for itself, but just by accb
dent^From whence it follows unavoidably, that
all .men must of necessity be axartts SLc
o
w
k
, un­
willingly j«nt,-M>r.not with afulland perfect; but
mixed .will only; just being a thing thatisneb
sincerely godd. bot such as hath a great dash or
dose of evil blended with it. And this was tbp
old atheistic generation pf justice, and df a’
body politic, civil society, and sovereignty. Fop
though a modern writer affirm this hypothesis-
(which he looks Upon as the only time scheme-
of politics).to be a new invention, as the circu­
lation of tbeblood,and no older than the book‘
l>e Give, yet is it certain, that it was the cons-:
mouly-received doctrine of the atheistic politi­
cians and philosophers before Plato’s time; who
HUMAN NATURE. 100
represents their sense concerning the original of
justice and civil society in this m anner: o xp vro *
efqv tpfiV) mpl rovrov axove, ri r« ov rvyyavH : .
ic«* o&v yiyovt ScJcatootW m^vxivai yap Si 559.°*
jaaif *ro fiiv aSuc&v ayaQov, to 8e aSucuaOcu cdi#t•
naxtv' vXioin St xax<f awspfiaXXuv TO aStxutr-
9m, n iyaO^f ire aSuctw' w n ixuBav oXXqXovc aSuaooi r i
mdkSikwvtm, /ecuttfi^o rip w ytvuirw, rote fu| Swajdwoic
w
>
. ^ttv Ixffvyuy, ro & aipav, Soku X votrtkuv SfniQiodtu.
sAA^Xotc, fair a&JCfly, fiyr aSunwDu' jeat,wrwfcv &i
ap&uj&K vefxouQ rifkoOat, k m ovojttaoat ro vvo row vdpoy
m frA yfia vofu/mv n k m Sucatov* I am to declare first
what justice is,. according to the sense of these
philosophers, and from whence it was generated.
They say, therefore, that by nature, lawless liberr
ty, and to do that which is now called injustice
and injury to other men, is good; but to suffer
iff'from.others, is evil. B ut of the two there is
more of evil in suffering it, than of good in doing
it: whereupon when- men had clashed a good
while, doing and suffering injury, the greater
part, who by reason of.their imbecility were not
able to take the former without the latter, at
length compounded the business amongst them­
selves, and agreed together by pacts and cove­
nants, neither to do nor suffer injury, but to
submit to rules of equality, and make laws by
com pact in order to their peaceable cohabita­
tion, they calling that, w hich. was required in
those laws, by the name of ju s t—A nd then is it
added: KM uvm ravrqv y b to iv n k m ovalav SucauxruvtK,
jKEra£u ovoav row /ukv apiarou o vrof, caw aSucdiv fiv SiSy
SIxt)v , rowSt KMciorov, iav adueoi/uvqs ri/xwptioBai aSvvarot
i ‘ t o Sixatov tv ftkotf ■
ov rowrwv apiQorfporv, dyajraoflai,
owj^ aic a.ya@pv, o A A ’ wv appwaruf too ■
ahjzitv Tijuai/uevov'
400 their authority,
And this is, according to these philosophers, the
generation and essence of justice,-as a certain
middle thing betwixt the best arid the worst.
The best, to exercise a lawless liberty of doing
whatsoever one please to other men without suf­
fering any inconvenience from it; and the worst
to suffer evil from others, without being able to
revenge it. Justice, therefore, being a middle
thing betwixt both these, is loved, not as that
which is good in itself, but only by reason of
tnen's imbecility, and their inability to do in­
justice. Forasmuch as he; that had sufficient
power, would never enter into such compacts,’
and submit to equality and subjection. As for
example, if a man had Gyges’s magical ring,
that he could do whatsoever he listed, and not
be seen or taken notice of by any, such an one
would certainly never enter into covenants, nor
Submit to laws of equality and subjection.—
Agreeably wbereunto, it hath been concluded
also by some of these old atheistic philosophers,
that justice was dXXorpiov dyaOov, not properly
and directly one’s own good, the good of him
that is just, but another man's good, partly of
the follow-citizens, but chiefly of the ruler, whose
vassal he is.—And it is well known, that after
Plato’s time, this hypothesis concerning justice,
that it was a mere factitious thing, and sprung
pnly from men’s fear and imbecility, as a lesser
evil, was much insisted bn by Epicurus also.
' But let ns in the next place see, how oUr mo­
dern atheistic philosophers and politicians will
manage and carry on this hypothesis, so as to-
consociate men by art into a body politic, that
are naturally dissociated from One another, as
MADE BY 'WORDS. SOI
also make justice and obligation artificial; when
there is none in nature. First of all, therefore,
these artificial justice-makers, city-makers, and
authority-makers, tell us, that though men have
an infinite right by nature, yet may they alienate
this right, or part thereof, from themselves, and
either simply renounce it, or transfer the same
upon some other person; by means whereof it
will become unlawful for themselves, afterwards;
to 'make use thereof. Thus a late writer,* men
*
*may by signs declare, Velle se non licitum sibi
amplius fore, certum aliquid facere, quod jure
antea fecisse poterant; That it is their will, it
shall no longer be lawful for them, to do some­
thing, which before they had a right to d o a n d
this is called by him, a simple renunciation of
rig h t' And,further,saithhe, they “ may declare
again, Velle se non licitum sibi amplius fore
alicui resistere, &c. That it is their will, it shall
be no longer lawful for them, to resist this or that
particular person, whom before they might law­
fully have resistedand this is called a translation
of right, fiut if there be nothing in its own na­
ture unlawful, then Cannot this be unlawful for a
man afterwards, to make use of such liberty, as
' he. had before in words renounced or abandoned.1
Nor can any man, by his mere will, make any
thing unlawful to him, which was not so in itself;
but-only suspend the exercise of so much of his
liberty as he thought good. But, however, could
a. man by his will oblige himself, or make any-
thirig unlawful to him, there would be nothing
got by this, because then might he, by bis will,
disoblige himself again; and make the same law-
• * Hobbes, Elen, <
1
« cap. ii. 4.
90S OBLIGATION ; NEITHER
M m before.. For; what is made merely by will,
may be destroyed by will. Wherefore, these-.po^
liticians will yet urge the business further, and
tell, us, that no man can be obliged but by his
own act, and that the essence of injustice is no­
thing else but dati repetition the taking away of
that, which one had before given. To which we
again-reply, that were a man naturally unobliged
to;any thing, then could be no way be obliged to
stand to his own act, so that it should he;really
unjust and unlawful for him, at any time, upon
secpnd thoughts, votuntarily to undo, what he had
before voluntarily done. But the Atbeistshere
plainly render injustice a mere ludicrous thing,-
When they tell ns,bthat it is nothing butsucb.an
absurdity in life, as it is in disputation, when a
mad)denies a proposition, that he had before
granted,; which'is no real' evil in him as a.moo,
blit’only a thing called an absurdity, as a:dis­
putant. That is, injustice is .no-absolute evil of
the man; .but only a relative incongruity in him,
8*a citizen. As wheu a man Speaking Latin, ob­
serves not :the laws of grammar, this is a kind fef
injustice in bim, as a Latinist or grammarian; so
when one, who lives, in civil society, observes'not
the .laws and conditions thereof, this i#,as it were,
the false Latin of a citizen, and uothing else,
According to which notion of injustice, there is
no'Such real evil or hurt in it, as can anyway
withstand the force of appetite and private utility,
and oblige men to civil obedience, when it is--con­
trary to the same. Bat these political jugglers
add enchanters will here cast yet a further mist
before mens eyes with their pacts and covenants.
* Id, ibid, cap. iii. §. 3. k Jd. ibid.
ARTIFICIAL, NOS VIOLENT. 90S
JPor men by their covenants, say they, may an»
jfuestionsbly oblige themselves, and make things
sojust and unlawful to them, that were hot so be­
fore. Wherefore, injustice is again defined by
them, and that with more speciousness, to be the
breach of Covenants. But though it be trhe, that
if there be natural justice, covenants will oblige;
yOt, upon the contrary supposition, that there is
nothing naturally unjust, this cannotbe unjust
Neither, to break covenants. Covenants, without
natural justice, .are nothing but mere words and
breath (as indeed these atheistic politicians them­
selves, agreeably to their own hypothesis, call
Jheih); and therefore can they have no force to
Oblige. Wherefore, .thesejustice-makers are them*
selves at last necessitated to fly to laws of na­
ture, and to pretend this to be a law of nature,
that men should stand to their pacts and cove*
narits. Which is,plainly to contradict their main
fundamental principle, that by nature nothing is
unjust or unlawful; for, ifit be so, then can there
be no laws of nature; and if there be laws of
nature, then .must there be something naturally
unjust and unlawful* So that this is not to
make justice, but clearly to unmake their own
hypothesis, and to suppose justice to hate been
already made by nature, or to be in nature; which
is a gross absurdity in disputation, to affirm what
ooC had before denied. But these their laws of
fiature are indCed nothing but juggling equivoca-
tioty add a hiere mockery; themselves again ac­
knowledging thetn to be no laws, because law is
nothing but the word of him who bath commaud
over others; but only conclusions or theorems
concerning what conduces to the conservation
; 3 0 4 '. OBLIGATION! ; NEITHER
■and defence of themselves, upon the principle of
. dear; that is, indeed the laws of their own timo<-
•rous and cowardly complexion: for they who
. have courage and generosity in them, according
;to this hypothesis, would never submit to such
: sneaking terms of equality and subjection, but
.venture, for dominion; and resolve either to win
the saddle, or lose the horse. Here therefore do
owr atheistic politicians plainly dance round in a
circle; they .first deriving the obligation of civil
laws, .from that .of covenants, and then that of
covenants from the laws of nature; and, lastly,
the obligation both of these laws of nature, and
of covenants themselves, again, from the law;
command, and sanction, of the civil sovereign;
without which, neither of them would at all oblige:
And thusis it manifest, how vain the attempts of
these politicians, are, to make justice artificially;
when .there is no such thing naturally (which is
iildeed no less than to make something out of no-!
thing); and by art to consociate into bodies poli-
ticthose whom nature had dissociated from one
another; a thing as impossible, as to tie knots in
- the wind or water; or to build up a stately palace
or castle out of sand. Indeed the ligaments, by
which these.politicians would tie the members of
their huge Leviathan, or artificial man, together,
are not so good as cobwebs ; they being really
nothing but. mere will and words: for if autho­
rity and sovereignty be made only by will and
words, then is it plain, that by will and words
they may be unmade again at pleasure.
Neither indeed are these atheistic politicians
themselves altogether unaware hereof, that this
their artificial justice and obligation can be no
ARTIFICIAL, NOR VIOLENT* ‘ 206
fitm vinculum of a body politic, to consociate
those together, and unite them into one, who are
naturally dissociated and divided from one an*
tber; they acknowledging, that “ covenants with­
out the sword, being but words and breath, are of
no strength to bold the members of tbeir Levia­
than, or body politic, together.” Wherefore, they
plainly betake themselves at length from art to
force and power, and make their civil sovereign
really to reign only in fear.* And this must needs
be their meaning, when they so constantly declare
all obligation, just and unjust, to be derived only
from law; they by law there understanding tt
command directed to such as by reason of their
imbecility are not able.to resist: so that the will
and command of the more powerful obliges by
the fear q ( punishment threatened.1
* Now, if tbe
only real obligation to obey civil laws be from the
fear of punishment, then could no man be obliged
to hazard his life for the safety of his prince and
country.; and they, who could reasonably pro­
mise themselves impunity, would be altogether
disobliged, and consequently might justly break
any laws for tbeir own advantage. An assertion
so extravagant, that these confounded politician?
themselves are ashamed plainly to own it, and
therefore disguise it what they can by equivo­
cation ; themselves sometimes also confessing so
much of truth, that “ pcena non obligat, sed obli-
gatum tenet,”* punishment does not oblige, but
oiily hold those to tbeir duty, who were before!
obliged.—Furthermore, what is made by power
1.Hobbes, Leviathan, cap. xvi.
* Md. Element. de Cive, cap. xv. $. 5..................
*
: * Id. ibid. cap.xiv. $.2;;; . i;. ..i "
fiOfi SOVEREIGNTY,' NO CREATURE
and force only, may be unmade by power and
force again. If civil sovereigns.reigu only1
in thie
fear of their own sword, then is that right of
theirs, so much talked of, indeed nothing else but
might, and their authority, force; and conse­
quently successful and prosperous rebellion, and
whatsoever can be done by power, willbe ipso
facto thereby justified. Lastly, were civil sove­
reigns, and bodies politic, mere violent and con-
tra-natural things, then would they all quickly
vanish' into nothing, because nature will prevail
against force and violence; whereas men con­
stantly every where fall into political order, and
the corruption o f one form>of.government: is but
the generation of another.
Wherefore, since it is plain, that sovereignty
and bodies politic can neither be merely artificial
aor yet violent things, there must: of necessity'be
some natural, bond or vinculum to hold them to­
gether, such as may both really.oblige subjects to
obey the lawful commands of. sovereigns, and so­
vereigns in. commanding to seek the good and
welfare of their subjects; whom these atheistic
politicians (by their infinite and belluine right)
quite discharge from any such thing. Which
bond or vinculum can be no other than natural
justice; and something of a common and public;
of a cementing and conglutinating nature, in all
rational beings; the original of both which is
from the:Deity. The right and authority of God
himself is founded in justice; and of this is the
civil sovereignty also a certain participation. It
is not the mere creature of the people, and of
men’s wills, and therefore annihilable again by
their wills at pleasure; but hath a stamp of Divi-
: o f t u b P B o v ie . M 9
oity upon it,, at maypartly appear from hence;
because that jus vit<e et necis, that power of life
and death—which civil sovereigns.have, was D
en­
ver lodged ill singulars, .before civil society; and
therefore could not be.conferred by them. Had
not God and nature made a city; were there hot
a natural conciliation of all rational creatures,
and. subjection of them to the Deity, as their head
(which is Cicero’s,* “ una civitas deorum atqueho*
mioum,” one city ofgods and inen)-**had not God
made apytiv km ap^totia*, ruliug and being ruled—»
superiority and subjection, with their, respective
duty and obligation; men could neither.by art,
o r.political eochantmeut, nor yet by ferce, have
madeany firm cities or polities. The;civil sove-
reign is no Leviathan; no beast, but a God.(V I
have said, Ye are. gods”*-): he reigns not in .mere
brutish; force and fear, but in natural:justice and
conscience, and)in the right and authority of God
himself. Nevertheless, we •deny not, but that
there is need of force and fear too, to constrain
those to obedience, to whom the .conscienceof
duty proveth ineffectual. Nor. is the fear of;<the
civil.sovereign’s own sword alone sufficientfor this
neither, unassisted by religion, and the fear of an
invisible Being omnipotent, wbo seetb all things;
and can punish secret as -well as open itrans^
gressora, both in this.life and after.dealh. Which
is:a thing so confessedly true,, that Atheists havo
therefore.pretended religion td have been ait first
a mere, political figment. We conclude; therefore,
that, the civil sovereign reigneth not, merely in
the. fear of his own power and sword $ bat. first
* DeNatur. Deor. Hb.lL cap. lxu. p. 3043. tom. ix. oper.
; » Paata IxxkiL 6. ; • -
SOB IN FIN ITE NIGHTS A. NONENTITY.
in the justice and authority, and then in the,
power and fear also of God Almighty. And thus
much for the first atheistic pretence, from die in- .
terest of civil sovereigns.
To their second, that sovereignty is essentially
infinite,-and therefore altogether inconsistent with
religion, that wonld limit and confine it, we reply;
that the right and authority of civil sovereigns is
not, as these our atheistic politicians ignorantly
suppose, a mere belluine liberty, but it is a right
essentially founded in the being of natural justice,
as hath been declared. For authority, of conn
manding is. such a right, as supposes abligation.
in others to obey, without which it could. be:no­
thing but mere will and force. But none can be.
obliged in, duty, to obey, but by natural justice
commands, as such, uot creating obligation, but
presupposing it. For, if persons were not before,
obliged to obey, no.commands would signify any
-thing to them. Wherefore, tbe.first original obli­
gation is not from will, but nature. Did obli­
gation-to the things of natural justice, as many
suppose, arise from the will and positive command
of God, only by .reason of punishments threat**
ened, and rewards promised; the consequence of
this would be, that no man was good and just,
but only by accident, and for the sake of some*
thing else; whereas the goodness of justice or:
righteousness is intrinsical to the thing itself, and
this is that which, obligeth (and not any thing
foreign.to it), it being a different species of good
from that of appetite, and private utility, which
every man may dispense withal. Now there can
be no more infinite justice, than there can be an
infinite rule, or an infinite measure'. Justice is
IN FIN ITE RIGHT A NONENTITY. 0Q9
essentially a determinate thing; and therefore can
there not be an iafinitejitfv, right or authority. If
there be any thing in its own nature just and
obliging, or such as ought to be done; then
must there: of necessity be something unjust, or
unlawful, which therefore cannot be obligingly
-commanded by any authority whatsoever. Nei­
ther ought this to be thought any impeachmetat
of civil authority, it extending universally to all,
even to that of the Peity itself. The right and
authority of God himself, who is the supreme
sovereign of the universe, is also in like manner
bounded and circumscribed byjustice. God’s will
-idruled by his justice, and not his justice ruled by
-his-uili; and therefore God himself cannot com­
mand, what is in its own nature unjust. And thus
have we made it evident, that infiUiteTight and au­
thority of doing and commanding any thing with-
<outexception, so that the arbitrary will of the
ieotomander should be the very rule of justice it­
selfto others, and consequently might oblige to
any thing, is an absolute contradiction, and a non­
entity ; it supposing nothing to be in its own na­
ture just or unjust; which if there were not,
there could be no obligation nor authority at all.
.Wherefore the Atheists, who would flatter civil
sovereigns with this infinite right, as if their will
ought to be the very rnle of justice and con­
science, and upon that pretence prejudice them
against religion, do as ill deserve of them, as of
religion hereby; they indeed absolutely divesting
them of all right and authority, and leaving them
nothing, but mere brutish force and belluine
liberty. And could civil sovereigns utterly de­
molish and destroy conscience and religion in the
VOL. IV. P
%iO ............. ATHEISM, ALL...............
minds of men (which yet is an absolute impos­
sibility), they thinking thereby to make elbow-
room for themselves, they would certainly bury
themselves also in the ruins of them. Neverthe­
less, thus much is true; that they, in whom the
sovereign legislative power of every polity is
lodged (whether single persons, or assemblies);
.they, who make civil laws, and can reverse them
at pleasure, though they may unquestionably sin
!against God, in making unjust laws, yet can they
not sin politically or civilly, as violators or trans­
gressors of those laws cancelled and reversed by
ithem, they being superior to them. Nor is this
all; but these sovereign legislative powers may be
■said to be absolute also in another sense, as being
■avtnrtvBwoiy unjudicable,—-or uUcensurable by any
human court; because, if they were so obnoxi­
ous, then would that court or power, which had
■
a right to judge and censure them, be superior to
-them ; whichis contrary to the hypothesis. And
ithen, if this power were again judicable by some
•other,;there must either be an infinite progress,
-or endless .circulation (a thing not only absurd,
.but also utterly inconsistent with government and
.property ; because, there being no ultimate judg­
ement unappealable from, there could never, be
.any final determination of controversies); or else
at last, all. must be devolved to the multitude of
singulars, which would be a dissolution of the
body, politic, and a state of anarchy. And thus
.have we fully confuted the second atheistic pre­
tence also, for the “ inconsistency of religion with
civil sovereignty.”
- .Their third and last follows;“That privatejudg­
ment ..of good and evil is contradictious 4o civil
PRIVATE JUDGMENT. 211
sovereignty, and a body politic, this being one
artificial man, that must be all governed by one
reason and will.” But conscience is private judg­
ment of good and evil, lawful and unlawful, &c.
To which we reply, that it is not religion, but,
on the contrary, the principles of these atheistic
politicians, that unavoidably introduce private
judgment of good and evil, such as is absolutely
inconsistent with civil sovereignty; there being,
according to them, nothing in nature of a public
-or common good, nothing of duty or obligation,
but all private appetite and utility, of which also
every man is judge for himself. For if this were
so, then, whenever any man judged it most for
his. private utility to disobey laws, rebel against
sovereigns, nay, to poison or stab them, he would
be unquestionably bound by nature, and the
reason of his own good, as the highest law,
to do the same. Neither can these atheistic
politicians be ever able to bring men out of
this state of private good, judgment and will,
which is natural to them, by any artificial tricks
and devices, or mere enchantments of words, as
artificial justice, and an artificial man, and a
common person and will, and a public conscience,
' and the like. Nay, it is observable, that them­
selves are necessitated, by the tenor of these
'their principles,, casuistically to allow such pri­
vate judgment and will, as is altogether incon­
sistent with civil sovereignty; as, that any man
-may lawfully: resist in defence of his own life;
■and that they, who have once rebelled,:may after­
wards justly defend themselves by force. Nor
indeed can this private judgment of men, accord-
p 2
ATHEISM, ALL
fits
ing to their appetite and utility, be possibly other­
wise taken away, than by natural justice, which is
a thing notofa private but ofa public and common
nature; and by conscience, thatobligeth to obey
Ell the lawful commands ofcivil sovereigns, though
contrary to men’s appetites and private interest.
Wherefore conscience also is, in itself, not of a
private and partial, but of a public and common
nature; it respecting Divine laws, impartial jus­
tice and equity, and the good of the whole, when
dashing with ohr own selfish good, and private
utility. This is the only thing that can naturally
consociate mankind together, lay a foundation for
bodies politic, and take away that private will
and judgment, according to men’s appetite and
utility, which is inconsistent with the same;
agreeably to that of Plato’s,* To k o iv o v t <>
i&
o
vSuunr?, that, which is of a common and pub­
lic nature, unites; but that, which is of a private,
segregates and dissociates.—It is true indeed, that
particular persons must make a judgment in con­
science for themselves (a public conscience being
.nonsense and ridiculous), and that they may also
err therein: yet is not the rule neither, by which
conscience judgeth, private; noritself unaccount­
able, unless in such mistaken fanatics, as profess­
edly follow private impulses; but either the na­
tural and eternal laws of God, or else his revealed
will, things more public than the civil laws of any
country, and of which others also may judge.
Nevertheless, we deny not, but that evil persons
may, and do sometimes make a pretence of con-
* De Legib. lib. ix. p. 660.
PRIVATE JUDGMENT. 2 1 2
science and religion, in order to sedition and Re­
bellion, as the best things may be abused; but
this is not the fault of religion, but oply of the
men; conscience obliging, though first to obey
God, yet, in subordination to him, the laws of
civil sovereigns also. To conclude, conscience
and religion oblige subjects actively to obey all
the lawful commands of civil sovereigns, or legis­
lative powers, though contrary to their own pri­
vate appetite, interest, and utility; but when these
same sovereign legislative powers command un­
lawful things, conscience, though it here obliges
to obey God, rather than man, yet does it, not­
withstanding, oblige not to resist. Rom. xiii.
“ Whosoever resisteth the power, resisteth the
ordinance of God, and they that resist shall re­
ceive to themselves damnation.” And Matt. xxvi.
“ All they, that take the sword, shall perish with
the sword.” Here is “ the patience and the faith of
the saints.” And thus does religion “ give unto
Caesar the things that are Caesar’s,” as well as
" unto God the things that are God’s.”
And now, having fully confuted all the athe­
istic grounds, we confidently conclude, that the
first original of all things Was neither stupid and
senseless matter fortuitously moved, nor a blind
and nescient, but orderly and methodical plastic
nature; nor a living matter, having perception or
understanding natural, without animal sense or
consciousness; nor yet did every thing exist of
itself necessarily from eternity, without a cause.
But there is one only necessary existent, the Cause
of all other things; and this an absolutely per­
fect Being, infinitely good, wise, and powerful;
214 ONE PERFECT BEING, THE ROOT OF ALL.
Who hath made all, that was fit to be made, and
according to the best wisdom, and exerciseth an
exact providence over a ll: whose name ought to
be hallowed, and separated from all other things;
To whom be all honour, and glory, and worship,
for ever and ever. Amen.
D I S C O U R S E
CONCERNING THE
TR UE N OT IO N
OF THE
L O R D S S U P P E R .
TH E
TRUE NOTION
OF THE
L O R D ’ S S U P P E R .
THE INTRODUCTION.
A l l great errors have ever been intermingled
with some truth. And indeed,ifFalsehood should
appear ^alone uuto the world, in her own true
shape and native deformity, she would be so
black and horrid that no man would look upon
her; and therefore she hath always had an art to
wrap up herself in a garment of light, by whioh
means she passed freely disguised and undig*
cerned. This was elegantly signified in the fable
thus: Truth at first presented herself to the
world, and went about to seek entertainment;
but when she found nope, being of a generous na­
ture, that loves pot to obtrude herself upon un­
worthy spirits, she resolved to leave earth, and
take her flight for heaven: but as she was going
up, she chanced, Elijah-like, to let her mantle
fall; and Falsehood, waiting by for such an oppor­
tunity, snatched it up presently, and ever since
goes about disguised in Truth’s attire.
Pure falsehood is pure nonentity, and could not
subsist alone by itself; wherefore it always twines
up together about some truth, irapafvaSoe eucog, as
Athenagoras the Christian philosopher speaks,
218 THE INTRODUCTION.
like an ivy, that grows upon some wall, twin­
ing herself into it with wanton and flattering em­
braces, till at length destroyed and pulled down
that which held it up. There is always some truth
. „ , which gives being to every error: “ Est
Reranect. quaedam ventatis amma, quae corpus om-
M
or*
' nium errorum agitat et informat.” There
is ever some soul of truth, which doth secretly
spirit and enliven the dead and unwieldy lump of
all errors,—without which it could not move or
stir. Though sometimes it would require a very
curious artist, in the midst of all error’s deformi­
ties, tp descry the defaced lineaments ofthat truth
which:first.it did resemble: as Plutarch spake
sometime of those Egyptian fables of Isis and
ids.d«hide :Osiris, that they had afivSpaerivae i/tfatrue
etourfde. T
^c aAi|0»ac,:certain.weak appearances
and glimmerings of truth—but so as that they
Deeded Savov ij(vjjAarov, some notable diviner-—to
discover them.
.. And this I think is the case of that grand error
of the Papists,. concerning the Lord’s supper
jbeing a sacrifice; which.perhaps at first did rise
by degeneration from a primitive truth,, whereof
the very,obliquity of this error yet may bear some
dark and obscure intimation. Which will besi
Seeoh
a ▼ aPP^M
?» w^en we have first discovered
-k
**0v ,v the true .notion of the Lord’s supper;
-whence we shall be able at once to convince the
error of this popish tenet, and withal to give a
just account of the first rise ofit. “ Rectum index
sui et obliqui.”
CHAP. I.
Thai it was a custom among the Jews and Heathens, to feast upon
things sacrificed; and that the custom of the Christians, in partak­
ing of the body and blood ofChrist once sacrificed upon the cross,
in the Lord's supper,is analogical hereunto.
T h e right notion of that Christian feast, called
the Lord’s supper, in.which.we eat and drink
the body and blood of Christ, that was once of­
fered up to God for us, is to be derived (if I mis­
take not) from analogy to that ancient rite among
the Jews, of feasting upon things sacrificed, and
eating of thoae-things, which they had offered up
to God.
For the better conceiving whereof, we must
first consider a little, how many kinds of Jewish
sacrifices there were, and the nature of them.
Which, although they are very well divided, ac­
cording to the received opinion, into four, Etnih
nN
tO
TT,OtWbO'Oto, the burnt-offering, the sin-offer­
ing, the trespass-offering, and the peaceroffering—
yet perhaps I may make a more notional division
of them, for our use, into these three species.
First, Such, as were wholly offered up to God,
and burnt upon the altar: which were the holo­
causts, or burnbofferings.
Secondly, Such, wherein, besides something
offered up to God upon the alter, the
priests had also a part to eat of. And
these are also subdivided into the .sin-
offerings and the trespass-offerings. mhuvan*
Thirdly, Such, as in which, besides
something offered up to God, and a portion be-
220 THE JEWISH CUSTOM OF
stowed on the priests, the owners themselves had
a share likewise. And those were called Ovbp,
or peace-offerings,—which contained in them, as
the Jewish doctors speak, pta* p'm pier1
? pfyi
bjotv a portion for God,—and the priests and the
Owners also; and thence they use to give the
etymon of the Hebrew word shelamim. TOtn D
T'2
Q
T
PJT
3D
VW because these sacrifices brought peace
tp the altar, the priests, and the owners, in that
every one of these had a share iu them.
Now, for the first of these, although (perhaps
to signify some special mystery concerning Christ)
they were themselves wholly offered up to God,
and burnt upon the altar; yet they bad ever
peace-offerings regularly annexed to them, when
they were not "I'i'X JVXTlp, offerings for the whole
congregation,—
-but for any particular person; that
so the owners might at the same time, when they
offered up to God, feast also upon the sacrifices.
^Vnd for the second, although the owners them­
selves did not eat of them, the reason was, be­
cause they were not perfectly reconciled tp God,
being for the present ih a state of guilt, which they
made atonement for in these sacrifices; yet they
did it by the priests, who were their mediator's
unto God, and, as their proxies, did eat of the
sacrifices for them.
But in the peace-offerings, because such as
brought them had no uncleanness upon them,
(Lev. vii. 20.) and so were perfectly reconciled
to God, and in covenant with him, therefore they
were in their own persons to eat of those sacri­
fices, which they had offered unto God as a fede­
ral rite between God and them; which we shall
explain at large hereafter.
f e a s t in g u p o n s a c r if ic e . f & l
So then the eating of the sacrifices was a due
and proper appendix unto all sacrifices, one way
or other, and either by the priests, or themselves,
when the person that offered was capable thereof.
Wherefore we shall find in the Scripture, that eat­
ing of the sacrifices is brought in continually as a
Tite belonging to sacrifice in general. Which vie
will now shew in divers instances.
Exod. xxxiv. IS. God commands the Jews,
that when they came into the land of Canaan,
they should destroy the altars and images, and all
the monuments of idolatry among those Heathens
thus; “ lest thou make a covenant with the in­
habitants of the land, and they go a whoring after
their gods, and one call thee, and thou b a t of his
sacrifice:” which indeed afterward came to pass,
Num. xxv. 2. “ They called the people to the sa­
crifice of their gods, and the people did e a t , and
how down to their g o d s Or, as it is cited m
Psal. cvi. 28. “ They joined themselves unto Baal-
peor, and ate the sacrifice of the dead.”
When Jethro, Moses’s father-in-law, came to
him, (Exod. xviii. 12.) “ he took a burnt-offering
and sacrifices for God; and Aaron came, and all
the elders of Israel, t o e a t b r e a d before the
Lord by sacrifices there are meant peace-offer­
ings, as Aben-Ezra and the Targum well expound
it, which, we said before, were regularly joined
with burnt-offerings.
: SoExod.xxrii. When the Israelites worship­
ped the golden calf, the text saith, that “ Aaron
built an altar before it, and made a proclamation,
saying, To-morrow is a f e a s t unto the Lord
(see how the altar and the feast were a-kin to one
another:) “ And they rose up early in the morning,
222 THE JEWISH CUSTOM OF
and offered burnt-offerings, and brought peace-
offerings, and! the people s a t d o w n t o e a t a n d
,d r i n k .” Which passage St. Paul makes use of,
being about to dehort the Corinthians from eating
things sacrificed to idols, 1 Cor. x. “ Neither be ye
idolaters, as some of them were, as it is written,
The people ,s a t d o w n t o e a t a n d d r in k for
this was no common eating, but the eating of
those sacrifices which had been offered up to the
golden, calf.
The 1st of Samuel i. 3. it is said of Elkanah,
that “ he went up out.of his city yearly to worship
and to sacrifice to the Lord of hosts in Shiloh:
and: when the time was come, that he offered, he
gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and
.daughters, p o r t io n s ; and unto Hannah he gave a
double p o r t io n that is, portions to eat of those
sacrifices that had been offered up to God, as R.
David.Kimchi qotes. And in the ninth chapter
-ofthe same book, when Saul was seeking Samuel,
going towards the city he met some maidens,
that told him Samuel was come to the city, for
.there was a sacrifice for the people that day in the
.highplace: “As soon (say they) as you come into
the city, you shall find him before he go up to the
-high place t o e a t ; for the people will hot e a t
until he come, because be doth bless the sacrifice:”
'Where, though the word bamah properly signi­
fies a high place, or place of sacrifice, wheuce
the Greek word Bw/uoc is thought to be derived;
yet it is here rendered by the Targum, as often
.elsewhere, KrvnnON jto, domus accubitus, a
house of feasting;—because feasting and sacrifi­
cing were such general concomitants of one
another.
FEASTING UPON SACRIFICE. 223
So again, in the 16th chapter, Samuel went to
Bethlehem to anoint David : “ I am come (saith
he) to sacrifice to the Lord: sanctify yourselves,
and come with me to the sacrifice.’* But when he
understood, that Jesse’s youngest son V
ak^
was absent, he saith to Jesse, “ Send and
fetch him, for we will not s i t d o w n [until he
come.”
So I understand that of the Sichemites, accord­
ing to the judgment of the Jewish doctors, Judg.
ix. 27. “ They went into the house of their god,
and did b a t and d r in k , and cursed Abimelech
that is, they went into the house of their god to
sacrifice, and did eat and drink of the sacrifice:
which perhaps was the reason of the name, by
which they called their god, whom they thus wor­
shipped, B e r i t h , which signifies a covenant, be­
cause they worshipped him by this federal rite of
eating of bis sacrifices; of which more hereafter.
Thus likewise the Hebrew scholiasts expound
that in the 16th chapter of the same book,
verse 23, concerning the Philistines, when they
had put out Samson’s eyes; (<They met together
to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god,
and to r e j o ic e that is, in feasting upon the
sacrifices.
Hence it is, that the idolatry of the Jews, in
worshipping other gods, is so often described
synecdochicUlly under the notion of feasting: .Isa.
lvii. 7. “ Upon a lofty and high mountain hast thou
s e t t h y b e d , and thither wentest thou up to;of-
fer sacrifice.” * For in those ancient:times they
were not wont to sit at feasts, but lie *ofso*, ■
*
«
down On beds or couches. (Ezek. xxiii.) pu^ u*
&
!-
“ You sent for men from far, Sabeans ““
£j£p'497-
2 2 4 THE JEWISH CUSTOM OF
from the wilderness (i. e. idolatrous priests from
•Arabia), and lo they came, for whom thon didst
•wash thyself, and safest upon a stately bed,
with a table prepared before thee.” (Amos ii.8.)
“ They laid themselves down upon clothes laid
to pledge by every a l t a r i . e. laid themselves
down to eat of the sacrifice, that was offered on
the altar. And, in Ezek. xviii. 11, eating upon
the mountains seems to be put for sacrificing upon
the mountains, because it was a constant appen­
dix to it. “ He that hath not done any of these
things, but hath even eaten upon the mountains,”
T6s H
TK
D
D
, i. e. hath worshipped idols
upon the mountains ;—so the Targum renders it.
Lastly, St. Paul makes eating of the sacrifice a
general appendix ofthe altar, (Heb. xii. 10.) “ We
have an attar whereof they have no right to eat
that serve the tabernacle.”
I will observe this one thing more, ^because it is
not commonly understood, that all the while the
Jews were in the wilderness, they were to eat no
meat at all at their private tables but that whereof
they had first sacrificed to God at the tabernacle.
Por this is clearly the meaning of that place, Lev.,
xvii. 4,8. “ Whatsoever man there be of the house'
of Israel, that killeth a lamb, or a goat, or an ox,
within the camp, or without the camp, and bring-
eth it not to the door of the tabernacle, to offer an
offering to the Lord, blood shall be imputed to
him. And so Nachmonides there glosses, ac­
cording to the mind of the ancient Rabbins, nan
trthvabsarw no Sactmx r6nm i.e. Behold, God
commanded at first, that all, which the Israelites
did eat, should be peace-offerings.—Which com­
mand was afterward dispensed with, when they
FEASTING UPON SACRIFICES. 225
came into the land, and their dwellings were be­
come remote from the tabernacle, so that they
could not come up every day to sacrifice. Deut.
xii. 12. “ If the place, which the Lord thy God
hath chosen be too far from thee; then thou shalt
kill of the herd and of the dock, and thou shalt
eat within thy gates whatsoever thy soul lustetb
after.” Only now there were, instead thereof,
three constant and set times appointed in the year,
in which every male was to come up and see God
at his tabernacle, and eat and drink before him;
and the sacrifice, that was then offered, was wont
to be called by them, rfnst, a sacrifice of
seeing. .
Thus I have sufficiently declared the Jewish
rite of joining feasting with sacrificing; and it
will not be now amiss, if we add, as a mantissa to
that discourse, something of the custom of the
Heathens also in the like kind, the rather because
we may make some use of it afterward. And it
was so general amongst them in their idolatrous
sacrifices, that Isaac Abarbanel, a learned Jew,
observed it in Pirush Hattorah : 'a 1
?! D'WTp D'DQ
rrfyrrcnjrm tid d^ r / may rrenyRirrw. In those
ancient times, whosoever sacrificed to idols, made
a feast upon the sacrifice.—And the original of it
amongst them was so ancient, that it is ascribed by
their own authors to Prometheus, as Salmasius, in
his Solino-Plinian Exercitations, notes,
7 7 P. 129. a.
“ Hunc sacrificii morem a Prometheo
originem duxisse volunt, quo partem hostiae in
ignem conjicere soliti sunt, partem ad suum vic­
tual abuti. Which Prometheus, although, ac­
cording to Eusebius’s Chronicon, and our or­
dinary chronologers, his time would fall near
VOL. IV. Q
226 THE CUSTOM OF THE HEATHENS
about the 3028th year of the Julian period, which
was long after Noah; yet it is certain, that he
lived rriuch sooner, near about Noah’s time, in
that he is made to be the son of Japhet, which
was Noah’s son, from whom the Europeans de-
N
oie that scended, (Gen. x. 5.) called therefore by
the pOet I'dpetigenus. For there is no
the nations—is greatheed to be given to the chronology
us”i°i°tn
re«ddf human writers concerning this age of
to^espreasE
a- the’world, which Censorious from Varro
M
peby. calls M
vflttcov, the fabulous time or age.—
-
.. °”Although I rather subscribe to the judg­
ment of the learned VOssius, that this Pronie-
theus w
’as no other than Noah himself, the father
of Japhet, and not his son, because the other
things do so well agree to him; and we may
easily allow the Heaihens such a mistake as that
is,’in a matter of so remote antiquity: and then, if
this be tfue, the whole world received this rite of
feasting upon sacrifice, at first, together with that
of sacrifice, at the same time. Iustances of this
custom are so frequent and obvious in Heathen
authors, that Homer alone were able to furnish us
sufficiently.
In the a of the Iliads, he brings in a descrip­
tion Of a hecatomb-sacrifice, which Agamemnon
prepared for Apollo by his priest Chryses, and a
feast that followed immediately after it. In the
same AgamemnOn offers up an ox to Jupiter, and
inviteth divers of the Grecian captains to partake
of it. In y of the Odyssees, Nestor makes a
magnificent sacrifice to Neptune of eighty-two
bullocks, with a feast upon it, on the shore. In
ff Alcinous offers up a bullock unto Jupiter, and
then immediately follows,
IK FEASTING UPON SACRIFICES. 227
---- ---- ■ Adyvrr igucviia feura
Tigfrt/xtvot--------------------------
Plato, in bis second De Legibns, acknowledges
these feasts under the name of 'Eoprai ptra 0tibv,
feasts after Divine worship—offered np to the
gods. Among the Latins, that of Lycus in Plau­
tus’s Pcenulus belongs to this purpose;
Conviv&s volo
Reperire vobis oommodos, qui una sient,
Interibi attulerint exta.
And that of Gelasimus in Sticbus;
Jamne exta cocta sunt ? quot agnis fecerat ?
After this manner be, in Virgil's Eclogues, invites
his friend,
Cum faciam vitula pro frugibus, ipse venito.
Aod thus Evander entertains A3neas,in the eighth
JEneid,
Turn lecti juvenes certatim, araeque sacerdos,
Viscera tosta ferqnt taurorum.-----
Plutarch somewhere observes, it as a strange
and uncouth rite, in the worship of the goddess
Hecate, that they which offered sacrifice unto
her, did not partake of it. And the same author
reports of Catiline and his conspirators, o n tcara-
OvoavrtQ avOpunrov tytvoavro twv trapicdiv, that Sacri­
ficing a man, they did all eat somewhat of the
fle$h—using this religious rite as a bond to con­
firm them together in .their treachery. But
Strabo tells us of a strange kind of worship used
by the Persians in their sacrifices, where no part
of the flesh was offered up to the gods, but all
228 THE CUSTOM OF THE HEATHENS
eaten up by those that brought it, and tbeir
guests: they supposing, in the mean while, that
whilst they did eat of the flesh, their god, which
they worshipped, had the soul ofthe sacrifice that
was killed in honour to him. The author's own
words are these in his fifteenth book : Mtpuravroc
row Mayou ra Kpta row vtj>rjyovfitvov tjjv lepovpylav,
atriaai BitXojutvot, roig Qeotg ovSev diroveiftavrtg fttpog.
Tr/g y«p^Y X H ""2 iftan rov Uptlov BturOai tov Otov, aXXov
Be ovBtvog. 'Opwg Be rov ewiirXov ti piKpov rideaoiv,
Xeyova'i nveg, t i n t o w p -----------Sua quisque accepta
abeant, nulla parte diis relata; dicunt enim Deum
nihil velle praeter hostiae animam: quidam tamen
(ut fertur) omenti partem igni imponunt.
From this custom of the Heathens of feasting
upon sacrifices arose that famous controversy
among the Christians in the primitive times, some­
times disputed in the New Testament, whether
it were lawful ESG I'EIN EIAQAO'QYTA, to eat
things sacrificed to idols.
These Gentile feasts upon the sacrifices were
usually kept in the temple, where the sacrifice
was offered ; as may be gathered from that pas­
sage of Herodotus in Clio, where, speaking of
Cleobus and Bithene, and what happened to
them after that prayer, which their mother put up
to the gods for them, wg tOvoav (saith he) <al
Otjoav, KaTaKOifitfievreg tv avrtji rcu itptf, &C. ' As SOOO
as they had sacrificed and feasted, lying down
to sleep in the same temple, they died there, and
never rose more—But it is very apparent from
that of St. Paul, 1 Cor. viii.-10. “ If any man see
thee, whichhast knowledge, sit at meat,”iv tlStoXtup,
that is, not, as Erasmus translates it, “ in epulo
simulacbrorum,” but as Beza, and from him bur
IN FEASTING UPON SACRIFICES. 229
interpreters, in.the idol’s temple; for so both the
Syriac ihetapbrast expounds it, AsuU,
and the Arabic ^ in the house of idols.
If any thing were, left, when these feasts were
ended, they were wont to carry portions of them
home to their friends: so that learned scholiast
upon Aristophanes in Plutus tells us, ol y a p k Ovalag
lovrtg, ttpepov *£ avrrjg rnc Overlag rolg onctioig Kara vopov
n v a . Whence Petit, in that excellent collection
of Attic laws, inserted this for one, viz. “ that
they that go home from a sacrifice should carry
part of it to their friends.” And that Greek
comedian himself alludeth there to it in these
words:
----------- — ■■ Touro it T9 Xftaiw
TSit ivioBiv Tif tlffinyxaT* \a0oZv.
Theocritus in his Bucoliastes doth express- it
fully;
■■ Ko2 to i f $u<r*c
Tate YvfA^tus, lAofo-om m X
o
vjqitt; ainiita
And Plautus in Miles; .
------------------------- Sacrificant?
Dant inde partem majorem mihi quam fibi.
These portions, which they carried home, were
called commonly by the Greeks ptplSeg, and in the
Umbrian language, as Festus tells us, strobula.
Theophrastus in his Characters uses the ,
word Topot in this sense, K
<u Ovovrag *ai
ava\l&Kovrag t}k w v Topov dirairqabiv, i. C. ad sacrifican-
tes et epula concelebrantes accedit, ut inde porti-
oiiein auferat
And because they thought they did receive
230 THE l o r d 's SUPPER
sortie blessings from the gods with it, therefore' it
was sometimes called vylua, as we find in Hesy-
chius upon that word vylua' d\<j>iTa oivif), KOI kXaifp
we<j>vpafieva, Acai wav t o he 0e6u <pepdfievov, tiri ftvpov, sirs
OoXXoq, V vyuta.
But otherwise, if there were any thing yet re­
maining, it belonged to the priests, as we learn
from that scholiast, which we have already com­
mended, upon Vespae, vdfiog yv, ra vnoXemofitva t jjc
Bvalag rove leptag Xa/xfidvuv' i. e. It was au ancient
law among the Athenians, that the priests.should
have the remainder.—Which is not only to be un­
derstood of the skin and such-like parts, but of
the flesh of the sacrifice itself; as we learn from
St. Austin in his exposition upon Rom. ii. Who
tells us also, that these relics were sometimes sold
for them in the market; whence that speech of
St. Paul, 1Cor. x. 25. “ Whatsoever is sold in the
shambles eat, asking no question for conscience'
sake.”
I will shut up all with this one observation
more, That as we said of the Jews, that in the
wilderness they did eat no meat, but of that
which they had first sacrificed; in like manner
the Heathens were wont to sacrifice before all
their feasts: whence it is, that Athenaeus observes,
feasts among the ancient Heathens were ever ac­
counted sacred and religious things. And thus
we must understand that speech of Sti Paul in
the twenty-seventh verse of the forenamed chap­
ter, “ If any one, that believes not, invite you, and
you be disposed to go; whatsoever is set before
you eat, asking no question for conscience'sake."
Nay, it was accounted a profane thing amongst
them, to eat any meat at their private tables,
A FEAST UPON SACRIFICE. 231
whereof they had not first sacrificed to their
gods; as appeareth by the Greek proverb, aO
vra
tffO
U
iv, used by Anacreon and others as a brand
of a notorious wicked man, viz. One that would
eat meat whereof he bad not sacrificed.
Now having thus shewn, that both amongst the
Jews under the law, and the Gentiles in their
Pagan worship (for Paganism is nothing but Ju­
daism degenerate), it was ever,a solemn rite tojoin
feasting with sacrifice, and to e a t of those things
which had been offered up; the very concinnity
and harmony of the thing itself leads me to con­
ceive, that that Christian feast under the gospel,
called t h e L o r d ’s s u p p e r , is the very same thing,
and bears the same notion, in respect of the true
Christian sacrifice of Christ upon the cross, that
those did to the Jewish and Heathenish sacrifices;
and so is “ e p u l u m s a c r if ic ia l e ,” a sacrificial
feast—I mean, a feast upon sacrifice; or, “ e p u -
l u m e x o b l a t is ,” a feast upon things offered up
to God.—Only this difference arising in the pa­
rallel, that because those legal sacrifices were but
types and shadows of the true Christian sacrifice,
they were often repeated and renewed, as well as
the feasts, which were made upon them: but now
the true Christian sacrifice being come, and offered
up once for all, never to be repeated, we have
therefore no more typical sacrifices left amongst
us, but only the feasts upon the true sacrifice still
symbolically continued, and often repeated, in re­
ference to that o n e g r e a t s a c r if ic e , which is al­
ways as present in God’s sight, and efficacious, as
if it were but now offered up for us.
CHAP. II.
An objection taken from the Passover answered. Proved that the
Passover was a true sacrifice, and the paschal feast a feast upon
a sacrifice, from Scripture, and Jewish authors.
B ut methinks I hear it objected to me, that
Object ' true n°t*on the Lord’s supper is
J
e° ‘ to be derived rather from the Passover
among the Jew s; it being the common opinion
ojf divines, that the Jews had but two sacra­
ments, viz. circumcision and the Passover, that
answer to those two amongst 11s, baptism and the
Lord’s supper: but the Jewish Passover had no
relation to a sacrifice, being nothing else but a
mere feast ; and therefore from analogy to the
Jewish we cannot make the Lord’s supper to be
epulum sackificiale,” afeastupon sacrifice.
To which I answer, first, That I know not
what warrant there is for that divinity so
confidently imposed upon us by some,
that the Jews had but two sacraments, circum­
cision and the Passover; and that it should thence
follow by inevitable consequence, that the Lord’s
supper must avnarotyttv, answer only to the Jewish
Passover. Sure I am, the Jews had many more.
1 C0 P °r no* *° *ns^ance *n that of St. Paul,
r
’*‘ “ Our fathers were all baptized unto
Moses in the cloud, and in the sea,” like our
Christian baptism; “ and did all eat the same spi­
ritual meat (viz. the manna), and did all drink the
same spiritual drink” (viz. the water of the rock
Aosw.
THE PASSOVER A SACRIFICE. 233
that followed them), like the bread and wine in
the Christian Lord’s supper: nor to examine all
the other sacramental ceremonies, which they
had, that were almost as many sacraments as
ceremonies. These feasts upon the sacrifices,
which we have all this while insisted on, were
nothing else but true and proper * sa- *S
eeC
)op.
draments joined with sacrifices. penborgin
, ... , . Scholl Sicnf.
But, secondly, 1 will grant, that the m
dofthe
Jewish Passover hath a special resem- orthe^on-
blance to the Christian L o r d ’s s u p p e r , “ “ VomIu*
although upon other grounds; for I say,
undoubtedly the Passover was a true and *°°*
proper sacrifice, and therefore the paschal feast
a feast upon a sacrifice: so that this shall still
advance and improve our former notion.
For the better conceiving whereof, we must
understand, that besides those four general kinds
of sacrifices among the. Jews beforementioned,
the burnt-offering, the sin-offering, the trespass­
offering, and the peace-offering; there were some
other peculiar kinds of sacrifices, as the masters
tell us, viz. these three, rrosa *WD1, o n m . the
firstlings of cattle, and the tenth, and the
Passover. And the reason why these, in the
distribution.of sacrifices, are thus distinguished
by them from all the other general kinds of sacri­
fices, is thus given by the famous Maithonides
upon the Misha of the Talmud, in Massecheth
Zebachira, the 6th chapter, D
’Dlfc JDTHn WHIP lb
t o ™awoyn lyo ib d
ttd ttfhtea "ivm a’T
T
/V
’man
]a V
?N
1DODia DTD DOT», Because those four
forenamed were such kind of sacrifices, as that a
private person was often bound to each of them in
several cases, and the whole congregation in seve-
234 THE PASSOVER
ral seasons; but these three were notof that nature*
being peculiarly restrained to one case or season.
—Now these three kinds of peculiar sacrifices
were in their nature all nearest ofkin to the peace*
offerings, and ure therefore called by the Jewish
doctors myn, like to peace-offerings,—her
cause they were not only killed in th,e same place,
being all O' ^pDW
Tip, light holy things,—and had
the DVTD'N, or inward parts—thereof, to be burnt
likewise upon the altar; but also, in that partuf
them was to be eaten by the owners. Insomuch
that the Talmudists put many cases in which a
lamb, that was set apart for a Passover, and could
not be offered in that notion, was to be turned
into a peace-offering, as that which was near of
kin to it.
But yet these masters tell us, there were three
precise differences between the pascha and the
ordinary peace-offering, run /isnini MOSTTO'DM
prcn. First, in that there was no laying on of
hands upon the passover in the killing of it; for
this was no where commanded, as in all the peace*,
offerings. Secondly, that there was no mincah
or. meat-offering, nor libamen or drink-offering,
to be joined with it (for so they use to include
both in the word Nesachim). Thirdly, that there
was no waving of the breast and shoulder for the
priests’portion; the reason whereof was, because
the priests were bound always to have Passoven-
offerings of their own, as it is expressed Ezra vi.
and so needed not any wave-offering.
, But that the passovers were, in other respects,
of the same nature with the peace-offerings, and
therefore true and proper sacrifices, because it
is a thing generally not so well understood; and
A SACRIFICE. 235
therefore opposed by divers, I shall labour the
more folly to convince it. I say, that the passovers
were always brought to the tabernacle or the tem­
ple; and there presented and offered up to God
by the priest, as all sacrifices were; that the
blood of them was there sprinkled upon the altar,
of which the Hebrew doctors well observe, * Tpy
tnn m r n ran, Tbe very essence of a sa- .M
aim
0B
. fc
crifice is in sprinkling of the blood;—
and also that the Imurim (as they ca ll>ac' °‘
them), thatis, the fat and kidneys, were burnt upop
the altar: all this I shall endeavour to demon­
strate.
Only first I must premise this, that when I say
the passover was brought to the tabernacle, and
offered by the priests, I do not mean, that the
priests were always bound to kill the passovers:
for I grant, that the people were wont to kill their
own passovers; and so 1 find it expressly in the
Misna of the Talmud, Massech. Zebach, cap. v.
sect. 6. frort btifW
* em , All Israel killed
the passover, and tbe priests received the blood.
—Which Talmudical expression alludes to that
place, Exod. xii. vi. “ The whole assembly of
the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the even­
ing;” where this seems to be commanded by
God. And the practice consonant hereunto, I
find intimated at least in Scripture, in Hezekiah’s
passover, 2Chron. xxx. 17. “ There were many
in the congregation, that were not sanctified;
therefore the Levites had tbe charge of killing
the passover for every one that was not clean, to
sanctify it unto the Lord.” Where R. Solomon
writeth thus: ddjq; absf2 iera> xb m b mann b x,
Wonder not, why the owners themselves did
fH K PASSOVER
236
not kilj them, for it followeth, that many in
the congregation had not sanctified themselves;
•therefore the Levites were appointed in their
place to sanctify the work unto the Lord.—And
R. D. Kimchi tothe same purpose:“ Though many
Of them did eat the passover in uncleanness, it
'being a case ofnecessity, in that they had ho time
to purify themselves; yet for them to come.into
the court, and kill the passovers, this was not
needful, when it might be done as well by the
Levites.” And therefore the same is to be thought
likewiseofthe priests and Levites killing the pass-
over, (Ezra vi.) because the people returning newly
from captivity were not yet purified, as it is there
also partly intimated.
But this doth not at all hinder our proceed­
ing, or evince the Passover not to be a sacrifice:
for it is a great mistake in most of our learned
writers, to think, that the killing of every sacrifice
was proper to the priest; whereas indeed there
was no such matter; but as we have already
granted, that the people commonly killed their
own passovers, so we will affirm, that they did the
same concerning any ofthe other sacrifices. Lev.i.
4,5. itis said concerning the burnt-offering, “ If any
man bring a burnt-offering to the Lord, he shall
lay his hand upon the head of the burnt-offering,
a n d h e s h a l l k i l l the bullock before the Lord,
and the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall take the
blood.” So concerning the peace-offerings, chap,
iii. 2. “ He shall lay his hand on the head of his
offering, and k i l l it at the door of the tabernacle
of the congregationand concerning the sin-
offering, chap, iv.' 24. “ H e shall lay his hand on
the head of the goat, and k i l l it at the place
A SACRFFICE. 23Z
wherethey.kill the burnt-offering before the Lord.”.
We see then what incompetent judges our own
authors are in Jewish customs aud antiquities.
The Jewish doctors and antiquaries (which are
so much contemned by some,of our magisterial ‘
dictators in all learning) would have taught u»
hereanother lesson. For thus Maimonides,in Biath
Hammik. speaks to this point, mtto w n p /W
W
W
.
tq'jj ntnp rsi -wr ntmp ip Dwnp wnp 1 trip
lpln p /tt*tO
T
R
tn that is, the killing of the holy
things may lawfully be done by strangers, yea, of
the most holy things, whether they be the holy
things of a private person, or of the whole congre­
gation: as it is said, Lev. i. “ And he shall kill
the bullock ; and the priests, Aaron’s sons, shall
take the blood.”—The same is avouched again
afterward, by the same,author, in Maaseh Kor-
ban, Qhap. v.
But if any one would therefore fain know, what
were properly the priests’ actions about the sacri­
fice, which .might not be done- lawfully by any
stranger, the same Jewish authors have a trite
rule amongst, them concerning it: rtapD
ruins /rots, the receiving of the blood, and all
the other parts, that were to be offered up, and
all that followeth after that,.belongeth to the
priests’ office.—And Isaac Aharbanel will teach
us more particularly, in his comment on Levi-:
ticus, that there were five things to be done by
the owners of the sacrifice that brought it, and
five things by the priest that offered it. The first
five were, laying on of .hands, killing, slaying,
cutting, up, and washing of the inwards; the
other five were, the receiving of the blood in a
yessel, the sprinkling of it. upon .the altar, the
238 THE PASSOVER
putting* of fire upon the altar, the order-
M
agistrorum ing of the wood upon the fire, and the
piaciia. ordering of the pieces upon the wood.
Hence it is, that upon the forequoted place of the
Misna (which 1 brought to shew, that the people
did kill the passovers), Rabbi Obadiah of Barte-
nora thus glosseth, ntDWTW TOT D
M W
JTisnpn banana ;Tma, i.e. The people of Israel
might all kill ;the passovers themselves, if they
pleased, because the k i l l i n g o f a n y s a c r if ic e
might be done lawfully by. strangers; but (the
priests received the blood.
Now, I come to prove what.I have undertaken.
And, first, that the passover was always brought
to the tabernacle or the temple, and there offered
unto God as the other sacrifices were, is clear
enough from Deut. xvi. 5. “ Thou shalt not sacri­
fice the passover within any of the gates which
the Lord thy God giveth thee; but at the place
which the Lord thy God cbooseth to place his
name in, there thou shalt sacrifice.” And that this
is.to be understood not of Jerusalem.in ;general,
but of the' tabernacle or temple, appears, both
because the same expressions are used of the
other sacrifices, Deut. xii. ver.5, 6.11.14. where
it is clearly meant, that they were to be brought
to the temple; and because it.is certain, that
every thing that was killed amongst the Jews,
Was either to be killed at the door of the taber­
nacle of the congregation, or else might be killed
indifferently in any part of the whole land.
Let us now see, how. the Jewish doctors com­
ment upon this place, men better skilled in these
rites than our own authors are, R. Moses Ben
Maimon, in ■
'Halachah Pesach, cap. i. parw T
*
N
A SACRIFICE. 239
man Ml, Sec. They kill not the passover but
in the court, as the rest of the holy things; yea,
in the time when high places were permitted,
they sacrificed not the passover in a private high
place; for it is said, Dent. xvi. “ Thou itiayest
not sacrifice the passover in any of thy gates.”
We have learnt, that this is a prohibition to kill
the passover in any private high place, although
it be in a time when high places are permitted.'—
From which excellent gloss of theirs, it appeareth,
that there was more preciseness in bringing of the
passover to the place where God’s name was put,
and offering it at the tabernacle or the temple,
than of any of the other sacrifices. And this was
the reason, as whs before intimated outof K im c h i,
why in Hezekiah’s passover the Levites had the
charge of killing, because the passovers were to
be killed in the court of the temple, whither the
people being unclean Could not enter; for other­
wise, if it had been done without the court, they
might as well have killed their own passovers as
have eaten them. And this may be further con­
firmed, in that the passover is called a /cardan :
(Numb. ix. vii.) “ When certain men were defiled
by a dead body, that they could not keep the
Passover, they came to Moses, and said, Where­
fore are we kept back, that we may not o f f e r ; an
o f f e r in g to the Lord in his appointed season ?”
And again,ver.‘
xiii. “ If any one be clean, and for-
beareth to keep the Passover; even that soul shall
be cut off, because he brought not an o f f e r in g
(or a KORBAN)to the Lord inhis appointed season.”
Nothing was called an o f f e r in g , or a k o r b a n ,
but that which was brought and offered up to
240 THE PASSOVER
God at the tabernacle, or temple where, his name
was put.
That the blood of the passovers was to be
sprinkled by the priest, and fat only to be burnt
upon the altar, although this must needs follow
from the former, yet I prove it more particularly
thus: (Exod. Xxiii. 18.) “ Thou shalt not offer
the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread;
neither shall the fat of my feast remain until the
morning.” For by the general consent of the
Jewish scholiasts, and all those Christian inter­
preters that I .have seen, this place is to be under­
stood only of the passover; and therefore O n k e -
l o s, that famous Chaldee paraphrast, for -rat D
*t
the blood of my sacrifice—made no question b.nt
tp read it ’D
D
E) D“
t the blood of my Passover.—
But it appears undoubtedly from a parallel place
in'the 34th chapter of the same book, ver. 23.
25, 20, where those 17, 18, and 19th verses of the
23d. chapter are again repeated : “ Thrice in the
year shall all your men-children appear before the
Lord.——Thou shalt not offer the blood of my-
sacrifice with leaven, neither shall the sacrifice of
the feast of the Passover be left unto the mornv
ing. The first of the first-fruits of thy land thou
shalt bring into the bouse of the Lord thy God.
Thou shalt not seethe a kid in its mother’s milk.”
Here what was wanting in the former is supplied;
“ Neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the
P a s s o v e r be left unto the morning.” And I
have set down- the whole context with it, because
it will be needful, for the better clearing of it, to
consider its coherence with other verses, which is
the very same in both chapters; and Isaac Abar-
A SACRIFICE. 241
\
Abarbanel hath set it down excellently in this
manner.
-First therefore, saith he, when God had spoken
of the Jews appearing thrice before him every year,
viz. at the feast of the Passover or of unleavened
bread, the feast of weeks or Pentecost, the feast
of tabernacles or in-gatheririg, T
O
T
T
O pa
w o tasntw tiro mtt tea po Dnn o'unn, i- e. When
he had spoken of these three feasts, be subjoins
immediately, some rule concerning every one of
them in particularFirst, for the Passover, iri
those words, “ Thou shalt not offer the blood of
my sacrifice with leaven, neither shall the sacri­
fice of the feast of the Passover be left until the
morning:” Secondly, for the feast of Pentecost, in
those, “ The first of the first-fruits of the land
tbon shalt bring into the house of the Lord thy
G odT hirdly, for the feast of tabernacles or in­
gathering ; “ Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his
mother’s m il k w h i c h words, for want of this
light of the context, were never yet sufficiently
explained by any of our interpreters. And the
thread of this coherence alone led Abarbanel very
near the true meaning of them, ere he was aware:
p n a¥n* ■
rrtiajt naw rpjtoo rww no •ww*
rwott p a a^ro oman bitib Vi p r m h orrxpp
orvrbvb ta n ' marc oatwiV/worn i. e. It seems
most probable, that this command was occasioned
from a custom among the idolatrous Heathens,
that at the time of their gathering in offruits, they
were wont to boil a kid in the dam’s milk, think*-
ing, that by this means, they were made accepta­
ble to their gods, and did procure a blessing by
it.—-To confirm which gloss, he tells us of a cus-
VOL. IV. R
242 THE PASSOVER
tom somewhat like to this, used in his time id
some parts of Spain.
But because Abafbanel doth not tell his tale
so handsomely as he should, I will help him out
a little from an ancient Karraite, whose comment
I have seen upon the Pentateuch, MS. (for the
monuments of these Karraite Jews were uever yet
printed, and are very rarely seen in these Euro­
pean parts). And it is thus: “ It was a custom of
the ancient Heathens, when they had gathered ini
all their fruits, to take a kid, and boil it in the
dam’s milk, and then nstta TH> in a magical way,
to go about and besprinkle with it all their trees
and fields, and gardens and orchards; thinking,
by this means, they should make them fructify,
and bring, forth fruit again more abundantly the
following year.” Wherefore, God forbid his peo­
ple, the Jews, at the time of their in-gathering, to
use any such superstitious or idolatrous rite. And
I produce this the rather, because Abarbanel,
towards the end of his comment on this plaice,
mentions a gloss ofsome K a r r a it is h author upon
it, although it be altogether unlike to this, which
we have here related. H
1
? Q jm nTD D'KTprt 'MTq
tnpyn qy.rrranmyjvi a'w.na ‘wan Scribunt sa-
pientes Karraeorum, Ne coquas hoedum inlacte
matris suae, hoc est, Ne commisceatur germen
cum radicibus.
But to return. As from the coherence of the
whole context thus cleared, it is manifest, that
this verse in both places is to be understood only
of the Passover; so it may be further confirmed
from the Talmudists, who ever expound it in this
sense, as appears bythe Misha in Zebachin, chapter
A SACRIFICE. 243
the sixth: nw n xbi -oiy yarn by ncsn armpn
He that killeth the passover with leaven, sinneth
against a negative command—(which is more
amongst the Jews than to sin against a positive),
viz. that in these places already quoted, “ Thou
shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with lea­
ven from whence they collected, as Maimonides
tells us, that they were to put away leaven the
fourteenth day, a day before the killing of the
passover. Nay, this place cannot possibly be
understood in any other sense, as of sacrifices in
general, because leaven wassometimescommanded
with sacrifices, as Lev. vii. 13.
But that the blood of the passovers was sprink­
led, may be demonstrated further, not only from
that of Hezekiah’s passover, 2 Chron. xxx. 16.
“ The priests sprinked the blood, which they re­
ceived from the band of the Levites; for there
were many in the congregation that were not sanc­
tified ; therefore the Levites had the charge of
lulling the passovers;” but also from Josiah’s,
.chap. xxxv. ver. 11. which can no ways be evaded;
“ They (that is), the Levites, killed the passover,
and the priests sprinkled the blood from their
.hands, and the Levites flayed them.” Now the
.sprinkling of the blood is the essence of a sacri­
fice, as before we noted from the Jewish doctors.
.And therefore the Passover mustneeds.be a sa­
crifice : 0
7
T
£
p &t£a(.
For a confirmation of all this, I will describe
punctually the whole manner of the p a s c h a l sa ­
c r i f i c e from the Misna of the Jewish Talmud, a
.monument of such antiquity, as cannot be dis­
trusted in these rites. Nothing (^ay- they) was
killed before the morning sacrifice ;>and after.the
*2
244 THE PASSOVER
evening sacrifice, nothing but the passover. The
evening sacrifice was usually killed between the
eighth and ninth hour (that is, half an hour after
two in the afternoon), and offered between the
ninth and tenth (that is, half an hour after three).
But in the evening of the Passover, the daily sa­
crifice was killed an hour sooner; and after that
began the killing of the passover, which was to
be done between the two evenings; whereof the
first began at noon, from the sun’s declination
towards the west, the second at sun-set. Yet the
pascha might be killed before the daily sacrifice*
if there were but one to stir the blood* and keep
it from coagulating, till the blood of the daily sa­
crifice were sprinkled; for that was always to be
sprinkled first. The passovers were always killed
by three several companies. When the court was
once' full, they shut the doors, and the priests
stood all in their ranks, wilh round vessels in their
hands, to receive the blood; those that were of
gold, in a rank by themselves, and those that were
of silver; all without bottoms, lest they should be
Set somewhere on the ground, and the blood con­
geal in them. And they killed the passovers, as
the peace-offerings, in any part of the court, be­
cause they were D^pwnp, the less holy things;—
^
us CWTpntmp, the holy of holies,—were always
to be killed'at the north side of the altar. The
priests then took the blood, and gave it from one
to another, till it came to him that stood next
the altar; and he sprinkled it all at once towards
the bottom of the altar, which was a square of
thirty-two cubits, save that the south-east born
had no bottom. After the blood was sprinkled,
the lamb was flayed, and cut up, the imurim, or
A SACRIFICE. 245
inwards, taken out and laid upon the altar; then
the owner took up the lamb, with the skin of it,
and carried it to his own home. The first com­
pany having ended, then the second came in, and
afterward the third; and for every company they
began a new h a l l e l , and sang all the while the
passovers were killing; and when they had fi­
nished the hallel, they sang it over a second time;
and when they had gone over it a second time,
they began it a third time; although it was never
known, that the third time they sang out the hal­
lel quite, or came any further than yianN* 'nan#?
before the priests had done.
But because, besides these Talmnd- gjn"ingof.
. . T _ Psalm cxvi.
istic Jews, there is another sect of K a r - j>«t of
r a it e s , mentioned before (that reject hymnwng«t
all Talmudical traditions, which are not ^ C
hb^«n
grounded upon Scripture), though little atp’e^ d
known amongst us, yet famous in the tothe eiid of
orieut; I will produce one testimony Ps C
X
T
,U
'
of theirs also from an ancient manuscript, that so
it may appear we have the full consent of all Jew­
ish antiquity for this opinion. The author s name
to me is uncertain, because the papers have lost
both their beginning and end. But they contain
in them divers large and complete discourses upon
several arguments in the Karraite way, as about
the Jewish year, the sabbath, the Passover, &c.
Concerning the Passover, he divides his discourse
into several chapters, whereof the title Of one is
this, into#) roannmpn IJipDa, concerning the place
where the passover was to be offered and eaten
where he thus begins : DlpB2 H
V
TTO
SHm
TpTTOIT
T
oipait w t o roanm mat1
?ton vb awaamaian
vn m ow napn tid’ to tdt r o w m tjo intww
246 THE PASSOVER
7731D2 DTIBpl i. e. Know, that the offering of the
passover was always in the place which God had
chosen (to put his name there), as it is written,—-
*
*Thou shalt not sacrifice the passover within any
of thy gates; and the place of the killing of the
passover was in the court called H e s r a , and the
blood of it was poured out towards the bottom of
the altar, and the imurim or inward parts of it
were burnt upon the altar, &c.
Hence it was, that when Cestius once demanded
what the number of the Jews was that resorted
to Jerusalem, at the time of their solemn feasts,
the priests made answer, and told him exactly
how many lambs and kids were sacrificed at the
Passover, stKoahnvrt fwptaBee, irpotrSf 7rsvraKur)(lXia £$a-
icwnti, twenty-five myriads five thousand and six
hundred ;—which they could not have done, bad
not they sacrificed them at the temple.
But what need have we of any more dispute ?
When the Passover was first kept in Egypt, were
not the paschal lambs there killed in a sacrificial
and expiatory way, when the blood thereof was
to be sprinkled upon the houses, for God to look
upon, and so pass over them ? It is true, they were
killed in every private house; but the reason of
that was, because there were then priests in every
• vide ci«ri$. family, viz. the * first-born, which were
s S de afterward redeemed, when the children
Hebra!or!i. i. I s ra e l ' gave up the whole tribe of
c . i . e t d e Levi to God for his service. Such priests
L
egcs*H
eb. as these were those whom Moses sent to
i.i.c.». sacrifice, Exod. xxiv. 5. called there
young men; “ Moses sent young men of the chil­
dren of Israel, which offered burnt-offerings, and
sacrificed peace-offerings to the L o r d w h e r e
A SACRIFICE. 247
Onkelos the Chaldee paraphrast reads it rtw
rWQ /ft he sent the first-born:—to which agreeth’
the Arabic translation of R. Saadiab, and the Per­
sian of Tawasius, as Mr. Selden notes, whom 1
cannot without honour mention, Us the glory of
our nation for oriental learning.
And was not the killing of the passover a spe­
cial type of the death of Christ, the true sacrifice
of the world ? Give me leave to note one thing to'
this purpose, upon the credit of Justin Martyr, in'
his dialogue with Trypbo, that in the ancient He­
brew copies of the Bible, there was in the book of
Ezra a speech of his, which he made before the
passover, expounding the mystery thereof con­
cerning Christ; which, because it favoured the
Christians, was timely expunged by the Jews.
The speech was this : Kai ilircv'EaSpdc rw \a<f, rovro
to ir a a y a 6 2a>T7/p Kai ij Kara<pvyrj r)pwv. Kai tav
SiavoqftjrE, Kal ava/3y vfiw v £7rt tijv KapSiav, oti fitW o fitv
avrov rairsivoiiv iv Kai fttra r a v r a eXiriato/utv sir
avrov, ov yurj tpt)fto)6y o rdirftc ovroc tic rov airavra ^povov,
Xlyft o (hoc twv Svvaptwv. ’Eav 8s pij wurrtvmfn aurw,
tutaKovorrrt ro v KtipvyfiaroQ avrov, io to fk in iyju pfia roic £0-
vf<n. i. e. Et dixit Esdras populo, Hoc pascha Sal­
vator noster et perfugium nostrum. Et si in ani-
mum induxeriiis, et in cor vestrum ascendent,
quod humiliatnri eum sitnus in signo, et postea
speraturi in eum, non desolabitur locus iste in
omne tempus, dicit Deus exercituum. Sin in
eum, non credideritis, neque audieritis annun-
eiationem ejus, deridiculum eritis gentibus.—
Remarkable it is, if it be true; and the author
deserves the better credit in it, because be was
a Samaritan, and therefore might be the better
skilled in Jewish writings. But however, l am
248 PHILOS OPINION
sure the apostle tells us, not only that the Passover
Was a type of Christ, in respect of.his death, but
also that the proper.notion of the paschal feast
was to be a feast upon sacrifice, in those words,
1 Cor. v. 7, 8. “ Christ our passover is sacrificed
for us; therefore let us keep the feast (that is, the
paschal feast upon this sacrificed Christ) with the
unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.” Where,
alluding to that common Jewish custom of feasting
upon sacrifices, of which we have before spoken,
he implies, that the paschal supper was a feast of
the same nature, a sacrificial feast.
CHAP. III.
An answer to some objections against the Passover'sbeing a sacrifice :
and the controversy about the day upon which the Jews kept the
Passover about the time of our Saviour’s death discussed. Proved
against Scaliger, and others of that opinion, that no translation of
feasts from one Feria to another were then in use.
$ ut yet we will not dissemble, what there is
of any moment, either in antiquity or reason,
against our own opinion, ere we let this discourse
pass, but subject all to an impartial view.
And first, the authority of Philo, who, in his
third book He Vita Mosis, speaks thus concern­
ing the PaSSOVer : Ev g ov^ ol fitv t&wrat irpoaayovai
T
<
j> fiwfiqi ra lepiia, Qvovai S’ oi upaQ’ aXXa vo/iov jrpotr-
ra£« avfitrav ro sdvoe Uparai, raw Kara fitpoQ hcaarov r<tc
pwtp avrwv (hxrlac ava-yovrt? rort fat ^etpovpytwvrte. 'O
ptv ovv aXXoc airac Xiwg eyeyijOu /cat tpaiSpoc; ijv, Beatrrou
vopt^ovroc ieptiK
tvvji rtrifiijoBai' i. e. In qua non ut alias
plebeii homines victimas adducunt ad altare mac-
tandas a sacerdotibus, sed jubente lege tota gens
sacrificat, dura pro se quisque mactat bosttam
suis manibus. Tunc uuiversus populus exulta-
EXAMINED. 349
bat, unoquoque existimante ge sacerdptji digni-
tate honoratum.—And again, in bis. book De Pe-
calogo; ’Ev y dvouot irav8*i/ul avriiv ucQorog, rpvg itptlc
avrtov owe avafKVOvng, itpwvovtiv rov vo/xeov yafn<fap.tvovT<p
tffaei iravrt, fiiav ijjuepav l£alperov avd irav erog, Etc (tvTovpyiav
O
vatidv. Quando populariter singuli sacrificant, non
exspectatis sacerdotibus, ipsi pernjissu legis fun-
gentes sacerdotio, quotannis per unum diem .dee?
tinatum huic negotio.
But to this we answer, that Philo doth not here
deny the Passover to be a sacrifice, but confirm
it rather, in that he calls it often, here and else­
where, ihwla, and saith, that they did dvdyuv, bring
it to the altar,—and that the people did Updadai,
sacrificeand doth only distinguish this ,paschal
sacrifice from all the other sacrifices in this, that
here, according to his opinion, eyery one of the
people was Itpwmwt rmum/ivog, honoured with the
priestly office,—and that the law did lepourwtiviravrl
rip E
0vE
i \apiZeaffm, make every one a priest for that
time, to offer up their own passpver.— *ScaligE
But moreover, it is well known, that lench.Tnber.
Philo,* though he were a Jew by nation, ftem
Titem
fo
yet was very ignorant of Jewish cus- ^ “djeCy.
toms, having beep born and bred up at
Alexandria: and we have a specimen of H
ug.G
rotiu,
his mistakes here, in that he seems m
M
att-X
X
T
I*
make this difference between the Passover and
■the other sacrifices, that they were only killed by
the priest, but the people themselves killed their
Own passOVers, vdfiov 7rpoor<»£«, and vofiov yapiaafu-
v p v , according to the law;—where he means doubt­
less that, in Exod. xii. 16. “ the whole assembly
of the congregation of Israel shall kill it.” For
this is that solennedelirium ofour late authors also,
250 CHRIST ANTICIPATED
' ’
which we have chastised before. But, if he mean
moreover, that the people did not only kill their
passovers, but do all other priestly offices con­
cerning them, when he says they were Itptuavvy re-
Tifinutvoc this, as it hath no ground from Scripture
(and, I think, will hardly find a patron now to
defend it), so it doth not prejudice our opinion of
the Passover’s being a sacrifice, but still much
confirm it.
Secondly, it may seem to some a kind of im­
possibility to conceive, how sO many sacrifices, as
there must be at every Passover, cduld all be of­
fered upon one altar, since there were no more by
the law permitted.
To which, nevertheless, I need not answer any
thing but this ; that there was nothing but the fat
and some of the inwards burnt upon the altar;
and that the bigness of the altar was greater than
perhaps is ordinarily conceived : for under the se­
cond temple, the area thereof, upon the top, was
a square of twenty-eight cubits, as the Talmudists
constantly relate; to which Josephus also agreeth
very near, if the difference of those cubits, which
he useth, be allowed. Only they may please to
learn from the instance of Josiah’s Passover,
which was said to be so great, that “ there
was no Passover like to that kept in Is­
rael, from the days of Samuel the prophet, unto
that time,” that this was possible to be done ; for
it either is or must be confessed, that then they
were all offered upon the altar.
But, lastly, we must confess ingenuously, that
there is one great difficulty yet behind, concern­
ing our Saviour’s last Passover, which, according
to the general consent of our best divines, critics,
THE JEWISH PASSOVER. 251
and chronologers, was kept a day before the Jews
kept their Passover: whether therefore his pas-
'chal lamb, which he with his apostles did then
eat, were first sacrificed at the temple; and how
/could that be ?
Where, not to engage ourselves any more than
needs we must, in that nice and perplexed but
famous controversy, concerning the time of the
Jewish Passover about our Saviour’s death; it
will not be amiss, first to take notice, that the La­
tin church ever maintained the contrary opinion
against the Greeks, viz. that the Jews kept the
Passover on the same night which our Saviour
did: and though it be true, that of later times
most of our best learned authors have quitted
that opinion of the Latins, and closed altogether
with the Greeks, as Paulus Burgensis, Munster,
Scaliger, and Casaubon; yet, notwithstanding,
our countryman, Mr. Broughton (understanding,
perhaps, better than they did, that the Jewish
Passover was a true and proper sacrifice, and
first, according to God's command, was to be of­
fered up to God, before feasted on), espied a diffi­
culty here concerning our Saviour’s Passover
(which they took no notice of), that could not
easily be solved ; and therefore, be thought good
scindere nodum, as Alexander did, to cut the knot
which be could not loose,—and absolutely to
deny, that the Jewish Passover, and our Sa­
viour’s, were then celebrated on two several nights.
And he is of late seconded by Johannes Cloppen-
burg, a Belgic divine (in an epistle written upon
this argument to Ludovicus De Dieu), insisting
upon the very same ground, because the paschal
lamb, which Christ, with his disciples did eat,
£ 5 2 CHRIST ANTICIPATED
could not have been sacrificed at the temple, un­
less it had been at the same time when the Jewish
Passover was solemnly celebrated. ■His words
to this purpose, expressing fully Mr. Broughton’s
sense, are these “ Non potuit mactari agnus pas-
chalis extra templum Hierosolymitanum : In tem-
plo mactari non potuit citra generalem populi
consensutn: Quare ueque dies mactationis potuit
auticipari.” It follows, “ Vel ergo dicendum
Christum comedisseagnum non mactatum in tem-
plo, atque hoc facto (quod absit) legem violasse;
(jjuxta legem enirn agnus privatim comedendas e
teraplo deferendus domi erat in aedes privatas,
post igne absumtam in templo adipem, et sangui-
nem delatum ad altare); vel Judaeos eodem tem­
pore cum Christo pascha celebrasse.”
But I must confess, although I am as much ad­
dicted to that hypothesis of the Passover’s being
a sacrifice, and as tender of it as Mr. Broughtpn
could be, or any body else; yet I cannot but yield
myself captive to truth, on which side soever it
presents itself, and though it be «c KaOalpemv twv
ISuuv (as Aristotle saith a philosopher should do),
to the'destruction of our own phenomena.
And indeed those two places especially, brought
out of St. John’s gospel, to prove that the Jews
kept their Passover the day after our Saviour did
his, seem to me to be unanswerable, nor any way
.cured by those oo$a fappaica, which are applied to
them.
The first is chap. xix. ver. 14. where, the next
day after Christ had kept his Passover with his
disciples, when Pilate delivered him up to the
Jews to be crucified, it is said, that it was then
wapaaKtvn row IIcur^a, the preparation of the Ppss?
THE JEW ISH PASSOVER. 253
over;—where they tell as, that by the preparation
of the Passover is meant the preparation of the
sabbath, on which the second day of the Pass-
over fell. But, JEn jecur crtticum! as Scaliger
sometimes cries out; and what a far-fetched con­
ceit is this!
The second is that in chap, xviii. ver. 28.
When Jesus was led into Pilate’s judgment-hall,
early in the morning, it is said, that the Jews
themselves went not into the judgment-ball, lest
they should be defiled, but that they might eat
the passover. Here we are told, that by eating
the passover is meant the eating of the chagi-
gak, that was killed the day before with the pass-
over, whereof something, perhaps, remained till
the day following. And this gloss is little better
than the former; for, although they appeal to
that place in Deut. xvi. 2. to prove, that the cha-
gigah was sometimes called by the name of pass-
over, which indeed, if our English translation
were authentic, Would make something for them;
“ Thou shalt therefore sacrifice the passover unto
the Lord thy God of the dock and the herd,” as
if there had been a passover of oxen, as well as
of sheep; yet in the Hebrew the words run thus;
Tpai utit Tnte Tvrrbnrs rran, which, according to a
several punctuation, and a several supplying of
something that must be understood, may be ex­
pounded several ways; any of which is far better
than that which Oiir English translators have un­
happily pitched upon.
Onkelos, in his paraphrase (which seldom me­
rits that name, being indeed commonly nothing
but a rigid version, reads it thus, DTp H
T
T
D
S m ini
n t n p nroai p mrr-, i. e. And
254 NO PASSOVER
tbou shalt sacrifice the passover before the Lord
thy God of the sons of the flock, and the peace-
offerings (thereof) of oxen;—which interpretation
is followed by R. Solomon and Aben-Ezra,
tm W ? T
pai rrosn air6, i. e. sheep for the Passover,
and oxen for the peace-offerings, or the chagi-
gah.—Arid it may be confirmed from that of Jo-
siah’s Passover, 2 Cbron. xxxv. 7. “ Josiah gave
to the people, of the flock, lambs and kids, all for
the Passover-offerings, to the number of thirty
thousand, and three thousand bullocks:” where
the bullocks, or the herd, are divided from the
Passover-offerings, because they served for the
peace-offerings, or the chagigah, as appeareth
from ver. 13. “ They roasted the passovers with
fire, according to the ordinance; but the o t h e r
h o l y o f f e r in g s (that is, the peace-offerings, or
chagigah) sod they in pots, and Cauldrons, and
pans.” Nachmanides hath another interpretation
of it to this purpose, *U3 TQirw rwrt Him HPSamjp
rum x rb npa myi T
paium i. e. He corn-
mandeth here the passover, which was a lamb,
as he had said before—(making the pause there);
and npai ptx. the flock and the herd, or the sheep
and the kids, and the young bullocks, for the
chagigah;—giving other instances, in which the
conjunctive particle vau, which he doth here sup­
ply, is in like manner to be understood.
And this exposition is rather approved than
the former, not only by Abarbanel, but also by the
Karraite, which I have before commended; who,
quoting one R. Aaron for the author of it, doth
express it thus: iay *mi m y ftthD m an “idnd rrm
vriBb'Mta'iaa “ipai m ar tt6n nvr1
? nos m an
yiN tw p /urn ram i. e ..The word m an (Thou
OF THE HERD. 255
sh a lt sacrifice) is to b e re p eated air<? kiovwbefore
THE FLOCK AND THE HERD, th u s,—And thoU
shalt sacrifice the passover to the Lord tby God,
and thou shalt sacrifice sheep and oxen, or the
flock and the herd; as ip like manner, Prov. xxx.
3. the particle (vb not) is to be repeated dn-o jc
m
v
o
v
from the former part of the verse.—So that it
cannot hence be proved, that the peace-offerings,
offered with the passover, were ever called by
the name of Passover.
There is another place in the same evangelist,
that hath not been observed by any one, to this
purpose, which, if it were rightly understood,
would be as clear a testimony as any of the rest.
And it is in the 19th chapter, ver. 31. nv yap /u-
■
y
d
X
rji)ii/jtefa Lcelvt] row Saf3j3drov, for that sabbath-day
was a great day.—M«yaX»? vfiipa, in the Greek of
the Hellenists, is used for the first, or the last day
of every solemn feast, in which there was a holy
convocation to the Lord. This appeareth from
Isa. i. 13. “ Your new-moons and sabbaths, the
calling of assemblies (which was the first and
last day of the feast), I cannot away with which
the Septuagint.render thus, Tdc Noufiqvtac vpuIv jcai
ra 3f3ara, Kai rag fityaXag iifitpaq, Your neW-mOOOS
and sabbaths, and your g r e a t d a y s .—For the
last day of the feast we have it used by our evan­
gelist, chap. vii. ver. 37. “ In the last day, the
GREAT DAY of the feast, «ijulp9 rp fifyaXjj T
tfQcopriKi
and doubtless by the same evangelist for the first
day,of the feast, in this place: and therefore the
Jews did not eat their passover till the night be­
fore, which was the same night our Saviour was
crucified.
- Which may be strengthened farther by this ar-
25(3? Ch r is t ’s p a s s o v e r s a c r if ic e d .
gument; that if the Jews bad celebrated their
Passover the same night which our Saviour did
his, it is certain, they would never have gone
about immediately with swords and staves to have
apprehended him, and then have brought him
to the high-priest’s hall, and afterward have ar­
raigned him at Pilate’s judgment-seat, and lastly
have crucified him; all the same day. For the
first day of unleavened bread was, by the law, a
holy convocation to the Lord, on which it was
not lawful to do any work; and we know the
Jews were rigid enough in observing these legal
ceremonies.
If then it must be granted, that our Saviour,
with his disciples, kept the Passover the night
before the vulgar Jews did celebrate it, our next
work is to shew, how it might be probable, that
our Saviour’s passover was first sacrificed at the
temple.
And here, perhaps, I might run for shelter to
that story in Suidas, upon the word ’Wove, that
Christ was enrolled into the number of the two'-
and-twenty legal priests, that served at the altar,
from the pretended confession of an ancient Jew
in Justinian’s time ; and then he might possibly
sacrifice his own passover at the temple, though
the Jews had not solemnized theirs till the day
after; but that I hold this to be a mere fable,
and that not only ridiculous, but impious.
Or I might take up the opinion of the Greeks;
that Christ did not keep a true legal Passover, but
a feast of unleavened bread in imitation of it ; or,
•inA
nnotad as the learned Hugh* Grotius (who hath
M»ttc. K
vi. iate]y asserted this opinion) expresseth
it, not Tlaaya Bwnpov, but /uyjjjuovtvrtA
cw
, such as the
Ch r i s t ’s .p a s s o v b r s a c r if ic e d . ' 2 6 7
Jews at tbis day keep, because the temple being
down, tbeir sacrifices are all ceased. Cut tbis
opinion hath been exploded by most of our late
^authors; and indeed I cau no way satisfy myself
in it, and therefore will not acquiesce in this an­
swer. *
Bat before we are able to give a true account
of this query, we must search a little deeper into
the true ground of this difference between our
Saviour’s Passover and the Jews’.
The common opinion is, that the Jews in our
Saviour’s time were wont to translate their festi­
vals from one Feria to another upon several occa­
sions ; as, whenever two festivals were immedi­
ately to follow one another, to join them into one;
and therefore, when any fell upon the sixth Feria,
to put it over to the next Feria or the sabbath, to
avoid the concurrence of two sabbaths together;
in the same manner as the Jews use to do in theii^
calendar at this day, where they have several
rules to this purpose, expressed by abbreviatures,
thus, Ada, JBadu, Gahaz, Zabad, A gu; whereof
each letter is a numeral for some Feria. The rule
for the Passover is To, JBadu; that is, that it
should not be kept on the second, fourth, or sixth
Feria. (There is an extract of a Rabbinical de­
cree to this purpose, under the name of R. Elie-
zer, in Munster upon Matt. chap, xxvi.) And
therefore, at this time, when our Saviour was cru­
cified, the Passover falling upon the sixth Feria,
or Friday, was, say they, by the Jews translated,
according to tbis rule, to the next Feria, and kept
on Saturday, or the sabbath; but our Saviour, not
regarding these traditions, observed that day pre­
cisely which was commanded in the law, iv
v o l . iv . s
258 THIS BEGINNING OFtfUE MONTH
O
veoO
at ro' Tra^a, (Luke xxii. 7.) that is, as they ejc*
pound it, “ upon which the Passover o u g h t to
have been k i ll e d w h i c h was Friday, the day
before.
But, under favour, I conceive, that all these de*
crees, together with that ratiocinium, or calendar,
to which they do belong, were not then in use in
our Saviour’s time (although it be so confidently
averred by the incomparable Joseph Scaliger), but
long since invented by the Jews. Which I shall
make appear;
First, In that the ancient Jews, about and since
our Saviour’s time, often solemnized as well the
Passovers, as the other feasts, upon the Farias
next before and after the sabbaths, and those
other Ferias, which have been made rejectitious
since by that calendar. In the Talmudical tide
Succoth, chapter the last, we read of *pDDrt3lDDll*
pa Ttysh pa ra«6 that is, a feast going im­
mediately before, or following immediately after,
the sabbath.—And inBetzah,chap. i. m v6I?naiOOP
Tim and raw raw am rwfb ‘ttw,a feast, that Mis
to be on the evening of the sabbath, or the day
after the sabbath.—In -Cbagigah, the second
chapter, row 3TP3riPH^ ^fr?Wm2{P; which is to the
same purpose with the former. More particu­
larly concerning the Passover Pesacbim, chap,
vii. sect. 10. u Ossa, nervi, et omne residuum ag-
ni paschalis, cremantor sexto decimo: si is dies
sabbatum, decimo septimo.” From this, and di­
vers like places of the Talmud, Aben Ezra on
lev. xxfii. 4. observes^ rmwrrr nn •nob.na 03rowoa
Haa nra, There be divers instances in the Misna
and the Gemara of the Passovers being kept in
b a d u ,-—that is, 'on those days, which were made
RECKONED FROMTHE PHAMS. 3 5 9
rcjectitiouein the late calendar, the second, fourth,
and sixth Feria. Therefore, these translations
were not in use when the doctors of the Misna
and Gemara lived.
Secondly, In that the Jews ever, while the tem­
ple stood, observed their new moons and feasts,
according to the fameor appearance—ofthe moon,
and therefore had no calendar for their rule to
sanctify their feasts by, but they were then sanc­
tified by the heavens, as the Misna speaks. This
is so clearly delivered by R. Moses Ben Maimon,
in that excellent Halachah, entitled, K id d u s h
HACCHODESH.that I wonder So many learned men,
that are well skilled in those authors, should miss
of it. For having spoken of the rales of observ­
ing the fame, he then adds, that these were never
made use of since the Sanhedrin ceased in the
land of Israel, after the destruction of the temple;
since which time they have used a calendar, cal­
culated according to the middle motion of the
moon, p r o p ww paw win w d rrmb robnm -an
tewm vhv iw p p r o dwptw p a i rrnan ™
byp a p
rraw didvs vhk m rb rppu rw ovri a dottwounwnrn
m Dttti?trnp w rroon opwin m jawra papw dp
O
i a : Et hsec erat traditio Mosis in monte Sinai,
quod omni tempore, quo duraret Sanhedrio, con-
stituerent Neomenias juxta <
paaiv' hoc vero tem­
pore, quo jam cessavit Sanhedrin, constituerent
secundum calculum hunc astronomicum, quo nos
hodie utimur: nec ullo modo jam ad tfunv nos as-
tringimus, cum saepe contingat, ut dies, legitimus
secundum nostrum calculum vel concurrat cum
lunari Qaou, vel antevortat earn unica die, vel etiam
subsequatur.—And again, a little after, most punc­
tually ; m towtp a w o Diwn1
?bmtr baI'm/in vio^o
rn ra m tw nmnw ran mobn parr *r©»
s 2
200 THE KARRAITE JEWS
"ax’D
’iy tehn ’D
anm 01naw
a’oan’D
'a!
?
3m
yap
raDJD Y
>
n1
?M
it£npM mnap by MTH; Quando primum
coeperant omnes Israelite computare, secundum
hunc calculum ? A fine doctorum Talmudicorum*
quando jam desolata erat terra Israel, neque erat
consistorium aut synedriura, quod determinaret:
nam per omnes dies doctorum Misuse etdoctorum
Gemarae, usque ad Abaeum et Rabbaeum, acqui-
escebant omnes Judaei in sanctione terrae Israelis.
—And those rules forementioned of not keeping
the several feasts upon such and such Ferias
.were made together with this calendar, as the
same author there also avoucheth: ffitWGfPl’pI’M
robra ipdp rfrrm jnapb Minnrrawnntf’sbhm’d*
s nr
rrm an njrupdviiw -p’sb’/ibm aipoaM
^nwraM
.*. e.
In this account they never constituted the new-
raoon of Tisri upon Adu, because this account
was made according to the conjunction of the sun
and moon in the middle-motion; therefore, now
they constituted some legitimate and other rej£c-
titious days, which they could not do before,
when the new-moon (and therefore all the other
feasts) was determined according to the <
p
a
tn
e.
But the Talmud was not completely finished
till about the five hundredth year of the Christian
era; therefore this Jewish calendar, and these
rules concerning the translation of feasts, were
not in being till about that time, and so could be
no reason of this difference between the time, in
which our Saviour solemnized the Passover, and
the other Jews.
For further confirmation hereof, we may obi
serve, that the Karrait.es, which have rejected the
fond traditions of the Pharisees, retain still the
ancient custom of reckoning their new-moomiwro
261
STILL OBSERVE THE PHASI8.
r$c faawe, as * Scaliger himself hath . F
.well observed: though in this he were T
em
p.p.
mistaken, that he thought they had as- 149,150'
sumed it of late, merely out of hatred to the other
Jews, whereas they have kept it in a constant suc­
cession from antiquity, aud hold it still as neces­
sary by Divine right. npJTynrra Rin OJDH(saith my
author) onenpo. mn'ran praty m tm a toner tater
pyrriny Torn to typrra myv rmn n w a o tn rn
«nn C irri' term hvti m m term Ninto jnv term rbaa-
This is confessed by all Israel, that from the time
of the kingdom they were ever wont to conse­
crate the new-moons by the fame' and the very
etymon of the word chodesh implies so much, for
it signifies the renewing of something; so that it is
denominated from the change of the moon, or
phasis, as the epocha and beginning of it.—And
this is one of the great controversies to this day
between those two sects of the Jews, the Denp*
or Karraei,—and O'Jan, or Rabbanaei;—which is
grown at length to such a height, that the Kar-
raites, deciphering the conditions of those wit­
nesses, whose testimonies might be accounted va­
lid for the fame, make this for one, that they
should no way belong to the sect of Rabbinists:
which perhaps to observe in the author’s own
words would not be unpleasant rote fiXapj^aime ical
fiXoXoyoie. term tempi inympto rrrr vbv 'Jtea w m
'jsdD^yotemrvnybap1
?ntn "ranmomm upon nno
•tMDnin n v* jyi'JPirr /on nrw Dutord
t
t
o
arw 'jbd em m rvnyubtop1
?ntnjw array c m m
rra mi d
jo
hon uneai wnw swirra 'JJD
Dapton
ltenprmnN lisyi, *.e. A second condition is, that
they be not such, as hold an opinion concerning
the sanctification of the new-moon different from
the opinion:of our wise men concerning the. pha-
2<J2 THE MANNER OF CONSECRATING
sis, and in most of their appointed times they
agree with us. But we may not receive the tes­
timony of any one that is of the sect of the R ib-
bins, because they are divided from Us in this;
and although they be our brethren and our flesh,
yet herein they have rebelled and grieved his Holy
Spirit.
Havingthus disproved the commonand received
opinion, and removed the false ground of tftltadif­
ference of time between our Saviour’s Passover
and the Jews, we come, in the next place, to lay
down the true, which must be derived from that
way of reckoning the months, and of determining
the ttrrnn tOTn, the head or beginning of the month,
—which was in use in our Saviour’s time, which
(as we have shewed already in general) was by
the <
p
a
<
r
iQ
' so it will be expedient to describe the
whole manner of it more particularly from au-
._ , ,D thentic authors.*
bvi. in Ro.h In the great or outer court of the tem-
jdW
B
onh
i
’n
et pie, there was a house called Beth-Ja-
HdduhH* ze|£j where the senate sat all the thir­
tieth day of every month, to receive the
witnesses of the moon’s appearance, and to exa­
mine them. And here they always had a feast
provided for the entertainment of those that came,
to encourage men to come the more willingly. In
ancient times they did admit of strangers, and re­
ceive their testimony, iif it were approved upon
examination. But When the heretics (that is, the
Christians) afterward grew up, by whom .(they
say) they were sometimes deluded, they begun
to grow shy, and to admit of none but snoh as
were approved of to be of the Jews’ religion. If
there came approved witnesses upon the thirtieth
THE NEW-MOONS. 263
day of the fame seen, then the chiefman of the se­
nate stood up and pronounced M e k u d d a s h , it is
sanctified;—and the people standing by caught
the word from him, and cried out M e k u d d a s h ,
M e k u d d a s h . Whereupon there was notice pre­
sently given to all the country; which was done
at first by torches from mountain to mountain, till
Kt length -the Christians (they say) abused them in
that’kind also with false fires; wherefore, .'they
were fain to send messengers from place to place
over the whole land, to give intelligence of the
new-moon. But if, when the consistory had sat
all the thirtieth day, there came no approved wit­
nesses of the faaie, then they made an intercala­
tion of one day in the former month, and decreed
the following one-and-thirtieth day to be the ca­
lends. And yet, notwithstanding, if after the
fourth or fifth day there should come some wit­
nesses from afar, that testified they had seen the
fine in its due time, nay, though they, came to­
wards the end of the month (i£nnn«pD3HOl^DN)the
senate, when they had used all means by affright-,
ing them from that testimony, that so, if it were
possible, they might decline a new consecration
(after they had already made an embolism in the
former month) if the witnesses remained constant,
were then bound to alter the beginning of the
month, and reckon it a day sooner, to wit, from
the thirtieth day.
Here we see the true ground of the difference
of a day, that might arise continually about the
calends of the month, and so consequently about
any of the other feasts, which did all depend on
them; viz. between the true time of the moon’s
garnet upon the thirtieth day, end that of the sor.
204 THE PASSOVER KEPT
nate’s decree, a day after. For since it appears
out of tbeir own monuments, how unwilling they
were, having once made a consecration ofthe neo-
menia, to alter it again; it may be probably con-*
ceived, that, in those degenerated times, the se­
nate might many'times refuse to accept the testi­
mony of undoubted witnesses: and then, it seems,
they had such a canon as this, .DNteftjW1*1/P3
xprf>*
?
2
nrQ*mmpa m nan dw id cma ttnvm
T
W
M
B
U
rw nw 'SW
* Dm bn oyion. that whatsoever
time the senate should conclude of for the calends
of the month, though it were certain they were
in the wrong, yet all were bound to order their
feasts according to it:—Which I cannot think
was approved of by our Saviour, and the most
pious Jews. And, therefore, I conceive it most
probable, that this was the very case between our
Saviour’s Passover and the Jews’, in that he fol­
lowed the true confirmed by sufficient and
assured witnesses; but the other Jews supersti-
tiously observed the pertinacious decree of the
senate of Sanhedrin, which was for the day after.
And now, at lhst, we are come again to the
acme of the question that was first propounded,
How our Saviour’s passover, notwithstanding all
this, might be sacrificed the day before those of
the other Jews were.
To which 1 answer, that upon this ground, not
only our Saviour and his apostles, but also divers'
others of the most religious Jews, kept the Pass-
over upon the fifteenth day from the true $d<nc of
inpanario the moon, and not from tbq senate’s de-
cree, which I may confirm from the
testimony of Epiphanius, that reports there was,
at this time, Odpvj3oc, a tumult and contention,
TWO DAYS TOGETHER. 2 66
amongst the Jews about the Passover; and so
we may easily persuade those other evangelists,
that intimate Christ's Passover to have been so­
lemnized, when many others kept it, to agree
with St. John, who assures us, that it was also by
divers Jews kept the day after; Now, it was a
custom among the Jews, in such doubtful cases
as these, which oftentimes fell out, to permit the
feasts to be solemnized, or passovers killed, on
two several days together. Maimonides affirmeth,
that, in the remoter parts of the land of Israel,
they always solemnized the feast of the new-
moons two days together; nay, in Jerusalem it­
self, where the senate sat, they kept the new-
rooon of Tisri, which was the beginning of the
year, twice, lest they should be mistaken in it.
In the Talmud we have an instance of the Pass­
over’s being kept two days together, because the
uew-moon was doubtful, in Gemarah Rosh Ha-
shanab, cap. i. Hence the Karraites, who still
keep the ancient custom of observing the moon’s
$
a
<
T
iG
, retain it as a rule to this day,
p9DD,observare duos dies propter dubium.—Nay,
the Rabbinical Jews themselves, since they have
changed the pbasis for the synod or conjunction
of the moon in the middle motion, in imitation
hereof, still observe to keep the Passover two
days together/ iisdem ceremoniis, as the learned
author of the Jewish Synagogue reports; and Sca-
liger himself, not only of that, but also of the
other feasts, “ Judaei post institutionem bodierni
computi eandem solennitatem celebrant biduo,
propterea quod mensem incipiant a medio motu
lunse: itaque DANISH/TTOTTOpB
D
D propter dubium
coojunctionis luminarium, Pascha celebrant 15.
866 TBB LOBP’S SUPPER
et 16. Nisan, Pentecosten 6. et 7. Sivan, Sceno-
pegia 15. et 16. Tiwi; idque vocant bv '30 210 Df
rttbi, Festum secundum exsiliorum.
Now then we see, tbat nothing hinders, but
that the Passover might be a sacrifice. And thus
we have hitherto cleared the way.
CHAP. IV.
Demonstrated, that the Lord’s supper in the Christian church, in re­
ference to the true sacrifice ofChrist, is a parallel to the feasts Upon
sacrifices both in the Jewish religion and heathenish superstition.
B ut lest we should seem all this while to set up
fancies of our own, and then sport with them, we
come now to demonstrate and evince, that the
Lord’s supper, in the proper notion of it, is e p u -
LUM EX OBLATIS, Or a FEAST UPON SACRIFICE ; in
the same manner with the feasts upon the Jewish
sacrifices under the law, and the feasts upon EI-
AQAO0YTA, (thiogs offered to idols) among the
.heathens: and that from a place of Scripture,
where all these three shall be compared together,
and made exact parallels to one another.
1 Corinth, chap, x.
14. Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from
idolatry.
15.1speak as to wise men, judge ye what I say.
16. The cup of blessing, which we bless, is it
not the communion of the blood of Christ ? The
bread, which we break, is it not the communion
of the body of Christ?
18. Behold Israel after the flesh; are not they
which eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar?
A FfeAST, &C. 2 6 7
20. Now I say, that the tilings, which the Gen­
tiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils, and not to
God; and I would not, ‘that ye should have fel­
lowship with devils.
2]. Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord and
the cup of devils; ye cannot be partakers of the
Lord’
s table, and the table of devils.
Where the apostle’s scope being to convince
the Corinthians of the unlawfulness of eating
things sacrificed to idols, he doth it in this tnan~
ner: shewing, that though an idol were truly no­
thing, and things sacrificed to idols were physic­
ally nothing, as different from other meats, (as, it
seems, they argued, and St. Paul confesses, ver.
19.) yet morally and circumstantially, to eat of
things sacrificed to idols in the idol’s teiftple, was
to consent with the sacrifices, and to be gnilty
of them.
Which he doth illustrate, first, from a parallel
rite in Christian religion ; where the eating and
drinking of the body and blood of Christ, offered
up to God upon the cross for us in the Lord's
supper, is a real communication in his death and
sacrifice: ver. 16. “ The cup of blessing, which
we bless, is it not the communion of the blood Of
Christ? The bread, which we break, is it not the
communion ofthe body of Christ ?”
Secondly, From another parallel of the same
rite among the Jew s; where always they, that ate
of the sacrifices, were accounted partakers of the
altar, that is, of the sacrifice offered up upon the
altar, ver. 18. “ Behold Israel after the flesh; are
not they which eat of the sacrifices partakers of
the altar?” “ In veteri lege quicunque admitte-
2 6 8 THE l o r d ’s SUPPER A FEA8T, &C.
bantur ad edendum de hostiis oblatis, censeban-
tur ipsiu&sacrificii, tanquam pro ipsis oblati, fieri
participes, et per illud saactificarias a late
commentator fully expresses it.
Therefore, as to eat the body and blood of
.Christ in the Lord’s supper, is to be made par­
taker of his sacrifice offered up to God for us-; as
to eat of the Jewish sacrifices under the law, was
.to partake in the legal sacrifices themselves:so to
•eat of things offered up in sacrifice to idols, was
to be made partakers of the idol-sacrifices, and
therefore was unlawful.
For the .things which the Gentiles sacrifice,
they sacrifice to devils; but Christ’s body and
blood were offered up in sacrifice unto God, and
therefore they could not partake of both together,
the sacrifice of the true God, and the sacrifice of
devils. “ Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord,
and, the cup of devils; ye cannot be partakers of
the Lord’s table, and the table of devils.” St.
Paul’s argument here must needs suppose a per­
fect analogy between these three, and that they
are all parallels to one another; or else it hath no
strength. Wherefore I conclude from hence, that
the L o r d ’s s u p p e r is the same among Christians,
in respect of the Christian sacrifice, that among
the Jews the feasts upon the legal sacrifices were,
and among the Gentiles the feasts upon the idol
sacrifices; and therefore e p u l v m s a c r if ic ia l e ,
or EPULUM e x o b l a t is . <
'O IIE P ,'EA EI A E I'SA I.
THE LORD’S SUPPER NO SACRIFICE. 2 6 9
CHAP. V.
The result of the former discourse; that the Lord's supper is not a
sacrifice, but a feast upon a sacrifice.
T h u s having declared and demonstrated the true
notion of the Lord’s sapper, we see then how that
theological controversy, which hath cost so many
disputes, whether the Lord’s supper be a sacrifice,
is already decided: for it is not s a c r if ic iu m , but
e p u l u m 'EK T H '2 0Y 2I'A 2, not A s a c r if ic e , but
a feast upon sacrifice;—or else, in other words,
not o b l a t io s a c r i f i c i i , but, as Tertullian ex­
cellently speaks, p a r t ic ip a t io s a c r i f i c i i , not
the offering of something up to God upon an al­
tar, but the eating of something which comes from
God’s altar,—and is set upon our tables. Nei­
ther was it ever known amongst the Jews or hea­
thens, that those tables, upon which they did eat
their sacrifices, should be called by the name of
altars. St. Paul, speaking of the feasts upon the
idol-sacrifices, calls the places, upon which they
were eaten, “ the table of devils,” because the de­
vils’ meat was eaten on them; not the altars of de­
vils : and yet doubtless be spake according to
the true propriety of speech, and in those techni­
cal words, that were then in use amongst them.
And, therefore, keeping the same analogy, he must
needs call the communion-table by the name of
the Lord’s table, i. e. the table, upon which God’s
meat is eaten; not his altar, upon which it is of* ~
fered. It is true, an altar is nothing but a table ;
but it is a table upon w.hich G o d himself eats,-
270 THE LOAD’S SUPPER A FEDERAL RITE
consuming the sacrifices by his holy fire: but
when the same meat is given from God unto us to
eat of, the relation being changed, the place on
which w e eat is nothing but a table.
And because it is not enough in any discourse,
as Aristotle well observeth in his Ethics, to con­
fute an error, unless we can also shew ro amov row
^«w8ovc, the cause ofthat error;—having thus disco­
vered the true notion of the Lord’s supper, we
may easily discern front hence also, hew that mis­
take grew up, and that by the degeneration of
this truth. There is a sacrifice in the Lord’s
supper symbolically, but not there as offered up
to God, but feasted on by u s; and so not a sacri­
fice, but a sacrificial feast; which began too soon
to be misunderstood.
CHAP. VI.
The further improvement of that general notion, how the Lord's
supper is a federal rite between God and ns, at large: concluded
with amemorable story out of Maimonides and Nachmanides.
I s h o u l d now come to make some further im­
provement of this general notion of the Lord’s
supper, by shewing what these feasts upon the sa­
crifice did signify under the law; and then apply­
ing the same in a more perfect manner to the
Lord’s supper under the gospel, being warranted
thereunto by that analogy, which is between
them. But because there may be divers glosses
and interpretations of these feasts upon the sa­
crifices, which are obvious to every common un­
derstanding, we will decline them all, and pitch
only upon one, which is not so vulgarly under-
BETWEEN GOD AND C8. 2 7 1
stood; and it is this, that the eating of God’s sa­
crifice was a f e d e r a l r i t e between God and
those that offered them; according to the custom
of the ancients, and especially in those oriental
parts, to confirm and ratify their covenants by
eating and drinking together.
Thus when Isaac made a covenant with Abime-
lech the king of Gerar, the text saith,
*
*He made him and those that were
with him a feast, and they did eat and drink, and
rose op betimes in the morning, and sware to one
another.”
When Laban made a covenant with Jacob*
Gen. xxxi. 44. “ Now, therefore, come (saith La­
ban) let us make a covenant, I and thou, and
let it be for a witness between me and thee:”
then it follows in the text, “ They took stones,
and made a heap, and did eat there upon the heap;
and Laban called it J e g a r - s a h a d u t h a ,” in his
Chaldee ‘
tongue, but Jacob (in the Hebrew lan­
guage) G a l e e d , i. e. a heap of witness;—imply­
ing, that those stones, upon which they bad eaten
and drank together, should be a witness against
either of them that should first violate that cove­
nant. R. Moses Bar Nachman, in his comment,
thus glosseth upon this place, tO
V
DDtp
rrorft tin dp6» opkw lroi6 m a m a Tn arrar
pro dti1
?r r o rat m a il runara ons tiki nanNfo
nVna,i. e. They did eat there a little upon the
heap for a memorial; because it was .the manner-
of those that enter into covenant, to eat both tor
gether of the same bread, as a symbol of love and
friendship.—And Isaac Abrabanel much to the
purpose, bv orb a b y »w a m
.tM
D
N
3onto W TIN, *. e. It was an ancientcue-
272 COVENANTS MADE BY ,
tom amongst them, that they, which did eat bread
together upon the same table, should be accounted
ever afterwards as eutire brethren.—And in this
sense he conceiveth that place, Lamentations
v. 6. may be expounded; “ We have given the
hand to the Egyptians and to the Assyrians by
fulness of bread,” t. e. We have made a.covenant
with them.
Joshua ix ..14. When the Gibeonites came
to the Israelites, and desired them to make a
league with them, it is said, “ The men of Israel
took of their victuals, and asked not counsel of
the mouth of the L o r d t h a t is, they made a cove*
nant with them, as Kimchi learnedly expounds it,
anatretoto/vnu mao•faro cma wpS Accepe-
runt de viatico ipsorum, et coraederunt cum illis
per modum foederis.—For so it follows afterward
in the text, “ And Joshua made peace with them.”
Hence also was that emphatical expression,
Psalm xli. 9. spoken literally by David of Achi*
tophel, “ Mine own familiar friend, that did eat of
my bread, hath lift up the heel against m e b u t
seeming prophetically to glance at Judas, that
dipping with Christ in the same dish betrayed
him. The singular emphasis of which speech, we,
that are unacquaiuted with this custom of the
oriental nations, cannot easily perceive; neither
can we any where better learn it, than from that
passage of Celsus in Origen, who carping at that
history of Judas’s betraying Christ in the gospel,
as an incredible thing, made, in the meanwhile,
an excellent comment upon this prophecy, when
he little thought of it. On avOpwrw fitv o Koivtovqoaf
.Tpa7T£&JC o v k av avrt£) eTrifiouXevtnitv, woXXw nXeov o 8ttj>
<rvvaw)(vQ&C o v k av avrip «rlfiovXoc iyivero, I. €
■Si ho-
EATING ANP DRINKING TOGETHER. 273
mini nemo insidiaret'ur ejusdem mens® particeps,
multo minus Deo;—And Origen’s reply to him,,
which shews, that though this were an unusual
thing, yet it sometimes came to pass, is very preg­
nant also for our purpose: Tic yap ovk ol&ev d™ voX-
Xei KoivwvqoavTtQ aXutv kcu rpairtfaiQ iirtfiovXevaav rote.
owtOTHMc; Ktu vXripnQ iarlv »j 'EAXqvwv K<u Bapfidparv
laropla toiovtwv mpaSeiyparaw. Kcu 6vuSi£ojv ye 6 lid 9
ptog Ia/ufSoroiog rov AvKa/ifiavra fieri aXag koi rpairt^av
awBt)Kag adtr^&avra, irpog avrov, "'Optcov Se tvoatpl-
adtic fityav, aXag re Kai rpdire£av' i. e. Quis ignorat mul-
tos ad comipunionem salis et mens® adhibitos in-
sidiatos tamen suis contubernalibus? Plena est
historia tarn Graecorum quam Barbarorum exem­
pts ejusmodi. Et Parius ille Iamborum scrip-
tor, exprobrans Lycambae violatum feedus quod
sal et mensa conciliaverat, sic eum alloquitur,
sacramenturn irritasti magnum, salem atque men*
sam.—All which makes manifest, what a hei­
nous offence; it was accoqnted anciently to be
guilty of the breach of a covenant, which had been
confirmed by eating and drinking together.
In the seventh verse of Obadiah, that prophet
speaks to Edom in this manner: “ All the men
of thy confederacy have brought thee to the bor­
der; the men, that .were at peace with thee, have
deceived thee ;they, that eat thy bread, have laid
a wound under thee.”
In the New Testament, that place, John iv. 9.
is well observed by Heinsius, in his Aristarchus,
to -carry this notion, “ How is it that thou, being
a Jew, askest drink of me, being a woman of Sa­
maria?” “ Suavissime dictum (saitb that forenamed
critic) ex eorum more, qui, cuin peregrini essdnt,
VOL. IV. T
274 COVENANTS MADE BY
ant alieno fuissent anitno, aniinis conciliandis ci--
bam mutuo ac potum alter alterius gustabant ”
Wherefore, I think from all these instances I
.may conclude, that this is the true etymon of that
Hebrew word /f d *which signifies a covenant,—
or any federal Communion betwixt parties, from
rro, comedere,—because it was the constant cus­
tom of the Hebrews and oriental nations to es­
tablish covenants by eating and drinking toge­
ther ; as hath been shewed.
And as the Jews, so likewise did the heathens
in the same manner, use to ratify their covenants
between parties, by eating together. Lucian in
Toxaris reports it of the Scythians, that when any
one was injured, and could not revenge himself,
the manner was, that he should kill an ox, and
cut it into small pieces; which being boiled, he
Was to sit down by them with his bands behind:
him (which was a gesture of earnest supplication
amongst them), and then whosoever was minded
to help him, came, and did eat a piece of his fleshy
and so with this ceremony promised to assist himj
And this was accounted a covenant of mutual de­
fence between them; whence that Greek proverb#
*Evl fiipoTK tK
aO
tC
ero, In tergore bovis desedit,-'-of
which Erasmus in his Adages.
Herodotus reportethof the Persians, that they
made their leagues and covenants at feasts; and
of the Nasamones, a people of Lybia, that they
composed peace by stretching out a cup full of
wine to each other, and pledging one another in
it. Alexander ab Alexandro relates this of the
Thracians and Egyptians, that “ e cornibus bourn
(quae veteribus pocnlorum loco erabt) vina sibi in*-
RATING a n d d r in k in g t o g e t h e r . 275
Ridem propinantes, id firmissimum contracti foe­
deris vinculum esse potabant.” Curtius report*
eth of the Macedonians, “ quod patrio ritu fae-
dus, qnod sanctissimum vellent haberi, sic inibant,
ut panem gladio divisum uterque libaret.”
And therefore Alexander; When he fell in love
with Roxana, commanded bread forthwith to be
brought before him ; which when he had divided
with his sword, and they had both tasted together
of, he took her presently to himself as his wife.
And there remaineth a custom to this day, some­
thing like this, at weddings, in many countries,
that when the bridegroom and bride are cdme
from church, they have a piece of cake brought
them, -which when the bridegroom hath tasted, he
gives it to the bride to taste of likewise, in token
of a covenant between them. The Germans still
0
use to conclude of bargains, and ratify friendship
between parties, by drinking together, as appear-
eth by that phrase which they have, ttttt dPrlOttt
trilU&m, Pacem bibere.
In like manner, I say, the eating of sacrifices*
which were God’s meat, was a federal rite be­
tween God and those that did partake of them,
and signified there was a covenant of friendship
between him and them.
For the better conceiving whereof, we must
observe, that sacrifices, beside the nature of expi­
ation, had the notion of feasts, which God himself
did, as it were, feed upon. -Which I explain .
thus: When God had brought the children of Is­
rael out of Egypt, resolving to manifest himself
in a peculiar manner present among them, he
thought good to dwell amongst them in a visible
and external manner; and therefore, while they
t 2
2 7 6 THE TEMPLE GOD’S
were in the wilderness, and sojourned in tents, h&
would have a tent or tabernacle built, to sojourn;
with them also. This mystery of the tabernacle
^ras fully understood by the learned Nachmar
nides, who in few words, but pregnant, thus ex­
pressed it, nrowi m oo opo tnn proa ysrrn TfV;
and again, tt by po im tann m w »vt pron to
l^ p r 'J D : that is, the mystery of the tabernacle
was this, that it was to be a place for the Shechi-
nah, or habitation of Divinity to be fixed in:—and
this, no doubt, as a special type of God’s future
dwelling in Christ’s human nature, which was the
t r u e S c h e c h in a h . But, when the Jews were
come into their land, and had there built them
houses, God intended, to have a fixed dwelling-
house also; and therefore his moveable taberna­
cle was to be turned into a standing temple.
Whence, by imitation, came all those temples
among the heathens, which they apprehended as
so many places of peculiar residence, or habita­
tion, for their deities, next the heavens, to dwell
in ; as appears by that of Silius, amongst many
others,
-----------Tarpeie Pater, qui templa sccundam
Incotfs a coelo sedem. »
■ ■■■
Nowthe tabernacle or temple being thus as a house
for God to dwell in visibly, to make up the notion
of dwelling or habitation complete, there must be
all things suitable to a house belonging to it.
Hence, in the holy place, there must be a table
and a candlestick, because this was the ordinary
furniture ofa room; as the forecommended Nach-
manides observes, VTmtr ba D
T
Wmpomfibt&nT
O
P
p®On ny by. vrn,t. e*He addeth atable and a ca$-
SHECHINAH OR DWELLING. 2 7 7
dlestick, because these suit the notion of a dwell­
ing-house.—The table must have its dishes, and
spoons, and bowls, and covers, belonging to it,
though they were never used, and always be fur­
nished with bread upon it. The candlestick must
have its lamps continually burning.
Hence also there must be a continual fire kept
in this house of God’s upon the altar, as thefocm
of it: to which notion, I conceive, the prophet
Isaiah doth allude, chap. xxxi. ver. 9. 'f? TIN TMt
tr^KrrvaTU
TTiTW
O
, which I would thus translate,
qtii habet ignem suum in Sion, et focum suum in
Jerusalem.
And besides all this, to carry the notion still
further, there must be some constant meat and
provision brought into this house, which was
done in the sacrifices, that were partly consumed
by fire upon God’s own altar, and partly eaten by
the priests, which were God’s family, and there?
fore to be maintained by him. That, which was
consumed upon God’s altar,was accounted God’s
.m e s s , as appeareth from the first chap-
ter of Malachi, where the altar is called
God’s t a b l e , and the sacrifice upon it, God’s
m e a t ; “ Ye say, the table of God is polluted, and
the fruit thereof, his meat, is contemptible.” And
often in the law the sacrifice is called God’s onS
that is, his bread or food.—Whence, in that learn-
ed Hebrew book Cozri, the king Haber objects to
the Jew Cozar against his religion, that it seemed
to place corporeity in God, in making him to feed
upon the flesh of beasts in these sacrifices. To
which the Jewish doctor answers cabalistically in
this manner; that as, in men, corporeal meat is a
97Q . SACRIFICES HAD TH&
means to unite and continue the soul (which is a
spirit) to a body; so, in the land of Israel, the
blood of beasts offered up in sacrifice had an at*
tractive power to draw down Divinity', and unite
it tq the Jews. And methinks this may be a little
further convinced from that passage in the 50th
Psalm, “ If 1 were hungry, I would not tell thee;
for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.
Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of
goats?” For though it be here denied, that God
did really feed upon the sacrifices, yet it is implied
there was some such allusive signification in them,
Wherefore it is further observable, that beside
the flesh of the beast offered up in sacrifice, there
was a mincah, or meat-offering, made offlour and
oil, and a libamen, or drink-offering, that was al­
ways joiued with the daily sacrifice, as the bread
and drink, which were to go along vvith God’s
meat.
It was also strictly commanded, that there
should be salt in every sacrifice and oblation, be­
cause all meat is unsavoury without salt; as R,
Moses Bar Nachman hath here also well observed,
rfta ton bsto avn orf? m r6 tid frr i m 'jsa
i. e. Because it was not honourable, that God's
meat should be unsavoury, without salt.
Lastly, all these things were to be consumed on ■
-the altar only by the holy fire, that came down
from heaven, because they were God’s portion,
and therefore to be eaten or consumed by himself
in an extraordinary manner. And this the devil
sometime imitated, in some sacrifices offered up.
to him. For so I understand that passage of Pin­
dar in his Olympiacs, Ode vii. speaking of the
NOTION OF FEASTS. £79
Rhodians, that when they had prepared, and
were come to offer sacrifice to Jupiter, they had
by chance forgotten to bring fire with them: bat
Jupiter, being conscious of their good intentions,
rained down upon them a g o l d e n s h o w e r (as I
understand it), a s h o w e r of fire; a pure imitation
of the sacred story. Take it in that elegant poet’s
own words:—
K oi tw y i p o & o C rag
a fi$ a f ^>Xoyo? w ,
Ttujay y 'AIIT'POIX *IEPC>r2
*A\ero( if aKpoirfatr Hilroitri /uiv {ay-
$af ayayin vtyfXay,
IloXiiy vert yjfwb.
That is, according to Benedictus’s metaphrase,
“ Etenim Rhodii ascenderunt, quamvis non ha-
bentes ardentis semen ignis. Verum dum instru-
unt sacrifices igni carentibus aram in arce, illis
quidem flavam adducens nebulam, multum pluit
[Jupiter]} aurum.”
And Solinus reports it of the Vulcapian hill in
Sicily,:that they which offered sacrifice upon it
never put fire to it, but expected it should be kin­
dled from heaven. His words, according to Sal-
masius’s edition, are these; “ Nec longe inde
Collis Vulcanius, in quo qui divinae rei operantur,
ligna vitea super aras struunt; nec ignis adponi-
tur in hanc congeriem. Cum prosicias intulerunt,
si adest Deus, si sacrum probatur, sarmenta, licet
viridia, sponte concipiunt, et nullo inflagrante ha-
litu, ab ipso numine fitaccendium. Ibi epulantes
adludit flamma, quae, flexuosis excessibus vagar
bunda, quern contigerit nqn adurit; nec aliud est
quam imago nuncia perfecti rite Yoti.” The place
is very remarkable; and where he says thus,
“ epulqntes adludit flamma,” he alludeth to that
280 SALT A 8YMB0L
custom of feasting on the sacrifices, which was
before explained.
I will add to all this the words of a late learned
author, that sometime stumbled unawares upon'
this very notion which we are now about, and yet
expressed it happily in this manner; “ Dens ad
suam cum populo Judaeorum familiaritatem signi-
ficandam, sibi ab illo carnes, sanguinem atque
fruges in a l t a r i atque m e n s a offerri voluit, ut
ostenderet se quasi c o m m u n e m in illo populo ha­
bere m e n s a m , esse illius c o n v iv a m perpetuum,
atque ita familiariter cum illis habitare.”
And as it was thus among the Hebrews, so it
seems, that sacrifices had the notion of feasts
likewise among the ancient Persians, that wor­
shipped the fire, of whom Maximus Tyrius thus
relateth, *0™im f o p o x /v r e e ir v p l rpo^qv i n i X t y o w n , Uvp,
S&
nrora, ioOu, t. €. bringing in the sacrifices to the
fire, which was their god, they were wont to say,
“ Ignis, Domine, comede.”
The sacrifices then being God’s feasts, they
that did partake of them must needs be bis c o n *
v iv a ;, and in a manner e a t and d r in k with him.
And that this did bear the notion of a federal
rite in the Scripture account, I prove from that
place, Lev. ii. 13. “ Thou shalt not suffer the
s a l t o f t h e c o v e n a n t of thy God to be lack­
ing ; with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt.”
Where the salt, that was to be cast upon all the
sacrifices, is called t h e s a l t o f t h e c o v e n a n t ;
to signify, that as men did use to make covenants
by eating and drinking together, where salt is a
necessary appendix; so God by these sacrifices,
and the feasts upon them, did ratify and confirm
bis covenant with those that did partake of them.
OF A COVENANT. ' 281
inasmuch as they did in a manner eat and drink*
with him.
For salt was ever accounted amongst the an­
cients a most necessary concomitant of feasts, and.
condiment of all meats, rmt ra Vtba ^
TOD, saith the Jewish proverb in Beracotb,:
“ Omne convivium, in quo non est salitum, non;
est convivium.” And therefore because covenants^
and reconciliations were made by eating and
drinking, where salt was always used, salt itself
was accounted among the ancients a m ic it ij e s y m -
b o l u m . "AAac km TpdvtZa, sal et mensa—was used'
proverbially among the Greeks to express friend­
ship b y ;^AXac cat rpdirt£av irapafialvciv, in the WOrdS
of Origen before quoted out of Archilocus, “ sal
et mensam transgredi,”—was to violate the most
sacred league of friendship. ASschines, in his
oration De Perperam Habita Legatione, hatha
passage very pertinent to this purpose; TmJc yap
rijc TroXttoc JXac « u Si)/uo<rtav rpaVe^ov vtp\ irXilarov Su
irouurdai, Etenim civitatis sales et communem men-
Sam ait se plurimi facere debere.—Thus I under­
stand that symbol of Pythagoras, rov aXa vapart-
Otadai, (by Erasmus’s leave) for friendship and
hospitality. There is a pregnant instance of this
very phrase in the Scripture, (Ezra iv. 14.) where
our translators read it thus, *
*Because we have
maintenance from the king’s p a l a o e b u t the
words in the Ghaldee run after this manner, pd
ttanta nV
dtt rhcm !?ajrSa. *. e. quod sale palaiii
8alivimus — “ Because we have eaten of the
king’s salt {that is, because we have engaged
ourselves in a covenant of friendship to him, by
eating of meat], therefore it is uot meet for us to
see the king’s dishonour.” That proverb men-
988- THE LORD’S SUfPKR
tipimd,in,Tullymakes to this purpose,. Multott
modios salis simul edendos esse, ut amicitiae mu-
D
V
IS CpUiplejtu.m sit :” ,which, was, because that
femoral symbol had been so. often abused. Nay,
benceihere .j-ewainedi- a superstitious custom
ampngstus and othernations to this day, to count
the overtuirning,of the salt upon the table om-
inpus, as betiding some evil to him towards whom
it falls: “ Quia atuoris et amicitiae symbolum.”
And,hy this time. J think I have given a sufficient
comment upon m an rbo, the salt.of the covenant
inthe text,.
. Only I must not forget, that as in GodVsacri-r
bees there was ever salt,to be used, so the like
was generally observed in the Heathen sacrifices.;
as that one;place out of Pliny, amongst; many,
shall,sufficiently testify.: “ Maxima salis,author*-
ta$ e .sacris veterum inte)legitur, apud quos
pulla sacra siue mola salsa conficiebatur.” And
the reason of it also is thus given by that famous
gchojiast upon Iliad d. Sion ol aXtt <
piX
la^ovp/3oAov,
because salt is a symbol of friendship ;—which
is the same with that reason giv,eu by God,, why
he would always have salt, in bis sacrifices, be-
Cause it was fTTian vho, that is *
*sal symbolum
foederis,” as before was shewn. Aud this phrase,
being thus explained, will clearly expound that
other phrase, about which,critics have laboured
so much in vain, where the same words are. used,
but inverted, and,a covenant is called a covenant
of salt, as salt is bore called the salt of the cove-,
pant, (Numb. xviii.19, and %Chron. xiii. 5.) viz.
because covenants were established by.eating
aud drinking together, where salt was a neces*
sary appendix,, .
/
..A . FEDERAL FEAST. 283
Now therefore, that we may return: As the
legal sacrifices, with the feasts, upon those sacri­
fices, were f e d e r a l r i t e s between God and
men; in like manner, I say, the Lord’s supper
under the gospel, which we have already proved
to be e p u l u m s a c r if ic ia l e , a feast upon sacri­
fice, must needs be e p u l u m f ie d e r a l e , a feast
of amity and friendship—between God and men;
where, by eating and drinking at God’s own table,
end of his meat, we are taken into a sacred cove*
nant, and inviolable league of friendship with him;
Which I will confirm from that forecommended
place, whence I have already proved, that the
Lord’s supper is a feast upon sacrifice. For there
the apostle thus dehorts the Corinthians from eat­
ing of the feasts upon idol-sacrifices, which are a
parallel to the feast upon the Christian sacrifice.in
the Lord’s supper, because this was to have fellow­
ship and federal communion with devils: thethings
that the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils,
and not to God, “ and I would not, brethren,
that ye should have f e l l o w s h ip (or c o m m u n io n ,
Kotvtovlav) with devils.” Where the comment of
St. Chrysostom is excellent to our purpose: Et
yap 67r* dvOpWTTwv ro Koivuveiv aXwv jcat rpairifyig <jn\laf
jfopfin Kai ovfijioXov yiverax, eyyjopu Kal ejri Aai/uovuw
rovro avftfirjvat' that is, If among men to comma-
picate of bread and salt be a token and symbol of
friendship, it must carry the same notion betweep
paen and devils in the idol-feasts.—If therefore, to
eat the sacrifice of devils be to have federal com*
niunion with those devils to whom it was offered;
then to eat the sacrifice of Christ, once offered up
to God in the Lord’s supper, is to have federal
pommunion with God.
284 THE ZA BIIS FEASTING
v There is an excellent story in Maitaonides’s
Moreh Nevochim, concerning an ancient custom
of the Zabii of feasting together with their gods,
in this federal way, which will much illustrate this
notion: for, going about to give the reason, why
the eating of blood was forbidden in the law, he
fetches it from the idolatrous use of it then in
JHoses’s time among the Zabii; according to his
principles, who thought the reason of all the ce­
remonial precepts was to be fetched from some
such accidental grounds, because those laws were
not primte but secund<eintentionis in God. “ Mul-
tarum legum rationes et causae (saith he) mihi in-
notuerunt ex cognitione fidei, rituum, et cultus
Zabiorum.”
By these Zabii he means the ancient Chal­
deans ; the word in the original Arabic, according
to the copy of Joseph Scaliger, being thus writ-:
iaEpnt.'6«. *€n> & “ A Vento Apeliote sic dicti
<
dimeam (as he * observes), quasi dicas Orien-
tales.” And that book, which Maimo-
nides so often quoteth concerning that nation;
their rites and religion, is still extant among the
Mahumetan Arabians, as the same Scaliger
avoucheth. The story then is this, according to
the Hebrew translation of Rabbi Abben Tibbon,>
lib. 3. cap. 46. osn naxxn w nxo xdb tm Dirram
tw
ow D
'attnnvrw'ibdmix abz ix rn mte
vrxian ontwi oy *)jvwn naa V?axi0 .'a mix baxtrai
Erron n»jrDD pann idt» laa riwiyn vrarrm« i. e,
Licet sanguis impurus et immundus admodum
fueritin oculis Zabiorum, tamen ab illis comestus
fuerit, eo quod existimarunt c ib u m h u n c e s s e
d x m o n u m , et quod is, qui eum coraedit, hoc rat
tione c o m m u n ic a t io n e m aliquam com dsemoni*
WITH THEIR GODS. .. 28ft
bus haberet, ita ut familiariter cum illo converseu-
tur, et futura ei aperiant.—But because others of
them did abhorthe eating of blood, asa thingrepug*
nant unto nature, they performed this service in a
little different manner. OiTTjDHNprrmp D'ttD
ND
Wvm
tram® rrn rm n job vr maw nm am o tnn rtrm
naimm -wo D'totto nrrsra in ■too ion trtopDi rm a
•ton tnn V
on1Dvrorrom mwm r did rnnon ood nth
/m m mn»m narntn rmn mat -wan V
on’
1am ana wn
ar6 ino*itin aim ri mN ir6ttrbya!?ai^ n®tiayaana
ar6t^jm nmrtm DrfcrrcivdV
tq arownDO1
?annam ;
i. e. Mactantes bestiam aliquam, sanguinem in .
circulo sedentes comedebant; imaginantes sibi in
hoc opere, ipsis carnem c o m ed en tib u s, Dae-
mones il l u m sa n g u in em com ed ere, et hunc esse
ipso r u m c ib u m , hocque medio a m ic it ia m , fra*
TERNITATEM et FAMILIARITATEM inter ipSOS COn-
trahi, quia om nes in una m ensa edunt, uno con-
sessu accum bunt.
As for the former part of this story, I find it also
in Rabbi Moses Bar Nachman upon Deut. xii.
23. where he goes about to give the reason why
blood was forbidden in the law, as Maimonides
did, although, in the first place, he saith, it was
because blood served in. the sacrifices for expia­
tion, otherwise than Maimonides (for there was
a great controversy between these two doctors
about the nature of sacrifices): but yet, in the se­
cond place also, he brings in this, also, because
it was used superstitiously by the Heathens in the
worship of their idol-gods. hV
ono nvirrroyn nnvn
13D
D
1vby Dm am h o m ayza vn *a a m p
noi orm ovron rbv by ‘rod? onvb DNrrp amV'Na
ntvny rrrp v o DNiino m ram— onoy iro n i. e.
They performed their superstitious worship, by
eating of blood in this manner; they gathered to-
2861 THE CUSTOM OP THE ZABII, &C.
gether blood for the devils their idol-gods, and
then they came themselves, and did eat of that
blood with them, as being the devil’s g u e st s, and
in v it e d to e a t at the t a b l e of devils; and so
were jo in e d in federal society with them. And
by this kind of communion with devils, they were
able to prophesy, and foretel things to come.
TWO SERMONS.
SERMON I.
PREACHED BEFORE THE HONOURABLE HOUSE OF COMMONS (
AT WESTMINSTER, MARCH 31, 1647.
Eiiolfiti, & t I k v o V o yip Evoejiwv aicpac Xpi&ruu4£fi.
TO THE HONOURABLE
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
T h e scope of this s e r m o n , which not long since
exercised your patience, worthy.senators, was
not to contend for this or that opinion, but only
to persuade men to the life of Christ, as.the pith
and kernel of all religion ; without which, I may
boldly say, all the several forms of religion, though
we please ourselves Dever so much in them, are
but so many several dreams. And,those many
opinions about religion, that are every where so
eagerly contended for on all sides, where this doth
not lje at the bottom, are.but so many shadows
fighting with one another : so that I may well say
pf the true Christian, that is indeed possessed,of
the life of Christianity, in opposition to all those
that are but lightly tinctured with the opinions of
it, in the language of the poet:
O
Io
qirhrvvrai, rot <
JK
ia
icutrtrovtrt*
U ‘ ' '' f
V O L . IV .
290 DEDICATION.
Wherefore I could not think any thing else, either
more necessary for Christians in general, or more
seasonable at this time, than to stir them up to
the real establishment of the righteousness of God
iu their hearts, and that participation of the Di­
vine nature, which the apostle speaketh of. That
so they might not content themselves with mere
fancies and conceits of Christ, without the Spirit
of Christ really dwelling in them, and Christ him­
self inwardly formed in their hearts; nor satisfy
themselves with the mere holding of right and or­
thodox opinions, as they conceive, whilst they are
utterly devoid within of that Divine life, which
Christ came to kindle in men’s souls; and there­
fore are so apt to spend all their zeal upon a
violent obtruding of their own opinions and ap­
prehensions upon others, which cannot give en­
tertainment to them: which, brides its repug­
nancy to the doctrine and example of Christ him­
self, is like to be the bellows, that will blow a fire
of discord and contention in Christian common­
wealths ; whilst in the mean time, these hungry
and starved opinions devour all the life and sub­
stance of religion, as the lean kine in Pharaoh’s
dream did eat up the fat. Nor, lastly, please
themselves only in the violent opposing of other
men’s superstitions, according to the genius of
the present times, without substituting in the
room of them an inward principle of spirit and
life in their own souls. For I fear many of us, that
pull down idols in churches, may set them up in
our hearts; and whilst we quarrel with painted
glass, make no scruple at all of entertaining many
foul lusts in our souls, and committing continual
idolatry with them.
DEDICATION. 291
This, in general, was the design of this following
discourse, which you were pleased, noble senators,
not only to express your good acceptance of, but
also to give a real signification of your great unde*
served favour to the author of it. Who therefore
cannot but, as the least expression of his thank*
fulness, humbly devote it to you ; presenting it
here again to your eye in the same form in which
it was delivered to your ear. Desirous of nothing
more, than that it might be some way useful to
you, to kindle in you the life and heat of that
which is endeavoured here to be described upon
paper; that you may express it, both in your prw
vate conversations, and likewise in all your public
employments for the commonwealth. That you
may, by your kindly influence, effectually encou-
rage all goodness ; and by virtue of your power
and authority (to use the phrase of Solomon)
^scatter away all evil with your eye,” as the sun by
his beams scattereth the mists and vapours. That
from you “ judgment may run down like waters,
and righteousness like a mighty stream,” to re­
fresh this whole land, that thirsteth after them:
which, whilst you distribute them plentifully to
others, will bestow both strength and honour to
yourselves. For justice and righteousness are
the establishment of every throne, of all civil
power and authority ; and if these should once
forsake it, though there be lions to support it,
it could not stand long. These, together with
a good peace, well settled in a commonwealth;
are all the outward felicity we can expect, till
that happy time come, which the prophet foretel-
leth, and is therefore more than a Platonical idea ;
u 2
392 DEDICATION.
when “ the wdlf shall dwell with the lamb, atid
the leopard 'shall lie down with the kid, and.the
calf, and the young lion, and the fatling together,
and a little child lead t h e m w h e n “ the sucking
child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the
weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice
den:” when “ they shall not hurt nor destroy in
all God’s holy mountain; for the earth shall be
full of the knowledge of the Lord, as the waters
cover the sea.”
1,have but one word more; if yon please to give
me leave; that after your care for the advance­
ment of religion, and the public good of the com­
monwealth, you would think it worthy of you to
promote ingenious learning, and cast a favourable
influence upon it. I mean, not that only which furr
nisheth the pulpit, which you seem to be very re­
gardful of; but that, which is more remote from
such popular use, in the several kinds of it, which
yet are all ofthem both very subservient to religion,
and useful to the commmonwealth. There is in­
deed a iptvSovaiBda, as the philosopher tells us, a
bastardly kind of literature, and a yvJ-
as the apostle instructeth us, a knowledge
falsely so called ; which deserve not to be pleaded
. for. But the noble and generous improvementof
our understanding faculty, in the true contempla­
tion of the wisdom, goodness, and other attributes
of God, in this great fabric of the universe, can­
not easily be disparaged, without a blemish cast
upon the Maker of it. Doubtless, we may as well
enjoy that which God hath communicated of him­
self to the creatures, by this larger faculty of our
understandings, as by those narrow and low fa-
DEDICATION-* 2 9 3
cutties of our senses; and yet nobody counts it
to be unlawful to hear a lesson played upon the
lute, or to smell at a rose. And these raised im­
provements of our natural understandings may be
as well subservient and subordinate to a Divine
light in our minds, as the natural use of these out­
ward creatures here below to the life of God in
our hearts. Nay, all true knowledge doth of it­
self naturally tend to God, who is the fountain of
it; and would ever be raising of our souls up
upon its wings thither, did not we Kart-^uvtv a£uc<?,
detain it, and hold it down, in unrighteousness,
as the apostle speaketh. All philosophy to a wise
man, to’a truly sanctified mind, as he in Plutarch
speaketh, is but vX
q nic OeoXoyiae, matter for Divi­
nity to work upon. Religion is the queen of all
those inward endowments of the soql; and all
pure natural knowledge, all virgin and undeflow­
ered arts and sciences, are her handmaids, that
rise up, and call her blessed. I need not tell you
how much the skill of tongues and languages, be­
sides the excellent use ofall philology in general,
conduceth to the right understanding of the letter
of sacred writings, on which the spiritual notions
must be built; for none can possibly be ignorant
of that, which have but once heard of a translation
of the Bible. The apostle exhorteth private
Christians to “ whatsoever things are lovely, what­
soever things are of good report, if there be any
virtue, if there be any praise, to think on those
t h i n g s a n d therefore it may well become you,
noble gentlemen, in your public sphere to encou­
rage so noble a thing as knowledge is, which will
reflect so much lustre and honour back again
394 DEDICATION.
upon yourselves. That God would direct you in.
all your counsels, and still bless you, and prosper
you in all your sincere endeavours for the public
good, is the hearty prayer of,
Your most humble Servant,
RALPH CUDWORTH,
SERMON I.
And hereby we do know, that we know him, if we
keep his commandments.—He that saith, I know
him, and keepethnot his commandments, is aliar,
and the truth is not in him.—1 J ohn ii. 3 ,4 .
W e have much inquiry concerning knowledge in
these latter times. The sons of Adam are now
as busy as ever himself was about the tree of know­
ledge of good and evil, shaking the boughs of it,
and scrambling for the fruit; whilst, I fear, many
are too unmindful of the tree of life. And though
there be. now no cherubims with their flaming
swords to fright men off from it; yet the way, that
leads to it, seems to be so solitary and untrodden
as if there were but few that had any mind to taste
of the frnit of it. There be many, that speak of
new glimpses and discoveries of truth, of dawn-
ings of gospel light; and no question but God
hath reserved much of this for the very evening
and sun-set of the world; for in the latter days
knowledge shall be increased : but yet I wish we
could in the mean time see that day to dawn,
which the apostle speaks of, and that “ day-star
to arise in men’s hearts.” I wish, whilst we talk
of light, and dispute about truth, we could walk
more as “ children of the light.” Whereas, if St.
John’s rule be good here in the text, that no man
truly knows Christ, but he that keepeth his com­
mandments; it is much to be suspected, that
many of us, who pretend to light, have a thick
296 SERMON I.
and gloomy darkness within, overspreading our
souls.
There be now many large volumes and dis­
courses written concerning Christ, thousands of
controversies discussed, infinite problems deter­
mined concerning his Divinity, humanity, union ef
both together, and what not; so that our bookish
Christians, that have all their religion in writings
and papers, think they are now completely fur­
nished with all kinds of knowledge concerning
Christ; and when they see all their leaves lying
about them, they think they have a goodly stock
of knowledge and truth, and cannot possibly miss
of the way to heaven ; as if religion were nothing
but a little book-craft, a mere paper-skill.
But if St. John’s rule here be good, we must
not judge of our knowing of Christ by our skill
in books and papers, but by our keeping of his
commandments. And that, I fear, will discover
many of us (notwithstanding all this light which-
we boast of round about us) to have nothing but
Egyptian darkness within our hearts.
The vulgar sort think, that they know Christ
enough out of their creeds, and catechisms, and
confessions offaith; and if they have but a little ac­
quainted themselves with these, and like parrots
conned the words of them, they doubt not, but,
that they are sufficiently instructed in all the mys­
teries of the kingdom of heaven. Many of the
more learned, if they can but wrangle and dispute,
about Christ, imagine themselves to be grown
great proficients in the school of Christ.
The greatest part of the world, whether learned
or unlearned, think, that there is no need of pur­
ging and purifying of their hearts for the right
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. ,297
knowledge of Christ’and his gospel': but though
their lives be never so wicked,: their hearts never
so foul within, yet they may know Christ suffi­
ciently out of their treatises and discourses, out of
their mere systems and bodies of divinity; which
I deny ndt to be useful in a subordinate way; al­
though onr Saviour prescribeth his disciples an­
other method to come to the right knowledge of
Divine truths, by doing ofGod’s will. “ He that will
do my Father’s will (saith he), shall know of the
doctrine, whether it be of God.” He is a true
Christian indeed, not he that is only book-taught,
but he, that is God-taught; he, that hath an unc­
tion from the Holy One (as our Apostle calleth it)
that teacheth him all things; he, that hath the
Spiritof Christ within him, that searcheth out the
deep things of God: “ for as no man knoweth the
things of a man, save the spirit ofa mau, which is
in him; even so the things of God knoweth no
man, but the Spirit of God.”
Ink and paper can never make us Christians,
can never beget a new nature, a living principle in
us; can never form Christ, or any true notions of
spiritual things, in our hearts. The gospel, that
new law, which Christ delivered to the world, it
is not merely a dead letter without us, but a quick,
ening spirit within us. Cold theorems and maxims,
dry and jejune disputes, lean syllogistical reason­
ings, could never yet of themselves beget the least
glimpse of true heavenly light, the least sap of
saving knowledge in auy heart. All this is but
the groping of the poor dark spirit of man after
truth, to find it out with his own endeavours, and
fee] it with his own cold and benumbed hands.
Words and syllables, which are but dead things,
298
t
SERMON ^1.
cannot possibly convey the living notions of hea­
venly truths to us. The secret mysteries of a Di­
vine life, of a new nature, of Christ formed in our
hearts, they cannot be written or spoken, language
and expressions cannot reach them; neither can
they be ever truly understood, except the soul it­
self be kindled from within, and awakened into
the life of them. A painter, that would drew a
rose, though he may flourish some likeness of it in
figure and colour, yet he can never paint the scent
and fragrancy; or if he would draw a flame, he
cannot put a constant heat into his colours; he
cannot make his pencil drop a sound, as the echo
in the epigram mocks at him;
----f-.— Si ?is similem pingere, pinge somun.
All the skill of cunning artizans and mechanics
cannot put a principle of life into a statue of their
own making, Neither are we able to enclose in
words and letters the life, soul, and essence, of any
spiritual truths, and, as it were, to incorporate it
in them.
Some philosophers have determined that a'peni
is not SiSaKTov, virtue cannot be taught by any cer­
tain rules or precepts. Men and books may pro­
pound some direction to us, that may set us in
such a way of life and practice, as in which we
shall at last find it within ourselves, and be expe­
rimentally acquainted with it; but they cannot
teach it us like a mechanic art or trade. No,
surely, “ thereisaspiritin man; andtheinspiration
of the Almighty giveth understanding.” But we
shall not meet with this spirit any where but in the
way of obedience: the knowledge of Christ, and
the keeping of his commandments, must always
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 299
go together, and be mutual causes of one an»
Other. a
“ Hereby we know, that we know him, if we
keep bis commandments.”
“ He that saith, 1know him, and keepeth not his
commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in
him.”
I come now unto these words themselves, which
are so pregnant, that I shall not need to force
out any thing at all from them: 1 shall therefore
only take notice of some few observations which
drop from them of their own accord, and then
conclude with some application of them to our*
selves.
I. First, then, If this be the right way and me*
thod of discovering our knowledge of Christ, by
our keeping his commandments ; then we may
safely draw conclusions concerning our state and
condition from the conformity of our lives to the
will of Christ.
Would we know, whether we know Christ
aright, let us consider whether the life of Christ
be in us. “ Qui non habet vitam Christi, Christum
non h a b e t H e that hath not the life of Christ in
him, he hath nothing but the name, nothing but a
fancy of Christ, he hath not the substance of him.
He that builds his house upon this foundation,
pot an airy notion of Christ swimming in his brain,
but Christ reallydwelling and living in his heart, as
our Saviour himself witnessetb, he “ buildeth his
house upon a r o c k a n d when the floods come,
and the winds blow, and the rain descends, and
beats upon it, it shall stand impregnably. But he
that builds all his comfort upon an ungrounded
persuasion, that God from all eternity hath loved
him, and absolutely decreed him to life and bap*
'$<#> • SERMON I. : . ^
piness, and seeketb dot for God reallydwelliogitl
his soul; he builds his house upon a quicksand,
and it shall suddenly sink and be swallowed Up:
“ his hope shall be cut off, and his trust shall be a
spider’s web ; he shall lean upon his house, but
it shall not stand; he shall hold it fast, but it shall
not endure.”
We are no where commanded to pry into these
secrets, but the wholesome counsel and advice
given us is this,“ to make our calling and election
sure,” We have no warrant in Scripture to peep
into these hidden rolls and volumes of eternity,
and to make it our first thing that we do, when
we come to Christ, to spell out our names in the
stars, and to persuade ourselves, that we are cer­
tainly elected to everlasting happiness,- before we
see the image of God, in righteousness and true
holiness, shaped in our hearts. God’s everlasting
decree is too dazzling and bright an object for us
at first to set our eye upon. It is far easier and
safer for us to look upon the rays of his goodness
amd holiness, as they are reflected in our hearts,
and there to read the mild and gentle characters
of God’s love to us, in our love to him, and our
hearty compliance with his heavenly will; as it is
safer for us, if we would see the sun, to look upon
it here below in a pail of water, than to cast up
our daring eyes upon the body of the sun itself,
which is too radiant and scorching for us. The
best assurance that any one can have of hisinte-*
rest in God, is doubtless the conformity of his
soul to him. Those Divine purposes, whatsoever
they be, are altogether unsearchable and unknow­
able byus: they liewrapped up ineverlastingdark-
ness, and covered in a deep abyss: Who is able to
fathom the bottom of them ?
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 0 t
' Let as not therefore make this our first at­
tempt towards God and religion, to persuade our-
selves strongly of these everlasting decrees: for
if at our first flight we aim so high, we shall hap­
ly but scorch our wings, and be struck back with
lightning, as those giants of old were, that would
needs attempt to assault heaven. And it is in­
deed a most gigantic essay to thrust ourselves so
boldly into the lap of heaven; it is a prank of
Nimrod, of a mighty hunter, thus rudely to deal
.with God, and to force heaven and happiness be­
fore his face, whether he will or no. The way to
obtain a good assurance indeed of our title to
heaven, is not to clamber up to it by a ladder of
our own ungrounded persuasions, but to dig as
low as hell by humility and self-denial in our own
hearts: and though this may seem to be the far­
thest way about, yet it is indeed the nearest and
safest way to it. We must dva^aivuv Karo, and k«-
rafialvtiv a w , as the Greek epigram speaks, ascend
downward, and descend upward, if we would in­
deed come to heaven, or get any true persuasion
of our title to it.
The most gallant and triumphant confidence of
a Christian risetb safely and surely on this low ■
foundation, that lies deeper underground, and
there stands firmly and steadfastly. When our
heart is once turned into a conformity with the
word of God, when we feel our will perfectly to
concur with his will, we shall then presently per­
ceive a spirit of adoption within ourselves, teach­
ing us to cry, Abba, Father. Weshall not then
care for peepiug into those hidden records ofeter­
nity, to see whether our names be written there
in golden characters; no, we shall find a copy of
302 sfiRtaoM U
God’s thoughts concerning us written in our dtvti
breasts. There we may read the characters of
bis favour to us; there we may feel an inward
sense of his love to us, flowing out of our hearty
and unfeigned love to him. And we shall bo
more undoubtedly persuaded of it, thau if any of
those winged watchmen above, that are privy to
heaven’s secrets, should come and tell us, that
they saw our names enrolled in those volumes of
eternity. Whereas, on the contrary, though we
strive to persuade ourselves never so confidently,
that God from all eternity hath loved us, and
elected us to life and happiness; if we do yet, in
the mean time, entertain any iniquity within our
hearts, and willingly close with any lust; do
what we can, we shall find many a cold qualm
every now and then seizing upon us at approach­
ing dangers; and when death itself shall grimly
look us in the face, we shall feel our hearts even
to die within us, and our spirits quite faint away,
though we strive to raise them and recover them
never so much with the strong waters and aqua­
vits of our ungrounded presumptions. The least
inward lust willingly continued will be like a
worm, fretting the gourd of our jolly confidence
and presumptuous persuasion of God’s love, and
always gnawing at the root of i t ; and though we
strive to keep it alive, and continually besprinkle
it with some dews of our own, yet it will be al­
ways dying and withering in our bosoms. But a
good conscience within will be always better to a
Christian, than “ health to his navel, or marrow
to his bones it will be an everlasting cordial to
his heart; it will be softer to him than a bed of
down, and he may sleep securely upon it in the
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 803
midst of raging and tempestuous seas, when the
winds bluster, and the waves beat round about
him. A good conscience is the best looking-glass,
of heaven, in which the soul may see God’s
thoughts and purposes concerning it, as so many
shining stars reflected to it. “ Hereby we know
Christ, hereby we know, that Christ loves us, if
we keep his commandments.”
II. Secondly, If hereby only we know, that
we know Christ, by our keeping his command­
ments, then the knowledge of Christ doth not con­
sist merely in a few barren notions, in a form of
Certain dry and sapless opinions.
Christ came not into the world to fill our heads
with mere speculations, to kindle a fire of wrang­
ling and contentious dispute amongst us, and to
warm our spirits against one another with nothing
but angry and peevish debates; whilst in the
mean time our hearts remain all ice within to­
wards God, and have not the least spark of true
heavenly fire to melt and thaw them. Christ
came not to possess our brains only with some
cold opinions, that send down nothing but a
freezing and benumbing influence upon our hearts.
Christ was vitce magister, not schola: and he is
the best Christian, whose heart beats with the
purest pulse towards heaven ; not he, whose head
spinneth out the finest cobwebs.
He that endeavours really to mortify his lusts,
and to comply with that truth in his life, which
his conscience is convinced of, is nearer a Christ­
ian, though be never heard of Christ, than be,
that believes all the vulgar articles of the Christ­
ian faith, and plainly denieth Christ in his life.
004 . SERMON I,
Surely the way to heaven, that Christ,hath
taught us, is plain and easy, if we have but .ho?
nest hearts: we need not.many criticisms, many
school distinctions, to come to a right understands
ing of it. Surely Christ came not to ensnare us
and entangle us with captious niceties, or to puz­
zle our heads with deep speculations, and lead
us through hard and craggy options into the kingr
dora of heaven. I persuade myself, that no.roan
shall ever be kept out of heaven for npt cotupre-r
bending mysteries, that were beyond the reach of
his shallow understanding, if he had hnt an honest
and good heart, that was ready to comply with
Christ’s commandments. “ Say not in thy heart,
Who shall ascend into heaven?” that is, with
high speculations, to bring down Christ from
thence; or “ Who shall descend into the abyss
beneath ?” that is, with deep searching thoughts
to fetch up Christ from thence: but lo, “ the
word is uigh thee, even in thy mouth, and in tliy
heart.”
But 1 wish it were not the distemper of our
times, to scare and fright men only with opinions,
and make men only solicitous about the entertain*
ing of this and that speculation, which will not
render them any thing the better in their lives, or
the liker unto God; whilst in the mean time there
is no such care taken about keeping of Christ’s
commandments, and being renewed in our minds
according to the image of God in righteousness
and true holiness. We say, “ Lo, here is Christ,”
and, “ Lo, there is Christ,” in these and these opi­
nions; whereas, in truth, Christ is neither here,
nor there, nor any where, but where the Spirit of
Christ, where the life of Christ is.
BEFORfe THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 0 5
Do we not now-a-days open and lock ap hea­
ven with the private key of this and that opinion
of our own, according to our several fancies, as
we please ? And if any one observe Christ’s com­
mandments never so sincerely, and serve God
with faith and a pure conscience, that yet haply
skills not of some contended-for opinions, some
darling notions, he hath not the right shibboleth,
he hath not the true watch-word, he must not
pass the guards into heaven. Do we not make
this and that opinion, this and that outward form,
to be the wedding-garment, and boldly sentence
those to outer darkness, that are not invested
therewith? Whereas, every true Christian finds
the least dram of hearty affection towards God to
be more cordial and sovereign to his soul, than all
the speculative notions and opinions in the world;
and though he study also to inform his under­
standing aright, and free his mind from all error
and misapprehensions, yet it is nothing but the
.life of Christ deeply rooted in his heart, which is
the chemical elixir, that he feeds upon. Had he
“ all faith, that he could remove mountains” (as
St. Paul speaks), had he “ all knowledge, all
tongues and languages;” yet he prizeth one dram
of love beyond them all. He accounteth him,
that feedeth upon mere notions in religion, to be
but an airy and caineleon-like Christian. He
findeth himself now otherwise rooted and centred
in God, than when he did before merely contem­
plate and gaze upon him; he tasteth and relish-
eth God within himself; he hath quendam saporem
Dei, a certain savour of him ;—whereas before he
did but rove and guess at random at him. He
feeleth himself safely anchored in God, and will
VOL. iv. x
3 0 6 SERMON- I.
not be dissuaded from it, though perhaps he skill
not many of those subtilties, which others make
the alpha and omega of their religion. Neither is
he scared with those childish affrightments, with
which some would force their private conceits
upon him; he is above the superstitious dreading
of mere speculative opinions, as well as the super­
stitious reverence ofoutward ceremonies; he cares
not so much for subtilty, as for soundness and
health of mind. And, indeed, as it was well spoken
by a noble philosopher, avtv aperyc Oeog ovofia
juovov, that without pnrity and virtue, God is no­
thing but an empty name;—so it is as true here,
that without obedience to Christ’s command­
ments, without the life of Christ dwelling in us,
whatsoever opinion we entertain of him, Christ is
but only named by us, he is not known.
I speak not here against a free and ingenuous
inquiry into all truth, according to our several abi­
lities and opportunities ; I plead not for the cap­
tivating and enthralling of our judgments to the
dictates of men; I do not disparage the natural
improvement of our understanding faculties by
true knowledge, which is so noble and gallant a
perfection of the mind: but the thing, which I
aim against, is, the dispiriting of the life and vi­
gour ofour religion by dry speculations, and mak­
ing it nothing but a mere dead skeleton of opini­
ons, a few dry bones, without any flesh and si­
news, tied up together, and the misplacing of all
our zeal upon an eager prosecution of these,
which should be spent to better purpose upon
other objects.
Knowledge indeed is a thing far more excellent
than riches, outward pleasures, worldly dignities,
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 307
or any thing else in the world besides holiness,
and the conformity of our wills to the will of
God; but yet our happiness consisteth not in it,
but in a certain Divine temper and constitution of
soul, which is far above it.
But it is a piece of that corruption, that run­
neth through human nature, that we naturally
prize truth inore than goodness, knowledge more
than holiness. We think it a gallant thing to be
fluttering up to heaven with our wings of know­
ledge and speculation; whereas, the highest mys­
tery of a Divine life here, and of perfect happi­
ness hereafter, consisteth in nothing but mere obe­
dience to the Divine will. Happiness is nothing
but that inward sweet delight, that will arise from
the harmonious agreement between our wills and
God’s will.
There is nothing contrary to God in the whole
world, nothing that fights against him, but self-
will.. This is the strong castle that we all keep
garrisoned against heaven in every one of our
hearts, which God continually, layeth siege unto;
and it must be.conquered and demolished, before
we canconquer heaver), It was by reason of this
self-will, that Adam fell in paradise; that those
glorious angels, those morning-stars, kept not
their first station, but dropped down from heaven
like falling stars, and sunk into this condition of
bitterness, anxiety, and wretchedness, in which
now they are. They all entangled themselves
with the length of their own wings, they would
needs will more and otherwise than God would
will in them; and, going about to make their wills
wider, and to enlarge them into greater amplitude,
the more they struggled, they found themselves
x 2
3 0 6 SEftfifON r.
the faster pinioned, and crowded ap into narrow-
ness -and servility; insomuch, that now they are
not able to use any wings at all, but, inheriting the
serpent’s curse, can only creep with their bellies
upon the earth. Now, our only way to recover
God and happiness again is, not to soar up with
our understandings, but to destroy this self-will of
ours; and then we shall find our wings to grow
again, our plumes fairly spread, and ourselves
raised aloft into the free air of perfect liberty, •
which is perfect happiness.
There is nothing in the whole world able to do
us good or hurt, but God and our own will: nei­
ther riches nor poverty, nor disgrace nor honour,
nor life nor death, nor angels nor devHs; but will­
ing or not willing, as we ought. Should hell itself
cast all its fiery darts against us, if our will be
right, if it be informed by the Divine will, they can
do us no-hurt ; we have then (if 1 may so speak),
an enchanted shield, that is impenetrable, and
will bear off all. God will not hurt us, and hell
cannot hurt us, if we will nothing but what God
wills. Nay, then we are acted by God himself,
and the whole Divinity floweth in upon us ; and
when we have cashiered this self-will of ours,
which did but shackle and confine our sOulsj oUr
wills shall then become truly free, being widened
and enlarged to the extent of God’s own will.
Hereby we know, that we know Christ indeed,
not by our speculative opinions concemnig him,
but by our keeping of his commandments.
h i. Thirdly, If hereby we are to judge; whe­
ther we truly know Christ, by our keeping of bis
commandments; so that he that saith he knowetb
him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a
t
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 309
liar: then this was not the plot and design of the
gospel, to give the world an indulgence to sin,
upon what pretence soever.
Though we are too prone to make such miscon­
structions of i t ; as if God had intended nothing
else in it, but to dandle our corrupt nature, and
contrive a smooth and easy way fo.r us to come to
happiness, without the toilsome labour of subdu­
ing our lusts and sinful affections: or, as if the
gospel were nothing else but a declaration to the
world, of God’s engaging his affections from all
eternity on some particular persons in such a
manner, as that he would resolve to love them,
and dearly embrace them, though he never made
them partakers of his image in righteousness and
true holiness; and though they should remain un­
der the power of all their lusts, yet they should
still continue bis beloved ones, and he would, not­
withstanding, at last, bring them undoubtedly
into heaven. Which is nothing else but to make
the God that we worship, the God ofthe New Tes­
tament, vpoowTroXijirriic, an accepter of persons,—
and one, that should encourage that in the world
which is diametrically opposite to God’s own life
and being.
And, indeed, nothing is more ordinary than for
us to shape out such monstrous and deformed no­
tions of God unto ourselves, by looking upon him
through the coloured medium of our own corrupt
hearts, and having the eye of our soul tinctured
by the suffusions of our own lusts. And therefore
because we mortals can fondly love and bate, and
sometimes hug the very vices of those to whom
our affections are engaged, and kiss their very de­
formities ; we are so ready to shape out a Deity
310 SERMON I.
like unto ourselves, and to fashion out such a God
as will, in Christ at least, hug the very wickedness
of the world, and in those that be once his own,
by I know not what fond affection, appropriated
to himself, conuive at their very sins, so that they
shall not make the least breach betwixt himself
and them. Some there are, that question, whe­
ther of the two be the worse idolatry, and of the
deeper stain, for a man to make a god out of a
piece of wood, and fall down unto it and worship
it, and say, Deliver me, for thou art my God, as it
is expressed in the prophet Isaiah; or to set up
such an idol-god of our own imagination as this
is, fashioned out according to the similitude of
our own fondness and wickedness: and when we
should paint out God with the liveliest colours
that we can possibly borrow from any created be­
ing, with the purest perfections that we can ab­
stract from them; to draw him out thus with the
black coal of our own corrupt hearts, and to make
the very blots and blurs of our own souls to be
the letters which we spell out his name by. Thus
do we, that are children of the night, make black
and ugly representations of God unto ourselves,
as the Ethiopians were wont to do, copying him
out according to our own likeness, and setting up
that unto ourselves for a god, which we love most
dearly in ourselves, that is, our lusts. But there
is no such god as this any where in the world, but
only in some men’s false imaginations, who know
not, all this while, that they look upon themselves
instead of God, and make an idol of themselves,
which they worship and adore for him; being so
full of themselves, that whatsoever they see round
about them, even God himself, they colour with
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS* 311
their own tincture;like him, that Aristotle speaks
of, that wheresoever he went, and whatsoever he
looked upon, he saw still his own face, as in a
glass, represented to him. And therefore it is no
wonder, if men seem naturally more devoutly af­
fected toward such an imaginary god, as we have
now described, than to the true real God, clothed
with his own real attributes; since it is nothing but
an image of themselves, which, Narcissus-like,
they fall in love with: no wonder if they kiss and
dandle such a baby-god as this, which, like little
children, they have dressed up out of the clouts of
their own fond fancies, according to their own
likeness, of purpose that they might play, and
sport with it.
But God will ever dwell in spotless light, how­
soever we paint him and disfigure him here be­
low; he will still'be circled about with his own
rays of unstained and immaculate glory.. And
though the gospel be not God as he is in his own
brightness, but God veiled and masked to us, God
in a state of hutqiliation, and condescent, as the
sun in a rainbow ; yet it is nothing else but a clear
and unspotted mirror of Divine holiness, good­
ness, purity; in which attributes lie the.very
life and essence of God himself. The gospel is
nothing else but God descending into the world
in our form, and conversing with us in our like­
ness ; that he might allure and draw- us up to
God,.and make us partakers of his Divine form.
Ge
o
c ■yiyovtv avOpti/irog (as Athanasius speaks) iva
y/xac iv tavnp Oeonolriuri, God was therefore incar­
nated and made man, that he might deify u s;—
that is (as St. Peter expresseth it), make us par­
takers of the Divine nature. Now, 1 say, the very #
SERMON I.
31%
proper character and essential tincture of God
himself is nothing else but goodness. Nay, I may
be bold to add, that God is therefore God, be­
cause he is the highest and most perfect good;
and good is not therefore good, because God out
of an arbitrary will of his would have it so. What­
soever Qod doth in the world, he doth it as suita­
ble to the highest goodness; the idea and fairest
copy of which is his own essence.
Virtue and holiness in creatures, as Plato well
discourseth in his Euthyphro,> are not therefore
good, because God loveth them, and will have
them be accounted such; but rather God there­
fore loveth them, because they are in themselves
simply good. {Some of our own authors go a lit­
tle further yet, and tell us, that God doth not
fondly love himself, because he is himself, but
therefore he loveth himself, because he is the
highest and most absolute goodness; so that if
there could be any thing in the world better than
God, God would love that better than himself:
hut because he is essentially the* most perfect
good, therefore he cannot but love his own good­
ness infinitely above all other things. Aud it is
another mistake, which sometimes we have of
God, by shaping him out according to the model
of ourselves, when we make him nothing but a
blind, dark, impetuous self-will ruuning through
the world; such as we ourselves are furiously
acted with, that have not the ballast of absolute
goodness to poise and settle us.
That I may therefore come nearer to the thing
in hand; God, who is absolute goodness, cannot
love any of his creatures, and take pleasure in
them, without bestowing a communication of his
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 313
goodness and likeness upon them. God cannot
make a gospel to promise men life and happiness
hereafter, without being regenerated, and made
partakers ofhis holiness. As soon' may heaven and
hell be reconciled together, and lovingly shake
hands with one another, as God can b^ fondly in­
dulgent to any sin, in whomsoever it be. As soon
may light and darkness be espoused together, and
midnight be married to noon-day, as God can be
joined in a league of friendship to any wicked
soul.
The great design of God in the gospel is to
clear up this mist of sin and corruption, which we
are here surrounded with, and to bring up bis
creatures out of the shadow of death to the region
of light above the land of truth and holiness. The
great mystery of the gospel is to establish a god­
like frame and disposition of spirit, which consists
in righteousness and true holiness, in the hearts of
men. And Christ, who is the great and mighty
Saviour, came on purpose into the world, not only
to save us from fire and brimstone, but also to
save us from our sins. Christ hath therefore made
an expiation of our sins by his death upon the
cross, that we, being thus delivered out of the
hands of these our greatest enemies, might serve
God without fear, in holiness and righteousness
before him all the days of our life. This “ grace of
God, that bringeth salvation,”hath therefore “ ap­
peared unto all men, in the gospel, that it might
teach us to deny ungodliness and worldly lusts,
and that we should live soberly, righteously and
godlily in this present world; looking for that
blessed hope, and glorious appearing of the great
Go4 and our Saviour Jesus Christ, who gave him.-
314 SERMON I.
self for us, that be might redeem us from all ini­
quity, and purify to himself a peculiar people,
zealous ofgood works.” These things I write unto
you (saitb our apostle a little before my text)
that you sin n o tth e re in expressing the end of
the whole gospel, which is, not only to cover sin
by spreading the purple robe of Christ’s death and
sufferings over it, whilst it still remaineth in us
with all its filth and noisomeness unremoved; but
also to convey a powerful and mighty spirit of
holiness, to cleanse us aud free us from it. And
this is a greater grace of God to us, than the for­
mer, which still go both together in the gospel;
besides the free remission and pardon of sin in the
blood of Christ, the delivering of us from the
power of sin, by the Spirit of Christ dwelling in
.our hearts.
Christ came not into the world only to cast a
mantle over us, and hide all our filthy sores from
God’s avenging eye, with his merits and righteous­
ness ; but he came likewise to be a chirurgeon and
physician of souls, to free us from the filth and
corruption of them; which is more grievous and
burdensome, more noisome to a true Christian,
than the guilt of sin itself.
Should a poor wretched and diseased creature,
that is full of sores and ulcers, be covered all over
with purple, or clothed with scarlet, he would
take but little contentment in it, whilst his sores
and wounds remain upon him; and he had much
rather be arrayed in rags, so he might obtain but
soundness and health within. The gospel is a
true Bethesda, a pool of grace, where such poor,
lame and infirm creatures as we are, upon the
moving of God’s Spirit in it, may descend down,
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 1 5
not only to wash our skin and outside, but also to
be cured of our diseases within. And whatever the
world thinks, there is a powerful Spirit, that moves
upon these waters, the waters of the gospel,
spreading its gentle, healing, quickening wings
over our souls. The gospel is not like Abana
and Pharpar, those common rivers of Damascus,
that could only cleanse the outside; but is a true
Jordan, in which such leprous Naamana as we all
are, “ may wash and be-clean.” “ Blessed in­
deed are they, whose iniquities are forgiven, and
whose sins are covered: Blessed is the man to
whom the Lord will hot impute s i n b u t yet ra­
ther blessed are they, whose sins are like a morn­
ing cloud, and quite taken away from them.
Blessed, thrice “ blessed are they, that hunger and
thirst after righteousness, for they shall be satis­
fied : blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall
see God.”
Our Saviour Christ came (as John the Baptist
tells us) “ with a fan in his hand* that he might
thoroughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat
into his garner: but the chaffhe will burn up with
unquenchable fire.” He came (as the prophet
Malachi speaks) “ like a refiner’s fire, and like
fuller’s soap ; to sit as a refiner and purifier of
silver, and to purify all the sons of Levi, and purge
them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto
the Lord an offering in righteousness.”
Christ came not only to write Holiness to the
Lord upon Aaron’s forehead, and to put his urim
and thummim upon his breast-plate; but, “ This
is the covenant, saith the Lord, that I will make
with them in those days; I will put my law in
their inward parts, and'write it in their hearts;
3 1 6 8ERM0N I.
and then I will be their God, and they shall be
my people.” They shall be all kings and priests
unto roe. “ God sent his own Son (saith St. Paul)
in.the likeness of sinful flesh, and by a sacrifice
for sin condemned sin iq the flesh; that the right­
eousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who
walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.”
The first Adam, as the Scripture tells us, brought
in a real defilement, which, like a noisome lepro­
sy, hath overspread all mankind; and therefore
the second Adam most not only fill the world
with a conceit of holiness, and mere imaginary
righteousness: but he most really convey such an
immortal seed of grace into the hearts of believers.
as may prevail still more and more in them, till it
have at last quite wrought out that poison of the
serpent.
Christ, that was nothing but Divinity dwelling
in a tabernacle of flesh, and God himself immedi­
ately acting a human nature, came into the world
to kindle here that Divine life amongst men, which
is certainly dearer unto God, thau any thing else
whatsoever in the world; and to propagate this
celestial fire from one heart still unto another,
until the end of the world. Neither is he, nor was
he, ever absent from this spark of his Divinity
kindled amongst men, wheresoever it be, though
he seem bodily to be withdrawn from us. He is
the standing, constant, inexhausted fountain of
this Divine light and heat, that still toucheth every
soul that is enlivened by it, with an outstretched
ray, and freely lends his beams, and disperseth his
influence to all, from the beginning of the world
to the end of it. “ We all receive ofhis fulness grace
for g r a c e a s all the stars in heaven are said tQ
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 317
light their candles at the sun’s flame. For though
his body be withdrawn from us, yet, by the lively
and virtual contact of his Spirit, he is always kin­
dling, cheering, quickening, warming, and enli­
vening hearts. Nay, this Divine life, begun and
kindled in any heart, wheresoever it be, is some­
thing of God in flesh, and, in a sober and quali­
fied sense, Divinity incarnate; and all particular
Christians, that are really possessed of it, so many
mystical Christs. (
And, God forbid, that God’s own life and na­
ture, here in the world, should be forlorn, forsaken,
and abandoned, ofGod himself. Certainly, where-
ever it is, though never so little, like a sweet, young,
tender babe, once born in any heart, when it
crieth unto God the father of it, with pitiful and
bemoaning looks imploring his compassion, it
cannot choose bat move bis fatherly bowels, and
make them yearn, and turn towards it, and, by
strong sympathy, draw his compassionate arm to
help and relieve it. Never was any tender infant
so dear to those bowels that begat it, as an infant
new-born Christ, formed in the heart of any trite
believer, to God the father ofit. Shall the Children
of this, world, the sons of darkness, be moved with
such tender affection and compassion towards the
fruit of their bodies, their own natural offspring?
and shall God, who is the father of lights, the
fountain of all goodness, be moved with uo com­
passion towards his true spiritual offspring, and
have no regard to those sweet babes of light, en­
gendered by his own beams in men’s hearts, that,
in their lovely countenances, bear the resemblance
of his own face, and call him their father ? Shall
he see them lie fainting, and gasping, and dying
318 SERMON I.
here in the world, for want of nothing to preserve
and keep them, but an influence from him, who
first gave them life and breath ? No, bear the lan­
guage of God’s heart, bear the sounding of his
bowels towards them: “ Is it Ephraim, my dear
son 1 is it that pleasant child ? Since I spake of
him, I do earnestly remember him; my bowels,
my bowels are troubled for him; I will surely
have mercy upon him, saith the Lord.” If those
expressions ofgoodness and tender affection here,
among the creatures, be but drops of that full
ocean that is in God; how can we then imagine,
that this father of our spirits should have so little
regard to his own dear offspring, I do not say our
souls, but that, which is the very life and soul of
our souls, the life of God in us (which is nothing
else but God’s own self communicated to us, his
own Son born in our hearts), as that he should
suffer it to be cruelly murdered in its infancy by
our sins, and, like young Hercules, in its very cra­
dle to be strangled by those filthy vipers? that be
should see him crucified by wicked lusts, nailed
fast to the cross by invincible corruptions, pierced
and gored on every side with the poisonous spears
of the devil’s temptations, and at last to give up
the ghost; and yet his tender heart not at all re­
lent, nor be all this while impassionated .with so
sad a spectacle ? Surely, we cannot think he bath
BUch an adamantine breast, such a flinty nature,
as this is.
What then? must we say, that though indeed
he be willing, yet he is not able to rescue his cru­
cified and tormented Son now bleeding upon the
cross; to take him down from thence, and save
him; then must sin be more powerful than-God;
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 319
that weak, crazy and sickly thing, more strong than
the Rock of ages; and the devil, the prince of
darkness, more mighty than the God of light. No,
sorely; there is a weakness and impotency in all
evil, but a masculine strength and vigour in all
goodness; and therefore, doubtless, the highest •
good the Trpwrov ayaOov, as the philosopher calls it,
is the strongest thing in the world. “ Nil poten-
tius summo Bono.” God’s power, displayed in the
world, is nothing but his goodness strongly reach*
ing all things from height to depth, from the high*
est heaven to the lowest hell; and irresistibly im­
parting itself to every thing, according to those
several degrees, in which it is capable of it.
. Have the fiends of darkness then, those poor
forlorn spirits, that are fettered and chained up in
the chains of their own wickedness, any strength
to withstand the force of infinite goodness, which
is infinite power? or do they not rather sculk in
holes of darkness, and fly, like bats and owls, be­
fore the approaching beamg of this Sun ofRighte­
ousness? Is God powerful to kill and to destroy,
to damn and to torment? and is he not powerful
to save? Nay, it is the sweetest-flower in all the
garland of his attributes, it is the richest diadetn m
his crown ofglory, that he is mighty to save:—and
this is far more magnificent for him, than to be
styled mighty to destroy. For that, except it be
in a-way of justice, speaks no power at all, but
mere impotency; for the root of all power is good­
ness.
Or must we say, lastly, that God indeed is able
to rescue us out of the power of sin and Satan,
when we sigh and groan towards him; but yet
sometimes, to exercise his absolute authority, his
320 SERMON I.
uncontrollable dominion, be delights rather in
plunging wretched souls down into infernal night
and everlasting darkness ? What shall we then
make the God of the whole world ? Nothing but
a cruel and dreadful Erinnys, with curled fiery
snakes about his bead, and firebrands in his
hands, thus governing the world ? Surely this will
make us either secretly to think, that there is no
God at all in the world, if he must needs be such;
or else to wish heartily there were none. But,
doubtless, God will at last confute all these our
misapprehensions of him; he will unmask our
hypocritical pretences, and clearly cast the shame
of all our sinful deficiencies upon ourselves, and
vindicate his own glory from receiving the least
stain or blemish by them. In the mean time, let
us know, that the gospel now requireth far more
of us than ever the law did; for it requireth a
new creature, a Divine nature, Christ, formed in
u s: but yet withal it bestoweth a quickening spi­
rit, an enlivening power, to enable us to express
that which is required of us. Whosoever there­
fore truly knows Christ, the same also keepeth
Christ’s commandments. But “ he that saith, I
know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is
a liar, and the truth is not iu him.”
I have now done with the first part of my dis­
course, concerning thoseobservations, which arise
naturally from the words, and offer themselves to
us. I shall, in the next place, proceed to make
some general application of them all together.
Now, therefore, I beseech you, let us consider,
whether or no we know Christ indeed: not by our
acquaintance with systems and models of divinity
not by our skill in books and papers, but by our
BEFORE THB HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 ^1
keeping ofChrist’scommandments. All the books
and writings-, which we converse with, they can
but represent spiritual objects to our understand*
ings; which yet we can never see in their own
true figure,- colour and proportion, until we have a
Divine light within, to irradiate and shine upon
them. Though there be never such excellent
truths concerning Christ and his gospel set down
in words and letters, yet they will be but unknown
characters to us, until we have a willing Spirit
within us, that can decipher them; until the same
Spirit, by secret whispers in our hearts, do com­
ment upon them, which did at first indite them.
There be many, that understand the Greek .and
Hebrew of the Scripture, the original languages
in which the text was written, that never under­
stood the language of the Spirit.
There is a caro and a spiritus, a flesh and.a
spirit, a body and a soul in all the writings of
the Scriptures. It is but the flesh and body of
Divine truths, that is printed upon paper; which
many moths of books and libraries do only feed
upon; many walking skeletons of knowledge,
that bury and entomb truths in the living sepul­
chres of their souls, do only converse with; such
as never did any thing else, but pick at the mere
bark and rind of truths, and crack the shells of
them. But there is a soul and spirit of Divine
truths that could never yet be congealed into ink,
that could never be blotted upon paper; which,
by a secret traduction and conveyance, passeth
from one soul unto another, being able to dwell.or
lodge no where, but in a spiritual being, in a liv­
ing thing, because itself is nothing but.life apd
spirit. Neither can it, where indeed it is, express
VOL. IV. Y
SERM.ON, I.
32?
itself sufficiently in words and sounds, but it
will best declare and speak itself in actions; as
the old manner of writing among the Egyptians
wras, not by words, but things. The life of Di­
vine truths is better expressed in actions, than
in words, because actions are more living.things
than words ; words are nothing but dead resem­
blances and pictures of those truths, which live
aud breath in actions; and “ the kingdom of God
(as the apostle speaketh) consisteth not in word,"
but in life and power. Ta *rp6(3ara ovyoprov <ptpov-
rarotc xolftemv iiroStiKvvH tocov ifayev (saith the m o ra l
.philosopher) aXXarijv Wfalv nbpavra ipiovi£fi>ftp*i
km y a \a ' Sheep do not come and bring their fod­
der to their shepherd, and shew him how much
they eat; but inwardly concocting and digesting
it, they make it appear by the fleece which they
wear upon their backs, and by the milk which
they give.—And let not us Christians affect only
to*talk and dispute of Christ, and so measure our
knowledge of him by our words; but let us shew
ottotwv d t w p r i f x a T t o v w f ^ O i v T o t v T a ipya, our knowledge
concocted into our lives and actions; and then
let us really manifest that we are Christ’s sheep
indeed, that we are his disciples, by that fleece of
holiness which we wear, and by the fruits that
we daily yield in our lives and conversations:
for “ herein (saith .Christ) is my Father glorified,
that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my dis­
ciples."
Let us not, 1 beseech you, judge of our know­
ing Christ by our ungrounded persuasions, that
Christ from all eternity hath loved us, and given
himself particularly for us, without the conform*
ity of our lives to Christ’s commandments, wityr
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 32$
out the real partaking of the image of Christ iu
our hearts. The.great mystery of the gospel doth
not lie only in Christ without us (though we must
know also what he hath done for us); but the
very pith and kernel of it consists in Christ in*
wardly formed in our hearts.
Nothing.is truly ours but what lives in our
spirits. Salvation itself cannot save us as long
as it is only without us, no more than-health can
cure us, and make us sound, when it is not within
us, but somewhere at a distance from us; no more
than'arts and sciences, whilst they lie only in
books and.papers without us, can make us learn­
ed. The gospel, though it be a sovereign and
medicinal thing itself, yet the mere knowing and
believing of the history of it will do us no good1
;
we can receive no virtue from it, till it be inward­
ly digested and concocted into our souls ; till it be!
made ours, and become a livingtbing in our hearts;
The gospel, if it be only without us, cannot save
us, no more than that physician’s bill could cure!
the ignorant patient of bis disease, who, When'it
was commended to him, took the paper only, and
put it'up in his pocket, but never drank the po­
tion that was described in it.
All that Christ did for ns in the flesh, when he
was here upon earth, from his lying in a manger,’
when he was born in Bethlehem, to his 'bleeding*
updn the cross on Golgotha, it will not save Usf
from our sins, unless Christ by his Spirit dwell itf
us. It will not avail us to believe, that he was
born of 4 virgin, unless the power of the Most5
High overshadow our hearts, and beget him there
likewise. It will not profit Us to believe, that he
died upon the cross for us, unless we be baptized
v 2
3 3 4 SERMON I.
into his death by the mortification of all our lusts;
unless the old man ofsin be crucified in our hearts*
Christ indeed hath made an expiation for our sins
upon his cross, and the blood of Christ is the
only sovereign balsam to free us from the guilt of
them : but yet, besides the sprinkling of the blood
of Christ upon us, we must be made partakers
also of his spirit. Christ came into the world,
as well to redeem us from the power and bondage
of our sins, as to free us from the guilt of them.
“ You know (saith St. John) that he was mani­
fested to take away our sins: whosoever there­
fore abideth in him, sinneth not; whosoever sin-
neth, hath not seen nor known him.” Lo the end
of Christ’s coming into the world! Lo a design
worthy of God manifested in the flesh.
Christ did not take all those pains to lay aside
his robes of glory, and come down hither into the
world, to enter into a virgin’s womb, to be born
in our human shape, and to be laid a poor crying
infant in a manger, and having no form or come­
liness at all upon him, to take upon him the form
of a servant, to undergo a reproachful and igno­
minious life, and at last to be abandoned to a
shameful death, a death upon the cross; I say, he
did not do all this merely to bring in a notion into
the world, without producing any real substantial
effect at all; without the changing, mending, and
reforming ofthe world; so that men should still be
as wicked as they were before, and as much under
the power of the prince of darkness, only they
should not be thought so; they should still remain
as full of all the filthy sores of sin and corruption
as before, only they should be accounted whole.
Shall God come down from heaveo, and pitch a
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 325
tabernacle amongst men ? Shall he undertake
such a huge design, and make so great a noise of
doing something, which, when it is all summed
up, shall not at last amount to a reality ? Surely
Christ did not undergo all this to so little purpose *
he would not take all this pains for us, that he
might be able at last to put into our hands no­
thing but a blank. He “ was with child,” he
“ was in pain and trav a ila n d hath “ he brought
forth nothing but wind ? hath he been delivered
of the east wind ?” Is that great design, that
was so long carried in the womb of eternity, now
proved abortive, or'else nothing but a .mere
windy birth ? No surely: the end of the gospel is
life and perfection; it is a Divine nature; it is a
godlike frame and disposition of spirit; it is to
make us partakers of the image of God in righte­
ousness and true holiness, without which salva­
tion itself were but a notion.
Christ came into the world to make an expia­
tion and atonement for our sins; but the end of
this was, that we might eschew sin; that we
might forsake all ungodliness and worldly lusts.'
The gospel declares pardon of sin to those that
are heavy laden with it and willing to be disbur­
dened, to tjiis end, that it might quicken and en­
liven us to new obedience. Whereas otherwise
the guilt of sin might have detained us in horror
and despair, and so have kept us stillmore stroug-
ly,under- the power of. it, in sad and dismal ap­
prehensions of God’s wrath provoked against us,
and inevitably falling on u s: but Christ hath now
appeared like a day-star, with most cheerful
beams; nay, he is the Sun of Righteousness him­
self, which hath risen upon the wo^ld with
SERMON I.
3*6
healing wings, with his exhilarating light, that he
might chase away all those black despairing
thoughts from' us. But Christ did not rise that
we should play, and sport, and wantonize with
bis light; but that we should do “ the work of
the day” in i t ; that we should walk ov«c (as
the apostle speaketh) not in our night-clothes of
siuful deformity, but clad all over with the come­
ly garments of light. The gospel is not big with
' the child of a fancy, of a mere conceit of righte­
ousness without us, hanging at distance over us,
whilst onr hearts within are nothing but cages
of unclean birds, and like houses continually
haunted with devils, nay, the very rendezvous of
those fiends of darkness.
Holiness is the best thing that God himself can
bestow upon us,.either in this world, ortheworld to
come. True evangelical holiness, that is, Christ
formed in the hearts of believers, is the very cream
and quintessence of the gospel. And were our
hearts sound within, werethere not many thick and
dark fumes, that did arise from thence, and cloud
pur understandings, we could not easily conceive
the substance of heaven itself to be any thing else
but holiness* freed from those encumbrances, that
did ever clog it and accloy it here; neither should
we wish for any other heaven besides this. But
many of us are like those children, whose sto­
machs are so vitiated by some disease, that they
think ashes, coal, mud wall, or any such trash, to
be more pleasant than the most wholesome food:
such sickly and distempered appetites have we
about these spiritual things, that hanker after I
know not what vain shows of happiness, whilst in
the mean time we neglect that, which is the only
• BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 3 T
true food of our sbtals, that is able to nourish them
up to everlasting life.
Grace is holiness militant, holiness ifibcumbered
with many enemies and difficulties, which it still-
fightsagainst, and manfully quits itselfof; andglory
is nothing else but holiness triumphant, holiness
with a palm of victory in her hand, and a crown
upon her head: “ Deus ipse cum omni sua boni-
tate, quatenus extra me est, non facit me beatum,
sed quateuus in me est:” God himself cannot
make me happy, if he be only without me, and
unless he give in a participation of himself, and
his own likeness into my soul.—Happiness is no­
thing but the releasing and unfettering of our
souls from all these narrow, scant, and particu­
lar good things; and the espousing of them to the
highest and most universal good, which is not
this or that particular good, but goodness itself:
and this is the same thing, that we call holi­
ness. Which, because we ourselves are so little
acquainted with (being for the most part ever
courting a mere shadow of it), therefore we have
such low, abject, and beggarly conceits thereof;
Whereas it is in itself the most noble, heroical
and generous thing in the world. For I mean by
holiness nothing else but God stamped and print­
ed upon the soul. And we may please ourselves
with what conceits we will; but so long as
W
iSare void of this, we do but dream of heaven,
and 1 know not what foiid paradise; we do bill
blow up and down an airy bubble of our owni
fancies, which riseth out of the froth of our vain
hearts; we do but court a painted heaven, and
woo happiness in a picture, whilst in the mead
tllrie a true and real hell will suck in our souls
3 3 8 SERMON I.
into it, and soon make us sensible of a solid woe
and substantial misery.
Divine wisdom hath so ordered the frame of
the whole universe, as that every thing should
have a certain proper place, that should be a re­
ceptacle for it. Hell is the sink of all sin and
wickedness. The strong magic of nature pulls
and draws every thing continually to that place,
which is suitable to it, and to which it doth be­
long ; so all these heavy bodies press downwards
towards the centre of our earth, being drawn in
by it: in like manner hell, wheresoever it is, will
by strong sympathy pull in all sin, and mag­
netically draw it to itself: as true holiness is al­
ways breathing upwards, and fluttering towards
heaven, striving to embosom itself with G od;
and it will at last undoubtedly be conjoined with
him; no dismal shades of darkness can possibly
stop it in its course, or bear it back.
*&? alti to o/utotov ayti lie to op©tor.
Nay, we do but deceive ourselves with name:
hell is nothing but the orb of sin and wickedness,
or else that hemisphere of darkness, in which all
evil moves; and heaven is the opposite hemis-;
phere of light, or else, if you please, the bright
orb of truth, holiness and goodness: and we do
actually in this life instate ourselves in the pos­
session of one or other of them. Take sin and
disobedience out of hell, and it will presently
clear up into light, tranquillity, serenity, and
shine out into a heaven. Every true saint carrieth
his heaven about with him in his own heart; and
hell, that is without, can have no power over him.
He might safely wade through, hell itself, and,
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 2 9
like the three children, pass through the midst of
that fiery furnace, and yet not at all be scorched
with the flames of i t : he might walk through the.
Talley ofthe shadow of death, and yet fear.no evil.
Sin is the only thing in the world that is con­
trary to God. God is light, and that is darkness:
God is beauty, and that is ugliness and deformity.
All sin is direct rebellion against God ; and with
what notions soever we sugar it, and sweeten it,
yet God can never smile upon it, he will never
make a truce with it. God declares open war
against sin, and bids defiance to i t ; for it is a pro­
fessed enemy to God’s own life and being. God,
which is infinite goodness, cannot but hate sin,
which is purely evil. And though sin be in itself'
but a poor, impotent and crazy thing, nothing
but straitness, poverty, and nonentity, so that of
itself it is the most wretched and miserable thing
in the world, and needeth no farther punishment
besides itself; yet Divine vengeance beats it off
still farther and farther from God, and, whereso­
ever it is, will be sure to scourge it and lash it
continually. God and sin can never agree to­
gether.
That I may therefore yet come nearer to our­
selves : This is the message, that I have now to .
declare unto you, that “ God is light, and in him.
is no darkness at all. If we say, that we have
fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we
lie, and do not the truth.” Christ and the gospel
are light, and there is no darkness at all in them:
if you say, that you know Christ and bis gospel,
and yet keep not Christ’s commandments, but
dearly hug your private darling corruptions, you
are liars, and the truth is not in you; you have
MSRlfOW I
.
3 »
no acquaintance with the God of light, not the
gospel of light. If any of you eay, that you
know Christ, and hare an interest in him, and
' yet {as I fear too many do) still nourish ambi­
tion, pride, vain-gtory, within yonr breasts, har­
bour malice, revengefulness, and cruel hatred to
your neighbours in your hearts, eagerly scramble
after this worldly pelf, and make the strength of
your parts and endeavours serve that blind mam­
mon, the god of this world ; if you wallow add
tumble in the filthy puddle of fleshly pleasures,
or if you aim only at yourselves in your lives,
and make yourself the compass by Which you
sail, and the star by which yon steer your course,
looking at nothing higher or more noble than your­
selves ; deceive not yourselves, you have neither
seen Christ, nor known him : you are deeply
incorporated (if I may so speak) with the spirit
of this world, and have no true sympathy With
God and Christ, no fellowship at all with them.
And, 1 beseech yon, let us consider; Be there
not many of us, that pretend much to Christ,
that are plainly in our lives as proud, ambitious,
vain-glorious as any others ? Be there not many
of us, that are as much under the power of un­
ruly passions, as crnel, revengeful, malicious,
censorious as others? that have our minds as
deeply engaged in the world, and as much envas^
sailed to riches, gain, profit, those great admired
deities of the sons ofmen, and their souls as much
overwhelmed and sunk with the cares of this life?
Do not many of us as much give ourselves to the
pleasures of the flesh, and though not without'
regrets of conscience, yet ever now and then
seeretly soak ourselves in them ? Be there not
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 3 1
many of us, that hare as deep a share likewise in
injustice and oppression, in vexing the fatherless
and the widows ? I wish it may not prove some
of our cases at that last day, to use such pleas as
these unto Christ in our behalf; Lord, I have
prophesied in thy name; I have preached many
a zealous sermon for thee; I have kept many a
long fast; I have been very active for thy cause
in church, in state; nay, I never made any ques­
tion, but that my name was written in thy book
of life: when yet, alas! we shall receive no
other return from Christ but this: “ I know you
not; depart from me, ye workers of iniquity.” I
am sure there be too many of us, that have long
pretended to Christ, which make little or no pro­
gress in true Christianity, that is, holiness of
life; that ever hang hovering in a twilight ofgrace,
and never seriously put ourselves forward into
clear day light, but esteem that glimmering cre-
pusculum which we are in, and like that faint
twilight better than broad open day: whereas “ the
path of the just (as the wise man speaks) is as
the shining light, that shineth more and more unto
the perfect day.” I am sure there be many of us,
that are perpetual dwarfs in our spiritual stature,
like those silly women (that St. Paul speaks of)
laden with sins, and led away with divers lusts,
that are “ ever learning, and never able to come to
the knowledge of the truth that are not now
one jot taller in Christianity, than we were many
years ago, but have still a sickly, crazy, and un­
sound a temper ofsoul as we had long before.
Indeed, we seem to do something; we are al­
ways moving and lifting at the stone ofcorruption,
that lies upon our hearts, but yet we-never stir it
3 3 2 SERMON I.
notwithstanding, or at least never roll it off from
as. We are sometimes a little troubled with the
guilt of our sins, and then we think we must
thrust our lusts out of our hearts; but after*
- wards we sprinkle ourselves over with I know
not what holy water, and so are contented to let
them still abide quietly within us. We do every
day truly confess the same sins, and pray against
them; and yet still commit them as much as ever,
and lie as deeply under the power of them. We
have the same water to pump out in every prayer,
and still we let the same leak iu again upon us.
We make a great deal of noise, and raise a great
deal of dust with our feet; but we do not move
from off the ground, on which we stood, we do
not go forward at all: or if we do sometimes
make a little progress, we quickly lose again the
ground whjch we had gained; like those upper
planets in the heaven, which (as the astronomers
tell us) sometimes move forwards, sometimes
quite backwards, and sometimes perfectly stand
still; have there stations and retrogradations, as
well as their direct motions. As if religion were
nothing else but a dancing up and down upon the
same piece ofground, and makiug several motions
and friskings on it; and not a sober journeying
and travelling onwards toward some certain place.
We do and undo; we do “ Penelopes telam
t e x e r e w e weave sometimes a web of holiness,
but then we let our lusts come, and undo and
unravel all again. Like Sisyphus in the fable, we
roll up a mighty stone with much ado, sweating
and tugging up the hill; and then we let it go,
and tumble down again unto the bottom; and
this is our constant work. Like those Danaides,
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMOKS. 9 3 3
which the poets speak of, we are always filling
water into a sieve, by our prayers, duties, and
performances, which still runs out as fast as we
pour it in.
What is it, that thus cheats us, and gulls us of
our religion? that makes us thus constantly to
tread the same ring and circle of duties, where
we make no progress at all forwards, and the
farther we go, are still never the nearer to our
journey’s end ? What is it, that thus starves our
religion, and makes it look like those kirie in
Pharaoh’s dream, ill-favoured and lean-fleshed,
that it hath no colour in its face, no blood in its
veins, no life nor heat at all in its members?
What is it, that doth thus be-dwarf us in our
Christianity ? What low, sordid, unworthy prin­
ciples do we act by, that thus hinder our growth,
and make us stand at a stay, and keep us always
at the very porch and entrance where we first be­
gan? Is it a sleepy, sluggish conceit, that it is
enough for us if we be but once in a state of
grace, if we have but oncestepped over the thresh­
old ; we need not take so great pains to travel
any farther? or is it another damping, choak-
ing, stifling opinion, that Christ hath done all
for us already without us, and nothing need more
to be done within us ? no matter how wicked we
be in ourselves, for we have holiness without u s;
no matter how sickly and diseased our souls be
within, for they have health without them. Why
may we not as well be satisfied and contented to
have happiness without us too to all eternity, and
so ourselves for ever continue miserable ? “ Little
children, let no man deceive you; he that doth
righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous:
334 SERMON. I.
but be that committeth sin is of the devil.” I shall
therefore exhort you in the wholesome words of
•St. Peter; “ Give all diligence to add to your faith,
virtue; and to virtue, knowledge; to knowledge,
temperance; and to temperance, patience; to pa­
tience, godliness; and to godliness, brotherly-
kindness ; and to brotherly-kindness, charity:
For if these things be in you and abound, they
make you, that ye shall neither be barren nor
unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus
Christ.” The apostle still goes on, and I cannot
leave him yet: “ But he that lacketh these things
is blind, and cannot see far off, and hath forgot­
ten, that he was once purged from bis old sins.
Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligebce
to make your calling and election sure; for if ye
do these things, ye shall never fall.” Let us not
only talk and dispute of Christ, but let us indeed
put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Having those great
and precious promises, which he hath given us,
let us strive to be made partakers of the Divine
nature, escaping the corruption that is in the
world through lust; and being begotten again to
a lively hope of enjoying Christ hereafter, let us
purify ourselves, as he is pure.
Let us really declare that we know Christ,
that we are his disciples, by our keeping of his
commandments; and, amongst the rest, that comL
mandment especially, which our Saviour Christ
himself commendeth to his disciples in a peculiar
manner; “ This is my commandment, that ye love
one another, as I have loved you :” and again,
“ These things 1 command you, that you love one
another. Let us follow peace with all men, arid
holiness, without which no man shall-see God:
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 333
»
Let as put on, as the elect of God, holy and be­
loved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness
of mind, meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one
another, and forgiviug one another, if any man
bave a quarrel against any, even as Christ for­
gave u s : and above'all these things let us put on
charity, which is the bond of perfectness. Let
us in meekness instruct those that oppose them­
selves, if God peradventure will give them repent­
ance to the acknowledging of the truth; that
they may recover themselves out of the snaree<of
the devil, that are taken captive by him-at his
will. Beloved, let us love one another; for love
is of God, and;whosoever loveth •is born of God-,
and knoweth God.”
O Divine love! the sweet harmony of souls! the
music of angels! the joy of God’s own heart Vthe
very darling of his bosom! the source of true hap­
piness! the .pure quintessence of heaven ! that
which-reconciles the jarring principles of the
world, and makes them all chime together! that
which melts men’s hearts into one another! See
how St. Paul describes it, and it cannot choose
but enamour your affections towards it: “ Love
envieth not, it is not puffed up, it doth not behave
itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily
provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in ini­
quity ; beareth all things, believeth all things,
bopeth all things, endureth all things.” I may add,
in a word, it is tbe-best-natured thing, the besfc-
complexioned thing in the world. Let us express
this sweet harmonious affection in these jarring
times; that so, if it be possible, we may tune the
world into better music. Especially in matters qf
religion, let us strive with all meekness to instruct
336 SERMON I.'
and convince one another. Let us endeavour to
promote the gospel of peace, the dove-like gospel,
■with a dove-like spirit. This was the way, by
which the gospel at first was propagated in the
world: Christ did not cry, nor lift up his voice
In the streets; a bruised reed he did not break,
and the smoking flax he did not quench; and yet
he brought *
*forth judgment unto victory.” He
whispered the gospel to us from mount Sion, in a
still voice; and yet the sound thereof went out
quickly throughout all the earth. -The gospel at
first came down upon the world gently and softly
like the dew upon Gideon’s fleece; and yet it
quickly soaked quite through i t : and, doubtless,
this is still the most effectual way to promote it
farther. Sweetness and ingenuity will more com­
mand men’s minds than passion, sourness and se­
verity ; as the soft pillow sooner breaks the flint,
than the hardest marble. Let us aXqfevuve
va-yairp,
■
follow truth in love—and of the two, indeed, be
contented rather to miss of the conveying of a
speculative truth, than to part with love. When
we would convince men of any error by the
strength of truth, let us withal pour the sweet balm
of love upon their heads. Truth and love are two
the most powerful things in the world; and when
they both go together, they cannot easily be with­
stood. The golden beams of truth and the silken
cords of love, twisted together, will draw men on
with a sweet violence, whether they will or no.
Let us take heed we do not sometimes call
that zeal for God and his gospel, which is nothing
else but our own tempestuous and stormy pas­
sion. True zeal is a sweet, heavenly and gentle
flame, which maketh us active for God, but always
BEFORE THE HOVER OF COMMONS. 337
within the sphere of love* It never cells for fire
from heaven to consume those that differ a-little
from us in their apprehensions. It is like that
kind of lightning (which the philosophers speak
of) that melts the sword within, but singeih not
the scabbard: it strives to save the soul,, bat hurt-
eth dot the body. True zeal is a loving thing,
and makes us always active to edification, and
not to destruction. If we keep the fire of zeal
within the chimney, in. its own proper place; it
never doth any hurt; it only warmeth, quickem-
etb and enlivenetb us: but.if once we let it break
out, and catch hold of the thatch of our flesh,,and
kindle our corrupt nature, and set the bouse of
our body on fire, it is no longer zeal, it is no hea­
venly fire, it is a most destructive and devouring
thing. True zeal is an ignis lamfons, a soft and
gentle flame, that will not scorch one?
shand ; .it
is nd predatory or voracious thing: but carnal
and fleshly zeal is Kke the spirit of gnnpqwder
set on ire, that tears and blows up all that stands
before it. Tree zeal is like the vitalbeat m us,
that we live upon, which we neverfeel to be angry
or troublesome; but though it gently feed upon
the radical oil within us, that sweet balsam of out
natural moisture, yet it lives lovingly with it, and
maintains that, fay which it is fed: but that, other
furious and distempered, zeal, is nothing else but
a fever in the soul. To conclude, we may learn
what kind of zeal it is that we should 'make use
of in promoting the gospel, by. an emblem of
God’s own, given us in the Scripture, those fiery
tongues, that, upon the day of Pentecost, sat
upon the apostles, which sure werfe harmless
flames, for we cannot read that they did any
VOL. iv . z
938 SERMON I. . I
hart, or that they did so much as singe a hair Of
tbeir heads.
* I 'will therefore shat up this with that of thfe
apostle; “ Let as keep the unity of the Spiritfin
the bond of peace.” Let this soft and silken knot
of lore tie our hearts together; though our beads
and apprehensions cannot meet, as indeed they
never will, but always stand at some distance off
from one another. Our zeal, if it be heavenly, if
it be true vestal fire kindled from above, will not
delight to tarry here below, burning up straw and
stubble and suctTcombostible things, and sending
up nothing but gross and earthy fumes to heaven^
but it will rise upland return back pure as it came
down, and will be ever striving to carry $ p men’s
hearts to God along vyith it. It will be only oc­
cupied about the promoting ofthose things, which
are unquestionably good 4 and when it moves, in
die irascible way, it will quarrel with nothing but
sin. Here let our zeal busy and exercise itself
every one of us beginning first at our own hearts.
Let us be more zealous than ever we have yet been
in fighting against our lusts, in pulling down these
strong holds of sin and Satan in our hearts. Here
let us exercise all our courage and resolution,'our
manhood and magnanimity.
Let us trust in the almighty arm ofour God, and
doubt not but he will as well deliver us from the
power of sin in our hearts, as preserve us from the
wrath to come. Let us go out against these un*-
circumcised Philistines, I mean our lusts, not
with shield or spear, not in any confidence of our
own strength, but in the name of the Lord of
hosts; and we shall prevail, we shall overcome
our lusts: “ for greater is he that is in us, than he
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 3 9
that id id them.—iTbe eternal God is our refuge;
and underneath are everlasting arms; he shall
thrust out these enemies from before us ; add he
shall say, Destroy them.” We shall enter the trad
Canaan, the good land of promise, “ that flowetfy
with milk and honey,” the land of truth and: holi­
ness. “ Wherefore take unto you the whole ar­
mour of God, that you may be hble to withstand.
Let your loins be girt about with truth; have on
the breast-plate of righteousness; and let your
feet be shod with the preparation of the gospel of
peace. Above all take the shield of faith, where­
by ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts
of the wicked; and take the helmet of salvation,
and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of
God.” And lastly, be sure of this, that ye “ be
strong.only in the Lord, and in the power of his.
might.”
There be some, that dishearten us in this spi-'
ritual warfare, and would make us let our Weapons
fall out of our hands, by working in us a despair
of victory. There be some evil spies, that weaken
the hands and' hearts of the children of Israel,
and bring an ill report upon that land, that we
are to conquer, telling of nothing but strange'
giants* the sons of Anak, there, that we shall never
be able to overcome. “ The Amalekites (say they)
dwell in the south, the Hittites, Jebusites, Amor-'
ites in the mountains, and the Canaanites by the
sea-coasthuge armies of tall invincible 1ustab
“ we shall never be able to go against this people-;’’
we shall never be able to prevail against Our cor­
ruptions. Hearken not unto them, I beseech you,
but hear what Caleb and Joshua say; “ Let use
go up at once and possess it, for.we are able to-'
z 2
\
SERMON I.
340
overcome t h e m d o t by our ow h strength, hot by
the power of the Lord of hosts. There are indeed
sons of Anak there, there are mighty giant-like
lusts, that we are to grapplfe with; nay, there are
principalities and powers too, that we are to op*
pose: but the great Michael, the Captain of the
Lord’s host, is with u s; he commands in chieffor
ns, and we need not be dismayed. “ Understand
therefore this day, that the Lord thy God is hey
which goeth before thee as a consuming fire; ho
shall destroy these enemies, and bring them down
before thy face.” If thou wilt be faithful to him,
and put thy trust in him, as the- five consumeth
the stubble, and as the flame burneth up the chaff;
so will he destroy thy lusts in thee: their root
shall be rottenness, and their blossom shall go up
as the dust.
But let us take heed, that we be not disco**
raged, and before we begin to fight, despair of
victory: but to believe and hope well in the power
of our God and his strength, will be half a con­
quest. Let us not think holiness in the hearts of
men here in the world is a forlorn, forsaken; and
outcast thing from God, that he hath no regard of
holiness; wherever it is, though never so small, if
it be but hearty and sincere, it can no more be
cut off and discontinued from God, than a stm*
beam here upon earth can be broken off from its
intercourse with the sun, and be left alofie amidst
the mire and dirt of this world. The sun may as
well discard its own rays, and banish them from
itself into some region of darkness far remote from
it, where tbey shall have no dependence at all
upon it, as God can forsake and abandon holiness
in the world, and leave it a poor orphan thing,
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 341
that shall hate no influence at all from him to pro*
serve«nd keep it. Holiness is something of God,
wherever it is; it is an efflux from him, that al­
ways hangs upon him, and lives in him: as the
sun-beams, although they gild this lower world,
and spread their golden wings over us, yet they
are not so much here, where they shine, as in.the
sun, from whence they flow. God cannot draw a
curtain betwixt himself and holiness, which is no­
thing but the splendour and shining ofhimself; he
cannot hide his face from it, he cannot desert it
in the world. He that is once born of God, shaM
overcome the world, and the prince of this world
too, by the power of God in him. Holiness is no
solitary neglected thing; it hath stronger confede­
racies, greater alliances, than sin and wickedness;
It is in league with God and the universe; the
whole creation smiles upon it: there is something
of God in it, and therefore it must needs be a vic­
torious and triumphant thing.
Wickedness is a weak, cowardly and guilty
thing, a fearful and trembling shadow. It is the
child of ignorance aud darkness; it is afraid of
light* and cannot possibly withstand the power
of it, nor endure the sight of its glittering armour.
It is allianced to none but wretched, forlorn and
apostate spirits, that do what they can to sup*
port their own weak and tottering kingdom of
darkness, but are only strong in weakness and
impotency. The whole polity and commonwealth
of devils is not so powerful as one child of light,
one babe in Christ; they are not able to quench
the least smoking flax, to extinguish one spark
of grace. Darkness is not able to make resist­
ance against light, but ever, as it comes, flies be*
3 4 2 SERMON I.
fore it. But if wickedness invite the society of
devils to it .(as we learn by the sadexperieticeof
4bese present times, in many examples of those,
that were possessed with malice, revengefulness
.and lust), so that those cursed fiends do most
readily apply themselves to it, and offer their ser­
vice to feed it aqd encourage it, because it is their
.own life and nature, their own kingdom of dark­
ness, which they strive to enlarge and to spread
the dominions of; shall we then think, that holi­
ness, which is so neatly allied unto God, hath no
good genius at all in the world to attend upon it,
to help it and encourage it? Shall not the king­
dom of light be as true to its own interest, and
as vigilant for the enlarging of itself, as the king­
dom of darkness ? Holiness is never atone in the
world, bnt God is always with it, and his loving
Spirit doth ever associate and join itself to it.
He, that sent it into the world, is with it as Christ
speaketh of himself; “ The Father hath not left
pie alone, because I do always those things that
please him.” Holiness is the life of God, which'
he cannot but feed and maintain wheresoever it
is : and as devils are always active to encourage
evil, so we cannot imagine, but that the heavenly
host of blessed angels above are busily employed
iu the promoting of that, which they love best,
that which is dearest to God, whom they serve,
the life and nature of Gpd. “ There is joy in
heaven at the conversion of one sinnerheaven
takes notice of i t ; there is a choir of angels, that
sweetly sings the epithalamium of a soul divorced
from sin -and Satan, and espoused unto Christ.
What therefore the wise man speaks concerning
wisdom, I shall apply to holiness: “ Take fast bold
BEFORE THE. HOUSE OF COMMONS. 343
of. holiness, let 'her riot go,: keep her, foi1she is tbjr
life: keep thy heart with all diligence, for oiit of
it. are the issues of life,” and of death^fto.- Let'.
noihing.be esteemed of greater consequence and
concernment to thee thad what thou doest and act-
est, how thou livest. Nothing without us can make
us either happy or miserable; nothing can either
defile.us, or hurt us, but what goeth out from, us;
what springeth and bubbleth up out of our own
hearts. Wd have dreadful apprehensions of the
flames of hell without us; we tremble, and are
afraid, when we hear of fire and brimstone;
whilst in the mean time we securely nourish
within our own hearts a true and living hell,
— — et caeco carpimur igni:
The dark fire of our lusts consumeth our bowels
within, and miserably scorcheth our souls, and
we are not troubled at it. We do not perceive
how hell steals upou us whilst we live liere. And
as for heaven, we only gaze abroad, expecting
that it should come in to us from without, but
neyer look for the beginnings of it to arise within;
in our own hearts.
:But lest there should yet haply remain any
prejudice against that, which I have all this while
heartily commended to you, true holiness, and
the keeping of Christ’s commandments, as if it
were a legal and a servile thing, that would sub­
ject us to a state of bondage, I must here needs
add a word or two, either for the prevention or
removal of it. I do not therefore mean by holi­
ness, the mere performance of outward duties of
religion, coldly acted over as a task ; nor our'ha­
bitual prayings, hearings, fastings, multiplied one
SBRM0N I.
Ill
upon another {though these be ail good, as sub­
servient'to a higher end); but I mean an inward
Soul andtprmciple of Divine life, that spiriteth
arilthese Shat enliveneth and quickeneth the dead
carcass of all outward performances whatsoever.
I do <not here urge the *
<dead law of outward
works,” which indeed, if it be alone, subjects us
to a “ state of b o n d a g e b u t the inward law of
the gospel, the “ law of the Spirit o£ life,” than
which nothing can be more free and‘Ingenuous:
for it doth not act us by principles without us,
but is an inward self-moving principle living in
our hearts.
The first, though it work us into some outward
conformity to God’s commandments, and so hath
a good effect upon the world; yet we are all this
while but like dead instruments of music, that
sound sweetly and harmoniously, when they-are
Only struck and played upon from without by
the musician’s hand, who hath the theory and
law of music living within himself.
But the second, the living law of the gospel,
the “ law of the Spirit of life” within ns, is as if
the soul of music should incorporate itself with
the instrument, and live in the strings, and make
them of their own accord, without any tonch or
impulse from without, dance up and down, and
warble out tbeir harmonies.
They, that are acted only by an outward law,
are but like neurospaets, or those little puppets,
that skip nimbly up and down, and seem to be
full of quick and sprightly motion; whereas they
are all the while moved artificially by certain
wires and strings from without, and not by any
principle of motion from themselves within: or
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 3 4 5
else Hk«'docks and watches, that go pretty regu-
larly for a while, but are moved by weights and
plummets, hr !
sbme other artificial springs, that
must be ever how and then wound up, or else
they cease.
But they, that are acted by the new law of
the gospel, by the “ law of the Spirit,” they have
an inward principle of life in them, that from the
centre of itself puts forth itself freely and con*
stantly into all obediehce to the will of Christ,
This hew law of the gospel is a kind of musical
soul, informing the dead organs of our hearts,
that makes them of their own accord delight to
act harmoniously according to the rule of God’s
word.
The law, that I speak of, is a law of love,
which is the most powerful law in the world; and
yet it freeth us in a manner from all law without
us, because it maketh us become a law unto om>
selves. The more it prevaileth in us, the more it
eateth up and devoureth all other laws without
os; just as Aaron’s living rod did swallow up
those rods of the magicians, that were made only
to counterfeit a little life.
Qujs legem det amantibus?
Major lex amor est sibi.
Love Is at once a freedom from all law, a state
of purest liberty; and yet a law too of the most
constraining and indispensible necessity.
The worst law in the world is the “ law of sin,
which is in oar members;” which keeps us in a
condition of most absolute slavery, when we are
wholly under the tyranoical commands of our
lusts: this is a cruel Pharaoh indeed, that sets
3 4 0 . SERMON I.
ins hard task-masters over as, and mpketh us
wretchedly drudge in .mire and. clay.
The law of the letter ,without us sets us in a
condition of little more liberty, by restraining us.
from many outward acts of sin; but yet.it doth
not disenthral us from the power of sin ip our
hearts.
But the “ law of the spirit of life,”the gospel jaw
of love, it puts us into a condition of most pure and
peifect liberty; and whosoever really entertains
this law, he hath “ thrust out Hagar” quite, he hath
“ cast out the bond-woman and her children;”from
henceforth Sarah, the free-woman, shall live for
ever with him, and she shall be to him a mother of
many children ; her seed shall be “ as the sand of
the sea-shore for number,”and “ as the stars ofhea-.
ven.” Here is. evangelical liberty, here is gospel
freedom, when. “ the law of the Spirit of life in
Christ Jesus hath made, us free from the law of sin
and deathwhen we have a liberty from sin, and
not a liberty to sinfor our dear Lord and Master;
hath told us, that “ whosoever committeth sin, is
the servant of it.”
He that lies under the power and vassalage of
his base lusts, and yet talks of gospel freedom, he
is but like a poor condemned prisoner, that in his
sleep dreams of being set at liberty, and of walk­
ing up and down wheresoever he pleasetb, whilst
his legs are all the while locked fast in fetters and
irons. To please ourselves with a notion of gos-?
pel liberty, whilst we have not a gospel principle
of holiness within us, to free us from the power
of sin, is nothing else but to gild over our bonds
and fetters, and to fancy ourselves to be in. a
golden cage. There is a straitness, slavery, and
BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 347
narrowness in siti: sin crowds and crumples up
our souls, wbicb, if they Were freely spread
abroad, would be as wide and as large as the
whole universe.
No man is truly free, but be that hath his will
enlarged to the extent of God’s own will, by lov­
ing whatsoever God loves, and nothing else. Such
an one doth not fondly hug this and that particu­
lar created good thing, and envassal himself nnto
it; but he loveth every thing that is lovely, be-
ginnipg at God, and descending down to all Ins
creatures, according to the several degrees of per­
fection in them. He enjoys a boundless liberty*
and a boundless sweetness, according to his
boundless love. He enclaspeth the whole world
within his outstretched arms; his soul is as wide
as the whole universe, as' big as “ yesterday, to­
day, and for ever.” Whosoever is once acquainted
with this disposition of spirit, he never desires
any thing else, and he loves the life of God in
himself dearer than his own life. To conclude
this, therefore; if we love Christ, and keep his
commandments, his commandments will not be
grievous to us; his yoke will be easy, and his
burden light: it will not put us into a state of
bondage, but of perfect liberty. For it is most
true of evangelical obedience, what the wise man
speaketh of wisdom, “ her ways are ways of plea­
santness, and all her paths are peace: she is a
tree of life to those that lay hold upon her, and
happy are all they that retain her.”
I will now shut up all with one or two consi­
derations, to persuade you farther to the keeping
of Christ’s commandments.
9*0 - SEBMOlf. ft '
J^rtttfrom: the desire, which wei all have of
knejvledgte, If w* would indeed know. Divine
truths, the only *ajr to come to this is by keep*
ing of Christ’s commandments. The grossness
pf.out:[apprehensions in spiritual things, and our
many mistakes, that we have about them, proceed
from nothing but those dull and foggy steams,
which rise up from our foul hearts, and becloud
our understandings. If we did but heartily com­
ply with Christ’s commandments, and purge our
hebtts from all gross and sensual affections, we
should not then look about for truth wholly with-
put ourselves, and enslave ourselves to the dic­
tates of this and that teacher, mid hang upon the
lips of men 4 but we should find the great eternal
Odd inwardly teaching our souls, mid continually
instructing us more and more in the mysteries of
his will; and “ out of our bellies should flow
rivers of living waters.” Nothing puts a stop and
hindrance to the passage of truth in the world,
but the carnality oif our hearts, the corruption of
our lived.
It is not wrangling disputes, and syllogistical
reasonings, that are the mighty pillars, that under­
prop truth in the world t if we would but under­
set it with the holiness of our hearts and lives, it
should never foil. Truth is a prevailing and con­
quering thing, and would quickly overcome the
world,1did not the earthiness of onr dispositions,
and the darkness of our false hearts hinder it.
Our Saviour Christ bids the blind man wash off
the clay, that was upon his eyes in the pool of
JSiloam, and then he should see clearly; intimat­
ing this to ns, that it is the earthiness ofmen's af-
BKFOKB THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 348
lections, that darkens the eye of their understand-*
inga in spiritual things. Truth is always readji
and near at hand, if our eyes were not closed op
with mild, that we could but open them to look
upon it. Truth always waits npoh our souls*
and offers itself freely to us, as the sun offers its
beams to every eye, that will but open, and let
them shine in upon it. If we could but purge
our hearts from that filth and defilement, which
hangeth about them, there would be no doubt at
all of truth’s prevailing in the world. For truth
is great, and stronger than all things: all the
earth calleth upon truth, and the heaven blesseth
i t ; all works shade and tremble at it. The truth
endureth, and is always strong; it liveth and con-
quereth for evermore. She is the strength, king­
dom, power, and majesty of all ages. Blessed be
the God of truth.
Secondly, if we desire a true reformation, as
some would be thought to do; let us begin here
in reforming oar hearts and lives, in keeping
.Christ’s commandments. All outward forms and
models of reformation, though they be never so
good in their kind, yet they are of little worth to
us without this inward reformation of the heart.
Tin, or lead, or any other baser metal, if it be cast
into never so good a mould, and made up into
never so elegant a figure, yet it is but tin or lead
still; it is the same metal, that it was before. If
adulterate silver, that hath much alloy or dross
iu it, have never so current a stamp put upon it,
yet it will not pass notwithstanding, when the
touchstone trieth it. We must be reformed with­
in, with a Spirit of fire, and a spirit of buruing, to
360 SERMON I. BEFORE THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.
purge us from the dross and corruption of our
hearts, and refine us as gold and silver; and then
we shall be reformed truly, and not before.
When this once comes to pass, then shall Christ
be set upon his throne indeed, then “ the glory of
the Lord shall overflow the l a n d t h e n we shall
be a people acceptable unto him, and as mount
Sion, which he dearly loved.
SERM O N II.
B ut thanki Be to God, which givelh its the vic­
tory through our Lord Jesus Christ.-^—\ Cor.
xv. 5—7. ' ■
■ 't
XpuTTiavtOfifa t<rri rrjq 9 nag fvtrnag fiiptjffig. ' ■
; 8. GREGORY NY^EN.
: ;
--~--• ?
C h r ist ’s resurrection, which.the Apostle tre$ft-
eth of in the former part of this chapter,:is ope
of the main and principal articles of our Christ­
ian faith: for though Christ by his death upon the
crossmade a propitiatory sacrifice for the world,
yet it was his resurrection only, which did mani­
fest his death to be effectual and .available for that
end, and did evidence its acceptation with God.
For if the grave had detained Christ, and held him
prisoner, this.would have been an argument, that
the debt, for which he was committed to that dark
dungeon, was not yet paid, nor satisfaction made4
for“ if Christ be not raised (saith the „
' Verse 1T«
apostle) your faith is in :vaiu, ye are yet >
in your sins.” But now death and the gravehay-
ing delivered up Christ out of their custody,, .bis
resurrection is an undoubted argument, that they
had no more to lay to bis charge, as he was a
surety and undertaker for mankind; but the debt
which was owing to the law and Divine justice.
352 SERMON II.
was in the court of heaven fully acquitted and dis­
charged. For Christ was delivered for our sins,
. and rose again for our justification.
And though Christ’s other miracles
ought to have conciliated belief to his doctrine
from the Jews; yet his resurrection from the dead
(foretold by himself, and really accomplished)
added to all the rest, was a most undoubted and
unquestionable confirmation of his prophetical
ministry. For if it were supposed (as the Jews
of old, and the Talmudists of later times, mali­
ciously calumniated our Saviour Christ), that a
mere wizard or magician should have appeared,
and not only have done many miracles by Beelze­
bub and the powers of darkness, but also have
foretold, that after he bad been put to death, he
should rise again, and have given this as a farther
sign to confirm bis prophecy, as our Saviour did,
Matt. xii. 39. it could never be conceived, that
Divine Providence should suffer such an impostor
miraculously to rise again, in so remarkable a
manner, and so often to appear before the eyes of
so many spectators, and at last visibly to ascend
up to heaven. Because this would have been ten-
tatio invincibilis to mankind; it being not imagin­
able, what greater assurance heaven itself could
give, to confirm and seal a prophet, and persuade
the world, that wbat he did was by the finger of
God, and not by magical imposture, than this. is.
And therefore it is observable, that though a good
while after our Saviour’s time, when the Jews
had now forfeited that peculiar Providence, that
watched over tbem^ a certain counterfeit MesSiaa,
one David El-Roy, was permitted to do several
strange and miracnlonsthifigs bymagic and wiibefe-
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v ic to r y . 363
Craft, if the Jewish relations be true; yet, when
he gave this for a sign to the Persian king, to prove
himself the Messias, that after he was beheaded
by him, hes hould rise again, he plainly discover­
ed his imposture, to the great disappointment of
the deluded Jews, who (as Maimonides
writes) in vain expected his resurrection T
e22i*™
,h
a good while after.
Moreover, if Christ had not risen again after
death, the world would not have had sufficient
ground to trust and believe in him as a Saviour.
St. Austin reckoned it as great a miracle as any
that Christ ever did upon earth, that the world
shoulchbe brought off to believe in a crucified Sa^
viour. For to worship as the Jews by way
of disgrace call our Saviour, or rov dvaaKoXomZo/u-
vov in Lucian’s language, one that was hanged, for
a God, and to believe in him, could not but seem
a monstrous and prodigious thing, both to Jews
and Gentiles; and certainly it would never have
been brought to pass, had there not been unques­
tionable assurance given of Christ’s resurrection
from the dead. For who would be so sottish as
to believe in a dead Saviour, and to expect help
and assistance from him that had not been able to
help himself, and therefore had given no proof
that he was able to help others ? nay, from him,
that, to all human appearance had now no being
at all ? Upon which account the Psalmist upbraids
the sottish heathen, that “ they ate the sacrifices
.of the dead.” Psal. cvi. Wherefore it is observ­
able, in the gospel, that when Christ was now
dead, and buried in his sepulchre, the hope and
expectation of his disciples, who had formerly be­
lieved in him, lay, as it were, entombed in the
VOL. iv. 2 A
SEKMON I I.
8*4
same sepulchre with him. And then the. two
disciples, that went to Emmaus, could only say*
Lokexxir “ We trusted, that this had been
which should have redeemed Israel.’
Bnt afterwards, when they were able upon good
grounds to affirm, that Kvpcoc aXtjftoc «v£*nr, the
Lord was risen indeed,—then their faith revived
anew, and mounted up higher than ever, and grew
triumphant in them.
Again, there was another excellent design in
Christ’s resurrection from the dead, which the
apostle pursues largely also in this chapter ; viz*
To give the world assurance of a life after death,
and a blessed immortality to be enjoyed by all
true believers and followers of Christ. . Christ,
by his resurrection, hath “ abolished death, and
brought life and immortality to light,” as the apo-
stlespeaks, (2 Tim.i. 10.) or, as the church sings in
that Divine anthem, “ After he had overcome the
sharpness of death, he opened the kingdom of
heaven to all believers.” The reasons of philoso­
phy, that prove the soul’s immortality, though firm
and demonstrative in themselves, yet they are so
thin and subtile to vulgar apprehensions, that
they glide away through them, and leave no such
palpable impressions on them, as can be able suf­
ficiently to bear up against that heavy weight of
gross infidelity, that continually sinks dowq the
minds of men to a distrust of such high things, as
be above the reach of sense. Neither are these
considerations any longer of force, than men can
actually attend to the strength and coherenpe Of
the demonstration; and when that actual atten­
tion (which is operose and difficult) is taken off,
than the truth itself, like a speetre of apparition,
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v ic to r y . m
suddenly vanishes away, and men question with,
themselves afterwards whether there were any
such thing, or no. Such thin and evsnid things
are philosophical speculations about the high
mysteries offaith and religion. But Christ’s raifh
ing ofthe self-same body which was laid in the se­
pulchre, and afterwards appearing in it often U
>
his disciples, gave such evident assurance of the
soul’s immortality and life after death, as must
needs strike more strongly upon vulgar minds,'
and make more palpable impressions on them, and
be always of more present and ready use, than any
philosophical reasons and demonstrations.
And the Scripture is herein very harmoni­
ous, and agreeable to itself, both in the Old andl
New Testament; for, as ip the one, it makes the
original of death’s entrance into the world to
be the sin and disobedience of the first Adan),
who was avOpuTog Ik yng, youcog, of the earth,
earthy ;—so in the other it attributes the recovery
of life and immortality to the meritorious obe­
dience of the second Adam, that was ©Kvf>m
ovpavoy, ivovpivuK, the Lord from heaven, heavenly
—who by his death vanquished and destroyed
death. For as Samson, who was a type of oud
Saviour, when he was besieged by the Philistines
in the city Gaza (Judges xvi.) rose up at mid­
night, and pulled up the gates of the city, and
the posts, and laying, them upon his shoulders,
carried them up to the top of the hill ; in like
manner, Christ our Lord, when he was environ­
ed, and encompassed by death, after he had been
awhile detained under the- custody thereof, he
ascended victoriously out of the power of th#
grave, and. carried the gates of hell and death
2 A 2
SERMOti It.
3 5 6
upon his shoolders along with him triumphantly
into heaven: he slighted and dismantled that
mighty garrison, whose walls were stronger than
brass, and gates harder than adamant, that it
should be no longer a prison, with doors and bars
to shot up those that believe in him, but an open
and free passage, and a broad highway to life and
immortality. He is “ the resurrection and the
life,” (John xi. 25.) and “ he that believeth in him,
though he were dead, yet shall he live.” For, he
that liveth, and was dead, and is alive for ever­
more, even he hath the keys of hell and of death.
Rev. i. 18.
But that which I chiefly aim at at this time, con­
cerning Jesus’sresurrection and ascension into hea­
ven, is this; That by and after it he was made
Lord and Christ, King and Saviour, and Sove­
reign of his church. Not but that Christ’s huma­
nity #a8 always hypostatically united to the Di­
vinity ; but because the economical kingdom of
Christ, as mediator, according to the Scripture
calculation, seems not to commence till after the
state of humiliation was, and so begins its epocha
from Christ’s resurrection, or his exaltation to sit
at God’s right hand in heaven. (Acts ii. 3 6 . ) Let
all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God
hath made that same Jesus, whom ye have cruci­
fied, both Lord and Christ.” (Acts v. 31.) “ Jesus
whom ye slew and hanged on a tree, him hath
God exalted on his right hand to be a prince and
a Saviour,”&c. (Philip, ii. 9.) “ Who humbled him­
self and became obedient to the death of the
cross; wherefore God hath highly exalted him,
and given him a name above every name, that at
the name of Jesus every khee shall boiv, &c. and
THE CHBISTIAN’s VICTORY. 357,
that every tongue shall confess, that Jesus Christ
is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.” And
that.article of our creed, concerning Christ’s sib
ting at God’s right hand in heaven, signifies thus
much unto u s; that Christ, after his resurrection
and ascension into heaven, hath all power given
him both in heaven and in earth, all things being
made subject to him, “ excepting him „_ „
only that hath pat all things under him/
He being, for the comfort of his church and mem-t
bers here upon earth, according to his humanity,
made God’s vicegerent, and seated in his Father’s
throne; and having a mediatorious kingdom be­
stowed upon him, that shall continue, ^
“ till he hath put down all authority and
power, and hath subdued all enemies under his
feet;” and then hath delivered up this economical
kingdom to God the Father, “ that God „
i i i • I . u V e r s e 2 8 .
may be all m all.
And this is an unspeakable consolation, that
Christian religion affords to us, and a most gra
cious condescension of the all-wise God; that for
asmneh as we, who. dwell in these houses ofclay,
are so for removed from the pure and abstracted
Deity# and so infinitely disproportioned unto it,;
that there should be such a contrivance as this;
set on foot, that we should have one of our own
flesh and blood, that was in all things tempted
like unto us, and had experience of all our diffi­
culties and calamities; who demonstrated his in­
finite love.to ns in laying down his life for us, and.
therefore we cannot doubt, but hath a most ten­
der sympathy and fellow-feeling with us in all our
infirmities; 1 say, that we should have such a
one exalted to God’s right hand, and invested
SERMON 11.
556
with all authority and power both in heaven Rod
earth, that he might administer all things for the
good of his church and members, and supply
thetn in all their wants and necessities. Which
Consideration must needs be far more comforta­
ble, cheering, and reviving, to every true Christ­
ian, than it was to the sons of Jacob, when they
went down to Egypt to buy corn and provision
for their necessities, to think,* that Joseph their
brother was made lord of all the land.
And yet, notwithstanding, this is wholly eluded
and evacuated by those high-flown spiritualists of
these latter times, that slight and reject the letter
ofthe New Testament, as a mean and carnal thing;
and will acknowledge no other death and resur­
rection of Christ, no Other ascension and sitting at
God’s right hand; nay, no other day ofjudgment,
nor resurrection of the body, but what is mystical
and allegorical; whereby they do not Only impu­
dently slur the gospel, according to the bistbry
and the letter, In making it no better than a to*
mantical legend, or a mere iEsopic table, that con­
tains a good nrtjtitf&ov,Or moral Under it5 btit also
plainly defeat the counsel of God against them­
selves and mankind, by afttiqUating Christianity*
and bringing in instead thereof old Paganism
again, disguised under a few cantihg phrases Of
Scripture language. For though Moses had &
veil over his fade, though there were many ob­
scure umbrages and allegories in the laW (the
children of Israel being then not able to bear the
brightness of that evangelical truth that shitted
sCflr H
i u n d e r them)} yet b o w , nnder the gos­
pel, “ we do all with open face behold;
aS in a glass, the glory of the Lord” nakedly re*
THE CHRISTIAN’* VICTORY. 860
Resented to ns, being “ changed into the same
image from glory to glory.”
But to let these pass, and still to improve onr
former meditation farther; let us in the next place
consider, that Christ, who received all this power
after his resurrection and ascension, did not re­
ceive it in vain and to no purpose, either taking
no notice of our human transactions here below,
as having removed his pavilion too far into those
regions of light and glory from us; or else remain*
ing, notwithstanding, an idle spectator, and nb
way concerning or interesting himself in the issues
of our human affairs. Which will be so much the
more improbable, if we consider what the Scrip­
ture and experience tell us, that the devil and
apostate spirits are perpetually active and buBy
in promoting the concernments of the kingdom of
darkness. And therefore doubtless he, whom
God hath made the shepherd and bishop of our
souls, can never be so regardless of his office, nor
so careless of his flock and tender lambs com­
mitted to his charge, as to suffer those cruel
wolves to prey upon them at pleasure; and to
have no pity at all for them, nor to extend bis
watchful providence over them, whom once he
vouchsafed to redeem with his own precious
blood. No certainly; he, that waded through so
many difficulties and agonies for us in the days of
his flesh; he, that “ bore our griefs and carried
our sorrows;” he, that was *
*wounded for our
transgressions, and bruised for our iniquities
that sweat drops ofblood in the garden, and was
nailed to the cross for us in Golgotha; he cannot
60 easily forget those whom he hath so dearly
bought, nor suffer all that power which God hath
3 0 0 SERMON II.
invested him with for the good of his church, to
lie by biin idle and unemployed.
But to the end that there might not be the least
ground of suspicion or distrust left in the minds
of men concerning this particular, Christ, after
his ascension into heaven, thought good to give
us a sensible demonstration both of his kingly
power, and of his watchful care and providence
over his church, that he would not leave them or­
phans, and destitute of all assistance, by sending
down bis Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost, in
a visible and miraculous manner, upon his disci­
ples. (Actsii. 32.) “ This Jesushath God raised up,
of which we are all witnesses: therefore, being by
the right hand of God exalted, and having receiv­
ed of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost,
he hath shed forth this, which you now see and
hear.” And verily, if there had been no news
heard of our Lord and Saviour Christ, after he as­
cended abovethe clouds out of his disciples’sight*
no real and visible demonstration of his existence,
power, and providence over his church the dis­
trustful hearts of men would have been too prone
to suspect* that the pretence of an invisible king­
dom at God’s right hand above had been no bet­
ter than a mere dream, an airy and fantastic no­
tion ; and they would have been too ready to have
called in question the truth of all his other mira­
cles, his resurrection and ascension, witnessed
only by his own disciples, and to have surmised
those several apparitions of his, that we read of
after his death, had been nothing else but spec­
tres, or phantasms, like the vulgarly-believed ap­
paritions of the ghosts of men in airy bodies. But
thp sensible and miraculous pouring out .of the
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v ic to r y . 361
Holy Ghost upon his disciples, after his ascen­
sion into heaven, was a palpable confirmation of
all Christ’s other miracles, of the validity of his
meritorious death and passion, of the truth of his
resurrection and ascension; and gives most com­
fortable assurance to all believers to the world’s
end, that though his bodily presence be withdrawn
from them, yet he hath not left his church utterly
forlorn, and destitute of all assistance; but that
his Spirit, the holy Comforter, continueth to be
present amongst them, as his vicegerent, and to
assist them for all the holy purposes of the gos­
pel, to the world’s end. Now the principal effects
of Christ’s Holy Spirit, which are to be hoped for
and expected by every true believer and private
Christian, are comprised by the apostle under
three heads here in the text, as consisting in a
threefold victory over a threefold enemy. “ The
sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the
law : but thanks be to God, which giveth us the
victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.”
1. A victory over sin, as that which is the cause
of death.
2. A victory over the law, as that which aggra­
vates the guilt, and exasperates the power of sin.
3. Lastly, A victory over death, the fruit and
consequent of sin.
First, therefore, There is a victory over sin to
be obtained in and through Christ.
Some there are, that will acknowledge no other
victory over sin but an external one; that where­
by it wasconquered forus by Christ uponthe cross,
sixteen hundred years since, where he “ spoiled
principalities and powers,and madea show ofthem
openly, triumphing over them in it.” (Col. fi. 15.)
SOB SERMOtt II.
and where he “ redeemed us from the corse of the
law, being made a corse for os.”(Gal. hi. IS.) Attd
doubtless this was one great end of Christ’s com**
tag into the world to make a propitiatory sacri­
fice for the sins of mankind: not only that he
might thereby put a period to those continually
repeated and ineffectual sacrifices of brute beasts,
and the offering of the blood of bulla and goats,
that could not take away sin, nor propitiate his
Divine Majesty; but also that he might at once
give a sensible demonstration, both of God's high
displeasure against sin, and of bis placableness
and reconcilableness to sinners returning to obe­
dience ; and, therefore, to that end, that the de­
spair of pardon might not hinder any from re­
pentance and amendment of life, promulgate free
pardon and remission of sins, through his blood,
to all that should repent and believe the gos­
pel.
But it is a very unsound and unwholesome in­
terpretation of this salutary undertakingofChrist’s
in the gospel, as if the ultimate end and design of
it were to procure remission of sin, and exemp­
tion from punishment only, to some particular
persons still continuing under the power of sin,
"and to save them at last in their sins, that is, with
a mere outward and carnal salvation; it being a
thing utterly impossible, that those undeflled re­
wards of the heavenly kingdom should be re­
ceived and enjoyed by men in their unregenerate
and unrenewed nature.
For what is this else, but to make Christ the
grand patron of the kingdom of darkness, and to
suppose God to be such a being as may be bribed
and corrupted, by sacrifice and intercession, td
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v icto ry . 903
h partial connivance and fond indulgence of men
in their sins to all eternity ? or else to insinuate^
that there is no other evil at all in sin, but only in
respect of that outward punishment consequent
Upon it ? Which is to destroy the nature andre-
ality of sin, and to make it nothing but a mere
name or fimcy; as if good and evil, just and Un­
just (as some philosophers dreamed), were not
but Noju^ and Aog? only, had no reality in
nature, but depended only upon arbitrary law**
enforced by outward punishments, or mere opi­
nions : and so were only IToiW, (as Democritus
expresseth it) mere factitious things, or else &
av+
raara, fictitious and imaginary: either of which
opinions, if they were true, then indeed reiUissioii
of sin, and exemption from punishment, would
quite take away all the evil of sin.
But if sin be not a mere name or fancy, but that
which hath a real and intriusiCal evil in it, greater
than that ofoUtward punishment; then certainly it
cannot be so transcendent a happiness, as some
men carnally conceit, to have an impunity in sin4
ning to all eternity, that the accomplishment
thereof should be thought the only fit undertaking
for the Son of God to engage in, and that wbitih
would deservedly entitle him the Saviour of man­
kind. For that of Socrates in Plato must theU
needs be true, Tov aSucovvrd fit} SiSovai VaittW
ptyurriv rt fca! wpwrov kdKwv ilvdt, that (in those Which
are fiot incorrigible and incurable) it is the great*
est evil that can possibly befal them, to continue
in wickedness unpunished; and the greatest kind-
fiess that they can receive, by the lesser evil of
punishment and castigation, to be- cured of the
greater evil of sin:—For (as the same philosopher
3 6 4 SERMON II.
speaks) ’IaTpoctj tjjc 7
rovypla<
; Sum, chastisement and
correction is the natural remedy and cure of wick-
R«r ui 19 ®dness?
—which our Saviour confirms,
*when he said, “ As many as I love, I re­
buke and chasten and sure the remedy is not
worse than the disease.
Wherefore it was so far from being the ultimate
end of Christ’s undertaking to die for sin, that
men might securely live in it, that on the contrary,
the death of Christ was particularly intended as
an engine to batter down the kingdom of sin and
Satan, and to bring men effectually unto God
and righteousness, as the Scripture plainly wit->
nesseth, (1 Pet. ii. 24.) “ His: own self bare our sins
in bis body on the tree, that we, being dead to
sin, might live to righteousness.” The death of
Christ conducing to this great end, not only as it
was exemplary, and hieroglyphicaliy instructed
ns, that we: ought to take up the cross likewise;
i P e t . »i i a n ^ f°N °w oUr crucified Lord and Sa­
viour, suffering in the flesh, and ceasing
from sin ; but also as it doth most lively demon­
strate to us God’s high displeasure against sin,
and the malignant nature of it, that could not
otherwise be expiated than by the blood of that
innocentand immaculate Lamb, the only-begotten
Son of God ; and, lastly, as the hope of pardon
mid free remission of sin, in the blood of Christ,
for the truly penitent, might invite and animate
men to cheerful and vigorous endeavours against
sin.
Others there are, that tell us, there is indeed
something farther aimed at in the gospel besides
the bare remission of sins, but that it is nothing
else but the imputation of an external righteous^
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v ic to r y . 365
ness, or another’s inherent holiness, which is so
completely made ours thereby to all inteuts and
purposes, .as if we ourselves had been really and
perfectly righteous ; and this upon no other condi­
tion or qualification at all required in us, but only
of mere faith scrupulously prescinded from all ho­
liness and sanctification, or the layiug hold or ap­
prehending otaly (as they use to phrase it) of this
external and imputed righteousness; that is, the
merely believing and imagining it to be ours:
which kind of faith therefore is but the imagina­
tion of an imagination, or of that, which really is
not, and, as Pindair calls man S k m c ovap, the very
dream of a shadow.
For though this be pretended by some to be
spoken only ofjustification as contradistinctfrom
sanctification, the latter of which they conceive
must by no means have any conditional influence
upon the former; yet it will unavoidably extend
to the taking away of the necessity of inherent
righteousness and holiness, and all obligation to
i t : upon which very account it is so highly ac­
ceptable, because under a specious show of mo­
desty and humility it doth exceedingly gratify
men’s hypocrisy and carnality : for he that is thus
completely justified by the imputation of a mere
external righteousness, must needs have ipsofaciei
a right and title thereby to heaven and happiness
without holiness; for (Rom. viii. 30.) “ Whom he.
justifieth them he also glorifietb.” Neither can
any thing be required inherently in them, where
all inherency is perfectly supplied by imputations
And though it be pretended, that sanctification
will spontaneously follow after by way of grati­
tude ; yet this is like to prove but a ver/ slippery1
306 SESMQlf II
hold, where it is believed, that gratitude itself, a*
well as all other graces, is already in them by iniT
putation. Neither can it be reasonably thought,
that true holiness should spring by way of grati­
tude or ingenuity from such a principle of carnnt
lity, as makes men so well contented with a mere
imaginary righteousness.
But this opinion, as it makes God, in justify­
ing, to pronounce a false sentence, and to con­
ceive of things otherwise than they are, and to
do that, which himself hath declared to be abo­
minable, to justify the wicked (in a forensic,
sense) and as it is irreconcilable to those many
Pror x
t
u15 scr*pl;ures> that assure us God will ren-
‘der to every man according to his works;
so it also takes away the necessity of Christ’s me*
ritoriousand propitiatory sacrifice for the remis­
sion of sins: for where a complete righteousness
is imputed, there is no sin at all to be pardoned.
And, lastly, it vainly supposes righteousness and
holiness to be mere fantastical and imaginary
things; for otherwise it were no more possible,
that a wicked man should be made righteous by
another’s righteousness imputed, than that a sick
man should be made whole by another’s imputed
health. “ If a brother or sister be naked and des­
titute of daily food, and one of you say unto
them, Depart in peace, be you warmed, and be
you filled; notwithstanding you give them not
those things, which are needful for the body;
what doth it profit? (James ii. 15, 16.) Even
so, what doth it profit, my brethren, if a man
say he hath faith (or imputed righteousness) and
have not works? (that is, real and inherent
righteousness, or inward regeneration) can such a
THE CHRISTIAN’* VICTORY. 30T
faith (that is, imagination or imputation) save
him t” Certainly no more than mere words can
clothe a naked man’s back, or feed a hungry
man’s belly, or warm and thaw him, whose blood
is frozen and congealed in his veins. Nay, it is
no more possible for a man to be made holy, than
to be made happy, by mere imputation, which
latter few men would be contented withal; and,
were it not for their hypocrisy, they would be as
little contented with the former; and it would as
little please them to beopinions tantumjusti, as Qpi-
nionetantum beati, touseTully’sexpression against
the Epicureans. Nay, since it is most certain,
that the greatest part of our happiness consisted
in righteousness and holiness, it will unavoidably
follow, that if we have no other than an imputar
tive righteousness, we can have no other than
an imputative happiness, and a mere imaginary
heaven, which will little please us, when we feel
ourselves to be in a true and real hell.
But it is not our intention here to quarrel about
words and phrases, as if Christ’s meritorious ear
tisfaction might not be said to be imputed to
those that repent and believe the gospel for re­
mission of sins; much less to deny what the holy
Scripture plainly asserts, true and living faith,
that worketh by love, which is the very essence
of the new creature, or regenerate nature, Xoytr
tfioOat sie Bucaiotrvvvv, to be imputed, or accounted
for righteousness—under the gospel dispensation*
where God will not proceed according to legal
rigour and severity with his fallen creatures, but
according to that equity and ’EnruUem, which the
philosopher tells us is the truest justice. .But our
only design is, to caution agaiqst that Auti&jtf-
368 SERMON II.
mian error, which is too often insinuated under
the notion of imputed righteousness, as if there
were no necessity of inherent righteousness, and
a real victory over sin, in order to salvation, but
that an imputed or imaginary one might serve the
turn. Which error springing up very early
amongst the Gnostic Christians, St. John gives a
very seasonable antidote against it. (I John iii. 7.)
“ Little children, let no man deceive you; he that
doth righteousness, is righteous, even as he is
rig hteousand in chap. ii. ver. 4. “ He that saith,
I know him, and keepeth not his commandments,
is a liar, and the truth is not in him.” To which
purpose is that also in his first chapter, (ver. 5.)
“ This is the message which we have heard ofhim,
and declare to you, that God is light, and.in him
is no darkness at all. If we say that we have
fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we
lie, and do not the truth : but if we walk in the
light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship
one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ
his Son cleanseth us from all sin.” Wherefore the
same apostle, in that Epistle, tells us of over­
coming the wicked one, (chap. ii. 14.) and ofover­
coming the world, by our faith in Christ, (chap,
v. 4.) And in the Apocalypse he propoundetb,
from Christ himself, divers remarkable promises
to him that overcometh : That he shall eat of the
tree of life, that is in the midst of the paradise of
God, (chap. ii. ver. 7.) That he shall not be hurt
of the second death, (ver. 11.) That he shall have
the hidden manna, and a white stone with a new
name written in it, which no man knoweth, saving
he that receiveth it, (ver. i7.) That he will give
him the morning-star, (ver. 28.) That he shall be
THE CHBISTIAN’s VICTORY. 360
clothed in while raiment, and his name shall not
be blotted out ofthe book oflife, (chap. iii. ver. 8.)
That he shall be a pillar in the temple of God,
(ver. 10.) And that he shall sit with Christ in his
throne, as he overcame and sat down with his Far
ther in his throne, (ver. 21.) The condition of all
which promises being overcoming, we may well
conclude from thence, that there is a real, and not
an imaginary victory only, to be obtained over
the power of sin, as well as the gnilt of it.
Nay, it is true, and viery observable, that those
places, which are usually quoted as the founda­
tion of an imputed righteousness in some other
sensethati what we before mentioned, are indeed
no otherwise to be understood than ofa Tealinward
righteousness, that' is wrought or infosed by the
Spirit of Christ. As that principal one, Philip, iii.
8. “ Yea doubtless, and 1 count all things lost for
the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus
my Lord;----- that I may win him, and be fouftd
in him, not having mine own righteousness, which
is of the law, but that which is of the faith of
Christ, the righteousness which is of God by-
faith.” Where Christ, whom the apostle desires
to win, and to be found in, and the righteousness;
which is through the faith of Christ, and the
righteousness, which is of God through faith, are-
no external imputed righteousness, but the real
inward righteousness ofthe new creature, wrought
by the Spirit of Christ through faith, which is
opposed here to .our own righteousness, and the.
righteousness, which is of the law; that is, the-
righteousness of outward works done by our own
natural power, according to the letter of the law,
in our nnregenerate state : for sa.the following
VOL. iv. 2 B
SERMON II.
m
words explain the meaning, “ that I may k W e
him; and the power of his resurrection, and the
fellowship of his sufferings, being rOade conform
able onto his death; if by any means imight attain
to the resurrection of the dead.” And this satrie
inward and real righteousness is often elsewhere
Called Christ, and the new man, that is said to be
in us, and which we are exhorted to put on; not
by conceit or imagination only, but by real confor­
mity to bis nature; and participation of his spirit.
And wbereas tbe magnifiers of free grace, in-an
Antmomian sense, and the decriers of inherent
righteousness, commonly conceive, that the free
grace of God consists in nothing but either in the
pardon ofsin and exemption from punishment, or
the imputation of an external holiness, and ac­
counting men jnst freely, without any condition
but only the there believing of this, that they are
so accounted; and that faith is ho otherwise con­
sidered in the gospel, than in ordCr to the believ­
ing of this imputation; and that our own works,
when they' are comparatively undervalued to
grace and faith, are to be taken for all inherent
righteousness.and holiness, even the new creature
itself: that all these are errors, as it might be
abundantly proved from sundry other plates of
Scripture, so it may sufficiently appear from that!
one; Eph. ii. 4, &c. “ God, who is rich in mercy,
for his great love, wherewith he loved us, evfeh
when we were dead in sins, hath quickened its
together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved),'
and hath raised us up together^—That ih the
ages to come he might shew the exceedingriche*1
of his grace, and his kindness towards us' iri
Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye Shved through
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s victory. 374
faith, and that not of yourselves.; it is the gift of
G od: not of works, lest any man should boast.
For we are his workmanship, created.in Christ
Jesus unto good ,works.” . For when we are .here
said to be saved by grace, it is plain, that the
apostle, means by saved, inwardly, quickened and
sanctified: » (saith Grotius well .here) is
purgari a vittis: which inward sanctification is
here attributed to God’s free grace, and denied
to ourselves and to works; the meaning whereof
is, that it is not .effected by our own works
(whether ofoutward morality or legal ceretnohies)
done by„our natural power intheuiiregeaecate
state, but by the quickening and enlivening spirit
ofChrist inwardly creating us anew. And, lastly*
faith is plainly made. the:.instrument: of. this in­
ward sanctification* that is not wrought'by otw.
own works, but ^he grace and spirit of Christ.
Whence we may .well cqnclude, that the true
object.ofthe Christian faith is pot. only the blood
of Christ shed upon the. cross for the remission
of sin,.bat also*tbe.renewing spirit of Christ .for
the iqward,conquering and mortifying of it, and
the quickening qr.raisingof os to an heavenlyJife.
And I dare be bold,to say, that the inward
sense of-every true and.sincere-hearted Christian
in tliis point speaks the same language with the
Scripture. For a true Christian, that, hath any
thing of the .life of God .in him,. Cafmo.t but
earnestly desire an inward healing of his sinful
maladies and distempers, and not an outward
hiding and. palliation of them only. He most
needs passionately long more ,add .more after a
new life, and nature, and the Dirineimage to be
more fully fonfiecLin him; insomuch, .that if.he
2 - b 2
SEBtTtfN II.
might be secured from the. pains of hell without
it he could not be folly quieted and satisfied
therewith. It is not the effects and consequents
of sin only, the external punishment due unto.it,
that he desires to be freed from, but theintrinsi-
-cal evil of sin itself, the plague of bis own heart.
As he often meditates with comfort upon-that out­
ward cross, to which his Saviour’s hands and
feet were nailed for his sins; so he impatiently
desires also to'feel the virtue of that inward cross
of Christ, by which the world may be crucified
to him, and he unto the world; and the power of
Christ’s resurrection in him still to raise him
farther unto newness of life. Neither will he be
more easily persuaded to believe, that his sinful
lusts, the malignity and violence whereof he feels
within himself, can be conquered without him,
than that an army here in England- can be con­
quered in France or Spain. He is so deeply,sen­
sible of the real evil, that is in sin itself, that be
cannot be contented to have it only, histrionically
triumphed over. And to fancy himself covered
all over with a thin veil of mere external imputa­
tion, will afford little satisfactory comfort unto
him, that hungers and thirsts after righteousness,
and is weary and heavy ladeu with the burden.=of
sins, and doth not desire to have his inward ma­
ladies bid and covered only, but healed <;and
cured. Neither can he be willing to be put offtill
the hiourofdeath fora divorce betwixt his soul and
sin; nor easily persuaded, that though sin should
rule and reign iu him all his life-long, yet the.last;
parting groan, that shall divide his :soul and body,
asunder, might have so great an efficacy., as in
a moment alsoto separate all sin from his aoul.o
THE CHRISTIAN'S VICTORY, '
But that we may not seem here either to beat
the air in generals and uncertainties/or by an in­
discreet zeal to countenance those conceited and
high-flown enthusiasts of latter times, that, for­
getting that example of modesty given us by thd
blesshd apostle, “ Not as though I had PhiLa. lt
already attained, or werealready perfect
-*—
■
— 'But this one thing I do; forgetting those
things which are'behind, and reaching forth unto
those,things which are before, I press towards the
mark,” boldly arrogate to themselves such an ab­
solute perfection, as would make them not to
stand in need of any Saviour, nor to;be cleansed
by the blood ofthe Lamb, which therefore they al­
legorize into a mystical sense; we must declare,'
that we speak not here of inherent righteousness,1
and a victory over sin in a legal or pharisaical
sense, but in such an evangelical sense, as yet not-’
withstanding is true and real.
The first degree whereof is a principle of new1
life .infused into the soul by the spirit of'Christ
through faith (which the apostle calls 1Wwiii '
semen Dei, the seed of God), inclining i t 1 U
1
' 9’
to love God and righteousness, as a thing corres-'
pondent to ils nature, and enabling it to act freely
and ingenuously in the ways of God, out ofa living
law written upon the heart, and to eschew sin ah
contrary.to a vital principle/ For the true gospel-
righteousness, which Christ came to set up in the
world, doth not consist merely in outward works,
whether ceremonial or moral, done by our own na­
tural power in our unregenerate state, but in ah:
inward, life and spirit wrought by God. Which
those very, philosophers seemed in a manner to ac-;
knowledge, that denied a’penjv to be-&&ncrom, that'
3 7 4 SEBMON II.
virtue could be taught by outward rules and pre­
cepts like an art or trade; and Aristotle:hiuaself
also, when he inclines to think, that men are Odp
fiolft? iyaOd, and that their being good depebdd
upon some extraordinary Divine influenceand as­
sistance. Which I the rather take notice of, be­
cause some late pretenders tophilosophy hate pro­
fanely derided this doctrine after this manner, as
ifit made good thoughts and virtuous disposition^
to be p o u b e d and b l o w n into men by God. But
there is a second degree ofvictory over sib, which
every true Christian ought not only to' look upon
as possible, but also to endeavour after, and rest­
lessly to pursue; which is “ sudb a meaiore of
strength in the inward mad,” and such a degree of
mortification or crucifixion of onr sinful lusts; ah
that a man will not knowingly and deliberately
do any thing, that hife conscience plainly tells hhn
is a sin, though there be never so great tempta­
tions to it.
Whether or no this be that evangelical perfec­
tion, which was the mark that St. Paul pressed
towards, and which he fefeem
S mystically to cal)
the “ resurrection from the dead,” of arty thing
farther, 1 leave it to others to make a judgment of;
But doubtless, they, that have attained to such a
principle of new life, and such a measure of in­
ward strength, as is already mentioned, that is
to the perfection ofunfeigned sincerity, may, not­
withstanding the irregularities of the first motions,
violent assaults, and importunities of temptations,
sudden incursions, and obreptions, sins of mere ig­
norance and inadvertency, (which are all Washed
away in the blood of Christ) in a true evangelical
sense be said to have attained to a victory over sin.
THE CHRISTIAN,’# VICTORY. 875
' Wherefore ! demand, in the .next place, Why
it should be thought impossible, by the grace of
the gospel, and the ftitb of Christ, to attain to
such a victory as this is over sin ? For sin owes
its originalto nothing else but ignorance and dark­
ness, Ilac o jt
o
v
ij/jo
c ayvofi, Every wicked man is ig<-
norant.—And therefore in that sense that other
maxim of the Stoics may have some truth also,
that .ajcovrega/ttapravown, .Men sin against their will;
because if they knew that those things were in­
deed so hurtful to them, they would never do
them. Now, we all know, how easily light con­
quers darkness, and upon its first approach makes
it fly before it, and, like a guilty shade, Peek to
hide itself from it, by running round about the
earth. And certainly the.light of God arising m
the soul can with as much' ease scatter away
the night ofsinful ignorance before it. For truth
hath a cognation with the soul; and falsehood, lies,
and impostures are no mere able to make resist-
knee against the power of truth breaking forth,
than darkness is able to dispute-with light.
Wherefore the entrance in of light upon the soul
is halfa,conquest over our sinful lusts.
Agaio, though sin have had a long and custom­
ary possession in the sou), yet it has no just title,
much less a right of inheritance in it . For sin is
but a stranger, and foreigner in the soul, an usurps
er add intruder into the Lord’s inheritance. Siq
it is no nature, as St. Austin and others-of the ft,
tbers often, inculcate, but an adventitious and1
ex­
traneous thing; and the true and ancient na­
ture of the soul of man sujfTers violence under it,
and js.oppressed by it It is.nothing else but the
preternatural state of rational -beings, and there*
\
3 7 0 SERMON II. :
fore we’
bare no reason to think it roost needs be
perpetual and unalterable. Is it a strange thing
that a jarring instrument by the hand of a skilful
musician should ever be set in tune again! Doubt­
less if an instrument of music were a living thing,
it would be sensible of harmony as its properstate,
and abhor discord and dissonancy as a thing pre­
ternatural to it. The soul of man was harmonical
as God at first made it, till sin, disordering the
strings and faculties,put it out oftone, and marred
the music ofit: but doubtless that great Harmon­
ies, that tunes the whole world, and makes all
things keep their times and measures, is able to
set this lesser instrument in tune again. Sin is but
a disease and dysqrasy in the soul; righteousness
is the health and natural cpmplexion of it; an4
there is a propension in the uature of every thing
to return to its proper state, and to cast off what­
ever is heterogeneous to it. And some physicians
tell us,that medicaments are butsubservient to na­
ture, by removing obstructions and impediments;
but nature itself,and the inward Archseua released
and set at liberty, works the cure. Bodies, when
they are bentoutof their place, and violentlyforced
ont of the natural position of their parts, have a
spring of their own, and an inward strong propen­
sion to return to their own natural posture, which
produceth that motion ofrestitution, that philoso^
phers endeavour to give a reason of. As for exam­
ple,air maybe forced intomuch alesserroom,than,
it would naturally expand itselfinto : but wbilst it;
is under this violence, it hath a spring or strong
conatus to return to its proper state, (of which se-.
veral ingenious observations have been lately pub^
lisbed by a learned hand.) Now sin being a vio-
t h e Ch r ist ia n ’s v ictory. 377
lent and preternatural state, and a sinner’s return*
ing to God and righteousness being motiis resti-
tutionis et liberationis, whereby the soul is re­
stored to its true freedom and ancient nature; why
should there not be such au elater or spring in the
soul, (quickened and enlivened by Divine grace)
such a natural conatus of returning to its proper
state again? Doubtless there is, and the Script
ture seems sometimes to acknowledge it, and call
it by the name of Spirit, when it speaketh of our
free-acting in God’s ways from an inward prin­
ciple. For the spirit is not always to be taken for
a breath or impulse from without; but also for an
inward propension of the soul, awakened and re­
vived in it, to return to its proper state, as it is in­
tellectual, and then to act freely in it according to
its ancient nature. For if the spirit were a mere'
external force actiug upon the sdul, without the
concurrence of an innate principle, then to be
acted by the spirit would be a state of violence to
the soul, which it could not delight always to con­
tinue under; whereas the state of the spirit is a
state of freedom, and not of violence, as the apo­
stle witnesseth, when he calls it the freedom ofthe
spirit: it is the soul’s acting from an inward spring
and principle ofits own intellectual nature, not by
amere outward impulse, like a boat, that is tugged
on by oars, or driven by a strdng blast of wind.
Wherefore the soul’s returning from sin to righte­
ousness, which is its primitive nature, must needs
have great advantages, it going on secimdoflumine,
according to the genuine current of its true.intel­
lectual-nature;, and having besides the assistance’
of a gentle gale ofthe Divine Spirit from without
to help it forwards.
Why should it be thought so great an impossi-
$78 SERMON II.
bility. for men willingly to.do that, which is agqee*
able to the law of goodness, since this, is the ge­
nuine natureof the soul, when,once it is freed from
mistakes and incumbrances, from that which is
heterogeneous and adventitious to it, that clogs
it and oppresses it; and every life and nature acts
freely according to its own propensions? Why
should it seem strange, that the superior facultijes
ofthe soul should become predominant*since they
are Sara-omai, of a lordly nature, and made to
rule, and the inferior faculties of a servile temper)
and made to be subject; why should it seem im­
possible for equity, light, and reason to be en­
throned in the soul ofman again, and there to com­
mand and govern those exorbitant affections, that
do so lawlessly rebel against them ? For if some
grave commanders and generals have been able
by the majesty of their very looks to hush and si:
lence a disorderly and mutinous rout of soldiers ;
certainly reason re-enthroned in her majestic seat,
and re-invested with her ancient power and autho­
rity, which is >natural and not usurped, would
much more easily be able to check and controu!
the tumultuous rabble of lusts and passions in us.
Doubtless God hath no other design upon us in
religion, and the gospel of his Son, than what is
for our good, and to restore us to the rectitude
and perfection of our own beings: wherefore he
seeks to redeem and call off our affections from
the perishing vanities of this world, which being
so infinitely below us, to debase and pollute our
spirits: wherefore he would not have us to addict
ourselves wholly to the gratifications of our lpwep
faculties, which are but the brute in us, but he
would have the best in us to be uppermost,
the man to rule the brute, and the ro Q
t'i<
fv that
THE CHRISTIAN’S VICTORY.' * 399
tk&tiS 6f God in’us,- to r ole one manly attd> ra­
tional faculties: He would not have ns, Narcis­
sus-like, to btealWaySedUrtiOg our own shadow in>
the stream; for, according to the ancient Demo-
critical philosophy, this whole visible world is no*
thing else bnt mere extended bulk, mid hath no­
thing fOal in it bnt atoms or particles ofa different
magnitude, diversly placed and agitated in a con­
tinual Whirlpool. But all the colour, beauty and
varnish, all that which charms and bewitches ns;
in these objects without ns, is nothing but the vi­
tal sensations and relishes of our own souls. This
gives all the paint and lustre to those beauties,
which We court and fall in love withal without Us,
which are otherwise as devoid ofrealityand fantas­
tical as the colours of the rainbow. So that this
outward World is not unfitly compared to an en­
chanted palace, which seems indeed mighty pleas­
ing aUd ravishing to oUr deluded sense, whereas
all is bnt imaginary and a mere prestigious show;
those things, which we are enamoured with,
thinking them to be without us, being nothing bnt
the vital energies of oUr own spirits. In a word,
God itmild bate matt to be a living temple for
hitttsetf to dwell in, and bis faculties instruments
to be used and employed by him; which need not
be thought impossible, if that be true, which phi­
losophy tells us, that there is tognatio (puedam, a
Certain nUatkindred and alliance between the soul
and God.
Lastly, we must observe, though this inward
victory over sin be no otherwise to be effected
than by the spirit of Christ through faith, and by
a Divine operation in us, so that in a certain sense
we may be said to be passive thereunto; yet not-
38Q SERMON H i t
withstanding we must not dream any sjuch thing,
as ifour active co-operation and concurrence were
not..also necessarily required thereunto. For: a».
there is a spirit of God in nature, which produced*
vegetables and miuerals, which human art and in-,
dustry could never be able to effect; namely, that
spiritvs iutus alens, which the poet speaks of,
which yet notwithstanding doth not work abso-;
lutely, uncopditionately, and omnipotently, but re-
qoiretb certain preparations, conditions, anddispo-
sitions.in the matter, which it works upon; (for un­
less the husbandman plough the ground and sow.
the seed, the spirit of God in nature will not give,
any increase:) in like manner the Scripture tglfe
us, that the Divine Spirit of grace doth not work-
absolute)y,unconditionately,and irresistibly in the
souls of men, but requireth certain preparations,*
conditions, and co-operations in us; forasmuch as,
it may both be quenched, and stirred up or
cited in us. And, indeed, unless we plough up the-
fallo.w-ground of our hearts, and sow to ourselves
in righteousness, (as the prophet speaks) by our.
earnest endeavours; we cannot expect, that the.
Divine Spirit ofgrace will shower down that hea­
venly increase upon us. Wherefore, if we would
attain to a victory over sin by the spirit of Christ,
we must endeavour to fight a good fight, and runs
a good race and to “ enter in at the strait gate,”
that so overcoming we may receive the crown of
life. And thus much shall suffice to have spoken-
at this time.concerning the first particular,,The
victory over sin.
I shall now proceed to speak something briefly,
to .the,two other victories that remain, which ore
attainable a)so by Christ over the law. and death.
THE CHRISXrANfe VICTORY. 3 8 1
; Andthe law may be considered two manner of
ways: first, as an outward covenant of works,:that
pronounceth death,and condemnation to all, that
do not yield absolute and entire obedience to what­
ever is therein commanded; and which imposed
also with the:same severity a multitude ofoutward
ceremonial observations, which had no intrinsical
goodness at all in them, but kept .men in a state
of bondage and servility. Now the law, in this
sense, as it is an outward letter and covenant of
works,, is already: conquered externally for us by
rChrist’sdeath upon the cross;(Gal.iin 13.) Christ
hath,redeemed us.from the corse of the law, being
made a.curse.for. us ;: for it is written, Cursed is
•every one that hangeth on a: tree; that the bless­
ing of lAbraham might come on the gentiles
through Jesus Christ, that we might receive the
promise of the Spirit through faiths” And. he bath
thereby, freed us also from our obligation to those
commandments that were not good,. having
“broken dowothe.middle wall of parti- ^ xx J5
tion, that: was betwixt Jew and gentile, ;
abolishing in'his flesh the enmity, even thelaw:of
commandments, (Eph. ii. 14, 15.)andblottingout
the hand-writing of ordinances, that was against
us, which was contrary to us, and taking it out of
the way, nailing it to his cross.” .Col. ii. 14.
•f,. Secondly, Tbelaw is sometimes also considered
in Scripture as an. inward state of mind,;wrought
by thejaw and truth, of God, whether writtenout­
wardly in the letter of the Scripture, or inwardly
jo the conscience, prevailing only so far as. to be-
get a conviction of men's duty, and of the 'wrath
of God against sin, but not enabling them with in*
Ward'strength and power to do. what is command^
SERMON IX.
ed, willingly, outofa love of it. Itis g n d iad ate
when men are only passive to God’s law, and.un-
willingly subject onto it (as;an.eaemy) for fear Of
wrath and vengeance. And this must needsbea
state of miserable bondage and servility, distrac-
tion and perplexity of mind; when men ■
are at
once strongly convinced of the wrath of God
against sin, and yet under the power of theirloste
hailing and dragging of them to the commission
of it. It is that state (as I conceive) which St.
Paul describes, (Bom. vii.)after this manner: “The
law is spiritual, bat I am carnal, sold under sin:
for that which I do, I allow not; for what I would
that do I not, but what I hate, that do I.” And
again, “ I see another law in my members warring
against my mind, and bringing me into captivity
under the law of sin. O wretched man that.I am!
who shall deliver me from this body of death r”
Now from the law in this sense, that is, from the.
bondage and servility of the legal state, we are
not delivered, nor made conquerors, by what
Christ did outwardly upon the cross, as someima­
gine ; as if he had there purchased for us an indul­
gence to sin without controul; but by the inward
working of his Holy Spirit, freeing us from the
power and bondage of sin, and unbewitching, ns
from the love of it.
Wherefore there is a double freedom from this
legal,state to be taken notice of; a true and a false
freedom; which I cannot better explain, than by
using the apostle’s own similitude in the beginning
of the seventh chapter: “ Know ye not, brethren,
that the law hath dominion over a man as long as
he liveth ? (or rather, as long as it, that is the law,
liveth ?) For the -woman, which hath a husband,
THE CHRISTIAN*S VICTORY. 383
teboundbythe law-toher husband so longasbe
livetb, 'but ifherhusband be dead, sheis loosed
from the low ofthe husband. So then.ifwhile
her husband liveth she be married to-another mai*,
she shair be called an adultress: but if her bus*
band be dead, she is free from that law; so that
she is no adultress, though she be married to ano­
ther man.” Where the law is compared to a hus­
band; and one, that is under the law, or ina legal
state, to a:woman, that hatha hUsband. Aad <as
there are two ways, by which a woman may be
freed-frotn- her husband ;: the one, if-she break
loose from him whilst he yetihveth, oontraryito
the laws of-wedlock, andmarpy to another man;
which is an undue and onlawfulrfreedomyforthen
Sheis justly styled an >adnltress: another,:if•she
stay till her husband be dead, and then, being free
front the law of her. husband, does lawfully marry
to -another man: in like manner there iarertwo
ways, by which men may be freed from the law,
as >it is an'iinward State of bondageand servility.
The firtft’is, when men do illegallyand unlawfully
break- loose from the law, whieh istheir-husband,
whilst he is yet alive, and ought to hare dominion
over 4hem* atKd merry themselves to another bus*
band; which husband’s name is carnal liberty, «r
licentiousness, too often miscalled in these .latter
times by >the name of Christian liberty: andsuch
as these ahay well be styled, in -the Scripture-lan*
gaage, adulterers and advdtsesses. But there is
another freedom from the law,which is a due and
just freedom,’when1
we do not make ourselvesfree
before the rime, violently breaking loose from it;
but when we stay till the law, which is our hus­
band, is-dead, and 'the compnlsory -powerndf it
SERMON II.
384
taken away by the mortification of our lasts and
affections, and so marry another husband, which
is Christ, or the Spirit of righteousness, (Rom.
viii. 2.) “ The law of the spirit oflife in Christ Je-
sus hath made me free from the law of sin and
death.”
Wherefore there are three general states of mren,
in order to God and religion, that may be here
taken notice of. The first is of those, that are
alive to sin, and dead'to the law. This the apo­
stle speaks of, (Rom. vii. 9.) “ I was alive with*
out'the law once.” These are those, whose con­
sciences are not yet considerably awakened to any
sense of their duty, nor to the discrimination of
good and evil, but sin freely, without any check
or control, without any disquieting remorse of
conscience.
The second is, when men are at once alive both
to the law and sin, to the conviction of the one,
and the power and love of the other; both these
struggling together within the bowels of the soul,
checking and controlling one another. This is a
broken, confounded and shattered state; and
these, in the apostle’s language, are said to be
slain by the law. “ I was alive without the law-
once; but when the commandment came, sin re­
vived, and I died. And the commandment, which
was ordained to life, I found to be unto death.
For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, de­
ceived me, and by it slew me.” Here is no peace,
rest nor comfort to be had in this state, men’
s souls
being distracted and divided by an intestine and;
civil war between the law of the mind and the law
of the members conflicting With one another.
Wherefore the third state is, when men are
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v ic to r y . 3 8 5
dead both to the law and sin, and “ alive unto God
and righteousness; the law of the Spirit oflife free­
ing them from the law of sin and death.” In the
firstof these three states, which is the most wretch­
ed and deplorable ofall, we are sin’s freemen, that
is, free to commit sin without check or control.
In the second, we are bondmen to God and right­
eousness, and serve God out of a principle of fear,
and according to an outward rule only; children
of Hagar the bondmaid, and of the letter. In
the third, we are God’s freemen and sons, and'
serve him in the newness of the spirit, out of a
love to God and righteousness; children of the
New Testament, and of Sarah the free-woman.
Wherefore here are two mistakes or errors to be
taken notice of, that defeat and disappoint’the de­
sign of Christ in giving us the victory over thelaw.
The first is of those, that we have already men­
tioned, that seek to themselves a freedom from the
bondage of the law otherwise than by Christ and
the Spirit of righteousness ; namely, in a way of
carnal liberty and licentiouiBness; whereby, in­
stead of being bondmen to God and righteousness;
they become perfect freemen to sin and wicked­
ness, which is the most deplorable thraldom in
the world. Wherefore these men, instead of go­
ing forward from the second state unto higher per­
fection, wheel back again unto the first; just as if
the children of Israel, after they had been brought
out of Egypt, and travelled a while in the desert
of Arabia, where the law was given, instead ofen­
tering intoCanaan, should have wheeled back into
Egypt, and then, enjoying the garlic and onions,
and flesh-pots thereof, should persuade them­
selves this was, indeed, the true “ land ofpromise,
VOL. iv. 2 c
380 SERMON H. -
that floweth with milk and honey.” And there is
very great danger, lest when men have been tired
out by wandering a long time in the dry and bar­
ren wilderness of the law, where they canpot en­
joy the pleasure of sin as formerly, and yet have
not arrived to the relish and love of righteous­
ness, by reason of their impatience, they should
at last make more haste than good speed, being
seduced by some false shows of freedom, that are
very tempting to such weary travellers, and pro­
mise much comfort and refreshment to them, in­
viting them to sit down under their shadow; such
as are a self-chosen holiness, eeremonial righte­
ousness, opinionative zeal, the tree of knowledge
mistaken for the tree of life, high-flown enthu­
siasm and seraphicism, epicurizing philosophy, an-
tinomian liberty, under the pretence of free grace
and a gospel spirit.
The second mistake, that is here to be heeded,
is, of those, that would by all means persuade
themselves, that there is no higher state of Christ­
ian perfection to be aimed at, or hoped for, in this
life, than this legal state; That the good they
would do, they do not: the evil they would not
do, that they do; that the law of sin in their mem­
bers still leads them captive from the law of their
minds: having no other ground at all for this, but a
novel interpretation of one paragraph in the Epis­
tle to the Romans, contrary to other express
places of Scripture, and the sense of all ancient
interpreters; and yet with so much zeal, as if it
were a principal part of the gospel-faith to believe
this (which is indeed arrant infidelity), as if it
were no less than presumption or impiety to ex­
pect a living law written upon our hearts. Rut
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v ic to r y . 387
this is nothing else, but, instead of seeking liberty
out of the bondage of the law, to fall in love with
our bonds and fetters, and plainly to deny the
victory over the law by Christ, and to affirm, that
the gospel is but the ministration of a dead and
killing letter, and not of the Spirit that quickeneth
and maketh alive.
I come now, in the third and last place, to the
victory over death, expressed by the resurrection
of the body to life and immortality; which, as it
was meritoriously procured for us by Christ’s
dying upon the cross (bis resurrection afterward
being an assured pledge of the same to us), so it
will be really effected at last by the same Spirit of
Christ that gives us victory over sin here. Rom.viii.
11. “ If the Spirit ofhim, that raised upJesus dwell
in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead,shall
also quicken your mortal bodies by bis Spirit;
that dwelleth in y o u a s if he should have said,
If the Spirit of Christ dwell in you, regenerating
and renewing your souls, the very same Spirit
hereafter shall also immortalize your very bodies.
Avieen, the Mahometan philosopher, in his Ah»
mahad, hath a conceit, that the meaning of the
resurrection of the body is nothing else but this,
to persuade vulgar people, that though they seem
to perish, when they die, and their bodies rot in
the grave; yet, notwithstanding, they shall have
a real subsistence after death, by which they shall
be made capable, either of future happiness or
misery. But because the apprehensions of the
vulgar are so gross, that the permanency and im­
mortality of the soul is too subtile a notion for
them, who commonly count their bodiesfor them*
selves, and cannot conceive, how they should
2 c 2
388 SERMON II.
hate any being after death, unless their very bo­
dies should be raised up again; therefore, by way
of condescension to vulgar understandings, the
future permanency and subsistence of the soul, in
prophetical writiugs, is expressed under this
scheme of the resurrection of the body, which yet
is meant Kara $6%
av only, and not tear aXn&iav.
Which conceit, how well soever it may befit a Ma­
hometan philosopher, I am sure it no way agrees
with the principles of Christianity; the Scripture
here and elsewhere assuring us, that the resurrec­
tion of the body is to be understood plainly, and
without a figure; and that the saints, departed
this life in the faith and fear of Christ, shall not be
mere souls without bodies to all eternity, as Avi-
cen, Maimonides, and other philosophers dream­
ed, but consist of soul and body united together.
Which bodies, though, as the doctrine of the
church instructeth us, they shall be both specifi­
cally and numerically the same with what they
were here; yet, notwithstanding, the Scripture
tells us, they shall be so changed and altered, in
respect of their qualities add conditions, that in
that sense they shall not be the same. Ver. 36,
37. “ Thou fool, that, which thou sowest, is
not quickened, except it die: thou sowest not
that body, that shall be, but bare grain, it may
chance of wheat, or of some other grain; but God
giveth it a body, as it pleaseth him, and to every
seed his own body.” The apostle here imitating
the manner of the Jews, who (as appeareth from
•smG
em
eim
, the #Talmud)were wont familiarly to il*
iachetobotb, lostrate the business ofthe “ resurrection
imd,aam. of the body” by the similitude of seed
5
0
1 sown into the ground, and springing up
t h e c h b is t ia n ’s v ic to r y . 689
again. Accordingly he goes on, “ It is sown in
corruption, it is raised in incorruption; sown in
dishonour, it is raised in glory; sown in weak­
ness, it is raised in power; sown a natural body,
raised a spiritual body.” Which epithet was used
also in this case, both by the philosophers and the
Jews; for Hierocles upon the Golden Verses calls
them oyjtftaro irviv/taruca, vehicula spiritualia, spiri­
tual bodies;—and R. Menachem, from the ancient
cabalists, Jtwa^nn JTOTm. the spiritual clothing.—
Lastly, the apostle concludes, thus; “ Now this I
say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit
the kingdom of God, neither doth corruption in­
herit incorruption.” For which cause be tells us
elsewhere, that they, whfch do not die, must ofne­
cessity be changed. And, indeed, if men should
be restored after death to such gross, foul, and
cadaverous bodies, as these are here upon earth,
which is the very region of death and mortality,
without any change at all; what would this be
else, but, as Plotinus the philosopher against the
Gnostics writes, iytlpeaOat u
q aXXov vvvov, to be
raised up to a second sleep,—or to be entombed
again in living sepulchres? “ For the corruptible
body presseth down the soul, and the earthly
tabernacle weigheth down the mind, that museth
upon many things.” Wisdom ix. 15. Wherefore
we must needs explode that old Jewish conceit,
commonly entertained amongst the rabbinical wri­
ters to this day, that the future resurrection is to be
understood of such gross and corruptible bodies,
as these are here upon earth, to eat, drink, marry,
and be given in marriage, and (which must needs
follow) afterward to die again. Nachmaoides, in
his Sbaar Haggemu), is the only Jewish author
300 SEBMON II.
that ventures to depart from the common road
here, and to abandon this popular error o f tbn
Jews, endeavouring to prove, that the bodies of
the just, after the resurrection, shall not eat and
•i» if ■ drink, but be glorified bodies: b u t*
la*A
todi, Abravanel confutes him with no other
argument than this; That this was the
doctrine and opinion of the Christiana.
v n Z trT L e t us therefore now consider, bow
«...abundantly God hath provided for us
by Jesns Christ, both iu respect of our
mmtbdi souls, and of oar bodies; oar souls, in
■MR^orb^’freeing us by the Spirit of Christ (if we
rn^wdle' b® D°t wanting to onrselves) from the
8lavery °f am, and bondage of the law,
intboM
bo4iM
,as it is a letter only; our bodies, iu that
this corruptible 6hall put on incorrupt
ti°n> a°d this mortal immortality, and
pejibrifcd that these vile bodies shall be made like
to Christ’s glorious body. In both which
the complete salvation of man consisteth, the per*
fection and happiness both of soul and body.
For, though our salvation consists chiefly in the
former, in the victory over sin, and in the renova*
tion of the mind, yet without the latter, which
is the victory over death, and the immortalizing
of our bodies, it would be a very lame and im*
perfect thing. For righteousness alone, if it
should malekabitare, dwell always in such incon­
venient houses, as these earthly tabernacles arey
however the high-flown Stoic may brag, it could
not render our condition otherwise, than trouble­
some, solicitous, and calamitous. Wherefore the
holy men in Scripture, not without cause, longed
for this future change. Rom. viii. 23. “ We
THE CHRISTIAN’S VICTORY. 391
groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption,
to wit, the redemption of our bodies.” 2 Cor. v. 2.
“ In this we groan earnestly, desiring to be clothed
upon with bur house, which is from heaven.” But
there is no Obtaining of this future victory over
death and mortality, except we first get a victory
over sin here. For this is that crown of life, that
Christ, the first-begotten from the dead, will set
upon the heads of none, but those, that have
here fought a good fight, and overcome. For
as death proceeds only from sin and disobedience,
so the way to conquer death, and to arrive at
life and immortality, is by seeking after an inward
conquest over sin. For “ righteousness is itnmor-
tal,” Wisd. i. 15. and will immortalize the enter­
tainers of it; and, as the Chaldee oracle speaks,
----- ■
■--------- IxTiivoc mtpaw vouv,
*Efyw fat*tvn0tia{ ftvarw, xa\ oftfxct o-avrus.
Having hitherto shewed, what are the great things
we hope for by Christ, and are to endeavour
after, namely, to procure an inward and real
victory over sin by the Spirit of Christ, that so
we may hereafter attain a victory over death and
mortality; we cannot but take notice briefly pf
some errors of those, that, either pretending the
impossibility of this inward victory over sin, or
else hypocritically declining the combat, make' up:
a certain religion to themselves out ofother things,
which are either impertinent, and nothing to the
purpose, or else evil and noxious.
For, first, some (as was intimated before) make
to themselves a mere fantastical and imaginary
religion, conceiting that there is nothing at all for
them to do, but confidently to believe, that all is
392 . SERMON II.
already done for them; that they are dearly be­
loved of God, without any conditions or qualifi­
cations to make them lovely. But such a faith
as this is nothing but mere fancy and carnal
imagination, proceeding from that natural self-
love, whereby men fondly dote upon themselves,
and are apt to think that God loves them as fondly
and as partially as they love themselves, tying
his affection to their particular outward persons,
their very flesh and blood; hereby making God
a being like unto themselves, that is, wholly
acted by arbitrary self-will, fondness, and par­
tiality ; and perverting the whole nature and de­
sign ofreligion, which is not mere phantastry and
an historical show, but a real victory over the real
evil of sin, without which God can neither take
pleasure in any man’s person, nor can there be a
possibility of being happy, a real turning of the
soul from darkness unto light, from the power of
Satan unto God.
Again, some there are, that, instead of walking
in the narrow way, that Christ commendetb to us,
of subduing and mortifying our sinful lusts, make
to themselves certain other narrow ways of af­
fected singularity in things, that belong not to
life and godliness, outward strictnesses and se­
verities of their own choosing and devising; and
then persuade themselves, that this is the strait
gate and narrow way of Christ, that leadeth unto
life. Whereas these are, indeed, nothing else but
some particular paths and narrow slices cut out
of the broad way. For though they have an out­
ward and seeming narrowness, yet they are so
broad within, that camels with their burdens may
easily pass through them. These, iustead of
t h e Ch r is t ia n 's v ic to r y . SOS'
taking up Christ’s cross upon them, make to
themselves certain crosses of their own, and then
laying them upon their shoulders and carrying
them, please themselves with a conceit, that they
bear the cross of Christ; whereas in truth and
reality they are many times too much strangers
to that cross of his, by which the world should
be crucified to them, and they unto the world.
Some place all their religion in endless scrupu­
losities about indifferent things, neglecting in the
mean time the rd fiapvrepa rov vofiov, the more
weighty things—both of law and gospel, and
(as our Saviour farther expresseth it) 8m\%ovrec
rov KWHtnra, rqv 8e KvifiiiXov Karairivovrtc, straining at a
gnat, and swallowing a camel;—that is, being
not so scrupulous as they ought to be about the
substantial of religion and a good life. For as
we ought not to place the chief Of our religion in
the mere observation of outward rites and cere­
monies, whilst in the mean time we hypocritically
neglect the jnorals and substantials; which may:
deservedly be branded with the name of super­
stition: so we ought to know, that it is equal su­
perstition to have such an abhorrence of indif­
ferent things, as to make it the main of our reli­
gion to abstain from them; both of these arguing
equal ignorance of the nature of God, as if he
were some morose, humorous, and captious:
being; and of that righteousness, which the
kingdom of God consisteth in, as if these out­
ward and indifferent things could either hallow or
defile our souls, or as if salvation and damnation
did depend upon the mere using or not using of
them. The apostle himself instructeth us, that
the.kingdom of God consisteth no more in atcpo-
39* SERMON II.
ptirrlti than in vtpiTopnl, no more in nncircumcision'
than in circumcision;—that is, no more in not
using outward ceremonies and indifferent things
than in rising of them. Wherefore the negative
superstition is equal to the positive, and both o f
them alike call off men’s attention'from the main
things of religion, by engaging them over-much
in small and little things. But the sober Christ-
inn* that neither places all his religion in external
observances, nor yet is tuperstitioosly anti-cere-
mOtfial, as he will think himself obliged to have
a due regard to the commands of lawful authority
in adiaphorous things, and to prefer the peaee
and unity of the Christian church, and the obser­
vation of the royal law of charity, before the sa­
tisfaction of any private hutnonr or interest; so he
will be aware of that d/urpUt rijc avfloXicrjc, which
many run into, of banishing away all the solem­
nity of external worship, the observation of dm
Lord’s day, and of the Christian sacraments, un­
der the notion of ceremonies, quite.ont of the
world. To conclude; unless there be a due and-
timely regard had to the commands of lawful au­
thority in indifferent things, and to order, peace,
and unity in the church, it may easily be fore­
seen,that the reformed part of Christendom will at
length be brought to confusion, by crumbling into
infinite sects and division, and then to utter ruin.
Again, many mistake the vices of their natural
complexion for supernatural and Divine graces.
Some think dull and stupid melancholy to be
Christian mortification : others, that turbulent
and fiery zeal is the vigour of the Spirit. Whereas--
zeal is one of those things, that Aristotle calls r«
fitmt, of a middle nature,—neither good nor bad
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v icto ry . 3 9 5
in itself, but which, as it is circumstantiated, may
indifferently become either virtue or vice. For
there is a rnKpogfrjXoc, as the apostle calls it, a bit­
ter zeal,—which is contrary to all Christian love
and charity, and is nothing else but the vices of
acerbity, envy, malice, cruelty, tinctured and.
gilded over with a religious show. And there may
be also a turbulent and factious zeal, when men,
under a pretence of acting for the glory of God,
violate just and lawful authority, in order to the
advancement oftheir own private self-interest. In­
deed, there was amongst the Jews a certain right,
called'/us zelotarum, orthe right ofzealots—where­
by private persons, acted by a zeal for God, might
do immediate execution upon some malefactors,
without expecting the sentence of any court of
judicature. And some conceive, that our Sa­
viour, by this right of zealots, did whip the buyers
and sellers out of the temple, and overturn the ta­
bles ofthe money-changers; because be was never
questioned by the Jews for it. But this was
then a legal and regular thing, permitted by the
public laws of that nation in some certain cases,
yet so as that those zealots were afterward ac­
countable to the. Sanhedrin for what they did.
However, a little before the destruction of the
temple, as Josephus tells us, there were a crew of
desperate miscreants, that, abusing this right, and
calling themselves by the name of Kennain, i. e.
zealots, made a pretence from hence to commit
most villanous actions. And I wish some bad
not too much entertained this opinion, that pri­
vate persons might reform public abuses, whether
belonging to the ecclesiastical or the civil polity,
without and against the consent of the supreme
3 9 6 SERMON II.
magistrate, in a turbulent manner,jure zelatorum,
by the right of zealots;—nay, and that actions,
that are otherwise altogether unwarrantable in
themselves, may notwithstanding be justified by
zeal for God and good ends. But God needs no
man’s zeal to promote an imaginary interest of his
in the world, by doing onjust things for him*
“ Will you speak wickedly for God, or talk de­
ceitfully for him ? will you accept his person ?”
was the generous expostulation of Job with his
friends; and he tells them in the following words,
that this was nothing else, but to mock God as
one man mocketh another.
The Divine zeal is no corybantic furry, but a
calm and regular heat, guided and managed by
light and prudence, and carried out principally
neither for nor against indifferent rites and unne­
cessary opinions, but those things that are immut­
ably good and fundamental to Christianity; al­
ways acknowledging a due subordination to that
authority, civil and ecclesiastical, that is over us.
Lastly, some there are, whose pretence to reli­
gion and the Spirit is founded in nothing else but
a faculty of rhetoricating and extemporizing with
zeal and fervency, which they take to be nothing
less than Divine inspiration, and that which the
Scripture calls “ praying in the Holy Ghost,” an
undoubted character of a person truly regenerated.
Which being a great delusion, whereby many are
hindered from seeking after the real effects 'of the
Divine Spirit, by idolizing, instead thereof, that
which is merely natural (if not artificial); I think
it not impertinent here to speak a little of it. And
certainly that, which is frequently attained to in
the very height by persons grossly hypocritical
t h e Ch r is t ia n 's v ic to r y . 397
and debauched, can never be concluded to be Di­
vine inspiration, or to proceed from any higher
principle than mere natural enthusiasm. For there
is not only a poetical enthusiasm, of which Plato
discourseth in his Ion, but, though oratory be a
more sober thing, a rhetorical enthusiasm also,
that makes men very eloquent, affectionate, and
bewitching in their language, beyond what the
power of any bare art and precepts could enable
them unto ; insomuch that both these, poets and
orators, have oftentimes conceited themselves to
be indeed divinely inspired : as those known
verses testify:
E a t Deus in nobis, agitante caiescimus illo;
And,
Sedibusaethereis Spirilns ille venit.
And, concerning orators, the like might be
proved, if the time would here permit, by sundry
testimonies : but I shall here instance only in
Aristides, a famous orator, who not only speaks
positively of himself, as inspired in his orations,
but affirms the same also concerning rhetoric
in general, when it is extraordinary, that it comes
by immediate inspiration as oracles and prophe­
cies do, and not from art or nature. Wherefore it
is not at all to be wondered at, if, when men are
employed in religious and devotional exercises,
the same natural enthusiasm, especially having the
advantage of religious melancholy, which makes
men still more entbusiastical, should so wing and
inspire, the fancies of these religious orators, as to
make them wonderfully fluent, eloquent, and rap­
turous, so that they beget strange passions in their
I
398 SERMON II.
auditors, and conclude themselves to be divinely
inspired. Whereas, notwithstanding, they may
have no more of Divine inspiration in all this than
those poets and orators beforementioned had;
that is to say, be no otherwise inspired, than by
a rhetorical or hypochondriacal enthusiasm, that
is merely natural. But it is far from my intention
here to disparage the sincere and ardent affections
of devout souls, naturally and freely breathing
out their earnest desires unto God in private; al­
though perhaps this be not without some kind of
enthusiasm also. For enthusiasm, as well as zeal,
and other natural things, may be well used, and,
being rightly circumstantiated and subservient to
a better principle, become irreprehensible. Some
have observed, that no great work of the brain,
that begot much admiration in the world, was
ever achieved without some kind of enthusiasm;
and the same may be affirmed of the most tran-
scendently virtuous and heroical actions. But
then the goodness of these actions is never to be
estimated merely by the degree of enthusiastic
heat and ardour that is in them, but by such other
laws and circumstances, as moralize human ac­
tions. Wherefore, my meaning, as 1 said before,
is only this, to caution against that vulgar and po­
pular error of mistaking the natural and enthosi-
astical fervour of men’s spirits, and the ebulliency
of their fancy, when it is tinctured with religion,
and idolizing of it instead of the supernatural
grace of God’s Holy Spirit; and oflooking for the
effect of God’s Spirit principally in words and
talk, or thinking, that God is chiefly glorified with
a loud noise, and long speeches. For the true
demonstration pf God’s Holy Spirit is no where
t h e Ch r is t ia n ’s v ic t o r y . 399
to be looked for but in life and action, or such
earnest and affectionate breathings after a further
participation of the Divine image, as are accom­
panied with real and unfeigned endeavours after
the same; which is the true praying in the Holy
Ghost, though there be no extemporaneous effu­
sion of words. And, therefore, when some Co­
rinthians were puffed up, by reason of a faculty
which they had of rhetoricating religiously, St.
Paul, like an apostle, tells them, that he would
come amongst them and *
f know, not „„ .
« » /• i i /« ■» 1 Cor. iv. 19.
the speech of them that were puffed up,
but the power. For the kingdom of God (saith he)
consisteth not in word, but in power and life.”
Wherefore,laying aside these and such-like child­
ish mistakes, and things that are little to the pur­
pose, let us seriously apply ourselves to the main
work of our religion; that is, to mortify and van­
quish our sinful lusts by the assistance of God’s
Holy Spirit through faith in Christ; that so be­
ing dead to sin here, we may live with God eter­
nally hereafter.
THE
CONTENTS.
VOL. I.
CHAP. I.
Containing an account of the atomic physiology, as made the
foundatioh of the atheistic fate, or the material necessity of
all things.
i. T h r e e fatalisms (or the necessity of all human actions and
events maintained upon three several grounds); which are so
many false hypotheses of the intellectual system of the uni­
verse , • . . . .................................................... page 71.
i i . Concerning the mathematical or astrological fate • 73
in . Of the opinion of those who supposed a fate superior to
the highest Deity • 75
iv. The moderation of the intended discourse concerning It?
berty and n e c e s s ity .................................................................... 77
v. The atheistical hypothesis, or Democritic fate, as founded
upon the atomic physiology; which therefore briefly described 80
yi. The antiquity of this atomic physiology, with the account
given thereof, by Aristotle • • • . • . . . .. 82
vii. A clear and full record of the same physiology in Plato,
not commonly taken notice of • 85
y in . That neither Protagoras, nor Democritus, nor Leucip­
pus, nor any Atheist, was the first inventor or founder of this
atpmic physiology : and the necessity of being thoroughly ac­
quainted therewith, in order to the confutation of the modern
A th e is m ............................................. 89
ix . The tradition of Posidonius the Stoic, that Moschus an
ancient Phoenician, before the Trojan war, was the first inventor
of this ajlomical physiology, briefly suggested • • • 90.
x. That this Moschus, the inventor of the atomical physio­
logy, was probably the same with Moschus, the physiologer in
VOL. iv. 2 d
402 CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
Jamblicbus; with whose successors, priests, and prophets, Py­
thagoras conversed at Sidon • • • • • • • . 90
x i. Other probabilities for this, that Pythagoras was ac­
quainted with the atomic p h y s io lo g y ....................................92
x ii. That Pythagoras's monads were sometimes taken for
corporeal atoms; from Ecphantus in Stobaeus and Aristotle 93
xixi. Proved clearly, that Empedocles, who was a Pythago­
rean, physiologized atom ically..................................................ib.
xiv. The same further evinced, from Plato, Aristotle, and
P lu ta r c h ................................ 95
xv. That Anaxagoras (senior to Democritus) was a spurious
or bungling Atomist, and an unskilful imitator of that physio­
logy before in u s e ................................ 98
x v i. That Ecphantus the Pythagorean, Xenocrates, Diodorus,
and Metrodorus Chius, were all ancient assertors of the atomic
physiology; together with Aristotle's testimony, that the gene­
rality of former physiologers went that way • • • • Ib.
x v ii. How Aristotle is to be reconciled with himself, and the
credit of other writers to be salved, when they impute this phi­
losophy to Leucippus and Democritus; that these were the first
atheizers thereof, and consequently the founders of that philoso­
phy which is atheistically a t o m i c a l .......................... ‘• 100
x v iri. That the Atomists before Democritus were assertors of
a Deity and-substance incorporeal...................................... *101
xix. A confutation of those NeOterics, who deny incorporeal
substance to have been asserted by any of the ancients. The
antiquity Of that doctrine proved from Plato, who also profess­
edly maintained it • • • 102
x x . Aristotle likewise an assertor of incorporeal sub­
stance ....................................................................................... 105
x x i. That *Epicuriis confuteth this opinion, as that which
had been before maintained by Plato and other ancients • 106
x x ii. That all those *philosophers, who before Plato held
the immortality of the soul, and a Deity distinct from the
world, were undoubtedly Incorporealists; as particularly Pytha­
goras, who also maintained a Trinity of Divine hypostases 107
x x m . Parmenides a strenuous assertor of incorporeal sub­
stance, together with thbse who held that all things did not
flow, but some things stand • • • • • • * • HO
x x iv . Empedocles vindicated from being either an Atheist
or a Corporealist, at l a r g e ....................................................I l l
xxv. Anaxagoras an open and professed assertor of an incor­
poreal mind • ....................................... 118
403
CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
" XXVI. Inferred from all this, that the ancient Atomists, be­
fore Democritus, were both Theists and Incorporealists: and
this further c o n firm e d ............................................. 119
x x v ii. That there is not only no inconsistency betwixt Ato-
mology and Theology, but also a natural cognation, proved from
the origin of the atomical physiology, which proceeded in general
from the victory and triumph .of reason over sense • • 120
x x v iii. A more particular account of the origin of this atomi"
cal philosophy, from that one principle of reason, that in nature
nothing comes from nothing, nor goes to nothing.” And that
the ancient Atomology was built upon this foundation proved at
large • • • ....................................................................... 125
x x ix . That this self-same principle, which made the ancient
Atomists discard qualities and substantial forms, made them also
assert incorporeal substance • • • • • • * • 136
xxx. And with it immortality of s o u l s ........................ 140
xxxi. That the doctrine of pre-existence and transmigration
of souls had also the same original ■ * • • • • • 141
xxXii. This not confined by those ancients to human souls
only, but extended to all souls and lives whatsoever • * 1 4 4
xxxiii. All this proved from Empedocles, who plainly as­
serted the pre-existence, as well as the post-existence, of all
souls, from this fundamental principle, that “ nothing can come
from nothing, nor go to nothing” ................................ ...... 145
xxxiv. A censure of this doctrine, that from this ground may
be solidly proved the future immortality of human souls, but
not their pre-existence; because all souls must be created by
God, some time pr other ....................................................150
xxxv. An hypothesis to solve the incorporeity of the souls of
brutes, without their post-existence, and successive transmigra­
tion . • • • • . . . . . . . . . *-152
XXXVI. And that this will not prejudice the immortality of
human souls • ....................................... 154
xxxvii. But that the Empedoclean hypothesis is indeed, of
the two, more rational, than the opinion of those who make the
souls of brutes all corporeal . ................................. 155
xxxvin. Moreover, that the constitution of the atomical phy­
siology is such in itself, as that whosoever entertains it, tho­
roughly understanding the same, must needs hold incorporeal
substance in five particulars • • . . . . • • 157
xxxix. Two great advantages of the atomical or me­
chanical physiology; the first whereof is this^ that it renders
2 d 2
404 CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
the, corporeal world intelligible, whichf no other philosophy
doth . • ......................................................................... 1 0 9
xl. The second advantage of it, that it prepares an easy and
clear way for the demonstration of incorporeal substance 161
x li. Concluded from all these premises, that the ancient
Moschicat philosophy was integrated and made up of these two
parts, atomical physiology, and theology or pneumatology 163
' x l ii. But that this entire philosophy was afterwards mangled
and dismembered, some taking one part thereof alone, and some
the other .................................................................................165
XLiii. That Leucippus and Democritus, being atheistically in­
clined, took the atomical physiology alone, endeavouring to
atheize the same, and so begat a mongrel and spurious philoso­
phy, atheistically atomical, or atomically atheistical: and their
unsuccessfulness herein ..................................................... ih.
xliv. That Plato took the theology or pneumatology of the
ancients alone, rejecting their atomical physiology; and upon
what prejudices hedid so • 168
xlv. That Aristotle followed Plato herein. A commendation
of.his philosophy (together with an impartial censure), and a.
deserved preference thereof before the Democritic and Epiqu-
reah ..............................................................................................16ft*
CHAP. 1L
Wherein are contained all the pretended grounds of reason, fo r
the atheistic hypothesis.
i. T hat the Democritic philosophy, made up of Corporealism
and Atomism complicated together, is essentially atheistical 177
i i . Though Epicurus, who was an atomical Corporealist, pre­
tended to assert a democracy of gods, yet was he for all that an
absolute Atheist. And that Atheists commonly equivocate and
disguise them selves.......................... • 179
n r. That the Democritic philosophy, which makes senseless
atoms not only the first principles, of bodies (as the ancient
Atomology did) but also all things whatsoever in the universe,
and therefore of soul and mind, is nothing else but a system of
Atheology, or Atheism swaggering under a pretence to wisdom
and philosophy. And though there be another opposite form
of Atheism, which we calLStratonical, yet isthe Democritic Athe­
ism chiefly considerable; all the dark mysteries whereof will be
hejre revealed 5 • • * * . . . . . . .
CfckTBNTS TO VOL. i. 465
iv. That we being to treat concerning the Deity, and to bring
all those profane and unhallowed mysteries ofAtheism into light*
in order to a confutation, of them, the Divine assistance and direc­
tion ought to be implored, as it commonly was by Pagans them­
selves in such c a s e s . .......................... ... • • • • • .184
v. That we are both Jo discover the Atheists* pretended
grounds of reason against the Deity, and their attempts to solve
all the phenomena without a God. The first of their grounds,
that no than can have an idea or conception of God, and there,
fore he is but an incomprehensible nothing • • • \ 195
vi. A second atheistic argumeutation, that there can be no
creation out of nothing, nor omnipotence, because nothing can
come from nothing ; and therefore whatsoever substantially is,
was from all eternity, of itself, uncreated by any deity • 187
v n . A third pretended ground of reason against, a Deity; that
the strictest notion of a God implying him to he incorporeal,
there can be no such incorporeal jDeity, there being no other
substance besides body. Because whatsoever.is, is extended.;
and whatsoever is extended, is either empty space, or body 190
Vnt. The Atheists’pretence, that the doctrine of incorporeal
substance sprung from a ridiculous mistake of abstract namep
and notions fof realities. Their impudence in making the Deity
but the chief of spectres, an Oberon or prince of fairies and
fancies. This the fourth atheistic argument, that to suppose
an incorporeal iriihd to be the original of all things, is nothing
else, but to make the abstract notion of a mere accident to be
the first cause . . . . . . . . . . . . 192
lx. A fifth pretended ground of Atheism, that an incorporeal
Deity being already cdnfuted, a corporeal one may be disprove^
also, from the principles of Corporealism in general; because
matter being the only substance, and all other differences of
things nothing but the accidents thereof, generate and corrupti­
ble ; no jiving understanding being can be essentially incojr7
ruptible. The stoical god incorruptible only by accident 19,
x. Their further attempt to do the same atomically, that the
first principle of all things whatsoever in the universe being
atoms, or corpuscula devoid of all manner of qualities, and con­
sequently of sense and understanding (which sprung up after­
wards, from a certain composition or contexture of them) mind
or Deity could not therefore be the first original of all < 199
xi. A farther atheistic attempt to impugn a JDeity, by disprov­
ing the world’s animation, or its being governed by a liying, unT
ddrstaiiding, animalish nature, presiding over the whole; be-
406 CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
cause, forsooth, sense and understanding are peculiar appen­
dices to flesh, blood, and brains; and reason is no where to be
found but in human f o r m ....................................................204
xii. An atheistic instance, that God being taken by all for a
most happy, eternal, and immortal animal (or living being), there
can be no such thing; because all living beings are concretions
of atoms, that were at first generated, and are liable to death
and corruption, by the dissolution of their compages; life be­
ing no simple primitive nature, hut an accidental modification of
compounded bodies only, which, upon the disunion of their parts,
or disturbance of their contexture, vanisheth into nothing 206
xm . A ninth pretended atheistic demonstration, that by God
is meant a first cause or mover, and such as was not before
moved by any thing else without i t ; but nothing can move it­
self, and therefore there can be no unmoved mover, nor any
first in the order of causes, that is, a god • • • 208
xiv. Their farther improvement of the same principle, that
there can he no action whatsoever without some external cause;
or that nothing taketh beginning from itself, but from the action
of some other agent without it: so that no cogitation can arise
of itself without a cause; all action and cogitation being really
nothing but local motion: from whence it follows, that no think­
ing being could be a first cause, any more than a machine, or
automaton ............................................................................ 210
xv. Another grand mystery of Atheism, that all knowledge
and mental conception is the information of the things them­
selves known, existing without the knower, and a mere passion
from them ; and therefore the world must needs have been be­
fore any knowledge, or conception of it, but no knowledge or
conception before the world as itsc a u se .................................211
xvi. A twelfth atheistic argumentation, that things could not
be made by a God, because they are so faulty and ill-made.
That they were not contrived for die good of man, and that the
deluge of evils, which overflows all, shews them not to have pro­
ceeded from any D e i t y ................................................... 212
x v n . A thirteenth instance of Atheists, from the defect of
Providence, that in human affairs all is tohu and bohu, chaos and
c o n fu s io n ..................................................................................214
x v u i. A fourteenthatheisticobjection, that it is impos­
sible for any one being to animadvert and order all things in the
distant places of the whole world at once; but if it were possi­
ble, that such infinite negociosity would be absolutely inconsist­
ent with h a p p in e s s .............................................. 217
CONTENTS TO VOL. I. 407
x ix . Queries of Atheists, why the world was not made soon­
er? and, what God did before? why it was made at all, since
it was so long unmade ? and how the architect of the world
could rear up so huge a fabric ? .......................................218
xx. The Atheists’ pretence, that is the great interest of man­
kind there should be no G od; and that it was a noble and he-
roical exploit of the Democritics, to chase away that affrightful
spectre out of the world, and to free men from the continual
fear of a Deity, and punishment after death, embittering all the
pleasures of life • .......................................................... 221
xxi. The last atheistic pretence, that Theism is also incon­
sistent with civil sovereignty, it introducing a fear greater than
the fear of the leviathan: and that any other conscience, be­
sides the civil law (bring private judgment) is ipso facto a dis.
solution of the body politic, and a revolt to the state of na­
ture .......................................................................................... 224
xxii. The Atheists* conclusion from all the former premises
(as it is set down in Plato and Lucretius), that all things sprung
originally from nature and chance, without any mind or God, .or
proceeded from the necessity of material motions undirected
for ends. And that infinite atoms, devoid of all life and sense,
moving in infinite space from eternity, did* by* their fortuitous
rencounters and entanglements produce the system of this whole
universe, and as well all animate as inanimate things • 225
CHAP. III.
A n introduction to the confutation o f the atheistic grounds;
wherein is contained a particular account of alt the several
forms of Atheism; together with a necessarydigression concerti-
ing a plastic or artificial nature.
i. T h a t the grounds of the hylozoic Atheism oould not be
insisted on by us in the former chapter, together with those o f
the atomic, they being directly opposite each to other; with- a
farther account of this hylozoic Atheism • . 983
it. A suggestion in way of caution, for the preventing of all
mistakes, that every Hylozoist must not therefore be presently
condemned as an Atheist, or but a mere counterfeit histrionical
T h e i s t ....................................... 984
in . That nevertheless such Hylozoists as are also Corporeal-
ists, or acknowledge no other substance besides body, can by
408 CONTENTS TO YOU I.
no means be excused from the imputation of Atheism for. two
reasons ....................................................................... • 25f$
it . That Strato Lampsacenus (commonly called Physicus)
was probably the first assertor of the hylozoic Atheism, he ac­
knowledging no other god but the life of nature in matter 237
Y. Further proved, that this Strato was an Atheist, mid of a
different form from Democritus, he attributing an energetic na­
ture, but without sense and animality, to all matter • 239
vi. That Strato, not deriving all things from a mere fortui*
tous principle, as the Democritic Atheists did, nor yet acknow­
ledging any one plastic nature to preside over the w^hole, but
deducing the original of things from a mixture of chance pud
plastic nature both together, in the several parts of jnatter, must
therefore needs be anhylozoicA t h e i s t ..................................$4$
v n . That the famous Hippocrates was neither an hylozoic
nor DemocriticAtheist, butrather an Heraclitic qorporeaf
T h e i s t ............................................. ....................................... 241
v iii. That Plato took no notice of the hylozoic Atheism, nor
of any other, save what derives the original of all things from 8
mere fortuitous nature ; and therefore either the PemocriticaJ,
or the Anaximandrian Atheism, which latter will be next de­
clared ..........................................................................................9^3
ix . That it is hardly imaginable, there should have been no
philosophic Atheists in the world before Democritus and Leucip­
pus ; Plato observing also, that there have been some or other
in all ages sick of the atheistic disease: and Aristotle affirming
many of the first philosophers to have assigned only a material
cause of the mundane system, without either intending or effi­
cient cause. They supposing matter to be the ogly substance,
and all other things nothing but the passions and accidents there­
of, generable and c o rru p tib le ............................................. 245
x. The doctrine of which Materialists may be more fully un­
derstood from those exceptions which Aristotle makes against
them. His first exception; that they assigned no cause of mo­
tion, but introduced it into the world unaccountably • 247
x i. Aristotle’s second exception, that these Materialists as­
signed no cause rov eZ kcu koXuq, of well and fit;—that is, gave
no account of the orderly regularity of things. Anaxagoras said
to be the first Ionic philosopher, who made mind and good a
principle of the u n iv e r s e ................................................... 248
xll. Concluded from hence, that these Materialists in Aristo.
tie were down-right Atheists, not merely because they held all
CONTBN(
TS TO VOL. U 400
substance to be body, forasmuch,as Heraclitus and Zeno did the
like, &pdyet are not therefore .numbered amongst the Atheists
(these suppppingthe whole rworhl to beau animal, and their fiery
matter orjginally intellectual) ; but because .they made stupid
matter, devoid of all understanding and life, to-bethe onlyprin-
cipie .* • ............................... • • • • • • 249
}cui. And supposed every thing, besides <the bare substance
of matter, to be generable and corruptible^ and consequently,
that there could be no other god, than such as was native and
mortal. That those ancient theologers and tbeogonists, who ge*
aerated all the gods out of night and chaos without exception,
were only verbal Theists, but re#l Atheists; senseless matter
being to them the highest nuiqeu • • • • * • 25t
x iv . 'fbe difference observed betwixt Aristotle’s atheistical
Materialists and the Italic philosophers; the former determine
ing all things, besides the bare substance ofmatter, to he made
or generated; but the latter, that no real entity was either ge­
nerated or corrupted; they thereupon both destroying the qua­
lities and forms of bodies, and asserting the ingenerability and'
incorpQreity of souls • • .................................* • 25ft
*v. How Aristotle’s atheistic Materialists endeavoured to
baffle and elude that axiom of the Italic philosophers, that
“ Nothing can come from nothing, nor go to nothing.” And
that Anaxagoras was the first amongst the Ionics, who yielded
so for to that principle, as from thence to assert incorporeal
substance, and the pre-existence of qualities and forms; he
conceiving them to be things really distinct from the substance
of m a t t e r ............................................................................. 266
xvi. The error of some writers, who from Aristotle’s af­
firming, that the ancient philosophers did generally conclude
the world to have been made, from thence infer them to have
been all Theists; and that Aristotle contradicts himself in re­
presenting many of them as Atheists. That the ancient Atheists
.did generally Kotrfuncoutv, assert the world to have been made,—
or have had a beginning; as, on the other hand, some Theists
did maintain its ante-eternity, but in a way of dependency upon
the Deity. That we ought therefore here to distinguish betwixt;
the system of the world, and the bare substance of the matter;
all Atheists contending the matter to have been not only eternal,
but also such independently upon any other being . • 268
x v n . Some of the ancients concluded this Materialism, or
hylopatian Atheism, to have been at least as old as Homer; who
410 CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
made the ocean (or fluid matter) the father of all the gods: and
that this was indeed the ancientest of all Atheisms, which verbal­
ly acknowledging gods, yet derives the original of them all from
Night and Chaos. A description of this atheistic hypothesis
in Aristophanes; that Night and Chaos first laid an egg, out
of which sprung forth Love, which afterwards mingling again
with a Chaos, begat heaven and earth, animals, and all the
gods . • ............................................................................. 263
x v n i. That, notwithstanding this, in Aristotle’s judgment,
not only Parmenides, but also Hesiod, and other ancients, who
made Love senior to the gods, were to be exempted out of the
number of Atheists, they understanding by this Love an active
principle or cause of motion in the universe; which therefore
could not result from an egg of the Night, nor be the offspring
of Chaos, but must be something in order of nature before mat­
ter. Simmias Rhodius’s “ Wings” a poem in honour of this Di­
vine or heavenly Love. This not that Love neither which was
the offspring of Penia and Porus in Plato. In what rectified and
refined sense it may'pass for true theology, that Love is the su­
preme Deity, and original of all t h i n g s ..........................266
x ix . That however Democritus and Leucippus be elsewhere
.taxed by Aristotle for this very thing, the assigning only a ma­
terial cause of the universe; yet were they not the persons in- x
tended by him in the forementioned accusation, by certain an-
cienter philosophers, who also were not Atomists, but assertors
of qualities, or Hylopathians • • • • • . • • 268
x x . That Aristotle’s atheistic Materialists were indeed all the
first Ionic philosophers before Anaxagoras, Thales being the
head of them. But that Thales being acquitted from this im­
putation of Atheism by several good authors, his next successor
Anaximander, is rather to be accounted the dpyriydq, or prince—
of this atheistic philosophy • • • • . • • • 269
x x i. A passage out of Aristotle objected, which at first sight
seems to make Anaximander a Divine philosopher, and therefore
hath led both modern and ancient writers into that mistake.
But that this, well considered, proves the contrary, that Anaxi­
mander was the chief of the old atheistic philosophers • 272
x x il. That it is no wonder, if Anaximander called senseless
matter rd 0eZov, or the Divinity, since to all Atheists that must
needs be the highest numen. And how this may be said to be
immortal, and to govern all: with the concurrent judgment of
the Greek scholiasts upon this p l a c e ..........................274
411
CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
x x ili. A further aoeount of the Anaximandrian philosophy,
from whence it appeareth to have been purely atheistical 277
xxiv. That as the vulgar fyave always been ill judges of The-,
sts and Atheists, so have learned men commonlysupposed fewer
Atheists than indeed there were. Anaximander and Democritus
Atheists both alike, though.philosophizing different ways; and
that some passages in Plato respect the Anaximandrian form of
Atheism, rather than the D em ocritical.........................281
x k v . The reason why Democritus and Leucippus new-mo­
delled Atheism into this atomic form ...............................284
xxvi. That besides the three forms of Atheism already men­
tioned, we sometimes meet with a fourth, which supposes the
universe to be, though not an animal, yet a kind of plant or
vegetable, having one regular plastic nature in it, but devoid
of understanding and sense, which disposes and orders the
w h o l e ........................................... .................................... 285
xxvii. That this form of Atheism, which makes one senseless
plastic and plantal nature to preside over the whole, is different
from the hylozoic, in that it takes away all fortuitousness; sub­
jecting all things universally to the fate of this one methodical
unknowing nature • * . ............................... • 286
xxy iii. Possible, that some in all ages might have entertained
this atheistical conceit, that all things are dispensed by one re­
gular and methodical senseless nature; nevertheless it seemeth
to have.been chiefly asserted by certain spurious Heraclitics and
Stoics. Upon which account this cosmo-plastic Atheism may
be called pseudo -Z e n o n ia n ..................................... ...... 288
xx ix . That, besides the philosophic Atheists, there have been
alwaysin the world enthusiastic and fanatic Atheists; though in­
deed all Atheists may in some sense be said to be both enthusi­
asts and fanatios, as being merely led by an dppfj aXoyoc, or ir­
rational im p e tu s ..............................................................290
x x x . That there cannot easily be any other form of Atheism
besides these four already mentioned; because all Atheists are
Corporealists, and yet not all Corporealists Atheists; but only
such of them as make the first principle not to be intellec­
tual ..................................... ' .........................................292
x x x i. A distributionofAtheisms producing the forementioned
quatemio, and shewing the difference that is betwixt them 295
xxx ii. That they are but mere bunglers at Atheism, who talk
of sensitive and rational matter specifically differing. And that
the canting astrological Atheists are not at all considerable, be­
cause not understanding them selv es...............................297
412 CONTENTS TO VOL. 1 .
x x x ili. Another distribution df Atheisms, that thdy ^ftber
derive the original of all things froifa a merely fortuitous prin­
ciple, and the unguided motion of matter; or else from a
plastic, regular, and methodical, but senseless nature. Whht
Atheists denied 'the eternity of the world, and What asserted
k . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . tin
xxxrv. Thai; of these four forms of Atheism, the atomic or
Demooritical, and the hylozoic or Stratonical, are the prin­
cipal :<rwhich two being once confuted, all Atheism will be
c o n f u te d ............................... • • • • • * • 007
xxxv. These two forms of Atheism being contrary to each
other, that we otight in all reason to insist rather upon ttte
atomic: nevertheless we shall Elsewhere confute the hyfoaofc
also; and further prove against all Corporealists, that no cogi­
tation nor life can belong to m a tte r ................................312
xxxvi. That m the mean time, we shall not neglect the other
forms of Atheism, but confute them all together, as they agree
in one principle. As also, by way of digression here insist largely
upon the plastic life of nature, in order to a fuller confutation,
as well of the hylozoic as the cosmo-plastic Atheism • * 3 1 4
1. That these two forms of Atheism are hot therefore con­
demned by us, merely because they suppose a life of nature,
distinct from the animal life: however this be a thing altogether
exploded by some professed Theists, therein symbolizing too
much with the.Democritic Atheists • • • • • • 314
2. That if no plastic artificial nature be admitted, then one of
these two things must be concluded; that either all things come
to pass by fortuitous mechanism or material necessity (the mo­
tion ofmatter unguided), or else that God doth atrovpyeiv Hirnv-
ra, do all things himselfimmediately and miraculously;—framing
the body of every gnat and fly, as it were, with his own hands:
forasmuch as Divine laws and commands cannot execute them­
selves, nor be alone the proper efficient causes of things in na­
ture .................................................................................316
3. To suppose the former ofthese, that all things come to pass
fortuitously, by the unguided motion of matter, and without the
direction of any mind, a thing altogether as irrational as impious'
there being many phenomena both above the mechanic powers,
and contrary to the laws thereof. That the mechanic Theists
make God but an idle spectator of the fortuitous motions of mat-
tier, and render his wisdom altogether useless and insignificant.
Aristotle’s judicious censure of this fortuitous mechanism, and
CONTENTS TQ VOL. I. 41$
his derision of thatconceit) that m&terialnnd mechanical reasons
are the only p h ilo so p h ic a l............................... ...... • 317*
4. That it seems neither decorous in respect ofGod, nor con*
grupus to reason, that heshould avrovpyelv airavra, do all things
himselfimmediately and miraculously,—withoutthe subserviency
ofady natural causes. This further confuted from the slow and
gradual process of things in nature, as also from those errors
and bungles that are committed, when the matter proves inept
and contumacious; which argue the,agent not to be irresist­
iblei . . . . ................................................................. 321
5. Reasonably interred fromhence, that.there is an artificial
or plastic nature in the. universe, as a*subordinate instrument of
Divine Providence, in the orderly disposal of matter: hut not
without a higher providence also,presiding over it; forasmuch
as this plastic nature caiuiot act electively or with discretion*
Those laws of nature concerning motion which#the mechanic
Theists themselves suppose, really nothing else but a plastic na­
ture, or spermatic reasons* * • • • • » » • 32®
6. The .agreeableness of this doctrine with the sentiments of
tl^e best philosophers of all ages* Anaxagoras, though a pro*
fessed Theist, severely censured both by Platoand Ari&totleas
au encourager of Atheism, merely because,he used material and
mechanical causes more than mental and final.. Physiologers
and astronomers, for the same reaaaualsO) vulgarly suspectedof
Atheism in Plato’s time • • • <324
7. The plastic artificial,nalure<no occult quality, but the only *
intelligible cause of that which is the grandest of all phenorae-:
na, the orderly regularity and,harmony of thingsj which the me­
chanic Theists, however pretending to solve all phenomena, give
no account,of. A God or infinite,mind, asserted by thesey in <
vain and to.no purpose . .......................................... . 931' ■
8. Two,things here to.be, performed; to give an account of the
plastic artificial nature ; and then to>shew how-the notion there­
of is mistaken and abused by Atheists. The first general ac­
count of.this nature according to Aristotle, that it is to be eon*
cejved as art itself acting inwardly and immediately upon the
matter; as if harmony living in,the musical instruments should
move the strings thereof without any external impulse • 332
9. Two pre-eminences of naturc«above human art; first, that
whereas human art acts upon the matter without, cumbersomely
or moQminously,; and in a way of tumult or burlyburly; nature,
acting upqp the ^axue from within mote commaadiagly, dotbits-
414 CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
vork easily, cleverly and silently. Homan art acteth on mat*
ter mechanically, but nature vitally and magically • • 333
10. The second pre-eminence of nature, that whereas human
artists are often to seek and at a loss, anxiously consult and de­
liberate, and upon second thoughts mend their former work; na­
ture is never to seek or unresolved what to do, nor doth she ever
repent of what she hath done, and thereupon correct her for­
mer course. Human artists themselves consult not as artists,
but always for want of art; and therefore nature, though never
consulting nor deliberating, may notwithstanding act artificially
and for ends. Concluded, that what is by us called Nature* is
really the Divine a r t .................................................. • 334
11. Nevertheless, that nature is not the Divine art pure and
abstract, but concreted and embodied in matter. The Divine art
not archetypal but ectypal. Nature differs from the Divine art
or wisdom, as the manuary opificer from the architect • 336
T2. ’
■Two imperfections of nature, in respect whereof it falls
short of human art. First, that though it act for ends artificially,
yet itself neither intends those ends, nor understands the reason
of what it doth; for which cause it cannot act electively. The
difference betwixt spermatic reasons and knowledge. That na­
ture doth but ape or mimic the Divine art or wisdom; being it­
self not master of that reason according to which it acts, but
only a servant to it, and drudging executioner thereof • -338
13. Proved, that there may be such a thing as acteth artifi­
cially, though itself do not comprehend that art and reason by
which its motions are governed. First, from musical habits; the
dancer resembles the artificial life of nature • • • 340
14. The same further evinced from the instincts of brute ani­
mals, directing them to act rationally and artificially, in order to
their own good and the good of the universe, without any reason
of their own. These instincts in brutes but passive impresses of
the Divine wisdom, and a kind of fate upon them • • 342
15. The second imperfection of nature, that it acteth without
animal -fancy, (rvyaiffOrjaiCy con-sense, or consciousness, and hath
no express self-perception and self-enjoyment • • • 343
16. Whether this energy of the plastic nature be to be called
cogitation or no, nothing but a logomachy, or contention about
words. Granted, that what moves matter vitally, must needs do
it by some energy of its own, distinct from local motion; but
that there may be a simple vital energy, without that duplicity
which is in synaesthesisj or clear and express consciousness. Ne-
CONTENTS TO VOL. I. 416
vertheless, that the energy of nature may be called a certain
drowsy, unawakened, or astonished cogitation . • • • 344
17. Several instances, which render it probable, that there
may be a vital energy without synaesthesis, clear and express
con-sense or consciousness........................................... 346
18. Wherefore the plastic nature, acting neither knowingly
nor fantastically, must needs act fatally, magically, and sympa­
thetically. The Divine laws and fate, as to matter, not mere co­
gitation in the mind of God, but an energetic and effectual prin­
ciple in it. And this plastic nature the true and proper fate of
matter, or of the corporeal world. What magic is, and that na­
ture, which acteth fatally, acteth also magically and sympathe­
tically ................................................................................ 349
19. That nature, though it be the Divine art, or fate, yet for
all that, is neither a god, nor goddess, but a low and imperfect
creature, it acting artificially and rationally no otherwise than
compounded forms of letters when printing coherent philoso­
phic sense; nor for ends, than a saw or hatchet in the hands of
a skilful mechanic. The plastic and vegetative life of nature, the
lowest of all lives, and inferior to the sensitive. A higher pro­
vidence than that of the plastic nature governing the corporeal
world i t s e l f ............................... .................................... 350
20. Notwithstanding which, forasmuch as the plastic nature
is a life, it must needs be incorporeal. One and the self-same
thing having in it an entire model and platform of the whole, and
acting upon several distant parts of matter, cannot be a body.
And though Aristotle himselfdo no where declare this nature to
be either corporeal or incorporeal (which he neither clearly
doth concerning the rational soul) and his followers commonly
take it to be corporeal; yet, according to the genuine principles
of that philosophy, must it needs be otherwise • • • 353
21. The plastic nature being incorporeal, must either be a
lower power lodged in souls, whichare also conscious, sensitive,
or rational: or else a distinct substantial life by itself, and in­
ferior soul. That the Platonists affirm both, with Aristotle’s
agreeable determination, that nature is either part of a soul> or
not without soul • ......................... * 356
22. The plastic nature, as to the bodies of animals, a*part, or
lower power, of their respective souls. That the phenomena
prove a plastic nature, or archeus, in animals; to make which a
distinct thing from the soul, would be to multiply entities with­
out necessity. The soul endued with a plastic nature, the chief
410 CONTENTS TO VOL; 1;
ftrmatrix of its own body, the contribution of other causes not
excluded .......................................................................... 350
23. That, besides the plastic in particular animals, forming
them as so many little worlds, there is a general plastic or ar­
tificial nature in the whole corporeal universe, which likewise,
according to Aristotle, is either a part and lower power ofa con­
scious mundane soul, or else something depending thereon*
301
• 24. That no less according to Aristotle, than Plato and So*
crates, ourselves partake of life from the life of the universe, as
well as we do of heat and cold from the heat and cold of the
uniyerse. From whence it appears, that Aristotle also held the
world’s animation, which is farther undeniably proved. Ah an­
swer to two the most considerable places in that philosopher ob­
jected to the contrary. That Aristotle's fi^st immoveable mover
was no soul, but a perfect intellect abstract from matter, which *
he supposed to move only as a final cause, or as being loved;
and besides this, a mundane soul and plastic nature to mOvethe
heavens efficiently. Neither Aristotle’s nature nor mundane'
soul the supreme Deity. However, though there be no such
mundane soul, as both Plato and Aristotle conceived, yet may
there be, notwithstanding, a plastic or artificial nature depend­
ing upon a higher intellectual p rin c ip le ......................... 303''
25. No impossibility of other particularplastics: and though
it be not reasonable to think every plant, herb, and pile of grass,
to have a plastic or vegetative soul of its own, nor the earth'to
be an animal: yet may there possibly be one plastic artificial
nature presiding Over the whole terraqueous globe, by which
vegetables may be severely organized and framed, and allthings
performed, which transcend the power of fortuitous mecha­
nism ............................................................................ 300
26. Our second undertaking, which was to shew, how grossly
those Atheists (who acknowledge this artificial plastic nature,
without animality) misunderstand it, and abuse the notion, to
make a counterfeit God Almighty, or numen of it; to the ex­
clusion of the true Deity. First, in their supposing that to be
the first and highest principle of the universe, which is the last
and lowest of all lives, a thing as essentially derivative from, and
dependent upon, a higher intellectual principle, as the echo on
the original voice. Secondly, in their making sense and reason
in animals to emerge out of a senseless life of nature, by the
mere modification and organization of matter. That no d u p li­
cation of corporeal organs can ever make one single unconscious
bOlfTENTfi TO VOt. t. AW
life to advance into redoubled consciousness and selfeqjoyinenf.
Thirdly, in attributing (some of then) perfect knowledge and
understanding, tb this life of nature,1
which yet themselves sup­
pose to be devoid of all animal sense and consciousness. Lastly,
in making this plastic life of nature to be merely corporeal; the
Hylozoists contending, that it is but an inadequate conception
Of body as the only substance, and fondly dreaming, that the
vulgar notion of a God is nothing but such an inadequate con­
ception of the matter of the whole universe, mistaken for an en­
tire substance by itself the cause of all things. And thus far the
digression • • • • ............................... ...... 369
x x x v iti. That though the confutation of the atheistic
grounds, according tb the laws of method, ought to have been
reserved for the last part of this discourse, yet we,having reason
tb violate those laws, crave the reader’s pardbn for this prepos­
terousness. A considerable observation of Plato’s, “ That it is not
only gross sensuality, which inclines men to atheize, but also an
affectation of seemingwiser than the generality of mankind. As
likewise, that the Atheists making such pretence to wit, it is a
seasonable and proper undertaking, to evince, that they fumble
in all their ratiocinations.” And we hope to make it appear, that
the Atheists are no conjurors; and that all forms-of Atheism are
nonsense and impossibility .............................................374
CHAP. IV.
The idea of.God declared; in way of answer to thefirst atheistic
argument; and the grand objection against the naturality of
this idea (as essentially including unity or oneliness in it) '
from the pagan Polytheism, removed.• Proved\ that the in­
telligent Pagans1
generally acknowledged one supreme D eity.
A fuller explication ofwhose Polytheism and idolatry intend­
ed; tn order to the better giving an account of Christianity.
I . T h e either stupid insensibility or gross impudence of
Atheists, >in denying the word of God to have any signification,
or that there is any other idea answering to it besides the
mere phantasm of the sound. The disease called by the phi-
losopher faroXidwtc tov vor/ruee9, the petrification, or dead in­
sensibility of the mind ■
• • • • • • • • • 399
II. That the Atheists themselves must needs have an idea of
2 E
VOL. IV.
418 CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
Godin theirminds; or otherwise, when they deoy his existence1
,
they should deny the existence of nothing. That they have
also the same idea of him in general with the Tbeists; the one
denying the very same thing which the others affirm • ~ 483
in . A lemma, or preparatory proposition to the idea ofGod,
That though some things be made or generated, yet it is not
possible that all things should be made, but something must of
necessity exist of itself from eternity unmade, and be the cause
of those other things that are made • ^ ‘'•' •. ib.
iv. The tw0i roost opposite opinions concerning what was
self-existent from eternity, or unmadef and the cause of att
other things made; one, that it was nothing but senseless mat­
ter, the most imperfect of all things.. The other, that it was
something most perfect, and therefore consciously, intellectual.
The assertors of this latter opinion, Tbeists, in a strict and
proper sense; of the former, Atheists. So that the idea of God
in general is, a perfectly conscious understanding being (or
mind), seif-existent from eternity, and the*cause of :all other
things • • •• • . . . . . . . • > 403
y. Observable, that the Atheists, who .deny a God, accord-
iog to tfae true idea of him, do notwithstanding often abuse the
word, calling senseless matter by that name; they meanibg no­
thing else thereby but only a first principle, or self-existent
unmade thing: according to which notion of the word God, there
can be no such thing at all as an Atheist, no man being able
to persuade himself, that all things sprung from nothing • 404
vi. In order to a more punctual declaration, of this Divipe
idea, the opinion of those taken notice of, who suppose two Self-
existent, unmade principles, God and matter, according to which,
God not the principle of. all things, nor the soje principle, but
only the chief • • * • • • • • • • • • 407
v n . These Materiariaus, imperfect and mistaken Tbeists.
Npt Atheists, because they suppose the world made and go­
verned by an animalish, sentient, and understanding nature;
whereas no Atheists acknowledge conscious animality to he a
first principle, but conclude it to be all generable and corrupti­
ble: nor yet genuine Tbeists, because they acknowledge net
omnipotence in the full extent thereof. A latitude therefore in
Theism; and none to be condemned for absolute Atheists hot
such as deny an eternal unmade mind, the framer and governor
of the whole world • ..................................... .. * * 4m
v iii. An absolutely perfect being, the most compendious
CONTENTS TO VOL; I. 419
idea of God : which includeth in it, not only necessary ex­
istence, and conscious intellectuality, but also omni-causality,
omnipotence, or infinite power. Wherefore God the sole prin­
ciple of all things and cause of matter. The true notion of in­
finite power. And that Pagans commonly acknowledge om­
nipotence, or infinite power, to be included in the idea of
God . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 X 4
ix. That absolute perfection implies yet something more than
knowledge and power. A vaticination in men’s minds of a
higher good than either; That, according to Aristotle, God is
better than knowledge; and hath morality in his nature, where­
in also his chief happiness consisteth. This borrowed from
Plato, to whom the highest perfection, and supreme Deity, is
goodness itself, substantial, above knowledge and intellect.
Agreeably with which, the Scripture makes God, fend the su­
preme good, Love. This not to be understood of a soft, fond,
and partial Love; God being rightly called also an impartial law,
and the measure of all things. Atheists also suppose goodness
to be included in the idea of that God whose existence they
deny*'* The idea here more largely declared • • • 418
*sii That this fotcmeritioned Idea of God essentially includeth
ratify, oneliness, or solitariety, in i t ; since there cannot possibly
be* more than'one absolutely Supreme, one Cause of all things,
ode Omnipotent, and’oneinfinitely Perfect. Epicurus and his
followers professedly denied a God, according to this notion of
him • • • • - • • • • •. 428
XI. The grand objection against the idea of God, as thus es­
sentially including oneliness and singularity in it,from the Poly­
theism of all nations formerly (the Jews'excepted), and of all
the wisest ben, and philosophers. From whence it is inferred,
that this Idea of God is hot natural, but artificial, and owes its
otigbfel-to laws and arbitrary institutions only; An inquiry
therefore here to be made concerning the true sense'Of the pa-
g&h'Polytheism; the objectors securely taking it for granted,
that the pagan Polytheists universally asserted many unmade,
self*Oxistent, intellectual beings and independent deities, as so
many partialcauses of the w o rld ..................................... 430
:-Xii. The irrationality of which opinion, and its manifest re-
pOgnancy.to the phenomena, fender h less probable to have been
the belief of all the pagan Polytheists ' • *• *• *• • • 432
; x in . That the Pagan deities were not all of them universally
looked upon as so many unmade selfiexiStent beings, unques-
2 E 2
CONTENTS TO VOL. I.
420
tionably evident from hence; because they generally held a
theogonia, or generation of gods.. This point of the Pagan the­
ology insisted upon by Herodotus, the most ancient prosaic
Greek writer. In whom the meaning of that question, Whether
the gods were generated or existed all from eternity, seems to
have been the same with this of Plato’s, Whether the world were
made of unmade ? ............................... ...... • * 484
Certain also, that amongst the Hesiodian gods, there was ei­
ther but one self-existent, or else none at all. Hesiod’s Love
supposed to be the eternal God, or the active Principle of the
universe . . . . . . ......................................436
That the Valentinkn thirty gods, or Jtons (having the great­
est appearance of independent deities), were all derived from
one self-originated being, called Bythus, or an unfathomable
Depth • 488
That besides the Manichseans, some Pagans did indeed acr
knowledge a ditheism, or duplicity of unmade gods, one the.
principle of good, the other of evil. (Which, the nearest ap­
proach, that can be found, to the supposed Polytheism*). Pin*
tarcbus Cheeropensis one or the chief of these, though not so
cpmmonly taken notice of by learned men. His reasons tor this
opinion p ro p o se d ..................................... • 440
Plutarch’s pretence, that this was the general persuasion of
all the ancient philosophers and Pagan nations. His grounds
for imputing it to Plato examined and confuted . • • 448
The true account of the Platonic origin of evils, from the ne­
cessity of imperfect things . . . . • • • • • 453
Pythagoras, and other philosophers purged likewise from
this imputation • 453
That the Egyptians probably did but. personate evil (the con­
fusion, and alternate vicissitude of things in this lower worlds
hy Typhon. The only question concerning the Arimanius of
the Persian magi, This, whether a .self-existent principle, or
no, disputed 45$
Plutarch and Atticus the only professed assertors of this,
doctrine among the Greek philosophers (besides Numenius.iu
(jhalcidius); who therefore probably the persons censured for.
it by Athanasius • ............................... ...... • • . 459
Aristotle’s explosion and confutation ofirpXXal many
principles * • • • • • • • • . . • • 433
That a better judgment may be made of the Pagan deities;
a general survey of them. They all. reduced to five heads;.
CONTENTS TO VOt. I. 4*1
The souls of men deceased, or heroes, the animated stars and
elements, demons, accidents, and things of nattire, personated;
and lastly, several personal names given to one supreme God,
according to the several manifestations of his power and provi­
dence in the World; mistaken, for so many substantial deitie^,
or self-existent minds • • • • • • • • • • 464
Pagans acknowledging omnipotence, must needs suppose onk
sovereign Numen. Faustus the Manichaean's conceit, that
the Jews and Christians paganized in the opinion of monarchy.
With St. Austin's judgment of the Pagans thereupon . • 475
xiv. Concluded, that the pagan Polytheism must be under­
stood of created intellectual beings, superior to men, religious*
ly worshipped. So that the Pagans held both many gods, and
One God, in different senses; many inferior deities subordinate
to one Supreme. Thus Onatus the Pythagorean, in Stobseus.
The Pagan's creed in Maximus Tyrius; one God the King and
Father of all, and many gods the sons of gods. The pagan
Theogonia thug to be understood, of many gods produced by
one G o d ...........................................................................47#
This pagan Theogonia really one and the same thing With
the Cosmogonia. Plato’s Cosmogonia a Theogonia • • 48t
Hesiod's Theogonia the Cosmogonia • • • • • 49V
The Persians and Egyptians in like manner, holding aCosmo-
gonia, called it a Theogonia • • • • • • • • 491
This pagan Theogonia, how by some mistaken * - 492
Both this Theogonia and Cosmogonia of the ancient Pagans
to be understood of a temporary production • • • • .493'
That Plato really asserted the newness or beginning of the*
world........................................................ ...... ib.
Amongst the Pagans, two sorts of Theogonists, atheistic and>
Divine. Plato a*Divine Theogonist • • • • • • 497:
Other pagan Theogonists, Theists,' or assertors of an un­
made Deity . • • • • • • • • • •' • • 502'
These Divine Theogonists also made Chaos and Night senior
to the gods; that is, to the generated ones •; •' * * 50$'
The Orphic cabala of the-world’s production front'Chaos (or
Night) and Love; originally Mosaical • • • • * 511
Other pagan Theists neither Theogonists nor Cosmogonists
they holding the eternity of the world, abdof the gods; as Aris­
totle and the junior Platonism . . . . . . . 513
These notwithstanding acknowledged all their eternal gods
sate one, ytvqtoitet that is,’tohfcve been derived*from that one; *
482 CONTENTS TO VOL. II.
and that there was, in this sense,-but dcQcoc dylyriros, one
only unmade, or selfexisjtent God . . • • 520
Necessary here to,shew, how the Pagans did put a difference
betwixt the one, supreme, unmade Deity, and their other many
inferior generated gods. • • • • • • ,• • 524
This done, both by proper names, and appellatives emphati­
cally used » t * • * • • • • ■
• •• • • • 525
C O N T E N T S T O ’ VOL. II.
©col, or gods, often put for inferior gods only, ,in way of dis ­
tinction from the Supreme • • • • • • • • * 4
. Td ©ceov and T6Acu/jiovibv also the supreme Deity • • 8
Other full and emphatical descriptions of the supreme Goif,
amongst the Pagans............................... 11
.. xv. Further evidence of this, that the intelligent pagan Poly­
theists .held only a plurality of inferior deities subordinate to
one Supreme. First, because after the emersion of Christiani­
ty, and its.contest with Paganism, no Pagan ever asserted many
independent deities, but aliprofessed to acknowledge one'Sove­
reign, or Supreme • • • • • • • •• • ' • * . 1 2
., Apollonius Tyanaeus set up amongst the Pagans fora rival
with our Saviour Christ • • • • • • • ...13
He, though atyhed by Vopiscus a true friend of the gods, End
though, a stout champion for the pagan Polytheism, yet. a pro.,
fessed acknowledger of one supreme Deity • • .• •'. 32
. Celsus the first public writer against Christianity, and a zeal*
ous Polytheist; notwithstanding freely declpreth for one first
and greatest omnipotent God • . . . . . . ... • ..,.'38
The next and most eminent champion for the Pagaqcqese,
Porphyrius, an undoubted assertor of one supreme Deity. Who
in Proclas not only;opposeth that evil principle ofPlutarch
and Atticus, but also contended!, that even matter itself was
derived from one perfect being • • • • • • * *
25
Hierocles the next eminent antagonist of, Christianity,'and
champion for the Pagan gods, did, in the close' of his Pbilale-
thes (as we learn from Lactantius), highly celebrate the praises
of the one supreme God, the Parent of all things • • ' • ik
Julian, the epipcror, a zealous contender for the restitntipn
of Paganism, plainly derivedall bis gods from one • <81
CONTENTS TO VOL. II.
This true of all the other opposers of Christianity, as Jam-
blichus, Syrianus, Proclus, Simplicius, &c. Maximus Madau-
rensis, a Pagan philosopher in St. Austin, his profession of
one sovereign Numen above all the gods. The same also the
sense of Longinianus • • • • • • » • * 35
The Pagans in Arnobius universally disclaim the opinion of
many unmade deities, and profess the belief of an omnipotent
G o d ............................... • • • . • • • 36
These Pagans acknowledged by others of the fathers also to
have held one sovereign N iim e n ..................................... 43
But of this more afterwards, when we speak of the Arians.
xvi. That this was no refinement or interpolation of Pagan­
ism, made after Christianity (as might be suspected), but that
the doctrine of the most ancient Pagan theologers, and greatest
promoters of Polytheism, was consonant hereunto; which will
be proved from unsuspected w ritings...............................
Concerning the Sibylline oracles, two extremes • • 40
That Zoroaster, the chief promoter of Polytheism in the east,
professed the acknowledgment of one sovereign Deity (and
that not the sun neither, but the maker thereof), proved from
Eubulus in Porphyry • ............................... • • 55
Zoroaster’s supreme God Oromasdes • • • • • 50
Of the Triplasian Mithras • • • ' • • • • • *60
The magic, or Chaldaic trinity • * • • . • • •. 63
The Zoroastrian trinity, Oromasdes, Mithras, and Arimanes.
Thus the Persian Arimanes no substantial evil principle, or in­
dependent god ........................................................• . * W
Concerning the reputed magic or Chaldaic oracles • % • 60
xvn. That Orpheus, commonly called by the Greeks the The-
ologer, and the father of the Grecanic Polytheism, clearly as­
serted one supreme Numen. The history of Orpheus not a
mere romance • • • . . . . . . . . 13
Whether Orpheus were the father of the poems called Or-
phical . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Orpheus’s Polytheism ..................................................
That Orpheus, notwithstanding, asserted a Divine monarchy,
proved from Orphic verses, recorded, by Pagans: there being
other Orphic verses counterfeit • . . . • • * 86
In what sense Orpheus, and other mystical theologers amongst
the Pagans, called God App€v6Brj\vy9Hermaphrodite, or of both
sexes, male and female together • • . • • • • 89
Orpheus's recantation of his Polytheism a fable; he at the
434 CONTENTS TO VOL. II.
same lime acknowledging both one unmade God, and many, ge­
nerated gods and goddesses • • • • • • ■ • • • M
That besides the opinion of monarchy, a trinity of Divine hy­
postases subordinate was also another part of the Orphic cabala.
Orpheus’s trinity, Phanes, Uranus, and Chronus • • • 92
The grand arcanum of the Orphic theology, that God is all
things; but in a different sense from the Stoics • • • 95
God’s being all, made a foundation of pagan Polytheism and
idolatry • ............................................ 100
i n n . That tbe Egyptians themsehres, the most polytheistical
of all nations, had an acknowledgment amongst them of one su­
preme Deity. The Egyptians the first Polytheists. That the
Greeks and Europeans divided their gods from them, and as He­
rodotus affirmeth, their very names too. A conjecture, that
'ABrjva of the Greeks was or NijiScfc, the tutelar god of
the city Sais: a colony whereof the Athenians are said to have
been. And that Neptune, the Roman sea-god, was derived
from the Egyptian Nephthus, signifying the maritime parts. Of
the Egyptians worshipping brute animals • 102
Notwithstanding this multifarious Polytheism and idolatry of
tbe Egyptians, that they had an acknowledgment of one su­
preme God, probably first from that great fame which they had
for their wisdom. Egypt's schoolofliterature before Greece 107
The Egyptians, though attributing more antiquity to the
world than they ought, yet of all nations the most constant as-
sertors of the Cosmogonia, or novity and beginning ofthe world;
nor did they think the world to have been made by chance, as
tbe Epicureans; Simplicius calling the Mosaic history of the
creation an Egyptian fable..................................................109
That besides the pure and mixed mathematics, the Egyptians
had another higher philosophy, appears from hence; because
they were the first assertors of the immortality and transmigra­
tion of souls, which Pythagoras from them derived into Greece.
Certain therefore, that the Egyptians held incorporeal sub­
stance • • . . . . . . . . . . . 112
That the Egyptians, besides their vulgar and fabulous, had
another arcane and recondite theology. Their sphinges, and
Harpocrates, or sigalions, in their temples . • • • 114
This arcane theology of the Egyptians concealed from the
vulgar two manner of ways, by allegories and hieroglyphics-
This doubtless a kind of metaphysics concerning God, as one
perfect being, the Original of all things........................... 118
CONTENTS TO VOI». II. 425
An objection from Cbeeremon (cited by Porphyrias, in an
epistle to Anebo, an Egyptian priest), fully answered by Jambli-
chus, in the person of Abammo, in the Egyptian Mysteries lfip
That monarchy was an essential part of the arcane and true
theology pf the Egyptians, may be proved from the Trismegistic
writings, though not at all genuine (as the Poemander, and Ser­
mon in the Mount, concerning regeneration); because, though
they had beep all forged by Christians never so much, yet being
divulged in those ancient times, they must needs have some­
thing of truth in them; this at lpast, that the Egyptians ac­
knowledged one supreme Deity; or otherwise they would have
been presently e x p lo d e d ..................................................124
That Casaubon, from the detection of forgery in two or three
at the most of these Trismegistic books, does not reasonably
infer them to have been all Christian cheats: those also not ex­
cepted, that have been cited by ancient lathers, but since
lost . .............................................................. 127
That there was one Theuth or Thoth (called by the Greeks
Hermes) an inventor of letters and sciences amongst the ancient
Egyptians, not reasonably to be doubted. Besides whom, there
is said to have been a second Hermes, surnamed Trismegist,
who left many volumes of philosophy and theology behind him,
that were committed to the custody of the priests « • 128
Other books also written by Egyptian priests, in several ages
successively, called Hermaical (as Jamblichus informetb us), be­
cause entitled (fro more) to Hermes, as the president of learn­
ing • . .............................................................. . 1 3 1
That some of those old Hermaic books remained in the cus­
tody of the Egyptian priests, till the times of Clemens Alexan-
d r in u s ......................... • • • • • • * • • 133
Hermaic, books taken notice of formerly, not only by Christ­
ians, but also by Pagans and philosophers. Jambhchus’s testi­
mony of them., that they did really contain Hermaical opinions,
or Egyptian learning. Fifteen of these Hermaic books publish­
ed together at Athens, before St. Cyril’s time • • • • 134
All the philosophy of the present Hermaic books, not merely
Grepanic, as Casaubon adirmeth. That nothing perishetb;
old Egyptian philosophy, derived by Pythagoras, together with
the transmigration pf souls; into Greece • • * • .. 139
The Asclepiap Dialogue, or Perfect Oration (said to have been
translated into Latin by Apuleius), vindicated, from being a
Christian forgery ........................................... 14ft
CONTENTS TO VOL. II.
426
An answer to two objections made against it; the latter
whereoffrom a prophecy taken notice of by St. Austin, u That
the temples of the Egyptian gods should shortly be full of the
sepulchres of dead men” ..................................................143
Petavius’s farther suspicion of forgery, because, as Lactan-
tius and S t Austin have affirmed, the Christian Logos is herein
called a second God, and the first begotten Son of God: H ie
answer, that Lactantius and St. Austin were clearly mistaken,
this being there affirmed only of the visible and sensible
world ................................................................................ 146
That besides the Asclepian Dialogue, others of the present
Trismegistic books contain Egyptian doctrine. Nor can they
be all proved to be spurious and counterfeit This the rather
insisted on, for the vindication of the ancient fathers • . 150
Proved that the Egyptians, besides their many gods, acknow­
ledged one first Supreme, and universal Deity, from the testi­
monies of Plutarch, Horus Apollo, Jamblicfius (affirming that
Hermes derived all things, even matter itself, from one Divine
principle); lastly, of Damascius declaring, that the Egyptian phi­
losophers at thattime had found in the writings of the ancients,
that they held one principle of all things, praised under the name
of the Unknown Darkness * • • • • • • • • 155
The same thing proved from their vulgar religion and theo­
logy; Hammon being a proper name for the supreme God
amongst them; and therefore styled the Egyptian Jupiter 163
Though this word Hammon were probably at first the same
with Ham or Cham the son of Noah, yet will not this hinder
but that it might be used afterwards by the Egyptians for the
supreme G o d ............................................................. 164
The Egyptian God Hammon neither confined by them to the
sun, nor to the corporeal world, but, according to the notation
of the word in the Egyptian language, a hidden and invisible
Deity. This farther confirmed from the testimony of Jambli-
chus • • • 165
This Egyptian Hammon more than once taken notice of in
Scripture ...................................................................................167
That the Egyptians acknowledged one universal Numen, far­
ther proved from that famous inscription upon the Saitic tern,
pie, “ I am all that was, is, and shall be, and my veil no mor­
tal hath ever yet uncovered.*9 That this cannot be understood
of senseless matter, nor of the corporeal universe, but of a Di­
vine mind, or wisdom, diffusing itself through all. The pephtm,
CONTENTS TO VOL. It. 4*7
or veil, east over the statue as well of the Saitie as Atheriiatf
Minerva, hieroglyphically signified the invisibility and incom­
prehensibility of the Deity which is veiled in its works. From
what Proclus addeth to this inscription beyond-Plutarch, “ And
the sun was the fruit which I producedevident, that this was
a demiurgical Deity, the creator of the sun and of the world 170
How that passage of Hecataeus in Plutrach is to be under­
stood, u That the Egyptians supposed the first God and the
universe to be the same,” viz. because the supreme Deity dif-
fuseth itself through all things. Td t *v a name of God also
gmohgst the Greek philosophers .....................................175
That Pan, to the Arcadians and other vulgar Greeks, was not
the corporeal world, as senseless and inanimate, but as pro­
ceeding from an intellectual principle diffusing itself through
all; from Macrobius and Phornutus. Socrates's prayer to Pan,
as the supreme God, in Plato’s Piuedrus • • • • • 176
Our Saviour Christ, called the great Pan by demons • 178
How the old Egyptian theology, that God is all things, Is
every where in|isted upon in the Trismegistic writings • 160
That the supreme •God was sometimes worshipped by the
Egyptians under other proper personal names, as Isis, Osiris,
and Serapis, &c. • • • • • • • • • • * 187
Recorded in Eusebius, from Porphyrius, that the Egyptians
acknowledged one intellectual Demiurgus, or Maker of the
world, under the name of Cneph, whom they pictured, putting
fortfi ah egg out. of his mouth. This Cneph said to have pro­
duced another God, whom the Egyptians called Ptha, the
Greeks, Vulcan,!the soul of the world, and artificial plastic na­
ture. The testimony of Plutarch, that the Thebaites worship­
ped only one eternal and immortal God under this name of
Cneph ....................................................... 183
Thus, according to Apuleius, the Egyptians worshipped one
<and the same supreme God, under many different names and
motions ^ ......................194
Probable, that theEgyptians distinguished hypostases in the
Deity also. Kircherus’s Egyptian hieroglyphic of the Trinity.
An intimation inJamblichus ofan Egyptian trinity.Eicton,
Emeph, or Hemphta (which is the same with Cneph), and*
Ptha. 195
The doctrine of God's being all, made by the Egyptians a
foundation of Polytheism and idolatry, they being led hereby to
personate and deify the several parts of the world, and things
4S8 CONTENTS TO TOIi. II,
of nature (which, in the language of the Asckphn Dialogue
is to call God by the name of every thing, ot every thing by
the name of God), the wise amongst them nevertheless under­
standing, that all was but one simple Deity, worshipped by
piece-meal. This allegorically signified by Osiris’s being dis­
membered and cut in pieces by Typhon, and then made tip One
again by Isis • • • • • • « • • • • • 108
xix» That the poets many ways depraved the Pagan theology,
and made it to have a more aristocratiqal appearance • 200
Notwithstanding which, they did not really assert many self-
existent and independent gods, but one only unmade; and all
the rest generated or created. Homer’s gods not all eternal
and unmade, but generated out of the ocean; that is, a watery
chaos. Homer’s Theogonia, as well as Hesiod’s, the Costnogo-
nia, and his generation of gods, the same things with the pro­
duction or creation of the world 084
Nevertheless, Homer distinguished, from all those generated
gods, one unmade God, the Father or Creator of the world 2D6
Homer thus understood by the Pagans themselves, as Plu­
tarch, Proclus, and A ristotle...................................... 207
Though Hesiod’s gods, properly so called, were all of them'
generated, yet did he suppose also one unmade God, the Maker
of them, and of the world 209
Pindarlikewise a Divine Theogonist; an assertor ofone unmade
Deity (and no more) the cause of aH things; yet nevertheless*
of many generated gods, besides his one God to be worshipped
far above all the other gods • • • • • - . - 211
The suspicion, which Aristotle sometime had of Hesiod, mid
Plato of Homer, seems to have proceeded from their not upder-
standing that Mosaic cabala, followed by them both, of the
world’s.being made out of a watery chaos . • • • • 219
That famous passage of Sophocles, concerning one God the
Maker of heaven, earth, and* seas (cited by so many ancient fa­
thers), defended as genuine • • • • » • • • ib.
Clear places in the extant tragedies of Euripides to the
same purpose; with other remarkable ones cited out of his
own inextant tragedies: besides the testimonies of other Greek
poets .................................................................................214
, The consent of Latin .poets also, in the monarchy of the?
whole . . . . . . ............................... ...... . 217
xx. After the poets of the Pagans,, their philosophers const*'
dered. That EpicuruB was the only reputed philosopher, who,
CONTENTS TO VOL. If. 429
pretending to acknowledge gods, yet professedly opposed mo­
narchy, and verbally asserted a multitude of eternal unmade
deities, but such as had nothing to do either with the making
or governing of the world. He therefore clearly to be reckoned
amongst the Atheists. All the Pagan philosophers, who were
Theists (a few Ditheists excepted), universally asserted a mun­
dane monarchy ..............................................................222
Pythagoras a Polytheist as much as the other Pagans; ne­
vertheless a plain acknowledger of one supreme God, the Maker
of the universe • • - • • • • • • • • • 225
Pythagoras’s dyad no evil god, or demon self-existent, as
Plutarch supposed..............................................................228
But this dyad of his, whether matter or no, derived from a
.monad. One simple unity the cause of all things * • 229
That Pythagoras, acknowledging a trinity of Divine hypos­
tases, did therefore sometimes describe God as a monad, some­
times as a mind, and sometimes as the soul of the world 231
The Pythagoric monad and first God the same with the Or
phic Love, senior to Japhet and Saturn, and the oldest of all
the gods, a substantial thing. But that Love, which Plato would'
have ,to be the youngest of the gods (the daughter of Penia, or
Indigency, and a parturient thing), nothing but a creaturely af­
fection in souls, personated and deified. Parmenides’s Love, the
first created god, or lower soul of the world, before whose pro­
duction Necessity is said to have reigned; that is, the necessity
of material motions undirected for ends, and good • • 233
That Pythagoras called the supreme Deity not only a monad,
but a tetrad or tetractys also. The reasons for this given from
the mysteries in the number four, trifling. More probability of
a late conjecture^ that the Pythagoric tetractys was not the He­
brew telragrammaton, not altogether unknown to the Hetruri-
ans and Latins • ^ ..............................................................235
Xenophanes a plain assertor both of many gods, and of one
God, called by him, One and All. Simplicius’s clear testimony
for this theosophy of Xenophanes, out of Theophrastus. Xeno­
phanes misrepresented by Aristotle, as an assertor of a spherical
corporeal god ........................................... ...... 238
Heraclitus, though a cloudy and confounded philosopher,
and one who could not conceive of any thing incorporeal, yet
both a hearty moralist, and a zealous assertor of one supreme
Deity ......................................................... . . . 241
The Ionic philosophers before Anaxagoras, being all of them
430 CONTENTS TO VOL* II.
Corporealists, and some of them Atheists; that Anaxagofas wa*
the first who asserted an incorporeal mind to be a principle#
and though not the cause of matter, yet of motion, and of the
regularity of things. The world, according to him, not eternal
but made, and out ofpre-existent similar atoms; and that not by
chance, but by mind or God. This mind of his purely incofpo*
real, as appeareth from his own words, cited by Simplicius 244
. Probable, that Anaxagoras admitted none of the inferior Pa­
gan gods. He condemned by the vulgar for an Atheist, because
he ungodded the stars, denying their animation, and affirming the
sun to be but a mass of fire, and the moon an earth. This dis­
liked also by Plato, as that which in those times would dispose
men to Atheism • . . . . . . . . . • • .247
Anaxagoras farther censured, both by Plato and Aristotle,.
because, though asserting mind to be a principle, he made much
more use of material than of mental and final causes; which
was looked upon by them as an atheistic tang in him. Never­
theless Anaxagoras a better Theist than those Christian philoso­
phers of latter times, who quite banish all mental causality from
the world • • • ............................... ..... • • . • 242
. Parmenides’s acknowledgment of one God the cause of gods.
Whiph s.upreme Deity, by Parmenides, styled One-all-immove-
able. That this is not to be taken physically, but metaphysically
and theologically; proved at large. The first principle of all,
to .these ancients, one, a simple unity or monad. This said to be
al^ because virtually containing all, and distributed into all; or
because all things are distinctly displayed from it. Lastly, the
same said to be immoveable, and indivisible, and without mag­
nitude, to distinguish it from the corporeal universe • 252
t6way, One-all, taken in different senses; by Parmenides
and Xenophanes, &c. divinely, for the supreme Deity (one
most simple Being, the Original of all things); but by others in
Aristotle atheistically, as if all things were but one and the same
matter diversely modified. But the One-all of these-latter, not
immoveable but moveable; it being nothing else but body:
whereas the ODe-all-immoveable is an incorporeal Deity.. This
does Aristotle, in his Metaphysics, close with, as good divinity.
That there is one incorporeal immoveable principle of all things
Simplicius’s observation, that though divers philosophers main­
tained a plurality or infinity of moveable principles, yet none
ever asserted more than one immoveable . . . . 256
Parmenides in Plato distinguishes three Divine hypostases, the
CONTENTS TQ VOL. II. 431
fiftjt whereof called by him, rd wav, one-all; the second, Sv
nravra, one all things; and the third, tv tat wavra, one and all
things • • • • • • • . . . . . . 2b6
. But that Parmenides by his One-ail-immoveable really under-;
stood the supreme Deity, yet farther unquestionably evident
from the verses cited out of him by Simplicius; wherein there is
also attributed thereunto a standing eternity, or duration, differ­
ent from that of time ........................................................ 262
The only difference betwixt Parmenides and Melissus, that:
the former called his One-all-immoveable, finite; the latter, In­
finite ; this in words rather than reality: the disagreeing agree-*
ment of these two philosophers fully declared by Simplicius. Me-
Jissus’s language more agreeable with our present theology.
Though Anaximander’s:infinite were nothing but senseless mat­
ter, yet Melissus’s Infinite was the true .Deity • • • 263
-That Zeno Eleates, by his One-all-immoveable, meant not the
corporeal world neither,,no inore than Melissus, Parmenides,
aud Xenophanes; but!the Deity, evident from Aristotle. Zeno’s
demonstration of one God, from the idea of a most powerful and
perfect being, in the same Aristotle • • • * • • 266
Empedocles’s first principle of all things, rd tv, or a unity
likewise, besides which he-supposed contention and friendship
to be the principles of all created beings; not only plants, brutes,
and men, but gods also • • • • • \ • • • • 267,
Empedocles’s original of all the eyil both of human souls and
demons, from this vfucog, discord and contention, together with .
the ill use of their liberty • • .• • • . . . . 271.,
.x x ii. The doctrine of divers other Pythagoreans also the
same; as Philolaus, Archytas, Ocellus, Aristmus, &c. Timeeus
Locrus’s God the Creator of gods. Onqtus’s many gods, and
his oue God, the Coryphmus of the gods. Euclides Megarensis’s
one the. very Good. Antisthenes’s many popular gods, but one
natural God. Diogenes Sinopensis’s God that fiilleth all things ib.
XX111. That Socrates asserted one God, undeniable from
Xenophqn . . . . . • • . • » . .. 283
But that he disclaimed all theotherinferior gods of the Pa­
gans, and died, as a martyr, for one only God, in this sense, a
vulgar e r r o r ..................................... . . 289
^ What the impiety imputed to him by his adversaries, appear-
eth from Plato’s Euthyphro, viz. that he freely and openly con­
demned those fables of the gods, wherein wicked and unjust ac­
tions were imputed to them * • • . . . • • 289
CONTENTS TO VOIr. IT*
432
That Plato really asserted one only God and no more, a vul­
gar error likewise %and that thirteenth epistle to Dionysius,
Wherein he'declared himself to be serions only when he began
his epistles with God, and not with gods (though extant in Eu­
sebius's time), spurious and supposititious. He worshipping the
sun and other stars also (supposed to be animated) as inferior
g o d s .................................................................................280
Nevertheless, undeniably evident, that Plato was no Polyarch-
ist, but a Monarchist, no assertor of many independent gods, or
principles, but of one Original of all things; one first God, one
greatest God, one Maker of the world and of the gods * M
In what sense the supreme God, to Plato, the cause and pvo-
•duoer of himself (out of Plotinus); and this notion not only en­
tertained by Seneca and Plotinus, but also by Lactantius, that
Plato really asserted a Trinity of universal Divine hypostases,
that have the nature of principles. The first hypostasis in Pla­
to's Trinity properly ofattkoc, the original Deity—the Cause and
King of all things: which also said by him to befirim ya rjfc
abalac, or farepotfvtoc, above essence • • • • • * 285
Xenophon, though withother Pagans he acknowledged a pin- .
rality of gods, yet a plain assertor also of one supreme and uni­
versal Numen • .............................................................. 303
•xxiv. Aristotle a frequent acknowledger of many gods. And
whether he believed any demons or no, which he sometimes
mentions (though sparingly), and insinuates them to be a kind
of aerial animals, more immortal than men; yet did he unques­
tionably look upon*the stars, or their intelligences, as gods ib.
Notwithstanding which, Aristotle doth not only often speak
of God singularly, and of the Divinity emphatically, but also
professedly opposes that imaginary opinion of many independent
principles,or unmadedeities. He confutingthe satnefromthe phe­
nomena or the compages of the world, which is not eimeo&J&ie,
bnt all uniform, and agreeably conspiring into one harmony 308
Aristotle’s supreme Deity, the first immoveable Mover. The
difference here betwixt Plato and Aristotle; Plato’s*original of
motion; a self-moving soul Aristotle’s an immoveable mind.
Btot this deference not so great as at first sight it seems; be­
cause Aristotle’s immoveable mind doth not move the heavens
efficiently, but only finally, or as being loved. Besides which,
he must needs suppose another immediate mover, which could
be nothing but a soul of them • • • • • • • 3 11
Aristotle’s immoveable mind not only the cause ofmotiony but
CONTENTS TO VOL* II. 433
also of well and fit; all the order, pulchritude, and harmony,
that are in the world, called therefore by Artetotle the separate
good thereof. This together with nature (its subordinate in-
strument) the efficient cause of the whole mundane system:
which, however co-eternal with it, yet is, in order of nature, ju ­
nior to it • ..................................................• • 314
Aristotle and other#ancients, when they affirm jnind to have
been the cause of all things, understood it thus, that all things
were made by an absolute wisdom, and after the best manner.
The Divine will, according to them, not a mere arbitrary, hu-
morsome, andfortuitous thing, but decency and fitness itself 317
From this passage of Aristotle’s, that the T)ivinity is either
God, or the work of God, evident, that he supposed all the
gods to have been derived from one and therefore his intelli­
gences of the spheres • * • • . . . • • • 318
That, according to Aristotle, this speculation of the Deity
constitutes a particular science by itself, distinct from physiolo­
gy and geometry; the former whereof (physiology) is conversant
about what was inseparable and moveable, the second (geome­
try, about things immoveable, but not really separable; but the
third and last (which is theology) about that which is both im­
moveable and separable, an incorporeal Deity * • • 319
' Four chief points of Aristotle’s theology or metaphysics, con­
cerning God; first, that though all things are not eternal and
unmade, yet something must needs be such, as likewise incor­
ruptible, or otherwise all might come to nothing. Secondly,
that God isan incorporeal substance, separatefrom sensihles, in­
divisible, and devoid of parts and magnitude. Thirdly, that the
Divine intellect is the same with its intelligibles, or containeth
them all within itself; because the Divine mind, being senior
to all things, and architectonical of the world, could not then
look abroad for its objects without itself. The contrary to
which supposed by Atheists. Lastly, that God being an im­
moveable substance, his act and energy are his essence; from
whence Aristotle would infer the eternity of the world * 320
• Aristotle’s creed and religion contained in these two-articles,'
first, that there is a Divinity which comprehends the whole M
a­
ture, or universe. And, secondly, that besides this, there are:
other particular inferior gods; but that all other things, in the
religion of the Pagans, were fabulously superadded hereunto for
political ends • • • . • • • • • • 322
VOL. IV. 2 F
434 CONTENTS TO VOL. H.
Speusippus, Xcnocrates, and Theophrastus, monarchists M i
x x t . The Stoics no better metaphysicians than Heraclitus,
in whose footsteps they trode, admitting of no incorporeal
substance. The qualities of the'mind also, to these Stoics,
bodies ...........................................................................\ 826
But the Stoics not therefore Atheists; they supposing aa eter­
nal unmade mind (though lodged in matter) the maker of the
whole mundane system............................................................ MS
The stoical argumentations for a God not inconsiderable, and
what they were • • * ............................................ MO
The stoical god, not a mere plastic and methodical, but an in
teUectual fire. *The world, according to them, not a plant, but
animal; and Jupiter the soul thereof. From the supposed one-
Mness of which Jupiter, they would sometimes infer the singu­
larity of the world: (Plutarch on the contrary affirming, that
though there were fifty, or a hundred worlds, yet would there
be^ for all that, but one Zeus or J u p ite r..........................334
Nevertheless the Stoics as polytheisticalas any sect. But so,
as that they supposed all their gods, save one, to be not only
native, but also mortal; made out of that one, and resolved
into that one again: these gods being all melted into Jupiter,
in the conflagration......................................................... 330
Wherefore during the intervals of successive worlds, the
Stoics acknowledged but one solitary Deity, and no more; Ju­
piter being then left all alone, and the other gods swallowed up
into him. Who therefore not only the creatorof allthe other
gods, but also the decreator of them • • • • * 333
The Stoics, notwithstanding this, religious worshippers of
their many gods; and thereby sometime derogated from the
honour of the Supreme, by sharing his sovereignty amongst
t h e m ...................................................................................... 341
Nevertheless, the supreme God praised and extolled by them
for above all the other gods; and acknowledged to be the sole
Maker of the world • • • • • • * • • • 342
Their professing subjection to his laws as their greatest li­
berty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
And to<submit their wills to his will in every thing, so as to
know no other will but the will ofJupiter * • • 343
Their pretending to look to God, and to do nothing without
a reference to him ; as also totrust in him and rely upon him 353
Their praising him as the Author of all good • « • 363)
Their addressing their devotions to him alone, without the
CONTENTS TO VOL. II. 48&
conjunction of any other god; and particularly imploring his as­
sistance against tem p tatio n s......................... t . . 353
Cleanthes’s excellent and devout hymn to the supreme God
354
xx vr. Cicero, though affecting to write in the way of the new
academy, yet no sceptic as to Theism. Nor was he an assertor
of many independent deities. Cicero's gods (the makers of the
world) thesame with Plato’seternal gods, or trinity ofDivine hy­
postases subordinate. This languagethePagans in St.Cyril would
justify, from that of the Scripture, " Let us make man" 356
Varro’s threefold theology, the fabulous, the natural, and the
civil or popular; agreeably to Scaevola the Pontifex's three
sorts of gods, poetical, philosophical, and political. The former
condemned by him as false; the second, though true, said to bfe
above the capacity of the vulgar: and therefore a necessity of a
third or middle betwixt both; because many things true in re­
ligion not fit for the vulgar to know. Varro’s supreme Numeli
the great soal or tnind of the whole world: his inferior gods,
parts of the world animated. Image-worship condemned by him
as disagreeable to the natural theology • • • • * 364
Seneca, a pagan Polytheist, but plain assertor of one supreme
Nsmen excellently described by him. That in his book of Su­
perstition (now lost) he did as freely censure the civil theology
ofthe Romans, as Varro bad done the fabulous or theatrical 368
Quintilian, Pliny, Apuleius, their clear acknowledgments of
one sovereign universal Deity. Symmaehus (a great stickler for
Paganism)) his assertion, that it was one and the same thing
which was- worshipped in all religions, though in different
ways ........................................................................... • 369
The writer De Mundo, though not Aristotle, yet a Pagan.
His cause that containeth all things, and God from whom aM
things are. Which passage being left out in Apuleius’s Latin
version, gives occasion of suspicion, that he was infected with
Plutarch’s Ditheism, or at least held matter to be unmade 97&
Plutarch a priest of Apollo, however unlickfiy engaged in
those two false opinions of an evil principle, and matter unmade,
yet a maintamer of one sole principle of ah good • • 974
Dio Chrysostomus, a Sophist, his dear testimony, (iaatkefarfku
rti Skop, that the whole world was under a kingly government or
monarchy • ............................................ . . . . 375
Galen’s true hymn to the praise of Him, that made us, in bis
book De usu Partium r ^ * 376
2 F 2
CONTENTS TO VOL. \U
43*
Maximus Tyrius’s short account of his own religion; one
supreme God the monarch ofthe whole wprld, and three subor­
dinate rauks of inferior gods, the sons and friends of God, and
his-ministers in the government of the world • • • 377
A most full and excellent description of the supreme God
in Aristides’* first oration, or hymn to Jupiter, wherein he af-
iirmeth all the several kinds of gods to be but a defluxion and
derivation from Jupiter • • • * • • • • • 379
All the latter philosophers after Christianity (though main-
tainers of the world’s eternity, yet) agreed in one supreme Deity,
the cause of this world, and of the other gods. Excellent spe­
culations in them concerning the Deity, especiallyPlotinus; who, #
though deriving matter and all from one Divine principle, yet
was a contender for many gods: he supposing the grandeur and
majesty of the supreme God to be declared by the multitude of
gods under him. Themistius; that the same supreme God was
worshipped by Pagans, Christians, and all nations, though in
different forms: and that God was delighted with this variety
of religions .............................................................. ...... 381
The full testimony of St. Cyril, that the Greek philosophers
universally acknowledged one God, the Maker of the universe,
from whom were produced into being certain other gods, both
intelligible and sensible • ...................................... 383
xxvi i. This not only the opinion of philosophers and learned
men, but also the general belief of the vulgar amongst the Pa­
gans. A judgment of the vulgar and generality to be made
from the poets. Dio Chrysostomus’s affirmation, that all the
poets acknowledged one first and greatest God, the Father of all
the rational kind, and the King thereof • • • • ib.
The testimony of Aristotle,That all men acknowledged king-
ship ormonarchy amongst the gods: of MaximusTyrius, that not­
withstanding so great a discrepancy of opinion in other things
yet throughout all the Gentile world, as well the unlearned as
learned, did universally agree in this, that there was one God the
King and Father of all, and many gods the sons of that one God;
of Dio Chrysostomus also to the same purpose; he intimating
likewise, that of the two, the acknowledgment of the one su­
preme God, was more general than that of the many inferior
gods ........................................................................... 383
That the sense, of the vulgar Pagans herein is farther evident
from hence, because all nations had their several proper names
for the one supreme.God; asihe Romans Jupiter, the Greeks
GONTENTS TO VOL. II. - 437
Zeus, the Africans and Arabians Hammon, the Scythians Pap.
paeus, the Babylonians Bel, &c. . . . . . . . 387
' True, that Origen, thaugh allowing Christians to use the ap­
pellative names for God in the languages of the several nations,
yet accounted it unlawful for to call him by those proper names;
because not only given to idols, hut also contaminated with
wicked rites and fables: according to which, they should he in­
deed rather the names of a demon than of a God. Notwith­
standing which, be does not’deny these Pagans ever to have
meant the supreme God by them, hut often acknowledge the
same. But Lactantius indeed denies the Capitoline Jupiter to
he thq supreme God, and that for two reasons. First, because
he was not worshipped without the partnership of Minerva and
Juno, his daughter and wife. Granted here, that there was a
mixture of the fabulous or poetical theology with the natural .to
makeup the civil. But that wise men understood these to be
hut three several names or notions of one supreme God. This
confirmed from Macrobius • • • • • . . • 388
Vossius’s conjecture, that in this Capitoline Trinity there
was a farther mystery aimed at, ofthree Divine hypostases. This
Roman trinity derived from the Samothracian Cabiri. Which
word being Hebraical, gives cause to suspect this tradition of a
trinity among the Pagans to have sprung from the-Hebrews 390
Lactantius’s second reason, because Jupiter being Juvanus
Pater, was a name below the dignity of the supreme God. The
answer, that the true etymon thereof was Jovis Pater, the He­
brew Tetragrammaton . . . ............................... - 39i
. That the Capitoline Jupiter was the supreme God, evident
from those titles of Optimus Maximus; and of Omnipotens by
the pontifices in their public sacrifices. Seneca’s testimony, that
the aucient Hetrurians by Jupiter meant the mind and spirit,
maker and governor, of the whole world The Roman soldiers'
acclamation in Marcus Aurelius’s German expedition (to Jove
the god of gods, who alone is powerful) according to Tertullian
a testimony to theChristian’s God .. • • . . . 392
That as the learned Pagans in their writings, so likewise the
vulgar io their common speech, when most serious, often used
the word God, singularly and emphatically, for the Supreme,
proved from Tertullian, Minutius Fcljx, and Lactantius: toge­
ther with the testimony of Proclus, that .the. one supreme God
was more universally believed throughout the world than the
many gods • • • . • •- • • • • ; , . . 39$
438 CONTENTS TO VOL. It.
That Kyrie Eleeson was anciently a Pagan litany to the su­
preme God, proved from Arianus. The supreme God often*
called by the Pagans also Kvpcog, or the Lord t .• • 307
, That even the most sottishly superstitious, idolatrous, and
polytheistical, amongst the Pagans, did, notwithstanding, gene­
rally acknowledge one supreme Deity; fully attested and ele­
gantly declared by Aurelius Prudentius in his Apotheosis 380
However, some of the ancient Pagans were said to have ac­
knowledged none but visible and corporeal gods, yet as they
conceived these to be endued with life and understanding, so
did they suppose one Supreme amongst them, as either the whole
heaven or ether animated, or the subtile fiery substance, that
pervadeth all things, the God of the Heredities and Stoics; or
the sun the Cleanthean g o d ............................................ 400
Though Macrobius refer so many 6f the Pagan gods to the
sun, and doubtless himself looked upon it as. a great god, yet
does he deny it to be omnipoteniimmum Deum, the most omni­
potent God of all; he asserting a Trinity of Divine bypostaaes
superior to it, in the Platonic way « • ♦ • • • 401
That the Persians themselves, the most notorious sun-wor­
shippers, did, notwithstanding, acknowledge a Deity superior to
it, and the maker thereof; proved from Eubulus. As also that
the Persians* country.Jupiter was not the sun,' confirmed from
Herodotus, Xenophon, Plutarch, and Curtius. Cyrus's Lord
God of heaven, who commanded him to build a house at Jeru­
salem ; the same with the God of the Jews • * • 405
That as (besides the Scythians) the Ethiopians in Strabo, and
other barbarian nations, anciently acknowledged one sovereign
Deity; so is this the beliefof the generality of the Pagan world
to this very d a y ..................................... * • • • 408
- x x v i i i . Besides Themistius and Symmachus, asserting one
and the same thing to be worshipped in all religions, though
after different ways, and that God Almighty was not displeased
with this variety of his worship; Plutarch’s memorable testi­
mony, that as the same sun, moon, and stars, are common to
all, so were the same gods. And that not only the Egyptians,
but also all other Pagan nations worshipped one reason and pro­
vidence ordering all; together with its inferior subservient
powers and ministers, though with different rites and sym­
bols • ............................... ........................................... 407
Titus Livius also of the samt persuasion, that the same im­
mortal gods were worshipped every where (namely, one supreme
CONTENTS TO VOL. « . 439
fend Lis inferior ministers); however the diversity fef rites made
them seem different . . .................................................. 409
Two Egyptian philosophers, Heraiscus arid Asclepiades, pro­
fessedly insisting upon the same thing, not only as to the Egypt­
ians, but also the other Pagan nations: the latter of them (As-
rilepiades) having written a book entitled, The Symphony, or
Harmony of all Theologies or Religions, to wit, ib these two fun­
damentals, that there is one supreme God, and besides him,
other inferior gods, his subservient ministers, to be .worshipped.
From whence Symmachus and other Pagans concluded, that the
differences of religion were not to be scrupulously stood upon,
but every man ought to worship God according to the law and
religion of his own country. The Pagans* sense thus declared
by Stobseus, that the multitude of gods is the work of the'De-
miurgus, made by him together with the world • • • 411
x x ix . That the pagan Theists must needs acknowledge one
supreme Deity, further evident from hence; because they ge­
nerally believed the whole world to be one animal, actuated and
governed by one soul. To deny the world’s animation, and to
be an Atheist, all one, in the sense of the ancient Pagans.
Against Gassendus, that Epicurus denied the world's animation,
upon no other account, but only because he denied a providen­
tial deity. This whole animated world, or the soul thereof, to
the Stoics, and others, the icp&roe 0£vc, the first and highest
God 41.4
Other Pagan theologers, who though asserting likewise the
world's animation, and a mundane soul, yet would not allow this
to be the supreme Deity, they conceiving the first and highest
God to be no soul, but an abstract and immoveable mind supe­
rior to it. And to these, the animated world and mundane soul
but Btvrepog a second god • - ......................... 415
But the generality of those, who Went higher than the soul of
the world, acknowledged also a principle superior to mind ot
intellect, called r d Sv and r a y a O d y , the one, and the good; and
so asserted a Trinity of Divine hypostases subordinate, Monad,
Mind, and Soul. So that the animated world or soul thereof
was to.some of these but rpiroc 0edc, the third god • • 416
, The Pagans, whether holding soul, or mind, or monad, to be
the highest, acknowledged only one in those several kinds, as
the head of all; and so always reduced the multiplicity of thing*
to an unity, or under~a monarchy * • • !• • 41T
Observed, that to the Pagan theologers universally, the world
440 CONTENTS TO VOL. II.
was no dead thing, or mere machine and automaton, but had
life or soul diffused through it all; those being taxed by Aris­
totle as Atheists, who made the world to consist of nothing but
monads or atoms, dead and inanimate. Nor was it quite cut off
from the supreme Deity, how much -soever elevated above the
same: the forementioned Trinity, of Monad, Mind, and Soul,
being supposed to be most intimately united together, and in­
deed all but one entire Divinity; displayed in the world; and
supporting the s a m e ................................................. 418
x x x . The sense of the Hebrews in this controversy. That
according to Philo, the pagan Polytheism consisted not in wor­
shipping many independent gods, and partial creators of the
world, but, besides the one Supreme, other created beings su­
perior to men • • • .................................................. 420
That the same also was the sense of Flavius Josephns, ac­
cording to whom, this the doctrine of Abraham; that the su­
preme God was alone to be religiously worshipped, and no
created thing with him. Aristaeus’s assertion in Josephus, that
the Jews and Greeks worshipped one and the same supreme
God, called by the Greeks Zene, as giving life to all • 422
The latter rabbinical writers generally of this persuasion,
that the Pagans acknowledging one supreme and universal Nu«
men, worshipped all their other gods, as his ministers, or’as
mediators and intercessors betwixt him and them. And this
condemned by them for iTT) JTTQy strange worship or idolatry.
—The first commandment thus interpreted by Maimonides, and
Baal Ikkarim; Thou shalt not set up, besides me; any inferior
gods as mediators, nor religiously worship my ministers or at­
tendants. The miscarriage of Solomon and other kings of Is­
rael and Judah this, that believing the existence of the one su­
preme God, they thought it was for his honour, that his minis­
ters also should be worshipped. Abravanel’s ten species of
idolatry, all of them but so many several modes of creature-
worship ; and no mention amongst them made of many inde­
pendent g o d s ............................... ...... • • • • . 424
Certain places of Scripture also interpreted by rabbinical
writers to this purpose; that the Pagan nations generally ac­
knowledged one sovereign Numen • • 429
The Jews, though agreeing with the Greeks and other Pagans
in this, that the stars were all animated, nevertheless denied
them any religious worship 431
xxxi. This same thing plainly confirmed from the New
CONTENTS TO VOL. II. 441
Testament; that the Gentiles or Pagans, however Polytheists
and idolaters, were not unacquainted with the true God. First
from the Epistle to the Romans,* where that, which is knowable
of God, is said tp have been manifest amongst the Pagans;
and they to have known God, though they did not “ glorify him
as God, but hold the truth in unrighteousness;” by reason of
their Polytheism and idolatry -(or image-worship), the latter of
which accounted by the Jews the greatest enormity of the Pa­
gans, as is proved from Philo: and this the Teason, why their
Polytheism called also idolatry. Plainly declared by St. Paul,
that the Pagan superstition consisted not in worshipping many
independent gods and creators, but.in joining creature-worship
some way or other with the worship of the Creator. Ilapa rd*
KTtffavra, how to be understood; and in what sense the Pa­
gans, though*acknowledging the Creator, might be said to have
worshipped the creature, beyond h i m ......................... 432
Again, from St. Paul’s oration to the Athenians, where their
“ unknown God” is said to be that same God, whom S t Paul
preached, who made the world and all things in it. And these
Athenian Pagans are affirmed ehaefieiy, religiously and devoutly
to worship this true G o d ..................................................437
Lastly, that Aratus’s Zeus was the true God, whose off­
spring our souls are, proved not only from the context of that
poet himself, undeniably, and from the scholiast upon him, but
also St. Paul’s positive affirmation. Nor was Aratus singular in
this; that ancient prayer of the Athenians, commended by M.
Antoninus for its simplicity, (*Ytroy, Zcroy, <
5 Zeu, Rain, rain,
O gracious Jupiter, &c.) no otherwise to be understood. And
how that other passage of St. Paul, that in the wisdom of God,
“ the world by wisdom knew not God,” does not at all clash
herewith • • • .................................................. • 442
x x x n . In order to a fuller explication of the Pagan theology,
and making it the better appear, that the Polytheism thereof was
not contradictious to the acknowledgment of one supreme om­
nipotent Numen; three things to be considered. First, that
much of their Polytheisnrwas but seeming and fantastical only,
and really nothing but the polyonymy of one God. Secondly,
that their real and natural Polytheism consisted only in religi­
ously worshipping, besides this one supreme universal Numen,
many other particular and inferior created beings; as animated
stars, demons, and heroes. Thirdly, that they worshipped both
Ihe supreme and inferior gods, in statues, images, and symbols;
44* CONTENTS TO VQ*.. II.
these were also sometimes abusively catted godft. To ooe Car
other of which three heads, all the pagan Polytheism referri*
We . . . .................................................. . . . 443
For the better persuading, that much of the pagan Polytheism,
was really nothing but the polyonymy of one supreme God, or
the worshipping him under several personal names; to be re*
tnembered again, what was before suggested; that the Pagan
nations generally, besides their vulgar, had another more arcane
theology, which was the theology of wise men and of truth.
That is, besides both their fabulous and poetical, their political
and civil theology, they had another natural and philosophic one.
This distinction of the vulgar and civil theology, from the natural
and real, owned by the Greeks generally, and amoogst the
Latins, by Scsevola the Pontifex, Varro, Cicero, Seneca, and
o t h e r s ......................... * .................................................ib.
That the civil theology of the Pagans differed from the nati»-
ral and real, by a certain mixture of fabulosity in it. Of the
Romans suffering the statue of Jupiter’s nurse to be kept iu the
very capitol,as a religious monument. Jupiter’s nativity, or his
having a father and a mother, atheistically fabulous; poets them*
selves acknowledging so much of the natural and true theology,
that Jupiter being the father of gods and men, the maker of the
whole world, was himself eternal and unmade • * • 445
That the civil as well as poetical theology had some appear*
ance of many independent deities also; they making several
supreme, in their several territories and functions; one chief
for one thing, and another for another. But according to the
natural and philosophic theology, the theology of wise men and
of truth, all these but poetical, commentitious, fictitious, and
fantastic gods; such as had no distinct substantial essences of
their own; and therefore really to be accounted nothing else
but several names or notions of one supreme God • « 446
Certain, that the Egyptians had several proper and personal
names for one supreme universal Numen, that comprehends the
whole world, according to several notions of it, or its several
powers: as Ammon, Phtha, Osiris, Neith, Cneph; to which
may be added Serapis and Isis too. Besides JambHchus, D»>
tnascius’s testimony also to this purpose; concerning the
Egyptian- theology. This the pattern of the other, especially
European theologies, the Greek and Roman . * * 447
That the Greeks and Romans also often made more gods of
one, or affected a polyonymy of the same gods, evident from
CONTENTS TO VOL. J J , , 44a
those many proper and personal names bestowed, first upon the
sun (of which Macrobius), who therefore had this epithet of
irokowyVfLos, given to him; and then upon the moon, styled also
polyonymous, as well as her brother the sun; and lastly upon the
earth, famous likewise for her many names, as Vesta, Cybele,'
Ceres, Proserpina, Op$, &c. Wherefore not at all to be doubt*
ed, but that the supreme God, or sovereign Numen of the whole
world, was much more polyonymous. This title given to him
also, as well as to Apollo in Hesychius. He thus invoked by
Cleanthes. Zeno, the writer De Mundo, Seneca, Macrobius,
clearly confirm the same. Maximus Madaurensis in St. Augus­
tine his full acknowledgment thereof • • • • • • 450*
The first instances of the polyonymy of the supreme God,
amongst the Pagans in such names as these ; Bpovraiog, T irioo,
TloXitvg, Meikl^Losf Scwog, 'ILtoTrjp, &c. And amongst the
Latins, Victor, Inviqtus, Opitulus, Stator, Tigillus, Centupeda,
Almus, Ruminus, .&c. Again, *Avayicrf, Eipapfxivrh Tieirpwfuyj]^
Moipa, ’ABpatrreia, all several names of the one supreme God, as
likewise were Clqtho, Lacbesis, and Atropos, in the writer De
Mundo. And amongst the Latins, not only Fate, but also Nature
and Fortune too, as Cicero and Seneca affirm • • • 453
But besides these, there were other proper names of the su«
preme God, which had a greater show and appearance of so many
several gods, they having their peculiar temples, and several
appropriated rites of worship. And, first, such as signify the
Deity, according to its more universal nature. As for example,
Pan; which not the corporeal world inanimate, or endued with
a senseless nature only, but a rational or intellectual principle
displaying itself in matter, framing the world harmoniously, and
being, in a manner, all things. This also the universal pastor
and shepherd of all mankind • ..................................... 453
Again,.Janus; first invoked by the Romans in their sacrifices^
and never omitted. The most ancient God, and first beginning
of all things. Described by Ovid, Martial, and others, as an
universal Numen. Concluded by St. Austin to be the same
with Jupiter, the soul or mind of the whole world. The word
Janus probably derived from Zavdg the JEtolian Jupiter 457
Genius also, one of the twenty select Roman gods, according
to Festus, an universal Numen; that God, who is the begetter
of all things. And, according to Varro in St. Austin, the same
with Jupiter • 453
That Chronos, or Saturn, no particular deity, but an universal
CONTENTS TO VOL. II.
Nnmen also, which comprehends the whole nature of the world,
.affirmed by Dionycdds Malicarnassensis. The word Saturn He-
trurian (and originally from the Hebrew *
1/TD) signifies hidden ;
called by the Latins, Dens Latins, the hidden God; whence
Italy Latium, and the Italians Latins; as worshippers of this
hidden God, or the occnlt principle of all things.' This, accord­
ing to Varro, he that produceth out of himself the hidden seeds
and forms of all things, and swalloweth them up into himself
again; which, the devouring of his male children. This sinus
quidam naturte, &c. a certain inward and deep recess of nature
containing all things within itself; as God was sometimes de-
fined by the Pagans: This to St. Austin the same with Ju­
piter ; as likewise was Coelus, or Uranus, in the old inscription,
another name of God too. The poetic theology of Jupiter's
being the son of Saturn, and Saturn the son of Coelus ; an inti­
mation (according to Plato) of a Trinity of Divine hypostases
u n iv e rs a l........................................................ 460
’ Though Minerva or Athena were sometimes confined to a
narrower sense, yet was it often taken for a name of God also,
according to his universal notion; it being to Athenagoras the
Divine' wisdom displaying itself through all things. This excel­
lently described by Aristides, as the first-begotten offspring of
the original Deity or the second Divine hypostasis, by which all
things were made; agreeably with the Christian theology 463
Aphrodite Urania, or the heavenly Venus, another name of
God also, according to his universal notion; it being the same
with that Love, which Orpheus, and other philosophers in Aris­
totle, made the first original of all things. Plato's distinction
of an elder and a younger Venus: the former, the daughter of
Uranus, without a mother, or the heavenly Venus: said to be
Senior to Japhet and Saturn. The latter, afterwards begotten
from Jupiter and the nymph Dione, the vulgar Venus. Urania,
or the heavenly Venus, called by the oriental nations, Mylitta;
that is, the mother of all things. Temples in Pausanias dedicated
to this heavenly Venus. This described by JEschylus, Euri­
pides, and Ovid, as the supreme Deity, and the Creator of all
the gods. God Almighty also thus described, as a heavenly Ve­
nus, or Love, by Sev. Boethius. To this Urania, or the heavenly
Venus, another Venus in Pausanias near a-kin ; called *Awotrrpo-
<
p(a or Verticordia; as conversive of men's minds upwards,
from unchaste love, or unclean lust • • • • . 466
^ Though Vulcan, according to the common notion of him, a
. CONTENTS TO VOL. II. 445
special god, yet had he sometimes a more universal considered
tion. Zeno in Laertius, that the supreme God is called Vulcan
as acting in the artificial fire of nature. Thus the soul of the
world styled by the Egyptians Pbtha; which, as Jamblichus tells
us, was the same with the Greeks’ Hephaestus, or Vulcan 468
Besides all which names of the supreme God, Seneca informs
us, that he was sometimes called also Liber Pater, because the
Parent of all things ;<sometimes Hercules, -because his force is
unconquerable; and sometimes Mercury, as being reason num­
ber, order, and knowledge • • • • • • • • 469
But besides this polyouymy of God, according to his univer­
sal notion, there were other dii spectales, or special gods also,
amongst the Pagans; which likewise were really but several
names of one and the same supreme Deity, varie utentis sue '
potestate (as Seneca writeth), diversely using his power, in parti­
cular cases, and in the several parts of the world. Thus Jupi­
ter, Neptune, and Pluto (mistaken by some Christians for a
trinity of independent gods), though three civil gods, yet were
they really but one and the.same natural and philosophic God;
as acting in those three parts of the world; the heaven, the sea,
the earth, and hell. Pluto in Plato's Cratylus, a name for that
part of Divine Providence which is exercised in the govern­
ment of separate souls after death • • • • • • 470
This styled by Virgil the Stygian Jupiter. But by others,
Pluto together with Ceres, the manifestation of the Deity, in
this whole terrestrial globe. The celestial and terrestrial Jupiter
but one God. Zeus and Hades one and the same to OrphenSi
Euripides doubtful whether God should be invoked by the
name of Zeus, or Hades. Hermesianax the Colophonian poet*,
makes Pluto the first of those many names of God synonymous.
with Z e u s ............................... • • .........................479
Neptune also, another special god, a name of the supreme
Deity, as acting in the seas only. This affirmed by Xenocrates
in Stobaeus, Zeno in Laertius, Balbus and Cotta in Cicero, and
also by Maximus T y r iu s ......................... ...... • • 473
The statue of Jupiter with .three eyes, in Pausanias; signify­
ing, that according to the natural theology, it was one and the
same God, ruling in those three several parts of.the world, the
heaven, the sea, and the earth; that was called by three namely
Jupiter, Neptune, and .Pluto. Wherefore, since Proserpina
and Ceres are the same with Pluto, and Salacia with Neptune,’
concluded, that.all.these, though.several poetical and political
446 CONTENTS TO YOL. T I.
gods, yet were but one and the same natural and philosophic
G o d .....................................................................................474
Juno also, another special god, a name of the supreme D uty,
as acting in the air. Thus Xenocrates and Zeno. The Pagans
in St. Austin, that God, in the ether. From whence St. Austin
disputeth against the Pagans. Maximus Tyrius, of these and
many other gods of the Pagans, that they were bnt Qeia 6v6p<*ra,
Divine n a m e s .....................................................................475
- Yet many other special gods amongst the Pagans, which also
were really nothing but Divine names, or names of God, as va­
riously exercising his power, or bestowing several gifts; as in
corn and fruit, Ceres; in wine, Bacchus; in medicine, J2scn-
lapius; in traffic, Mercury; in war, Mars; in governing the
winds, A£olus; &c. .........................................................478
That not only philosophers did thus interpret the many poeti­
cal and political gods, into one and the same natural God; but
the poets themselves also sometimes openly broached this more
arcane, free, and true theology; as Hermesianax amongst the
Greeks, and Valerius Soranus amongst the Latins • • • ib.
That St. Austin, making a large enumeration of the other
special gods amongst the Pagans, affirmeth of them universally,
that, according to the sense of the Pagan doctors, they were
but one natural god, and all really the same with Jupiter 479
Apuleius, in his book De Deo Socratis, either not rightly un­
derstood by that learned and industrious philologer, G. I. Vos-
sins, or else not sufficiently attended to. His design there
plainly to reduce the Pagans’ civil theology into a conformity
with the natural and philosophic; which he does as a Platonist,
by making the dii consentes of the Romans, and other invisible
gods, to be all of them nothing but the Divine ideas; and so
the offspring of one highest God. An occasion for this fancy,
given by Plato, where he calls his ideas animals • • • 482
Nor was Apuleius singular herein; Julian in his book against
the Christians going the very same way; and no otherwise un­
derstood by St. Cyril, than as to make the invisible gods wor­
shipped by the Pagans to be the Divine ideas. A fancy of the
same Julian, who opposed the incarnation of the eternal Word,
that iEsculapius was first of all the idea of the medicinal art,
generated by the supreme God, in the intelligible world; which
afterwards, by the vivific influence of the sun, was incarnated,
and appeared in human form about Epidaurus. And that this
Pagan doctrine; older than Christianity, proved out of Philo^
CONTENTS TO VOL. If. 447
writing of a 9un, and moon intelligible, as Well as sensible, 10.
ligiously worshipped by the Pagans; that is, the ideas of the
archetypal world. And thus were these ideas of the Divine in­
tellect, vorjrol (kol, intelligible gods,—to Plotinus also * 482
Wherefore Julian, ApuleiuS, and those others, who thus made
all the Pagan invisible gods to be nothing else but the Divine
ideas, the patterns of things in the archetypal world, supposed
them not to be so many independent deities, nor really distinct
substances, separate from one another, but only so many partial
considerations of one God. Julian before affirming them,
avroV y sy ev vija S a i abrovg, trvwTrapyeiv re Kal kvw rapxjuv a v ra , as
to have been generated out of him; so also to coexist with him,
and inexist in him * • • • • • • • * « • • 492
That the Pagans appointed some particular god or goddess
by name, to preside over every thing (there being firiSZv 33bok,
nothing at all without a god to them),—appeareth from that ca.
talogue of their ignoble or petty gods, collected by St. Austin
out of Yarro. Now it is incredible, that they should think. all
these to be so many,single substantial spirits of each sex, really
existing, apart in the world: they must therefore needs take them
to be so many partial considerations of the Deity, either m the
way of the more high-frown Platonists, as his ideas exenfplavily
and virtually containing all things; or else in that more com*-
men and easy way of the generality ; as so many several dean*-
minations of him, according to the several manifestations of his
power and providence; or, as the Pagans in Eusebius declam
themselves, tho^e several virtues and powers of the supreme
God, themselves personated and deified. Which yet, because
they were not executed without the subservient ministry of cre­
ated spirits, angels, or demons, appointed to preside over such
things; therefore might these also, collectively taken, be. in­
cluded under them • * ............................... ...... • 498
But for the fuller clearing of this point, that the pagan Po*-
lytheism was in great part nothing but the polyonymy of one
God, two things here to be taken notice of. First, that the Fa*
gan theology universally supposed God to be diffused through
all, to permeate and pervade all, and intimately to act all* Thus
Horns Apollo of the Egyptians. Thus, among the Greeks, Dioge­
nes the Cynic, Aristotle theItalic,and Stoical philosophers. Thus
the Indian Brachmans before Strabo. Thus also the Latin:poets ;
and Seneca, Quintilian,Apuleius,and Servius,besides others 490
That Anaxagoras, and Plato also, though neither of them con*
448 CONTENTS TO VOL. II.
founded God with the world, but affirmed himio be unmingied
with any thing, yet concluded hint in like manner to permeate
and pervade all things. Plato's etymology of Sixatov, as taken
for a name of God, to this purpose in his Cratylus. Where a
fragment of Heraclitus, and his description of God agreeably
hereunto; a most subtile and swift substance, that permeates
and passes through every thing, by which all things are made.
But PlatQ, disclaiming this corporeity of the Deity, will neither
have it fire nor heat; but a perfect mind, that passes through
all things u n m ix ed ly ........................................................ 500
Wherefore no wonder, if the Pagans, supposing God to be
diffused through all things, called him, in the several parts of
the world; and things of nature, by several names, as in the
earth Ceres, in the sea Neptune, &c. This account of the pa­
gan Polytheism given by Paulus Orosius, that whilst they be­
lieved God to be in many things, they indiscreetly made many
gods of h i m .............................................................. • 501
Farther to be observed, that many of the Pagan tbeologers
seemed to go yet a strain higher,-they supposing God not only
to pervade all things, but also to be himself all things. That
the ancient Egyptian theology ran so high, evident from the
Saitic inscription. A strong tang hereof in jEschylus; as also
in Lucan. Neither was this proper to those who held God to
be the soul of the world, but the language also of those other
more refined philosophers, Xenophanes, Parmenides, &c. they
affirming God to be one and all, with which agreeth the author
of the Asclepian Dialogue, that God is units omnia, one all
things;—and that before things were made, he did then xpfacreiy,
hide them,—or occultly contain them all within himself. In like
manner Orpheus, ..................................................• • 502
This not only a farther ground of the polyonymy of one
God, according to the various manifestations of himselfin the
world, but also of another strange phenomenon in the. Pagan
theology, their personating the inanimate parts of the world,
and natures of things, and bestowing the names of gods and
goddesses upon them. Thus Moschopulus before cited, and.
Arnobius. This Plutarch thinks to have been done at first
metonymically only, the effects of the gods being called gods;
as the books of Plato, Plato. And thus far not disliked by him.
But himself complaineth, that afterwards it was carried on far­
ther by superstitious religionists, and not without great, im­
piety. Nevertheless, that inanimate substances, and the natures
CONTENT! TO VOL. II. . 449
of things, were formerly deified hy the ancient Pagans, other­
wise thanmetonymically, proved from Cicero, Philo, and Plato.
For they supposing God, to pervade all things, and to be all
things, did therefore look upon every thing as sacred or Divine;
and theologize the parts of the world and natures of things;
titularly making them gods and goddesses. But especially such
things, as wherein human utility was most concerned, and which
had most ofwonder in t h e m ............................................504
This properly the physiological theology of the Pagans, their
personating and deifying the natures of things and inanimate
substances. That the ancient poetic fables^of the gods were
many of them, in their first and true meaning, thus physiologi­
cally allegorical, and not mere herology, affirmed against Euse­
bius. Zeno, Cleanthes, and Chrysippus, famous for thus alle­
gorizing the fables of the gods. Chrysippus’s allegorizing an
obscene picture of Jupiter and Juno in Samos. Plato, though
no friend to these poetic fables, yet confesses some of them to
have contained allegories in them: the same doth also Dionysius
Halicarnassus; and Cicero likewise, who affirmeth this person-
ating and deifying the natures of things, to have filled the world
with su p erstitio n ............................... .............................. 511
Against Eusebius again, that the whole theology of the Pagans
consisted not in thus deifying the natures of things, and inani­
mate bodies; because he that acknowledgeth no animant God,
acknowledgeth no God at all, but is a downright Atheist 514
Neither ought this physiological theology of the Pagans, that
consisted in personating and deifying the natures of things and
inanimate bodies, to be confounded with that natural and phi­
losophical theology of Varro, Scaevola, and others, which ad­
mitted of no other but animant gods^and such as really existed
in nature: for which cause it was called natural, in opposition
to the fictitious and fantastic poetic gods • • • • 515
‘ St. Austin’s just censure and condemnation of the Pagans,
for their thus theologizing of physiology, or fictitiously per­
sonating and deifying the natures of things • - • • 516
But though the Pagans did thus verbally personate and deify
the things of nature, yet did not the intelligent amongst them
therefore count these true and proper gods. Cotta in Cicero,
“ though we call corn Ceres, and wine Bacchus, yet was there
never any one so mad, as to take that for a god which himself
feeds upon and devours.” The Pagans really accounted that
only for a god, by the invoking whereof they might expect be-
VOL. IV. 2 6
460 CONTENTS TO VOL. IT.
nefit to themselves; and therefore nothing inanimate. This
proved from Plato, Aristotle, Lucretius, Cicero, and Plutarch.
Wherefore these natures of things deified, but fictitious and
fantastic gods. Nor can any other sense be made of them than
this, that they were really but so many several names of one
supreme God, as severally manifested in his works 2 according
to that Egyptian theology, that God may be called by the name
of every thing, or every thing by the name of God. With which
agreeth Seneca, that there may be as many names of God, as
there are gifts and effects of his; and the writer De Mundo,
that God may be denominated from every nature, he being the
cause of all things.................................................................617
Wherefore these deified natures of things were not directly
worshipped by the intelligent Pagans, but only relatively to the
supreme God, 6r in way of complication with him only; and so
not so much themselves as God worshipped in them. - The
Pagans’ pretence, that they did not look upon the world with
such eyes as oxen and horses do, but with religious eyes, so as
to see God in every thing. They therefore worshipped the in­
visible Deity in the visible manifestations of himself; God and
the world together. This sometimes called Pan and Jupiter.
Thus was the whole world said to be the greatest God, and the
circle of the heavens worshipped by the Persians; not as inani*
mate matter, but as the visible manifestation of the Deity, di*
played from it, and pervaded by it. When the Roman^sen*
captains sacrificed to the waves, their worship intended to that
God who stilleth the waves and quieteth the billows • 621
These Pagans also apprehended a necessity of permitting
men to worship the invisible God in his visible works. This
account given by them in Eusebius. Plato himself approved
of worshipping the invisible God in the sun, moon, and stars, as
his visible images. And though Maximus Tyrius would have
men endeavour to rise above the starry heavens, and all visible
things, yet does he allow the weaker to worship God in Ills pro?
geny. And Socrates persuades Euthydemus to be contented
herewith. Besides which, some Pagans worshipping the ele­
ments, directed their intention to the spirits of those elements,
as Julian in Ammianus (these being supposed also to be ani*
mated), or else to those demons whom they conceived to inhabit
them, or preside over them • • • • • . . . 524
x x x in . Fairther to be observed, that amongst those natures
of things, some were merely accidental, as hope, love,, derive*
CONTENTS TO YOU If, 451
memory, truth, virtue, piety, faith, justice, concord, Clemency,
victory, echo, night. According to which, the vulgar Athenians
supposed St. Paul to have deified Anastasis, or made a goddess
of the resurrection, as well as a god of Jesus*. Vices also some*
times thus <Jrified by them, as Contumely and Impudence (to
whom were.temples dedicated at Athens), though to the end
that these things might be deprecated. These accidents some,
times deified under counterfeit proper names, as Pleasure under
the name of Yolupia, and Lubentina Venus; Time, under the
name of Chronos or Saturn; Prudence, or Wisdom, under the
names of Athena or Minerva; against which, Origen in his an*
swer to Celsus. Cicero himself allowed of dedicating temples
to mind, virtue, piety, faith, &c. • • • • • , • • 527
But such accidents and affections of things deified could not
possibly be accounted true and proper gods, they having not
■farieraffiv Kal ohtrlav, any real subsistence, or substantial essence
of their own.—And thus does Origen again dispute against Mi*
nerva’s godship, as tropologized into Prudence* As lie doth
also elsewhere, upon the same ground, against that of Memory,
the mother of the Muses, and that of the G ra cesh e conceiv­
ing, these and such-like, therefore, to be nothing but figments
of the Greeks, they being things personated, and feigned with
human members. 4Thus the Pagans condemned by Prudentius
also, for feigning things incorporeal, with counterfeit members*
These gods plainly exploded by Cotta, or Cicero in disguise;
as having only rim rerum, but not deorum, the force of things*
but not of gods in them; or being butnatura rerum, and not
jigurte deorum » * . ♦ * ♦ . * * * * # 6B1
Wherefore the true meaning of these deified natures of things
could be no other,than this, that God-was to be acknowledged
and worshipped in all things; or, as the Pagans*themselves de-
declare it, that the force of every thing was both governed by
God, and itself Divine* Pliny of this breaking and crumbling
of the Deity into parts, every one worshipping that in God, and
for a god, which himself most stood in need of This dividing
of the simple.Deity, and worshipping it brokenly by parcels and
piece-meal, as manifested in all the several things of nature, and
parts of the world, justly censured, and elegantly perstringed,
by Prudentius against Symmachus. Where Prudentius grants,
that Symmachus, who declared, that it was one thing which all
worshipped; when he. sacrificed to Victory, did sacrifice to
God Almighty, under that partial'notion, as the giver of vic-
2 0 2
462 CONTENTS TO VOL. it.
tory. This, in the Egyptian allegory, Osiris mangled and cot
in pieces by Typhon. Victory and Virtue, as well as Neptune;
Mars, and Bellona, but several names or notions of Jupiter, in
the prblogue of Plautus's Amphitryo . . . . . . 534
Vossius’s opinion, that these deified accidents, and natures
of things, as well as the other Pagan invisible gods, were com-
mqnly looked upon by the vulgar, as so many single substantial
minds, or spirits created by the supreme God, and appointed
to preside over those several things respectively. Where it is
acknowledged, that neither the political nor the poetical gods
of the Pagans were taken, so much as by the vulgar, ibr so
many independent d eities.................................................. 536
Probable, that by these gods the wiser Pagans sometimes un­
derstood demons in general, or collectively; that is, whosoever
they were, that were appointed to preside over those seveml
things, or dispense them. As jEolus in Arriahus seems to be
taken for the demons appointed by God Almighty to preside
over the w inds......................................................................7539
Lactantius’s reason, why the consentes and select gods, vul­
garly worshipped by the Romans, could not be single demons
or angels • ................................................................543
And from Aristotle’s observation, against Zeno, that, accord­
ing to law, or civil theology, one god was chief for one things
and another for another, concluded, that these political gods
were not properly the subservient ministers of the Supreme;
and therefore could be nothing but several names and notions
of one natural God, according to his various powers and ef­
fects ..................................................................................ib.
And thus does Vossius himself afterwards confess, that, ac­
cording to the natural theology, all the Pagan gods were but
several denominations of one God. Where, notwithstanding,
this learned and industrious philologer seems to take the natu­
ral and philosophic theology for the physiological, he making
the god thereof the nature of things. Whereas the natural theo­
logy was the true, and real, and philosophical, opposed both to
the fictions of the poets, and the institutes of law-makers and
politicians. As Varro affirmeth, that in cities those things were
worshipped and believed, according to false opinions, which had
no nature, nor real subsistence, neither in the world, nor with­
out it. The God of the Pagans not the nature of things, which
could be the Numen of none but of Atheists; but an under­
standing Being, the great Mind, or Soul of the whole world,
CONTENTS TO VOL. II. 453
pervading all things. Thus unquestionably true, that the many
poetical and political gods were but several names or notions of
one natural, real, and true God. Besides which, there were
other inferior ministers of this supreme God, acknowledged to
be the instruments of his providence, and religiously worshipped
also. A brief but full account of the Pagans’ natural theology,
set down by P ru d e n tiu s ..................................................544
And when the more high-flown Pagans referred these poetical
and political gods to the pivine ideas, or patterns of things in
the archetypal world ; whict, besides the Platonists, the Egypt­
ians in Celsus are said to have done, making the brute animals
worshipped by them, but symbols of the eternal ideas; they
hereby made these gods to be but so many partial considera­
tions of one God neither, as being all things, or containing in
himself the causes of all things; as Julian himself declareth in
his sixth o r a t i o n .............................................................. 547
An anacephalaeosis, that much of the pagan Polytheism was
but the polyonymy of one G od; he being worshipped under
several names, £irst, according to several general notions of
of him ; as of Janus, Genius, Saturn, Minerva, Urania, or the
heavenly Venus, or Love, and others before declared. So also
of Summanus, according to St. Austin, and Themis, afterwards
to be m e n tio n e d .............................................................. 549
And, secondly, according to other more particular notions of
them (in their special gods), as acting in some parts of the world
only, or exercising some particular powers • • • • 551
And, lastly, as pervading all things, and being all things, or the
cause of all things, he was thereupon called by the name of
every thing, or every thing by his name. The Pagans in St.
Austin; that their ancestors were not so sottish, as not to un­
derstand, that those things of nature were but Divine gifts, and
not themselves gods. And the Pagans in Eusebius; that the in­
visible God, the cause of all things, ought to be worshipped
in his visible effects, wherein he hath displayed himself • 552
Though the two former kinds of these gods only called by
Athanasius poetical and fictitious, he opposing them to those of
the third sort, that were natural and real things: yet may these
also be well called poetical, fictitious, and fantastical gods too;
because though themselves were real things, existing in nature,
yet was their personation and deification, mere fiction, fancy,
and poetry. And accordingly were they before called by Ori-
gen *EXX^vwvkvatr\aafiara}mere fragments of the Greeks 553
/
CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
xxxiv* O f those Pagans, who supposed the supreme God
to be the whole animated world. Hitherto shewed, that even
the most refined of the Pagans agreed in these two things.
First, in breaking and crumbling the one simple Deity, and
multiplying it into many gods; or parcelling it out iilto several
particular notions, according to its several powers and virtues
(JloXvdiwfiov being, to these Pagans, the same thing with ITo-
XvtivvafjLov). And then, in theologizing the whole world, per­
sonating and deifying the natures of things, accidents, and
inanimate bodies. They supposing God to pervade all things,
and himself to be in a manner all things: therefore every thing
to the religious, sacred, and Divine; and God to be worshipped
iq a l l .............................................................................. • • 1
We shall now add, that both those forementioned principles,
of God’s pervading all things, and his being all things, were
carried on farther by those Pagan theologers, who had no
higher notion of the supreme Deity, than as the soul of the
world. For, first, whereas the more refined Pagans supposed
God to pervade all things unmixedly; these mingled and con.
founded him with the whole world; some of them supposing
him also to be a subtile b o d y .............................................3
Again, whereas the other more sublimated Pagans affirmed
God so to be all, as nevertheless to be something.also above
all; these concluded him to be nothing higher than the ani­
mated world ................................* ......................................5
And though, they supposed, that as well in this mundane ani­
mal as in other animals, there was something principal and
hegemonical (whether the sun, or ether, or fire), which there­
fore was emphatically called G od; yet did they conceive the
whole matter thereof to be animated, and so to be all God.
Not barely as matter, but by reason of the soul thereof • ib.
Now if the whole world animated be the supreme G od, then
must all the parts and members of the world be the parts and
members of one G od; but not themselves therefore properly so
CONTENTS TO VOL. 111. 455
many gods. This affirmed by Origen, as the frue sense of
these Pagans, against that unwary assertion of Celsus, that if
the whole were God, then must the several parts thereof needs
be gods ........................................................ ...... • « • 8
Wherefore, though these Pagans deified the parts of the
world and natures of things, as well as the powers of the mun­
dane soul; yet did not the intelligent amongst them worship
them severally, as so many true and proper gods, but only as
the parts and members of one great animal or god; or rather
worship the great mundane Soul (the X.ife of the whole world)
in them all. This proved from St. Austin • • • • 10
The,same plainly declared also by the Pagans in Athanasius,
that not the divided parts of the world were by them accounted
so many several gods, but the whole, made up of them all, one
God; which yet might be worshipped in its several parts 12
The Pagans being thus divided, as to their opinions con- x
cerning the natural and true theology, some of them worshipped
the world as the bpdy of God, but others only as his image or
temple. Thus Plutarch, though disliking the deifying of in­
animate things, did notwithstanding approve of worshipping
God in the whole world, as bis most sacred temple. And the
Persian Magi, allowing of no artificial temples made with men’s
hands, worshipped God mb dio, and upon the tops of moun­
tains, as conceiving the whole world to be his natural temple.
For the same reason did they condemn also artificial statues
and images, concluding fire, earth, and water, and the like parts
of the world, to be the natural images of the Deity. Thus Dino
in Clemens Alexanddnus. This difference amongst the Pagan
theologers noted by Maorobius. Thus were all. the Pagans
world-worshippers, in different senses; but not as a dead and
inanimate thing, but either as the body of God, or else as his
temple or image • • * • • • • ................................13
Furthermore, the Pagans universally acknowledging the world
to be an animal, those .of them, who supposed it not to be the
first and highest God, conceived it to be either a second or
else a third god; and so worshipped it, not only as a temple or
image, but also as the son of the first God. Celsus pretended
the Christians to have called their Jesus the Son of God, in
imitation of these Pagans who styled the world so '• • 17
Thus have we made it fully to appear, that, according to the
saying of Antisthenes,. the many popular gods of the Pagans
466 CONTENTS TO VOL. 111.
were bot one and the same natural God; or, according to that
of Euclides, their many gods were but many names. So that
neither their poetical not yet their political theology, was looked
upon by them as true and n a tu ra l...................................... 19
Nevertheless, the wiser Pagans generally concluded, that
there ought to be another theology, besides the natural, fitly
calculated for the vulgar, and having a mixture of falsehood
and fabulosity in it. Varro and Scsevola agreed, that the vulgar
being incapable of the true and natural theology, it was expe­
dient for them to. be deceived in their religion. Strabo also,
that the vulgar cannot, by philosophic reason and truth, be car­
ried on to piety; but this must be done by superstition, and by
the help of fables, and prodigious relations. The same partly
acknowledged by Synesius for true. Plato also, that it is hard
to find out God, but impossible to declare him to the vulgar;
and therefore a necessity of a civil theology, distinct from the
natural and philosophical • • • • • • * • • 20
xxxv. We come now to the next thing proposed, that, be­
sides this seeming and fantastic Polytheism of the Pagans, which
was nothing but the polyonymy of one God, they had another
real Polytheism, even in their natural and philosophic theology
itself. But this not of self-existent gods, but generated or cre­
ated ones only. Thus, according to Plutarch, one highest un­
made God is the Maker and Father of all the other gods, gene,
rated or derived from him. And Proclus concludes all the
gods to derive their godship from the first God, who therefore
is the fountain of the G odhead............................................29
These inferior Pagan gods styled by Ammianus Marcellinus
substantial powers, in way of opposition to those other poetical
and political gods, that were not**substantial or real, but only
several names or notions of one supreme God. Those sub­
stantial powers (as divination and prophecy was by them im­
parted to men) said to be all subject to that one sovereign
deity, called Themis, placed by Pagan theologers in the throne
of Jupiter. This Themis also another name or notion of the
supreme God, besides those beforementioned. Poetry and phan-
tastry intermingled by the Pagans with their natural or philoso­
phic th e o lo g y .................................................. 25
Thus the Pagans held both one God and many gods, in dif­
ferent senses. Onatus and Plotinus, that the majesty of the
supreme God consisteth in having multitudes of gods dependent
CONTENTS TO VOL III. 457
on him, and ruled by him, and that the honour done to them
redounds to him. The gods of the original Pagans not mere
dead statues and images, but living understanding beings, re­
presented by them. That Christians asserted no solitary Deity,
as Pagans pretended, but agreed .with this of Seneca, that God
hath generated or created innumerable understanding beings
superior to men, ministers of his kingdom; the only difference
being this, that they gave them no religious worship: out of
L a c ta n tiu s .................................................................... ...... 28
xxxvi. That besides the inferior gods, generally received by
all the Pagans (namely, animated stars, demons, and heroes), the
more refined of them, who accounted not the animated world the
supreme Deity, acknowledged a trinity of Divine hypostases su­
perior to them all. Which doctrine affirmed by Plotinus to have
been Very ancient, and no invention of Plato’s • • • • 32
Parmenides an assertor of a trinity long before Plato. This
imputed to the Pythagoreans, by Moderatus in Simplicius^and
Jamblichus in Proclus. Before Pythagoras, Orpheus had his
trinity, Phanes, Uranus, and Chronus; the same with Plato’s
three kings or principles. Probable, that Pythagoras and Or­
pheus derived the same from the theology of the Egyptian
'Hermes. Some footsteps of such a trinity, in the Mithraic mys­
teries, amongst the Persians, and the Zoroastrian cabala. The
same expressly declared in the Magic or Chaldaic oracles. A
trinity of Gods worshipped anciently by the Samothracjans, and
called by a Hebrew name cabiri, the mighty gods. From thence
the Roman Capitoline trinity derived; the second whereof, Mi-
nervst, or the Divine wisdom. The Ternary, a number used by
the Pagans, in their religious rites, as mysterious , • * 3 3
It being no way probable, that such a trinity o f Divine hy­
postases should have sprung from human wit, we may reason­
ably assent to what Proclus affirmetb, that it was at first deo?ra-
paloTOQ &
EoXoyicLya theology of Divine tradition or revelation;—
as having, been first imparted to tfie Hebrews, and from them
communicated to other nations. Nevertheless, as this Divine
cabala was but little understood by these Pagans, so was it by
many of them depraved and adulterated • • • • * 35
This called universally by them a trinity of gods; or a first,
second, and third god: by some a trinity of causes, and of
principles, and of opificers. The tradition of the three gods,
in Proclus, ancient and famous. Numenius’s three gods, called
468 OONTBNTS TO 'VOL. III.
by bim the father, the son, and the nephew (or grandson).
Nous, or intellect, to Plotinus, a second god: as also the world
an image of all the three gods. Plotinus and Porphyrius, their
ecstatic union with the first of these three gods • • ♦ 36
• That Philo, a religious Jew, and zealous opposer of the pa­
gan Polytheism, called, notwithstanding, the Divine Word, also
a second god. This not agreeable to the principles of Christ­
ianity. Nevertheless S t Austin partly excuses this language
in the Pagans • ‘• .................................................. • 39
And they perhaps the more excusable, because they some­
times called also those three hypostases, taken all together, the
first god ................................................................................. 4 1
Nor was this trinity of Divine hypostases ilMapguaged only
by the Pagans, but also the cabala thereof much depraved and
adulterated by some Platonists and Pythagoreans. As first,
such as made the world to be the third god. Such a trinity, a
confounding of God and creature together • • • . 42
And that this an adulterated notion of the Trinity, evident
from hence; because no reason, why these philosophers should
stop here, since the sun, moon, and stars, and their other ge­
nerated gods, differ not in kind, but only in degree, from the
worid • • • • • • • • • • • • • 44
Neither will this excuse them, that they understood this
chiefly of the soul of the world; since if there were such a
mundane soul, as together with the world made up one animal,
this itself must needs be a creature a l s o ..........................ib.
This probably the reason, why Philo, though acknowledging
the Divine Word as a second god, and second cause, yet no
where speaketh of a third god; lest he should thereby seem to
deify the whole created world. Though he call God also, in
some sense, the soul of the world too (whether meaning thereby
his first or his second god). So that Philo seems to have ac­
knowledged only a duality, and not a trinity, of Divine hypo­
stases • ................................* .............................. 45
Another depravation of this ^eowapd^oroQ ScoXoyla, theology
of Divine tradition—or cabala of the Trinity, that some of these
Platonists and Pythagoreans, concluding all those several ideas
of the Divine intellect, or archetypal world, to be so many dis­
tinct substances, animals, and gods; have thereby made their
second hypostasis, not one, but a heap ofinnumerable gods and
hypostases, and consequently destroyed their trinity » • 46
CONTENTS TO VOL. H I. 469
Though Philo again here Platonized so for, as to suppose an
incorporeal heaven and earthy and an intelligible sun, moon, and
stars, to have been made before the corporeal and sensible; yet
does he no where declare them to be so many distinct sub­
stances and animals, much less gods; but on the contrary cen­
sures that for Pagan idolatry. This pretence of worshipping
the Divine ideas, in all sensible things, that which gave sanctu­
ary and protection to the foulest and sottishest of all the Pagan
idolatries; the Egyptians worshipping brute animals thus, and
the Greeks the parts of the world inanimate, and natures of
things • • .................................................. • • • 48
A third depravation or adulteration of the Divine cabala of
the Trinity, by Proclus and other latter Platonists, asserting an
innumerable company of henades, particular unities, superior
to the first Nous, or Intellect, their second hypostasis; as also
innumerable noes, substantial minds or intellects, superior to
the first Psyche, their third hypostasis................................ 60
These noes seem to be asserted by Plotinus also: as likewise
the henades and agathotetes were by Simplicius • • • 61
A swarm of innumerable* Pagan gods from hence; besides
their intelligible gods, or ideas, particular henades and noes,
unities and in te lle c ts ..................................................* 6 8
Now since these particular henades and noes of theirs must
needs be creatures, the trinity of Proclus and such others no­
thing but a scale or -ladder of nature, wherein God and the
creature are confounded together, the juncture or commissure
betwixt them being no where discernible; as if they differed
only in degrees; a gross mistake and adulteration of the an­
cient cabala of the T rin ity ................................................ ib.
This that Platonic, or rather pseudo-Platonic trinity, by us
opposed to the Christian, viz. such a trinity, as confounds the
differences betwixt God1and the creature; bringing the Deity
by degrees down lower and lower* and at length scattering it
into all the animated piuts of the world; a foundation for in­
finite Polytheism, cosmolatry or world-idolatry, and creature-
worship. Hence the Platonists and Pythagoreans the fittest
men to be champions for Paganism against Christianity • 65
Concerning the Christian Trinity, three things to be observed.
First, that it is not a Trinity of mere names and words, nor lo­
gical notions, or inadequate conceptions of God; this doctrine
having been-condemned by the Christian church, in Sabeliius
460 CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
and others; but a Trinity of hypostases,., subsistences, or per*
s o n s ............................... 56
The second thing observable in the Christian Trinity, that
though the second hypostasis thereof were begotten from the
.first, and the third proceedeth both from the first and second;
.yet neither of them creatures. First, because not made c£ ovk
ovtwv, or from an antecedent nonexistence brought forth into
being, hut both of them coeternal with the Father. Secondly,
because all necessarily existent, and unannihilable.. Thirdly,
because all of them universal, or infinite, and creatures of all
other particular beings • • • , ............................... • 58
The third observable qs to the Christian Trinity, that the three
,hypostases thereof are all truly and really one G od; not only,
by reason of agreement of will, but also of a mutual vtpv^tapritnQ
gnd evvirapfa, permeation of each other, and inexistence.—
Though no instance of the like unity to be found elsewhere in
nature; yet since two distinct substances, oorporeal and incor­
poreal, make one man and person in ourselves, much more may
three Divine hypostases be one God • • • • • - 5 9
Though much .of mystery in the Christian Trinity, yet nothing
of plain :contradictk>i) to reason therein; that is, no nonsense,
and impossibility. The ill design of those, who represent the
Christian Trinity as absolutely contradictiousto reason, that they
may thereby debauch men’s understandings, and make them
swallow down other things, which unquestionably are such ib.
The Christian Trinity much more agreeable to reason than
the pseudo-Platonic, in the three particulars beforementioned.
First, its making their third hypostasis the animated world, or
mundane soul. Which, not only too great a leap betwixt the-
second and third, but also a gross debasement of the Deity, and
confounding it with the creature ; a foundation for world-idol­
atry, and worshipping inanimate things, as parts and nltembers
of God • .................................................................... • 60
God to Origen, but quasi anima mundi, as it were the soul of
the world, and not truly and properly such. All the perfection
of this notion to be attributed to God, but not the imperfection
t h e r e o f ......................... .......................................................61
. Certain, that, according to the more refined Platonists, their
third Divine hypostasis, not a mundane, but supra-mundane
soul, and the d^pcovpyog, or opificer—of the whole world. So to
Amelius, Porphyrius, and Plotinus. A double soul.of the world
CONTENTS TO VOL. Ill, 461
to Plato likewise. The tjiird hypostasis, to these, no creature,'
but a creator • .......................................... . • • • 64?
So in their second particular (whereby the forementionietf
pseudo-Platonic trinity, no trinity), its making all the ideas and
archetypal paradigms of things, so many hypostases, animals,
and gods. This a monstrous extravagancy. Not to be doubted,
but that Plato well understood these ideas to be nothing but
noemata, or conceptions of the Divine mind, existing no where'
apart by themselves; however called ofolai, essences or sub­
stances,—because not such accidental and evanid things as our
human thoughts are, they being the standing and eternal objects
of all science: as also fOa, or animals;—io signify, that they'
were not mere dead forms, as pictures upon paper, or carved
statues. And thus did not only Amelius understand Sfc John
concerning the Logos, whatsoever was made was life in him, but
also divers of the ancient fathers, Greek and Latin. This deify­
ing of ideas but a piece of Pagan poetry • * • . • 0$
Lastly, whereas Proclus and others intermingle many parti­
cular gods with those three universal hypostases, and henades*
and agatbotetes, unities and goodnesses, substantial above the
first intellect; and noes, particular minds or intellectsf above
the first soul; this hypothesis of theirs altogether irrational and
absurd; there being nothing essentially goodness, wisdom, and
sanctity, but the three Divine hypostases, all other beings having
only a participation thereof. Thus Origen expressly; who
therefore acknowledged no higher rank of created beings than
such as the Platonists call souls, that are self-moveable, vitally
unitable to bodies, and peccable. With whom agreeth St. Je­
rome, and others of the fathers, that God is the only impecca­
ble being; but all understanding creatures free-willed, and
lapsable ................................................................................ 68
An opinion of Simplicius, that even in that rank of beings
called souls (though not essentially immutable, but self-move­
able) some are of so high a pitch, as that they can never der-
generate, nor sink or fall into vicious habits. Insomuch that
he makes a question, whether proaeresis belong to them or no 71
But whatever is to be thought of this, Origen too far in th6
other extreme, in denying any other ranks of souls above hu­
man ; and supposing all the difference, that is now betwixt the
highest angels and men, to have proceeded only from their me­
rits, and different uses of their free will; his reason being this,
CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
because God would be otherwise a prosopolcptet, or accepter
of persons. This also extended by him,to the soul of our Sa­
viour C hrist; as not partially chosen to that dignity, but for its
faithful adherence to the Divine Word in a pre-existent state;
which he would prove from Scripture. But if a rank of. souk
below human, and specifically differing from them, as Origeu
himself confesses those of brutes to b e ; no reason, why there
might not also be other ranks or species superior to diem 72
But least of all can we assent to Qrigen, when from this
principle, that all souls are essentially endued with free will,
and therefore in their nature peccable, he infers those endless
circuits of souls, upwards and downwards, and consequently
denies them any fixed state of holiness and happiness by Divine
grace; an assertion contrary to the tenor and promises of the
gospel. Thus perhaps that to be understood, that “ Christ
brought life and immortality to light through the gospel;” not
as if he were the first who taught the soul's immortality, a
thing believed before by the pharisaic Jews, and generality of
Pagans; but because these held their endless transmigrations
and circuits, therefore was he the first who brought everlasting
life an4 happiness to l i g h t ............................ •. . . 75
That Origen, a man well skilled in the Platonic learning, and
so much addicted to the dogmata thereof, would never have gone
so far into that other extreme, had there been any solidity of
reason for either those henades, or noes, of the latter Plato-
nists. This opinion all one, as if the Christian should suppose
besides the first person, or Father, a multitude of particular pa­
ternities, superior to the second person; and also besides the
one Son, or W ord, a multitude of particular sons or words, su­
perior to the third, the Holy Ghost. This plainly to make a
breach upon the Deity, and to introduce a company of such
creaturely gods, as imply a contradiction in their very notion 77
Lastly, this not the catholic doctrine of the Platonic school
neither, but a private opinion only of some late doctors. No
footsteps of these henades and agathotetes to be found any
where in Plato; nor yet in Plotinus. This language little older
tfian Proclus. Nor does Plato speak of any abstract or sepa­
rate mind, save only one; his second things about the second,
being ideas ; as his thirds about the third created beings. Plo­
tinus also doubtful and staggering about these noes, he seeming
sometimes to make them but the heads or summities of souls.
CONTENTS TO VOL* III; * 488
Wherefore this pseudo-Platonic trinity to be exploded, as con­
founding the differences betwixt God and the creature. Where­
as the Christian Trinity homogeneal, all Deity or Creator ; aU
other things being supposed to be the creatures of those three
hypostases, and produced by their joint concurrence and indig­
ence ; they being all really but one G o d .......................... 77
Nevertheless, these forementioned depravations and adulte­
rations of that Divine cabala of the Trinity, not to be charged
upon Plato himself, nor all the other ancient Platonists and Py*
thagoreans ; some of which approached so near to the Christ­
ian Trinity as to make three hypostases all truly Divine, and
creators, other things being the creatures of them • • * 8 1
First, therefore, Plato himself, in his Timeeus, carefully dia-
tinguisheth betwixt God and the creature, and determineth the
bounds of each, after this manner* That the first is that, which
always is, and never was made; the second, that which is made
and had a beginning, but truly is not. His meaning here perverted
by junior Platonists, whom Boetius also followed* Where Plato
also takes it for granted, that whatsoever hath a temporary and
successive duration, had a beginning; and whatsoever had ho
beginning, hath no successive buf permanent duration : and *6
concludes, that whatsoever is eternal, is God; but whatsoever
exists in time, and hath a beginning, creature • • • • ib.
Now to Plato, more eternal gods than one* Which not ideas
or noemata, but true substantial things; his first, second, and
third, in his epistle to Dionysius, or trinity of Divine hypo­
stases, the makers or creators of the whole- world. Cicero's
gods, by whose providence the world and all its parts were
framed • • • • • • * • * ...........................85
The second hypostasis in Plato's trinity, to wit, mind or in­
tellect, unquestionably eternal, and without beginning* The
same affirmed by Plotinus also of the third hypostasis, or Psy­
che, called the word of the second, as the second the word of
first. Porphyrius’s testimony to this purpose in St. Cyril;
where also mind, or the 'second Divine hypostasis (though said
to have been begotten from the first, yet), called a$roicdra)p, arid
avToyiyrfTog, its own parent, and its own offspring,—and said to
have sprung out avroyoywc, self-begottenly • • • 86
This mysterious riddle expounded out of Plotinus. The plain
meaning thereof no more than this, that though, this second hy­
postasis proceeded from the first, yet was it not produced by it
after acreaturely maimer, nor trbitrariously by will and choice,
464 CONTENTS TO VOL. XII.
bat in way of natural and necessary emanation. .Thqs.hqve
some Christians ventured to call the Logos, aur6dtov, and ex
'eeipso Deum, God from h i m s e l f ........................... 88
Dionysius Petavius, having declared the doctrine of Arius,
that the Father was the only eternal God, and the Son, or W ord,
a creature, made in time, and out of nothing;*concludes it un­
deniably manifest from hence, that Arius was a germane, true,
and genuine Platonist. Whereas it is most certain from hence,
that Arius was no Platonist at all; and that Petavius himself
did not well understand the Platonic doctrine. Had Plato de­
nied the eternity of his second hypostasis, called Nous, .he must
have denied the eternity of wisdom and understanding itself;
this being to him that wisdom by which God himself is wise,
and whereby he made the world. With, which agreeth also
Athanasius; “ Our Lord is wisdom, and not second to any other
wisdom; and, the Father of the Word is not himself W o rd ;
and, that was not word and wisdom, which produced word and
wisdom.” This in opposition to Arius, who maintained another
word and wisdom, senior to that word and wisdom in Christ^
These Platonists, so far from denying the eternity of the Word,
that they rather attributed too much to it, in making itself be­
gotten. Wherefore Plato, asserting the eternity of his second
hypostasis, Nous or Logos, and not of the world, Aid thereby,
according to Athanasius’s own dobtnne, make it to be no crea­
ture ........................................................................................... 90
Nor is there any force at all in that testimony of Macrobias,
cited by Petavius, to the contrary, wherein the first hypostasis
is said to have created Mind from itself, and the second to have
created Soul; because these ancient Pagans did not confine the
word creare to such a narrow sense, as Christians commonly d o ;
but used it generally for all manner of production. Petavius’s
mistake, chiefly from that spurious trinity of the latter Plato-
nists, whose third god is by themselves called woityia, a creature.
But this not the doctrine of the ancients • • • • . 92
Nevertheless some more reason to doubt, whether Plato's
third hypostasis were eternal, because in. his Timaeus, he gene­
rates the mundane soul, this controversy decided, by supposing
a double Psyche, eyKotrfjnov, and virepKotrfuoy, a mundane, and
supra.mundane soul; the first of these called by Plotinus a hea­
venly Venus, and a separate soul. Wherefore, though the lower
Venus, or mundane soul, according to Plato made in time toge­
ther with the world ; yet the higher Divine soul, or heavenly
CONTENTS TO VOJ.. Ill, 465
Venus, the son of Chronus without a mother, his third hypos­
tasis, eternal, and without beginning • * • • • • 03
This farther evident from hence, because Plato, in his epis­
tle to Dionysius, affirmeth as well of the second and third,
as of .the first, that in all those things that are cognate to our
human soul (or creaturely) there is ovUv toiovto, nothing like
thereunto • • . . . . . . .................................95
Secondly, the three hypostases of Plato’s trinity not only all
eternal, but also necessarily existent, and absolutely unannihila-
ble. Nor could the first any more exist without the second and
third, than the sun without its primary light aud secondary
splendour. These also, according to Plotinus, the three princi­
ples of the universe; so that there could be neither more, nor
fewer. They who called the second autopator, signified there­
by the necessity of its existence • • • • • • • ib.
Thirdly, these three Platonic hypostases, as eternal and ne­
cessary, so likewise universal, or comprehensive of the whole
world, that, is, infinite and omnipotent. Therefore called princi­
ples, and causes, and opificers. Though nous, or mind, ,vulgarly
looked upon as the highest principle of all things, yet Plato set
before it one most simple good. When Nous, said by Plato to
be yevovffrriq, of the same kind with the first cause o f all things,
this all one as if he had affirmed it to be 6/xoovvco?, coessential
or consubstantial with it . • ....................................... 96
Plato’s third hypostasis, Pysche, or the superior mundane soul,
called by him Zeus, from (rjy9as also the cause and fountain of
life, and the prince and king of all things. And when said to
beiicyovog , the offspring of the highest mind,—thereby made con-
substantial with it also. So that Plato’s whole trinity homoou-
sian ...................................... • • - * • • v • 98
Though by the demiurgus or opificer Plato commonly meant
the second hypostasis, mind or intellect, yet Atticus, Amelins,
Plotinus, and others, called the third, or the higher Psyche also,
by that name. Wherefore, according to the genuine Platonic and
Parmenidian trinity, all the three hypostases joint creatures of
the whole world. Thus Ficinus often, and Proclus. Porphy*
rius’s affirmation, that the Deity, according to Plato, extends to
three hypostases • • ♦ • • ♦ • • . • • • 99
Certain therefore, that’Arius did not Platonize, but rather
Athanasius and the Nicene fathers; who, notwithstanding, made
not Plato but the Scriptures their foundation. The genuine tri­
nity of Plato and Parmenides, a middle betwixt that of Sabellius
VOL. iv, 2 H
406 CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
and (bat of A nus; it being neither a trinity of words and names
as the former; nor an heteroousions trinity, a confused jumble
of God and the creature together; but bomoonsious and homo-
geneal: all eternal, necessarily existent, infinite or omnipotent,
and c r e a to r .......................................................... * • • 90
But that it may yet more fully appear, how fur the most refined
Platonic and Parmenidian •trinity does either agree or dis­
agree with the Scripture and Christian doctrine, two things far­
ther to be observed concerning it. First, that the Platonists uni*f
versally asserted an essential dependence of their second and
third hypostases upon the first, as also a gradual subordination
in them. Thus Plotinus; Chronos, or the second hypostasis, is io
a middle state betwixt bis fatherwho is greater, and his son who
is inferior. And that in this eternal generation or emanation no
progress upward,' but all downward, and a gradual descent 100
More of the dependence and gradual subordination of the se­
cond and third hypostases of the Platonic trinity to the first.
Each following hypostasis called a°d rowoc and *!*<*>',and
eiSuXor, and fii/u/pi, of that before it. Philo’s offensive expres­
sion, that the Logos, or Word, is the shadow of God. This gra­
dation commonly illustrated by the licXa/ufuc, or dwadyavp*, the
effeilgency or out-shining splendour of the sun • • • 102
The same farther manifested from the several distinctive cha­
racters given to each hypostasis in the true Platonic or Parme­
nidian trinity. The first, %v itpd xavrwv, one before all things;—
the second, l v ira vra , one all things,— as to their distinct ideas;
the third, ical ird v ra , one really producing all things. The
first, Unity and Goodness essential; the second, Understanding
and Wisdom; the third, self-active Love and Power. The first,
or Father dvBvipyttroQ9above action*;—the second or Son, the De­
miurgus, the Maker or contriving Architect ofthe world, but an
immoveable nature; the third a moveable Deity, and the imme­
diate Governor of the whole world. Amelius's distinction of
them into rd v o rra , r6v i^ovray rdv op& rra • • • • • • 106
The greatest difficulty in the distinctive characters o f these
three Platonic hypostases; that understanding, reason,'and
wisdom, should be made peculiar to the second, as if the fiwt
were therefore devoid df mind; reason, and wisdom. This an
arcanum of the Platonic and Pythagoric theology; that whereas
Anaxagoras, Aristotle, andthe vulgar, make mind and understand­
ing the oldest of all things, and the highest principle in the uni*
verse; this supposes mind, knowledge, and wisdom; to-be- not
CONTENTS TO VOL# 111. 467
the first, but second. Partly because there is a multiplicity in
knowledge, but there must be unity before multiplicity. And
partly because there must be Norirdv before No&c, an object or
intelligible before intellect.—As also, because intellection or
knowledge is not the highest good, or happiness; and therefore
to be some substantial thing, in order of nature superior to mind.
Hence concluded, that the supreme Deity is better than Logos,
reason, word, or intellect. That not Logos, from whence Lo­
gos is derived. Thus Philo; The God before Reason, or Word,
better than all the rational nature. But this difficulty common
to Platonism with Christianity; which likewise makes Word, of
reason and wisdom, not the first, but second hypostasis. Thus
does Athanasius deny, that there is any word, reason, orwisdom,
before the Son of God. What’ then ? Is the first hypostasis
therefore &vovcand fiXoyoc, devoid of reason and mind ?—Ploti­
nus's attempt to answer this ;*that the first hath <
buic Sl
t
t
Xovp, a
simple light,—different from that multiform light of knowledge.
Again, that the first is r6rj<risahrj), intelligence itself,—and there­
fore superior to intellect, or that which hath intellection. (For
^ vdrfiriQ oh vo€iy intelligence itself doth not understand.) Be­
sides which, another attempt also to solve this difficulty • 108
The ground of this Platonic dependence and subordination in
the Divine hypostases; because there is but oue fountain of the
Godhead; so that the second must deeds differ from the first*
as the &*rai/ya<r/ua from the the splendour from the sun 114
Though the second hypostasis said to have been begotten
from the first ; yet this n6t t6 be taken for such a generation as
that of men, where three men (father, son, arid grandson), all
adult, have no essential dependence upon one another, nor grav
dual subordination. This but an imperfect generation • ib.
Furthermore, the Platonists would recommend this their gra-'
elation in the Deity, or' subordination of hypostases; from hence,
because by this means, not so great k leap or jump in the crea­
tion, as otherwise there must b e; not the whole Deity screwed
up to such a disproportionate height, as'would render it inca­
pable of having any intercourse with the lower world. Were
the whole Deity, either one simple monad, or eke an immove­
able mind, it could have no such liberty df will as is commonly
attributed to it, nor be affectible with any thing here below; nor
indeed any fitter object for men's devotion than an adamantine
rock. Whereas all the phenomena of the Deity solvable by this
Platonic gradation • • • • • • • • • • 115
2 H 2
408 CONTENTS TO VOL* Ilf*'
As also, according to this hypothesis, some reasonable satis­
faction to be given, why just so many Divine hypostases, and
neither fewer nor more • ....................................... 116
The second thing to be observed, concerning the genuine
Platonic or Parmenidian trinity; that though the hypostases
thereof be called three natures, and three principles, and three
opificers, and three gods; yet they all really make up but one
Divinity. For the world, being created by all three, and yet
having but one creation, they must needs be all one Creator*
Porphyrius in St. Cyril explicitly, that according to Plato, the
essence of the Deity extendeth to three hypostases • * 1 1 7
Platonists farther add, that were it not for this essential de­
pendence and subordination, the three Divine hypostases must
needs be three co-ordinate gods; and no more one God than
three men are one mao, or three suns one sun. Whereas the
sun, its splendour, and derivative light, may all well be accounted
one and the same t h i n g .................................* 120
These Platonists therefore suppose so close a union, and so
near a conjunction, betwixt their three hypostases, as no where
else to be found in nature. Plotinus, that there is nothing be­
tween them, add that they are only not the very same. They
acknowledge also their perichoresis or mutual inexistence.
The three hypostases one Divinity to the Platonists, in the same
manner as the centre, radius distance immoveable, and move-
able circumference of a sphere, all one sphere. The first infi­
nite Goodness, the second infinite Wisdom, the third infinite ac­
tive Love, and power substantial....................................... ]21
From this full account of the true and genuine Platonic trini­
ty, its both agreement and disagreement with the Christian,
plainly appeareth. First, its agreement in the three fundamental
things beforementioned; and consequently its discrepance from
A r ia n is m .......................... ................................................... 124
Secondly, its disagreement notwithstanding, from the now-re­
cited doctrine, in that it supposes the three hypostases not to
have one and the same singular essence, nor yet an absolute co­
equality, but a gradual subordination, and essential dependence*
Upon which account, said by sdme to symbolize with Arianism,
however different from it in the main point • • • • 1 2 5 .
Besides which, the best of the Platonists sometimes guilty of
extravagant expressions. Plotinus’s Se rat fyicr^oa,
that our human soul is of the same species with the mundane
soul, or third hypostasis;—that being but the elder sister* Which
CONTENTS TO VOL. 111. 460
indeed it to make it coessential or consubstantial with us men, as
St. Austin understood it. This a foundation for creature-wor­
ship or idolatry. Why the Arians by Constantine called Por.
phyrianists. But this doctrine, as repugnant to Plato, so else­
where contradicted by Plotinus himself • 126
That notwithstanding a Platonic Christian would apologize
for Plato and the genuine Pythagoreans after this manner.
First, that having no Scripture}, councils, nor creeds, to direct
them in the darkness of this mystery, and to guide their lan­
guage, they the more excusable, if not always uniform, and
sometimes extravagant. More to be wondered at, that they
should approach so near the Christian truth • * • * 1 3 0
And for their gradual subordination of hypostases, and de­
pendence of the second and third upon the first; that these
Platonists herein the more excusable, because the majority of
Christian doctors, for the first three centuries, seem to have as­
serted the s a m e ................................................................. 131
The Platonic Christians’ farther apology; that the Platonists’
intention in subordinating their three hypostases, only to exclude
a plurality of co-ordinate independent gods. That none of
Plato’s three hypostases, creatures, but that the essence of the
Godhead belongeth to them all ; they being all eternal, necessa­
rily existent, infinite or omnipotent, ^nd creators. Therefore
in the sense of the Nicene council, consubstantial and coequal.
The essence of the Godhead, wherein all the three hyposta­
ses agree, as well to the fathers as Platonists, general and uni­
versal ....................................................................................132
Besides which the genuine Platonists would acknowledge
also all their three hypostases to be homoousian, coessential, or
consubstantial, yet in a farther sense, as making up one entire
Divinity: as the root, stock, and branches, coessential to a vine.
The trinity not so undivided as if three were not three in it.
The inequality and subordination in the Platonic trinity within
the Deity itself only, and in the relation of the hypostases to
one another; they being ad extra, all one and the same God,
jointly concurring in the same actions, and in that respect de­
void of inequality............................................. 13d
Furthermore, the Platonic Christian would urge, that accord­
ing to the principles of Christianity itself, there must needs be
some dependence and subordination in these hypostases, in their
relation to one another; a priority and posteriority of order and
dignity: that which is originally of itself, having some kind of
470 CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
priority and superiority over that which is wholly derived from
it. The second and third hypostases not so omnipotent as the
first, because not able to beget or produce that. Hence first
styled hy Macrobius, the most omnipotent of all. Sundry pas*
sages in Scripture favouring this hypothesis, as also orthodox fa­
thers. Athanasius’s resemblances to the original light and
the secondary splendour; to the fountain and the stream, the
root and the branch, the water and the vapour. The equaliy
asserted by the orthodox, in way of opposition to the Arian ine­
quality of God and creature; that they equally God, or iuh
created. Notwithstanding which, some inequality amongst them
allowed by Petavius and others, as this God and that person 137
However, no necessity of any more inequality and subordina­
tion in the Platonic, than in the Christian trinity; they being but
infinite goodness, and infinite wisdom, and infinite active love,
and power substantial. Another hypothesis of some Piatonists
hinted by St. Austin out of Porphyry, which makes the third
hypostasis a middle betwixt the first and second; and implies
not so much a gradation, as a circulation in the trinity • 142
As for the Piatonists supposing their three hypostases (though
one entire Divinity) to have their distinct singular essences^
without which they conceive they could be nothing but three
names; the Platonic Christian would make this apology, that
the orthodox fathers themselves were generally of this persua­
sion, that the essence of the Godhead, wherein all the three per­
sons agree, not one singular, but only one common or universal
essence. Their distinction to this purpose, betwixt oM a and
{nroarcuTif:- that the former was common or generical, the latter
singular or individual. Theodoret, Basil, and many others.
Petavius’s acknowledgment, that the Greeks universally agreed
th e re in ....................................................................................143
The opinion of Gregory Nyssen, Cyril, Damascen, and others,
that the persons of the Trinity no otherways one, than as three
individuals under the same species, or as three men agree in the
same common humanity. These the chief assertors of an abso­
lute, independent, and unsubordinate coequality. This the only
fault that St. Cyril finds in the Piatonists, that they did not after
such a consubstantiality. Whereas this trinity, Tritheism ;
the three persons thereof being no more one God than three
men are one man; however this certain, that these fathers did
not suppose the three hypostases of the Trinity to have all the
same singular essence. Another extreme, that sprung up after-*
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 471
wards in the room of the former Tritheism, and owned by nd
other authority than of a Lateran council • • • • 146
And that this sameness of singular essence was not asserted*
by the Nicene fathers, and first opposers of Arius: first, clearly
acknowledged by P e t a v i u s ..............................................150
But this farther evident from hence; because the same ortho*
dox fathers, who opposed Arianism, did also condemn Sabelli-
anism; which asserted. Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, to be but
one hypostasis, that is, to have but one and the same singular es­
sence ; and consequently acknowledged no other trinity than of
names or w o r d s ....................................... 152
It appeareth also from hence, because the word homoousious
had never any other sense, than to signify the agreement of
things numerically differing, in some common and general nature
or essence. St. Basil, that the same thing is not homoousious,
coessential, or consubstantial with itself; but always one thing
with another. To bpoovoiov the same with trvyyiveta in Plotinus.
So also in Athanasius, he affirming the branches to be homoou­
sious and congenerous with the root. Besides which, dfioytyfc,
bfjioeibrjc, and fyio^wfc, used by Athanasius and others as syno^*
nymous with bpoovtrioc. None of which words signify an in-
dentity of singular essence, but general or universal only. The
council of Chalcedon, that our Saviour Christ, as to his humani­
ty, was homoousious or consubstantial with us men. Thus does
Athanasius deny the Son or Word, as such, to be homoousious
or consubstantial with creatures: as also he affirmeth men to be
consubstantial and coessential with his Father • • • 152
Moreover, the sense ofthe Nicene fathers, in their consubstan-
tsality, may more fully appear from the doctrine of Arius op­
posed by them ; which made the Son a creature, and therefore
(as Athanasius writeth) krtpo^trfv or &XXarptov9io£, of a differ­
ent essence or substance from the Father. Proved clearly from
Athanasius, that by the consubstautiality of the Word was meant
no more, than its being not a creature or uncreated • • 155
Farther proof, out of Athanasius, that by consubstantiality is
not meant a sameness of singular, but only of general essence.
As also out of St. Austin • . * .................................159
Lastly, that the homoousian fathers did not assert against
Arius, a sameness of singular essence, evident from their dis­
claiming those two other words, Tavroovetov, and (JiovooTjtnov (as
having a Sabellian sense in them), the former by Epiphanius,
the latter by Athanasius. So that they, who asserted the Son to
47* CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
be homoousious, consubstantial with the Father, denied him to
be monoousious, or tautoousious, that is, to have the same sin­
gular e s s e n c e .......................... * .......................................164
From all these considerations, concluded by the Platonic
Christian, that as the genuine trinity of Plato agreed with that
of the orthodox Christians, in being not heteroousiah, but ho-
moousian, coessential or consubstantial; not made up of God
and.creature, but all homogeneal of uncreated, or creator: so did
the Trinity of the first orthodox Anti-Arians herein agree with
the Platonic trinity, that it was not monoousian, or tautoousian,
one and the same singular essence, under three names or no­
tions only; but really three hypostases or persons • • 166
Nevertheless, here remaineth a question to be answered;
whether Athanasius, the Nicene fathers, and all the first Anti-
Arians, did therefore assert the same thing with Greg. Nyssen,
Cyril, and others, that the three persons in the Trinity were but
three co-ordinate individuals, under the same species, having
only a specific unity or identity (besides consent of will); or
that they all agree in the uncreated Nature only. This grossly
asserted in the Dialogues of the Trinity, vulgarly imputed to
Athanasius, and to that purpose also, that three men are not
three men, but only then when they dissent from one another in
will and opinion. But these Dialogues pseudepigraphous. Never­
theless to be granted, that Athanasius himself, in that book of
the Common Essence of the Persons, seems to lay something too
much stress upon this common nature, essence, or substance, of
the three persons, as to the making of them all but one God.
However, it is certain, he does not there rely upon that alone;
and elsewhere acknowledged it to be insufficient. The true
reason why Athanasius laid so great a stress upon the Homoou-
siotes, not bechuse this alone would make them one God, but
because they could not possibly be one God without it* For if
the Father be uncreated, and the Son a creature, then can they
not both be one God. Several passages of Athanasius cited to
this purpose. Those expressions in him of one Godhead, and
the sameness of the Godhead, and one essence or substance in
the Trinity, not so to be understood, as if the three persons were
but several names, notions, or modes of one thing • • 167
Wherefore though Athanasius lay his foundation in this eldurij
kvorriQ) common specific unity of the persons (which is their
consubstantiality), in order to their being one G od; yet does
he superadd other considerations also thereunto. As first of all
(
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 473
this, that they are not three principles, but only one; the es­
sence of the Father being the *6ot and fountain of the Son and
Spirit; and the three hypostases, gathered together under one
head. Where Athanasius implies, that, were they perfectly co-or­
dinate and independent, they would not be one butthree gods 174
In the next place, he farther addeth, that these three hypos­
tases are not three separated disjoined things, but indivisibly
united; as the splendour is indivisible from the sun, and wisdom
from him that is wise. That neither of these persons could be
without the other; nor any thing come between them: they so
immediately conjoined together, as that there is a kind of <
ruv&
-
\eta, or continuity betwixt t h e m .......................................170
Thirdly? Athanasius goes yet higher; affirming these three
hypostases not only to be indivisibly conjoined, but also to
have a mutual inexistence in each other. This afterwards called
an Emperichoresis. That of our Saviour, “ I am of the Father,
and the Father in me," therefore quarrelled at by the Arians,
because they conceived of things incorporeal after a corporeal
manner. That the Godhead of the Son is the Godhead of the
Father; and the Father exercises a providence over all, in the
S o n ............................................. 178
Lastly, Athanasius also, in sundry places, supposes the three
Divine hypostases to make up one entire Divinity; as the foun­
tain and the stream make up One entire river; the root, stock,
and brooches, one entire tree. Accordingly the word homoou-
sios used by Athanasius, in a farther sense, not only to signify
things agreeing in one common and general essence, but
also such as essentially concur to the making up of one entire
thing. That the three hypostases do outwardly, or ad extray
produce all, play Mpyuav, one and the self-same action;—
the Father by the Word, in the Holy Spirit, doing all things.
That all this doctrine of Athanasius would have been readily as­
sented to by Plato and his genuine followers. The Platonic
Christian therefore concludeth, that there is no such real differ­
ence betwixt the genuine Platonic trinity, and that of the first
orthodox Anti-Arian fathers, as some conceive. From which
notwithstanding that tritheistic trinity, of St. Greg. Nyssen, Cy­
ril, and others, of three co-ordinate individuals under the same
species (as three men), seems to have been a deviation • 181
Hitherto the Platonic Christians’apology, for the genuine Pla­
tonic Trinity; or endeavour to reconcile it with the doctrine of
the ancient church: where nothing is asserted by ourselves, but
m CONTENTS TO VOL. Ill#
all submitted to the judgment of the learned in these m atters.
And whatsoever in Plato’s trinity shall be found discrepant from
the sense of the first orthodox Anti-Arian fathers, utterly dis­
claimed by us. Athanasius a great instrument of Divine* Provi­
dence, for preserving the Christian church from lapsing into a
kind of paganic and idolatrous Christianity. • • • • 183
The reason of this apology, for the genuine Platonic trinity;
because it is against the interest of Christianity that this should
be made more discrepant from the Christians than indeed it is.
Moreover certain, that this genuine Platonic trinity was Anti-
Arian; or rather the Arian Anti-Platonic. Wherefore Socrates
wondered, that Georgius and Timotheus presbyters should ad­
here to the Arian faction; when one of them was accounted
much a Platonist, the other an Origenist * • • • • 184
Furthermore, Platonic Pagans, after Christianity, highly ap­
proved of the beginning of St. John’s Gospel concerning the Lo*
gos, as exactly agreeing with their Platonic doctrine. Thus
Amelius in Eusebius, and others. A Platonist in St. Austin,
that it deserved to be writ in golden letters, and set up in some
eminent places in every Christian church. But tliat, which is
most of all considerable, to justify this apology, the generality
of Christian fathers, before and after the Nicene council, looked
upon this Platonic trinity, if not as really the same thing with the
Christian, yet as approaching so near thereunto, that it differed
chiefly in circumstances, or manner of expression. Thus Jus­
tin Martyr, Clemens Alexandrinus, Origen, St. Cyprian, or the
author of the book De Spiritu Sancto, Eusebius Csesariepas,
and, which is most of all to the purpose, Athanasius himself,
he giving a signal testimony thereunto. To which may be added
St. Austin and Theodoret. St. Cyril, though blaming the Pla­
tonic subordination (himself supposing the Trinity to be three
co-ordinate individuals under the same specific nature of the
Godhead), yet acknowledges, that Plato was not altogether igno­
rant of the truth, &c. But that Plato’s subordination of his se­
cond hypostasis to the first, was not (as the Arian) of a creature
to the Creator; already made unquestionably evident • 185
Wherefore a wonderful providence of Almighty God here to
be taken notice of; that this doctrine, of a trinity of Divine hy­
postases, should be entertained in the Pagan world before Christ­
ianity, as it were to prepare a way for the reception of it
amongst the learned. Which the junior Platonists w.ere so sen­
sible of, that besides their other adulterations of the Platonic
r
CONTENTS TO VOL. XII, 475
trinity before mentioned (for the countenancing of their Poly­
theism and idolatry), they at length innovated and altered the
whole cabala, now no longer acknowledging a trinity, but at
least a quaternity of Divine hypostases; namely, before and be­
sides the Trinity, another hypostasis superior thereunto, and
standing alone by itself. This first started by Jamblichus, car­
ried on by Proclus, taken notice of by St. Cyril: besides which,
Proclus also added other fantastic trinities of his own • 103
Another advantage of this Platonic trinity, extending to the
present time; perhaps not unintended also by Divine Providence
to abate the confidence of those conceited wits, who so boldly de­
cried the Trinity for nonsense, absolute contradiction to reason,
and impossibility, when they shall find, that the best and freest
wits amongst the Pagans, though having no Scripture revelation
to impose upon them, were yet fond of this hypothesis • 197
And now it sufficiently appears, that the ancient Platonists
and Pythagoreans were not to be taxed for Polytheists and idol­
aters, in giving religious worship to their three Divine hypostases.
One grand design of Christianity, to free the world from idol­
atry and creature-worship: and this the reason why the ancient
fathers so zealously opposed Arianism, because it thwarted that
design, it paganizing and idolatrizing that which was intended
for the unpaganizing of the world. One remarkable passage of
Athanasius to this p u rpose............................................ 198
Where first observable, that Athanasius expressly affirmeth
the Pagans to have worshipped only one uncreated and many
created gods. Thus Greg. Naz. that there was but one Divinity
amongst the Pagans also. And Irenaeus, that they attributed
the first place of the Deity to one supreme God, the Maker of
this universe. And, secondly, that to Athanasius, and all those
other fathers who' charged the Arians with idolatry, this was
supposed not to consist in worshipping many independent and
self-existent gods, but in giving religious worship to creatures:
as the Arians gave a religious worship to the Son or Word, sup.
posed by themselves to be but a creature • 201
But if Arians guilty of Polytheism or idolatry, for bestowing
religious worship upon the Son or Word, as a creature (though
the chief of creatures, and that by which all Others were made),
much more they guilty hereof, who religiously*worshipped other
inferior beings. Athanasius; that no creature the object of re­
ligious worship, and that the orthodox worshipped the Divinity
in the humanity of our Saviour Christ. Nestorius branded
478 . CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
frith the name of a man-worshipper. Some suppose th a t
sary to idolatry, which is impossible, to worship more than one,
as omnipotent, or with mental la tria .................................. 208
And now have we sufficiently answered the objection against
the naturality of the idea of a God, as including oneliness in
it, from the pagan Polytheism. W hat farther here intended
concerning the same (as a foundation for our defence of Christ­
ianity) deferred, to make room for a confutation of all the athe­
istic arguments.
CHAP. V.
A particular confutation of all the atheistic grounds.
The first atheistic argument; that there is no idea of God.
That in answer to this, the idea of God hath been already de­
clared ; viz. a perfect understanding being, unmade, or self-
existent from eternity, and the cause of all other things, in
which nothing inconceivable nor contradictious. T hat these
confounded Atheists themselves, who deny that there is any
idea of God at all, must notwithstanding, of necessity, suppose
the contrary; because otherwise, denying his existence, they
should deny the existence of nothing. And that they agree
also with Theists in the same idea; the one denying the exist­
ence of that which the other asserteth, that an understanding
nature is the original of all things. This idea of God, as con­
taining oneliness and singularity in it, not only largely de­
fended and made good against that objection from the pagan
Polytheism; but also proved, that the generality of mankind have
a natural prolepsis or anticipation in their minds concerning the
real and actual existence of. such a being. Atheists but mon­
sters, and anomalies of mankind. This a sufficient confutation
of the first atheistic a r g u m e n t ........................................208
Nevertheless, that Atheists may not pretend any of their
strength to be concealed, all their particular exceptions against
the idea of God here declared, being five. Their first excep­
tion, that we can have no idea nor thought of any thing not
subject to sense; much less any evidence of the existence
thereof. The answer, First, that whereas the Atheists suppose
sense to be the only knowledge, or at least original knowledge;
sense, as such, is not knowledge, or understanding; because if
it were, then every one that sees light and colours, or feels heat
and cold, would understand light and colours, heat and cold.
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 477
Plainly proved also from that atomic philosophy (which the
Epicurean Atheists so much pretend to), that there is a higher
faculty of the soul, which judges of sense, detects the phantas-
try thereof, resolves sensible things into intelligible principles,
&c. No passion able to make a judgment, either of itself, or
of other things. The confounded Democritus himself some­
times acknowledged sense to be but seeming and phantasy, and
not to reach to the absolute truth and reality of things. He
therefore exploded qualities out of the rank of entities, because
unintelligible; concluding them to be but our own phantasms.
Undeniably evident, that we have ideas, notions, and thoughts,
of many, things, that never’
were in sense, and whereof we have
no genuine phantasms. Atheists attend not to their own cogita­
tions. That opinion, that there is nothing in the understand­
ing which was not before in sense, false and atheistical. Men
having a notion of a perfect understanding being, the cause of
all things, as the object of their devotion; the Atheists, not­
withstanding, would here persuade them, that they have none,
and that the thing is a nonentity, merely because they have no
sensible idea or phantasm thereof. And so may they as well
prove, not only reason and understanding, appetite and volition,
to be nonentities, but also fancy and sense itself; neither of
these falling under sense, but only the objects of them. Were
God indeed corporeal, as some mistaken Theists suppose, yet his
essence chiefly consisting in mind and understanding, this of him
could not possibly be subject to sense. But that there is also sub­
stance incorporeal, which therefore in its own nature is insensible,
and that the Deity is such will be elsewhere demonstrated 211
Though the evidence of singular bodies existing, depend
upon the information of sense, yet the certainty of this very
evidence,’ not from sense alone^ but a complication of reason
and understanding with it. Sense fantastical, not reaching to
the absolute truth of things; and obnoxious to delusion. Our
own imaginations taken for sensations and realities in sleep,'
and by melancholized persons when awake. Atomic Atheists
themselves assert the existence of such things as they have no
sense of; atoms, membranes, or exuvious images of bodies, nay,
incorporeal space. If the existence of nothing to be acknow­
ledged which falls not under sense, then not the existence of
soul and mind. God the great mind that rules the whole unk
verse; whence our imperfect minds derived. The existence of
that God, whom not eye*can see, demonstrated by reason from
his effects •. • ♦ ....................................................* 21#
478 CONTENTS TO VOL. VII.
The second athttatic pretence against the idea of O od and
his existence, fromTheista* own acknowledging him to be in­
comprehensible; from whence they infer him to be a nonentity.
Here perhaps it may be granted^ in a right sense, thatwhatso­
ever is altogether inconceivable, is either ih itself, or at least to
os, nothing. How that of Protagoras, that every man is the
measure of all things to himself, in his sense false. Whatsoever
any man’s shallow understanding fthmot clearly comprehend,
not therefore to be presently expunged out of the catalogue of
beings. Nevertheless, according to Aristotle, the soul and
mind in a manner all things. This a crystalline globe, or no­
tional world, that hath some image in it of whatsoever is con.
tailed in the real globe of b e i n g ........................................218
But this absolutely false 5 that whatsoever cannot be folly
comprehended by ns, is therefore utterly inconceivable and
consequently nothing. For we cannot fully comprehend our­
selves, nor have such an adequate conception o f any substance,
as perfectly to master and conquer the same. That of the Scep­
tics so h r true, that there is some something incomprehensible
in the essence of every thing, even of body itself. Truth big­
ger than our minds. Proper to God Almighty (who alone is
wise) perfectly to comprehend the essences of all things. Bat
it follows not from hence, that therefore we have no idea nor
conception at all of any thing. We may have a notion or idea
of a perfect being, though we cannot fully comprehend the
same by our imperfect minds; as we may see and touch a
mountain, though we cannot enclasp it all round within our
arms. This therefore a false theorem of the Atheists, that
whatsoever cannot be fully comprehended by men’s imperfect
understandings, is an absolute nonentity...........................219
Though God more incomprehensible than other things, be­
cause of his transcendent perfection, yet hath he also more of
conceptibility: as the sun, dazzling our sight, yet hath more of
visibility also than any other object. Tbe dark incomprehen­
sibility of tbe Deity, like the azure obscurity of tbe transparent
ether, not any thing absolutely in itself, but only relative to us 221
This incomprehensibility of the Deity, so far from being an
argument against its existence, that certain, on the contrary,
were there nothing incomprehensible to our imperfect minds,
there could be no God. Every thing apprehended by some in­
ternal congruity. The scantness and imperfection of oar nar­
row .understandings must needs make them asymmetral or in­
commensurate to what absolutely perfect • • • • • 222
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 479
Nature itself intimates, that there is something vastly trigger
than our mind and thoughts, by those passions implanted in us,
of devout veneratiori, adoration, and admiration, with ecstasy
and pleasing horror. That of the Deity, whieh cannot enter
into the narrow vessels of our minds, must be Otherwise appre­
hended, by their being plunged into it, or swallowed up, and
lost in it. We have a notion or conception of a perfect being,
though we cannot fully comprehend the same; because our­
selves being imperfect, must needs be incommensurate there­
unto. Thus no reason at all, in the second atheistic pretence,
against the idea of God and his existence; from his confessed
incomprehensibility • • . ....................................... 223
The third follows, That infinity, supposed to be essential to
the Deity, is a thing perfectly inconceivable, and therefore an
impossibility and nonentity. Some passages of a modern writer
to this purpose. The meaning of them, that there is nothing
of philosophic truth in the idea or attributes of God, nor any
other sense in the words, than only to signify the veberation and
astonishment of men’s own minds. That the word infinite sig­
nifies nothing in the thing itself so called, but only the inability
of our understandings, and admiration. And since God, by
Theists, is denied to be finite, but cannot be infinite, therefore
an inconceivable nothing. Thus another learned well-wilier td
Atheism. That we have no idea of infinite, and therefore dot Of
God. Which, in the language of Atheists, all one as to say,
that he is a nonentity * • • • • • ; « • • 224
Answer. This argument, that there can be nothing infinite,
and therefore no God, proper to the modern and neoteric Athe­
ists only; but repugnant to the sense of the ancients. Anaxi­
mander’s aneipov, infinite matter,—though MelissuS’s vAimpor,
the true Deity.—Formerly both Theists and Atheists agreed in
this ; that' there must be something o r other infinite, either an
infinite mind, or infinite matter. The ancient Atheists also as­
serted a numerical infinity of worlds. Thus do Atheists confute
or contradict A t h e i s t s ........................... * 225
That the modern Atheists do no less contradict plain reason
also, and their very selves, than they do their predecessors, when
*they would disprove a God from hence, because there can be
nothing infinite. For, first, certain, that there was something or
other infinite in duration, or eternal without beginning; be­
cause, if there had been once nothing, there cotold never have
been any thing. But Hardly any Atheists can be so sottish, as
400 CONTENTS TO VOL* III*
in good earnest to think there was once nothing at all, but af­
terwards senseless matter happened to be. Notorious impudence
in them, who assert the eternity of matter, to make this an argu­
ment against the existence of a God; because infinite duration
without beginning an im p o ssib ility .................................227
A concession to the Atheists of these two things; that we
neither have a phantasm of any infinite, because there was never
any in sense; and that infinity is not fully comprehensible by
finite understandings neither. But since, mathematically cer.
tain, that there was something infinite in duration, demon­
strated from hence, against Atheists, that there is something
really existing, which ,we have neither any phantasm of, nor yet
can fully comprehend in our m in d s .................................228
Farther granted, that as for infinity of number, magnitude,
and time, without beginning; as we have no phantasm nor full
comprehension of them, so have we neither any intelligible idea,
notion, or conception: from whence it may be concluded, that
they are nonentities. Number infinite in Aristotle, only in a
negative sense, because we can never come io an end thereof by
addition. For which very reason also there cannot possibly be
any number positively infinite, since one or more may always
be added. No magnitude so great neither, but that a greater
may be supposed. By infinite space, to be understood nothing
but a possibility of more and more body, farther and farther infi­
nitely, by Divine power; or that the world could never be made
so great, as that God was not able to make it still greater. This
potential infinity, or indefinity of bbdy, seems to be mistaken for
an actual infinity of space. Lastly, no infinity of time past, be­
cause then there must needs be time pastwhich neverwas present
An argument of a modern writer. Reason therefore concludes,
neither world nor time to have been infinite in past duration 229
Here will the Atheist think he has got a great advantage for
disproving the existence of a God; they, who thus take away
the eternity of the world, taking away also the eternity of a God.
As if God could not be eternal otherwise than by a successive
flux of infinite time. But we say, that this afiordeth a demon­
stration of a G od; because, since both the world and time had
a beginning, there must of necessity be something whose dura- *
tion is not successive; but permanent, which was the creator
of them both. Wherefore the Atheists can here only make
grimaces, and quibble upon nunc-stans; as if this standing,
eternity of the Deity was nothing but a pitiful moment of time
CONTENTS tO VOL. lit. 4 8 t’
standing still ; and as if all duration must needs be the same
with'ours* &c. • • • • • • • ' • • •* * • 281
Concluded, ttbat infinite*and eternal ace not wordsrwhicb dig­
nity nothing in*the thing itself, but only the idleprogress of our*
minds, or our own ignorance, stupid astonishment, and venera­
tion :<not mere attributes of honour and compliment, but at*
tributes belonging!do the! Deity (and. that alone), of the most'
philosophic truth. And though we have fio adequate compre­
hension thereof, :yet.must we have some notiod of that which
we can*demonstrate to belong to something •' 23fc*
But the thing, which the Atheists principally quarrel with, is
infinite power,or omnipotence; which they pretend also to be
utterly inconceivable, and impossible, and a name of nothing**
Where indeed our modern Atheists have the joint suffrage of
the ancients also, who concerned themselves in :nothing more,
thaw disproving omnipotence, or infinite power * « • 234
Thii omnipotence either wilfully d r ignorantly misrepresented
by Atheists, as if it were a power p f doing-things contradictious.
An irony of a modem Atheist, th at God coukTturn a tre e into*
a syllogism. The absurd doctrine o f Carteeius, that God could
have made twice two not' to have been four, or the tbree>angles
of a friahgle not to?have been equal to two right. This to make
one attribute o f the Deity devour and destroy another; infinite
will and power, infinite understanding and wisdom. To*suppose
God to understand and be Wise only by Will, really tO give bite
no understanding at all. God not so omnipotentas that he can
destroy the intelligible natures of things ; which Were tb baffle
and'befool his OWn Wisdom. Infinite power that Which can dd
all that is possible; that is, conceivable, or implies no contra-*
diction. The very essence of possibility, coilCCptibility. And
thus all the ancient THeists. Absurd1
for Atheists tb say, that a
power of doing nothing but what Is conceivable' is inrconceiv-
able • • • . . . . • • . > . • . . ib.
But because Atheists look upon infinity as such a taormo, We
shall take off the vizard from it; by declaring; that1it isieailly
nothing else but perfection. Infinite understanding and know**
ledge; perfect understanding Without any defect, and the know­
ledge of all things knowable. Infinite poWer, perfect power, Or
a power of doing all things possible. Infinite duration, perfec­
tion of essence. Because infinity, perfection ; therefore no-
thing, which includeth any thing of imperjfeOtionf in the essence
of it, can be truly and properlyinfinite; as number, magnitude,
VOL. iv. - 2 i
482 CONTENTS TO VOL. Iff.
and time: all which can bat counterfeit infinity. Nothing one
way infinite which is not so every way, or a perfect being 237
Now, that we have an idea of perfection, plain from that of
imperfection. Perfection first in order of nature, as the rule and
measure. This not the want of imperfection, but imperfection
the want of perfection. A scale or ladder of perfections in
nature, perceived by means of that idea which we have of a
being absolutely perfect, the measure of them. W ithout which
we could not take notice of imperfection in the most perfect of
all those things which we ever had sense of. Boethins; that:
whatsoever is imperfect in any kind, implies something in that
kind perfect from whence it was derived. And that the nature
of things took not beginning from any thing incomplete and
imperfect; but descended downward, from what was absolutely
perfect, by steps and degrees, lower and lower • • • 238
Wherefore, since infinite the same with perfect, we having a
notion of the latter must needs have of the former. And though
the word infinite be negative, yet is the sense positive. Finite
the negation of infinite, as which, in order of nature, is before
i t ; and not infinite of finite. However, in things incapable of
true infinity; infinity, being here a mere imaginary thing and
nonentity, can be only conceived by the negation of finite, as
nothing is by the negation of something. An infinite being
nothing but a perfect being, such as never was not, and could
produce all things possible, or conceivable • 239
The fourth atheistic pretence against the idea of G od; that
it is an arbitrarious compilement of contradictious notions.
Where first we deny not, but that as some religionists extend
the Divine power to things contradictious, so may others
compound contradictions together in the nature of the Deity,
But it does not follow from thence that theology itself is therei
fore contradictious, no more than that philosophy is so her
cause.some philosophers also hold contradictious things; or
that nothing is absolutely true, neither in divinity nor philoso­
phy, but all seeming and fantastical; according to the Prota-*
gorean d o c t r i n e ............................................. 24Q
But though it be true, that whatsoever really implies a coin
tradiction is a nonentity; yet is this rule obnoxious to much
abuse, when whatsoever men's shallow understandings cannot
reach to, is therefore presently cried down by.them, as an.im­
possibility, or nothing. As when the Atheists and Materialist?
explode incorporeal substance upon this pretence; or make it
*:
0 (INTENTS TO VOL, Ilf. 483
inly an attribute of honour, expressing the veneration of men’s
minds, but signifying nothing in nature, nor having any philo­
sophic truth. But the Atheists’true meaning in this objection^
and what kind of contradictions they are which they impute to
all theology, may appear from a passage of a modern writer,
namely, such as these: when God is said to perceive sensible
things, and yet to have no organs of sense; as also to under­
stand, and yet to have no brains. The undisguised meaning of
the writer^ that religion is not philosophy, but law, and all mere
arbitrary constitution; nor God a subject of philosophy, as all
real things are; he being no true inhabitant of the world or hea­
ven, but only of men’s brains and fancies; and his attributes
signifying neither true nor false, nor any thing in nature, but
only men’s reverence and devotion towards what they fear. And
so may any thing be said of God, no matter what, so it be
agreeable to civil law. But when men mistake attributes of
honour for attributes of philosophic tru th ; that is, when they
will suppose such a thing as a God really to exist; then is all
absurd nonsense and contradiction. God’s understanding with­
out brains no contradiction • .................................242
Certain, that no simple idea, as of a triangle, or a square,
can be contradictious to itself; much less can the idea of a
perfect being, the most simple of all. This indeed pregnant of
many attributes, which, if contradictious, would render the
whole a nonentity; but all the genuine attributes of the Deity
as demonstrable of a perfect being as the properties of a tri.
angle or a square; and therefore can neither be contradictious
to it, nor one a n o th e r.......................................................... 246
Nay, the genuine attributes of the Deity not only not con­
tradictious, but also all necessarily connected together • ib*
In truth all the attributes of the Deity, but so many partial
and inadequate conceptions of one and the same perfect being,
taken into our minds as it were by piece-meal • • • 247
• The idea of God. neither fictitious nor factitious. Nothing'
arbitrarious in i t ; but a most natural and simple idea, to which
not the least can be added, nor anything detracted from it.
Nevertheless may there be different apprehensions concerning*
God ; every one that hath a notion of a perfect being, not un­
derstanding all that belongeth to it; no more than of a triangle,
or of a s p h e r e ........................................................................ib.
Concluded therefore, that the attributes of God no con­
founded nonsense of religiously-astonished minds, huddling up
2 I 2
484 CONTENTS TO VOL. IIL
together ail imaginable attributes of honour, courtship, and
compliment; but the attributes of necessary philosophic truth;
and such as do not only speak the devotion of men's hearts^ but
also declare the real nature of the thing. Here the wit of a
modern atheistic writer ill placed. (Though no doubt but some,
either out of superstition or ignorance, may attribute such
things to the Deity as are incongruous to its nature.) Thus the
fourth atheistic pretence against the idea of God confuted 248
In the next place, the Atheists think themselves concerned
to give an account of this unquestionable phenomenon; the ge­
neral persuasion of the existence of a God id the minds of men,
and their propensity to religion; whence" this should come if
there were no real object for it in nature. And this they would
do by imputing it, partly to the confounded nonsense of asto­
nished minds, and partly to the imposture of politicians* Or
else to these three things; to men’s fear; and to their ignorance
of Causes; and to the fiction of lawmakers and civil sove­
reigns .....................................................................................260
In the first of these atheistic origins of religion; T hat man­
kind, by reason of their natural imbecility, are in continual so­
licitude and fear concerning future events, and their good and
evil fortune. And this passion of fear raisesvup in them, for an
object to itself, a most affrightful phantasm; of an invisible
understanding being, omnipotent, &c. They afterwards stand­
ing in awe of this their own imagination, and tremblingly wor­
shipping the creature of their own fear and fancy • • ib*
Tbe second atheistic origin of Theism and religion ; That men
having a natural curiosity to inquire into the causes of things,
wheresoever they can discover no visible and natural causes,.are
prone to feign causes invisible and supernatural. As Anaxago­
ras said, never to have betaken himself to a G od/ hut only when
he was at a loss for necessary material causes. Wherefore no
wonder, if the generality of mankind, being ignorant of the
causes of all or most things, have betaken themselves to a God,
as to a refuge and sanctuary for their ignorance • • • 251
These two accounts of the phenomenon of religion; from
men's fear and solicitude, and from their ignorance of causes
and curiosity, joined together by a modern writer. As if the
Deity were but a morrao or bugbear, raised up by.men’s fear, in
the darkness of their ignorance of causes. The opinion of other
ghosts and spirits also deduced irom the same original. Men’s
taking things casual for prognostics, and being so addicted:
CONTENTS TO VOL. iU . 485
Ip omens, portents, prophecies &c.'firom a fantastic and (imo*
rous supposition, that the things of this world are not disposed
of by nature, but by some understanding person • • • 252
•;But lest these two accounts of the phenomenon of religion
should prove insufficient* the Atheists superadd a third, im­
puting it also to the fiction and imposture of civil sovereigns;
who, perceiving an advantage to be made from hence, for the
better keeping men in subjection, have thereupon dexterously
laid hold of men’s fear and ignorance; and cherished those
seeds of religion in them, from the infirmities of their nature:
confirming their belief of ghosts and spirits, miracles, prodigies,
and oracles, by tales, publicly allowed and recommended. And
that religion might be every way obnoxious to their designs,
have persuaded the people, that themselves were but the inter­
preters of the gods, from whom they received their laws. Re­
ligion an engine of state; to keep men busily employed; enter­
tain their minds; render them tame arid gentle, apt for subjec­
tion and society ..............................................• • • 252
All this not the invention of modern Atheists. But an old
atheistic cabal; that the gods made by fear. Lucretius $ that
the causes of religion, terror of mind and darkness; tied that the
empire of the gods owes all its being to men’s ignorance of
causes; as also, that the opinions ofghosts proceeded from men’s
not knowing how to distinguish their dreams and other frightful
fancies from sensations ....................................... 254
An old atheistic surmise also; that religion a political inven­
tion. Thus.Cicero; the Atheists in Plato, that the gods are
not by nature, but by art and laws only. Cfitias, one of the
thirty tyrants of Athens, his poem to this purpose • • 258
That the-folly and falseness of these three atheistic pretences,
for the origin of religion, will be fully manifested. First, as to
that of fear and fancy. Such an excess of fear, as makes any
one constantly believe the existence of that for which no man­
ner of grouud, neither in sense nor reason, highly tending also
to his own disquiet; nothing less than distraction. Wherefore
the generality o f mankind here affirmed by Atheists, to be
flighted out of their wits, and distempered in their brains; only
a .few of themselves, who have escaped this panic terror, re#
maining sober, or in their right senses. The sobriety of Atheists
nothing but dull stupidity and dead incredulity; they believing
only what they can see or feel • • • • • * • 258
Tfcue, that there is a religious fear consequent upon the be-
48ft contents to X u . ifi.
lief of a G od; as also, that the sense of a Deity is ofted
awakened in men’s minds by their fears and dangers. ' But re­
ligion no creature of fear* None less solicitous about their
good and evil fortune than the pious and virtuous; who place
not their chief happiness in things alien, but only in the right
use of their own will* Whereas the good of Atheists wholly
in things obnoxious to fortune. The timorous complexion of
Atheists, from building all their politics and justice upon the
foundation of fear *.................................' • • • • • 259
* The Atheists’ grand error here; that the Deity, according to
the general sense of mankind, nothing but a terriculum, a for­
midable, hurtful, and undesirable thing. Whereas men every
where agree in that Divine attribute 'ofgoodness and benignity ib.
rd $aifioviovy in the worst sense, taken by none but
a few ill-natured men, painting out the Deity according to their
own likeness. This condemned by Aristotle in the poets {he
calling them therefore liars), by Plutarch in Herodotus, as
spoken* universally; -Plutareh himself- restraining the sense
thereof to his evil principle. Plato’s ascribing the world to the
Divine goodness, who therefore made all things most like
himself. The true meaning of this proverb; T hat the Deity
affecteth to humble and abase the pride of men. Lucretius’s
hidden force, that hath, as it were, a spite to all overswelling
greatnesses, could be no other than the Deity. Those amongst
Christians,*who make the worst representation of God, yet fancy
him kind and gracious to themselves • • • • • . . 260
True, that religion often expressed by the fear of God. Fear
prima mensura Deitatis, the first impression that religion makes
upon men in this lapsed state.—But this not a fear of God, as
mischievous and hurtful, nor yet as a mere arbitrary being, but
as just, and an impartial punisher of wickedness.: Lucretius’s
acknowledging men’s fear of God to be conjoined with a con­
science of duty. A natural discrimination of good and evil,
with a sense of an impartial justice presiding over the world, and
both rewarding and punishing. The fear of God, as either a
hurtful, or arbitrary and tyrannical being (which must need&be
joined with something of hatred), not religion, but superstition.
Fear, faith, and love ; three steps and degrees of religion, to the
son of Sirach. Faith better defined in Scripture than by any
scholastics. God such a being, as if he were not, nothing spore
to be wished for • • • • • • • » . . . . 262
The reason why Atheists thus mistake the notion of God, as
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 489
a thing only to be feared, and consequently hated; from their
own ill-nature and vice. The latter disposing them so much tq
think, -that there is no difference of good and evil by nature^
but only by law ; which law, contrary to nature as restraint*to
liberty. Hence their denying all natural charity, and acknow­
ledging no benevolence or good-will but what arises from im­
becility, indigency, and fear. Their friendship at best no other
than mercatura utilitatum. -Wherefore* if there were an omni­
potent Deity, this (according to the atheistic hypothesis) could
not have so much as that spurious love or benevolence to any>
thing, because standing in need of nothing, and devoid of fear.
Thus Cotta in Cicero. All this asserted also by a late pre­
tender to politics; he adding thereunto, that God hath no other
right of commanding than his irresistible power; nor men any
obligation to obey him but only from their imbecility and fear,
or because*they cannot resist him. Thus do Atheists transform
the Deity into a monstrous shape; an omnipotent being that
hath neither benevolence nor justice in him. This indeed a
mornaa or bugbear . . . . . . . . . ; 266
But as this a false representation of Theism, so the atheistic'
scene of things most uncomfortable, hopeless,'fend dismal, upon
several accounts. True, that no spiteful designs in senseless
atoms; in which regard, Plutarch preferred even this atheistic
hypothesis before that of an omnipotent mischievous being.
However, no faith* nor hope neither* in senseless atoms. Epi-
ourhs’s confession, that it was better to believe the fable of the
gods, than that material necessity of all things, asserted by the1
othqr atheistic physiologers before himself. . But he not at all
mending the matter by his supposed free will. The panic fear
of the Epicureans, of the frame of heaven’s cracking, and this;
compilement of atoms being dissolved into a chaos. -Atheists'
running from fear plunge themselveb into fear. Atheism, rather1
than Theism, from the imposture of fear, distrust, and disbelief
of good. But vice afterwards prevailing in them makes them :
desire there should be no God • • • • ' • • • 268;
- Thus the Atheists, who derive the origin of religion from '
fear, first put an affrighful vizard upon the Deity, and then'
Conclude it to be but a mormo or bugbear, the creature of fear
and fancy. More likely of the two, that the opinion of a God
sprung from hope of good than fear of evil; but neither of these
true, it owing its being to the imposture of no passion, bat sup- *
ported by the strongest and clearest reason. Nevertheless, a.<
CONTENTS TO ? O l. H I.
489
natural prolepsis, or aolicipiIioD of« God also, in men’s a W i»
pretesting m ate. This called,by Plato and Aristotle, a tali*
citation - • • • **: • • • *>;;• :870
The second atheistic pretence to lo h e the phenemmon of
religion, from the igaoranoe of causes, and men's innate<
ca­
riosity (upon which account the Deity said by them to her-no*
thing but nn asylum of ignorance, or the sanctuary of fools),
nextto b^confuted • v *871
: Thatthe Atheists, both modem and aacient, heic’cammouly
complicate these two together, tear, and*ignorance of onuses;
making Theism the spawn o f both; as the foar of nbildiflpi in
the dark raiseB bugbears and spectres. Epicurus’s nea&on.why
he took such great pains in the study of physiology; that* by
finding out the natural causes of things* he slight free men
from the terror of a God, that would otherwise assaulttheir
minds » • «' » » ;• ? • *.**,. r .* • »;r272
The Athebts thus dabbling in physiology* and findipg out
material causes for some of those phenomena, which the un­
skilful vulgar solve only from a Deity; therefore^confident,
that religion had no other original than the ignorance of
causes: as also, that nature, or matter, does all things.alone
without:a God# But we: shall moke it manifest, that pkdoaa?
phy and the true knowledge of causes lead te a Deity; and
that Atheism, ixciin ignorance of-causes, and want«of phdor
sopby • • •■ •. •• *
•
. . ;r • •<
j: •. •t. 873
Tor, first, uo Atheist, who derives all frOm seaseless iaatter,
can possibly assign any cause of himself, hb own soul^ov.ufind|
it.being impossible, that life and sense should be natnsaUy pee*
doocd from what, dead and: senseless$ or fraas magnitudes,
figu re sites, and motion#*! An atheistic(ofcueetion*>nothing to
the purpose; that laughing andjtryimg*things are »made of
nojt laughingt*pd e*yjug principlesc.because these Jesuit fmm
1 tbe mechanism of thesbody.” The IiylpgoisAs never,able neither:
to produce^animal sense, and ;consoiouAuess^ The Atheist*,*
supposing their own life and understanding, and oU the wisdom
that b in the world, to baye sprang merely from senseless#*at-
t^rvand fortuitous motions; [grossly ignorant .of causes,1
; 7be
philosophy #jfourselves, and true knowledgeof the .cause« f our
opm soul and mind, brings to.God :• v r • . » ?• .■ ih.
Again, Atheists igporent of the. cause of motion, by yhieb
they suppose al) things done; this phenomenon being no ways
solvable, according to their principles. First, undeniably ctr-
CONTENTS TO VOI*. Hf. 480
tain,tbat motion:amt es*mtod ,to all body or tmttexAAjWich*!bo-
cause theo 4her« cQuIdMy^. bee*pof«wad^<ie>ypteui,po.siuiit
moon, earth*&c; all(thingsbeii^.eooriawaUy lornin,pifiocs,, sod
nothing cohering. Certain also, that dead and senseiess matter,
such as thut of, Ans^iinender, Deinocntus#ai*d Epieurue,cannot
move itself spontaneously, by w4U o*.appetite*! .The Gylosoiats
farther considered elsewhere* > Democritus could, assign, no
other,cause of motion Ihautbisyrirat one bodym oved another
from eternity infinitely; wjhbout.any first cause or mover* Thus -
also a modern writer. Toassertan infig&e progress inthe causes
of motion, according to Aristotle, to assign no cause thereof at
all. Epicurus, though an exploder of qualities, forced here, to
fly to an occult quality of gravity. Which,, as absurd in infinite
space, and without any centre of rest; so indeed nothing but to
make.his own ignorance, and he knows not why,, tp.be a cause.
The motion.of.body, from the activity of something.ioqofporeal*
Though motion taken for translation be a .mode of matter; ..yet
as it is taken/or the vis mourns, a mode or energy, of something
that is incorporeal,and self-active. Tbemotion, of tbewbote
corporeal .universe originally; from the,Deity. Thus tbejgno-
rancetofthe cause ofmotiou another groundof.Atheism .* JI7 4
Thirdly,. the Atheists also ignorant of the cause*!that grand
phenomenon* the rd e&icalKaXtig, the regular and artificialframe
of the mundane system,—and of the bodies of animals together
with the harmony ofall. They who boast they can give,causes
of all things without a God, able to. give no. cause of Jim,, but
only, that it happened by chance so to be. This, either, to make
theahsenoe of a oause (chance being,bnt the absence,of an in*
tending cause); <or_their own very ignorance, of. the qau?e,and
they know not why* to be >
ecame; or to make,one contrary the
cause of another (confusion o fo rd e r and harmony, oha#cc of
art and skill): or,lastly* to deny ft.tohavft any,eau*$at all,
since they deny an intending.cause •. • •. • • • $78
:j But here the Atheist* make several,pretences for this their ig­
norance* First* that tbec
world is not so well made, hut that it
might have been,much beUer; aud many,daws to he,found
therein; t.wbereas a CM* or perfect being,, would have, bungled
ip nothing, hut. Jm«&.m d* all things after the fees* manner*
But tbi&a twelfth tib m te »rguwentati<m* and the confutation:
thereof to.bp e^eet^<afterward,, . Beasopi.why some ntodern,
Tbeists give Atheists so much, advantage here* as to acko°w*
ledge things bn iil made; whilst the ancient pagan Tbeists stood
4 9 0 CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
their ground, and generously maintained, that mind being thd
maker of all things, and not Mind fortune or chance, nor arbi­
trary will, and irrational human omnipotent; the rd €Kriarov%
that which is absolutely the best, in order to the good of the
whole (so far as the necessity of things would admit), the mea­
sure and rule of nature and P rovidence...........................280
Again, the atomic and Epicurean Atheists pretend, that
though many things serve for uses, yet it does not therefore fob
low, that they were made intentionally for those uses; because
things that happen by chance may have uses consequent. Thus
Lucretius, and the old atheistic philosophers before Aristotle,
of the parts of the bodies of animals, and all other things. The'
answer, that when things consist of many parts,, all artificially
proportioned together, with much curiosity, as for example, the
eye; no man who considers the anatomy thereof, and its whole
structure, can reasonably conclude, that it happened so to be
made; and the use of seeing followed: but that it was made in­
tentionally for the use of seeing. But to maintain, that not only-
eyes happened to be so made, and the use of seeing followed,
but also ears, and a mouth, and feet, and hands, and all the
wther parts organical and similar (without any of which the
Whole would be inept or useless), all their several uses, unintend­
ed, following; gross insensibility, and stupidity. Galen of the
UseofParts* • • ....................................... ...... 282>
' Democritus’s dotages; countenanced also by Cartesius’s book
of Meteors (first written with design to solve all those phe­
nomena without a God), but unsuccessfully. Nevertheless we
acknowledge, that God and nature do all things in the most
frugal and compendious way; and that the mechanic powers
are taken in,:so far as they will serviceably'comply with the in­
tellectual platform. But nature not mechanical and fortuitous
only, but also vital and artificial; the Archeus of the whole
world * • • ' • • • ' ....................................... .. • 286
■ Again, Atheists farther, pretend, that though it may well seem
strange, that matter fortuitouslymoved, should, at the very first,'
fall into such a regularity and harmony as is now in the world;
yet not at all strange, that atoms, moving from all eternity, and
making all manner of combinations and contextures, and trying
all experiments, should, after innumerable other inept and dis-
congruous forms, at length fall into such a system as this. They
say therefore, that the earth, at first, brought forth divers mon­
strous and irregular:shapes of animals; some wanting feet,'some-
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 491
bands, some without a mouth, &c. to which the ancients added
centaurs, scyllas, and chimeras; mixedly boviform and homini.
form animals. Though Epicurus, ashamed to own these, would
seem to exclude them, but without reason. But because we
have now no such irregular shapes produced out of the earth,
they say, that the reason is, because none could continue and
propagate their kind by generation, but only such as happened
to be fitly made. Thus Epicurus, and the Atheists before Aris­
totle. They also add hereunto their infinite worlds; amongst
which they pretend, not one out of a thousand, or of ten thou­
sand, hath so much regularity in it as this of ours. Lastly, they
presage likewise, that this world of ours shall not always con­
tinue such, but after awhile fall into confusion and disorder
again; and then we may have centaurs, scyllas and chimeras,
as’b e f o r e ............................................................................. 280
' Nevertheless, because this universal and constant-regularity
of things, for so many ages together, is so puzzling; they would
persuade us that the senseless atoms, playing and toying up and
down from eternity, without any' care or thought, were at
length taught by the necesity of things, and driven to a kind of
trade, or habit of artificialness and methodicalness • • 290
To all which atheistic pretences replied, first, That this is
an idle dream, or impudent forgery, that there was once an
inept mundane system; and in this world of ours, all manner
of irregular shapes of animals: not only because no tradition
of any such thing; but also because no reason possibly to be
given, why such should'not be produced out of the earth still,
though they could not continue long. That also another athe­
istic dream, that in this world of ours, all will quickly fall into
confusion and nonsense again. And as their infinite worlds an
impossibility, so their assertion of the irregularity of the sup­
posed other worlds well enough answered, by a contrary asser­
tion; that were every planet a habitable earth, and every fixed
star 9 sun, having all more or fewer such habitable planets mov­
ing round about them, and non£ of them, desert or uninhabited,
there would not be found so much as otae ridiculous or inept sys­
tem amongst them all; the Divine act being infinite • 291
Again, that the fortuitous motions of senseless atoms should
in length of time, grow artificial, and contract a habit, or trade
of acting regularly, as if directed by perfect art and wisdom;
this atheistic fanaticism . . . . . . * • • . 292
No more possible, that dead and senseless matter, fortuitous-
GQWT&NJS TO V O lr U I.
jpavpf], flpmldetleftatb be taught and necessitate >by,itself
t^ j^^fkicetbip artififaahfystgfn o^jtjbe wcyrkU tjw lb a t ndq^ea
fur.m^e j^rfon^ iujpkil.led in music,and striking the strings as
it,hqppen£d, should at; length J^e taught and necessitated to.fidl
ipto exquisite karfnopy; A
>
r that the letters in the writings of
J^Jaio ^^d Aristotle, though having so much philosqphip sense,
should have been all scribbled at random. More philosophy In
the great volume of the world, than in all Aristotle’s and Plato’
s
Works; and more of.harmony tl^rn in any artificial composition
of.vocpl music. That the Divine art and wisdom hath printed
such a signature ,of itself upoq the matter pf the whole world, as
fyrfyne and chance could never counterfeit • .282
But, in the next place, the Atheists will for all this undertake
to demqnsfrate, that things could not possibly be made by any
intending cause, for ends and uses; as eyes for seeing, ears for
hearing; from hence, because things were all in order of tune,
as well as nature, before their uses. This argument seriously
propounded by Lucretius in this manner; if eyqs were made for
the use of seeing, then of necessity must seeing have been be­
fore eyes: but, there was no seeing before eyes; therefore could
nqt eyes be made for the sake of seeing • • • * • 294
, Ev^ent, that the logic of these Atheists differs from that of
fiU other mqrtyls; according to which the end for which any
tbipg is designedly made, is only in intention first, bat in execu­
tion last True, that men are commonly excited from experi­
ence of things, and sense of their wapts, to excogitate paeans
aqd.remedies; b u tjt doth not therefore follow, that the Rfaker
of the world could not have a preventive knowledge of what*
?pever would ha useful for animals, and so make them bodies in*
tfntionglly for those uses. .That argument ought to be thus
framed; whatsoever is made intentionally for any end, as the
eye for that of seeing, that end must needs be in the knowledge
fund,jatenrion of the maker, before the. actual existence o f;that
which is made fojr jt : b|ijt there could be no knowledge of see*'
ing before,there were eyes;, therefore eyes could not be made in*
fentioually for the sake of seeing • • • • ♦ • • 290
This the true scope of the premised atheistic argument how­
ever disguised by them in the first propounding. The ground
thereof, because they take it for granted, that all knowledge is
derived from sense, or from the things known pre-existing withr
out the knower. And here does Lucretius triumph. The con­
troversy therefore at last resolved into this; whether ah know*
CONTENTS TO VOb. HI. 488
ledge be in its own Mature junior to things: for if so, it most bg
granted, that the world could not he mfcde by any antecedent
knowledge. Bat this afterwards fully-confuted ; and proved’
that knowledge is not, in its own nature, eetypal, but archety*
pal ; and that knowledge- was older than the world, and the
Maker thereof • % * r ■> . •• , .. • . • » Q&J
Blit Atheists will except against the proving of a God, from
the regular and artificial frame of things; That it is unreasona­
ble to think; tfctere should be*no cause hr nature- for the common
phenom ena thereof; buta God thus introduced to solve them*
Which also; to suppose the world bungled and botched upt
That nature is the cause o f natural things, which nature does
notintend,nor act for ends. Wherefore the opinion offinal cau­
sality for things m nature but anidolum spemi. Therefore
rightly banished by Democritus out of physiology - * 298
The answer: Two extremes here to be avoided; one of the
atomic Athieists, who derive allthings from the fortuitous motion
of senseless matter; another of bigotioal religionists, who will
have God to do all things himself immediately without any na*-
ture. The middle betwixt both, that there is not only a me­
chanical and fortuitous but also an artificial nature, subservient
to the Deity, as the mamwry opifieer and drudging executioner
thereof. True, that some philosophers have absurdly attributed
their own properties, or animal idiopathies, to inanimate bodies.
Nevertheless, this no idol of the cave, or den, to suppose the
system Ofthe world to have been framed *by an understanding
being, according to whose direction, nature, though1not itself
intending, aetetbj Balbus’s description -of thisartificial nature
in Cicero. : That there could be no mind in us* were there none
in the universe'.' T hat of Aristdde^ true,,that there is more of
art in some things of nature than in any* thing made by men.
Now the causesof artificial things, as a house or.clock, cannot
be declared without intention for ends. .This excellently pur*-
aued by Aristotle. «No more can the thyigs of nature be rightly
understood, or tbe causes of them fully?assigned, merely from
matter and motion, without intenthm/or mind. They, who ba­
nish final or mental causality fromi philosophy, look upon the
things of nature with no other eyesr. than*-oxen and, horses.
Some pitiful attempts of tbe ancient Atheist to*sdve the phe­
nomena of animals.without mental causality. - Democritus and
Epicurus so cautious, as never to pretend tto give an account of
404 CONTENTS TO VOL. I lf .
the formation of the foetus. Aristotle’s judgment here to be
preferred before that of Democritus • • • • • • 300
But nothing more strange than that these Atheists should be
justified in this their ignorance by professed Theists and Christ­
ians; who atomizing likewise in their physiology, contend,
that this whole mundane system resulted only •from the neces­
sary and unguided motion of matter, either turned round in a
vortex, orjumbled in a chaos, without the direction of any mind;
These mechanic Theists more immodest than the atomic Athe­
ists themselves; they supposing these their atoms, though for­
tuitously moved, yet never to have produced any inept system,
or incongruous forms; but from the very first, all along, to have
ranged themselves so orderly, as that they could not have done
it better had they been directed by a perfect mind. They
quite take away the argument for a God, from the phenomena,
and that artificial frame of things, leaving only some metaphy­
sical arguments ; which, though never so good, yet by reason of
their subtilty cannot do so much execution. The Atheists gpra*
tified to seethe cause of Theism thus betrayed by its professed
friends; and the grand argument for the same totally slurred
"by them ............................... ...... 306
As this great insensibility of mind, to look upon the things
of nature with no other eyes than brute animals d o ; so are
there sundry phenomena, partly above the mechanic powers,
and partly contrary to the same, which therefore can never be
solved, without mental and final causality. As in animals, the
motion of the diaphragma in respiration, the systole and dias­
tole of the heart (being a muscular constriction and relaxation):
to which might be added others in the macrocosm; as the in­
tersection of the planes of the equator and ecliptic; or the
earth’s diurnal motion upon an axis not parallel with that of its
annual. Cartesius's confession, that, according to mechanic
principles, these should continually come nearer and nearer to­
gether ; which since they have not done, final or mental cau­
sality here to be acknowledged, and because it was best it should
be so. But the greatest phenomenon of this kind, the forma­
tion and organization of animals; which these mechanists ne­
ver able to give any account of. Of that posthumous piece of
Oartesius, De la Formation du Foetus • • • • « • 308
Pretended, that to assign final causes, is to presume ourselves
to be as wise as God Almighty, or to be privy to*his counsels.
CONTENTS TD VOL, III. 493
But the: qu&tiop, not whether we can always reach to the end*
of God Almighty, or know what is absolutely best in every
fcase, and accordingly conclude things therefore to be so; but
whether any thing in the world be made for ends otherwise
than would have resulted from the fortuitous motion of matter. •
No presumption, nor intrusion into the secrets of God Almighty,
to say, that eyes were made by him intentionally for the sake of
seeing. Anaxagoras's absurd aphorism, that man was therefore
the most solert of all animals, because he chanced to have
hands. Far more reasonable to think (as Aristotle concludeth),
that because man was the wisest of all animals, therefore he had
hands given him. More proper to give pipes to one that hath
musical skill, than upon him, that hath pipes, to bestow musical
skill .............................................................. ...... 310.
In the last place, mechanic Theists pretend, and that with
some more plausibility, that it is below the dignity of God Al­
mighty to perform all those mean and trivial offices of nature,
himself immediately. This answered again; that though the
Divine wisdom itself, contrived the system of the whole for
ends, yet is there an artificial nature under him, as his inferior
minister and executioner. Proclu$’s description hereof. .This
nature, to Proclus, a godor goddess; butonly as the bodies of the.
animated stars werecalled gods,because the statues ofthe gods 31L
That we cannot otherwise conclude, concerning these me­
chanic Theists, who derive all things in the mundane system,
from the necessary motions of senseless matter, without the dU
reetion of any mind, or God; but that they are imperfect The-*
ists, or have a certain tang of the atheistic enthusiasm (the spu
rit of infidelity) hanging about them • • • • • * 314
But these mechanic Theists counterbalanced by another sort
of Atheists, not fortuitous, nor mechanical; namely, the Hy-
lozoists, who acknowledge the works of nature to be the works
of understanding, and deride Democritus’s rough and hooky
?toms, devoid of life; they attributing life to all matter as such;
and concluding the vulgar notion of a God to be but an inade*
quate conception of matter, its energetic nature being taken
alone by itself as a complete substance. These Hylozoists
never able to satisfy that phenomenon, of the one agreeing and
conspiring harmony throughout the whole universe; every atom
of matter, according to them, being a distinct percipient; and
these unable to confer notions one with another « • » ib.
Nor- can the other Cosmo-plastic Atheists (to whom the whole
460 CONTENTS TO VOLi III.
world but one buge plant or- vegetable, endowed with * sper­
matic artificial nature, orderly disposing the whole, Without
sense nr understanding) doady thing toward* 'the ?sohtng #6
this* or* any other phenomena; it' being impossible'that these
should be*any such regular nature otherwise ithan a# derived
front and depending on a perfect mind *• «« n • ' » 31&
Besides these three phenomena, of cogitation, motion, and*
the artificial frame of< things, with the >
conspiring harmony of
the whoie'(no way solvable byAtheists), here farther added, that
those who'asserted the novity of the worlds could•not' possibly
give an account neither of'the first beginning/of men, and other?
animals, notmowgenerated out of putrefaction. Aristotle some**
timerdoubtful ancf staggering concerning>
the .world’s eternity.
Men and all other animals not-produced at first by chance^
either as worms outiof putrefaction, o r out of eggs^or wombs,
growing out of the earth; because no reason to be given why
cfaadee should not as well produce the same out of the earth
still. Epicurus's vain pretence, that the earth, as a child-bearing
woman, was now grown effete and barren. Moreover, men and
animals, whether first generated oat of putrefaction, or excluded
out of wombs or egg-shells, supposed by these Atheists then*
selves to" have been produced in' a tender infant-like state, so
that they could neither supply themselves with nourishment* nor
defend themselves from harms. A dream of Epicurus* that the
earth sent forth streams of milk after those heruew-boni infests
and nurslings, confuted by Critolaus in*Philo; Anotherpreca­
rious supposition, or figment, of Epicurus; that* then no ammo-*
derate heats, nor colds, nor any blustering winds. Anaximan­
ders way of solving this difficulty; that men wete first gene­
rated and nourished in the bellies of fishes, tilt able to shift for
themselves; and then disgorged upon dry land. Atheists swal­
low any thing rather than a God • • • • . . . . ib.
Wherefore here being digitus vindice no4us, a 6 eov dad pex**
vnc, reasonably introduced, in the Mosiac cabala, to solve the
same*, it appearing, from all circumstances pnt together, that
this whole phenomenon surpasses, not only the mechanic but
also the plastic powers; there being much of discretion theseim
However, not denied but that the ministry of spirits {created
before man, and other terrestrial animals) might be here, made
use of.> As in Plato, after the creation ef immortal souls by the
supreme God, the framing of mortal bodies, is committed to ju 4
niorgods . • • . >
: • «>.> v, .♦. r • '616
CONTENT* TO VOL. III. 4 9 7
Furthermore, Atheists no more able to solve that ordinary
phenomenon, of the conservation of species, by the difference
of sexes, and a due proportion of number kept up between
males and females. Here a providence, also, superior as well
to the plastic as mechanic nature • • • • • • • 3 2 0
Lastly, other phenomena, as real, though not physical;
which Atheists cannot possibly solve, and therefore do com­
monly deny; as of natural justice or honesty, and obligation ;
the foundation of politics, and the mathematics gf religion.
And of liberty of will, not only that of fortuitous self-deter-
minatiou, when an equal eligibility of objects; hut also that
which makes men deserve commendation and blame. These
not commonly distinguished as they ought. Epicurus’s-endea­
vour to solve liberty of will, from atoms declining uncertainly
from the perpendicular, mere madness and frenzy • • 32 1
And now have we. already preventively, confuted, the third
atheistic pretence, to solve the phenomenon of Theism, from the
fiction and imposture of politicians; we having proved, that
philosophy and the true knowledge of causes infer the exist­
ence of a God. Nevertheless, this is to be here farther an­
swered ............................................................... • • • ib.
That statesmen and politicians could not have made such use
of religion, as sometimes they have done, had it been a mere
cheat and figment of their own. Civil sovereigns in all the dis­
tant places of the world could not have so universally conspired,
in this one piece of statecraft or cozenage; nor yet have been
able to possess the minds of men every where with such a con­
stant awe and dread of an invisible nothing. The world would
long since have discovered this cheat, and suspected a plot up?
op their liberty, in the fiction of a God; at least governors
themselves.would Jbavp understood it; many of.which, notwith­
standing, as much awed with the fear of this invisible nothing,
as any others. Other cheats and juggles, when once detected,
no longer practised. But religiou now as much in credit as
ever, though so long since decried by Atheists for a political
cheat. That Christianity, a religion founded in no human po­
licy, prevailed over the craft and power of all civil sovereigns^
and conquered the persecuting world, by suffering deaths and
martyrdoms. This presignified by the prophetic spirit • 329.
Had the idea of God been an arbitrarious figment, not con­
ceivable, how men should have universally agreed in the same,
and the attributes belonging thereunto (this argument used (ly,
VOL. iv . 2 K
CONTENT* TO TOf.. lift
4m
Sextus): rior thatcivil sovereigns themselves shouldsouniversally
have jumped in i t ......................... • Sifl
Furthermore; not conceivable, how this thought, or idea of
a God, should have been formed by any, bad it been the idea of
nothing. The superficialness of Atheists, in pretending, that
politicians, by telling men of such a thing, put the idea into
their minds. No notions or ideas put into men's minds by words
but only the phantasms of the sounds. Though all learning be
not remembrance, yet is all human teaching but maieutical or
obstetricious; not the filling of the soul as a vessel, by pouring
into it from without; but the kindling of it from within. Words
signify nothing to him that cannot raise up within himself the
notions or ideas correspondent to them. However, the diffi­
culty still remains; how statesmen themselves, or the first in­
ventor' of this cheat, could have framed any notion at all of a
n o n e n tity ......................... ...... * ................................826
Here the Atheists pretend, that there is a feigning power m
the sonl, whereby it can make ideas and conceptions'of nonen-
tities; as of a golden mountain, or a centaur: and that by this
an idea of God might be framed, though there beno such thing.
Answer: that all the feigning power of the soul conshteth only
in compounding ideas of things, that really exist apart, but not
in that conjunction. The mind cannot make any new concept
. tive cogitation which was not before; as the painter or limner
cannot foign foreign colours. Moreover, the whole of these fic­
titious ideas, though it have no actual yet hath it a possible
entity. The Deity itself, though it could create a world out
of nothing, yet can it not create more cogitation or concep­
tion than is or was always entertained in its owir mind from
eternity; nor frame a positive idea of that which hath no pos­
sible entity • • *
• • • . . . . . . • . • 826
■ The idea ofGod no compilement or aggregation of things, that
exist severally apart in the world; because then it would be a
mere arbitrarious thing, and what every one pleased; the con­
trary whereunto hath been before manifested • . • 829
' Again: some attributes of the Deity no where else to be
found in the whole world; and therefore iriust be absolute non-
Entities, were there no God. Here the painter must feign co­
lours, and create new cogitation out of nothing • • • 886
Lastly, upon supposition that there is no God, it is:impos­
sible, not1only that there should be any for the fotute, but also
that there Should ever have been any; whereas all fictitious
CONTENTS TO VOL. i l l . 490
ideas must have a possible entity, since otherwise they would be
inconceivable, and no ideas................................................. 330
Wherefore some Atheists will farther pretend, that besides this
power of compounding things together, the soul hath another
ampliation or amplifying power; by both which together, though
there be no God existing, nor yet possible, the idea of bim might
be fictitiously made; those attributes, which are no where else
to be found, arising by way of amplification or augmentation of
something found in men • • • * ......................... ib.
Answer: firet, that according to the principles of these Athe*
ists, that all our conceptions are nothing but passions from ob­
jects without, there cannot possibly be any such amplifying
power in the soul, whereby it could make more than is. Thus
Protagoras in Plato; no man can conceive any thing but what
he suffers. Here also, as Sextus intimateth, the Atheists guilty
of that fallacy called a circle or diallelus. JPor having first uu-
discemedly made the idea of imperfection from perfection, they
then go about again to make the idea of perfection out of im­
perfection. That inen have a notion of perfection, by which, as
a rule, they judge things to be imperfect,, evident from that di­
rection given by all theologere, to conceive of God, in way. of
remotion Orabstraction of all imperfection. Lastly, finite things
added1together can never make up infinite; as more and more
time backward can never reach to eternity without beginning.
God differs from imperfect things, not in degree, but kind. As
for infinite spaoe, said to consist of parts finite; we certain of
no more than this, that the finite world might have been made
bigger and bigger infinitely; for which very cause it:could
never be actually infinite. Gassendus*s objection, that the idea
Of an infinite God might as Well be feigned gs that of infinite
worlds. But infinite worlds are but words or notions ill put to-t
gether, or Combined; infinity being a real thing in nature, .but
misapplied, h being proper only to the Deity • • • 339
The conclusion; that since the soulcan neither.make, the
idea of infinite, *by amplification of finite; nor feign or create
any new cogitation, which was not before; nor make a positive
idea of a nonentity $ certain, that the idea of God no fictitious
thing* • ; • • • • . * - • • • *•••«,•.■.>.-- '334
* Farther made evident, that religion not the figment of civil
sovereigns. Obligation in conscience the foundation ofrallci-
Vil right and authority. Covenants, without this, notiungbut
words and breath. Obligations, not from laws neither^buthe*
2 k 2
500 CONTENTS TO T O t.' i n .
fore them; or otherwise they could not oblige. Lastly, this de­
rived not from utility neither. Were obligation to civil obe­
dience made by men’s private utility, then could it be dissolved
by the same. Wherefore if religion a fiction or imposture, ci­
vil sovereignty must needs be so too ................................. 334
Had religion been a fiction of politicians, they would tljeti have
made it every way pliable, and flexible; since otherwise it would
not serve their turn, nor consist with their infinite right • 336
But religion in its own nature a stiff inflexible thing, as also
justice, it being not fictitious, or made by will. There may
therefore be a contradiction betwixt the laws of God and of
men; and in this case does religion conclude, that God ought
to be obeyed rather titan men. For this cause, atheistic politi­
cians of latter times declare against religion as inconsistent
with civil sovereignty; it destroying infinite right, introducing
private judgment, or conscience, and a fear greater thaq that of
the Leviathan; to wit, of him who can ioflict eternal punishment-
Senseless matter the Atheists' natural god; the leviathan or
civil sovereign his artificial one. Religion thus disowned and
disclaimed by politicians, as inconsistent with civil power, could
hot be the creature of political art Thus all the three atheistic;
pretences to solve the phenomenon of religion, from fear, igno?
ranee of causes, and fiction of politicians, fully confuted • 337
But because, besides those ordinary phenomena beforemen-
tioned, there are certain other extraordinary ones that cannot
be solved by Atheists, which therefore they will impute, partly,
to men’s fear and ignorance, and partly to the fiction and impos?
ture of civil governors (viz. apparitions, miracles, and prophe­
cies) ; the reality of these here also to be briefly vindicated 340
First, as for apparitions; though much of fabulosity in these
relations, yet unquestionably something of truth. Atheists im­
puting these things to men’s mistaking their dreams and fancies
for sensations, contradict their own fundamental principle, that
setise is the only criterion of truth; as also derogate more from
human testimony than they ought • • • • ' • • • ib;
That some Atheists sensible hereof have acknowledged the
reality of apparitions, concluding them nevertheless to be the
Mete creatures of. imagination; as if a strong fancy cpuld pro*
duce real substances or objects of sense. The fanaticism of
Atlihists, who will rather believe the. greatest impossibilities,
than endanger the being of a God. Invisible ghosts permanent
easily introduce one supreme ghost of the.whole world. ; • 341
: CONTENTS TO VOL* III. £01
Democritus yet further convinced; that there were invisible
beings superior to men, independent upon imagination, and per­
manent (called by him idols), but having- nothing immortal in
them; and therefore that God could be no more proved from
the existence of them than of men. Granted by him, that there
were, not only terrestrial, but also aereal and ethereal animals^
and that all those vast regions of the universe above were not
desert and uninhabited. Here something of Hie fathers, assert­
ing angels to have bodies; but more afterwards • • • 341
To this phenomenon of apparitions may be added those two
others, of witches and demoniacs; both of these proving, that
•spirits are not fancies, nor inhabitants.of men’s brains only,
but of the world : as also, that there are some impure spirits, a
confirmation of the truth of Christianity. The confident ex­
ploders of witchcraft suspicable for Atheism. As for demoniacs
or energumeni, certain from Josephus, that the Jews did not
take these demons or devils for bodily diseases, but real sub­
stances, possessing the bodies of men. Nor probable, that
they supposed, as the Gnostics afterward, all diseases to-be the
infestation of evil spirits; nor yet (as some think) all demoniacs
to be madmen. But when there were any unusual and extra-
ordinary symptoms in any bodily distemper, but especially that
of madness, they supposing this to be supernatural, imputed it
to the infestation of some devil. Thus also the Greeks 344
That demoniacs and energumeni are a real phenomenon; and
that there are such also in these times of ours, asserted by Fer-
nelius and*Sennertus.- Such maniacal persons, as not ouly dis­
cover secrets, but also speak languages which they had never
learned, unquestionably demoniacs or energumeni. That there
have been such in the times since our Saviour, proved out of
Psellus; as also from Fernelius. This for the vindication of
Christianity against those who suspect the Scripture-demoniacs
for figments • • • • * ......................... ...... • 34U
The- seeond extraordinary phenomenon proposed; that of
miracles, and effects supernatural. That there have been such
things amongst the Pagans, aud since the times of Christianity
too, evident from thfeir records. But more instances of these
in Scripture • • • • • • • • • 352
Two sorts of miracles. First, such as, though they cannot
be done by ordiuary causes, yet may be effected by the natural
power of invisible spirits, angels; or demons. As illiterate de­
moniacs speaking Greeks Such amongst the Pagans that nu<»
CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
*0*
racle of the whetstone cut in two with a razor. Secondly, such
as transcend the natural power of all second causes and created
b e in g s ............................... $53
That late Politico-Theological Treatise, denying both these
sorts of miracles, inconsiderable, and not.deserving here a con­
futation ............................... . . . . . . . $54
Supposed in Deut. that miracles of the former soft might be
done by false prophets, in confirmation of idolatry. Where*
fore miracles alone not sufficient to confirm every doctrine 855
Accordingly in the New Testament do we read of ripm^
xf/etidovc, lying miracles;—that is, miracles done in confirmation
of a lie, and by the power of Satan, &c. God permitting it,
in way of probation of some, and punishment of others. Mir
racles done for the promoting of creature-worship or idolatry*
instead ofjustifying the same, themselves condemned by it 863
Had the miracles of our Saviour been all of the former kind
only, yet ought the Jews, according to Moses’s law, to have ac­
knowledged him for a true prophet, he coming in the name of
the Lord, and not exhorting to idolatry. Supposed in Dent,
that God would not permit false prophets to do miracles, save
only in the case of idolatry; or when the doctrine is discovera­
ble to be false by the light of nature; because that would be an
invincible temptation. Our Saviour, that eximious prophet*
foretold, by whom God would again reveal his will to the worlds
and no more out of flaming fire. Nevertheless some miracles
of our Saviour Christ’s such also as eould be done only by the.
power of God Almighty ............................................ - 857
All miracles evince spirits; to disbelieve which is to disbe­
lieve sense, or unreasonably to derogate from human testimony.
Had the Gentiles entertained the faith of Christ, without mira*
cles, this itself would have been a great miracle • •• • 359
The last extraordinary phenomenon, divination or prophecy*.
This also evinces spirits (called gods by the Pagans): and thus
that of theirs true; if divination, then gods • 860
Two sorts of predictions likewise as of miracles. First, such
as might proceed from the natural presaging power of created
spirits. Such predictions acknowledged by Democritus, upon
account of his idols.* Not so much contingency in human ac­
tions, by reason of men’s liberty of will, as some suppose ib.
Another sort of predictions of future events imputable only
to the supernatural prescience of God Almighty. Epicurus's
pretence, that divination took away liberty of wiH; either as
CONTENTS TO VOX. IH . . . m
supposing or making a necessity. Some Theists also denying
the prescience of God Almighty, upon the same account. Cer*-
taip,4hat no created being can foreknow future eventsotherwise
than in theircauses. Wherefore predictions of such events as
bad no necessary antecedent causes, evince a God • • 362
That there is foreknowledge of future events, unforeknowa-
bje to men, formerly the general persuasion of mankind. Ora­
cles and predictions amdugst the Pagans, which evince spirits,
as that of Attius Navius. Most of the Pagan oracles, from the
natural presaging power of demons. Nevertheless some in­
stances of predictions of a higher kind amongst theta; as that
of Vectius Valens, and the sibyls. Thus Balaam divinely as­
sisted to predict pur Saviour •. • • • • • • , • 364
Scriptures triumphing over Pagan oracles. Predictions con.
cerping our Saviour Christ, and the conversion of the Gentiles.
Amongst which that remarkable one of the seventy weeks 363
Other predictions concerning the fates of kingdoms, and of
the church. Daniel’s fourth ten-horned beast, the Roman em­
pire. This prophecy 'of Daniel’s carried on farther in the Apo­
calypse. Both of them prophetic calendars of times, to the
end of the world ............................................ • • • 369
That this phenomenon of Scripture-prophecies cannot possi­
bly be imputed by Atheists, as some others, to fear, or igno­
rance, of causes, or to the fiction of politicians. They not only
evince a Deity) but also the truth of Christianity. To this pur­
pose, of more use to us, who now live,than the miracles them­
selves recorded in Scripture • • • • • • • • 370
These five extraordinary phenomena all of them evince spi­
rits to be no fancies, but substantial inhabitants of the world; 1
from whence a God may be inferred. Some of themimmedir
ately prove a Deity • • ............................................ ib.
.. Here have we not only fully confuted all the atheistic pre­
tences from the idea of God, but also, by the way, already pro.
posed several substantial arguments for a Deity. The existence
whereof will now be farther provedfrom its very idea • 371
. True, that some of the ancient Theists themselves declare
God not to be demonstrable. Thus Alexander Aprodis. Cle7
mens Alexand. But their meaning therein no more than this,
that God cannot be demonstrated a priori from any antecedent
necessary cause. Not follow from hence, that therefore no cer­
tainty or knowledge of the existence of a God ; but only con­
jectural probability, faith, and opinion. We may have a cer-
604 CONTENTS TO TOL. III.
tain knowledge of things, the $i6t«whereof cannot be demons
strated a priori; as, that there was something or other eternal^
without beginning. Whensoever a thing is necessarily inferred
from what is altogether undeniable, this may be called a demon­
stration.. Many geometrical demonstrations such; or of the
on o n ly ........................................................ 371
A special position of Cartesius; that there can be no cer­
tainty of any thing, no, not of geometrical theorems, nor com-
mon notions; before we be certain of the existence of a God,
essentially good, who therefore cannot deceive. From whence
, it would follow, that neither Atheists, nor such Theists as as­
sert an arbitrary Deity, can ever be certain of any thing; as
that two and two are four • • • • • • • • • 374
However, some appearance of piety in this assertion; yet is it
a foundation of eternal scepticism, both as to all other things,
and the existence of a God. That Cartesius here went round
in a circle, proving the existence ofa God from our faculties, and
then the truth of our faculties from the existence of a G od; and
consequently proved* nothing. If it be possible that our facul­
ties might be false, then must we confess it possible, that there
may be no God; and consequently remain for ever sceptical
about it • • .....................................................................375
Wherefore a necessity of exploding and confuting this new
sceptical hypothesis, of the possibility of our faculties being so
made as to deceive us in all our clearest perceptions. Omni*
potence itself cannot make any thing to be indifferently true or
false. Truth not factitious. As to the universal theorems of
abstract science, the measure of truth no foreign or extraneous
thing, but only our own clear and distinct perception. Here
whatsoever is clearly perceived, is; the very essence of truth*
perceptibility. Granted by all, that there can be no false
knowledge or understanding. The perception of the under­
standing never false, but only obscure. Not nature that erreth
in us, but we ourselves, in assenting to things not clearly per­
ceived'. Conclusion; that Omnipotence cannot create any un­
derstanding faculties, so as to have as clear and distinct con­
ceptions of all falsehoods and nonentities as of truths; because
whatsoever is clearly and distinctly perceived, hath therefore
an entity; and Omnipotence itself (to speak with reverence) can­
not make nothing to be something, or something nothing. This
no more than that it cannot do things contradictious. Concep­
tion the measure of power .................................................373
CONTENTS TO VOL. Ill# 506
True, that sense as such is but fantastical and relative;
and were there no other, perception, all truth would be pri-
vate, relative, and seeming, none absolute. This probably
the reason why some have suspected the same of knowledge
also. But mind and understanding reach beyond fancy and
appearance, to the absoluteness of things. It hath the crite­
rion of truth within itself • ............................................379
Objected; that this an arrogance, for creatures to pretend to
an absolute certainty of any thing. Answer: that God alone
is ignorant of nothing, and infallible in all things; but no de­
rogation from the Deity, to suppose, that he should make
created minds such as to have a certainty of something; as
the whole to be greater than the part, and the like: since other­
wise they would be but a mere mockery. Congruous to think,
that God hath made men so as that they may possibly attain
to some certainty of his own existence. Origen, that know­
ledge is the only thing that hath certainty in it *
• • • 381
Having now some firm ground or footing to stand upon, a
certainty of common notions, without which nothing could be
proved by reason; we shall endeavour, by means hereof, to
demonstrate the existence of a God from his idea • • 383
Cartesius’s undertaking to do this with mathematical evi­
dence ; as this idea includeth ‘in it necessary existence. This
argument hitherto not so successful, it being by many con­
cluded to be a sophism. That we shall impartially set down all
that we can, both for it and against it; leaving others to make
a ju d g m en t......................... .................................................ib.
First, against the Cartesian demonstration of a God. That
because we can frame an idea of a necessarily-existent being, it
does not at all follow that it is; since we can frame ideas*of
things that never were, nor will be. Nothing to be gathered
from hence, but only that it is not impossible. Again, from this
idea, including necessary existence, nothing else inferrible, but
that what hath no necessary existence is not perfect; aud, that
if there.be a perfect being, its existence always was and will be
necessary; but not absolutely, that it doth exist. A fallacy,
when from the necessity of existence affirmed only hypotheti­
cally, the conclusion is made absolutely. Though a perfect
being must exist necessarily, yet not therefore follow, that it
must and doth exist. The latter a thing indemonstrable 384
For the Cartesian demonstration of a God. As 4rom the
notion of a thing impossible, we couclude, that it neves was nor.
CONTENTS T P VOL. III.
600
will be; and of that which hath a contingent ftchesh to exist­
ence, that it might be, or might not b e ; so from that which
hath necessary existence iq its nature, that it actually is. The
force of the argumentation not merely hypothetical; if there be
a perfect being, then is its existence necessary; because tins
supposes that a necessary existent being is contingent to be or
qot to be: which a contradiction. The absurdity of this wilj
better appear, if, instead of necessary existence, we put in ac­
tual. No Theists can otherwise prove that a God, though
supposed to exist, might not happen by chance to be. Never­
theless God, or a perfect being, not here demonstrated a priori,
when from its own idea. The reader left to make a judg­
ment .................................................................... ...... * 339
A progymuasma, or prelusory attempt towards the proving
of a God from his idea, as including necessary existence. First*
from our having an idea of a perfect being, implying no manner
of contradiction in it, it follow* that such a thing is possible,
And from that necessary existenee included in this idea, added
to the possibility thereof, it farther fellows that jt actually is,
A necessary existent being, if possible, is; because, upon the
supposition of its nonexistence, it would*bo impossible for it
ever to have been. Not so in contingent things. A perfect
being is either impossible to hav# been, or else it is. Were God
possible, and yet not, he would not be a necessary but contia*
gent being. However, no stress laid upon this . • • 389
Another plainer argument for the existence of a God, from
Ilia idea. Whatsoever we can frame an idea of in our minds,
implying no contradiction, this either actually is, or else, if it
be j|ot, is possible to be. But if God be not, be is not possible
to* be. Therefore he is. The major before proved, that we
cannot have an idea of any thiqg which hath neither actual nor
possible existence............................... .............................. 391
A farther ratiocination from the idea of God, as including
necessary existence, by certain steps. First, certain, that some­
thing or other did exist of itself from eternity, without begin,
ning. Again; whatsoever did exist of itself from eternity, did
so exist uaturally and necessarily, and therefore there is a ne­
cessary existent being. Thirdly, nothing could exist of itself
from eternity naturally and necessarily, but what contained ne-
tes&ary self-existence in its nature. Lastly, a perfect being,
and nothing else, containeth necessary existence in its nature.
Therefore it is. An appendix to this argument; that no tem-
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 507
porary successive being could be from eternity without begin­
ning. This proved before ............................... ...... Soft
Again, the controversy betwixt Atheists and Theists' first
clearly Btated from the idea of God, and then satisfactorily de­
cided. Premised, that as every thing was not made, so neither
was every thing unmade. Atheists agree in both.* The state
of the controversy betwixt Theists and Atheists; whether thdt,
which being itself unmade, was the cause of all other things
made, were the most perfect or the most imperfect being. A
certain kind of atheistic Theism, or Theogonrsm, which ac­
knowledging a God, or sool of the world, presiding over the
whole, supposed him, notwithstanding, to have emerged out of
Night and Chaos; that is, to have been generated out of sense­
less matter • • • • • • • • • 504
The controversy thus stated easily decided. Certain, that
lesser perfection may be derived from greater, or from that
which is absolutely perfect; but impossible, that greater per­
fection, and higher degrees of entity, should rise out of lesser
rind lower. • Things did not ascend, but descend. That life and
sense may naturally rise from the mere modification of dead arid
senseless matter, as also reason and understanding from sense;
the philosophy of the kingdom of darkness. The Hylozoists do
sensible of this, that there must be some substantial unmade
life and understanding; that atheizing, they thought it neces-
skry to attribute life and understanding to all matter as Such.
This argument a demonstration of the impossibility of Athe­
ism • • • . • • • • • • • • • 596
The controversy again more particularly stated, from the
idea of God, as including mind and understanding in it; vif.
whether all mind were made or generated out of senseless mat­
ter, or whether there were an eternal unmade mind, the maker
of all. This the doctrine of Theists, that mind the oldest of all
things; of Atheists, that it is a post-nate thing, younger than the
world, and an umbratile image of real beings . . . 596
The controversy thus stated again decided. Though it does
not follow, that if once there .had been no corporeal world or
matter, there could never have been any; yet it is certain, that
if once there had been no life nor mind, there could have never
been any life or mind. Our imperfect minds, not of themselves
from eternity, and therefore derived from a perfect unmade
mind • • • * • • • • • • • • • • 900
That Atheists think their chief strength to lie here, in ‘
their
MB CQNTBNTS ,TO VOL. II I .
disproving a God, from the nature of understanding and.know-
ledge. According to them, things made knowledge, and not
knowledge things. All mind and understanding the creature of
sensibles, and a fantastic image of them; and therefore no mind
their creator. Thus does a modem writer conclude, that know­
ledge and understanding are not to be attributed to God, because
they imply dependence upon things without; which is all one
as if he should have said, that senseless matter is the more per­
fect of all things, and the highest numen • • • • 400
A compendious confutation of the premised atheistic prin­
ciples. Knowledge not the activity.of sensibles upon the
knower and his passion. Sensible things themselves not known
by the passion, or fancy of seuse. Knowledge not from the
.-force of the thing known, but of the knower. Besides phan­
tasms of singular bodies, intelligible ideas universal.; A late
atheistic paradox, that uuiversals nothing but names. Axioma­
tical truths in abstract sciences no passion from bodies by
sense, nor yet gathered by induction from many singulars; we
at once perceiving it impossible that they should,he.otherwise.
An ingenious observation of Aristotle’s, that could it be per­
ceived by sense, the three angles of a triangle to be equal to
two right; yet would not this be science, or knowledge, pro­
perly so called :• which is of universal first, and from thence
descends to singulars............................... ...... • • • 402
Again, we have conceptions of things incorporeal, as also of
such corporeals as never did exist, and whose accuracy sense
could uot reach to ; as a perfect straight line and plain super­
ficies, an exact triangle, circle, or sphere. That we have a
.power of framing ideas of things that never were nor will be,
-but only possible • ..................................... 405
Inferred from hence, that human scieuce itself not the mere
image and creature of singular sensibles, but proleptigal to
them, and in order of nature before them. But since there
must be vorirdv before vovc, iiitelligibles before intellection
.the only true Account of knowledge and its original is from a
perfect omnipotent being, comprehending itself, and the extent
of its own power, or the possibilities of all things, their relations
and immutable truths. And of this one perfect mind all im-
perfect minds partake • 406
Knowledge, therefore, in the nature of it, supposeth the ex­
istence of a perfect omnipotent being, as.its yorirov, or intelli­
gible,—This comprehending itself, the first original knowledge,
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. ft**.
a mind before the world, and all sensibles not ectypal, but ar­
chetypal, and the framer of all. Wherefore not Atheism, but
Theism, demonstrable from knowledge and understanding 407
This farther confirmed from hence; because there are eter-.
nal verities, such as were never made, nor had any beginning.
That the diagonal of a square incommensurable to the sides, an,
eternal truth to Aristotle. Justin Martyr's aldvia Sbcaia, or
eternal morals,—geometrical truths, not made by any man’s
thinking, but before all meu ; as also before the world and mat-
ter itself .......................................................................... 400.
Now if there be eternal verities, the simple reasons and intel­
ligible essences of things must needs be eternal likewise. These
called by Plato things that always are, but were never made,
ingenerable and incorruptible. However Aristotle quarrels
with Plato’s ideas, yet does he also agree with him in this, that
the forms or species of things were eternal, and never made ;
and that there is no generation of them; and that' there are
other things besides sensibles the immutable objects of science.
Certain, that there could be no immutable science, were there
no other objects of the mind but sensibles. The objects of
geometrical science no material triangles, squares, &c.: these,
by Aristotle, said to be no where. The intelligible natures of
things to Philo the most necessary essences • • • • 410
Now if there be eternal truths and intelligibles, whose exist­
ence also is necessary; since these can be no where but in a .
mind, there must be an eternal necessarily-existing mind, com.
prehending all these ideas and truths at ouce, or being them.
Which no other than the mind of a perfect omnipotent being,-
comprehending itself, and all possibilities of things, the extent-
of its own p o w e r ............................................................. 414.
Wherefore there can be but one only original miod ; which
all other minds partake of. Hence ideas, or notions exactly
alike in several men; and truths indivisibly the same: because
their minds all stamped with the same original seal. Themis-
tius; that one man could not teach another, were there not
the same notion both in the learner and teacher. Nor could
men confer together as they do, were there not one mind that
all partaked of. That anti-monarchical opinion, of many un­
derstanding beings eternal and independent, confuted. And
now have we not only asserted the idea of a God, and confuted
all the atheistic pretences against it; but also from this idea
demonstrated his existence • . . . • * • » 415
010 CONTENTS TO VOL. I l l ,
SECT. II.
' A c o n f u t a t io n of the second atheistic argument, against
omnipotence and Divine creation; that nothing can, by any
power whatsoever, be made out of nothing. In answer to which,
three things to be insisted on. First, that de nihilo nihil, no­
thing out of nothing,—is in some sense an axiom of unquestion­
able truth, but then makes nothing against Theism, or Divine
creation. Secondly, that nothing out of nothing, in the sense
of the atheistic objectors, viz. that nothing, which once was
not, could by any power whatsoever be brought into being, is
absolutely false; and that, if it were true, it would make no more
against Theism than it does against Atheism. Lastly, that from
this very axiom, nothing from nothing, in the true sense thereof,
the absolute impossibility of Atheism is demonstrable • 417
De nihilo nihil, nothing from nothing, in some sense is a
common notion of unquestionable truth. For, first, certain
that nothing, which once was not, could ever of itself come
into being: or, that nothing can take beginning of existence
from itself; or, that nothing can be made or produced without
an efficient cause. From whence demonstrated, that there was
never nothing, or, that every thing was not made, but something
did exist of itself from eternity unmade or underived from any
thing e l s e ...........................................................................418
Again, certain also that nothing could be efficiently produced
by what hath not at least equal perfection, and a sufficient ac­
tive or productive power. That of an effect, which transcends
the perfection of its supposed cause, must come from nothing,
dr be made without a cause. Nor can any thing be produced
by another, though having equal perfection, unless it have also
a sufficient active or productive power. Hence certain, that
were there once no motion at all in the world, and no other
substance besides body which had no self-moving power, there
could never possibly be any motion or mutation to all eternity,
for want of a sufficient cause or productive power. No imper­
fect being hath a productive power of any new substance which
was’not before, but only of new accidents and modifications;
that is, no creature can create. Which two forementioned
senses respect the efficient c a u s e ............................... • ib.
Thirdly, nothing can be materially produced out of nothing
contents t o vottVitt'. M t
pre-existing or ioexisting. And, therefore, in all natural gene*
rations (where the supernatural power of the Deity interposes
not) no new real entity or substance produced which was not
before, but only new modifications of what substantially pre­
existed ............................................. 428
Nothing out of nothing-
, so much insisted on by the old phy-
siologers before Aristotle, in this sense, commonly misunder*
stood by modern writers, as if they designed thereby to take
away all Divine creation out of nothing pre-existing. Granted,
this to have been the sense of the Stoics and of Plutarch; he
affirming the world to have been no otherwise made by God,
than a house is by a carpenter, or a garment by a tailor/ Plu­
tarch and the Stoics therefore imperfect Theists, but nevertbe-
less zealous religionists. But the ancient Italic philosophers
here acted only as physiologers, and not as theologers, or meta­
physicians ; they not directing themselves against a Divinfe
creation out of nothing pre-existing; but only contending, that
neither in natural generations any new real entity was created;
nor in corruptions annihilated; but only the modifications of
what before existed, changed: or, that no new real entity cocfld
be made out of matter • • • • • • • • • 421
That this was the true meaning of those ancient physiologers;
evident from die use which they made of this principle, nothing
out of nothing; which twofold. First, upon this foundation
they endeavoured to establish a peculiar kind of physiology,
and some atomology or other, either similar or dissimilar; ho-
mfeomery, or anofcioeomery. Anaxagoras from lienee concluded,
because nothing could be made out of nothing pre-existing and
ioexisting, that therefore there were in every body similar atoms,
of all hinds, out of which, by concretions and secretions,1all na­
tural generations made; so that bone was made out of bony
atoms pre-existing afcd ioexisting ; flesh out of flesby, and the
like. This the Anaxagerean homceomery, or similar atotabldgy/
built upon this principle, nothing out of nothing • 1 • 424
But the ancient Italic», both before and after Anaxagotas
(whom Leucippus, Democritus, and Epicurus, here followed);
with greater sagacity concluded, from the same principle, no­
thing out of nothing^, that those qualities and forms of bodies-,*
naturally generated and c o rru p te d , were therefore a d rdal e n -A
titles, distinct fromthe substance of matter, but only different
modifications thereof, causing different fancies in us; and this
an dtiomioebitiery, dr disshmlar" atomology, the atoms thereof
CONTENTS TO VOL. If!.
512
being devoid of qualities. Those simple elements or letters (in
nature’s alphabet), oat of which, variously combined, these phi­
losophers spelled out or compounded all the syllables and words
(or complexions) of corporeal things, nothing but figure, site,
motion, rest, and magnitudeof parts. Were qualities and forms
real entities distinct from these, and not pre-existing (as Anax­
agoras dreamed), they must then have come from nothing, in
natural generations ; which im p o ssib le......................... 425
Another improvement of this principle, nothing out of no.
thing, made by the Italic philosophers; that the souls of ani­
mals, especially human, since they could not possibly result
from the mere modifications of matter, figure, site, motion, &c.
were not produced in generations, nor annihilated in deaUis and
corruptions; but being substantial things, did pre and post-
exist. This set down as the controversy betwixt Atheists and
Tbeists, in Lucretius. Whether souls were generated, or in­
sinuated iuto bodies. Generations and corruptions of animals,
to these Pythagoreans, but anagrammatical transpositions. That
those philosophers, who asserted the pre-existence and ingene-
rability of souls, did not therefore suppose them to have been
self-existent and .uncreated,, but derived them all from the;
Deity. Thus Proclus, though maintaining the eternity of souls
with the world. The ingenerability of souls in Plato’s Timseus
no more than this, that they were not generated out of matter;
gnd for this cause also were they called principles, in the same
sense as matter was so accounted. Souls, therefore, to Plato,
created by God, though not in the generation of animals, but.
b e f o re .................................................................................427
St. Austin himself sometime staggering and sceptical in the
point of pre-existence. That we have a philosophic certainty
of no more thau this, that souls were created by God out of
nothing pre-existing, some time or other; either in generations,
or before them. That unless brutes be mere machines, the
reason the .same also concerning brutish souls; that the senot
generated out of matter, but created some time or other by the
Deity; as well as the matter of their bodies was • • • 420
That all these three foreraentioned particulars, wherein it is
true, that nothing can possibly come from nothing, are redu­
cible to this one general proposition, that nothing can be
caused by nothing; which will no way clash with the Divine
omnipotence or creative power, as shall be shewed afterwards ;
but confirm the same. But those same words, nothing out of .
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 513
nothing, may carry another sense ; when that ovk ovrwv, out
of nothing,—is not taken causally, but only to signify the termi­
nus a quo, the term from which, or an antecedent nonexistence:
and the meaning thereof will be, that nothing which before was
not, could afterwards, by any power whatsoever, be brought
into being. And this the sense of the Democritic and Epicu­
rean objectors; viz. that no real entity can be made, or brought
out of nonexistence into being; and therefore the creative power
of Theists an impossibility • • • ' • • • , • • 432
Our second undertakings in way of answer hereunto; to shew,
that nothing out of nothing, in this sense is false; as also, that,
were it true yet it would make no more against Theism than it
doth against Atheism ; and therefore ought not to be used by
Atheists as an argument against a God. If this universally true,
that nothing at all, which once was not, could ever be brought
into being, then could there be no making nor causing at all no
motion nor action, mutation or generation. But ourselves have
a power of producing new cogitation in our minds, and new mo­
tion in our bodies. Wherefore Atheists forced to restrain this
proposition to substantials only. And here some deceived with
the equivocation, in this e£ ovk optwv, out of nothing; which
may be taken either causally, or else to signify the term from
which that is, from an antecedent nonexistence; they confound­
ing both these together; whereof the first only true; the latter
false. Again, others staggered with the plausibility of this pro.
position ; partly because no artificial thing (as a house or gar­
ment) can be made by men, but out of pre-existing matter; and
partly because ancient pbysiologers maintained the same also
concerning natural generations, that no new real entity or sub­
stance could be therein produced; and lastly, because it i,s cer­
tain that no imperfeqt created being can create any new sub­
stance ; they being therefore apt to measure all power whatso­
ever by these scantlings. But as easy for a perfect being to
create a world, matter and all, out of nothing (in this sense, that
is, out of an antecedent nonexistence), as for us to create a
thought, or to move a finger, or for the sun to send out rays.
For an imperfect substance, which once was not, to be brought
into being by God, this not impossible, in any of the foremen-
tioned senses; he having not only infinitely greater perfection,
but also sufficient productive or emanative power. True, that
infinite power cannot do things in their own nature impossible;
but nothing thus impossible but what contradictious: and
VOL. iv . 2 L
614 CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
though a contradiction for any thing, at the same time, to be
and not be; yet none at all, for an imperfect being (which is in
its nature contingent to existence), after it bad. not been, to be.
Wherefore, since the making of a substance to be, which was
not before, is no way contradictious, nor consequently in its
own nature impossible; it must needs be an object of perfect
power ........................................................................... 433
Furthermore, if no real entity or substance could possibly be
brought out of nonexistence into being; then must the reason
hereof be, because no substance can derive its whole being from
another substance. But from hence it would follow, that what­
soever is substantial, did not only exist from eternity, but also
of itself, independently upon any thing eke. Whereas first, the
pre-eternity of temporary beings not agreeable to reason; and
then, to suppose imperfect substances to have existed of them­
selves and necessarily, is to suppose something to come from
nothing, in the impossible sense; they having no necessary self­
existence in their nature. As they, who affirm all substance to
be body, and no body to be able to move itself, though suppos­
ing motion to have been from eternity; yet make this motion
to come from nothing, or be caused by nothing. What in its na­
ture contingently possible to be, or not be, could not exist ofit­
self; but must derive its being from something else, winch ne­
cessarily existeth. Plato’s distinction therefore betwixt two
kinds of substances must needs be admitted, that, which always
is, and was never made: and that which is made, or had a be­
ginning • .....................................................................437
Lastly, if this true, that no substance makeable or producible,
it would not only follow from thence (as the Epicurean Atheist
supposes) that matter, but ako that all souls (at least human),
did exist of themselves, from eternity, independently upon any
thing eke; it being impossible, that mind or soul should be a
modification of senseless matter, or result from figures, sites, mo­
tions, and magnitudes. Human souls substantial, and therefore
according to this doctrine, must have been never made; where­
as Atheists stiffly deny both their pre and post-existence. Those
pagan*Theists, who held the eternity of human minds, supposed
them, notwithstanding, to have depended upon the Deity, as
their cause. Before proved, that there can be but one under,
standing being, self-existent. If human souls depend upon the
Deity as their cause, then doubtless matter also • • • 438
A common but great mistake that no pagan Theist ever ac-
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. *15
knowledged any creative power out of nothing; or else, that
God was the cause of atiy substance. Plato's definition of ef­
fective power in general, and his affirmation, that the Divine ef­
ficiency is that whereby things are made after they had not
been. Certain, that he did not understand this of the production
of souls out of matter, he supposing them to be before matter,
and therefore made by God out of nothing pre-existing. All
philosophers, who held the immortality and incorpoj*eity of the
sofel, asserted it to have been caused by God, either in time or
from eternity. Plutarch's singularity here. Unquestionable, that
the Platonists supposed one substance to receive its whole be­
ing from another; in that they derive their second hypostasis
or substance, though eternal, from the first; and their third from
both; and all inferior ranks of beings from all three. Plotinus,
Porphyrias, Jamblichas, Hierocles, Proclus, and others, derived
matter from the Deity. Thus the Chaldee oracles; and the old
Egyptian or Hermaic theology also, according to Jamblichus.
Those Platonists, who supposed the world and souls eternal,
conceived them to have received their being as much from the
Deity as if made in t i m e ..................................................441
Having now disproved this proposition, “ nothing out of no­
thing," in the atheistic sense, viz. That no substance was caused
or derived its being from another, but whatsoever is substantial,
did exist of itself from eternity, independently; we are, in the
next place, to make it appear also, that were it true, it would no
more oppose Theism than it doth Atheism. Falsehoods (though
not truths) may disagree. Plutarch, the Stoics, and others, who
made God the creator of no substance, though not genuine yet
zealous Theists. But the ancient Atheists, both in Plato and
Aristotle, generated and corrupted all things; that is, produced
all things out of nothing, or nonexistence, and reduced them
into nothing again; the bare substance of matter only excepted.
The same done by the Democritic and Epicurean Atheists
themselves, the makers of this objection: though according to
the principles of their own atomic physiology, k is impossible,
that life and understanding, soul and mind, should be mere mo­
difications of matter. As Theists give a creative power of all,
out ofnothing, to the Deity; so do Atheists to passive and dead
matter. Wherefore this can be no argument against Theism; i t ’
equally opposing Atheism • ............................................445
An anacephalaeosis; wherein observable, that Cicero makes
de uihilo fieri, and sine causa, to be made out of nothing, and
2 l 2
516 CONTENTS T0 7 0 L III.
to be made without a cause, one and the self-same thing; as
also, that he doth not confiife this to the material cau?e only.
Our third and last undertaking; to prove that Atheists produce
real entities out of nothing, in the first impossible sense; that
is, without a cause ...............................................................452
A brief synopsis of Atheism; that matter being the only sub­
stance, is therefore the only unmade thing; and that whatsoever
else is in the world, besides the bare substance thereof, was
made out of matter, or produced from that alone • • 455
The first argument: when Atheists affirm matter to be the
only substance, and all things to be made out of that, they sup­
pose all to be made without an efficient cause; which is to
bring them from nothing, in an impossible sense. Though some­
thing may be made without a material cause pre-existing; yet
cannot any thing possibly be made without an efficient cause.
Wherefore if there be any thing made, which was not* before,
there must of necessity be, besides matter, some other substance
as the active efficient cause thereof. The atheistic hypothesis
supposes things to be made without any active or effective prin­
ciple. Whereas the Epicurean Atheists attribute the efficiency
of all to local motion; and yet deny matter or body (their only
substance) a self-moving power. They hereby make all the mo­
tion that is in the world to have been without a cause, or to
come from nothing: all action without an agent; all efficiency
without an e f f ic ie n t ............................... ...... 456
Again, should we grant these Atheists motion without a cause,
yet could not dead and senseless matter, together with motion;
ever beget life, sense, and understanding; because this would
be something out of nothing, in way of causality, local motion
only changing the modifications of matter, as figure, place, site,
and disposition of parts. Hence also those spurious Theists
confuted, who conclude God to have done no more in the mak­
ing of the world, than a carpenter doth in the building of a
house (upon this pretence, that nothing can be made out of no­
thing); and yet suppose him to make souls out of dead and
senseless matter, which is to bring them from nothing in wayof
c a u s a lity .............................................................. ...... 457
Declared before, That the ancient Italics and Pythagorics
proved in this manner, that souls could not possibly be gene­
rated out of matter; because nothing can come from nothing,
in way of causality. The subterfuge of the atheistic Ionics out
of Aristotle; that matter being the ooly substance, and life,
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 517
sense and understanding, nothing but the passions, affections,
and dispositions thereof; the production of them out of matter,
no production of any new real entity............................... 458
Answer: Atheists taking it for granted, that there is no other
substance besides body or matter, therefore falsely conclude life
sense, and understanding to be accidents or modes of matter;
they being indeed the modes or attributes of substance incorpo­
real and seif-active. A mode that which cannot be conceived
without the thing whereof it is a mode; but life and cogitation
may be conceived without corporeal extension; and indeed can­
not be conceived with i t ..................................................460
The chief occasion of this error from qualities and forms; as
because the quality of heat, and form offire, may be generated
out of matter; therefore life, cogitation, and understanding also.
But the atomic Atheists themselves explode qualities, as things
really distinct from the figure, site, and motion of parts, for this
very reason, because nothing can be made out of nothing cau.
sally. The vulgar opinion of such real qualities in bodies, only
from men’s mistaking their own fancies, apparitions, passions,
affections, and seemings, for things really existing without them.
That in these qualities, which is distinct from the figure, site,
and motion of parts, not the accidents and modifications of mat­
ter, but of our own souls. The atomic Atheists infinitely absurd
when exploding qualities, because nothing can come out of no­
thing, themselves bring life, sense and understanding, out ofno­
thing, in way of causality. That opinion, that cogitation is no­
thing but local motion, and men themselves but mere machines,
prodigious sottishness or intolerable impudence • • • 462
Very observable here, that Epicurus himself, having a mind
to assert contingent liberty, confesseth, that be could not do
this, unless there were some such thing in the principles; be­
cause nothing can be made out of nothing, or caused by nothing:
and therefore does he ridiculously feign a third motion ofatoms,
to solve that phenomena of free will. Wherefore he must needs
be guilty of an impossible production, of something out of no­
thing, when he brings soul and mind out of dead senseless
atoms. Were there no substantial and eternal life and under-
' standing in the universe, there could none have been ever pro­
duced ; because it must have come from nothing, or been made
without a cause. That dark philosophy which educes not only
real qualities and substantial forms, but also souls themselves, at
least sensitive, out of the power of the matter, educes them out
518 CONTENTS TO VOL. III.
of nothing, or makes them without a cause ; and so prepares a
direct way to Atheism • • • • . • • • • • • 484
They who suppose matter otherwise than by motion, and by
a kind of miraculous efficiency, to produce souls, and minds, at­
tribute that creative power to this senseless and inactive matter,
which themselves deny to a perfect being as an absolute impos­
sibility. Thus have we demonstrated the impossibility and non*
sense of all Atheism from this very principle, That nothing can
be made from nothing, or without sufficient cause * * 46?
Wherefore, if no middle betwixt these two, but all things
mtist either spring from a God, or matter; then is this also a
demonstration of the truth of Theism, by deduction to impossi­
ble : either there is a God, or else all things are derived from
dead and senseless matter: but this latter is impossible; there­
fore a God. Nevertheless, that the existence of a God may be
farther directly proved also from the same principle, rightly un­
derstood, nothing out of nothing causally, or nothing caused by
nothing, neither efficiently nor materially • * 488
By these steps; first, that there was never nothing, but some­
thing or other did exist of itself from eternity, unmade, and inde­
pendently upon any thing else, mathematically certain; from
this principle, “ nothing from nothing.” Had there been once
nothing, there could never have been any thing. Again, What­
soever did exist of itself from eternity, must have so existed ne­
cessarily, and not by any free will and choice. Certain, there­
fore, that there is something actually in being, whose existence
is and always was necessary. Now that which exists necessarily
of itself, must have necessity of existence in its nature; which
nothing but a perfect being hath. Therefore there is a perfect
being; and nothing else besides this did exist of itself from
eternity, but all other things whatsoever (whether souls or mat­
ter) were made by it. To suppose any thing to exist of kself
necessarily, that hath no necessary existence in its nature, is to
suppose that necessary existence to have come from nothing 489
Three reasons why some Theists have been so staggering
and sceptical about the necessary self-existence of matter. First,
from an idiotical conceit, that because*artificial things cannot
be made by men but out of pre-existent mattter, therefore no­
thing by God, or a perfect being, can be otherwise made. Se­
condly, because some of them have supposed &
X
»yv tuTVfiarov,
an incorporeal hyle, or first matter unmade; an opinion older
than Aristotle. Whereas this really nothing but a metaphysical
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 519
notion of the potentiality or possibility of things, respectively
to the Deity. Lastly, because* some of them have conceived
body and space to be really the same thing; and space to be
positively infinite, eternal, and necessarily existent. But if
space be not the extension of the Deity itself, as some suppose;
but of body, only considered abstractedly from this or that, and
therefore immoveably; then no sufficient ground for the posi­
tive infinity or the indefinity thereof, as Cartesius imagined;
we being certain of no more than this, that be the world and
its space, or extension, never so great, yet it might be still
greater and greater infinitely; for which very cause it could
never be positively infinite. This possibility of more body and
space, farther and farther indefinitely, or without end, as also
its eternity, mistaken, for actual space and distance.positively
infinite and eternal. Nor is there perhaps any such great ab­
surdity in the finiteness of actual space and distance (accord­
ing to this hypothesis), as some conceive......................... 470
Moreover, the existence of a God may be farther proved from
this common notion, “ nothing from nothing causallynot only
because were there no God, that idea which we have of a per.
feet being must have come from nothing, and be the concep­
tion of nothing; but also all the other intelligible ideas of our
minds must have come from nothing likewise, they being not
derived from sense. All minds, and their intelligible ideas by
way of participation, from one perfect omnipotent being com­
prehending itself ...............................................................473
However, certain from this principle, unothing from nothing/'
or “ nothing caused by n o th in g th a t souls and minds could
never have emerged out of dead and senseless matter, or from
figures, sites, and motions; and therefore must either have all
existed of themselves, necessarily from eternity; or else be
created by the Deity out of nothing pre-existing. Concluded,
that the existence of a God is altogether as certain, as that our
human souls did not all exist from eternity, of themselves ne­
cessarily. Thus is the second atheistic argumentation against
omnipotence or Divine creation, from that false principle, “ no­
thing out of nothing/' in the atheistic sens,e (which is, that no­
thing could be brought out of nonexistence into being, or no
substance derive its whole being from another substance, but all
was selfrexistent from eternity), abundantly confuted; it having
been demonstrated, that unless there be a God, or a perfect om­
nipotent being, and creator, something must have come from
620 CONTENTS TO VO]L. III.
nothing in the impossible sense; that is, have been caused by
nothing, or made without a cause......................................... 474
SECT. III.
T h e six following atheistic argumentations, drivingat these
two things (the disproving, first of an incorporeal and then of
a corporeal Deity), next taken all together. In way of answer
to which, three things. First, to confute the atheistic argu­
mentations against an incorporeal Deity, being the third and
fourth. Secondly, to shew, that from the very principles of the
atheistic Corporealism, in their fifth and sixth arguments, incor­
poreal substance is demonstrable. And, lastly, that therefore
the two following atheistic arguments (built upon the contrary
supposition) are also insignificant • -• • • • . • • 476
Before we coine to the Atheistic arguments against an incor­
poreal Deity, premised; that though all Corporealists be not
Atheists, yet Atheists universally mere Corporealists. Thus
Plato in his Sophist, writing of those who maintained that na­
ture generated all things without the direction of any mind, *f-
firmeth, that they held body and substance to be one and the
self-same thing. From whence it follows, that incorporeal sub­
stance is incorporeal body, or contradictious nonsense; and that
whatsoever is not body is nothing. He likewise addeth, that
they who asserted the soul to be a body, but had not the confi­
dence to make prudence and other virtues bodies (or bodily),
quite overthrew the cause of Atheism. Aristotle also represent-
eth the atheistic hypothesis thus, that there is but one nature,
matter; and this corporeal (or endued with magnitude) the
only substance; and all other things, the passions and affec­
tions thereof............................... • • .....................................ib.
In disproving incorporeal substance, some difference amongst
the Atheists themselves. First, those who held a vacuum (as
Epicurus and Democritus, &c.) though taking it for granted,
that what is unextended or devoid of magnitude is nothing;
yet acknowledged a double extended nature; the first impene­
trable and tangible, body; the second penetrable and intangible,
space or vacuum; to them the only incorporeal. Their argu­
ment thus; since nothing iucorporeal besides space (which can
neither do nor suffer any thing), therefore no incorporeal Deity.
The answer: if space be a real nature, and yet not bodily;
theu must it needs be either an affection of incorporeal sub-
CONTENTS TO VOL. IH- 521
stance, or else an accident without a substance. Gassendus’s offi­
ciousness here to help the Atheists, that space is neither accL
dent nor substance, but a middle nature, or essence betwixt
both. But, whatsoever is, must either subsist by itself, or else
be an attribute, affection, or mode of something, that subsist­
e d by itself. Space, either the extension of body, or of incor­
poreal substance, or of nothing; but nothing cannot be extend­
ed ; wherefore space, supposed not to be the extension of body,
must be the extension of an incorporeal substance infinite, or the
Deity; as some Theists assert............................... ...... 478
Epicurus’s pretended gods, such as could neither touch nor
be touched, and had not corpus, but quasi carpus only; and
therefore incorporeals distinct from space. But granted that
he colluded or juggled in t h i s ............................................480
Other Atheists, who denied a vacuum, and allowed not space
to be a nature, but a mere imaginary thing, the phantasm of a
body, or else extension considered abstractedly, argued thus:
whatsoever is extended, is body, or bodily ; but whatsoever is,
is extended; therefore whatsoever is, is body • • • • ib.
This argument against incorporeal substance answered two
manner of ways; some assertors of incorporeal substance deny­
ing the minor, whatsoever is, is extended ; others the major of
it, whatsoever is extended is body. First, the generality of an­
cient Incorporealists really maintained, that there was something
uuextended, indistant, devoid of quantity, and of magnitude,
without parts, and indivisible. Plato, that the soul is before
longitude, latitude, and profundity. He also denies, that what­
soever is in no place, is nothing. Aristotle’s first immoveable
mover also devoid of magnitude. So likewise is mind, or that
which understands, to him. He also denies place and local mo­
tion to the soul otherwise thhn by accident with the body 481
Philo’s double substance, distant and indistant.' God also
to him, both every where (because his powers extend to all
things) and yet no where, as in a place; place being created by
him, together with bodies. Plotinus much concerned in this
doctrine. Two books of his upon this subject, that one and
the same numerical thing (viz. the Deity) may be all, or the
whole every where. God to him, before all things that are in a
place: therefore wholly present to whatsoever present. This
would he prove also from natural instincts. He affirmeth like­
wise, that the human soul is numerically the same, both in the
hand and in the foot. Simplicius’s argument for unextended
CONTENTS TO VOL. I l l ,
622
substance; that whatsoever is self-moving, must be indivisible
and indistant. His affirmation, that souls, locally immoveahle,
move the body by co g itatio n ......................... ...... 486
None more full and express in this than Porphyriua. His as­
sertion, that were there such an incorporeal space (as Democri­
tus and Epicurus supposed), mind, or God, could not be coex­
tended with it; but only body. The whole Deity indivisibly
and indistantly present to every part of divisible and distant
things • • • • ...................................... • • v 480
Thus Origen in his against Celsus. St. Austin, that the hu­
man soul hath no dimensions, of length, breadth, and thickness,
and is in itself illocabiUs. Boethius reckons this amongst the
common notions, known only to wise men, that incorporeals are
in no p la c e............................................>............................ 492
This therefore no novel or recent opinion, that the Deity is
not part of it here, and part of it there, nor mensurable by yards
and poles; but the whole undivided, present to every part of
the world. But because many objections against this, we shall
farther shew, how these ancient Incorporealists endeavoured to
quit themselves of them. The first objection, that to suppose
the Deity, and other incorporeal substances, unextended, is to
make them absolute parvitudes, and so contemptible things.
Plotinus’s answer; that what is incorporeal, not so indivisible
as a little thing; either a physical minimum, or mathematical
point: for thus God could not congruere with the whole world,
nor the soul with the whole body. Again, God not so indivisi­
ble, as the least, he being the greatest of all, not in magnitude,
but power. He so indivisible, as also infinite. This an error
proceeding from sense and imagination; that what unextended,
therefore little. Incorporeal substance, the whole of which is
present to every part of body, therefore greater than body. Por-
phyrius to the same purpose, that God is neither to be looked
upon as the least, nor as the greatest, in way of magnitude 494
The second objection; that what neither great nor little, and
possesses no place, a nonentity. This, according to Plato, Plo­
tinus, and Porphyrius, a mistake proceeding from men’s adher­
ing to sense and imagination. They grant, that an unextended
being is d<p&vTatrrov9unimaginable.—Porphyrius, that mind and
fancy are not the same, as some maintain. That, which can
neither do, or suffer, not nothing, thpugh it swell not out into
distance. Two kinds of substances to Plotinus; bulky tu­
mours, and unbulky active powers. Which latter, said by Sim-
CONTENTS TO VOL. III. 623
plicius to have nevertheless a certain depth or profundity in
them* Something df&vrairroy, unimaginable,—even in body
itself* We cannot possibly imagine the sun of such a bigness,
as reason evinces it to be urged also by Plotinus, that an un-
stretched-out duration, or timeless eternity, as difficult to be
conceived as an unextended substance: and yet must this needs
be attributed to the Deity • • • * • • . . 498
That God and human souls no otherwise incorporeal than as
trw
/LtaXeTrrofiepkc, a thin or subtile body, false. Because the dif­
ference of grossness and subtlety in bodies, according to true
philosophy, only from motion. That the most subtile body may
possibly be made as gross as lead or iron; and the grossest as
subtile as ether. No specific difference of matter • • 504
The third argument against unextended substance; that to
be all in the whole, and all in every part, a contradiction and
impossibility. This granted by Plotinus to be true of bodies,
or that which is extended; that it cannot be o/iov irav but im­
possible, that what hath no parts, should be a part here, and a
part there. Wherefore the word 6\ov (in that, whole in the
whole, and whole in every part) to be taken only in a negative
sense, for ph fiBfupitTfiivoy, undivided.—The whole undivided
Deity every where; and not a part of it here only, and a part
there • ................................505
The last objection is against the illocality and immobility of
finite created spirits, and human souls only. That this not only
absurd, but also contrary to that generally-received tradition
amongst Theists, of souls moving locally after death, into an­
other place, called Hades. Two answers of Plotinus to this.
First, that by Hades may be meant only the invisible, or the
soul’s acting without the body. Secondly, that if- by Hades be
meant a worser place, the soul may be said to be there where
its idol is. But when this same philosopher supposeth the
soul (in good men) to be separable also from this idol, he de-
parteth from the genuine cabala of his own school. That souls
always united to some body or other. This asserted here by
Porphyrius; that the soul is never quite naked of all body;
and therefore 'may be said to be there, wheresoever its body
is . . . ............................................ • • • 60*
Some excerptions out of Philoponus; wherein the doctrine'
of the ancients, concerning the soul's spirituous or airy body
(after death), is largely declared • ............................... 611
Intimated here by Philoponus, that, according to some of
524 CONTENTS TO VOL. Ilf.
these ancients, the soul hath such a spirituous body here in this
life, as its interior indument, which then adheres to it, when its
outer garment is stripped off by death. An opinion of some, that
the soul may, in this spirituous body, leave its grosser body .for
some time, without death. True, that our soul doth not im­
mediately act upon bones and flesh ; but certain thin and sub­
tile spirits, the instruments of sense and motion. Of which
Porphyrius thus: “ The blood is the food of the spirit, and the
spirit the vehicle of the soul" * ...................................... • 516
The same Philoponus farther addeth, that, according to the
anpients, besides both the terrestrial and this spirituous or airy
body, there is yet a third kind of body, peculiar to such as are
souls, as are more thoroughly purged after death; called by
them a luciform, and heavenly and ethereal, and star-like body.
Of this Proclus also upon the Timaeus (who aflirmeth it to be
unorganized), as likewise Hierocles. This called the thin ve­
hicle of the soul, in the Chaldee oracles, according to Psellus
and Pletho. By Hierocles, a spiritual body, in a sense agree­
able to that of the Scripture: by Synesius, the Divine body.
This distinction of two interior vehicles, or tunicles of the soul,
besides the terrestrial body (called by Plato the ogreaceous), no
invention of latter Platonists since Christianity; it being plainly
insisted upon by Virgil, though commonly not understood 517
That many of these Platonists and Pythagoreans supposed
the soul, in its first creation, when made pure by God, to be
clothed with this luciform and heavenly body; which also did
always inseparably adhere to it, in its after-descents into the
aereal and terrestrial; though fouled and obscured. Thus
Pletho. And the same intimated by Galen; when he calls this
the first vehicle of the soul. Hence was it, that besides the
moral and intellectual purgation of the soul, they recommended
also a mystical or telestic way of purifying the ethereal vehicle,
by diet and catharms. This much insisted on by Hierocles.
What Pliny’s dying by wisdom, or the philosophic death 522
But this not the opinion of all, that the same numerical ethe­
real body always adhereth to the soul; but only, that it every
where either finds or makes a body suitable to itself. Thus
Porphyrius. Plato also seems to have been of that persua­
sion . . . . ........................................................ 526
This affirmed by Hierocles to have been the genuine cabala
of the ancient Pythagoreans, which Plato afterward followed.
Hierocles’s definition of a man, a rational soul together with a
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 525
cognate immortal body; he declaring this enlivened terrestrial
body to be but the idol or image of the true man, or an acces­
sio n ^ him. This therefore the answer of the ancient Incor-
porealists to that objection against the illocality and immobility
of created incorporeals; that these being all naturally united
to some body or other, may be thus said to be in a place, and
locally moved. And, that it does not follow, that because cre­
ated incorporeals are unextended, they might therefore inform
the whole corporeal universe............................................527
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
T h a t it would be no impertinent digression here to compare
the forementioned Pythagoric cabala with the doctrine of Christ­
ianity ; and to consider their agreement or disagreement. First,
therefore, a clear agreement of these most religious philoso­
phers with Christianity in this, that the highest happiness and
perfection of human nature consisteth not in a separate state of
souls un-united to any body, as some high-flown persons have
conceited. Thus Plotinus, who sometimes runs as much into
the other extreme, in supposing human souls to animate not
only the bodies of brutes but also of plants. Thus also Mai-
monides amongst the Jews; and therefore suspected for deny­
ing the resurrection. His Iggereth Teman written purposely to
purge himself of this suspicion. The allegorizers of the resur­
rection, and of the life to come ............................................1
Again, Christianity correspondeth with the philosophic ca­
bala concerning human souls in this, that their happiness con­
sisteth not in conjunction with such gross terrestrial bodies as
these we now have; Scripture, as well as philosophy, com­
plaining of them as a heavy load and burden to the soul; which
therefore not to be taken up again at the resurrection. Such a
resurrection as this called by Plotinus a resurrection to another
sleep. The difference betwixt the resurrection-body and thiq
present body in Scripture. The resurrection-body of the just
(as that of the philosophic cabala) immortal and eternal, glorious
and lucid; star-like and spiritual; heavenly and angelicai. Not
this gross fleshly body, gilded and varnished over in the outside
CONTENT* TO VOL. IT .
6M
only, bat changed throughout. This the lesnrrecrion of lifc, in
Scripture emphatically called the resurrection. Our souk staan-
gen mod pilgrims in these terrestrial bodies: their proper home
and country the heavenly body. That the grossest body that
this, according to philosophy, may merely by morion be brought
into the parity and tenuity of the finest ether • • - • 3
But whether human souls after death, always united to some
body, or else quite naked from all body till the resurrection;
not so explicitly determined in Christianity. Souls after death
live unto God. According to Origen, this a privilege proper to
the Deity, to live and act alone, without vital union with any
body. If natural to the soul to enliven a body, then not pro­
bable that it should be kept so long in an unnatural state of
se p ara tio n .......................................................................11
Again; probable from Scripture that wicked souls after
death have punishment of sense or pain, besides remorse of
conscience: which not easily conceivable how they should
have without bodies. Thus Tertullian. He adding, that men
have the same shape or effigies after this life which they had
here. Though indeed he drive the business too far, so as to
make the soul itself to be a body, figurate and colourate • 14
But Irenaras plainly supposed the soul after death (being in­
corporeal) to be adapted to a body, such as has the same cha­
racter and figure with its body here in this life • • • 17
Origen also of this persuasion, that souls after death have cer­
tain subtile bodies, retaining the same characterizing form which
their terrestrial bodies had. His opinion, that apparitions of the
dead are from the souls themselves, surviving in that which is
called a luciform body. As, also, that St. Thomas did not doubt
but that the body of a soul departed might appear every way
like the former: only he disbelieved our Saviour’s appearing in
the same solid body which he had before death • * • 18
Our Saviour telling his disciples, that a spirit had no flesh and
bones, that is, no solid body as himself then had, seems to im­
ply them to have thinner bodies, which they may visibly appear
in. Thus, in Apollonius, is touch made the sign to distinguish
a ghost appearing from a living man. Our Saviour’s body after
his resurrection, according to Origen, in a middle state betwixt
this gross or solid body of ours, and that of a ghost • • El
A place of Scripture, which, as interpreted by the fathers,
would naturally imply the soul of our Saviour after death not to
have been quite naked of all body, but to have had a corporeal
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 627
spirit. Moses and Elias visibly appearing to our Saviour, bad
therefore true b o d i e s ...............................................* 2 3
That the regenerate here in this life have a certain earnest of
their future inheritance (which is their spiritual or heavenly
body), gathered fromScripture by Irenaeus andNovatian* Which
prelibations of the spiritual body cannot so well consist with a
perfect separation from all body after death till the day of
ju d g m e n t........................• • • • • • • * • 24
This opinion of Irenaeus, Origen, and others., supposed by
them not at all to clash with the Christian article-of the resur­
rection. Nothing in this point determined by us • • • 26
The last thing in the Pythagoric cabala, that demons or an­
gels, and indeed all created understanding beings, consist, as
well as men, of soul and body, incorporeal and corporeal,
united all together. Thus Hierocles, universally of all the
rational nature; and that no incorporeal substance, besides the
supreme Deity, is complete, without the conjunction of a body.
God the only incorporeal in this sense; and not a mundane but
a snpra-mundane s o u l ........................................ • • 26
Origen’s full agreement with this old Pythagoric cabala, that
rational creatures are neither body, nor yet without body; but
incorporeal substances having a corporeal indument * • 2 9
Origen misrepresented by Huetius, as asserting angels not to
have bodies, but to be bodies; whereas he plainly acknow­
ledged the human soul to be incorporeal, and angels also to
have souls. He proveth incorporeal creatures from the Scrip­
tures ; which, though themselves not bodies, yet always use bo­
dies. Whereas the Deity is neither body, nor yet clothed with
a body, as the proper soul thereof • • • • • • • 31
Some of the fathers so far from supposing angels altogether
incorporeal,that they ran into the other, extreme, and concluded
them altogether corporeal; that is, to be all body, and nothing
else. The middle betwixt both these, the Origenic and Pytha­
goric hypothesis, that they consist of incorporeal and corporeal
substance, soul and body joined together. The generality of
the ancient fathers for neither of those extremes* That they
did not suppose angels to be perfectly unbodied spirits, evident
from their affirming devils, as the Greek philosophers did de­
mons, to be delighted with the nidours of sacrifices; as having
their vaporous bodies, or airy vehicles, refreshed thereby. Thus
Porphyrius, and before him Celsus. Amongst the Christians
(besides Origen), Justin, Athenagoras, Tatiaaus, <fec. St. Basil,
528 CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
concerning the bodies of demons or devils being nourished
with vapours; not by organs, but throughout their whole sub.
s t a n c e .................................................................................84
Several of the fathers plainly asserting both devils and angels
to consist of soul and body, incorporeal and corporeal sub­
stance joined together. St. Austin, Claudianus, Mamertus,
Fulgentius, Joannes Thessalonicensis ; and Psellus, who philo­
sophizeth much concerning t h i s ........................................37
That some of the ancients, when they called angels incorpo­
real, understood nothing else thereby but only that they had
not gross but subtile b o d i e s ........................................ * 4 3
The fathers, though herein happening to agree with the
philosophic cabala, yet seemed to have been led thereunto by
Scripture. As from that of our Saviour, they who shall obtain
the resurrection of the dead, shall be 'urayyeX oi, equal to the
angels;—that is, according to St. Austin, shall have angelical
bodies. From that of St. Jude, that angels sinning lost' their
own proper dwelling-house; that is, their heavenly body (called
ohcrjTrjpiov by St. Paul), which made them fit inhabitants of the
heavenly regions; and thereupon cast down into the lower
Tartarus; interpreted by St. Austin to be this caliginous air or
atmosphere of the earth. Again, from that fire said to have
been prepared for the devils : which being not to be taken me­
taphorically, therefore (as Psellus concludeth) implies them to
be bodied; because an incorporeal substance alone, and not vi­
tally united to any body, cannot be tormented with fire • 45
Now if all created incorporeals, superior to men, be souls
vitally united to bodies, and never quite separate from all body;
then probable, that human souls, after death, not quite naked
from all body, as if they could live and act completely without
it; a privilege superior to that of angels, and proper to the
Deity. Nor is it at all conceivable how imperfect beings could
have sense and imagination without bodies. O r i g e n c o n tr a
C e h u m , “ Our soul, in its own nature incorporeal, always
standeth in need of a body suitable to the place wherein it is.
And, accordingly, sometimes putteth off what it had before;
and sometimes again putteth on something new.” Where the
following words being vitiated, Origen’s genuine sense restored.
Evident, that Origen distinguisheth the to <
tk%voc in St. Paul
(translated ta b e r n a c le ) from the earthly house; he understand­
ing by the former a thin spirituous body, which is a middle be­
twixt the earthly and the heavenly, and which the soul remain-
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 629
eth still clothed with after death. Tfris opinion of Origen’s,
that the soul after death not quite separate from all body, never
reckoned up in the catalogue of his errors. Origen not taxed
by Methodius for asserting souls to have bodies, but for not
asserting them to be bodies ; there being no-truly incorporeal
substance, according to Methodius, but the Deity. This one of
the extremes mentioned. And the Origenic hypothesis to be
preferred before that of Methodius • • • • • - 4 9
Already observed, that Origen not singular in this opinion
concerning human souls; Irenseus, Philoponus, Joannes Tlies-
salonicensis, Psellus, and others, asserting the same. St. Austin
in his De Gen. ad Lit. granted, that souls after death cannot be
carried to any corporal places, nor locally moved without a
body. Himself seems to think the punishment of souls, before
the resurrection, to be fantastical. But gives liberty of think­
ing otherwise. In his book De Civ. D. he conceives that Ori-
genic opinion not improbable, that some souls after death, and
before the resurrection, may suffer from a certain fire for the
consuming and burning up of their dross: which could not be
without bodies . . . * ......................................... 55
Hitherto shewed how the ancient assertors of unextended. in-
corporeals answered all the objections made against them; but
especially that of the illocality and immobility of created in-
corporeals; namely, that by those bodies which they are,al~
ways vitally united to, they are localized and made capable o f
motion; according to that of Origen, the soul stands in need of
a body for local motions. Next to be considered their reasons
for this assertion of unextended and indistant substance, so
repugnant to imagination • ............................. ■ * 5 9
That whatsoever arguments do evince other substance besides
body, the same against the Atheists demonstrate, that there is
something unextended; themselves taking it for granted, that
whatsoever is;extended, is body. Nevertheless, other arguments
propounded by these ancients, to prove directly unextended
substance. Plotinus’s first, to prove the human soul and mind
such, Either every part of an unextended soul, is soul; and of
mind, mind; or not. If the latter, that no part of a soul, or
mind, is by itself soul, or mind ; then cannot the whole, made
up of all those parts, be such. But if every supposed part of a
soul be soul, and of a mind, mind ; then would all but one be
superfluous : or every one be the whole: which cannot be in
extended things .............................................. .. . * 6 0
VOL. iv . 2 m '
680 CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
Again, Plotinus endeavours to prove, from the energies of the
soul, that it is unextended; because it is one and the same indi­
visible thing, that perceiveth the whole sensible object. This
farther pursued; if the soul be extended, then must it either be
one physical point, or more. Impossible, that it should be but
one physical point. If therefore more, then must every one of
those points either perceive a point of the object, and no more,
or else the whole. If the former, then can nothing perceive the
whole, nor compare one part of it with another: if the latter,
then would every man have innumerable perceptions of the
whole object at once. A fourth supposition, that the whole ex­
tended soul perceives both the whole object, and all the parts
thereof (no part of the soul having any perception by itself);
not to be made; because the whole of an extended substance
nothing but all the parts: and so if no part have any perception
the whole can have none. Moreover, to say the whole soul per­
ceiveth all, and no part of it any thing, is indeed to acknowledge
it unextended, and to have no distant parts • • • • 63
Again, this philosopher would prove the same thing from the
sympathy or homopathy which is in animals; it being one and
the same thing that perceives pain inthe head and in the foot,
and comprehends*the whole bulk of the body • • • • 67
Lastly, he disputes farther from the rational energies. A mag­
nitude could not understand what hath no magnitude and what
is indivisible: whereas we have a notion, not only of latitude as
indivisible to thickness, and of longitude as to breadth, but also
of a mathematical point, every way indivisible. We have no­
tions of things also that have neither magnitude nor site, &c.
Again, all the abstract essences of things indivisible. We con­
ceive extended things themselves unextendedly; the thought of
a mile, or a thousand miles distance, taking up no more room
In the soul, than the thought of an inch, or of a mathematical
jferint. Moreover, were that, which perceiveth in us, a magni­
tude, it could not be equal to every sensible, and alike perceive
things greater and lesser than i t s e l f ..............................68
Besides which, they might argne thus; that we as we can con­
ceive extension without cogitation, and again cogitation without
extension (from whence their distinction and separability is in­
ferrible): so can we no^conceive cogitation with extension; nor
. the length, breadth, and thickness of a thought; nor the half, or
a third, or the twentieth part thereof; nor that it is figurative,
jpound, or angular. Thoughts therefore must be nonentities, if
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
whatsoever is unextended be nothing; as also metaphysical
truths, they having neither dimensions nor figure. So volitions
and passions, knowledge and wisdom itself, justice and temper­
ance. If the things belonging to soul and mind be unextended,
then must themselves be so. Again, if mind and soul have dis­
tant parts, then could none of them be one, but many substances.*
If life divided, then a half of it would not be life. Lastly, no
reason could be given, why they might not be as well really as
intellectually divisible. Nor could a Tlieist deny, but that Di­
vine power might cleave a thought, togetherwith thesoul where­
in it is, into many pieces • • • • • • • • • 71
The sense of the ancient Incorporealists therefore this; that
in nature two kinds of substances. The first of them passive
bulk, or distant and extended substance; which is all one thing
without another; and therefore as many substances as parts,
into which it can be divided essentially antitypous; one magni­
tude joined to another always standing without it; and making
the whole so much bigger. Body all outside, having nothing
within, no internal energy, nor any actiop besides local motion;
which it isalso passive t o ............................. ..... • • 73
Were there no other substance besides this, there could be
motion, action, life, cogitation, intellection, volition; but all
would be a dead lump; nor could any one thing penetrate
another. Wherefore another substance, whose character f f o t c
BpatrH ipioc, the active nature,—life, self-activity, cogitation:
which no mode or accident of extension, it having more of en­
tity. in it. Nor are these two, extension and life, inadequate
conceptions of one and the same substance. A thinker a monad;
orone single substance. Not conceivable, bow the several parts
of an extended substance should jointly concur to produce one
and the same thing • ....................... .............................74
The energies of these two substances very different. The one
nothing but local motion, or translation from place to place; a
mere outside thing: the other cogitation, an internal energy; or
in the inside of that which thinks. Which inside of the think­
ing nature bath no length, breadth, or profundity, no out-swell­
ing tumour; because then it would be outside again. Were a
cogitative beingextended, yet mustit have,besides this extended
outside, an unextended inside. But one and the same substance
cannot be extended and unextended. Wherefore in this opinion
ofextended incorporeals, a complication oftwo substances, and
2 M2
532 CONTENT8 TO VOL. IV.
a confusion of them together into one. True nevertheless, that
ail finite incorporeal substance is always naturally united with
some extended body, as its outside................................... I S
All summed up together.............................................. ......
Hitherto the sense of the ancient assertors of unextended in.
vcorporeals represented to the best advantage. Nothing asserted
by us; but that these, and other arguments, do demonstrate,
against the Atheists, some other substance besides body: but
whether or no they prove this to be indistant spid unextended,
left to others to make ajudgment. The Atheists, who deny this,
must,acknowledge every thought to be not only mentally but
also physically divisible and separable, together with the soul;
as also deny internal energy; and consequently make, cogita­
tion nothing but local motion; and, lastly, hold that no sub­
stance can coexist with another substance, more inwardly
than by juxta-position • • • • . • • • • • 80
This the first answer to the forementioned atheistic argument
against incorporeal substance, made by the ancients by denying
the minor, that though whatsoever is extended be body yet every
thing,is not extended. . But the argument otherwise answered
by some learned assertors of incorporeal substance, by denying
the msyor; that though every thing be extended, or what unex­
tended nothing; yet whatever is extended is not body; they as­
serting another extension incorporeal, which is both' penetrable
and not made up ofparts physically separable from one another;
to which belopgeth life, self-activity, and cogitation. Probable,
that some would compound both the forementioned hypotheses
together; by supposing the Deity to be altogether unextended,
and indivisibly all every where; but.souls, or created incorpo-
reals, to have an unextended inside, diffused, as it were, into an
extended outside. Ourselves here only to oppose Atheists; and
dogmatize no farther than to assert, what all Iacorporeali&ts
agree in, that besides, body there is another substance, which
oonsisteth not of parts.really separable from one another; which
is.penetrable of body, and self-active, and hath an internal ener­
gy, distinct from local motion. All which is demonstratively
certain. This the full answer to the first atheistic argument
against incorporeal substance; that either there issomething un­
extended, or at least exteuded otherwise than body, so as to be
penetrable thereof, and indiscerpibly one with itself, and self*
active . . . . . . . . . ..............................81
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV; 583
The second atheistic assault against incorporeal substance;
by pretending the original' of this mistake to have sprung’from
the scholastic essences, distinctfrom tbfc things themselves; and
the abuse of abstract names and notions, they being made to be
substances existing by themselves. For, though the opinion of
ghosts and spirits (whereof God is the chief) sprung first from
fear; yet that these should be incorporeal could never have en­
tered into the minds of men, had they not been enchanted with
these abstract names and separate essences • .* » - 83
, The first general reply to this, that it is all but romantic fic*
tion. That the opinion of the Deity sprung not from fear, and
that all invisible ghosts are not fancies, already sufficiently
proved; as also the existence ofa God demonstrated by reason.
That apparitions are real phenomena ; and reasonable to think,
that there may as well be invisible aerial and ethereal, as .there
sire visible terrestrial animals. Sottishness to conclude, that
there is no understanding nature superior to man * • . • 84
The second particular reply, that the opinion of spirits incor­
poreal sprung not from the scholastic essences, whether consi­
dered concretely as universals only, or abstractly. No man sup*
posing these to be things really and substantially existing with­
out the mind; either a universal man and universal horse; or
else humanity and equinity: and that these walk up and down
in airy bodies ; they being only h o e m a ta , or the intelligible esr
sences of things, as objects of the mind. These essences’of
things said to be eternal, as their verities. The meaning of these
eternal essences, not that they are so many eternal substances
incorporeal; but that knowledge iiseternal, and that there is an
,eternal unmade mind that comprehends them; which all other
minds partake of • • • • • • • . . . . .85
Again, that another athei'stie dream, that the abstract names
and notions of the mere accidents of bodies were made sub­
stances incorporeal; souls, minds, and ghosts. .Conscious life
Ho accident of bodies, as Atheists suppose; but the •essential
attribute of another substance, which incorporeal; as magni­
tude or extension is the essential attribute of body • ; 89
The following atheistic arguments to be dispatched witbmore
brevity. That the four next, fifth, sixth; seventh; and tightly
proceed only upon this supposition, that there is no other sub­
stance in the world besides body or matter; and thettfore.sig­
nify nothing to the assertors of an incorporeal Deity: Stoics
and the like, only concerned to answer them. Nevertheless from
6M CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
the impossibility of these atheistic Corpore&lisms, contained in
the fifth and sixth, a necessity of incorporeal substance will be
evinced............................................................................87
Here two atheistic Corporealisms founded upon these sup­
positions, that all is body or matter; and, that matter, as such,
is devoid of life and understanding. The first in the way of
qualities and forms generable and corruptible, called the hylo-
pathian. This the most ancient atheistic form, as we learn from
Aristotle; v iz . that bulky extension the only substantial and
unmade thing, and all other things but the passions, qualities,
and accidents thereof; makeable out of it, and destroyable into
St, The consequence from whence, that there is no substantial
unmade lifeand understanding: and thatno mind could be a God
or Creator; it being all accidental, factitious, and creature 88
This hylopathian Atheism called also by us Anaximandrian;
Though we are not ignorant that Simplicius conceives Anaxi­
mander to have held an bomoeomery, or similar atomology,
eternal unmade qualities, as Anaxagoras afterwards; only, that
he acknowledged no unmade life or mind, but generated it all
from the fortuitous commixture of those qualified atoms. (Which
po improbable opinion, though not certain.) Because, however
Anaximander supposed life and understanding to be at least se­
condary qualities, and accidents of body, generable and corrupt­
ible. And not fit to multiply forms of Atheism • • • ib.
The second atheistic Corporealism, in the way of unqualified
atoms, producing all things, even life and understanding, from
figures, sites, motions, and magnitudes of parts. From whence
it will also follow, that mind is no primordial thing, but second­
ary, compounded, and derivative; creature, and no creator. This
palled Democritic; not because Democritus was the first in-
or of the dissimilar atomology; but because he was the first
atheiser of it, or the first who made dissimilar atoms the princi­
ples of all things whatsoever, even oflife and understanding 89
Not to be denied, but that from these two things granted, that
aU is body, and that the first principles of body are devoid of
fife and understanding, it would fellow unavoidably, that there
it no God. Therefore the Stoics who were corporeal Theists,
denied the latter; they supposing an understanding fire, eternal
and unmade, the maker of the whole mundane system. Truly
observed by Origen, that this corporeal god ofthe Stoics was but
by accident incorruptible and happy; and only 4>eoause want­
ing adestroyer. This no genuine Theism . • « * « • 9 0
CONTENTS TO VOh . IV. 535
But an absolute impossibility in both these atheistic Corpo-
realisms; not only because they suppose no active principle;
but also, because they bring life and understanding, that is,
something out of nothing; or make them without a cause.
Where the atomic Atheists of the two most to be condemned,
because so grossly contradicting themselves. From that true
principle, that matter, as such, is devoid of life and understand­
ing, an absolute,necessity of another substance incorporeal,
which is essentially vital and intellectual. That all life cannot
possibly be factitious and accidental, generable and corruptible;
but there must be substantial life: and also some eternal • 91
The truth of this understood and acknowledged by theHylo-
zoists; that there must of necessity be both substantial and un­
made life and understanding; who therefore attribute the same
to all matter, as such, but without animality; which, according
to them, is all factitious and accidental. Wherefore this hylo-
zoic Atheism also brings conscious life andanimality out of no.
thing; or makes them withqut a cause. The argument of the
Epicurean Atheists, against Stratonism or Hylozoism, unanswer­
able ; that upon this suppositioh there must be in every man
and animal a heap of innumerable percipients, as many as there
are atoms of matter; and so no one thinker. The pretence of
the Hylozoists, that all the particles of matter in every animal do
confederate, ridiculous and impossible • • • • • 93
Thus the fifth and sixth■
atheistic argumentations fully con­
futed ; and from that true supposition in them, that matter, as
such, is devoid oflife and understanding, incorporeal substance
plainly demonstrated: which was our second undertaking 94
The third and last, that there being undeniably substance in­
corporeal, the two following atheistic argumentations (built
upon the supposition of the contrary) altogether insignificant.
The.seventh not properly directed against Theism, but against
a .religious kind of Atheism of Theogonism; which sup­
posed a God or soul of the world generated out of senseless
matter, and the offspring of Night and Chaos. A sober and true
sense of the world’s animation; that there is a living, sentient,
and understanding nature, presiding oyer the whole world. But
the sense of pagan Theists, that the whole corporeal world ani­
mated is a God, exploded by us. This argument therefore be­
ing not against Theism, but Theogonism; the confutation thereof
m^ght be here well omitted, without any detriment to our cause.
But because the denying of a living understanding naturepresid-
536 CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
ing over the world is atheistical;- the ground of this assertion
briefly declared, that life and understanding are accidents of
bodies, resulting only from such a composure of atoms as pro­
duce flesh, blood, and brains, in bodies organized; and, that
there is no reason to be found any where but only in human
fprm: which also confuted. A brutish passage of a modern
writer, u that it is inconceivable by men bow God can under­
stand without brains*’ .....................................................95
The next (which is the eighth atheistic argumentation), that
there can be no living being immortal, nor perfectly happy;
built upon that false supposition also, that all life and under­
standing result from a contexture of dead and senseless atoms,
and therefore are dissolvable and annihilable. But that there is
life essential, and substantial, which naturally immortal: as also
a pecessity of an eternal life, and mind unmade, and unannihila-
JMe; which perfectly happy............................................... 98
SECT. IV.
T he Epicurean Atheists farther endeavour to disprove a
God, from the phenomena of motion'aud cogitation; in the
three following argumentations, the ninth, tenth, and eleventh.
£rom motion, thus; that from this principle, “ nothing can
move itself, but whatsoever is moved, is moved by another,” it
will follow, that there cau be no first cause and unmoved mover,
but one thing moved another from eternity infinitely; because
nothing could move another which was not itself first moved by
something e l s e ................................................................ 99
Answer: the meaning of this axiom; not that nothing can
act from itself, as the Atheist supposes; he taking it for granted
that every thing is body, and that all action is local motion;
but, that no body resting could ever locally move itself. A
false supposition of the Atheists and some Cartesians; that
were there but once motion in the matter, this would of itself
continue to all eternity. True, that of Aristotle; that to make
ah infinite progress in the causes of motion, and no first mover,
is all one as to say, that there is no cause at all thereof; or, that
all the motion in the world is a passion without an agent, or comes
from nothing. Clearly impossible, that there should be any mo­
tion at all, were there nothing self-moving or self-active 100
Wherefore from this principle, that no body can move ^itself,
it follows undeniably, that there is some other substance in
CONTENT* TO VCfL. iV. 537
the world besides body that hath an active power of moving
body • • . . . . . . . . . . . . 102
Another corollary from the same principle; that there is
another species of action; distinct from local motion, and which
is not heterokinesy, but autokinesyi That the action, by which
local motion is first caused, could not be itself local motion.
All -local motion caused originally by cogitation. Thus the
ninth atheistic argument from motion confuted: and from hence,
■that no body can move itself demonstrated, that there is some­
thing incorporeal the first cause of local motion, by cogita­
tion • . . . . . . .♦v........................................ib.
But the Atheists farther pretend to prove, that cogitation
itself is heterokinesy, the passion of the thinker, and the ac­
tion of some other external agent upon him; because nothing
taketh beginning from itself; and no cogitation can rise of itself,
without a cause. That therefore thinking beings themselves
are machines, and no cogitation local motion. And, no under­
standing being a first cause, nor perfectly happy; because de-#
pendent upon something else . . . . . . . . 103
Answer. True, that no substance beginning from itself; as also,
that no action causeth itself. ' But false, that no action taketh be­
ginning from the immediate agent; or, that nothing can act other­
wise than as acted upon by something else. Atheists here affirm
only what they should prove, and so beg the question. Ifnothing
self-active, then all the motion and action in the universe must
come from nothing, or be made without a cause * • » 104
• True, also, that our human cogitations are frequently occa­
sioned from external objects, and that the concatenations of
thoughts and phantasms often depend upon mechanic causes.
But fhlse‘
, that all cogitations are obtruded upon us from
without; and that no transition in our thoughts which was not
before in sense. The human soul a principle of actions, and
therefore also of cogitations. This a bubbling fountain -of
thoughts. But that there is such a perfect mind as at once
comprehends all truth, and was before sensibles • • • 105
This a prodigious paradox, and falsity of Atheists; that co­
gitation, local motion; and thinking beings, machines. Here a
correction ofwhat we wrote before, vol. iii. p. 462. and a change
of Our opinion, upon farther consideration; that not only a mo­
dern writer, but also the ancient atheistic Atomists, did conclude
Obgitation to be really nothing else but local motion. Never­
theless, these men troubled with the fancy of cogitation; which
638 CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
because they cannot make local motion, theywould persuade w
to be no reality, or nothing*. Atheists aware, that if there be
any action besides local motion, there must then be some other
substance acknowledged besides body. They, who make cogi­
tation local motion, and men machines, no more to be disputed
with than senseless m achines........................* • • 106
To affirm, that no understanding being can be happy* nor a
God, because dependent upon something without it, all one as
to affirm, that senseless matter is the most perfect of all things;
and that knowledge, as such, speaking imperfection, is but a
whittling, and fantastic, thing, But of this more afterwards.
Thus the tenth atheistic argument confuted • • • • 108
Another atheistic argument, from the nature of knowledge
and understanding. That the world could not be made by an
understanding being, because there was no knowledge before
things, which are the objects of it; and the only things are sen­
sible*, which knowledge a passion from. Therefore all mind,
as such a creature, and none a creator • • • • • 100
. This already fully answered, vol. iii. p. 308, and so forwards.
Where proved, that singular bodies are not the only things and
objects of the mind, but that it containeth its intelligible* within
itself. And that knowledge is archetypal to the world, and the
maker of all. Se the existence of a God demonstrable from
ihe nature of knowledge and understanding • • • • ib.
That the Atheists can no more solve the phenomenon of co­
gitation than that of local motion, evideut from their many hal­
lucinations concerning it; whereofa catalogue subjoined. First,
thal.aU life and understanding, a mere accidental thing, genera-
ble and corruptible, and no life nor mind substantial or essen­
tial. This before c o n fu te d ......................................... 110
Again, that life and mind no simple and primitive natures,
but compounded syllables of things; and therefore none im­
mortal nor incorruptible. Answer: that life and understanding
are active powers, and could never result from mere passive
bulk; nor can any composition of dead and senseless matter,
.possibly forget lift and understanding. Though no necessity, that
there should be any external unmade red or green, because these
might be made out of things not red nor green; nor that there
should be eternalmotion,because motionmight be produced from
a self-active principle; nor that there should be any eternal un­
made matter, because were there none, it might notwithstanding
he created by a perfectincorporeal being: yet.an absoluteneces-
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 539
sity of eternal unmade life and mind; because bad there been
once none, there could never have been-any > • • • . I l l
Another atheistic hallucination, that there is nothing of self­
activity in cogitation; nor any thing could #ct otherwise than
as it is made to act by something else. This to bring all action
from nothing, or to suppose it without a cause • • • 113
Another madness of theirs already mentioned, that cogita­
tion, local motion, and thinking beings, machines. This equal
sottishness or impudence, as to affirm number to be figure,
& c .................................................................................. 114
Another paradox of the Epicurean and Democritic Atheists,
that mental cogitation, as well as sensation, the mere passions
of the thinker* and the actions of bodies existing without him;
some of them supposing thoughts to be caused by certain finer
images than sensations; others that they are the remainders
of the motions of sense, formerly made. Answer: that sen­
sation itself is not a mere corporeal passion, but the per­
ception. of a passion, in a way of fancy; much less mental co­
gitations such; and least of all volitions • • • • • ib.
But consentaneously hereunto these Atheists determine all
knowledge and understanding to be really the same thing with
sense. From whence follow two absurdities; first, that there
can be no-such thing as error, because all passion is true pas­
sion, and all sense, true sense; that is, true seeming and appear­
ance. This absurdity owned by Protagoras. Epicurus endea-.
voured to avoid this, but in vain, and contradictiously to his
own principles • • • • • • • • • • ' • • 117
A second absurdity consequent thereupon; that there is no
absolute truth nor falsehood, but all knowledge private and re­
lative, and nothing but opinion. This freely owned likewise
by Protagoras. Sometimes also by Democritus. Who there­
fore but a blunderer neither, in the atomic philosophy; which
plainly supposes a higher faculty of reason and understanding,
that judges of sense, and discovers the phantastry thereof; it
reaching to absolute truth...............................................119
Another atheistic error; that singular bodies are the only
objects of mental conception, as well as of sensation. This
imputed by Aristotle, to Democritus and Protagoras. But suf­
ficiently before co n fu ted ............................. ..... * 121
The better to maintain this paradox, added by a modern
atheistic writer, as his own invention; that universal are no­
thing else but names, by which many singular bodies are called;
640 CONTENTS TO VOL* IV.
axioms or propositions, the addition and sabtraction of names;
and syllogistic reasoning the reckoning the consequences of
them : and that therefore besides the passions of sense we know
nothing at all of apy thing but only the names by which it is
called. Whence it would follow that geometrical truths not the
same in Greek and in Lftin, &c........................... • 122
• That the Atheists, according to these premised principles, en­
deavour to depreciate knowledge and understanding, as that
yrbich speaks no higher perfection than is in senseless matter.
Thus the Atheists in Plato make it but a ludiorous, ombratile,
£nd evanid thing; the mere image of bodies the only realities.
Their design in this to take away the scale or ladder of en­
tities • • p • • • • • • • • , • « 123
All.the grounds of this again briefly confuted, and particu­
larly, that opinion so much favouring Atheism, that there is no­
thing in the understanding which was not before in sense, out
o f Boethius. Just and unjust greater realities ki nature than
hard and soft, &c. Unquestionably a scale or ladder of entities,
and therefore certain, that the order of things, must be in way
of descent, from higher perfection to lower, and not of*ascent,
from lower to higher. The steps of this ladder not infinite; the
foot thereof inanimate matter; the head, a perfect omnipotent
heipg9comprehending in itself all possibilities of things. Mind
by nature lord over all; and sovereign king of heaven and
earth ........................................................................... 127
The reason, why we so much insist upon this; because Athe­
ists pretend, not .only to solve.the phenomenon of cogitation
without a God; hut also from thence to demonstratethe impos­
sibility of his existence. Though modern writers not so much
aware hereof, yet is the controversy betwixt Theists and Athe­
ists thus stated, by Plato; whether soul and mind juniors to
*en$eless matter, and the offspring thereof; or else substantial
things, and in order of nature before it. Accordiogly Plato con­
futed! Atheist*} no otherwise than by proving soul not to beju­
nior to inanimate.matter, and generated out of the same. Evi­
dent, that Plato by soul here understood, not only the mundane
soul, hut- also that whole rank of beings called soul; and that
no life was generated out of matter • • • . . . . 1 3 2
Those professed Christians who generate rational souls out
of senseless matter, plain betrayers of the cause of Theism 136
Nor is the case much different as to.otherswho, though they
professedly generate only sensitive souls, yet making the ratio-
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 541
nal but mere blanks, which have nothing iu them but what was
scribbled upon them by sense; and so knowledge, in its own
nature, junior to sense and sensibles; highly gratify the Athe-'
ists hereby ...................................................................... 137
If any life and cogitation may be generated out of dead and
senseless matter, then cannogood reason be given why all should
not be* LifeN
not partly accidental, partly substantial; but
either all conscious life, accidental, generable, and corruptible;
or else none at all • • . • • • ib.
The doctrine of real qualities generable and corruptible, fa­
vourable to Atheism also. And though the atheistic Atomists
explode all the other qualities, because nothing can come from
nothing; yet contradicting themselves again, do they make life
and understanding real qualities, generated out of matter, or
caused by nothing ...........................................................138
There being a scale or ladder of entities in nature, to produce
a higher rank of beings out of a lower; as life and cogitation
out of matter and magnitude, is to invert the order of this scsde
from downwards to upwards; and so to lay a foundation for
Atheism. Wherefore great reason to maintain this post against
the Atheists;. that no souls can .be generated out <?fmatter 139
The grand objection against the substantiality of sensitive
souls, from that consequence oftheirpermanent subsistence after
death. Cartesius so sensible thereof, that he would rather make
brutes lo be senseless machines, than allow them substantial
souls; which, be. granted they .must have, if thinking beings.
What clearly demonstrable by reason not to be abandoned, be­
cause attended with somedifficulties, or seemingly offensive con­
sequences • • • • • • • • . • « • • 141
The Pythagoric hypothesis; that souls all created .by God,
not *6the generation of animals, but iq the cosmogonia. These
therefore first clothed with thin and subtile bodies aerial or
ethereal ocheinata, wherein they subsist, both before their in*
gress into-terrestrial bodies, and after their egress out of them.
Thus Boethius and Proclus. Ammonias’* irrational demons
mortal; brutish souls in aerial bodies. Since the first creation
no new substantial thing, made or destroyed, and therefore qo
life. This looked upon by Macrobius as a great truth • 142
That the Pythagoreans would endeavour to gain some coun~
tenance for this hypothesis from the Scripture • • • 146
But if these aerial vehicles of brutish souls be exploded fora
whimsey,aiid none but terrestrial bpdi^sallowed to them; though
642 CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
after death they willnot vanish into nothing, yet must they needs
remain in a state of insensibility and inactivity till rennited to
other terrestrial bodies. Wherefore these in one sense mortal,
though in another immortal. Silk-worms dying, and reviving in
the form of butterflies, made an emblem of the resurrection by
Christian theologers.................................................... 150
But no absolute necessity, that the souls of brntes, though
substantial should have a permanent subsistence after death,
either in a state of activity or inactivity; because whatsoever
created by God may possibly by him be annihilated. The sub­
stantiality only of the rational soul demonstrable by reason; or
that it will not of itself vanish into nothing; but not that it is
absolutely impossible for it to be annihilated; the assurance of
this depending upon a faithin the Divine goodness. Porphyrius's
assertion, that brutish souls are resolved into the life of the uni­
verse. The whole answer to this objection against the substan­
tiality of brutish souls; that they may, notwithstanding, possi^
bly be annihilated in the deaths of animals as well as they were
created in their generations: but if they do subsist (without
aerial vehicles), they must remain in a state ofinactivity and in­
sensibility ................................... ..... .............................152
That thi? the doctrine of the ancient pagan theologers, that
no life or soul generated out of dead and senseless matter; but
all produced by the Deity, as well as matter; proved out ofVir­
gil; though sundry other testimonies also might be added there­
unto .......................................................... ..... 16 4
The hylozoic Atheists themselves so sensible thereof, that
there must be some substantial and unmade life (from whence
the lives and minds of aH animals are derived), that they attri­
bute the same to matter; and conclude, that though the modi-
ficated lives of animals and men be accidental, generated, and
corrupted, yet the fundamental life ofthem is substantial, and in­
corruptible. These also asserted a knowledge before sense, and
underived from sensibles • ................................... ..... 155
This hylozoic Atheism again confuted. Absurd to suppose
knowledge and understanding without consciousness; as also,
that the substantial and fundamental life of men and other ani­
mals should never perish, and yet their souls and personalities,
vanish into nothing. That no organization can produce con­
sciousness. These Atheists not able possiblyto give an account,
whence the intelligible objects and ideas of this their knowledge
of matter should spring. This hylozoic Atheism nothing bnt
the crumbling of the Deity into m a tte r........................156
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 543
Concluded, that the phenomenon of mindand understanding
can no way possibly be solved by Atheists without a God; but
affordeth a solid demonstration of his existence , • * 1 5 7
SECT. V.
T h e r e now remaining only the atheistic objections against
Providence, their queries and arguments from interests ; their
first objection, from the frame of the world, as faulty: or, be­
cause things are ill made, t|iat therefore not made by a God.
This directed against the sense of the ancient theologers; that
God, being a perfect mind, therefore made the world after the
best manner. Some modern theologers deviating from this, as
if the perfection of the Deity consisted not at all in goodness,
but in power and arbitrary will only. The controversy betwixt
these and Atheists; but whether matter fortuitously moved, or a
fortuitous will omnipotent, be the original of all things. No
ground of faith in a mere arbitrarious deity. To have a will
undetermined to good, no liberty nor sovereignty, but impoten-
cy. God to Celsus the head or president of the righteous nature.
This not only the sense of Origen, but of the ancient Christians
in general. Plotinus; the will of God essentially that which
ought to be. ,God an impartial balance weighing out heaven
and earth. The Deity not servilely bound to do the best; but
this the perfection of its nature. No Atheists able to prove the
world to be ill m a d e .....................................................158
Not to be concluded, that whatsoever we cannot find out the
reason or use of, is therefore ineptly made. For example; the
in te s tin u m c a c u m , though seemingly an odd appendix, and
which the generality of anatomists give little account of; yet
that, with the valve at its entrance, both together, an artificial
contrivanceofnature, to hinder the regurgitation ofthe faeces 164
The first atheistic instance of the faultiness of things; in the
disposition of the equator and ecliptic intersecting each other
in stich an angle, whereby the terrestrial globe rendered not so
habitable as it might have been. This objection founded upon
a false supposition, that the torrid zone uninhabitable. But
this the best disposition; which being contrary to mechanic
causes, therefore its continuance, together with the constant
parallelism of the earth's axis, a manifest eviction ofProvidence;
and (hat the rd f i k \ r lotov, the best, is a cause in nature • 164
In the next place; the Atheists would prove against some
544 CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
Tbeists that all things not made for the sake of man. This at
first but the doctrhie of strait-laced Stoics only ; recommend^}
afterwards by men’s self-love. Whereas Plato's doctrine, that
the whole not made for any part, but the parts for the wholes
Nevertheless, things in the lower world made principally
(though not only) for man. Atheists no judges of the well or
ill making of worlds, they having no standing measure of good.
That nature a stepmother to man, but a firoward speech of some
discontented persons, seeking to revenge themselves by railing
upon nature, that is, Providence • • * • • • 105
Evils in general from the necessity of imperfect beings, and
incompossibility of things • • • • ’•• • • • .167
Men afflicted more from their own fancies than reality of
things. Pain (which a real evil of sense) often linked with
pleasure, according to the Socratic fable. This not the evil of
the whole man, but of the outside only. Serviceable to free
men from the greater evils of the mind. Death, according to
the atheistic hypothesis, an absolute extinction of all life; but,
according to genuine Theism, only a withdrawing into the
tiring-house, and putting off the terrestrial clothing. The dead
live to God. Christian faith gives.assurance of a heavenly
body hereafter. The Christian resurrection not. the hope of
worms. This the confutation of the twelfth atheistic argu­
ment • .......................................................... 107
The thirteenth; but second objection against Providence as
to human affairs, because all things fall alike to all; and some­
times vicious and irreligious persons most prosperous • 170
Granted, that this consideration hath too much staggered
weak minds in all ages. Some concluding from thence that
there is no God, but that blind chance steereth ail. Othefsj
that though there be a God, yet he knows nothing done here
below. Others, that though he do know, yet he neglecteth hu­
man affairs ......................................................................ib.
Unreasonable to require that God should miraculously inter­
pose at every turn; or to think, that every wicked person
should presently be thunderstruck. That which steers the
whole world no fond and passionate but an impartial nature.
Yet, that there want not instances of an extraordinary Provi­
dence. Good reasons for the slowness of Divine vengeance.
The notoriously wicked commonly met with at the long rdn 171
The sometimes impunity of wicked persons so far from, stag­
gering good men as to Providence, that it confirms them in
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 545
their belief offuture immortality and judgment after death.
The evolution of human affairs a kind of dramatic poem, and
God Almighty the skilful dramatist, who always connecteth that
of ours which went before, with what of his follows after, into
coherent sense. A geometrical distribution of rewards and pu­
nishments ............................. • • • 173
That there ought to be a doubtful and cloudy state of things
for the exercise of faith and the more difficult port of virtue.
Had there been no monsters to-subdue, there could have been
no Hercules. Here we are to live by faith, and not b>
ysight -174
But that to make a full defence of Providence would Tequire
a large volume. The reader therefore referred to others for a
supplement. Only some few considerations to be here pro­
pounded, not so much for the confutation of Atheists, as satis­
faction of Theists, sometimes apt to call in question the Divine
goodness, though the very foundation of our Christian faith 175
First, that in judging of the works of God we ought not to
consider the parts of the world alone by themselves, but in or­
der to the whole. Were nothing made but the best, there could
have been no harmony for want of variety. Plotinus, that a
limner does not make all eye, nor place bright colours every
where; nor a dramatist introduce only kings and heroes upon
the stage • • • • . . . . . . . . • ib.
>Secondly, that we ought not to confine God’s creation to thO
narrowness of vulgar opinion, which extends the universe but
little beyond the clouds, and walls it in with a sphere of fixed
stars. The world incapable of infinity of magnitude as well as
of. time. Nevertheless, as the sun is much-bigger than we can
imagine it, so much more may the world be. The new celestial
phenomena widen the corporeal universe, and make those fan­
cied flaming walls thereof to fly away before us. Not reasonable
to think that all this immense vastuess should be desert and
uninhabited • • • ............................... . 17 9
Thirdly, that we cannot make a right judgment of the way*
of Providence without looking both forwards upon what is fu­
ture, and backwards upon what is past, as well as upon the pro
sent. That the Platonists and Pythagoreans solved many phe­
nomena from the r a 7rpo/3c/3«t>^eva, things done in a pre-existent
state.—Our common Christianity supposeth but a kind of impu­
tative pre-existence to solve the pravity of •mankind,and the
evils of this state. The different fates and conditions of men
VOL. iv. 2 N
040 CONTENTS TO VOI#. IV.
bate in this life to be resolved into a just though occult Provi-
vidence......................................... * • • • • • 180
The third objection against Providence, or fourteenth athe-
ibtic argument; that it is impossible for any one being to ani­
madvert and order all things; and, if it were possible, that it
would be .distractious, and inconsistent with happiness. More­
over, that an irresistibly-powerful and happy being would not
concern itself in the welfare of others; benevolence arising only
from im b e c ility ................................... • • • • 1 8 2
: The reply; that because ourselves have but a finite animad­
version, and narrow sphere of activity; to measure the Deity
accordingly, is but an idol of the cave or den. Certain, that
were there nothing but what we could folly comprehend, there
uould be no God. Had the sun life, equally coextended with
its rays, it would perceive every thing touched by them. Crea­
tures but the rays of the Deity. Men able to manage affairs,
in many distant places, without distraction. And innumerable
notions lie together in our minds, without crowding one another,
or any disturbance to us ............................................... ib.
But for the easing the minds of weak mortals, already suggest­
ed, that there is no necessity God should himself immediately
do all things: he having ministers under him,,executioners of
his providence; as, an artificial plastic nature (for this reason,
partly before insisted ou); instincts also in animals a part of
that Divine fate which is the servant of Providence. Above
which, other knowing and understanding ministers of the Deity
appointed to preside over human affairs. But all overlooked
by the watchful eye of God Almighty, who may himself ex­
traordinarily interpose ...............................................183
Wherefore no need to confine Providence to a few greater
things only, to free the Deity from distraction. Small things
(upon which greater often depend) not neglected by it. Never­
theless, the chief employment of Divine Providence, in the
economy of souls, by Plato reduced to this compendium; the
translating of them into better or worser states, according to
their demeanors. Thus may the slow wits of mortals more ea­
sily conceive Providence not to be laborious and distractious to
the D e i t y ........................, .................................. ...... 185
But that all benevolence arises from imbecility, and that
what is perfectly happy would be troubled with no business,
but enjoy its own ease; idols of the Atheists’ den. These other
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV* M7
the narrow contractedness of their minds by vice and immoral­
ity ..................................................................... . . 186
The atheistic queries next to be answered. The first query:
If there were a God, who was perfectly happy in himself, why
would he go about to make a world ? A n s w e r . The reason of
God's making the world was from his overflowing and commu­
nicative goodness, that there might be other beings happy be­
sides himself. This consistent with God’s making the world
for his own glory. The reason why Plotimls would explode
that. True, that God did not make the world merely to osteti-
tate his skill and power; but to display his goodness, which is
chiefly his glory. The Atheists farther demand, What hurt
would it have been for us never to have been made1 A n s w e r .
Neither than this, that we could never have enjoyed good, nor
been capable of happiness. If no hurt not to have been made,
then none to be annihilated ; the distance being as great from
nothing to something, as from something to nothing • 187
The second atheistic query: If God’s goodness were the
cause of his making the world, why then was it not made
sooner? This question capable of a double sense: First, Why
was not the world from eternity ? The reply : This not from
any defect in the Divine goodness, but because there is an im­
possibility of the thing itself; the necessity and incapacity of
such an imperfect being hindering it. Ourselves prone to think,
that could the world have been from eternity, it should have
been so. Thus Philoponus, in his confutation of Proclus’s ar­
guments for the world's eternity. And now no place left for
those atheistic cavils aghiust the novity of the creation; as if
God must therefore have slept from eternity; or had contracted
a satiety of his former solitude. Another sense of the ques­
tion: Why, though the world could not be from eternity, yet
was it not made sooner ? A n s w e r . The world could not pos­
sibly have so been made in time, as that it should not have
been once but a day old; and also once no more than five or
six thousand years o l d ...............................................188
The third atheistic query: How could God move the matter
of the whole world, especially if incorporeal ? A n s w e r . That
all things being derived from the Deity, and essentially depend­
ing on him, they must needs be commandable by him, and ob­
sequious to him. And since no bocly can move itself, that
which first moved the matter must be incorporeal, and not
2 n 2
548 CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
move it by machines and engines, but by cogitation or will only.
•That conceit, that an incorporeal Deity could not move matter,
because it would run through it, absurd; this moving not me­
chanically, but vitally. That cogitative beings have a natuistl
power of moving matter, evident from our own souls moving
our bodies, not by machines or engines, but merely by thought.
More easy for the Deity to move the whole world by will -and
cogitation, than for us our bodies 190
The last bead of the atheistic argumentation, from interest.
First, that it is the interest of particular persons there should
be ao being infinitely powerful, who hath no law but his own
will. The first reply; wishing is no proving. Nor will any
man’s thinking make things otherwise than they are • 191
But, secondly, this wish of Atheists founded upon a mistaken
notion of God Almighty, that he is nothing but arbitrary will
omnipotent. God’s will not mere will, but law and equity;
ought-itself willing. Nor does justice in God clash with good­
ness; but is a branch or particular modification thereof.. The
interest of none there should be no God, unless perhaps of such
as are irreclaimably wicked, and wilfully abandon their own
true good • . ................................... ..... • • • 192
To be without God, to be without hope. No faith nor hope
in senseless matter. According to the atheistic hypothesis, no
possibility of happiness nor security of good • • • 193
God such a being, as, if he were not, nothing more to he
wished for. To believe a God, to believe the existence of all
good and perfection; and that things are all made and governed
as they should be. Peccability from the necessity of imperfect
free-willed beings. Infinite hopes from a being infinitely good
and powerful. Democritus and Epicurus, however cried up so
much of late, but infatuated Sophists, or witty fools,.and de-
baucbers of mankind ........................................................ib.
The last atheistic argumentation, That Theism or religion
is inconsistent with the interest of civil sovereigns. Their first
pretence for this, that the civil sovereign reigns only in fear;
and therefore must be no power nor fear greater than that of
th ele v ia th au .............................................. . • • • 194
In answer to this, the atheistic ethics and politics to be un­
ravelled. Their foundation laid in the viilanizing of human
-nature. That thex^ is no natural justice, equity, nor charity.
No public nor common nature in men, but all private and self-
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 549
ish. That every man by nature bath a right to every thing,
even to other men’s bodies and lives. That an appetite to kill
and torment, by nature gives a right. That nature hath brought
men into the world without any fetters or shackles of duty and
obligation, the hiuderances of liberty. Lastly, that nature ab-
solutely dissociates and segregates men from one another, by
reason of the inconsistency of appetites and private good.
Every man by nature in a state of war against every man 195
But, in the next place, they add, that though this state of na­
ture, which is belluine .liberty, and lawless freedom to every
thing, be in itself the best; yet by accident, and by reason of
men’s imbecility, does it prove the worst. Wherefore, when
men had been weary of hewing and slashing, they then be­
thought themselves at length of helpiug nature by art; by sub­
mitting to a lesser evil for the avoiding of a greater; abating
their infinite right, and yielding to terms of equality with others,
and subjection to a common p o w e r..............................197
Where these Atheists first slander human nature; and then
debase justice .and civil authority, making it the ignoble and
bastardly brat of fear; or a lesser evil submitted to out of ne­
cessity. for the avoiding of a greater. According to which athe­
istic hypothesis no man is willingly just. This no new inven­
tion of the writer De C'ive, but the old atheistic generation of
justice, and of a body politic, civil society, and sovereignty
(before Plato’s time); it being fully described in his second
book of a Commonwealth. Where the philosopher concludes
justice, according to these, to be but a.middle thing betwixt the
best and the worst; loved, not as good in itself, but only by rea­
son of men’s imbecility: or, that justice is indeed another man’s
good, and the evil of him that is just. The same hypothesis
also, concerning justice,.as a factitious thing, that sprung only
from fear and imbecility, and was chosen but as a lesser evil, in­
sisted on by Epicurus.....................................................10$
The vafn attempts of our modern atheistic politicians, to
make justice by art when there is none by nature. First, by
renouncing and transferring men’s right by will and words. For
if nothing naturally unlawful, then can no man, by will and
words, make any thing unlawful to himself. What made by
will may be destroyed by will. The ridiculous conceit of these
atheistic politicians, that injustice is nothing but d u ti r e p e titio ,
and such an absurdity in life, as is in disputation when a man
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
MO
denies a proposition he had before granted; no real evil in the
man, but only a relative incongruity in him as a citizen. Again,
these justice-makers and authority-makers pretend to derive
their factitious justice from pacts and covenants. But pacts
and covenants, without natural justice (as themselves confess),
nothing but words and breath; and therefore can hate no force
to oblige. Wherefore they make another pretence also from
certain counterfeit laws of nature of their own devising, that are
nothing but mere juggling equivocation ; they being but the
laws of fear, or their own timorous and cowardly complexion.
They ridiculously dance round in a circle, when they derive
the obligation of civil laws from covenants; of covenants from
laws of nature; and of laws of nature again from civil laws.
Their vain attempt by art to consociate what nature hath disso­
ciated, like tying knots in the wind or water. Their artificial
obligation, or ligaments, by which the members of their levia­
than are held together, more slender than cobwebs » • 200
These artificialjustice-makers and obligation-makers sensible
of the weakness of these attempts artificially to consociate what
nature hath dissociated; therefore fiy at last from art to force
and power; making their sovereign to reign only in fear. This
the true meaning of that opinion, that all obligation is derived
from law; that is, the command of him who hath power to com­
pel. If obligation to obey civil laws only from fear of punish­
ment, then is no man obliged to hazard his life for the safety of
his prince; and whoever can promise themselves impunity, may
justly disobey. If civil sovereigns reign only in fear, then is
their authority nothing but force; and power would justify re­
bellion. Lastly, if civil right or authority nothing but force
and violence, then could it not last long; what natural prevail­
ing against what is violent ......................................... 204
Wherefore since civil authority and bodies politic can neither
be merely artificial, nor yet violent things, there must be some
natural vinculum to hold them together, such as will both oblige
subjects to obey the commands of sovereigns, and sovereigns, in
commanding, to seek the good of their subjects; something of
a common, public, and conglutinating nature ; which no other
than natural justice. The authority of God himself founded
in justice; of which civil authority a participation. Sove­
reignty no creature of the people and of men's wills ; but hath
a stamp of Divinity upon it. Had not God made a city, men,
CONTENTS TO VOL. IV. 551
neither by art or political enchantment, nor by mere force,
could have made any. The whole world one city of God and
rational beings. The civil sovereign no leviathan; that is, no
beast, but a god. He reigns not in mere brutish force and fear,
but in natural justice and conscience, and the authority of God
himself. Nevertheless, need of force and fear too, to compel
some to their duty ; nor is the sovereign’s sword here alone suf­
ficient, but he must reign also in the fear of God Almighty 206
The second atheistic pretence, to make religion inconsistent
with civil sovereignty; because it limits and confines that which
in its own nature is and ought to be infinite. The reply: that
the Atheists’ infinite right and authority of civil sovereigns is
nothing but belluine liberty; but true right and authority are es­
sentially founded in natural justice; there being no authority
to command, where there is not anobligation to obey; and com­
mands not creating obligation, but presupposing it, without
which they would signify nothing. The first original obligation
not from will but nature. The error of those Theists who de­
rive all obligation to moral things from the will and positive
command of God, as threatening punishments and promising
rewards. From whence it would follow, that no man is good
and just but by accident only, and for the sake of something
else. Justice a different species of good from that of private
utility. Infinite justice as absurd as au infinite rule or measure.
If no infinitejustice, then no infinite right and authority. God’s
own authority bounded by justice: his will ruled by justice,
and not justice by his will. Atheists, under a pretence of giv­
ing civil sovereigns infinite right, really divest them of all right
and authority, leaving them nothing but brutish force. Proved
here that the su m n u e p o te s ta te s must of necessity be iiv v w sv -
S w o t ................................................................ ..... 208
The last atheistic pretence for the inconsistency of religion
with civil power, because conscience is private judgment of
good and evil. A n s w e r . That not religion, but Atheism, intro,
duceth such private judgment as is absolutely inconsistent with
civil sovereignty, it acknowledging nothing in nature that tends
to public and common good, but making private appetite the
only rule or measure ofgood, and utility ofjustice. The despe­
rate consequence from hence, that private utility mayjustify re­
bellion and parricide. The Atheists’ professed assertion, that
they who have once rebelled mayjustly defend themselves after-
652 CONTENTS TO VOL. IV.
ward by force. Though private persons must make a judg­
ment iu conscience for themselves (the. Atheists’ public con*
science being nonsense and contradiction), yet is the rule of
conscience not private, but public, except only to mistaken fa­
natics ; who therefore sometimes make appetence of conscience
and religion, in order to sedition and iftiflfton Religion and
conscience oblige subjects, in all lawful thingsjmtively to obey
the sovereign powers: in unlawful, not to resist • • 210
The conclusion of the whole book: that all the atheistic
grounds being fully confuted, and the impossibility of Atheism
demonstrated; it is certain, that the original and head of all
things is no blind and unconscious nature, but a perfect under­
standing being, self-existent; who hath made all that was fit to
be made, and after the best manner, and exerciseth a just pro­
vidence over all. To whom be all honour and glory, Ac. 213
THE END.
J. F. D o v e , Printer, St. John’s Square.
