{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 3177","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v4_n71_jun_1890.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V4 N71 June 1890","mylang":"de"}
No. LXXI.-VoL. IV. JUNE. 1890.
JOURNAL
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
CONTENTS.
New Members &nd Assocl&tea
Meeting of the Connell . • .. " . .• . • •.
General Meeting .. .. . . •• . • •• ..
Cases Received by the Literary Committee . . .. ..
Cla.uifloation of Cases Received by the Literary Committee
catalogue of Unprinted Cases .• •. .. .. ..
Correspondence :-
musions Hypnsgoglques .. ..
The Legal Aspects of Hypnotlam
Hypnotism &nd Crime .. ..
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
VICE-PRESIDENT.
PAGE
.. 265
•• 266
•• 267
•• 2tI8
•• 273
•• 275
•• 276
•• 279
•• 280
THE MARQUIS OF BUTE. K. T., Mount Stuart, Rothesay, Isle of But,e.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
AKSAKOF, ALEXANDER D., 6, Nevsky Prospect, St. Petersburg.
MEMBERS.
BI!CTIVI!, LADY, 39, Bryanston-square, London, W.
MACFARLANE, A. W., M.D., F.R.C.P. (Edin.), 6, Manchester-square,
London, W. .
1rlACKAY, MRS., 7, Buckingham-gate, London, S.W.
NICHOLL, ILTYD B., The Ham, Cowbridge, South Wales.
ASSOCIATES.
BARKWORTH, LIEUT. JOHN R., R.E., West Hatch, Chigwell, Essex.
JEYNIYGS, MRS., Lyndhurst, Nightingale-lane, Clapham, S.W.
POLLOCK, MISS, 50, Weymouth-street, London, W.
TAYLOR, REV. ARNOLD D.,B.A.,Churchstanton Rectory, Honiton, Devon.
THACKERAY, MRS. W. GRABETT, Montague House, Vanbrugh Park,
Blackheath, S.E.
ASSOCIATES 0}4' THE AMERICAN BRANCH.
AMEL, MRS. C., 65. Lefurts-place, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
BALDWIN, HENRY C., 172, Commonwealth-avenue, Boston, U.S.A.
BOWKER, DR. S. D., 1732, Woodland-avenue, Kansas City, Mo., U.S.A.
CHAPMAN, B. H., 424, Main-street, Kansas City, Mo., U.S.A.
DODGE, J. T., 20, 3rd-avenue West, Duluth, Minnesota, U.S.A.
ELLIS, MISS, 140, East 49th-street, New York, U.S.A.
ELWELL, MRS. M. H., 82, Montague-street, Brooklyn, U.S.A
EVANS, FREDERICK, JNR., "New York Tribune," New York, U.S.A.
FOOTE, DR. E. B., 120, Lexington-avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Digitized by Google
266 JOlwltal of Society for Psychical Research. [June, 1890.
GRIDLEY, J. N., Virginia, Illinois, U.S.A.
HARTSHORN, MISS CORNELIA,150,Waterman-street, Pl"Ovidence, Rhod~ I.
HOLBROOK, M. L., M.D., 46, East 21st-street, New York, U.S.A.
JUDAH, J. M., Cotton Exchange Building, Memphis, Tenn., U.S.A.
KENT, MISS ANNIE, 64, Montague-street, Blooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
KITCHING, MRS. H., 141, West 60th-street, New York, U.S.A.
KITCHING, MISS EDITH H., 141, West 60th-street, New York, U.S.A.
LOUNSBERRY, C. A., U.S. Land Office, Pierre, South Dakota, U.S.A.
LYMAN, CHAS. W., 120, West 63rd-street, New York, U.S.A.
MclLwRAITH, H. P., Muskegon, Michigan, U.S.A
METCALF, L. S., 40, West 106th-street, New York, U.S.A.
NICHOLS, Mas. F. P., 211, St. James-place, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
NICHOLS, MISS, 211, St. James-place, Brooklyn, New York, U.S.A.
PLATT, J. C., 333-335, Fourth-avenue, New York, U.S.A.
SMITH, FRANCIS, Muskegon, Michigan, U.S.A.
STEBBINS, GILES B., 335, Fort-street West, Detroit, Mich., U.S.A.
TAYLOR, MISS KATE, 330, West 56th-street, New York, U.S.A.
TUTTLE, A. B., EsQ., 100, West 89th-street, New York, U.S.A.
TYLER, J. C., Kalamazoo, Michigan, U.S.A.
WELD, MRS. J. GOULD, 119, East 23rd-street, New York, U.S.A.
WILMARTH, MRS. MARY H., 222, Michigan-avenue, Chicago, U.S.A.
MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
The Council met on the 9th of May at 3 p.m., previous to the
General Meeting. The President was in the chair. Professor W. F.
Barrett, Professor Oliver J. Lodge, Rev. A. T. Myers, Dr. A. T. Myers,
and Messrs. T. Barkworth, William Crookes, F.R.S., Walter Leaf,
F. W. H. Myers, R. Pearsall Smith, and H. E. Wingfield were also
present.
On the proposition of Mr. F. W. H. Myers, the Marquis of
Bute, K.T., was elected a Vice-President of the Society.
The Hon. Alexander D. Aksakof, of St. Petersburg, was elected 1\
Corresponding Member for the current year.
Four new Members and five new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given on the preceding page, were elected. The election
of thirty new Associates of the American Branch was also recorded.
Various matters having been considered, including the subjects to
be taken up at the General Meeting in July, the papers to be in-
cluded in the forthcoming Part of the Proceedings, and also various
items of routine business, the Council agreed to meet on Friday, the
13th of June, at 4.30 p.m.
Digitized by Google
June, 1800.] 'Jon1'1wl of Society f01' Psychical Research. 267
GENERAL MEETING.
A Genet'al Meeting of the Society was held at the Westminster
Town Hall, on Friday, May 9th, at 4 o'clock; the President, Professor
Sidgwick, in the chair. .
It'lR. MYERS, in a few introductory remarks, explained that in con-
sequenoe of reports received from Mr. Hodgson and Professor William
James of their sittings with Mrs. Piper-an American trance medium
-he had arranged with her to oome over to England in November
last for a couple of months, which had been spent partly at Cambridge,
partly in London, and partly at Liverpool.
PROFESSOR LODGE, who conducted the experiments in Liverpool,
then read a report on them. After explaining the mode in which Mrs.
Piper goes into a trance, more or less at will; the apparent change of
personality that takes place, as shown in manner, voice, and seemingly
in memory; and the knowledge of the sitters' friends, dead and living,
sometimes shown by the trance personality; he discussed the possible
ways in which that knowledge might be acquired, and the investigations
he had made with a view to discovering the true source of it. He dis-
missed the view that it might be got up by Mrs. Piper, not only because
he shared with all who had a sufficient acquaintance with her to form a
judgment, a complete belief in her honesty in her normal state, nor
only because close observation had revealed no signs whatever of her
"getting up" anything about the sitters, but because the things said were
often such as she could hardly have learnt, howe,-er much she had
desired to do so. There remained the supposition of clever guessing
on the part of the trance-personality and of drawing information from
the sitters themselves by questions, &c. This guessing and fishing un-
doubtedly went on, especially in unsuccessful sittings, but could not be
made to account for information given in successful sittings. This cer- .
tainly required at least thought-transference to explain it, and Professor
Lodge was inclined to think that thought-transference from the living
alone could only be made to explain it by much straining.
MR. LEAF, who is editing the Cambridge and London evidence,
then read some portions of his paper. The sittings in Cambridge and
London were less successful than the Liverpool ones. Mr. Leaf was
not inclined to think that the evidence before us at present warranted
our assuming more than thought-transference-though the thoughts
transferred were not always consciously in the mind of the sitters at
the time.
[We do not attempt more than this very brief account of the papers
read, because it would be impossible to do justice to the evidence or the
arguments in an abstract, and it is hoped that the papers will be pub-
268 JOUNutl of Society for P8ychical Resea'rch. [Juue,1890.
lished in full in the Proceeaitlgs-probably in October, together with
the American evidence which Mr. Hodgson is now engaged in putting
together.]
Some discussion followed. The question was asked whether inquiry
had been made as to the truth of the account given of itself by the
trance-personality, which calls itself Dr. Phinuit, and claims to have
been a French doctor. The President replied that inquiries had been
made, but so far without producing any evidence tending to support
Dr. Phinuit's claim to an independent existence. A lady asked whether
Dr. Phinuit could speak French, to which the President replied in the
negative.
PROFESSOR BARRETT gave some account of experiments of his own
with a trance medium-the wife of a country practitioner. She was
put into a hypnotic trance by her husband holding her hand, and in
this trance she answered questions. He had at first thought that
thought-transference would explain all she told him; but afterwards
he had obtained information about illnesses of absent friends which he
was quite sure he had never known. In one instance the friend, when
asked, said that the diagnosis was wrong, but it was confirmed by a
doctor whom he consulted. No knowledge was shown by this medium
concerning the dead.
THE PRESIDENT said that he fully shared the views that had been
expressed as to Mrs. Piper's trustworthiness in her normal state. The
sittings produced very different effects on different sitters. An un-
successful sitter who experienced nothing but fishing questions and
guessing, could hardly avoid receiving an unfavourable impression.
And a successful sitter was occasionally more impressed at the moment
than on subsequent reflection seemed justified by the facts. He had
himself had but very imperfect success in sittings with her-certainly
not enough to warrant him in drawing any conclusion apart from the
evidence of others. He might, however, observe that having tried a
series of experiments as to how far "Dr. Phinuit" could perceive
what was passing in some other room or house, he thought that the
result, though inconclusive, indicated that the kind of experiment
might with advantage be repeated.
CASES RECEIVED BY THE LITERARY COMMITTEE.
L. 839 Ad pa Visual.-Unrecognised.
The following case, received from Miss Marie Thelemann through
Mr. Fryer, is an interesting example of an unrecognised apparition on
the night of a friend's death, followed by a vivid thought of that friend.
Digitized by Google
June, 1890.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. 269
It has, however, the serious-though under the circumstances very
natural--evidential weakness, that the experience was neither mentioned
nor recorded by Miss Thelemann before the news of the death reached
her.
It was in the evening of Friday, the 13th of June, 1884. I was staying in
an old Manor in Hampshire, and had spent the evening very quietly. At
about a quarter to 11 p.m. I went into my bedroom in order to fetch a few
things, and I left it agsin without having noticed anything. Abouta quarter
of an hour afterwards I went back into my room in order to go to bed. As
it was rather late, the light in the hall had been put out, but I carried a
lighted candle in my right hand. As soon as I had entered my roomand had
shut the door, my attention was attracted by a dark shadow standing in the
niche which was formed at the right hand side close to the door between a
protruding wall and my wardrobe. It was the shadow of some tall, slender
person, dressed in a long dark gown. I was startled at this unexpected
apparition, and held at once my candle up to look closer at it, when it began
to move silently across the room toward!! the window farthest from the door.
A couch and the bed which stood between that niche and the window were
no obstacles for it, and I saw it vanish when it closely touched the curtains
(of light coloured chintz), which were drawn. I followed it immediately and
looked behind the curtains, but found nothing, the blinds being down and
the windows locked. I then looked all over the room, under the bed and in
every corner, but discovered nothing that could explain this strange appear-
ance. It was an ,awful sensation to see the shadow move silently and
solemnly through the room. In a very excited state of mind I went to bed,
but could not sleep. I heard the clock in the hall strike every hour, and
when it struck three in the morning, the thought of a very dear friend
suddenly crossed my mind; I imagined that she, too, might perhaps be
sleepless just then and might be thinking of me. Directly after this I went
to sleep. I had seen my friend for the last time the summer before in
Germany, where she lived with her husband. She was thenin perfect health,
and I had not heard that she had been taken ill. A very short time after
that night I received a letter from my friend's husband informing me that his
wife had died on June 14th at three o'clock in the morning, the very same night
I had that strange experience.
Miss Thelemann has given us her friend's name in confidence. She
informs us that she has not had any hallucination of the senses on any
other occasion, but in a letter dated April 14th, 1888, she gives the
following account of (1) an emotional effect apparently telepathic, and
(2) a dream which was most probably a l'evival of memory.
I have had several times forebodings, the most remarkable of which was
perhaps on Thursday, April 5th, 1882. I was playing croquet with a friend in
the afternoon, when at about four o'clock I suddenly felt very sad and unable
to go on with the game. I went into my room, where I stopped till five,
crying bitterly, though perfectly unable to explain to myself my sudden
feelings of grief and sorrow. On the followin~ Saturday I heard from my
Digitized by Google
·270 JOl(,l'nal of Society for Psychic(tl Research. [June, 1890.
father that a dear sister of mine had suddenly been taken dangerously ill,
and on Sunday morning my father wrote that she had died on that Thursday
afternoon at five o'clock.
Also some dreams I hav:e had have come true. One day I had lost
a pair of studs. The next night I dreamt that they were lying in a
certain cupboard, on the second shelf to the right hand side at the back-a
place where I should never have thought of looking for them. The first
thing I did in the morning was to go and open the same cupboard; I put my
hand to the place I dreamt of, and found my studs.
As to my experience of the night preceding the 14th of June, 1884,
I unfortunately did not tell anyone about it, as I did not attach much
importance to it at the time. But I remember perfectly well that it
happened on Friday night, by the fact that the following day, Saturday,
June 14th, was the birthday of a friend of ours. I am so sorry I cannot find
the letter in which my friend's husband informed me of her death, and in
which the time is mentioned. If it was not so painful a subject I would
write to her relations and ask for a statement of the fact. All I can prove
are a few words which I wrote into my birthday book, when I received
the news.
L.840 Au po Auditory.
The following is from Mr. Colchester-Wemyss, late of the Royal·
Artillery :-'
Westbury Court, Westbury-on-Severn.
In September, 1874, I was in Brighton and was walking back from the
town to a house in Prestonville, where we were staying for the night. Close
by the old parish church, I fancied I heard my name called and stopped and
looked round, but evidently none of the people near had addressed me. It
was dusk in the evening, and so satisfied was I that some one had called me
that I crossed over the road, looking for the person who called, but found no
one imd went on. an arriving at the house about three-quarters of a mile
distant, I found a telegram had arrived announcing that a carriage accident
had taken place, that our children were hurt, and that we were to return
home at once. My wife, excited and terrified, ran out to the front door,
calling out loudly to me by name. This was just the time I heard the voice,
and, at the time, I was in a noisy crowded street, over half a inile, very
likely three-quarters of a mile, distant.
M. W. COLCHESTER-WEMYSS.
In answer to questions, Mr. Colchester-"remyss says that he was in
perfectly good health at the time, and in no anxiety of· any kind. He
was walking alone in the street. This is the only time that he has had
such an experience.
}Irs. Colchester-Wemyss, ill a letter to a friend dated April 10th,
1890, confirms her husband's account so far as she is concerned. After
describing how they had come into Brighton fOl' one night, to stay in
Digitized by Google
June, 1890.] Journal of Sgciety for P8ychical Resectrch. 271
Stamford-road, Prestonville, and how she felt causelessly anxious about
the children, she continues :-
All the afternoon we were making ca.lls in Brighton and I should think
at about 6 or 6.30 I went back with Mrs. -- in a cab, leaving Maynard to
follow. • . . ·When we arrived, the servant came to the door and said
there was a telegram for me and that something dreadful had happened.
The telegram wlloSfor Maynard, from ourdoctor, and it said that the coachman in
returning from the station had taken up our nurse and children, that the horses
had bolted, the carriage had been upset and smashed to pieces. He went 011
to say that I was not to be anxious, as their injuries were but trifling; but
long before I came to that I had made up my mind to the worst and could
Ilot believe that they were not seriously hurt, even when Mrs. -- kept on
saying, "Their injuries are but trifling." My one idea was to go to them,
and I kept saying, "Oh! Maynard, MaYMrd ! where are you 1 Why don't
you come 1" I don't think I ever said it very loud, but, of course, when one is
in that state of agitation it is impossible to know whether you are shouting
or whispering. At any rate, he could not by any possibility have heard if I
had screamed. At la.st I seized my portmanteau by one end, and the cook took
the other, and I ran into the street. I think I must have gone on saying
" Oh !Maynard, Mayna.rd !"-1 am almost sure I did-and I remember I had
run out of the house once or twice into the road and said it. When we got
to the end of the road I tumed down the hill to go to the station, Mrs. --
went on along the road by which Maynard would come from the town. She
soon met him and told him, and he ran after me, and we ran on together.
When we were in the train, he said, "Did you call me about 7 0'clock1" (The
train went at 7.30.) I said, "I sliould think I did!" Then he told me what
he (has written] to you. [He] always laughs at everything of the kind, but
he ha.s never forgotten this and always says it certainly is very strange.
If I can tell you more I shall be very glad to do so. I was nearly frantic
whenI got that telegram, and I remember how angry I WIloS with poor Mrs.--
when she tried to make me eat, ot: pack my· clothes. . . . Every idea
seemed to be concentrated in that of going to the children, and the longing
for Maynard to come to me.
In answer to inquiries,l\Jrs. Colchester-Wemyss tells us that the name
which Mr. Colchester-Wemyss heard was his Christian name, Maynard.
L. 841 CI. Dream.
The following dream suggests something of the nature of telepathic
clairvoyance :-
Tumours Hall, nr. Chigwell, Essex. J1!ly, 1888.
Statement by Willism Bass, farm bailiff to Mrs. Palmer:-
On the night of Good Friday, 1881, I went to bed at half past 10, and
very soon fell asleep. Just before the clock struck one I awoke in violent
agitation and profuse perspiration. I told my wife I dreamt that something
was wrong at the farni stables, and I was so convinced it was the fact that
I should get up at once and go there. She persuaded me to lie down again
(I was sitting up in bed and the night was cold). Still 1 could not rest. At
Digitized by Google
272 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [June,1890.
a quarter to two I dressed hastily, and taking a lamp and matches with
me went as fast as I could to the stables (distant about a third of a mile). I
at once perceived the place had been broken into and that a grey mare had
been stolen. From appearances where the mare had lain I judged she had
been taken away about two hours previously.
WILLIAH BASS.
Mr. J. B. Surgey, enclosing this account, writes as follows:-
22, Holland-street, Kensington. July 9th, 1888.
DEAR MR. MYERS,-Probablya few lines will be acceptable to you beyond
those to which William Ba.ss has signed his name. Before being employed
as ba.iliff he was coachman at Turnours Hall, and has been 32 years in
his place-a thoroughly trustworthy, straightforward, and the most unimagi-
native, matter-of-fact fellow conceivable. Before his dream of Good Friday,
1884, he was never known to speak of one. I had all particulars of it
almost immediately, but only jotted them down last week. I asked if he
could guess how long he had been dreaming when he awoke. No, not
possible to guess; but he was in a horrible fright and his shirt was "dripping"
with perspiration, by which he supposed he might have been in a state of
excitement a good while.-Very truly yours,
J. B. SURGEY.
Mr. Bass has recently been int,erviewed by Mr. Barkworth, who
writes:-
April 18th, 1890.
William Bass confirmed his previous evidence to me this day.
About the time when the incident occurred (and for a long while after-
wards) systematic horse stealing had gone on in the neighbourhood, but Bass
has no recollection of being specially anxious about this. Pressed as to the
details of the dream, he recollected that he saw the horses in the dream, and
had a vivid impression of "something wrong," but what it was he did not
know. Although thus vague, the impression was so strong as to be irresistible,
so that although his wife begged him to go to sleep &gain, he lay awake for
about 11 hours until he could bear it no longer, when he got up and went to
the stable.
His wife confirmed all this, particularly as to his having twice said there
was something wrong in the stable and he must go and see to it. He had
always reproached her since with having prevented his going to the stable
when he first woke.
Bass states he is not in the habit of dreaming. Pressed as to any previous
experience of the kind, he said that about 20 years ago he dreamt he saw hi.
father dead. The father who was quite well at the time died suddenly 10
days afterwards.
On the evening before the horse was stolen, he had heard a cart driven
by very fast. The neighbourhood is so lonely that anything unusual is
remarked upon, and he said to his wife, "There is something wrong." He
had made the same remark on previous occasions when a vehicle was driven
rapidly by.
When he interviewed the police in Scotland Yard, they asked him how
Digitized by Google
June,1890.] Journal of Society for P8ychical Re,search. 273
he knew the horse had been stolen ill the middle of the night, and when he
told his dream they ridiculed him, and evidently suspected complicity on his
part. Mr. Bass is a most respectable man, well known and esteemed in the
parish. He has lived in his present situation for many years.
T. B.
CLASSIFICATION OF CASES RECEIVED BY THE
LITERARY COMMITTEE.
As we find that many members of the Society are unaware how the
evidence received is dealt with by the Literary Committee, we propose here
briell.y to explain our plan, as a preface to a catalogue of cases which for
various reasons we do not print at length.
When the Literary Committee was first instituted, its members found it
a.lmost impossible to study satisfactorily ill manuscript the mass of evidence
that came in. To meet this difficulty some members of the Committee for a
time supplied the funds necesssry for printing on slips all the cases which
seemed worthy of consideration. The original documents were, of course,
also retained, and are stored at the rooms of the Society.
For convenience the cases were roughly classified under the heads L, M,
P, G, and S, and were numbered.
L stands for Phantasms of the Living, and the class includes any
phantasm, &c., coinciding with some event with which it appears to be
connected. It also includes thought-transference in the normal state and
spontaneous telepathic clairvoyance. But automatic writing and table-tilting,
even if giving messages from living persons, are not included under L, but
under M. L cases are often further described by the letters Ad pn equiva-
lent to "agent dying, percipient normal," or ps "percipient sleeping," or
Ae "agent excited," &c.
M stands for Mesmerism, and in this class are included psychical phe-
nomena connected with the hypnotic state and also automatic writing and
automatism of all kinds, crystal vision, and induced telepathic clairvoyance j
clairvoyance proper (meaning by this apparent direct perception of present
facts without the intervention either of the senses or of another mind
cognisant of those facts; e.g., perception of cards enclosed in opaque
envelopes and unknown to anyone) is also included under M, except when it
is associated with the idea of a future event; when it is so associated it is
included under Pas. a premonition, although the seeming premonition can
be explained by supposing an extended knowledge of the present.
P stands for Premonition. Under this head we class premonitions,
monitions (or premonitions which by foresight are prevented from coming
true), and, as stated above, such clairvoyance as includes the idea of a
future event.
G (or "Ghosts") includes all apparitions, &c., of dead persons, of
unrecognised persons, of animals, of lights, and of inanimate objects,
which have some characteristic to distinguish them from purely subjective
hallucinations, ~ut which yet do not coincide with the death of anyone or with
some other occurrence to a living person in such a way as to suggest a con-
Digitized by Google
274 Journal of Society fm' Psychical Research. [June, 1890.
nection between the event and the phantasm, and thus to bring it under the
head of L.
S includes the physical phenomena of Spiritualism and things happening
at Spiritualistic seances other than automatic writing and table-tilting. This
class is now in the main handed over to the "Physical Phenomena"
Committee.
We have not, of course, enumerated above every possible variety of
psychical phenomenon, but we have probably sufficiently indicated the plan
of classification. It has not, as will be perceived, any claim to be regarded
as a scientific classification, but it has been found to be on the whole
practically convenient. Sets of the slips on which the cases were printed
are kept at the rooms, I\l1d, with the exception, of co~rse, of those which by
our informants' desire are kept private, may be studied there by Members
and Associates.
In 1885 the plan of printing cases in the Journal instead of on slips was
begun_e JOUl"'ual Vol. I., p. 245-and by degrees printing on separate slips
was discontinued. For a time some cases were type-written, but this also
has now been left off. Gradually, too, as the mass of evidence increa~ed, the
standard to which a case mustattain before it is considered worth printing at
all, rose. It is not, for instance, worth while to printL cases manifestly below
the evidential standard of Phantasms of the Living, unless they illustrate some
special point. The present plan is to print in the J O1t'/"lUll cases which appear
to one or two members of the Committee to have sufficient interest to be
worth printing. They are then in a convenient form for study by the -Com-
mittee, and at the same time are accessible without trouble to all Members
and Associates of the Society; who may, and sometimes do, criticise them
or send additional information about them. Printing them in the JOU'/"lUlZ
is not publishing them, and it should be understood that no guarantee by
the Literary Committee is implied ill printing them there. They are there
primarily for consideration by the Committee. The cases used in Phanta8ms
uf the Living, or in papers in the P"uceed-ings have for the most part been
selected from those on slips or in the JUII'/"lUlZ; but in some instances cases
clearly suitable have been taken at once into the book or papers; this
course having the double advantage of economising the funds of the Society
and of putting before Members and Associates in the P.ruceedings some
evidence that has not been already before them in another form. When this
is done the MSS. of the cases are stored and numbered and catalogued along
with those that appear first in the J01tmal, &C.
Now that the old plans of printing on slips and of type-writing have
been abandoned, it has been found desirable to form a kind of second class of
cases, consisting of those which it is not at present proposed to print at
all. These are stored, numbered, and catalogued separately from the others
and are marked B L, B P, &c., the letters L, P, &c., having the same
meanings as in the printed cases. Among the various reasons for placing
cases in division B rather than printing them may be mentioned (1) Pro-
hibition by our informants to print; (2) Comparative evidential weakness,
notwithstanding which the case may be well worth kebping either as con-
taining points which may prove important and instructive from some particular
Digitized by Google
June, 1890.] JouNUtl of Society for P8ychicctl Re8ectrch. 275
point of view, or as possibly to be improved. Evidential weakness is of differ-
ent kinds; for example, the case may be (a) not at first hand; or (b) remote ;
or (c) evidence may be wanting to show that the supposed phantasm was not
a real sound or sight; or (d) there may be too great a probability on the
evidence that the coincidence was due to chance, as with many dreams; or
(e) the evidence may be incomplete. There is generally some hope that
further evidence may be obtained about incomplete cases at some future
time, which may raise them out of class B into the printed class. This
might happen, for instance, as regards a case supposed to be coincidental
though no evidence as to dates is at present forthcoming; or again, as regards
a single appearance in a haunted house with no information as to its relation
to other supposed experiences there. Such cases would, generally speaking,
remainin class B until further evidence reached us.
Abstracts of a few of the B cases have already been printed recently in the
Journal. It is proposed to print by degrees in the Jonrno.l a descriptive cata-
logue of all of them, both as a convenience to students and as a means of
obtaining further information, should any of our Members and Associates be
able to furnish it. The cases themselves, with the exception of private ones,
can under certain conditions be studied at the rooms of the Society.
CATALOGUE OF UNPRINTED CASES.
B L 1. Ad pn VisuaL-Mr. Buckle is seen walking in Hyde Park by
Miss Boyd in 1862 ; a telegram announcing his death at Damascus arri\'ed
at the time. Recorded in 1886.
B L 2. Ad pn Visual. 2nd or 3rd hand.-Miss Beane's grandmother
aees her brother at the foot of her bed on the day he dies of yellow fever,
ill China, about 1802. Recorded 1887.
B L 3. Ad pn Visual. 2ud hand.-Mr. Hobson's father sees two
cousins outside their house on the night they die.
B L 4. Ad pn Auditory. From Mr. R. E. Morgan.-Three knocks
are heard by all the household at the death of a member of the family in five
instances from 1878 onwards. Recorded and signed by four of the witnesses
in 1887.
B L 5. As pn -Miss -- has an impression, acted on and spoken of,
that a friend wants her. A telegram predicted and received. Experienced
in June, 1886, and recorded six months later. .
B L 6. As pa -Mrs. Darrell Brown awakes in 1887 with the impres-
sion, afterwards found to bEl correct, that her son in Australia was ill. Her
daugliter dreams of his illness the same night.
B L 7. Ad pn Auditory (Collective).-About 1847, Mr. -- and his
wife are awoken at midnight by an imsginary brass band. The wife's two
brothers (one a bandsman), are the one killed and the other fatally wounded
in battle on the same date.
B L 8. Ad pn Emotional. 2nd hand.-A case of deprestlion during
last days of agent's life, with relief at the time of his death. (Of. Phanto.~m~,
Vol. I., p. 272, case 69.) Experienced and recorded in 1885.
B L 9. Ad pa From Mrs. Davidson.-Coincidental dream of death in
1886.
Digitized by Google
276 Journal of Society for P8ychical Research. [June, 1890.
B L 10. Ad pn Borderland. Visual and tactile.-Mr. John Hobson
when a boy, in 1844, was awoken by a tap on the leg, and saw his grandmother
gliding out of the room. She died at the time at a house opposite.
Recorded in 1888.
B L 11. Ad pn 3rd hand.-Mr. Biddle informs us that Richard Sumpter,
in 1830, recorded the date of a vision of his brother before the news of the
brother's death at that date arrived.
B L 12.-Miss Keightley, writing in 1886, ssys that "years ago," when
confined to the sofa with illness, she saw the details of an accident to her
brother, who was out with the rest of the family, shortly after it occurred.
In 1884 she had a vision before going to sleep of details of his death. He
was ill at the time.
B L 13. Ad pn Borderland. Auditory.-':"Mrs. -- had visited a sick
baby nephew in 1872. That night she was awoken by a rustling of her bed-
curtains, a.nd heard the child call "Aunt Pollie "twice. He died that night
ca.lling for Aunt Pollie, this being the first time he was known to say the
words clearly. Recorded 1888.
CORRESPONDENCE.
ILLUSIONS. HVPNAGOGIQUES.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-A letter in the May Jott1"nrd on the above subject having interested
me deeply, I am emboldened to address you, and to relate my own experience,
now I know that it has a really delightful scientific name.
During my mother's lifetime, she and I often discussed our" dream-faces,"
as we called them, for want of a better name, for we never saw them in our
dreams, only when lying wide awake with our eyes shut. The faces usually
melt into each other in such rapid succession that it is quite impossible to
describe them quickly enough in words-such as "lovely face, golden hair,
&c. ; hideous face, glaring eyes, making grimaces, nose long and red ;
pale, cadaverous face, much lined; lawyer's face, wig and spectacles," and
so on indefinitely. Last night, for instance, I had just put out my light,
when I clearly saw, on a black background, a skull. I had the instant
before been thinking of something widely different, and nothing had happened
all day to bring such an object into my thoughts. In fact, I had not time to
thit,}.; of it. before it vanished, and in a second was succeeded by a vision of
angels. They departed as speedily, and were succeeded by the more prosaic
procession of "faces." The odd circumstance about these latter is that though
all are familiar and distinct, as no real face ever is to my short-sighted eyes, I .
could not put a name to one. I never see a friend's face, nor that of a well-
known personage, though I seem to have seen each face before. My mother saw
only "faces," a.nd imagined herself feverish when she did so. I see them at all
times; but have never noticed them if I closed my eyes in the daylight when
in health. Like your correspondent, I frequently see definite pictures too.
Digitized by Google
June, 1890.] Journal of Society for Psychical Resea1'ch. 277
Glorious sun or moon lighted landscapes, mountains and rivers, grand
cathedrals, village spires-all of these, too, seem familiar, but I cannot
remember to have ever seen them in reality. When ill of a fever in 1884, I saw
exquisite faces and scenes, but instead of melting harmoniously into the next
picture, a blood-red veil seemed to gradually descend, and to make each
feature of face or landscape horrible or grotesque. So painful was this inevit-
able conclusion that I dreaded closing my eyes. This I remember happened
in broad daylight, and I described each picture, as it came, to my husband, as
I have often done since.
I hope this rather lengthy account will induce others to relate similar
illusions, with a view to their being scientifically explained. Is it "such
stuff as dreams are made of" 1-1 am, &0.,
May 10th, 1890. A. M. W.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCIIICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,-A letter on "Illusions Hypnagogiques" which is printed in the
last number of the Journal of the Society for Psychical Research has greatly
interested me. The faot is that I have had experiences of a similar kind
almost as long as I can remember. I have always tried to discover whether
everyone can see such mental images, or whether it is a characteristicI feature
of a few persons only; but I have never succeeded in making this point
perfectly clear to myself.
I hardly ever Bee any distinct mental images now; but when I was a boy
of 13 or 14 this faculty of mine was exceedingly developed. Every evening
after I had gone to bed and had closed my eyes I began to see images of remark-
able distinctness which followed each other ceaselessly. These images were
always in motion, and there seemed to be some kind of intelligible relation
between them-sometimes at least, I mean. If after having closed my eyes I
had seen a flower, I could be perfectly certain that I should see flmve1's for
some time, until another class of objects should take their place. As I have
already said, these curious images were always in motion, and each of them
was comparatively of very little duration.
As for the character of these images, so far as I can remember, I used to
see flowers oftener than any other objects, and I am unable to account for
this, as I have never liked flowers exceedingly. It is true that almost every
year I used to spend five or six months in the country, where, of course,
there were plenty of flowers. That there was-often at least-a connection
between the objects I had seen during the day and the images I saw every
evening is for me ce1·tain. I will give you an instance of this. One evening
I saw almost all the time dry leaves covering the ground, with stalks of grass
here and there. This must be undoubtedly explained by the fact of my
having spent a great part of the day in a forest, where, of course, I had
had under my eyes almost all the time the same scene that I saw with closed
eyes in the evening. In other cases stra'!Vberries were the principal object
. that persistently remained in the field of my mental vision (as I think it
must be called), and in that case these ideal strawberries had followed rea!
ones which I had seen and eaten in the course of the day.
278 Jmwnal of Society fur Psychical Research. [June, 1890.
The distinctness of these curious images was often striking, and when,
for instance, I saw images of my friends and relations, these image!! were
far more like the real persons than what I could voluntarily represent
to myself even if I tried to do so.
To show you how unexpected these images could be, I will tell you that
once-I think I was then seven or eight years old-I was dreadfully frightened
by the image of an ugly old woman suddenly appearing before my closed
eyes. I had behaved badly during the day and had been sent to bed early;
and, so far as I can remember, I considered this image and the fear that
followed its appearance as a punishment which God had sent me for my bad
behaviour.
I must add that I have never had any objective hallucinations, and even
when these mental images continued-as they sometimes did-to flock before
my eyes when they were open (in the dark, of course), I always knew them
perfectly well to be merely subjective and melltal.-I am, dear sir, yours
very truly,
MICHAEL SOLOVOY,
Associate of the Society for Psychical Research.
9, Mohovaia, St. Petersburg.
Apj·il 28th/j}IaylOth.
To the Editor of the JOlJRNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
SIR,--The letter of "An Associate" deserves attention. May I suggest
that members of the Society for Psychical Research who are light sleepers
might follow out a serie3 of interesting experiments on this subject. Some
2~ yean ago, in consequence of the pain of a slight surgical operation which
hurt the nerve3 of one side of my head, I found I could, as it were, watch my
own dre:l.ms. It seemed as though one·half of the brain were dreaming
while the other was awake. The effect was like a theatrical representation.
I noticel that the dreams formed very rapidly, and tried to time them by my
watch, but found the effort of looking at the watch prevented my testing the
question (so often mooted) of the length of time occupied in a dream.
May I ask these questions :-
1. What is the cause of the white or light grey light one sees in closing
one's eyes 1 I know many people who notice this light (in rooms perfectly
dark), and then as sleep comes on first geometrical forms and then figures.
(Sailors say that these form often into ships on the sea.)
2. Another point in dreams is, are the figures always complete 1 In light
sleeping I have tried to notice this. Is not sometimes .only the part
developed to which we give attention-in fact, do we not often dream of
bodiless heads or headless bodies?
3. Taste dreams are in my experience very common (though Borne people
say they never experience them). The usual taste SAAms that of fruit. But
dreams of smelling appear to me to be rare.
I have noticed the brown sand" An Associate" mentions.
w. S. LACH-SZYR~IA.
Newlyn, Penzance.
Digitized by GOL
June, 1800.] JOlwnat of Suciety fur Psychical Resecl1·cit. 279
THE LEGAL ASPECTS OF HYPNOTISM.
To the Edit{)/' of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-All new arts, sciences, and discoveries appear to undergo certain
r06uiar and fairly definite stages of treatment on the part of the public, and
especially of the ~ore learned portion of it. The new subject is first ignored,
then ridiculed, then hotly opposed, and finally adopted with enthusiasm.
The science or practice of hypnotism which has passed through all the pre-
vious stages seenlS now to be in transition between the two last of those
named. In particular the medical faculty, who ignored Braid and Esdaile,
and who persecuted Elliotson, have, in France at least, become enthnsiastic
students of hypnotism, and even in England are waking up to its claims
upon their attention. But this new attitude is accompanied by a very sin-
gular characteristic. Since the reality and significance of hypnotism can no
longer be denied, it is sought to forbid the study of it to non-professional
persons, without whom it would in all probability have never been discovered.
Accordingly, in most European countries the medical faculty have succeeded
in prohibiting the practice ofhypnotism in public, and in some cases I believe
in private also ; and it is not unlikely that in a short time they will seek to·
do the same in England. It seems to me, therefore, opportune to consider
the arguments for legislation.
The subject naturally divides itself into two branches, public exhibition.'!
and private experiments.
1. I will deal with the latter first, since it is only in private that actual
abuses of hypnotic influence could occur. The most important objection to
legislation against private experiments is its impotence. Practically, no one
can be hypnotised for the first time without their consent, and even afterwards
an involuntary submission is exceedingly rare. But given such consent, how
is the legal prohibition to be enforced 1 We are never likely in England to
attain to the spy system of Russia under which anyone is liable to be denounced
by their own servants to the police; and without such a system nothing can
prevent two persons from going into a room by themselves, and hypnotising,
the one the other, as much as they please. The only effect of legislation, then,
would be to impose certsin precautions of secresy upon the practice, which
would increase indefinitely its liability to abnse. The only people in fact who
would be bound by the law would be those who were ruled by a rather strained
conscientiousness, and these are not the people that require restriction.
2. But if the practice of hypnotism cannot be prevented in private, where
is the good of prohibiting it in public 1 No advantage could be taken of a
subject (e.g., a young girl) in public without exciting at once the indignation
and interference of the spectators. Is it, then, pretended that to familiarise
the people publicly with a practice which may be abused on other occasions is to
render its abuse more probable 1 The exact contrary is the case. For when
the spectators see the helpless, defenceless, and absurd condition to which
the professional hypnotist reduces his subjects they will be tallght in the
most forcible and practical ma.nner the da.nger of submitting themselves to
the opera.tion'! of anyone in whom they ha.ve not grounds of absolute con-
fidence. Already I have met with persons who object to be hypnotised on
Digitized by Google
280 Joto'lutl of Society for Psy('hical Rese(trch. [June, 1890.
the very natural ground that they "do not want to be made ridiculous."
But this objection would never have occurred to them had they not seen
public performances.
If the apostles of grandmotherly legislation are so anxious to distinguish
themselves there is plenty of work for them to do without interfering with
hypnotism. The indiscriminate sale of revolvers might be stopped, for
inatance ; scarcely a month passes without someone being murdered with a.
revolver. On the other hand I doubt if there has yet been a single case, in
England, of serious abuse of hypnotic influence. Indeed, if we are to legislate
against comparative evils it would be more reasonable to prohibit all young
persons from dancing after midnight, since it is certain that more injury
results to the public health from late hours than is ever likely to be produced
by hypnotism.
But I am aware it may be urged that, apart from criminal or malevolent
acts, hypnotism is liable to abuse by innocent but ignorant persons meddling
with what they imperfectly understand. Most of what I have said above,
however, applies to this argument also. You cannot prevent private experi-
ments, and they are not more liable to produce injury than the family
medicine-chest or the family spirit-case. If grown people of sound mind are
to be judged incapable of taking care of themselves, then the only alternative
iR to keep them under police supervision by night and by day, and make
everything they eat and everything they do the subject of legal enactment.
But what you cannot upon any reasonable grounds justify is to restrain them
here and there from any practice on which, for the moment, you can catch the
public ear, because it happens to offend the private taste or private judgment
of individuals.
THOMAS BARKWORTH,
HYPNOTISM AND CRIME.
Professor Litlgeois writes as follows to Mr. Walter Leaf, with reRpect to
the question raised in the last number of the Proceedings, p. 223: Whether
a criminal hypnotiser might not evade detection, even by the ingenious proceRS
recommended by the author, if he protected himself by a suggestion to hiR
tool that no one but himself could produce the hypnotic state :-
"The objection which you raise at the foot of p. 223 is most serious; it
had occurred to myself, but I did not wish to state it explicitly. Still it is
perhaps not impossible to answer it. In two words, this is what I should
say.
" Noone as yet knows for how long a good somnambule-and it is with
such only that we need trouble ourselves-would remain absolutely amenable
to a suggestion that no one but the hypnotiRer himself could produce the
hypnotic sleep. Noone can assert that suggestion in the waking state,
without complete production of sleep, would be for ever impossible with the
same subject.
"This uncertainty would of itself, it seems to me, be enough to deprive
the author of a really criminal suggestion, which had worked successfully, of
any certainty of impunity."
Digitized by GOL
