{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1829__twort___vision_of_judgment.pdf","mytitle":"Vision Of Judgment","mylang":"de"}
THE
mm ®f 9tttwmatt
OR, THE
HETURN OF JOANNA
FROM HER TRANCE.
€<
I will stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will watch to see
what he will say unto me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved. And the
Lord answered me, and said, Write the vision, and make it plain upon tables, that
he may run that readeth it."
—
Hab. ii. 1, 2.
M But in the days of the voice of the seventh an<jel, when he shall begin to
-sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared to his servants
the prophets.™
—
Rev. x. 7.
te
But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all."
—
Gal. iv. 26.
„ " Honour thy father and mother: that thy days may be long upon the land
^ which ithe Lord thy God giveth thee."
—
Exodus xx. 12.
** A second Adam must appear,
Ere your redemption come ;
But how can ye so blinded be
:
Can Adam now appear.
Without his Eve, do you believe 1
Now see the mysteries clear.
No ; I must come in Adam's form,
For to create all new,
And from me must the Woman come,
The good fruit for to shew."
See J. S. Prophecies—Book called " The Birth op the Prince of Peace."
LONDON:
PUBLISHED BY CHARLES WILLIAM TWORT, HOPE COTTAGE,
HOPE STREET, WALWORTH COMMON ; AND SOLD AT
27, NORTH STREET, LOCK'S FIELDS.
Februanj, 10th Month (new date), Year the Third.
1829.
[PRICE ONE SHILLING.]
[entered at stationers' hall."]
Printed by W. Jackson, Roupell-street, Lambeth.
INTRODUCTION.
The following* little work, though written in answer to a letter re-
ceived from Mr. C, one of Joanna Southcott's judges, and minister of
the chapel called " The House of God" Walworth, is seriously recom-
mended to the attention and perusal of all people, as it is a subject of
the last importance to every soul of man, and will be found particularly
interesting and acceptable to all those who have been anxiously looking
for the kingdom of God, and the fulfilment of the holy Scriptures, and
of all the prophecies and spiritual revelations, dreams and visions, given
from God, through various instruments, as well in this latter period of
time as in the former ages. The wise men of this day, who have taken
upon them to expound the Scriptures, have told us that prophesying
has ceased long ago ; but surely they have not got their information
from holy writ, but have taken upon them to contradict it ; for the holy
Scriptures declare, " that in the last days both the servants and hand-,
maids should prophesy, dream dreams, see visions, &c." But the people
of the latter age (I mean those who have lived within the last fifty or
sixty years, particularly the teachers of religion), who have used all
their influence to drive away from the minds of men every idea of super-
natural religion ; tell them of revelations, or communications received
immediately from our blessed God and Saviour, or of the appearance of
f/tigels, or of having dreams of a supernatural tendency, they are
alarmed ; and every one thus favoured with divine and spiritual teach-
ing, is counted an enthusiast, or cried down as a mad-man, so that their
poor priestridden followers, if they should meet in the street one visited
by the spirit of the Lord, would shun him as they would a mad dog*.
Satan, the sworn enemy of God and man, having gained such an ascen-
dency as this over the minds of men, thinks that his kingdom is secure
enough ; and, indeed, so great is his power in men of late, that infidelity
has taken such deep root, and has spread itself to such an alarming ex-
tent, that except those days should be shortened, this cursed spirit would
destroy all the inhabitants of the earth, no flesh could be saved ; but,
blessed be the God of truth, who hath reserved a David unto this time
to go forth with his sling and pebble against this great Goliath, who
has defied the power of the living God : and this David is none other
than Shiloh, the Spirit of Truth, who is now come, " binding his fole
to the vine, and his asses' colt unto the choise vine ; he washed his gar-
ments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes ; his eyes are red
with wine, an&his teeth white with milk: to him shall the gathering
of the people be." The writer of this work has two things only in view,
namely, the glory of God his only Lord and Master, in whose fear he
writes, and the good of his fellow men, among whom he sees no one
less deserving of the favour of God than himself, and of course cannot
say to any, " Stand by thyself, I am holier than thou ;" but " by the
grace of God I am what I am, and if it is of grace it is not of works, no
;
but it is by faith, that it might be by grace, that the promise might be
sure to all the seed/ as well as to himself. The enlightened reader
will, in perusing this little book, say with Paul, " Without controversy,
4
great is the mystery of godliness ; God, manifest in the flesh, justffied m
the spirit, seen of angels, believed on in the world, received up into
glory." But the mystery is now opening, and the kingdom of God, so
long desired and prayed for by all the servants of God, is now begun ou
earth, and will rapidly spread its benign influence over the whole earth
;
but it is not coming " with observation, not according to human inven-
tion, not by might nor by power (of man), but by my spirit/' saith the
Lord ; for Shrloh, the spirit of truth, will be found rising up in men,
women, and children ; in every city, town and village, working in all,
one heart, one soul, one mind, just as it was in the shadow :
" And the
multitude of them that believed were of one heart and one soul."
(Acts iv. 32.) And so Babylon will be surprised and taken in a way
they never erpected, for this holy consuming fire of God will burst out
at so many different places, that the flame thereof will burn up every
enemy, devour and destroy all opposition, abrogate all laws, but the
law of love, joy, peace, righteousness, equity, and truth ; and thus it
will go on to establish, until all evil is drowned in the deluge of grace,
and driven from the earth for one thousand years.
The stones of this glorious and spiritual temple, of which this grand
structure is to be composed, are now preparing, in various places ; for
Hiram, the chief architect, is found at last, who is carrying on the work
gloriously, and will complete and raise up the building without the
noise of a hammer being heard. God is a God of order as well in the
spiritual, or new creation, as in the creation of matter of old, or in the
creation of man in the outward figure ; therefore, agreeably to his de-
crees, and to fulfil the Scriptures, and all other prophecies that have
been given to men (who prophesied of the end), fixes his standard in
one/which is the spiritual man-child brought forth by Joanna Southcott
;
but let no one say that he bears record of himself; no, but shows that
the Scriptures, in union with Joanna's writings, and her writings in
union with the Bible, declare plainly, that such a one must arise in this
day ;
and that until such a one appeared, the greater part of the Scrip-
tures, and all other prophetic writings, remained enveloped in mystery;
and to such a time as this, and to such a character coming forth, they
all point ; nor could the kingdom of God be established on the earth,
or be seen, before a man was born again, agreeably to our Lord's words
to Nicodemus in the third of John, about which we have both heard
and read much ;
every sect and party insists upon it that must be, yet
what it is, is a mystery to them ;—" Ye must be born again/' sounds
forth from every pulpit, but neither preachers nor people know what
they mean ;
no, " the wind bloweth where it listeth, thou nearest the
sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, or whither it goeth ;
6o is every one that is born of the Spirit/' And, O blessed be God, the
day at last is come, when by way of birth, the blessed spirit will £>x>
forth in all that do participate hereof, until the glorious Messiah's reign
is established universally, and God be all and in all. « Say not there
rare four months, and then cometh the harvest, but lift up your eves
and behold the fields, for they are already white unto the harvest, and
he that reapeth receiveth wages, and herein is that saying- fulfilled,
One soweth, and another reapeth."
I have no ill will to any man, but on the contrary good-will unto all
;
but I confess I am at enmity with the powers of darkness alone, by
which the whole world have been deceived, and in many are working
strongly against the kingdom of God, though by words, they profess
to be supporters of it ;
yet (by the way and manner in which they have
handled the word of the Lord, and have spoken of those whom God
has sent forth in his work, and who have been faithful servants unto the
end of their lives), they declare plainly that their deeds are evil, and
they hate the light, neither will they come to the light, lest their deeds
should be reproved, I heartily wish that Mr, C, and all who stand as
he does, may be delivered from this state of mind ; and with these good
wishes the following answer to his Letter was written ; it was sent
to a friend of mine, but as it aims at destroying the right ways of the
Lord, and opposes the jusf, equitable, and merciful decrees of God, for
our happiness, I cannot but oppose it; and this I do, by showing forth
the truth, of which every one will be able to form a judgment ; and
that each may be able to form a true judgment, is the prayer of your
servant in the blessed Lord's work. C. W. T.
THE
VISION OF JUDGMENT, 8fv.
A LETTER.
SIR,—Your letter to my friend Mr. T., was read among us with
great attention. You are " glad (you say) of an opportunity of laying
before the world, messages from the celestial world,—not any uncer-
tain or doubtful impressions on the mind, involved in obscurity or ques-
tionable in their import, but messages delivered in an audible voice,
distinct and clear, as man speaks to man, and those frequentty when
numbers have been present; wr
ords spoken as clear and intelligible as
those spoken to Paul going to Damascus, * Saul, Saul why persecutesi
thou me V" Sir, I rejoice that the time is come when the mysteries of
those communications given to various instruments in time past, will
now be laid open and explained ; as it is this, together with the unseal-
ing of the sacred Scriptures, that will chase away the darkness, ignor-
ance, and death, in which, by the fall, we have all been enveloped,
and will
r
On the sightless eye-ball pour the day."
—
Pope.
I think it a great privilege to be in the company of those who are
favoured with divine revelation, or who are as you say, " visited by-
messengers from heaven ;" and though they deliver those messages as
you describe, yet, as to their import or meaning, a man without the spe-
cial gift of discerning of spirits and understanding mysteries, may be
greatly deceived. You, perhaps, will say, " How can there be any
mistake as to the meaning t)f those heavenly messengers, when they
speak to the very persons then present, even naming them, and telling
every one the office they are to fulfil in the kingdom of God V' to which
allow me to answer—I think that if myself were present, and the Spirit
through any one, had named me as being any great character that
should appear in the latter day, I should judge, that at most, I were
but the shadow of the character ; nor would I be prevailed on to believe
6
•i t fn.,nH mvself really in possession of the quali-
fcyselfsuch a one, until
y^^^fje to fulfil the important station
,;„„•„„„ that were needfal to^enable me to rm
b/ •
alous of the
wrought in me by the Holy _G hojt Uy,^*ynw J^
^ ^
SpiriUhataj-pomted mc
^^^^^ernatural manner; or at
SjStokfiuSRrt understand the Spirit, for this reason:
least, l snouiu unmv ma*
G .
nfjipps,
wprP snoken unto as if they
1 tod that many characters m^the
f^es we^e SpoR
^y
J "Ss could not be' plainer than these; yet the words stand
t & end S are to have their fulfilment in that Adam and Eye that
1 Sdat the head, and be the parents of a new generation a
d : Xing,"* holy nation, a peculiar people, a royal pnesthood
v God shall be glorified on the earth. This pair will be fruitful
roducino- such chifdren-these are they that shall replenish the
(„ i: ui, and will subdue man unto God-and unto this pair all
Sat seek God and follow after righteousness are commanded to look
[sa li 2), " Look unto Abraham your father, and to Sarah that
hare you' -'read the whole of the chapter. Now this Abraham and
Sarah are the very Adam and Eve mentioned above.—Again God said
10 Abraham (Gen. xvii. 9), "Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son
indeed and thou shall call his name Isaac, and I will establish my co-
venant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed alter
him-" Further (v. 21), " But my covenant will 1 establish with Isaac,
which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year
:"
And the word saith further, that " in Isaac all the families of the earth
should be blessed." No doubt Abraham looked for the fulfilment of
this promise in his son, but alas, how mistaken was he ! For, to this
dav the word is not fulfilled, but is just now begun to be fulfilled.
'
Who then is this Isaac V it may be asked : I answer—Christ the wis-
dom of God, and the power of God, revealed in man. ^
This is that
divine offspring of this spiritual Abraham and Sarah, this is he in whom
all the families of the earthshallbe blessed; for this is Emmanuel, God
with us : this brings God to man, and unites man to God. Isaac means
Laughter, and surely it is this union alone that can wipe the tear of
row from every brow, light up every countenance with gladness,
and make as all laugh and be merry together!
n. sec what our Lord said to his disciples:
—" Unto you it is given
to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven;" but did they know*
these things! No; they themselves confess, that they knew but in
part ; and the Lord Jesus himself, said on one occasion, that they knew •
imt what manner of spirit they were of. He told them that they should
'*
tread on serp Dts and scorpions, and tread down all the power of the
eneoiy." But was this fulfilled in them? No; they only stood as
shadows of the end,—and just so stood all those that were with Joanna
and other visited characters ; for even her judges, and all her cotempo-
raries, w< re but shadows of those who should be enabled by the spirit
to understand the true spiritual meaning of all the word of God, and
this is the time that all are called upon to judge the woman's writings,
and to come to a right knowledge of the ways of the Lord. Enough,
I presume, is here said to establish the assertion above made, that " God
speaks to the shadow as if it were the substance, and calleth things
that are not, as though they were," and in this he hath proved himself
to be " without variableness or shadow of turning-." Seeing* that in
this age he acts as in ages past, " till the substance of all appeareth."
I hasten now to the next part of your letter, where you say, " The
Lord wT
ill permit the purest and most faithful of his creatures to have
impressions from the powers of darkness, to try them ; nay, in some
instances he will suifer them to be deceived, and acted upon as from
himself, that they may have an accusation against Satan." To wr
hich I
answer—I acknowledge that Satan has been permitted to tempt and
try the faithful servants of God, and in some things to foil them ; this
has been permitted under the fall for this reason : if Satan was not
suffered to tempt and try man, while in the world of sin, in the first
place Satan would accuse the Lord of partiality to one man above
another ; therefore the Lord has left his servants exposed to his temp
tations. In the next place, if a prophet were not tried, tempted, and
buffetted by Satan, he would grow proud, and think that because he
had revelations given him, there was, perhaps, no one on earth like
himself ; so God leaves him a little to Satan's malice, as far as is need-
ful, and when he sees fit, to distress him in various ways, and this very
thing- answers a glorious end towards the individual ; for it keeps him
from rising up in pride and presumption, of which he would be in dan-
ger, not having knowledge to guide him (this was eminently the case
of Mr. Brothers), and his fall would be like that of the fallen angels.
^ You say, in the next place, " That there never was a human being
existing in this world, the pure and holy body of Jesus Christ excepted,
that was out of Satan's reach ;" But, was there never to come a time
when the evil spirit that darkens the mind of man, and fills it with en-
mity against God, should be divided from the soul of man, and instead
of walking in the night, or darkness, being alienated from the life of
God, through ignorance, that the day dawn and the day-star should
arise in the heart ? See the following Scriptures, Heb. iv. 12, 13. " For
the word of God is quick, and powerful, sharper than any two-edged
sword, piercing to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit (that is, divid-
ing the evil spirit from the soul), and of the joints and marrow, and is
a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Neither is there
any creature that is not manifest in his sight." Again, 2 Pet. i. 19.
" We have also a more sure word of prophec3' ; whereunto ye do well
that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the
day dawn, and the day-star arise in our hearts."
Now the word of prophecy which foretold of the kingdom of God,
was given as a light in a dark place all along to this time ; for, those
that had the word, had not the light and knowledge of it, but were
used as instruments to hand it down to posterity, until the establish-
ment of the kingdom itself; they did not derive that profit from it
which men think, but the word was recorded to stand for the end, to
have its fulfilment in a people that should be bom of the spirit, and
raised up unto life eternal in the last days. For proof of this, see the
testimony of Peter concerning this very thing—1 Pet. i. 12, 13. " Unto
whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us they did
minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them that
8
havo preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down
from heaven ; which things the angels desire to look into. Wherefore,
gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the
grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ/'
Now, if this blessed revelation is begun in a man, he is no longer sub-
jcct to the evil spirit, but to the good ; and in the good, which is light,
life, joy, and peace, he will go on, and shine more and more unto the
perfect day ; for now is the gospel by John began to be fulfilled, chapter
the first.—" In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with
God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with
God. All things were made by him ; and without him was not any
thing made that was made. In him was life ; and the life was the light
of men, There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. The
same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light that was the
true Light, that lighteth every man that cometh into the world." But
what world does this mean '(
I answer, not the old world of sin, for all
is darkness there, and has been, up to this present time: The word
stands, not for any time past, no, not even for the time in which it was
written ; but for this very present time, for this is the beginning of the
creation of God, the creation of the world of holiness, " righteousness
and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost," in every heart that receives the
Word ; they shall rest in the love, and enjoyment of God, without
molestation of the evil powers, for one thousand years ; this is that rest
that St. Paul tells us of :
—"There remaineth therefore a rest to the
people of God ;" and the door in this wT
orld of rest is now standing
open unto all true believers ; and this door is Christ, the true light—-
and " he that entereth not by this door unto the sheepfold, but climbeth
up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber ; but he that en-
tereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep," (here is the door,
and the shepherd that cometh in to the sheepfold by the door), " to
him the porter openeth, and the sheep hear his voice, and he calleth
his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out." This is that very door
mentioned in Zee. xiii. 1. "In that day there shall be a fountain opened
to the house of David, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for sin and
uncleanness." Again, Rev. iv. 1. And " after this 1 looked, and, be-
hold, a door was opened in heaven f that is the heavenly heart, in the
instrument of life, where the blessed Trinity is come to dwell—and now
" the Spirit and the Bride say come, and let him that heareth, say
come, and let him that is athirst come, and take of the water of life
freely." And though it has hitherto been the unhappy lot of men, to
he under the power and dominion of evil, so that Satan has reigned
wit n despotic tyranny over the human race, keeping them " in bondage
under the curse of a broken law, so that thev groan, being burthened,
watting for the adoption:- Yet God promised deliverance from this
WMidage of corruption, and put us into the enjoyment of glorious liberty
and freedom ;
and the man that would oppose this, I cannot call him
less, however, than Satan's friend, an enemy to the kingdom of God,
who would not allow God, if they had their will, to fulfil the promises
he has made unto us ; our blessed God and Father has caused his pro-
mises to be recorded throughout the Scriptures, that a time should
come when we shall he made free from sin, out of Satan's reach, and
temptation proof here upon this earth, through the blood of the Lamb;
that is, the life of the Lamb, (for the blood is the life), communicated
to the soul, or establishing itself in the heart, destroying the old sinftjl
life, " the old Adam, the first man, that is of the earth, earthy, and the
second man, the Lord from heaven/' enthroned there as the rightful
Sovereign, Lord, and King. See St. Paul's epistle to the Romans,
chap. vi. 14. " For sin shall not have dominion over you : for ye are
not under the law, but under grace." Ver. 22, " But now being made
free from sin, ye became the servants of God, ye have your fruit unto
holiness ; and the end, everlasting life." 1 John iii. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, " And
ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins ; and in him is no
sin. Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not : whosoever sinneth, hath
not seen him, neither knoweth him. Little children, let no man deceive
you : he that doeth righteousness, is righteous even as he is righteous.
He that committeth sin, is of the Devil ; for the Devil sinneth from the
beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he
might destroy the works of the Devil. Whosoever is born of God doth
not commit sin ; for his seed remaineth in him : and he cannot sin,
because he is born of God."
Again, (1 John v. 18, 19, 20.) " We know that whosoever is born
of God sinneth not : but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself,
and that wicked one toucheth him not. And we know that we are of
God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness. And we know that the
Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding, that we may
know him that is true : and we are in him that is true, even in his Son
Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal life." Now this is that
eternal life promised throughout the Scriptures, we should enjoy in the
end ; and God has undertaken to work all this in us by his spirit,faith, that
worketh by love, and purifieth the heart; and I ask, if that wicked one
cannot touch us, are we not out of his reach ? Yes, we are redeemed
from his power, Satan is cast out, and he that denieth that Jesus Christ
is thus come in the flesh is Antichrist ; he is against Christ, and wants
to keep up the Devil's kingdom ; but Christ hath made mo free, and
his power will keep me to stand fast in that liberty, never more to
be entangled with the yoke of bondage, but ruled by the law of love,
which gives one eternal sabbath of rest. Observing no forms, or modes
of external worship, no set days, new moons, or fast days (see Isa. lviii.
6, 7, 8.) " Is not this the fast that I have chosen ? to loose the bands
of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go
free, and that ye break every yoke ? Is it not to deal thy bread to the
hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house ?
when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him ; and that thou hide
not thyself from thine own flesh ? Then shall thy light break forth as
the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily ; and thy
righteousness shall go before thee : the glory of the Lord shall be thy
rere-ward." Read the whole of this chapter.
Mr, C. in the next place proceeds thus :
'
Tell me why Job was
tempted V The most holy Spirit declares, Job " was a perfect and
upright man," * and as such he could not die, and Satan complained
God had so hedged him in, that he had no chance, though he watched
him daily, permission was given to try him. In all his trials Job abided
in truth, had the fear of God before him ;
yet Satan made him a trans-
gressor,. in self-justification.' This, and more he saith concerning Job ;
B
10
but I have inserted this much as a specimen of the darkness of the m\nd
of men, without the light of the spirit of truth, there is a mystery con-
cerning Job which no man by his learning could find out, but the only
revealcr of the mysteries of the word hath made it known, and will go
on until all the 'Bible is explained, and this alone will bring men to
one mind, and make their jarring discord cease. The book of Job is not
a history of any thing that is past, but a prophecy of things to come, and
Job himself is a character that was to be manifested in the last time,
even in this present time. The name Job means—sorrowful, hated, or
fighting, howling out, or abiding enmity ; and in the meaning of the
name, is hidden the mystery of the subject. 1st, Sorrowful—A man of
sorrows, an afflicted man, one who should pass through much tribulation,
especially spiritual tribulation, that no being on earth was ever exer-
cised in before ; but it may be asked, Was not this Jesus ? Was he not
this man of sorrows ? He was a man of sorrows indeed ! But all the
Scriptures were not fulfilled in those things that took place in him ;
but another must suffer in this day, after a spiritual manner, bearing his
cross with him, that his kingdom may come on earth, and of this man,
Simon, the Cyrenian was a type (see Mark xv. 21.) " And they com-
pel one Simon, a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out of the country,
the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross." Again, Paul to
the Colossians, i. 24. " Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and
iill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for
his body's sake, which is the church." It is clear from these Scrip-
tures, that such a character must appear ; but to make it still more
plain, I will show why this Simon is so particularly mentioned, and as
being the father of Alexander and Rufus, I say he was a type of this
man that was to suffer in this day. Alexander and Rufus, means good
and evil standing in the man ; this man stands as Rebekah bearing
Jacob and Esau. Alexander means the helper of men ; which is light,
truth, and grace ; for this is the true helpmate for men—And Rufus
means, red, or redness, which answers to Esau, or Edom ; for Jacob
called his brother Esau, Edom, because he sold his birthright unto him
for a mess of pottage made of red lintiles ; and here is the mystery of
these words in Isaiah.—" Who is this that cometh from Edom with
died garments from Bozrah, in tribulation travelling in the greatness
of his strength ; 1 that spake in righteousness, mighty to save, Why
are thy garments red, as he that treadeth the wine press ? I have trod-
den the wine press alone, (the heart), and of the people there was none
with me ; but Esau must be cut off by slaughter—the sword must go
through the land, the two-edged sword must go through the Woman's
soul (the Man Woman), to cut off the evil generation, the evil powers ;
therefore this man is baptized into death, and this is that death through
which death, hell, and the grave of sin is destroyed in him, the evil
fruit—that the good fruit alone may remain : for while the enemy was
in the field he was still sowing tares, so that the wheat was choaked, and
without this the Scriptures could not be fulfilled, nor the pure grain ap-
pear, to make the pure bread, the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.
Read the destruction of Esau,,Jer. xlix. 10, &c. « But I have made Esau
bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide
himself :
his seed is spoiled, and his brethren, and his neighbours, and he
is not. Leave thy fatherless children. I will preserve them alive : and
ii
let thy widows trust in me. For thus saith the Lord, Behold, they
whose judgment was not to drink of the cup have assuredly drunken ;
and art thou he that shall altogether go unpunished ? thou shalt not
go 'unpunished, but thou shalt surely drink of it. For I have swora
by myself, saith the Lord, that Bozrah shall become a desolation, a re-
proach, a waste, and a curse; and all the cities thereof shall be perpe-
tual wastes. 1 have heard a rumour from the Lord, and an ambassador
is sent unto the heathen, saying*, Gather ye together, and come against
her, and rise up to the battle. For, lo, 1 will make thee small among
the heathen, and despised among* men. Thy terribleness hath deceived
thee, and the pride of thine heart, O, thou that dwellest in the clefts of
the rock, that holdest the height of the hill : though thou shouldest
make thy nest as high as the eagle, I will bring thee down from thence,
saith the Lord. Also Edom shall be a desolation ; every one that goeth
by it shall be .astonished, and shall hiss at all the plagues thereof. As
in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, and the neighbour cities
thereof, saith the Lord, no man shall abide there, neither shall a son of
man dwell in it. Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling
of Jordan against the habitation of the strong : but I will suddenly
make him run away from her ; and who is a chosen man, « that I may
appoint over her ? for who is like me ? and who will appoint me the
time ? and who is that shepherd that will stand before me i Therefore,
hear the counsel of the Lord, that he hath taken against Edom; and
his purposes, that he hath proposed against the inhabitants of Teman
:
Surely the least of the flock shall draw them out : surely he shall make
their habitations desolate with them. The earth is moved at the noise
of their fall ; at the cry, the noise thereof was heard in the Red sea.
Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle, and spread his wings
over Bozrah : and at that day shall the heart of the mighty men of
Edom be as the heart of a woman in her pangs/5
Read also the pro-
phet Obadiah.
Now the truth of the Scriptures could never be brought to light until
some man was worked upon to go to the bottom of every truth : and
that lie might be a witness of the truth of the Scriptures, and of the
Woman's writings ; he must first be plunged into a state of sufferings,
for the word must be first fulfilled in one man, before the light of it
can come either unto himself, or the people ; for his sufferings are de-
signed not only for the obtaining of light and knowledge for himself,
but for all the people (and let it be observed that the light of the
word of God is eternal life, is our redemption) ; therefore, he suffers
as a public character as well as for himself, and his sorrows and suffer-
ings are clearly set forth in the Scriptures, a few portions of which I
shall here bring forward : Job x. 15; &c. " If I be wicked, woe unto
me ; and if I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head. I am full of
confusion ; therefore see thou mine affliction ; for it increaseth. Thou
huntest me as a fierce lion ; and again thou shewest thyself marvellous
upon me. Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increaseth
thine indignation upon me ; changes and war are against me. Where-
fore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb ? Oh that I had
given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me, &c. &c." This language
is wrung from him through the sufferings that are laid upon him,
for God left him, to the buffetting of Satan, for Satan said that if
12
he could have his will of him to tempt him and try him as lie pleased, lie
would make him curse God to his face, and that although he had sa-
crificed already all his temporal interest, and given up all that was dear
unto him on earth, to obey the commands of the Lord, that he might
obtain his blessed kingdom ; and although he spent his days and nights
in praying, and crying unto God, for the downfall of Satan's kingdom,
that the earth may be reprieved from the misery under which it groaned,
and is groaning, and that God may take possession of every heart, that
men might give unto the Lord the glory and honour due unto his name.
Yet Satan thought he could prevail against him, and is permitted to go
to work upon him, only to touch not his life. God seems to withdraw
his supporting aid, to hide his face from him, to shut out his prayer, to
appear like an enemy unto him ; and Satan takes the advantage, and
comes upon him while he is weak, with the most horrible temptations
within, telling him that God had forsaken him and cast him off, after
all the promises he had made him, and after all the enjoyment he had
found in following on to know God, his fiery darts came against him
with all the malice that Satan was capable of shewing ; for as the man
had levelled all his darts against Satan and his kingdom, in his petitions
to God for his overthrow, so Satan is glad to have him now in his
power to afflict, and here is the grand struggle for life. Satan fights
by his temptations, to persuade him that God is not a faithful God ; the
man fights with the word of God, and says, " though he slay me, yet
will I trust in him/' he hath promised me eternal life, and his promise
cannot fail, he will establish his glorious kingdom, " Satan," as he
hath said, " I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand
at the latter day upon the earth ; and though after my skin, worms de-
stroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. Whom mine eyes
shall behold for myself, and not another ; though my reins be consumed
within me,"
—
" A tedious nfeht shall a bright morning have,
And then my soul shall take her old abode,
And cloth'd'in flesh, I shall behold my God."
" Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy, for though I fall I shall
arise, though I sit in darkness the Lord shall be a light unto me V
s
Satan
then raises up persecutions from without against him, from all his friends
and acquaintances ; his brethren forsook him, and cast him out from
among them ;
his wife and children think him mad, and pay no atten-
tion to his words, but treat him with scorn and contempt ; and all revile
him for following such a God, to let him suffer in this way, and tell him
to curse his God, but he holds fast his integrity ; nor can Satan, with
all his endeavours, get him to charge God foolishly, but in the face of
every discouragement, he trusts in God, casts himself on his mercy,
_..^ „w„ „„ .a.uuiu, aim taougn ne pad lallen so low, yet, that he
should io the end prove him a faithful God: and in confidence of this
lie takes up his cross, and goes forward until he experiences the truth
01 it
;
he is brought forth to the light, and his'eyes behold the righteous-
ness of the Lord; and though he halted, as it were, between two
.opinions, while passing through this valley of the shadow of death,
gutrtfeiuog thus: "I, it possible that God will fonake me utterly?
13
Hath he forgotten to be gracious? Hath he in wrath shut up his tender
mercy for ever? Will he be favourable no more?" Yet the promise of
God kept him from despair, and brought him up from the depth of hell.
(Read " The Strange Effects of Faith/' p. 322.) " He that was like
Jacob, and began to halt between two opinions, seeing but through a
glass darkly, was taken to my kingdom to see me face to face, and this
shall be a sign unto all men, he that believes in my word and relies on
my promises, shall inherit my kingdom here, and have a never fading
crown of glory hereafter ; for now the halting Jacob is come before me
as a prince, to receive power from God, and his name shall be called
Israel, and he shall intercede for all the true Israel of God ; so he that
hath ears to hear, let him hear what the Spirit and the Bride say, awake
ye that sleep, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give you life."
(Read all this of Bruce, for this is the fulfilment of it.) And this Job
is that very same character mentioned in so many parts of the Scripture,
to be first a sufferer, first to be trodden down by the overflowing scourge,
and then, by the power of God to rise as a conqueror, bursting the bars
of hell and the grave. (See Rev. ii. 9, &c.) " I know thy works, tri-
bulation, and poverty (but thou art rich), and I know the blasphemy of
them that say they are Jews, and are not, but are of the synagogue of
Satan. Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer : behold, the
Devil shall cast some of you into prison; (or shall cast you into prison),
that ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days : (this means
for a short time), be thou faithful unto death, (unto the death of sin),
and I will give thee a crown of life. He that overcometh shall not be
hurt of the second death. He that overcometh shall inherit all things
;
and I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go
no more out ; and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the
name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh
down out of heaven from my God : and I will write upon him my new
name. He that overcometh shall be clothed in white raiment, and I
will not blot his name out of the book of life ; but 1 will confess his
name before my Father, and before his angels. To him that overcometh
will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I overcame, and am
set down with my Father in his throne." (Isa. xxix. 1, &c.) " Woe, to
Ariel, to Ariel (this means the lion, or altar of God), the city where
David dwelt ! add ye year to year ; let them kill sacrifices. Yet I will
distress Ariel, and there shall be heaviness and sorrow : and it shall be
unto me as Ariel. And I will camp against thee round about, and will
lay siege against thee with a mount, and I will raise forts against thee.
And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt speak out of the ground,
and thy speech shall be low out of the dust, and thy voice shall be as
of one that hath a familiar spirit out of the ground, and thy speech shall
whisper out of the dust. Moreover, the multitude of thy strangers shall
be like small dust, and the multitude of the terrible ones shall be as chaff
that passeth away ;
yea, it shall be at an instant suddenly. Thou shalt
be visited of the Lord of hosts with thunder, and with earthquake, and
great noise, with storm and tempest, and the flame of devouring fire.
And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, even all
that fight against her and her munition, and that distress her, shall be
as a dream of a night vision. It shall even be as when an hungry man
dreemeth, and> behold* he eateth ; but he awaketh, and his soul i*
14
empty : or as when a thirsty man dreameth, and, behold, he drinketh ;
but heawaketh, and behold, he is faint, and his soul hath appetite: so
shall the multitude of all the nations be that fight against mount Zion."
Again, Isa. xlii. 1, &c. " Behold, my servant, whom I uphold ;
mine
elect, in whom my soul delighteth: 1 have put my spirit upon him ;
ho
shall bring* forth judgment to the Gentiles. He shall not cry, nor lift
up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street. A bruised reed shall
he not break, and the smoaking flax shall he not quench ; he shall bring-
forth judgment unto truth. He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till
he have set judgment in the earth : and the isles shall wait for his law/7
Isa. xli. 2, " Who raised up the righteous man from the east, called
him to his foot, gave the nations before him, and made him rule over
kings ? he gave them as dust to his sword, and as driven stubble to his
bow. But thou, Israel, art my servant Jacob whom I have chosen, the
seed of Abraham (the seed of faith), my friend. Thou whom I have
taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men
thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant, 1 have chosen thee,
and not cast thee away. Fear thou not ; for I am with thee ; be not
dismayed, for I am thy God: i will strengthen thee ;
yea, I will help
thee ;
yea, 1 will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness*
Behold,* all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and
confounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strive with thee
shall perish. 1 have raised up one from the north, and he shall come
:
from the rising of the sun shall he call upon my name ; and he shall
come upon princes as upon morter, and as the potter treadeth clay."
Isa. xliii. 1, &c. " But now, thus saith the Lord that created thee, O
Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, Fear not ; for 1 have redeemed
thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine. When thou
passest through the waters, I will be with th^Q] and through the rivers,
they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire thou
shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee."
—
Isa. lxii. 1, &c. u For Zioirts sake will I not hold my peace, and for
Jerusalem's sake I will not rest, until the righteousness thereof go forth
as brightness, and the salvation thereof, as a lamp that burneth. And
the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and ail kings thy glory: and
thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the~Lord shall
name. Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the hand of the Lord,
and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God. Thou shalt no more be
termed forsaken ;
neither shall thy land any more be termed desolate :
but thou shalt be called Hephzi-bah, and thy land Beulah : for the
Lord delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be marred."
Isa. xxvii. 1, &c. " In that day the Lord, with his sore, and great,
and strong sword, shall punish Leviathan the piercing serpent, everi
Leviathan that crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is
in the sea. in that day sing ye unto her, A vinevard of red wine. I
the Lord do keep it ; I will water it every moment ; lest any hurt it, I
will keep it night and day," This Leviathan is the Devil, that is in the
heart of man, which must be slain in man (in one first, as a shadow,
or rather as an earnest of the whole), and to have this done in him
brings him into great sufferings* Jsa. xxvi. 13, 14. «'
O Lord our God,
other lords besides thee have had dominion over us; but by'thee-only
will we make mention of thy name. They are dead, they; shall not
15
live 5 they are deceased, they shall not rise : therefore hast thou visited
and destroyed them.; and made all their memory to perish." Lam. iii. 1 , &c.
" i am the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his wrath. He
hath led me, and brought me into darkness, but not into light. Surely
against me is he turned ; he turneth his hand against me all the day.
My ilesh and my skin hath he made old ; he hath broken my bones.
He hath builded against me, and compassed me with gall and travail.
He hath set me in dark places, as they that be dead of old. He hath
hedged me about, that I cannot get oat : he hath made my chain heavy.
Also when I cry and shout, he shutteth out my prayer, &c. &c."
See Jonah ii. 1, fee.
u Then Jonah prayed unto the Lord his God out
of the fish's belly. And said, I cried by reason of mine affliction unto
the Lord, and he heard me ; out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou
heardest my voice. For thou hadst cast me into the deep, in the midst
of the seas; and the floods compassed me about: all thy billows and
thy waves passed over me. Then I said, Lam cast out of thy sight;
yet 1 will look again toward thy holy temple." Isa. xiii. 19, " Who
is blind, but my servant, or deaf as my messenger that I sent ? who is
blind as he that is perfect, or blind as the Lord's servant."
Now come to the Psalms, but first, see u The Book of Wonders," by
Joanna Southcott, page 44. u What king going to make war against
another king, sitteth not down first and consulteth whether he be able
with ten thousand, to meet him that cometh against him with twenty
thousand ? From these words I shall answer thee : It is not from the
prophets that I could meet the king with ten thousand to destroy his
twenty thousand ; this could not be done had I not come to lay the
foundation, to shew in what manner I should return again, and how my
gospel stands to fulfil the prophets in the end ; and the Psalms of David
that were never fulfilled in man, but now I have told thee that they
shall be fulfilled in the Son that shall be born of thee this year ; for
this shall be the king that I shall enable with ten thousand to destroy
those that rise up ag-ainst him with twenty thousand, so that if his ene-
mies be double at first, yet 1 tell thee one man shall chase a thousand,
and two shall put ten thousand to flight." Psalms cxvi. 16, " O Lord,
truly I am thy servant ; I am thy servant, and the son of thy handmaid :
fJ
Here is the mother and the son, the handmaid, and servant—and these
Psalms have their fuliiment in the son and the servant. First, the spirit
of truth is the son, but the spirit entering into a man, makes him the
son ; and in this way ail must be made sons and daughters, only it be-
gins in one. Every one must be born of the woman, that is of the
spirit; of her spirit, let us be born. See Psalms xxxi. 9, &c. "Have
mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble ; mine eyes is consumed
with grief, yea, my soul and my belly. For my life is spent with grief,
and my years with sighing : my strength faileth because of mine ini-
quity, and my bones are consumed. 1 was a reproach among all my
enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to my acquaint-
ance : they that did see me without, fled from me. I am forgotten as a
dead man out of mind ; I am like a broken vessel. For I have heard
the slander of many ; fear was on every side : while they took counsel
together against me, they devised to take away my life. But I trusted
in thee, O Lord : I said, Thou art my God. My times are in thy hand
:
deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that perse-
16
cute me. Make thy face to shine upon thy servant :
save me for thy
mercies' sake." This is the language of Joanna's son, in whom, and in
whom alone, the Psalms are fulfilled ;
Read them and see, all ye that
pass by, is it nothing- to you ? " Behold and see if there be any sorrow
like unto my sorrow, which is done unto me, wherewith the Jord hath
afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger/' Isa. liii. 10, &c. " When
thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he
shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in
his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied ; by
his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many ;
for he shall
bear their iniquities." But who hath believed this report, that Jesus
Christ is now come in the flesh and suffereth thus, by whose stripes we
are healed? See Joanna's prophecies :—" Thou must suffer like thy
master for the stubborn sons of men—by thy stripes they healed must
be—if they will he healed at all, now is the time to stand or fall."
—
That is, at this time, now that Joanna is risen again in the man, the man
woman mentioned in the 8th thought, " Strange Effects of Faith,"
Who is Joanna equal with the female that is gone before ? Consult the
following pages, for they stand to have their fulfiment now ; for one
part of Joanna's writings was fulfilled in the time when she was here
prophesying in person, and the other part to be now fulfilled : she is here
in spirit. Pages 8, 27, 29, 37, 46, 79, 87, 109, 120, 160, 172, 180.—
u Strange Effects of Faith"
You are directed to these pages by the spirit in the woman Joanna
Southcott. See page 56, 7th part of '•
Strange Effects of Faith.9'
Isa. lxi. 1, &c. " The Spirit of the Lord God is upon; because the
Lord hath anointed me to preach glad tidings to the meek : he hath
sent me to bind up the broken-hearted, to proclaim liberty to the cap-
tives, and the opening the prison to them that are bound ; To proclaim
the acceptable year of the Lord, and the day of vengeance of our God ;
to comfort them that mourn." fC
This day is the Scripture fulfilled in
your ears, yea, even in this day ;" for this stands for the end, and what
Jesus said of it in the fourth of Luke, stands for the end, The Spirit of
the Lord God is upon an instrument, bringing now the glad tidings that
redemption is actually begun, the acceptable year of Jubilee, the time
when the sin-bound captives shall be set free from Satan's power and
influence ; for the millstone is akeady cast upon his head, the crown
of thorns is now on his head ; the day of vengeance hath overtaken
him ; the woman's seed hath bruised the serpent's head ; the sins of all
the people are laid upon him, according as it is written in Lev. xvi. 21.
Fur he is the author of all their sins, and now let all Israel join in this,
and take no sin unto themselves, lay them on the head of the goat, all
of them, and you are no longer bound with Satan's fetters. Your
prison doors are open, you are free, God layeth not iniquity unto you ;
enjoy then the smiles of your heavenly Father, who imputeth not sin
unto man, but the Devil. " Blessed is the man whose iniquities are for-
given, whose sin is covered ; blessed is the man whom God imputeth
not iniquity." Joanna is risen in the man, and the united twain has
cast all on Satan's head. The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared
unto Simoiyand ho has on the garments of vengeance for clothing, and
is clad with zeal as a cloak. Well, we see now, who is the true Job:
we see his sorrows, and the cause of them ; his temptations and perse-
17
cutions, his poverty and distress, his sore boils of affliction, yet, after all,
hated of this generation ; as it is written, " As the lightning shineth out
of one under heaven, even unto the other under heaven, so shall the
Son of Man be in his day." But first, must he suffer many things and
be rejected of this generation ? to wit—The generation that wish still
to keep up Satan's kingdom:—The natural man, the sodomite, the
whore, the adulterer, the man of sin, the sorcerer, the drunkard, the
thief, the bastard, the viper, the adder, the fox, the swine, the old man,
the man of the earth, the bloody city, the bond woman, and Satan the
Devil ; this is the generation of them that know not God : these are
they that killed the Lord, and always slew the prophets; and this
cursed Jezebel shall now be hunted away out of the world ; her time
is up, the dogs have got her ; the Lord's driving is like Jehu's now to
do his work, his strange work, who is on my side, who
" To throw her down, ye stars begin to shine."
And see, that " as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners,
so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous."
But, perhaps, you will say, this one means Christ ; well, so it does,
but the head is not without the heel, for the body to be complete. The
head suffered long since, and now the heel hath suffered ; God and man
hath suffered, and now Satan pays for all ; the third woe is come upon
him : for one must be anointed in this day to join with the woman to
bring the blow on Satan, both for himself and all the people ; and this
is that Joshua mentioned in Zech. iii. 1, &c. " And he shewed me
Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan
standing at his right hand to resist him. And the Lord said unto Satan,
The Lord rebuke thee, O Satan ; even the Lord that hath chosen Jeru-
salem (that is Joshua), rebuke thee : is not this a brand plucked out of
the fire ? Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and stood
before the angel. And he answered and spake unto those that stood
before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And
unto him he said, Behold I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee,
and I will clothe thee with change of raiment." (Read the whole of
the chapter.) Now Joshua means Jesus, and Jesus means Saviour; but
this is not that Jesus that came among the Jews, and was crucified on
a cross of wood ; for he was never a sinner, he had no iniquity, he was
never clothed in that vile raiment ; but this Joshua is one in whom the
Spirit, the holy child Jesus is come, to be our Saviour, to save his
people from their sins ; and herein is the word fulfilled, which saith,
V The same Jesus that ye have seen ascend, shall in like manner de-
scend ;" and this is in a cloud, a human being, on the earth ; for in one
he first comes, and then to all, to fulfil the blessed promise of our dear
blessed heavenly Father, God Almighty, Jesus, Shiloh, and Christ.
" I will dwell in them, and walk in them, they shall be my people,
and I will be their God." This is the way, and this alone, that Jesus
is the Saviour of men ; this is that sacred faith that all must have, that
oath that ends all strife—bring the child or kill them all—in all hearts
I bid you bring him, that the child may worshipped be,
" No more the infant will be had in scorn,
But joyfully received where he is born ;
This birth it is that heals us of the fall."
C
18
Here I must notice another part in Mr. C's. letter to my friend
;
he writes as follows :—" Pray let me ask you what was the object of
your Sunday's visit ? I thought it was a wish of you to hear what I laid
before you on Monday evening-. Why did Mr. Paul, with all the pom-
posity of theatrical action, take up the time with reading his piece of
patch-work ? He fancied himself Paul among the Athenians, coming
to correct us from worshipping the unknown God. I suppose the
enemy can work strange conceits in the human mind ; I mean not
those who are willingly and knowingly so. I charge not any with
being such persons, not even Tozer or Morrison, they saw in the year
1803, that I had been the instrument of raising numbers? About one
thousand five hundred were sealed by me from first to last. I can show
I have acted Paul in office as a proclaimed I " built on no man's foun-
dation/' Peter Morrison robbed the cause of the believers, by his pre-
tended impressions, in visions and dreams ;
he wanted to share in the
reputation I had acquired as a faithful and active servant of the Lord
;
he wanted to be supported by those whom I had spent some hundreds
to raise together; and he thought no way so effectually as slandering
me. He took the offices and characters I was called to fill ; I was com-
manded to wait patiently, and I should see the end of him, and all
Satan's tools. I saw the end.
In 1805 Tozer came forth, he acted like his predecessors, was full
of slander. In 1806, I was commanded again to be patient ; it was
declared to me in that year that Joanna should be removed—that the
Lord should fight all my battles, and that every tongue that was raised
against me, the Lord would confound and put to silence. I waited
eight years for this. In 1814 she died, and most of them that brought
her into delusion followed. I, nevertheless, fully expected the Lord
would have given me the desire of my heart, that is, a reconciliation
with her before her departure ; my soul longed for it, for her sake. At
that time I was ignorant of God's designs; I really thought her ever-
lasting happiness depended on her conviction of her mistake in mixing
darkness for light. She had, unknown I hope to herself, uttered false-
hoods, and had communications ag-ainst me : at that time I believed it
impossible for her to be happy after death, without a conviction and
confession of this : on this account I had a belief she could not die till
I saw her ; but Satan raised that barrier round her, that it was impos-
sible. Truth will come out sooner or later, and it will be known what
she wished in her dying moments. Sharpe, Townly, and Underwood,
were her three confidents, as Alexander, the coppersmith, did evil unto
Paul, so did they to me. I hope they have had mercy extended to
them : they are gone beyond the power of revealed truth, and of ob-
taining mercy by confession.
I should not have dealt so freely with the man you brought, had he
not insolently and daringly declared that I am not what the Lord has
condescendingly called me. N. B. Mr. C. signs himself E. P. G., Elias,
Paul, Gabriel. Alas, alas, what, what an empty sound ! Mr. C, like
those that put the blessed Jesus to death, thinking they shall be ap-
proved of God, for their bloody deed, and be exalted to heaven for
ridding the world of, as they thought, an imposter, but instead of ob-
taining an approval from God, their blind zeal thrust them down to
hell." Mr. C. is still expecting, notwithstanding all his malice against
19
that eminent servant of the Lord, Joanna Southcott, and tho3e that
were her faithful friends and fellow -helpers in the Lord's work, (whose
memories we shall ever love) that he merits a very high station ; but
he will find that he is deceived, and I wish it may be, ere it is too late,
that he may be recovered oat of the snare of the Devil, as he is spared
until this time, and not g'one as he says Townly and Underwood are,
" beyond the power of revealed truth, and obtaining- mercy by confes-
sion ;" and I sincerely wish that he may be now convinced of his awful
mistake, and confess his ignorance of the ways of the Lord. He left
Joanna Southcott, who was a tried and proved servant of God, to follow
a spirit in Joseph, because the spirit said so much about Elias, and his
name being Elias, the poor man thought, and still thinks, that himself
is that character ; and because the spirit, through Joanna, did not puff
him up, and flatter his vanity in the same way, he became offended and
kicked against her ; and the Lord who spoke by her, and expected, in-
stead of his coming to her and humbling himself before the Lord, and
those that rebelled with him, that it was her place to come to him.
See the strange infatuation of this man: he imagines himself so great
a favourite of heaven, that the Lord must destroy all his servants to
please him ! Eight years he waited for Joanna's death from his own
confession ; no doubt like a greedy wolf, and will hardly allow God to
have any mercy upon her, or her friends. A more misguided being is
not upon the earth, nor a being that has discovered more malice ; he
seems to rejoice that she and some of her friends were removed in the
year 1814, and thinks it was for his sake ; strange delusion of the Devil
!
like all the self-righteous, who, while they fight against the right
ways of the Lord, calling it delusion, are themselves the only deluded.
He boasts of having acted Paul in office, as he says, as a proclaimer, and
of having sealed one thousand five hundred people, alas, alas, and sealed
himself with the mark of the beast; the sealing at that time, was a
shadow of the true sealing of the end ; for all must be sealed with the
seal of the living God in their hearts, or they will find themselves most
awfully mistaken. The temporal sealing then was the command of
the Lord, and those that attended to it did right, and shewed their
faith in the cause, though many took their seals out of curiosity, and
soon broke them open to see what was written within ; others thought
that they would pass them into heaven,, therefore they made themselves
quite easy about any thing further, and many to this day are placing
great dependance on the virtue of their paper seal ; but shadows are no
refuge at all, if men stop there and deny the substance. To what pur-
pose is being baptized in water, if we are not baptized with the Holy
Ghost.
How vain is Mr. C's. boasting of his great service and zeal in the
shadows ; he forgets that it is written, " He that endures unto the end,
the same shall be saved/' I say not these things to condemn Mr. C. or
any one else ; this is not my business or desire, but on the contrary, I
do heartily wish that he may retrace his steps, and humble himself
before the blessed Lord, who is ready to receive him, and all that con-
fess their folly, for 1 have received mercy of the Lord myself ; my heart's
desire is for all to obtain the same, that' we may unite together to sound
forth the praises of our merciful and gracious God, whose darling attri-
bute is mercy, and judgment his strange work ; and if Mr. G. desires to
20
recover his lost honour, and to be made an instrument in the Lord's
hands, now that blessed kingdom of his Son is actually begun, humility
is his only way, and he may depend upon it that if he does not humble
himself, he will neither be a Paul nor a Peter, nor any thing else in the
kingdom of God. How can he think that the Lord will bestow'on him
those things that he expects, while he despises that honoured instru-
ment, through whom we have had such a glorious revelation ; a woman
that was devoted to the service of God from early youth, who always
hated the ways of evil, and chose her God as her only portion, and
sacrificed all her temporal interests to follow on to know him , yea, and
every feeling too, for the love of her God ; and when called to the
public work of the Lord, and standing alone, she went through every
thing that was painful, until the Lord raised her up friends to assist in
the work, and then she had to endure calumny, reproach, slander, and
ridicule ; and powerful arguments of crafty men, who strove to per-
suade her that her writings were from a wrong source ; but neither the
strivings of men nor the temptations of the Devil, could ever make her
quit her post, but to the end of her days stood firm, and I will ever take
her part, while I am able to utter a word, or to use my pen.
I proceed in the next place to notice your calling. " Christ the only
begotten Son of God/' which indeed he is ; but I must endeavour to
get a right understanding of the subject, for it is time to " put off the
works of darkness, and to put on the armour of light, for he that walketh
in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath
blinded his eyes ;" but as the blessed Lord is now revealing the know-
ledge of his word, that the darkness may be removed from us, which
has bound man in Satan's fetters so long, God will give power to every
humble, willing, and obedient heart, to follow Jesus now in the rege-
neration, that they may have the light of life established in them for
evermore. I must here observe, that the greatest sin that men commit
is the perversion and misinterpretation of-God's holy word: this was
the root of all evil at the first, and now " the axe is laid to the root,
and every tree that bringetb not forth good fruit must be cut down and
cast into the fire:" for the dividing time is now come for certain, and
the wind will blow away all the chaff, and leave nothiug but the pure
wheat, the bread of life, divine wisdom, li^ht, and knowledge, which
will fill the soul of man on the earth, with Ineffable delight, and influ-
ence him to live here below as the angels in heaven. Let us inquire
now of the only begotten Son: Psalms ii. 7, " I will declare the decree,
thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee." John i. 14, 18, " The
word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory as
of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. No man
hath seen God at any time ; the only begotten Son that is in the bosom
of the Father, he hath declared him." " When the fulness of the time
was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the
law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive
the adoption of sons, and because ye are sons, God hath sent forth his
Son into your hearts, crying Abba, Father." " Ask of me, and I will
give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost part of
the earth for thy possession ; thou shall break them with a rod of iron,
thou shalt dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel." " And she brought
forth a man child, who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron."
&
21
Now I must beg leave to refer you to Paul's Epistle to the Romans
xv. 4, " Whatsoever thing's were written aforetime, were written for
our learning-, that we, through patience and comfort of the holy scrip-
tures, might have hope." It appears to the natural understanding of man,
as if the Psalms and the rest of the scriptures were written for the time
past, but they are not, they were written aforetime to stand for time to
come : the Psalms are prophecies of that David that was to appear in
this day, the man after God's own heart, who shall do all his pleasure.
" I have found David my servant, with my holy oil have I anointed
him, with whom my hand shall be established. Once have I sworn
by my holiness,, I will not lie unto David, his seed shall endure power,
and his throne as the sun before me ; they shall serve the Lord their
God, and David their king, which I will raise up unto them ; in the
latter day ye shall consider it perfectly."
Let us look at the second Psalm a little. " Why do the heathen rage,
and the people imagine a vain thing ? the kings of the earth set them-
selves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the Lord and
against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bond asunder, and cast
away their cords from us." This had not its fulfilment in any time
past, although the apostles, for want of knowledge, applied it to those
things that transpired in their days, which wr
as but the outward part of
the work that was to set forth the spiritual kingdom of the end. You
see it was the heathens that raged, not the Jewr
s ; not the typical
people, not those that wr
ere called Israel ; but when Jesus came first,
he came among them ; but now he is come among the heathen, and
they imagine a vain thing, and the rulers of Sodom take council
against the Lord, (the truth), and against those that are anointed with
it; for what do they say—O, we do not expect the Lord to come in
this way ; whereof, these speak—We expect him to come down from
the sky, appearing visibly in great grandeur, and we cannot bear for
these vile people to know any thing ; they are such sinners to what
we are; we will cast away their cords from us, and break their bonds
asunder ; it cannot be that they are the Lord's anointed ! thus they
fulfil an ancient prophecy. "Oh, all ye among the heathen, and wonder
marvellously, for behold I work a work in your day," a work which
ye shall in no wise believe, though it be told you. But to what
purpose is their rage and malice ? can they frustrate the decree of God,
that hath decreed to set his king on his holy hill of Zion ? No ! for
he will now speak to them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore
displeasure. But what is Zion ? Zion is where the Lord visiteth with
that last and perfect visitation, that shall bring perfection to mankind
;
this visitation comes first to one person, a human being, whom God
hath cleansed, by his spirit, for a temple for himself to dwell in on the
earth ; in this vessel comes the Son, the King, the Lord of hosts. See
Psalms ix. 11. " Sing praises to the Lord who dwelleth in Zion:
declare among the people his doings." Isa. xxviii. 15, 16, " Therefore
thus saith the Lord God, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone,
a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation." Again :
" I
will place salvation in Zion, for Israel my glory." It is plain, then,
from these scriptures, that Zion is a human being, a person sanctified,
set apart for this purpose. " The dwelling-place of the most high God
is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved, God shall help her, and
22
that rig-lit early." But the Lord, the King, coming thus to dwell in
man, makes .the man the king also, (and so, in this very way, all must
become kings), and head of the new creation. See Psalms xviii. 50.
" Great deliverance giveth he unto his king." Psalm xxi. 1, " The
king shall joy in thy strength, O Lord, and in thy salvation how
greatly shall he rejoice." v. 7. "For the king trusteth in the Lord,
and through the mercy of the most High, he shall not be moved."
This man is the first redeemed, in whom the Son is begotten, in
whom divine life is first established, the Zion of the holy one of Israel.
" I will set my king upon my holy hill of Zion ;" and this is that very
king made mention of in Joanna's writings, thus: " The king's heart
I'll make tender." Again, Fourth Book of Wonders:—" But now I
have told thee, that they shall be fulfilled in the Son that shall be born
of thee this year ; for he shall be the king that I will enable him with
ten thousand, to destroy them that rise up against him with twenty
thousand." Page 44. " And all shall find, that according to my
gospel is my return, to come down from the cross, and raise the Son
that shall reign in David's stead." Now this is he, of whom it is said,
" Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee." To make this
quite plain to the understanding, 1 must observe, God is a Spirit, and
of course, his Son is a Spirit, which is, Christ, the wisdom of God and
the power of God. But this blessed Son entering into, or being be-
gotten by, the holy Father Almighty, in the heart of a man upon earth,
makes the man the Son of God, makes the man King', the anointed one,
chosen out of the people. This man is also the adopted Father of
the Son, the only begotten Son being in the bosom of the man, and
the Son, (the Spirit), issuing forth therefroin, revealing the mysteries
of God unto men, fulfils that passage. " No man hath seen God
at any time, the only begotten Son which is in the bosom of the Father,
he hath declared him." John i. 18. See also, Joanna's Writings,
Strange Effects of Faith, page 88. " One person of the Father is the
Son, another of the Son is surely man, another of the Holy Ghost
proceed, the woman's doomed to break the serpent's head ; that is, the
man woman mentioned in the Eighth Thought. Strange Effects of
Faith, page 45. However, the infinite wisdom and mercy of God was
soon manifested in a promise to the seed of the woman, in order to
comfort and heal the breach, by saying, that her seed should bring the
blow on Satan, and order and unity in time should be again manifested
in the man woman. " Not of herself she any thing can do, but by the
power of God, these things are true ; the Godhead of the Father,, and
the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, these three are one ; the Glory equal,
and in Majesty make one true God in perfect unity." This is the true
God, and eternal life, the Trinity established in* one person on the
earth : and " Whosoever denieth that Jesus Christ, (the true God, and
eternal life), is come in the flesh, he is antichrist." Who is a liar, but
he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? he is antichrist that denieth
the Father and the Son. -Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ,
is born of God; and every one that loveth him that begat, loveth him
that is begotten of him." « When the fulness of the time was come,
God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law, (that
is, made under that law that God made at first ; to wit, the seed of the
woman to bruise the serpent's head), to redeem them that were under
23
the law (of sin) that we might recieve the adoption of Sons." So this
great blessing is unto all that truly believe, though it comes to one at
the first, of whom it is written, " And she brought forth a man child,
who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron ; and her child was
caught up unto God and to his throne:" which stands thus—the word
through Joanna Southcott, in the year 1S14, entered into the heart of
a man, and has laid there ever since, as the seed sown in the ground,
fourteen \ ears ; but is now springing up, and the fruit itself showeth
the tree, showeth who is the spiritual man child which Joanna brought
forth. Now, see Paul's 2nd Epistle to the Corinthians, xii. 2. " I
knew a man in Christ above fourteen years ago, whether in the body,
I cannot tell ; or out of the body, I cannot tell ; God knoweth : such
a one caught up to the third heaven." This is he unto whom the
promise made :
—
" Ask of me, and I will give thee the heathen for thy
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession;
thou shalt break them with a rod of iron, thou shalt dash them in pieces
like a potter's vessel.
But I shall show him a little further from Joanna's writings:—see
the following lines.
—
Shall Pomeroy come to be the man ?
That there is named the Child,
This wonder first in heaven began,
Doth all our wisdom foil.
And foil'd they'll be you all will see,
To make the mystery plain.
And judge the man child must be me,
For who can this maintain.
That very man shall ever come,
To rule all nations here.
FURTHER.
When born of God, the mystery see,
The things of God he'll know ;
And how the nations he will rule,
His rod will be a blow.
You all shall see, shall come from me
To pierce the sinner's heart,
That will not look to Calvery
;
'Tis there he'll point the dart.
The iron strong to him shall come,
The anvil men will be,
Where he will surely beat upon
That will not turn to me.
He'll let them know how things will go,
Abroad in every land,
By me he'll rule the nations so,
Till all do silent stand.
Ask, and receive thy full demands,
Now shall the heathen's be
;
The utmost limits of the lands,
Shall be possessed by thee.
I'll crush them every where,
As massy bars of iron break
The potter's brittle ware.
Thy thought of Pomeroy was not wrong,
For Satan will try there,
But to the purpose he will come,
And baffle every snare.
As thou didst dream, he push'd himself,
He Satan will defy;
He will appear, the truth to clear,
And steadfast he will stand,
Be not surprised at the disguise
That he may take in hand.
But first I tell thee, he mustjudge you too,
And after that, the Gentile and the Jew
Must sure be judged at Pomeroy's seat,
And in the end, you'll find his judgment
great,
And to his judgment they shall sum
appeal,
And then in judgment Pomeroy shall not
fail,
But by my bone I'll prove it here
I am the living head. S. £. F. 278.
Here's a Hannah that obtained by prayer
And for the Gentles now has got an heir,
For to possess the promise that first was
made,
The woman's seed, to bruise the serpent's
head.
For sure as brothers all must come
The Prince of Glory then to crown,
To be the king, then, of the Jews.
And then I bid you to prove kind,
The Child and Charity you'll find;
And many seals that will appear
You'll find the first and second star.
You'll find the C, you'll find the I,
The Spirit and the Bride are nigh.
The tree of life, brings on the strife,
I told you so before.
A child doth struggle in the womb,
When life in him appears.
24
So in the womb of Providence,
All this hath been decreed,
"When I like Adam do appear
To bruise the serpent's head.
The perfect man like Adam come,
For to create all new,
The ways of hell, for to condemn,
And all his arts to show.
I have chosen me a shepherd in whom I find no fault ; if you
choose him I will choose you. There is one that cometh after me,
that is preferred before me, and shall be able to discern all mysteries."
(i
Strange Effects of Faith," page 132.
i(
Do my shepherds see no danger,
Nor my Bible yet discern,
They mistake the heavenly stranger.
In what way he meant to come." Page 141.
You may now ask, '
Is Pomeroy then this Man-child, this Prince of
Peace V I answer, '
Yes ; the man called the Rev. Mr. Pomeroy, when
he fell from the calling- (after the woman's writings, went out into the
world by his judgment, he judging them of God, he declared that the
woman was made for his destruction ; here, like the first Adam, he
cast the blame on his Maker for giving him the woman ; and he left
the woman, and denied her, and so have the whole race of mankind
;
but there must appear a Pomeroy in the end, which will crave for the
woman to be his helpmate, finding that man is evil alone, and re-
ceives the woman from the hands of God as the best gift of heaven,
being convinced that to perfection he could never come until he was
joined to his bone ;'
but ' What is this bone?' I answer, ' The eternal
vrigin, wisdom, Christ ; this was tlxe bone that was taken from man,
and man has been alone for six thousand years ; bnt now Pomeroy hath
claimed the promise, saying, " Give me wisdom that sitteth by thy
throne." Now this Pomeroy is a man that once stood in Adam's fall
;
for through ignorance he was setting up a woman, an earthly beings a
corrupt body of clay, to be this woman ; and in this way was fighting
against God, doing all in his power to exalt this woman, putting her
the place of Christ, and was worshipping the creature more than the
Creator ;
yea, was murdering the Creator to establish the poor earthly
being; but God put him into a firey furnace, that he might learn not
to blaspheme, and murder the Spirit of God, and, he through a series
of spiritual tribulation, was made to see, that instead of any wisdom
being in him, the murderer of the Son of God stood in his heart, and
now he confesses that he was a blasphemer and injurious, but doing it
in ignorance, and through a false zeal, thinking he was doing God
service, and thought it right to do many things contrary to the blessed
Jesus, (doing it in this way he obtained mercy), for God knew that he
was doing this in innocent zeal, and so innocence brought the guilty
murderer to justice. Little did Pomeroy think that the murderer of
his Lord and Saviour was lying in his bosom ; and he would still be
ignorant of it, had not the innocent sheep turned every way and got
before him.
" So innocence did guilt betray;
I meant to bring it round this way,
And so the thing ordained at first'
That at the end it so shall burst.
And now's the time I'll burst the whole,
And all his subtle arts shall fall :
No more your husband's to betray,
Nor get your wives in love with he ;
For I will break his ev'ry baud,
And he the trial now shall stand.
The way he slew me at the first,
And now my little flock will burst
;
And then my Brides they all will see,
How they have been in bonds with he
:
But when the trial doth appear,
He'll find the little flock is near;
That I '11 confess he cannot steal
The mysteries now I shall reveal."
25
*' Now the mystery lies in the name Pomeroy ; it means the king's
apple, or king* apple, or chosen fruit, or the first fruit, or the man in
whom the first fruit should appear, after the evil fruit was destroyed ;"
(See " Strange Effects of Faith/' page 9.) " Now tell him plain he
is not the man ;" that is to be understood thus :
—
" Man under the
fall, cannot understand God's word, or be any judge of it, or bring any
of the mysteries of it to light ; no, it is by Pomeroy it must be done,
the Church, the Holy City new Jerusalem, the altar of God, the
the standard now lifted up to the Gentiles ; —back to the Church, the
standard all must come :
—
" For in the altar I was seen at first,
And in the altar did the glory burst,
Where Simeon did the holy Child behold,
And in the altar are the plates of gold."
Every one in whom the true light is established is a church, and
now the standard of truth is erected, or lifted up in one man's heart,
which is become the altar of God ; for man, by receiving the Lord, is
become the temple of God ; and as Jesus appeared in the temple to
Simeon as a child, so doth the Spirit, the holy child Jesus, now appear
in the renewed heart, and this altar are the plates of gold; that is
goodness, love, truth ; and this is the marriage of the Lamb, the union
of the good, and true ; that is the good God, and the true and faithful
soul :
" Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee." I, the holy
Father Almighty, have begotten thee, and brought thee forth into my
divine life, in this my day of light, grace, and power, for all before this
wT
as night, was darkness : thou art established in holy life, for I have
said, that every male that openeth the matrix shall be set apart unto
me the Lord: and now by thee I am opening the virginity of life
eternal, that everlasting source of heavenly treasure, into which no
being before hath penetrated ; and if the liar should attempt to bring
up an evil report of thee, the tokens of virginity shall appear, that is
the life, the light, and put the liar to shame in the open view of all
Israel, my people. Thou hast been struggling in the womb of provi-
dence to come forth, ever since the fall ; and now thou art come forth,
and my time is come to give thee " the heathen for thine inheritance,
and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession ;" and now thou
shall possess the whole, for thou hast loved righteousness, and hated
iniquity ; therefore God, even thy God, " hath anointed thee with the
oil of gladness above thy fellows. Thy throne, O God, is for ever and
ever, a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom." And
now I, the holy Father Almighty, who spoke in time past by my
prophets, have spoken, and am now speaking, by my Son, whom 1 have
made heir of all things, by whom also 1 made the worlds ; he (<
is the
brightn2ss of my glory, and the express image of my person," and he
" upholdeth all things by the word of his power ; for he it is that hath
appeared now in the end of the world to put away sin, by the sacrifice
of himself (and he hath put away sin in one as a shadow of the whole),
or as a beginning in one ; and this man is now set down on the right
hand of the Majesty in the heavens ; that is, in the heavenly light, he
is on my right hand, from henceforth expecting till his enemies be
made his footstool." Thou, Lord, in the beginning (of this day life^,
hast laid the foundation of the earth (man), thou art the foundation
D
26
stone laid in Zion, on thee, the rock of ages, shall my whole church
be built, and the heavens of my glory are the works of thy hands ; for
the old heavens, the old man, death and hell shall flee away, and perish
before thy face ; but thou art the new heavens and the new earth that
shall remain before me for ever and ever, and thou shalt fold up the old
system, man's wisdom, all under the fall of Adam, as the old worn-
out garment, a vesture that must be changed ; for thy coat is without
seam.
Thou hast said " to corruption, Thou art my father, and to the worm
thou art my mother and my sister ; but I have not left thy soul in hell,
nor suffered my holy one to see corruption." Thou shalt not return
again to corruption, for thou shalt still live for ever, and not see cor-
ruption, for thou art my new creature, my new created being, whom
I said in Rom. viii. 21, " shall be delivered from the bondage of cor-
ruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God;" thou was
" sown in weakness," but art now u raised in power. Sown a natural
body," (dead to the knowledge of me, God), but now by my power,
thou art " raised a spiritual body ;" having my spiritual life in thee,
my breath of life, and art now a living soul. Thou was " sown in
dishonour," but now " raised in glory ;" for thou was once a vessel
unto dishonour, and in this I, the potter, have fulfilled my word ; for,
of the same lump in whom the evil power stood, a vessel unto dis-
honour, thou art now a vessel unto honour ; the evil being by my
power destroyed in thee, and the good fruit on the tree. I have de-
stroyed in this mountain the veil of the covering cast over all people,
and the veil spread over all nations ; thou hast endured the fire of my
anger, the fervent heat of which has melted the beggarly elements of
human wisdom, and the evil world of sin, which stood in thee, and all
the works thereof, are burnt up, and the new heavens and the new
earth are established, wherein dwelleth righteousness, " I have made
thee my first-born, higher then the kings of the earth; they that dwell
in the wilderness shall bow before thee, but upon thyself shall thy
crown flourish, and thy enemies shall lick the dust ; the kings of
Tarshish, and of the Isles, shall bring presents, the kings of Sheba and
Seba shall offer gifts ;
yea, all kings shall fall down before thee, all
nations shall serve thee, and the nation and kingdom that will not
serve thee shall perish, and all the nations that fight against thee
shall be as a dream of a night vision ;
yea, they shall be as the grass
upon the house tops that withereth before it groweth up ; wherewith
the mower filleth not his hand, nor he that bindeth sheaves in his
bosom :" and now let all " kiss the Son lest he be angry, and ye perish
from the way when his wrath is kindled but a little." Blessed are all
they that put their trust in him, and do not stand in opposition to him
;
for all shall know that it is the Son alone that can make them free,
and they shall be free indeed ; for as many as receive him shall have
power to become the sons of God, the word shall be made flesh in
them, they shall be « born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh,
nor of the will of man, but of God, made heirs of God, and joint heirs
with the Son ;" and that visitation does not perfectly agree with the
Son, and that does not help to establish him in the earth, is not of me,
the Lord, and it shall fall for thy sake ; for all stumbling-blocks shall
now be removed out of the way of my kingdom, and in my house, and
27
among my children, that joyfully receive my Son, shall be established
perfect harmony and peace ; there shall not remain in my house a
pricking- brier saith the Lord God Almighty. What! will the briers
and thorns contend against me the Lord ! I have sent my Son with the
sword of my spirit, to execute justice, and all shall find that he beareth
not the sword in vain ; take heed lest he break forth upon you, for he
will tear the arm, with the crown of the head : for he is the revenger
to execute justice, to be a terror to evil-doers, but for the praise of them
that do well ; be ye therefore afraid of the power, for this is the angel
that shall go before you to lead you in the way ; beware that ye offend
him not, for my name is in him ; for as Captain of the Lord's host is he
come, and the Captain of your salvation is " made perfect through
suffering, for as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and
blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same, that through
death, he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is the
Devil, and deliver them who, through fear of death, were all their life-
time subject to bondage ; for, verily, he took not on him the nature of
angels, but took hold of the seed of Abraham ; therefore in all things
it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a
merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make
reconciliation for the sins of the people ; for in that he himself hath
suffered being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted.
I shall conclude this with an observation on the whole :
—I am
aware of 'the subtilty of Satan ; how he will work in his agents, and
strive to " turn the grace of our God into lasciviousness ;" but he shall
not now have a foot to stand upon : jNo, it is decreed that on his belly
he shall go ; it may seem to the dark and prejudiced mind, as if in all
that is here said, we were not duly appreciating, or were not setting a
just estimate on those great things done by our blessed Lord, and his
apostles when they were on the earth ; but I would answer such an
objection thus : Men, for want of knowledge, have run into great ex-
tremes, and in their ignorance have placed shadows for substances, and
in their wisdom, undertaking to interpret the holy Scriptures, have
filled the world with different opinions concerning them, until the
whole is become a complete Babel (confusion) ; but it was put out of
the power of man to understand the Scriptures, until some of those
things recorded therein, that were to take place in the latter day,
began to be fulfilled. All men have applied and explained the Scrip-
tures wrong; for instance, see the following passage: " Behold my
servant whom I uphold, mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth,"
&c. : This, they have said, was fulfilled in Jesus, when he came first
among the Jews ; that he was the servant there spoken of; but this
is wrong, he was not the person : it alludes and points to a person in
the latter day, that was to come in the name of Jesus, that is in the life
of Jesus ; a man having the same divine life in him as Jesus had, and
let me here observe, that there must be a race of such beings on the
earth ;
(the whole earth will be peopled with them,) but with one
this generation begins ; and this man has to suffer a spiritual cruci-
fixion, death, burial, resurection, ascension, &c. to fulfil Rev. xi. 1 refer
you particularly to the 8th verse. " And their dead bodies shall lie in
the streets of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and
Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified/' This is the spiritual
28
crucifixion mentioned above—for all those thing's that were done in
time past, temporally or outwardly, must now in this day be done
spiritually; but these things belong to the inner court; they cannot
be seen by the outward court worshippers: none but the sealed will
be able to comprehend them ; the beast will always be contented with
outward things, but those that aspire to the angelical life, cannot rest
till they enjoy the promised blessing.
Now, to show more fully the truth of what is said above, I will give
a few thoughts on Matt, xxvii. 51, 52, 53, " And, behold, the veil of
the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom ; and the
earth did quake, and the rocks rent ; and the graves were opened ; and
many bodies of the saints which slept arose, and came out of the graves
after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto
many." You will say, that these things really took place ; wT
ell, be it
so, and what good can that do us ? What profit should we derive from
it? Can the history of those things save us? But, alas ! on this many
are casting their anchor !
But I have said there must be a spiritual crucifixion in this day, ere
men can know any thing of the merits of Christ ; Christ is crucified
between two thieves, thus : —Christ is the Son of God, the Spirit ; he
enters into the heart of a man, a person appointed for this very pur-
pose, this man stands as the whole world; for in him are the two
thieves, these are the Devil, and his own Spirit, that was always de-
ceived, and led in ignorance by him ;
(man would not willingly be
led by the Devil, but he blinds his eyes, and makes him believe that it
is God that is within him) ; now when Christ entered into this man's
heart (the world), he was received at first, by the man, just as the
people cried after Jesus, when riding into Jerusalem :
" Hosanna to
the Son of David ; blessed is the king that cometh in the name of the
Lord !" The raptures of joy that were felt in this little world, (at the
thoughts that the Messiah of whom Moses in the law, and thei Pro-
phets did write, was now come), were great beyond expression ; but
the Devil, the wicked Cain, being determined, if possible, to keep his
footing in the man, persuades him to think that he was deceived; that
all this divine influence and power might possibly come from some
other source, and this Jesus must be an impostor, though he performed
such miracles within him to fill him with such wonderful love and
power ;
so that in a spiritual sense the dead were raised, the blind
received their sight, the lame walked, the lepers were cleansed, and to
the poor the gospel was preached. Now all this was done in this
little world ;
and so, after all this, the Devil persuaded the mind of the
man to doubt that this was the Saviour, and to join with him to put
him to death as a deceiver; the man halted between two opinions, and
so he (Jesus) was nailed to the accursed tree, and this accursed tree
was not the cross of wood, but it was that tree that brought forth all
the evil fruit that ever was in the world ; that is, unbelief the bond-
woman, the evil fig-tree, that is accursed, that no man shall gather
fruit of henceforth, for ever ; that is to say, no man, that is a man, shall
eat of that fig-tree anymore; and there is no one, a man, in God's
sight, but those that receive his Son ; these cast the fig-leaves away,
finding that they will not cover all. Take that coat that is without
seam lor their covering, even the righteousness of God that is revealed
29
from faith to faith. Now, this is fulfilled in these words: '*
Except a
corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone, but if it
die, it bringeth' forth much fruit." Now the corn of wheat is the
Spirit, Christ, the Son of God, and the ground is the heart of the man,
and in this ground Christ died through unbelief, and was buried : in
this also is fulfilled, or it is the substance, of Cain and Abel. Gen. iv. 8.
" And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when
the}' were in the field," (now the field is the world, the heart of the
man), " that Cain rose up against his brother, and slew him;" and
here also is the mystery of Joanna's dream of the Lion and the Lamb
in the moon. (Continuation of Prophecies, page 35.) Now the moon
signifies the heart of the man, or the dark life in which he was; the
powers of darkness, Satan being there who worked on the Lion to
kill the Lamb : the Lion is man, the Lamb is Christ, and here he is
newly slain. So Bruce's father is the man, the Lien of the tribe; he is
on earth judging the woman's writings, while young Bruce, the Son,
the Lamb, is ascended to heaven to judge them there, (for the Devil
stood before young Bruce, to devour his faith as soon as born), and now
the Lamb is opening the seals ; for the Lion of the tribe hath prevailed
by prayer, even as the servant man, Chapman, prevailed with Moone
his master. Read p. 34. But now I will tell you the mystery: So let
it be known unto all men that they were sealed together for the day
of redemption, and coming from different counties to prove the truth
of my peaceable kingdom here on [earth ; he that was like Jacob, and
began to halt between two opinions, seeing but through a glass darkly,
was taken to my kingdom to see face to face ; and this shall be a sign
to all men, he that believes in |my words, and relies on my promises,
shall inherit my kingdom here, and have a crown of never-fading
glory hereafter ; for the halting Jacob is come before me as a prince,
to receive power from God, and his name shall be called Israel, and he
shall intercede for all the true Israel of God.
Now to reason I shall come,
And first I '11 tell thee of the" moon :
The Lion, and the Lamb is there,
And now the mysteries I shall clear
:
Because the Lion all shall see
Is Bruce, in spirit, come to me ;
And he is join'd with the Lamb,
And both together on my throne ;
Which in the moon did so appear,
Then Satan must be conquer'd there.
See page 36, 37 ; also Joel ii. 31, 32.—" The sun shall be turned
into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and terrible
day of the Lord come. And it shall come to pass, that whosoever
shall call on the name of the Lord shall be delivered : for in mount
Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance, as the Lord hath said, and
in the remnant whom the Lord shall call."
Now in the heart where the darkness stood (the moon, or moon-
light of human wisdom), the Devil, or the darkness is conquered by
the light, the blood, the life, entering in and changing it from dark-
ness to light; so the moon is turned into blood. Now until the spiri-
tual crucifixion had taken place the veil could not be rent, but now the
veil is rent in twain from the top to the bottom, the Holy of Holies,
where the mysteries of the Scriptures lay concealed, is now open to
our view : for there was a great earthquake in the heart of the man in
whom this spiritual crucifixion took place, and his rocky heart was
rent by the power of God, to convince him that it was the Son of God,
30
that he had put to death by his unbelief; and this is the centurion that
saw what was done, and said, " Truly this was the Son of God !
"
How great must his sufferings be, when he had found what he had
done ! What a crucifixion must he endure in his mind ! Ah, this is the
Peter that wept bitterly : Ah, this is he that felt, and said, " Deep
calleth unto deep, at the noise of thy water-spouts ;
all thy waves and
thy billows are gone over me, my iniquities are gone over my head as
an heavy burden, I sink in deep mire, where no standing is; deliver
me from blood guiltiness O God." And he said, " Thus I will bear the
indignation of the Lord, because I have sinned against him, until he
plead my cause, he will bring me forth to the light, and my eyes shall
behold his righteousness/' So he submitted to the affliction that was
laid upon him, and as the sins of all were found in him, so he tasted
death for every man, for this man really suffered for the unbelief of all
the people, and now this very circumstance will open the graves of
many ; that is, it will enlighten their minds, and bring them out of the
dark prison-house, the grave of sin and death, where they have been
asleep, and they will go into the holy city, new Jerusalem, and in the
light of it they shall walk, for Jesus is now raised again from the dead,
the third day, (the third year in the new date) ; where, through un-
belief, he was put to death. See The Fourth Book of Wonders, p. 51.
" For now they will find is coming the Isaac in whom all the families
of the earth shall be blessed, who now see that what was spoken of
man, must be fulfilled by the power of the Most High : and those who
have faith to believe in the fulfilment of my words, that this is the body
I said I should raise in the end. Such I tell thee are the children of
Abraham, who should possess the promised land, for I shall cast out all
the heathens for their sakes, and now establish the throne of David for
ever in Jerusalem as I have promised ; for where I was crucified, there
will I be exalted ; where I died for man, there my son shall reign
over man."
Again, Paul's 1st Epistle to Timothy, i. 16, "Howbeit, for this
cause I obtained mercy, that in me first, Jesus Christ might show forth
all long suffering, for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe
on him to life everlasting/' See Luke xxiv. 45, 46, 47, " Then opened
he their understandings, that they might understand the scriptures, and
said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer,
and to rise from the dead, the third day, and that repentance and remis-
sion of sins, should be preached in his name, beginning at Jerusalem/'
Now I will show from the scriptures that Paul mentioned above, is this
very Jerusalem in whom Jesus Christ is first crucified, and in whom he
rises again and is exalted. See Acts ix. to 19. Read also Paul's account
of himself, Acts xxvi.—a shadow of the Paul. Now read 2 Kings xxi.
10, 11, 12, 13, "And the Lord spake by his servants the prophets,
saying, Because Manasseh, king of Judah, hath done these abominations,
and hath done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, which were
before him, and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols, therefore
thus saith the Lord God of Israel : Behold, I am bringing such evil
upon Jerusalem and Judah, that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears
shall tingle ; and I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria and
the plummet of the House of Ahab: and I will wipe Jerusalem as a
man wipeth a dish, turning it upside down." Now see the meaning of
31
the name Manasseh; it means in the Hebrew—their comforter, or
leader, or the preparation of heat, or a gift not registered ; so this
Manasseh is Shiloh, Paul is Shiloh, Jerusalem is Shiloh in the outward
figure. Read also the prayer of Manasseh in the Apocrypha. Further,
Manasseh means manna, or man, the new man, the man of life, the
Lord from heaven ; for there is no man a man until the Lord dwells in
him ; for what we call a man, here on earth, is only a speaking- beast.
Isa. iii, 1, 2, 3, " For behold, the Lord, the Lord of Hosts, doth take
away from Jerusalem, and from Judah, the stay and the staff, the whole
stay of bread, and the whole stay of water, the mighty man, and the
man of war, the judge and the prophet, and the prudent and the
ancient, the captain of fifty, and the honourable man, and the counsellor
and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator." See the last verse,
" And her gates shall lament and mourn : and she, being desolate,
shall sit upon the ground." Ezek. xv. 1, &c. " And the word of the Lord
came unto me, saying, Son of man, what is the vine tree more than any
tree, or than a branch which is among the trees of the forest ? Shall
wood be taken thereof to do any work ? or will men take a pin of it to
hang any vessel thereon ? Behold, it is cast into the lire for fuel t
B
; the
fire devoureth both the ends of it, and the midst of it is burnt ; is it
meet for any work ? Behold, when it was whole, it was meet for no
work : how much less shall it be meet yet for any work when the fire
hath devoured it, and it is burned. Therefore thus saith the Lord
God. As the vine tree among the trees of the forest, which I have
given to the fire for fuel, so will I give the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
Read also Ezekiel xvi.
Luke xiii. 34. " O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killestthe prophets,
and stonest them that are sent unto thee ; how often would 1 have
gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under
her wings, and ye would not ! Behold your house, (your heart), is left
unto you desolate : and, verily I say unto you, ye shall not see me,
until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the
name of the Lord." 2 Esdras x. 48, " But whereas she said unto thee,
That my son coming into his marriage-chamber, happened to have a
fall, and died : this was the destruction that came to Jerusalem." Gal.
iv. 25, " For this Agar is mount Sinai, in Arabia, and answereth to
Jesusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her children. But Jeru-
salem that is above, is free, and is the mother of us all." Even Sinai
itself was moved at the presence of the Lord ; in another place, Sinai is
called the holy mount ; and Zion is the same, the Zion of the holy one
of Israel, The meaning of the Sinai is, a bramble bush, and this is the
very bush that burned with fire and was not consumed ; and this is that
bush mentioned in Deuteronomy, xxxiii. 16, u and for the good will of
him that dwelt in the bush." Therefore that very character in whom
stood the bond woman, and in whom the bond woman, the mother of
all evil, is destroyed by fire, by sword, by famine, by earthquake, by
thunder, pestilence, terror, &c. &c. and all this destruction that came on
Jerusalem. The very same character, after all this is done in him, is
now the free woman, he having in him the vision of peace, Jerusalem
the divine mother of all, the living race, the Son of God, Christ, the
true helpmate for man; and he is the person, called in the Scriptures,
Jerusalem. " The law shall go forth from mount Zion, and the word of
32
the Lord from Jerusalem, thine eyes shall see Jerusalem, a quiet habi-
tation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down, not one of the stakes
thereof shall be loosed, nor one of her cords broken." And in this
city, Jerusalem, the gospel is first preached ; that is, the truth of it
made known, or revealed, by the great and only preacher, God ; and
from this city it shall go forth to all nations of the earth. So here is
Paul, whose name was once Saul), a Servant of Jesus Christ, called to
to be an apostle, separated into the gospel of God, the apostle of the
Gentiles ; I say the truth in Christ, and lie not, a teacher of the Gentiles
in faith and verity ;
separated from his mother's womb, and the Son of
God revealed in him, and doth not confer with flesh and blood.
Then now is the time for the dead to rise out of their graves
;
" Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall
give thee light. The holy city is now come down from God, out of
heaven, and her light is like unto a precious stone. Let the dead in
faith now bury their dead, and open their eyes and receive the light
;
both the wise and the foolish virgins have slumbered and slept, but let
them now go forth in the spirit, to meet the bridegroom, that they may
be ready to go with him unto the marriage ; that is, to get into the
light of the holy city : for it is written, " The nations of them that are
saved, shall walk in the light thereof, and all their glory and honour
must here be laid down, for there can in no wise enter in here, any thing
that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a
lie : but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life ; this is
that holy city, (not the old stone buildings called Jerusalem), into
which the saints will now go, and will appear unto many, risen from
the dead with Jesus their Lord and head, they will appear in his risen
life, clothed in the same life and power. I think of all cities in the
world, Jerusalem of old was the least entitled to holiness, for in it was
done the most unholy deeds recorded in the annals of the world, who
killed their own prophets, and at last, the blessed Jesus himself: and
Paul witnesseth of them thus : they please not God, and are contrary
to all men ; but the city and temple was a figure of the end, a figure of
that " city that hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God."
Amos ix. 11, 12, " In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David
that is fallen/' (through unbelief) " and close up the breaches thereof;
and I will raise up his ruins, and 1 will build it as in days of old : That
they may possess the remnant of Edom, and of all the heathen, which
are called by my name, saith the Lord, that doeth this." The intent
of this little work is to show that the Scriptures are true, and that
Joanna Southcott's writings are from the same God that caused the
Scriptures to be written, and it will now be fully proved to the world,
that that very Shiloh spoken of throughout the Scriptures, and in her
writings, is now come ;
yea, that very self-same Child of whom
Joanna's writings speak, to be born in 1814, and is now making him-
self manifest in the destruction of the old covenant, and the establish-
ment of the new. Heb. viii. 6, &c. « But now hath he obtained a mere
excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better
covenant, which was established upon better promises. For if that
first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought
for the second. For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days
come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house
33
of Israel and with the house of Judah : Not according1
to the covenant
that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand
to lead them out of the land of Egypt ; because they continued not in
my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord. For this is the
covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days,
saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their mind, and write them in
their hearts : and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a
people : and they shall teach no more every man his neighbour, and every
man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me from
the least to the greatest. For I will be merciful to their unrighteous-
ness, and their sins and iniquities will I remember no more/' This is the
glorious period to which we are now arrived, and this is that stone cut
out of the mountain without hands, (Dan. ii.) which smites the great
image on the feet, and throws it down, and the wind takes it all away ;
blessed be God, the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies ; the dark-
ness is past, and the true light now shineth.
The following communication of the seven crowns given to Joanna
Southcott, on the 7th of March, 1803. You are requested to read par-
ticularly, as it alludes to the present time :
—
" And to the vision now I '11 come ;
In heaven it all was seen by John :
I told thee all must come below,
Therefore this vision I did show
Unto the youth at the same time,
That I was telling thee my mind
:
I said on earth all must take place
—
Awake ! ye dark benighted race !
And all together now compare,
You must confess my spirit's here ;
And t the Child did visit then,
To show these visions unto men
;
Which at that time seem'd of no use,
But now I bid them all produce.
The visions unto them were given
—
I tell you all, they came from heaven ;
For I these visions all did show,
I told thee all must come below
;
And as the shepherds did appear,*
That pray'd to quench the Spirit there;
Which they then said was not from God,
But still they said they fear'd the Lord
;
And so my word they said should stand,
And now their answer I demand.
How both f together did appear-
—
Is said all visions must come here
;
Thou know'st, I told thee down below,
In Tucker's letter 1 1 said so
;
And unto Hill § I did command,
That he the visions then should send :
And yet to all it did appear
As fruit on earth—the worms were there,
That did destroy there every fruit
;
But now I tell them to stand mute.
For on the tree I 've raised it high,
Out of their power all to lie,
For to destroy this fruit again
;
The feather'd fowls must it explain
:
For they alone the fruit can taste ;
And mark the tree how all is placed.
I say out of the reach of man,
To answer now thy written hand :
Because my eye is every where,
As to the youth it did appear,
And let them see the single eye,
And so your ways I do espy
:
And as the jewels did appear,
Just so in heaven they making are ;
And as the seven crowns were seen,
Just so the crowns I '11 make for man :
Because the seventh day draws near,
That man the seven crowns must wear.
The crown of glory I'll place first,
For so the end for man must burst.
The second crown, that must appear
Is man's redemption I shall clear,
For now the third is hastening on,
For to establish David's throne :
Who as a shepherd did appear,
And to a throne was raised there :
As he from Saul received the crown,
A Son of Jesse he was found.
When Samuel warn'd him to appear,
The myst'ry now of Saul I '11 clear ;
Whom I anointed to be king,
And then the kingdom rent from him.
As he had disobey'd my word
—
A type of Satan, and the Lord.
When Satan's kingdom is destroy'd,
Then I 'm the king by man enjoy 'd,
But as a David did appear,
An Absalom was surely there ;
"Some years ago several ministers visited Joseph, and agreed that his visions were from an evil
spirit, and prayed that he might be delivered from them.
•f The Youth's visitation and Joanna's were nearly at the same time.
t A letter from Joanna wrote to the Rev. Mr. Tucker, of Heavitree, near Exeter.
§ By order of the Lord, the Boy took a book of visions to the Rev. Rowland Hill, who afterwards
mentioned it in the pulpit, as coming from some Reman Catholic.
34
Who thought his father to unthrone,
And gain the kingdom for his own.
So I have many sons below,
Like Absalom : you '11 find it so,
That will not wish for me to reign :
But they, like Absalom will be slain
:
And these are types go deep for man,
That first and last alike will come ;
And with your Bibles all compare,
For then your crowns you'll all see clear.
When I establish David's throne,
The Absalom's will all be known
To fly and perish just like he,
Whose hair was hung upon the tree
:
Because the tree you know was bad
—
The branch whereon you evil had.
Unto that evil men will fly ;
Their father's reign they will deny ;
And so they '11 perish on the tree,
Who now deny the reign of me.
So let the Abs'loms all take care
;
Because his fate they all shall share
:
For I have show'd you David's crown,
And all shall know, tis coming down;
And every branch that is in me,
Just like the vision, all shall see,
That they shall all share in the crown,
As every jewel there is found :
And fast you'll find I '11 make them up,
For like the vision all shall drop,
To bring the fourth crown to man ;
That he the earth may all command.
When I as David do appear,
Then man with me must triumph here
—
That's over death, and over hell,
And every furious beast compel
For to be subject to his will
:
I '11 shake the earth, the beast I '11 fill
With every fear as well as man,
And all I '11 conquer to your hand ;
And the proud waves shall then comply,
No more their storms shall swell so high,
That man can't conquer, if there lost
:
For now the raging seas may boast;
But then I say they '11 boast no more,
Because that man I '11 crown him here
;
That he the mystery shall gain,
As on the seas I safely came :
And full as safe—It shall be for men.
When I the fourth crown do send.
They'll triumph over death and hell.
And furious beasts, and seas that swell
;
And now I say the furious winds
Do conquer men, they oft do find,
Your stately buildings to throw down ;
But when I bring you the fifth crown,
Then in subjection they must come,
No more you '11 hear the raging storm
That from the angry winds doth rise ;
But peace and safety round you lie :
Because I '11 crown your every bliss,
And the sixth crown shall finish this :
Because I said that all was good,
And now I '11 come and crown my word ;
And so your helpmate doth appear,
For to fulfil the seven here :
—
That is, I say, the seventh crown ;
The thousand years of rest are found,
That I at first pronounced should be
:
I '11 rest from labour, so shall he
Rest from all sorrow and from sin,
Rest from the pains that nature brings,
Rest from temptation—he'll find none;
But every heart will then become,
I say like thine, for to hate sin : .
They'll see the victories I have won ;
And with me reign one thousand years,
To make your children love and fear ;
And tell them all what I have done,
To free them all from hell and sin
;
For that will be the seventh crown :
And so my jewels will be found
To shine as sparkling diamonds bright,
And I with man shall then delight
;
And men shall then delight with me,
And dwell in heavenly harmony.
For as in love a few do meet,
That do'believe this calling great,
So all the earth will meet the same,
And praise their Maker's glorious name.
And as these visions do come down,
So will departed friends be found
To visit all their friends below,
From types and shadows all must go
:
For as these Boys do things behold,
And faith destroys their fear,
Or else their senses I 've confin'd,
To bring all visions near
;
So when I come to make an end,
Both Churches to unite,
Just so you '11 see departed friends,
In dazzling robes of white :
They'll come below, you all will know,
And with them you'll converse ;
From world, to world, the dead will go,
When none can them molest.
But now be clear, some legions there,
Are hovering in the air :
Without my angels guard them there,
They cannot come to you.
But mark the crown, how this was found,
And bring it to thy view :
See it again—I '11 tell thee plain,
How every branch do go ;
And how t'will be, the end they '11 see,
Like Peter's vision come,
That from the heaven was shewn to him ;
Ye simple sons of men,
If this was done when first I came
My followers for to see,
You must expect more wondrous sights
When I come down to ye,
To dwell with men, in spirit come —
Visions must first appear
:
You all do know, I told you so,
And Joel's words are here,
But now I '11 come unto the Psalm ;
It was of David sung—
The Lord descending from above
;
The shadow there is found,
35
On cherubim and seraphim
Full royally he rode ;
And on the wings of mighty winds,
Came flying all abroad.
And on the wings of mighty winds,
Or mighty love I came,
To show the visions unto him,
That all may know my name.
The vision plain is given to man,
Or else you '11 say a Child,
That all may know the truth is so
—
That Boy can no one foil
;
No more than thee, let mortals see
What simple hands appear;
Then you must know 't came ail from me
For there's no man can clear
The mystery, when all you weigh,
And altogether bring
:
The furnace I did show thee there,
Where Satan must fall in :
And there I came, to show the crown
I have for man in store :
Now if your judgment clear is found
I need to say no more.
Mark how all come, ye sons of men,
And will you say by chance ?
Then I with you will this contend,
And your own words advance.
If chance came first, the furnace burst,
And chance made him believe ;
The master there by chance appear'd ;
Chance Satan may deceive
;
When chance again so hasten'd on,
To see my eye fixed there ;
And bring my starry crown to man-
—
My jewels all prepare.
To make them up for man to hope
—
By chance I shall redeem
The fall of man—by chance shall come,
And these fall in the stream,
That judge no God in what is said ;
Then they must mock my eye,
Which I have said is every where :
I ask where chance can fly ?
If up to heaven you take your flight,
'Tis there you'll find me cloth'd in light
;
If down to hell's infernal den,
You'll find that there my vengeance
reigns
;
And these the shadow I show'd thee,
Design'd for hell and so it shall be :
And there my glory I did show,
That what 1 said, I'd surely do
:
For so my glory shall appear
—
With wings of love I'll visit here,
And bring to man my starry crown,
And all my jewels seal them mine.
For on that House I 've fix'd my eye :
I know my jewels where they lie.
And the same chance that brought them
first,
I tell them in the end shall burst;
As all these visions did appear.
I show'd thee first the furnace there,
Then I will come to chain him down;
And so the visions both were found."
I must here set down a few passages out of Joanna's writings about
Pomeroy, for the satisfaction of those who are expecting* the Rev. Mr.
Pomeroy to come forward in the end ; let them and all weigh deep
what is here said by the Spirit, and they will discern their expectations
to be as groundless as the belief of those that expect Joanna Southcott
to rise again out of her grave, and appear personally here again ; it is
a spiritual appearance. See (i
First Book of Wonders" page 47, 48.
" Now come to their discernment, who judge that he must fall to rise
again ; because I said he must stand the trial in the end ; but this man
do not discern in what manner he stood the trial with men to have his
honour lost ; neither do they discern in what manner all the conduct
he acted with must stand the trial with men in the end : there are
deeper mysteries still behind, that men will find another day ; but now,
if they judge that Pomeroy must appear in person, or he could stand no
trial with men ; then I ask them how they will explain the meaning
of my words, that I said my Bible must stand the trial? I said Satan
must stand the trial ; and I said in my gospel Satan must be judged.
These things men must discern and weigh together. Read this page,
and ask—How will Satan appear to stand the trial ? I answer, in a man,
and he hath appeared in this manner, and has been tried, cast, and
condemned, by both juries; the Lord himself being judge—and he is
counted worthy of death, and is driven from his seat,—and in the same
person in whom this was done, Pomeroy is now come to clear the
the writings, to show the truth of them unto men, that they are from
36
the living* God, and this Pomeroy is the spirit of truth in a man, and all
must come to this standard :
—
" Back to the Church, the standard, all must come ;
For in the altar I was seen at first,
And in the altar shall the glory burst.'''
By coming- to the standard, I mean, that all must see the writings
clear along* with Pomeroy, that we may all rejoice tog-ether—and let
us all be married to Joanna ; for the Lord told her that she should have
an earthly husband, unto whom he would resig*n the whole, and
" Brides alike/' saith our dear and blessed Lord, " I'll make you all/'
Read the 4th and 5th pages " Second Book of Wonders/' See also
page 10,
u He that hath the Bride is the Bridegroom ; but the friends
of the Bridegroom rejoice greatly ; and so will thy friends all rejoice,
when marriage hath taken from thee thy reproach among women, and
all is made as clear as the noon-day sun. Then will your rejoicing be
great when every thing is made so plain before them, that there is no
room for doubt left/'—It is said in one place, " Great is the mystery of
godliness :" but it was not always to remain a mystery.
Again, in another place, Joanna says to the Lord concerning Pomeroy,
" Thy threatenings stand still against him, as he is not come forward to
this trial/' The answer is
—" Thou knowest not how my threatenings
stand ; he must see the book of thy trial, and how it stands concerning
the trance, before he will know what anchor to trust to. Now I ask
Why is this said of Pomeroy? Why is he to see the book of Joanna's
trial ? And why must he see about the trance ? The truth of the matter
is here :
—You know that Joanna, it was expected would go in a
trance, but as it was not fulfilled in her, it was expected that it would
be fulfilled in Townly ; and it is well known that Townly had a visita-
tion to that effect, and sent circulars round to all the friends on the
subject, informing them of the preparations that were making for the
trance, and of those that were to be present, &c. And here I shall
insert an explanation given unto her by the Spirit concerning this
mysterious subject, which was given on Friday, October 4, 1822:—
Many things respecting the trance of Joanna appearing very myste-
rious, and particularly what is said of it in the trial, Mrs. Townly had
the following explanation : That after the trance of Townly and the
man-child, Joanna will then return, and will be laid upon a bed ; she
will appear much like a ghost, and will remain in that state until the
kpmt enters into her with power to dispute with, and pronounce the
decrees against Satan ; the reason of her coming in this way, and not
descending from heaven in that power, is, that all may perceive the
distinction between her in her ownself, and when the power of the
Lord is within her ; and thus, that no adoration may be offered to her
when appearing in such a ghostly state, every one may see that she is
only the instrument by which the Lord will perform his wonders that
is in the Woman's form.
Weigh these things together ; the trance is over, Pomeroy has been
through the trance, Joanna is returned, the Holy Ghost is in Pomeroy,
and there is no other Joanna for any one ; she alone is the true help-
mate for man : Did not I tell you, in the end, the mvstery would be
great ? This is the Woman's form ; she has formed herself in man, and
by virtue of this the man is named Joanna, and in this form all the
37
wonders are doing, and will be done, and she will form herself in every
one that will receive her ; so we shall all be Joanna's, that is, God's
Host : So here is the Mother, and the Son—Here is Charity, and the
Child—The Spirit, and the Bride—The C, and the I.
Again, of Pomeroy.—True explanation of the Bible, page 254.
" The Woman hath brought on his fall,
And this is done by my command,
And so the trial he must stand,
Then he shall fall to rise again.
If he comes forward to contend,
It is the Woman caused his fall,
And prove his honour clear in all-;
Before the Woman he betray'd,
And now she 'th cast it on his head
;
And so his honour here is lost,
But when the truth to him doth burst.
He '11 find his honour rise more high,
Then ere before it here did lie ;
And see his standing more secure
Because his standing is in me,
The Woman's innocence shall free.
The every fall that is in man,
That now the trial bold will stand.
So thou of Pomeroy grieve no more,
Cans't thou believe thy God is here ;
And will not justify the man,
If to the trial he does come.
And there confess his every guilt,
The way at first his fears he felt
;
Then I will surely free the man,
In Adam's fall he now does stand,
By Satan's arts that then were near,
And so like Adam he did fear.
As he was wakened by the fall,
He hath no strength to stand at all
;
Till by my power I raise him up,
So do not fear that he will drop :
Because that I will raise him so
In passions strong he '11 see and know.
And jealousy I will alarm,
And he shall fear that I do warn.
So now in peace thy soul possess,
And comfort now thy troubl'd breast
;
But sure thy sorrows I work'd so.
That man from thee might see and know.
What sorrows I do feel for all
That now reject my every call
:
So here of Pomeroy I shall end,
Deep are the lines that thou hast pen'd."
The trial mentioned in these lines, stands for this present time, and
they show the truth of what I have already stated in the foregoing
pages, namely, that a man must come forth in this character, Pomeroy,
who stands in the first place at the head, and is the representative of
all the human race, under the fall ; the sins of all mankind are found in
him, and he dies a spiritual death—is cut off by the word of God, which
saith, " Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things written
in the book of the law to do them." The sentence is actually executed
upon him, he really feels the curse of God, due to men for transgression,
not for himself only, but for all ; and under this load he sinks down
into the abyss of woe, woe unutterable, and passing all human con-
ception or thought; and in this is fulfilled what is written in John xi.
49, &c. " And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high-priest that
same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all, nor consider that
it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people, and that
the whole nation perish not. And this spake he not to himself: but
being high-priest that same year, he prophesied that Jesus should die
for that nation ; and not for that nation only, but that he should gather
together in one the children of God that are scattered abroad/' Now,
of those that would object to this doctrine, I ask, Are we to take the
words of the high-priest in the literal sense ? If so there is no truth in
them, for the death of Jesus did not save them from perishing, but
otherwise, for they were cut off from being a nation or kingdom, and
remain so ever since. Again, the prophecy saith, that he was to " gather
together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad." But
has this been done ever since ? You must answer, No ; this has not
been done—the prophecy stands for this time—the children of God ;
that are the people who are believers in, and expectants of the kingdom
of God, lay scattered among different sects and parties of religion, and
38
following various visitations, and, of course, are of different opinions on
the word and ways of the Lord ; and this has been the case in a par-
ticular manner with believers in the mission of Joanna Southcott since
her death : they are scattered abroad, they are at their wits' ends, they
know not what to do ; but they are told to look for Pomeroy to come
forward to show the truth of all ; and it is written of him
—
u He will appear—the truth to clear,
And steadfast he will stand.''
This is said of Pomeroy without any conditions ; —he will appear ;
and as there are no conditions respecting the comforter's coming* in the
name of Jesus, but all things said of him are absolute promises of God
that shall be fulfilled, so of Pomeroy the same ; for indeed this Pome-
roy is the comforter, that is the Spirit in the man,. for " he shall guide
the people into all truth :"
—and before this could be done, one man
must fall, as is described in the lines above, to know the truth of the
fall of man—to know by experience what man lost by the fall, to know
the dark mysteries of :it, and then, by the power of God, to be raised
again from that death unto life. So now he stands as the second
Adam, having his Eve with him, by whose innocence he is free from
the fall ; and this Eve is Joanna, that is, the gift of grace, and mercy
of God ; for this is the meaning of the word, or name Joanna, and all
this is the trance mentioned in Joanna's writings : See " Fourth Book
of Wonders," page 41, " And, therefore, marvel not in thine heart that
1 told thee thy sufferings must be great, and thy danger of life would
appear great ; and this is the sorrow that thy friends and believers will
feel, as I told thee, until the third day ;" that is to say, (the third year
in the new date) ; for here is the trance mentioned in thy writings :
—
First, the trance of thy mind from my visitation to thee at the first ; but
the next comes when life is brought in the world, so this Pomeroy was
first intranced. Whether in the body or out of the body he could not
tell, going through the fall ; and when his Eve returned to him again,
when life entered into him, he was intranced with joy unspeakable
and full of glory.
Mowsee this word given through Joanna Southcott. When this
is done in one
—
Then Satan's crown must sure come down
And men accuse no more.
The victory shall in me be found,
And bring my kingdom here.
So sons of light, 'tis time to fight,
And stars begin to shine;
Have I a shadow plac'd in man,
Then man is surely mine.
But unto all, it could not fall
To make my Bible true,
Yet every one alike I call,
My goodness I shall know.
My Spirit here, it shall appear,
The Holy Ghost shall come ;
And as the day of Pentecost.
I say it shall be to man.
That will appear—for I'll be therey
And every heart inflame ;
The Holy Ghost alike shall come,
Tho' Pomeroy I did name :
To be the man where I should come,
But shall I leave the rest?
Mark deep the visions now of John,
And every man is blest.
So now begin to wear your crowns,
Like stars begin to shine,
If I a shadow plac'd in one,
Then every one is mine.
Now, of the things that are here written, this is the sum we declare
unto you, that the Lord is risen to do his work, his strange work. He
hath showed strength with his arm, he hath scattered the proud in the
imagination of their hearts, he hath put down the mighty from their
seat, and exalted the humble and meek ; he hath filled the hungry with
good things, but the rich he hath sent empty away ; he hath holpen
39
his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy, as he spake unto our
forefather, Abraham and his seed for ever.
And these thing's are set forth unto you in great plainness of speech.
For " we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit which
is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of
God. Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wis-
dom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth ; comparing spiritual
things with spiritual. But the natural^ man receiveth not the things of
the Spirit of God, they are foolishness unto him ; neither can he know
them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual
judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man. For who hath
known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct him ? But we have
the mind of Christ/'—1 Cor. ii. 12—16.
" But now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put
away sin by the sacrifice of himself "—Heb. ix. 26.
u I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and pre-
vailed against them ; Until the Ancient days came, and judgment was
given to the saints of the Most High ; and the time came that the
saints possessed the kingdom."—Dan. vii. 21, 22.
December the 30tb, Year the 3rd.
To Mr. E. C.
Sir, —I should not take up my pen to address you, only from motives and
feelings of that charity and benevolence that I would wish another to exercise
towards myself, therefore hope you will give this letter a fair and candid perusal,
as 1 write, not as bearing in mind any thing that transpired at your house, when I,
in company with my friends Mr. Twort and Miss Marshall visited you, or any
thing mentioned in your letter to Mr. Twort; no, whatever is said or done that is
evil, I know who is the author of it, and on him the blame of all shall rest. While
my love shall abound towards my fellow man, and over him will I weep ; though
be may draw his sword against me and wound me to the heart, I will say with my
divine Master, " Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do:"—for sure
I am, that man would be good if Satan was destroyed and God dwelling in him
—
therefore I return not railing for railing ; but O, may God, by his Almighty power,
rebuke the tempter, the destroyer, and the devourer of man's happiness. And this
I know he is now come to do—but this he will do in man, not without his consent,
no, but by the voluntary act of his own will, and God has promised that every
truth shall be laid before man by the comforter, as it is written, he shall take of
mine, and show it unto you, he shall guide you unto all truth. But this is required
of man, to prove all things, to know and prove if God does speak ; and to ascertain
this, there is (on the part of man) required patience, humility, self-denial, and great
fear, because, all along, we have been informed, that in the end, the mystery would
be great, for no man in any age of the world, however favoured with divine revela-
tion, was ever able to form any idea of the way and manner of the Lord's coming in
the end, for God kept this a profound secret until the time :
—did the Patriarchs
know? no; did the Prophets or Apostles? no; did the instruments in these days
know? no, not one,of them, not Joanna Southcott herself, though they all spoke
of it by the Spirit, yet the knowledge of it was withheld from them. Therefore,
seeing that the way of w'isdom hath been hidden from the eyes of all living, yea,
kept close from the fowls of the air, how careful ought men to be now we are come
to the end, lest haply, we be found righting against God, and if found in this order,
it will be their last fight, as there will be no more offering for sin now, but a certain
fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, that shall devour the adver-
saries, for the false spirit of Belial must now be removed out of the way, and the
usurper must now give way to the rightful heir,—let me ask, What should we now
be contending for, who shall be the greatest in the Kingdom of Heaven ? God
forbid ; but rather let it be What shall I do to inherit the crown set before me ? how
shall I bring a pure heart before God? how shall death be destroyed, and eternal
life be established in me, that I may be for ever in the divine life, and become a
worker with God, for the establishment of his kingdom of righteousness and peace
and joy in the Holy Ghost, universal, for if I am a Paul, I must have a Paul's
spirit, a Paul's zeal ; and that I might possess these, I must have a Paul's miraculous
40
calling, I must have a Paul's teaching, for the former Paul was but a type or
shadow of the Paul spoken of in the writings of Joanna Southcott, now to appear
at this time, and all his Epistles are speaking of this time (the world to come), all
his writings are the wisdom of God in a mystery. Let us look at the former Paul a
little—First, his name was Saul, which signifies Hell, or the Grave—and is not this
the awful name of every man under the fall, and therefore it is written, Death and
hell shall give up the dead that is in them, that is, the hearts of men are death and
hell, and they, by the power of God, shall give up their dead wisdom ; O, death, I
will be thy plagues! O, death, I will be thy destruction! Then death and hell
must be destroyed in this Paul, that he might have on the new name, for the name
Paul, signifies one that hath obtained rest, the entry into a flock—marvellous.
Now, the true Paul will acknowledge that he was a blasphemer, that he persecuted
the church of Gocl, that he was an injurious person—moreover, lie must be caught
up into Paradise to have those mysteries explained unto him, that no man ever
knew before—the mystery of God, of the Father, and of Christ—that he might be
qualified to preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ, for it was
not the former Paul that had this revelation ; no, it all stands for the end.
I might say much more on this subject, but enough is here said to detect the im-
posture. There can be no deception practised now ; it will not do for any one to say
why—the word through such and such instruments declare me to be this character.
O no, this will not do, for he might be spoken unto through those persons, perhaps,
as the shadow, or for some other deep and weighty ends. But he must know what
it is to be caught up into paradise himself, and there have the mysteries of the king-
dom of heaven revealed unto him, that until this time have been a profound secret
hid in God from all ; he must know something of the light shining in him above the
brightness of the sun, to be smote with blindness, and then restored again by
divine power, and the Son of God revealed on him. Now Sir, see how impossible
it will be for any man to impose himself on the people as this character; for the
signs of an apostle must be found in him, done in him by the ringer of God ; there-
fore whosoever professes to be the Paul without authority, as is here written, their
folly will be exposed before all men ; but as to Pauls and Peters there will be many,
for as such all must come confessing their sins, but as to this particular character
(Paul) God has put it out of their power of any one to deceive. Sir, you called
what I read at your house a piece of patch^work ; well, Joseph's coat was a piece
of patch- work, and I know that I shall not to be ashamed of my piece of patch-
work, for it was made by a skilful hand, however contemptible in your eyes; and
however this letter may may be received by you, I shall have the happy reflection
that I have given you a friendly caution ; and I warn you to take heed lest your last
error be found to be worse then the first : the Lord choseth whom he will to do
his work," let the potsherd strive with the potsherds of the earth," but woe to him that
striveth with his Maker. " Woe to him that saith to his father, what begettest thou ? or
to the woman what hast thou brought forth?" Isa. xlv. 9, 10. You said that Joanna's
child was begotten by the Devil, but now God will prove to all the mockers whether
he was a Devil or no, for these be the days of vengeance. (Signed) JOHN.
" He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that
judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him
in the last day."—John xii. 48.
So now your flight is surely come,
From evil fly away ;
Your foes away from you shall fly,
That do my will obey.
My will is this, that you should take
My word and eat it up ;
Give up your wisdom for my sake,
Tis then the foe shall drop.
No more dominion he can have,
My power shall set you free,
From sin, from sorrow, and the grave,
And you shall live in me.
And I am love, to no other law,
Do I on you impose,
This burthen you can easy bear,
Then on my love repose.
I Jesus did my life lay down
Upon the cursed tree,
And now I 've took it up again,
From sin to set you free.
I Shiloh now will gather in
My Father's children all,
And bind them to the choicest vine.
That now for mercy call.
I Christ declare I now am come
To end the law of sin,
And plant myself in every heart
That now will take me in.
And be ye lifted up ye doors,
Your hearts is what I mean,
Take me the King of glory in,
And you with me shall reign.
Printed by W. Jackson, Ronpell Street, Lambeth.
