{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1829__whitman___lecture_on_popular_superstitions.pdf","mytitle":"Lecture On Popular Superstitions","mylang":"de"}
LECTURE
h ! <i Z ' ï
POPULAR SUPERSTITIONS.
BY BERNARD ^HITMAN.
“ In our childhood, our mothere’s maids have so terrified us with an ouglie
divell, having homes on his head, fier in his mouth, and a taile in his breech $
eies like a bason, fangs like a dog, clawes like a beare, a skin like a nigger, and a
voice roring like a lion, whereby we start and are afraid when we heare one cry
■©ugh.” Reginald Scot.
B O S T O N ,
BOWLES fc DEARBORN, 50 WASHINGTON STREET.
1329.
Digitized by L r O O Q l e
DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS, to W it:
District Clerk's Office.
Be it r em em ber ed , that on the sixteenth day ot February, a . d.
1829, in the fiftythird year of the Independence of the Un it ed
States of Am er ic a , Bowles Dearborn, of the said district,
have deposited in this office the title of a book, the right whereof
they claim as proprietors, in the words following, to w it:
" A L ecture on P opular Su perstitio n s. By Bernard
Wh it m a n .
“ *In our childhood, our mothere’s maids have so terrified us
with an ouglie diveil, having homes on his head, fier in his mouth,
and a taile in his breech ; eies like a bason, fangs like a dog, clawes
like a beare, a skin like a nigger, and a voice roring like a lion,
whereby we start and are afraid when we heare one cry bough.*—
R eginald Scot.**
In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States,
entitled, “ An act for the encouragement of learning, by securing
the copies of maps, charts, and books, to the authors and propri­
etors of such copies during the times therein mentioned;1’ and
also to an act, entitled, “ An act supplementary to an act, entitled,
an act for the encouragement of learning, by securing the copies
of maps, charts, and books to the authors and proprietors of such
copies during the times therein nfentioned; and extending the
benefits thereof to the arts of designing, engraving and etching
historical and other prints.”
iNn w m vm l Clerk ° fth
e Di,lrict °f
jjnu. w . DAVIS, £ Massachusetts.
BOSTON,'
Presi of Isaac R. Dulls & Co.
Digitized by Google
Jt
LECTURE.
Your attention is invited to some remarks on popular
superstitions. I shall explain their nature ; investigate
their origin ; describe their pernicious effects ; and pro*
pose measures for their banishment.
I. What is meant by popular superstitions ?
I mean all pretended signs of good and evil fortune ;
all pretended influence of the moon and planets ; all pre­
tended tricks for obtaining a knowledge of future events ;
all pretended lucky and unlucky days; all pretended
supernatural dreams and visions ; all pretended witches
and ghosts and apparitions ; and all pretended modern
miracles. All these I class together. As they have been
received for truths by the great mass of the people, I call
them popular. And as they cannot be proved realities
by rational and scriptural evidence, I pronounce them su­
perstitions. Whether my definition be strictly philoso­
phical or not, is of no consequence. You will all under­
stand distinctly what I mean by popular superstitions.
II. What is the origin of popular superstitions ?
Ignorance of correct reasoning has given rise to many
Superstitions. Inductive reasoning teaches us to infer
general conclusions from particular facts which have come
under our observation. Let me illustrate this definition
1*
V
\
k, A
Digitized by L j O O q I c
6
by an example. You know that water boils on the appli­
cation of a certain degree of heat. You hare seen this
experiment tried many times without a single failure.
You therefore conclude that water will always boil on the
application of this degree of heat, although you have seen
it applied to but a small portion of the water in creation.
Thus you draw this general conclusion from the few par­
ticular facts which you have witnessed. But had you
noticed several failures in the trial, your conclusion would
have been doubtful. And if the experiment had faiied
ninelynine times out ofa hundred, you would have adopted
an opposite conclusion. You would have said that the
application of the specified degree of heat would not boil
water. In this way logical reasoning leads to the disco­
very of truth.
Now apply this principle of sound reasoning to the whole
v mass of pretended signs. Let me select one to show you
the absurdity of believing in any. It is commonly re­
ported that the breaking of a looking-glass betokens death
to some member of the family. This sign probably orig­
inated in the following manner. A death happened to
follow the breaking of a mirror. Some ignorant person
immediately concluded that the breaking of the glass was
a sure sign of death. The story soon spread among credu­
lous people; and at length was handed down from gene­
ration to generation as an established truth. But you
readily perceive the absurdity of forming this general
conclusion from one or a few particular facts. For you
know that death does not follow the supposed sign oftener
than once in a hundred times; and therefore the break­
ing of the glass is almost a sure sign that no death will
immediately take place in the family. But as mirrors are
Digitized by Google
7
always breaking, and people are always dying, it ie not
strange the latter event should sometimes follow the for­
mer. It would be a miracle if it did not. But the events
have no connexion whatever with each other. The co­
incidence in any case is altogether accidental. And you
may say with as much reason that the breaking of a tea*
kettle is the sign of death, or any other event, as the*
breaking of a mirror. But the truth is, there is no sigu
in the case. It first originated in ignorance of correct
reasoning; and has been perpetuated by the credulousr
Apply this principle of correct reasoning to every sign
in existence ; and you. will find them to be superstitions.
You will find that they rest on no rational evidence ; and
consequently are entitled to no belief or confidence. If
they indicate anything, it is something directly opposite
to what is generally supposed. For they do not come to
pass more than once in a hundred times; and therefore
warrant a different conclusion. Not only so. If you be­
lieve in the present pretended signs, you may make a
million more equally good. A man quarrels after drink­
ing a glass of wine ; you may therefore say that taking a
glass of wine is the sign of a quarrel. A man draws a
prize in a lottery; you may therefore say that the purchase
of a ticket is the sign of a fortune. A man dies after
supper; you may say therefore that taking supper is the
sign of death. In this way you may multiply the number
of signs to infinity. And they will be just as good, and
prove true just as often, as any now in existence. But
our Creator has endowed us with understanding. He
has given us reason to regulate our belief by satisfactory
evidence. And if we do this, we cannot believe in any
of the pretended signs. We must conclude they have
Digitized by G o o g le
8
all originated in ignorance of correct reasoning; and are
kept in remembrance by those who will not use their in­
tellectual powers as their Maker designed.
2. Ignorance of inductive philosophy has given rise
to many superstitions. Inductive philosophy instructs us
to trace effects to their true causes. Let me illustrate
my meaning by an example. You know that lights have
been frequently seen dancing over marshy grounds, near
tan-ya-ds, and burying-places, and along the sea shore.
For a long time, credulous people considered them to be
the spirits of the uneasy dead. This was a superstitions
belief, because it rested on no rational evidence. Philo*
sophy teaches us that these lights are occasioned by an
inflammable gas, which arises from decayed animal and
vegetable substances, and takes fire on coming in contact
with atmospheric air. In this way inductive philosophy
directs us to trace all effects to their true causes.
Now apply this philosophic principle to those supersti­
tions which are founded on false causes. Let me select
an example to show the absurdity of believing in any of
the number. People have supposed that pork, killed in
the increase of the moon, would swell in boiling; while
that killed in her wane, would shrink. This opinion
probably originated in the following manner. Some per­
son killed, at different periods of the moon, two hogs
which had been born and fattened together. That killed
in her increase swelled in boiling ; while the other, killed
in her wane, shrunk. He saw no way of accounting for
the facts, but on the supposition of lunar influence. This
conclusion was accordingly adopted, and at length became
an established truth. Now there was no philosophy in
forming this opinion from a few such facts. More ex­
Digitized by Google
9
pertinents should have been tried. And their results
would soon have convinced him that the cause of the
swelling and shrinking existed in the constitution of the
animals. He would have discovered that pork of fine and
solid texture would commonly swell, whenever killed;
whiie that of loose and coarse grain would as generally
shrink. And his conclusion would have been, that the
moon had no more to do with his hogs than the Pope of
Rome.
Let this philosophic principle be applied to this whole
class of superstitions, and you will arrive at similar results.
It certainly boasts of many varieties. There is the pre­
tended influence of the moon on making soap, grafting
trees, cutting timber, and mental derangement. Now
the moon probably exerts no more influence on any of
these things than the ghost of Bonaparte. Then there is
the supposed special interposition of Providence. A ca­
lamity befalls one religious denomination. Opposing sects
pronounce it a special judgment of Heaven. The same
thing afterwards happens to themselves ; and they, as
readily as inconsistently, interpret it to be a special token
of divine love. For, say they, every child whom God
loveth he chasteneth. A religious society engages in
some doubtful undertaking. Their perseverance secures
Success; and this is represented as proof of the divine
approbation. The cheating miser might as justly assign
the same reason for his prosperity. There is likewise the
miraculous agency of the devil, as exhibited in fortune
telling, haunted houses, witches, and apparitions. And
with all these things the devil has no more connexion
than the sea serpent. To this numerous list you might
add thousands more. Yon might eall the flames of a
/ ■
Digitized by L » o c :
10
volcano proof positive of a materia] hell. You might at­
tribute this mild winter to the choice of a southern presi­
dent. But we have capacities for obtaining the truth.
Let us not slight these precious gifts of our heavenly
Father.
^ 3. Ignorance of the causes of our dreams has given
rise to many superstitions. Old divines inform us that
some of our dreams proceed from ourselves; others from
the Deity; and others again from the devil. They pro­
bably came to this conclusion in the following manner.
They knew, from their own experience, that some dreams
proceeded from themselves; and this was assigned asthe
first cause. They learnt from revelation that God had
made communications by dreams to some of his favored
children ; and they inferred that he might do the same to
oth is ; and this was regarded as the second cause. But
as bad dreams could not proceed from a good being, they
were under the necessity of attributing such to a different
origin. And being firm believers in the heathen notion
that God divides the government of the world with an
omnipresent, malignant being, they concluded to give the
devil his due ; and accordingly fathered upon him all those
which could not be attributed either to themselves or their
Maker. Their opinion has been extensively embraced,
and has occasioned much unhappiness. But it does not
rest on rational and scriptural evidence, and must there­
fore be regarded as an ancient superstition.
Have you satisfactory evidence that God is the author of
any of your dreams 1 I readily grant that he can suggest
to your minds any trains of thought whatever; for he is
the omnipotent Ruler of all things material and spiritual.
I admit that he has spoken to some of his dependent
Digitized by G o o g le
11
l
children by dreams; for the scriptures give me this infor*
mation. But you will recollect that such dreams were
direct revelations for the accomplishment of some divine
purpose. You will also remember that the volunte of
revelation was long since closed ; and that all which is
essential to the present and eternal happiness of mankind
is plainly revealed. There is therefore no necessity for
any further communications from heaven ; and the gospel
does not authorise us to expect any. But if God has ap-
peared to any one in a dream, it is a direct revelation ;
and as no revelation is of private interpretation, he is bound
to publish it for general benefit. In such a case, he must
give us satisfactory evidence that this communication is
of divine origin. And this he cannot do, for on this sub*
ject, the bare word of no man can be received in evidence,
since those who have made such pretensions have even*
tually discovered their mistake. There is no criterion
by which to determine this question. And suppose some
remarkable dreams have occasionally occurred ; suppose
they have sometimes had the appearance of being fulfilled
what does all this prove ? Nothing at all. For all this
can be satisfactorily explained on the doctrine of the cal­
culation of chances, and the prinèiples of mental philoso­
phy, without resorting for an explanation to the miraculous
interposition of the Deity. And how great must be the
vanity and presumption of that person who professes to
believe that God has actually appeared to him, and really
addressed him, and made him the organ of diviue com­
munications !
Have you satisfactory evidence that the devil is the
author of any of your dreams î I am no where informed
that he possesses any such power of himself. I am no
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
12
where instructed that he was ever the author of a single
dream to the children of men. 1 am no where told that
God ever "employs him in such business. So far as 1
understand the scriptures, I have every reason to believe
that God regulates all the events of this world without his
assistance or interference. If you say that he causes all
those dreams that are not fulfilled ; then you admit that
he has much more connexion with the human family than
their own Father ; for not one in a million comes to pass.
If you say that he is the author of all disagreeable dreams;
then how does it happen that these come alike to bad and
good, and only when they are in some trouble of body,
mind, or estate ? And how can you distinguish his dreams
from those occasioned by other causes ? You have no
means of making such a distinction. You may indeed
guess that he is the author of a particular dream ; and
your neighbor may guess he is not; and on this question
the guesses of one person are as valuable as those of ano­
ther. And does it seem reasonable that a Father of in­
finite love would employ a malignant being to torment his
frail children during the defenceless hours of sleep ? Is
such a belief consistent with the instructions of our Sa­
viour? O no. You have no evidence that the devil is
the author of any of our dreams. The idea is absurd.
And it is unbecoming the followers of Jesus to harbor an
opinion so superstitious in itself, so pernicious in its con­
sequences, and so derogatory to the character of our
heavenly Father.
We come then to the true doctrine, that our dreams
originate from ourselves. Some are influenced by our
bodily sensations. A person, with a bottle of hot water
at his feet, dreams of ascending Mount J£tna ; and ho
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
13
fitods the heat of thè ground almost insupportable. Ano*
ther kicks the bed clothes from his feet, and dreams of
walking through snow banks, even in the summerseason.—
Some drfeams are influenced by the state of our stomach
und bowels. The hungry prisoner dreams of well fur­
nished tables, and the pleasures of eating. The glutton
dreams of a surfeit, and its attendant unpleasant sensa­
tions:—^Some dreams are influenced by our dispositions.
The person of amiable temper and cheerful spirits is fre­
quently refreshed with delightful scenes and visions of
Miss ; while the person of morose, gloomy, irritable, and
^melancholy habits, is generally harassed with those of a
disagreeable and oppressive character.—Some dreams are
influenced by the state of our health. Sickness is usually
attended with those of an unpleasant nature ; while
health secures those of an opposite description.—Some
dreams are influenced by our waking thoughts. The
mathematician solves difficult problems. The poet tovcs
in elysian groves. The miser makes good bargains. The
sensualist riots in the haunts of intemperance and de­
bauchery. The criminal sees the dungeon or the gallows.
The awakened sinner smells the flames of hell, or beholds
the sceptre of pardon. The Christian anticipates heav­
enly joys. Finally—The occasion of some dreams seems
as yet inexplicable. We are however under no necessity
of attributing them to the influence either of good or evil
spirits. For since we can account for so large a portion
of them, it is rational to believe that the causes of the
few unaccountables will be hereafter satisfactorily ex­
plained. We are safe therefore in believing that all our
dreams are caused by some principle of our intellectual
or animal nature.
2
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
14
But if this be the case, how can we account for tbn
apparent fulfilment of some of our dreams 1 In three
ways. In the first place, the cause of the dream is some*
times the cause of its fulfilment. A clergyman dreams
of preaching a sermon on a particular subject. In a few
weeks he delivers the discourse. His dream is there-
fore fulfilled. But his waking thoughts caused the dream,
for he had meditated on this very subject; and they also
caused its fulfilment, for he proceeded to write and deliver
the result of his meditations. Dreams of this class are
sometimes fulfilled at the moment. A student presented
himself at Amherst college for examination. On the night
previous to the appointed time, he arose in his sleep and
proceeded to the President’s study, who, being up, and
perceiving the young man to be asleep, examined him in
the various branches required for admission. He re­
turned to his bed, and in the morning knew not that he
had experienced any more than a natural dream. Such
instances are not uncommon.—In th,e second place, a
belief in the supernatural origin of dreams sometimes
leads to their fulfilment. A person dreams of approach­
ing sickness. His fears and his imagination hasten' on
the calamity. A general, on the eve of battle, dreamed of
a defeat. His belief in dreams deprived him of courage,
and sent a panic through his army. Of course, the en­
emy conquered. You also recollect the story of the
German student. He dreamed that he was to die at a cer­
tain hour on the next day. His friends found him in the
morning making his will and arranging his affairs. As
the time drew near, he had every appearance of a person
near his end. Every argument was used to shake his
belief in the supernatural origin of his dream, but all to
Digitized by G o o g le
15
H6 effect. At lafct, the physician contrived to place the
hands of the clock beyond the specified hour, and by this
means, saved his life. There are instances on record
where death has actually ensued in consequence of such
a belief. It has been produced by the wonderful power
the mind possesses over the body. And there can be no
doubt that believers in dreams frequently take the most
direct measures to hasten on their fulfilment.—Finally.
The apparent fulfilment of dreams is accidental. The
dream happens, and the event dreamed of soon follows;
but the coincidence is altogether fortuitous, and is ex­
plained on the principle of the calculation of chances.
A member of Congress informed me that he frequently
dreamed of the death of some one of his children, while
residing at Washington. The whole scene would appear
before him, the sickness, the death, and the burial; and
this too several times the same night, and on successive
nights. His anxiety for his family caused his dreams.
Now it would have been nothing strange if a member of
his family had died. But in this particular instance it
was not the case. In this way, however, we are always
dreaming of our absent relatives; and it would be a
miracle if a death did not sometimes occur at the time of
the dream. So on all other subjects. But when one
event follows the other, the coincidence is accidental,
and not supernatural. There are occasionally some amu­
sing cases of this kind. The best I recollect is the fol­
lowing. A person dreamed three times in one night
that he must turn to the seventh verse of the fifth chap­
ter of Ecclesiastes, and he would find important instruc­
tion. He arose with the morning light, and opened his
Bible to the specified passage, and read these words.
A
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
Î6
“ In the multitude of dreams*
—
there are divers
vanities.” This is indeed important information for us
ail. And if we will take heed to it, and regard all our
dreams as vanities, we shall be wise. Let us then pay
no further regard to dreams, than to aim to have them
refreshing and agreeable, by preserving apure conscience,
cheerful spirits, good health, and an empty stomach.
4. Ignorance of the influence of the imagination on
the nervous system has given rise to many superstitions.
I will give you a statement of some facts to establish and
illustrate this position. My first example shall be given in
the words of another. “ Sometime previous to seventeen
hundred and eightyfour, a gentleman in the city of Paris,
by the name of Mesmer, pretended to have discovered a
universal remedy for all diseases ; and this remedy con­
sisted in being magnetized under peculiar forms and cir­
cumstances. This animal magnetism, as he denominated
it, he affirmed to be a fluid universally diffused, and filling
all space, being the medium of a reciprocal influence be­
tween the celestial bodies, the earth, and living beings ;—
it insinuated itself into the substance of the nerves, upon
which, therefore, it had a direct operation ; it was capable
of being communicated from one body to other bodies,
both animated and inanimate, and that at a considerable
distance, without the assistance of any intermediate sub­
stance ;—and it exhibited, in the human body some pro­
perties analogous to those of the loadstone, especially the
two poles. M. Mesmer became so celebrated for this
discovery, and he performed such extraordinary cures,
attested by the most respectable authorities, that, in seven­
teen hundred and eightyfour, the French king appointed
a committee, consisting of four physicians, and five mem-
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
17
bers of the Royal Academy of Sciences, to investigate
this matter. Dr Franklin, then the American minister
at Paris, was one of this committee. The committee, as
soon as they had examined the whole apparatus employed
in magnetizing, and taken cognizance of the mysterious
manœuvres of Mesmer and Deslon, the latter a pupil and
colleague of the former, proceeded to notice the symptoms
of the patients while under the influence of magnetism.
These were very various in different individuals. Some
of them were calm and tranquil, and felt nothing ; others
were affected with coughing and spitting, with pains,
heats, and perspirations ; and some were agitated and
tortured with convulsions. These convulsions were ex­
traordinary in their number, severity, and duration. The
commissioners saw them, in some instances, continue for
three hours, when they were accompanied with expecto­
ration of a viscid phlegm, which was ejected by violent
efforts, and sometimes streaked with blood ; one young
man often brought up blood copiously. They had invoK
untary motions of the limbs, of the whole body, and spasms
of the throat ;—their eyes wandered in wild motions, they
uttered piercing shrieks, wept, laughed, and hiccoughed.
These symptoms were generally preceded or followed by
languor, rambling, drowsiness, and even apparent insen­
sibility. It Was observed, however, that the least unex­
pected noise startled them, and increased their agitations
and convulsions, and the patients appeared to be under
the entire control of the magnetizer. They sympathized
in his voice and every gesture. These were the effects
of magnetism on those patients, as witnessed by the com­
missioners, and it was their office to investigate the true
cause of these phenomena.—The commissioners observed
2*
* Digitized by Google
18
that the great majority of those thus actuated were fe ­
males ; that they were not generally affected in this man­
ner until they had been under the operation of magnetism
one or two hours; and that when one' became affected,
the rest were soon seen in the same situation. In order
to give the magnetizer the fairest opportunity to exhibit
the power of his magnetism, and at the same time to ob­
tain the most satisfactory evidence to the public, the com­
missioners all submitted to be operated upon themselves,
and sat under the operation two hours and a half, but
without any sensible effect upon them. The magnetizing
instruments were then removed to Dr Franklin’s house,
away from public view, parade, and high expectation, and
fourteen persons were magnetized, all invalids; nine of
these experienced nothing; five appeared slightly affected,
and the commissioners were surprised to learn that, in
every instance, the poor and ignorant alone were affected.
Subsequently to this, eight men and two women were
magnetized, but without the least effect. At length a
female servant submitted to the same operation; and she
affirmed that she felt a heat in every part where the mag­
netized finger pointed at her; that she experienced a
pain in her head, and during a continuance of the opera­
tion she became faint and swooned. When she had fully
recovered, they ordered her eyes bandaged, and the ope­
rator was removed at a distance, when they made her
believe she was still under the operation, and the effects
were the same, although no one operated, either near her,
or at a distance. She could tell the very place, wherein
she was magnetized ; she felt the same heat, particularly
in the back and loins, and the same pain in her eyes and
ears. At the end of one quarter of an hour, a sign was
* Digitized by Google
19
made for her to be magnetized, but she felt nothing. On
the following day, a man and a woman were magnetized
in a similar manner, and the result was the same. It
was found that to direct the imagination to those parts,
where the sensations were to be felt, was all that was ne­
cessary to produce these wonderful effects. But children
•who had not arrived at sufficient maturity of age to be
excited by these imposing forms, experienced nothing
from the operation. The gentlemen of the magnetizing
power, Mesmer and Deslon, asserted that they could
magnetize a tree, and every person approaching the tree
in a given time would be magnetized, and either fall in a
swoon, or in convulsions, provided the magnetizer was
permitted to stand at a distance and direct his look and
his cane towards the tree. Accordingly an apricot tree
was selected in Dr Franklin’s garden at Vassy, for the
experiment; and M. Deslon came and magnetized the
tree while the patient was retained in the house. The
patient was then brought out with a bandage over his
eyes, and successively led to four trees, which were not
magnetized, and was directed to embrace each tree two
minutes, while M. Deslon at a distance, stood pointing
hi3cane to the tree actually magnetized. At the first
tree, which stood about twentyseven feet from the mag­
netized tree, the patient sweat profusely, coughed, ex­
pectorated, and said he felt a pain in his head. At the
second tree, now thirty feet from the magnetized tree, he
found himself giddy, attended with headache as before.
At the third tree, his giddiness and headache were much
increased, and he said he believed he was approaching
the magnetized tree, although' he was still twentyeight
/eet from it. At length when brought to the fourth tree,
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
20
not magnetized, and at the distance of twentyfour feet
from that which was, the young man fell down in a state
of perfect insensibility ; his limbs became rigid, and he
was carried to a grass plot, where M. Deslon went to his
assistance and recovered him; and yet, in no instance,
had he approached within a less distance than twentyfour
feet of the magnetized tree.—A similar experiment was
soon afterward made on two poor females, at Dr Frank­
lin’s house. These women were separated ; three of the
commissioners remained with one of them in one cham«
ber, and two of them with the other, in an adjoining
chamber. The first had a bandage over her eyes, and
was then made to believe,*that M. Deslon came in and
commenced magnetizing her, although he never entered
the room. In three minutes the woman began to shiver;
she felt, in succession, a pain in her head, and in her
arms, and a pricking in her hands; she became stiff,
struck her hands together, got up and stamped, etc., but
nothing had been done to her. The woman in the ad­
joining chamber was requested to take her seat by the
door, which was shut, with her sight at liberty, and was
then made to believe that M. Deslon would magnetize
the dopr on the opposite side, while the commissioners
would wait to witness the result. She had scarcely been
seated a minute before she began to shiver, her breathing
soon becatne hurried ; she stretched out her arms behind
her back, writhing them strongly, and bending her body
forwards ; a general tremor of the whole body came on ;
the chattering of her teeth was so loud as to be heard out
of the room ; and she bit her hand so as to leave the marks
of her teeth in it; but M. Deslon was not near the door,
nor in either chamber; nor was either of the women
touched, not even their pulse examined.”
Digitized by G o o g le
21
You notice that these effects were produced solely by
the imagination. Those who believed in the efficacy of
magnetism, and those only, were affected by the real or
pretended experiments. And no influence could be ex­
erted on any persons, after the commissioners had ex­
plained the cause of such effects. These facts exhibit
very satisfactorily the power which the mind possesses
over the body. A few more examples of a similar char­
acter may now be adduced. In a poor house in Haerlem,
a girl fell into a convulsive disorder, which returned in
regular paroxysms. On the next day another was taken;
and so on, until all the boys and girls were affected in the
same manner. No good was effected by any medical
prescriptions. At length, Dr Boerhaave ordered several
portable furnaces to be placed in the chamber. These
were filled with burning coals. Over them were laid
some crooked irons. The doctor*then gravely commanded
his attendants to burn the arm of the first child who
should be seized in a fit, with the hot irons, even to the
bone. This remedy proved efficacious. Not a case of
the kind again occurred. Their fears were more power­
ful than their imagination.—In Chelmsford, a man had
six children. One of them was afflicted with the St Vi­
tus’s dance. All the others caught the disorder by imi­
tation and imagination. Nothing could relieve them from
the malady. One day the father brought in a log and an
axe, and solemnly declared he would take off the head of
the first one who should exhibit any more gestures, except
the one first taken. This declaration effectually cured
the five. Their fears produced a deliveranoe from the
nervous agitation.—In one of the Shetlands, a disorder
prevailed among the women at church* When one was
/
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
n
taken, she would scream aloud. Others would immedi*
ately follow her example. The religious exercises were
frequently and seriously disturbed. At communion sea*
sons, fifty or sixty would be carried out into the church
yard. There they would roar and struggle violently for
five or ten minutes. They would then become calm, and
know not what had happened. One day a rough church
officer threw a woman, who was often affected, into a
ditch of water. She was soon cured of her devil. And
the fear of a ducking prevented the recurrence of the dis­
order in any others. These facts illustrate the influence
of the imagination on the nervous system. More might
be added did my limits permit. But sufficient have been
given to enable you to explain many wonderful occur­
rences.
Now all those superstitions, which have arisen from a
belief in the miraculous interference of God, or the devil,
are satisfactorily explained on these principles. Take
first the whole class of supposed miraculous cures ; such
as are said to have taken place at the tombs of catholic
saints ; on the touch of kings; under the powerless pre­
scriptions of quacks; and by the prayers of the pious.
Many such are on record, and their number is gradually
increasing. Some of the cases are too well authenticated
to be doubted. Many people have believed them to be
real miracles. But all such occurrences are clearly and
satisfactorily explained on the principles advanced re­
specting the imagination.—Take next the wonderful
convulsions, contortions, and agitations of body which
have occurred in times of religious excitement. Such
things have actually existed among several different de­
nominations ; among the Auabaptists, Quakers, French
Digitized by G o o g l e
is
Prophets, Methodists, and others. Many people supposed
they were occasioned by the miraculous operation of tbo
holy spirit. But they are now satisfactorily accounted
for on the influence which the imagination possesses over
the nervous system. Finally, take those occurrences
which have been -attributed to satanic influence; such v
as devilish visions, haunted houses, and witches. Some
singular facts are recorded concerning these things.
People have believed they were caused by the miraculous
powers of the defil. JBut the subject is now better under­
stood. There is no evidence to believe there ever was
any such creature as a witch. All things relating to
supposed witchcraft are accounted for on natural princi­
ples. The influence of the imagination explains the
whole business.
[Those who would investigate this subject more thor­
oughly are advised to read a little book lately published
at Andover, with this title : “ Essay upon the influence
of the imagination on the nervous system, contributing
to a false hope in religion. By Rev. Grant Powars.”]
5. Ignorance of mental philosophy has given rise to
many superstitions. You know that many persons have '
believed in the real, visible appearance of visions, ghosts,
spirits, angels, and apparitions. Now these things are
clearly and satisfactorily explained on the established
principles of mental philosophy. And from this source
we learn that they actually exist in the mind, in the same
manner as other ideas and images; and no where else,
except in those instances recorded in scripture. They
are caused by some mental operation or bodily disorder;
and not by supernatural agency. My limits will not per­
mit me to enter into a full explanation of the various
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
$4
fcauses of theit existence. I will therefore give a few
examples, and offer such remarks as seem necessary to
give a proper understanding of the subject. My first ex­
ample is from the experience of one Nicolai, an intelligent
bookseller of Berlin, who knew how to account for the
appearance of his apparitions. Such extracts as are ne­
cessary to my purpose I will give in his own language.
“ In the first two months of the year seventeen hundred
and ninetyone, I was much affected in my mind by several
incidents of a very disagreeable nature ; and on the
twentyfourth of February, a circumstance occurred which
irritated me extremely. At ten o’clock in the foTenoon,
my wife and another person came to console m e; I was
in a violent perturbation of mind, owing to a series of
incidents which had altogether wounded my moral feel­
ings, and from which I saw no possibility of relief; when
suddenly I observed at the distance of ten paces from me,
a figure; the figure of a deceased person. I pointed at
it, and asked my wife if she did not see it. She saw
nothing; but being much alarmed, endeavored to com­
pose me, and sent for the physician. The figure remained
some seven or eight minutes, and at length I became a
little more calm; and as I was extremely exhausted, I
soon afterwards fell into a troubled kind of slumber, which
lasted for half an hour. The vision was ascribed to the
great agitation of mind in which I had been, and it was
supposed I should have nothing more to apprehend from
that cause; but the violent affection had put my nerves
into some unnatural state; from this arose further con­
sequences which require a more detailed description—.In
the afternoon, a little after four o’clock, the figure which
I had seen in the morning again appeared. I was alone
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
25
when this happened; a circumstance, which, as may
easily be conceived, could not be very agreeable. I went
therefore to the apartment of my wife, to whom I related
it. But thither also the figure pursued me. Sometimes
it was present, sometimes it vanished, but it was always
the same standing figure. A little after six o’clock seve­
ral stalkin x figures also appeared; but they had no con­
nexion with the standing figure.—The figure of the de­
ceased person never appeared to me after the first dreadful
day; but several other figures showed themselves after­
wards very distinctly ; sometimes such as I knew, mostly
however, of persons I did not know, and amongst those
known to me, were the semblance of both Jiving and de­
ceased persons, but mostly the former; and I matte the
observation, that acquaintance with whom I daily con­
versed never appeared to me as phantasms ; it was always
such as were at a distance.—These figures appealed to
me at all times, and under the most different circumstan­
ces, equally distinct and cloar. Whether I was alone or
in company, by broad daylight equally as in the night
time, in my own house as well as in my neighbors’j yet
when I was at another person’s house, they were less fre­
quent, and when I walked the public street they very
seldom appeared. When I shut my eyes, sometimes the
figures disappeared, sometimes they remained even after
I closed them. If they vanished in the former case, on
opening my eyes agfl^ nearly the same figures appeared
which I had seen before.—For the most part I saw human
figures of both sexes ; they commonly passed to and fro
as if they had no connexion with each other, like people
at a fair, where all is bustle ; sometimes they appeared to
have business with each ot^er. Once or twice I saw
3
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
26
amongst them persons on horseback, and dogs and birds $
these figures all appeared to me in their natural size» as
distinctly as if they had existed in real life, with the seve­
ral tints on the uncovered parts of the body, and with all
the different kinds and colors of clothes. But I think,
however, that the colors were somewhat paler than they
were in nature.—On the whole, the longer I continued
in this state, the more did the phantasms increase, and the
apparitions became more frequent. About four weeks
afterward, I began to hear them speak; sometimes the
phantasms spoke with one another; but for the most part
they addressed themselves to me ; these speeches were
in general short, and never contained anything disagree­
able. Intelligent and respected friends often appeared to
me, who endeavored to console me in my grief, which
still left deep traces on my mind. This speaking I heard
most frequently when I was alone ; though I sometimes
heard it in company, intermingled with the conversation
of real persons ; frequently in single phrases only, but
sometimes even in connected discourse.—Though at this
time I enjoyed rather a good state of health both in body
and mind, and had become so very familiar with these
phantasms, that at last they did not excite the least disa­
greeable emotion, but on the contrary afforded me fre­
quent subjects for amusement and mirth; yet as the dis­
order sensibly increased, and the fimues appeared to me
for whole days together, and even auring the night, if I
happened to awake, I had recourse to several medicines.
Had T not been able to distinguish phantasms from phe­
nomena, I must have been insane. Had I been fanatic
or superstitious, I should have been terrified at my own
phantasms, and probably might have been seized with
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
27
some alarming disorder. Had I been attached to the
marvellous, I should have sought to magnify my own im­
portance, by asserting that I had seen spirits ; and who
could have disputed the facts with me 1 The year seven­
teen hundred and ninetyone would perhaps have been the .
time to have given importance to these apparitions. In
this case, however, the advantage of sound philosophj
and deliberate observation may be seen. Both prevented
me from becoming either a lunatic or an enthusiast; for
with nerves so strongly excited, and blood so quick in
circulation, either misfortune might have easily befallen
me. But I considered.the phantasms that hovered around
me as what they really were, namely, the effects of dis­
ease ; and made them subservient to my observations,
because I consider observation and reflection as the basis
of all rational philosophy.”
Such is an abridged account of the apparitions of this
philosopher. From these we obtain data for the explana­
tion of others of a similar character. Let us then bring
to this test some of those ^yhich were believed by the
persons to whom they happened to be supernatural oc­
currences. My first example of this kind shall be taken
from the life of Col. Gardner, in the words of his wor­
thy biographer. “ The Colonel had spent the evening
in~some gay company, and had an unhappy assignation
with a married woman, whom he was to attend exactly at
twelve. The company broke up about eleven, and not
judging it convenient to anticipate the time appointed,
he went into his chamber to kill the tedious hour, per.
haps with some amusing book, or some other way. But
it very accidentally happened that he took up a religious
book, which his good mother or aunt had, without his
Digitized by G o o g le
28
knowledge slipped into his portmanteau. It was called,
if 1 remember the title exactly, the Christian Soldier, or
Heaven Taken by Storm ; and it was written by Mr
Thomas Watson. Guessing by the title of it, that he
would find some phrases of his own profession spiritual«
ized in a manner, which he thought might afford him
some diversion, he resolved to dip into it; but he took no
serious notice of anything it had in it, and yet, while
this book was in his hand, an impression was made upon
his mind, which drew after it a train of the most impor­
tant and happy consequences. He thought he saw an
unusual blaze of light fall upon the book while he was
reading, which he at first imagined might happen by some
accident in the candle; but lifting up his eyes, he appre­
hended, to his extreme amazement, that there was before
him, as it were, suspended in the air, a visible representa­
tion of the Lord Jesus Christ upon the cross, surround­
ed on all sides with a glory; and was impressed, as if a
voice, or something equivalent to a voice, had come to
him to this effect. O sinner ! did I suffer this for thee,
and are these thy returns 1 Struck with so amazing a
phenomenon as this, there remained hardly any life in
him; so that he sunk down into his arm chair, in which
hesataud continued, he knew not how long insensible.’*
Now the Colonel would have us believe this vision to
be a miraculous interposition of protfdence for his con­
version. This he firnfty believed, and his belief produced
a happy reformation of character. But the whole affair
admits of an easy explanation on the principles of men­
tal philosophy. The Colonel had fallen from his horse &
few days before, and probably injured his head. He was
preparing for the commission of 9
,heinous sin i APd this too»
4
Digitized by {j Ooq le
29
on the Christian sabbath. His conscience must have been
exceedingly uneasy under his accumulated burden of in­
iquity. Thist book had probably awakened a train of
thought, which brought forcibly to mind his early reli­
gious instruction, the anxiety of his friends for his re­
formation, some of the pulpit exhortations«ho had heard,
and his base ingratitude and atrocious wickedness. AU
these circumstances operating together, produced this
mental apparition—this vision prhich really existed in his
own mind, and no where else; and which was directed
by an overruling providence to his present and eternal
salvation.
As an offset to this, I will relate the vision of lord Her­
bert. This gentleman had written a book against Christ­
ianity. He was doubting about the propriety of publish­
ing the work. I will proceed in his own words. “ Be­
ing thus doubtful in my chamber one fair day in the sum­
mer, my casement being thrown open towards the south,
I took my book in my hand, and, kneeling devoutly on
my knees, devoutly said these words. O thou eternal
God, author of the light which now shines upon me, and
giver of all inward illuminations, I do beseech thee, of
thy infinite goodness, to pardon a greater request than a
sinner ought to make; I am not satisfied enough whether
I shall publish this book; if it be for thy glory, 1 beseech
thee give me some sign from heaven; if not, I shall
suppress it. I had no sooner spoken these words, but a
loud, though gentle voice came from the heavens, for it
was like nothing on earth, which did so comfort and
cheer me, that I took my petition as granted, and that. I
had the sign demanded, whereupon also I resolved to
print my book. This, how strange soever it may seem,
3*
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
30
I protest before the eternal God is true, neither am luny
way superstitiously deceived herein, since I did not only
clearly hear the voice, but in the serenest sky that ever I
saw, being without all cloud, did to my thinking see the
place from whence it came/’
From this relation, you perceive that his lordship is
guilty of a most glaring inconsistency. He writes a book
to prove that there can be no such things as miracles ;
and then asks us to believe that a special miracle was
wrought to encourage him to proceed in its publication.
Still his sincerity is not to be doubted. His firm belief
in the reality of the noise cannot be questioned. And
his word is worth as much in evidence on this subject as
that of Col. Gardner. But we know that God would not
work one miracle for the conversion of a sinner, and ano­
ther for the destruction of Christianity. The truth is,
there was nothing miraculous in either case ; and nothing
but what admits of easy explanation on perfectly rational
principles. There pan be no doubt but the noise existed
in the mind of his lordship, and no where else. And it
was probably caused by his anxiety on the subject, his
conscious integrity, his confidence in the truth of his
cause, and other concurring circumstances. Both visions
are satisfactorily explained on the principles of mental
philosophy; and both relaters are permitted to retain
their reputation for honesty and integrity.
On the same principles, I think the visions and appa­
ritions of Swedenborg admit of a perfectly satisfactory
explanation. His account of their first appearance con­
firms this opinion. You shall have it in his own words.
“ I dined very late at my lodgings at London, and ate
with great appetite, till, at the close of my repast, I per-
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
9!
ceived a kind of mist about my eyes, and the floor of my
chamber was covered with hideous reptiles. They soon
disappeared, the darkness was dissipated, and I saw
clearly, in the midst of a brilliant light, a man seated in
the corner of my chamber, who said to me in a terrible
voice, eat not so much. At those words my sight became
obscured ; afterwards it became clear by degrees, and I
found myself alone. The night following, the same man,
radiant with light, appeared to me and said,—I am God
the Lord, creator and redeemer; I have chosen you to
unfold to men the internal and spiritual sense of the sa*
cred writings, and will dictate to you what you ought to
write. At that time I was not terrified ; and the light,
although very brilliant, made no unpleasant impression
upon my eyes. The Lord was clothed in purple, and the
vision lasted a quarter of an hour. The same night tho
eyes of my internal man were opened, and fitted to see
things in heaven, in the world of spirits, and in hell, in
which places I found many persons of my acquaintance,
'some of them long since dead, and others lately deceased.”
In another place he observes,—*
*I have conversed with
apostles, departed popes, emperors, and kings; with the
late reformers of the church, Luther, Calvin, and Me-
lancthon, and with others from different countries.”
The apparitions of Swedenborg were much more nu­
merous, and of much longer continuance, than those of
Nicolai, but of a similar character. They were probably
caused by his former studies, and habits, and pursuits.
They bear internal marks of earthly origin, although he
firmly believed they were from heaven. When examined
by the light of the gospel and principles of mental phi­
losophy, they appear to me to be nothing more than the
visions and fancies of ^ disordered imagination.
Digitized by L j O O Q I C
32
My limits will not permit me to adduce any more ex­
amples. What I have said will be sufficient to enable
you to offer a satisfactory explanation of all trances, vis­
ions, spectres, ghosts, angels, and apparitions. These
things exist only in the minds of those who pretend to
have experienced or seen them. They are not occasioned
by supernatural agency, but by some mental or bodily
cause. Those who relate them are honest and sincere,
and firmly believe in their reality and divine'origin. Such
a belief has existed through ignorance of mental philoso«
pby.
[Those who would examine this subject more thor­
oughly will find it fully investigated in a work lately pub­
lished at Edinburgh, with the following title: “ Sketches
of the philosophy of apparitions; or, an attempt to trace
such illusions to their physical causes. By Samuel Hib-
bert.]
6. Ignorance of true religion has given rise to most of
the prevailing superstitions. Christ Jesus teaches us that
our heavenly Father regulates the minutest events of this
world; and that He alone is the supreme Ruler of the
universe. Our experience and observation must con­
vince us that this infinite work is accomplished by regu­
lar laws; and not by the intervention of miracles, or the
instrumentality of evil spirits. Now these fundamental
truths are directly opposed to the whole mass of popular
superstitions.
Perhaps you believe in signs. If so, let me select an
example to show the impiety of your belief. You say,
for instance, that {he howling of a dog under a window
betokens death to some member of the family. How
does the animal obtain this foreknowledge, or who sends
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
33
him on this solemn errand ? If you say his appearance
at the house is accidental, then you would have us trust
to chance for information on the most important subject
This is the height of folly. If you say his knowledge of
the approaching event is intuitive, then you would have us
admit that the irrational brute knows more than his intelli­
gent master. This is the height of absurdity. If you say
he is sent by the devil, then you would have us allow that
the enemy of mankind is more attentive to their welfare
than their heavenly Father; for it certainly indicates the
greatest kindness to notify us of our approaching disso­
lution. This is the height of impiety. If you say he is
sent by God, then how do you prove the truth of your
assertion? Does revelation give you this information?
No, nothing of the kind is taught in the Bible. Do the
events follow the supposed sign with such undeviating
regularity as to warrant a general conclusion ? By no
means. The sign is not followed by death once in a
hundred times. And surely you would not accuse the
omniscient and merciful Jehovah either of ignorance of
future events, or of trifling with the feelings of his de­
pendent children. Your assertion therefore is not sup­
ported by a particle of evidence; and these are the only
sources from which proof can be obtained. Consequently,
your belief in signs is superstitious, because it is retained
contrary to rational evidence. It is also unscriptural, be­
cause it contradicts the instructions of the gospel. And
it is pernicious, because it turns your attention from God
to fate and chance and devils. If then you believe that
the great mass of pretended signs is designed to give us
information of approaching events, I wish you to answer
one question for your own improvement. From what
Digitized by Google
34
source does this foreknowledge originate 1 What being
causes the signs ?
Perhaps you believe in lucky and unlucky days. If
so, let me select an example to show the impiety of your
belief. You say, for instance, that Friday is an unlucky
day. And why so 1 Does God permit the devil to rule
the world on this day ? This you cannot believe. For
reason teaches you that a being of unchangeable goodness
could give no such permission. And the Bible informs
you that God never parts with the reins of his government.
Does he employ wicked spirits to torment His children
and frustrate their designs on this day 1 This you cannot
believe. For reason teaches you that an infinite Father
could not be guilty of such cruelty. And the Bible in­
forms you that he loves all the children of his creation,
and that his tender mercies are over all the works of his
hands. Does God himself make this day more unpropi-
tious to human affairs than others ? This you cannot
believe. For facts must convince you that no more dis­
asters occur on this day than on any other. And Paul
instructs you that all days are alike ; and that God rules
the universe every day with infinite wisdom and benevo­
lence. What then makes this an unlucky day ? You
can assign no good reason. Your belief, therefore, that
one day is better than another, or more unpropitious than
another, is both unscriptural and irrational. Whence
then came such an opinion 1 From heathenism. The
heathen were much influenced by this superstition ; and
when converted to Christianity, they incorporated this
with other absurdities into their religious belief. Because
our Saviour was crucified on Friday, they placed this
at the head of their unlucky days. Why they did bq, I
Digitized by Google
35
cannot conceive. For the death of Christ was absolutely
necessary to establish the truth of his religion. And the
day which contributed most effectually to its establishment
was the most lucky day this world ever experienced ; as
all must admit who will be at the trouble to compare the
present state of heathen and Christian nations. And for
this reason, Friday should be regarded as the most pro­
pitious day. But the heathen converts did not consider
this circumstance. They also pronounced Sunday, the
day of his resurrection, to be the most fortunate. Later
Christians have sometimes thought differently. Even the
distinguished Hale has somewhere remarked that he never
knew any undertaking prosper which was commenced on
the sabbath. And the early laws of Connecticut prohib­
ited any vessel from either leaving a port, or •entering a
port, or passing by a village on Sunday. But such pro­
hibitions are now contrary to the wishes of seamen. You
frequently meet with dissipated, unbelieving sailors, who
could not be induced to put to sea on Friday bn any con­
sideration ; but who would rather labor seven successive
nights than not sail on the sabbath. It is rather singular
that infidels should be so afraid of the day of our Saviour’s
crucifixion, and so fond of that of his resurrection. Such
inconsistency however is not uncommon. Those who
make the greatest pretensions to liberality are sometimes
the most bigoted. Those who rail most at the credulity
of others are frequently the most superstitious. Those
who lay the greatest claims to bravery are commonly the
most arrant cowards. Voltaire could* ridicule religion,
in fair weather; but the moment a thunder cloud apk
peared, he was thrown into the greatest consternation,
and must have a priest to pray during its continuance for
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
his preservation. While in health, he could sneer at the
most sacred things; but the instant death approached,
he was overwhelmed with agony, recanted his infidelity,
and died in the bosom of the mother church.—If then
we would avoid the influence of this heathen superstition,
we must regard actions rather than days. If our business
is proper, we have nothing to fear from the day on which
it was commenced. And if we feel that God i3 our Fa­
ther, we shall not be prevented, by any belief in lucky
and unlucky days, from doing our duty on every day, and
enjoying peace and happiness on all days.
Perhaps you believe in witchcraft. If so, let me show
the superstition of your belief. Your belief implies two
things. First, that the devil possesses miraculous powers ;
and second, that he can communicate these powers to
human beings. Now where do you learn that he can
work miracles ? Is he self-existent ? This is absurd.
If he is not, then he must depend on the Creator for his
being, his preservation, and all his faculties. And where
do ydu learn that God has endowed him with miraculous
powers? In the book of revelation? No. Nothing of
the kind is there recorded. Can you support the position
by an appeal to facts ? You can relate witch stories.
And what do these prove ? That those who believe them
are exceedingly superstitious. They were caused by the
influence of the imagination in connexion with a belief
in their possibility and reality. And these are no evidence
at all in the case. £o that the opinion is not supported
either by reason, 6r facts, or scripture. But this is not
all. Once admit that the devil can work miracles, and
you destroy all foundation for belief in revelation. For
how can you tell whether any particular miracle be from
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
31
God or the devil ? And if the devil cah convert himself
into an angel of light, how can you prove that he is not
the author of Christianity ? You see that such an ad*
mission would strike a death blow to all belief in divine
communications. Well then, if his satanic excellence
does not possess miraculous powers, he cannot impart
them to others. And consequently there can never exist
such a thing as a witch ; that is, a woman endowed by
the devil with a knowledge of distant and future events,
and the power of working miracles. A belief in witch­
craft is accordingly a superstition. And as the pure light
of the gospel prevails, it vanishes from the world. The
pure light of the gospel I say. For mere intellectual cul­
tivation is not sufficient. Who were ever better educated
than the ancient Grecians and Romans? And who were
ever more influenced by a belief in signs, and omens, and
spectres, and witches 1 Read the younger Pliny’s account
of the haunted house and supernatural dreams. False
views of the gospel will not effect the object. For who
ever had more to do with the devil than many protestant
Christians ? Read, especially, the writings of Luther.
For him to have an encounter with the old serpent in a
bodily form was the most common thing in the world.
The pure instructions of Jesus will destroy satan and all
his works. Be ye learned or ignorant, if ye believe that
your heavenly Father regulates all the events of this
world, you will have no fears of witches or devils.
But perhaps you ask how the subject of witchcraft came
to be introduced into the Bible ? If there dannot be any
such beings as witches, why did Moses forbid a witch to
live ? The Jews knew nothing of divination until their,
connexion with heathen nations» Among them they
% 4
r
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
38
found a class of necromancers and soothsayers, whopre*
tended to foretell future events and raise the dead. The
profession was taken up by some of the favored people*
And by means of one deceptive art and another, and es*
pecially by means of ventriloquism, they succeeded jo
deceiving .many, and turning them from the living God
to such lying vanities. Of this class was the famous
witch of Endor. Saul had ordered all such characters to,
be destroyed. Finding himself forsaken by Jehovah, he
resolved to consult this fortune-teller. He attempted to.
disguise himself; and accordingly she pretended not to
know him. But this was mere pretence. For he was a
head taller than any other person; and he promised her
security in the royal manner. In order to convince him
of her miraculous powers, she pretended that some spirits
had informed her who he was. This device completely
succeeded with the frightened, depressed king. She
then made him believe her conversation was carried on
with the prophet, which was easily effected .by means of
ventriloquism. Her prediction was founded on such evi­
dence as she possessed, and proved, to be well founded.
A more full explanation of the whqle aflfyjr may be found
in some of the late publications. Aijd now what were
the crimes for which this class of imposters were con­
demned to death. They were three. First, they denied
the overruling providence of Jehovah. Second, they in­
troduced other deities.. And third, they seduced the
people from the service ofthe one only living and true God.
The very law of Moses goes on the supposition that no
being but Jehovah could either foretell future events or
work miracles. Apd if I pretend that the devil possesses
miraculous powers, and can communicate these powers
#
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
to human beings, I am guilty of precisely the same crimes
for which the ancient witches were condemned to death.
Perhaps you believe in modern miracles. If so, let me
show the superstition of your belief. In the first place,
Jesus gave no intimation that miracles shpuld continue
after the establishment of Christianity. He promised to
be with his apostles even unto the end of that age. He
deolared that all who believed their instructions should
also have power to cast out devils, heal diseases, speak
with new tongues and withstand any deadly thing. But
Ms promise did not extend beyond the immediate converts
of the apostles. And we have no satisfactory evidence
that miracles were wrought by any but these ; while we
have abundant testimony that our Saviour’s promise was
literally fulfilled.—In the second place, there was no ne­
cessity for miracles after the establishment of Christianity.
They were first wrought by Almighty God to confirm the
mission of his well beloved Son ; to prove to the world
that he was sent by the universal Father to be the Saviour
of the human family. They were continued to enable
the apostles and their converts to propagate the new reli­
gion among all nations. When these two objects were
accomplished, there was no further necessity for miracu­
lous interposition* For a history of the divine revelation
was committed to writing, and translated into the pre­
vailing languages of the civilized world. And if any one
would not be convinced of its divine origin by theLmass
of evidence with which it was accompanied, neither
would he believe, though one should rise from the dead.—
In the third place, the purposes for which modern mira­
cles are said to have been wrought are not worthy the
interposition of the Deity. Opposing sects of Christians
Digitized by Google
40
bare pretended that miracles have been wrought to es­
tablish the truth of their peculiar views of the gospel
This is impossible; fof no sect can claim the whole truth;
and the poiAts of difference could not be true in two dif­
fering sects. Besides, a being of infinite wisdom would
not give a revelation so imperfect or obscure as to endan­
ger the happiness of any honest inquirer. Neither would
he give one so powerless in evidence or efficacy as to re­
quire new miracles for the conversion 6f unbelievers. To
confirm and establish Christianity was indeed an object
worthy his miraculous interposition; as all must admit
who will compare our elevated station with the mental
and moral degradation of all heathen nations.—In the
fourth place, pretended modern miracles admit of easy
explanation on natural principles. Diseases have been
suddenly healed; but imagination effected the cure.
Religious excitements have existed among all denomina­
tions ; but they have been produced by human exertions
and concurring circumstances. Visions, ghosts, and ap­
paritions have been seen; but they existed only in the
minds of the observers; and were caused by some mental
or bodily operation. Nothing of this kind can be said
of the miracles of Jesus. His cannot be accounted for
on any natural principles; but must have been caused by
divine miraculous agency.—Finally, modern miracles are
not supported by satisfactory evidence. They have been
mostly wrought in secret. No witnesses can be produced
but the most interested. This was not the case with
those of our Saviour. They were performed openly; aUd
in the presence of friends and enemies. They could not
be deceptions; for the resurrection of a dead person
could be tested by the evidence of the senses. There-
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
41
murk of the late lamented Judge Howe may be appropri­
ately introduced in this connexion. He had studied the
evidences of Christianity most thoroughly and impartially;
and a firm belief in its divine origin was the result He
observed that no jury could be found» who would give a
verdict against the truth of Christianity, if the evidences
on both sides could be fairly presented before them, and
they were governed in forming their opinion by the com­
mon rules of belief The truth of this observation is
conformed by the fact that candid inquirers after truth
have uniformly risen from an examination of the evidences
of Christianity, believers in its divine origin. Now no*
thing of the kind can be said of modern miracles. No
jury could be obtained of disinterested persons who would
give a verdict in their favor. And therefore we have no
satisfactory evidence to believe in their reality. Our
safest course then is to admit the conclusion of eminent
divines of different denominations, that miracles ceased
with the first converts of the apostles.
Perhaps you believe in the divine inspiration of some*
one of the pretended prophets or christs. You know
that many such have appeared in different ages of the
ohurch. Even now, we have a man in our own country,
Who declares that he is the very Christ; and pretends that
he has come to judge the world. And strange as it may
seem to us, he is attended by some respectable people
who worship him as God. Some of these fanatics have
obtained many converts; and there are various religious
parties who still adhere to their teachings. If you are a
believer in the divine mission of any one of this class, on
what evidence is your faith founded ? Certainly not on
the gospel. For Jesus gives you d o reason to expect any
4*
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
farther revelation from heaven. Nay, he expressly for­
bids the indulgence of any such expectation. He plainly
informs you that false Christs and false prophets would
appear and deceive many. He solemnly eautions you
not to be led astray by their devices and pretensions.
And he has given you no authority to expect his second
appearance until the grand consummation of all things ;
so that your belief must be unscriptural.—Do you found
your belief on the bare word of a pretended messenger
from heaven ? This you cannot rationally do. For the
word of one such person is as valuable as that of another.
The honesty and sincerity of one are no more to be
doubted than those of another. Several have appeared
and made pretensions to a divine commission. Now the
word of all cannot be received. For they all differ from
each other in their instructions. They all promulgate a
different system of faith and practice. So that you can
found no belief on the bare word of a fanatic.—Do you
rely on the state of feeling produced by a reception of
the speculations of the pretended prophet ? This you
cannot rationally do. For every class of religionists con­
fidently appeal to their feelings, in proof of the truth of
their peculiar sentiments. This is done by the Jew, the*
Hindoo, the Mahometan, the Catholic, the C^rinist, the
Methodist, the Universalist. And why are n l the feel­
ings of one man as good evidence in this case as those of
another. They are. And if you admit this, you destroy
this ground of belief. For all religions cannot bo true.
But such is human nature that persons of any sentiments
can eventually bring their feelings to coincide with their
belief.-r-Do you found your belief on the internal evidence
#f the writings of any pretended prophet? Let w look
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
43
to this species of proof. Take for instance the books of
Swedenborg, since they may be readily examined. So
fir as his instructions coincide with the gospel, all is well;
but this does not prore a new rerelation. Where they
extend beyond the teachings of scripture, some of them
appear to me to be rational, some plausible, some rtdicu-
kms, some absurd, and some blasphemous. Where they
contradict the precepts of the Bible, they appear to me
to lead to the most dangerous results. He tells us that
about one seventh part of the Old Testament, and more
than one half of the New, are not the word of God. He
allows us to keep concubines, and to put away our wires
for trifling causes. He says many things on the connexion
of the sexes which delicacy forbids me to mention, but v
which may be seen in his treatise on conjugial and scor-
tatory love. Now this circumstance destroys all the
proof arising from internal evidence. For surely God
would not commission his son to reveal one system of
practical truths, and another person to abolish them for
the gratification of sensual lusts and appetites. So that
the internal evidence of his writings is far from convin­
cing me of their divine origin. And the same remarks
are equally applicable to every system which has appeared
since the completion of the New Testament. Let us
then adhere to the rook of ages. Depart from Jesus, and
follow any other guide, either nature, reason, pretended
reformer, false prophet, or antichrist, and you but wander
in midnight darkness.
III. What are some of the pernicious effects of popu­
lar superstitions ?
1. They have caused a great waste of time. Look at the
pnetiees of heathen nations. Their religions ceremonies
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
44
are altogether superstitious. And consequently, all the
time devoted to false gods must be considered as wasted.
—Take a survey also of Catholic countries. Daring the
dark ages, their priests were engaged in nonsensical die
putes. Treatise after treatise was composed on suck
subjects as the following. How many angels«can stand
on the point of a needle ? Have spirits any navels ? Was
Jesus Christ born totally depraved 1 Is the Virgin Mary
the mother of God I And a thousand others equally
senseless and unprofitable. In their monasteries, multi«
tudes passed their days in repeating unintelligible prayers,
poring over the legends of their saints, cutting figures
in paper, and tormenting their bodies for the good of their
souls.—Turn your attention likewise to Protestant lands.
You learn that many a folio has been written on foolish
and unintelligible subjects; that many a day has been
occupied in trying and burning witches and heretics; that
many a pharisaic custom has been scrupulously observed;
and many an absurd opinion advanced and defended.
/A n d even in our own times, do you find no moments and
hours occupied, in discoursing about signs and tricks,
dreams and visions, spectres and apparitions ?—In con­
sulting charms, and lots, and fortune-tellers 1
—In prying
into future events and occurrences ?-^-In borrowing trou­
ble on account of some supposed unfavorable omen ?—
Or in various other practices equally vain and superstt-
tious 1 Now all this is wrong. Time is giverf for no
such purposes. We have but a short period to remain in
this world, and a great work to accomplish. Let us then
be always engaged in something useful and virtuous.
2. Popular superstitions have also caused a great waste
of humau life. Cast your eye over the page of history.
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
45
You there notice an account of the trial by ordeal. This
was effected both by fire and water. The accused person
was required, either to hold red hot iron balls in his naked
hands, or to walk over red hot plates of iron with bare
feet. If he escaped unburned, he was considered inno­
cent ; but if he was scorched, sentence of death was pro­
nounced. Or he was compelled, either to thrust his arm
into a cauldron of boiling water; or be thrown into a
deep pond. If he was either unscalded or drowned, his
innocence was proved; but if he was scalded or could
swim, the sentence of condemnation was passed. You
perceive that in neither case, could life be saved, except
by the interposition of a miracle; and this was not to be
expected on such occasions. And through this superstition,
thousands perished in this unrighteous manner.—You
also notice the condemnations upon suspicion. Let the
masonic knights be selected as an appropriate illustration.
During the crusades, they constituted a large and im­
portant body. When the holy wars were oyer, the^ were
accused, by some enemies, of every imaginable crime.
The accusation was supported by no evidence whatever;
for their lives were irreproachable. They were however
condemned by their respective governments, without any
proper trial, simply because they held secret meetings.
E&rdon was offered to all who would confess themselves
guilty of the alleged crimes; while those, who would
not make such a confession, were ordered to be burned
to death in a slow fire of green wood. While all the vil­
lains escaped unharmed, large numbers of the virtuous
were thus inhumanly murdered upon bare suspicion.—
You notice likewise, the condemnations Upon false evi­
dence. The trials for witchcraft afford a good exemplify
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
46
&
cation. I »oppose the same evidence, upon which they
were condemned to death, might now be brought against
every old woman in the land. A distinguished writer
computes that more than one hundred thousand persons
of all ages have suffered death for witchcraft. Only
think! one hundred thousand persons murdered by
Christian hands for a crime of which no human being was
ever guilty!—You notice, finally, the condemnations for
virtue. It is a duty to search the scriptures thoroughly,
and abide by the results of the investigation. But for
performing this sacred duty, professing Christians have
murdered each other without mercy and without number.
In our free republic, I trust that life cannot be destroyed
without fair trial. But there are some few among us who
pretend to believe, that all who do not think exactly as
they do on certain subjects, must be eternally damned.
So long however as they persecute only by words and
curses, they are welcome to the happiness of such a be­
lief. tWe arQ not to be judged by such weak minds, but
by the unerring Jehovah. There are others who bring
U£*n themselves sickness and even death, by their belief
hi signs, and drAms, and forewarnings. This glance at
*the historian’s page should teach us never to expect a
mupiele to attestation of innocence ; and never to con­
demn others, either on suspicion or on false evidence, or
for doing the same things we practise ourselves.
*8. Popular superstitions have caused much misery.
We neeiknot refer to history for an illustration of this as-
^ sertion. We have sufficient examples around us. Look
into society, and you will find one class, who pay partic­
ular attention to all signs and dreams. If anythiufyun-
favorable is indicated, their feelings are greatly dw ess-
1
Digitized by Google
47
«4; and if the contrary, they are as much elated. If a
little insect, called the deathwatch, knocks for its mate
on the wall, sleepless nights are sure to follow. If they
notice the new moon over the wrong shoulder, their com*
fort is destroyed for a .whole month. If they dream of
death, they must send a letter tforthwith to all absent
relatives, even if they be settled in every state in the
union.—You also notice another class, whose belief in
the supernatural origin of omens and warnings leads
them to adopt measures for their speedy fulfilment.
Many a wedded couple seem to think they must quarrel,
because they were married on a stormy day; and when
some subject of dispute arises between them, they fall to
the 4ruth of the prediction. And for
on of domestic harmony, they blame,
jpers and,passions, but the decrees of
tice likewise a third class,4who give
themselvq* to tricks, fortune telling and opening books,
to discover the events of futurity. Their spirits \
with the supposed indications of good or evil oci
rences. A lady, who moved in the first circles, was o
visiting'in a clergyman’s family of my acquaintance;
and it was her regular morning practice, to toss up a little
box of pins, and make her happiness for the day depend
upon their accidental variation in falling. If they came
down more heads than points, she was cheerful and
happy ; but if the contrary, she was gloomy and wretch*
ed, It seemed she valued her comfort, worth at least a
r,a person has supposed he must live in po-
moles have appeared on the wrong
H . And hence he neglects all industry
and dissipates his time, and privileges, and
- Digitized by
48
brass pin. Many a worthy Christian has not only been
deprived of his happiness, but betrayed into wild, ex­
travagant, foolish, and sinful acts, by attempting to fol­
low the suggestion of the passage which first meets his
eye on opening his Bible. Many a poor wight has
formed a disadvantageous matrimonial alliance, because
some old hag has described black eyes and rosy cheeks
as the characteristics of his future bride.—You notice,
moreover a fourth class, who are for ever anticipating
some dreadful calamity. Let any fool solemnly proclaim
that war, famine or pestilence is approaching, they will
give more heed to it than to that holy word which as-
isures us that our heavenly Father will never leave nor
forsake us. All uncommon appearances in the heavens,
they look upon as indications of the threatened judg­
ments of an angry God. Even the beautiful aurora bo­
realis which spanned the blue concave above us was so in­
terpreted. And even some clergymen, who should have
known better, took occasion from it to terrify timid souls
into an assent to their creeds.—Finally, you notice a fifth
class, who exhibit the most wobegone countenances,
and speak in the most sepulchral tones, and dolei^ut their
melancholy warnings to every cheerful spirit, and all for
W at 1 Why they fear that the universal Father will not
eventually do so well for his children, as they would do
for the human family, were their ability equal to their
inclination. On account of this fear, they constantly
torment themselves, and the smoke of their torments i$
continually ascending, to the great annoyance of all with­
in the sphere of their influence.—Now all this is wicked.
To permit any such superstition to disturb and destroy
our enjoyment, is sin against heaven. Our heavenly Fa-
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
4# f
ther created us for happiness. He has furnished us with
the capacities and means of felicity. He has even com­
manded us to rejoice in the Lurd always. He has given
us a religion to effect this desirable object. It is as much
a part of this religion to |>e always cheerful, contented
and happy, as to be always temperate, just and virtuous.
And if .people would take one tenth part the pains to
make themselves happy that they do to render themselves
miserable, there would, be ten times the present amount
of happiness.
4. Popular superstitions have greatly injured the
cause of medicine.—That superstition which leads people
to believe in the efficacy of charms is very injurious.
Let me explain my meaning by a few examples. The
scrofula is frequently called the king’s evil. It received
this name because it was generally believed that the
touch of a king would cure the disorder. This belief
was formerly so prevalent, that the kings of England set
apart one day in seven to bestow healing mercies on their
subjects. The practice was begun in the year one thou­
sand and fifty one, and continued until the reign of the
present royal family, who were possessed of too much
sense to encourage such an idle superstition. In the
course of twentyseven years, there came to the first
Charles to receive his touch, ninetytwo thousand one
hundred and seven. In that country, the opinion still
prevails, that the disorder can be cured by the touch ofthe
ninth son of a ninth son ; and in our land, the seventh spn
of a seventh son.—Not long since, the cold hands ofa con­
vict, who had terminated his life on the gallows in Liv­
erpool, were drawn over several wens a number of times,
to effect a cure.—A person in one of our western stages
5
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
lately rdn a pitchfork into his hand, and he applied *
plaster to the cold iron as well ns to the fresh wound.
When people run a nail into their foot; they frequently1
save and polish the fusty iron to facilitate the recovery.—
During the last seasbn, in Maine, the body of a female
was taken from the grave, her heart taken out and pul«
verised, and given to another member of the family as a
specific for consumptive complaints. Did my limits per­
mit, I could relate a thousand more cases equally silly
and disgusting. All such things I class together under
the general name ofcharms ; and I pronounce them to
be gross superstitions. For a belief in their efficacy im­
plies one of three things. You may contend that there
is healing efficacy hi the prescriptions themselves. But
this appears to me perfectly absurd. For you may as
well have the touch of a slave as a king; you may as
well apply your plaster to a tree as a pitchfork; you may
as well drink the heart of a lamb as a woman.—You may
say that God has determined certain cures shall follow
certain applications. No such determination is publish­
ed in his word. And no such conclusion can be infer­
red from facts.—You may pretend a special miracle is
wrought oh each occasion. But this is incredible. For
tho object is not worthy the miraculous interposition of
the Deity. And the few cures which are reputed to
have taken place, are satisfactorily accounted for on the
influence of the imagination, and other natural causes.
So that such a belief is not only superstitious, but calcu­
lated to lead people to neglect the proper means of reco­
very, and thus injure themselves and the medical pro­
fession.
^ibat superstition which leads people to employ quack
50
Digitized by Google
doctors is also injurious to the cause of medicine. Bj t
quack, I mean one who has not used the necessary means
for obtaining a knowledge of the healing art. Many
each have appeared in oar country, and they may be di­
vided into four cfasses. In the first place, there is the
■quack who depends for his success on the influence of
*imagination. Of this number was the famous Austin,
'who resided in Colchester, Vermont, about twenty years
since. He proclaimed to the world that he could heal
-all turdblt diseases, if the suffering would give him a
statement of their cases, either in person or by letter*
He was visited by hundreds of invalids; and thousands
more honored him with a written account of their afflic­
tions. Reports of the most wonderful cures were put in
circulation. But after a few years, the people discovered
their folly, and permitted the pretended prophet to sink
into his former merited obscurity.—-In the second place,
there is the quack who effects his cures by diet and re­
gimen. Of this number was the;;celebrated rain water
«factor. He established himself o n e ^ n ^ t Providence,
and at another in th«s vicinity. Many ofxtsxan recollect
the accounts of marvellous cures, and the flocking of in­
valids of all descriptions to his temple of health. He en­
joined a spare diet, proper exercise, and suitable precau­
tion ; and in this way benefited many. But the com­
munity at length discovered thp imposition ; and left him
to the undisturbed enjoyment:' of his rain water and his
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
x#rt&in directions* As soon a* the stimulauts haw font
their power, a reaction takes place* ami the patient sM p
hack to hie former state. The quack immediately atttih-
tites this to some deviation from the prescriptigns,. ,And
the patient is left either to linger on in wretchedness, or
to give up the ghost, with the bitter reflection that his
own negligence has hastened his dissolution.—Finally*
there is the quack who either kills or cures w^h the
..most powerful remedies. O f this number is the noto­
rious Thompson of lobelia memory. You often observe
.notices of deaths which are .declared to be caused by
the prescriptions of some of his disciples. For my own
part, I have no doubt these are generally true. I do net
suppose they kill their patients intentionally, but in pure
ignorauce.—Now I must consider it superstition which
leads to the employment of such characters. Do you
suppose God assists them by miracle ? This is absurd.
Do you suppose he has miraculously given them that
knowledge which others acquire only by long and close
study and practice ? This is equally absurd. Do you
suppose they prescribe by guess, and cure by accident?
This is doubtless the truth. How absurd, then, to give
them employment. Should you call me foolish were I to
, employ a Hottentot to instruct my children Ir-An Ameri­
can savage to defend my civil rights?—And a Hindoo
to preach for my edifleatiou ? And how much more su­
perstitious should I prove royself were I to employ a person
to tamper with my very life/^who I knew had never, taken
the proper measures for acquiring a knowledge of the
human system, its various diseases and their appropriate
• remedies. 1
That superstition which wouJdWovent human idisatc-
Digitized by Google
63
tions, is likewise injurious to the cause of medicine. In
France provision is made by law for securing a proper
supply of subjects. Those who die in prisons, hospi*
tals, and alms-houses are consigned to the medical
faculty, unless claimed within a certain time by some
friend. In Great Britain, ho such law exists; and the
difficulty of obtaining subjects has been so great, as not
only'to injure the science, but to induce the physicians
of Scotland to agree to give up their own bodies for dis-
sectioq. An attempt is now making in Parliament to
obtain the passage of some law by which the present evil
may be obviated. In our country, no law exists on this
subject; and there prevails a very general opposition to
obtaining subjects in any manner. This arises from two
causes. In the first place, many people believe in the
literal resurrection of this animal body; and therefore
they are unwilling to have it exposed to the dissecting
knife. Now supposing this belief is true, what harm can
follow from the dissection. Will not the Almighty be
able to collect and unite its scattered dust and frag­
ments 1 To suppose the contrary, would be impeaching
his omniscience and omnipotence. But for my own
part, I believe with St Paul, that flesh and blood cannot
inherit the kingdom of God. My present body is conn
posed of flesh, and blood, and bones. Of course, it can
vbe of no use to me after death. While I remain in this
world, I will make it as serviceable as possible. When I
leave it, if it can be of any value to my fellow beings, I
cheerfully consign it to their service. After they have
taken to pieces the curious workmanship of the Almighty,
and obtained such knowledge as may enable them to be
useful in their profession, I hope they will give the frag«.
5*
Digitized by L i O O Q L e
54
Bents a decent burial, and refrain %xn disturbing the
feelings of any surviving friend. When I enter upon the
next stage of existence, I firmly trust my heavenly Fa­
ther will give me a spiritual body, adapted to the wants
and improvements of my immortal soul. And if people
will examine the scriptures more carefully on this point,
and realize the importance of having a proper supply of
subjects, I have no doubt they will generally coincide
with my views and declarations.—The second cause of
opposition is such as we can all appreciate. Nope of us
wish to know that the remains of our departed friends
have been disturbed. This is a sacred sentiment, and
it should be respected. And for this reason, that we
may be delivered from fear on this subject, our govern­
ment is called upon to make some legal provision for the
necessary supply. This is the only thing that can save
our feelings, and promote the science of medicine. I
suppose every person of common sense knows that sub­
jects must be dissected. Would you employ a person to
put a watch together who bad never seen one taken
apart? And can you expect a person to understand
surgery and medicine without an intimate acquaintance
with the human body ?
5. Popular superstitions have greatly injured the
cause of pure religion.—That superstition which allows
any substitute for personal righteousness is very per­
nicious. The Pharisees considered themselves holy, be­
cause they were descendants of faithful Abraham. They
also fasted twice a week ; paid tithes of all they possess­
ed ; made long prayers in public places; were zealous to
gain proselytes to their paity, and strictly observed all
.«acred days and ceremonial observances. At the same
Digitized by
¿Google
66
time, they neglected the weightier matters of the law,
justice, mercy and faithfulness; devoured widows’ houses,
and were proud, bigoted and self-righteous.—Some
Roman Catholics perform tedious pilgrimages; lacerate
their bodies most inhumanly; abstain from meats and
drinks on certain days; pay the priests and the pope for
the pardon of their sins, arid bequeath their property to
the church. At the same time, they indulge in false­
hoods, profanity, intemperance, debauchery, and other
heinous iniquities.—Some Protestants attend punctually
upon all religious meetings; subscribe to contradictory
articles of belief; compass sea and land to make con­
verts to their denomination; observe all gospel ordi­
nances, and exhibit great sanctity of outward appearance.
the same time, they are fretful, unkind and disobliging
in their families; censorious in their conversation; un­
charitable in their judgment; grasping in their dealings,
and unhappy in their dispositions. Others pretend to be­
lieve, either that they are of the number of the elect, and
therefore cannot commit iniquity; or that Christ has
died for the sins of the whole world, and therefore they
may continue sinning with impunity; or that if they ex­
hibit an outward form of godliness, their hearts may be
tilled with avarice, ambition,' lust, revenge, and impiety.
AH such substitutes for personal goodness, I class to­
gether. And I pronounce them to be superstitions, be­
cause they derive no support from reason, experience or
revelation. A belief in them is exceedingly injurious to
the cause of piety and holiness; because it leads people to
neglect the one thing needful, a uniformly sober, right­
eous and godly life. God will assuredly render unto
every man according to his deeds. Be he pharisee or sad-
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
66
ducee, catholic or protestant, orthodox or libera), elect or
nonelect, he can escape the punishment of no sin, except
by reformation. And no sin is ever removed, no virtue
is ever given, by miracle. Our iniquities must be for­
saken, and our goodness acquired, by our own exer­
tions, aided by the promised influence of the holy spirit.
And until we have accomplished both these objects, we
cannot rationally expect any pure and permanent hap­
piness.
That superstition which leads people to believe in the
miraculous powers of the devil is also very pernicious in
its consequences. This belief was retained by some of
the early reformers, among other heathen and popish ab­
surdities. Martin Luther gravely informs us that his
satanic majesty entered his bolted chamber one night,
stole his hazelnuts, and cracked them on his bed-post,
to his no small annoyance; and that he appeared to him
on another occasion, in the form of Jesus Christ, sus­
pended on the cross. And he would have us believe
that the old dragon was leagued with the catholic church,
and tormented him because he was engaged in reforming
her abuses. But many persons of the present day are so
skeptical, as to think his devils were occasioned by no­
thing worse than good living and the want of proper ex­
ercise.—In the time of New England witchcraft, Cotton
Mather took home one of the possessed damsels, to
learn the ways and works of satan. He discovered, that
while her devil would neither permit her to hear his
prayers nor read the scriptures, he was much pleased to
have her peruse any quaker publication, and especially
the episcopalian prayer book ; thus modestly intimating
that while quakerism and episcopalianism were under
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
81
the special patronage of the evil one, he was w&cee.dipgjj
opposed to Calvinism; and if he is a personage of snob
understanding as his friends represent, I am not surprised
that he was a little shocked at some of the represents
liens this system gives of the character and proceedings
of the universal Creator.—Not long since, a house in
Maine was said to be haunted. The building apd fund*
tore were shaken, dreadful noises were heard, dismal
sights were seen, and heavy blows were received. The
Occupant of the bouse had lately left a calvinistic tbeoiog*
ioal seminary. He is now a settled universalist preacher.
Since his ehinge of sentiments, he has explained to the
people the probable causes of the disturbance?. A
neighboring family informed me, that he now considered
it the spirit of God, haunting him to forsake Calvinism
and declare universal salvation. His explanation is jpst
* aa satisfactory as those of Luther and Mather, \JTbo*
ever understands the infiuenee of the imagination» will
find no difficulty in accounting for the occurrences in
either case—An anonymous writer has lately given u?
some ¡niormatioi* eo the miraculous powers of the devil.
By adopting a literal interpretation of some figurative
passages of scripture, he pretends* to believe the old ser­
pent stoodon a high mountain, and actually surveyed all the
kingdoms of this round! world. What wonderful powers
of vision, to see either through this, solid globe eight
thousand miles; or around it twentyfive thousand! But
this is not all. He teaches that Christ Jes$s is the very
God, and that his agony in the garden was caused by a
fight with old beeiaebuh. Who can tell but this powers
fid prince of darkness will soma day or other obtain the:
victory, and take the government of the universe into hi*
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
S6
own hands! But to.crown the whole, in the true spirit
of the dark ages, he would have us know that all who do
not receive his interpretations of scripture, as infallible,
are the very advocates and emissaries of satan. Now I
frankly confess that my Maker has not given me a believ-
ing faculty sufficiently capacious to receive such enor­
mous truths. And if a literal meaning is to be given to
all the figurative parts of scripture, I must give up the
expectation of becoming orthodox in my sentiments.—»
I once resided in a place where there was a very general
awakening. In a few months I discovered that the
largest portion of the converts, and especially the most
zealous, had fallen from grace, to be great workers of ini­
quity. I inquired the cause of so singular an occurrence,
and was informed by a deacon, that all such were the
devil's converts, and th it be usually secured a larger num­
ber in revivals of religion than the Lord.—Not many
years ago, a man was suddenly missing from a certain
town in this commonwealth. The church immediately
sent one of her members to consult the far famed fortune
telling Molly Pitcher. After making the necessary in­
quiries, she intimated that the absent person had been
murdered by a family of negroes, and his body sunk in
the deep waters behind their dwelling! Upon this evi­
dence, the accused were forthwith imprisoned, and the
pond raked in vain from shore to shore. A few days
previous to the trial, the murdered man returned to his
friends safe and sound; thus giving the naughty skep­
tics occasion to say, that the fortune teller, instead of
receiving from the devil information of distant and future
events, had actually played the very devil with the super­
stitious church.—These example* are enough to shaw
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
you that a belief in the miraculous powers of the devil if
still prevalent in the land. And it is very injurious to th*
cause of pure religion« because it leads people to be
watching fir the assaults of an outward tempter wheir
they should bo disciplining their inward lusts and pas«
sions; because it furnishes the sinner with a very con«
venient packhorse for his iniquities; because it fills tho
timid soul with fears of imaginary dangers; because it
keeps alive an eager credulity for every tale of ignorance
and superstition ; because it gives religious partizans the
opportunity of accusing their opponents of being under
satanic influence, and because it turns the thoughts from
an all perfect being who regulates the minutest events« to
a malignant leader of a hellish host. And when such
impressions are made upon the minds of children« the
effect is most baneful and lasting. A pious mother not
finding it convenient to attend her little son to rest, told
him to omit his prayers for one night. " Mother,” said*
the child, “ will the devil forgive me if I neglect my
prayers ? ” Resist the devil and he will flee from thee.
That superstition which leads people *to believe that
God works miracles at the present day, is likewise very
injurious to the cause of religion. This belief is also a
remnant of popery. In the Roman church, miracles are
of common occurrence. The priests are able to get them
dp on almost any emergency. Prince Hohenloe ha*
lately cured another case of the consumption by his1
prayers. Many impositions have doubtless been prac­
ticed on the ignorant and credulous Catholics ; but we
must resort to the influence of the imagination for a satis­
factory explanation of some of their pretended miracles.—
The | reachers iu some Christian denominations, pretend
Digitized by Google
60
lo inspiration. Their hearer* really believe that the
thoughts of their disagrees are immediately suggested
to their minds by the holy spirit, if so, then they indeed
proclaim a new revelation. But to mo it seems impious
to attribute such confused, fanatical harangues to the
fountain of wisdom, and truth, and purity. I arp sure l
should never mistake them for the dictates of divine in*
spiration. If you listen to thp experiences which are
related by applicants for church membership, you will
And that many of them are nothing less than miraculous.
My limits will permit me to record but one case, which
occurred in a late revival. The man went to bed an
unconverted sinner. His body soon began to swell, and
continued increasing, until it reached the size of a hogs­
head. A bright light then filled the chamber, and Christ
Jesus appeared. The swelling began to subside immc-
diately, and all settled down in his heart. He arose in
the morning, a regenerated Christian. I am sorry that
ministers, who know how to account for these vain irna*
ginations, permit their converts to relate them as evi­
dences of their regeneration.—Some persons believe that
a chemical change is produced on their hearts by the
miraculous influence of the spirit. Their belief is ac­
quired by receiving literally, the figurative expressions of
their preachers. I have conversed with several such
characters. We cannot be too plain and perspicuous in
our discourses. The expressions frequently used in sea­
sons of religious excitement, are liable to the same ob­
jection. We hear that the Almighty is visiting such a
town ; that he is coming this way; that he has arrived in
a certain village; that he will remain but a few days
longer; that he has been driven away by unbelievers»
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
61
and that he cannot be expected again for many years.
Such language is not only false, but shocking to my
mind, in the highest degree. Our heavenly Father is
everywhere present. He never leaves nor forsakes his
children. He is more ready to give his holy spirit, than
earthly parents to give good gifts to their offspring. He is
always ready to assist those who assist themselves ; but
not in a miraculous manner.—Now a belief in modern
miracles is unsupported by evidence. And it injures the
cause of truth and righteousness ; because it leads igno­
rant persons to mistake the suggestions of their own
hearts for the miraculous operations of the holy spirit ;
because it encourages sinners to defer attention to the
duties of religion, in expectation of the special interpo­
sition of heaven ; because it induces new converts to
disregard the only scriptural evidence of conversion, a
sober, righteous and godly life, and enables them to feel
satisfied with certain impulses, resolutions, and opinions ;
because it gives encouragement to every illiterate fanatic
or designing hypocrite to demand the belief of a credu­
lous community, and because it weakens and destroys
the foundation of belief in those miracles which were
wrought for the establishment of revelation.
We talk much about the march of mind j and it cer­
tainly has moved several steps. We boast greatly of our
enlightened land ; and in comparison with other nations,
we are enlightened. We are abundantly favored with
advantages for mental and moral instruction. We are
signally blessed with literary and religious privileges.
* But with all our opportunities for information, I fear we
have some ignorance and superstition remaining. I sus*
pect it would be no difficult task to bring back the days
6
Digitized by Google
62
of persecution and witchcraft in some circles. Let them
be made to believe, that the devil works miracles, that
witches exist, and that all who differ from them in opinion
on religious subjects are under satanic influence. Let
them be made to believe, that all the religious excite­
ments and commotions of the present day are occasioned ;
by the miraculous effusions of the holy spirit ; and that
all excited feelings, dreams, visions, and the like, are
sure indications of the electing grace of the Almighty.
Let them be made to believe, that it is their duty to hate
all whom God hates, and that He hates all who will not
embrace their creeds. Let them believe, that they must
punish all who depart from the faith of the pilgrims. Let
these sentiments be reduced to practice, and trials for
heresy, blasphemy, and witchcraft would once more dis­
grace the annals of our nation. But, thanks to God, a
better day has dawned. A spirit of inquiry is abroad.
Power is in the hands of liberal spirits. And the re­
maining superstitions of popery are fast following the
numberless exploded absurdities of the dark ages, into
the ocean of oblivion. Let us lend a helping hand to
hasten the downfall of ignorance, error, and sin ; and
promote the universal reign of knowledge, truth, and
holiness. .
IV. What means can we adopt for the banishment of
popular superstitions ?
1. \W e must first deliver ourselves from their domina­
tion^ for we are all more or less under their influence.
When any of the common signs of good or evil fortune
appear before us, our thoughts involuntarily recur to the
things supposed to be signified. Sometimes a momentary
shudder is communicated to the whole system ; occasion­
Digitized by L.OOQle
63
ally a feeling of unnatural exultation is awakened ; un­
pleasant sensations are often excited ; and frequently, a
depression of spirits is produced. And how can we
escape from such thraldom ? \J5y the exercise of oùr
reason. ' We are indeed taught by the ancient proverb,
that we must not expect to reason out what was never
reasoned in. Yet such old sayings do not always prove
correct in this age of discoveries and improvements.
And I am confident that a proper use of our reasoning
faculties will enable us to accomplish this undertaking.
We must convince ourselves that all these things are the3
offspring of ignorance; that they have no foundation in
reason, philosophy, or religion ; and that they are exceed­
ingly pernicious in their consequences. When fully per­
suaded of these truths, we must strive to make our feel­
ings coincide with the dictates of our understandings.
And this we can effect by persevering self-discipline.
Such exertions will eventually deliver us from the incon­
venience, vexation, and slavery of popular superstitions.
2. We must also assist our fellow men in the per­
formance of this great and good work. We often meet
with those who are firm believers in signs and dreams, in
fortune-teHing and witchcraft, in apparitions and ghosts.
We must endeavor to convince them that np dependence
whatever can be placed on any of these vanities ; that
they are all ^fictions, absurdities, and evils. And if we
cannot produce conviction by sober sense and sound ar­
gument, I think we shall be justified in this particular
case, in resorting to ridicule. In one or the other of
these ways, we may, hope to give a new turn to discourse.
For much time is now spent, in many a family circle, in
enumerating the various signs, in explaining the different
Digitized by L » o o Q l e
64
tricks, in relating dreams, and in detailing stories of
haunted houses, hobgoblins, and devils. In this way,
the evil is cherished, and transmitted from generation to
generation. But if we can give an opposite direction to
conversation; if we can induce people to reason about
these things, and inquire into their origin, causes, and )
effects, and investigate the evidence on which they are
supposed to rest, and adopt rational conclusions, we
shall be usefully employed. For this course will eventu­
ally lead to the banishment of popular superstitions.
3. We must likewise attend to the early education of
our children. For it is during infancy and childhood
that our heads are filled with marvellous stories. They
are told to us by some of those persons to whose care we
are early entrusted, either to frighten us into obedience,
or to gratify our thirst for the new and the wonderful, or
to while away a tedious evening, or to relieve their own
overflowing imaginations. They sink deep into our con­
fiding hearts, and leave impressions the most pernicious
and the most lasting. Could a child be’educated without
any knowledge of such things, he would never be trou­
bled with their baneful influence. Our duty is therefore
plain. If we take the principal care of our children
ourselves, we should not permit them to learn anything
of such vanities from our lips; and our daily conduct
should evince that they exert no influence on our feel­
ings, or conduct, or happiness. If any of us employ
other persons to be with our offspring in early life, we
must charge them to conceal everything of the kind from
their knowledge; and we should regard a disobedience
of this command as a most heinous offence. After our
children are of sufficient age to associate with others, we
Digitized by G o o g le
65
#
must caution them to*avoid believing or relating any su­
perstitious tales, as they would shun known falsehoods.
If we persevere in this practice, we shall save them from
the degrading influence of popular superstitions.
4. We must moreover endeavor to increase the means
1 of public education. For you generally And that the
most enlightened are the most free from superstition, and
consequently, a high degree of mental cultivation would
effect a general deliverance. And how can we accom­
plish this grand object ? Are any satisfied with our pre­
sent literary advantages ? Let us reason with them on
the value and importance of knowledge. Let us show
them, by an appeal to facts, that all our civil, social, do­
mestic and religious blessings, depend for their very exis­
tence on the intelligence and virtue of the people. Do
any complain of the scarcity of money and the want of
funds ? Let us show them, by an appeal to facts, that
more money is annually wasted in all our towns, either
in extravagant living, dress, furniture and equipage ; or
in shows, amusements, balls and pleasure parties; or m
gaming, dissipation, lottery tickets, military parades, and
« spiritous liquors,—than is expended for the instruction of
the rising generation. No. There is no want of funds.
When there is a will, there is a way. The importance
9f this subject is not generally understood. Almost eve­
rything else seems of more consequence than learning
and wisdom. This will never answer. The world is
growing wiser. Those who will not employ the requisite
means, must rest contented with comparative ignorance.
Let ns not be of this unworthy number. If we feel the
importance of a change in these respects, let us persevere
in our laudable exertions. Let us leave no objections
Digitized by G o o g le
66
unanswered, no arguments unused,Vio measures untried,
until we succeed in obtaining the means of giving all our
children a high degree of education. And whoever shall
live to see such a result, will behold the almost universal
banishment of popular superstition.
5. Finally, we must labor for the diffusion of pure
and undefiled religion. Let us adhere to the plain teach­
ings of Jesus. And then we shall believe that there is
but one self-existent, undivided, all perfect, all pervading
spirit; and that He is truly the merciful, loving, un­
changeable parent of all his human children. We shall
believe, that he alone regulates all the events of this
world which are above our control; and that all his various
dispensations originate in wisdom and benevolence. We
shall believe that Jesus of Nazareth is really the anointed
Son of God; and the commissioned and all-sufficient
Saviour of the world. We shall believe that God made
us for ever increasing and never ending happiness ; and
that we can secure this unspeakable favor, only by living
soberly, righteously, and godly. We shall believe that
we have no worse enemies than our own sins; and that
power is given us to conquer these, even in the present
existence. We shall believe that it is as much our duty
to be always happy, as to be always honest; and that our
heavenly Father has commissioned no fate, nor chanc£,
nor witches, nor devils, to torment us. If we live up to
this belief, we shall secure a large share of temporal en­
joyment, and be prepared for the increasing felicity of the
spiritual world. And if we produce this state of faith and
ractice] in ourselves and all around us, we shall have
done much for the banishment of popular superstitions.
Digitized by U o o Q l e
