{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__anonymous___phrenological_bijou.pdf","mytitle":"Phrenological Bijou","mylang":"de"}
**&&&*
&£**£&&' of
"«c:
«*«o*>»»'
aJ (Z^/l
a^za^c6 en
&Z2. *«o^
filial also ca^
**** -2^
^ & * juvenile
N&*wgp
As a-lcnrei»of riclics finds weallh
So aXover of truth. shnU-finA trutix Smj^ft *:
1830.
::^/, ^(Jct/A/
".
,
_
———————
j*S.
.hi
PREFACE
Venerable usage has assumed, and society has es-
tablished the enactment, that every one who appears
a candidate for public favour or patronage, shall offer
for himself or his work something explanatory by way
of preface. The fixed maxim of the author of the fol-
lowing sheets, being that of " Doing at Rome as they
do there," when not opposed to any positive duty,
would induce compliance with the former ; and in the
true feeling of the Lacedemonian spirit, he bows with
that deference to the latter, which he considers due to
the community at large. Fashion, however, having
suggested the propriety of short prefaces, he cheerfully
avows himself a willing disciple of modern taste in that
particular, as well to avoid prolixity, as to be enabled
to occupy his limited pages with what appears to him
to be matter of more moment.
For himself, therefore, he would say, that having
been from early youth familiarized with Anatomy, also
during a long period a student of mental and abstruse
sciences, and for the last twenty years pleasurably en-
gaged in the vocation of public education, he has had
opportunities of observing the unfolding, growth, and
bias of the human mind, with peculiar advantages,
which very few individuals have possessed ; and he
long practised the principles of Phrenology, without
knowing even its nomenclature. Under a conviction of
B
II
its great Utility, as well to the present, as incalculably
to benefit (he rising generation, (in its judicious ap-
plication by those under whose tutelage their mental
faculties must be matured,) and at the solicitations of
a numerous circle of friends, whose judgment lie holds
in high respect, he has ventured to oiler an arrange-
ment of the leading features of the science in epitome,
in a form and dress, he believes, altogether novel, and
as clear and concise as his experience could BUggest;
for he requests it may be invariably understood, that
truth has been imperative with him, and he has been
uniformly guided in his researches and experiment! to
attain it; and would direct others, only by the same
road, to the same meta, to which he himself has been
travelling.
For his little book, lie has only further to observe,
that, in order to promote a practical acquaintance with
the subject, it is arranged into four progressive Ties-
sons, with select Questions at the end, for exercise;
and having been taught to believe that it would bo
useful (the only object of his solicitude), he submits
it to the decision of that ordeal which will stamp its
genuine value, with a hope, that its manner and cos-
tume may possess sufficient interest to warrant public
notice.
u Ce n'est pas le tout que d'offrir,
t{
II faut savoir faire accepter."
!9r*lumnav$ 3&emarftiS.
"Know thyself" was thought a maxim of such
consummate wisdom, as to have been deserving a place
on the portico of the Temple of Apollo, and that in
letters of gold. Self-knowledge, which alone can di-
rect to self-government, and thus regulate our inter-
course with society, has had the testimony of approval,
from the wise and good, in every age of the world
;
and, however little interested the greater part of man-
kind may have been in this important inquiry, and a
" Knowledge of the world" held up as the chief object
of pursuit, and, notwithstanding the avidity with which
this study is generally embraced, yet, from its having
been set about the wrong way, the most protracted life
seems scarcely long enough to acquire even a super-
ficial acquaintance with this branch of knowledge, from
the varied springs of action influencing different indi-
viduals ; and after a long and ardent examination of
the various schemes of ethics, the philosopher turns
to contemplate himself, at a time when his mental
powers are fatigued or exhausted, and his infirmities
render him unfit to adopt the suggestions of this truly
valuable precept. u The proper study of mankind"
should commence at home ; and although many systems
have existed, both ancient and modern, to unveil us to
ourselves and each other, from the Astrology of the
Chaldeans to the Physiognomy of Lavater, none offer
2
a facility and tangible demonstration equal to that
which Phrenology appears to hold out, the practical
knowledge of which this little volume professes to
teach.
That this science, which proposes for its object
the amelioration, if not the perfection of the mental
faculties, as far as perfectibility may be attainable,
should have met with opposition, may appear somewhat
extraordinary; but, on its first introduction, from its
principles being imperfectly understood, and, beside,
supposed to interfere with opinions, which, from their
being of a religious consideration, invariably excite
the most serious alarm in the human mind, the sur-
prise will vanish. It will, however, be found, by
adverting to the history of the progress of intellect
and science in general, that precisely the same has
taken place in every period and stage of society.
Democritus, of Abdera, who is the first on record
that applied his anatomical observations to the expla-
nation of the animal economy, was thought mad by
his countrymen. With what feelings of regret do
we contemplate the fate of the immortal Socrates,
who was pronounced by the Oracle to be the wisest
man in all Greece, falling under the imputation, of his
misguided fellow citizens, of impiety, and a corrupter
of the morals of the Athenian youth, when he was
labouring to establish the love of virtue and improve
their theocracy ?
cc
He stirreth up the people, and
goeth about to destroy the Law and the Prophets,"
were the charges exhibited against the Redeemer of
the World, by those very men, whose legitimate
profession it was, to have discerned in the purity of
his character, and the stupendous miracles of which
they were the daily witnesses, the fulfilment of that
law, and the confirmation of those prophetic writings,
about which they were, in their mistaken zeal, so
clamorous.
Nor less virulent was the Ecclesiastical opposition
raised against the celebrated Galileo, who, in a be-
nighted age of human intellect, demonstrated what
were then termed heretical opinions relative to the
theory of the earth's motion.
Neither was our countryman, {he mild, the unas-
suming Harvey, more fortunate, to whom is attributed
the discovery of the circulation of the blood : with
what acrimony was his ingenious theory, and even his
personal character assailed by his brethren ? Both
physicians and anatomists were alarmed by a circum-
stance which seemed to destroy the foundation of those
systems they had fondly cherished, and, finally, in vain
attempted to detract from the merit of that which they
were unable to refute.
Should inquiry arise, Why is this feeling of oppo-
sition ? Whence is this aberrant principle of the mind,
that inclines it to hesitate, or treat with asperity,
rather than to promote the suggestions of scientific
discovery ? It may be replied, that confirmed habits
of thinking, however erroneous, are not easily over-
come, nor early prejudice readily removed; that popu-
lar caprice and conjectural hypothesis, rather than
patient investigation and philosophical research, too
frequently warp the most matured judgment, even in
minds of highly gifted talent, whether celebrated for
scientific attainment, or exemplary for genuine and
unassuming piety ; and although, perhaps, we may be
led to wonder at the obduracy, or seeming stupidity,
of men, who in various periods have exhibited so little
candour, and still less liberality of sentiment towards
those who have laboured for the general benefit of
their fellow creatures, it is but too apparent that, even
in this surprising age of intellectual illumination,
which borders on morbid sensibility, many are found
pursuing a similar method, by censuring before they
examine, or examining upon hasty and crude princi-
ples by no means judiciously assumed; nor need we
recur to the public benefit resulting from vaccine ino-
culation, or the introduction of gas-light, for a reason
why this novel science should have been thought
objectionable.
To avoid an impeachment of a like nature, it is
recommended to all, into whose hand this little book
may chance to come, and who may feel doubtful as
to the verity of this curious but important science,
to examine the subject dispassionately, compare facts,
and judge for themselves; as, they may be assured,
they carry the full weight of conviction on their own
shoulders, and can scarcely avoid witnessing an ex-
emplification of its truth, every day and in every walk
of society ; when little hesitation can be entertained
as to the result of their enquiries, agreeably to the
aphorism adopted as a motto in the title-page :
" As
a lover of riches finds wealth, so a lover of truth
shall find truth."
ON THE HEAD.
The great difference observable in the form and
size of the human head, has afforded occasion to philo*
sophers, at various periods, to exercise their ingenuity
to account in one way or other, from the phasnomena,
for the several degrees of intellectual capacity met with
among mankind, until it has become in some measure
associated in ordinary phraseology; and we occasionally
hear of long-headed, wrong-headed, and thick-headed
individuals, in allusion to the extensive or limited
degree of their understanding.
It is a known fact, that the forehead of the African
is lower, and retreats more suddenly, than that of the
European in general ; and that the Oriental head is as
remarkable for its rounded form, as the Caribbean is
for its depressed, flat, and elongated shape. Variations
of similar kinds occur also, characteristic of every
nation and tribe; and from the differences likewise
observable in their habits, pursuits, and intellectual
attainments, numerous hypotheses have been adopted,
and theories proposed, whereby, from the configuration
of the head, the extent of mental capacity might be
ascertained; among which, that of the facial angle of
Camper appears to have been the most ingenious.
But upon an attentive observation we shall find,
agreeably to the adage, u as many men so many minds,"
there being no two minds precisely accordant, so no
6
two heads are ever to be met with exactly alike,
whether national or individual. There is, moreover,
a very manifest difference in the heads of the sexes;
the female head being not only smaller in proportion,
but generally longer, and more compressed laterally,
than that of the male: of greater elevation at the top,
and fuller towards the posterior parts ; hence the
observation, that " men think, but women feel," is
strictly founded in truth, notwithstanding it appears to
have been reserved for Phrenology to assign the cause,
the organs of the feelings being seated in the occipital
region ; and although the different manner of thinking
and feeling, in the sexes, has been suspected by some to
arfse from a difference of structure in the cerebral fibre,
and by others supposed to be attributable to the effect
which established custom and habit has produced in the
diversified mode of their education, this science clearly
demonstrates that the Author of Nature, in the forma-
tion of the sexes, designed them to fulfil very different
offices, which, when harmoniously united, contribute to
that beautiful arrangement abundantly calculated to
promote the beneficent intentions of the Deity, in the
preservation and happiness of the species. The more
agreeable qualifications of the female being the do-
mestic and gentle virtues, prudence, desire of approval,
attachment to home, and love of their offspring; while
the great and respectable qualities designate the manly
character. Regard for personal dignity, the power to
defend public and individual right, to protect the weak,
to construct, to contend, to examine causes, and com-
pare effects, mark his natural bias, and constitute his
most pleasureable pursuits. Notwithstanding we some-
times hear of masculine women, and effeminate men,
yet these are to be considered as occasional aberrations
from Nature's general rule of formation; but where
they occur are equally demonstrable from the respec-
tive organic constitution.
From the observation of these facts, it may be dis-
covered on what data Phrenology erects the structure
of its science: to ascertain with precision how far these
data were correct, it became requisite to examine the
heads, and to procure the crania, of various nations,
and different individuals of the same nation, and com-
pare their known habits and propensities with the
developement ; and these again with the instinctive
impulses of inferior animals, whose untutored habits
proclaimed the undisguised language of nature. All
this has been done; and the most satisfactory conclu-
sions, resulting from such investigation, unequivocally
proved. The situations of the mental organs have
been precisely determined, the individual faculties
clearly ascertained, and their effective degrees, or
states of activity, indubitably established, from several
thousand examples, selected as well from the human
species inhabiting every temperature of climate, as from
the various inferior families of animated nature.
9W<J6£9lWJ£<A2rUM<§.
As every new science must be defective in its
nomenclature, which can arrive at perfection only as
the science itself advances toward maturity, so various
appellations have been assumed for the mental faculties,
and different arrangements of their series adopted by
different phrenologists, as judgment or discovery may
have dictated the modification; notwithstanding, the
situations of the organs, and their primitive functionary
properties, have remained the same. The difficulty
which a numerical character (at first attached to each
organ) presented to novitiates, especially as from
sedulous investigation the increased number of mental
faculties were ascertained, suggested the propriety of
substituting the initial letter of the faculty in preference
to the previously adopted figure, which will not be
subject to variation, whatever improvements discovery
may add to this mental science.
The commencement of the order of the faculties
offers, likewise, a more natural series, of more ready
application, as well as calculated to excite a more
agreeable feeling, than that which commences the judi-
ciary operation with the lowest of the animal propensi-
ties. Accordingly, the faculties of the mind have been
considered as divided into two orders, namely, the
Sensitive, which experience emotions, feel desires, (as
well from innate excitement, as from external impres-
9
sions,) and, independently of our choice, urge to the
fulfilment of their several impulses; and the Intellectual,
which, by the ministration of the external senses, as
auxiliaries or intermedia, procure knowledge, and tend
to guide the feelings in the direction of their choice.
These are again subdivided into two genera; the
first genus of each order being the common endow-
ment of the human species with the inferior families of
animated nature; the second is, in its fullness, the
exclusive prerogative of mankind, notwithstanding:
some of the animal tribes, as they ascend in the scale
of created beings, are possessed of what may be termed
the rudiments, or an obscure manifestation, of many of
the faculties that compose this genus.
Of the intellectual class, which commences the
series, the first genus consists of those faculties which,
from impressions conveyed to the mind, form concep-
tions, and ideas, respecting the properties and relations
of external objects; occupying the lower ridge of the
forehead, and compose the Perceptive group, namely,
INDIVIDUALITY, FORM, SIZE, WEIGHT, COLOUR, ORDER.
and NUMBER.
Above these range that class, which, by means of
reiterated observations impressed by the perceptive
powers, apply their results to the promoting the
agreeable arts and conveniences of life ; and may be
designated the Scientific group (tinted light brown in
the frontispiece)
:
EVENTUALITY, LOCALITY, TIME, MELODY, and
CONSTRUCTION.
The second genus of this class, which form the
reasoning powers of the mind, and constitute Ration-
10
ality, compare, reflect, and decide upon the ideas
furnished by all the other organs; claiming the superior
region of the forehead, and form the Philosophic group,
(coloured dark brown in the frontispiece,) consisting of
the organs of
COMPARISON, CAUSALITY, and WIT.
The faculty of verbal memory, which, as it were,
embodies thought, and by the medium of which
arbitrary symbols are recognized, and the sensations
and desires of all the faculties communicated, has its
organ seated at the back of the orbit of the eye,
(marked L.)
The first genus of the second order, namely, the
Feelings, consists of such faculties as appear to be
essential to the perpetuation, preservation, and comfort
of animal existence, and implanted for the fulfilment of
these beneficent purposes by the Creator; and can only
become noxious from their perversion, or abuse, by
vice and folly. They present a double group of Pro-
pensities, and a third, that may be denominated Senti-
ments. The first constitutes the domestic affections,
occupying the occipital part of the brain, (coloured
orange in the frontispiece,) namely,
AMATIVENESS, PHILOPROGENY. HABITATION, and
ATTACHMENT.
The second, that group of feelings, whose object is the
preservation of animal nature, opposing danger, pro-
viding food, and affording gratification in the enjoyment
of the repast, (tinted red in the frontispiece,) namely,
COURAGE, DESTRUCTION, and FLAVOUR.
And thirdly, the prudential group, suggesting the pro-
priety of temperance, industry, and of curbing such
11
passions as, by their undue gratification, would subject
to want, or disturb the individual's repose (coloured
yellow) :
ACQUISITION, SECRECY, and CAUTION.
The second genus commences with certain regu-
lating powers of the mind, and (tinted green in the
frontispiece :)
LOVE OF APPROBATION, SELF-ESTEEM, FIRMNESS,
and JUSTICE. •
And which, like the former, seek their gratification in
the accomplishment of their respective desires, each in
its own way; and seem to have been implanted for the
purpose of guiding, and influencing, the direction of
the other feelings, and by a cogency of their nature, as
it were, urge to a compliance with their solicitations;
the two former being common to man and the inferior
animals, the two latter constituting the human genus.
The Imaginative group embraces a class of subjects,
which, without possessing any tangible existence, with-
out meeting us in our every day walk, possess a peculiar
charm in their perspective contemplation; and aid the
mind to soar in the airy regions of fancy, and futurity
(coloured blue)
:
HOPE, IDEALITY, and MARVEL.
And lastly, the Beneficent group of Moral Sentiments,
faculties, implanted by the Author of Nature, to excite
to the fulfilment of those commandments on which, we
are assured, "hang all the Law, and the Prophets;"
tending to promote the universal happiness of all
(tinted carmine)
:
IMITATION, BENEVOLENCE, and VENERATION.
DESCRIPTION OF THE CRANIUM.
(vide model, NO. I.)
It may probably be asked, notwithstanding the
difference in the magnitude and shape of heads, how
can we be assured that the brain assumes a corres-
ponding- form, when it is known to be enclosed in the
skull, and this again enveloped in integuments, and
so forth?
Anatomy has decided the question, that the brain,
notwithstanding the softness of its consistence, never-
theless gives shape to the Cranium, in which it is
enclosed, just as the crustaceous tenement of the crab
is adjusted to the animal that inhabits it; and in con-
sequence, the figure may be ascertained by a careful
manipulation; there are, however, some exceptions
which demand notice.
The Cranium, or that part of the skull which
envelopes the brain, and is constituted to shield it from
external injury, is composed of eight separate plates,
or pieces, curiously united by various connections, tech-
nically termed sutures and articulations, and named
from their situations: the frontal or coronal, two pari-
etals, two temporal, the occipital, sphenoid, and the
ethmoid bones. In infancy the frontal is composed of
two distinct bones, which afterwards unite into one;
there are, however, instances where they have remained
in a separate state during maturity.
13
The corners of the frontal, and parietals, are not
yet ossified, but form and unite with the growth of
years; in many cases receiving, in after life, small
additional portions between the parietal plates, either
at the frontal or lambdoidal sutures, as the animal pro-
pensities, or the intellectual faculties of the mind, may
have been called into greater activity, and consequent
increase. For, although the ossification of the skull is
not the result of the brain, but of particular vessels, by
which the bony mass is secreted, as is the case in all
other parts of the body, yet it is ever deposited in
accordance with the size, growth, and structure of
the brain.
The exceptions from this general rule are, first,
when a sinus is formed, and which, from its situation,
is named a. frontal sinus, and arises from the expansion
and extension of the Diploe, that soft, spungy sub-
stance, which every where pervades between the two
tables of the skull. It is generally met with larger in
those persons who have possessed the observing facul-
ties in a more than ordinary degree of activity, which
occasioning a greater heat, and consequently a greater
flow of blood, to that part, may cause a more copious
increase of the stratifying humour than in ordinary
cases, and is chiefly found in the crania of aged persons.
It may be, however, prudent for novitiates to make a
trifling allowance, generally, in offering an opinion on
the four first faculties, namely, Individuality,
Form, Size, and Weight, under the impression that
a small sinus may exist.
Another variation, but of more rare occurrence, is
14
presented in the case of Hydrocephalus (or watery
head) ; a disease not unfrequently originating in the
too early excitation of the mental organs, before the
nervous fibres have attained sufficient strength, which
producing inflammation of the brain and its mem-
branes, of which an effusion of serum is the conse-
quence. Children of a weakly constitution, who have
been suckled for an undue period, are very liable to
this disease. And this may further be adduced in con-
firmation of the fact, that nature accommodates the
harder parts to those that are more soft; for in cases
where the Hydrocephalus occurs, the skull is not only
expanded by the pulpy substance of the brain, but
actually distended, and that, sometimes, to a surprising
degree, by the accumulation of mere water.
A third exception is exhibited, in cases where the
muscle that is sometimes found extremely full, extend-
ing along the temporal ridge, (on the sides of the head,)
from the anterior part of the organ of acquisition
to the posterier part of secrecy, not unfrequently
taking in part of ideality and caution. Athletic
persons, and those inclined to be stout, are of all others
the most liable to have this formation ; and in cases
where it may be suspected to exist, the part should be
examined by a careful manipulation, before an opinion
be offered as to the state of developement of the organs
in that region of the head.
t
Sttuattottg of tfve ©rgang.
Individuality. The situation of this organ is
on the lower part of the forehead, just above the
bridge of the nose, and when large gives an appear-
ance of fulness to the part between the eyebrows.
Form is placed at the internal angle of the orbit
of the eve, and produces, when full, an extension to
the bridge of the nose, separating the eyes (as it were)
wide apart.
Size. The organ of Size is just over that of
Form, and nearly under Locality, at the inner angle of
the eyebrow; and if large, produces a heavy appear-
ance to the brow.
Weight. This organ adjoins that of Size, on the
outer side, immediately under Locality, and if largely
developed with Size, affords an overhanging appear-
ance to the brow.
Colour is seated on the middle of the eyebrow,
and when large, presents an agreeable round to the
arch, or rather an obliquity to the external part.
, Order is placed on the Outer side of the organ of
Colour, and if full, gives a squareness of form to the
part of the brow anterior of Number, sometimes
making the angle rather acute.
c
16
Number is situated at the external angle of the
eyebrow, and when large, produces a roundness, or
extension of that part, on the exterior side of Order.
Eventuality is situated in the centre of the
forehead, immediately above Individuality, and under
Comparison; having a portion of the organ of Locality
on each side of it; and when large, produces a fulness
in the middle line, inclining to an oval form..
Locality. This organ is on each side of Indi-
viduality and Eventuality, giving a prominence of a
pear-like shape to that part above the brow, just over
the organs of Size and Weight.
Time has its organ running obliquely from Loca-
lity, and often appears as if it were a continuation of that
organ, assuming a round shape; but if Wit and Melody
be large, they produce together with it a general
fulness, without partaking of any determinate form
separately.
Melody is placed on the lateral part of the fore-
head, and when large, gives a rounded form between
Number and Construction; and if the latter be also
large, it requires judgment to separate them.
Construction. The organ is on the temple,
giving a fulness forward of Acquisition, and is not
unfrequently closely united with Ideality, from which
it receives considerable assistance; and if combined
with Melody, much experience is requisite to define
them distinctly.
17
Comparison is situated on the centre of the supe-
rior part of the forehead, on each side of which is Cau-
sality, and shews an elevation, or fulness, on the frontal
bone, generally assuming a round appearance.
Causality. The seat of this organ is on the
superior part of the forehead, on each side of Compa-
rison, and adjoining that of Wit: it will in general
be observed of a round form, unless Eventuality be
large, when it assumes with it one oblong fulness at
that part of the forehead.
Wit is placed on the exterior part of the forehead,
forward of Ideality, and on the outer side of Causality;
when very prominent, it gives a decidedly marked
appearance to that part.
Language has its organ situated behind the
orbit of the eye ; that convolution of the brain
resting on the upper obituary plate, and when large,
urging it forward by depression of the part, mani-
fests a fulness of the eye, an apparent large diameter
of the orbit, or by a general prominence, and not unfre-
quently by an united assemblage of these several modes.
Amativeness. The organ is placed at the pos-
terior part of the head, between the mastoid processes
behind the ear, and the Occipital protuberance above
the middle of the neck; the space between these will
afford an indication of the extent of the organ.
Philoprogeny is situated directly above Ama-
tiveness, on the middle line, between the two portions
of Courage : its general appearance is oval, but it will
occasionally be met with round, accordingly as the
hemispheres of the brain may be more or less separated
at this part.
18
Habitation is situated at the back part of the
head, above Philoprogeny, and under Self-esteem, on
the middle line ; having attachment on each side, it is
not unfrequently met with in combination with Philo-
progeny, resembling with it an inverted heart.
Attachment has its organ placed on each side
of Habitation, and over a part of Courage, presenting
an oval shape, although when very full, it may be
observed more rounded in form.
Courage is placed at the posterior part of the
head, behind the mastoid processes, between Philopro-
geny and Destruction, and in general presents a fulness
behind the ear.
Destruction. The situation of the organ is
above, and round the upper part of the ear: it occupies
a large portion of the middle lobe of the brain, pro-
ducing an elongated appearance, and sometimes occa-
sions a projection of the upper part of the ear.
Flavour. This organ is united in combination
with the anterior part of Destruction, above the front
of the ear, below Acquisition ; and when large, gives a
full rounded appearance; but it requires skill in judg-
ing of its peculiarly influential properties.
Acquisition is placed on the upper part of the
temporal bone, on the anterior angle of the parietals,
between Construction and Secrecy; with which latter,
when large^ it is mostly associated, frequently pre-
senting an oval appearance.
19
Secres y is seated at the side of the head, above
the organ of Destruction, and nearly in a line from
the orifice of the ear to the top of the head; and if
Caution (which is directly over it) be much developed,
it gives great width to that region of the head.
Caution lies on the upper part of the sides of the
head, between the organs of Justice and Secresy : it
occupies a large portion of that lobe of the brain, and
when full, produces a squareness of appearance at
that part.
Approbation is situated on the upper lateral
posterior part of the head, on each side of Self-esteem,
directly under Justice, and adjoining Caution; and
when large, produces a squareness at that part of the
head.
Self-esteem is in the centre of the upper
part of the posterior region of the head, on the
middle line, above Habitation, and under Firmness,
assuming an oval form, between the two portions of
Approbation.
Firmness has its organ on the upper part of the
crown of the head, on the middle line, between Justice,
and over Self-esteem : it generally offers a round
appearance, and if Justice be likewise large, gives a
prominence to the part.
Justice is seated on each side of Firmness, and
directly over Caution; and when largely developed,
presents a little protuberance, especially if the organ
of Hope be but moderate.
20
Hope is on the upper part of the head, on each
side of Veneration, adjoining the anterior part of
Justice, and behind Imitation and Marvel: it assumes
no particular form, only presenting in general a fulness
in that region.
Ideality. This organ is situated on the side of
the head, over Construction and Acquisition, between
Marvel, Hope, and Caution: it assumes an elongated
appearance; but when the three latter are large, it
produces a fulness at that part.
Marvel lies a little forward of the organ of Hope,
between Imitation and Ideality; and generally offers
an oval form, running obliquely from Wit.
Imitation is placed on each side of Benevolence,
forward of Hope, and adjoining Marvel, on the supe-
rior part of the forehead; and usually assumes an
elongated appearance.
Benevolence is situated on the upper part of
the forehead, on the middle line, between Comparison
and Veneration, having Imitation on each side, and
when full, (if Imitation be also large,) it presents
with it one considerable extension.
Veneration. This organ is placed in the centre
of the upper part of the head, and when large, pro-
duces an arched appearance; but when Benevolence,
and Firmness, are full, this faculty may be mistaken
as small, when in fact it is otherwise.
OBSERVATIONS ON THE BRAIN.
(vide MODEL, NO. III.)
The organs of the mental faculties, whose situations
have been pointed out, as observable on the head,
constitute the Encephalon, or Brainy mass, which is
contained within the Cranium, and to which, (as was
remarked,) it gives determination. It consists of an
apparently soft, poulticeous matter, termed medulary ;
interspersed with other substances of rather a more
solid, cineritious consistence, of a greyish colour: these
substances are disposed into protuberances, or convo-
lutions, and enclosed in membranes, of which the
most exterior is called the dura mater, its several parts
having received names by Anatomists, but of no im-
portance in our present enquiry. Immediately within
this, adhering to the brain, and closely investing its
convolutions, is a very fine transparent membrane,
called the pia mater; but what is properly the pia
mater, and which enters between the convolutions, is
separated from the dura mater by a still more delicate
membrane, called membrana arachnoidea, from its sup-
posed resemblance to the spider's web.
The substance of the brain is divided into two
equal parts, called hemispheres, which constitute the
22
cerebrum, or brain properly so called; occupying the
entire space of the coronal, with a great portion of the
occipital region of the skull. In the posterior part is
situated the cerebellum, or little brain ; this rests on
the basilar portion of the occipital bone, divided like-
wise into two lobes, one of which lies on each of the
upper cavities of the occiput, that are separated by the
interior crucial ridge. Lastly may be noticed, the part
called the medulla oblongata, situated between the
lobes of the cerebellum, and the middle portions of the
brain; and this filling up the great occipital hole,
forms the bond of union with the spinal marrow.
Phrenological investigation has shewn, that the
'substance heretofore supposed medullary, and con-
sidered as one congregated mass, is composed of an
innumerable assemblage of very minute fasiculi, or
bundles of nerves, disposed in layers, and interwoven
with transverse cords, which, emanating from ganglions
or nodes, present a curious retiform contexture,
branching in every variety of ramification, vertically
or laterally, suited to its position and destined office.
These bundles are universally arranged in pairs, which
correspond to each other in influential properties,
though not always in exact developement in each of
the hemispheres, and which they unite by means of
their fibrils in the middle line ; consequently the
faculties, in their operation of consciousness, are per-
ceived as single, as in the cases of the visual and
auditory nerves, and other organs of the body, which
are uniformly associated in pairs, and will afford an
explanation how it may be possible to injure, or even
23
to remove to a given extent, portions of the cerebral
mass, without entire deprivation of mental conscious-
ness, or extinction of the vital spark.
The grey cineritious substance, is considered by
Dr. Spurzheim (the philosophical coadjutor of Dr.
Gall, and great improver of this science) to be the
deposites, from whence the nerves receive their struc-
ture, and increase, and may be denominated the matrix^
or basis of their formation.
Before parturition, the whole brain presents little
more than this cineritious mass, and it is only by
degrees that the soul manifests its presence, in spon-
taneous motion. From the ichthycal state, the instinc-
tive sensations of hunger and thirst, obscure perceptions
of pain, and its opposite, and, at length, the imperfect
functions of the external senses, mark the animal
^existence. The excitation of the mental faculties,
exhibited in Individuality, Form, Size, &c. soon
become apparent, whereby the nurse is distinguished
trom others, and familiars from strangers. By degrees,
he inclinations and propensities are awakened, and,
as the fibres of the brain increase and acquire strength,
determinate ideas of external objects assume their
legitimate character. Childhood is succeeded by ado-
lescence, and the impetuosity, arising from increased
circulation of the fluids, glow in every feature—all is
energy: as the brain advances towards its perfect
developement, so the sentiments and faculties, moral
and intellectual, manifest their respective functions
with greater promptitude, successively, until it attains
its maturity; when experience crowds upon observa-
24
tion, Comparison and Causality elicit the respectable
powers, and stamp the character of the man. For
some years, the brain exhibiting little change, remains
as it were stationary; but, in proportion as the Indi-
vidual advances in age, and the vital heat diminishes,
the faculties of the mind, as well as the animal functions
of the body, appear to retrograde : the cerebral fibres
become firm, the convolutions diminish in volume and
elasticity, and the whole brain undergoes a visible,
though gradual, decline; (from the slow progression
of which, many aged persons are induced to suspect
their faculties to be such as they were in the meridian
of life; they are however mistaken.) The superior
faculties become weak, and the upper fibres of the
convolutions reclining on the lateral regions, together
with the effort to preserve the temperature, increases
their irritability; hence Caution, Acquisition, &c. act
more sensibly at this period of existence: Peevishness
and Irresolution become apparent; Benevolence cools
into apathy, or surrenders its powers to Approbation;
Veneration clings to existing objects, and Firmness
experiences a torpor: thus the brain, like every part
of nature, undergoes a growth, stationary state, and
decline, with its relative functions, until Shakspeare's
last age of man closes the scene, and he assumes the
universal motto of mortality, "hicjacet."
INFLUENCES OF THE FACULTIES*
Individuality. This is one of the first faculties
that manifests its activity on our appearance upon the
theatre of human affairs. The Infant exerts it to dis-
cover its nurse from others ; new objects, and new
ideas, are the pleasureable pursuits of its full deve-
lopement : it becomes a valuable stimulus to the
acquisition of scientific knowledge, urging the mind
to examine every novel subject presented to observa-
tion, induces a quickness of conception, as its inactivity
produces a listlessness in matters of that nature.
Form is of general use in every branch of pro-
fession, it discriminates and judges of shape and pro-
portion, it is invaluable to the Portrait Painter,
Sculptor, &c. It may be readily discovered in child-
hood, by the propensity to indulge in scribbling, with
pen or pencil, various objects : it assists Individuality
in the recognition of persons, and presents to the
recollection objects and forms, which may have pre-
viously passed under our notice: its defect induces a
desultory manner of examining objects.
Size. The full developement of this organ, pro-
duces a correct idea of estimation relative to propor-
tion, length, height, or bulk ; is important in most
branches of mechanical art, Surveying, &c. To the
Landscape Painter it is essential, as in perspective it
equally applies to objects receding in the distance,
and to Artists in general, whether designing from
nature, or otherwise : its excess annoys with every
deviation from just proportion.
26
Weight, or the faculty of judging momentum in
general : friction, resistance, and gravity, are the
objects of its selection. Those who indulge in the
gymnastic exercises find its developement highly
valuable, as it suggests the resistance necessary to be
employed against any opposing force : it is extremely
useful to the practical mechanician, nor less requisite
in the most delicate works of art.
Colour discriminates that which constitutes har-
mony, or otherwise in teints, and a just distribution of
light and shadow in painting: it produces what may
be considered taste in colouring; it is an essential to
the Flower Painter, and contributes to the pleasure
experienced in viewing parterres tastefully disposed,
or nature's exquisite skill in the enamelled meadows.
It greatly assists females in the display observable in
their costume; while its inordinate state produces a
most ridiculous glare.
Order. As this disposes to a correct arrangement
of multifarious objects, in a chaste and uniform series,
whether it relate to furniture, books, papers, or neat-
ness of costume, so it inclines to an orderly distri-
bution of domestic concerns, and assists the superior
organs in the association of ideas : it very much helps
the mathematician, and calculator in general. Habits
of cleanliness much depend upon its manifestation.
27
Number. This faculty influences to the powers of
arithmetical calculation, and the science of numbers:
it receives much assistance from Order, and if the
developement of the reflecting powers be large, it will
induce a fondness for mathematical pursuits, and the
sublime purposes of Geometry; but individually, arith-
metic appears to be the particular function of the part,
or an excessive love for counting.
Eventuality. This invaluable faculty appears to
afford a stimulus to the due observation of transactions
of interest passing around; marking the periods, or
circumstances, under which they severally exist: it
involves much of the actual business of real life, and
is indispensable to the Politician, Historian, Biogra-
pher, and every one interesting himself in public
affairs; it likewise forms an agreeable trait in the
associate in party conversation.
Locality induces a desire for seeing different
places, gives a faculty of determining localities, or
prompts to visit different countries: it affords the
pleasure experienced in perusing Travels and Voyages;
it becomes a valuable requisite to the Historian, the
Geographer, and not less so to the Landscape Painter,
as it will enable him frequently to preserve picturesque
scenery without recurrence to his sketch-book.
98
Time, lis properties are (<> perceive duration, to
distinguish the lapse of intervals, and correct adjust-
ment of rhythm, or measure of periods: a good
dcvclopoment is useful to the Chronologer, and an
essential in forming the good composer, or performer
of music, as it acls very much with Melody and Onhr.
In social intercourse, i(s influence suggests a punctual
observance of appointment!) or engagements.
Melody. lis special faculty is concerned with
musical harmony ; and the degree of its developcment
regulates the oar in relation to concord, harmony, or
otherwise: it allords the delight experienced by melo-
dious tones, and directs the justness of emphasis in
elocution. It is indispensable) in connexion with
7V///r-, in forming the correct musician, and with Con-
struction, in constituting the excellent composer of
music; Thorough I>ass being much dependant on the
latter faculty, with which it is closely connected.
Construction. This faculty is essential in every
mechanical profession, its function being to contrive,
or construct, (the mode of execution, whether tasteful,
or otherwise) being the effect of combination :) it
excites a desire for building, and yields the pleasurable
feeling of having work people about, and directing
their operations. It is not unfre<pirntly closely asso-
ciated with Ideality, when it becomes the parent of
the most ingenious productions.
29
Comparison. It is the office of this faculty to
compare the effective powers of the mind, examine
their differences, judge of their assimilations, and
induce the drawing of analogies : it pays deference to
parity of reasoning, in preference to philosophical
disquisition ; it forms combinations, and aids in the
study of the philosophy of language. It assists the
Historian, Biographer, and the popular Divine, in
inducing its deductions by the force of illustrative
example.
Causality. Its function is to prompt the mind to
be solicitous in the enquiry relative to the causes of
all phenomena, and to examine, by consecutive parity,
the identity of Nature's first principles : it considers
the relation between cause and effect; and is invaluable
to every man of science. In conjunction with Compa-
rison, it forms the true philosophic mind; but is too
apt, (undirected by moral feeling,) to step beyond
the limits of our powers, and question the most awful
subjects.
Wit, Gaiety, or Mirt/ifubiess, all which names
have been applied to this organ, whose office appears
to be, that of reducing compound ideas into their dis-
junctive elements. This animating faculty produces a
gay and lively feeling, a pleasant and agreeable manner
of intercourse with society: it influences the taste for
jest, and enlivens the conceptions of the Musician,
Poet, and Painter; and sways whatever depends on
the ludicrous conceptions of the mind.
so
Language. The Hermes of the mind (as Mercury
the ready messenger of the Gods) is ever obedient to
its dictates; and from its situation at the back of the
eye, proclaims undeviatingly, (though tacitly,) through
that organ, the sensations of the soul. A full develope-
ment embodies its emotions with facility, induces a
volubility of speech, and promptitude to express our
conceptions; as likewise the retention of verbal signs.
But the ability to cultivate universal Phylology,
requires a combination of the superior faculties.
Aiviativeness. As this faculty appears to have
been implanted for the most noble purposes, and seems
to involve the blessing pronounced at the creation, so
it is by far the largest of the animal organs. It leads,
in youth, to the strongest, and most unalterable,
affections; and in mature age, to the indissoluble bonds
of mutual regard: when, however, it is unfortunately
influenced, it leads to occurrences detrimental to the
individual, and offensive to society.
Philoprggeny. Its function, as its name implies,
is the love of Offspring; and produces the excitement
that manifests itself in the tender care exhibited by
parents towards their progeny. With a combination
of the beneficent feelings, it induces to the love of
children generally; and begets a solicitude for their
comfort and amusement; feels pleasure in their com-
pany, and enters sympathetically into their little joys
or sorrows.
31
Habitation actuates in its more extended views
to the noble sentiment of love of country, an irre-
sistible attachment to particular places of residence,
and, in some cases, to cause a reluctance at changing
one apartment for another. It draws the mind of the
distant traveller to contemplate with feelings of delight
his anticipated return to home, and inspires the warrior
with additional ardour to defend his native soil; and,
in combination with Philoprogeni/, renders the maternal
parent happy in her seclusion.
Attachment. The warmth of friendship, the love
of society, and attachments in general, acquire their
energy from the developement of this organ; which
presents several modifications. When full, it produces
the most unalterable esteem and regard, it even extends
its sphere of activity to all around, both animate and
inanimate: in suitable combinations it stimulates to
form early associations for life.
Courage, Combadveness, or Perseverance, gives
the feeling to contend, defend, or carry our objects
onwards : it produces an energy to undertake difficul-
ties, and is a noble attribute to the manly character;
it enables the Senator, the Barrister, and those situated
in public life, to contend for the object they have
in view. Favourably constituted, it dictates with
propriety, and contends with becoming ardour; if
otherwise, it gives a propensity to cavilling and
contention.
D
32
Destruction. According to temperament and
combination, this faculty produces the pleasurable
sensations experienced from field sports, witnessing
executions, or destroying whatever may appear ob-
noxious, or to present an impediment in the way of
any gratification in which we may feel disposed to
indulge. With the Carib, and hardened criminal, its
excitation extends to a thirst for the destruction of
their fellow creatures.
Flavour. This faculty influences, and regulates
the subjects of taste, as to the kind and quality of food
which nature demands, and appetite approves : it
acquires energy from Destruction, and while an inor-
dinate developement forms the Glutton and Epicure,
a moderate degree directs with prudent selection; and
according to temperament and combination, regulates,
and makes choice at the festive board with delicacy,
or obtrusive impetuosity.
Caution gives the power of prudently considering
of circumstances, and deciding with care and circum-
spection ; consequently becomes very useful in the
ordinary transactions of life : it induces precaution,
raises doubtings and hesitations, delaying the determi-
nation of a project until the morrow, in order to
reconsider the subject; it creates suspicion as to the
purity of the intentions of others, and continually
suggests the admonitory clause, u take care."
33
Secrecy. Its influential properties being the pro-
pensity to conceal, the subjects of secrecy depending on
combination : under its guidance, the Statesman con-
ceals his maxims of policy, the General his plans of
operation, the ingenious Artisan his inventions; and
in the ordinary walk of life, thoughts and opinions,
intentions and property, become alike the objects of
concealment. The faculty only becomes offensive in
its abuse.
Acquisition. The primitive power being to accu-
mulate, gives a desire for speculation : in youth, it
urges to the pursuit of literary studies; in active life,
it inspires the spirit of commerce and adventure. The
pleasure arising from collecting medals, books, paint-
ings, or curiosities, receives energy from this organ.
When unfavourably constituted, it forms the depredator
on the property of others, frequently regardless of
consequences.
Self-esteem takes a very active part in forming
the character: national pride, and personal endowment,
whether real or imaginary, are equally the objects of
its activity. If the reflecting faculties be large, it
stimulates to the noblest exploits; it inspires a self«
confidence to emulate the most praiseworthy enter-
prizes; it exalts the mind above the ordinary weakness
of human nature; and proves an effectual spur towards
advancing our success in life.
34
Approbation. The just value entertained for
reputation, the pleasure felt in possessing the favour-
able opinion of others, and the desire for notoriety,
are the results of a full developement of this sentiment.
It stimulates to a thirst for fame, and love of praise
:
under its influence the Statesman seeks popularity, the
Artisan the desire to oblige, and the Domestic the wish
to obtain the good will of his employer; and may be
productive (from variety of combination) of either
virtue or vice.
Firmness gives decision of character, constancy,
and determination, to all the other faculties : it upholds
#nd fixes their activity, and being constituted in the
midst of the superior organs, contributes to promote
the equanimity of the faculties, by strengthening some,
and restricting such as may tend to enslave the mind.
It affords composure under every occurrence, and con-
stitutes a mind at all times master of itself.
Justice. The feeling of conscientiousness, with
respect to right and wrong, is one of great importance:
to it belongs the office to judge, acquit, or condemn,
and even to punish. Its sentence stamps us equally
guilty, or otherwise, to ourselves, to society, and even
in the eye of our Maker: it produces a delicacy of
encroaching in the slightest degree on the rights of
others, and feels indignant at any act contrary to the
rules of equity and justice.
35
Hope inclines to look on the bright side of every
event; and buoys up the mind under the most pressing
difficulties. Those may be accounted fortunate who
possess this faculty in any considerable degree of deve-
lopement: it is the cheering companion of industrious
effort, and gilds the gloomy path of the traveller with
prospective views of comfort and repose; it teaches the
mind to soar even beyond mortality, and to contem-
plate the beatitudes of a future state.
Ideality produces the sentiment of the sublime
and beautiful: it influences the conceptions of the
mind, producing grandeur of invention, and splendour
of execution; it enlivens and beautifies the objects
of its research, prompts to embellishment, and is
essential to the Poet, Sculptor, Architect, and Painter;
it produces an elevated strain of language in the
Author, gives a glow to sentiment, and exalts the
imagination.
Marvel. This faculty leads the mind to search
for the surprising, wonderful, and supernatural: it
contributes to establish credence in mystery, and
miracle ; it directs aright, (under proper combinations)
the religious feelings, inclines to the study of Theolo-
gical works, and holds Ecclesiastical Institutions in
high respect ; is also influential in guiding the Artist in
depicting the subjects of Romance and Fable.
36
Imitation. In childhood, by the means of this
faculty, much of information is acquired, by the habit
of imitating those among whom they are associated;
and it is a known truth, that more of moral character
is established by example, than by precept: it sheds its
influence over most of the affective powers of the
mind, useful and pleasurable to ourselves, and to
society. In the Arts, it stimulates to the most lively
representations, and adds what is termed expression
in painting.
Benevolence produces mildness of character, and
liberality of sentiment, in passing judgment on the
conductor errors of others: it influences the temper
in producing a benignity of manners, excites sympathy
for the suffering, and hospitality towards the distressed
members of society; and in its fullest extent, comes
up to the beautiful description given of Charity by the
Apostle Paul.
Veneration carries a due respect for Religion
and its Institutions: it venerates the aged, the parent,
and all that is respectable; it leads alike to the pious
adoration of the Supreme Being, and the blind zeal
of enthusiasm. Under its direction the Gentoo makes
provision for the vermine that infest his house, the
female immolates herself on the funeral pile, and the
gloomy Pagan prostrates himself before the image of
his vindictive Deity, with all that fervent devotion
which a sense of his wants can be supposed to inspire.
ON GENERAL CHARACTER.
The foregoing are the influential properties of the
mental faculties, when their several organs are in a
healthy state, and under an equability of constitutional
temperament. But if excessive energy on the one
hand, or debilitated inertness on the other, stimulate
or retard the operation of the powers, the equilibrium
is disturbed, and effects proportionally dissimilar will
be observable in the respective characters, from a
phlegmatic torpidity to a feverish irritability; and
these likewise exhibiting a variety of manifestations,
as they may be differently associated, in a combined
series, with the rational principles, or merely animal
desires: for it must not be inferred, because every
individual of the human species is endowed, from
creation, with the whole of those faculties which have
been enumerated (Idiots excepted), and are all with
which we are at present acquainted, that any one is
possessed of them in equal size of organs, or degree
of activity; it requiring only the marked energy of a
very few faculties, preponderating over the dormant or
less vigorous powers, to form what is termed Character,
whether national or individual. Hence may be ob-
served the vivacity and versatility of the French, from
the prevalence of the animating faculties under a san-
guine temperament; the patient investigating genius
38
of the Germans, by reason of the reflecting powers;
the circumspection of the Chinese, in the manifestation
of the prudential sentiments ; and the terrific barba-
rity of some of the uncultivated Indian tribes, arising
from the preponderance of the animal propensities
undirected by moral feeling. The like courts our
observation in the every day walk of society : the
pious, the mora], the generous, and the exalted cha-
racter; and likewise the reverse of these are every
where to be met with, and will be found to arise prin-
cipally from the developement, or activity, of certain
classes of feelings, whose predominating and indulged
influence, over the other faculties of the mind, deter-
mine the general habits, and (though perhaps uncon-
sciously) regulate the tenour of the conduct of the
person so organized. It is, moreover, a remarkable
fact, that in whole nations, where the superior powers
exert their energy, we may discover a proportionate
degree of urbanity of manners, as on the contrary,
where the lower or merely animal propensities are
allowed to assume the ascendancy over the Intellectual
faculties, the more of the Barbarian is discoverable:
the restraining motives are withdrawn, impetuosity is
exhibited on every impulse of the passions, and the
rude, the brutal, and the sensual feelings, become
apparent in the character; and in proportion as mora-
lity and civilization become cherished, in the same
degree (both history and experience assure us) the
people improve in the arts of refinement, probity, and
taste.
39
The ||£rccptt!lt faculties which contribute to
form the mechanician, in combination with the Scien-
tific, and under the guidance of the Reflective powers,
constitute the exalted genius whose productions, like
those of No. 4,* excite universal admiration. But these
acquire energy from the feelings, which constitute the
Artisan a reputable member of society, or otherwise
:
stimulated by the Domestic group, the exertion is ani-
mated by family comforts. If the selfish feelings pre-
dominate, all is subservient to Individual gratification;
but these still modified by the Regulating Sentiments,
as Self-esteem, Approbation, Firmness, and Justice,
exert their respective influences, or blend their asso-
ciated effects in the Character.
The Scientific group acquires additional energy
from the feelings in the same way, which manifest
themselves in the labours, whether of the Artist, the
Geographer, the Musical Composer, or the Architect;
each selecting the objects suited to gratify the promi-
nent features in his character: thus among Painters,
in the pencil of the one, may be traced the influence of
the Domestic affections, in another Courage or Destruc-
tion, in a third the splendour excited by the desire of
admiration, or the pompous pageantry of pride. Even
constitutional temperament is discernible in the selec-
tion of colours ; while the Ideal group adds brilliancy
of conception, such as influenced all the stupendous
performances of the extraordinary Artist, No. 5.
* Vide characteristic models.
40
The llilftccttttg powers of the mind are not less
influenced by the mild and benevolent, or the stern and
cynical faculties ; the natural bias of Philosophers
urging them to contemplate, with very different optics,
the systems of nature, or ethics, according as the
amiable or the rigid feelings may have directed their
judgment. Hence the varied schemes of ancient theo-
rists, on one or other of which, most of the moderns
have raised the structure of the mind, as they found
their feelings or propensities harmonize with their
Prototype. In No. 6 may be viewed the ascetic Philo-
sopher, who fitted only for the recluse, his seclusion
added depth to his vast research, and profundity to
his conceptions and understanding.
The £)OKtC0ttC affections, under the regulation
of the superior faculties, present the most amiable
picture that nature can offer to our contemplation; yet
these act differently, and become variously modified by
the impulse of accessory feelings, according as they
assume the prerogative of dictation. The Preservative
group urge to a jealousy of domination, while the
Prudentials suggest sentiments of parsimony: these
are again influenced by the Regulating class of senti-
ments; whilst under the guidance of Beneficence and
Veneration, we may conceive a character such as
No. 7 presents, and eulogized in the pages of French
history.
41
The ]j3r£0irft&tito£ faculties. Notwithstand-
ing their indispensable properties, or however valuable
under the restriction of Justice, Propriety, and true
Patriotism, become the most obnoxious when they
acquire the ascendancy in the character. A more ex-
traordinary instance of their ungoverned impetuosity
cannot perhaps be adduced than No. 8; which, if
guided by the nobler faculties, might have constituted
a brave and magnanimous Commander, a judicious, yet
inflexible Legislator, a steady and firm corrector of
the abuses which had crept into the State, at the
Imperial helm of which he was placed; but bereft of
the higher sentiments, the Individual sunk into depra-
vity, and every species of barbarity.
The llrufrltttt&l sentiments becoming conspi-
cuous in the habits, render the character circumspect
in all his dealings, watchful over his interests, and
sparing of his remarks, whether of persons or things
;
and though he utter nothing but truth, yet he does not
consider himself (unless properly called upon) to
declare the whole truth. If the lower feelings unite
their energy, the principles are not always quite
correct ; but associated with the Moral Sentiments, and
Justice, the Individual, though seldom courted, always
commands respect: a striking instance is afforded in
No. 9, where the Royal personage, though destitute of
true friends, yet ever possessed the respect even of his
enemies.
„
1
1
42
The lirQUlattng powers, being implanted for
the purpose of exerting an influence over the other
mental feelings and sentiments, tend rather to bias and
restrain the too active impulses of the other faculties,
than manifest themselves collectively; but where they
shine conspicuous in the Character, they exalt the
being above the ordinary weakness of mortals, and
render them objects of admiration : for as great men
have seldom small vices, the lower passions become
eclipsed, or assume milder names, under the dazzling
splendour which this group maintains. An example is
afforded in No. 10, where, in other circumstances, the
propensities would have debased the character, they
became in a measure obscured in the great display of
mental ability.
The Emacjtttatitot group communicates vivacity
to the whole mind, and gives an animating glow to the
conceptions of the Poet, Painter, Philosopher, and
Divine. It forms the cheerful friend, and lively asso-
ciate, and adds a gay and agreeable turn to conver-
sation : it inclines the Individual, where it predo-
minates, to rove in the flowery fields of fancy, and
enables him to meet the disastrous occurrences of life,
as transient evils. Under the inferior combinations,
it stamps the character with levity ; but with a large
developement of the Reasoning powers, it contributes
to form the most exalted Genius, such as evidenced in
No. 11, whose vast and versatile conceptions will meet
admiration to the latest posterity.
4
o
The f&Otal sentiments, when predominant in
the Character, exert a powerful controul over the
whole mind, and in the present state of society demand
an energetic dictation of the Reflecting faculties to
direct their impulse ; evincing that the restraining
motives, as well as the active duties of morality, are
essential to promote the happiness of mankind. Reve-
rence for the Deity, and charity towards mankind, may
without their guidance become morbid, and produce
abuses : a Wolsey or a Bonner, equally with an
Addison or a Howard, may be actuated by this group
of faculties. But where the Rational powers maintain
the complete mastery of the mind, they manifest their
unassuming influence, and shed a mild lustre over the
whole character, as exemplified in No. 12.
The limited plan of this work will only allow a
suggestion here, that in order to curb one cogent organ,
or class of feelings, it will be prudent to counteract its
impetuosity, by calling forth the activity of another;
first of a somewhat dissimilar quality, then others more
remote : the object is not to be achieved at once, and
should ever be undertaken with care. No unreason-
able request should be proposed to irritable youth, nor
should stubbornness be provoked: command of temper,
also, will have a powerful effect on juvenile passions,
and no less influence those of maturer years.
PRACTICAL PHRENOLOGY.
One of the impediments to the advancement of
Phrenology, has arisen from the mistaken opinions of
the Amateurs of this Science; who, supposing a mere
acquaintance with the names, situations, and individual
properties of the mental organs, quite sufficient to
qualify them to decide on the characters of others,
have, on these slender attainments, ventured to deter-
mine the necessary developement requisite (in their
-estimation) to constitute a reputable member of society;
and to anathematize such as did not appear to enjoy
so copious, or so ponderous, a cranium as their own;
and from a promptitude (generally observable in
novitiates) to display their skill, with " Oh, you must
allow me to examine vour head," have so committed
themselves, that many persons who previously were
disposed to give credence to the doctrine, have been
thus disappointed, or discouraged, by the incorrect
judgment of their Phrenological friend; and, in conse-
quence, have not only relinquished farther inquiry con-
cerning it, but also withdrawn even the good opinion
they had conceived for it, from its apparent futility. But
it should be remembered, that the errors of Empiricism,
afford no just impeachment against the science of me-
dicine: various contingent and auxiliary circumstances
must be duly weighed, and maturely considered, before
an opinion be offered on individual endowment, since
human character is so infinitely varied.
45
That the size of the head affords no correct estimate,
will appear from general observation. It is no unfre-
quent occurrence to meet with persons who have large
heads, but who display no particular mental excellence;
while, on the contrary, some of less dimensions excel
in brilliancy of talent: Mr. P. Cotter O'Brien, the
Irish giant, who measured eight feet six inches and a
half, exhibited far less mental energy than the Por-
tuguese dwarf, Cardoza, whose height was only
twenty-four inches.
The disproportion of the head to the body will
generally be found to be attended with weakness of
the mental powers, as in the various cases of Idiocy,
where the cranium being distended with serum, becomes
too large, or, on the other hand, is rendered diminu-
tive from the brain being checked in its due formation
and growth. A little observation will, however,
familiarize the student with what may be termed large,
moderate, and small heads ; but no two heads must
ever be compared with each other, for particular
mental endowments, not even of the same sex, but
each one examined individually for itself, and con-
clusions drawn relative to character, according as the
developement of faculties, temperament, education,
habits, and intercourse with society may justify. The
knowledge of the influence of constitutional tempera-
ment, which regulates the organic activity, is of great
importance; and though generally mixed and blended
in such variety, as to present some difficulty, may
nevertheless be ascertained by a careful observation
of what are termed the four primitive humours.
46
The Lymphatic, or Phlegmatic Temperament,
manifests itself in the dull and gross habit: the vessels
lie deep, and appear small, the pulse is languid, com-
plexion pale, the hair light, and a general lassitude is
apparent in all the movements; every transaction is
with them a matter of course, they observe the bustle
of all nature around them with indifference, equally
exempted from the delights, or poignant sorrows, that
so much affect others.
The Sanguineous humour predominating, produces
a firm consistence of body, fleshy, though not fat;
veins full, and brisk pulsation of the arteries; the skin
smooth, good complexion, and an animated counte-
" nance; blue eyes, brown hair, lively habits, exhibiting
much promptitude : soon affected by external impres-
sions, which as quickly subside.
The Bilious, or Choleric temperament, affords a
moderately full and firm set of muscles; pulse quick
and full, a strong and decided expression of coun-
tenance, skin hot and dry to the touch, yellowish
brown complexion, dark hair; manifest generally great
ardour; quick, hasty, and persevering, but inconstant.
The Nervous, or melancholy temperament, is
evidenced in a slender swarthy pale skin, cold to the
touch; fine thin hair, delicate state of health, small
muscles, rapidity of action, contemplative, and apply
with passionate ardour to any object of pursuit, but
soon exhausted, being inadequate to the endurance of
much fatigue.
47
The influence of these humours on the constitutional
habits, must be blended (mentally) in the same way
the Painters unite their colours, and form teints on the
palette; their mixture being* not only complex, but
assuming a character which varies with the different
periods of existence, known as the Spring, Summer,
Autumn, and Winter of Life; neither are the consti-
tutional temperaments, in general, less influential with
individuals than these revolutionary seasons on the
globe, regulating the energies and activity of the
different ages of human life: similar modes of exertion,
whether mental or corporeal, not being predicable of
childhood with those of maturity, or these again with
the decline of existence.
A difference of sex produces a varied manifestation
of like faculties; the masculine character being directed
by understanding, the feminine guided by feeling.
Thus in Philoprogeny, each parent regards, and fre-
quently cherishes, in the offspring, the dominant,
though perhaps latent, feature in their own character:
hence maternal management of boys, after a certain
age, is properly relinquished; while the regulation of
the girls is still retained. The feeling of courage is
variously exhibited, the valour of the male displaying
itself in feats of prowess; that of the female in the
exercise of a more pliant weapon. The power to
construct prompts, in the one sex, to works of archi-
tecture, mechanical, or pictoral composition ; in the
other it affords an ability to regulate the costume, select
furniture, &c. with elegance and taste : and so of the
other faculties.
£
48
Particular regard likewise must be had to the
healthy, or diseased state of the organs : the opportu-
nities that may have been afforded of education, and
exercise; the influence of climate, custom, or habit;
and the associations with, or seclusion from, society.
As boys, bred under the management of maiden aunts,
or grandmothers; and classical daughters, under the
tutelage of relict fathers, or uncles, equally present a
distorted character; an anomaly not reconcileable to
any positive rule.
These preliminary considerations having been duly
weighed, the head should be viewed in profile, and a
vertical line imagined to extend from the centre of the
«rown to the orifice of the ear;* the region before the
line is the frontal, and that posterior, the occipital:
the proportions between these will indicate whether
the intellect, or feelings, claim precedence in the
character. An horizontal line, ideally passing from
the middle of the forehead to the occiput, at the organ
of habitation, will subdivide the head into two hemis-
pheres: the superior, or coronal, above the line; and
the inferior, or basilar, below; from which may be
judged, how far the sentiments, and powers strictly
human, preponderate over the animal propensities.
The attention must then be directed to the functions as
associated into groups, and lastly the individual organs,
which may be noted on a Phrenological tablet, with an
asterisk of four, five, or six points, for moderate, full,
or very marked, as Astronomers designate the magni-
tudes of the stars; placing a cipher for small organs,
* Vide model No. 2.
49
and thus regulate the judgment by a preponderance
of testimonies. And here it may be necessary to
observe, that, beside the exceptions to ordinary
formation, noticed in the description of the head,
cranium, and brain, some variations claim the
attention of the student; namely, that the organs do
not always assume precisely the like appearance on
every head. Also when two or three organs are asso-
ciated in a full developement, the adjoining ones may
be mistaken as small, when they are only so in relative
proportion : thus, when the Perceptive faculties are
large, they may produce a somewhat sunken appear-
ance to the eye, whereby the judgment may be deluded
with regard to Language. Construction also, when
combined with Melody, will present some difficulty
even to the experienced Phrenologist ; the like when
combined with Secresy and Acquisition, which may
induce a suspicion that Construction is small, when in
fact it is otherwise. The female head being more
narrow laterally in its proportions than that of the
male, may appear to justify the old adage, "that a
woman cannot keep a secret," the reverse of which is
the fact; for the cerebral fibres being more extended
in volume in that region, afford great scope of
activity to the prudential group, which forms a prin-
cipal trait in the female character : the same remark
applies in every case, where the extension of an organ
may counterbalance one apparently more prominent.
Nor should censure rashly be passed on those per-
sons, to whom Nature has denied a " towering front,"
to recommend them to our intimacy or friendship, or
50
which does not present at first view a splendid intellect;
from considerations previously suggested on the effects
of application, &c. even in some of the Caribbean
Indian tribes, who repress the expansion of the powers
of rationality, by compressing the frontal bone, so that
in maturity they can see objects above the forehead,
yet the convolutions of those faculties still exist.
Many possess abilities of which they are unconscious,
from their never having been placed in circumstances
to call forth their activity; others again fancy that they
possess talents to which in reality they have no claim.
Previous acquaintance with the individual may some-
times warp the judgment, and it may be prudent to
suspend offering Phrenological opinions on the Climac-
terical periods, which every person experiences once,
and in some cases oftener, every lunar month, on which
days the mind experiences a lassitude, depression of
the animal spirits, and a susceptibility to irritation of
temper. It is especially to be borne in memory, that
the science does not profess to be of a predictive nature,
still less does it involve a fatal necessity : the cerebral
organs are only instruments of the mind, or intermedia,
whereby it is enabled to cogitate, and hold intercourse
with the external world, in the same manner, that, by
the ministration of the bodily organs, it operates all the
personal and relative functions, without which their
fulfilment would be impossible, and according as the
one, or the other, are brought into a state of perfec-
tibility by discipline and exercise, the more promptly
and energetically do they execute their office.
51
From the manifold difficulties that presented them-
selves during the early investigations of Dr. Gall,
he recommended to his auditors not to practise the
doctrine, on account of its extreme intricacy; on the
contrary, his philosophical coadjutor, and the im-
prover of the science, Dr. Spurzheim, advises every
enquirer to examine and repeat his observations, in
order to obtain self-conviction ; and to consider it an
imperative duty to be well acquainted with the subject,
and that, before he makes any application of it. Cer-
tainly the investigation ought to commence at home ;
every one should first dispassionately examine, and
contemplate his own mental powers, agreeably to a
former remark, "that he carries the full weight of con-
viction on his own shoulders;" by this method he may
readily acquire a practical self-knowledge, of all attain-
ments the most valuable, as it has ever been considered
the most difficult. By a knowledge of his propensities
and desires he may be the better enabled to keep a
watchful guardianship over them, lest, by their exces-
sive energy, or undue indulgence, they may betray
him into errors, injurious to himself or others, and
become a source of inquietude or regret. By an atten-
tive observation of the various sentiments and per-
suasions which bias the judgment, and too often lead
to mistaken conclusions, he may allow every one the
free enjoyment of his own peculiar notions and pre-
judices, from a consciousness that he expects a like
indulgence, and thereby be led to exact from others no
more than he would cheerfully bestow, and thus create
52
in his mind a liberality of sentiment and charitable
mode of feeling towards all. By duly cultivating and
strengthening his intellectual faculties, he may not
only have a surer ally to aid him in the regulation of
his passions, his taste, and his conceptions, but likewise
contribute to the general stock of useful knowledge,
and be the better qualified to assist his weaker brethren.
By a due and careful contemplation of this science,
every one may discover how far he is indebted to natu-
ral formation, how much he owes to the fostering care
of parental regard, what share education has had in
forming his habits, and what he may claim upon the
score of his own exertions ; and thus knowing the
talents committed to his trust, he may, like a " wise
steward," improve them to the glory of the <c
Donor of
every good gift," and by an endeavour to promote the
welfare of all around him, and in contributing to gene-
ral happiness most effectually establish his own.
gtlttt (SufstuMs (ov <&xmm.
What motto graced Apollo's Temple—What does
Phrenology propose for its object—Why was it thought
objectionable—Who was Democritus—What were the ac-
cusations against Socrates—Why was Galileo persecuted—
What did Harvey discover—Why does every new discovery
meet opposition—What is recommended to the Phrenologi-
cal student—What is the difference between the African
and European head—The Oriental—The Caribbean—Who
proposed the facial angle—What difference exists between
the Male and Female Head—Why are they dissimilar
—
What became requisite to establish Phrenology—Into how
many Orders are the mental faculties divided—What are
their properties—Into how many Genera—By what created
beings possessed—What constitute the faculties of Intel-
lect—Wherein do the feelings consist—What are the regu-
lating powers—What compose the sentiments.
What is the Cranium—How many are the bones, and
name them—What gives form to the Cranium—What are the
exceptions—What is the Frontal Sinus—Its supposed cause
—What is the Diploe—What is the Hydrocephalus—What
may cause this disease—What is the Temporal Muscle-
How detected—Where are Individuality, Form, Size,
Weight, Colour, Order, and Number—What caution is
requisite in judging of the four first Organs—Where are
Eventuality, Locality, Time, Melody, and Construction
—
What difficulty does Construction sometimes present
—
Where are Comparison, Causality, and Wit—The Organ
of Language—What varieties does it present—Where are
Amativeness, Philoprogeny, Habitation, and Attachment
—
Courage, Destruction, and Flavour—Acquisition, Secrecy,
and Caution —Approbation, Self-Esteem, Firmness, and Jus-
tice—Hope, Ideality, and Marvel—Imitation, Benevolence,
and Veneration.
54
Of what is the Brain composed—What is the Dura
Mater—The Pia Mater—The Membrana Arachnoidea
—
What space does the Cerebrum occupy—Where is the
Cerebellum situated—What is the Medulla Oblongata
—
W7
hat does the Medullary Substance consist of—What
causes Consciousness to appear as single—What is the
Cineritious Substance supposed to be—What are the
first manifestations of Consciousness—What causes Impe-
tuosity in Youth—When is Perfect Character assumed
—
What causes Weakness of the Mental Faculties—What
are the Properties of Individuality, Form, Size, Weight,
Colour, Order, and Number—Eventuality, Locality, Time,
Melody, and Construction—Comparison, Causality, and Wit
—Language—What are the effects of Amativeness, Philopro-
geny, Habitation, and Attachment—Courage, Destruction,
and Flavour—Acquisition, Secresy, and Caution—Appro-
bation, Self-Esteem, Firmness, and Justice—Hope, Ideality,
and Marvel—Imitation, Benevolence, and Veneration.
What constitutes Character—What is characteristic in
the French, German, Chinese, and Indian Tribes—To what
do the Perceptive Faculties conduce—The Scientific—The
Reasoning Powers—The Domestic Affections—Preservative
Group—Sentiments of Prudence—Regulating Powers
—
Imagination—Moral Sentiments—What Considerations are
essential previous to judging—What are the four Primitive
Humours—Name their Influence—What Powers guide the
Masculine Character—The Feminine—How is the Head
examined—Why is this mode necessary—What cautions
are requisite—
W
7
hat is particularly to be remembered
—
What useful inferences may be drawn from a knowledge of
the Propensities—The Sentiments—The Intellectual Facul-
ties—What is the result of these enquiries.
tfntei-etf at $tatfonei'*' Stall.
