{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__anonymous___proceedings_of_the_first_us_anti-masonic_convention.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings Of The First Us Anti-masonic Convention","mylang":"de"}
Tim
PROCEEDINGS
er TBS
UNITED STATES ANTl:MASONIC CONVENTION,
,, .
EllBUCING TllE
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS,
THE REPORTS, THE DEBATES,
A.!fD THE
ADDRESS TO THE PEOPLE.
PUBLISHED BY
1. I"· T&lMBLE, PBILADELPHIAj 8KINNER AND DEWEY, NEW YOR.Kj D. B. PA.CKAIU>1
ALBANY ; WILLIAM WIL~MS, UTICA ; D. D. SPENCER, lTRACA. j N. D. 8TRONG,
HARTFORD, CON. ; IOllN JIA.RllR AND CO. OFFICE OP THE BOSTON CBRl8Tl4H
HERALD, AND OF THE FREE PRESS, BOSTON, MASS.; AND A.T MOST or
THE BOOKSTORES JN THE UNITED STATES.
1830.
..
State Committees, -
Journal of the Conventi~n,
CONTENTS.
}-f S~..2. ~-
-
{.,~ 0
j(jO
Pap.
2
6
.Mr. Whittlese:y's report on lhe abduction and murder of William Morgan,•
and the means used to prevent convictions, 15
lUr. Ward's report on die· origin, &c. of masonry, 33
Mr. Oliver's report on the pretensions of masonry, 36
Mr. Morris' report on the truth ofthe disclosures, ·39
Mr. Taylor's report on the public press, 41
Mr. Hopkins' report on the obligation of masonic oaths, 43
Mellll'B. Ward and Armstrong's report from the Committee of seceding ma-
aona, or, a summary of freemasonry, 04
· Mr. Thacher's repo~ on the early history of anti-masonry, 65
Mr. Seward'• report on the recent:· history of anti-masonry, 69
Mr. Ellmak.er's report on the presidential nomination, 73
Mr. Walker's report on the disqualifying nature of masonic oaths, 76
Mr. Todd's report on a national correspondence, 77
Mr. Maynard's report on the effect of freemasonry on the Christian religion, 79
Mr. Seward's report of resolutions, - 84
Debates of the Convention, 85
A.ddreu to the people of the United States, reported by Mr. Holley, - 143
.. . .. .....
: : .. ~ ....:
-. -
. .. . ... ..
......
. .. -.. ... . ..
....... : ......
-
~ : .... : ..·."' : .._..
NOTE BY THE COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION.
IT is perceived, with regret, that some few typographical errors have escaped de- -
tection, and will appear in the first impressions. These have been corrected when
discovered ; and if others yet should be found, the notice of them will be received as
a favour, and they will be amended.
If any errors of a graver chara<'ter, in the reports or debates, should appear, the
Committee take occasion to say, that they have not happened through any want of
diligence in seeking for the true reading of the manuscript reports, or the true mean-
ing of a speaker, from the notes of the stenographer. It is, however, felt, that errors
in the sense may possibly have happened, in jrinting reports drawn up in many dif-
ferent, and often obscure hand-wntings ; an in debates of speakers, whose mean-
ing may in possible cases have been misapprehended. Some of the speakers who
are nearest and most accessible, and whose employments permitted, have been so
kind as to revise the notes taken of their remarks. But in this respect, gentlemen
who Jive remote from the place of publie.ation, have suffered a wrong, unavoidable
ftrtainly, but which the Committee cannot reflect upon without regret, and which
it is the principal object of this note to acknowledge. For, it has happened in sev-
eral instances, that soine doubt or obscurity has been discovered in the notes ofa gentle-
man's remarks; but discovered so late, that recourse to him could notbe had for expla-
nation, without delaying the publication. Mean tilll~the...p.ublic sail fur the pro-
ceedings has been loud and urgent ; the Committee thought it safer to omit some
llJ>eeches ttian to ruu-~ven small, errors in the sense; and in this
manner, injustice has been done to gentlemen residing at a di~tance, by omitting
valuable remarks; and injustice to the public also, by presenting the debates less full
and perfect than was expected. Sometimes a ·part only of a speaker's remarks has
been inserted, thereby intending to exclude a paragraph, which it was feared did not
correctly express his idea.
Among the gentlemen whose remarks, or some of them, are thus omitted, it may
not be improper to name, Mr. Dexter, of Michigan; Mr. Miles, of Erie, in Pennsyl-
vania, and Mr. Jones of the same state; Mr. Hanna, of Ohio; Mr. Armstrong, of
New York; Mr. Strong, of Connecticut; Mr. Morse, and Mr. M'Culloch, of New
Jersey; and if there are still others whose names were not known, it is hoped they
will be indulgent for the omission, considering the difficulty which the reporter ex-
perienced in learning names, in an assemblage of men so intensel1 occupied, and so
soon dissolved. The Committee think it just to make an unsolicited acknowledg-
ment ofthe ability, intelligence, andattention ofMr. Marcus 'f. C. Gould, stenographer
to the Convention. ,
It remains only to say, that arrangements are made with the publishers to print in
future impressions, such additional speeches or remarks ~ may be furnished, and to
correct errata that may be pointed out; and that for these purposes, communicatioos
may be sent to SAMUEL M. HoPKlNS, Albany; WILLIAM H. MAYNARD, Utica, or
HARMAN DENNY, Pittsburgh.
20th October, 1830.
..
iVi182034.
STATE ANTI-MASONIC COMMITTEES.
llf pumumce ofa resolution of the Convention, the following list is published, though imper.
feet. It ia requested that perfect lists of all the State Committees may be fwuiahed u IOOD u
po1aibl11t in order that the following may be corrected accordingly.
V:E;RMONT.
Martin Flint, ~
Lebbeus Edgerton, Randolph, Otwnge COllllly•
. Calvin Blodget,
MASSACHUSETTS.
Abner PhelP.'•
John D. W11liam1,
Goorge Odiorne,
Henry Ga1aett,
William Marston,
Thomaa Walley,
Benjamin W. Lamb,
Ebenezer Withington,
John P. Whitwell;
Benjamin V. French,
Daniel Weld,
Jonathan Frencli,
Jacob Hall.
RHODE ISLAND.
Walter Paine, Jun.
Christopher Spencer,
John Prentice,
John Hall,
John Foster,
Josiah Wardwell,
Wyllis Ames,
Daniel Matthewson,
Lemuel Steere,
Lodowick L. Thut"Ron.
CONNECTICUT.
Jonathan W. Edwards, ~
Gaius Lyman, Hartford.
N. D. Strong, '
Calvin Barber, Sinubury,
OHIO.
Stephen F. Palmer, Aaliford,
Sidney Wadsworth, Farmingtott,
Henry Perkins, Salem.
Jonathan Sloane, ~ George B. Depeyster,
Frederick W adswonh, RMJenf!IJ, Portage Co. Gregory Powers, Jun.
Cyrus Prentiss, '
PENNSYLVANIA.
Geo. W. Harris,
Francis Wyeth,
Valentine Hummel,
Lee Montgomery,
John Fox.
NEW YORK.
Frederick Whittle1ey, RocAuter
Harvy Ely }
Samuel Works, · •
F. F. Bachus,
NEW JERSEY.
Joteph Cutl~r.. ~ BoUle Hill
Abraham Brittm, S •
ALABAMA.
Bolling Hall, ~
Samuel S. Gr.aham, Coo1tufa,
Absalom Jackson,
Lewia Johnson, ~ ~
Jo1eph Babcock, SC '
Aaron Bombaugh,
John A. Wier,
Archibald Orme, (Da.up.\in,)
Philip Fishburn..
Thurlow Weed, Alba.nJ,
Bates Cooke, Letoiatott,
Timothy Fitch,Ba.tmiia..
Jacob .Mann,~.
A. P. M•Curdy, Calaada.
W. R. Norrison, }
William Hewes,
Thomas G. Gill,
E. Picken•,
-- .... ., . , .. ~
~ ..~:·~:~·- .. ~· ..
. .. . . ...;." :
UNITED STATES·
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Philadelphia, Saturday, September 11, 1830.
Ninety-six Delegates• to the United States Anti-masonic ConTention, '14-
sembled in the District Court Room, in the city ofPhiladelphia, on ihe 1lth of
September, 1830, at-12 o'clock, M.-On motion of Frederick Whittlesey, -0f
the state of New York, it was resolved, t!fat the Convention be organized by ap-
pointing a President, four Vice-Presidents, and two Secretaries ; whereupon
the following gentlemen were unanimously appointed, viz :
FRANCIS GRANGER, of the state of New York, - - - P~side'ltt.
JOSEPH RITNER, ofthe state of Pennsylvania, - 1st V. President.
ABNER PHELPS, of the state of Massachusetts, - 2d V. President.
ROBERT HANNA, of the state of Ohio, - - - - 3d V. President.
SAMUEL W. DEXTER, of the territory ofMichigan, 4tk V. President.
JOHN CLARKE, of the state of Pennsylvania, - - - } S c t ·e
NOBLE D. STRONG, of the state !i>_l necticut, • • ~ re ari s.
~-
The Convention being organized, prayer was_ ffered by the Rev•.Moses
Thacher, of Massachusetts. · -·-- } --· --
On motion of Mr. Whittlesey,-Resolvtld, that a Committee of one from
'each state and territory here represented, be appointed to lay before this Con•.
vention the subject& proper for its consideration.
Messrs. Phelps, of Massachm1etts, Messrs. Wadsworth, of Ohio,
Terry, of Connecticut, Vanderpool, ofNew Jersey,
Whittlesey, ofNew-York, • Dexter, of Michigan,
Todd, of Pennsylvania, Slifer of Maryland,
Clark, of Vermont, Kirk, of Delaware,
Paine, ofRhode Island,
were appointed said Committee.
The Convention then adjourned to 4 o'clock, P. M.
The same day, at 4 o'clock, P. M. the Convention met pursuant to adjourn-
ment. Samuel P. Lyman, a delegate from the state of New York, and Na-
thaniel B. Boileau, and Alexander Plummer, delegates {rom the state of Penn·
sylvania, appeared and took their seats.
Mr. Phelps, from the Committee, to lay before this Convention, the subjects
proper for its consideration, reported in part, by the following resolutions, viz:
1st. Resolved, that a Committee of five be appointed, to prepare and report
rules and orders, for the more convenient regulation of the proceedings of this
Convention.
2d. Resolved, that a Committee of one frtllii each state and territory here re-
presented, be appointed to report whether it is expedient to elect honorary mem-
bers of this Convention; how many, and who are proper persons to be s~
elected ; and under what restrictions, if any, they are to take seats in this Con-
vention. ' -
3d. Reaolved, that a Committee .he appointed, consisting of all the seceding
•Note by the publishing Committee:-The names of member. this day attending, are not
liere inserted, as the names of all who attended tlie Convention, will appear MUbscribed to the
addre11 at the end ofthis volume.
... .·.
2 .•.. • · ' ·"-,JOURNAL•
.. ~ : :
: .....
[6
. ::~~·:,... ·...:~ ....
~~i11i·&~~efitig tb ~tfll~ b"o~~~ntion, to report a summary of freemasonry ;
embracing the prominent points in each degree, sufficient to show the nature,
principles, and tendency of the institution ; and that the correctness ofthe same
be certified by each member of the Committee, according to the number of de-
grees he has taken.
4th. Resolved, that a Committee of five be appointed, to inquire and report,
rDken, tDkere, and for what purposes, freemasonry was first instituted ; what has
~en its progress ; where it has flourished most ; and what is now the most
probable number of the fraternity, in each count1'" where it exists.
1 5~. Resolved, that a Committee of five be appointed, to inquire and report
'I\ ,f;r·!What have been the pretensions of freemasonry, and how supported by facts.
: 'i '.:' ,... ~-6th. Resolved, that a Committee of five be appoi!lted, to take into considera-
tion the true nature of masonic oaths or obligations ; and to report whether they
are, or are not, religiously, morally, or legally binding; and whether they are,
or are not, in collision with the higher obligations of duty and allegiance, which
very good citizen is under, to support the constitution and laws of his country._
7th. Resolved. that a Committee of five be appointed, to examine the evi-
denoo, as to the truth of the disclosures contained in a work published by Elder
David Bernard, entitled, " Light on Masonry;" and to report thereon. _ .
8th. Resolved, that a Committee offive be appointed, to report a succint and
lucid account of the abduction and murder of William Morgan ; and of the
condm;t, and measures adopted by the fraternity, jointly and individually, to
prevent a conviction in courts ofjustice, of their more prominent fellow-masons,
in that abduction and murder.
9th. Resolved, that a Committee of five be appointed, to consider and report,
whether an adherence to the oaths or obligations of freemasonry,· does or does
not, disqualify a man for the impartial discharge of all important offices in the
gift of the people, according to the true nature ofour free institutions•
.10th. R_eso_lved, that a Committee of five be appointed, to report upon the
~\.\ effects of freemasonry on the Christian religion.
, : .• ..:~-·-11th. R.esolved, that a Committe.e of six be appointed, to consider the nature
and spirit ofanti-masc:mry, tfom the disclosures ofProfessor Robison, and the
Abbe Barruel, to the present time ; the arguments used by freemasons, in sup-
port of their institution ; and the ~eans resorted to by the fraternity, to prevent
inquiry into the principles, natw·e,;and tendency of the order, and to report
ereon. J ·
12th. Resolved, that a: Committee of five be appointed, to report what mea-
sures can constitutionally and properly be used, to effectuate the extinction of
freemasonry ; to guard against its revival ; and to secure our free institutions
against the future insidious assaults of all secret societies ; and to report an
address on those subjects to the people of the United States.
13th. Resolved, that a Committee offive be appointed, to prepare and report
resolutions, expressive of the sentiments of this Convention, on the subject of
freemasonry; and that each member of this body be requested to aid said Com-
mittee, by furnishing such resolutions as he may think proper.
14th. Resolved, that a Committee of five be appointed, to consider and re-
port the best system of a nationaf correspondence of anti-masons, for the sO:
purpose ofdiffusing information extensively on the subject of freemasonry, and
of other secret combinations, against the equal rights of mankind and our free
institutions.
Thereupon ordered, that the said report be accepted, and that Committees
be appointed accordingly.
On motion of Mr. Ruggles, Reso?ved, that a Committee of five be appointed,
to report a mode for raising funds amongst the members of this Convention, to
defray its contingent expenses. Thereupon, '
7] JOURNAL. 3
Messrs. Ruggles, of l\Iassachusetts, Messra. Whitney, of New·York, .
Manchester, of New York, Wallier, of Pennsylvama,
Boyd, of Ohio,
were appointed said Committee.
The Convention adjourned to Monday next, at 10 o'clock, A. M. theu to
meet in the saloon of the Musical Fund Hall, in this city.
Monday, September 13th, 1830, the Convention met pursuant to_adjourn-
JDent.-Prayer, by the Rev. Caleb Green, of New York.
William H. Maynard, and George H. Boughton, delegates from the state tr
New York ; Martin Flint, a delegate from the state of Vermont; Samuel Leidy,
a d~te from the state of Pennsylvania; and Nahum Hardy, a delegate
from the state of Massachusetts, appeared and tQOk their seats. .
The Committees, upon the several resolutions passed-0n Saturday, were aa-
nounced by the Presiden~ as follows :
On the 1st resolution,
Messrs. Denny, ofPennsylvania,
Rose, of New York, .
Lazell, of Massachusetts, ·
On the 2d resolution,
Messrs. Clarke, of Vermont,
Holley, of Connecticut,
Bancroft, of New York,
Alling, ofNew Jersey,
Middleswarth, ofPenn.
Kirk, of Delaware,
Messrs. Storrs, of Connecticut,
Kelley, of Ohio.
Messrs. Dexter, of Michigan,
. Wadsworth, ofOhio,
Slifer, ofMaryland,
Paine, of Rhode Island,
Bigelow, of Mass~usetts.
' On the 3d resolution, the Committee being ordered to consist of seceding
mason~, the following gentlemen constituted the same, namely,
Messrs. Thacher, ofMassachusetts, Messrs. Read, of New York,
Merrick, ofDo. Bernard, of Do.
Strong, of Connecticut, Armstrong,·of Do.
Barber, of Do. Morse, of New Jersey,
Flint, of Vermont, Slifer, of Maryland.
Ward1 of.New York,
On the 4th resolution,
Messrs. Ward, of New York,
Stevens, of Pennsylvania,
Loveland, of Vermont,
On the 5th resolution,
Mossrs. Oliver, of Massachusetts,
Terry, ofConnecticut,
St. John, of New York,
· On the 6th resolution,
.Messrs. Hopkins, ofNew York,
.Sheldon, of Do.
Ogle, of Pennsylvania,
On tbe 7th resolut}on,
Messrs. Morris, of New York,
Fiint, of Vem1ont,
Rhoads, of Pennsylvania,
On the 8th resolution,
.Messrs. Whittlesey, of New York,
Irwin, of Pennsylvania,
Cooke, of New York,
Messrs. M'Cullocb, of New Jersey,
Longley, of Massachusetta.
Messrs. Gillett, of Ohio,
Brittin, of New Jersey~
Messrs. Potts, of Pennsylvania,
Thacher, of Massachusetts.
~ssrs. l\lorton, Massachusetts,
Perkins, of Connecticut.
Messrs. Conger, ofNew Jersey,
Sabin, of Vermont.
JOURNAL.
On the 9th resolution,
Mpere. Boileau, ofPennsylvania,
Taylor, of New York,
Walker, of Massachusetts,
n the 10th resolution,
Messrs. Maynard, of New York,
Thacher, of Massachusetts,
____J,oveland, of Vermont,
On the 11th resolution,
Meslll&. Jones, of Pennsylvania,
Sweet, ofNew York,
C._Green, of Do.
On the l!lth resolution,
Meurs. Holley, of New York,
Slade, of Vermont,
Line. of Pennsylvania,
On the 13th resolution,
Meesnr. Greenough, ofPennsylvania.
• Barber, of Connecticut.
Messrs. Kirk, of Delaware,
T. C. Green, of New York.
Messrs. Boyd, of Ohio,
Goffe, of Massachusettl,
Thacher, of Do.
Meesn. Gauett, of Ma88achneett1,
Curteniue, of New York.-
Kessrs.'Ellmaker, of Pennsylvania, Messn. Lawyer, ofNew York,
Seward, of New York, Peters, of M8888Cbuaett1.
Vanderpool, ofNew Jeney,
On the 14th resolution,
lleSMs. Todd, of Pennsylvania, Messrs. Nichols, of Connecti~ut,
· Burbank, of Massachusetts, .Adame, of Massachusetts.
Stanton, ofNew York,
Mr. Denny, from the Committee on rules and orders, reported the following~
to be atanding rules ofthe Convention, namely, ,
L Tlie President shall take the chair at the hour to which the Convention·
shall stand adjourned; and upon the appearance of a quorum, .shall direct tho
minutes of the preceding day to be read.
II. The President shall preserve order and decorum ; shall decide questions
of order, subjectto an appeal to the Convention ; shall appoint all Committees,
unless otherwise ordered by the Convention.
IIL AU motions and addresses shall be made to the President.
JV. No motion shall be debated, or put, unless the same shall be aeconded;
it shall then be stated by the President; and every motion shall be reduced to
writinr, on the request ofthe President, or any member.
V. Iftwo or more members shall rise at once, the President shall name the
member who is first ro speak.
VI. No member shall be referred by name in any debate. .
VII. No member shall be interrupted while speaking, except by a call to
order by the President, or by a member through the President; when the mem-
ber called to order shall. resume his aeat, until permitted by the President to
proceed.
VIIL Any member making a motion, may withdraw it before the question
shall he taken, apd before amendment made.
IX. All questions shall be put in the order they are moved, except in cases
ofamendment and filling up blanks, when the amendment last proposed, the
highest number, and longest time, shall be first put.
X. The previous question shall be always in order; and until decided, shall
preclude nit amendment and debate of the main questien, and shall be in this
form, "sball the main question be now put ?"
XI. A motion to adjourn, 1hall always be in order, and shall be decided
without ~ebate.
9]' JOURNAL.
'
XII. No 1D41mber11iall1peak1nore than twice on the aame qu-ion. without
ieave.
. XIII. No motion for reconsideration shall be in order, unless moved by a
member who voted with the majority.
Thereupon, Re1olved; that the same be adopted.
On motion of Mr. Strong, Resolved, that a Committee of three be appointed,
t.o receive the proceedings of this Convention, from the ininutes of the Secre-
taries and reporter, and prepare them ror publication. .
Messrs. Slade, ofVermont, Mr. Denny, of Pennsylvania,
Hopkins, of New York,
were appointed said Committee.
On motion of Mr. Irwin, resolved, that a Committee of five be appointed, to
inquire and report concerning the bearing and effect of the ties and obligations
of freemasomy upon the cmnmerce and revenue of the United States.
Messrs. Irwin, of Pennsylvania, Messrs. Ellis, of New York,
J. Williams, of New York, Bogardus, of do.
Rising, of Vermont,
were appointed said Committee.
A sealed communication was presented by Mr. Adams, from Samuel G. An-
derton, of Boston, addressed to the President of the Convention, which was
referred to a Committee of three, consisting of Mr. Ruggles, Mr. Maynard,
and Mr. Adams. Agreeable to a verbal report of said Committee, the com-
munication was subsequently read, and ordered to be embodied in the minutes
of this Convention.• }
On motion of Mr. Sweet, Resolved, that a Committee of -- be appointed · :t '<:
to inquire into the pecuniary circumstances of the widow and children of Wil-
liam Morgan; whose duty it shall be to report to this Convention what measures
should be purs11ed, if any, fot their support. Thereupon, ordered, that the said ,h· ·
re8olution be laid on the table. t. 1 '• :.
On motion of Mr. Taylor, Resolved, that a Committee of five be appointed,
to inquire as to the influence of fremasonry on the public press ; and whether it
be expedient for this Convention to adopt any measures in relation theret'().
Messrs. Taylor, of New York, Messrs. Schenck, of New Jersey,
Todd, of Pennsylvania, Slifer, of Maryland,
W. Williams, of New York,
were appointed said Committee.
The Convention proceeded to con.sider the resolution this day submitted, re-
specting the pecuniary circumstances of the widow and children of William
Morgan. '7 ·, .,,.;
And thereupon, ordered that the snrrie be rejected. ~ ~" · · ···
On motion of Mr. Barlow, ordered, that a list of the members of this Con-
Yention, be prepared by the Secretaries ; and that 500 copies be printed for the
use of the members.
Then the Convention adjourned, to 9 o'clock, to-morrow morning.
Tuesday, September 14, 1830.-The Convention met pursuant to adjourn-
ment.-Prayer by the Rev. Joseph Goffe, of Massachusetts.
Pliny Merrick, a delegate from the state of Massachusetts, and Charles
Starr, a delegate from the State of New York, appeared, and took theirseats.
Mr. Clark, from the Committee on the admission of honorary membe111,
made a report, which he read in his place ; and which, being amended, was
adopted as a resolution as follows : .
Resolved, tha.t gentlemen friendly to the cause for. which this Covention is
• See Appendix.
6 JOURNAL. [J.O
I
assembled, from states and terri.tori.es not here represented, or from llUCb aa
have not a full representation, may be invited to take seats in this Convention ;
and that those from states not represented, may debate, but no such persons to
• have a vote, in any case. . .
f,< On motion of Mr. Maynard, Resolved, that no person shall be presented to
. \ this Convention, for admission as an hqnorary member, from any state or ter-
.1 · . , ritory, represented in this Convention, except by the delegation thereof; nor
·· ; '· unless a majority of such delegation shall have agreed to recommend such per-
' , , , :i, son for admission.
' Mr. Whittlesey, from the Committee on the abduction and murder of Wil-
liam Morgan, made a report, which he read in .his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report do lie upon the table.
Mr. Ward, from the Committee on the time andplau ofthe origin of free-
masonry, and for what purposes instituted, made a report, which he read in
his place. ·
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report be adopted.• .
Then the Convention adjourned to 4 o'clock, P. Jrl.
The same day, 4 o'clock, P. •·the Convention met pursuant to adjo111'1l-
ment.
Samuel Parke, a delegate from the state of Pennsylvania appeared amhook
his seat.
Thomas Baldwin, } f D 1
Joshua B. Gibbons, 0 e aware,·
Asaph Rrice, } ·
George Allen, of Massachusetts, and
Paul Barney,
Joshua Lindley, }
Hon. Mr. Shepard, of North Carolina.
" " Pettengrew,
were introduced as honorary members.
Mr. Whittlesey from the Committee, to lay before this Convention subjeeta
proper for its consideration, further reported by resolution,.as follows :
Resolved, that a Committee of one from each state and territory, here repre-
sented, be appointed to consider and report, on the expediency of having can·-
didates n'ominated by the Anti-masonic patty, for the Presidency, and Vice
Presidency of the United States, previous to the next election; and on the
manner, time, and place, of making such n9mination.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said resolution be adopted, and,
Messrs. Ellmaker, of Penn. Messrs. Wadsworth, of Ohio,
Maynard, of New York, Slifer, of Maryland,
Merrick, of Massachusetts, Kirk, of Delaware,
Holley, of Connecticut, Dexter, of Michigan, ·
Slade, of Vermont, Paine, of Rhode Island,
Vanderpool, of New Jersey,
were appointed said Committee.
Mr. Hopkins from the Committee on masonic oaths, made a repof1 which he
read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report do lie upon the table.
Then the Convention adjourned to 9 o'clock, to-morrow morning.
Wednesday, September 15, 1830, the CQllvention met pursuant to adjourn-
ment.-Prayer by Rev. Mr. Sabin, of Vermont.
Lebbeus Armstrong, David Bernard, and Thomu C. Green, delegates from
the state of New York; and Ebenezer Currier, and·Daniel Gilbert, delegates
from the state of Ohio, appeared and took their seats.
* This, and the other reports, adoJ!l.ed by tbe Coavention, will be found in·a 111baequent part
this volume.-Note by the Comuuttee.
11] JOURNAL. 1
M~. Thacher from the Com.mittee on the spirit of Anti-masonry, made a re-
port which he read in his place. .
'!'hereupon, ordered, that the said report do lie upon the table.
Mr. Oliver from the Committee on the pretensions of freemasonry, made a
report which he rend in his place, ·
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report be adopted.
On motion of Mr. Seward, Resolved, that a Committee ofone from each state
and territory, here represented, be appointed to make out and report a concise
ncc~:>Unt of the progress and present state of Anti-mason.ry throughout th'e
Umted States; and,
Messrs. Seward, of New York,
Ogle, of Pennsylvania,
Terry, of Connecticut,
l\.elly, of Ohio,
Walker, of Massachusetts,
Clark, of Vermont,
were appointed said Committee.
Messrs. Hall, of Rhode Island.
Alling, ofNew Jersey,
Kirk, of Delaware,
Slifer, of Maryland,
De.xter of Michigan,
------
The report of Mr. Whittlesey, from the Commi n the abduction and
murder-of William Morgnu, yesterday laid e table, was called up and
adopted. .
Then the Convention adjourned to 4 o'clock, P. M. .
The same day 4 o'clock, P. M. the Convention met pursuant to adjournment.
Mr. Ruggles from the Committee on the mode of defraying the contingent
expenses of the Convention, reported by resolution, as follows :
Resolved, that a Committee of five be appointed to raise money, by voluntary
subscription from the memberli of this Convention, to defray the necessary ex-
pe~1ses of the same ; ~d that said Committee make the disbursements which
, ..Jhey may deem necessary for that purpose, and payover the balance that may
•.,...~main in their hands at the rising of this Convention, to the publishing Com-
mittee.
Thereu,on, ordered, that tbe said resolution be adopted.
· The Committee which made t~e foregoing report, were on motion of Mr.
Whittlesey• constituted the Committee on the resolution aforesaid.
On motion of Mr. Read, Resolved, that a Committee of three, be appointed
to report, at what time the business of this Convention will admit ofan adjourn-
ment, sine die ; and ·
Messrs. Read, of New York, Mr. Wadsworth, of Ohio,
Clark, of Vermont,
were appointed said Committee.
Mr. Armstrong, from the Committee of the seceding masons, on a summary
of freemasonry,' made a report, which he read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report do lie upon the table.
Mr. Holley, from the Committee, on an address, &c. made a.report, which
he read in his place.
Thereupon ordered, that the said rep011, do lie upon the table.
Then the Ponvention adjourned to 9 o'clock, to-morrow morning.
Thursday, September 16, 1830, the Convention met pursuant to adjourn-
ment.-Prayer by Rev. Mr. Armstrong, of New York.
Mr. Read, from the Committee on adjournment, reported by resolutions, as
follows:
Resolved, that this Convention will adjourn, sine die, on Friday evening next,
at 6 o'clock. ·
Thereupon, ordered, that the said resolution be adopted.
8 J.OURNAL.
Mr. Taylor, from the Committee on the state of the preu, ... made a re-
port, which he read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report be adopted.
Mr. Seward, from the Committee on resolutions, made a report, which he
read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report do lie upon the table.
Mr. Walker, from the Committee on masonic oaths disqualifying for oftlce,
made a report which he read in his place. -
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report do lie upon the table.
The report of Mr. Hopkins on the oblibratory nature of masonic oaths, was
called up and adopted.
On motion of Mr. Holley, of New York, Resolved, tl!at the thanks oft.his
Convention, be respectfully tendered to John Thompson and Jacob Shearer.
Esqrs. commissioners of the city and county ofPhiladelphia, for their courteous.
permission to hold the meetings of this body in the district court room : and
that the Secretaries be requested to furnish them with a copy of this resolution.
The report of Mr. Holley, from the Committee on the address, &c. yester:..
day laid on the table, was called up and adopted.
On motion, Resolved, unanimously, that the names of the members of the
Convaotion, be subscribed to the said address.
John Moore White, of New Jersey, was introduced as an honorary member.
Mr. Ellmaker, from the Committee on the nomination of candidates for the
Presidency and vice Presidency of the United States, made a report, which
he read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the same do lie upon the table. .
Then the Convention adjourned to 4 o'clock, P. M.
The same.day, 4 o'clock, P. M. the Convention met pursuant to adjournment.
Jonathan Kearsley, of Michigan, was introduced as an honorary member.
The report ofMr. Armstrong, from the Committee of seceding masons, on a
summary Qf freemnsonry was called up, and on motion of Mr. Read, recom-
mitted, to the same Committee. .
On motion ofMr. Hopkins, Resolved,that the Committee ofseceding mas~ns,
to whom it was referred to report, a summary of the prominent points in each
degree offreemasonry, and that the same be certified by each member, accord-
ing to the number of degrees taken, be instructed and empowered to prepare
such summary, when time may permit, after the rising of this Convention, and
that the same being prepared and sent from hand to hand, made correct, and
certified by• the signature of each seceding masonic member, according to his
degree, be transmitted to the Committee of publication, and be published with
the other proceedings. .
The report of Mr. Thacher, from the Committee, on the spirit on Anti-ma-
sonry, was called up and adopted.
Mr. Morris, from the Committee on the disclosures of freemasonry, made a
report,which he read in his place: thereupon, ordered, that the same be adopted.
On motion of Mr. Slade, the report on the nomination of candidates for the
Presidency and vice Presidency of the United States, was recommitted, to the
same Committee. ·
The report of Mr. Walker, upon the disqualifications for civil office by ma-
sonic oaths, was called up and adopted.
Then the Convention adjourned to 9 o'clock, to-morrow morning.
Friday. September 17, 1830, the Convention met pursuant to adjournment.-
Prayer by the Rev. Mr. Morse, of New Jersey.
Mr. Irwin, from the Committee on the effects of masonic ties and obligations,
"1 the commerce and DJvenue of the United States, asked, that said Committee
·· lie discharged from the further consideration thereof.
18] JOURNAL. 9
Thereupen, ordered, that the said Committee be discharged accdrdingly.
M.r. Slade, from the Committee on the Presidential nomination, made a far-
ther report, more concisely presenting the views of the former report of the
aaid Committee, whieh he read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report be adopted.
Mr. Todd, from the Committee on national correspondence mad~ a report,
which he read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report be adopted.
and, Messrs. Henry Dana Ward, } ·
Samuel St. John, of New York city,
Henry CotheaJ, · _
were appointed a 11ational Committee of correspondence.
The report ofMr. Seward, from the Committee on resolutions, yestertlly laid
on the table, was called up and adopted.
Mr. Seward, from the Committ.ee on the progress and present state of Anti-
masonry, made a report, which he read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report be adopted.
On motion of Mr. Hopkins, the report of Mr. Morris, from the Committee
on the disclosures of freemasonry, adopted yesterday, was reconsidered.
Mr. Bernard then read a communication from.N. N. Whiting, of New York,
on the upper degrees ofmasonry. The communication was ordered to be ap-
pended to the said report, and published with it, and the report, so amended,
was again adopted.
The Convention then adjourned to 4 o'clock, P. M.
The same day, at 4 o'clock, P. M. the Convention met pursuant to adjourn•
ment.
On mol'.ion of Mr. }Jolley, of New York, Resolved, that the estimate, which
Anti-masonry places upon the rights of election and the liberty ofthe pres.s, as
the two main pillars in the temple of our liberties, is established, undeniably, by
every page of our own history, and most strikingly illustrated by the recent re-
volution in France.
On motion of Mr. Slade, Resolved, that this Convention earnestly recom-
mend to the several state Anti-masonic Committees, to take immediate mea-
eures to solicit contributions throughout their respective states, by the agency
- of their county and town committees, for the gratuitous dissemination of intel-
ligence on the subject of freemasonry.
On motion of Mr. Boileau, Resolved, that the address to the people of the
United States, and such of the other proceedings, as the publishing Committee
may select, be published in the German language.
Mr. Slade was excused from further service on the publishing Committee ;
and Mr. Maynard added to said Committee.
On motion of Mr. Stevens, Resolved, that the publishing Committee trans-
, mit to each member of this Convention, fifty copies of the. proceedings, or as
many as the funds raised, will warrant.
Mr. Maynard, from the Committee on the effects of freemasonry on the
Christian religion, made a report, which he read in his place.
Thereupon, ordered, that the said report be adopted.
Mr. Terry moved a resolution of thanks to the President ; whereupon the
question being put by the first Vice Presiden, it was Resolved unanimously, that
the thanks ofthis Convention be presented to the Hon. Francis Granger, for the
able, faithful, flnd dignified manner in which he has presided over its delibera-
tions.
On motion of Mr. Seward, it was Resolved unanimously, that the thanks of
this Convention be presented to the Vice Presidents, for their dignified and
9
10 JOURNAL. [14
able, and to the Secretaries, for their faithful and correct discharge or their
several duties, during the session of this Convention.
Thereqpon, the Convention adjourned, 1ine die.
APPENDIX.
I.ETTER FROM SAMUEL G. ANDERTON REFERRED
TO IN THE JOURNAL.
Boston, August 20; 1830.
To tAe United States Anti-Masonic Delegates, in Convention assembled, at
PAiladelpAia.
GSlfTLSKl:tf,
Allow me IO express my acknowledgments for your exertions to suppress the evils offreema-
111nry. It baa been my misfortune to have been hauled up and dismantled by the masonic crew.
I have not onl1 taken the horrid oaths of the order; but have witnessed the execution of the
bloody penalties attached to those oaths, in true masonic form, according to the rules and
uages of the fraternity; and I had stroug reason to believe, from what I have been told byma·
111ns, that thoae executions are much more frequent than what has been generally supposed.
On the 15th ofMarch last, I made solemn oath before a notary public and a respectable nnm·
ber ofgentlemen in this city, to what I was an eye witness. I did 1t ofmy own free will and ac-
cord, and from a senae ofduty. It has been asked why I did not do it before. I frankly answered,
because I knew the nature of the masonic institotion. I knew that !111 life mast.pay the for-
feitnre; bot the death ofMorgan, and soon after, that ofmy neighl>our, which is well~nown to
have taken place in amllilOnic lodge room in Boston; the death of,(\rtemas Kennedy,)li Milton,
1Vith all the mysterions, bot convincing circumstances, to say nothing uf·stmmd otlier strao~e
deaths ofmasons, led me to believe that dot,Y eslled me to disclose that horrid and bloody morder
in Belfast in Ireland. I told the world of 1t as soon as I sopposed it could be done with safety
to my own life. But I have been vilified and slandered agreeabl7 to masonic obligations.
Masons have said, and I believe they have poblished, that I have demed .III had stated,-that I
have said that 1was drank when I did it,-that I was bribed or hired}O do it. Bot so far from this
being true, I was repeatedly assured by the Anti-masons, bef'Ore hand, that no reward whatever,
either directlf orindirectly, would ever be given me for it, nor have-I ever·expected, or received
aay thing. went to sea before my affidavit was published, and have never denied a word of
it, nor was I the least intoxicated ; for proof of th18 I appeal to those gentlemen who saw me,
and I believe that one or more ofthem are members ofyour honourable body. I have carefnlly
reviaed my affidavit since it was poblished. It is possible, that I was mistaken lliJ to one s71Iable
in the name ofthe landlord on Lime Kiln Doek, the name mighthave been Greenwood, mstead
ofGreenlew, thoogh I still think that we used to esll him Greenlow. But except this, and the
mis-spelling of Ollin for Holllin; and the omission of the word" anll." after" Bdfast," in the
5th sentence froD_I the lut.-And of the word" sailed" after "ballap," in the same sentence,
(for I went to London before I joined the Hofflin,) it is correct. And I solemnly declare in the
preeenee ofthat God, before whom I expect to be jndged, and in presence ofmy country and of
mankiad, THAT SVSRY WORD OF THAT AFFIDAVIT IS TRIJJ:.
With this declaration, I present one hnndred and fifty copies ofthe same to the Convention,
and respectfully retJnest their acceptance. With the highest respect forzour honourable body
I BUbscribe mysel ,
\. SAMUEL G. ANDERTON.
. ',·
I.\
REPORT. '
01' TBE ABDUCTION AND MURDER OF WILLIAM MORGAN, AND ON TBE CONDUCT
AND MEASURES OF THE MASONIC FRATERNITY TO l'RElrENT CONVICTIONS, &c.
Mr. Whittluey from the Committee next herein·menti011.ed made thefolloonng Report:
·THE Committee appointed "to report a succinct and lucid account of the abduc-
tion and murder of William Morgan, and of the conduct and measures adopted by
the fraternity, jointly and as individuals, to prevent a conviction of their more promi-
nent fellow masons m that abduction and murder," beg leave to report the following
statement of f9Cts, compiled either from the judicial evidence which has been given
in courts of justice, in relation to that transaction, or from well authenticated docu-
qients, or from ihe personal knowledge of the facts then stated.
WILLIAM Mo1u1AN was bom on the 7th day of August, 1774, in Culpepper county,
Virginia. His occupation was that of a bl'icklayer and stone.mason. Having a.<".CU·
mnlated by his industry, a sufficient fund, he commenced business as a merchant in
Richmond, Virginia. It is said, that he was a captain in a militia regiment, and that
be was present at the battle ofNew-Orleans, in January, 1815. He married Lucinda
Pendleton, in October, 1819, who was left with two infantchildren at thetime of his
abduction•. He removed from Virginia in the fall of 1821, and commenced the busi-
ness ofa brewer, near York, in Upper Canada, The destruction of his property by
fire, soon after, reduced him to poverty. He removed to Rochester, in the state of
New York, and resumed his original occupation. An inftammation ofthe eyes, con-
tracted soon after, incapacitated him for ·labour, and rendered the pressure of
poverty more severe. From Rochester he removed to Batavia, where he resided in
the summerof 1826. William Morgan was a member of the masonic fraternity, and
had advanced as far as the degree of royal arch, in the mysteries of that society.
In the summer of 1826, it became known that be was preparing for publication, a
work, in which the obligation11, secret signs, and ceremonies of free masonry were
to be made public. It was also understood that David C. Miller, an entered appren-
tice mason, and a printer at Batavia, was engaged, or to be engaged in printing the
work. The knowled15e of these facts excited great commotion, among the.members
of the masonic fratenuty in that vicinity, and in a wide extent ofsurrounding country.
There Willi great beat and intemperance of expression in relation to the expected
work, and an open avowal by members, that it should never see the light. Consul-
tations were held among them, as to the course to be pursued in relation to the con-
templated work; and it was understood, finally to have been determined, that its
publication was to be prevented, at all hazards. It would appear, that there were
several dilferent and distinct projects devised to produce this result, which, either
were not attempted, or failed in their execution.
Measures were taken to injure the characterofMorgan, and thus to shut him out from
sympathy and credit. In the month of August, 1826, an advertisement was inserte<\
in the Ontario MeSBenger, printed at Canandaigua, of which the following is a copy:
"NOTICE AND CAUTION."
" IC a man calling himselfWilliam Morgan, should intrude himself on the commu•
nity, they should be on their guard, particularly the MASONIC FRATERNITY. Morgan
was in this village in May last, and his conduct while here, and elsewhere, calls forth.
this notice. Any information in relation to Morgan, can be obtained by calling at the.
ABDUCTION OF MOB.GA!{. (16 '
llAsoinc HALL in this village. Brethren andcompanioni are particularly reque.tecl
to obaem:, mark, and govern themselves accordingly. 07" Morgan is considered a
awindler and a dangerous man. Q7" There are people in this village who would be
happy to see this Captain Morgan. '
"Canandaigua, .Auguat 9, 1826."
I\r .
,.;..:I "/. This notice was copied into many or the newspapers in the western counties of
· the state or New York, and particularly into two newspaeers printed at Batavia.
'·' In the month ofAugust, 1826, a man representing that his name was Daniel1obn~
' , and that he was a fur trader from Canada, came to Rochester, and spent most of bis
time in the warehouse ofEdward Doyle, who had himself, about four yearsprevioiu.
removed from Canada, and who was a high officer in the Monroe Enc:amp-
ment. About the middle of August, he went to Batavia, and ingratiated himself -
far with Morgan and Mil'ler, by offers of pecuniary advances, that he was received
into their confidence, and into a participation in the J?Ublication. He remained at
Batavia about three weeks, and surreptitiously possessing himself ora portion of tho
manuscript, suddenly lert Batavia with the portion he had thus acquired, aad carried
illilto Rochester. From thence, the manuscript was sent by a special messenger to
the city of New York, and laid before the General Grand Chapter of the United
States, then in seSBion in that city.
In July, 1826, Morgan was arrested on a civil suit at Batavia, and gave bail. On
the 19th orAugust, 1826, Johnson Goodwill, Kelsey Stone, and Johll Wilson of Ba-
tavia, all free masons, and Daniel H. Dana, a constable or Pembroke, about fourteen
miles distant1 on ascertaining that neither of the .heads of the families in the house
where Morgan resided, \Vere at home, rushed into his room and seized his person,
and all the papers which he was then engaged in arrangini for the press. The
arrest was made by virtue of a bail piece, and he was hurried toJail without time being
given him to procure other bail. The sheriffwas not to be found though be had been
seen with the four men immediately before the arrest, and Morgan was detaiaecl in
jail from Saturday until Monday following. .
While he was so confined in jail, search was made at his lodgings by virtue of
eome pretended process, for the papers which Morgan had been engaged in pre-
paring, but without success.
Arrangements were made for the assembling at Batavia, on the night orthe8th of
September, of members of the masonic fraternity, from different and distant places.
They came from Buffalo, Lockport, Canandaigua, and Rochester, and expectatio08
were entertained thatthere would aliobe a partyfrom Canada. None ofthem arrived at
Bataviauntilin the night, when they assembled to t!J.e number ofCorty or fifty, ormore.
The object of this party was to suppress the publication of the work, by procuring
the manuscript rapers, wid the printed sheets. For this purpote, an attack upon the
printing office o Miller was coutemplated, and it would seem, also, the forcible remo-
val of Morgan from Batavia, to effect a separation between him and Miller. Eli
Bruce, the sheriff of Niagara county, had been requested to prepare, and did actually
prepare a cell in the jail of that county, for the.reception of Morgan, whose forcible
abduction, by this baud of midnight conspirators, was confidently expected. Colonel
Edward Sawyer, ofCanandaigua, headed, orcommanded this party; but they failed
to eft'ect their object, and dispersed a little before daylight, the next morning.
It is supposed that they were deterred from their purpose, by a knowledge of the
fact, that Millerwas aware of their intentions, and had prepared ire arms, and other
ample means to defend, bothhis person and hia property, from the attacks of violenco.
Many of the persons composing this party are.known to have been eelected aml de-
legated for the express purpose of going to Batavia to assist in suppressing tile PlllJ..
lication of Morgan's book; and perhaps the numbers composing this party, and. the
different and distant places from which they came, illustrate more forcibly than aoy
other single fact, the extent ofthe combination io anppresa the publication ofthe book.
About this tiqie, an article written by R. W . Hasldns of Buffalo, appeared in the
Black Rock Ga.utte, a paper published forty miles distant from Batavia, of wflich
the following is a copy : ·
"l\h.. SALISBURY,
" Sir,-1 noticed in your lai;t paper, an inadvertent error, copied perhaps from
other prints, respecting a wretch b7 the name of Morgan. The &tatement that Mor-
17] .ABDUCTION OF MORGAN.
•
gan is an expelled mason, is a mistake. · He it not an· expelled mason, bot an impos·
tor, and a swindler, ·again1t the. evil designs of whom the fraternity have amply
provided. A MASON.
"Septeml>er 7, 1826."
On the night of the 1-0th of September, Richard Howard, otherwise called Richard (' Q
Chippersfield, who worked at Buffalo for the same Haskins who wrote the foregoing 1 ( ·
paragraph, attempted, with several others whose names are not known, to set fire to
the printing office of Miller, in Batavia.. The sides of the building, and the outside
1tairs leading to the office, had been literally sprinkled with spirits of turpeYtine; and
straw, and cotton balls saturated with the same combustible, had been provided. It
burnt fiercely and brightly upon the first application of the lamp, and had it not been
instantly discovered by an individual who was accidentally a witness of it, the office
must have been speedily consumed, and the lives of ten persons, then asleep in the
two buildings, possibly made a sacrifice.
. On Sunday morning, September 10th, Nicholas G. Chesebro, of Canant!aigua,
master of the lodge at that place, applied to Jeffrey Chipman, a magistrate at Ca:.
naudaigua, for a warrant. Chesebro came to the office with Ebenezer C. Kingsley,
who made a complaint against William Morgan, for having taken away a shirt and
cravat, which he had borrowed of Kingsley. The magistrate issued the warrant upon
the oath of Kingsley, which was directed to Chesebro, as one of the coroners of On-
tario county, and handed to him. Chesebro, together with Halloway Hayward 'a
constable, Heury Howard, Harris Seymour, Moses Roberts, and Joseph Scofield, all
freemasons, of Canandaigua, left that place for Batavia, at about ten o'clock the.
same.morning, in an extra stage hired by Chesebro.
The party were joined by four other individuals, all freemasons, at different
places before they reached Batavia. They stopped to take supyer at James Gan-
son's house, in Stalford, six miles east of Batavia. Doctor Samue S. Butler of Staf-
ford, was then introduced to some of the party, and informed that they had a warrant
for Morgan. Doctor Butler went to Batavia the same evening, and was requested
to .infor,m Nathan Follett, and William Seaver, then master of the Batavia lodge,
that the party wel'll coming. He did so, and on his return met the Canandaigua
party about two miles from Batavia, and informed Ganson that Follett had sent to
them not to come. The stage turned about; the party that originally started from
Canandaigua went into Batavia on foot, and the remainder returned. The next
morning early, Morgan was arrested, and taken to the public house where the party
bad slept: an extra stage coach was procured, and the party left Batavia for Ca-
nandaigua, with Morgan in their custody. Miller attempted to procure the release of
Morgan just as the carriage was starting, but he was pushed aside and the coach was
driven oft' very fast, Chesebro being on the outside with the driver, and urging hitn
to drive fast, until they should get out of the county. The driver appeared to
feel uneasy about the proceedings, but was r.acified by.Ganson's assurance, that he
would save him harmless from all responsibility. Chesebro repeatedly loolled back,
and said they should not take Morgan alive. They arrived at Canandaigua with
:Morgan the same day, and in the evening took him before the magistrate, who issued
the warrant, by whom he was examined and discharged, Loton Lawson appearing
as a witness on behalf of Morgan. Chesebro then immediately applied to the same
magistrate for a warrant against Morgan, for a debt of ah<>ut two dollars, claimed
to be due. from him to Aaron Ackley, a tavern keeper, which debt Chesebro
alleged, was assigned to him. Judgment was entered against Morgan for two dol·
Jars and sixty-nine cents, debt and costs, and an execution immediately issued,
which was put into the hands of Halloway Hayward, then present. Morgan took
oft' his coat, and -offered it to the constable to levy upon, for the debt. The con-
stable declined receiving it, and arrested Morgan and committed him to the jail of Ca-
naadai~ua the same evening, on the execution. He remained in custody in Canan.-
daiguaJail, until the evening oC the next day.
Immediately after Morgan was committed to jail, Loton Lawson, a farmer resi-
ding near Canandaigua, procured a horse and went to Rochester the same night, a dis-
tance of twenty-eight miles, and returdbd the next morning a little after breakfast.
He went to bedsoon after his return, and informed the innkeeper where he slept, that
1ome gentlemen from Rochester would call for him in the course of the day. On
B
A:BDUCTION OF MORGA.lit. [l.8
the 12th of September, Burrage Smith and John Whitney, of Roche11ter, took the
•tage from th(lt place in the morning, for Canandaigua. They were joined by James
Gillis, at Victor, ten miles distant from Canandaigua, and all three arrived at the
latter place early in the afternoon of the same day. Smith and Whitney called upon
Loton Lawson, in the evening of the same day, September 12, Loton Lawson called
at the jail a little after dark, and asked for William Morgan. The jailer was absen~.
and Lawson informed the jailer's,wife, that he wished to pay the debt for which Mor-
gan was confined, and take him away. Mrs. Hall, (the jailer's wife,) declined ac-
cepting the amount of the execution, on the ground that she did not know the amount,
and also refused to permit Lawson to have any private conversation with Morgan.
Lawson asked Morgan, however, in the presence of Mrs. Hall, if he would _clome
.with him if he would pay the debt and ~e.him ont.1 T.o :w:hichl\lorgan answered,
that lie would;· bwson thQI expressed great anxiety to get Morgan out that nigh~
l/Jld pressed Mrs. Hall to receive the amount of the debt which she still declined.
Lawson went out and returned soon with another person, whom Mrs. Hall can-
not identify, and insisted on her receiving the amount of the execution. Mrs. Hall
peremptorily refused. He went away and returned again, reiterating his request
with the same eft'ect. He went away again, and soon returned with Edward Saw--
yer, who advised Mrs. Hall to receive the amount of the debt, and let Morgan go.
She still refused. She subsequently consented to discharge Morgan, at the request
of Nicholas G. Chesebro, who was the real plaintitr in the execution, and took the
keys of the prison for the purpose of opening Morgan's cell. Before she opened the
eel.I, Lawson gave a single whistle at the front door, which brought a man to the
j.ail steps. Morgan's cell was unlocked; he came out, and Lawson took him by his
arm, and went towards the door of the prison hall, which was unlocked by a person
on the outside, and they went out. Before they left the jail steps, Morgan was
1eized with violence by Lawson, and the person who was called there by his whi8de.
Morgan struggled, and cried "Murder," once or twice, resisting as mucli as possible.
and in the struggle his hat fell oft'. Edward Sawyer and Nicholas G. Chesebro
were waiting near the jail steps, and when the struggle commenced, they followed
Morgan and the two men who were with him, and who were going eastwardly from
the jail. Chesebro came up with them, and stopped Morgan's outcry by thrusting
a handkerchief, or something similar, into his mouth. Sawyer gave a distinct rap
upon the curb of a well, at which signal, Hiram Hubbard drove up with a two horso
carriage, which had been harnessed, and was in waiting for the purpose. He over-
took the party, having Mor~an in their possession, a few rods east of the jail, when
two of them thrust Morgan into the carriage, and then ·got in themselves. The car-
riage immediately turned around, and drove throu~h Canandaigua, Main street,
northerly. This "'"8.8 about nine o'clock in the evemnl?, and it was a bright moon-
light night. Loton Lawson, Burrage Smith, John Whitney, James Gillis, and pro-
bably one or two other persons, whose names are not known, either rode in, or
accompanied, the carriage oontaining Morgan. It would seem, that this carria15e
was acc.mpanied most of the distance by out ridel'l!, either on horse back, or m
some •eparate conveyance. A sulkeywith a man in it, started from Canandaiguajust
!lfter the c~ag!' dro..-e through the s?"eet, for which it appeared to have b!'en wait-
mg some time; it drove past the carriage about three miles from Canandaigua, ancj
stopped at Victor over night. At Victor, the carriage containing Morgan and the
party with him, drove into Enos Gillis' yard, back of his barn, and out of sight from
the road; and the party remained there about an hour, and took some refreshment.
James Gillis here took a horse from his brother's stable, and it would also seem, that
one other of the party accompanied or preceded the carriage on horse back, when it
left Vietor. On the morning of the 13th September, between 4 and 5 o'clock, Ezra
Platt, a livery stable keeper in Rochester, and a royal arch mason, was called upon
for a carriage to go to Lewiston, and requested it to be sent to Enswdhh's tavern
in the village. Platt has sworn that he did not know who it was that called, or who
wanted the carriage. He called up Orson Parkhurst, one of his drivers, who is also
a m~on, and directed him to prepare the carriage. Platt charged the hire of the
carriage, as he has sworn, to "The Grand Chapter, pro tem.'' He has not yet re-
ceived his pay for such a singular charge.
The carriage containing Morgan, and the party with him, drove into Roche1ier
about day dawn, and Hubbard watered his horses at the public reservoir, near th•
19] ABDUCTION or MORGAN.
centre oCthe village. He haa testified that one individual alighted from the carriage
here, and was absent about fifteen minutes, when the same person returned as lie
supposed. The carriage then drove north, about Uiree miles from Rochester, where
the ridge road turns oft" from the river road. It stopped at the tavern at the inter-
section of the two roads a sl!ort time, with the intention of feeding. For some
reason this intention was abandoned, and Hubbard drove the carriage about half a
mile from the tavern, on the ridge road, and set down the whole party in the road,
at a distance from any house, and near a piece- of wood. The curtains of this car-
riage, so far as it had been seen by day light, were closed. After Hubbard had set
his party down, he returned, with the curtains of his carriage rolled up. Soon after
the carriage left the tavern, going west, Edward Doyle, of Rochester, rode up, on a
horse belonging to Ezra Platt, and inquired if such a carriage had passed, and which
way it went, Being informed, he followed after it. Platt's carriage, dril'en by Orson
Parkhurst, with some individuals in it, soon drove on the same road. It took up the
party that Hubbard had left in the road, or a portion of them, with Morgan, and
drove·w1111t. Edward Doyle, on horse back, and four or five persons in Hubbard's
carriage, returned to Rochester
A gentleman of Clarkson had engaged a pail' of horses of Silas Walbridge, of that
place, to put before a carriage. The carriage driven by Parkhurst drove up to Clark-
son about 9 o'clock in the morning, with the curtains and windows closed, though it
was a warm day. This is about fifteen miles west of the place where Parkhurst
took in his party. Upon its arrival in the street of Clarkson, the gentleman who had
engaged Walbndge'snorses, told him that he should not want them, and immediately
got into his sulkey, and drove about two and a half miles further west, and en-
gaged a pair of horses of one Captaia Isaac Allen, a farmer. The carrjage cHd not
atop in Clarkson, but drove on to Allen's. Upon its arrival, Allen's horses were
taken out of the orchard, where they had been drawing apples, and were harnessed
to the carriage which Parkhurst drove, in exchange for the horses which he had
before driven ; and Parkhurst mounted the box again, and drove on west. When
the carriage arrived at Gaines, about fifteen miles west of Clarkson, Elihu Mather,
reeiding at that place, took the horses of his brother, James Mather, and followed the
carriage, which had passed west through the village. He overtook-it at some dis-
tance from the village, where the horses were exchanged in the street, at a distance
from any house. Waen the exchange was eft"ected, Elihu Mather himself got upon
the box, and drove the carriage west, while Parkhurst returned east, with Allen's
horses.
The stage which had left Rochester early the same morning, arrived at Murdoch's
tavern· before the carriage containing Morgan passed. A gentleman of high stand-
ing, of Rochester, was one of the passengers in the stage; when the stage arrived at
Murd<lch's tavern, this P.entleman called the man aside who then had charge of the
tavern, and asked him tf he was a royal arch mason; being answered in the nega-
tive, he asked for writing materials, with which he wrote a note, and despatched a
boy with it to Jeremiah Brown, residing in that vicinity. Jeremiah Brown came to
the tavern soon after, and held a conversation with him. When the stage went
on, Brown and the gentleman both wei:iJ: on, in it. Soon after, Brown returned to
the tal'ern with two horlies, riding one and leading the other. When the carriage
containing Morgan came along, which was soon after; Elihu Mather, who was then
driving it, beckoned to Brown after the carriage had payed the house a short dis-
tance, and Brown went up to him, and appeared to hold some conversation with
him. The carriage drove on. Brown tookbis horses, and followed on after it ; but
it would aeem that he left his horses, and got on to the carriage himself. Burragt;i
Smith had followed the Morgan carriage in a su1key, but he had not overtaken it
when the carriage arrived at Murdoch's. Tpe carriage stopped at evening, at the
tavern of Solomon C. Wright, in New Fane, Niagara cou.pty, where the road
turns oft" to Lockport, and about three miles distant therefrom. It was here driven
into the barn and the doors closed, and the party remained at this place some time,.
to procure refreshments, and to make arrangements for relieving those who had tra-
velled in the carriage with Morgan all day, and the whole ofthe previous night, and
who must necessarily have been greatly fatigued. .
Burrag~~:~ckport in his aulkey, and to~ether with Jated Darrow·
called up ~ erift" of Niagara county, an_d mformed him tllin·Morgan
-,
8 ABDUCTION OF MOR.G.Uf. [20
wu in their pouession, and was going to Canada; and r~eeted Bruce'• aniatanee
In getting him along. Bruce.and some othen went to Wnght's, where several per-
IOns were assembled. Bruce and David Hague got into the carriage with Morgan;
Elihu Mather drove, and Jeremiah Brown was on the box with him, and they left
Wright's about ten o'clock in the evening. The pel?ons who came there with Mor-
gan, probably most ofthem went to Lockpbrt that night, and went into Lewiston the
next day in a stage coach. At Molyneux'• tavern, six miles distant, they stop~ ;
and Bruce procured Molyneux's horses, in exchange for Mather's. An incliv1duaJ
accompanied the carriage on horse back. Brown then drove, and they reached
Lewiston, fourteen miles distant from Molyneux's, somewhat after midnight. The
carriage was driven around to a back street, and unharnessed. Samuel Burton, one
of the proprietors ofthe stage line, at Lewiston, was called upon for assistance. He
called up Corydon Fox, one of his drivers, and directed him to harness a carriage.
He did 10, and drove up to the tavern. Bruce got upon the box with him, and by
his direction, Fox drove around to the back street, where the other carriage was un-
harnessed, .when Morgan was taken out ofthe one carriage, and put into the carriage
which Fox drove. Bruce and Hague got in with him, and Fox, by Bruce's direc-
tion, drove to Youngstown. They called at the house of Colonel William King,
at Youngstown, and stopped. Bruce alighted and called up King, who came out
with Bruce, and both got into the carriage. Fox drove on towards the fort, by
Bruce's direction, and when arrived at the burying ground near the fort, he was told
to sto~ He did so, when the persons havinr; Morgan in charge, got out, together
t , with organ, and all four walked olf, arm 10 arm, towards the fort, and Fox was '
•,'..•"u told he might return. Morgan was hoodwinked and botind at this time. ~an
that .arra_ng'}meo~ had .been prerioualf made. for_.tbit rec~ption of Morgan upon
- ; ;--tlielranada side of the river, with persons residing upon that side. After trsarty
,-·-?- left the carriage, they went to the ferry house, and Colonel King called _up dW
'"· .'..,:' Giddins, who then kept the ferry. All of them crossed the river, together w1 -
. ~~ :~" Clin1r,--,ma landed nearly opposite to the fort, at some distance from anr. dwelling.
· ,· Mr. Giddins and David Hague remained at the boat with Morgan, while Colonel
· · King and Sherilf Bruce went into the village of Niagara, to see the masons with
whom it had been arranged to receive their victim. They were absent about two
hours, and returned with two other men, one of whom was Edward McBride, then
a member ofthe parliamentof Upper Canada. After some conference, it was deter-
mined to bring Morgan back aga10, inasmuch as the arrangements for his reception
in Canada were not yet complete. This event had probably been anticipated, as
both Giddins and the keeper of the ·fort had been requested, two or three days pre-
vious, to prepare the magazine for the reception of Morgan, which they had accord-
ingly done, by removing the principal part ofthe public property from it. After the
refusal of the Canada masons to receive Morgan, the same .Persons who had taken
him across the river, re-crossed with him, and placed him m the magazine, which
had been so prepared for his reception, and loc~-bim-~-.This was some ti.me
before day dawn, on the morning of the 14th September, 1826. Morgan was left
in charge of Edward Giddins. The fort WU UDoccupied by troops, and indeed was
entirely deserted, except by Giddins and the keeper, and their respective families.
On the 14th day of September, 1826, a royal arch chapter was installed at Lewis-
ton; w)lich event can.id together a very considerable 1188emblage of masons, of that
degree, from Rochester, Bulfalo, Lockport, and other places in that vicinity. It
would appear from the te&timony of one or two witnesses, and the statements of
othen, that scarce an individual mason, attending that installation, could have been
ignorant of the fact, that Morgan was at that time confined in the magazine of fort
Niagara. It appears to have beena subject ofconversation among them, and several
• were then informed that such was t}Mi fact. On the day of the installation, Giddins
remained at thefort, to see that all was kept safe. He, together with John Jackson,
went to the magazin'W,"'for the purpose of carrying Morgan some food. Morgan re-
fused to admit them, and said he would starve rather tlian fall into their hands ; and
he made so great an outcry as to render ft necessary to dispatch Jackson to Lewiston,
io procure the assistance ofsome one to silence him. David Hague came'down ill.
haste, a distance of seven miles, but did not succeed in quieting Morgan. Two
other persons were then aent down from Lewiston, and one ofthem, (Loton Lawson)
of whom Mor1an seemed to have a great dread, went into the magazine, and sue-
j
21] ABDUCTION OF MORGA!'(, 7
eeeded in stilling him. Jn the evening, twenty or thirty persona, besides thote bo-
longio~ to the fort, came from Lewiston, and were at the fort. About midnight.
seven p-ersoos, all royal arch masons, held a consultation on the plain near the grave
yard, some rods distant from the fort, as to the manner in which Morgan should be
disposed of. There seemed to be but one opinion among them all : that Morgan had
forfeited his life, for a breach of his masonic obligations ; and that it was their duty
as masons, to see that the penalty was executed. The1 came to a determination to
proceed in a body and seize Morgan, and perform their own duty, by casting him
mto the river. After they had started to carry this determination into elfect, one or
the company discovered a reluctance to go such lengths, which encouraged others to
remonstrate, and the project was abandoned for that time, On the night of the
15th, a similar consultation was held between four persons, as to the disposition or
Morgan, but nothing wa8 decided upon. At thia consultation, Colonel KiDg became
offended with Mr. Giddins, for expressing a desire that Morgan should be releued ;
and Giddins surrendered to him the key ofthe magazine, which was afterwards en-
trusted to the care of Elisha Adams. It is known that Morgan remained. conined
in the magazine·during the 16th and 17th, and it is believed that he was so confine4
until the 19th of September.
As to the disposition of Morgan, after the evening of the.14th of September, no-
thing has yet been made known judicially, but circumstances are strong, to-indaco
the belief, that he was put to death on the night of the 19th of September, 1826, by
being cast into the depths of Niagara river. Several persons have been informetit
by those who were understood to be co~nizant of the guilty secret, that such waa the
fact, and Hiram B. Hopkins, bas tesulied, that be, as a mason, was informed in
January, 1827, thatMorgan had been murdered. William P. Daniels who was called
as a witness, at the late trials at Lockport, refused to answer a question, on the ground
that lie might criminate himself as an accessary to the crime of murder, although he
was told expressly by the judge, that he must have better evidence, that a murder
had been committed, than the public possessed, before he coulddecline answering on
such ground.
It will stiike any one, on hearing a recital of the facts connected with the abduc-
tion ofWilliam Morgan, that the combination to elfect that measure, must have been
very extensive, embracing a large number of individuala. The judicial examinations
of the subject have brought out very many names as counected in a nearer or more
remote degree, with the transaction at some stage of its progress. TIJe bare seizure
and transportation of a man from such a distance, rendered the employment of many
agents, a matter of absolute necessity, and it is now well known that many knew of
it, who took no active part in the infraction of the laws. It w.as probably known to
numbers of the lodge-going masons, in several of the western counties of NewYork.
that some measures werf( contemplated t9 be taken for the suppression of Morgan'•
intended publication; and it has been judicially proven, that measures, which con-
templated the use of violence, to elfect this object, were matter of discussion among
masons in the lodge room.
It would be uaturally supposed, that a conspirac.Y, so wide spread, the exu.ution
and knowledge ofwhich was confided to so many mdividuals, would not oppose for-
midable difficulties to a complete exposure by judicial investigation. In the history
of crime, those which employ the most accomplices, are usually the easiest of detec-
tion, particularly if the agency of some partake but slightly of guilt. But such Wat
not the case in the investigation of this violation of the laws, and the difficultiet
which were encountered, will be hereafter noticed.
In January, 1827, the trial of Nicholas G. Chesebro, Edward Sawyer, Lotou
Lawson, and John Sheldon, for their agency in the conspiracy, was brought on be·
fore Judge Throop, at Canandaigua; the three firllt, under the advice of counsel,
Jlleaded guilty, and the only question, as to the last to be tried, was the identity or
the man. This course excluded the testimony in relation to the conspiracy, which
was anxiously looked for by the public. Lawson was sentenced to two Jean im-
prisonment in the countyjail of Ontario county, Chesebro to one year, an Sawyer,
to one month. Sheldon was found guilty and sentenced to three months imprison-
ment.
In April, 1827, Jesse French, James Hurlburt, Roswell Willcox,_ and James Gan·
t>n, were tried at Batavia, in Genessee county, for the forcible arrest of David C.
8
...... ABDUCTION OF MORGAN. . (2~
Miller. They were all found guilty, but Gaoson: French was sen:teneed to ail impri-
1onment ot' one year, Wilcox for six months, and Hurlburt for three monthl.
In February, 1827, several of the persons who went in the carriage from Canan-
daigua to Batavia, and arrested Morgan, and brought him to Canandaigua, were
tried at the general sessions in Ontario, for forcibly seizing, and falsely imprisoning
William Morgan, and they were acq.uitted, on the ground that they were protected
by the warrant for his arrest. In August, 1827, Harris Seymour, Henry Howard.
Halloway Hayward, Moses Roberts, James Ganson, Chauncey II. Coe, Hiram Hub-
bard, and James Lakey were tried at Canandai~a, for a conspiracy to kidnap and
carry away William Morgan, and were all acquitted. Applicauon had been made
to De 'Vitt Clinton, thr.n governor of the state of New York, for the removal of Eli
Bruce, sheriff' of Niagara county, for his participation in the abduction of MoriJan.
The sheriffs in the state of New York are elected by the people, but the constitution
provides for their removal by the executive, for good cause shown, on charges pre-
ferred, after giving the officer time for his defence. This application waa pending
before the governor, for a long time, but on the 26th day of September, 1827, he
1 issued bis proclamation removing Eli Bruce from the office of sheriff.
t'" Eli Bruce, Orsamus Turner, and Jared Darrow, were tried at Canandaigua, iQ
c 'lo August, 1828, for th~ir agency m~e conspiracy;. ~Ii Bruce was ~ou'?d guilty, the
" ~ two last were acquitted. A quesbon of law, ansmg out of the md1ctment, was
carried up to the supreme court,-decided against the defendant, and he was senten-
~ to an imprisonment of two years and four months in Canandaigua jail.
InMay, 1829, John Whitney and James Gillis were tried at Canandaigua. .John
Whitney was convicted and sentenced to an imprisonment of one year and three
months. The Jury could not agree in the case of Gillis.
'I
_,
i
!
I
l
i
In November, 1829, Elihu Mather was tried at Albion, in Orleans county, and
aCter a trial which consumed nearly two weeks, he was acquitted by the verdict of
the jury. A motion for a new trial was made by the special attorney, but tho
1mpreme court denied it.
In June, 1830, Ezekiel Jewet, and Jeremiah Brown, were tried at Lockport, in
Niagara county, and were severally acq.uitted. In addition to these trials, there are
jadictments now pending and undetermmed, against eighteen persons, some of which
will probably not be further prosecuted.
Dav~d Hague, William King, and Burrage Smith are dead; William King died
11uddenly, the morniug after he received information ofthe testimony ofEli Bruce, on
the trial of John Whitney.
Having thus given a brief history of the abduction of William Morgan, and noticed
the trials growing out of that transaction, it now becomes the duty of your commit-
tee, to furnish a statement of tho conduct ond measures of numbers of the masonic
, fraternity, to prevent the conviction of those implicated in these gross violations of the
laws of the land. Appalling as is the conviction which is pressed upon us by the
history of that abductiou, that hundreds of respectable men, in the western
counties of the state of New York, could be fouud, who would be willing to
violate the laws of the state, and the sacredness of private property, personal
liberty, and human lifo, to preveut the publication of the secrets of free masonry,
yet, 1t would be infinitely more alarming, if it should be found, that l!reat num-
bers of the members of that fraternity, had made use of every possible device
to prevent the discovery of a high handed offe!)ce, and to obstruct the administra-
tion of justice, and tbe due execution of the laws. The first, however extensive the
combination may have been, was but u siugle outrage, and like hundreds of other
fearful crimes, might have been punished 811d forgotten, and the public have felt
eec111'8 in the 'proteetiou of tho laws, in witnessing the unobstructed executiou of their
penalties. The latter, by unhinging the whole administration ofjustice, would ex-
bibit·a state of facts deeply alarming to a community, who eminently repose upon
Jhe laws under which they live for protection, and 1"ely undoubtingly upon their due
and impartial administration. When rumours of these outrages first became public,
the citizens of the community, in which they were perpetrated, felt themselves
called upon to investi~ate how it was, that a peaceable citizen should be forcibly
11eized iu a populous village, and u·a11spo11ed against his will, one hundred and fifty
P1iles, through a thickly settled couutry. As worthy of a free government, they
detimed themselves boqnd·to ascertajp why, aud bywhoQI1 a fellow citizen, enjoying
\. \. ?· \ ('~ • . i . : .
. t· . l- J.J
23) ABDUCTION OF MORGAN. 9
the 1ame privilege11 waa ab1tracted from the protection of the law1, liuder circum-
1taaces which created well grounded suspicions of a horrible fate. The inquirie1
for information in relation to Morgan, were answered by taunts, reproaches, and ~ 1 • ~
ridicule. At first, the members ofthe fraternity were bold enough, openly to declare, /
.. That if Morgan bad been put to death, his fate was no more than he deserved; he .A
had forfeited his life." These declarations were made by perhaps hundreds of free- ,--(
masons, within two months a'rter the abduction, and there is scarce an individual, ~ ...1
who at that early period took any interest in the investigation, but can call to mind
distinctly, many s11Ch declarations, made by respectable and influential men. .
When intimations were thrown out that an appeal would be made to the laws,
inore than one freemason has been heard to say, that the judges were masons, the
aheri1rs were masons, and the jurymen would be masons, and set at defiance the re-
quirements of justice.
There seems to have been a determination on the part of the fraternity, not only
to su{lpress all information in relation to the outrages, but even to repreH
inquines and questionings, which might tend to elucidate it. Individuals who ven-
tured to make remarks which such an infraction of the laws were calculated to
elicit, were made the subjects of unreasonable abuse, and vindictive hostility, by the
lodge-~oing members o~the fl'!ltemity• .!llid!~b_lic press, which has, in almost.evc;ry
!!~~lg~tl=~~!!i~:~~:J:i:;·p~b~fc:ad=t~~s~:1.!,%e!:!':i:O!:':tili'~~n~~; -1;/'·
·exception at firlt, awed into the most slavish silence, by the influence of freema- ;.f ·
sonry. The conductors of many .of the public prints in, western New York, were ,
themselves masons, and the propnetors of others, who did not belong to the frater- :.. · : ·
11ity, were soon given to Understand that it would be most fatal to their interests, to ' ' ..
publish any thing in relation to the ill fated Morgan. A single instance may illus- -'
trate this species of inftuence. In the month of October, or November, 1826, Elihu
.F. Marshall, a quaker, and the conductor ofa paper, called "The Album," published
in the vill~e of Rochester, ventured to say, in an editorial article, that the unlawful
abduction of William Morgan ought to he the subject of investigation. The paper
with an article of this import had no sooner appeared, than Edward Doyle, a knight
templar, and treasurer of the Monroe Enca.inpment, rushed into the office of the
Album in a storm of rage, ordered his paper to be discontinued, and his advertise-
ments stopped, and told Marshall if he did not cease publishing.articles against the
masonic fraternity, many others would take the same course, but that if he retracted
the next week, all might yet be well. Doyle then went to the printing office of a
royal arch mason, and boasted "that he had shut the quaker's head." We regret
to add, that the timid editor quailed under the masonic threat, and in his next paper
made a partial retraction of his previous article. _
In addition to the difficulties thrown in the way of investigation, by the silence of
the public press, thus coerced, the public mind was distracted and misled by false
state111ents, in relation to the re-appearance of Morgan, eublished in prints under
masonic control; so much so, that public belief upon this subject was for a long
time unsettled, and the elforts of the investigation paralyzed. There can be little
doubt but that the auibors ohuch statements contemplated mch results, and hoped,
ifpossible, by these means to avert punishment from the guilty, or to excite doubts
"as to the guilt of the agents in the abduction. It should not be forgotten either, that
Corydon Fox, who was heedlessly selected to drive the carriage from Lewiston to
fort Niagara, not being at the time a mason, was, a few days after, admitted to a
membership in the fraternity, without fee or reward, in the hope, doubtless, that hi1
masonic obligations, thus thrust upon him, would elfectually seal his lips, as to the
transactions which he witnessed, 011 that eventful night.
- At the time ofMorgan's abduction, the sheriJl's of the dilferent counties of the state
of New York hRd the sole power of selecting, and summoning, the grand juries for
the several courts within their respective counties ; and such selection was made a
abort time previous to the 1e11ion of each court. At the same period; also, the she·
rift's of there1pective counties of Erie, Niagara, Genessee, Orleans, Livingston, Mon-
roe, and Ontario, which were the theatre of the outrage, were all masons, and it i1
believed, that all of. them were of the degree of royal arch. ·
A grand jury, which met in Genessee county after the abduction, was convened in
February, 1827; Doctor Samuel S. Uutler, of Stalford, in that county, WM np·
.,
"'
10 ABDUCTION OF MORGAN. [U
pointed foreman. He was a knight templar, and a large portion of the jury were
masons. He said to one of the jurymen, also a knight templar, ... a majority of the
jurors are masons; we have got the stuft'in our own hands, and our friends must not
be indicted."
The first grand jury which was summoned in Niagara county, (of which Eli Bru<"e
was sheriff,) after inquiries began to be made iil relation to the outrage, met in Ja-
nuary, 1827. Sixteen masons were summoned on that grand jury, and several wbo
were friendly to the institution. No examination was, however, made before that
grand jury, as the witnesses had been suprenaed to attend at that time in Canandai-
gua upon the .trial of Chesebro and others. At the court of Oyer and Terminer,
held in Niagara county, in April, 1827, th_e sheriff again summoned the grand jurors.
There were twenty-one members present, thirteen of them were freemasons, and
and six friendly to them. Paul Haws, who h.as since been found to be an important
witness, and Norman Shephard since indicted for the Morgan conspiracy, were two
of these grand jurors. At the May sessions, a majority of masona were summoned
on the jury, and at the September sessions, about half of the jurors were freemasons,
but there were a number who were warmly in favour of the institution. Eli Bruce,
however, was indicted at Canandaigua, a short time before the September sessions.
Complaint was made against Eli Bruce, sheriff of the county, before the April
grand jury, for being concerned in the abduction of Morgan. The foreman, a free-
mason, examined the witnesses. In the course of the examination, one of the other
jurors ventured to ask awitness some questions. The foteman called this juror aside
and privately solicited him, thereafter, to refrain from uking questions. Some of
the jurors had been furnished with questionRin writing, to pnt to particular witnesses,
with a view ofeliciting the truth. lt was known that such papers were in the room,
and the jury voted, by a large majority, that no use should be made of them.
One juror insisted, however, on making use of them. One witness stated that he
knew nothing which would go to convict any person upon: being called upon to
state what he did know, be asked to be excused, because he was poor, and his testi-
mony might prove his ruin. A large majority of the jury voted to excuse him from
answering. One of the jurors pertinaciously msisted upon the witness' answer, .and
after a long debate, finally obtained his answer. One witness, notwitstanding all
the cunning in keeping the questions, did testify to Bruce's acknowledgement o{
his agency in carrymg Morgan to Niagara. Several witnesses were afterwards
called to impeach the testimony of this witness, and one or two did answer that
he was not to believed on his oath. One witness testified, that he had been
informed by a respectable individual in Canada, in whom the witness had full confi-
dence, that Morgan had been carried to fort Niagara, thence to the Canada shore,
and was from thence returned to the fort again,-that Morgan had been put to death,
and that his body was in the bottom of Niagara river, and might be fodnd, if searched
for immediately, and that he, (the informant,) could tell the place where it could be
found. The witness stated that he received this information from a mason, who
enjoined the witneH to keep his name a secret, as if known, his life would be the.
forfeit. One juror insisted that the witness should name the person who gave him
this information, bnt lie refused, and nearly, if not quite all the other jurors
present, sustained the witness in his refusal, and he was allo'l'f'ed to retire without
answering the question. ·While this jury was in session, the foreman took Eli
Bruce privately into a side room, and was there with him some time. This grand
jury, so far from finding any indictment against Eli Bruce, or any other person, drew
up a presentment to the_ court, that they baa discovered nothing which would
authorise ,them to find a bill against any person, and also framed and sent a memo-
rial to the governor, in which they stated that there was not a 1hadow of testimony
implicating Eli Bruce, as guilty of, or accessary to the abduction of Morgan, with the
exception of one witness, who was so contradicted, and whose general reputation
was so bad, that they did not place any reliance upon it.
It is very certain that a series of queoitions, to be propounded to the witnesses, had
been so framed, that the witnesses could answer without eliciting any dangerous in-
formation. This must have been the case, or real rerjury must have been repeatedly
committed, on the investigation before them. Al the important witnesses to trace
the whole abduction from Rochester to fort Niagara, were examined before this
grand jury; the same witnesses, upon whose testimony, bills have been found in
ABDUCTION OF HORGAN. 11
'
other casee, and convictions had. Thirteen orthe witnesses examined before thie vand
jury, have been since indicted, not one ofwhom protected himselfon the examination,
on the ground that he shouldcriminate himself. Three orthem, David Hague, OrsamUI
Turner, and Jared Darrow, have since been shown by the testimony of Eli Bruce,
himself, to have had a criminal agency in the abduction. Edward Giddins, in hit
published" Statement or Facts," says, he was subprenaed before ibis grand jury,
which much alarmed those who were implicated. One of them informed Giddins,
that he would go and see the foreman, and state to him Giddins' situation, that he
might know how to question him, so that his aqswers might not injure others. He
subsequently informeCI Giddins that he had told the foreman what Giddins knew or
the affair, and that the foreman would put no qttestion but what Giddins could safely
answer.
Hiram B. Hopkins, a royal arch mason, a deputy under Bruce, and personally
knowing to the abduction of Morgan at the time, says, in a published letter, dated,
February 28, 1830.-" After the abduction of Captain Morgan, I used frequently to
ask the masons how they expected to escape punishment for that outrage, adding
that if found out, the perpretrators of the deed would have to suffer the reward due
· to their crimes. They have told me time and again, that they would never be
brought to punishment, because all were masons with whom they had to deal, and
particularly the sheriffs of those counties, in which the offence was committed, were
all masons, who had the selecting of the grand juries: that no firand jury would be
summoned without being two thirds masons. And when the time arrived for sum-
moning th'e grand jury for this county, (Niagara,) I had my orders not to summon
any but such as were particularly friendly to the masonic institution. Says Bruce,
we must have at least two thirds of them masons, and the others friendly to the
order. If we have all masons they will suspect us. The jury was accordin~ly
summoned. The subject of the abduction was brought before them. The distnct
attorney was a royal arch mason who knew all about the Morgan affair, in my
opinion, and the foreman ofthe jury was one of the warmest zealots of the order in
ihe county. If I mistake not, more than two thirds or the jury were masons. The
district attorney and foreman, so framed the questions propounded to the witnesses,
that after thus examining them, they drew up an instrument signed by all the jury,
the substance ofwhich was, that they had no reason to believe that Morgan had ever
passed throu~h this county."
When the mhabitants of Monroe county first held their meetin~, to take into con-
sideration the outrages, and devise means for their investigation, the meeting at
that time, placed so much confidence in the professions of willingness, made by
members of the f"ratemity, to aid in the investigation or these outrages, that they
appointed four or five masons upon the committee ofillvestigation. This committee,
after their appointment, held their meetings, and commenced upon their inquiries,
and at· the same time entered into an honorary obligation with each other, not to
disclose any information which might be obtained by the committee, only so rar aa
was necessary to procure the arrest or offenders that might be discovered. The
membera of the committee who were not masons, soon ascertained that the lodge-
going members of the fraternity in the village, were kept constantly informed of the
proceedings of the committee, and ofthe information which they had collected. One or
the masonic members ofthis committee, then a knight templar, stated at a lodge meet-
ing, soon after the committee was appointed, "that he had no doubt that what had
been done with Morgan was intended for the best, but it had turned out otherwise,
and was an unfortunate business. That he did not wish to know any thing about it,
he was on the committee, and cauti.oned them if the¥ knew any thing about the
business, to keep it to themselves, as he was in a dehcate situation." The other
members of the committee soon ascertained, that no assistance could be expeeted
from freemasons in aid of the investigation, and felt themselves compelled to with-
draw from them, and punlue their inquiries by themselves.
When the differentcommittees had by great diligence, succeeded in tracing Morgan
to Lewiston, they appointed dele9ates from among their own members, to proceed
to that place, and push their inquiries as to his final fate. They went there, to the
number ofseventeen, in the month of January, 1827. The members of lhe fraternity
in.that place and the vicinity, were obviously alarmed and excited, and collected
from I.ewiston, Niagara Falls, Youngstown, and other places in the vicinity to tho..
12 ABDUCTION OF MOaGAN. [26
aumber or Corty or &fty, some ofthem armed, exhibiting, and expre•ing tho utma.t
rage and vindictiveness towards the convention, on account or the purpose or their
meeting. They heaped every epithet of insult and repreach upon those quie.t meo9
who had come from a great distance with no other pUPJ>Ose than the lawful investi-
gation of an outrage against the laws. They came rudely into the room where
they met, and after insultingly taking the light, and looking around into tlae
faces of those who were there, extinguished it and left them in darkn881. Their
object, evidently was, to J.>~ovoke the members of the convention .to violence and
resistance, and thus to bnng on a general affray, which must have terminated in
bloodshed. Bo disgraceful a result was only prevented by the moderation of the
convention. A general conference was had between the two partiee, when the dia-
trict attorney of Niagara county, a royal arch mason, reproached them for coming
into bis county to investigate a crime which they c.
ould look after themaelves, and
lavished upon them the most vituperative language and vindictive abuse. It is
almost needle11 to say, that the convention were not deterred by this violent conduct
from pursuing their inquiries. ·
Soon after the coqVIction of Chesebro and others, at Canandaigua, and while the
Lewiston convention were holding their meeting, Burrage Smith and John Whitney,
ofRochester, privately left their places of residence. One of the Rochester committ-,
11oon after, saw Burrage Smith in Albany, and informed Bowen Whiting, Esq. district
attorney of Ontario county, who was also there, of the fact. Mr. Whiting applied to
John O. Cole, policejustice of Albany, and an officerofthe grand chapterot' the state,
for a warrant to arrest Smith for the conspiracy. The magistrate made out the warrant
early in the morning of the 2d of February, 1827, and retained it, to place it in the
hands of an officer for service. Though a constable came into bis office soon after
the warrant was made out, and was there again more than once in the forenoon, yet
the warrant was not put into a constable's hands until the middle of the afteraoon.
The comtable weut immediately to the public house where he was directed to serve it,
and was told by the bar-keeper, that he had a warrant for Smith, but that he waa
too late; Smith had escaped. It was soon afterwards ascertained, that Smith and
Whitney had both ded from tile northern parts of the United States, and that money
had been furnished to one of them from the fund1 of the grand chapter, to enable
them to dee from their home1, as fugitives from justice.
In December, after the abduction, Colonel William King, left the state of New
York, and procured the appointment ohntler at Cantonment Towson-in the territory
of Arkan1u, whither he removed. In December, 1827, l\le1Bn. Garlinghou1e,
Bates and Mead, received requisitions from the governor of the state of New York,
e.ddressed to the ~ovemon of Louisiana and Arkansas, for the surrender of Wiiiiam
King, charged with the mu·rder, and Burrage Smith and John Whitney, charged
with the abduction of William l\lorgan, as fugitives from justice. They went to Ar-
jtaasas, and obtained the neceHary papen from Governor Izard, and proceeded to
Cantonment Towson, which they reached, Feb~uary 14, 1828.
Mr. GarliDgbo-qse went alone, and privately presented his papers to CaptainR. B.
Hyde, the commandant at the ttation, while his companions remained without the
fort. He exhibited the order or the governor,-a letter from the adjutant general
µuder the direction of the secretary of war, and a letter from Colonel Arbuckle,
commandiug officer at Cantonment Gibson, and requested Captain Hyde, to give
assisance in the arrest or William King, then sutler at the station. He refused to
U1ist, or afford 881istance, and refused to furnish a guard for bis removal, but said
l;le would send for Lieutenant Colquhon to accompany him to King'• store. He
went out for that purrose, and was absent a short time. Soon after his retµrn, a
report was brought m that Lieutenant Colquhon could not be found. Another
ofticer was then sent for, with whom Garlinghouse went to King's store, bot found
be bad gone away with Lieutenant Colqubon, and after diligent search he coqld not
be found. Clark Sanden 1tat111, that CaptaiD Hyde had a conversation with Lieu-
tenant Colquhon in bis short absence to find a messenger to send for him, and that
Lieutenant Colquhon stated to Mr. Bates, that he informed King that some one wu
ha punuit or him, and went with him in&o the wood1, when he, (the Lieutenant,)
came back and ucertained that King waa to be arrested for the murder of William
Morgan, and then dll1'Cted King's clerk, to take his (King's) hone, into the woods,
lfhich fJe diet, aq«t :{{iQg rode C)ft'. It is understood that Captain Hyde, and .Lieu.
ABDUCTION OF lllORGAN'. 13
icnant Colquhon were masons. King was not arrested, neither were Smith or
Whitney, though they were heard of frequently.
Preparations were made in the winter of 1827, by the Batavia committee, to pro-
cure the arrest of Richard Howard, of Buft'alo. for a supposed agency in setting fire
to Colonel Miller's office. He, however, fted before he was arrested, and from
the affidavit of John Mann, taken in February of that year, there is reaaon to believe
that he feared punishmentfor a higher crime than even midnight anon. From ano-
ther affidavit made byAvery Allen, in March, 1829, it would appear that this Richard
Howard came to the. city of New York, in February, or March, 1827, and attended
a masonic meeting at St. John's Hall, in that city, where he confessed in open lodge,
that he assisted in putting Morgan- to death, and that be was furnished with fundt
by the knight's companions, then present, to escape to Europe, and that after being
secreted from pursuit by members ofthe fraternity, he did escape; certain it is, that
no information has been received of this Howard since he absconded, and that the
officers ofjustice have not been able to penetrate the· veil ofsecrecywhich concealed
his filght.
One great difficulty that has been met with in the prosecution of the conspiraton,
is that of procuring the attendance of masonic witnesses. Witne88es who still be-
longed to the institution, were reluctant in their attendance at court, and frequently
refused to obey the ordinary process of subprena or evaded its senice. This was so
often the case, that it was frequently necessary to procure their arrest long before
the courts, at which their attendance was wanted, should sit, and place them undeT'
heavy bonds to ensure their attendance. This unusual course was nece11Sarily
adopted in several instances, when the inefficacy of the ordinary process bad been
made most abundantly manifeat. Difficulties never encountered in any other pro-
secution were here encountered at every court, and at every step. Witnesses
have been secreted and sent off without the jurisdiction of the courts, and remained
concealed for many months befqre any information could be obtained respecting them,
These occurrences were so frequent, and of such a character as to·forbid the belief
that they were the result of individual e.lfort alone. They evinced that extended
combination, which almost irresistibly preBBes upon the :mind the conviction,
that they were the result of the secret and mystic agency of freemasonry, which
aloae from ita peculiar organization possesses the means of such extensive and
secret concert. Some facts under this head may illustrate this branch o( the subject.
In the summer of 1827, Elisha Adams, the same man to whom Giddins transferred
the keys of the magazine, was served with a subprena to attend a court at Canan-
daigua. He started, in obedience to the procesa, and came as far as Rochester.
From this place all trace of him was lost. He had disappeared, and was not heard
of for months, though the most diligent inquiries were made respecting him, and
even public inquiries in the newspapers were made for him throughout the country.
In the spring of 1828, it was asce1'tained that he was residing in a secluded mannel'
in the northern part of Vermont. Measures were taken for his arrest with such
secrecy and despatch, that he was apprehended about 3 o'clock in the morning,
and before he could be advised that his place of residence had become known,
He expressed no surprise at his arrest, but said that be did expect to have been
informed before any process could be served upon him. In the course of his journey
to Rochester, he conversed freely and fully with the agent having him in charge,
and frequently avowed his ,determination "to make a clean breast of it," wheq
called upon as a witness, by' telling the truth. As it was known that he was a reluc.
tant agent of the conspirators, confidence was placed in bis promises in this particu.
Iar. He continued in this frame of mind until he arrived at Rochester, where he was
at once surrounded by the counsel for the conspirators, nnd the guilty royal arch com.
panions of that place, who 11oon succeeded in establishing their mystenous ioftuence
over his CQJl.8cience, and subjecting him to that obligation oftheir peculiarcode, which
under the most fearful penalties enjoins the keeping of a companion's secret in all
cases, "murder and treason not excepted." After his inteniew with these men, he
manifested a determination not to testify, and from bis declarations to an old friend,
we are led to believe that he was deterred from telling the truth hy threats of a fate
aa horrible as was that of Morgan. ·
Orson Parkhunt, the person who drove Platt's carriage, containing Morr;an, from
Rochester westward, as .soon as the outrap;es became a matter of public mvestiga.
••
ABDUCTIO~ OF MORGAN. [28
tion, wu found to be absent. No trace of him could be found, and attempts were
made to mislead the committees, by representing that be bad gone to Michigan, and
other places, widely dilferent from the place of his actual concealment. The most
diligent inquiries were made respecting him for months, and even years, and all
hopes of penetrating the concealment which screened him, were nearly abandoned,
when bis place of residence was discovered, in August, 1829. Prompt, efficient, and
1ecret measures were immediately taken, to secure bis attendance as a witness, and
he was unexrectedly arrested in the eastern part ofVermont. He had supposed that
all danger o finding him had passed; and he was living. in the fancied security, that
if any danger of this kind threatened him, he should receive timely information. He
was regularly a.Qvised by his Rochester brethren of all that transpired; and twice
during his absence, George Ketchum,.a pensioned agent of the fraternity, had visited
him. Twil!e, also, had he left his place of residence, and at each time, spent some
months hiding in another state. He was brought as far as Albany; in the mean
time, the fraternity at Rochester had become suspicious of the true state of the case,
and sent on to Albany, that he must, at all events, be abstracted from the person
having him in charge. Possessed of these instructions, agents were employed to
keep a vigilant watch; and when be left Albany, in charge of the agent of the state,
he was followed by an agent of the fraternity. He was thus pursued westward,
nearly two hundred miles. At Montezuma, an unknown person came on board the
canal boat in which Parkhurst was, just at night. He did not give his name, and
no one knew him. That night, the unknown individual and Parkhurst escaped from
the boat, and no tidings have been lteard of him since. Parkhurst was himself a
mason, and if he had testified to the truth, would have been a most important wit-
ness. It hi believed, that his testimony would have disclosed the agency of several
persons in Rochester in the conspiracy, against whom no proof had hitherto been
found. They had therefore a deep stake in his absence.
The driver of the stage west, on the morning when Morgan was carried through
Rochester, might, by bis testimony, have thrown some light upon the subject. H~
also left the place, and when at length it was ascertained, in August, 1829, where he
was, measures were taken to secure bis attendance as a witness. Although these
measures were taken with every precaution of secrecy, yet, by some unaccountable
means, he became informed of them, and fled just before the officer arrived to arrest
him ; and the information that might have been derived from his testimony was
entirely lost.
Isaac Farwell was present at Solomon C. Wright's, on the evening of the 13th oC
September, when the party was there with Morgan; and as they remained at that
place several hours, and procured an accession to the number of the conspirators,
his testimony was exceedingly important. He, however, with the assistance of mem-
bers of the masonic fraternity, so skilfully avoided the process that was issued to
compel his attendance, that the· public prosecutor only succeeded once in ~etting him
before a grand jury. After that, he forfeited the bonds which he had ~!Ven for his
appearance to testify on trial; and not all the constant exertions of vigilant officers
were sufficient to discover him again. For many months, he was secretly ftying from
county to county, and as the approach of courts rendered new exertions to secure
him probable, hiding in Canada, without the jurisdiction of state process. Just pre-
vious to the last special circuit, held in Niagara county, the prosecuting officer of that
county asce11ained that he had passed through LockP.ort but a short time previous,
and supposiDg that·it was his intention to visit his family, who resided three miles from
that place, he sent an officer there to secure him. Farwell did not visit his family,
though he had not seen them for many months. It was subsequently ascertained,
tbathe had been informed of the hazard to which he exposed some of the fraternity,
by an appearance so open, and that he was taken by the wife of Solomon C. Wright,
and smuggled otf to Canada the same night, without even being permitted to visit
his own house, or to inform his wife that he was in that vicinitr.· These are not the
only instances of witnesses absconding or being secreted, but if all were to be enu-
merated, the detail would be found to be too tedious. There are circumstances ex-
isting in relation to some of them, which leave the irresistible presumption upon the
mind that they were hired, at a heavy expense, to leave their houses and their busi-
ne11, in order that their testimony might not place the reputation, the liberty, and
the lives of some members ofthe fraternity at hazard. .
•
j
<
~] .ABDUCTION OF K<>llGA.N. II
Edward Giddins was told, if he would leave the country to 1ave hill fri9ad1, aay
amount of money which be should demand was ready for him, and had been w-
nished for the express purpose. An extravagant 1um was-also oft"ered for,hil pro-
perty, ifbe would go, by a mason, who said he was authorized to make the purchue,
and that the money had been furnished by the grand lodge for the purpose.
The conduct of masonic witnesses on the stand, after their attendance had beea 11e-
cured, is also worthy ofa few remarks. With very few excer.tions, they manifested an
evident reluctance to testify. In some othercases, they testified with obviou1 and pal-
pable falsehood. Some of them exercised a species of casuistry, in relation to
their judicial oath, which is 11ot a little remarkable. It seems that those implicat.ed
had argued themselves into the belief, that there was no greater sin than the break-
ing of a masonic oath ; that if they told the truth in relation to the outrage, they
should divulge a secret which they were masonically bound to keep, which would
criminate themselves ; and that, therefore, their only course was to testify that " th~
knew nothing about the o.ft"air." Strange as is the infatuation manife1ted by thi9
reasoning, there was not wanting a counsellor of the supreme codrt, a royal areb
mason, to adnse them, that if they were implicated in the aft"air, they might eafely
awear, that " they knew nothing about it," instead of protecting themselve•· from
;1.nswering at all, on the ground that it would criminate themselves.. Certain it is,
that many witnesses, to whoi.n circumstances almost unerringly pointed, as having
a knowledge of, oi: being imp!icated in, some portion of the transaction, did come
forward, and solemuly make oath, that "they knew nothing about the aft"air." Some
others, who did pretend to give an account of their knowledge of the tran1actioo.
testified in .such. a war, as to leave an impression upon the mind of every auditor,
that they bad not satisfied that part of their judicial oath, which required them to
tell the whole truth. No man, who beard the testimony of Hiram Hubbard, Ezra
Platt1 Solomon C. Wright, and some others, could believe for a moment, even from
their own statements, that they had disclosed all they knew of the aft"air. The evi-
dence that was extr1tcted from witnesses of this character, was absolutely Wl'ung
from them, so reluctant did they appear to disclose. Witnesse1, in several instance&,
came into court with their own counsel, a circumstance unheartl of in courts of jus-
tice before, to advise with them what questions -they were legally bound to answer.
They would frequently refuse decidedly to answer a question, even after its propriety
had been argued by their own counsel, and decided by the court, and continue in
auch contumacious conduct until the order was made out for their commitment, and
then their firmness would give way, and a reluctant answer would be forced from
them. Some of them, of more determination of purpose, or having more important
secrets to conceal, stood out in their refusal to answer until the last. In March,
1829;Isaac Allen r~fused to answer a question, before the grand jury of Monroe
county ; the jury reported him to the court, which determined, after solemn argument,
that the witness could not protect himself froi:µ answering the question. He, how-
ever, still refused, and was committed for the contempt. In June, 1829, Eli Bruce
was taken before the grand jury of Qenesee countr:, on a habeas corpus, as a wit-
ness, and he refused to be sworn. At a special circmt, held in June 111st, at Lockport,
in Niagara county, Orsamus Turner was called as a witness, on the trial of Ezekiel
Jewett, the keeper of fort Niagara at the time of Morgan:'s confinement there. · The
three following questions were successively put to 'turner, as a witness: "Was the
defendant one of the persons consulted with, tn relation to separating Morgan from
his friends at Batavia, as a means of suppressing the contemplated publication 0£ a
book concerning the secret of freemasonry ?" "Do you know that the defendant,
Ezekiel Jewett, was applied to for a place, in or about fort Niagara, for the purpose
of confining William Morgan 1" "Was you ever present when the subject of pre-
paring a place at fort Niagara, or at any other place within the county of Niagara,
for the confinement of Morgan, was discussed in presence of defendant ?" He suc.
cessively refused to answer these questions; and he was sentenced, for this contuma-
cious conduct, for the first contempt, to thirty days imprisonment, and $250 fi~e, and
for the two last, to thirty days imprisonment, for each contempt. '
On the same trial, Eli Bruce and John Whitney, were called as witnesses, and
successively refused to be sworn. Brace was s,entenced to thirty days imprisonment,
for this contempt; and Whitney to 'the like imprisonment, and also to pay a fine oC
'250. These rndividuals, are all liable under the laws of the state of New York,
UJ ABDUCTION OF IWJlGAN. (30
to lie fllrtber pllDiabed for their contempts, after conviction upon rm indictmnt. by
imp.Vomnent for one year eaeh, and by a fine of .250. It iri evident that no alight
eauae could have induced them to take this coune, and subject themselves to such
punishment. All of these witneuea had been tried for the cODBpiraey, and could
not, therefore, be called in question again for that offence. No other individulllJl
could be indicted thereafter, for any lesser offence than murder, as the statute of
liuiliations had then barred prosecution& for any other offences connected,with tho
.Morgu outrage. It would eeem as if the fraternity had set down, and coolly counted
the cost of the matter; and had come to the determination, that it was wise to abut
the duor completely against the bare chauee of establishing the murder of Morgaa.
by aay fact. or inferences to be derived from their testimony, even though it should
be done at the expense of the liberty IUld property of aome ofits memben. In these
luatancee, the power of the fraternity came into collision with the laws of the land
in• most marked manner, and set them, and their penal requirements at defiance..
aad prevailed in the conftict. The laws were seen to be impotent againat a power
IO secret, so murderous, and so overwhelming.
Public officen, who owned the power of the masonic obligations, have been found
wanting in their duty, as officen, 10 relation to prosecutions connected with this out~
rage. One honourable exception, however, exists, in the case of Bowen Whiting,
Esq. district attorney of Ontario county, who, though a freemason, has fearlessly,
honestly, and effectively, discharged his public duties, and given his best exertiona
with considerable success, to bring the offenden to punishment. With this excep-
tion, no assistance whatever bas been given during the whole course of the inveetiga~
tion, by any adhering member of the masonic fraternity, in aid of the purposes of
justice; on the contrary, individual masons, not particularly implicated in the trans-
action, have interpused every obstacle in their power, to prevent the developement
of truth. Indeed 1t was apparent to every one, that freemasons, both collectively
and individually, were decidedl1. opposed to any investigation of the outrages, and
determilled to suppre11 inquiry, rf any eft'ort of theirs could suppl'esl it. Punes have
been liberally opened, exertions have been freely given, to prevent convictions, so
enable offenden to .elude justice, and to aid in the removal and concealment of
important witnesses. ThoiAgh several ofthe conspiraton have been convicted by an
impartial jury of their country, and some of them have even confeSBed their guilt,
yet not a single one of them has been subjected to even a masonic censure. Oa
the centrary, moat of the conspirators hiwe received the marked countenance and sup-
port of the order, been protected by its funds, and shared largely in its sympathies ·
and in its patronage ; and even some of them, after their agency in the conspiracy,
had been generally known, and J?Ublicly proven, have been r81Sed to a still higher
rank in the honoun of the instituuon, as a reward, avowed in the case ofEli Bruce,
for the very acts which should have consigned them ·to infamy and punishment.
The severity of their punishment has been alleviated in every possible manner, by
the s~pat&y, encouragement, and countenance of their masomc brethren ; and the
disgrace which usually attends a criminal conviction, has been in a measure averted,
by cheering the unfortunate men upon whom it preues,.with the idea that it was a mar-
tyrdom in the cause of heaven descended freemasonry. Indeed there have not been
wanting public papen, which have dared, in the face ofabundant proof, to say, tllat
convicted conspiraton were honest, upri~ht, innocent, and penecuted men. The
Rochester Craftsman, established in the wmter ol1829, for the purpose of defendhig
freemasonry, and endoned by men otherwise honourable and respected, grossly
libelled the court, jury and counsel, by whom Eli Bruce and 1ohn Whitney were eoa-
victed, and boldly 888erted that they were honest and innocent men, who had fallen
victims to the prejudices of the times. For this libel, its editor was convicted and
punished; but he set at defiance the laws, and 11till persisted in the charges for which
he had been brought to justice. John Whitney, after he had returned from the
Southern states, where he bad been hiding from justice for many months, wa1 taken
under the patronage of the fraternity, courted, cheered and sustained by them, and
placed in the way of a lucrative and .profitable busineu. After his release from the
imprisonment to which he was consigned by the laws of his country, he was received
at his home with open arms, by the fraternity~ and cheered and sustained by their
countenance, support and patronage. Onamus Turner, who was confined in the
jail .of Niagara county, for cont.umacioualy refusing to answer proper and legal quH·
ai] ABDU(jTION -OF Molt.GAN. 11
tions, wu lauded in the Craftsman, and other kindt'ed prints, u a miracle ef eon-
atancy and firmness; and when the period of his imprisonment had expired, he wu
conducted from the jail to a public tavern, in a coach and four, with enthuaiaetic
demonstrations of respect by the fraternity,
Facts ·of sueh a nature exist, .as to induce the belief that the fraternity ha.e, by
means of the agents oftheir societies, furnished funds to support individuals convieted
of an offence against the laws, to aid those indicted, and in one instance, to enable
a suspected member to escape from the punisbment of the laws of his own state.
Some of those individuals who were first convicted and imprisoned for their partici-
pation in these outrages, were, at the time of their imprisonment, known to be in
embarrassed circumstances, yet, one of these indiyiduals at least, found meam to
carry on his business while confined in jail, and at the expiration of his period of
confinement, was found to be in better circumstances than at the commencement of
his imprisonment. It has been stated, too, by Jarvis F. Hanks, a renouncing mason,
that the Jerusalem chapter, of the city of New York, voted $500 for the benefit of
the "western sufferers," the mystic name by which those members who were suffer-
ing under prosecution, were generally known by the fraternity.. It has also been
stated, under such circumstances as to induce a belief of its truth, that the grand
chapter of the state of New York, at its annual communication, in February, 1827,
by a vote of that body, placed at the disposal of their grand scribe, a considerable sum
of money. Whether this was done by a vote to increase "the charity fund," er
more expressly for the assistance of the "western sufferers," we have not the infor-
mation to enable us to determine. It is believed that it was understood by every
member of the grand chapter then present, that the funds so appropriated were f~r
the purpose of assisting in the defence and the support of the conspirators in the
Morgan outrage. It is also understood, that the officer under whose control such
funds were placed, expended them for the objects and purposes for which they were
appropriated, and made a report at a subsequent communication of the said grand
chapter, that he had so expended them. A portion of this-money is undel'l1oed to
have been employed in re-imbursing t-he expenses which individual members had
before sustained in the same great object ; a portwn was paid to some of the conspi-
rators, wlao had become fugitives from their homes and country, for fear of punish-
ment; and a portion was paid for the support of individuals who had been con-
victed of a violation of the \aws of the land. It has been stated, too, that further
sums have been appropriated by the same grand cha.i;>ter, for similar objects; but the
very organization of the grand chapter, bound, as its members are, to secrecy, by
oaths of surpassing strength, and guarded, as its sessions are, by naked weapons,
would naturally prevent full evidence of its transactions from coming to the know-
ledge of those not admitted within its guarded walls. The guilty secrets of this
mystic body, would hardly pass lips sealed by dreadful oaths, or portals guarded by
drawn swords. There is not, therefore, all that precision in relation to those facts
which would be desirable ; yet it is known from the statement of the officers or the
~rand chapter themselves, that the expenditures of that body have been greatly
mcreased within the last three years, so much so 81 to encroach greatly upan the
principal of their means. There is reason, also, to believe, that the legislative and
executive councils of the state of New York have not been uncontaminated by ma-
llOtlic inJluence, and that there persons have· been lent to throw embarrassment in
the way of the conviction of oft'eoders against the laws.
In the winter of 1827, a memoi:ial was presented to the legislature of that state,
setting forth the facts of Morgan's abduction and murder, and the difficulties which
stood iu the way of bringing the perpetrators of that crime &o justice, and praying
that a committee might be appointed to strengthen the arm of the law. Thou~h
the chairman of the committee to whom this memorial was referred, reported m
favour of the prayer of the petitioners, yet this report hardly received a decent con-
1ideration, and was thrown indignantly among the papers which were considered
unworthy of legislative interference. In 1830, a convention representing the anti-
masouic interest of the state of New York, presented a memorial to the legislaturA
ofthat state, praying the appointment of a committee, withpower to send for persons
and papers, to in<Juire whether the grand chapter of that state had interfered in tho
admmistration ofJustice, or aided, countenanced, or protected the violators of the
laws. Though this memorial preferred heavy charges against the grand chapter, the
3
18 ABDUCTION OF llORGA.N. [82
falsehood of which, if false they were, might have. been diaproved, by granting ....
reference aaked, yet the legislature chose• to refer it to the attorney general, wlM>
J>OB&essed no one of the powers necessary to a full and fair investigation of the sub-
Ject. In the winter of 1829, John C. Spencer, Esq. waa appointed by the execu-
tive of the state of New York, special counsel to conduct the prosecutions in relation.
to the Morgan outrages. He was a fearless, efficient, faithfw and industrious officer.
and entered with honesty, zeal, and energy upon the duties of his appointment. He
prosecuted these duties for one year, and made his report to the executive disclosing
the results of his investigatioD8. Mr. Spencer was treated in such a manner by the
authorities of the state, as to furnish convincing proof, that, in their estimation, he
had been too faithful in the discharge ofhis duties. His conJidential communicatioDB
to the executive in relation to the means to be used in proving the crime of.murder.
were divulged through the agency of hia masonic adv1Bers, as ia.understood, to tho
counsel of some of the individuals implicated in the outrage. .
These are all the fact&. which your committee have had time to arrange in relatioa
to the conduct and measures of ma1ons to prevent a conviction of their fellow
masons of the crime of the abduction ud murder of William Morgan, but they are
by no means, all that exist in relation to that subject. Ifthey were all to be noted
down, this report wowd swell to an inconvenient and perhaps unnecessary length.
There are a thousand circumstances which have been noted by those who reside on
the theatre of the outrage, which though minute and triffing in themselves, and
which are, therefore, almost impossible to be communicated to others, yet have
contributed to produce an impression, that the fraternity, both collectiV'ely and indi-
vidually, have been 1trongly opposed to any investigation of these high handed
offences against the laws. The taunts, the sneers, and the ridicwe of aome, and the
vindictiveness, the malignity, and the threats of others, have gone into the account.
to create a belief that the fraternity generally, with very few exceptions, have done
all in their power to avert punishment from the beads of their offending brethren.
Your committee submit this report of facts without a single comment, and Will feel
satisfied if any man, or number of men will be induced by it, to inquire into the
nature of an imtitution whose principles your committee believe, authorized tho
commission of an outrage upon the liberty and life of a fellow citizen, and prompted
its members to use every elfort to avert the just intervention of the laws from the
heads of the olfenders.
UNITED STATtS
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Ward, from the Commitue next herwfter mentioned, T'tpOTled a.rfolluw:
The Committee appointed to inquire when, where, and fO'I' what puryoae /ree-
matJOn"'Jj uw firat inatdwted 1 What has been ita progreu ? Where haa it ;tfouriahed
JAOat 1 A.ftd what ii now the proOOble number ofthe fraternity If
Respectfully report,
WHEN AND WHERE FREEJllASONRT ORIGINATED.
The origin of an earthly thing, does not always determine its character: but when
the pride of birth, and the boast of an illustrious ancestry are assumed by a foundling,
the aaumption a1fects the character of the banding, and proves it to be i:lestitute both
of virtue and truth.
Freemasonry originated in England. ·
Eliaa Aahmole, the last of the Rosicrucians and Alchymists, wu admitted to t1&e
freedmn of the operative masons' company, in London, A. D. 1646, and died, 1692.(a)
Robert Plot, LL.D. A1hmole'1 librarian, speak& in his Natural History of Staft'ord-
sbire, ••ofa cuatom ofadmitting men into the aociety offretmaaofl.ll ;" also, " o_fa parch-
ment 1J0lume, containing the history and·ndea oftli,e craft of maaonry ;"and', afso, of
their secrets, " that none knote·but thtmaelvu, which I hatJe reaaon to 1U1pect," he 1ays,
"are, perhaps, as bad as thu myattry ofthe craft itaelf, than tJJhkh there ia nothing I
etieT met with mO'l't _falae and incoherent." (b)
Plot'• Natural HWory o_fSta.ffO'l'dahire, written and published between 1666, and
1696, we have not been abfe to obtain ; but should the above extracts from a m111onic
book, prove to be correct, it contains the earliest printed mention of masonic secrets
within our knowledge. Neither Shakespeare nor Butler make any allusion to free-
masonry ; the writers neither of romance nor of song, name it in any work of the 17th
century, with which we are acquainted; nor Milton, nor Dryden, nor Addison.
Freemasonry left its embryo state, in the Apple-tree Tavern, Charle1-1treet, .
Covent Garden, London, and there assumed a regularform, on the ~4th day ofJune,
A. D. 1717, when the brethren of" the only _four lodgu in the aouth. ofEnglcmd,"
elected Mr. Anthony Sayer, by a majority of hl.!lds, first grand master ofmasons. (c)
This grand lodge claims the acknowledgment of its supremacy, by the whole body
of the fraternity throughout the earth. (d) To this same grand lod~e, and to those ·
which have sprung up at York, Kilwinning, and Edinburgh, in imitation of it, we
are able, by the help of masonic writen, to trace every particle of freemasonry now
scattered over the four tiuarters of the earth. (e) The name, Franche-maconerie, on
the c1>ntinentof Europe, preserves the idiom of the English language, at the expense
of a gross violation o(propriety in French. (f) And finally, the grand lodge of Eng-
land by treaty with the grand lodge of Germany, dated Berlin, October 20,. and
London, November 30, l773, confinned to the several grand masters of clilrerent
German states, the rights already granted, and bestowed all the remaining state•
upon the aforesaid grand lodge of Germany in consideration of £25 sterling, to be
~. paid annually. (g)
I Foa WHAT PUJlPOSE WAS FREEMASONRY INSTITUTED? .
~ Freemuonry was instituted to dupe the limple fO'I' the bettefit of the crafty. The
(a) Bio. Brit.
(b~reemuon'• Pocket Companion, p. 192.
.(c Anderson'• Co1111titution1, 2d. Ed. p. llOO. Preston, Ri&hard's Ed. p. 167. Smith. IAvi-
ne, , and othe111.
(d) See the Latin in1Ctiption on plate p11t beneath the corner ltone ofFreemuoo.'s Hall, LclD-
don, A.D.1775, .a11NCOl'deil by Preston,p. 310. Smith, p. 83.
(e) Anderson, Scott, Smith, Preston, Robison, and others.
(I) Eaeais aur la Franche-masonerie. Par J. L. Laurena.
lg) See the treaty in Smit/1'1octa1H>ofMasonry. p. 188.
c
ORIGIN O.F FREEMASONRY. (3'
ebject it has eteadily pureued, bntil ite members have attained '° mitres and crowna
of masonry; and aiso to a political in1luence corresponding with their claims te
impilrial power.
WHAT HAS BEEN ITS PROGRESS 1
John Montague, duke of Montague, was chosen first noble grand master of ma-
sons, A. D. 1721. (a) Anderson's "ConBtitutionB of Masonry," the first printed
document of the. fraternity, appeared A. D. 1723. (a) Thus nearly 300 yean
elapsed from the discovery of the art of printing, before this self styled molt ancient
and honourable fraternity added one work to the literature of the world. About this
time, both Pope (b) and Swift (c) name freem811onl'f in terms of unqualified contempt.
In 1726, provincial grand masters were first appomted, by whom freemasonry was
carried to the different counties of England, to North and South Wales, Bild to
Gibraltar; and so around the globe. (d) October 13th, 1730, it was disclosed, pub-
lished, and sworn to, by SAMUEL PRICHARD, (e) an irreproachable citizen of Lon-
don. (I) It was first planted in America, at Boston, A. D. 1733; at Charleston, S.
C. and at Cap.a Coast, in Africa, and iq the grand lodge of Scotland, A. D. 1736. (g)
It was proscribed in 1735, by the republic of Holland, (h) where it had been intro-
duced by the Earl of Chesterfield, (i) in 1728. It was proscribed in France, 1737;
in Italy, and by the Pope, 1738; and in the republic of Switzerland, in 1745. (k) '
The masons of Lyons, in France, partizans of Andrew Michael Ramsay, invented
the order of kadosch templar (1) A. D. 1743; hence sprung the elect ofnine, of.ft/tun.
perfect masons, et cetera. In 1747, Ch. Ed. Stuart, son of the Pretender, received
.many favours of the masons at Arras, in France, and in return, ~ave them a warrant
for holding a chapter, and called it the Scotch Jacobite. (m) 'l'his chapter was after-
wards removed to Paris, with the name of chapitre d'Arras, and is the germ of royal
arch ma~onry, which now modestly dates from the time of Zeryibbabel.
Freemasonry of three degrees, was thus disseu:Unaied over the civilized world;
and the degrees of perfection were commenced previous to the middle of the last
century. To trace the progress of the mf.~tery in all countries, and in all its different
l'.ites, is needless. The ori~in of the Scotch Lodge, of France, is found in La mere
loge de St. Jean d'Ecosse, lll>tituted Rt l\Iarseilles, A. D. 1751. Hence sprang Ue
f;lcotch masonry of Mexico, and of the world. In 1754, the Chevalier de Bonmville
instituted a chapttlr of the high degrees, from which the German Baron, HIMl.d, took
the rite called strict observance. Martinez Pascalis invented the order ofelect priuta,
from which sprang the Martinists of t)le French Revolution. 1n 1756, "the grand
lodge of France" first took its name, having previously styled itself, "the gr1111d
English Lodge of France." Precis Hist. vol. 1, p. 37.
In 1758, at Paris, was established the first Council of Emperor& ofthe East mad
West, Sovereign Princes, Freemasons! Among the founders ofthis dynasty, we find
the names of Laconte le niaitre de danse, and Pirlet, le tailleur d'habita: in plain Eng-
lish, a dancing master and a tailor.
The sovereigns, by their warrant, dated August 27, 1761, sent IUblime and per-
fect masonry to the new world, by the hand of Stephen Morin, a Jew; Morin
planted it in the 'Vest Indies; and a council at Kingston, in Jamaica, gave it to
Henry Andrew Franken. Franken, by a patent, dated 6 December, 1778, gave it
to Moses Michael Hayes, a Jew, afterwards grand master of Maasachneetts; Hayta
(a) Anderson's Constitutions ofMasonry.
(b) Pope's Letters. Vol. 2d.
(c) A Letter from the grand mistren offemale freemuons, to Geo. Faalkner, printer.
Swift's Works. Vol.12, p. 331. ·
(d) Scott, Preston, and Anderson.
(e) Masonry Dissected. By Samuel Prichard.
(f) Anderson's Constitutions. 2d Ed.
(g) AnderQon, Scott, S1uith, and Preston.
(h) Smith, p.193.
(i) Anderson's Constitutions, p. 112, and 129, connected with Lord Chesterfield'• emba.,
to Hague, und the Current History ofMasonry.
(k) Smith, Scott, and Lawrie.
{I) Robison. New York Ed. p. 44. Preeis Hiatorique. Vol. I. p. 31.
(m) .Preeia Historique, and Eapri.t Du Dogma, p. 182
35] ORIGIN OF FUEllASONRY. 3
gave It to Spitur. of Charleston, s.c. and there the hein or Lacomt"""Pirlcl DOW
away the sceptre of freemasonry, "under the celestial canopy of tJr.e zenitA,"'oTer
"both htmi,spheru." (a) ·
WHERE FREEMASONRY HAS FLOURISHED MOST.
Russia. Spain, Portugal, Naples, and Rome, make freemasonry a capital oft'eoee.
There,is no crime in the mummery to die for under the gallows; the oft"ence lies ia
the political use made of freemasonry, dangerous to all governments. The 10ve-
reigns of FrllJlce, England, Pru11Sia, Netherlands. Sweden, and Brazil, take the fra-
ternity under the royal guardianship. This is n.ot because their maje11ties love the
farce of the lodge-room, put they fear its political tendency.
Great Britain has pursued both the restrictive and the protective course at the
same time. While the late king was heir apparent to the throne, he was made grand
master of masous ; and the parliament forbade the increase of the number of lodge.
in tire three kingdoms; and ahto forbade the adoption of any degrees, except only the
first three in masonry. The statute bears date 39th year of George Ill. and ii now
in force. ·
Tlie only countries in which freemasonry ftourishee, neither forbidden norrestrained,
are the republics of North America. Here the growth is without a parallel; (except
in France, during the last years of Louis XVI.) a growth honourable to the freedom,
but dangerous to the fltability of our public institutions.
CONCLUSION.
--" Ont Qf the earth a fabric huge
Rose like an ellhalation, with the sound
Ofdulcet symphonies, and voices sweet,
Built like a temple."-Milton's description of P.ANDll•o1nuv.
The corner stone was laid at London, on mechanics' holiday, A. D. 1717; thirty1
to forty stories have since been erected, and some towers have been raised to the
fearful height of ninety, and even ~me hundred and twenty degree&: the walls are
living men of all christendom, to the number of a million, 100,000 of whom are in
this country, bound togethl!r by ties upon their fame, their life, aud the future salva-
tion of their souls. It has a ritual, an .altar, a priesthood, and worshippers. It is an
unhallowed temple, whose votaries are admitted, in attire for a gallows. It has a
government, and laws, an empire, and crowned heads, and a book of constitution•
and a sword. It is the temple of tyrann;v, where young men swear fealty to an un-
known prince. It is a refuge of lies; neither truth. nor righteousness, nor patriotism
will suffer it longer to defile the earth.
(a) Precis His. Dalcbo's Orations and othera. For Frauken's commission to Hayei1, see the
Promence Free Prell!, V<>I. I. No. 2.
UNITED STATES
ANTl-1\IASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Oli«r, from th~ Committee nut htreafter mentioned, made a Report al /ollouta:
The Committao appointed by the United States Anti-1\tuonic Convention, to
examine fnto the character of freemBBonry, and to inquire how far its pretensions
have been supported by facts, respei:tfull~ submit the following Report:
Before entering upon the duties of their appointment, your Committee were fully
aware that this subject would require a more elaborate discussion, than the limited
time of the sitting of this Convention would afford; they have, therefore, thought
proper to present no more than a brief outline of the most prominent wetensions and
practices of freemasonry, as they are now exposed to the world.
If we allow its own standard authors the privilege of anawering for the institution,
... it claims to be an association of divine origin, emanating from, and eommunlcatecl
by the Deity himself to Adam, and through him to Enoch, Methuselah, aud Noah,
and thus to the succeeding ages of the world, to Solomon, and the Prophets and
Apostles, down to the sovereign pontiffs, princes, and potentates of the earth ; and
to all the subsl)qnently initiated members of their mystical order, to the present
day." .
But when we consult the pages of ancient history, both sacred and profane, there
is not the least trace or allusion to any such organized society, anteriOl' to the
eighteenth century; at which period, viz. anno domini, 1717, modem history
informs us that this fraternity held their first meeting in the city of Londoa ; and
1ubsequcntly, in the year 1723, they published their first book ofconstitutions. Con-·
sequeutly all its pretensions to an ancient origin, llt'e founded on mer11 tradition,
which, of all evidence, is the most vague and inconclusive. As a proof of this asser-
tion, we appeal to the sacred history ; and by a comparison of events with their re-
spective dates, we find the masonic traditions confounding and blending distinct and
1eparate periods of time, comprising an interval ofseveral hundred years, and quoting
. he sayings of some of the iuspired writers long before they bad an existence! Nu-
' ; mer~us instances of perverting the sacred text might be cited ; but for the sake oC
brevity, we shall name but few to show tile fact. In the ceremony of the mark mas-
ters' degree in masonry, the candidate is instructed respecting tile curious white key
itone, prepared by"Hiram Abiff, and the passage from the Apocalypse is made to
apply to this circumstance. BB a promised reward to the faithful mBBonic brethren.
" To him that overcometb will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him
a white stone, and in the stone a new-name written, which no man knoweth sa'fing him
that receiveth it ;" and the lecture continues, representing tilis key atone, covered with
hieroglyphics, as the very stoue alluded to in Holy Writ!! Again, in tile royal arch
degree, the .same language of inspiration is made to apply to the pretended pot of
manna found in the ark of the covenant, under the ruins of the old tem{>le at Jerusa-
lem ; thus impiously perverting the sacred writings, to support tile msipid tradi-
tions of the order. And again, in settling tile pretended difficulty among the craft
about their wages, Solomon is ·made to speak the words of our Saviour, not uttered
until a thousand ]ears afterwards, in his parable of tile husbandman to his hired
servants : "Frien , I do thi:e no wrong; didst thou not agree to work for a pen1ty a
day." Many of the fraternity have never examined into tile truth or falsity of these
~~ being disposed to give implicit BBsent to their correctness, or pBBsinfi them
0yas matter of indifference ; but if they will seriously consider tilese incongruities in
connection with other impositions and falsities practised upon their credulity, they
will discover that the whole system is a tissue of falsehood and deception. Speea-
lative freemasonry has ever pretended to impart to its recipienta very important
11ecrets in morality, philosoph!f, and acience; and many of the reverend clergy kve
declared, that tiley joined the mstitution with the view of improving themaelvea in the
principles of morality. ·Ho'." far these have been instructed in the way ofsal1J-
CHARACTER OF FREEMASONRy. [37
l i
tion, iet their OWD eonsciences decide. Elder David Bernard, wbote expoaitiom of ~ ,.
~is mystery of iniquity entitle him to the character oC a P.ublic benefactor, thu...
leseribes his own views of the institution : " Wishing to avail myi'elf of every auxi-
~ary in/romoting the glory of God, and the happiness of my fellow men, I readily
-eceive the three first degrees. My disappointment none can know, but those who · / ' \
~ave, in similar circumstances, been lee! into the same path of folly and siu. .J ,,
1ilently retired from the institution, and for three years was hardly kuown as a ma.- \
ion. Not being able to advocate its cause from the knowledge I bad derived of ila • (
[>rinciples, and supposing the obligations I had received were morally binding, I couW , , -.
1ay neither pro nor con concerning it, without a violation of my conscience. With f ~ .
these views, I embraced an offer to advance into the higher orders of mysticism, and· : •"£. '.
reached forward to attain the desired end. In the reception of the chaptoral de- • ,. _,...,
l!;rees, my embarrasment increased. When I came to the oath of the royal arch
mason, which obligates to deliver a companion, "right OT wrong," I made a full
stop, and objected to proceeding. I was then assured in the most·positive term1,
that all would in the end be explained to my full satisfaction. But no such expla.
nation ever took place." \ · ·
Here is high authority for denouncing the institution as altogether false in its pre- (_ f.t:'."-.· ' •
tensions, to which might be added the testimony of hundreds of others of equal ere· I) {,f ~:t· ..
dibility. Of it~ scientific pretensions, the Hou. Cadwalader D. Colden, of New : ·
York, another seceding mason, thus observes: " that all the science ever taught in.; ... h.
the lodge, may be comprised in the few following words, viz. that the sun rises in (- \ ·....
the East, and sets in the West; that the sun rules the day, and the moon rules the . -_· >
night! !" It would require a volume to record the testimony of all those who have cl\: ·. '· · • •
discovered the false pretensions of freemasonry, and who have denounced the insti- n•'J •••
tution as unworthy to exist in a land nf freedom; but the design of the present report I ·
being to present the most prominent objections in a condensed form, we pass .ou to
give some other reasons for warnini; our fellow men to shun its dangerous snares. ·
Another of its hollow pretences 1s found in the declaration "that one of its prin-
cipal objects is to distribute and dispense its funds to charitable purfl'>Ses ;" but by- a
reference to its own records, it may be seen that the amount of the funds thus distri-
buted, does not exceed the gratuitous distributions of other men who have no con-
nexion with th11ir secret order; and that a very large amount of the initiation fee1
received, are expended in the frivolous decorations of their persons and lodge rooms,
and their festivities and funeral ceremonies. From the examination of the records
of St. John's Lodge, in the cityofBosto~, commencing in the year 1780. now in the
possesSion of amember of this convention, it appears that the amount of"their cha-
ritable distributions in eighteen years, was 835-76; while the aggregate amount or
the receipts and expenditures for the.same time, exceeded the sum of $1800 !
Freemasonry professes unbounded charity, by holding fellowship with all nations,), 1\(/... < l;1
kindreds, tongues, and people ; and pretends to embrace in christiau love both U"-1 • \
Jew and christian, Mahomedan and infidel, who are all taught to reverence aud
adore the great supreme in undivided, undistinguished unity; yet the Jew can
reject th'3 doctrine or christianity, and the Mahomedan deny the scriptures altoge-
ther, and the infidel ridicule the existence of a God, and all meet together upon the 'I ,
great aquare and level of masonry, and receive instruction froui this boasted ha~ fl{.·•
maid of!eli~io!LL The s~e oaths are admiuis!ered to all, and the same pret~n.ded (,, :_\
·ploiiiTectures are niy_stenously adapted to all its followers! l\fany youug d1vmes ~ '-
have been induced, (from its claiming to be the handmaid of religion,) wheu about o{
to leave their native .country, to offer themselves as candidates for masonry, with a , . •
view to enlarge their understanding of moral and religious subjects, and secure fnr f' '' :(_-f\
themselves .an easier J.>RSsport to the wise and good of foreign nations. But the sum (,
and 1ubstance of all its pretensions to a re~i~ous character, according to !he ~esti-
mony of hundreds of tbose who are now willing to expose the fraud, co11s1sts_m an
artful collection of acri,Pture tllxts, arranged to correspond to the several degrees, and
indieeriminately 1ubm1tted to believers and unbelievers, a11 a test of their fidelity to
the order! Since the late diselosnres of the secret ceremonies of the 01 de1•, the fra-
ternity have repeatedly affirmed, " that it never was designed _that the penalties of
their ohli1ations 1hould receive a literal construction; that by repeating the ohfiga.
tioa, with the penalty annexed, the candidate merely ii1voke<l those tortures if he
cbould wilfully and knowingly violate the obligation." But the wholo machiucrv
1.. , .lo\.~ 1, l
~··
1.:,1l-,)
·.·~. ,.. 'l
.i· ~"" 'Y' "\
\
... ' ,:,\.
38] CH.lR.A.CTEB. OF FB.EEM4SONB.Y. 3
or the institution (onm a negative to this assertiob, which ii not in the r.wer or ill
adTocates to remove. The very first conyiction that impresses the candidate (when
about to be initiated) in seeing an officer guarding the door with a deadly weapon,
is the danger to be apprehended from an unlawful intrusion ; and at every succeed-
.ing step, he is constantly reminded of the penalties of bis obligations. In divesting
the candidate of nearly all his apparel, be is deprived of the power of escaping with
decency; and while he submits to this- pret~mded necessary preparation, the sense of
shame Rt his own degradation weakens his resolation to att!)mpt an escape ; and if
the confessions of seceding masons are sufficient testimony to warrant belief, the pre-
'Yiously initiated enjoy the embarrassment of the new candidate as a sort ofoffsetfor
their own former degradation. The halter, or cable tow, and the sharp pointed
instrument to the naked breast, are evidently designed to increase the dread of ape-
nalty; while the utter unconsciousness of the scene around him, as his optics are
deprived of their ordinary functions by the close drawn bandage, the more readily
suggests imaginary evil, which must always produce a mental excitement and alarm.
Then the mock as!ft.SSination of Hiram Abift', is calculated to impress the mind with
the awful consequences of a curiosity to pry into the pretended mystery, and the
final sacrifice of the fabled Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum, agreeably to their own im·
precations, is a convincing proof that the penalties were intended to be literally con·
strued. And all the subsequent oaths and penaJties are evidently designed for the
tame effect; for, as the obligations increase, in the same proportion the penalties
are made to increase in barbarous enormity; and it is to these penalties, literally
construed, that the institution owes its continuance from its origin to. the present
day. For without these terrific appendages, such a .flagrant imposition upon the
credulity of mankind could never have been concealed ; therefore it is a preposterous
absurdity to assert, that it has adopted a form of words without a significant mean·
ing, for on their literal import has depended its very existence! !
In conclusion, it may now be safely affirmed, that SPECULATIVE FilEEMASONBT
bas, by its gaudy trappings and _false pretensions, allured the feet of the credulous
and unwary into its toils, promising to impart important secrets, which no one bas
ever realized; and enjoined the imposition with eternal secrecy, under the pains and
penalties of a cruel death!! Such are her pretensions and promises, and thus has
she fulfilled them. So will all testify, who have tad the courage and magnauimifJ
so bunt her bond1, and honestly confess the truth.
UNITED STATES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Morria, /r<nn the Committee next hereafte:r mtntioned, reported al follow:
The Committee to whom was referred the examination of the evidence, as to the
1nlth of the disclosures contained in a work published by Elder David Bel'Jlard, t!n-
title.t "Light on Ma111mryj." report,
That the abduction and murder oC Morgan by the masonic fraternity, for the
alleged crime of revealing the lower degrees of masonry, is ample confirmation of
the truth of those degrees, as contained in Elder "Bernard's book. The evidence
furnished by this fact, must be conclusive as against the institution of masonry, be-
cause there could.be no'Other posaible pretence for the infliction of masonic vengeance
upon its victim, than his disclosure of the secrets of the order. If the murder ofMor-
gan was not resorted to, as the means of either prennting or punishing the revela-
tion of secrets deemed by their professors of the highest importance, it was an act
of atrocious barbarity, without motive or the pretext ofjustification. '.rhe m311onie
fraternity have, iherefore, stamped upon Morgan's disclosures the impress of mar-
tyrdom, and sealed his testimony with the blood of their victim. ·
The evidence to the truth of these disclosures, furnished by seceders from the in-
stitution, is, in the judgment of the Oommittee, entitled to full credit. The character
of the witnesses in point of intelligence, integrity, and veracity, their melllJS of know-
ing the facts, the total absence of every inducement to faLiify those facts, the perfect
ease with which their disclosures, if false, can be refuted, and the facility of effecting
their conviction of perjury, in those cases where their disclosures have been supported ,
by their oaths in judicial proceedings, forbid the supposition that their disclosures·are /
not ~rue. In the state of New York, a considerable tiumber of the seceders are clergy-
men of different denominations, whose constitutional interdict from holding offices,
fur.Uahes aa ell'ectual refutation of the allegation so generally and so falsely cir-,,.
culated, that political power is the object of the opponents of masonry. The intelli-
gence, virtue, and piety of these gentlemen can leave no doubt, that the most im-
eerative sense of duty to their God and their country prompted their secession from
the order, and their disclosure of its secrets. That spirit of masonic malice, "uilwae
heart coins slanders like a mint," bas sought to invalidate the testimpn' of the sece- ·
ders, imputing to them the commission of moral perjury. The intelligence of the
age in which we live, requires no laboured exposition ofthe proposition, equally 1anc-
tioned by ethics and by law, that oaths extrajudicially administered, dictated like
ihose of masonry by force or fraud, and directly contlicting with·the paraniountdutie1
of the citizen to his God and. his country, are neither legally nor morally obligatory.
The faithful and literal performance of the sworn oblif?ation of the brethren of the
inystic tie, to mark the seceder as an object of masomc vengeance, to asperse his
character, defame his.reputation, derange his business, and point him out to the
world as a vicious and unworthy vagabond, is a volume of masonic testimony to the
truth of the disclosures made by the seceders.
In corroboration of the other evidence of the truth of these disclosures, the Com-
mittee deem it not unimportant to advert to the fact, that in thi1 free republic, where
every subject human and divine is by the nature ofour institutions subjected to the or-
deal of publie discUSllion; freemasonry alone is attempted to be an exception to the
general rule, andits all-powerful iil11uenceis exerted to muzzle the press, to gag the ora-
tor, to obstruct or incommode the assemblage ofconventions, to preventexamination of -
its claims, and sti.tle all inquiry into its principles and practices. Freemasonry, alone,
of all the subjects which alfect .our rights and dutie1 here, and our accountabilities
hereafter, denies the control of public sentimeat, aad defies the tribunal of public
~pinion.
"
:t
''
REPORT ON THE TRUTH OF THE DISCLOSUREI:!. [40
The truth or many of the fact.8 disclosed in the work entitled "Li~ht on Mru°"T3'•••
rests not, however, solely upon the testimony to which the Committee have ·as yet
adveflted. The records or the courts or justice furnish evidence upon this subject,,
l'Vhidi sophistry cannot pervert, prevarication evade, or impudence deny. It is'
judicial evidence upon the very fact in question. In Judge Gardiner'~ report, made
to the senate of the state of New York, pursuant to their resolution, of the testi-
mony taken before him upon the trial of Elihu Mather, the obligations and oadu
assumed by members of the fraternity upon their admission, and particularlr. those
of the royal arcb degree, binding the member to extricate a brother from difticuhy
right or wrong, are confirmed and established by the testimony of members of the
masonic order, not 11eteders, who were yet attached to, and presiding in the lodges,
and who .sta~1 upon their oaths .these obligations in the terms and neuly the wi>rds,
in which. they are divulged in the work in question. In various trials before magis-
trates iii the state of New York, in suits proseeute:I Cor alleged infraetions of the
1tatute, prohibiting juggling and show11, againet persons profeaing to exhibit the
ceremowes attendant on the admiasion of masons, members of the order, y«. at-
tached to the lodges, of unblemished reputation11, and one or them a member oC
tht'I present Congress, testified that the mode and manner of initiating membel'll, and
the oaths taken by themselves and byothers on admission, were the samll as 11et fordi
_by Elder Bernard. ' ·.
Other trials in the same state, one of which being upon a promiuory note Cor the
initiation fee on admission into a lodge, the defence to which conaisting in the .-ant
of consideration, distinctly presented the inquiry into the truth of the disclo1W'e of
ipasouic secrets, furnished indisputable judicial evidence, that the rights and ceremo-
nies, the oaths and obligations of the lodqes were correctlr detailed.
. The Committee are unanimously of opmion, that the eTidence eitrinsic and illtrin-
sic, direct and collateral, positive and circumstantial, ia such as can leave no doubt
o.n. the mind of any rational man, that the diac_losurea contained in the work, entitled
"Light on Maaanry," particularly in regard to the degrees in uee in this country~ are
authentic ll.lld unquestionable.
LETTElt J'ROM ELDER N. ?f, WRITING TO ELDER DAVID. BE&NA&D, APPEIIDED TO
THE FOREGOl?fG REPO&T BY O&DE& OF THE CONVENTION.
Vernon, 0Mitla County, N. Y. Septcn.be'r 7, 1830.
EI.DER D. BEaNARD,
Inftuenced, as I humbly trust, by a sense or the duty whrlch I owe to the friends or
truth and the ha,Ppiness or mankind, I hereby certify, that the various masonic·cle-
gree1 contained m the list below, and published by you in the work entitled "Light
on Masonry," are genuine and authentic, and may tie relied on as such by the world.
I farther certify, that the degrees from that of knight of the East and West, to that
· llf Sublime Prince or the Royal Secret inclusive, were conferred on me and several
ethers informally, that is, without the use or the various ceremonies detailed in those
degrees as published; that a simple obligation or secrecy being administered, we
were left to leam the nature and tendency of those degrees from the manuscripts in
which they were contained ; that this mode or conferring the degrees is a regular
one, when there ia no organized consisto17. Cor the Sublime Degrees. I farther cer-
tify, that an ~ent of the Supreme Council or Sovereign Grand Inspectors General,
(which Council has its place or meetingin Charleston> S. C.) was employed to com-
municate tile Sublime Degrees to lLll officer or high-masonic rank in the state of New
York, and that through that officer said degrees have been conferred on various per·
ions i·esiding in said stat""
List ofDegr«• referred to above.
Secret Master, Illustrious Knight,
Perfect Master, Grand Master Architect,
~· Intimate Secretary, Kni~ht of 9th Arch.
Provost and Judge, G. E. and B. Mason,
). Intendant of the Buildings, Knight of the E. and W.
Elected Knighta of Nine, Sov. Prince or Rose-Croix,
Elected Grll.lld Master, Gr~ PontiJf.
UNITED STATES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Ta9lor, from tlte Committee next kereafkr mmtiomd, reported a6 follow:
The Committee appointed to inquire what has been the influence of freemuonry
upon the 1;1ublic press; and whether it be expedient for thi1 convention to adopt any
measUJ'es in relation thereto, respectfully report,
That the result of.their inquiries presents a state of the preo, alike discreditable to
its eharacter, and alarming to all who love the liberties and the independence of their
oountry.
As nearly u your Committee have been able to ascertain, there are published in
all the states, an a~gregate of 983 newspapers.
These have divided themselves into three distinct classes. The first consists of
those which have issued from the press since the year1826, founded exclusively upon
the .principle of opposition to freemasonry, or so conducted, comprising 124 of the
aoove number; of which are published in the state of Pennsylvania 53; New York
46; Connecticut2; Rhodelslandl; Massachusetts5; Vermont4; NewJerJey2;
Ohio 9; Indiana 1; aud 1 in the territory of Michigan.
These have been established bythe zeal, and supported by the liberal contributions
of the middling and unambitious classes of society; with no motive but the attain-
ment and dissemination of those alarming truths, whieh ther had sought for in vain,
throilgh the ordinary channels of intelligence. These publications have been prin-
cipally commenced since the murder of Morgan; an<l they have been met'at the thresh-
old, by the hostility of that fraternity, which has hitherto controlled ai with an iron
sceptre, every interest which they have not deemed beneath their notice.
Against a combination, whose hands have not refused to wield the weapons of dis-
honourable warfare, and labouring under every possible disadvantage, this Spartan
band bas contended with a zeal and steady perseverance, which indicate that the
patriotism of the heroes of '76, still animates with undimini11hed fervour, the breasts
of many of their olfspring.
The next class of periodical publications, consists of such as have been founded
exclusively upon masonic principles, and are sustained by masonic patronage. These
were established and are conducted in the strictest accordance with that law ofillumi-
nism which is given by Weishaupt in these words, "newspapers and rtviews must be
establiVied torcalumniate every influential man, who cannot be brought over to our
party." They live in an atmosphere offalsebood ; and like the unclean beast which
fattens upon the poisonous vapours of its own dungeon, draw their nutriment from
the calumny of the best and purest; and when summoned to the bar of public jus-
tice, they $0 forth convicted libellers, glol'ying in their shame. ·
The third class comprehends all those, with_ a few honourable exceptions, which
were in successful operation, not exclusively masonic, when Morgan's illustrations of
masonry were first suft'ered to behold the light.
These papers scattered through the whole extent of our_country, ushered from a
thousand 1resses, daily, weekly, monthly, and quarterly, and professing to give the
minutest rntelligence upon every subject of general or limited interest; the con-
stant inmate of every home; the daily visitant of every fireside; have acquired an
influence as absolute as the laws of our land, and as wide as the country which we
inhabit. To meet the spirit of inquiry, the caterers for the press, are unwearied iu
their efforts. They draw their supplies from every quarter of the globe; they eagerl1
lay hold of every occurrence, foreign or domestic, trivial or important, and send 1t
forth, to gratify the cravings of the public curiosity. In these efforts to give interl)'t
to the publications of the day, no industry is spared; no "topic is beneath their notice;
but the broad fields of fiction, of politics, of science, of the arts and of religion are
ransacked ; and having explored them ell, and gathered every palatable fruit, these
indefatigable men, like the daughter of the horaeleech, are unsatisfied still.
2 llEPORT ON THE STATE OF THE PUBLIC PRESS. [42
An ordinary murder, in which a eolitary individual was implicated, hu rung
through all our papers, for mouths together: and the illef;al detention ora foreigner.
an alleged defaulter, has set whole cities in a flame. This was :ndeed the indication
of a blessed spirit; for it prone that our citizens know the value of liberty and la._-.
and are jealous of the slightest infringement of them. But an American citizen was
outrageously kidnapped and tom from his family, confined in a dungeon, transported
through a thickly settled country, and murdered under circumstances of the most
cold blooded barbarity, and these same presses are silent as the grave. He who
could compass sea and land to ga.ther news, seemed to have forgotten his occupation ;
and that "blessed spirit" which burst forth like the flames of a volcano, because
the laws had been violated in the persen of an alleged swindler, gave no signs
of life. In the region where this outrage had been perpetrated, the criminal
apathy or connivance of the conductors of the pre88, alarmed the people: they arose
in their might and established independent papers, through which the truth bu been
fearlessly dmeminated, in defiance of the threats and calumnies of that all-powerful
institution. Without the aid of these presses, the mass of the people in New York
and Pennsylvania, Massachusetts and Vermont, would at this momeut, have .been
ignorant that William Morgan ever lived. Nay, after crowds of witnesses have
proved his murder, by circumstances amounting to certainty; afte1· adhering masons
have trampled upon the authority of our courts ofjustice; have defied the power of
heaven and earth, and alleged as their only excuse, that the truth would implicate
themselves in the bloody deed; thel'O are still thousands in our land, and men too of
intelligence and virtue, who believe that the story of that murder is all a fiction.
Why is this? Why is it, that among our intelligent population such gross and dis-
graceful ignorance prevails 1 It is because the p11blic press is palsied by .a power un-
seen, and controlled by an influence of unlimited operation. Through'the medium of
the press the public mind bas been poisoned, so that none, however elevated, can ex-
press ajust indir;nation against the perpetrators of a horrid crime, or against the in-
stitution, whichJU&tifieH and protects the criminal, without the risk of being denounced
as a fanatic, or a fool, ot a designing man. '
Your Committee &rll aware that some of them have been driven by dire nece1Sity
to adopt a course, at which their better feelings revolt.
But in view of all the facts, the Committee are constrained to say, that in their
opinion, the conductors of the press, who have made themselve1 voluntarily ob-
noxious to the eharge of suppressing intelligence intensely interesting to the Ameri-
can people ; of refusing to sound the alarm, when liberty has been invaded, our
laws trampled in the dust, and life wantonly sacrificed ; who have systematically in-
\ 1ulted the memory of the qead, and calumniated the living; who have wielded their
mighty power at the will of a secret and corrupt combination, and have used iheir
influence to pervert the truth and mislead the public mind ; who have shown them-
eelves willing rather to jeopard our dearest iuterests, than to risk the loss of patron-
age or incur the enmity of freemasonry ; have proved faithless "sentinels upon the
\Vatch-towers of liberty;" and unworthy the confidence of those who justly value tho
dear bought privileges of American eitizem.
UNITED STATES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Hopkins, from the Committee next herea.fllr mentioned, reported tU follow:
The Committee to whom it wa' referred, "to take into consideration the true nature
of masonic oaths or obligation~. and to rPport whether they are, or are not. reli-
giously, morally, or legally himlin:;-; and whether they are, or are not, in collision
-with the higher ol>ligations of alle~iance and duty, which every good citizen is under,
to support the constiwcion aud law~ of his country," re•pectfully report:
· That the terms of thi~ reforencc, being general, embrace all masonic ob1jgationa
whatever. In the applicatio11 or the subject to the oaths as revealed, it appean to the
committee, that the matte1· of tho~e oaths may properly come under the following
eoesiderations, namely: ht. Of oaths which respect matters merely frivolous. 2d.
Of those, if any there be, which respect matters entirely lawful and/roper, and uot
unimportant. 3d. or thooe, which by their natural tendency an operation are
hostile to social order, good manne1"!l, or equal right, hut without requiring any spe-
cific olfence. 4th. Of tho•e, which are directly illegal, whethe1· that illegality is ex-
pressed in terms, or is 11fterwards deduced, as an unexpected consequence. Illegality
111 oaths may be of man) different kind~ : the object of them may be either directly
criminal, or they may lead to breaches of prior duty, obligation or contract, or of
political allegiauce. Respecting all these, the inquh-y is, whether they are religiously,
morally, or legally binding.
And first, as to their legal obligation, the committee report; that none of tbeee
being oaths authorized or re9uired for any purpose known to the laws, they are not
legally binding in any possible case (a). The remaining questions concern their
obligation in conscience.
An oath is defined by moral writers as au act of religion (b), by which the.....,,,.,-
aftirmant appeals to the Supreme Being, to witness the truth of what he affirms to
be true, or his fidelity in the performance of that, which he promises to perform.
Such a transaction presupposes the infirmity of all human sanctions. It applies to
the thoughts and intents of the heart; and therefore it appeals to him who knows
them: It presupposes also, that the 'being who is appealed to, is both able and dis-
posed to punish perjury. The univ~rsal adoption of oaths, by all nations, to sanction
such public and solemn engagements as the laws cannot sufficiently reach; such, for
<IJ'.Rmple, as fidelity to governments, the observance of treaties, and truth in giving
testimony, is a proof, that a sense of the sanctity of oaths, is deeply graven upon the
heart of man. Grotius observes. that in every nation, and in every age, an oath b.as
always been of the greatest weight in promises, contracts, and agreements (c)·
IC the use ofsolemn oaths is found thus universal, and thus necessary to man, in his
(a) See opinioq ofMarcey, J. in The People vs. Jewett, at Lockport, 1830.
(b) They all seem to follow Cicero's definition in the third book De Officiis: Est enim jus-
jurandum affirmatio religiosa; quod autem affirmate, qu1111i Deo teste, promisseris, id tenendum
eat. See also Grotius de Jure Bel. et Pac. Lib. II. Cap. XIII.
PufFendorf. Droit de la Nat. Lib. IV. Chap. I.
Domat's civil law. Book III. Tit. 6. ~. 6.
Paley's Moral Philoaophy, Book III. Chap. XVJ.
Rutherforth's Institutes, ch. xiv.
·O~inion ofTrott, afterwards Ch. Just. of South Carolina, under the colonial government 111. 1.
Halls Law Journal, p. 2. The precise defuiition in the text above, is rather gathered from all,
than copied from any one.
(c) In the chapter before cited. In this chapter he has collected a gre_at n~mber ofexample•
to lbow the reverence of almost all nations for oeths. But Barbeyrac, m bis notes 0.11 Puften-
dorf, says, that the Peruvians ueed-no oath, but a simple averment before the' Inca. He cite•
Gue~ de Ve1a for this fa.ct, in hil history ofthe Incas.
OBLIGATION OF MASONIC OATHS. (4.4
IOeial eondition ; an4 if it is put doubt, that " there isa Godwho governs the world,••
and haa planned the existence of social order,lhea we arrive, enn without the aid
of revelation, to the conclusion, that the use ofoaths is a part of the divine economy,
and that the breach ofthem will he a subject of special punishment.
The Committee, thus quoting the authority of !he most distinguished guides iu the
J»hilosophy of morals, wish to repeat the remark, that they all, both Pagan and Cbria-
tiu, speak in effect of an oath, aa "an act of religion." The Commitiee submit,
therefore, that they have properly refetred to the great principle of religious obliga-
tion, though reporting to a body, whose members ma7 be supposed to difl'er much
in their particullll' creeds. The nry terms in which this subject i1 referred, embrace
the moral and religious bearings ofthe 9uestion. The resolution treau the subject
as a question of conscience; and quesuon1 of com1cience can have little meaniJig,
except aa they regard the responsibility of man to bis final judge.
A farther explanatioll may seem to. be called for. Now, that divisions exist, and
excitement operates, regarding the merits of freemaaonry, the mere unsupported
conclusions of this Committee or this Convention, adopted upon recent views of the
question, might fail, perhaps justly, to command universal confidence. This baa in-
duced the Committee to have much recourse to authorities, whether sacred or pro-
fane; and they mean not to advance any important proposition in morals, without
the most ample support of the inspired, or ofthe wise and good, who Wi'Ote before free-
masonry existed.
An oath, then, is truly a transaction between man on one part, and bis Almighty
Jndf;e on the other. It is a transaction in which, acconling to the general economy
of divine Providence, the special power of that Judge is called into exercise, to give
efl'ect to such necessary and important engagements of men, as can, in no other man-
ner, receive a sufficient guaranty(a). -
All these principles apply to lawful oaths, taken for some useful and important
purpose. But the first question now to be considered, regards those oaths which are
for objects merel;Y tri1ling or worthless. If the position is established, that an oath
efl'ectually calls into exercise the avenging power of the Supreme Being, to punish
falsehood, (and on any other supposition, all oaths are a fraud and an imposture,)
then it follows, that oaths for trifilng and vain objects, are a direct act of irreverence
towards that power. They are, then, a practical perversion of one of his great en-
gines for the support of human society; and a defiance of that penalty which every
oath supposes to be imprecated. In whatever degree an oath for a high and impor-
tant'purpose, is sacred. in that degree, the use of it for any low, base, and worthless
object, is a profanation. But the case under consideration, supposes these oaths to
be already taken; and the question is, what is the further duty of those who have
taken them, and how they may best escape the danger of further offences against
conscience.
The Committee have not brought this branch of the subject into view, because it-
ia in itself exceedingly important; but rather, because being obliged to examine a
great mass of oaths ofverj various import, it seemed to be their duty to present the'"
1ubject in due method; and because the conclusions to be drawn from this brauch,
will tend to throw light upon others.
If an oath for a vain or worthless purpose, is a transaction with the Supreme
Judge, then he is a party to that transaction, considered ll6 a binding one ; then be ii
a party, not to punish the trilling, or unlawfulness in taking the oath, but he is a
party to see it executed, or to punish the non execution.
But can the power of the God of all worlds, be thus called into operation by the ca-
price of man, to execute the vain engagements which folly may prompt1 .
The Committee know of no divine or human authority, for saying that such an
engagement, considered strictly aa an oath, is binding. Pufl'endorf, who wrote,100
years before masonry existed, has expressly stated his opinion, that '·' oaths oblige
not when they are absurd and impert1nent"(b). Doubtless, they are immoral and
(a) Un se_nnent n'?blige pas, si Dien n~ l'accepte. Pufl'endorf u aboYe cited, t vm,
(An oath oltbges not, ifGod does not accept it.) ·
(b) Car ils (les sennenta) n'obligent pas, non sealment loraqu'ils concernent-les chOlea illi
cites, mail encore losqa'ill sont abaimle1 et impertinents. Paff'endorf, u above, § X.
45] ·-OBLIGATION OJ' llASONIG OATHS. 3
J001t oft'.emiYe to our God and Judge; bnt no proof is petceived that He will 10
punish the oifence eonsidel'ed. u a breach of the oath. aud because he requil'el the
observance. .. ·
. A very dilJ'erent ques,tion remains, when we consi.der what is due for reverence to
that high and holy name, which we invoke in every lawful oath, and which we pro-
fane in every one that is unlawful. No mau who has unhappily taken a light oath,
will. when his heart becomes better instructed, lightly break it. But still it is not
truly an oath: it binds not, aa tJUCh: the breach is not moral perjury: but a useless.
or light breach, aeems to be again taking the name of God in vain, and to be renew-
ed irreverence. Such an oath ought not to be violated without cause; but the Com-
mittee, on the most attentive consideration they can give the subject, and aided by
the best authorities in morals, believe that for good elrls, with justifiable motives,
any vain oath may be disregarded ; and that very often it is a duty to disregard it.
A 11ingle case will exemplify the views of the Committee, by practical applica-
tion. It is a most prominent point of masonry, when arrived at the sublime degree
of master, that HAHAB-BONE signifies " marrow in the bone." It is one of the land-
marks which never change with time or place. As hOl.le has always signified bone,
(seemingly in Hebrew, in the time of King Solomon, and in 'all languages,. ancient
and modern, since his time,) it remains that" mahar," signifies " marrow." Now
the candidate has, in effect, in every form ofsolemnity, and under most awful penal-
ties and sanctions, bound himself never to reveal the fact that" mabar," so signi-
fies. l\lcan, and disgusting, and worthless as this falsehood is, no good man would
eauselessly trifle with the oath he has taken. But when masonry is found to be a
great political, soci!il, moral, and religious evil; when it is found to control govern-
ment, and leave to the people the shadow only of power; when it sanctions murder,
and then resorts to perjury to cover blood; when it avowedly perverts the ad!ni-
nistration of justice, in civil and criminal cases; when, to sanction these things, it
quotes the names of prophets and apostles, who spoke as theywere moved by the in-
spiration of the Holy Spirit; and, when it coven all, by the pretence of mysteries
and secrets of solemn and momentous import; then it becomes, not merely allow-
able, it becomes a duty, to expose the base reality of these holy secrelS, to I.old up
these solemnities to the scorn ofmen ; and to set the bloody and sacrilegious monster
in the pillory of public odium and contempt. Then it is a virtue in masons, to tell
the world, that their institution contains nothing more solemn, ~an the disgusting
storyof the dead body of Hiram Abill'; and nothing more instructive, than the infor-
mation that" HAHAB," signifies "HARROW."
2. If there is any one masonic obligation which is innocentin its object, and yet not
frivolous, it ought to be noticed in this connection. This second head is introduced
for the sake of carrying out the subject systematically, and of recording the admis-
sion, that cases of this character may possibly exist among mankind. In the diver-
sified events of life, instances may occur, where individuals, beyond the reach of
laws and of witnesses, or where all human sanctions would he incompetent, may
have just motives to ratify solemn and momentous engagements, by 1Ul appeal to
Him .who searches the heart, and will bring every secret thing into judgment. The
«;::ommittee have not found, nor are aware, of any such in masonry; but if such
exist, they would be the laat to question the duty of a most sacred observance
of tJiem. ,
. 3. Before we come to those oaths which are specifically criminal, there j9. a middle
class, consisting of those which are only objectionable, by reason of their gen ral
tendency and eft"ect ; as for example, that they are unfavourable to good manners,
social order, or equal right, or consequentially against moral obligation.
The Committee notice the11e principally, for the sake of presenting the subject in
every difl'erent point of view in which it has occurred to them. An extract from one
of the celebratedcivilians and moralists who have been cited, will explain both the
case intended, and the opinionof the author. .
He says, " Though the thing promised should not be unlawful in itself,1et the oath
is not the less void, if it hinders a more considerable moral good ; that 1s to say, if
it is an obstacle to some duty of humanity, or to what we owe to our relatives (a)."
It then puts the case of, an oath to conceal a secret of importance to mankind; aud
(a) Paft'endorf, in th'l chapter.above cited.
OBLIGATION OF MAl!JONIC OATHS.
eanetione the "1\'bole by the case of the Corban, or de~otetl oft'ering, ltated by oar
Saviour; and wbieh will be quoted bek>w. But while'l>Using, the Committee beg
leave to make a single remnrk, upon this case of the concealment of valuable
secrets.
False and hollow as the preten~ion to such secrets is, mllllOnry makes it. In that
wretched fragment which is attl'ibuted to King Henry VI. it is t11.ught that masonry
eonceals, among other things, the art of finding new arts, and this for her owlf profit;
the art of wonder-working, prophecy, magic, and of becoming good and wise without
the aid of fear or hope. Now it is obvious, that a knowledge of these secrets, which
masonry conceals for her own profit, would alter the whole economy of human life.
if revealed for the profit of mankind. 'fhe oath of concealment therefore is, on the
principles of the great writ~uoted, as applied to masoni~ pretensions, void.
The Committee, however, present the subject in a different point of view ; and
they consider all oaths void, which bind together a portion of mankind in &ecret and
1elfish associations, tending in terms, or-in effect, to limit that benevolence which
we owe to all; or to proiit a part at the expense of the whole; or to deprive others
oC their equal privileges, for the benefit of such associations.
But if we would rise from human to divine authority, and draw instruction from
unp9lluted and infallible sources, neither examples nor precepts on this subject are
wanting.
The scriptures abound with examples of oaths, rash, sinful, or ill understood, and
most manifestly recorded for our admonition.
From the New Testament, the case of Herod's oath to which John the Baptist
was sacrificed, and that of the forty Jews to slay Paul, are most commonly cited.
No one will now assert, that either Herod, or the fo,ty Jews, were bo11nd in con-
science to kill their victim. ·
But it seems surprising that the case of the Corban, put by our Saviour, and which
is much more discriminative, has not been referred to.
" But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or mother, It is a gift, (Corban,-a '
thing devoted by vow to sacred uses,) by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by
me, and honour not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made
the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition."-Matt. xv. 5, 6. In
Mark vii. 12, the remark is further made, "Ye suffer him no more td do aught for
his father or mother." Now here the sin hnputed, is in the very fact of compelling
the vow-maker to keep his vow ; for the case put, lays no reproach upon them, if he
had been rich enough to pay the vow, and support his father and mother also. But
having solemnly devoted to the service of the temple, some article necessary to the
comfort of hV' parents, these false teachers required him to pay the vow, and suffered
him to do no more, (not being able to do both,) for his father or his mother. There
lay the si.n ; that is, in the very fact of performmg the vow. It is impossible to state
a case more precisely appropriate to such obligations of masonry, as are merely
against moral obligations, or of consequential evil tendency.
The Committee have hoped that these views would meet the approbation of this
convention, and of the wise and good of all classes. These views, if correct, will
help us to draw right distinctions ; they will tend to settle moral obligation upon
the right basis; so as on one side, not to tride causelessly with any thing that lias
borne the forms of an oath before God; and on the other, thin they will remove the
1cruples of those who suppose themselves bound in conscience, by all that may un-
happily have been imposed on them, under such Corms.
4. Certainly, they are not so bound ; for when we advance to the ground of unlawful
oaths; or to that of oaths, which in their terms, or by consequence, lead to any
violation of human or divine laws ; the Committee then arrive on ground which ha.
been often examined, and they find themselves propped by authority on every aid~;
-by writers, aneient and. modern ; Pagan and Christian; by moralists and legisla-
tors; by the civil law, and by all laws; and especially "by that sure word of pro-
phecy," which might save the necessity of the other" cloud of witnesses."
Rather than to detain the Convention by an array of authorities on an abstract
proposition, the Committee have referred on the bottom of these pages, to a few well
koown names (a) of great and established authority, on questions of morals; and
(a) See the previous citations.
47] OBLIGATION OF MASONIC OATHS.
the'/pw on t.o select, by way ofexample, some points of the wy........ mrrr•n
an to follow them up to their natural and probable, or to their 8etual ..... lmeWa
cousequence1. To those who have studied masonry, the examp&e. eifed. wil be
very familiar; to those who have studied anti-masonry, the obt.erva.tioas to be .....
on them, may appea1· trite aud common. Perha~, however, tbi» is one oC the~
where repetition and reiuculcation may meet wuh indulgence.
In looking over the vast mass of masouic oaths, the Committee woulJ draw tbe
attention of the convention to a few points only, 11elected ·as 1pecimeu.
I. Every masonic obligation is entered into under the penalty of death; e:uept one
or two for maiming the limbs; and this penaltr., with thole exception., applial
alike to every breach. The laws of masonry, ·like tho~ of Draco, are .AJ.L writ-
ten in blood.
The fellow-craft's, the master's, and other degrees, contain a promise in the oath,
" to obey all regular signs, summons, or tokens given, handed, 1ent, or thrown from
the hand of a brother mason, or from the body of a just and lawfully eonetituted
lodge, provided," &c.
Here is, then, a perfect system of machinery, for capital condemnation• and exe-
cutions. If the sign handed from a lodge, is a regular sign to put a masonic olfender
to death, it must be obeyed under penalty of death.
In every case the lodge is sole judge. There is no appeal: be who is commanded
to shed another's blood, must do so, to save bis own life. Thus, in the ca&e of Miller of
Belfast, if his murder shall be finally confirmed, the two men, on whom the lot Cell to
strangle him, had no alternatiV'll, but to obey, or to die.
But the causes for which life is forfeited by the laws of masonry, have no relation
whatever, to the cases of capital crime by the law of the land. Our constitntion1, /
bills of right, and laws, guaranty to us, life and personal liberty, in all cases, ex-
cept when forfeited by those laws. In all other cases it is a capital crime to take
life intentionally. They guaranty liberty ofspeecb in all possible cases.
· We have, then, two systems of criminal law arrayed against each other. Masonry
takes life, for that which the laws treat as perfectly innocent: the laws condemn to
death, for doing that which masonry requires; and we have seen masonry protect- ,;
ing criminals, lfhose lives, by the laws, were forfeited. It is not less obvious, that
.the causes for which life is forfeited, by masonic law, are, none of them, offences
against the moral or divine law.
At the very outset of this subject, we have therefore an obvious case, in which the
oaths of masonry cannot be obligatory, unless the civil law. and divine law are both
repealed. Neither is the case here supposed a gratuitous supposition. The very ,
death of l\iorgan, is a practical commentary on the principle. He died for that ·
which the laws of civil so~cty iu no manner con<lemn, and whfch cannot be called
an offence al?ainst the moral law, except by begging the question which i11 here
under discussion.
2. The oath to obey the grand bailing sign of distress, and to fly to the reliefof the
P.erson giving it, is one which imports not criminality-in terms, and only becomes
illegal, by an illegal use. But the sign of distress has been known to have been
thrown by an escaping criminal to the officer who pursued him, and with success.
From the daily intercourse and conversation of life, examples are often beard of, in
which the sign of distress or other masonic signs, have been handed to jurol'll or
witnesses.
\ But examples cannot be· necessary : the very nature of the case supposes and
proves, that they must be common.
1 Every fugitive from justice; every man caught in the commission of a crime ;
every criminal on trial; every smuggler; every applicant, such as was John An.-
. denon, for relief from congress or a state legislature ; every criminal who applies
for a pardon, and every man who applies for a venal office, is a person iu dietreS8.
I A criminal mason ha..the·tf;~ances which this sign may give, through all stages of
the proceedings, from the issuing of a warrant for his arrest, to the pardon which re-
lieves him from the state prison; for he may throw that sir;n to the constable who
pursues, and to the magistrate who examines him, for commitment; to jail breakers;
to grand jurymen, petty jurymen, witnesses, and judr;e. The Committee have
1een reason to suppose that a multitude of recommendanons for pardon, which have
heretpCore filled.the country with criminals, were procured masonically. It would b•
4 OBLIGATION OF HA!!IONIC OATHS. [48
m1td11e11 to suppose that so powerful an en~ine as the grand hailing sign or disue-
were not, must not be, freqaently used with effect, to the subversion or law and
right; especially in !l government where opinion governs all, and where the 88J»iring
need friends, it is madness to doubt whether those who seek for .popularity and f&1ne,
do not often gain them by a sacrifice of duty. The remonstrances of conscience
may be easily hushed by the sanctity of masonic obli~ations. In all these cases it
will be observed, that the oath is not only unlawfUI in its particular application, but
in its general tendency and effect, subversive of all right.
3. 'l'he oath of.secrecy pervades every masonic obligation, and is the cement el
the whole. Every observation which the Committee have made regarding the
grand hailing sign of distress, equally applies to this. But to bring the subject more
sensibly home to the business of men, the Committee begleave first to state the extent
of this obligation, and then to give a possible example of hs power.
The obligation, even from the very first degree, to keep all masonic secrets, and
every part and parts, point and points of them, then delivered, or thereafter to be
delivered, is a most comprehensive obligation ; and is sealed, as has been stated, by
an oath to God, and by the penalty ofa butcherly death. But in its t6*ls no ille-
gality is expressly embraced, which might alarm the m1111onic novice. All the. obli-
gations, however, advance in profligacy as they rise in rank; and it is very soon
p,erceiverl that the secrets intended, are really crimes and offences against the laws•.
fhus in the master's degree, an exception is made of murder and treason, which are
left at the discretil>n of the affirmant. An exception is always of the same kind of
thing which the ~eneral words i111port. -
He who promises to keep all secrets except murder and treason, implies of neces-
1ity, that by the other secrets, not excepted, be means other crimes. It follows,
therefore, that if cities are burned, women violated, houses broken, and mercbantll
ruined through forgery, by a master mason, no other master mason knowing tho
facts as a secret, may reveal them, under the penalty of death and ofmoral perjury.
He may not reveal the secret as a witness on oath; for there is no such exception. .So
the obligation bas been practised upon by masons on the western trials : and after
three yean of such practice, during which this same construction has been urged
against masonry, that institution bas not-Oenied the justness of it, by any known or
public act; nor does,it appear to have taken a single step to correct the consciences
of the witnesses. It bas, therefore, 1BDctioned the construction ; and reaped the ad·
vantage ofit. It is too late now to retract.
But the more express terms of this oath are somewhat more dagitious ; for in that
institution, which distinguished men among us do not helitate to praise and foster,
\ it is declared by solemn rites and express words, that master masons are at full
liberty to conceal each others' murders and treasons;-" and these," says the oath,
"left at my own discretion !" _
But if this excite our special wonder and awe; if we seem to doubt the evidence
of our senses, when we see au order of men in this country, in this age, stand pro·
minently forth to organize the possible means of safety for the highest crimes, and
to organize them with deliberation, and forecast, and rites, and oaths; ·what shall we
say, when advancing some degrees farther, we find that this concealment is no
longer left optional, but is made a consecrated duty; and, as such, that it extends
to every crime 1 In the oath of the royal arch degree, it is written, in words, at
length, " TREASON AND lllURDER NOT EXCEPTED"(a). So it is understood by the
m1110nic authorities ; for, in the violence on Morgan, royal arch masons alone, as the
Committee understand and believe, were selected, and no one can doubt, but the ae·
lcction was made with reference to this obligation.
There remains, 7et, a further enormity ; another wo. The secrets hitherto men-
tioned, are those intentionally communicated, as such. The:r embrace, therefore,
only the cases of actual conspiracy. But, in the obligation of the holy and thrice
illustrious order of the cross; [the Cross of Christ!] ; in that obligation, is contained
the following clause :
(a) This obligation is not uniform in all the chapters. It is, sometimes, " all secrelll
whataoever," sometimes, ." all secrets without exception." The most common form is be·
lieved to be that in the text. It is believed to be so given by the grorid lecturer ofthe United
State11, Mr. J'eremyL. Croaa.-Note by<rMoftM Com111ittee.
49] OBLIGA.TION OF MASONIC OATHS. 7
" I do swear to keep sacred my brothers' secrets, both when delivered to me as
111ch, and whea. tile nature of the information is such, as to require secrecy, Cor his
welfare." - ·
The scope and object of this ebligation is, that knights o( this order, should keep
secret each others' transactions, when vninttnlionally or accidentally discovered. It /
may apply to the trai'6r, the murderer, the incendilll'f, the thieC, the counterfeiter,
&c., unexpectedly caught in the act. But, without msisting upou cases, which it
may 11till be hoped, are ·not of frequent ooeurrenee, the Com11thtee beg to draw the
attention oC the eenventien, bf way or hypothesis, to a ease which may show, to
what amu:ing mischief a conspiracy, under such a bond, may lead, without the com-
mission of any single crime, which -0an be called atrocious.
The public economy of the United States, is much regulated hr, and dependent
upon, those laws, whim respect our commercial intercourse with other nations.
The executionofthese laws is committed to a comparatively small number of revenue
officers. Upon the fidelity of these men,intereets are depending, which are, literally,
immense. It is not merely the public revenue and. expenditure, the payment of the
public debt, and consequent supportof credit and orgovernment;-Carbeyond all this,
the proper execlltion of those laws, enters into the value of every production of the
soil, and of every branch of industry. It is felt on every farm, by everr fireside, in a
limited measure ; but in every -great establishment or manufacturing mdustry, it is
felt in the prosperity orthe ruin ofthe owner. To prevent the enqctmentor amend.ment
of these laws ; to break them down when :passed ; or to evade their effect, neither
'cunning, nor fraud, nor corruption, nor peJJury, have been wanting. That the'ob-
ligations of mtionie secrecy have ever been interposed, to save a single bale of illicit
goods, when found liable to seizure, or toremit a penalty, or produce a false atiprai-
sal, is a thing of which 'the Committee have no evidence. But when the wit and
wealth of England have been applied to rid us, for our advantage, or laws found-
ed in vul~ar prejudice, it would be p818ing wonderful, if they never lighted upon
this happ~est or all instruments, for the improvement of our governmental economy.
· .Let it only be remembered, that the custom-house officer, is usually and presump-
tively, a mason ; because few appointments are made, but Crom the order. Let us
then·suppose the very probable fact, that a masonic smuggler discovers the inspector
to be a brother mason: there it, then, a road opened, which, like Milton's road from
the lower regions through ·chaos, eanuot be barricaded. The inspector is .Poor,
and, even if conscientious, must live by his office. The smuggler lands goods m his
open view, and asks no favours. He gives the sign or his order ; he urges on the
'Work ·of fraud; and death to the inspector who betrays him. A small amount _of
smuggled good11 depresses the market ; Cor the reduction or price, operates most iix-
tensive}y upon mercantile opinion ; prices fall ; the manufacturer is ruined ; the
establisliment ceases to operate; and the whole policy of a great and yvise nation, is
thwarted by a few unseen and ignoble hands.
The Committee repeat, that they have no knowledge ofany such fact. But, nei-
ther if the letter ofJohn Anderson, to a member of congress, attempting to corrupt
him, had been addressed to a real mason, as he supposed it was, should we ever
have known the application of masonry in corrupting legislatures; nor should we
have thought or the saCety with which every member may be tried, and tempted in
tum, for none can betray the secret. But let it once be calculated, how many let-
ters, of any single class or kind, are miasent, in proportion Ito those that are rightly
directed. Is there one in ten thousand 7 If not, then the mathematical probability
ia, that more than ten thousand masoniq olfers of corruption, have been sent and
concealed.
Apply any reasonable scale cif probability to the evasion of the imposts; and it
will appear to be little less than a miracle, it' the best and safest ofall possible means,
that is, masonic means, have never been resorted to, for the purpose of breaking
down the revenue laws ofour country. , ·
The naked question, whether an oath against law, or against a prior natural 01·
moral obligation, can be binding, is solved in a very few words ; the solution is per-
fllc~y intelligible to ~very soun~ mind; and necessarily,. eonvincipg .to every mind
which com:prehends It. There 1s no room for two op1n1ons. For, 1f such an oath
ill not void 1n conscience, it is then binding; and then the commission of apy possible
crime being sworn to, would be matter of conscience.
D
)
8 OBLIGATION OF MASONIC OATHS. (50
An oath, itself, is assumed, to impose some obligation: But a subsequent and
opp 1site oath is void, or not void. If not veid, then it dissolves the obligation of the
former oath; and then, it may as well itself be rendered void, by a new and further
oath ; and, if so, then every oath may be annulled at pleasure, by taking a contrary
oath. 'rhus, truth and fidelity would be abandoned ; and men would be divested
of the most inviolable of all the bonds which cement and sanctify the social relations.
This masonic principle is thus self-destructive. For, if the masonic oath can
annihilate a prior oath, or moral obligation, then, .it may itself be annihilated, by a
subsequent and contrary oath ; and tbe1;1, we are driven to say, in the same breath,
concerning every oath, that it is obligatory, or is not obligatory, .at pleasure.
But those masons who contend for the obligatory elfect of masonic oaths, and
who, at the same tiQ;Je, have taken an:y oath to civil society, such as that of an officer
or voter, are called upon to decide which oath is to be preferred, when the two come
in conllict. May the person thus situated, decide for himself which oath to keep 1
If so, be is bound by neither. Is the prior oath obligatory 1 Then, it follows, that
every person who .has first taken these masonic oaths, proclaims himself incapable of
civil trust. .
The Committee beliqe, that the great body of merely nominal masons, who
regard the institution either with indifference or contempt, but do not openly
renounce it, are faithful to their country and its laws. They believe, also, that the
great body of the zealous and adhering masons, who act as a party, ,consider their
masonic obligations, as in all cases paramount.
This principle was acted upon by the masonic judicatories, when deliberating
beforehand, on the fate of Morgan. It was fully believed by his executioners. when
wnidst the storms and tumults of remonstrating conscience, they counselled concern-
ing his death. It has been extensively acted upon, by perjured witnesses, jurors,
and civil officers, to cover that crime.
, In point of fact, any officer or voter, who, being a mason, takes an oath to supeort
the constitution, or faithfully to discharge bis office, places himself in a eond1t1on,
where he may be subject to conllicting obligations. Thus, for example, Mr. Bruce,
the sberilf of Niagara, bas been called to act under an accumulation of contradictory
oaths. First, by his oath of office, be was bound to keep the peace, for every sheriff'
is a peace-officer. Theq, in obedience to his prior masonic oath, he broke the peace
by: v10lence upon the person of William Morgan. Next, he was to summon a grand
jury, which was to investigate the Morgan outr14ge; and, on this jury, he placed a
great majprity of masons, with set purpose to defeaot the inquiry, thus again violating
his oath of office. On the trial of Whitney, at Canandaigua, he was called as a
witness, and testified the truth ; and, in so doing, broke his masonic obligation.
Finally, being called upon to te5tify the same facts at the Batavia and Lockport
trials, he refused. Thus0 for the sake of masonry, he again violates a high and
sacred duty, which every man owes to society: by that violation, prisoners escaped,
and guilt and crime came olf triumphant.
The limited space allowed for this report, forbids the Committee to enlarge upon
many other points in the obligations of masonry, not less criminalthan the foregomg.
Thus, the oath always to support a brother's military fame and political preferment,
\ in preference to another's, resolves the masonic order into one vast and permanent
conspiracy against the freedom of elections and the equality of civil right.
Every witness is sworn to testify the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
truth. But masonry requires them not so to testify agaipst a brother; so they
\ undetstand it, and, in numerous instances, have refused to be sworn, or to testify;
or in testifying, have dealt falsely. •
Every petit juror is sworn'" well and truly to try this cause," &c. But, many
masons have, on full and fair trial, been set aside, by reason of their masonic obliga-
tions, as not impartial. Let there hencefort/l be no complaint, if we declare such
men unfit for civil· trust; they have been judicially proved, and pronou1,1ced to be
unfit.
Every grand juror is sworn "diligently to inquire and true presentment make,"
&c. But, masonry requires them to keep secrets, to deliver a brother, &c. ; and
masonic grand juries have refused to inquire, or make a presentment of olfences,
perfectly well known to them.
Every police justice, and other magistrate, constable, sherilf. and district attorney,
51] OBLIGATION OF MASONIC OATHS. 9
l takes an oath faithfully to execute his office. But, in multiplied· instances, such
. officers have betrayed the laws.
~ ln all these cases, it is exceedingly plain, that the masonic oblif;ations do come in
r conflict with the higher obligations of duty and allegiance of the citizen, to bis coun-
try. They have, in point of fact, engaged in that conjlict, and they have pre-
vailed in it.
But, there is a farther and more terrijic view of this matter, which must be pre-
sented. It is now some years, since many of these delinquencies of masonic wit-
nesses, jurors, and officers, were known to the high masonic authorities, who had
jurisdiction over them. But, those authorities have never, so far as appears, rebuked
them for these offences ; on the contrary, they have aided, comforted, and abetted
the criminals. We are driven, therefore, to the conclusion, that the disabilities of
these mH.S!Jnic oaths, thus judicially proved, applies to the great body of those
masons, who constitute these judicatories, or act under them. If these men are dis-
franchised, it is not by our act, nor our sentence. It is by _their own act; and judges
and triers have pronounced upon the effect of it, before us.
The oath to follow an unworthy brother (in effect) with slander and defamation,
and to derange his business, and ruin his fortune, legitimize, though not in terms, the
awful weapon of false accusation, obloquy, and reproach. And the obligation to
extricate a brother from difficulty, "right or wrong," defies all remark. Suppose
that difficulty to be, that he has betrayed his country ! Suppose it to be, that he has
oppressed the widow, or robbed the fatherless, and is called on to refund!
If Andre bad been a royal arch mason, and Van Wart and his companions had
been of the same degree, acknowledging the binding effects of their obligations, must
they not have rescued him from difficulty 1 Then, if they had donti so, where would
have been West Point, and the liberties of America, and the bores ofmankind?
There is yet another masonic obligation, which, though not so directly importing
individual crime, is, in a political point ofview, of still more fearfuI import, than all
that have preceeded. -
The knights of the east and west, and of many other def;rees, take an oath " to
pay due obedience and submission to all degrees beyond this, but particularly to the
princes of the royal secret, and the suJ>reme council of grand inspector general of ·;,...--
the 33d, and regulate myself by their determinations," &c. Now, here the
candidate binds himself to obey the unknown decrees, of an unknown supreme
inspectorship.
It will be found, that all degrees of masonry, from the·highest to the lowest, are
subjected in grade~ of subordination, each to its sullerior; and the whole is united to
·this mysteriously 1ublime and invisible head, by an iron chain of dependence.
This supreme council consists of nine persons. In Bernard's Light on Masonry,
appears one of their edicts, in which, with titles, and attributes of power and mag-
Dlficence, only equalled by,tliose of a Burmese monarch, they intimate their will to a
subject world, "to the two hemispheres." Let the people of these United States,
then, well understand the fact, that 100,QOO of the most active, efficient, and intelli-
gent men, embracing almost all in office, from the president, downwards; banded
together witli sanctions of blood, and oaths of perdition; with discipline, with con-
cert, with sigus of recognition, and cyphers of secret correspon"ence ; armed witli
the public press, and bearing, in their train, the artillery of slander, and of the
ruin of men, arc united, to engross all power and influence, and to direct the
resources of a great nation, to the separate profit of their order. This is no gloss of
ours ; it is their own claim, written in words at length, or necessarily implied, in
nearly all their documents.
Long ago would your Committee, wading through this mire of depravity, have
wished to quit polluted ground. But there is yet one topic, which, as it seems to them
never to have been duly weii;hed by tlie anti-masonic public, they wish to notice.
A partof the master's oath m Bernard's Light on Masenry, p. 63, is thus expressed :
" Furthermore, I do promise and swear, that if any part of this solemn oath or obli-
~ation be omitted at this time, that I will hold myself amenable thereunto whenever
mformed."
Thus every master mason is, or may be, bound hr. his oath to observe an unknowu
oath. In addition to the topic just mentioned, it will now be seen that a mason may
be bound to perform unheard of acts, by unsuspected obligations.
)
10· OBLIGATION OF MASONIC OATHS.
The Committee know not how to discuss ·aquestion so revolting to all moral.B'enti-
ment as this,-" whether such an oath can bd binding." They hold it np rather to
the observatio.n of mankind, and would appeal to all, mil.801111 or not masons, to say,
Is not such an oath a moral abomination 1
But rbis part of the obligation is pregnant with further remark. The oath-does
not bind him to observe auy part which may he forgotten, or omitted by miatake ;
nor has it any limitation whatever: it is simply to observe " any part which may be '
omitted." 'fherefore any rart inay be omitted; and that intentionaHy. When a
religious man is to be received, the sacrilegious parts may be dropped ·or softened :
when an iutolligent and honest statesman is a candidate, the parts may be left out
which are hostile to civil liberty : when any one hes.itates or object&, as many bav;e .
done, the wholo may be slurred over. The Committee have no doubt bttt here IS 1
one explanation ofthe fact, that some masons of fair reputation are found, who deny
that they took such oaths, and deny it in terms, which so far as .can be discovered,
seem free of equivocation.
If great and good mou like Washington, Franklin, Fayette, and others were
actually master masons, and if they ever attended the lodge a second time, of which
\ the Committee know 110 evidence, the solution of that fact will probably be found
in this elastic; and accommodating quality ofthe oaths, by which they are made to fit
every shape. As regards revolutionary men, however, such as military officers here,
ana our diplomatists in France, it is not imeossible that the imeortailce of penetra-
ting all secrets, and of guarding a9ainst possible mischief, mightJustify them 1n keep-
ing a watchful eye upo~ the interior of the lodges.
On the subject of oaths obtained b_y compulsion, or deception, or surprise : also of
those made upon an express or implied condition, time foroids the Committee to do
more than .to refer the learned to the great authorities in morals who have treated
on those subjects. Good faith is the basis of all obligation& ; and without the intent
to swear, real or expressed, there is n:o oath. In whatever degree any oath is
imposed by actual or virtual compulsion-by surprise or deception-or on an implied
or express condition which ls unperformed, the oa~ is void. A great apthority (a)
puts a case exactly apposite to masonry; that is, a person who bas brought us very
agreeable news is promised a reward : but'if it turns ·out that the news is false, the
promise fails. .
There is a 'further consideration regarding all illegal oaths; and all that are against
good morals, or Qf mischievous tendency, which has but lately occurred to the Com-
mittee in the particular point of view in which it is now presented. It iii this: that
the fact of taking or administering such qaths, is amisdemeanor at the common law.
The candidate who takes the oath; and not the presiding master only, but every
member of the lodge willingly assisting, is liable to mdictment and punishment. The
Committee present this to the c1>nvention as a great and preservative principle of our
institutions. It is one which is believed to furnish the best and happiest solution of
the great question, "How shall masonry, when once J,>Ut down, and when the public
watchfuJness becomes relaxed, be prevented from an insidious revival?" Forgetting
this wise and sanitary provision of our birthright common law, some have sought
from the legislatures, a statute remedy. It is unnecessary. No lodge can exist for
any great length of time, nor embrace many members, without being"known. It will
tlien be possible for a grand jury to find and examine the old and new members ; by
detailed examinations, to sift out every fact, and by cautious industry, thread all
mazes of masonic secrecy. The Committee think that this power of the grand
juries should be extensively made known, and should be directly acted upon,
wherever grand juries can be assembled who aro nt>t fettered by masonic;_ obligations.
It should be acted upon by way of practice and preparation, and for the purpose of
exemplifyin~ the power and establishing the principle, even though it should result
that no admission of members have taken place. This will save the necessity of any
such resort to new remedies, as might awaken a just fear of new precedents and
violent changes. Thus, there is ever at han:d an unfailing remedy: it applies against
all secret associations alike; it will for ever furnish to free institutions the best of all
possible defences, against their most besetting dangers.
In closing their report, the Committee beg leave to remark, that. if they have
(a) Puffendorf, in the chapter above cited.
! 53] OBLIGATION OF MASONIC OATHS. 11
1eemed to be prolix, they could not think it allowable, to treat lightly Ol" obscu.
rely,
a subject connected so deeply with the fouodations of civil order and moral obliga-
tion, as this which has.beencommitted to them. It is felt, thaq10 man of right moral
entiment could approach the subject.without a reverential regard to iu importance,
and a deep sentiment of the re pou ibility Qf rightly di$crirnioatiog between sacred
things, and the .profanation of them.
On the one side, cries are every where raised "of1noral perjwy." It is believed
that this convention, and all good citizens, feel a deep sense of obligation to the
fearless and virtuous ~en, who in the face not of death merely, but ofinfinite calumny
and reproach, revealed the secrets of masonry. Those men acted from an impulse
of virtue, and generally wilhout time for advisement. :But it has been mo t l?faleful
to your Committee, to find in every step of their investigations, that the prmcipl
which are here presented, and which vindicate the conduct of their excelleoL friend
have been announced from age to age, and published by the most wiil6 and venerated
teachers of morals; and moreover by the oracles of divine truth.
But the most important of all consequences is, that if these principles are right,
mason17 must.fall.
The JDstitution lives on mystery ll.lld secrecy, and tbeae depend on the oaths.
Multitudes who abhor the inetitution, ar~ prevented by coD1Cientioua 1eruples, from t..
renouncing its authority and revealing its secrets.. But when once it comes to be
generally felt that no such oaths are obligatory, the bond of union will be broken.
It is broken already. The cement of the masonic temple is ditilolved; the arches
are .falling, and the doors are unhinged ; and all the abominations of the inner
recesaes, are openly exposed to the observance of mankind.
UNITED STATES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
The Committee ofaeceding maaOA1, ofwhich Mr. Thacker ia chairman, and which
Committee, by ruolution of Thuraday, the 16th of September, were instructed and
empowered to prepare a lfUmmaTy o_f the prominent pointa in each degree, when time
•ight permit, after the riling oJt'he convention, Ame fumuhed, through Mr. Ward
and Mr. Armatrong, members ofsaid Committee, the following Report: ,
' By an oath to the Father of Spirits, freemasons re<Juire the life, and think to pledge
the 80Ul of each brother, for the security of their mysteries. Our a1>ology for
despising the penalties of freemasonry, will be read in our disclosures. These will
show the masonic system to be sinful ; such as we are not bound to sustain by
Teligioua obligations. An oath, is a religious obligation; hilt neither moral nor
religious obligations, neither a eromise nor an oath, can bind n1 to disobey God.
The system of freemasonry, 10 the first three degrees, dates from creation, and
represents itself to have come from Moses and Solomon, and the apostles ; but the
witness is false, and we cannot bear it, witho11t a breach of the ninth commandment.
The system of freemasonry lightly uses the name ef the Lord our God ; we cannot
uphold it, and be guiltless of taking the name of the Lord in vain. The system of
freemasonry exacts the life of its candidates, which we cannot defend, without viola·
ting the sixth commandment of the decalogue.
We present freemasonry, not as it was fifty or a hllDdred years ago, but as it is
now; not as Franklin and Washington received it, but as it was given to us in their
great names. Secret societies tend fast to corruption, and speculative m~nry, iu
its short day, has made a rapid progress. It has materially degenerated in tlris
country witlain the la11t forty years. What it has been, each may inquire for himself;
bat what it is now, we know, and here set forth. Having experimental acquain-
tance with it, as it now exists, in Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecti·
cut, New York, New lersey, Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Maryland, we find it uniform
throughout, and declare it to be in the main, fairly set forth in "Light on Maaonry."
OF THE LODGES.
The whole system is made up of what are termed degreu of the order. These
are forty-three and more, in this country. The symbolic lodges confer the first three
degrees(a). The room in which a symbolic lodge is held, represents the most holy
place of King Solomon's temple. The principal officers are, the UJOTshipful maater,
and th~ aenior and junior ~den1. Lodl?es are controlled by grand lodges, as the
church 1s by general assemblies, convocations, and conferences. ·
The oldest lodge in these states, is St. John's Lodge, Boston, established by the
grand lodge of England, A. D. 1733. Prior to the declaration of American Inde-
pendence, in 1776, the provincial lodges were dependent upon the British grand
lodges. Daring, and after the revolution, the se··~ral states formed independent
(a) The four succeeding, are usually conferred by the chapter. Then the arrangement of
the degrees becomes confused; but, for this time, we follow nearly the Ahiman Rezon, ofMary-
land, 1826, and put the degrees conferred by the encampment, from tile seventh to the eleventh ;
and the degrees conferred by the council of the Trinity, from the eleventh to the fourteenth.
The fourteenth to the twenty-fourth, inclusive, are conferred by the sublime grand lodge of
perfection. The twenty-filih and tweni,-sixth, by the council ofprinces ofJerusalem ; from the
twenty-seventh to the forty-third, inclus1ve, are given by the inspectors, who are sovereigns of
masonry, for life.
.,
2 REPORT OF SECEDING MASONS. [55
grand lodges, and each state now has a grand odge, as much as it has a state legis-
lature ; and tne meetings of the grand lodge, and of the state legislature, are usu.ally
simultaneous. In 1822, an attempt was made to form a federal grand lodge for the
United States. The grand lodge of Tennessee, in vain renewed the attempt, in 1829.
In the process of taking the degrees, no person knows, or can know, masonically,
any sign, or word, or token, or oath, of,any degree of masonry, above the degree he
has taken, because such knowledge could only be had in violation of masonic obliga-
tions. Each-degree of IJlasonry comprises an obligation, or a penalty, the design of
which is, to bind the candidate to the observance of an inviolable secrecy of all
masonic transactions. On receiving the obligation of an entered apprentice, which
is the first degree of masonry, the candidate is prepared in a manner which is
termed, masonically, "neither naked nor clothed, bare.foot nor skod, hood-winketl,, and
with a cable-tow round his neck." . Thus prepared, fie is made first to kneel for the
benefit of a lodge prayer; he is then instructed kl kneel before the masonic ,altar, on
his left knee, to put his left hand under the bible, and his right hand on the open.
bible, square, and compasses, in which situation he takes the obligation, by repeating
t~e words after the master of the lodge. The master addresses the candidate thus :
" Mr. --•. yo~ are now placed in a pro.Per position tc;i take up0n you.the ~olemn
oath or obbgation of an entered apprentice mason, which I assure yon, 1s neither to
alfect your religion nor politics. If it is of your own free will and accord, that yo11
thus present yourself, repeat your name, and say, after me." The following obliga-
tion 1s then '.administered : " I, --, of my own free will and accord, in presence of
Almighty God, and this worshipful lodge of free and accepted masons, dedicated to
God, and held forth to the holy order of Saint John, do hereby and hereon, most
aolemnly and sincerely promise and swear, that I will always hail, ever conceal, and
never reveal any part or parts, art or arts, point or points of the secrets, arts, and mys-
teries of ancient freemasonry which I have received, am about to receive, or may be
hereafter instructed in, to any person or persons in the known world, except it be a
true and lawful brother mason,-or within the body of ajust and lawfully constituted
lodge of such, and not unto him, or unto them, whom I shall hear so to be," but unto
him and them only, whom I shall find so to be, after strict trial, and due examina-
tion, or lawful information. Furthermore do I promise and swear, that I will not
write, print, stamp, stain, hew, cut, carve, indent, paint, or engrave it, on any thing
moveable or immoveable, under the whole canopy of heaven, whereby, or whereon
1he least letter, figure, character, mark, stain, shadow, or resemblance of the same,
may become legible or intelligible to myself. or any ether person in the known
world, whereby the secrets of masonry may be unlawfully obtained, through my
unworthiness. To all which I do most solemnly and sincerely promise and swear,
without· the least equivocation, mental reservation, or self-evasion of mind in me
whatsoever; binding myself under no less penalty, than to have my throat cut
across, my tongue tom out by the roots, and my body buried in the rough sands
of the sea, at low water mark, where the tide ebbs and flows twice in twenty-
four hours. So help me God, and keep me steadfast, in the due performance of the
same."
After taking the obligation, the candidate is brought to light, by uncovering his
eyes, at the command of the most worshipful master, profanely issued in the word;i
of the Almighty, " let there be light," and as the bandage Calls, the master adds,
" tM-re tDaS. ligkt !" He is then taught the first step of a mason, together with the
sign, grip, and word, BoAz, in the manner which is accurately explainedin Morgan's
Illustrations, and in Light on Masonry.
In taking the second or fellow-craft's degree, the candidate is attired in the prepa-
ration room, as at first, with slight variations. He is brought to more lightin masonry,
by the removal ofhis hood, and the profane use of the same words of Scripture.
The obligation of this degree, compnses the Jollowin~ points : " I will not give the
degree of a fellow-craft mason to any one of an infenor degree ; I will support the
constitution of the grand lodge, under which this lodge is held, and conform to all
the by-laws, rules, and regulations of this, or any other lodge, of which I may at any
tlme hereafter become a member, as far as in my power; I will obey all regular
signs and summonses, given, handed, sent, or thrown to me by the hand of a brother
fellow-craft maron, or from the body of a just and lawfully constituted lodge ofsuch,
~] REPORT OF SECEDING MASONS 3
provided it be within the length of rny cable-tow, or square and angle of my work."
The penalty attached to this obligation is, " to have my left breaet torn open, wad
my heart and vitals taken from thence, and thiown overmy left shoulder, IUld carried
into the valley of Jehoshaphat, there to become a prey to the wild beasts of tJso.field,
and vultures of the air, if·ever I should pro• wilfully guilty of violating any part of
this, my solemn o.ath or obligation, of a FBJ.LOW·CRA.l'T JfASON. So help me God.
and keep me steadfast in the due performance of the 1ame." . ·
This degree of masonry has its pau-word, 1iga, grip, aud word. The paaa-word
is Shibboleth ; the word is J.&cHiN. .
In the third degree, called "the BVWime degree ofa111a1ter f1141oti." the candidate·is at-
tired in the preparation room, with hood-wiok, cable-tow,iadiapensable1, and lllippen :
he is brought to "Jurtlt:r light in tJtaBomy," by the sune proceH uaedto bria1 him " to
light," and, then, " to mort light in masonry." He is told that, as Hi the fim deiree, on
coming to light, he ~w both pointe of the compasse• concealed beneath the square,
it was to signify, that he was yet ignorant of two principal points of masonry; that
as he also saw in the fellow-crafts' degree, oae point of the compa.ses above the
square, and the other beneath, it was to denote his ignorance of yet wae material
point of masonry ; but, as in this, the third degree, be 1ees both points of the com-
passes elevated above the aquare, it denotes that he ii about to receive all the light.
which can be r;iven him in a master'• lodge.
The obli~at1on of this degree, eqmprisoa the following points :
" I promise and swear, that I will not wrong this lodge, or a brotherof thil degree,
to the value o(one cen't, knowingly, myself, nor suffer it ~ be done by others, ifin my
power to prevent it. I promise and swear, that a master mason'• secrets, given to
me in eharge, as such, .and 1 knowing him to be such, shall remain as secure and
inviolable in my breast, as in bis own, wbeo communicated to me, murder and trea-
son excepted, and these left to my own election. I promise ud 1wear, that I will
not violate the chastity of a muter mason's wife, mother, sister, or daughter, I
knowing them to be such, norsuffer it to be done by othen if in my power to prevent
it. I promise and swear, that I will go on a master masoa.'s errand, whenever
required, even should I have to go barefoot and barebead, if within the length of m:J
cable-tow, (mystically three miles.)
" I promise, and swear, that if any part of this, my solemn oath or obligatien be
omitted at this time, I will hold myielf amenable thereunto, whenever informed.
To all which I do most solemnly aod sincerely promise and swear, with a fixed and
steady purpose of mind in me, to keep and perform the 1ame, binding myself under
110 less penalty, than to .have my body severed in two in the midst, and divided to the
north and south, my bowels burnt to ashes ia. the CjlBtre, and the ashe1 acattered w
the four winds of heaven, that there might not the least trace of remembranet
remain among men or masons of so vile and perjured a wretch a1 I 1hould be, were
I ever to prove wilfully guilty of violating any part of this my solemn oath or obliga•
tion of a master mason. So help me God, and keep me steadfa.t in the due per•
formance or the same."
"I promise and swear that I will not give the master's word, which I shall here-
after receive, neither in the lodge, nor outofit, except it be on the five pointl of fellow-
ship, and then not above my breath; I promise and swear thatlwillnotgive the grand
hailing sign of distress, except I am m real distre88, or for the benefit of the craft,
when at work ; and should I ever see that sign given, or hear the word accompany-
ing it, and should the person who gave it appear to be in distress, I will fly to bH
·relief at the risk of my life, should there be a greater probability or saviug his life
than of losing my own. I promise and swear that I will not sr.eak evil of a brother
- master mason, behind his back or before his face ; but I will apprise him of all
approaching danger, if in my power. I promise and swear that I will ahvay1
remember a brother master mason, when on my knees, olfering up my devotions
to Almighty God." .
After this he is made to kneel down and pray : is assaulted, mystically killed, and
twice buried by Jubela, Jubelo, and Jubelum; raised to life after fifteen days corrup-
tion, by king Solomon, and gifted with the awful word, MAH! HAH ! BONE! as a substi-
tute for the real word of a master mason, until future generations find out the tT'lt~
wOTd. This the candidate is led to search for in the deeper mysteries of maaonry.
j
REPOR.T OF SEOllJ)INO JIA..IOIJS [57
ROYAL uca lrlA.SONB.Y.
The four next degrees ia t1- myatery, are cmnmitted in thia eoantry alou to a
muonic gOTePIUD9Dt called Cluipler, for die prQllary body, fhand C~ for a
ataw, and 6uamU 6n:nN Chqfer for the federal union. The mystery ol all8 elaapar
)H'etend1 to have ceme, in part, from beawn, hy Mo1ea, SalomOD, and ZerubbUel, to
tJlla generation ; but it ia certain that the primeval chapter wu imtitated, A.. D.
1747, at Arrai, in France; that l'llOHI Michael HaJN, a Jew, introdueed it with the
•dll deeper m)'lteries into thil eeuntry b.31 a patent. dated 6th of Deeemher, 1778;
that the ftnt mention of a Chapltr of mas0111 in thil eountry, which we have been
able to Ind, was in 1796; that the firlt 6nmd C'4plir wall iBBtimud at Philadelpbia.
.A. D. 17W, and the tint for the northern ltl.th at Hartlol'd, January, l~; and
"that the fint Geflfmll Grarai Chaptl'll or - lJniled Seat.es WU in1tituted at the eity
ef New York, 6th Jue, 1816. We iJatroduee these facts to show the unblmhing
effrontery of royal areb masonry, and to enable our readers the better to app&'eeiate
die rites ud oblig.U- which follow.
The room ia whieh a elaapter meets, is ealled the most bol1 place. The tlilee
principal olleera of the chapter, are the mo1t excellent high prie1t after the erder or
:Melch1sedek, and the excellent king, and the excellent scribe. The mark master's
degree ia the fourtb in masonry, and the first in the chapter. In it the candidate is
required to play a very foetish part, and then to keep it a Heret wader the oath and
penalty. He.is caused to swear in the following words:
.. In addition to my foPJller obligations, I do promise and swear that I will support
the constitution of the general grand ~al areh chapter of this state, under which
this lodge is held, and conform to all the by-laws, rules, and regulations, of this, or
any other lodge of mark master muons, of which I may at any time hereafter be-
come a member. Furthermore do I promise, that I will not sell, swap, barter, or
exchange mf mark, (a) which I shallliereafter choose, nor send it a second time to
,pledge, unti it is lawfully redeemed from the firai. Furthermore do I promise and
swear, that I will receive a brother's mark when offered to me, requesting a favour,
and grant him his reques~ if in my power ; and if it is not in my power to grant hi1
request, I will retul'll bis mark with the value thereof, which ii a half ahekel of ailver,
or a quarter of a ltellip.r. 'ro ,n which I do most solemnly swear, under no leu
:penalty than to have lllf right ear lllllOte elf, and 1lf1 right hand chopped off 88 an
impostor, if I should prove wilfully guilty oi violating any part of thls my solemn
oath or obligation ofa mark master mason. So help me God, and make me steadfast
to keep tnd perform th• same."
The candidate for put-master, the second degree ofthe chapter, is made a mirthful
butt for all the brethreq, which, in addition to his other obliga~iona, he is sworn to
kejjp secret under penalty ofhaving his tongue split from tip to root.
The penalty of the most excellent master's degree is, " to have my breast torn
open, and my heart and vitals taken from thence and exposed to rot on a dunghill,
if ever I violate ~ny part of this my solemn oath or obligation or a most excellent
master mason. So hel,P me God, and make me steadfl!Jlt to keep and perform the·
same."
The obligation of the royal arch degree of masonry contains the following clause,
in addition to the former obligationa :
" I do promise and swear, that I will not give the grand omnific royal arch word,
which I shell hereafter receive, neither in the chapter nor out of it, except there be
present two companions, royal arch maaons, who With myself make three, and then
by three times three under a living arch, not above my breath. Furthermore, that
I will not reveal the ineffable characters belonging to this degree, nor retain the key
to them in my posseuion, but destroy it whenever it comes to my sight; that I
will aid and assist a companion royal arch mason, when engaged in any difficulty,
and espouse bis cause, so far as to extricate him from the same, if it be in my power,
whether he be right or wrong. Also, that I will promote a companion royal arch
muon's political preferment, in preference to another of equal qualification." In
some chapters, the foregoing clause is thus adminiatered : " Furthermore do I pro-
(a) A secret token commonly impreBSed upon some metal, which token each mark maater i•
required to select for himself, and to register it in the lodge.
B.EPOR.T OF SECEDING MASONS. . 5
mise and swear, that I will vote for a companion royal arch mason, before any other
of equal qualifications." In other chapters, this clause of the obligation is altogether
omitted : " Furthermore do I promise and swear, that a companion royal. uch
mason's secrets, given to me in charge as such, and knowing him to be l!Ucb,
shall remain as secure and inviolable in my breast, as in bis own, murder mul
treason not excepted." The last clause, is sometime& varied, thus: "All the secrets
ofa companion, without exception;" or, "whatsoever.'' "All which I most solemnly
and sincerely promise and swear, with a firm and steadfast resolution to perform the
same, without any equivocation, mental reservation, or self-evasion of mind in me
whatsoever. Binding myself under no less penalty, than that of having my skull
smote olf, and my brains exposed to the scorching rays of the sun, should I ever,
knowingly or wilfully, violate or transgress any part of this· my solemn oath or
obligation of· a royal arch mason. So help me God, and keep me steadfast in the due
performance of the same.''(a) ··
The grand omnilic royal arch word, "long loat but now Joond," is JAB-BUH-LUl'I'.
Candidates are instructed to understand that this word signifies God, in three dilfe-
rent languages, (i. e.) Hebrew, Chaldaie, and Syriac, and that it is the tMle ~d ofa
(a) The cypher alluded to In the oath, le the oame A. Burr ueed in hliconeplracy. Sollcltous to f'umlah ii
In the moet peraplcuou1 manner, one of the committee obtained the following letter :
D&AR Sia,
In compliance with your request, I take great pleasure in furnishing the royal arch c~r,
" tDitJJ a 1iev to it." The oypher consis&s of combinations of riRht angles, in various attitudes,
with the addition ofa dot, or point, to each. The key is thnsdelineated,and when undenrtood, !
explains the mystery to the commonest upacity.
# ><
BeiDg dissected, it forms thirteen distinct charactel'll, thus:
1234 56 78 910111213
.I UL:::I DC, n riv A><
A point placed within each, gives thirteen more, thus:
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
::.I ti L:. ~ BIZ':"IRP VA l><
Making a total of twenty-si:i: ; just equal to the number ofletters in the English alphabet.
There are two ways, at least, of combining and using these charactel'll, for the purposes of
secret correspondence. One method, is to call the fil'llt sign, -J a; the ~me with a point.
.:J, b; &c. Another is to apply them, in their regular course, to the fil'llt half ofthe alphabet, 1
.J 11. ; U b ; and so on, to m; after which, repeat them with a dot, beginning with ;;J a;
loJ Oj &c. to~ z.
The alphabet, according to the fil'llt method, stands thus:
ab c def Lh i l.. k Im n o..e....i rs t
.1.:1u l:fL L:. ~!I a e c r::,~nAc r..v v
uvwxyz.
/\A>><<
According to the second method, thus:
ab c de. f ,Lh i j_k i mno p_g, rs tu v w x y z
.JUL::Jac-,nrvA><-Jl;J[;.~r:Jl!":"IRr:"V A><
"g'. Application as per first example.
I 1eet · • thee Brother Boaz !
D ::IFLLV \t::JLL ~r-n~Lr- .:Jn.J~!
I am, respectfully yours, 1ARVJS F. HANKS,
· Lale High Priest of JJTehb Chapter, Cleaveland, Ohio.
6 REPORT OF SECEDING MASONS. [59
mason. Th& pass-word of this degree, by which a royal arch mason makes himself
known to a companion, is, " I AH THAT J AH." Thus should a companion ask a
stranger, "Are]ou a royal arch mason?" and the answer should be, "lam that I
am," this woul be masonically an affirmative answer. After tho oath 'the candi-
dates are conducted three times around the room, and then are caused to kneel down
and pray, and also to thank God that they are" laid under new and atronger obli~a­
tions ofvirtue and holiness!" They arise and travel again. A mock representauon
of the burning bush rs presented to them, and a voice is heard uttering the words of
Jehovah to Moses: "Draw not nigh hither; put oft' thy shoos from oft'thy feet, for the
place where thou standest is holy ground. I am tho God of thy fathers, the God of
Abraham, the God of Isaac, and tho God of'Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he
was afraid to look upon.God." · The candidates' shoes are put oft', and their eyes
are covered to suit the action to the words. The scene suddenly shifts to the
destruction of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar. The breaking down of the walls is
figured by overthrowing the candidates, amidst the din of cannon balls, feet, and
chairs. Another change brings them in hood-winked, captives on their way from
· Babylon to Jerusalem, to rebuild the temple. They are introduced with tho words,.
" I will lead the blind in a way they knownot," &c. They are·conducted beneath the
locked hands of the companions, forming a double line, and are bidden to" stoop
low ; he that humbleth himselfshall be exalted." That the hope of exaltation may be
inversely measured by the lowliness of the stoop, the brethren usually bear the can-
didate down prostrate upon the 1loor.
This journey is called the rugged road; and to make it indeed so, suitable stum-
bling blocks are laid for the blindfolded ; but as all this represents the pious desire
of the Jewish captives in Babylon, to return and build the temple of Jerusalem,
the candidates are caused three several times to. kneel and implore the divine
guidance and protection, amidst the self-laid dangers of the way ! They pass the
different veils of the tabernacle, by tho use of the name of the Almighty, and by
imitllting, through their con<luctor, the signs which Moses was divinely directed
to exhibit in the court of Pharaoh. They discover the ark of the covenant, and
expose its pretended contents, with repeated exclamations of " HOLINEH To THE
LORD."
In a brief outline of masonry, it i~ impossible to represent all the profanity of
the royal arch chapter. The grip, the grand hailing sign, &c. are correctly described
in "Light on Masonry." ,
ORDERS OF MASONIC KNIGHTHOOD.-ENCAMPMENTS.
The encampment is the third region in the descent to the mystical Tartarus. It
embraces three degrees. It has for its chief officers, a most eminent grand com-
mander, a generalissimo, a captain-general, and a prelate, each with the title of
eminent. The stllte administration is committed to each grand encampment, and
the national administration, tit the general grand encampment of the Umted States.
The first mentioned grand encampment to our knowledge, in the United States,
convened at Philadelphia, the 12th of May, A. D. 1797. A convention held at Pro-
vidence, Rhode Island, May 5th, 1805, organi$ed a United States' grand, encamp-
ment; but tho federal grand encampment was instituted at the city of New York,
in the same month and year, with the federal grand royal arch chapter, June 22d,
1818. •
The traditions of the masonic encampment, make it come from the chivalric
knights of the crusades ; but history traces its origin to the city of Lyons, in France,
and to the year ofO'llr Lord 1743.
The penalty of the degree of knights of the red cross, the first degree of the~.
campment, is to have "my house torn down, the timbers thereof set up, and I hanged :
thereon, and when the last trump shall blow, to be for everexcluded from the society·
of all true and courteous knights, should I ever wilfully or knowingly violate any
part of this my solemn obligation, of knight of said red cross. So help me God,
and make me steadfast to keep and perform the same."
In the knight templar and knight of Malta degrees, the candidate is put in retire-
ment for a season, mrumnically termed the chamoer of reflection. He travels in pil-
grim's weeds three mystic years. He is then sworn, in addition to ~is previous obli-
• gatioris, in the following words : " I will answer and obey all due signs and regular
GO} REPORT Of SWEl>lNG MASONS.
ammonsea, which shall ~. givell orse~t to JJle·f4'8~ rlJ&¥1-f eaea.rnp.ments orknights
templars, if within t~ w•tRuce or forty mil'8-~111A\111~al ininnities and uuavoid&ble
accidents only exc~ing me. I will h~p. ~d. &li1d. wi•i•t wit.II my coumel, my punre,
11nd my sword, all p11or and indigent k~ght teaq>Iar., &c. so far as truth, ho11our,
and justice maI w~rrant. I will go the distance ·of forty miles, even barefoot, and
on frosty ground, to. 1ave the lifo, and relieve the dlstre1Ses of a worthy knight. I
will wield m7sword in ~efenco ofinnoeeatvirgine, doetitute widows, helpless orphans.
and the Chnstian re~ion. Binding myself under no. lets penalty, than to have my
head struck oft', and pl11-ced on the highest spiro in Christoo.dom, should I knowingly
or wilrully, violate any part of th.i4 ipy eolellln obligation of a knight templar. So
help me God," &c. '
He then spends three ~tjc yea.rs in wufare, for'' innocem mginl, dutitute toidoul6,
Aelpleaa orphans, a'1d the Christian Teligion.'' Placed at the foot of a triangular
table, (on which a coffiu is laid, surmounted with the bible, and the whole crowned
with a death's heact and crose-bonee. while twelve tapers, representing the twelve
apostles, arranged in the form of a triaagle, line the edge of the table,) die candidate
is made to extinguish one taper, for a figure of ihe death of Judas. lie then drinks
four libations, following the words of the m<>1t eminent. To pre.Pare him for the
fifth libation, he i1 sent QB a year'• pilgrimage, with a human skull m one hand, and
a lighted taper in tJM, ot)\er.' Ile behOlde the aseeoeion 9f the Lord in tranapare1acy,
and hears the •nthem : ·
"The rising God fol'll&kes the tomb."
Suitable passages are. r'8dfr~ the ~ew Te11,ament. He is then returned to the foot
of the tab1e, and required to drink the fifth libation, "as an emblem of the bitter cup
of death, fron:l which, eve.u the l:iav~ur of the world, notwithstanding his ardent
prayers and 1olicitations, WM nl!t exempted.'' The passion IC81le of the garden of
Gethsemane•. is read from tile ev.au.geli11t, with emphasis upon the words, " Heaomly
Fatw, let T~1• cup P'*- .frora ~ ;" after whieb, the grand commander takeli the
crown of a human skull, pours wine. into it, and gives the candidate to drink, at the
conclm1ion ofthe following 0Qligatio1&, repeated after the most eminent commander :
" This pure win.e I now take_, in testimony of my belief of the mortality of the
body aud the immortality of ibe soul. Aud W&Y this libation appear u a wit-
ness agajnst me, ~th here l!.lld her(lafter ; aud, as the eius of the world were laid
on the head of the Saviour, so may all the sins committed by'the person wboae
skull this was, be heaped upon my head, in addition to my qwn, should I ever
knowingly or wilfully violate or transgreH any obligation, that I have heretofore
taken, take at this time, or shall at any future period take, in relation to any
degree of masonry, or order of knighthood. So ltelp me God." This is called
the sealed obligation, because it is a seal upon all masonic obligations, and is
considered more binding than an)' other special ob~gation. '
The candidate is then dubbed, and furnished witla the due guard, penitent'•
pass, hailing sign, grip, and word of a masonic templar. The word is Golgotha,
and the grand hailing sign of distre88 is made1by the templar's throwing himself into
the attitude of our Saviour nailed to the cross. ·
The knight of Malta is known by si~ns and words of profanity, surpassing, in some
respects, any before given; they consist of a representation of ihe interview betweieu
our blessed Saviour and Thomas, after the resurrection. " Reach hither thy finger,
and behold my hands," &c. _ ·
COUNCILS.
The next government ia the pit of freemasonry, below the encampment, is called
a council. In the darkness of these re~ions, sensible approach is made towards
chaoa. The first council is that of the Tnnity ; it embraces three degrees.
1st. Knights or the Christil\n mark, and guards of the conclave. They swear, in
these words : " I will protect and support the followers or the Lord Jesus Christ,
feed them, if hungry:, give them drink, if thirsty, if naked, clothe them with gar-
ments, teach them, 1f ignorant, and admonish them for their good. All this I pro-
mise in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, and ifl perform it not, let
me be Anathema Mamn-atha, Anathema MaTan-atha."
They clothe the candidate in a white robe, saying: "He that believeth and endu-
8 REPORT OF SECEDING MASONS. (61
reth untG the end, the same shall overtome; and I will cause bis iniquities to p..
from him, and be shall dwell in my pre9enee for e?er and ever. Take away m.
filthy garments, and 'Clothe him with a change ·of raiment ; for be that overcometh,
1'he same shall he clothed in white raiment. and bis name sbaD be written in the
book ofJire, and I wilt confess Ms name before my Father, and bis holy angels,"
&c. His lips are touched hy a live coal from the altar, saying : " All thy sim ant
removed, and thy iniquities blotted out." He is sealed in the forehead one of the
144,000, "who have passed through great tribulation, and have washed their roba,
and made them white in the blood of the Lamb, which was slain from the founda-
tion of the world." The o'flieers of this degree, " represent the Almir;bty, both
the Father and the Son; two atcltangels; the 1ix men whom Ezekiel 1aw ia
vision, as recorded in the uinth chapter of llie propheci81 ; the recording angel,
who inscribes in the book of life the names of the " eealed ;" an anr;el conductor,
and an angel guard. The candidate represents a sailit, and his initt_ation into the
conclave .the reception of a s~t into heaven, P.Ot through the merits .of the
Redeemer, but on aceouut ·of hll own good works. The whole degree 11 blu-
phemy; a burlesque on divine revelation, on heaven, bolineu, and God."(a)
2d. K11igbts of the holy sepulchre. The candidates kneel at the foot of the altar.
The prelate takes the bread, and says : " Brethren, eat ye all of thie bread, in love,
that ye may learn to support ·each other." He then takes the cup, and says:
"Drink ye all of this cup, to ratify the vow that ye have made, and learn to sustain
one another."
3d. The degree of the "hofy and thrice illiistrious order of the cross," denominated
the council of the Trinity. 'l'he brother of this degrcie, is recommended by his
secret mark, to the confidence of an those throughout the world, who ean truly
and deservedly say, ••I am a Chri.Stian." This secret mark is the initials," I. H. S'.
Baal Sha Lisha, I am the Lord." One clause of the obligation of this degree is,
" I further swear, that 11bould I know another to violate any essential part of this
obligation, I will use my ln09t decided endeavours, by the blessing of God, to
bring such person to the lrtrictest and most condign dnnilhment, ~reeably to the
rules and usages of our most ancient fraternity ; an this, by poinung him out to
the world as an unwor.:ti;, vagabond, by opposing his interest, by deranging bis
business, ~ transferring his character after ~im, wherever he may go, and by
exposing him to tha contempt of the whole fraternity, and of the world, but of
our i!lust"?us .ord~r more esp.ecially, during his wh~le natural life." The penalty
of tbl6 obhgati<1n 1s, " To die the death of a traitor, by havmg a spear thrust
into my left side." In a third obligation of thie degree, are the f0Dowin15 clauses:
" I do now, by the honour and power of the mark of the holy and 1llustriou1
order of the cross, solemnly swear, that I do hereby accept of, and will for ever
consider the cross and mark ·of 'this order, ae my only hope, that I will make it
the test of faith and fellowship ; I swear to advance my brother's best interest,
by always riupporting his military fame, and political preferment, in opposition to
any other. I swear to look'on bis enemies as my enemies, his friends as my friends,
and stand forth to mete 011t tender kindness or vengeance accordingly. I swear to
keep my brother's secrets, both when delivered to me as such, and when the
nature of the information is such, as to require secrecy for bis welfare. To all
this, and to every part th"reof, I do now, as before, soleq:inly, and in truth, bind
and obligate my soul ; and, also, in the earthly penalties, to wit, that for the viola-
tion of the least matter or particle of any of the heretofore obligations, I become
the silent and mute su})ject of the displeasure of the illustrious order, and have
their power and wrath turned on my head, to my destruction and dishonor, which,
like tho nail of Jael, may be the sure end of an unworthy wretch. To all this
I swear."
THE SUBLIME GRAND LODGE OF PERFECTION.
According to the best maps of the modern Erebua, the lodge of perfection occupies
the region beneath the profane council of the Trinity ; but, some place it below
the_ chapter, and on. the same level with the encampment. No man can reach the
(11) Noble D. Strong.
62] REPORT OF SECEDING MASONS. 9
deeper mysteries of masonry in ibis country, without .first becoming a royal arcbi
mason. But, when this degree is taken, there are different roads to the furt.her
degrees. A royal arch mason may enter the lodge of perfection, and descend to the
ineffable degree of " grand elect, perfect, and sublime mason ;" or be may go into·
the masonic encampment, and take the degrees of .kuighthood, and then enter the
lodge of perfection. This lodge contains eleven degrees, called the
INEFFABLE DEGREES OF PERFECTION.
On the degree of" secret master," which is the first of the eleven ineffable degrees,
the obligation binds the candidate, " to obey the orders and decrees of the council of
princes of Jerusalem, under penalty of the penalties of all former degrees."
The obligation of "per/~ct master," which is the second degree of the lodge of
perfection, binds the candidate to secrecy, under the penalties" of all his former obli-
gations, concluding with Amen, foul'- times.
The obligationof the degree of "intimate secretary," binds the candidate to secrecy,
and obedience to the mandates and decrees of the grand council of princes of Jeru-
salem, under penalty of having his body dissected, bowels taken out, heart cat in
pieces, and the whole thrown to the wild beasts of the field, In taking this degree,
the candidate is arrested by Hiram,' king of Tyre, dragged from the anti-chamber,
into the lodge room, before king Solomon, and condemned to death, for being dis-
covered in an attitude of listening, to obtain the secrets of the grand council, but is
afterwards pardoned, on co11.dition of taking the oath of secrecy.
The obligation of the degree of" provost and judge," concludes with a penalty of
all the penalties of·the former degrees.
The obligation of the degree of "intendant of the building," or " master in l8Tael,"
has this penalty : " To have the body severed in two, and the bowels taken out ;" to '
which the candidate says, Amen. .
In the obligation of the "elected knight of nine," the candidate swears thus : " I
do solemnly swear, in the presence of Almighty God, that I will revenge the assassi-
nation of our worthy master, Hiram Abilf, not only on the murderers, but, also, on all
who may betray the secrets ofthis lodge: (a) and if I violate this, my obligation, I
consent to be struck with the dreadful poniard of vengeance now· presented to me,
and to have my head cut off, and s•ck on the highest pate or pinacle, in the eastern
part of the world, as a monument of my villany." Amen, four times.
'.rhe obligation of the " illuatrious elected offifteen," has this conclusi9n: "I con-
'\ sent and agree, to have my body ,opened perpendicularly and horizontally, and
exposed to the air for eight hours, that the flies Il)ay prey on the entrails ; also,
to have my head cut off, and placed on the highest pinnacle in the world ; and to
be ready to intlict the same penalty on all who disclose the secrets of this degree."
'.rhe penalty of the degree of "illustrious knights," is," to have my body cut in
quarters." .
On the degree of" grand master architect," the penalty of the obligation is the same
as the last above mentioned, " to have the body cut in quarters."
In the degree of " knights ofthe ninth arch," the candidate swears to double his
assiduity and zeal, on penalty of all former obligations ; and, in case of failure, that
his body may. be exposed to the beasts of the forest as a prey. "So God maintain
me in my present obligation."
Jn receiving the last degree, iu the lodge of perfection, the candidate is informed
ofits utility and importance, and that it will prepare him for futurity. The penalty
of this degree is, to have the body cut open, and the bowels tom out, and given to
the vultures for food. In this degree the candidate enters a deep-vaulted cavern,
and brings up from thence the triangle of perfection, deposited by Enoch, the seventh
from Adam, glittering with precious stones, on which Is engraved the ineffable name
of the Supreme Being, which he is sworn never to repeat, during his natural life; and
after being anointed with hOly (masonic) oil, on the head, lips, and breast, the can-
didate receives three signs, three guard-words, and three pass-words, and is pro-
nounced,~· grand elect, 'l!erfect, and sublime mason."
Descending into the pit, the masonic dominion next beneath the ~ublime grand
(a) It has been administered " on all who betray the 1ecrct1 of masonry."
10 REPORT OF SECEDING MASONS. [63
lodge of ferfection, according to the Ahlman Razon of Marylmul, 1826, is called the
"counci ofprinces o_f JeTU&al.em." We speak oftbis, as men swom in the prece-
ding lodge, to obey the orders issued from it. The laro of death to the BeCeder, ill
published in the first degree of masonry; in the lodge of perfection, ~
are sworn to avenge the violation of masonic law ; and the council of the princes
of .Jerusalem are the acknowledged superiors, whose onkrs, perfect and sub-
lime masons are positively sworn to obey. There is method in this madn0111 ; one
spiri( animates the whole system. The sovereigninspectors-general cap the invene
climax of the masonic powers, and rule from the surface to the centre of the my11-
tery. Their peculiar province extends from the twenty-seventh to the forty-third
degree; their dominion began, A. D. 1758; their capital lies ""beneath the canopy of
the zenith;" and their proclamations are addressed to" both hemispheres."
Besides the regular degrees -of the various principalities of freemasonry, many
honorary degrees are appended to different parts of the system. We notice only two,
attached to the symbolic lodges. ,
1st. " The test degree," instituted since Morgan's death, to prevent the admission
of his masons into the lodges. It has a lecture, a sign, a grip, a word, and an oath.
The word is los, that is, sol, or the sun reversed. It was instituted, fry the grand
lodge of New York, A. D. 1827; and is masonic proof of the incontestible truth and
accuracy of Morgan's disclosures, and of the universal knowledge ofthe faot ~
active masons in our country. Masons, attending the American lodges, cannot fad
to know the test degree, the origin of it, and the cause of its introduction. It wu
established in direct violation of the masonic oath, which requires the " old land
marks" to be observed, and which positively forbids the invention of new customs.
It is exclusively maintained, in open violation o( oaths which require the brethren
to hail the signs, t<> acknowledge the tokens, and to respond te> the words e>f the
myster,r, independent e>f the test, or any other newly mvented degree. " Every
mason is every where a mason," and has a right to all the privileges of a mason ; ne>
lodge or grand lodge can disfranchise him, by adopting innovations in the body of
masonry. But the lodges venture to reject brethren from their door, who will not
turn sol int<> los, light into darkness, and truth int<> falsehood; they refuse him who
refuses to say that Morgan was a false witness, and, at the same time, they require
the test oath and degree,'solely because Morgan was a true- witness ; they expel him
for unmasonic conduct, who acknowledges the truth ofMorgan, while they themselves
acknowledge it among themselves, and, also, their own hype>crisy, by inventing new
devices to conceal that truth.(a)
2d. " The secret monitor," belonging to master masons. It has~ legend, lecture,
grip, t<>ken, sign, word, and oath. It is the only oath which masons are sworn to
commit to memory. The nature of the obligation explains this peculiarity. The
secret monitor is bound in so many words, to prefer a brother in business, to assist
him in trade, and to warn him in making a good or bad bargain, according t<> cir-
cumstances, either by sign, or grip, or we>rd. That he may not plead want of
memory for neglect of duty, he is bound firsi to make that duty familiar to his
memory, under penalty of having his heart pierced with the arrow of an enemy.
The legend of the degree, is the interview between David and Jonathan, when
Jonathan, with a lad, discovered to David, by the dight of his arrow, that he
must escape for his life, from the hand of Saul. " But the lad knew not any
thing; only Jonathan and David understood the matter." The brethren represent
Jonathan and David, the uninitiated represent the 'lad; the former use their secret
tokens, and the latter regard it only as an ordinary transaction; the uninitiated
kn0w not any thing, only the brethren 11nderstand the matter.
There are other degrees on which your Ce>mmittee have not reported, and
other points, alse>, embraced in the resolution by which they are governed, par-
ticularly in relation to the tendency of the masonic institution, to subvert jnstice,
conceal crime, contaminate the morals of society, and undermine the foundation
of a .free government, which are duly appreciated ; but the limited space neces-
sarily assigned to a report, forbids our further pursuing the subject.
(a) In conferring this degree upon one of tb._e Committee, the master observed : " Ifthey
steal our keys, we must put on new locks.'1
'
.
64] REPORT ·oF SECEDING MASONS. .1:
In concluding thia report. we make ..0appeal for the truth of the diaclosure11. W
-speak what we know, and teltlfy what 1nifiave seen and heanl, and ourown band
handled. We wish not to excite, but to warn, not to wound, bat te heal the pubU
mind with immutable truth. We are not prompted by Ceelin8' or unkill'llness to'W~
any brother muon, or by any political or personal motive, in seceding ftom masonry
but only by a sincere regard for the rising generation, for our whole country, anc
'for p'osierity. What is there in masonry for which we shonld adhere to it? Its Corn
and character, its doctrines and usages, its origi11 and practices, conspire to -make i1
unspeakably odieus to a virtuous mind, and dangerous to any government.
We anticipate Crom adhering masom, the single charge of preeenting to the pabli<
only the dtf<mnitiu of fniemuonry. Its gaudy virtues, its tnunpetled allltll, its hypo-
critical prayers, and its brave pretenlions, deceive many ;·they ha'Ve deceived us.
We expose the hypocrite. No law requires us to rehearse the feats of 'rialour and the
sacrilcea of patriotism, which a detected traitor voluntarily exhibits, to cover bis
treasonable designs. We simply state the time, place, and circu'Dllltances or his
tl'e88on. We precisely &tate the degre&, ~t, act, and wonls, in which freem11SODry
oll'ends agaimt its profaned character. The public may judge whether it is a grand
imposture. .
We are bound to the community by the usual ties of property and kindred, chil-
dren and friends. Some of our dearest relatives yet adhere to freemasonry. We
mean them no harm. We know that as face answers to face in a glass, so does
this brief outline to the principal features of treemaaonry. They cannot deny it. H
here is the smalle1t variation from their conceptions of truth, they know that the
variation. ariaes from the nature of the subject, and not from hasty or wilfully erro-
neous statements on our part. They must admit, that careful study is on our side,
while too little consideratien is with them.
By this wmmary of the order, we wish to rescue others from the same snare, into
which we iaconsiderately fell. We refUfle, however humble we may be, to act as
decoy-doves, to entice the young men of our country into the net of freemasoorr.
We cannot eonsent to hover and Hutter, in attempting to escape from maaoJUC
thraldom, and to return for ever to the ground, held 6y the tow-line of this mystery
or abominations. We break away, we burst our ties, not unmtndful of holineu,
but with an upwanl filgbt, and an eye fixed on heaven. We honestly received free·
masonry, a counterfeit ; we ·submit to the lose; we neither retain it, nor pass it; but
having Cully lieteoted it, we cheek it on the face, we stamp it on the wall, and we.nail
it to the counter; for even now it cheats many. We were deceived by false promiles,
reiterated.in volumee, andaupported by great names. Our names are yet ours, and
we erase them from the guarranty of freemasonry.
Henry Dana Ward, Master Maaon, American Union Lodge, No.1, Marietta, Ohio.
Delegate from New York. .
Lebbeus Armstrong, Grand Elect, Perft.et, and Sublime Maaotl, Norlla Star Lodge,
No. 162; Sacondaga ~al Arclt. Cliaflfer; Lodge of P~­
_fectiot&, held by the 6raniJ, Princea o.f J"ef'UllJlem, in .MSrield.
Montgomerycounty, New York. IJelegate from New York.
Moses Tltacher, Royal Arch Maaon, St. John'a Lodge, -No. 2, and Pr~
Abner Morse,
Ezra Slifer, ,
Calvin Barber,
David Bernard,
Martin Flint,
Noble D. Strong,
Pliny Merrick,
Herbert A. Read,
Royal Arch Chapter, Providence, Rbede Island. Delegate
from Massachusetts.
Maater Mason. Delegate from New Jersey.
Royal Arch Maaon. Delegate from Maryland.
Mark Master Maaon. Delegate from Connecticut.
Grand Elect, Perfect, and Sublime Mason. Delegate fmm
New York.
Master Maaon. Delegate Crom Vermont.
Royal Arch Msaon. King Dmiid'a Royal Arch Chapter, Aubum,
New York: Delegate from Connecticut.
Royal Arch Mason. Delegate from Massachusetts. I
Knight Templar, Knight of the Council ofthe Trinity, Grand
Elect, Perfect, and Sublime Maaon. Delegate from Ntiw York.. ~
UNITED STA.TES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
MT. Thacher, from tke Committee nut hereafar mentioned, repcwted a11 JoUO'llJ8:
The Committee appointed t.o "consider the fttdlfre and 11pim of anti-masonry,
frem the diseloaUl'Oll of Profeuor Robison aild the Abbe Barruel, -to the ·present
iime ; the arguments u88Cl by freemaaons in support of their inetitution ; and the
means 1'01orted to by the fraternity to suppl'Oll mquiry into the principles, nature,
and tendency of the onler ;" aak leave respectfully to present the following Report:
The resolution preferred for comideration to your Committee, supposes that ANT1-
111AS01ur has ha4 an -existence fur more than thirty years. This supposition, your
Committee believe w be founded in truth and on 8ub11tatial t11idenCe. Although
the .fraternity have endeavoured to impress upon the public·mind, that this is merely
an ephemeral excitement, the creature of a party, and created for the sole purpose
of aceomJ>!ishing particular political objects ; yet, it is eas,. to prove, that the seeds
of opposition to all 11ecret 11ocietiea, were sown, both in thlS country and in Europe,
.long before the Batav.ian mutyr B1sumed the pen, to reveal the. secrets of the order.
Indeed, ifwe go back to the time when these seed1 first began to germinate ~nd take
root, we shall arrive at the year 1730, about thirteen year• after the association of
speculative masonry WM first organiaed, when Samuel Prichard fully disclosed the
secrets of the fraternity. At dU!I time, the institution was in its incipient state; one
aim(>le oath. covered the whole of its mysteries ; and no one supposed that an organ-
ization, apparently so imipificant and-wnrorthy of notice, was ever to become 1:10
extensive and powerful u to revolutionize kingdoms, cauee the most potent monarchs
to tremble upon their thrones, and even to defy "Ike world in anna." The revela-
tion of Prichard accordingly ucited but little interest, although the fraternity, if we
may believe the masons themselves, were sufficiently eensitive, and sufficiently faith-
ful to.maaonic bond, to take the life ofita unhappy author.
Some yell'S later than this, aud when considerable additions had been made to the
rites offreemasonry, appeared another revelation ofits secrets, under tbe well known
title of" Jachin and Bou." The author of this work also, as well as the one who
!9J>ublialaed it in this country, it bu generally been admitted by masons, paid the for-
feit of his life, for his temerity, ia transgr0111ing masonic law. . ~
In consequence of these disclosures, the order and rites of freemasonry were for a
time comidered contemptible. Youn~ lad1 frequently appeared in the streets of
·London, clad in aprons, and adorned with pebles, in mimicry of a class of men; whom
they coa1idered supremely ridiculous. By the cunning and faltehood of the craft,
however, they succeeded in laughing to scorn these faithful revelatiom; and by high
pretensions and artful 1111t1U1gement, led a portion of the world to believe, that their
1111titution was very ancient, scientific, moral, charitable, divine, alld religious ; pa-
tronized by all the patriarchs, prophets, wise men, and saints, of old ; and that it has
conferred greater blessings U:pon mankind than any other institution on earth, not
even excepting the cbristian religion. The principles of the order had been trans-
planted into i'rance, Germany, and other kingdoms of Europe, and had begun to
take a deep and extemive root even in America. From the commencement of tho
French revolution, however, some had the sagacity to discern that this deluge of hu-
IB8D blood, and the subsequenuwarchy of that nation, resulted, not ~o much from
the true spirit of national liberty, a& from the principles of infidelity extensively pro-
pagated in every country of Europe, by means of secret associations. It was seen
that deist.I and atheists availed themselves of the secrets of freemasonry, to di~3emi­
nate their pernicious doctrines, for the expreSI purpose of revolutionizing every reli-
gion and government, then in existence. .
Among those who discovered the deleteriou1 inlluence of such principles, and
Watched with solicitude these secret operations, were the Abbe Barruel and Professor
E
2 EARLY HISTORY OF ANTI-MASONRY. [66
Robison ; both of whom were freemasons ; and, particularly Professor Robison had
opportunity to become extensively acquainted with the secrets of the craft. They
perceived, that if freemasonry was not originally intended to answer the basest de-
signs, and to carry into operation the most pemicious system of means_ for the sub-
version of civil and religious rights, it was exactly fitted for the use of infidels and
demagogues, and was never calculated to exert any salutary intluence upon mankind.·
Professor Robison, speaking of those baleful principles, which were disseminaied
under covert of the lodge,·says, "I have observed these doctrines gradually diffusing
and mixing with all the different systems of freemasonry, till at last, AN Assoc1A-
... TION HAS BEEN FORMED, .for the express purpose of ROOTING OUT ALL THE RELI-
IHOUS ESTABLISHMENTS, AND OVERTURNING ALL THE EXISTING GOVERNMENTS OF
EUROPE." "In short," says he, "we may assert with confidence; that the mason
lodges in France were the hot-beds where the seeds were sown, and tenderly reared,
of all the pernicious doctrines which soon choked every moral or religious cultiva-
tion, and have made the society worse than a waste, have made it a noisome marsh
of human corruption, filled with every rank and poisonous weed."
These views of the masonic institution, as giving rise to the doctrines of the illu-
miuati, induced Dr. Robison and the Abbe Barruel to prepare and publish their
different works, which opened the eyes of many to exisung evils and dangers, and
produced considerable alarm both in Europe and America. In 1798, or 1799, the
British parliament passed an act, prohibiting any more than three degrees of masonry
being conferred in any lodge in the kingdom; and subsequently, provided by statuto
against the administration of extra-judicial oaths. ·
When Robison and Barruel begar. to be read in this country, many intelligent men,
both civilians and divines, were awakened to impending danger, filled with fearful
apprehensions in view of the rapid growth of freemasonry, and sounded the no'6 of
alarm both from the pulpit and the forum. But the masonic fraternity were excited
to wrath, and resorted, without delay, to slander and calumny. They followed the
example of the illuminees in France and Germany, who appointed slandering com-
mittees throughout those countries, forestalled the freedom of the press, and vilified
the character of every one who presumed to open his mouth, in vindication of the
true principles of moral and political philosophy. ·
Althoug.b Professor Robison sustained as fair and exalted a character as any other
literary man in Europe, it was not to remain unimpeached by members of the ma-
sonic fraternity. The following, among other gross slanders, were originated among
freemasons, and industriously circulated in different sections of the United States,
after the Professor's publication made' its appearance in America. In a paper
printed at Hartford, September 26, 1799, we are told, "that Robison had lived too
fast for his income, and to supply deficiencies, bad undertaken to alte1· a bank bill:
that he was detected, and tled to France; that having been expelled the lodge in
Edinburgh, he applied in France for the second grade, but was refused; that he
made the same attempt in Germany, and afterwards in Russia, but never succeeded;
and from this, entertained the bitterest hatred to masonry; that after wandering
about Europe for two years, by writing to Secretary Dundas, and presenting a copy
of his book, which, it was judged, would answer certain purposes of the ministry,
the prosecution against him was stopped, the Professor retumed in triumph to his
country, and now lives upon a handsome pension, instead of suffering the fate ofhis
predecessor, Dodd." In another paper, Dr. Robison was represented as" a man
distinguished by an abject dependence upon a party, by the base crimes of forgery
and adultery, and by frequent paroxysms of insanity." These, and otherfalsehoods
of a similar nature, were copied into Boston papers, and other periodicals of the day,
arid have been reiterated from time to time ever since. The grand lodge of Massa-
chusetts, in a cool and deliberate address to the President of the United States,
which they published in their "book of constitutions," did not hesitate to throw out
the basest insinuations against the Professor's character.
But those who pr_opagate slander, are not always wise for themselves. Creden-
tials of the highest authority, obtained from Europe, by Dr. Dwight, Dr. Tappan,
Dr. Pearson, Dr. Morse, and others, proved the Pl'bfessor's character to be without
blemish, and that he was had in honour and good fellowship with masons, till his book
'appeared before the public. So that even on the ground which masons have taken
themselves, lllld the •tatements they have made with respect to the Professor's cha-
J
67) EARLY HISTORY OF ANTI-MASONRY. 3
racter, the publication of his book was, in their mind, a greater offence against their
institution, than even forgery and adultery! " Rev. Dr. Erskine, whose character
is generally known and respected in America, and who was a neighbour to Dr. Ro-
bison, speaking of the foreiDentioned criminations of the Dr's. character, which
have been circulated in America, say,, •Had they been sent to Edinburgh for their
:PALPABLE FALSEHOOD, they would have been dupiaed and ckteated.'" .. Mr. J.
Walker, a respectable inhabitant of Great Britain, referring to the exalted character
he had given of Dr. Robison, says, 'Nor is this the exaggerated praise of a friend;
no one who knows Mr. Robison as I have known him, and he is almost universally
known in Britain, will dare to call it in question.' " Another " ofthe most respect-
able literary characters which Scotland has produced," says that, "Professor Robi-
son's character is so well established among those who know him best, that it would
be ridiculous in Edinburgh, to call in question his veracity or ability.''
In the year 1798, a learned, discreet, and judicious Professor in Yale College,
prepared an abstract from the works of Barruel, which he offered for publication in
the "Connecticut Courant," printed at Hartford. The Professor succeeded in hav-
ing eight of his numbers inserted, and then the columns of that distinguished paper
were closed against him, through masonic inftuence. Subsequent numbers were
forwarded to Boston, and published in the'' American Mercury.''
In 1798, Rev. Dr. Morse, of Charlestown, Mass. preached and/ublished a sermon,
in which he pointed out the dangers of illuminism, the rapid an powerful inftuence
which it was obtaining in this count?., and the importance of the American people
opening their eyes to impending eV1ls. In this sermon, with notes subjoined, he
recommended the extensive circulation, and general perusal, of Robison's "Proofs
of ~ Conspiracy.'' This gave great umbrage to the freemasons in Massachusetts,
and elsewhere, and the Dr. against whom, a syllable ofreproach had not before been
uttered, was now to be pursued with calumny and abuse, till he should find rest in
the grave. . ,
Among those who entered the field of controversy, in opr>osition to Dr. Mone, was
Josiah Bartlett, then grand master of the grand lodge of Massachusetts. He pub-
lished several numbers in the American Mercury, of 1798, impeaching the motives of
Dr. Morse, and spurning, rather than attempting to refute, his arguments. This
drew from Dr. Morse, and others, a series of numbers, in the same paper, of the same
year, replete with good sense, cool and deliberate, and calculated to convince any
candid and judiciol18 man, not prepossessed in favour of the masonic institution, or
shackled with masonic oaths. One of the distinguished gentlemen ofthat day, who
deeply interested themselves for the welfare of our country, in relation to this sub-
ject, was the late Hon. Samuel Dexter, of Boston. He wrote an able, lucid, and
ingenious article, for insertion in the Mercury, in answer to Mr. Bartlett, but the
piece was excluded from the columns, through the interference and solicitation of
Mr. Bartlett himself. This able document has recently been discovered among the
papers of the late Dr. Mone, and has since been published.
This controversy continued for a considerable length of time, and the members of
the masonic fraternity were far from withholding any abuse or calumny against either
friend or foe, who esybased the cause of anti-masonry.
A writer in the" Mercury," of September 14, 1798, says, "Dr. Morse has been
censured as being unfriendly to masonry. The ire of the fraternity has been excited
against him, and has-prevented that candid perusal of his writings which they de-
served.''
Another writer in the same paper, December 7, 1798, justly argues, "that the
sensitiveness of freemasonry, and their spleen against Robison, Barruel, and Dr.
Morse, are calculated to create suspicion. Why should they be so determined to
extinguish the light which is shed upon this subject, unless they considered the ma-
sonic institution as having an intimate connexion with illuminism.''
Another writer of the same year, and same reriodical, in vindication of freema-
sonry, turns into ridicule the whole account o Robison, Barruel, and others, and
represents the illuminati as genuine philoaophiata. .
The autho11 of the celebrated "Worcester charge," 110 called, who was no less than
the late Dr. Bentley, of Salem, Mass. about this time made an elaborate attempt to
vindicate the character and worka of Adam Weiahaupt, as a brother mason ! In this
\
EARLY HISTORY OF ANTI-MASONRY. [68
essay, published likewise in the Mercury, he speaks i>CWeishaupt's importaftf wri-
tings, as the boast ofhis age and countrg !
This cursory view of the subject convinces your Committee, that anti-masonry
was fairly in the field, more than thirty years since, and driven out by the same sy1-
tem of means which 'vas pursued in France, before the revolution, and which has
been universally pursued in this country, ever since the "Morgan excitement."
They made the same attempts to muz:le the press there, that they do now; and as no
seceder has ever escaped slander and abuse, 10, those who enlisted on the side of
truth, and the equal rights. and best interests of our country, more than thirty yean
ago, were treated in the same manner. The same spirit existed in the masonic fra- :
ternity at that day, which recently prevailed in the very "cradle of liberty," tram-
pled upon all law, resisted the officers of police, disregarded every degree of decency'
and order, and succeeded effectually in suppressing for a little season, what, the most :
of all things, they both hate and dread, THE DIFFUSION OF LIGHT !
Your Committee also find, that the spirit of anti-masonry has never attached itself I
to any particular sect or party; that it has embraced the whole science of moral and
political philosophy, and never been either designed or calculated to foster any poJi- I
tical faction; but that its great object has been, to secure the equal rights of our ,
common country, and guard all our civil and religious privileges, against the power
and influence of secret usurpation.
In relation to the arguments used by freemasons· in support of the institution, as
alluded to in the resolution, your Committee have not yet been able to find that they
have ever used any! Freemasons have, indeed, attempted a show of argumentation,
but it has been merely to vociferate that their institution is ancient, divine, moral,
scientific, and charitable ; that all the saints of old were their patrons; and that
Washington and Franklin, and all the great and wise men of the world, have been
members of their institution. Indeed, your committee have reason to believe that " tho
arguments used by freemasons in support of their institution," have,.eneraJly been
like thos_,, used by the " craftsmen" of old, when they " cried out, for the space of
two hours, great 'IB Diana of the Ephesians!"
In view of these facts, and many more, which. could not be embodied in a single
report, your committee have come to the conclusion, that anti-masonry hl!B been the
'same in spirit and principle, from the first disclosures of professor Robison and the
Abbe Barruel, to the present time ; and'that one principal mode of masonic warfare,
and the most efficient means, adopted by the masomc fraternity, to suppress the
work of investigation, has been a thoroughly organized system of slaiider ud
calumny.
•1
UNITED SXATES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Sf:WaTd,from the Committee next hereafttr mentiotted, reported OJJ follO'llJI:
The Committee to whom it was referred to make a concise report of the progre1B
and present state of Anti-Masonry throughout the United States, most respeetfully
submit the following Report:
That tho abduction of William Morgan called forth the first general expression of
popular opinion against secret societies. Tha~ event took place at Batavia, in the
oounty of Gi!nesee, in the state of Ne,\V York, on the 11th day of September; 1826;
just f"our years before the session of this first National Anti-Masonic Conventi.on. A
considerable period elapsed, before the people in the immediate vicinity of that out-
rage, became sensible of the fact, that freemasonry had c;ommanded and justified the
high-handed coDSpiracy; and a still longer period elapsed, before the iniquitous oaths
and obligations of the order became generally known. But finding themselves at
length unable to ferret out the conspirators, and becoming at length acquainted with
the alarming principles, in accordance with which their fellow citizen had been be-
reft of liberty and life; a determination was made by the people, in a few of the
towns in the counties of Genesee, Monroe, and Niagara, by the exercise of the
right of sulfr~e, to effect the abolitiOn of the institution in whose name and service
the daring deed was committed. In the spring of 1827, a few scattering demonstra-
tiOns of this determination were made at the town meetings. In the fall of 1827, the
question was for the first time brought distinctly and with concert to the polls, in the
couq.ties of Genesee, Monroe, Livingston, Orleans, and Niagara, in each,of which
counties the anti-masonic ticket prevailed, and the territor:y including them, bec~e
thenceforth known in m8IOJJ.ic lang11age as the "infected district."
In.the summer of 1828, a convention of seceding masons was held at Le Roy, in
the county of Genesee, by whom the truth of the revelations offreemasonry made by
Morgan were a11irmed, and a f11rther revi:lation was made of many of the hight:l"
dea:rees.
ln the fall of 1828, the memorable presidential canvass absorbed almost the entire
public attention, without the limits of the counties above mentioned and the counties
adjacent. Nevertheless anti-masonry, in defiance of, and in opposition to both of the
political pames, deposited in the ballot boxes 33,000 votes.
la the month of February 1829, a state convention was helJ at Albany, in which
forty-two· counties were represented, and by which this first national convention was
recommended. As yet, neither of the political parties had openly declared itself in
opposition to anti-masonry, and in many parts of the state, both had vied in caress-
i11g it. No sooner had the convention adjourned, than this affected complacency
was turned to bitter hate; the ).!resent incumbent of the executive chair assumed the
duties of his office with a philippic against anti-masonry; that same anti-masonry
which, when a judge, he had from the bench declared to be " a blessed spirit," and,,.
which he described as the same spirit which had called this nation into existence, and
was a pledge that our rights and liberties are destined to endure. From that period,
the inlluence and patronage of the general and state governments have been directed
with all their foree against anti-masonry. With few exceptions, the leading politi-
cians of all parties, united to suppress the rising spirit of inquiry, and the force of the
press was thus brought, for once,by the union ofits heretofore discordant conductors,
lllto active opposition to anti-masonry. A concerted aud simultaneous attempt was
made to stigmatise its supporters, and misrepresent its successes.. Pretended victo-
ries over the daring intruder were reported to have bee.n gained where no battles had
been fought, and fabricated renunciations of anti-masonry were every where pub-
lished, and its dying agonies were re-echoed in all the masonic papers throughout
the state. While to the honour of the anti-masons of the state of New York, it is
tated, that in this, the most severe period of trial, they remained true to their cause ;
RECENT PROGRESS OF ANTI-MASONRY. ('70
it must be conceded, a very great eft'ect was prod~ced by these sysl!'matic efl'orts of
freemasonry, in those parts of the state where anti-masonry bad neither papen nor
advocates to support and defend it. Nevertheless, the election of 1829, showed that
anti-masonry had taken too deep root in the intelligence and patriotism ofthe people,
....,to be uprooted by the blasts ofmasonic or political calumny and deounciation. The '
lion. Albert H. Trac¥ was elected to the senate in the 8th district, by a majority of
about 8000 votes; thirty anti-masonic members were returned to the house ol as-
se1J1bl7, and anti-masonry received the glorious testimony of 67,000 votea. The
counties of Erie, Niagara, Orleiins, Geoeaee, LivllrgS'ton., Monroe, Allegany, Catta-
raugus, Chautauque, Ste11ben, Ontario, Wayne, Yates, Se~eca, and WasJ;Ungton,
were redeemed from the tlµ-aldom of freemasonry, and the borders·of the "mf'ecte4
district" were extended, from the Niagara river on the west to the Cayuga lake on
the east, and from lake Ontario on the north to Pennsylvania on the south.
A state convention was held in February, 1830, in which forty-six counties were
represented; the town meetings held in the spring, exhibited a great increase ofspirit
in behal(of the cause, and an astonishing accession of strength. The struggle intho
state of New York has been severe, but always and every where the gain has been
in favour of anti-masonry, and the day is not distant when that great state will add
to the glory achieved by her great works ofinternal improvement, that ofemaneipa-
tion from the thraldom of secret societies; and though the waters of the Niagara may
not wipe from her escutcheon the stain of the blood shed by masonic violence, she
has already added to its glories, that of having been the first in the great work of
abolishing ·secret societies.
" So early as in 1827, the subject of the masonic outragea in the state of New York,
was spoken ofin Pennsylvania; and such was the impression made in that year, upon
the minds of some public spirited individuals in the western part of that state, that
an effort was made to establish a paper, intended to publish the Morgan alfair, and
expose the principles of freemasonry. This attempt was abandoned, owing to the
' difficulties and obstacles which presented themselves among a people, having yet no
•knowledge of masonic obligations, and having witnessed no practical demonstration
· of masonic violence. ·
The friends, however, of truth and equal ri~hts, were not easily to be deterred;
but procured from New York, documents detailing the conduct of the f~rnity, and
the revelation of its principles in that state. Some time afterwards, paJ>llrs in sev-
eral counties commencedthe publication of the illustrations of masonry. The cause 1
gradually gained friends in several counties, until an attempt at organization wu
made in June, 1829; twelve couri~ies only appeared in the state convention, which
put in nomination a candidate foribe office of governor ; the election took place in
October following, and equally to the astonishment of its friends and the dismay oC
its opponents, anti-masonry polled for Joseph Ritner, its candidate for governor,
52,000 votes. This contest terminated in the election of Mr. Wolf, a freemason, to
the oftice of governor; but that result was ascrib:ed bf many intelligent men, to the
want of a general understanding among the friends o anti-masonry. Certain it is,
that the party was not then organized throughout the state, and in many counties, it
is said, that it was not generally known that there was any opposition to Mr. Wolf;
an ignorance which may well be considered probable, without reftecting upon the
intelligence of the people, if we take into con1ideration the especial guardianship
which freemasonry assumes over the press. , Under these circumstances, the vote
received by Mr. Ritner was a cheering result, and augurs a speedy victory. In
October, 1829, the Hon. Harmar Denny was elected a member of congress from
the Pittsburg district, in opposition to the concentrated energy ofthe fraternity, by a
majority of upwards of 1100 votes. In the month of February, 1830, the first gene-
ral state convention was held at Harrisburgb. Measures, the committee are assured,
were at that time adopted, for a general and efficient organization, and for diffusing
information among the people ; and so rapid bas been the proi;ress of anti-masonry
throughout this enlightened and jowerful state, that it is believed she will, at the
coming election, exhibit a decide majority against secret societies.
In Vermont, anti:masonry became in a small portion of the state a subject ofcon-
versation, in 1827. Town meetings were bel4 in March, 1828, in the counties of
Orange and Caledonia, and a state convention assembled at Montpelier in August,
l~; that convention put in nomination a candidate for governor, who declined the
RECENT PROGRESS OF ANTI-MASONRY. 3
favour oC the party ; nevertheless, anti-masonry gave 7300 anti-masonic votel. A
second s~ate convention has been recently held, and the returns now received, bring
the gratifying information of an increase probably of not less than fifty per cent. in
the vote of anti-masonry. The committee cannot omit to mention their high sense,
of the uncompromising firmness and perseverance of the friends of equal rights and
anti-masonry, exhibited in this patriotic state, on many occasions, and particularly
in the first election of General Cahoone, one year since, a member of Congress from
the fifth congressional district, after a canvass of seven ballotings, and his subsequent
re-election to the same .trust, on the first ballot.
Anti-masonry appeared in the territory of Michigan in the summer of 1828. The
first territorial convention was held in February, 1829. From this period anti-ma-
sonry has been advancing _
in most of the peninsular counties. The county of Wash-
tenaw has a majority of anti-masons. It is probable that the same may be said in
truth, of Wayne, Oakland, and Lenawee. Monroe, Macomb, and St. Clair, con-
tain a respectable number of anti-masons. The counties on the St. Joseph's and
Kalawazoo rivers, on the western side of the peninsula, likewise afford a considera-
. ble anti-masonic population. The state of anti-masonry in the upper counties is
unknown to the committee. Michigan is now represented in congress, by the Hon.
John Biddle, nominated by the anti-masons at their territorial convention.·
In the state of Massachusetts, the investigation of freemasonry was first commen-
ced in the county of Bristol, about two years since, by some intelligent and pat1·i<>tic
individ.uals. In that county the progress of information was such, that at the last
April election, the delegation t,o the senate of the state was wholly anti-masonic, and
elected expressly on anti-masonic principles. Tbe Boston Free Press, a firm and
vigorous supporter of the cause, was estabiished about two and a half years since.
The first public anti-masonic meeting in that city, was held on the 27th of August,
1829, at which time the Suffolk committee were chosen. The valuable researches
and investigations of that committee are extensively known to the public. Since
that meeting, the cause has progressed with a rapidity unparldleled in any other
great city, and Faneuil Hall has again, as in olden time, resounded the acclamations
of liberty. No election has, as your committee believe, been had in the county of
Suffolk, in which the strength of anti-masonry has been tried. Several towns in
this state at the last spring election, returned anti-masonic members to the legisla-
ture. A spirit of firmness and unanimity pervades the anti-masonic party through-
out the state, and gives promise, that the state first to throw off British tyranny, will
not be among the last to break the dominion of secret societies.
The spark of anti-m.asonry, which fell in the state of New Jersey, in 1827, but lit
up the ftame of opposition to secret societies. Your committee are satisfied that that
patriotic ftame has not been extinguished. The information received by the com-
mittee, warrants the belief, that the work of anti-masonic reform will be rapid and
complete in that state, inferior to none in the union for patriotism and valour.
No general public effort was made in relation to this subject in the state of Con-
necticut, as your committee understand, until the latter part of the year 1828. A
state convention was held in the year 1829, and an organization was effected in
many of the counties ofthat state. The fir.st demonstration at the polls, was made
in 1830, when the anti-masonic senatorial candidates received 6000 votes, being
about one fourth of the aggregate of senatorial votes in the 11tate. Six anti-masonic
senators were elected, and about one fourth of the house of representatives in this
state are anti-masonic, and the state exhibited every where a degree of harmony and
firmness of purpose, which augur the best results. The committee cannot refrain
from stating, as highly honourable to the intelligence of Connecticut, that anti-ma-
sonry has advanced m this strug~le, thus rapidly and firmly with the aid of, at no
time but two, and most of the time but one free press, while twenty-eight presses
are arrayed against it.
In Ohio, the first appearance of anti-masonry at the polls, was at the general elec-
tion in October, 1829, at which time, without any general system of organization,
several candidates were put in nomination, and elected altogether on anti-masonic
principles. It has, as yet, prevailed mostly in the northern parts of the state : there
are anti-masoniclresses in the counties of Adams, Knox, Tuscarawas, Harrison,
Wayne, Richlan , Huron, Portage, Geauga, and Ashtabula; a11d a few other
pre1St!9 are kuowo, occasionally, to admit anti-masonic article11.
RECENT P'.ROORES8 OP ANTl•MASONR.Y. [72
In the counties of Trumbull, Cuyahoga, Medina, Loraine, Senee'a, Sandaaky.
Wayne, Stark, Columbiana, Jeft"eraon, Holmes, and Athen1, the 111bject of anti-
muonry has been considerably agitated, and the committee are well uaured that
anti-muonry hu the 1trength Of40,000 orthe freemen ofthil new, and emulou, and
enterprising state. •
In Rhode bland the question was never agitated until during the latter part of the
lut year. A press has been established, a state convention h:eld, and an organiza-
tion adopted. In no part of the anion has there been more eommendable zeltl and
firmness displayed b;,: anti-masons, than in this island state, whieb is represented aa
having been peculiarly favoured by the protecting care of freemasonry.
In the state of M11!7land, and in the state of Delawve, reepectively~~ opinien
is forming on this subject. Anti-masonry has found there, p every , a recep-
tion in the bearts of men of patriotism and philanthropy. In the distant state Of
Alabama, it has kindled a fiame which bums brightly, and· with stead"dy increasing
splendour. In Indiana the cause is destined, from present indications, t0et1 to be-
come an object of paramount regard.
From most of tile other states and tem"tories, your colllmit1e9 mftDO certain •
formation ; but it is evident that anti-masonryhu every where throughout the union,
the hearts and hopes of many ~oad and true men. All pastexperience wvrants the"
belief, that another year will witness a develo:rmentorthe principles of anti-mu~
in every state and territory in the union ; an aH past experience proves, thatso (at
as that development is made, jmt IO rapidly freemasonry, with its unlawful eatr.,
its alarming pnnciples, and blasphemous rites and ceremonies falls before it, an«l p9'-
lie opinion ft~~ thenceforth in tho " oatlU'll and healthfulchannel" of oppolitien '19
all eoeret soc'etiel.
UNITED STA.TES
ANTI•MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Ellmaker, from the Committee mzt ~r NntioMd, rqart«l tlll follow:
The Co.uimiuee appoiated on the ~bjeet or aoainding eandidetea for th ollcea
of president and viee·p~sideat ef the Uttited Sr..tes, to be AppOl1ICl by the uti-ma-
1onic PBl't)' at the next election, 1eport :
The prmeipal object of masonry in the Uaited States for Dtallf J&lll'fl, IW been
the acquisUiou. of political power. This faet cannot have escaped the. Ghenatioa
of any ooe conversant with the J.>Olitica.I movements, aml appointmen1B to office1 In the
various parts ofour union. It 1,1 alao abundantly proved by the. clireet testimony of
nwnerous muons of the highest respee&ahllity, and !l'fttellt experielllle, wlio hima
aeeeded from the institution, and of IODW who eontinue to adhere to it. But aR
doubt on u.e sul\ject ii banished by the oa&b1 of one or IUl'8 degrees of tle onier,
whose manifest dellign and te11dew:y are1 to. produeo a preference el maaQBB, in
appointments and elections to office. ·
Tho reauk is, that ~tlw¥gh the members etthe iDltimtiOa do not fottm, probably,
more than one tenth of the voters. iD. the Unn.d States. theJ ~ about twO-diiris of ·
the office• of tnl&t, proli~ and honour, in die pneral and state gonnamenbJ,
If masonry be thus fortified behiad the pelitical patrenage and pewer of the
~ovemment, where is it to be sought and at11acked by those wllo desire to destroy
ita baneful inft.uence 011 morality and religion, and its •~on of the righ.ta ancl
privileges of the people 7 It ts to be soupit where alone IC is to be foaad,-ta its
mtrencbments. Anti-masonry, therefore, 11 necessarily politieal.
It is by the hope of advantag~ and the expeetation Of.alee aad -..iue inhenee,
that the young and the ambitioua are drawn ia&o the teik of auonry. mast this
hope, destroy this expectation, and the iustituiioa. dies. _
If these views are correct, it is evident that anti-a.enry eawiot fl&op ill mid-
eourse, and eonftne its operations to the stats' govwruneats ; and that its reforming
spirit must be extended UI the government of the union ; BIMI especially to its ueeu.-
tive branch. The exertions 'Of the masonic in.Ritutioa, 118 ·mBDifesied. hy the projeet
at the capitol, in March, 1822, to organize .a general .pod lodp of the United
States, have long been directed to the BC'111iaition of the entire eontrol el the e:tten-
aive patronage of the federal government. The project of organizing dlat ceniral
power, may be for the present moment suspeu.iled. It wu defeated at the time by
the state grand lodgu.t from their jealousy Of a auperior power ; but it will never be
finally abandoned while masonry exists. If it shall everbe executed, the Committee
need ~ot say, that from that ~ime .the gen!!'"al grand lo.dge of th~ United States will
exclusively eontrol the presideJ1tial elecUOA. The electon will be no more than
passive instruments to register the decrees issued at Washington. A permanent
central power, po11Se&slng a perfect organization also of subject eocieties throughout
the union, witll sove:r legislation, sworn secrecy,·peraane&t funds, eorporate
rights in many states, • safe halls for consultation, and penaltiesof death for diso-
bedience or orders, and the whole avowedly actuated by political P*JIOBes, mun
necessarily engross all power, if it choose to d(I so. The people under ft can be no
more than tenants at sufferance. To what degree masonry has already succeeded,
in engrossing governmental patronage, opinions vary; but it is known to be alarm-
ingly gre1lt. Anti-masonry would be defeated in its eft'orts to free the landoimasonic
rule and pollution, unleu an able and a d~ded opponent of m880lllJ be placed in
~_presidential chair.
1 The election otpresident, necessarily excitet attention and inquiry tbrougllOllt:the
United States. The nomination of a candidate for the 1uft"rages of the people, to be
IUpported OD anti-masonic grounds-& candidate Who shall receive UlO umtfld lilp•
port of those who are openly and decidedly opposed to the domination ~f masonry,
/ r '
.(// ON THE PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION. (74
,./will force the investigation ofthe principles and practices ofthe institution into every-
_,, district of the United States. Anti-masonry will be more widely extended by olllle
presidential election on·anti-masonic grounds, than by many years ofexertion tbrough
state elections only.
,_
The expediency of selecting candidates for the offices of president and vice..presi-
dent of the Uni~d States, to be supported by anti-masons at the next elecuon in
1832, it is presumed, will be apyarent to all advocates ofequal rig.lits throughout me
country. Whether succe11 shal follow at the next, or not till the succeedingelection,.
in 1836, cannot aft'ect the propriety or necessity of the measure.
The next part of the subject submitted to the Committee, is the question of nomi-
nating presidential candidates at this time by the convention.
After the most carefulconsideration'., the Committee have arrived at the conclusion,.
that the nomination should not be made at the present time. The reasons will be
briefty adve1'ted to.
1. In this convention all the states are not represented. As every state is deeply
interested in the election of president and vice-president, it is in the highest degree
desirable that all should participate in the nomination of the candidate for whom all
are to vote. The invitation of the state of New York, to the citizens of the United
States, to elect delegates to the present convention, was 'made public in March, 1829,
and the period since that time, bas been too short to disseminate through the whole
union, a knowledge of the dangerous principles and proceedings of the masonic fra-
ternity, and for the regular organization of an anti-masonic party in· each state and
territory, in opposition to it. ·
-Every member of this convention has seen and felt the difficulty of organizing
the opposition to masonry ;-arising principallyfrom the controllinfj inftuence exerted
upon the preSB by the masonic brotherhood. The states in the vicinity of New York,
where the opposition commenced, have been awakened and aroused, and are repre-
sented at the present convention• But the people of the west and the south, have
not become full7 informed of the alarming and tragic scenes on the Niagara, and
have net yet npenQd their dislike of masonry into a settled and regular political
opposition. . ·
There are many of the unrepresented states, in which the Committee believe that
a large portion of their citizens, are now prepared to express their decided disappro-
bation of the institutio.Q of freemasonry ; but from the want of unshackled presses,
and a knowledge of each others' views, they have not yet been able to effect a regu-
lar political organization. It is believed that the enlightened citizens of those states
not now represented in this convention, will seize the 1irst opportunity to form a sys-
tematic political opposition to masonry.
Ifthe electionwere close at hand-if the candidates mustbe nominated at the present
convention, or not at all, then the necessity of the case might justify, and indeed
would require, an immediate nomination by this convention. But no such necessity
exists. The choice of electors does not"take place till November, 1832. There is
sufficient time before the election, to allow the unrepresented states to participate in
the nomination of candidates, and yet leave a year or more to elapse between the
nomination and the legal period of election.
·Under these circumstances, the Committee think it would not be acting with the
ordinary amity which the several states owe, and always practise towards each
other, and that it would be unjust towards the states, unrepresented in this conven-
tion, to nominate presidential candidates, at the present time.
2. The object of anti-masonry, in nominating and electing candidates for the \lre-
sW.ency and vice-presidency, is to deprive masonry of the support which it derives
from the power and patronage of the executive branch of the United States govern-
ment. To elfect this object, will require that the candidates, besides possessing the
talents and virtues requisite for such exalted stations, be .known as men decidedly
opposed to secret societies. The delay of a year, will enable the people throughout
tlie United States to form an opinion, whether those who may lie candidates, are
firm and decided anti-masons. Nothing le11 than entire conviction in the public
mind, on this point, can give efficacy and success to any nomination, at a time when
the people, with so much reason, are sensitive and jealous of the purity and inde-
pendence of thote whom they may 1elect to administer the government.
., J,;,
'' '"' . -- ~
75] ON mE !'RESIDENTIAL NOMINtTlON. a
The Committee, for these reasons, deem it inexpedient to nominate presidential
candidates, at this convention.
The next question for consideration is, the manner of making the nomination.
The Committee are of opinion, that this nomination ·should be made by another
national convention.
The time they propose to fix, at about a year from the present period. The
ensuing year will be one fruitful ofimportant occurrences. The spell of masonry is
broken, and light is bursting upon the nation. Men, now the least informed on the
subject of masonry and anti-mas011.ry, will receive great accessions to their know-
ledge, from the disenthralled state ofthe public press, and the rapid march over the
country, of free inquiry. Sufficient time will also. be allowed to the states not now
represented, or not fully represented, to elect delegates to join in the nomination ;
and, from the information already received, there is reason to believe, that most of
those states will cordially and promptly unite at the appointed time, in forming a
oomponent part of the nominating convention.
Under these views ofthe subject, the Committee respectfullf submit the following
resolution, for consideration and .adoption by the convention, VIZ.:
Resolved, That it is recommended to the people of the United States,.opposed to
secret societies, to meet in convention, on Monday, the 26th day of September, 1831,
at the city of Baltimore, by delegates, equal in number to their representatives in
both houses of congress, to make nominations ofsuitable candidates for the offices of
president and vice-president, to be supported at the next election; and for the trans-
action of such other business as the cause of anti-masonry may require.
UNITED STA.TES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Wallm, from f1ie Coinmitla nut 'lrlmajkr ..,_.,_ repwtetl •fo/Mw:
The Committee aJ>POiDted on the first day o{ the session of this Convention, "to
eonsider and reportwhether an adherence to the oaths and obligations of freemason-
ry_, does or does not, disqualify a man fur the impartial discharge of all important
offices in the gift of the people, according to the true nature of our institutions," have
attended to that subject, and ask leave respectfully and briefty to rePort :
That from an examination of the oaths ofmasonry, and a compar1Son of the same
with those requisite for the administration ofjustice and the discharge of civil trusts.
they find that the oaths first mentioned come into direct collision with the latter, and
that an adherence to masonic obligations muat and does necessarily and absolutely dis-
qualify any.man for the faithful discharge of public trusts.
Your Committee are aware tliat this is a bold assertion, and that it has an im-
portant bearin15 upon the interests of a large class of the community; they believe,
however, that It is perfectly correct, and may be demonstrated to the satisfaction of
every candid and ingenuous mind. This, your Committee would feel bound to do ;
but the labour has been saved to them, by the manner in which the subject has
already been exhibited in the addreu to the people of the United States, already
submitted to this Convention for their adoption.
In that addreu the prominent oaths of masonry were stated, their necessary and
certain operation illustrated, and the whole subject presented in strong and convin-
cing light, and sustained by arguments the mott cogent and irresistible.
YourCommittee, therefore, deem it the work ofsurererogation, to enteragain upon
the sam~ field. The work has been done, and wel done ; and it on7 remains to
your Committee, to expresa their conviction of the vast importance o the position
here assuhied, and their full belief that it ought to be recognized, as a /tmdamt:ntal
principle bf which to direct all our eft'orts for the eubversion of the potent and dan·
gerous institutions of freemasonry.
UNITED STA.TES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Todd, from the fommittee next ht.reaj'tt.r mentioned, 'l'tp07'ted aafollotDa:
The Committee apPointed to consider and report the best system of a national
correspondence of anu-masons, for the sole purpose of dilfusing information exten-
sively on the subject of freemasonry, and other secretcombinations againat the equal
rights of mankind and our free institutions, respectfully report :
~hat the great object of this convention is, to eradicate the evils of freemalonry,
and other secret societies. To elfectuate this purpose, information of the nature,
tendency, and principles of all secret societies, but especially of the masonic institu-
tion, must be laid before the world.
After so much has been said, and well said, not only in the reports of the several
Committees, but in the remarks and information communicated by members on the
floor, your Committee think it unnecessary to detain the Convention by adverting
to the evils of the institution, except so far as they necessarily fall under their obser-
vation, in the performance ofthe duty assigned to them. ·
The first question which i>resents itself to the mind is, why is a system of nationill
correspondence necessary 1 To this we answer, that WQ have to contend with a body
of ·men, whose organization is more perfect than that of any other combination
known to your Committee. It has been the boast of masons, that " the world in
arms could not 'put them down ;" that their means of communicating intelligence,
we1·e at once certain, 1·apid, and secret.
~ Although their numbers are comparatively few, yet their union, organization, and
aecrecy make them both powerful and dangerous. 'fhis power is not the result of
the purity of their inst!tution, but of their capacity to act in concert, and to shield
themselves behind popular names. 'fhey dare not, they will not, come out fairly be-
fore the people, and defend the principles of their institution. They know full well
that those princ:r·les cannot be defended. They therefore act under the cover of
other names, au thus give strength and power to an institution, rotten at the core,
whose principles, when known, are only known to be condemned.
Your committee do not intend to call the attention of this Convention to all the
Proteus shapes that masonry has assumed. She claims to be of divine origin, to be the
handmaid of reli~ion, to be charitable and benevolent, and to have existed for age&•
.All those pretensions have been met and refuted, by the reports already before the
Convention.
Point out the depravity of her principles; sho refers to many great and good men
whom she has, under specious pretences, seduced into her lodges. Demonstrate that
those principles are never ao corrupt; she sneers at the information, and gives an
evasive reply.
Why is she thu11 enabled, in this land of light and intelligence, to set public opin-
ion at defiance 1 It is uot her numbers : it is her secrecy, her union, her perfect or- .,..
ganization, and the facility with which she communicates information to all parts of
the world, that makes her the arbitress in political controversies.
Have mason1 a candidate whose interest they wish tolromote 1 He is at once,
as if by magic, raised into notice, and universally eulogize , although, perhaps, totally
undeserving. Honest men mistake this clamour for public opinion, and jom in with
the cry, and go to the polls, under the impression, that they are su11porting the be1t
man and the best principles, when they are merely carrying inso elfect the determi-
nation or the fraternity. .
Do masons wish to shield themselves from theinvestigations of an inquirin~ public 1
At once, from Maine to Georgia, the cry fs raised, that " Anti-masonry IS 1l mere
political manceuvro of tho old fodoral party, against " Jackion and democracy." -:..
SYSTEM OF NATIONAL CORRESPONDENCE. [78
Is it necessary to traduce the fair unsullied fame of an individual eimultaneously.
from eve17 quarter ? the voice of slander from a thousand tongues in concert, is
raised agamst him. All that has been said against freemasonry, will apply, to a
certain extent, to all secret societies. They are dangerous to all governments, but
especially to those that are free. .It is matter of astonishment, that a nation 10
jealous of its liberty, as not to permii even the representatives chosen by the people,
to act with closed doors, except on extraordinary occasions, should yet permit within
its bosom, a secret society, numbering, at least, 100,000 members, and ext1111ding
through all the ramifications of society, to meet and act in secret, with a power suf-
ficiently great, to conool every measure of the government, and like the pendulum or
the clock, re~ulate, by its vibrations, the whole machinery of the republic.
Against this powerful combination we will employ no wtlllpons, out those of fair,
"' open, and honourable warfare, and none but such as are guaranteed to us by the
constitution. Although they have the advantage of concerting their schemes in secret,
we feel·strong in the goodness. of our cause, and we confidently hope, through the
blessing of that Being who has hitherto protected our beloved country, finally to suc-
ceed, by o,pen measures, in destroying this unhallowed fabric of freemasonry, and
raising on its ruins the temple of liberty, whose foundation shall be based on the
principle of equal rights.
To act with elfect, we must, however, act in concert; for this purpose, and to
spread information before the American people, your Committee recommend tho
adoption of the following resolutions :
Reaolved, That a Committee of rorrespondence be appointed, whose duty it shall
be to correspond with the several state committees, and with individuals in the
several states and territories, for the purpose of dilfusing iqformation on ehe subject
of freemasonry, and other secret combinations against the equal rights of mankind,
and our free institutions, and that said Committee have power to appoint one oftheir
number to act as corresponding secretary.
Ruolved, T hat it be recommended to the Anti-masons of the several states and
territories, who have not already done so, to appoint state committees, as soon as
practicable, and that those states and territories who have such committees, forward,
without delay, the names of the individuals composing them, te the. national Com-
mittee, that they may be published with the proceedings of this convention.
Resolved, T hat it be recommended to the Anti-masons of the several states and
territories, where it is ~ot already done, to appoint county, township, ward, and
town committees, and to forward, without delay, lists containing the· names of those
appointed to their respective state committees.
Reaol11ed, That the members of the several state committees, shall be deemed and
considered as members of the national committee of correspondence, and whenever
present at its sittings, entitled to vote and take part in its deliberations. .
UNITED STATES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Ma'!/nard, from the Committee appointed to inquire into t;e effect offreemal"'JT'Jt
on the Chrntian religion, pruented the Jollowing report:
Religion is the most precious gift of God to man. It unfolds hi1 earthly relatione
an.d duties, and discloses the source of all his hopes and consolations. It teaches the
connexion between imperfect intelligences, and the Almighty Being whl created the
universe by the word of his power, and governs it in infinite wisdom.
It reveals the momentous truth, that the soul of man .is destined to survive the
wreck of all material things, and to live beyond the grave. That when " the elements
shail melt with fervent heat, the earth shall be burned up, and the heavens sliall be
rolled together like a scroll," the s.oul of man will have entered upon an existence of
interminable duration. .
It sustains man amidst the vicissitudes and calamities of life ; draws aside the cUJ'o
tains of eternity; illumines .bis melancholy path through the vale of death, and in-
spires him with the hopes of beatitude in the world of future being.
Involving, as religion does, the dearest interests of earth, and the only hope of hea-
venly blessedness, it is natural that every thing which may impair ita influence, con-
taminate its doctrines, or impede its progress, should excite the liveliest 18nsibilities of
immortal beings. Freemasonry cannot be indift'erent in its eft'ects upon that holy
ca1,1.se. It is too importantin itself, too ramified in its connexions, and too powerfw
in its influence over the minds of its votaries, to be entirely without eft'ect upon this,
the greatest and holiest subject that demands the employment ofthe human faculties.
It must exert an influence for good or for evil. Its tendencies cannot be regarded
with indiJfereuce. The pertinency of the inquiry becomes manifest, and its impor-
tance cannot be overrated.
Religion has had many improper connexions. Wickedness has often sought its
mantle to veil unholy designs. It is not without example that freemasonry should
seek its alliance. Every subtle machination against human happiness, or civil lib-
erty, and every mighty eft'ort for the oppression of mankind, has covered and charac-
ter1z.ed its designs with the sanctity of religion. Christianity has been made to aid
the advall('ement of the most unholj. purposes, and the gratification of the most pes-
tilent of human passions. Its benign influences have been perverted to p,romote
schemes of stupendous wickedness and of monstrous oppression. It has been used
to infuse malice into the heart of bigotry, nerve the arm and kindle the fires of perse-
.cution, and prop the throne of tyranny.
In view of the abominations which the perversion of religion has produced, who
can forbear to exclaim, Oh, Christianity! what horrid enormities have been perpe-
.trated in thy name! .
Man is a religious being. In despite of stoical or impious philosophy, he regard•
the Author of creation with awful reverence. So powerfulis the influence ofreli_g_ion
over the human mind, that it has been made the mstrument of its government. This
has proved effectual, when all things else have failed. No scheme ofpolicy, no plan
Cor social improvement, no system of government would be regarded with approba-
tion, or even indillerenee, ifit were manifestly hostile to religion.
So deeply impressed was the author of illuminism, who in propensity, if not in
ability for tremendous mischief, was little less than "arch-angel fallen," of the
influence of religion over the human disposition, that he invented what-he called a
priests' degree, and made it a part of that system designed avowedly for the over-
throw of all social, political, and religious establishments. He seemed to enjoy a
fiend-like pleasure at the success of his subtle effort. He lured Christians into hi1
society, and acquired from their professions and characters, a reiected sanctity upon
designs the most inhuman, perverse, and impious. When a Protestant divine who
2 EFFECT OF FREE.MASONRY ON THE CBB.ISTIAN RELIGION• (80
had been enticed into his fraternity, declared the opinion that that blasphemous de-
gree expressed the true meaning ofChriitillllity, he exclaimed with rapturous delight.
"Oh man, man, to what mayest thou not l>e penuaded ! Who would ever havo
thought that I was to be the founder of a new religion?" '
The astonishment we feel atthe infatuation .and violence which freemasonry seems
to have infused into dispositionll the most amiable, and the demiaion which it appa-
rently exerts ~ minds, enlightened, vigorous, and powerful, may experience some
abatement from the refection, that nearly eighteen centuries of the Christian era,
passed away before there was, in any part of Christendom, a perfect establishment
of religious liberty. Before, the doctrine was embraced, by any large community,
that no earthly power possesses a right to control the conscience of man; that for his
errors of faith or of worship, he is amenable onl7 to the great Father of his spirit.
But civil rulers in league with ecclesiastieal functionaries, in the pride of power, and
arrogance ofwisdom, prescribed a creed of faith, and condemned to banishment, or
torture, or tbth, the hapless being " who dared to believe or to doubt, a little more or
a little less," than the standard which bigotry and tyranny had erected. Thus was
formed and fur centuries continued, that adulterous connexion between church and
state ; a baleful union, always barren ofgood and proliAc of evil. This alliance filled
the world with desolation. It broke up communities, pursued the sincere adorers of
God in their wanderings, and traced them by their prayen and their worship into
their places of refuge. It drenched the fairest portions of the globe with human
blood, arrayed Christian against Christian, with the name of the Saviour on his lips,
and vengeance in his heart, and cauaed him to exclaim at every triumph over his
brethren in the Lord, in the sentiment, if not the language of the impious Mahome-
tan, "...4.llal Aebaz," "God is victorious."
It was not until liberty had found an abode in this favoured land, that the human
mind was ematteipated from error, prejudice, and bondaf?e. That the rights of con-
science were defined, established, and secured ; that religion was redeemed from the
slavery of power, freed from the contamination, and delivered from the dangers of
that unhoJy alliance; that virt1ffl, its constant handmaid, was enlargedfrom the dun-
geon, where priests and tyrants-had confined her; and set free, with all her attractive
lowiliness, to cheer, console, adorn, and bless mankind.
It may not be inappropriate to the occasion, to indulge the rellection that we are
now pursuing our deliberations in a city, whose foundations werelaid by an illustrious
personage, whose long, and peaceful, ~d ~lorious life was deToted to the augmenta-
tion of human happiness, and whoso aeJ'Vlces were greatly instrumental in the es-
tablishment of the principlee of free inquiry, the rights of conscience, and of religious
liberty. Thia delightful city, the fair work of his hands, consecrated to liberty and
benevolence, and which now constitutes so essential an adornment of our country,
is unimportant, in eomparilon with his laboun in the cause of humanity, freedom,
and religion ; which will render him an everlasting benefactor of the hum~ race.
He was oneofthose rare beings, who eenstitutes an epoch, and impresses his character
upon the times in which he lives. Tltis city may vanish from the face of the earth,
but his usefulness and his fame will endure for ever; for wisdom and virtue are im-
mortal. Be yet lives by his works, and exerts an extended in11uence upon hnman
eoµdition. A spark from the altar of liberty erected in the wil«Js of America, has
kindled a dame in Europe which now shines with its pristine purity and lustre, in
that most wonderful ·aad glorious of all revolutions, recently achieved in one of its
laire1t kingdoms. Let DI imbibe the benignant spirit of this friend of man. And
while we punuo the great objects of our inquiry with his meek boldness, and his mild
but firm determination, may we emulate his singleness of purpose, his purity of.mo-
tive, and his expansive.charity.
It is iu accordance with the history of frail man, that freemasonry should seek
sanctity, by an·alliance with religion. It seems to have done so. If the fraternity
cannot claim the· appellation of a " peculiar people," it has a kingly government,
and a " royal priesthood." The order exhibits in its structure, the odious union of
civil and eecle11astical power. It displays the alternate exerciseof sovereign authority,
and the performance of tJle duties of the altar. It blends the holiest ceremonies of
religion with the most revolting of human follies. '
It parades i~ mystic symbols, in profane performances, as the emblems of great
and dread realities. Freemasonry bas a creed, but it is not the creed ofany denomi-
81] EFFECT OF FREE)IASONRY UPON THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION. 3
nation ofthe wonhippers of God. Unlike all, and yet equally adapted to every.faith;
except, perhaps, only in the degree of knight templar, there is no recogmtion of
the Redeemer. Other than that degree, the creed of freemasonry is equally the
faith of all, and the faith of none of the children of men, who acknowledge a
Supreme Being.· It is not Christianity, or the handmaid of it, but an impious sub-
stitute for it. By estranging the mind from the doctrines of the gospel, it inevitably
prepares its chambers for the lodgement of infidel principles. It harmonizes as well
with the tenets of the Jew, the Pagan, and the Mahometan, as with those of the
humble follower of Christ. ·
The idolatrous Persian, who prostrates himself in blind adoration before the sun,
and worships it as the source of light, iµid life, and intelligence ; the wild son of the
forest, who loads his altar with victims, mingles his unintelligible adorations with
the precious incense, as it ascends to the Great Spirit, and consoles himself with the
delusive expectation of th«> country beyond the hills ; the Pagan, who 1lie~ to the
Ganges, and hopes in its sacred waters, rather than in the exhaustless fountain of
redeeming grace, to wash away the pollutions .of his soul ; the Turk, who kneels at
a mosque, lays his hand on the koran, and says, " Allah, there is but one God, and
Mahomet is his apostle;" the descendant of Abraham, who reposes in undiminished
fqith, upon the future advent of the Messiah, embrace the creed offreemasonry, with
the same cordialio/ and confidence, as the believers in Christ, who rest their only
hopes of redemption and heavenly felici~, upon the merits of the atonement.
Does freemasonry aid the cause of religion, or is religion made to sanctify the
abominations of freemasonry 1 There is an attempted connexion, 8.lf.d it cannot be
without object oreffect. Religion, heaven-born, suffersfrom every earthlycontact, and
every impure alliance. Is it possible, that the indecent ceremonies of freemasonry,
its abomniable oaths, its horrid penalties, its impious oblations, its blasphemous
personification of the Deity, can 6e acceptable in the eyes of infinite purity 1 It is
a formidable objection to freemasonry, that it attempts a connexion with religion,
and presents, in miniature, to the viewofthe American people, the abhorred union of
church and st;lte, revolting to the feelings of everyfreemll:ll, and condemned by every
principle of republicanism. ·
In estimating its probable eft'ect upon religion, its secrecy begets suspicion. Chris-
tianity seeks publicity, and rejects concealment. It was the complacent declaration
of our Saviour, that all his acts, his teachings, his sermons, his communications, his
miracles, were open and public, and his emphatic asseveration, " In secret have I
said nothing.'' This is the nature and• spirit of his religion.
How, then, can that spirit delight in secrecy, and wrap itself in darkness 1 Inno-
cence seeks no cover; shame and crime cry, " come night," and shroud us in the
"blanket of the dark.'' Is there a Christian clergyman between the poles, who
would pass the ceremonies, and take upon himself the obligations of freemasonry,
in open conference in presence of his church 1 How, then, dare he do it in pre-
sence of his God 1 Is his awe of Omniscience increased by the all-seeing eye, one
of the emblems of the order? Or is all sense of accountability banished from the
mind, by the imposing, terrifying, and overpowering nature of the ceremonies 1
The influence of Christianity is greatly exertea by its distinguished professors. The
clergy have a commandii!g power in all matters appertaining to the discharge of
aocial and moral duty. Their approbation is favour, their example a guide to the
world. All who regard the welfare of mankind, experience delight at the fact, and
appreciate the value of their influence. Our social system requires it. Patriotism,
while it would exclude them from affairs of state, and debar them from all employ-
ments, purely secular or political, and devote them to the duties of their holy voca-
tion, the " cure of souls," would not seek to diminish, but strive to increase, their
moral and religious influence.
Freemasonry, like every other subtle scheme for worldly aggrandizement, has
sought to sanctify itself, by embracing in its brotherhood many worthy ministers of
the gospel. It presents them conspicuously among its titled dignitaries, and makes
an ostentatious display of its chaplains. It arrays them at its festivals, and boasts of
ita power in the pulpit.
That " pulpit,
"Which, In its legitimate and sober use,
" Shall stand recorded while the world shall stand ;
" The most elfectual guard, support, and
" Omameni ofvirtue's cause."
. F
4 EFFECT OF FREEMASONRY ON THE CHRISTIAN B.ELIGION•
1 The fact of such membenhip hu· had, and still e:s:erta a powerful inftuence, in
sustaining the order. It is natural and proper that it should be so. The just reve-
rence we feel for the characters and offices of those, " whose doctrines and whoso
lives co-incident, exhibit lucid proof, that they are honest in the sacred cause," re-
strains us from the belief that they can be partakers in scenes of indecent folly, or of
atrocious impiety. We struggle against the evidence, and are prone to reject it,
from horror at the· admiBBion of the consequences. It is confidentl;v believed, that
the fact, that clergymen and Christians are memben of the fraterruty, now coD1rti-
tutes the chief support of the order. If they were to abandon the institution, it would
soon cease to exist. They aow constitute its vitality. Deprived of the savour oC
their influence it would immediately perish. One of the bad effects of freemasonry,
now to be apprehended, is the diminution of the useful, wholesome, religious inil.u-
ence of the clergy. Before the recent disclosures, there was less danger, because the
incons•. tency between their Christian professions, and µieir masonic practices, waa
unknown to the world. But now it is revealed and manifest. With what hope of
effect or success, coulda masonic clergyman address an assembly upon the greatsub-
jects of profanity, impiety, and blasphemy? The thought would immediately rush to
the minds of his hearers ; " yon have entered a lodge in the attire of a malefactor,
taken God's .name in vain in horrible oaths, shocking to all moral sense, drank wine
out of a human skull, imprecated damnation on your soul, with double vengeance,
in case of the violation of an impious obligation, and witnessed the personification of
the great" I am that I am," in the imposing scene of the burning bush, when.Jeho-
vah commanded the chosen leader of Israel, " to put offhis shoes from his feet, for the
ground on which he trod was holy." "Physician heal thyself," would be the spon-
taneous, irrepressible reply of every heart.
Freemasonry produces a mental slavery. That man is a slave whose mind ts not
free. It is in vain that be may enjey " light and life and the use of his own limbs,"
if his soul is in bondage. He who is bound to secrec)!.on certain tlubjects, and to one
class of his fellow men, by unknown ties, which do not exist between him and othen,
is unrea11onably a slave. Other men, men of discordant principles and views, haTe
power over his faculties, and in proportion to his subjectio.n to the association, he ia
Jn bondage, and becomes a mere, perhaps, a dishonourable machine;
Time will not permit a more particular or ample delineation of the solemn cere-
monies of religion, which freemasonry blends with its ridiculous and profane exer-
cises. It is the less necessary, because t1very important report, made to the conven-
tion, abounds in statements which fully illustrate them, and point directly to the de-
plorable elfects,-which familiarity with them must have upon the mind, to estrange
it from the inJluences of religion.
While we "state in sorrow, not in an anger," the fact that clergymen and other
professed Christians are members of the fraternity, andnow afford its main support,
m anothOi" view, we regard it with delight, as furnishing the grounds of consolation
and hope. .
F"ew clergymen, itisbelieved, ever sought admission. They have been lured inby
beguiling promises of advantage, and flattering through delusive hopes of more ei:;-
tended usefulness in their holy vocation. To have become a freemason, with good
motives, is a misfortune, not a crime. It may, indeed, be questionable, whether the
petition the candidate is required to present, that he is not influenced by curiosi17,
1s always in exact accordance with truth. Whether so or not, can be known only
to the searcher of hearts. · As that declaration is made witbou~ other knowledge of
freemasonry than the brethren are pleased to give, the departure from truth, if any
there be, can only be ascribed to the influence of the institution. As the candidate
may be fairly presumed to believe the institution virtuous and useful, his motives in
becoming a member, are not liable to impeachment. A continued adherence to the
institution, after its impurities are shown, and its abominations are proved, presents
a far different aspect. ·
Many Christiansyet continue their membership. Considerations. the force ofwhich
it is difficult to appreciate, have hitherto held them to their allegiance. Let ue re-
gard them in all charitableness, with a deep and abiding consciousness, that the same
omniscient Being who will adjudge them for their adherence to freemasonry, will
also adjudge us for our treatment of them. :
As the institution craved their admission, and now relies upon their membcnhip
83) EFFECT OF FREEMASONRY UPON THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION· 5
for sustentation, it is a natural presumption, that it should make vastefforts to retain
them. We may not be sensib.le o~ the number, variety, or power of the inducements
that may be presented to thell' DWJ.ds, or addressed to thell' feelinga. We may not
know how the question may be connected with other questions of duty. As we can-
not fully appreciate the powerofthe temptation to remain, we cannotduly estimate the
strength of mind, the energy ofcharacter, or the sense of duty, required toovercomeit.
We cannot resist the belief, that they will now regard the question in the new as-
pect in which it is presented, and that the convictions of conscience will finally pre-
vail over all other considerations, and produc& their voluntary abandonment. We
are sqenitthened in our confidence, by the example of the many distinguished indi-
viduals of the clerical vocation, who have already emancipated themselves from the
thraldom in which they had been so long bound, and now labour with such com-
mendable zeal and rare \hility, to free the land from an institution so full of abomi-
nations and dan~ers. '· ·
"Many other distinguished ornaments of the church, without any practical know-
ledge of freemasonry, convinced by the recent disclosures of its irreligious nature and
tendency, have engaged, with an ardour inspired by ~e importance of the subjeet,
in disseminating the light of truth, and in warning the world, that those who would
eschew evil, should be aware of the fascinations of this deceptive order.
Christians of such benign intents, andhigh and holy purpose, want no promptings
but their own sense of duty, their anxiety for the salvation of souls, and their reve-
rence for their God. In the spirit and charityof the gpspel, they invite the attention.
of their brethren in the church, who belong to the fraternity, and address them in the
language of infinite condescension, "Come, let us reason together.'' Calm and de-
liberate discussion, conduct.ed in the spirit of brotherly love, will awaken investi~a­
tion, quicken a sense of duty, give force to its impulse, and produce the results which
truth requires. Let us not censure the hesitation, or chide the tardy action of Chris-
tians who are yet members of the institution; but invite their attention, and leave
them to the iniluence of time and their own reilections. The example of others will
not be lost upon them. They will not be unmindful of the memorable act of a be-
loved brother, the thread ofwhosespotless and useful life, was rece~tly and prematurely
cut; whose gentle spirit, too pure for earth, took a sudden and earlyfilght to heaven.
Yet not till it had raised its warning voice against the pretensions, character, and
11>ndency of this institution. " Oh my soul ! come not thou into their secret, unto
their assembly, mine honour be not thou united.'' "It is enough for me to know•
that masonry is anti..chriatian and impious, and no man henceforward shall put me
m the catalogue of clergymen abetting masonry.'' (a) A tremendous responsibility
rests upon masonic clergymen. The continuance or speedy destruction of the order,
is in their power. Let us indulge the animating hope, that whatever considerations
may restrain their immediate action, convictions of their Christian duty will ulti-
mately prevail. Let us not forget that we oppose the masonic institution, not its
members, only as they adhere to and uphold it. Against them we indulge no hos-
tile feeling. Who are they? Men like ourselves, not less virtuous, gifted, or patriotic ;
"bone ofour bone, and ilesb of our ilesh," our kindred, companions, and friends, with
whom "wedelightto take sweetconverse, and walk to the house ofGod incompany.''
Many of them are masons of onlythree degrees, and as ignorant of the unrevealed
iniquity of the ipstitution, until recently, as those who never passed the threshold o(
a lodge. They have not been partakers in word or deed, in its late abominations.
In the perpetration of those outrages, it was the institution that sinned, by the infatu-
ation it produces, and not its members as individuals. It is to that, and not to them, ,
' that the shade of Morgan points~ with a clay-cold, but unerring hand; and, like the
ghost to Richard on Bosworth field, cries in a voice that should harrow up the soul:
"thou art my murderer, despair and die.''
The views we have taken, inspire and justify a confidence, that the Great Head
of the church, who has always extended to it hls signal protection, rescued it from
innumerable perils, purified it in his own time and manner, is moving the hearts of
his childten to an investigation of the very subject propounded in the resolution.
Nothing more is necessary. Attention and inquiry will produce benign results.
Those who put their trust in God need not fear but he-will deliver his church from
the lurking dangers of this imposture. 1
(a) J. s. Chriatmal..
UNITED STATES
ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION.
Mr. Set1H¥1'd, on 'belwl/ of Mr. Ellmaker, /rrnn. the ·Committee, next Amafttr mell-
tioned, reported aa follow&: , .
The Committee appointed to report ,resolutions expressive of the sentiments of
this Convention, on the subject offreemasonry, respectfully report the following
RESOLUTIONS•
Resolud, That in the judgment of this Convention, the revelations w4ich hue
been made and published of the secret obligations, rites, and ceremonies of the soci·
ety of freemasona, are true.
Ruolved, That in the opinion ofthis Convention, founded upon the most thorough
investigation, not only of historical facts, but also of masonic tradition, the institution
of Creem~onry originated in the city of London, in the early part of the last century.
Resolud, That the oaths of freemasonry are neither legally, morally,· nor religious-
ly obligatory. ·
Resolved, That in the judgment of this Convention, an actual adherence by free-
masons to the principles contained in the obligations ofthe order, is inconsistent with
the higher and param.ount duties which they owe to the state, and is a disqualliica·
tion for offices of pubhc trust.
Resolved, That the organization awl principles·or the society of freemaaoDa. are
inconsistent with the genius of our republican institutions.
Resolved, That it is the right and duty of the people, to abate the evils of freema·
sonry, in the same manner as under our free institutions all other great moral and
political evils are abated ; by the exercise of the right of sutrrage.
Resol~d, That the political character of freemasonry is established.in the eleareet
manner, by the di~t testimony of numerous freemasons of the highest respectabili-
ty, who have seceded from the institution, and by their publication ofa masonie ap-
peal, made to the fraternity of Massachusetts by the grand master of the grand lodgo
ol'..that state, in favour of a candidate for govemor of that state who was a freema-
son, in preference to the opposin~ candidate, who was not a freemason ; and that
such political character is in entll'8 accordance with the letter and spirit of several
or the degrees of the order. .
Re.solved, That the whole history of freemasonry, and that of the United States
for the last thirty-five years, and more especially for the last four years, demonstrate
that the institution of freemasonry has rendered the press in the United· States sub-
servientto its will ; that it is a plain ptinciple of politics, that no society of men
ought to exist among us, which can directly or indirectly, abridge the freedom of
the press ; and that when such abridgment does take place, there is no remedy for
the evil, but the appeal to the people, in the exercise of the elective franchise.
DEB.A.TES A.ND DISCUSSIONS
UNITED STA.TES
.ANTI-MA.SONIC CONVENTION,
HELD AT PBILADELPBIA, SEPTEllBEB 11, 1830.
T11111 UmTSD STA.TBS AxT1-M.soN1c CoNTBNTION assembled in the cityofPhiladelphla,on
Saturday, the eleventh day ofSeptember, 1830, and organized thermelves m the District Court
Room, 11-t the corner of Sixth and Chestnut-streets.
On motion of Mr. WBITTLESJ:T, ofNew-York, JOSEPH RITNER, Esq. ofPellJlSYlvania, was
ca.lled to the chair, and JollN CLAJ1Ks, of the city of Philadelphia, appointed SeCretary, pro
1empore. '
The Secretary then proceede4 to call the names of the delegates to the Convention from the
several states represented in that body, commencing with those from New-York. Upon count-
ing them over, it appeared that 26 delegates from New-York, 15 from Miwachusetts, 8 from
C<inneeticut, 5 from"'Vermont, 2 from Rhode Island, 25 from Penns__ylvania, 7 from New-Jersey,
1 from Delaware, 5 from Ohio, 1 from Maryhind, and 1 from the Territory ofMichigan-in all
96,werepresenL ·
On motion of Ma. WmTTL&SJCY,
Ruolwd, That this convention lie organized by the appointment. ofone President, four Viee-
Preaidents, and two Secretaries.
Ma. WmTTLJCS'&Y then said, that at an informal meeting this morning of the delegates, or a
major part of the delegates to the convention, a committee, of which he liad been designated as
chairman, had been appointed, for the p~ of nominating suit.able persons to fill the several •
otli.ces in this body. He, therefore, nominated FRANCIS GRANGER, Esq. of New-York,
as the President ofthe Convention. The nomination being unanimously confirmed, ·
M&. GB.ANGER made a few remarks complimentary to the resf!CCtability and importance of
the convention, and admonitory of the propriety of its proceedings being marked by a cool
deliberation and dignity, which, while they would secure the general respect of the community,
would, at the same time, show its firmness of purpose. To us, said he, have been confided the
dearest interests of the American character, and bf. our proceedings ought that character to be
preserved as pure as the virtue of patriotism. Reiymg for support in the chair, upon the kind
partiality which had placed him there, he should c:heerCuuy enter upon its duties, and discharge
them to the best of his ability.
Josnu R1TN&B, ofPennsylvania, ABNER PHELPS, of Massachusetts, RoB&RT HANNA, ot
Ohio, and SAMUEL W. DuTJCa, of theTerritory ofMichigan, were then nomina~d and elected
118 Vice-Presidents of the convention; and JoJIN CLAB.U, of Pennsylvania, and NoBLJC D.
STRONG, ofConnectiC11t, as Secretaries. .
The convention being thus organized, itwa.s opened with a prayer from theRev. Mr. Thacher,
one ofits melllPer&
On motion, a committee ofone member from each state 1U1d territory represented in the con-
Tention was appointed by the President. To give this committee time to inake their report, an
adjournment took place till four o'clock this afternoon.
At four o'clock, the convention re-assembled in the District Court Room. SAMVBL P. LYMAN,
ol'Massachusetta, and NATHANIEL B. Bo1Luu andALzXANDER PL11MMJCR, ofPennsylvania, ad-
ditional members, appeared, and took their lea'3. Theeo accellliona made tho wliol• Dumber
of deitpWI 9', -
'
I
86 DEBATES,
Mr. PnLPs, from the committee ap}iointed to lay bef'ore the commtion the ~eets proper
for its consideration, reported certain resolutions, which, after a little desultory diaeUmic>n upon
one or two of them, and after those were modified, were adopted.-[See tlie Reaolut.ionll ac
le~ in the JournaL]
.Another resolution, appointing a committee to report the mdencea oC the trutll oC the dis-
closures in Bemard's "Light on Masonry," was re~ and adopted. But Ma. W .&ILD, oC
New-York, moved its reconsideration,iLnd offered a subetitu~ the object ofwhichwaa to limit
the inquiries ofthis commit~ to the degi:ees above thpee which may be known to an}" mem-
ber oC the·convention. He did not per&ive the utilitjl'of investigating the truth oC the dis-
closures on the degrees known to the seceding masons in this convention, who had been
already appointed a committee to report an outline oC free-muonry, u far u they were
initiated into it, and to certify its truth under their own hands.
Ma. PeELPs, ofMaasachuaetts, Ma.la.WIN and Ma. ToDD~ oCPellJlS}'lvania, rather fa'VOl'ed
the original resolution. It was finally adopted, and the BUbstitute diaagreed to.
Ma. S&W.AB.D, of New-York, objected to the second resolution, u originally reported bv
the committee: [for the introduction ofhonorary members.] He considered it to be too broad.
It might admit a great number of ~ns, who were not delegates, to seats in the convention,
and lead to controvenies which it ought to be the object of the convention to avnid. Be
thought that the delegates sent here were competent to srfonnthe duties a.ssigned to them;
that they should be guided b the light oCtheir own min rather than to seek that oC others,
and that no benefit could be Iirived from the admission o other persons than delegates into
this body. ·He moved the reconsideration of the resolution, and tlie motion waa carried..
The resolution being now taken up, Ma. Pe&LPB said, that the resolution wasan instruction
to a committee, simply to conridn t.lie expediency ofadmittiug such and such persons into the .
convention. Severil gentlemen ofhigh Character, who were not delegates, but who might af-
ford material aid, were present in thia city. Among them, there waa olie from North Caio-
lina. He was not a defegate, becauae there were not enough anti-muons in his lltllte to elect
a delegate. Behad no Wish, in coming into the convention, to vote, but to obtain information,
and take it back with him to light up the 11.ame of anti-masonry, in the great state of North
Carolina.
Ma. SEWARD said, that he was satisfied with thee%planation oC the chairman of the commit-
tee, and, with a modification, which he would submit, he would agree to the resolution. He
then modified it as it ap~ among the resolutions in the Joumal, and it was adopted ac-
rdingly. -r. 'lu-.<.."
a. We1TTLEn:f'wtaie4 a reconsideration oCthe resolution, to inquire into the effects of
maso~ in regard io religion. In relation to the evil tendency of tree-masonry to the cause
of religion, the convention o~t to have nothing to do. That ahould 'be left to judica-
tories and conventions of a religious character. SO far u masoll!'J..was fraught..)Vith-111'U to
morals, to govemment, and to man in his sooia1 condition, as)le'"believed it ira8, lle"ins
or ~vestigating it, and no farther. With these views, lur moTI;d' the rejection of the re-
solution. -i .
Two or three gentlemen made remarks in reply to Mr. Whittlesey. They C(ll)Bidered·the
subject of free-masonry as important in its effects upon reliDon, as upon moralS or ~vemment.
It was improper to draw a distinction between them. Tlie love of country and Ot'God, was
the same. The interests of religion and ofthe state were the same.
Finally, the resolution waa recommitted.
Ma. HoLLH, ofNew-Yorlr, moved thatwhen the convention adjourned, they should adjoun1
to the saloon otthe Musical Fund Society. The committee infonDally &{'pointed by a volun-
tary meeting ofseveral members of the convention, previous to its orgaruzation, oC which he
was cliairman, had ascertained that the saloon could be had fbr the use ofthe convention, ff
200 dollars, and they had engaged it accordingly. H• B&LD IN Bl• BANDS ALEAB& 01' TBAT
B.0011 FOB. THll VB& OJ' THIS CONVENTION. The hall, with all the !61luisite accommodations tor
the convention, could be obtained by ten o'clock on Monday moming. It was capable ofhold-
ing 1500 persons. The convention accordingly adjoumed to that place and time.
.Monday, Sept. 13.
Agreeably to adjoumment, the convention assembled at the Saloon of the Musical Fund
Society. Four additional delegates appeared and took their seats. The whole number now
amounted to 103.
The committees appointed in confbrmity to the resolutions adopted on Saturday, were an-
nounced from the chAit.-[See the names m the Journal.]
Ma. DENNY, from the committee to whom the subject was referred, reported a set ofrulel and
orders for the regulation ofthe p~ and debates of the convention. The report wu
adopted without amendment.-[See theJournal.]
On motion ofMa. STD.ONG, a committee of three was appointed to receive daily, the doings of
the.convel;ltion from the Secretaries, and to see that t.liey were correctly prepared for publi-
eauon.
Ma. Ia.wnf, of Pennsylvania, submitted the follo~ resolution: .
~aolt1etl, That a committee of five be appointed to inquire and report con~ the effect
of the ties and obligations offree-masonry upon the co11U11erce and revenue ofthe United Statee.
I
I
I
_J
DEBATES. 87
Ma. hWJN, in submitting this resolution, said, !bat ifthe information which he·had received
on the subjectwere correet, smuggling and piracy were fli.voured by the tendency of the masonic
obligations, and partiality oft.en shown to lllllBters and commanders ofvessels, who were members
of the fraternity. The subjects ofcommerce and revenue, and of llllluggling, had occupied the
attention of'Bll our statesmen ; and this inquiry might result in facts, whicli would call for the
consideration ofthe national legislature.
The resolution was agreed to; and it was referred to a committee, of whom Ma. Iawm is
chairman.
Ma. ADJ.:111s, of Massachusetts, prepented a communication from Samuel G. Anderton, ad-
dressed to the convention, the object of which was to confirm, in the most solemn manner, the
truth ofan affidavit which he some time ago ~ve, onthe subject of the alleged horrid oaths and
obligations of masonry, and ofcertain enorffilties committed under their in1lueilce. Before the
letter was read through, Ma. RuGous moved its reference to a committee, to consider whether
it was a proper lettilr to be read. The reference was accordingly made; and Ma. RUGGLES sub-
~uently reported favourably to the reading, and, at a still later hour, in favour of putting the
letter on the journals.-[It was so ordered, and the letter will be found in the appendix to the
Journal.]
Ma. CuRTENros submitted the following resolution, which, after objections to its expediency
by Ma. SLADE, Ma. WALKER, and Ma. M•CuLLocH, was laid on the table for the present.
Resoltml, That a committee be appointed to consider and report the most expedient time,
-place, and manner, for making nominations of candidates for the offices of PRESIDENT and
V1cE PRESIDENT of the United States. .
MR. MIDDLESWARTH, ofPennsylvania, suggested the •nvenience and propriety of the dele-
gation from each state sitting together in the convention. Questions might arise, upon which it
would be desirable for the delegates of a state to consult together.
Ma. M'CuLLOCH objected to this arrangement, considering it improper, and calculated to
fuster sectional or local views. .
At the instance of Ma. HoPK1Ns, the subject was postponed for the present.
MR. Swu:T, of New-York, otrered the following resolution.
Reaolved, That a committee be raised to inquire into the pecuniary circumstances and situa-
tion of the family of Capt. William Morgan, and to report.what measures, if any, should be
adopted for their support. D
MR. STEVENS, ofPennsylvania, thought that this convention, as such, had nothing to do with
the family ofCapt. Morgan. The abduction and murder of that individual, did not constitute
the basis ofanti-masonry. That was perhaps a providential circumstance in its favour. The
investi~tion and proceedings of the convenuon in regard to free-masonry, should be coolly and
dispassionately conducted. This resolution would be looked upon as mtended to inflame the
feelings and passions, rather than to appeal to the judgment ; to excite the sympathies, rath
than open the eyes, ofthe people, on the subject of masonry. ,
Ma. SWEET said, he bad not offered the resolution for the purpose of exciting the public feel-
ing, nor of ad~ to the excitement which already existed. He thought the inquiry, however,
due to the cause m which they were engaged, and to which Captain Morgan fell a martyr.
Bis wife was of feeble constitution .and needed support. Many gentlemen in New-York had
contributed to it ; and he thought that the subjectwas worthy of the consideration of the con-
vention.
Ma. READ, of New-York,"could not perceive that the resolution was calculated to lead the
public mind astray. If the family of. Captain Morgan had no more claim to our support than
others, they had to our sympathies. Some states had given something to the relief of this dis-
tressed family ; others had not ; and he seemed to be of the opinion, tl1at the object was one
worthy of the attention of the convention.
Ma. M'CuLLOCH, of New-Jersey, said that the objectof the convention was to prevent future
mischiefs from the in1luence of free-masonry and not to remedy the past. He considered the
resolution as Quixotic.
Ma. BARLOW, of Massachusetts, observed, that individual contributions for the support of
Captain Morgan's wife and family, had been5·ven to a considerable amount: they could and
would still be resorted to. It would be trave out ofthe way for this convention to take up
the subject. He hoped that the resolution woul not prevail.
Ma. W ALICER, of Massachusetts, thought it inexpedient to adopt such a resolution. G~at
sympathy has justly been felt for the fate ofthis lady's husband, who had fallen a martyr m a
most glorious cause. His name had been immortaliZed. But it would be more proper f?r a
future convention, still more national, to take u_p this.subject. Great burdens, a great sacrifice
of time and money, had been and would be mcurred by those who came to this convention.
AB an individual, he hoped that the family would receive support. In Massachusetts, some-
tlring had been done. ae had no fear ofexcitement ; but he hoped that the resolution would
not prevail. l.
Ma. Coou, of New-York, had made it his business to become acquainted with the family
ofCaptain Morgan. He had witnessed their distress: he had witnesSed the with~al from
them Ofall masonic aid. The question was, whether this convention, as a body, would come
forward? He hoped, however, that the question would be waived for the present.
88 DEBATES.
The resolution was rejected. .
Ma. TAYLoa, of New-York, moved the fullowing resolution:
ReiolNd, That a committee be appointed to make inquiry as to the influence offree-masonry
on the public press, and whether it be ex:iiedient to adopt any measures, in relation thereto.
Ma. Tooo, of Pennsylvania, called for the reasons which induced the gentleman from New-
York to offer this resolution.
Ma. TAYLOR said, he could not be expected to go lar~Iy into an explanation of his own
resolution at this time i but as an honolirable gentleman liad r:1h.~~ed it, he would express a
few views upon the subject, although he was aware, that in to · the public press he should
touch a hornet's nest.
It was my fortune, said Ma. T. to reside near the place froin which Morgan waataken,
and to learn the course pursued by the presses in that section ofcountry, as well as the coune
which the ,public press lias taken, upon the general subject of free-masonry. And I am bound
to say, for 1t is a fact, that in those parts
. of the country where I have been particularly ac-
quainted, the press has been muzzled by free-masonry: I do not say it was always directly by
free-masonry ; though in some cases I know ithas been so. Directly or indirectly, free-masonry
has controlled the press.
The conductors of the periodical papers have been kept under an in1luence arising from the
power of eatronage. Tlie fear of losmg patronage has paralyzed the press. There are other
causes which have OJleratedto a very great extent. The presses not actually conducted byma-
~.have been muzzled by friends, by the in1luence ofindividuals belonging to the institution;
insomuch, that the facts in relation to Morgan's fate, have not, to thisday, had a general circu-
lation. I know that to this veryday, J¥ny people have, through this same influence, been kept
ignorant ofall that has transpired in relation to this institution. I do not now say that it is m
our power to do any thing upon the subject, and therefore ilie resolution is couched in such
language as to leave it for the committee to report what may be expedient. But it is within
the knowledge and recollection of all or many, that papers have been muzzled, and their influ-
ence paralyzed ; and it seems to me proper that this convention should do sometliing; tho~
it is not my wish to encroach upon the rights of the committee appointed for laying out tfia
business of the convention.
Ma. HoPJUNs, from New-York. said, that he was not now prepared to lay before the con-
vention, at length, the views which he should entertain upon this subject. But the occasion
called upon him now to say, that, in his opinion, no more important or legitimate subject ofcon-
sideration could come before the convention. Sir, said the speaker, the question of the public
press in this country, is virtually the question ofpublic liberty.
Whoever will refer to the history of this nation for the past, may perceive that the conduct
of the periodicsl press in relation to masonry, is a phenomenon ; a case entirely new and !>e-
culiar. From the beginning of all our recollections until this moment, there lias never been
any other case of an outrage, any way considerable, that has not been resounded in the pub-
lic papers from one end to the other of this immense empire. Every accidental death, every
riot, or burglary, and especially every murder, is caught up, and Cll'Culated w~th eager dill-.
gen.ce. Take a recent example.
A profligate banker from England runs away with the money ofthose who had trustedhlln,
and hides himself in a remote corner ofthe South. His injured creditors follow and arrest hlln,
and bring him to New-York, which is not exactly according to legal form. But in his arrest he
is treatedwithall imaginable delicacy; he travels like a gentleman; arrivedat New-York, he is
lod~ed in a palace, caressed and followed; is defended by the mosteminent counsel ; becomes a
subject of public interest, and sets up on a great scale for a J>ersecuted man. Every circum-
stance concerning the base fugitive is resounded through the Union. All America is in a fel'.-
ment becalll!e a run-away Englishman was unlawfully, though gently, and peaceably, carrie4
from Georgia to New-York.
What was the case of William Morgan 1 I need nofrepeat particulars. A free man-an
American born,-without any offence against our laws,-is imprisoned first as a debtor, then
as a felon, is blindfolded and gagged, bereft of all possible aid from counsel or friends, and
finally made to disappear from the face of this habitable globe. Many ofus who were in di&-
tant parts of the state, can recollect hes.ring some indistinct rumours of a man being taken
oil", 1 remember hearing that some affidavits had been published in a single western paper.• I
sought for information in New-York, but could find none; for some months, I could not learn
what had taken place.
· Here, then, was a case where a man had by unlawful violence been mysteriously taken from
friends and family, and the light ofday, and who remained unaccounted for. It 1s impossible
to imagine a case of more deep and alarming interest. Neither were the facts inaecessible.
They were published at the west: copies of that publication were known to be in the city of
New-York ; and yet no paper in that city, or but one only, dared to allude to the transacuon,
and but one or two in otlier parts of the state. All other papers alike, as if actuated by one
spirit, or controlled by one power, kept an obstinate, systematic, spell-bound silence.
The people at large had no possible means to come at the facts. If. they heard some vague
J1!1YIOurs, could they know that there was ever such a man as William Morgan 1 Had he thus
di.appear~ 1 Oh, no !_it was only the ravings ofsome factious people at the West. And while a
DEBATES. 89
few reports and surmises were circ1ilated, and then deuied and ridiculed. and hooted down, th•
well established fu.ets could in no way be laid before the people.
Neither would the papers deny the facts. They would neither, in general, 1111.y that Morgan
had, or had not, been taken away. It was a systemofsilence, dead 1111d mysteriowr, and mani·
festly produced by some general and powerful co.Use.
In saying this, I mean not to repro8ch all our papers with critninal connivance. Many were
restrairied by a just fear ofthe order, and felt tliat they had too much at stake. They might
have no objectio11S to the publication of authentic fu.ets, or might wish to publish. llut the
secret .hanil of free-masonry was_upon them : they had reason to dread the consequences or
naming William Morgan, or his abduction or murder.
Ifany editor doubted whether a free citizen had been violently taken Crom among. men, and
hidden where the light of day, and the hand of charity, and the consolations of friends could
never reach him, why not deny the fact 7 Or why not demand information, or challenge
in niry 7
'.ilut, no I Unbroken silence was the command of free-masonry, and that command Was
obeyed by very nearly all the old presses. And in a country where not only the tale ofevery
fugitive fo~er, but ofevery stolen horse, iasounded througn the Union, the papers preserved
an ominous silence regarding the abduction, and torture, an<f murder ofa man and a citizenI
I have alluded to the state ofthe presses in general; and to those which are situated in the
~ and vicinity where Morgan lived, which were surrounded by men eoncerned in the ab-
duction. Go now to the presses under the patronage of wivernments. Go to the state pa.per
ofNew-York ; a paper enjoying a legal mono~ly to a llinited extent, and in part supported
by the public ; a paper Crom these causes denving great confidence among the peoefe, and
therefore bound to a certain degree of truth and inlpartiality in pub~ fu.ets. While thaC'
paper, like others, is filled with notices ofevery act of violence from Mame to Arkamaw, the
abduction and murder of Morgan 11eem alone to be unknown to the Albany Argus.
Where then do the people of these United States stand7 Let us open our eyes to view our
real condition ; and it is this: There is a pow·er in this country whiCh can inlprison men and
take life without law. When it does so, the laws are ineompetent to punish, and the press too
much enslaved to announce the fact. Against that power we ap~ to the people : our noble
friends in the west of New-York began that appeai under infinite discouragement& Office,
and the magistracy were masonic, and were parties to the outrage ; the press would cireulate
no informauon; when meetings were announced, the doors were closed against them there, as
was attempted here in Philadelphis.
I had not intended to take up the time of the convention ; the snbject came abruptly upon
me, and I could not forbear mentioning some of the topics which oft.en press upon my mmd.
The government ofa secret and self-elected body of men is no more republican, though it maJI'
preserve the forms, than the government of the Mamelukes of Egypt. It is no more a real
government of the people thari was the Roman Empire when decrees, m the name of the senate
and people, were issued by an Augustus, a Nero, and a Caligula. Of what use is freedom of
action when we 8.l'\l deceived as to the motives of action 1 Of what benefit are votes to us,
when we are kept m necessary ignorance of the facts which should govern them 1
Do the people of this country at all realize this wonderful fact-that great and :flagrant
erimes have been committed, which cannot be published except by establisliing new presses 1
The facts have never yet been published by the majority of the papers in the state Of New·
York. In more distant places not a word is said of the matter, or only 110mething to mislead
and betray. There is a power among us which can steal, and imprison, and murder men;
which asserts the right to do so ; which defends the pe!Jletraters Crom a coJlllilon fund ; which
!iring& them oft" Crom trial by triumphant acquittals ; anil which can then suppress all general
knowledge ofthe fiLcts, except where new presses are established.
Let these presses fall, established as they have been by immense sacrifices ; let the masoruc
presses resume their empire • then name the crin1e whicli ~ cannot safely commit; and
tell me what the public can learn, except by permission ofthe lodges 1
I ask gentlemen to follow up this subject m their minds, and see where masonry may not
strike, or what is the limit to ber power 1 With power over the ~ she has the control of
character as well as of life. She may strike anJI' member of this eonTention by concerted
ealumny. She has boastsd of this power in speeChes, and she bears it in her obligations. I
have no dou\lt but masonry has crieil down the Characters, and broken the hearts of many
honest men, who never knew the cause. Thus life, fortune, and character are held by the suf-
filrance of free-masonry. Go before~ people, and you have no remedy except by:free presses.
Masonry at this moment controls the sources of information over the far greater part of the
Union. The people know just what she }J4lrmits them to know.
. Why need I repeat the truism, that the li~y of the press is the palladium of liberty 1 It
18 the SOLE palladium-HOST EMPHATICALLY lt 18 SO.
Why, then, should not all good men join us in this cause 1 Is it denied that the press is
ahaclded 7 Can inlpudence pretend that it is not thus shackled in favour of murder an~. P.e?·
.i!ey1 Are not these efforts ofours made to set it free? Does not masonry persist in biding
the knowl~ of ill.eta, which no human audacity can now deny to be true?
In the anCJent republics, in Rome and Athens, and other fret ltateli Ult domocraey MlllDblod
DEBATES•
.
uoand the fOrmn, and the adwcates or liberty pleaded her caue, before free nations. But
have you any orator here to gather together our millions from Missouri to themain 1 Have
you any such forum 1· The preas wields the argument and persuasion of this age. It is only
by this; that the wise and gi>od can bring their counsels home to the people. Take from the
~ its liberty, and you leave with masonry the power to strike and to overawe whom aha
Will. Leave us in the hands or masonic magistrates, sheriil's,~·
Ul'Ol'll, witnesses, and judges,
and or a masonic Pl'ellS, and then what is public liberty wor and how far are we removed
from despotism 7 Who that is not a mason, will not feel he is a slave, and act ac-
cordingly 1 . . . . .
I must hope, aar, that the resolution will prevail.
Mr. TsaaY, from Connecticut, rose, not to go into the eonaideration of this question gene-
nlly, but simply to state some 1iLeta within his own knowledge, as to the state of the presil in
that part or the country in which he resided. Said the sJ>eG.ker, there are eight newspapers
lbi~:med in Hartford, where I live; and yet, it is im~ble to procure the insertion of any
~ free-masonry in any one of the111, except in one recently established by the
anti-ma&Ons. I select one faCt.
Mr. WhiUlesey, or Middletown, lately renounced free-masonry, and under circumstances
calculated to make a deep impreBBion upon the public mind, for he was in the last stage of
life. I applied psrsonally to the editor of one of our newspapers, to procure the insertion or
that renunciation, but he refused.
I addressed myself to one gentleman, whom I thought a very candid, honourable man, the
editor ofanother JIB.per, but it was all in vain. I believe he woUJ.d have been willi~% person-
ally, to have had it lJlllet'ted. but he dared not do it. He was so much under the inttuence of
masons, in consequence or their patronage, that he seemed to consider it unsafe. This is the
ease, universally, in the state ofConneeueut. No anti-masonic intelligence can be inserted in
any paper but one. To be sure, when some fine stories were circulated about the appearance
orMorgan at Malta, and at Smyrna, the masonic editors inserted tlud, but notl&in,tr mt.
In the state ofConnecticut, which the vanity orits inhabitants sometimes calls tlie Athens or
America, there are hundreds and thousands of our citizens who know nothing upon this sub-
ject. They do not read the anti-masonic paper-for they are told that it is a contemptil>le
thing, set up by some worthless person frOm~ew York: they are deterred from takingthis,
and 11.ll the other presses are muizled, completely muzzled.
I now content myselfwith making one further remark. Ir the newspapers ofthis country,
-which oudlt to be free-if the papers of this country had pursued their course and been
really free, I venture to say there woUld have been very little need of our assembling in eon-
venbon this day. No, Sirt.b:!;; people would, ere now, liave understood the subject completely,
and decided right; for no · more is necessary than to inform the people. ~he great diffi.
culty is, the want ofdisseminating information upon this subject. It does apJ>M! to me, that
the resolution which haa been oft"ered by the gentleman from New York, is an all-im-
portant one.
¥r· ~BITTLBS&T, or New York. This is a resolution or dei:p im~rta~ee, &!1~ one upon
which ti.me may be spent profitably. What are the fucts? W"tlliiun Morgan, a eitJzen of the
state of New York, a free man, is seized at mid-day in Batavia, transported by relays of
horses a distance of 150 miles, confined In a fortress of the United Sta"8. and, a few days
aft.er, put to death! Thiswas an outrage which necessarily reciuired many agents i extensive
must liave been the correspondence and concert, which earned into operation this ~h-handed
offence. It might have been supposed, that the whole people would have risen up indignant,
and demanded punishment for the perpetrators orsuch an outrage.
It would be supJIOBed, that the press, the public press, trumpei.to~ed as it has ever been
in eases of crime oi' this description, would have lent its powerful aid m the investigation; that
it would have put forth, in ammated language, its details, and joined the public m requiring
at the hands of the perpetrators, vengeance and punishment, for the blood oftheir victim.
In that whole section or country, populous and well informed as it is, and abounding in
presses, there was, for months, but a single press found that dared to tell the tale ; but one
Bingle press dared to offer a word in relation to the fute of this unhappy man! When re-
quests were made for the insertion of information, those who made them were insultingly
refused. I know some facts in relation to this transaction, and I will mention one. In the
village of Rochester, where I reside, an editor, a member ofthe society of friends, ventured to
say, that he thought it not quite right, to take a man thus away and put him to death, and if
they had done it, as represented, tliere ought to,be a legdl investigation. When this moderate
article aJlpeal'ed in this print, a knight temp]ar, a treasurer of Monroe encampment, or bearing
llOlll.e h!tli office, rushed into his ofli.ce, ordered his advertisements out of the paper, and the
pa~ discontinued, stating to the publisher, that, ifhe did not retract, more thall lialf his sub-
aenbers would take the same course. He then went to a royal arch mason, and boasted that
he had shut the quaker's head. I grieve, for the honor ofthe press, that the editor did recant.
Another fact :-I was mysel~ at that time, the conductor of a public paper, and ventured to
aay, that the tacts ought to be given to the public. I was met, privately, by the minilf.er,
under whoee teaching I had been sitting, and who was also a kniglit templar m Monroe en-
eNnpment. He told me, as I valued my reputation, my living and character, noi to meddle
DEBATES, 91
· ~ ~ nbject. He lllid. the ~were powerfbl, they were my 6ieJlds; and they W
JD their hands, the means otmy rum. ·
Sir, there is not a &.ct in the whole COUl'll8 of this outrage, not a tact in the whole history of
the transaction, eo alanninl:, as this forced silence of the preea, muzzled, shackled, and iri11u-
enced by the fraternity. We felt it to be eo, and we have at a hea~ expenee established
presses for the expreas purpose of giving publicity to facts, for in no other way could they
i'each the public eye. And I venture to say, that nineteen out of twenty, of alI the anti·
masonic presses now in operation, have been constrained to give publicity to this matter,
or have been established expressly for2urpoae; of the old presses in New York and the 1
eastern states, not ten have even et o their columns in any msnner.
Last winter the report ofa pubtic o cer was made to the legi8lature ofthe state; an ofti.cial
document entitled to high credit. Yet that report never saw the light, through the columns
of our public press in any of the large t.owna and cities of our state, or in very few if any.
There was llC&rce.ly a press that dare give publicity to that document, sanctioned as it was oy
hiJh official authority, except the presses of an anti-masonic character. The history of the
trials, wherefree..maeons put at defiance the power of the law; where witneBll88 refused to
answer after bein« sworn, and triumphed in the BUCCeBS of their obstinacy; that history hM
never been publisfied in the public paJ181'B, except by thoae whicft are anti-masonic. ()ug)it not.
auch facts to arouae our citizens1 But means must be found to make the facts known; and
when known, the tacts alone would demonstrate the importance oft.bis enquiry.
Mr. ToDD, of P~lvania, said that he had not clilled for the reaeons m filvour of this
1'8110lution from any hostility to it. He had tho112'h.t. that perhape the object was embraced in
the duties of another committee. He was deciCledly in favour of the inquiry, which he con-
lidered a very impartant one. The first information that he had received in relation toMorgan
was, that he was m Canada attending a bar; then that he walat Smyrna, wearing the turl>im,
and afterwards that he was amon_g our Indians, wearing the breech-cloth ; and next that he
was on shipboard. This was the kind oflnformation which we received, and all that we could
get. This circumstance more than any other induced him to take a stand. When he came to
learn the real truth, it was that which changed his o_pinion of masonry. He considered that
the rights and liberties of his fellow-citizens were in danger ; and he was for inquiring into the
atate ofthe public prese, with a view to the adoption of measures for their l'rotection.
He thought, if the public press was so completely under control, that an individual could be
taken away, ~ one hundred and fifty miles, and then murdered, without a possibility
ofthe J?Ublic arrivmg at the &.eta, it was time for the people to be up ; and if there was now a
resolution which wowd reach this subject, he would give his right rumd in filvour of it.'
Ma. RuaaL&s could not suppress his feelinits on this subject. The kingofFrance had·fallen
a victim to his efforts to muzZie the press. And should the free eons of liberty attempt to do
what kings had fililed to do 7 A faction in New-York had tried to muzzle the pmrs. Thia·
Wll8 a mortifyinc fact. Pennsylvania had sympathized with ua on the oceaaion: and the reso-
lution 011ght to lie adopted.
Ma. Pa11LPS rejoicei:l that the reeolution had been thus introduced. He hoped it. would be
agreed to, without waiting for the committee., of which he was chairman, to b1ing forward the
1111Mect.
Ma. Bo1L~A111 of Pemisylvania, said that he approved the sentiments ~by the gen-
tleman who lWl addressed the chair, but he disapproved the manner which had been adopted
in shewing the approbation of the convention. That manner was too ~t. It was too the-
atrical ; too mucli like the practice of the British parliament in applauding their speakers by
crying out_, Mir, Mir, 6ear1 If we indulge in thili clapping of our hands when we approved,
we mig)lt begin to hiss what we disHked.
The Pus1D11Jl'T reminded the gentleman, that this was not the question before the con.
vention.
Ma. Coon, ofNew-York, said it had beenhis fortune to belocatedwithin sevenmilesofthe
~c l?l'OUlld alluded to; that there was a newspap_er pu~ed in the village w~ he resi-
ded, edited by a ~ arch mason, and another pnnted m the same county, also edited by a
royal arch mason. lt'would be recollected that the abduction took place in the month of
Stiptember, and althoue:h the man was carried within four rods of the place where he slept ;
and though he had at tliat time as many filcilities for learning such filcts as any other pereon,
happening at that time to be ~tmaater, yet from all the paJ.>81'8 that came to his oftice, with
\he exception of Miller's from Batavia, tliere was not an mtnnation of this event. It was not
known at Lewiston by the uninitiated, that he had passed through that place, till the Decem-
ller following. The editor of the paJIO!' printed at Lewiston visited tlie m&gazine, and did
then examine the interior walls of the buililing, to see if the martyr had left. .aay marks, by
which it could be known that he had been confined in that buildina'.
It was not, then, fbr want of information that these facts W8J'8 wit.liheld. 'l'he editor ofthe
Lockport paper was also a royal arch maeon. He went to biiagarato enquire about ~tting
a place to deposit Morgan. It was not for .want of information that he did not publish the
filCts. These are not facts res~ upon my own aasertion, but they are recorded.
As my friend on the opposite mde ofthe house has just observed, there has been a total de-
parture from the wiages Ofthis country, as it regarda this question. We often, nay daily, -
a chapter ofaccidente-tbat a stage hU turned over, that a gencleman's collar-bone WU broken:
DE'BATES1
a lady injured-that a ve111el.hu ·been capeir.edanti. so many drowned. All these things are
arrarigedJor the public eye, but to what paper will you refer to find the facts in relation: to
William Morgan...-or to ascertain whetller there was ever such a man; or, that mch a man
was ever abducted. It is only to t.hoae papers which have grown up Bince that catastrophe--
it is to them we are indebted.
When the leeal inv~ons were commenced, it Willi mpposed that a channel was opened
through which the facts might be made known; but this channel, too, was altogether obetructed,
and tlie affidavits eould not reach the :eublic eye. We have. found, and still find, that nothing
more is necessary to raise feelinge of mdignation, than simply to inform the .P.~~c mind, bf
communicating the facts. When thisis done, every man is ill the same way of thirlking-except
those who may have submitted to the d~ ceremonies of free-masonry. Wherever you
extend a knowledge ofthe facts, it is 1111111.cientto produce conviction.
Ma. 811.w.un, of New-York, made several remarks, the minutes of which, it is perceived
with regret, have not been preserved. He said that theabductionand murder ofMorgan were
not the acts of a few misguided men. It had been participated in, or approved by, at least
one hundred masons. Morgan had fallen a martyr to the liberty of the press. In relation to
the obligation ofmasonry, he said that one.question was, whether one hundre.4 thousand citi-
zens ofthe United States hac! taken an oath which would prevent them {ram being impartial
jurors. When was the.re-such a question to call forth the energies of a free press 1 Where
was the.re an editor who would dare to tell this truth1 Be it true or false, itought to bl)
made known.
Ma. 8T11.V11.Ns, of Pennsylvania, was not disposed to oceupy much of the time of the con~
vention, but he would take occasion now, to allude to the in1luence. of llUlSO~c ob~tions,
and masonic inJl.uencs upon the press. It is known to some of the citizens of these United
States,--e. p>rtion, and a largepdrtion ofour freemen have heard it rumoured,-that there does
exist in theu midst, an institution whose secrets are operating upon the welfare of the com-
munity, in plotting those things which are not consJStent with the liberty of these State&
Those freemen have delegated a portion of their citizens under the protection of the law, to
meet in solemn council, for the high purpose of investigating, whether, in this free land, there
do really exist secret treasons ;-whether, as they have been induced to believe, there do exist
secret combinations ofmen, wnose constitution, -00mprised in their oaths, is inconsistent with
permanent and rational liberty. It was known that these men thus delegated were to meet
m the cityofPhiladelphia to :inake this important investigation. It is important to those who
are accused i it is importpnt to the many millions of freemen, who are told that such institu-
tiona do" e:nst, that a fa:rr, and full, and open inq~ be had in the face of day-that the
~quiry should come to the ear of a fair ~d impartial judge--t<;> the peopl~ ~t .they ~ay
mvesugate the truth for themselves. And if there be falsehood, if no wch lilBtitutions eXJSt,
if those who have made the allegation before the tribunal ofthe public, have attempted to iffi..
pose falsehood for truth, and perjury for honelt testimony, it is necessiµ-y that it should be
known in order that the accused may be exculpated, and that infamy ma:y cover those, who.
have thus improperly agitated the public mind. If true, it is right that this great community
should know it, and guard against the evil.
Look at the operation ofthe press-and I ask you, every man who hears me, what propor-
tion of the peopfe of these Unite.a States, know that such a convention has this day assembled1
There is scarcely a man in the south who knows it, for the papers have never mentioned it. I
will venture to affirm, that not one fourth part of the citizens of this intelligent city,-inwhich
this convention was to assemble,-not one fourth of the citizens of this place, even to tho
present moment, know that you were to meet here1 .or that you are now in session.
Look at the public papers in the city of Philadelpnia--e.nd many are printed and circu-
lated; for it is a city ofmtelligence, and their papers are conducted with 11.bility, spirit and
l'<lwer; and if there were not an influence operating, llie.:her than human curiosity; and higher
than is known to the Jaws of our land, would they not liave given a knowledge of the facts,
of such a convention being about to assemble, es~y when such charges are alleged
against respectable men, high in power. And why is'it so1 Look at the daily papers ofthis
city, and where will you fuid one that ha.:: announced the simple fact-I make one honourable
exception; for I do know that the fact was announced by one paper in this city, not claiming
to be anti-masonic.
But, sir, I ask, when, in a populous city, embracing hundreds ofthousands of souls-when
did such a convention ever meet, to deliberate for a nation's safety, that the public journal6,
seeking the promotion of their own interests, did not give their proceedings from day to day,
and inform the public, whether they are proceeding right or wrong; and if wrong direct the
attention of the community to thtm, and fix the gaze of the public upon them. With one
honourable exception-except in the case of a paper established upon anti-masonic grounds,
there is not one, of the whoie ofthis worthy corps;that appears to know that you exist ;-not
one that has the desire or curiosity to see you, or a wish, that those whom he is to enlighten,
should know whether this body are entitled to respect and credit, for theimportant disclosures
which they are about to make. But we profess to have in hand matter, whether true or false,
whfoh the public are entitled to know•. And yet the papers which surroUJld you are as silent
uthegrave.
TheM NJ factl, to •ll<>w, that at leut tAi.t dilculliou ii DQt improptr; thai ai leut a W...
bEBA.TES.
ewreion or this kind is almost t.he only means of commiµiicat.ing the filcta ~an institu-
tion which we deem dangerous. I know that the public presaea oli the otlier side, now and
then, instead ofgiving tlie facts, brand the efforts of anti-masonry wit.h infamy. And I am
l!IOrry to eay, that this practice is not confined to members of the fraternity who govern the
press. I recollect, and lately witnessed it, in an address delivered before a masonicassemblage
m the Western pa.rt of this state, and now published in the maaonic papers, where a learned
judf!8 descended from his high station, to make a charge upon those wbo had favoured the
anu~masonic cause, in words like these, "They pretend that the secrets of free-masomy are
before the community, but for themselves they are entitled to no credit, for it is the faShion
of the day in the party to which they belong, to be associated with infamy-, and they deserve
not to be publicly crel'lited." This reminds me of another learned judge, from the same city,
who upon a late occasion declined to stand as a candidate for Congtess. He used language
not less disrespectful. If any thing is calculated to east discredit upon the fraternity, not a
word of it is found in their paJ>ers. I know the cause; the reasonshive been ~ven why they
:muzzle the press. They are, thst charges are made against the whole fraterwty, for holding
principle.11, which 811Ilctio.nthe exec~tio!1 of Will!am Morgan•. But let !he people say whether
m fact they do not sancuon such pnnc1ples. Till the muomc fraterwty do disapprove of the
act, and pronounce it unmasonic conduct; till they inftict masonic punishment on the malefac-
tors, it is right that the imputation should be repeated before the people. And I hope that all
the people will hear, and, more and more hear, that melaneholy tragedy recited, till it awake
them to examination. I am unwilling to injure the feelings of masons in any pa.rt of the
country, but while they sanction that act, I would place before them the ghOllf. or that mur-
dered martyr, in his bloody garments, thongh it should sear their eye-balls.
The resqlution was adopted.
On motion ofML WBITTLEHY,
Resol"ed, That a committee be appointed to report to this convention whatjudicial endence
exists as to the disclosures relative to the masonic obligations.
An official list of the members, of their address, and boarding-houses, was ordered.
The convention then adjourned till nine o'clock to-morrow morning.
Tuesday, Sept. 14.
At nine o'clock this morning, the convention re-assembled at the saloon ofthe Musical Fund
Society. Prayer by the Rev. Mr. Goffe, of Massachusetts.
Ma. CLARK, of Vermont, from the committee to whom the resolution on the subject was
referred, reported that it was not expedient to admit other persons than members to take
&eats in the convention for the purpose of participating in debate or voting; but that it was
exJ>8dient to admit them to seats as honorary members. At the suggestion of Ma. STETENs,
of 'Pennsylvania, and other gentlemen, the report was amended so as to pemiit all honorary
members to participate in debate, and honorary members from states not here represented, to
vote as well as 4ebate. -
With these amendments, ML l>zXTn, of Michigan, O{lposed the resolution, and urged the
adoption of the original repi>rt. Ma. TERRY, ofConnecucut, expressed his sentiments in fa-
vour of allowing all honorary members to participate in debate, but not to vote. Ma. W .uKza,
of Massachusetts, insisted u~n the propriety of admitting the honorary- members from states
not represented, to the privilege of voting. ML Ruoous, of MassaChusetts, considered it
iniproper for the convention to take upon itself the power of appointing delegates for the
states not represented in it, and thought it wrong to admit honorary members at all. Ma.
BLADE, of Vermont, was opposed to the admissjon of honorary members from the states
represented in the convention. Ma. WHITTLESEY, of New-York, said that this body hsd no
right to add to or diminish the number of its members.
~he resolution was then again amended so as to admit all honorary members merely to tha
privilege of partici~ting in debate.
Ma. STllTENS Bllld, that he should vote for the resolution as amended. This convention had
come here without any specific powers ; and it was not without a precedent in the admission
ofhonorary members. The first anti-m11.SOnic convention in Pennsylvania had admitted an
e~oquent an.d.learn~d gentleman from Ne.w-Y~rk [Mr. ~hittlesey) to a seat, and had invited
hini to partlciJJB.te m its·debates and deliberations. This he had done to the great advantage
of the cause. Here was an illustrious precedent. In the course of his observations, Mr. STz-
VENS expressed the opinion that there was no danger, by the admission of hono_rarr members,
ofany mason attempting to take a seat among; them. The fraternity consisted pnncipally o(
honourable men, taken apart from their masoruc mysteries, ties, and obligations ; and he had
no apprehension that any evil could result from the adoption of the resolution.
The resolution was accordingly agreed to.
Ma. LINDLEY from North Carolina, was admitted as an honorary member.
ML PLINY Mzaa1cK, ofMassachusetts, and ML CHARLES STARR, ofNew-York, appeared
and took their seats, making the whole number of the convention 105. v
Ma. WHITTLESEY, of New-York, from the committee appointed to report a su~ and
· account of the abduction and murder of Captain Wilham Morgan, and of llleConduct
~measures adopf:!ld by the fraternity, jointly an9 severally, to prevent the conviction of
\heir more prominent fellow masons concerned in that abduction and murder, submitted a d
94 DEBATRS.
tailed report on eaeh branch orthe inquiry, which occupied about an h9ar in readillg. [See it
amo11g tile published reports.]
~en the reading of.the report "II!' concluded, ML S&WA~, orNew-York, ~ and ~
that it w1111 an exCeedingly mterestmg document; and as it would be BOme time before Jt
would,:J:;fted for the 11111 of the mem~t and, as observed yesterday, the newsJl!-per prea
was m , he wOuld move that it be Jaia on the table for a daf or two. It might be rea4
by any member; and, if any proposition should grow out of it, it might be diaeiisaed. Ho
expressed his hidi 8eD8e of the ability and patience which the committee had exhibited in the
prtlparation or ilie report.
MB. Coou, or New-York, addressed the chair in support of the report. [The import.&llCll
and variety of the matter introduced by Mr. Cooke, make the Committ.811 unwilling to publish
his remarks from the imperfect notes tliey posses& In order to give time to receive hia correc-
tions, from a distance of 500 miles, his speech must necessarily be poBtponed, and will ap:i-r
at the end of the debates.]
11,fa. M&JUUCS, from MassaehW1etts, was in favour ofthe acceptance ofthe report. I conaider
it, said he, an able and satisfactory exposition of the whole transaction, commencing with
the conspll'ILCy, going through with the abduction, and concluding with the eft'ortll made to
punish the actors in that conspiracy. The facts whicli are stated there I believe to be ~
the evidence that the public hive been put in ~on of; is sufficient to satisfy any reason-
able mind that they are so. The statements whicli have been made just now, by the gentleman
from New-York, (Mr. Cooke,) are entitled. in my judgment, to equal confidence. The facts
have been submitted to the alembi_c of the coumuttee, and the sUbjeci hllll had amplejuatice
doneiL ,
It is right and proper that acts like those which terminated the life ofa fellow-citizen should
be well understo<id Jjy ihe whole community; that the transaction shouldbe minutely detailed.
Ithllll been done. This report should be spreadbefure the community. It should be read and
examined.
I deem, sir, that when we have embodied these facta-that when this convention are satia-
fied that the facts in that report are true, they have done all that is necessary upon that point.
Sir, the convention may then be better occupied than in going again into further details upon
this subjecL Let us recollect that, unpardoiiable and intoleral>le 1111 the abduction and death of
Morgan a.re, still U., are not anti-masonry. That event lies not at the foundation of this
question. It was an event, in the course ofProvidence, which brought men to think and act.
Inthe progress oft.hinlt8.' it hllll enabled many individuals to cast froJn them the shackles ofa
monstrous inlpoeition.- The}" have cast them oft'; and in resolving IO do BO, there are princi-
ples of high moment illvolved, upon which this whole people are al.so to acL Let us th~ $0
beyond that.transaction in the western part of the state ofNew-York, and act upon principlea
wliicli are to give cohesion to the anti-maBOnic ~y-not cohesion merely, but triumph.
We are not 11886IDbled to try the malefactors oftlie state ofNew-York ; that matter belongs
to her tribunals ; and it; frooi the obstructions thrown in their way, they have been unable to
~plish it, our eft'orta, however high or earnest, cannot produce the eft'ecL Enough baa
beeii alreadydone in the wa.Y. ofdiscussion and reports here, regarding the foul acts of the eon-
spirators ofNew-York, whiCh terminated in the death of that martyr. A long, 1111 well 1111 sad ·
requiem hllll been chanted to hia memory. Let it J>IUllll from this convention to the people, to bo
kept up by them1111 they see fiL
Sir, I have said all that I wished to say· I wished merely to throw out an admonition, not to
~the co1111piracy in New-York as the~ ofanti-masonry, or 1111 developing its princi}lles.
Tliey are to be found bvan investigation of the very character of the institution itliel£ And
though I question not, that in the west, along the borders of its lakes, there have been deeds done
whicli. should not be named except in the pit of darlmess, yet it is for us, to travel far beyond
them-to enter at once upon the principles ofour future action. We should regard the past, eir,
but 1111 the origin oftheeft'orts whiCh we are now to make.
Ma.MATifAlU>, ofNew-York, moved tolaythe report upon the table. He, too1 complimented
the ability with which it was drawn up. Tlie facts stated in it were, he w1111 aat.islied; all true;
but it was desirable to ascertain whether they were all sucli as ought at presentto belaid before
the public. To give a little time for reflection, he was desirous that the report should bo
laid upon the table : whicli was accordingly ordered.
ML W AIU>, of New-York, from the committee appointed to 1111Certain when, where, and
for what purpose frile-masonry was first instituted ; where it has llourished most, and what
is the probable number of the fraternity in eacli country where it exists, made a re}>O!t-
[This will be found among the reports in this volume.] This report W1U11 laid upon the
table.
The conTention adjourned to meet again at 4 o'clock; at which time they reaaembled.
Ma. CvaTBNlUs1 of New-Y•k, withdrew a resolution oft'ered by him on a preceding day,
relative to the nommation ofcandidates for President and Vice-President of the United Sta&&
Ma. We1TTLBH!i of New-York, renewed the resolution ofMr. Curtenius.
Ma. Panrs, of .MIUllS&cliusetts, said he was in favour of the reBOlution. A strong f~
~ed to exist on this subjecL He hoped that a eommittee would be .appointed to consider
this su~ect, and g!ve the reasons for or against a nomination.
Ma. JoNBs, of l'ennsylvania, aaid he hoped that no such resolution would pus. He be-
•
DEBATM. 95
Jieved that at this time no such committee should be appointed. The time had not yet come.
Qur southern 8;Ild. western brethren were not yet with us.. We were not le~ the represent...
uves of the m&Jonty of I.he States. The people had not mstructed us, an did not expect UB
to.act on this subject. When the people wanted a nomination, they would elect delegates for
this express purpose.
ML Ssw.A.RD, of New-York, said he was one of those who would be pleased to have anti-
masonic candidates for the Presidency. He should also be pleased to &ave such candidatell
succeed; but he likewise thought that pr11dence,was necessary. He believed that it was not
~ent now to make the nommation. The termination of the state elections might alter ma-
tenally the aspect of affairs.
Ma. C11RTJ:N111s, of New-York, said he was in possession of one fact which was su11icient
to convince every mind, that anti-masons should have candidates of their own at a pro'per
time. He held m his hand a paper containing evidence relative to the election of a late can-
didate. _This evidence is from a mason living in the state of New-HamPllhire, and it is this:
-" That masons had come to a determination that no man but one who had taken the higher
degrees ofmasonry should ever again be President of these United States."
MR. IRwm, of Pennsylvania, offered an amendment, that there be an immediate nomina-
tion. This amendment was loet without debate.
ML SHn!rs, of Pennsylvania. Sir, I think it my-duty to give my reasons why I think
the resolution ought to prevail. I know that upon this subject a very deep interest JS felt by
moet people of the state ofPennsylvania; and I think it all-unportant, that an inquiry of this
kind iihotild be entered into.
· In my humble opinion, ifwe now separate, without taking some means to express our viewa
upon this subject, we have not only met in vain, but worse than in vain. · It Will give a blow
to the spirit ofanti-masonry;and a stamp to the whole cawie, which you will not eftsily repair.
It is known to many, and I aver, that, though I believe masonry to be injuriouil to ihe caU&e
of religion, it is also made to operate with more peculiar force upon our political institutionsf
and we have therefore a right to sublnit the subject to the people, ror their direction.
know of but one way that they can fairly express their sentiments, and that is, by the elective
franchise.
Ifwe take this course, I know it will be said that this is a political convention. Thia wiG~
be the clamour ofout opponents ; but I regard their clamour as I would regard the idle winds.
We are to be governed oy what toe believe to be the will of our constituents. We should
take counsel of our friends, and not of thoee who are arrayed in hostility against us.
Now, although this f.ollvention is not strictlyfor politic&l plllJlO&es alone, yet, in my humble
estimation, there is no way by which fOU can make the masonic fraternity feel and tremble,
except through the medium of the elections. If we come here for the purpose of qisc111Sing
and aeveloping freemasonry, without taking some effective measures to enforce upoa that in-
stitution the results ofour examinations, we shall place ourselves in a situation to merit the
contempt of the public.
Now, this resolution is simply to inquire, whether it is expedient to :proceed to the nolnina-
tion, &c. ; and it was hardly expected that this would be met at the very threshhold in this
way. And I ask, how are you to disseminate anti-masonry, except through some such com-
mon medium 1 I admit you may extend it slowly-i!Ome remote brethren may pick up a stray
newspaper occasionally, in which there may be some vague hints upon the subject; but few,
very few, of all our citizens would know, for_years, that such a question has been nere agita-
ted; for the press is muzzled ; it is cloeed. But nominate a candidate for President, and call
him the anti-masonic candidate, and it is a queslion which will interest every man, from north
to south. •
Even those high dignitaries, kings, and princes, and royal companions, in this country, will
then find it incumbent on them to meet i.he opposition ; to sustain their institution, or fall
before Llie march of their opposer& -
Onr citizens at the west, knowing that there are two greatpresidential candidates before the
people, will enlist thmnselves under ·the banners of one or the other of the two candida&es.
But ifyou reject the resolution now before you, you shut out all inquiry as to the propriety of
a nomination at all· and the people of the United States will say, "the Anti-Masonic Con-
vention hs:(e virt;;Jty decided, that they have not the right to in\erfere with that nomination;"
and what would be the effect ofsuch a course1 .
On the other hand, if the nomination be made, all the people who are not now anti-masons,
would no longer have any inducement to suspend the1r decision ; for they will espouse the
cause of one or the other ; their feelings will become warmed and interested on one or the
other side. But if at some future time you attempt to introduce anti-masonry, the opposite
party will say, that the feelings of the people are pre,.engaged1 and the p~ of anu-ma-
ll'onry will stop till the next contest has gone by. In my estunation it is unportant that a
comlnittee should re~rt upon the subject.
If we ho}d to the idea, that no nonunation is to be made, and that we are carrying on anti-
rnasonry for the furtherance of a mere 1tate contest, and that there is no higher ooject here
or in any other part of the government, '!Ve have not only done nothing, but far worse than
nothing-for we Shall have shown, that we do not intend to eradicaLe the evil, but to punish
ihe lins of it in certain states, and upon certain individuals.
D&BATE9.
All who embark in this cause, should consider that free-masonry contains principles 'W1iich
unfit any man to fulfil the high trusts or the government. On that principle we should act
throughout. I am in f!lvour of the resolution.
Ma. HoLLEY, of New-York, agreed that at a proper time it would be necessary to have
candidates. .
Ma. DmxTza, of Michigan, aaid that it was not necessary at this time to diseUSll the pro-
priety of a nominationi but merely for that of appointing of a commiitee to inquire into the
expediency. . , ·
On motion ofMa. HoHms, of New-York, the resolution was so amended that the com.
mittee should consist of one member from each state and territory here represented.
The resolution, in that shape, was then adopted.
Ma. Hon.1Ns, of New-York, to whom the subject WllB referred, made a report on the true
nature ofmasonic oaths and oblil1;ations.
The report "waB laid on the table, and the convention adjourned to meet at 9 o'clock to-
morrow morning.
Wednutlay, Sept. 15, 1830. '
The convention met pursuant to adjournment.
Ma. THACRZR, from the committee on the subject, made a report upon the nature and spirit
of anti-masonry, the means resorted to by free-masons to suppress inquiry, &c., which, on
motion, was ordered to lie upon the table.
Ma. OL1n:a, from the committee on that 11Ubject, made a rePQft upon the pretensions or
free-masonry, and how far they are supported by facts.
Ma. Swzu, of New-York, moved, that the report be adopted; insupport of which he ad·
dressed the convention.
~
Ma. President,-The report under consideration clearly shows, that the pretensions or fr:ee-
masonry to antiquity are false ; nevertheless, I shall take the h'berty to make a few additional
remarks upon the subject to which it relates.
1 I did not rise with a view ofoccupying the attention orthis convention any econsiderable por-
-l tion of time, and rather than go beyond the limits within which prudence and brevity should
oonfine the members of this bOdy, I will only notice one of the many writers, who sliow liow
the order can ' t11.fconce' its head in the region beyond the clouds.
SALEM ToWNz says, msubstance, "that in evll?Y country where human beings have had their
residence,:free.masonryhasexisted,and preserved theapproptiate nameofGod,Jehovah,whilethe
uninitiated were sunk in heathenism ; that the wise men or the East were guided to the place
where lay an infant Smriour, at Bethlehem, by means ofmasonic li2'ht j and that no period short
ofa vast eternity can fully display its moral beauties and unsearcliabte riches." Sir, this is the
manner in which a most approved author expresses to the public his sentiments in relation to
the origin and utility of the institution. ·
This theology, which is limited, like the ancient pagan religions, to a few of the noble and
learned who may be initiated into its mysteries, and-which carries none of its consolations to a
majority of rational creatures, is recommended by a host of those upon whom the highest ho-
nours within the gift of the fraternity have been conferred. Among the most prominent of
this royal number, is the name ofthe late Honourable and Most Excellent Companion De Witt
Clinton, General Grand High Priest of the General Grand Chapter of the United States of
America, and Grand Master ofthe Grand Lodge ofthe state of New-York, &e. &c.
This privileged aris!<Jcr&CY, which, while it confers titles as numerous and high-sounding as
those olthe Celestial Emperor ofChina, or the Grand Lama ofTibet, upon the" elect perf~
and sublime princes of the royal secret," calls free citizens to bow to the assumed supremac:r.oC
its authority, is irreconcileable with the doctrine of equal rights, which we regard as the palla-
dium of our freedom.
Sir, what are the scenes which occur in every chapter ofroyal arch masons 1 In addition to
the incongruities ofthe ceremonies, to which other gentlemen during our sittings have referred,
there is another which serves to illustrate the position assumed by the committee upon whose
report we are about to act.
"When a box, which masonieally is the ark of the covenant, is introduced, the hikh ,,,Wit
takes out of it a book, which, after seriously consulting with the king and scribe, he pronounces
to be the book of the law ; and he then informs the companions that the:y here see that the
world is indebted to fre&-masonry, and not to thechurch, as some ofthe stupid and profane have
, imagined, for the preservation ofthat sacred volume.
The high priest, in the plenitude of bis wisdom, also affords the companions the further
masonic infonnation, that t!ie ark which contains the bible, and other valuable articles and
jewels, was " de~sited 3000 years ~o by our three ancient grand masters for the good of
masonry." Sir, 1s it possible that in this enlightened19th century, intelligent men can be sincere
in the lfeliet; either tliat this is not an imposture, or that fioee-masonry conducts her votaries to
life eternal in the heavens 1
What but the impression that masonry is paramount to the religion of our co.ntry, could
have influenced th~ Most Worshipful Deputy Grand Master and Grand Master, pro tern.,
of a western state, solemnlyto declare, " That he would not give lllCl8onry for a seat with Ga~
briel at the right hand of G~a ThrMt ! ! !"
It appears to me, sir, that that insatiate curiosity which lost our first parent.s their primeval
.inn-nee and the joys or panulise, and through disobedience to the Divine command inwlffd
their posterity in the curse ormoral death, was ot'tbe 1111111espirit with that which has in om own
timesent thousands in search after that'auprtmtanddi!Me kriowledge,' which the profiulevotaries
of free.masonry impiously assert was communicated by the .AJmWtty Creator to Adam as tho
last best git\ of heaven. They assert that its ~ and sub1::Jnnciples, uncontrolled by~
judice or time, have been sacredly preserved, mviolably co ed, and mysteriously hB.rided
Clown for ages, through faithful aDd appointed agents, to king Solomon, Huiun, king of Tyre,
and Hiraui Abilt; when masonry shone forth in all itsjlory, at the building ofthe holy iemple,
under these three sublime and most illustrious gran masters, from whose reign down to tho
present time the order falsely pretend to trace its lmldual diffusion among the natfonl of tho
itarth. HOl'f'ibk profar&atiM& ! groH impo1lure ! and moat contemptible delurion !
Sir, we moclc at the astonishing traditions and false assumptionsoffree-masonry todivineorigin
and ~rfectibility, upon the same principles that the prophet Elijah mocked at the absurd notions
and idolatrous ntes orBaal's false prophet& That die mysteries ofspeculative free-masonry ex-
isted in embryosome time before it assumed its present sliape and· constitution is not denied; but
the evidence exhibited in the ~rt submitted by my colleague from New-York (Ma. Wan)
settles the question, that the mstitution which professes to have its origin in and from God,
sprung up in London, on the 24th June, in the year 1717. The President of Andover Semi-
nary, m reply to the Suffolk committee, says, "that tliere are no traces or the history or free.
masonry in ancient times to be round in any of the Asiatic or Euro~ bmguages. Had it
been in existence, as its votaries preten'!! at Jerusalem, it would gradually have rilade its way
through Egypt, Greece, Rome, Spai~ 1.:termany, and Britain ; but that such was not the faCt
we have, in tile absence orother poaiuve proof' than that which is derived from masonic asser-
- a.ions, the strongest negative testimony."
None of tile ancient historians, whose works have come down to modem times, make tho
slightest allusion to free-masonry. J osephU.S, the learned historian Of the J eW&z is wholly eiJent
respecting any such order. So are Tacitus and Herodotus. The Sacred Scriptures niake no
mention of it ; and we pronounce its pretensions to antiquity and religion to be illU10ry and
pre:J:!ri::-tandinl:this society has existed only 120 years, the Book ofConstitutions, of which
Jamea Anderson, D. D. is tile author, published Wider thesanction ofthe mother orlodires and its
El'IUld officers, repreaents free-maso!!l'Y as tile work of the .Almis:hty Architect, and tliat, under
ihe Grand Master of tile universe, Enoch erected two pillars
1 and"tllat MostWorshipful Brother
Noah, to preserve true and complete masonry through tile nood, held a grand l~e in the ark.
Were it not, sir, for our know1ed.,cre or the Unholy oatlls and horrid penalties with which free.
maBOllll are bound together1 and against the world, all these fables and traditions m!ght pass,
exciting only a ·smile ofdension or a feeling of contempt, without seriously alarming the patriot
&o a sense ofdanger to tile republic. The oaths are the very heart of tile order, blit tile report
of the committee, (of which Ma. HoP1tlMS, or New-York, was chairman,) on the invalidity or
masonic oatlls, renders it unnecessary to prolong my remarks.
In conclusion, I venture to say, tllat whenever a majority of tile American people shall be
convinced, as we are, tllat these oaths are not_legally or morally binding, the wliole system.
which we have met here to abolish, will 1lill bo.ckwards into the tomb of tM Capulela, llopelen
of•future reaurrecUon.
Ma. Bo1u.ur, or Pennsylvania: I did not expect to say o. word to-day. I con1'ess I rim
nnder peculiar embarrassment, not only for want or previous preparation, but also because I
address an enlightened audience, most of whom, I presume, are much better acquainted witll
the subject under discussion, tllan I am myself; and I cannot flatter myself, tllat I shall be
able to suggest many new ideas on tile subject. But I reel it a duty to myself, and to thOllO
who sent me here, to avail myselfof some opportunity publicly to express my sentiment&
It has been often said that man is a religious aninlal We find throudiout the world, that
there is scarcely any people, hQFever savage, who have not some Corm o(religion. It may be
1111.id, perhaps, witll equal truth,~t man is a auper•Utioul animal. And although superstition
is most preValent among tile rude, ignorant, and illiterate, yet the most learned and~n
· hten-
ed, are not entirely exempt from it. The Greeks, and the Romans, in the most · tened
periods of tlleir liisto!f, are strongly marked ~itll ~ superstition. Even the po "te, tile
polished, the learned citizens of Athens, were charged with it by the apostle PauL He ssid,
when he stood in the midst ofMars• Hill," Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all th.illgs fO
are too mperatitioru. I found an altar witll this inscription, 'To THE Ux1:xowx Gon. "
When the light oftile gospel spread throughout the heathen world, their altars and their gods
were prostrated in the dust. But superstition, in a great degree, survived the ruins, and still
pervades, in a greater or less degree, all the nations of tile world. America itselfis not an ex-
ception to this remark. Indeed we are all more or less prone to pay reB}>ClCt and veneration to
wliat is covered with tile veil of darkness and mystery. The masons themselves appear to
have availed tllemaelvcs of this feature or the human mind. They conceal tlleir rites, tlleir
ceremonies, and proceedings, under tile veil of secrecy mystery, and midnight darkness.
They watch their temples with tile strictest care. Their doors are guarded bytheir tylers with
their drawn 11word&. _When tile foot of a stranger approaclles, he is arrested in hi8 p~
and his ears saluted with, "Procul-procul-e1te proTtmi." Keep at a distance froui. this sa.-
cnd place, the gi"OIAld ia holJ, pollute it not with Unhallowed feet. We are lltruek with awe,
. ·G
I>EBATllS.
and feel a npcr1fflioul reverence for the place. But the day ol delusion 1truat is ~ The
edl is rent uunder; the doors of the 11111Clum aanctorum are thrown open. And what do we
behold 1 A whited sepulchre, indeed ! filled with~ rottmnur, arid deilll fllM'• 6onu.
Sir, I had the curioeity !8st evening to see a seceding bright mason exhibit the ceremonies of
creating knights templar and of"Ma.lta. My risifile faculties were at first excited by the
ridiculous ceremonies ; but when I saw ·the 8.ltar, the Bible open upon it, the collin, the skull
and thigh bones upon it, the blindfolded candidate kneeling before it, taking the most awful
oath, and drinking wine out of the human skull, I shuddered at the view.
Sir, I say the veil of the temple is now rent; and the doors of what they protimely !lllll the
holy oflidiea, are thrown open wide. Morgan, like him of old, has seizedtlie 1achiD and the
Boaz, the pillars of the mystic temple, and it is fallen into ruins. His body, indeed, like tha&
of Sam~n, has been crushed in the fiill1 and buried in its ruins, but his soul has escaped un-
hurt-it has ascended. His memory will deserve a niche in the temple of Fame, not Ieae
conspicuous than that ofthe patriots and heroes ofthe American revoluuon; andhis name will
live m tho recollection ofevery friend to liberty and religion,
" TUl Time, like him of Gaza, in hia tcWati\,
P~king the pillara th.at m!P""t the "7orld,
In Nature's ample ruins lies entombed,
And midnight, uni11erral n1idnight rripa."
Mr. President : When any man, or society of men, demand fi:om ns the ioituigl ofour li,rl
rupect and tier&mlffan, it behooves them to exhibit and substantiate their e1aima; and !t is our
privilege, and our duty, to examine their pretensions before we accede to their aemana. The
subject now under disciussion, is "The pretensions free.masons make upon which they found
their claim to our high respect and consideration, and inquiry into mets in support ortheir
claims." Here masons avail themselves of that feature of the human mind to whlcb we have
alluded-auperrtition. They say their instiuition is of divine origin; that it came from hea-
ven. Ifthis claim be well founded, we are bound to respect and nnerate it. I eonfea myself
an irlfidd on this subject. I believe just as fully. that the images of1upiter, or Diana, descend-
ed from heaven. I acknowledge that they are not without some presumptive proof of their
institution coming fi:om heaven. Satan, the ~t apostate, probably formed a grand lodge in
heaven, and drew into it a considerable portion of the heavenly host. In that lodge, ,,._
was hatched. The design was formed to hurl the Almighty from his throne, and overthrow
his government. But they could not conceal the design from the all-seeing eye. The trai&on
were banished and hurled over the battlements of heaven, down, down to the bottomless pit.
But by the inscrutable decree of the Almighty, the gates of hell were not so barred as Ulti-
mately to prevent his escape. He did break out, and 'IJVinged his way through the empire of
Night and Chaos, and alighted upon this our globe. He explored it; he found out the resi-
dence of out first parents. The garoen ofEden was walled in, and the gate was closed. But
he, ""7ith one alight bound o'erleard all bOllllda." And where did one of the guardian angels
first find him1
"Squat like a toad-close at the ear of Eve,
Assaying, by his devilish art, to reach
The organs ofher fancy, and with them forge
Illusions as he list-phantasms and dreams."
The wily serpent assailed her upon the only points, perhaps, she was assailable-herf"'"f,
her curiority, her ambition. He decoyed her to the forbidden tree. " She saw that the tree
was good for food," and that "it was plearant to the eye," and a tree to be desired to make one
W1SB. He ioformed her that he had eaten of the fruit, and she could see the astonishing and
happy effect it had upon him; how he was elevated as to figure and intellect over his species.
Her fancy was pk111ed, her curio.rity was excited, and abave,.u her ambition to become .Vt
as gods, and to have more light. She presumptuously stretched forth her hand "in ftlfl
hour." She/lucked-she eat "the fmil of th.at forbidden tree, "711.oae fl!IW'tal torte brou,tlt dect4
illto the t0orl , and all our"7oe.'' She also gave to Adam " th.atfai.r mtieiRgfruit." He eat:-
"Earth felt the wound, and nature from her seat,
Sighinlt through all her works, gave signs ofwoe
Tliat a.TI was lost."
And what was the light they discovered 1 They beheld that they were naka. They had
lost their primiti11e innocence. They "7ere dilrobed of their original righteownera. They had
lost the moral itllll8'e oftheir God. They had no rflllfllCkdlsmbakin apronr to cover their naked-
ness. They were compelled to sew jig le1111ea uiget.lier to cover their nakedness. The apron
is the fiMt ~ of masonry; and the entered apprentice is told it.is the "maWem of .._
cmce." No-1t was the.fruit ofguilt. And the mason, when he looks upon hiiJ aJl?On, instead
of being proud, ought to feel humbled, and to recollect that it is the eml>lem otgiiilt, and calls
to his ~d the avJjvlfall of man.
There IS another prerumpti11e proofof the origin of masonrr-the very striking tlflalogy boo
.1>8UT1;8.
, _ the conduct ofSatan in seducing our first parents, and the conduct offree.muona now in
aeducing men into their institution. They present temptations to the human mind, eu.ct.ly
. wited to the various tempers .and dispoaitiona ofmen ofall conditions.
To the young, the giddy, and the vain, they catch their fancy by the splendid exhibitions
. they make of their finery and their frippery. Their spangleil apr~ thell' ribbons, their
sashes, with colours as various as the rain6ow, their mitres theirjewels, and their crowns.
To ingenuous minds, ardent in the pursuit of knowl;;f.,:;, they tell them .that lodges are
schools ofscienceand of literature ; thlit there they will-dl,;cover secrets mscience ll@ where
else to be fouµd, and will receive im~rtant aid in their laudable pursuits, which can be Obtained
from no other source. They tell ministers of the gospel, that in their lodges they will obtain
infonnation highly important to the,Jischarge oftheir ministerial duties. There tbey willfind
a key to unlock the hidden mylln-us of the gospel To the ambitious for political preferment,
that they will furnish them with a ladder by which they can ascend to the hia:h.est posts of
honour, (and here perhaps they tell one truth.i and there are one and more in tlii8 convention
who have had this temptation presented to uieir view.) To the dissipated and the indolent,
the institution is represented as furnishing "refre1hmml1" eminently cli8ritable ; ifreduced to
·J:vGrty, ~ will be assisted ; if they sliould leave widows and children destitute, they will
A~l:°ng temptation is presented to unprinc;.ipled villains. Ifdetected in their villany, they
coWidently ex.(>8ct the shield of free-masonry will protect them from punishment. By such
means the inst.Jtution enlists under its ba~ers all descriptions of ch!W,lcter. And all may be
useful to·them. They have found in theU' lodges, characters so ablind911ed as to execute a
Morgan, in conformity to anoienliuage1and lawsoftheir institution. What says Brainard, one
.oftheir celebrated orators, on this subject1 " Free-masonry, it is powerful, it ~rises men
ofrank, t0ealt4, qffice, and tllknt, in potoer, and out of po11m, and that in $ost every place
where Pfl'Dn" u of ony importame.. And it comprises, among other claasu of the community,
to the lowest, inlarge numbers, acti11t men; unitell togethn-, and capable of being dire~ted by the
effOt'U ofothn-1, so as to have the/twee ·af~ert tlrouglwut the ci11ilized t0twld," .
With temptations so various, mu, maru, and (ina, spread so wide, it is no marvel that such
numbers have been caught in their toils. And m loo, too many instances, have they been as
fatally deluded as our finit parents.
Mi. President: I presume free-masons will not be willing to admit.tiiat speculative maso~
crune from heaven, according to the views I have taken of it. I ask them, then, to exhibit
lheirJlroof of its·dilline origin. In examining Morgan's illustration of it, and Bernard's Light
on Masonry, I cannot discern a single feature or lineament of divinity marked upon it. If the
revelations made by them are not true, then no reliance can be put in human testunony-it baa
been corroborated by hundreds, not to say thousands, of seceding masons; nay, more, free-
masons themselves have confirmed it; they have repeated, again and again, that Morgan was
guilty of perjury, and that he deserved death. Consequently, what he revealed was lrne;
otherwise he could not b~ guilty of perjury. He did not swear that he would not tell or write
an untrut/i.-but that he would not.. re11eal the secrets of muonry. Admitting1 then that the
seerets ofmasonry: have been fully revealed : Jet us look at the first act ofoperung a i~e and
introducing 11 candidate. The lodge is OJ?8ned by prayer. Here Jet me state, that some years
since a grand master ofa lodge boarded m the same liouse with me, and endeavoured to enlist
me under the banners of free.masonry1 and, besides other means, and in order to" reach.Wiie
orgam of my fancy," he took me into Ule lodge ro<im and exhibited to me the furniture and
finery, which truly was elegant. Finally, he ascended the stees and too~ the ~d master's
chair behind the altar, and put a high cap on his head, on which was written, m Jar~ gilded
letters, "Holineu lo Che Lord."· I was shocked a.t the prof!Ulity of this e#llbition. I knew
him ~ be a man profane and lewd in his language, intemperate and debauched in his habits.
Y.et such a character, and perha.P.8 th~re are other.grand mas.ters eq~y ~oral, opell!' lodges
with prayer-theycall upon the mfirutely holy"Being-askhim for his blessmg upon thw unhal-
lotoetfdoings-plead his promise, " Thal t0hen lt.00 or lhree are met logethn' ill IM name, lhal he
uiiU be in lhe midal of them, ond blm thffll." Again, they profess to " dedicate their l~ to
God, and hold it forth to the holy order ofSt. John," &c. Do they not thus insult the majesty
of heaven1 Would it not be more appropriate to dedicate it to "Bacchus,"or someother fableil
heathen de!ty1 The very firqt ,step the candidate takes when he enters the lodge, he treads
under foot the positive laws ofGod, who says, " Tlwu &halt not lake the nlJllU of lhe Lord thy •
God fa 11ain." Christ says, "Slllear nol at all." He takes an uillawful oath-he forswears
himself; he puts his life in jeopardy for the most triJl.ing cause, and he irreverently and insult.
ingly calls upon the Almighty to witness the presumptuous violation of his own Jaws. Is it
not an insult-is it not an approach to blasphemy, to say, that ~ institution which performs
such rltes and ceremonies is of divine origin 1 Is it not an insult to Infinite Wisdom to say
that he is the author or institutor of such fooleries and mummeries as are exhibited in a lodge
room1 They assume the names, the titles, and the attributes ofGod: 801ln"ftgn ofsovereigns,
I am thal I am, Prince ofMercy, lllld Prince of Peace. The grand mas~r ofthe ceremonies in
$0Dl8 instances personifies the Lamb ofGod, in opening the seven seals, the Great JehtroaA be-
hind the burnin~ bush, saying, " I am the Lord thy God, lhe God of .Bbraham, qf Iaaac, .nd of
Jacob." Raboni, Immamul and Jt°IW1Jah, are profanely used as pass words. I select but a few
out ofmany instances in which the name ofGod is profaned and blaaphemed in the performance
100
or their ceremonies. The book of their t'elJelaffolll is before ydu and the world; and j~ ye
upon what round11.tion they build their claim ror the divinity of the free-mason instituuon.
Again, they pretend that their institution is the "handmaid to reltgioa and a aclaool ofmoralily.•
Religion is 11. vague term. They no doubt, however, mean to convey to us that it is the OMV.
ffan religion. There are various religions in our world. Christian, Jewish, Mahomedan, and a
l!TP.at many others unnecessary to enumerate. Hear what one of their lecturers says, in his
" Masonic Guide"-James Hii.rdie. "The solemnityofour rites embraces all that 1Hfrl ofreli-
gion from which morality is derived, calls our attention to the Great Architect of tjte universe,
the Creator of us a!L In contemplating his wisdom, goodness, and i;iower, the .M~
under one name, the JeVJ and Chmlian under another, can join in adoration, all agrtring in the
great ustnlial and universal principle ofreligion, the recognition and worship ofa Drilfl, although
differing in some minute points peculiar to each. When the lodge is closed, each de~rts un-
tainted by the other, the JtVJ to his aynagogue, the .MtJliotmtan toliis moaque, and the Chriatiaa
to his church, as ftdly impressed ·as ever with the dit>ine origin and rectitude of his 0t0n faille,
from the principles of which he has never for one moment deviated in thought, toord, or tktd!'
Free-masons have, indeed, copied after the plan of the grand impostor Mahomet. To make
their institution palatable, they have incorporated into their rites and ceremonies, Christian,
Jewish, Mahometan, and heathen rites; and probably, if they had it in their power would also
propagate their religion by the sword. They i;nay with 11.S much truth tell the Mahtimetan,
and the Jew, and the Pagan, that their institution is Ute handmaid of their religion, as the
Christian. But let us for a moment examine with what truth they can say, that the institution
of free-masonry is the handmaid to the Christian religion, and that it is a school of morality.
Religion and morality are inseparably connected; there can be no true religion without morality,
and all tru!l genuine morality is bottomed on religion. The fust oath they take when they
enter the lodge, they violate both the laws of religion and morality. Christ says, " Swear not
at all." Every oath taken is in fact profane swearing, because it 1s unauthorized. It outrages
religion and morality as much as the oath which Herod took ; it is not authorized, and not upon
a lawful occasion. They swear always to hail, and never.to reveal any ofthe secrets ther may
receive in a lodge; and that without any equivocation, mental reservation, or stlf-e1ia.non of
mind. Thus they surrender their right of private judgment, they chain their co~ences;
that monitor, that sentinel of moral action, placed in them by the greatAuthor of their being.
However their reason and their consciences may convince them that it may be a dutythey owe
to themselves, their country, or their God, to reveal some of the secrets communicated to them,
they cannot do it without breakinl!"' their masonic oath, and exposing themselves to the awful
penalty incurred by it. The very li:rst step.z therefore, they take, they deviate from the path of
religion, morality, and virtue, and every subsequent step they take in acquiring a knowlecll(e
of the sublime mysteries ofmasonry, they stray farther and farther from the road ofrectitmfe.
By the repetition of profane oaths their consciences become seared; they lose all sense ofrefi..
g10u8 and moral obligation, and are prepared for the commission ofevery species ofcrime. In
some cases they swear to keep all the secrets of their brethren, murder and treuon not excepted;
nay, further, they swear, in taking one of the degrees, thrice illustrious knights of the cross,
"That I will look upon his (that is, a brother knight) enemies as my enemies, his friends u
my friends, and stand forth to mete out tender kindness or tiengeance accordingly." In takini(
the same degree the candidate swears,. " Should he know a companion violate any essentiiil
part of this obligation, that he will use his most decided endeavours, by the bkaring of God, to
bring such person to the most strict and condign punishment, agreeably to the rules and usages
ofour ancient fraternity," (that is, to put him to a most cruel death, thrust a spear in his left
side, as was thrust into the side ofChrist,) "and this, by pointing him out to the world as an
unworthy vicious va,,<>abond; by opposin"' his interest; bY deran~ his business; by trans-
ferring his character after him wherever 'fie may go; by exposing him to the contempt of the
whole fraternity and the world during his whole natural life." Can we possibly conceive any
thing more directly at war with every principle of religion and morality1
A~n, many ~f their rites and ceremonies are awfully profane and anti-christian. In talcing
the aegree of lenight templar and Malta, after the candidate has taken the oath on his knees,
and his hands on the Holy Bible, he repeats the following obligation: "This pure wine I now
take (in the upper part of a human skull) in testimony of my belief in the mortalit'f of the
body and the 1n1mortality of the soul, and may this libation appear as a witness agamst ma
both here and hereafter; and as the sins of the world were laid upon the head of the Saviour,
BO may all the sins committed by the person whose skull this was, be heaped upon my head,
in addition to my own, should I ever violate," &c. This is called the sealed obligation. The
most excellent prelate then reads that part of the Scripture which relates to the election of
Matthias to supply the J?!aee of Judas.Iscariot. He walks round the room with the human
skull in one hand and a lighted candle in the other ; and these words are read, " So let your
light shine before men," &c. ; in other parts of the ceremonies, these words are read, "My
110ul is sorrowful even w1to death. Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me." Thus
the sacred Scriptures are profaned and burlesqued. ·1n taking the degree ofknights orthe holy
sepulchre, the seven candidates kneel at the foot of the altar, and the most excellent ptelats
takes the bread, and says, "Brethren, eat ye all of this bread in love, that ye may learn to
11Upport each other." He then takes the cup, and says, ·~Drink ye all of this eup, to ratify tbl
vow that ye have made, and learn to sustain one lllWther."
, " • ••a
~... :
....
: : . . :.. .. ... . :lf)l
...: .. .. . . ... ~ . ~ .. .. ... .
DEB.lTES.
...... - . .. .... .. .. ~ .
Thu we perceive that one of the moet solemn and aatzed ordinances ~ihe~~· :
is ridiculed, profaned, and burlesqued. A farcical representation is given of the most. solemn •
event& recorded in the Scriptures. The reading of them in connection with ridiculous rites and
ceremonies, i&.calculated to destroy all veneration for the sacred volume. 'l'h11y ehow little
more. respect to the Bible than was shown to it during the reign of infidelity in France, when
it was tied to the tail of an ass, driven through the streets of Paris, and burned. The most
fundamental doctrines ofthe Ohristian religion are rejecM:d or ridiculed ; faith and repentance
are excluded; the atonement and ini.ercession of Christ are not named aa at all necessary to
salvation ; on the contrary, the 1Gm1U11 of .Sdam, the blood of .86d, the rigAteoumu• of Setli,
and the coee!Mlllt of NoaA, are substituted in their place. The mason is taught that he must
"r..Ue mmaelfby degrees, until he reaches heaven; that his attachment to the statutes and rules
of the order in the end will make him deserving ofentering into the celestial Jerusalem." And
as a knight ofthe cross, he swears, " that he accepts of and for ever will consider the CfWI and
mark of this order as his fmly hope."
To obtain the requisitions necessary to make a good rnaaon, the candidate is thus ad.
dressed:-'-" Behold, my dear brother, what you must fight against, and destroy, before you
can come to the knowledge of the tnu Jood and sovereign happiness! Behold this monster
which you must conquer-a rerpenl which we detert as an idol, that isadored by theidiol and
the vulgar under the name ofReligion."
Such are the teachinp of the hand-maid ofreligion.
Mr. President: I thillk it impossible that any intelligent man can read attentively the oaths
and obligations, from the lovlut to the highest degree o(masonry, without being convinced that
they cannot be strictly obeyed without violating the principles of morality and religion--and
if they are not obeyed, the most awful penalties are mcurrild. If it be a school of morality,
thei{ teachers have been peculiarly unfortunate. I have been a long observer ofthe institution,
although I knew not its mysteries. I judged ofit by the rule given by the great moral teacher,
judge lhe tree by it•jruita. I never knew an instance of a vicious character being reformed by
'becoming a free-mason. But I have known many melancholy instances of young men offine
niorals, fine talents, and excellent education, after jo~ a lodge to become depraved, and
some ofthem dy_ing_a most miserable death. A man ofhighstand9gandcharaeter, belonging,
and who still belongs, to the institution, told me that ifa man was not a good man when lie
entered a lodge, it would not make hiin so. From a careful examination ofthe subject, I am
led to the conclusion, that lodges are generally synagogues of Satan, and schools offufidelity;
that the wit and the wisdom of men and devils combined, could not devise a plan better
calculated to destroy all sense ofmoral and religious obligatio111. Their midnight meetings, their
drinking and their revelling, inevitably lead to vitiate their lllanners and their moral& . No
man becomes completely depraved at once. Depr(Mllllion is a ~ual work. The student of
the nblime m,atmes ofmasonry is led on bythe ~ht of an ipu/tduua, step by step, until he
is plunged into the depth ofinfidelity, if not downright athrinn.
Mr. President: Free-masons demand respect to their institution, on the ground ofits bt;ing a
~ and charitable institution.
I have looked in vain for the evidence on which.this claim is founded. It appears to me
ealC!Jiated, not to widen and ezp1171d benevolent affections, but to cotltraet.and narrow them.
The eharitr. and benevolence inculcated by the GosJl4:1 is to embrace the whole human family,
as is beautifully il1U1trated in the story of the good ~Samaritan. The principles of masonry
circumscribe it, principally, if not exclusivelf, to their own fraternity-e.nd that, however
Unworthy the objects of their charity are. I know of few, ifany instances, even within the
pale of their own institution, ofany ell'.trao~ acts ofcharity. I know ofone instance at
least, ofa person who had many claims upon the mstitution, who has received no aid from it.
A gentleman married a lady ofconsiderable property; he joined a lodge ; became dissipated,
11"..giected his business, 'beiame embarrassed, mo~ his property to a brother· he died,
11".aving a widow with three helpless children. 'l'liiS benevolent brother11eized and sold the
whole of the property, and the widow and her in&nt children were thrown destitute upon the
world, without any means of support excepL that of her. own industry. The liand of
masonic charity was not, and is not held out to her. The probability ia, that many men,
deluded by the fallacious idea of aid from the society in case of distress, have been tempted
to idleness and dissipation, and by this means brought themselves and family to ruin. I
know also ofan instance of a mason throwing out fob• np. of distress, he impo~ upon his
brother, and swindled. him out of all his property-e.nd let\ him, and family, des~tu~. 'J'.he
lllA80I). indeed 1111ear1 that he will not wrong a brother out of a cent ; but for this v1olauon
of his oath he escapes with impunity. .
The various fala8 pretensions and artful devices of tree-masonry have been ex~ m
several reports in this convention. The institution seeks the aid ofsu~rstition, and envelopes
ilself in a guise of antiquity and mystery. Then it pretends to philosophy and letters;
to alchemy and the transmutation of metals. These pretensions are too absurd, or too
evidently false, toneed refutation. Theyexhibit on theircitl«;ndar the names ofall thegreat men
of ancient and of modem times. Tulial Cain for ex1UDple. Why not Cain the murderer?
lndeeli Mr. Hardie says he was ~y instructed in the art. Then they have Seth,
Nosh, Solomon, Nebuchadnezzar, Zerubbabel-honorary members, I presume. In ~ore
UIOdn t.ima, tbey bavc the uamea of Frederic king of Pruuia, Volt.aire, ltoboapierre,
' .. . . . -
:'\.0~ ~~~'::.~ :.-.~:..·\ \ ..~ {:<.'.·.: DEBATBS.
::&iiiAt:the late Duke·of'Orleans, Weishaupt, and king George the 4th. In· America anArnold
and a Burr. We envy them not the splendour and lustre which such characters shed 1lJIOD
their institution. They claim also a Washington and a Fayette. Washinl[ton has left .his
testimony of the estimation in which he held the institution. He declared hehad not been in
a lodge. more than Itoo ur llaree times in tlairly years: and in his farewell address, he gives a
solemn ~ to Americans, to bet0are of1eerd aocidiu, as dangerous to the libertieli ofthe
people. He virtually renounced his connexion with the institution, and that, too, ¥ early
as It was safe and prudent to do so. He was a brave man : he feared not to face the
mouth of cannon, of muskets-the edge of the sword, or the point of the bayonet. But
where is the, man with such iron. nerves or lion. heart, as not to fear the dagger of the
midnight assassin 1 Had he renounced or revealed the secret while commander m chief of
the American armies, no doubt he would have fallen in the next battle. Fayette. too,
when last in America, expressed his regret.at the multiplieation ofsecret societies. He had
witnessed in France the horrid murders and massacreswhich were produced by secret societies.
Masons claim, also, many ministers of the gospel. The most, ifnot all ofthem, were seduced by
false representations ; and when once ensnared, they knew not how to extricate themselves.
But we rejoice to see that manyare ~~:!,~the chain and coming from amon;them: and
we confidently trust tltat the time is app · , when not a single name of a minister ofthe
gospel will remain up<>n the lists ofmasonry.
- From every view I can take of the claims which speculative free.masonry has upon our
respect and veneration, I am tempted to pronounce them unfounded and false.
lam, however, oonstrained injustice to say, and I do it with pleasure, that there are many
individuals within the pale of the institution, whose merits entitle them to our respect and
esteellL
Mr. Premdent: I feel the high responsibility under which we are placed as members of this
convention. The result of our proceeil~ and ofthe suecellS ofthe efforts we are now making
U> put down speculative free-masonry, will deeply affect the future destinies of our country,
and the world, as it regards politics, morality, and religion. The question is, shall we
maintain the independence, purChased tr.m a foreign foe, at the expense ofiio much treasure,
ofagony, and of blood1 or lihall we submit to a still more tyranniCal and bloody despotimi.
spiimg up in the very bosom of our country1 No! I trust not.
I am confident that every member of this convention is prepared to adopt a hme:ua£e
similar to that expressed more than half a century ago, by the patriots and hel'0811 of t.lie
revolution, in this city, and near this spot, and say that we will support our independence at
the ex~nce ofour properly, our lwea, and our'""" laotaour.
ML HoHINS rose to make a ~le remark upon the report which had just been read,
begging leave to premise, that if this connntion had met for no other purpose than to hear
the reports that had just been presented, the time and expence would not have been
unprofitably appropriated.
Whoever reads tlie history offree.masonry, and compares it with known historical meta and
criticisms, as to its antiq_uity1 will find means to detect a fraud in almost every step. The
object which I have in view IS, to ask gentlemen who are conversantwithcriticism andhistory,
to be kind enough to tum their attention to this subject from time to time, with a Yiew r.e
bringing ou.t the imposture more prominently still.
Beveial instances hue been mentioned, and some now occur to me, though I claim no merit
for the suggestion, having received the hint from others. The amount Ofone is, that Saint
Jerome saw a masonic emblem upon the wall ofSolomon's temple.
Now it is known that St. Jerome flourished at the beginning of the fourth century; and,
therefore, at a period more than two hundred years after that temple was overturned, ao thau
there was not one atone remaining upcm the top ofanother. .
The report mentiowi a text in the Revelations, respec~ the white atone, in which a new
name was written, as applicable, in point of time, to the building of Solomon'B temple, which
was about the year three thousand ; thou.di that expression ~ the stone·with the
name written, was not uttered till about ihe year fo1ir thOUllll.lllfand iixty or 119venty; more
than a thousand years after the building ofthe temple.
I do not know that this is a subject which hasattracted attention at all; butthe text is this:
"To him that overcometh, will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white
stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no one knoweth, saving he that receiv-
eth it." ·
The masonic application of this text, is to a Jmr-stone ofan arch in king Solomon's temple.
The word stone, inthe text, doubtless referred toihejasper, amethyst, topez, or other preciou
stones worn u~n the ~r ·. and not to a ~ of lnarble suitable for the key-etone ofan
arch. There IS little doulit, Jn;:t the passage in Revelatio1111 refers to a precious stone, upon
which a name or cypher is engraven, and put qito a ring for the fine;er. "To him that over-
cometh, &e. will I ~ve a white atone"-the meaning of which is, f will give him a aignet to
p~ in a ring, and m that, the new name. But thi8 is applied, in masonic learning, to a key·
stone o>f marble.
This is only to call the attention ofgentlemen to the inconsistencies which abound thrclugh-
!>'lt. Whoever looks into the institution, will find that it is the product .of men exceedingly
gnorant. I am bold to say, for the hOnour of mycountry, &hat there ia not a oompuy iJf
DEBATES. lOS.
Ammcan brick masons to be found, who, if they should attempt an imposition, would not ho
capable ofbuilding up a more plausible fa.bric, than this wretched conception ofLondon brick-
layers.
~ Tll,lCBEk said, that two or three facts had been omitted, which he would take the
li~y to state, as to the incon~ty of masonic history and the sacred writings.
In the royal arch degree, the high priest proposes to take the ark of the covenant, which
had been deposited at the building of Solomon's temple, from under ground, below the sanctum
sanctonun, together with the book of the law, and tlie pot ofmanna, which was to be laid up
for a memorial, and the rod ofAaron, which budded 8.na blossomed, in testimony of ·the com-
mission which God gave to Aaron, the high priest, in the wilderness.
.This, ifwe look into scri.i>ture history, we shall find, contradicts the words of divine revela-
tion. When Solomon finished the temple, it was stated that the ark of the covenant was
brought in and placed-where1 Not in an arch under the sanctum sanctorum, but in the
sanctum sa.nctorum itself, where the lamp was burning. It was said that in the ark there was
nothing but the two tabletsofstone. Here there is an evident contra.diction and interpolation.
It is declared that the rod ofAaron, and the pot ofmanna., were deposited in the ark; but there
is not the least intimation in the scriptures, that they were ever deposited in the ark. We
have no account that any· thing .-as deposited in the ark, save the tables ofstone which
were given to Moses upon Mount Sinai, and upon which were engraven the teneollllil8lldments
by the finger ofGod.
We have, to be sure, an account that a ~ was filled with manna., and la.id up for a testi-
mony, but not that it was put into the ark. We have also an account that the rod ofAaron,
'to diBtin~ it from the rest of the rods of the Levites, budded and blossomed, and brought
forth fruit of almonds; and we know not that this rod was in exis!.Jlnce, or that the pot of
manna was in the days of the Jewish temple.
Here there is an evident contra.diction, or incongruity. Masonic tradition runs in the face
and eyes ofscripture history, and one or the other of them must be false.
There a.re so many inconsistencies in the first three degrees, that men of sense have .
been utterly a.ahamed of them. It was confessed by Dr. Dalcho, that he was ashamed to
introduce·the scriptures, while lecturing upon the first three degrees, when any person of
intelligence was able to prove them false,by the very book u~ which they adminis-
tered their oblie;ations. He adds one or two examples: one ofwlllch is, that cassia. was tbund
!Ewing upon the grave ofHiram AbifF, when he was buried by Jubela., Jubelo, and Jubelum,
the side of Mount Moriah. But, says the learned doctor, cassia does not grow in ~e
unate of Jerusalem. In fa.ct, it would be tedious to enumerate all the absurdities and incon-
sistencies that have crept into the three degrees. He speaks of ~f in his lectures, and
makes it appear that these degrees are absurd, and contradictory to a high degree.
Here we have the testimony of a man of high standing, who had ta.ken many degrees,
and been in great repute in the fraternity. And with regard to the antiquity of free-
masonry, masons have been themselves convinced that these pretensions are false. Dewitt
Clinton was himselffully convinced of it, and so expressed himself in a public address. He
also diBcanled the idea that Pvthaltoras and VitruVIus were masons. These ideas were ex-
pressed in his address, at the Installation of Stephen Van Rensselaer, as grand master of the
grand lodge ·of the etate of New-York; and he considers these circumstances as having done
great injury to the cause of masonry. Be admits, that their :eretensions to antiquity, and
iheir e1aimfug all the learned and wise men of ancient times, as its members and patrons, is
utterly inconsistent. .
There are many other facts which might be named, bnt I give these ts a specimen. Every
perso11; who :will go into an examination ofthis subject, will fuul that ma.sonic history is full of
lDOOlllllSteDCle&
ML Ru11 said, while others have shown that masonic pretensions are inconsistent with
ancient history, I will show that they are inconsistent with themselves, from the very
D&ture of the 'ease, and the facts set forth; for they could not have taken place at the
time of its origin.
Passing by other ~possibilities, the idea that Solomon would have submitted to the
degrading ceremony ol being led round a lodge room with a halter about his neck, is
altogether improbable, as well as that fact which relates to the slaying of Hiram the
widow's son. ·
We are informed that all who knew any thing of this matter, were Solomon, Hiram of
Tyre, and Hiram the widow's son. They also inform us that certain individuals wishina:
to obtain the secret word, in order to travel into distant countries and,paas for masters, ana
get ~her ~ la.id in wait to obtain it from Hiram the widow's son.
I asTr. why did these mea require this secret word, if Solomon and the two Hire.ms were
the only persons who could know the word? or from whom could they get higher wages,
if these gentlemen alone were acquainted with that word ?
Then, passing over the ceremony of killing Hiram Abit; this. is a contradiction of scrip-
ture histOry; for they intbrm us that he lived to perform all the works that the Lord gave
him to do. Now I llsk this convention to look at the scene of raising Hiram after he had
lain in the gra-ye fifteen da~ Solomon is represented as rais!ng him upon the live point&
offellowship, viz. too~ to foot, bee to Jwoe, bteUt to bnut, band to 1iaek,&nllmouai to oar.
1
I
I
104 DUATU.
Just ofa _piece are all the ceremonies offi:ee.masomy·; and if it be doubted bv any, it can
be shown m every degree1
. for its inconsistencies are so distinctly marked, tbat no man,
examining the subject, as aid down in elder Bernard's book, can rise from the examina-
tion without being fully satisfied, that ahe is as false as the father of lies.
Ma. B&RNAaD.-I would call attention for a moment to some points which have been
passed over in the remarks respecting the antiquity of this institution. The first is, the
pretension offree-masonry to be a source ofreligious mstruction. It has been said that it is not
religion ; but I conceive that to be a religious institution, which pretends to make men better,
for time and eternity-that by which men can be raised from death to a state ofglory at the
right hand of God. ·
.But I come fu fi:ee.masonry itselt to the principles of the institution as laid down in all
the degrees offree-masonry, from that ofentered apprentice, to the forty-eighth inclusive.
In the first degree, the man is taught that, by the common gavel, operab.ve masons prepare
stones, and fit theni for the builder's use; but as free and accepted masons, they are tauglit to·
Ull8 it for a more noble and glorious purpose-for divesting their hearts and consciences ofall
the vices and suei:rftuities of life, theretiy fitting their minds, as living and lively stones, for
that spiritual building-that house, not made with hands, eternal in the heavens.
The speaker proceeded to recapitulate the prominent fea\ures ofvarious other degrees, inclu-
ding the royal lirch, the grand elect, perfect and sublime masons, knight of the sun, &c. The
thrice illustrious knight of die cross swears, "by the honour and power of the mark of the
holy and illustrious order ofthe cross," which he holds to heaven in his right hand, and in the
dread presence ofthe most holy and Almi&:hty God, " that he Willaccept of,and for everconsider
the cross and mark ofthis order his onlylioJMi" rather than a dependence on the blessedJesus,
in preparing him for the right hand of God m heaven.
These, then, are the pretensions of free-masonry, to make men better for time and eternity;
but they are pretensions false and delusive. And I would ask the members of this convention,
whether, within their own observation, they have ever knowri men to be made better in this
life, bl' their attention to the principles offree-masonry, or whether the}' have known one man
to be1ead·thereby from the paths of i:niq_uity to those of virtue 1 or what evidence have we,
that any man ha.ii been placed in the glorwus hope ofa blessed immortality beyond the grave,
~the inftuence of I.his institution1 -
~.in all its religious pretensions, is an imposture.
One point more. It pretend& to ha-re the righteous power oftaking human life; this a very
hildl assumption, and its exercise is supportedoy facts. .
ln the finlt plaee I would remark, that in most of the degrees oftree-masonry there are oaths;
the penalty imposed by those oaths is usually that of det1-t.h. But it is said that no one is swom
to i.Il1lict this penalty.
In answer to thi8 objection, I would obse"e, that the organization of tree-masonry is like
the organization ofany other go-rernment. A constitution is Iii-st adopted, then laws are ~msed,
with penalties affixed, according to the natUl"ll ofthese lawsi and at a subsequent period officers
are appointed to inftict those penalties. If in the lower aegrees ob~tions ancf penalties are
imposed, and at the same time none appointed to inllict those penalues, still I object to the
argument ; for it is clearly proved, tliat in the ~her degrees the duty of in1licting them is
pomted out. I ha-re myself taken an oath, which laid me under a solemn obligation to inftict
tlu1_penalty ofthe laws of maaonry upon all those who are the -riolators of such laws.
The elected knil!:hts ofnine are to take vengeance, not onlr on the murderers ofHiram Abllf,
but on all those wlio betray the secrets of that degree. But I would further remark, that sub-
sequent to the orgiWzation of thie go-rernment, laws were made to bind indi-riduals. The}"
ha-re power to inflict the penalties which they have affixed to the laws. The very making Of
a law is a manifestation that there is power to administer the law; the a1IWng a penalty to
any law whatever implies the power to inftict that penalty<
But what ha-re the fraternity spoken upon this subject 7 They- have spoken volumes, and
-1ed their testimony with the blood of an individual. Not only before the abduction of
William M~rgan, but since, I have heard masons in the lodge, and out of the lodge, assert
that it was rigtl.t to inftict the penalty ofdeath upon those whO betray the secrets of the oRler,
anli since the fate ofMorgan was known, I have heard it justified by the fraternity.
I heard nearly one hundred ma811118 in a lodge room maillfest that it was right that Morgan
should be murdered, his tongue cut out, his throat cut from ear to ear, &.c. &.C. And in this
eoncla-re, among the knight templan and high priests, ~ was an almost unanimous appro-
bation of the eentiment.
But I oBer a still stronger testimony than this, in the case of the abettors and murderers of
William Morgan. These individualsnave been named and published to the world1 and the
fraternity have covered them in their guilt, and shielded them from the lust penalties of the
laws of their OOllD!J.T· Tlley were proved guilty of the abduction of Morgan. [Here tho
Bpellker was interrupted.]
T•s Pus1D1111T mterpoaed upon lhe point oforder. If gentlemen were permitted to range
tGe field of debate at pleasure, and to allimadvert at length upo.n subjects, whether proper or
~. then would the deba.tea eCthis convention be intermiriable. Though the chair would
.,._toci. oloq.a& ~ ·l'oa New-York with as much p1euure u any member ofthe
eomention, still, he thoue:ht the range too wide, anq hoped the gentleman would Proceect,con-
fining himselfmore closefy to the report uµder consideration.
The ~er offered a few explanatory remarks, in which he professed to have intended ap-
plying his observations to ~ints of vital importance to religion and his country, but wotild
waive further remarks, giving the floor to a gentleman upon the opposite side of the house.
(Mr. Armstrong.) · .
Ma. ARMSTRONG wished to call the attention of the convention to a single point. It is known,
said he, that the institution of free-masom y claims an internal power of concealing the ruiture
of its own principles ; that is, those things that are declared to be secret. It has been fre·
quently said that free-masonry can never be revealed.
The question now is, how does this declaration comport with facts 7 It has come to pass,
in the forepart of the nineteenth century, and in this western world, in the western part of the
state of New-York, that that claim of free-masonry has been broken down. Though it was
claimed that this fortress was impregnable, yet it has come to pass that one man has broken
down the barrier ; William Morgan has diVulged the secrets of free-masonry, and they are
now fully open to the world. .
Is their claim, then, in this particular supported 7 No. The world have the secret; old
and young, rich and eoo!• may read and uniferstand whadt is, and whetlier it is good or bad.
We see, then, that this claim JS not supported by facts.
I rise to introduce asingle incongruity in theclaims offree-masonry. It has ever been claimed,
that the ancient landmarks of free-masonry could not be done away or changed. The ancient
landmarks ofmasonry, as they are called, are not found in any single. fl.Ct, sign, grip, or word;
but the1 are all the established signs, rites, and ceremonies of the three first degrees in ma-
sonry. I have this from hil!:h masomc authority, that these are the ancient landmarks. Now
the signs and emblems of tliese first three d~!I, masons claim were established at or before
the time of buildin&' the temple of Solomon. Be it so ; the cliart or carpet of the master's
degree has upon it ibe letter G, of the modern, or Roman English alphabet. This, according
to the showing ofmasons, must have been placed there as early as the building of the temple.
I have taken some paiiis to ascertain the tact, and find that the letter G, or any other letter
aimilar, did not exist till several centuries after the building of the temple.
Ma. SLaz, of Vermont, said that, although the subject of the report had been discussed
at considerable length, he would ask the indulgence of, the convention to offer additional re-
marks.
One of the most distinguished of the pretensions of free-masonry i~ that it ie the "hand-
taaid of religion." We ail know, Mr. Piesiden~ how intimately aBSOC1ated is the idea of re-
ligion with every thine: that is valuable in this life, and with all our hopes and aspirations,
connected with that wliich is to come. We know what a vast proportion of the population of
our country are re~ous, and with what favour they regard every thing, which comes to them
clothed with such high pretensio11& It is upon the strength of such pretensions, emblazoned
upon its ti-ont, that masonry has drawn witliin its embrace great numbers of the ministers of
::!f::-deluding them into a belief that it was an institution of Divine origin, and capable of
· them "wise unto salvation." ,
To sustain the pretensions of masonry, to be the handmaid of religion, it is called a clurrit-
uk imlitution. It is not merely asserted that masons are cliaritable, but that charity constf·
tutes a leading feature of their institution. And what is charitf 7 Its essential principle
ia an enlarged and expansive benevolence-good-will to man-man in the largest and most ex-
tensive sense. Every human being it regards as a brother, no matter what may be his colour
or condition or charaet6".; and no ma~ to what association he may belo~, or by wh'!-t nam~
he may be called. He 1s a human bemg bound to every other human being by the ues of a
common origin, and a common destiny. it cannot contemplate him a moment without feeling
the force of these ties ; awl, ureed by the impulse of its own divinity, it opens wide its arms
and lijes to the relief of his suJferings. It " does good and lends, hoping fw nothing again;"
and is the child of that Father "'Yilo maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and
1C11deth rain on the just and on the unjust."
But what is the charity of masonry1 Sir, it is the charity of eelfishn-.a charity which
begins and ends with the fraternity-a fraternity, from whiCh are systematically excluded all
rio are most likely to beeome the subjects of its boU11ty.• Is the noble principle of Christian
charity cherished by an institution which gives to its bounties auch an exclusive direction 1
Does that association deserve the name of claaritabk, which gives to the ties of an artificial'
brotherhood a greater atrellltth than thOBe by which the Father of all has bound together the
~t family ofhis childrenl
But masonry fails in its pretensions to be the handmaid of religion in a ret more important
f!!Uticular. The most prominent feature of the Christian religion is a spirit of forgiveness ;
the spirit which most of all distinguished the life and doctrines of its divine Author. And in
• Hardie's Monitor, a standard masonic work, llpe&kiog ofthe quali&cations (or membership, says-
"Men in loto cin:u....-, although pou-.1 of some education, and of good morals, are noilit to be
membel'll of the institution. They ought, previous to their application for admislion, to consider their
moo•, and the aituation of their f'uailia, and know that freemuonry requires, not only knowledce,
bat aue~ ud d._t menial appearuu:., &o mailltaia ud auppon i&a .....,., "••""'6ililf -
~...
106 Dl!BATtS.
what part ormuonry is this spirit to be found 7 Where is it inculcated 7 Where so much -
even alluded to 1 The handmaid ofthe reliirion of JesQB Christ, and yet a stranger to forgive-
ness I But it is not merely a stranger to furgiveness; it cherishes, 1t inculcates the opposite
spirit-the spirit of ven.,creance. No man can yield himself up to the fuJJ in1luence of free..
masonry, without having all the kindly feelings ofhis nature ex~shed, with regard to those
who secede from the institution. Nor is this spirit found alone m those degrees of masonry
whose oaths expressly bind to the in1liction of vengeance on masonic traitors. It nece8earily
results from the whole of the masonic constitutio1,1. Let ~y J>rivate 8880ciation ormen become
bound together by oaths, whose sanctions are torittm mblood, and, whatever else may belong
to it, vengeance instantly becomes a leading feature in its character; and it requires no e:.rtn.-
ordinary knowledge of the nature of the human mind, to :eei:ceive how eminently fitted to
cherish that spirit, is the secrecy and the mysttry oC the masome institution.
What is thus manifestly true of the theory ofmasonry, is strikingly 80 as to its practice. To
violate its secrets is regarded as a sin 80 surpassing all other sins, as to place the offender utterly
beyond the reach of mercy. Masonry contains no provision for his restoration to favour.
There is no seceder, there 18 no man who has decidedly opeosed masonry, who has not aeen
and felt the force of this fundamental princi.ele orthe institution.
And is the character of an:r. other institution among us thus marked 7 Do we, fur eumple,'
see the spirit ofmasonry exhibited towards seceders from any ofour churches? They do, in-
deed, become the objects of displeasure. But does this displeasure a.ssum.the character of
masonic veageance 1 Are they systematically assailed witli slander, and made the victims
of an untiring and relentless persecution 1 And what is the sin of seceding from maaonry,
· or of ofposing the institution, that it should meet such, a fearful and unwonted retribution
as·this
Nor is the exhibition of this spirit confined to the abanOoned and proiligate members of the
fraternity. In too many cases is it manifested by men making high c1ainis to goodness; and,
what is still more strange, by men who, with regard to almost every thing else, seem to SUBtain
that character. They are good neighbours and good citizeJl& Towards all others but tho ob-
jects ofm111onic displeasure, they are kind, and generous, and forgiving. But here, alas, th9'
exhibit a spirit utterly at war with the benign religion which they profess. It is not the onfi..·
nary feeling ofdispleasure at supposed wron_g ; a feeling which, enn in its excesses, exhibits
traces of its virtuous origin. But it is vindictive in its very nature; and would seem to be·
BILtisfied with nothing short ofthe utter extermination orits victims. .
Such, sir, is the s.euit ofmasonry. We have all seen it ; and there are, J1n>l?al>Iy few mem-
bers of this convention who have not felt it, in its effects upon them, persoiialfy. How many'
have seen their warmest friends suddenly and strangely alienated from them, withholding even
the interchange of ordinary civilities, beCause they have, in the honest sincerity of their 110uls,
and in the exercise of their r~hts as citizens ofa free government, dared to investigate, and
expose, and condemn the institution of free-masonry. There are, to the honour of human
nature be it spaken, many exceptions to this remark, among thoee who are nominal members
of the fraterruty. They are men upon whose minds rnaso~ bas made but a comparatively
illight impression. But it is nevertheless true that its vindictive spirit bas experienced a living
illustration in great numbers, who have become most deeply versed in its mysteries, and whose
high standing in the institution gives assurance tbai they are far from being s&rallgers to its'
~~ =t.an institution longer delude the world by its pretensions to be tho handmaid of
the religion of the Prince ofPeace 1 · _
ML RuooL&a, of Massachusetts, concluded the debate. He said that he was aony to di&r
wi1h some of his friends on one point. He had long been convinced that masonry was charita-
ble, for "it covered a multitude e/ riu." He had no objection that the brotherhood ahould
exercise dominion over themselves, so long as they did not interfere with the rights and liber-
ties of others. He was unwilling to submit to a right claimed by them to control the courts
and the l~tive and executive oranche.8 of the government. Let them legislate for them-
selves, but not for us. Let them drink out of eadi other's llkullll, but not out of ours.
The report was adopted.
On motion of ML Ssw.um, of New·York, it was
Ruolvetl, That a committee orone from each state and territory here re~tedi.be appointed
to make a concise report on the progre111 of anti-masonry throughout the United 1::1tatea.
The report of ML HoPKJNB upon the obligation of masorue oaths was taken up, and on
motion to adopt the ssme,
Ma. W .&Lua, of Massachusetts, said, that be was as anxious to forward the busineaa of
the convention as any other member, but it had appeared to hilll, that the subject ofmasonic
oaths was the moat important subject that could he considered by this conventio!!l, and that
this report had the greatest bearful!: upon the future progress oranti-masonry. wnat we do
at this time, said he, will not pass Silently; we should, therefore, have a distinct 1µ1derstanding
ofthe subject in all its bearing& .
It seems that these oaths are neither morally, legally, or religiously binding; this is a l'Dll-
llideration vast!? important. The adoption of this report is calculated to "lay t1ie a:re at the
root of the tree of masonry. It ie tlie moat eft"ectuil measure that we can possibly take &o
destroy tho institution; for ifwe can destroy the.e oaths, the institution falla to the pound u
DEBATES. JOT
once. If the charm can once be broken-if it can be satisfactonly shown and J!IOVen that
these oaths are not binding, honest men and discerning men will come out and desert the in·
atitution.
I apprehend that i.Ilfinitely the greatest majority of masons are held to the institution, by a
alavilili belief that these oaths are binding ; they abhor the institution, but fear the oaths; and
ifwe can once convince them that these oaths are not binding; that they have no legal, moral~
or religious force, the institution is destroyed. And this is the great object for whfoh we have
here assembled. We have not assembled here to conjure up the ghost of Morgan, or to avenge
his blood, but to expose to public view the influence which the itiatitution of free-masonry has
upon public justice m our courts of law and halls of legislation ; and to show that these oaths
are not binding or ob':igatory. It appears to me, that this ought to be one ofthe most promi-
nent subjects oofore this conventio~t its iinportance ought to be deeply felt. .
We haTe assembled here to protect our own rights, and to break down this combination
against l!Olliety ; and in no way can we do it so effectually as by destroying these obligations.
. The arguments contained in the report are conclusive and full. The law takes no notice of
perjury, except it be committed in some court of justice. Now, the great cry is, that these
eeceders are not to be believed, that they are perjUred wretches. But they are not perjured
villains or wretches. To say so is a gross misuse of terms. They have broken their masonic
ob~tions, but they are not guilty of perjury. We cannot raise too lotld a voice 111<-ith regard
of tliese facts ; it will prevent the error from spreading. It is a masonic manreuvre, and ought
to be treated as such ; we ought to dwell upon it. The opposition tO these oaths is the sure
foundation ofanti-maso!1J1; it is what I understand to 6e true anti-masonry. I know the
general opinion is, that it JS an excitement got up about Morgan's murder ; and many suppoee
that we liave assembled here to arouse the community by a recapitulation of M01p!l'S abduc-
tion. That was indeed a horrible a.ft"air, an infamous transaction, and it seems as ifthere could
be hardly enough said upon the subject ; but when compared with these oaths, it is ofno con-
&equenee, except to show that masons do consider these oaths binding ; that they thought it
necessary to take the life of a fellow-mortal ; to destroy a man for committing no crime, but
telliT.ngh th!' truth.the ~ if L--1- th . . tha . hs b" .i;n.
ere JS ano r ; we can u...,.... up e nnp1'6S81on t masomc oat are m'""fi,
masons will not feel ed on to perjure themselves in courts of justice.
Now, a royal arch mason feelsl>ound to extricate his compsruon, whether right or wrong;
and if bro~ht into a court of justice to swear against a royal arch mason, he cannot, if he
feels his obligations to be binding, do justice to his country,.though he feels deeply the interests
of the community. But if he can only be persuaded that the obliitations which were imposed
on him were wholly unlawful, and, frcim that fact, not in the least aegree obligatory, he is pre•
~ to do-justice and act honestly.
Two great objects of anti-masonry are to purify courts of jusi.ice, and to emancipate the
press. But the object which comes nearest our hearts is, to destroy the influence ofthese oaths;·
mstead ofdwelling.upon w~t.is past, w~ C?ught to go forward to the great princiP.le, that these
oaths are at war witli public right. This JS what we·oilPt to dwell upon at all times ; honest
!Den w;ill then desert tlie fraternity ; the enemy only will remain, to meet their fate in the fil.11..
~X:Otion was made to amend the clause in the report, where the number of masons in the
United States is stated at 200,000, !>Y striking out tliat number1 and inserting 100,ooq, which
ia the number mentioned in Ma. W •aD's report. On this motion,
ML W HD, as chairman ofthe committee who made the re:eort upon the origin of free-ma-]
, kc. pn>Cle6ded to explain the manner in which the coDllDlttee had arrived at the estimate
~,000. They had been principally governed by the published documents of the frater-
nity. He had no objection to the insertion of a greater number, provided that num1'er were
nearer the truth.
In a work published by the fraternity, he found the number of lod,l!l's enumerated from one
to five hundred and eight in the state of New-York. Pennsylvarua furnished about three
hundred. The chapters are regularly numbered-each number having its chapter-he had
not however been in possession ofdocuments which would enable him to determine the precise
number in the Union. .
In 1815 a regular return was made, in which the whole number of lodges was estimated at
less than 1500. And as far as my experience in free-masonry goes, said the s~er, I am or
the opinion, that ifthere are but 1500 lodges, there are probably not more than 500 chapters,
making an aggregate of 2000 lodges and Chapters. The Book o! Constitutions of Massilehu-
1etts, states, that when the number of members in a lodge exceeds 30 or 40, the brethren
generally find it convenient to se~ and make a new body. In addition to the conve-
nience professed, it delights men so much to be styled .Moat Wor11aipfal. that there is no doubt
they improve their privilege to the full extent-in the country they certainly do so. And I
enture myopinion, that the lodges throughout the country,~ not furnish more than from 35
to 40 actual members. There are to be seen, in all parts of the country some who do not be-
lODg to any lod&'e; they joined the lodge, but became sick ofit and abandoned it; or they have
iemoTed from ihe place in which they were made masons, and have not thoueht fit to attach
themselves to anodier lodge. There are, perhaps, about one third of the whole body, who do
80t llQlllber iD die lOdgu; if thae be added to thOIO already enumerated, it will increue the
108 , , DEB.A.TES.
aumber.f'or eailh lodge and chapter to about 501 making~ aggregate or 100,090 members. I
think this estimate large enougli ; still, if there IS any additional illfonnation to be thrown out,
I shall be glad to hear it. But we are not to take the estimate of our enemies upon this sub-
ject, who boast of an institution coeval with Adam and Solomon. ·
Now the grand chapter pretends to come from the days of Zerubabbel, and from Moses even,
when it is ascertained that it originated in 1747, and not before. Previous to that period the
royal arch eaapter had not a name, found even upon the books of the order.
We have paid sufficient attention to the antiquity of.the institution; and their pretensions
as to numbers, are probably as false, as they are shown to be in relation to the antiquity of the
institution, or its claim to l;>e the handmaid of religion.
Ma. Moan, of New-Jersey, said, that he haif travelled extensively, and been acquainted
with lodges in thirteen 11tates of the union, and he was quite sure that Mr. Ward's calculation
was even beyond the fact. He had never known a body of masons to keep together over one
or two years ; they would disperse, in order to hold offices, and he had coruii.dered their claim,
as to numbers, a "t11111onic truth."
Ma. PAIN&, of Rhode Island, said, that considerable pains had been taken in Providence.
Rhode Island, to ascertain the number belonging to the fraternity. Muons had estimated
their number at 5 or 600 ; but, upon investi~tion, they had been unable to make out more than
250. He thought the probable number in tne state was about 1000, and as the state contained
something near 100,000 inhabitants, these facts would go to C(!nfirm the accuracy of the esti-
mate given in the report; as there were probably as great a proportion of maspna in Rhode
Island as in any other part of the country. ·
Ma. Paw:LPs of Massachusetts, remarked, that when the inquiry commenced a year ago,
they were told hy masons, that the number of the fraternity in Boston was 6000. BOston con-
tains little less than 62,000 inhabitants.
The whites, he said, had five lodges, two chapters, and one encampment; and there was one
lodge, one chapter, and one encampment of blacks. The number of blacks in the city he esti-
mated at 300.
Much pains had been taken by the suburb and city investigating committee., consisting of
one hundred and twelve persona ; they had been at work for eight or nine months, and Dad
taken a great deal of pains to investigate the suJ>ject effectually; and instead of 6000, they
had been able to find out, so far, but about 800. He was pretty well satisfied, by the efforts
already made, that they would never be able to find masons enough to encrease the number
above 800 ; and from the relative .proportions of inhabitants and masons, in the city of Bee-
ton and town of Providence, he believed the estimate of tlte report to be a full and ample
estimate.
The amendment prevailed, and thus amended the report was adopted.
The report of Ma. W AaD, from the committee to mquire and report where free.masonry
originated, l!te. kc. being ealled up for consideration,
Ma. SswAaD moved to amend the report, by strikingout the words" Satan's symgogue,"
usedin application to the ~~c institution, and by inserting, in lieu, tha,eof, the words "un-
ballowedtemple." On this motion,
Ma. W .t.BD, chairman of the committee who made the report., remarked, that tlte phrase
occurred only in the conclusion or summing up, and that it was scriptural. In deference to the
feelings, or ratlter juditment of gentlemen of the convention, he would not insist upon the
propnety ofretaining tlie words as originally expressed; towards themembers ofthe fraternity
he CheriShed no unkind feelings : to tltem he wowd not apply harsh tenns ; but as it regardeii
the institution itself; he must confess that no language could adequately express the abhorrence
in which he held it.
Ma. HoLLT said, that synagogue was a term applicable to a place of worship. He hoped
that nothing would emanate from this convention calculated to give offence to any man. lie
would not appropriate to free-masons a temple in terms, by which oftence might be given to
any class of tlte community. For these reasons, he would prefer that the phraseology should
be changed.
Ma. Bo1Lu11 hoped the amendment would prevail; he could readily conceive that no lan-
guage was adll<J.uate to pourtray the feelinp of seceding masons i but if he had learned any
thing by experience, it was, that under all similar eiri:umstances, it IS the best and lll08t effectual
way to use aod terms. -
The amendment prevailed, and the report thus amended was adopted.
Ma. Punrs, from the committee apJ>Ointed to consider the proper business to be suhmitted
to the convention, submitted tlte following resolution, which was adopted.
Ruolfled, That a committee of five be appointed to report upon the effects of free.JllallOIU'Y
on the Christian religion.
The convention acl)ourned to four o'clock. At four they re-assembled.
A resolution reported by Ma. -Ruoous, authorising the committee or finance to obtain
suhacriptions to defray the expenses of lbe convention, was adopted.
On motion of Ma. GauN, a commit~e was appointed to consider and repol1 at what time
•.he convention may comp!ete its business, and adjourn rine die.
Ma. Aul1Tao111e, of New·York, from the committee of aecodinJ JDASODI, made a JeWled
D'&B.AT88.
report, gi'ling a ~ or the oaths, oQligations, and prominent pomta in each degree et
me-masonry. The report was laid upon the table.
Mil. HoLLET, of New-York, from the committee to whom the duty ofpreparing it had been
assigned, reported an addre!s to the people of the United States. The addreas,waa laid upon
the table.
Mil. MuNuD, ofNew-York, then said, that in the language or another, uaed on another
occasion, he would say, "To-day, we have done enough for glory." He then moved that \he
convention adjourn. Thereupon, '
Adjourned to 9 o'clock to-morrow morning.
Thuraday, Sept. 16, 1830.
The convention met pursuant to adjournment. Prayer by the Rev. Ma. AlllllTBO•o, of
New-York.
Ma. Run, of New-York, from the committee on 'that subject, reported by resolution, that.
this convention will adjourn on Friday evening next, at 6 o'clock P. M. which was adopted.
· Ma. T ULoa, of New-York, from the committee on the iniuence or free-masonry on the
public press, made a report which was adopted. .
Ma. SEwARD, of New-York, from the committee on that subject, reported sundry resolu-
tions, which were read and laid upon the table. [See them among the reports.)
· Mil. W ALJtER, of Massachusetts, from tJi,e committee to inquire whether masonic oaths dis-
qualify men for offices in the gift of the pe(>ple, made a report, which.was read.and laid upon
the table.
The address to the people of the United States, reported by Ma. HoLLET, from the com-
mittee on that subject, was taken up.
Ma. Mzaa1c11:, of Massachusetts, said, that he felt unwilling that the able and eloquent
address to the peo.P,le of the United States, reported by the committee, should be adopted by
the convention, without drawing forth the expression ofthe opinions of its individual member&.
, This address, he continued, is an appeal to the whole people on a subS'ect which, in these
Jatter times, has been deemed, by no small portion of them, to b; of the · best moment and
deepest consequence. This strong feeling against free-masonry is of m em growth. For
many years-now nearly a century-the masonic institution has eXIBted within the United
- States; and, during some portion of th1.t period, has been cherished as an olrject of veneration
·· and respect. It has met with the favour of the people. . The membel'll, and many also who,
_ though not of itsfellowship, have been strangely deluded to become its advocstes, have repre-
. sented the institution as scarcely inferior in value to the prevailing reliirion of the land. In
some respects, sir, an extraordinary infatuation has lauded it, as even ofmore worth than that
inestimable religion. If such representations were correct ; if the praises which have been
lavished, and the charms which have been ascribed to it, we\.e but its faithful part!"Bit, then
indeed is every effort to O,Ppose its existence, its progress, and its triwn,Ph, most injudicious, and
most unjust. How unwise, that we should be gathered together in this convention, to attempt
the prostration ofan institution, which is, in truth, shedding light and imparting comfort, not
merely to the namiw circle of these United States, but 8lJ abroad, to the farthest verge of
civilization.
I do not yield to these opinions. I concur, sir, in the sentiments which the reported address
before us expresses of free-masonry. I believe the institution is not only wholly worthless,
but that it is positively injurious and bad; that it is false in nearly all its outward pre-
tensions, and corrupt and rotten at the heart. I believe that its real principles and
characteristics, shrouded as they have been in ~e mystery of its cherished secrets, tend
to .debase and degrade mankind; and that if all its obligations were practically observed
in any community, containing a nwnerous fraternity within its limits, no govermoent
could stand before the inevitable conflict which would ensue.
What is this institution of free-masonry 1 Is it the work of the wisest of the princes
of Judea, accomplished while he was building that gorgeous t.emple of Jerusalem, -which
was the glory of his own, and the wonder or succeeding generations 1 Did he call to
bis councils the royalty of Tyre, and, with him, and the son of the widow, withdraw
to some hallowed recess, where, undisturbed by the claims of people, of government, and
Jcingdoms, and temples, they might devise or reorganise some g1orious institution to be sent
down to the latest posterity, to bind men together by the strong bonds of brotherhood,
and which, with the strength of union, should tend to the high elevation of personal
character, the purity of morals, and the advancement of every earthly interest1 And is
this the free.masonry of our age-the wonderful production of their guarded conclave v.nd
anxious meditations 1 No, sir, never! King Solomon never meditated, never dreamed
ef such a thing. His robe of majesty bore no such sullied spot upon its folds; \Uld it is as
unjust to his memory, as it is false in fact, to attempt to fix upon him the patemitr of an
institution, which, ifit were really the work of his creation, wowd dim the glory of his reign,
and tarnish all the mairnificence ofliis throne: But, instead of this boasted antiquity _and regal
birth, its age shrinks ifown before the gaze ofhistorical investigation, and the searching eye of
truth, to the very last century that has gone by : and then, as one of your accepted reports
satisfactorily establishes, it was seen emerging, with its first grand d~tary, from the Apple
Tree Tavern, in 1717. It is but the "creature oryesterday;" nor will it be a perversion ofihe
te:n ifwe add, that "it knows nothing." And it teaches nothing; for it has nothing valuable
110 l>EBAT£1.
·-or its own to teach. The moral virtues whicli are commended, and the re1i2ious eentimema
whicli are ~ in some of its published notil:e8t are borrowed elsewhere l'or its own ad.
nncement: It neither created, no!' originally promulgated them, to ~hten and improve the
world. Can this institution, thus resting, in its p~ to its origin and ege, u~n the
most palpable falsehoods, be the great fountain of morality-, and the "htindmaid ofreligion 7"
·What religion does it teach1 In Christian lands it lays down tile Bible upon its altar ; but,
careless of its revelations, throws it by for the Koran in the land of the Turk. Nor is free-
masonry, in principle or in fact, a benevolent institution. The outward version or its preten-
sions, indeed, vaunts largely upon this interesting feature, which, it claims, belongs to its
character: but within, it is, at best, but a narrow, confined, and avaricious aelilshness. Where
are its deeds ofcharity abroad 1 Whose sorrows have been soothed by its kind interference 1
Look at the facts stated in the report of one ofyour oommi.teee upon th.is subject ; and you find.
that thel'ecords of one ofthe lodges in the city- ofBoston present the astonishing and appalling
exhibition, that while in the period ofabout eighteen years, the sum of nineteen liundred dollsrs
was expended-or wasted rather-in gaudy trappings, iu insignificant tri1les, and :worse than
useless refreshments, only thirty-five dollars was devoted to the claims of Charity. Sir,
extraordinary- as this may appear,l believe that, as a specimen, it does not very unfairly
~bit the appropriation of masonic funds in any quarter of the globe. Let the institution
.open the records of any of its lodges or chapters, on this or the other side ofthe Atlantic, and
I think it will be found thu.t, in LOndou or in Boston, in Europe or in America, the distribution
ofcharity will compare with the rrofiigate extravagance ofits expenses, in somethinj:' like the
·proportion already mentioned. doubt if the records ofa single masonic congregauon in our
country, whether it be lodge, or chapter, or encampment; whether they contain· masters,
knights, or monarchs, will exlllbit a distribution of ten dollars in the hundred ofits receipts to
charitable purposes. What shall, or ought, to be said of the hoarding, or the expenditure, of
the l~ 1>alance which remains 1 . _
IfthlS institution offree-masonry is thus destitute of science and ofall means ofinstruction,
if it be neither the almoner ofcharity nor the handmaid ofreligion, what are its principles,
and where is its character to be 11'.arned 1 They may both, and all, be seen in its secret and
tremendous obligatio1111.
At the late inauguration of the high officers ofthe general grand chapter of the United States
at W ashin,.crton, during the last winter, the deputy grand high priest-the same individual who
had been ~ agent and officer to introduce free-masonry inl.o-'a neighbouring republic, and
which resulted in the direct production ofcivil confilct and mtestine commotion-took into his
hand a book of the constitution ofthe institution, and, speaking of the O.P~nents of the order,
observed, that if "they would only read the prayers and charges contamed in it, they would
not say, •we are oppoSed to all conventio~ ofmen where such doctrines are taught.' " Who,
sir, has opposed them 1 Who has spoken aught against the moral virtues or loyal duties
which are commended in these Books ofConstitutions1 Has any member of this convention
ventured to assert, here or elsewhere, that charity is not a high virtue, patriotism not honoura-
ble, and religion not ofmost momentoQS concern 1 No, sir; no such ~· We are opposing
free-masonry from the most deep-rooted and solemn conviction ofits injunous tendencies; bu
we are not struggling against the loyalty which is recommended in the char~ or the virtues
which are sought for in the prayers of its Book of Constitutions. Our object and our cause
involves no such necessity, because the Book ofConstitutions is not free-masonry, nor does ic
expound its real, genuine, characteristics and principles. Whoever seeks to know what &ee-
masonry truly is, must look far beyond such compilations, and beyond all the exaggerated
panegyrics ofits apologists and defenders. If any one should be so unwise ns to suppose that
all the learning and teaching of such works could initi~te him into the doctrines and the
knowledge of the craft, let him try the experiment; lot him garner in his mind all their
contents; and when his memi!:s~umbered with all the treasure he can gather from those
resources, present himself for · - n to a lodge. He will :find quickly, that without other
preparations, he cannot cross the threshhold of its stee~efended door ; and if he ever enter,
he will learn the humiliating and painful lesson, that these outward attractions have nothing to
do with the haughty, despotic, and dangerous principles ofits sacret obligations. .
It is upon them only-its obligations, its oath&--upon which free-masonry exclusively
rests. They make and constitute the institution. Without them it is nothing: with them
every thing Which we resist, which 'we denounce, and which we strive to overthrow.-
Take them away, its spirit and its essence is gone-the institution itself is gone. With
out them, it cannot be saved by its gorgeous utles, or its sounding paraphernalia ; it will
sink. in. spite of .its crown~ .and .mitres, 8;Dd breast-plates. F~ le9!1 can.it :fin~ safety ~
life m its degradmg formal1ues-m the miserable mummery of its Sign&, Its gnps, and lt8
pass-words, or in the absolute nonsense of its Ma.ha-bone. Free.masonry standB and lives,
alone, upon its oaths. They are the bonds which hold together what one of your
committees has ealled, "this gpeat temple, "wh0118 walls are living men." Take them
away, and its walls fall asunder at once; and that lofty edifice shall crumble instantly
into dust. That done, the work of desolation will not wait for the slow conosion or
passing ages to wear away the threads and fibres of its cable. They will bw·st at once.
The victory will be complete, and the struggle over for ever. .
There are, then, two ques~ons of an importance· not transcended by any whicli will
111
ncelve the de1iberat.e consideration of this convention, which ou.rW to lie ddennintd: Are
th& oaths oC free.masonry kriown, and are they legally or morally binding upon its mem-
llen1 Thoae !luestions are, in the address l>efore us, brie1ly, but ably and pertinently
answered. It 18 affirmed that they are known, and that they have no binding force.
It would have been my choice, t.ha,t the discussion oC t.his subject should have been
introduced and conducted by others. To dwell long and earnestly on this in$eres~ question,
may seem, in one who has renounced the obligations of the mystic order, and who, more for-
"tunate than the grand master in the tragic story of its fabled origin, has escaped from the
"temple with his life, something like a manifestation of a want oC personal vindication. Yet,
Bir, that is a feel.inlt which has created with me no agitating anxieties. Whoever knows the
relation in which rhave stood, and in which I now stand, towards the masonic institutio~
eannot be insensible that I must long since have met and answered this question for mysel£
It was considered faithfullv, and, to m~lf, was answered satisfactorily. It has been
elsewhere met and most a6Iy answered. It is done so in the argumentauve repart on that
irubject, submitted by the gentleman from New-York: and I believe, that the views therein
expressed will stand the test of the most rigid investigation. Yet there may, perhaps, be
some very fiuniliar lights in which this question may be further presented.
. But, Sil', though r have said that the obligatory character of masonic ob!Witions had long
since occupied my most careful consideration, I never felt, nor do I now feel, that I did make,
or that it was in my power to make, any disclosures of masonic secrets. Long befure I spoke
openly to the public, the press had teemed with the revelations of Morgan. The "L~ht on
Masonry," compiled and published by one of the members of this convention, was sheddmg its
rays in every direction. ·
Great numbers ofmen ofelevated and honourable character, in different and various parts of
our eounl!'f, had borne their personal testimony to the truth of the disclosures. What, there-
fore, had IJefure been secret was laid bare. Books, pamphlets, newspapers, had told, over and
·over again, the story of the hoarded mysteries of the craft. ; and the proofiJ of the in~t}' of
the revelations had swollen to a J11agnitude which no careful inquirer could possibly resist. To
speak then was little; it was but following in the pathway which fearless integrity had already
opened, and which had been made safe by the wide pervading jealousy ofan alarmed and reso-
lute people. Yet there was a time, when so to speak was most honourable daring Look back
but yet a little while, to the day ofthe meeting of the :first Le Roy convention. Few moments
of deeper interest can be found in the records of time. In the voluni.a:y disclosures, and the
bold emancipal.lon of the individuals of that body, is seell' a hardihood of mtegrity rarely paral-
leled. To the fearless resolution and the intrepid virtue exhibited on that occasion I have paid,
and shall not cease to pay, the homage ofmy unbounded respect. There are few men in any~.
who, at a time like that, and surrounded as they were, would not have shrunk back from the .un-
pending responsibilityoftheirsituation. Theystood isolatedand alone. Therewere no surround-
ing combinations to cheer and sustain them in their course. They had no guides but the convic-
tion of duty ; no support but conscious rectitude. They had indeed one example ; but that ex-
am11le was dreadful and appalling. The light which but a briefspace before had been struck up
by the revelatiorui ofthe western martyr1 was quickly quenched m the deep waters of Niagara;
and the anxious but ba11led solicitude 01 a rising people to discov~r
the r remains ofa mur-
dered Victim, spoke in tones ofadmonition, which could not be Ji ed. It was then, that
those men moved forward with fearless step in the pathway which ad led their only prede-
cessor to shameless brutality and barbarous death. Sir, it was an act of high-minded valour,
of disinterested and honourable patriotism, which stands boldly forth ; which merits, and I
trust will not cease to receive, the decided approbation ofevery intellii?ent, impartial, and in·
quiring mind. They discarded the oaths of free-masonry. It was a <laring act ; but it was
not that alone : it was honest also. Those oaths ought never to have been regarded as having
anrbindiug force.
take it, sir, that on very obvious and familiar principles, the enUre disregard ofthe oaths of
tree-masonry may be justified. I shall not occupy the time of the convention by references to
learned authorities, nor by citations from approved ethical writers. A few suggestions, arising
trom considerations whicli we are accustomed in all our daily avocations to apply, will be the
extent of the argument on which I propose to enter.
An oath is a promise sanctione4 by a direct appeal to God for the fidelity with which it shall
be observed. All promises are equally as bindmg as oaths. Yet from either, and from both,
there are common and frequent cases of absolution. The oath taken by the forty men who
bound themselves to take the life of Paul, mentioned in the Acts of the Apostles, is an obvious
and plain instance ofan engagement not binding. The wrong in that case, as in masonic ob-
ligatIOns, consisted in assuming it.
A promise obtained by fraud and misrepresentation is never regarded as obligatory. Go
forth beyond these walls into the pleasant mart where we are assembled, and apply to some
mercharit, whom you deem an honourable man, for the purchase ofsome article ofmerchandise.
He describes the article you propose to buy of him as of great value, of foreign growth, Ol'
manufacture, and of the best qualit}'. Trusting to these representations, yqµ make the pur-
chase, and give to him your promissory note to secure the payment of the price agreed. It
tiirns out afterwards that the article purchased was not in fact of foreign growth, or manufae..
ture ; that it is a base, and spurious, and corrupt imitation, of very little, ifofany, value. Are
DltBATl:S.
t bound i~eemably~ your promise7 Can the payment or that i1ma be compelled1 91
tld not the most scru ously lionest man resist its Collection 1 Carry these queSU<lnll to Ute
rt of law, and it sha be the concurrent .testimony or the judge, wlio repreSents ':he justico
. wisdom ofthe country, and of the jury who represent the country itse~ that neither law,
conscience, nor common sense, demands the performance of the promise.
t is on the plainest of all principles, that free-masons are justified in breaking or disreganl·
the oaths which are imposed on them as craftsmen. They are all allured into the institu-
l by the grossest misrepresentations, and the most positive falsehoods. I shall advert to but
~ few of them. ·' _
.he candidate is made to understand, by all the pretensions of free-masenry, that me insti·
on if! very !1ncie~t. If the Monitor, published by Mr. W ebb1 and approved. of by grand
~es, 1s putmto his hands, almost. the lirs"t sentence he reads is,·that "ever smce hannonJ
>layed her charms, our order has had a bemg.'' What more 11.agrant deception than this
be practised1 An assurance, positivelf and gravely given, that free-masonry was in be~
en the thorning stars first sang together Yet even this palpable misreprellllntation is hardly
'rior to many by which the initiate is betrayed froni one stllp to another. And I cannot but
tark here, although not exactly in place, that before the candidate is permitted to enter ~thin
walls of a lodge room, he is induced to make confessions and assertions, which are some-
~s hardly consistent with truth, 9:fld which, it ~e~ tom~, ll!USt ~en be absol~Wy false.
ormula 1s presented as he offers hnnself for admission, which 1s hastily read to hnn, and u
tily answered, according to the directions given; so that he declares that he seeks to enter
institution "unbiassed by. friends," "unmftueneed by mercenary motives," and "from a
:ere wish of being Berviceable to his fellow-creatures." To these answers an affinna\ive is
ays to be given; l>ttt surely they cannot always be given with truth. For besides one of
inducements which is mentioned, there is almost alwaY\l another--! mean cunosity; which
, I believe, in fact, been the most prevailing motive to draw men within the ceremonies,
ich he is told nrc to lead to knowledge, and to end in sublimity. Few men have, I believe,
r entered within the mystic circle, without being strongly moved by a high and excited
iosity. Yet that feeling is doomed to experience an earfy and total disa_ppointment. He
er finds the treasures of learning which he hoped to see unfolded to his view ; he is roqsed
no grand objects, which meet his anticipations of the sublime, and dim indeed is the light
ich blesses his vision as he is brought out of darkness. Yet for the hoped-for brightness
ich is blazing within, the candidate submits to a bandage upon his eyes without, and is
:>nded in darkness, as a fit preP8:ration for an entrance upon the ceremorues which are ~
'· In this groping condition, cable-towed and haltered, he is subjected to, and bound by_, tbe
L oath of free-masonry. When that bond is on, and that shackle fastened, he is brought io
light ofmasonry; not to the gldrious ·lil;\"ht of day; not to the effulgence of the sun in its
zlmg radiance; not to tlie lights of learrung and science', enlarging the powers and ca~
of the mind, displaying the beauties of nature and the wonders of the arts i not to the~
olent hean>s of religion, pointing to the skies, and holding forth the way; but to the lig1lt
nasonry; to the light, namely, of three burning tapers, adlntijicGlly plnced in a triangWar
n' . . .
r a grosser or more palpable misrepresentation can be made than the assertion to a can.
ite, that masonry is of itself a science, or that it has within itself any peculiar means
.nstruction in science, let hini sl'eak it who can. I an1 not able to imagine a stro•
3 ofdeception. Fr?~ ~he beginnmg to the end it is all ora piece. From the poor specime:ll
1ve mentioned, the mitlate goes on from step to step, and from one degree to another_, alter-
ely blindfolded and enlightened, groping amid the absurd ceremonies of the order, in tile vain
·e ofattaining to the ends which he had been assured should at last he reached. But reJi.
l, science, and polite learning, will for ever elude his grasp within the circle of the l~
m. When, however, he has been raised to masonic sublimity, and ~d several degrees
ond that, and is at last "exalted" to the royal arch, the jiolite learning of the order breathes·
h its harmony in delightful verse. When he reaches the chamber of the council, he may
.-e hear the "most excellent" priest, adorned in his sacerdotal vestments, with the mitre on
head, hearing the inscription, "Holiness to the Lcrd," mumbling, with an attendant ki:nC
scribe, as they raise tlie "living arch," this miserable doggrel: . - .
We three do l!-i:,<>Tee, ·
To live in peace and unity;
We three do agree,
His holy word to·search;
We three do agree,
To raise this living arch.
o much, sir, for the learning of this bragga1'.t order. Its helps in the service ofreligion ans
;e as impotent and contem_ptible. In the course ofthe ceremonies ofadmission to thedegree
1ark master~ fot instance, it undertakes to give an exposition of that text in the ApocalYJ*..
.ch declares, that "to him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and Will
i a 10hitt 1ton.e1and in the stone a m10 ncmu written, which no man knoweth saving him that
uveth it." This figurative passage, which. if it be something mystical in its peculiar phruO-
DEBATE~. llS
otogy," is yet, in the hands of Christian theologiansz...susceptible of a reasonable exposi.tiofl, is
e:qilained by the craft in a manner palpably faJSe. The tohite stone is tlrere said to lie the key.
atone ofthe last arch which finished the temple of Jerusalem, and the new tMltlM written, is flle
initials ofthe wonls Hiram, Tynan, Widow's Son, Sent to King Solomon!
There are other ceremonies m which the scriJ.tures are degraded, and its teachings and its
Author little les~ than blasphemed. The candidate, when about to be "exalted" to the "sub-
lime" degree of royal arch companion, is blindfolded and hampered with cords. In that situa-
tion he IS led on, and made to go through what he is told represents the ~e across the
wilderness up to the rebuilding of the temple, in the time ofCyrus. To hun, indeed, it iii a
wilderness of confusion; for whatever of obstruction can be thrown in his way by the merry
companions is accumulated for his embarrassment. Chairs, tables, billets (lfwOod, and what-
ever other moveable substance can be readily commanded, are piled in his way to convert the
fiction ofa "rough and rugged path" into reality; and the perple:tity of the blinded wayfarer
becomes high sport to the surrounding observers. In the IIlldst of this scene ofnoisy confusion
and obstreperous mirth, the candidate is turned aside to behold a mimic spectacle of the "burn-
ing bush ;" and a compo.nion pronounces, in the language of the Almighty to hia chosen servant.
"Put off thy shoes lrom off thy feet; for the place whereon thon standest is holy ground."
Sir, this is most derogatory to the eternal word. At nch a time, in such a place, and for such
purposes, what more unworthy, thnn that a craftsman of the order should take upon his lips
the solemn warning of Jehov8.h1111.nd, as his representative, should dare blasphemously to pro-
el~ "Put off thy shoes i for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground."
It m by such interpretations, and such spectacles as these, that religion is degraded, and her
altars profimed !
Yet these are but brief notices of a few of the direct misrepresentations with which free·
masonry abounds. Its falsehoods are glowing and numerous; and ifdeception is ever to be
permitted to operate as a dissolution from the obligations ofa promise, it would be difficult, if
not impossible, to find a case in which the principle could be more appropriately applied, than
to the obligations of this ·mystic and hypocritical order.
There is another view of this subject, which will readily occur to every mind. An oath to
do wrong, or not to do right, is never obligatory. The case of the "forty men" ·has been
already suggested. The moral obligation of every- citizen, with respect to such oaths, is alto-
gether the otl1er way; they are "more honoured in the breach than m the observance." Apply
this principle to free-masonry, and see whether its oaths can stand the test of the ordeal.
The address before us contains a faithful and accurate abstract of the oaths of the order.
That abstra_ct is satisfa_ctory to me ; more so than ~he imY.Crfect sketches in the reP<!rt of an.
other cornnnttee, ofwhich I was a member, and which, without some amendment, I think ought
.not to be adopted. I shall not dwell upon many of the topics su~ested by the numerous obli.
gations from which the address has made extracts. It will answer all 'ID'" purposes of illustra-
tion to confine myself to one. In several of the degrees, commencing \tith that of the fellow
craft, the initiate swears, that "he will support the constitution of the grand lodge, and con•
form to all the by-laws, rules, and r~lauons of thm or any other lodge ofwhich he may be·
C'.>me a member." This oath is posiuve, peremptory, distinct, and unequivocal. Its real mean-
ing cannot be misapprehended; the laws of the respective masonic societies ofwhich the indi-
vidual may be a member, are to be observed at all events. I am not insensible that the modem
defenders of the institution, feeling the pressure of this application of its principles, have en-
deavoured, with ingenious sophistry, to withdraw attention from the plain language of the oath
itself; to the exhortations to. loyalty contained in the charges pubf!Shed in the Book of Consti-
tutions. But if it had been really intended, that these .several oaths should be regarded as
entirely subordinate to moral duty and civil and patriotic obligations, it would have lieen wise
and natural to have incorporated some intimation ofsuch design into the oath itse!t; 11\fher th8.Q.
·to have left the candidate to the perplexity of the conflict between the absolute prollll.Se on the
one hand, and the sul:llsequent exhortation on the other, ·
It is not from the commentary of any learned and ingenious advocate, who now comes for-
ward to apologize for and defend the mstitution, that we are to learn the real doctrines of its
obligations. Its own words are too plain to admit of any perversion; and beside; the grand
lodges have, for themselves, given a cons1ruction which ism aecordance with the poS1tions which
we assume. The grand lodge of New-York has openly proclaimed, " that every grand lodge
has an inherent power.and authority· that they are an ABSOLll'TE and INDEPENDENT body,
with LEGISLATIVE authority." In other instances, when disorders have arisen among the sub-
ordinate lodges, directions and instructions have been given, in which they say, substantially,
go back to your oaths and obligations, and learn there a lesson of passive and absolute.obe,.
. dience to the laws and regulations ofour enactment.
It; then, the case •all ever arise, that a chapter or a lodge shall estahlish laws1 the operation
:or which will confl.ia with the enactments of the state, the masonic requisition IS obe.ilience to
itself, and conflict with the government. And whoever of its members refuses or declines .this
dee!? and humiliating obedience, may read the'hazard of resistancirin the barbatollii pe~ties
ofhis own invoeatiQn. His "heart must be torn &om his bosom·" "his vitals ·plu~e41fi:!?lll
his _body :" and masonic. vengeance,. still unsatisfied by this bJoody immola.tio~, r~~ ''a
resting place to these motionlem remains, but they rnlliit be "burnt to aahes, and scattered to
lhe £our wiJ¥ls of heaveu."
re
114 DI:BA.TES.
• Su~ is ~e .result which ~us~ at last be reach.
• ed, if the laws of f'ree.masoJ!l'Y1.8!'.they are
eatilblished m its baleful obligatioru!, are praeuca.lly and fully enforced. In this ugm, no one
can fail to see, thet they are at war with every principle wliich ought to govern inankiB4 in
all their social relations. From the p<>llSibility of such a disastrous conclusion, it is the boUllden
duty of every individual to escape by absolving himselffrom a connection with, or submialOon
to, such despotic and unhallowed obligations. He should fiy at once : and without wa.i&ing
:fur contingent aids in the lapse of time, like the great conqueror ofold, he should cu'&Jae
Gordian knot which hindershim in his stnij!;gle in the pathway to freedom and to peace.
Sir, from the most lawful and sacred oatliS which can be administered, there may som~
exist circumstances, which create the m08t Perfect abeolution. There are no earthly ties
which should be stronger than those which bind us to our country. Yet, go back to the
patriotic age ofour own revolution, and behold our fathers, congregated in this city, in the
consecrated Hall of Independence. Many, if not all of them, ha.d taken the long, and compli·
cated, and solemn oath ofallegiance to the British king; yet when the grievances ofhis imposi.·
tion seemed to them too heavy to be bome1 and the oppressions ofhis government were weidi-
ing down the expansive energies of these naing colorues, upon their high responsibility, they1ell
back upon the first principles ofhuman nature, and emancipating themselves and their fellow
citizens from all oaths of allegiance, gave freedom a new birtli·place in this land of libertv.
Sir, the immortal father of his country won that imperishable fame, which shall never fiufe,
by l~ the glittering steel of the patriot soldier, above the neglected oath, which had onee
bound him to the British throne.
Whatever was formerly the condition and situation of the members of the 'IBllllOnic inst.itn-
tion; whatever were once their :?,"!rations and duties towards it, the peculiar circumstances
of the present age have now cha them all. There were once secrets belonging to it. It
once had its si~ grips, pass-wo ; its secret lectures and its darkly shrouded oaths. But
they are now hidden irom the public gaze no more. Every thingofits own has been exposed;
and the proofs of the truth of the revelations have long smce swollen to a magnitude, ~
which no obstinacy or unbelief. can stand. It were as easy, as wise, and as honest, to fkmbt
of the existence of the cities of London or Paris, as to hesitate in believing that the hoarded
arcana offree-masonry have been exposed. Testimony has sprung up-0n eve~
11:.; and the
concllFl'tlnt eTidence ofunnumbered witnesses leaves no way ofescape to the sop · . ofdoubt,
or the distrust of incredulit.y.
What, then, is now the situation of those who still feel themselves shut up, as in the ~
a,.cre of this once towering institution 1 What still remains to be done by those who are J"'t
lingering in the rear? Ifthere were once difficulties, frowning and apparentlyinsurmountable,
in the way of escape, they exist no more; for fearless pioneers have leveled them with the
earth. No bond can again be broken by the developement of the secrets of free-maaonry,
for that has already been done-totally, effectually-beyond the possibilityofa repetition. lf
there be ought else wlileh can be disclosed, it must be only: of crimes which have been CQIB-
plitted, or conspiracies to accomplish them hereafter. And if, in any ofits dark recesses, aueh
'things ar~all the veil of masonry hide them from the public eye, or its shield save the
perpetrator from the arm of public justice 1 •
No! silence here, were participation in the guilt. The way is open and plain, simple aJltf
free. Let all escape from the dominion of this despotic institution, and renounce their alleO-
ance to it at once, and for ever. And we bid them come; not as to a triumph with u&-lir
there is no triumph-but to rejoice with us in the peacefulness ofa satisfied conscience. ThG!ie
who have broken away from the bonds wherewith they were once ignobly fastened to ~
masonry, are, I trust, seeking for nothing like outward praise-far less for any thing lib
recompense or reward. They have but done their duty : and for one, I should as soon 1oolt
for the voice of praise for havmg kept my hand from the violence ofrobbery, as for yieldii!g.to
the most conscientious convictions ofduty in the renunciation which I have uttered. · It is,
we repeat it, a plain duty; and we bid them come-and they will find, that the slanders wbicll
have been spent against us, are as unfounded as l11ey are cruel, as hamlless as they tre
unjust. Let them look forth on those who have gone before, and see if they bear upon them
the marks of tortured minds, and broken hearts. And ifthey will look with unclouded eJe.s,
they will behold no withering with anxiety, no unmanly exultation in triumph; but they:·wm
see thet tranquil satisfaction, and that immovable firmness of purpo$6, which are creat.00 ~
confirmed by the clearest oonvictions ofduty.
Sir, there is an unerring monitor withiµ, ·which speaks in tones which will be heard, aal a
language which cannot be n:lisconstrued. If that voice whispers peace, we may be sure tla1
all JS well. The storm may beat upon the outward wall, but it shall not perish, for ils flnmde.-
tion is on the rock. Let this consideration hush the fears and animate the virtues of thOle
on whom we call, and prevail with them to take that one step, which will not Ht\. them on
high, but will ests.blisli them on the 9olid resting-place of peace and contentment. Aa tlieJ
depart from free-masonry, its kings must throw off the robe of royalty; its priests cast away
the unsanctified mitre from their heads, and tear oft" the iewels from their tireasts ; but t1teJ
will realize, that these acts will altogether approve themselves to the understaRdilig1 and pllM
within the heart an inestimable trcaaure, which the world cannot give, and whWt ii. ClllUlO\
take away.
bEBATES. 115.
Ma. 'i'JUCR&B., ofM~usetts, mid he did not rise for the ~ of eulogising the
eddreas which had 1-n· pre~ and laid before the convention, for consideration and
~ Ho thought that this would be alto_gether unnecessary after what had been
said by the gentleman on his left, his respected colleague from Mass&chusetts. The addres•
moreoverr he continued, speaks for itself: It speaks for itself to the members of thia
coaventioni and it will speak for itself when, (as I trust it will,) it goes forth to the
people of tne United States. All, therefore, that I can say in its tavour on this occasion,
woUld be like holding up the dim taper of the lodge"1'00lll, to aid the light of the sun.
I rise on this oooasi.on to introduce two or t.lll'll8 facts to elucidate .the principles advanced
in the address, and which ought to come within i.he knowledge ofthis convention, and every
individual in this respected audience. In the addreBB before this convention for considera-
tion, and in tho remarks which have been made by the gentlenwi on my left, we have had
brought to view the imposition of the masonic institution, in the measures which have been
taken to induce individiials to become members of the maaonic fraternity.
I confess, in the presence of thia collvention, and this respected audience, that I have
been .one of thoee who have been duped and decoyed, ancf made· to pass through the
degrading ceremonies of the lodge-room. This stain upon my religious and moral character,
I do not expect ever to wipe away. But I am willing a record of my folly, and I will say
wickecJness, should stand m high relie~ with the recOrd of the Psalmist's iniquity, when he
t.nmsgressed the laws of God and Israel, in the matter ofUriah.
I have said that I was decoyed. So I was, Mr. President; for I had held up to my view
falae "'i-tation& I was told by a respectable clergyman, whom I esteemed, and in
whom placed implicit confidence, who hail tsk:en many degrees of the order, that there ./
was in thet inAitution, tha.t which was exeeedi~ly valuable to define certain passages of V
IK"Zipture, which could not be satisfactorily explained without masonic light: many pas-
sages in the epistles of Paul, and in the revelation of John the divine, to some of which
we h8Pre had il.llusion, were to be seen in their literal m~ in the ceremonies of the
lodge imd chapter. This and many other considerations which time would tail me to
mention,.induced me to apply to a respected friend and relative, to propose me as a candidate
for the lodge. This he cheerfully did. .
I was proposed to the lodge before knowing any thin!!: of the outrage on William Morgan.
I slrould haTe known thess facts ~ as has been stated, the public press had not been mnzzled.
But at that time there was not a paper in Massachusetts, and I know not of any in the New
England states, that dared reconf a syllable in respect to these tacts. I was enurely ignorant
ofwhat had taken place at Batavia. ..
After I was proposed to the lodge, I accidentally had an opportunity to see one of Morgan's
books. It was put in my hands by a free-mason, merely to excite my curiosity, with this
declaration: that the book was put m circulation to accomplish a polit.Ical purpose, and that
ofmaking money by the corqpiler : that in this book the compiler had incorporated certai.n
formalities in the Book of Constitutions and Monitor, and sent it forth to the world as
masonry, and wished me to see what imposition was practised. I gave the book a c~
reading. I said to myself, this cannot be free.masonry· it is too frivolous. It did excite my
curiosity. It led me to converse with respectable mem~ of the institution, relative to tho
subjects therein contained. ·
rconversed with a member of the institution in Providence, Rhode lsl.aJ:id, who was a man
oChigh character in the fraternity, and a member ofthe encampment, who had been master of
a lodge for many years, and was esteemed what was technically called, a bright mason. He
told me Uiat Morgan's illustrations gave the fi:atsrnity no uneasiness whatever. He said it
did not touch the subject offree-masonry ; that it had nothing to do with the secrets of that
institution. He supposed that Morgan was a mason, and a man of some address, but a worth-
less fellow ofno cluiiaeter, a misereant and drunkard; and that. he was not murdered. If ho
was murdered at all, it was not by ma.sons, but that t,he mob had beset him on this i"ciple.
They said that if he told the truth, he ought to die for violating those solemn ob · tions,
which he professed to have taken; ifnot, he ought to die for imposing upon the pubic. In
consequence of what was said by this gentleman, and as I had been proposed to the lt><l2'e. I
went forward and was in;itiated. As soon as_I had entered the preparat.Ion room, and after I
had been made to S\lbscribe and declare to what has been presented as formulas, they began
to prepare me for the rites and ceremonies. I then discovered that it was Mo~ masonry.
I remarked tliis tO the junior warden. He said that some things were similar, bu~ ifI advanced
I would so0n be 11atisfied, and rej~ice in becoming a member of the fraternity, as others had
done; and I was told that Washington, Warren, and La Fayette had· done the same before
me; and I was, accoiding to tb.e illustration ofMorgan, divested ofall my apparel, to the last
rmimant ofdecency. I was clad in apair of drawers, and a cable.,tow, or: a rope, fastened
round my neck. I was blindfolded, and, in this manner, led to the door of the loo~ where
there were three distinct knocks, and answers, Who cornea there 1 who comes there1 who
comes there1
I was conducted in, and about the lodge, round, and round, and round. Not an individual
did 1 know ; not a face, not even of the master, for he too waa a stranger. I had seen the
Junior warden who came to prepare me, and one other associate. f was ~tened with a cabler
JQW, and how could I retreat if disposed1 'Where wais my apparel 1 Could I go into thet
116 .DEBA.TEIJ.
atreet in my then situation 1 I passed through the three first ilegrees offree-~ ia one
Jlight. I went through in eonfurmitywith a dispensation oftlle grand lodge..
The aame evening, after I had passed through the ceremome.e, the master of t.he lodge
administered the teat oath, and gave what is called the check degree. He said that was
neeessary, because a worthless fellow at Batavia had clisclosed the seaets ofmasonry as filr as
the third degree, and said ifothers got our kefs, we must put on new locks. From this t.ime,
l discovered, that the illustrations of masoncy hnd been studied assiduously by members ofthe
lodges, in order to render them what is technically called bright masons. And I have known
thOBe iUqstmtions to have been studied by different.lodges, that they might befamiliarwiththe
rites and ceremonies of the institution.
In view of such impositions as these, I feel myself perfectly free in denouncing the oaths and
ceremonies of the Older. If any man judges me guilty of moral perjury, I am willing to be11!'
the shame for ever ; I glory in such perjury as this ; I came f01·ward and burst the bands,
from a religious regard to the best interests of my country, and from a solicitude that young
men might be prevented from being taken in the same snare ; and if the declaration which I
have made, and the record ofmy folly, should be the means of~eventing one man from being
ensnared as I have been, I shall feel myself paid a thousand times. ·
Another thing to which allusion h8s been made, is the binding nature of masonic oaths.
I do not wish to add any thing to wliat has been said by my colleague from Massachusetts;
· but will merely state, that the address has taken for granted, that masons eollBider their oaths
as literally biniiing. This position deseryes some consideration. I believe it has not beell con-
llid11red by any member, because members, since the abduction of Morpn. have maintained
before the urunitiated, that these obligations were never considered bin~; that no member
ever felt himself bound to cut a brother's throat, or to earry- into execution any part of the
:penalties, as literally expressed. They would acknowledge that there was a mystic8l mean-
mg in these penalties. ·
I think t.hii.t ample proof has been adduced, to show that masons have felt themsel.ve& bound
to execute the penalties of this obligation. And I would ask, what is the meaning of all Ille
calumnf cast on the anti-masons, if it be not in pursuanee of ~he obligations contained in the
"thrice illustrious order of the cross,"-" You solemnly swear, that should you _know another
to violate any essential part of this obligation, you will use your most decided endeavours, by
the blessi~ of God, to tiring such person to the strictest and most condi,,,"11 punishment, &e. by
pointing him out to the world as an unworthy vagabond, by opposing his interest, by de-
ranging his business, by transferring his character after him, wherever he may go, and bYex-
posing-him to the contempt of the whole fraternity, and the world, but ofour illwruious order
more especially, during his whole natural life."
Any person who has been in any degree acquainted with the excitement in anti-masonry,
must pereeiYe that this obligation has been executed to the very letter, in every respect. There
is not a seceder in the land, who has not been followed by Oalumny, and pointed out to the
world as an unworthy vagabond. There are gentlemen on my right and on my left, of whom
I have heard it stated, that they are drunken and worthless wretches. I could name one who
was declared to be out ofbusiness, a street vagabond, going a.bout from shop to shop, and from
door to door, without regard to decency or moral character. I have since learned that he is in
high repute, in reBJ?c:Ctable business, alld highly esteemed for his religious and moral character.
1 will not multiply examples in this particular, but will adduce facts to show that.masons
have considered it their duty. to execute the bloody part of their masonic oaths. We have evi-
dence that Morgan was murdered agreeably to masonic Jaw. It is said by masons that the
authors of Jachili and Boaz, and Pritchard, were put to death. :(Jut in my neighbourhood it
has been said repeatedly, not by the least of the order, but by higlt priests and grand -prelates,
that if Morgan had been put to death, he had been. served JUStly and rightlf. A member of
the encampment in Massachusetts and Rhode Island, in my own neighbourhood, con~ened
with 1118 relative to the abduction of Mor~. He expressed it, as his view decidedly, and he
was acquainted with the rights and principles of the institution, and I viewed him to be an
upright man, that the masonic law should be executed, and gave this as a reason, that IDBllOIL~
law was antecedent to civil law. He regretted, however, that the Morgan affair had not been
oonducted more deliberately and prudently, and saved all this noise, and. excitement, and in-
jury to the fraternity. Arid to illustrate his views, he.brought an example with which he was
acquainted: either a brother-in-law to his wife, or himsel£
Peter and John (I will use fictitious ·names,) were residents in one of the back townB of
Rhode Island. Peter was a ~arly Qlll;le mason and a member ofthe lodge. He insirocts
John clandestinely in the rites and ceremonies of the institution. By means oftJlis instructioo,
John works himsi:lf into the lodge; he is received WI a member, and i>btains the office, I thibk,
of junior warden. After having been some time a member of the lodge,, it leaked out, that
Peter had instr11cted John clandestinely. John was made OYer again, and the oaths adminis-
tered in due and Iee:al form, and he was retained as a member of the institution. Peter Y!Jl1
1100n after happene3 to be in Providence at a time when the grand lodge was in session. The)'
summoned hfui to appear before them; and in obedience to their call and the master'==bf
whieh he had promiSed to obey all signs, &c. he obeyed. They had certain resolute . .
ap~ted to take care of him: They did take care of him ; they murdered him. I-• ,
~
DE8ATl:S. 11'1
illlbrmed that he was taken down &he Protidenoe River. The report Wiii, that be bad ab-
8l'Jllnded.
I will nll.Jlle but one instance more, and that is, ofwarning a brother ofdanger. A maaonic
deputy sherift'p1ll'81led two Yillains to &he cape-, who had been bniaking open stores in Provi-
dence. He was succe!ISful in apprehending them, and broue:ht them part way back; but they
:made known to him that thq were ·muons, and lie put tliam in custody of some muoruc
brethren, and went another_way, under pretenee,.as he stated, of itp~ding other rogues.
He bad scarcely turned his back, befure the men were miasing; and 1t appeared he had put
them in poaaession ofhis brethren in this W&f., in order that they might be missing. He did
not want to dismiss them himaelt; !rut was wdling that othen ahoUld do wbat he was unwilling
to do himself.
I have these tltctll upon 1111bstantial evidence, and bring them forward to llhow, that masons
have considered their oaths bindina:, to the letter; and coruiequently, the position taken in the
addrese before us, is substantialfy correct. Since I hue been in thla city, I have conversed
with a venerable and respectable clergyman, whom I well knew in my youth; and in "respect
to this sil~ he told me, that he had.been a mason for many years; liut fur more than thirty
years he had had the same opinion ofthe institution, that it was dangerou1 to llOOi.ety, and sub-
versive of ~ order ; ana that thirtyleal'S ago, he had a. deliberate COllvel'lllltion with hia
fat.her, whetlier he should not sit down an write and publish all he knew. His father, upon
due consideration, advised him n'Ot to.do so, saying, that he would not be belieTed, and that he
would lose his character and life, ifhe did it. ·
Mr. Newell, a missionary to the elllit, some time since deceased, was induced to lake the
malionic degrees before he aailed. When be took the knight-templar'a degree, he was ao \lis-
gusted, that he said to bis companion, "Why have you suffered me to tie ao impoeed uponf·
my feelin,,,oS have been shocked by these blasphemous rites. I will eit down and write all
kriow about it, and ex:poee it to the world, so that others may not be duped ae I have been:"
His friend argued witli him till midnight, to induce him not to carry his plan into execution,
saying to him, that by such an act he would destroy hia character and lose"his life.
It ha.s been stated m the addre11s submitted fbr our consideration, that free-muons audit not
to be eligible to olllces of power and trust; that they are disqualified by the oat.ha whiCh the.y
have taJCen, to fWfil such Offices ae the interests of the country require. This has been COi\'
sidered on the ground that they have taken these obligations.
There is another part, to which I will just allude. It appears to me, that free-masons who
still adhere to the order, have disftoanchized themselves. They belong to a distinct and separate
government, having no connection with the g<l!ernment of the11e United States. They have
a constitution and laws, which must come in collision with the laws of our own country. Now, ,
would we. elect a Canadian to an office of power and trust in these United States7 Would we
take from Great Britain a President for the United States1 ~r, take upon the bencli a chief jus-
tice of the Union, belonging to another government1 I urinK it worthy af nnnark, that tbey
who belong to a government, m rmem distinct from all other go-rernmenta, and if they be.
long to a separate government, the poeition laid down in the address, is correet, and··ougnt to
be maintained. I Will not say that all the members of the fraternity are ineligible te office.
For there are many who sincerely desire, with all their hearts, to tie free; but llCl'Uples, and
many other strong cords, bind diem to the ftoatemit;r. But those who adhere to them, and are
with them in heart, and consider them.selves bound by their oat.ha and obliptions, I do think
are ineligible to offices of power and trust.
Jt is unneceBSllrf for rrie to detain, and consume the time of thii conTention. We havti the'
address before us, and 1 have no doubt but it will be adopted. I shall vote for it, very Cordially.
It is su11lcient for this convention, and the support of it 1s sufficient for 1111, that we may allJIU'"
ticipate in it. We have, by virtue of an u po!t ftJtto law, passed aboui one·rnonthsince, been
excluded !Tom the Hall of Independencej ~ut a note hae ascended from -this saloon, which
shall be wafted by every breeze, and lllrill on every zephyr, in the east, in the west, in the
north and in the south. And I trust, that future gen_erations will find by happy experience,
that the trumpet did uot give an uncertain sound-that multitudes were ready to prepare them-
selves for battle.
ML Dnu:a, of Micbigan.-Mr. President : J would, with other gentlemen' who have
J>receded me, give my ~oice in favour of the ability and truth of the address to the people of
i.he United States.
The strong_ground taken by that address, I presume to be this: that fre&.muonry is an
empire ofitsen; distinct from every government within whose limits it exists ; that it baa ita
laws paramount to a!IOther laws, its altars and its priests exalted above the religion af the
land.
Let it never be forgotten, that, in these United Staes, there are from one to two hundred
thousand men, who liave 1worn allegiance to laws not ~ by our constitution-laws in
direct opposition to those ofour land-laws cruel and abominable. This is not mere theory in
tbe masonic institution; but bas been reduced to practice. We have seen these unl&Wful
oat.U developed by the conduct of those who have sworn fealty to them. Can it be doubted
for a moment that the developements ofmasonry, by Bernard and others, are true1 We have,
llir, the substantial testimony of about five thouland aeceding muons to this eft"ect. In
adclitiOQ to this, we have CU'Cumatantial evidence ihat ii irrelliaiible. Why wu Morgan
118 Dl!U.TEI.
murdered, ifhia book WU not true1 Why are -.eden IO biUedy ~ i( it be ·llOl
punuant to llllLIODic oat.ha? Wo haYe the text and the commentary, in tho muonic ~
and tho conduct ofmuons fer tho Jut tOur YOIU'&
Hore, then, iaa muonic empire11.aDdingon iwown foundation • sW>ordinat.e to no law, human
or divine. I&111111bjecta are sworn, ifthey are llllUl&er muons, lobq uel....,., ,_,,.l - -
_, lr'41on tzcepletl, ad llacd left lo lldr °'"' ~ o6e, &le rn-1 Uilitlf rip I/fl ""'"'-
_, IM!nfrom a h-ot.\er Ill Ille riak oflldr °'°"lieu. They are l!Worn, if they are royal arch
llla80DS, to keep each other'a aocreta, murder GtUI ,,._ Ml ezctpWl-lo rueue -1 --'af~
c1a,.,.,riJll w tn'Ollf• They are 11Wom, ifthey are illuatrio111 kni£hts of the era., lo r__,.
arcl OIAtr'• t.juriu, GtUI mJlflOrl teel oiler'• ~ pn/ermMl. Tlioy are IW'Grll, if they are
elected knights of nine, or-il1111trious eloctecl of tit\een, lo pul lo deal/a MJ '""""' - t/
t.\ole lltgnn. There ill, morec>Ter,a penalty of barbarous death at\ached to each degree frun
1ho lowest to the highest, with ~~ or two exceptions. . . . . . .
Will any man aay, that t.hia 111 not muonry7 The edifice 18 one, the inatUUtlOn JS one.
:Will any muon deny that the up~ d~ are genuine free.muo~ 1 _
Ho.may aay !hat he
111 ignorant ofthOBO degrees ; but ifhe 111 ignorant of any part of t,his 11111titution, especially oC
one ao deeply suspected, he ia ignorant athis peril. He givea the sanction of hia name and
inlluence to muonry, and he ii bound to have eTery reuonable usurance that the institution
iap~.
What constitutes an American cimen7 Ia it that be lives withip the limi'8 ofthe. UniJed
Stat.ea-that he waa born within certain boundariea, or bu lince ~tted to cer\ain ceremo-
niee ofnaturalization? Theao, air1 may be n_,,., but he only ia at heart an American,
who venerates the pure republicanilm which our fathers bled to maintain-he who aclmow-
ledgea no laws paramount to thoee ofhia country and his God.
When a citizen of these United States kneela at the altar of muonry, when he ioreara
allegiance to her laws, he snaps uunder the ties that~ him to hia country; he cannot at
the same time be the citizen ofa free rel>Uhlic, and the subject ofa deapotie empire.
The address to which I have referre<I moet. justly obe8rves, " That all firei«nera, even the
DlOllt enligbtenec!i though they may be perfectly honest and capable, though t&y may reaide
with us to their life'• end, and be JlractiCal converts to the truth and beauty ofour ~are
disqualified by being the aubje_cta of other governments. By llU'Ollger reuooa, ~
masons are di8qualified.'' Of this, air, there can be no doubt. There are certain tiea that
bind man to man, independent ofall human government. It is the law oC lme, u~ in
the comprehensive words, to do to others u we would that they should do to UL 'We are the
children of the same common parent, the subjoc'8 ofthe aame divine authority. Wherever we
live, we may be the citizens of that great community, bound together by love to man and love
to God. But free-masonry ia bound by other ~OllO ofrevenge and murder. The bonds
which unite masons ~tlier, separate them from the rest of the world. There ue ties, where
the Christian religion 111 unknoWn, which the God of Nature bu established, which bind man
to man: th- maaonry bu thrown oft: There are other and dearer tiea, which bind Cbria-
Uans together all over the civilized world i "!herever theChristian goes, he mayfind a Cbrialian
brother· but masonry bu broken thoee hOly ties with the rest. Nothing must interfere with
her dark dominion: her priests, her altar, nor lawa, must be supreme. Every kind af"oction,
every virtuous sentiment, every holy principle, must be prostrated in the dust beneath lho
wheels of the chariot of this idol ofsecrecy and sin.
Free-masonry, by mingling prayers with bloody and profane oath.a, by unKinr lho
mwnm~ of JnUOl!!'.f withJllUlllage& from holy writ, by its impious tit.lee, such aa ""MOit
Worahiprul," and"1Ung of Heaven," by insinuations in the lower degrees, and direct decJr..
rations m the higher, stands forth u the apostle of Deiam, if not of Atheism. In the knighta
adepts of the eagle and the sun, the mason is thus addreued : " BeMU IW. _,,_. t0Mcl,..
_, ~ 1irpmt tolicl t0t cldut u a MW, 11111 u adorcll .., Ille fdiaC .U nlflrlllllla'
IU - ofrtligion."
The sages of other timea, who were not b!Mled with the light of Christianity, felt the
noceutty Ofreliltion. Altars were built and templea were raised to a host of diviniUea • their
prailJe:s were cefebrated by the poet, and the philosopher bowed before their altars. ft wu
not, air, merely to catch the eye of idiot wonder, that the splendid temJllea ofthe heathen ·
goda 'were thrown open to Tiew ; it wu 119t merely to exalt the prieat, Uiat in his ~rgeou
and hallowed vestments, he burnt incense on the altar of the Roman .and Grecian Jupiw.
Other and higher purpoees were to be &n11wered. The e~ of tho world bu ahown,
that man waa made for religion, and reli&ion for man. Relnove from him thoee 11e11timenta
which the all-mg eye impclMI on him,"burst uunder the links which ul\ite him to the throne
ofthe Creator, and man is worse than a wild bout. So far from being fit to govern odien.bo
would have no capacity for controlling hilme1£ .
Maaonry1 then, tears &1111n~, n~ only the ties which unite th~ cimena o(a nation to eadi
other1 but tile aacred bonds which bind man to man, and man to hia God.
Will it be said, that these oat.ha although taken by muons, are not COMidered bf them to
be bindin£1 It is impouible to look into the heart of man; this can be done only by bia
Maker; 6ut it ia fair to preawne tliat uil practiu is the reault of wicked princi~ · dial
masonic oat.ha are carried into action, unle88 they are renounced by the ~pient. I ti;.,
.U, of no t)'l'Ulny eq_UAI to thil. The despotimil of Europe are lilierty i'8elt; compared witla
DEBATES. 119
11ie·dbminion which this secret soeietJ" UlRll'ps over the CODICienee. ConSne me in the deep!$
~ Ul81 cruelty hu inven~ind me in .cliain&-my spirit ia yet free : the soul cannot
lie lilund with iron bands ; it may still wander through the regiOllB Of space, revisit the dear
- - of its home, and rise in adoration to its God. But lllB80lllY has ilevised chains which
mud the v~ eoul down to darkness and spirit:ual death. The unfonunate being who is
enticed wit.hill its coils, ia led &om step to step, oath after oath is administered ; all that
deception, hope, fear1 shame, and curiosity can effect, ia done for the purpose of leading the
eandidate deeper ana deeper into the dungeons of this inquisition; the coids of masonry are
drawn bardei and closer around their victim, until moral energy is vanquished; and, like
I.oooonin the embrace ofthe serpent, limb after limb is enfolded ; resistance becomes weaker
and weaker, until the moll8ter has poiaoned with his breath, and paralvzed within his coils, the
wretched victim ofhis cunning ferocity. It ia thwvsir, that the souf is conquered; virtuous
~ are weakened ; the murmurs of conscience are smothered ; until at last man's
~angel takes hia filght, and the whole demon takes possession of his soul.
If this, m, seems to be the ,language of exaggeration, I refer you to the history of the
abduction of Morgan · men upon whoae character there was no previous stain, becaine cor-
rupted by masonic oat.b; until virtuous principles were conquered, and they who had been
good ciiizens until this monster bad transformed them, now rose in rebellion against the laws
Of their eountry. They who were husbands and fathers, robbed the wife ofher husBand, and
dilldren of their parent; they wboae bands had been unstained, now found them red with
the blood of an unoffeeding citizen. For these reasons, I say, and so says the address, and
BO will every candid man say, that thoae who havetsken these oaths, and confesl\ their binding
Gbli,e:a.tion, are unworthy to exercise any office of trust under our free institutions.
Ma. SL.t.DB, of Vermont, said be roae under much embarr~ent, after the able addresses
which bad been drawn forth by the report under consideration ; but lie could not permit the
occuion to pus without an expression of his views in connexion with its adoption.
We are, Mr. President, about to address our countrymen on a deeply interesting subject.
The number and character of those we represent, the subject of o~ deliberations, and the
intluence which they may exert upon our country and upon the world, give to the act we are
about to ~orm, a character of pilculiar interest.
The spirit of free inquiry has"been roused into action by a daring invasio11 of the rights or
me ofour fellow citizeDL He was a member of the masoruc institution. He had vio!a:ted its
Jaws, and been doonied to suffer the execution of their _penalty. 'rhe jealous spirit of free-
men wu awakened, and their virtuous indignation enkindled. Free-masons had kidnapped
and murdered a fellow citizen, whoae only crime was a violation of the ·secrets of their order;
and those secrets, thus revealed, and thus proved by the acts ofmasons themselves to have been
truly rel"ealed, presented, when brought to the liglit, a spectacle which excited the stroll¥ and
deep diaapprobiition of the community. The excitement, at first confined to a small secuon of
the Btllte ofNew-York, moved onward in the train of truth and reason. The cloud which, at
first, appeared in the distant horizon, " like a man's band," aoon rose and spread ac.ro&B the
heavens, and already overshadows halfour country.
The feeline: which thus has assumed a distinct form, and a national character, was originally
treated 11,11 wild and ridiculous fanaticism. It was called a "Jack-Cade excitement ;" and the
men who stood up in the face of a powerful and widely extended ti:atemity1_and boldly
denounced their institution as the ltllilty author of the out.rage, were assailed as aisturbers of
the ~lie peace, and hunted with t.lie bitterest persecutiqns. "They were, sir, a noble body of
men. Free-masonry will long have occasion to remember them ! They periled every tiling
in their devotion to principle, with an intrepidity worthy the best days of our reeublic. I
fully aeeord in the sentiment which has just been uttered with regard to theae pioneers of
anti-masonry. I have no ~ to express my admiration of their Zea.I, their firmness, and
their collBtaney. They comularuI my warmest gratitude, and they will commend themselves
to the gratitlide ofthe world, as long as the world shall know that free-masonry once bad an
uistenee. Had they yielded to fear masonry might now have secretly triumphed, and it
might have continueil to triumph to ii;; end oftime, in the BUccessful exertion of its powllr to
executeits bloody penalties, and screen itself from merited condemnation. But republican
virtue proved too strong for it. In vain did masons deny the truth ofthe revelations ofmasonry.
In vain did they deluge the country with slanders of Morgan, and of the men who' bad con-
firmed the trllth ofhiS revelations, and ofall-who dared to~ the institution at the her of
public opinion. The investigation went on. In the face of sneeni, and ridieule, and denun-
ciation, It moved forward, and the cause ofanti-masonry moved with it. Masons contemptu-
ouslf denominated the western _part of the state of New-York tho "Wedell district," and
eontinually uttered their predicUons that the good sense ofthe people would find a remedy for
&he 4Utut, and stop the p~ of the conlcgion. But anti-masonry fllOllt4fonoanl1 It
reached the state wliicli I Iiave the honour in part, to represent. Her mtelligent population
awoke to the subject ; and after a meroo;:;ble struggle ef seven ballotings, her "fifth district"
returned a member to the congress ofthe United St.ii.tea upon anti-muonic principles. Penn-
mylvaois_, too, beeame aroused, and came up to the aid of our call88, in a solid phAlanx ofjj/ly
~ at her last gubernatorial election. And, stnmge to tell, the "land oflteady habits"
hall ~ht the "infeCtion," and aent to this convention a delegation, whoee character ia a
nre p~ ofinal1ucceaa in diat llCtion ofour eountry. Tho 'ieaerable bm c( one of&lleai
110 DEBATES,
[Ma. TllllY, orBarttOrd] is now in my eye. He comes to uerbm. not, I~. the,_,,bot
certainly one ofthe beat, ofthe public acts of his life-~t of bearing his decided te.a-y
a,,ooainst the instit1,1tion of rr-lllll80nry. Sir, there are too many BUCh mea. in the ranks of
anti-lllll80nry to permit it longer to be ealled a fanatit.al excitement-too many, ltandi~ on
the borders ofthe grave, to permit it longer to be ILSll8rted that the hope ofoffice coDltitlltel
the leading motive ofthe effort to abolish the masonic institution.
[Mr. S. was here ealled to order by the chair, upon the ground that he wu indula'ine' in a
range ofremarks more appropriate to the report on the subject ofthe rise and progreei o(anti-
masonry, than the one under coneideration.] •
Mr. S. explained, by remarking that he had considered it as properly belonging to the report
under discussion, to contemplate the relation in which this con'iention stood, to the past u Well·
as the.future-to look at the character and progress of tbe excitement which had given birth to
the convention, that its claims upon the consideration of the public which it was about to ad-
dress, ~t be more fully understood and appreciated. But, said Mr. S. I cheerfully submk
to the deCislon ofthe chair.
Permit me, then, Mr. President, to glance a moment at some of the results which may be
expected to follow our efforts in the cause in which we are e~.
Our great aim is the complete prostration of the institution of rr-masonry. ·We would
break up its lodges, its chapte~ and its encampments. We would strip from its officers their
gaudy trappings, and bloated titles, and mock dignities, and bring them upon a level with the
plain, untitled citizens ofthe republic. We would conYince its votaries ofits pernicious char-
acter and tendency, and bring them up to t4e aU-eaamUal point of ab~ t7arir llllegfaftce ID
&Ae ilutitutfml, and separating themselves from it, for ever. We would, in sliort, prostrate this
"unhallowed tem_eleL' so that "there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not
be thrown down.' ·i·his is the direct and obvious purpose to be accomplished by om' efforts.
But, sir, there are results indirectly connected with the existence of anti-masonry, which
present no ordinary claims to our regard. I allude to its in11uence up~m the general character
ofour country and ofthe age. In contemplating the subject in this light, events of other times
present a Jlllrllllel which ia not destitute of instruction. The refonnation of the 16th centnry,
for e.umple, though primarily a religious reformation, exerted, in various other respects, an
influence.ofdeep and liisting im.J>?ltance to Europt! and to the world. It was not a mere eman-
cipation from the spiritual dominion of the Pa{>!U_See; but it broke the shackles which bound
the human intellect. It tallljht men to think ; it brought mind into conllict with mind ; it as-
serted the right of free enqwry and private judgmentt· and it kindled the spark of that h"berty
which now liurns upon the altars of our country. hese effects naturally resulted from the
character of the evil upon which the force of that reformation was brouglit directly to bear.
And who, that is familiar witli its origin and its history, can fail to see that, substantially, the
same causes are now in operation, and that they are tending to the production of the same
general results.
An important era in the history ofour own country illustrates the same principle. Urged
to the extremest point of endlll'ILilce by British oppression, our tathers rose and asserted.\}ieir
right to indepenilence. They put forth their strength, and were free. But, sir, there was
more in that freedom than a mere emancipation from the thraldom of a foreign power. The
conflicts of the revolution brought into vigorous exercise some of the noblest virtues that be-
long to our nature; an!1 while the men .whose s~uls were thus trie!l, wei:e forcing their way to
freedom, they were fitti~ themselves, m an eminent degree; for its enjoyment. A cast was
given to t.hefr moral and mtellectual character,which is now visible in all the institutions which
tlley establishQCI.
Anti-masonry, sir, possesses the element/I ofboth the revolutions to which I have adverted.
I know, indiied; that tliere are those who affect to consider it as deerading to the moral and in-
tellectual character ofour country. I regard it., sir, in precisely ihe opposite light. The life
and soul of anti-masonry is a spirit of free enquirf; directed to the just exposure ofan institu-
tion, immoral in its tendency, and anti-republican m its whole structure. The spirit which the
abduction and murder of a free citizen originally produced, was, to use'the language of a high
judicial functionary of 7our state, "a blessed spirit.!' It still retains that character. It was,
and it is, a virtuous inrugnation at tile perpetration ofwrong, and a determination to apply
eYery practicable corrective. It leads to a more j1.11t appreciation of the value of that liberty,
so darmgly invaded in the person ofa free citizen, as well as of that life which was impiollllly
sacrificed upon the altar offree..lll&SOnry. It asserts the right of the people to investigate anil
probe to the bottom, eoery public evi~ and to apply such correctives as they may deem proper.
And it invigorates the public intellect, by direc~ its ener~es to the investigation of some ot
the most interesting questions which can engage its attention. Masons may, indeed, dericI.
and denounce it, and exhaust upon it all the epithets of reproach and contempt. But every
intelligent, unbiassed statesman will see in it the strong characteristic traits of genuine tepu6-
lieanimn; ·IUld regard it, even in its occasional excesses, as threatening no serious danger to
any thing, hilt '118 institution which it is its avowed and determined p~ to destroy.
Sir, in whatever light this subject is viewed, the act we are about to perform involves a high
naponmDility to our co\llltry, to the age in which we live, and to all future time. Masomy
~ be deetroyfld. h \a aa evil ofincalCulable magnitude. We owe it to our country llM
we owe it wtlie world, to strike ll blow which it shall feel, to tho utmost limill or ill empire.
DEBATES. Ht
T1te appeal we are about wmake, is to a people~ for their intelligence and their
mtue. lt is lin appeal to their sober judgment, and to ihe best feelings or their nature. It
will not-it cannot be made in vain.
And in making this appeal to them; we make it to the world. In acting on the public senti-
mflitt in our own country, we act upon it every where. Europe will feel the impi!se we am
now giving to the cause of anti-masonry. She felt that which was given to the kindred eauae
of h1:1erty, by the declaration ofour independence: and France, at thie moment, bears grati-
fyiDg testimony to the powerful and enduring in11uence of our immortal Revolution. Masonry;
even in Europe, must yet be made to tremble before the majesty of public opinion; and, if
aati:·masons are true to themselves and to their cause, she will fall before it-and fil.ll, I trust,
to nse no more.
M11.. S&w.IRD.-Mr. President, as the convention seems not dispoeed, at this moment, to·
proceed to the question upon the address, I have thought that I might not waste time unneces-
Sarily, in makine: a few observations. ,
I was one of Chose who in the convention of µie state of New-York, had the honour to join
in recommending to the people of the United States, to meet at this plaee, and upon this oeca•
aion, for the redress ofwhat you and I·thought to be a matter ofcommon interest and concern
to the 1'4'.6ple of these United States. By a large, respectable, and intelligent portion of0111'
fellow-eu.izens, that. recommendation has been heard ; and this convention shows that it has
been answered.
Now, sir1 the address which has been reported by this committee, is the means of extend•
ing the pnnciples that lieut us hither, into those parts of our common country which. haw
not yet been agitated by them. This address is the measure which is to excite public atten-
tion, and to direct public enquiry.
The question is, whether this address shall be adopted. And is there a man in my h!'ftring,
who does not feel that it is one of the most important questions which could occupy the attfm-
tion of this body1 Who that is familiar with the history of the rise and progress of secret
societies in the states of New-York, Pennsylvania, VennQDt, iqid all the other sections in
which the question has been agitated, who does not know that it is, wherever agitated, a
question of perilous moment-a question either fraught with evil, or productive orthe most
efficient good1 It becomes us to deliberate upon th'l question, whether .we will extend these
Jlrlr!ciples further. ·
The question whether secret societies shall longer exist in this-country, under our free in-
stitutions, is indeed a new question ; and for that reason it encounters opposition : and there-
fore, those who have put it to the people, meet with clamour and opprobrium. But without
impugiling-for I am unwilling to unpugn the motives of any man or set of men-I will ob-
11erve, it is fair to believe that the preconceived prejudices in favour of an institution which in
·some parts of the country has committed no foul acts of treason or inmbordination to the go-
vernment, may have induced many men to believe, honestly and sincerely, that the movers
of this question are, what they are represented to be, disorganizers and ambitious politicians.
But, air, by others than these, it will be adinitted, that though rreeoneeived notions ofthe im-
portance of particular measures, and of the value and merits o ~eular men, have induced
ihem to shut their eyes to the knowledge that this great inquisition is going forward in the
public mind ; yet let me say, that the 9,Uestion cannot be evaded; it must be met. It de-
inarid• and it challen,,oe11 the attention of this people. -
The press has been arrayed, with but few exceptions, against it; politicians of all classes
and all gTades-men who seek their interest and their renown in the glory and honour of this
government-nave all combined to stop it. The pulpit has denounced it; the government or
the states has denounced it; the press has denounced it; and it has been denounced in every
pr!vate circle and in every public meeting: and what has been the result1
Four years since, the first unfortunate event (fortunate in another point of view,) took
place: and you find in the state of New-York-00 I claim but little of the merit of the
Character which is ascribed to that state, to its most intelligent inhabitants, and its beautiful
and fit.voured region-yes, in the land which is-peopled from the )and. of steady habits
• and patriotism1-you find, that opposition to secret societies has become the fundamental
Jlrinciple of political faith. And ne that has raised his voice against the expl'888ion of
that public opinion, has. felt, and will feel, tll.at it was an unfortunate hour in whiCh the temw
~ng spirit o( submission to secret societies, led him to sell hie conscience and his duty,
to the paltry hope of ingratiating himself with the inmates of the secret conclaves of free-
~~1 this flame of anti-masonry, vilified, ridiculed, despised anti-m111011ry, which has not
had the ~ht of the press, or the good opinion of influential men, whohave heretoforellourished
in this nation,-what has it done1 Look around you, and ask any man who knows the fact,
whether what there is of talent and respectability, what there is of virtue in this oonvention,
is selected from the talent, tlm respectability, or the virtue of any party or parties_which ever
agitated any part of ibis community1 Sir, they are new-made men; they are the made men
of anti-masonry. It is the opposition to secret societies which has ealled them forth. And in
the energy and dignity of freemen, with which, in the face of this community, we are~­
tili,r this cause, you have an indication ofthat virtue, ofthat spirit, that redeeming spint which
cNred into existence Ole liberty and independence ofthis people.
lH DEB.A.TES.
But, m this lpirit baa not been confined to the ftt.YOUred region of the westem part ot the
state of New-York. It has tranned the boundary lines; itbaa called filrth the aame spirit
in the sister state&-ilnd the aame kind ofmen. · '
But it has been said that this anti-muonry is the &matie creature of the politics, the ftJrioas
polities ofthe state of New-York. It is not BO, llir; the obaervation of every member ofthis
convention will bear me witness of it. The Qpposiuon to aecret societies, is the en~ ._
liberate eft"ect ofthe principles of the eanae, upon the flmnen of the state of New-York. AD
other professions and c1u8ea ofpoliticians have furnished but a scanty quota to the strength
which the party holds. Free-muonry, and political parties embrace almost the whole. h is,
then, certain1 that if so large a portion of this community have become awakened, this spim
cannot subside. The question must be met and decided. · ·
And ~n what principle ofour government shall we not meet the ca.qe 7 Shall it not be met.
because it is a new question1 But new questions have arisen, and will arise. And it is aa
unwise in us, to attempt to avoid the investigation ofevery new danger, and every DeW aboae.
as it would be in the man who, having bw1t a lltrOng ship, and set himselfa11oat in it, abould
truat it among the breakers, without sounding-line or helnl.
Mr. President, shall we refuse to meet this question, because it is one inconsistent with the
exercise of our rights aa citizens? Ifthere be any who have thought so, I beg them to~
upon the principles and organization ofthe society of free-masons. I ~them to re4ect. upon
tlie principles on which thi8 government is organized. And then, I say, i(they take the llOClety
of tree-masons in the most favoured light in which it can be presented byits own members and
writers, it is, no less than this, a society of men aftiliated together by mutual and secret oaths
for their mutual benelit and protection. A societywhich is coextensive with the limits of our
territory, and capa.ble ofconcentrating its power at any and all points ofthis Union, by means
ofsecret signs and signals ofits memllers.
Now thill is the most favoured light in which any, in which free-masons would t.bemeelves
hold up their institution to the community.
Let us, then, suppose, ~ free-masonry had never emerged from its embryo state; that it
had never crossed-the At.lailtic, and found its place in this land ; I J>Ut it to these grave men.
who have been reared in the nurture and admonition of our revolutionary worthi~ you
are men who value the liberties which you llave inherited from them-I put it to all good men
and citizens ; would -you, if the proposition were now to be made, would yon, if it were now
proposed to establishJUllt such an institution, would you give it your support1 No, air, there
JB no man who does not better understand the Jlftnciples ofthis ~rnment. There is no man
who for one moment would aay, let it be establiShed. Much less JS there a man who would say,
in view of all its co~uences, that he would submit to its rites and ceremonies. And why
would he aay so 1 Why would public opinion be thus opposM to it1 What are the ob_ieeta
of this institution 7 Suppose its advocates should say, charity, heavenly charity; would not
the statesman and philatithropist say, there needs in tliis land no such o~on for charity7
Would not he who understands the principles upon which it is proposed to be 68bhli8becl, tell
you, that your charity ll}'8tem ill but an insurance of&ce, in which you require more to be giTen
to the institution, than shall be given back1
But whatever the arguments may be in favour of that charity, would not all lllflD 1ay, that
this charity is pUl'ehaaed at too dear a rate, by organizing a band of secret a11iliated brOtherr,
and putting into their hands the means of concert for their mutual advantage and mutual pre-
f.-ment, to an unlimited extent.
But if it again were med, what are the further advantages 1 I ask, oC thOlle who know
and defend the masonic institution, to tell n&-tell us, what other advantages they would pro-
pose, what could they propose to the society or to the communi9'1 Not oue. For of aH the
boasted pretensions o( free-muonry, charity is the only one wliich has at all withstood the
four yea:d_ .lire, and the exposition orits enormities.
Tlien, the patriot and philanthropist would say, I 1ee in this institution that there iuecrecy;
he would say, and·truly aay, that secrecy is the badge ofa tyrannical government; it is1llllBfe
and dangerous in a republican government. He would 1ay, were it propieed to bind mem-
bers by Oath to vote fur each other, it is the worst feature atan aristocrati~ ~nt. So,
~I. in every point ofview in which it could be preeented, it would be met indlgnuWy, and re-
JJOl.led, by the people ofthis community.
Now It is no hypothetical caae ; it is not propoeed to organize in this land a band ofa1liliated
brothers for their own mutual advanl.al;e; it is not eo propoeed, because it is already done.
This band of a11iliated brethren, whicli no man, not even a mason himse~ would vote filr the
establishment o( if propoeed now, is in full and complete organization. . Let me add, ifitwere
known that such a llOciety was intended tO be organiF.ed, wliat would be the righteous CODduct
ofthe people in relation to it 1 Would they say, goon and Organize your llOCiety, estahliall its
government i fortify it, and seize hold of its powers, take hold of its ~ent, and gm
an opportunity to niake ~riments i and irno lives are lost, no senous depredatiolll cam-
mitted, and no danger apprehended, Ule institution shall stand 7
Would theynot rather aay, wewill not wait for the accomplishment of this sehemeoftynmny.
Did our forefathers wait 7
Three cents tax upon a pound of '"' was a small matter • but it was the entering wedge,
which this community would not suft"er to be applied to the ta.bric of her liberties. And llO'tr1
'
HS
it this institution does exist, and does exist with no.more serious c:bar£MtMa I haw brovght,
and can maintain against it · and if the q_~ is, whet.her it ahalT stand or &ll, who can
hesitate to say that 1t must ~ to the ~es from which it emanated1 It cannot be other·
wiae. It is the intelligence of this C011111l11Dlty whieh is arrayed aga:5nat the organizationU"
secret aocieties, which may endanger the publiC peace, and eJKlanger the public welfilre ; and
u~n that there can be no~
Let this address go forward to the world, to this community, and this great people; and jUJt
so sure as it goes, just so sure will it return back to thoee who send it, with the blesaings and
thanks of a redeeliled people. I will not draw a picture of the evil conseciuences which must
result to this people troin the perpetuity of secret aocieties ; I will not loolt forward to the pe-
riod, when in time of peace OW' j!l>Vernment shall be subverted by factions and secret organiza.
tions ; I will not loolt to the tunt? when the public ~ shall be disturbed by the lawleu
acts of men, directed by the midmght conclave i I will not look forward to the time when
"the arm of this government shall be unnerved m war, by the secret factions ofdesigning de-
magogues !
Sueh a time I may, in the prophetic spirit of another, be enabled to say, may oome ! and if
it must: T,,,.ril Ula diu, et fl081ro aerior _ .. Long may it be before that day arrives, and
after our period ofexistence." .
Ma. W .u.s:•a, of Massachusetts, rose to read the celebrated letter of John Anderson to a
meniber ofCougreas, oftil~ him a bribe of 500 dollars, for his asaistance in_procuring the
passing ofan aet then pendmg, for the allowance of a.claim of Anderson's. The letter con-
. tained an appeal to the member 1U1 a supposed brother mason. The honourable gentleman
hapJ>8ning,liowever, not to be a mason, exposed him. He referred to the proceedings ofCon-
gress at the time, for this letter, and the facts regarding it.
MB. CooKs said, he would detain the convention but a moment. It had been said in the re-
~that the ~ ~ the strength of the whole chain, consisted in the force ofmasonic
oblig'ltions. He thought it highly important that it sho'Uld be well understood by the whole
eommunity, why it is considered right and proper to violate masonic obligations. Am{'le jus-
tice had !Jeen done to the seceders ; but, lie continued, I would barely remark, that, m com-
paring their ei:ample with that ofour forefathers, and particularlywhereW aahington is alluded
to, the circQJDStances do not bear a very striking analogy.
It has been ll1'ged and established, tlia.t masonic oaths from the commencement are not bind-
ing ; that they have no force, having been imposed by fraud and imposition. But what was
the oath which Washington and hi8 compatnots tool!: 1 WM it an oath which was from the
commencement void and of no effect 1 Not agreeable to the laws ofour country, or the laws
· bf Great Britain 1 The oath whieh they took was. lawful; it was commendab~e, it was in
eonfo?lllity to their CODlltitutional birthright. Su,Ji was the oath imposed on the men of tliAt
time.
Yet when necesaity required it, did they hesitate to throw oft" the Shackles, and declare that
oath void 7 We see that the obligation, which was mutual protection, had been withdrawn;
and from that time the.oath becanie void and null, and was so treated. ·
When the fraternity resort to the eharacter of that great man; when they invoke his spirit
to rise up and support masonry, it is humiliating in the extreme ; that the spirit of that man .
sl:iould be invoked (or the supp!lrt of that which he deS{'ised and renounced; and shall the d~
parted ~t of that man b6 alluded to, to support an institution like this, which he is well
known to have renounced and condemned7
This is a cireumlltance which I thon«bt worthy ofconsideration. The seceders have alluded
10 many instances where masonic oaths have taken effect, contrary to the oath ofallegiance,
when imposed upon the recipient. ,
There was one m.&ance which came to my own knowledge : an acquaintance of mine, re-
siding in Canada, was an officer in the British service during the revolutionary war. He was
of that class termed toriea, a native of New-Jersey i .and while stationed in New-York, he
was employed as a spy ; he was respectable, and in nis Majesty's service. That man de-
clared, that when he was tbund to be ai!~.zi!: the Anierican camp, he made himself known as
a mason, and means were adopted for · his escape.
. Not IOlllt after this the same person who had effected his re~ was thrown into the British
camp, ancfapprehended as a spy; and, by the mane aecidmt, this individual found out that
his frimd was now in confinement ,with the British army ; he felt impelled to seek out the
eulprit, and to take measures, by which he effected his escape.
Ma. SuDa, ofVermont, Ma.AaM1Tao11a,ofNew-Yor][,and MB. MoaH,OfNew-Jersey,
addre-i. the chair in support of the address. No notes ofthese remarks, sufilciently accurate
1br publication. have been received up to the time when it was necessary to send these sheets
io the ~ They will appeal" in an ap_pendix, ifreceived in time.
The address was unanimously adopted, and a resolution easaedby unanilcous consent, that.
it. be mbeeribed by evezy membef of this convention with hls name. ·
Ma. Eu.1u.ua, ofPlmnsylvania, made a report on the Presidential nomination, concluding
with a reaol.ution. [See the Journal and the Keports.]
The report and resolution were laid upon the table.
4.djoulned to 4 o'clock, P. M.
lH DEBATU.
Bur1.U,, t&tA Blpt. 1830. ' .
The report ofthe committee on the spirit ofanti-masonry beina: taken up,
~ll: W~·ofNew-~c;ir~ mov;~ th!1t it be_adopted. He saiif'.-:-This, Mr. President, is~·
l!plnt m which we meet: 1t IS a spmt with which we IU'e all acqwunted, and one that I .wish
all men were penectly familiar with. The re~rt dates the origin of this spirit SOlllll years
past. It does not commence with the offence which brought furth the anti.masonry of this day,
It goes back to that ~od when the writings of certain distinguished citizens and foreign.
em :&nit awakened a spirit:of opposition to free-masonry in this country.· ,
· It is an interesting fu.ct, and one important to be known, that the spirit ofanti-muomy
existed many years ago in this country ; and yet most ofus were born strangers to it. Shall
it be so with the anti-masonry exhibited at this day 1 Does the same fate await our efforts,
whioh has befallen the efforts ofour predecessors1
This is an important q_uestion, involving the interests ofthe whole cause.
Among those who distinguished themselves ofold in opposing ~masonry, were masons of
hie:h stan~. The first and principal among them was professor Robison, one who in early
life dlstin · ed himselfin the British navy. He accompanied General Wolfe to this country,
was at e conquest ofQuebec, dwelt in RllSllia in the service of the RUBBian government,
was recalled after three years from Russia, to be made professor in the university at ~
burgh. He was one ofthe first lights ofanti-masonry. His character and integrity were of
the highest order. He was afterwards elected a member of the American philosophical
lllOCiety, ofwhich Mr. Jefferson was president. He was also electl!d a member of the imperial
BOciety at Petersburg,_ ofwhich there can be but six foreign members on earth.
Such a man as this, in love, candour1 and truth, came forward and testified boldly and
frankly, giving .his declaratio)i. under h18 own name, showing ti\e dangers of free-masonry,
especially the higher degrees. He was· accompanied by Barreul. While one, a Fren~
was writing in one part of the world0the other, a Scotchman, doseted in Edinburgh,_each
unknown to the other, was writing upon the same subject. They. both wrote in the "!uune
spirit, each resorting to the same documents. These men, in all the efforts made at that time,
were put in the front ofbattle. .
They were distinguished men, especially Dr. Robison. Their weight of character and
, previoiJB fame brought around them men ofstanding and of eharaeter; and yet, while we find
the names ofmany of their inferiors immortalized, the names ofthese distinguished individuals
have been entirely overwhelmed, and their reputation grossly injured. ·
I can speak for one and for a great many : the names of Barreul and Robison were only
known to me, until three years past, as names ofreproach. Had I been thrown· in their way,
I should have shuddered at their approaeh--M effectually had the inany-mouthed monster ·
assailed their character. Yet the spirit ofanti-masonry "was then as it is now; it came forth
'with mildness, with patriotism, and with documents to sustain it; but free-masonry was too
strong for it.
Now, let us look around, and see what is better in the prospect at this day, to give~
to those who come out from the fraternity, and to afford them the power of eECaping the fate
ofthose great men. One ofthe first things, and one ofthe great things, to seeure men aC this
age against a similar fate, is the concentration ofmoral_force, which we are able to prodooe by
tlie action ofour poJitieal institutions. ·
Now we can array men, by the simple orgaliization. which the course of politics takes in
this country, in a manner which no human, no other moral etl'ort, is capable ot: I\ is in thia
course, that anti-masons of the present day have a reasonable hope to esllllpe the fate of their
predecessors, and in this course alone. I know of none other by which they can expect to
conquer the spirit offree-masonry, and to come off triumphant.
The spirit ofanti-masonry has ever been one ofkindness and correclnel8. It will be fo11I1d
so in the writings ofRobison and Barreul. The works of these men, instead of being of an
evil-minded, calumniating, prevaricating character, will be found amo~ the most correcs.
explicit, and documentary productions ever written. It is especially so with that of BarreuI.
Their eil>rts were not directed against free-masons, but against the institution. The
true spirit of anti-masonry cares not for men, neither masoQs nor anti-masons-it tal'8ll b
things. It takes care for the system of free-masonry, to put it away, and to defend the ClOlll·
muruty against this dangerous and secret enemy.
The same course ofealumny which was pursued against those who 1bu«ht the battJe thir&y
or forty years ago, is adopted against anti-masons oithe present day.· We are tbaJoged widl
beipg in pursuit of men; -with proscribing men; and aiming our shafts at men. But tu be
it from us ; this is not our spirit ; it is not the spirit of anti-~. I can speak witla
confidence; for if the saying be true, "once tl tllll8oti, alraay11 a f11411en," then I am a lllUOll,.and
I may be allowed to speak freely, both for the spirit of.free-maspns and ofanff..DlllSGIJI!, I think
I may be said in this way to understand the subject.
It has been charged upon men, standing aa I do, that they have abandoned the illstRulioe
without consulting with their brethren. If we, have gone heedlessly ~n.t Ollr brethren, we
are to blame ; but the fact is otherwise ; we have wearied them out with intreaties ; the 111!1$
masons have not gone carelessly against· their brethren in the institution. These wheo have
seeeded have made their first efforts with the masons themselves ; we knew not MW I» give
them up, we will never give them up; we havo looked to them, and will look to them, Ill! good
DEU.TEf3ot
men and bretaren; ~ while they are.adhering ~.we depart from. the ~tution, we count
them as unlortUBate, instead of traducmg and vilif}'lllg thell' name ; we 1D1pute it to their
misinformation, and to the blindness brought upon them_by the manifold pretensions of free-
masonry, and not to their love ofthe follies of the lodge-room.
It is true, Mr. President, and I am sorry to say it, that those who have ~ed, and have
been placed in the front of the battle, are represented and regarded as men ofdesperate cha·
racter, and desperate principles ; men who seek for nothing but a revolution, by which they
may gain advant&;ge; as those who have now no hold on life or society. I wish to set this
matter in its true light; to make those who are now under the .sound of m;y voice acquainted
with some of the facts attending the first opei'ations in this,business. While I give a word of
my own experience, I will speak for a great lllBl\Y others.
First, seemg the dangerous consequences which grow out of the masonic institutio11, what
should one do but deal with his brethren1 This was done-it was done extensively, it was
done kindly. And the uniform result was, and there was not an exception for many months.
that every eft'ort of the kind was repelled by the brethren of the masonic institution; they
11hut their ears and drew away the shoulder; they refused to hearken. Finding that nothing
could be done by this course m Massachusetts, an appeal was made to gentlemen, masons, in
the west of New-York, and in the midst of their capital, to some of their foremost men;
an effort was made fi'om house to house, as Paul preached the gospel, and, I trust, not a little
in t11e spirit of the gospel i to deal with them man by man; in this hope, that if the truth was
:riot in this breast, they might kindly put it there ; and if it was, that they might became wise,
befure the great public obtained the knowledge; that if free-masonry were an inlpost.ure in all
its parts, they should come out from it, and throw away the bone of oontention, Defure it was
is'i!ominiously wrested from their hands.
What was the result 1 After weeks of labour, and hard Jabour, receiving-many times harsh
and unkind words, and sometimes a repulse, ten men, free-masons, convened in one room,
and, though they had no tyler at the door, they had no intruders. We went over the whole
BUbject ofmasonic pretensions with carefulness, and examined it closely, and ealmly; th~
pJesent agreed as to the truth, but could not agree what to do with it ; and they dispersed,
The views advanced there were such as have been advanced here, but then tliey were sub-
mitted to the fraterni~ only. 'A plan was well matured ; it was thought that something
might be done, by sending forth a man in the spirit.of love and unity, one of their own mem-
bers, to go round and instruct ma£Ons in the deceitfulness of the arts and mysteries offree-
masonry; and to give him countenance, they should furnish him with letters of introduction
to intluential and leading masons in otller places ; but this plan failed-the bre~ could not
consent to it.
Then what should we do 1 There was no other way. left but to come out publicly and
separately, unless we could consent to let tlie inlposture go on unheeded, while it trampled
our r~hts, with our reputation, in the dust.
- ThiS is the spirit of anti-masonry-a candid and an independent spirit, which dealt witl1
free-masons at the beginning, and seeks still to do so, by making tliem acquainted with facts
before unknown to them ; clearly proving that they Jabour under a mistaken view of the
character of the mystery. It seeks m kindness to bring them from the strong grasp of their
adversary ; it seeks to ilo them no ha.rm, but to deliver them from bondage, to rescue them
from the ~on yoke o~ a mystical d~sPot. S~ much for t~e spirit of kindn~
There is another view. The spmt of anU-masonry·alRlS at the destruction offree-masonry;
it seeks its object by means well set forth fo the documents presented to this convention. Its
ainl is to root out this vieioQ plant from all our soil, and I trust ev.in more; for I hope it is
not·a s.Pirit circumscribed like the obligations ofmasonry; that it does not regard merely the
little Cll'ele of one state, or ofthe United States ; that it does not regard NorthAmerica alone;
but that it is a broad and liberal spirit, embracing the whole world.
We have lessons of instruction from free-masonry, of what it is necessary for us to do. It
is a maxim ol that institntion, that every mason is every where a mason ; and I wish every
anti-mason to remember it, that " toery mason is toery wlure a mason.'' The illustrations of
history will show the truth of this maxim. The anecdote related by the ~ntleman from N. J.
(of one who1 upon the American frontier, by a singular interchange of civilities between na
tional enemies, rescued the guilty traitor from !tpllrehension,) is an illustration of the truth of
this maxim. And there are a thousand such i.hings to be gathered up in the history of the
world.
On tills principle of the order, we are not secured against the system, by rqoting it out of
one county, or state, or out of the United States, or even out of the western bellllSphere. I
would go on no Quixotic expedition ; I would not advocate measures which might seem like
seeking battle with those not fairly before us. But weought to view the spirit of anti-masonry
as opposed to free-masonry, wherever it exists; we are but poorly acquainted with our enemy,
if we expect to triumph by any partial success. Though we expose the mystery at once, it
has the power of extendin~ itself m new degrees; ifexpelled from Philadelphia altogether, it
would not be long before it would push in from New-York and Baltimore, and fasten itself
upon the vitals of the city. It would return with threefold vigour. It is Ille confident boast
of the fraternity, that it has power, when this storm is over, to rise again, take root deeper,
and push fortli its branches wider. If we engage nt a11, we engnge with the monster as it exists
..
1!6 DEBATES.'
inallthe elUth. The grand officers ofthe grandlodgeshoklregularcommuniea....fnlmNeW.
York to Londdn; froril Charleston to Pans; and probably frOm Philadelphia to Alasterdam:
the fratethlty are one-. single band, closely united in allChristendom; strike one, and all are
wounded; this is their nature; and as such, we ha-re to make our arrangements to meet diem.
We have to see1i: for·the enlighteningof the public mind ; tor the aetting forth of the true cha-
racter ofthe institution, all over the earth ; and thus we may defend ouriielns, not only~
the machinations, but against the return of free-lllll.80nry. It is a great institution, and as
such, calls for the powerful and determined spirit of opposition. It liaa been tried in warfare,
it is a veteran in cJesperate strul?l?les, and it remains yet to be subdued.
We have to meet with difticiifties, which will call furth from every supporter of our cause
the best exertions of talent, and the kindest of feelil138 towards thOllll oppo-1 to us, and the
hiJ?hest eftbrts offreemen, in behalfof our civil liberties and civil institutions.
1 hope it will go on triumphine:. I hope that we shall keep in mind those past times, when
the friends ofour cause came forth and were put down ; swept away with a ilood ofcalumny;
and that we shall be nerved by their unwdrthy fate, the stronger fur this battle • that we
may use greater diligence ; that we may go AID with a qoick_er ate_p, and livelier hope, t.o a
BPlledy victory over the institution-not only in this land, but t.brouglloUt the earth.
The report was then adopted.
Ma. MoBR1s, of New-York, from the committee on the truth of the dieclosures of maaonry,
made 1f:report, which being taken up, .. ,
Ma_ Tonn, of Pennsylvania, aam, in reference to this report, that the masons ·reaprted to
falsehood and prevarication, in ordet to impress the idea on tlie community that the discloirurea
made of masonry were not true. A mason preten@lg candour, said to. him, when qu-
tioned upon the truth of the oath, as laid down in "Bernard's Light on Maso~," "I. can
assure you upon the honour of a man, that I never took such an alth." I asked him whether
it was not a part of it-he said nothing. I asked anotaer, whether the Jl6llalties w:ere true-
he was silent. A day or two afterwards he came to-me and said, "You inquired of me some-
thing about the penalties of masonry-I never saw them inflicted." He tlien talked about a
book eultigisirig masonry, and endeavored to prove that it made men love the ladies better !
Ma. ToDn then gave a description ofa lodge, Md concluded by saying that'a ~ was used
in it,-and for what1 It was an instrument used by no nation in the whole world for capital
executions. Insomecountries, for the executionofthe laws, the guillotine was. used-in some the
rope, and in others the bow-string, but in none the dagger. It was, and always had been, the
instrument of the assassin, from the murderers ofolden time to the present.
Ma. R&lb, of New-York.-It perhaps becomes my duty to bear teatimony to the truth and
disclosures of free-masonry. I rJSe not to boast ; for when I look back u~n the masonie
d~dation to which I have submitted, it gives me no pleasing aensation. But in the same
spirit as I then trusted, and now trust, of duty wmy God and my COW1try, when I saw naked
before my eyes, in a land of freedom, masonry triumJlbing over the. laws of the land, I con-
sidered it my duty to burst her shackles, and deele.re I.hat this book (Light on Maaonry) may
go forth to the wo~ld with my testi~ny to itstruth. l declare in the pl'Bl!ence ofihi$ audience,
that substantially true are the diselosures of fiee..masonry, as round m Elder l)emard's book.
I B.l!k not your sympathy for submitting to the ceremonies of .initiation-¥ug d!!ped into
them. I ask not your sympathy because-i ha.ve broken my allegiance to the msutu4on. No,.
sir, I look upan that act as one ofthe proudest or my life. ,
What claim have they upon me or othera, when they have set at nought the Jaws of God
and ofman 1 Yea, sir unaer fraud and deception did they call me into her embrace; and
when safety permitted, I broke forth. It is true, sir, when p held out to me that the
truths of Revelation would be better understood through masonry, I ought not to have been
duped by it. Did the author of Revelation indict passages wh~ch could only be expounded in
the lodge-room, with a tyler at the door, filching from the pocketa of them that would learn 1
No, sir, I should have known better; but she bolds forth to allure us great earthly benefits.
She tells us of teaching geornetrf, the arts and the sciences. She recompenses, a.ml more than
recompenses, what she asks for mitiation. But look at the bool!:-look upon the degrading
steps which her rules compel you to take. Where is he~ science 1 Her science consists in
telling the candidates that .Mal&hal means .MIJJ'l'OIO. •
I ask, then, upon the ground offraud and deception, can she claim me, and bind me down to
her bloody alt.are, whim under the basest of impositions, llhe niade !De ~wear allegiance to herf
No, sir. Does ehe not inculcate duties diametrically opposed to our duties to government1
She has no rigbtful claim upon me to conceal·the crime ofa master mason, murxler. and treason
only excepted, or left. to my own election. But when she carries her demands still furtbilr, and
when thelland ofa brother is imbllfld in the blood ofsome citizen, and she requires co11cealme11t,
without eiception ofmurder or treason, it would be treason to my countrf, if I should support
and uphold her. I have broken away from her: it was not done in a spirit, of madness and
reve!W'• I declared my conviction while her followers were assembled around me, before I
proclauned them to the world. I asked them to send back their charter, and to becQme free citi-
zens of a free laud. These propOeals were met only by expressions of insult ~nd looks
of vengeance. I still followed her with kindness in the public prints, and asked her follow-
ers to examine the principles on which she was- built; supposing there ·might be some who
yet had the candour toJook flt her real characteri and I am happy to say th~re were th~ w}\o
D&BATES llf
did eo. I IUDJ»y aaked them to conaider, when aocu8ed by lier enemies of concealiat treaas
and murder, whet.her in the hour when her &eDJple should·(all and bury her in~ ~could
deviao the means of escape. Did.Ille return diia spirit of kindneaa1 No, air; for this simple
demand, wu I hunted down and perieCUted. Sdcli I conceive to be the d.ift'erence of her apuit
fiom that of anti-maaonry • for men who had called me friend-thole whom I had reason to
believe respected me, turn~my bittereat "-. I say, then, can an inatitution which leads her
members into such ac&s, whoae spirit is that ofcruelty and revenge, be worthy of our resJ>eC'
and allegi!Uloe1 ~ · _ •
It is true, that the book of which William Morgan is styled the aut.hor in the report jll8'
read, and whicli he -.led with his blood,-1 say, it is 1o, that the truth of that boolt wu de-
nied in the same community and bythe 111111e citizens, who had aeen Morgan dragged &om his
home, never to return, fur publiahfnr that book. The 8llDle citizena who had seen his widow
and orphans lea deJlelldant, for nooiherobject (aa they testified theimelves, to the court, while
pleading guilty of the abduction of Morgan,) than that of preventing him &om revealing thtt
aecretll of U-muon..--choae 8llDle citizens declare that same book is not maso!lryI ~ then,
ahe will tea.eh her memben to deny the truth, when there are aucli convincing proOfa, will she
not teach them to deny it in every instance1 But I aak, sir, in what llP!!-it, ilrid inwhat man-
ner does she deny thl! revelations aa they now stand before the world1 Do they deny, like in-
nocent men1 Do her ibllowers, like the followers of truth, take the same measures and coww
that others take,.to dispel calumny and abwse on their institution1 Haa she ever met it in the
face of day1 .Hu she ever been williug to ineet and canvaaa the subjects ofthe revelation7
No, air; she has for ever shrunk back intoher dark caverm, for the ~ of exciting and
concertulg new vengeanceand new methods ofcalumny, to stop the mouths of her opJI099lB.
She bas heard, in open court, of the truth of the disclosures: evidence has been introduced to
show that they were true. Ftee-D1880D8 of high standing--men high in life, and in the com-
JJUJDity--bave atood by and heard.witn- swear to it. If false, why not come forward and
llO swear. Ifthis waa a lie, ifthe book is a calumny, I ask why do they not, at such time, and
on such an occasion, prove it to be so1 Men adhering to the inatitution, men who believe
iheir masonic oaths binding, have been called under sucli eircwnstaneea: they have then ae-
peared: the question haa been put to them, Ia that book substantially true1 What waa their
·&D11Wer1-was it No1 No, Bir: it was a refusal to testify atall, even when llUbjeeted to heavy
fine and imprisonment for not testifying. Such is ths clui.raeter ofthe proof on one side: and
we, who have discarded her, stand ready to meet them at any time-we are ready to declare
the truth aC the proposition; but she dare not. meet inquiry, controlling as she sup~ public
opinion, and grasping as she does, to withhold all methodS of communication from &he public
·~ye. . She 1111ppoed that she, could silently trample us clown, and all our opposi&ion; but the
bOok haa gone forth to the world, and has been testified to, by many, and ii haa not been de-
nied in any such full andJ>Ublic ipanner as to excite a doubt. Where any dispute haa ariaen,
it bas not been denied. When met, and called upon to prove it false, she stands, and must
stand, convi,cted. It haa been here said, in som11 remarks which have been made, that the pe-
nalty.of her oaths were never calculated to be enforced. I will detain you but a few momenta
on this point. For ifthere should be any doubt, in addition to the convincing proofwhich has
been olf'ered here, and which no man can deny, who will open his eyes and examine it, after
· the convincing proo& whioh silenced the author of the revelation of the three firat degrees, I
will make two or three remarks on the de2ree referred to by the gentlemanfrom Pennsylvania;
premiaing, that in every~ the candidate is required to swear, that he will abide by all the
ancient usages ofthe society. This degree waa chosen, and put into their books; and is in all
their books, for the p~ of telling the manner of execution. It waa founded on the death
o{ a traitor a man wbo, from the nature and-tendency: ofthe degree, having told JWlllOnic se-
crets, and la;,wing the penalty that awaited him, haQ 1led; and Solomon had despatched
meuengers to bring him back; but they, in their zeal to execute the penalty, had not waited
till he wu brought betOre king Solomon, to receive &eQtence, but g_ave the fatal blow in tile
cavern where he was found. Solomon is represented, at first, aa being a littledispleased; but
after informing"
them that they must have orders from Jerqsalem, the aasaasins are made the
first men ofthe depe, and 111'11 exalted to its highest honourii. It must be referred to Jerusa-
lem. This is expt~toryof the remarks ofthe gentleman from N<1w.York, when remarkill$
about Morgan confined in Fort ~ After the ~11tlemen had met and consulted on his
murder, arid concluded they could not do it that .wght, they told hiQJ, tbt they must go to
Jerusalem, that in this degree they were to go to Jerusalem for the executioner,
But the time of the convention has been sufficiently spent upon this subject, though an im-
portant one-the oomer-stone upon which is built antl,.maaonry. for if these obligations be
not true,.what interest h1111 anti-masonry to oppose them? It 111 now f~ years since some of
the factll ill this caae have been before the world; and almost three years, have the remainder
been known. This institution has been arraigned at the bar ofpublic opinion, and why does
ahe not answer1 She cannot; she dare not: let ~r atlUld, tlien, convic~ed. ~nd what an
interest bas this convention, w~t a high and deep interest has all this co~unity, and the
.land, iftheae oaths are true! I Mk. then, as free eiuzens-as people jealous of your liberties,
to look at Elder Bernard's Light on Masonry: read there in these degrees, the fo"1 conspiracy
which she may conceive in her dark cavel'lll, when no eye can be u~n her, whflll no arm can
inllic& the penalty.. I say, then, act u becomes free men.-as the disciples of those who, in
t!8 DEJlA.TU,
yonder bailding, p~edged their liffe, their fo~uneB, and their aacred·honour, in ~efence of that
inlJtrllmeJl.t.
Ma. Su:n:Ns.-Mr..President, before this report is adopted, I shall trouble you for a few
minutes, in stating the reasons which ~ce me ~ vote for its ~ption. I conaider. this the
'most important report to come before this J:ODventlon, Qr upon whlCh we shall be called to act.
It embnices the whole foundation upon which the superatrucLvre of anti-masonry has been
built, and is to stand, so long as it shall stand. If the. report, with regard t!> thesed.iscl?suns,
is true, then we need not call on any'man, and ask him whether masonry 1S to be JUSUfied or
not7 For I venture to say, all that is necessary in an intelligenf cotnmttnity, is, to present to
disinterested men, this.proot: Ifthis proof be ururuspeeted, and beyond refutation-and the
'Obligations herein disclosed, contain the spirit and the .Principles of the Dlll80nic institutio11, the
great and only difficulty which we have to encounter, 1S in convincing and persuading men ta
believe that these disclosures are true. ·
· I propose, then, brietl:ino enquire into the testimony. before this convention-to enquire
whe~er that testimony, if takt:n acco~ng to the st_rictes~ rules of evidence, according 1? ~
principles or the common law1 1S sufficient to aut.Por1Se this body, gravely to pass a nrd1ct m
favour of the report, and against the institution which it implicates.
· I am aware that this discussion will be dry, though I promise it shall be short. It will be
dry, because it will not be addressed to the fimcy or feeliiigs, but to the judgment, of the triWI
of this important q,uestion. -
What then, sir, IS the question which we are called on to decide 7 · An institution which
extends over the civilized world,embracing men of every rank, both in office and out ofoflice-
those of hie;h intellectual endowments, and apparently of fair character--this institution is
·accused before the tribunal ofthe people ofthis country, of ~g bognd together, by the con-
'ltitution which is developed in E!Uer"Bernard's revelationa oNree-masonry. Now I admit,
that this charge is a high and an iml!ortant one-one that deeply implicates the institution-
and I am candid en~~ to say that 1t deeply implicates f.!ie integrity, honesty, and moral feel-
ing of men high in life, high in the estimauon of the people ; and .those whom I have been
taue:ht to reSJ?ect-those whom I should be sorry to believe thus implicated ; and unless im-·
pelfed to the UTesistible conclusion, that they are thus bound together, let WI reject this report,
nor cast upon these men the iml.'utations which it contains.
Now, what are the rules ofeV1dence, with regard to the decision,which ought to follow from
t.he testimony·? When high crimllll and misdemeanors are charged upon an institution-and in
the further discussion, I will consider the institution, and not individuals, as placed on trial-
when highcrimes are charged upon an institution or an individual, I admit, sir, that slight evi-
dence, rumour, suspicion, SU11_pected testimony or contradictory evidence, should not 6e suffi-
cient to award a verdict ofgwlty. For unless the testimony is so clear, as to remove from the
mind of all who try the case, every shadow of reasonable doubt, however strongly we may
SUSJ?6cl, let us not solemnly condemn-let us pause upop these principles, let us examine the
tesumony now before the convention and the public, and from which last tribunal, upon this
earth;there is no appeaL
In the first place there is direct testimony-end all testimony is oftwo kinds, circumstantial
or positive-either ofwhich, ifclear, is sufficient to ,condemn-we have the direct testimony
of witnesses who are themselves seceding masons, to the number of about a dozen, who are
now in this convention, and who testify directly to the truth of these revelations ; aud the
public have the testimony offrom five hundred to some thousands, throughout the Union, who
testify to the same fact. ·
Now, this testimony, if unimpeached, either from contradictory testimony, or the nature o£
their own evi~ence, would be sufficient, in all human j?dgment,_to ~ke out the ~e in favour
of condemnation; for by the mouth of two or three witnesses (that 18 uncontradicted, I take
it for granted) every thing is established.
I admit, and I propose to treat them with candour, I admit that there are objections made to
this direct evidence, which at first blush strike the mind of the public, and of those who inves-
tigate, as being hard to get over. The objections are contained in the nature of the testimony
itself, and this arises from the intrinsicfacts which they disclose. •
In the first place, the fraternity allege, that the witnesses are parlicipt1 criminU--that the
parties in this transaction are involved in the guilt of this institution, and that, therefore, they
are to be 'Viewed with suspicion-they say, that from the nature of their disclosures, they show
that they are willing to commit perjury ; because the fact of making the disclosures is a viola-
tion of what they admit to be a solemn oath. Here, therefore, and in order that I may not
misrepresent the position thus taken, I beg leave to read from a paper, the argument, not of
men who have argued this case in the bar-room, or of illiterate men who have. not judicial rules,
but the reasoning of a learned judge, who now sits upon the bench-who is presumed to be,
and in fact is, a learned man, the honourable Charles Shaler1of the western districtofPennsyl-
vania-in the following words: "It is, however, alledged that masons are tillae pretenders to
virtues that they never exercise ; and I.hat the disclosures of certain members ofthe fraternity,
evince a set of principles at war with the duties thatevery citizen owes to his country and gov-
ernment. It ishardly now necessary to inquire, what share ofconfidence is to be given to those
who, in making d i .
• scfosures, admit that they are ready to break through every obligation of
honour, Md every moral sanction, for the purpose of attaining their object. It is the fllshion
•
DEBATH. Ht
orthe timesto con!ide in the faithleea, and Itoabundant honour tohim who breaks~ thOle
restraints that were once held sacred by the community. It is the peculiar felicity ofour oppo-
nents, that they mark their companionship with infimiy, and deduce their claims to confidence
f'rom the dre_gs of corruption.and depths of prostitution." Here, sir, and I treat it respect-
fully-here 18 the argument on the part of the defence,for impeaching all the direct testimony
which can be brought to bear against this institution.
Letus now analyse it for 11 moment, and see how far it is correct. The learned judge says,
they admit, that in making the disclosures, they are ready to break through every obligation of
honour, and every moral sanction. Here, in tlie fust place, is a faJse asmmption in pbint of
argument and fact. These witnesses do not admit that they ~iolate the rwea of honour or
moralit,Y.: inbreaking their obligations. Let us look at theiroaths, and see iftheyadmitit. Thoae
oaths, if true, disclose a scene of iniquity, which no one can vindicate. Admitting that h.i8
honour had taken such an oath as thosedisclosed, would he be bound in morality to keep it1 If
not, then they.do not admit that they violate any moral ob!ieations by their disCIOllUl'e8.
Where did the judge learn his rules of honour and morals1 Did he learn them in boob of
ethics ; from writera on moral philosophy; or from the Bible1 As a jurist he knows that
no man is bound by: an eitra-judicial oath-iUl a moralist, he oughL to knMiV thtt no man is
bound by an oath which confticts with the laws of his county. A dishonourable oath has no
binding force with honourable minds.
Ifh.ia honour has learned his mies from any system of moralitr., it must be such as is san~
tioned in a den of midnie:ht robbers, where, to conceal their gwlt, they deem it necessary to
preserve secrecy througli unhallowed obligations. Ir he has imbibed them in any school o(
honour, he must have learned them there ; and there is no honour which is forfeited by such
disclosures, unless it be that honour which is said to exist among thieves. Thus we see that
seceding masons did not violate any rules ofhonouror morals, when they published the secrets
of free-masonry to the world. And there is nothing in the natureofthe diaclosuresthemselvea.
to impeach their motives as to what they admit bytheir disclosures. Then the judge assumed a
mistali:e in his argument, when he said, they admit that they have violated the11e rules. There
appears to be more force in the other clause ofthe objection.
These witnesses were at one time partakers in the·crimes of the institution, and they hne
now come forward and borne testimony against it. Now I hold, that whenever (independene
of the oaths,) the parties have been associated in iniquity, a disclosure ofthat iniquity by one
or two men under cireumstances which cause a BUSj>icion oftheir motives, unless corroborating
circumstances go tostrengthen their testimony and put it beyond doubt, such evidence ought to .
be received with caution and weighed with some scruples of allowance. ·
I will give them the full benefit of this rule. I wowd consider the institution on trial before
the tribullal of the public for life and death-all the sympathies ofour nature exer'cised in its
favour; an~s!-ill, unless our j_udgment fail us, sufficient testimony e:risf:s to produce conviction.
Then, admitting that there IS some shadow of doubt upon all the testlinony ofseceders, how-
everhii\:h their Character might have been before, let us see how it is corrobilrated. Ifcoming
from tlie mouth ofone or two witnesses only, it would be doubted· if coming from Morgan
only, it wquld be laughed down, and·that would be an end of it. Not one in a million would
have believed it, if confined to that book; but if two or three witnesses only confirmed it, it
would justly have some weight; but when you find a host of hundreds of wttneases, coming
forward to corroborate each other, in ditrerent sections ofthe country, with regard to these in-
stitutions, so complicated and varied in their penalties, and all such witnel!lles agreeing with
each other, who can fail to believe? · But it is said, the characterofthese men is not good ; for
we have heard itasserted, and it is so asserted, before the bar ofthe people.
I have no doubt, that among seceding masons, where they have increased to a great number,
as in all classes, there are some whose character is not the first in society. But wben did the
great mass, the great number ofthese witnesses ~uire theµ- bad charaCter1 When inveati,
gating a case.ohhis kind, it is necessary to enquire how, and when, and by whom, this wu
'6rougnt about, and whether it has been got up within these few months past. These me11i up
to the date of their secession1 it is not pretended, \l!'ere bad characters. But we have a ngtit
to inquire, up to that time only. Then they were the honour¢ members ofthe institution of
a virtuous fr!lternity, according to the 11;ccuaed's ow:n st.a~ement. Up to the time wh~ they
·:first gave evidence, the masons cannot impeach then- credit., bees.use the whole tiaterruty en~
dorsed their character, and the whole fraternity were responsible for their integrity, up to the
date ofsuch secession. No mason dnre say, in e. me.son's face, tlu1t these men were not credit-
able U.P to that time. Then their charocter is ausl.ained, by masons themselves, up to the time
ofthen- testifying; and it is unimportant what I.heir characlers may have become since, or by
whom blackened.
What are the circumstances now, which corroborate these ta.i11ted witn-! (to l1llO ma.
sonic I~~
They set fi>tth, that the members of the institution are bound together, !?f«tha, to aecrecy,
under the most horrid pellalties, presenting death in all its m.ost appa)}injp: formsj_nothirig
shdrt ofdeath ; there is no grade, all are alil[e, and all directed to the cliscloBUre& Howdoes
this corroborate the direct evidence1 In thisway-in that secrecy aecrecz; is the great bout,
and distinguishing chRJacteristic of the institution, 1the\her good or bad. t is that whicl?-has
~ed the pubUc a~tcntion upon it heretofore, more than any other ~ quality or attnbute
. . .·. . J
ISO DEBA-TES.
of the institution. One oftheir most learued lectureni, Mr. Brainard, who delivered a lecture
in 1825, states, "that secrecy is a virtue, that it was taught in the lodges as a virtue,. and
taught etfectually. Is it not so1 is not masonic secrecy acknowledged as a mysterious thing?
The most tattlin&'man k~ps this one thing-expel him, and he never tells this one thing~
drunk, or crazy,lie never tell.t-does he talk in his sleep1 it is not about.masonry. Bribe hini
in his want&-tempt him in his pleasures, but he never tella."
Secrecy is one of the boasted characteristics and virtues taught in the institution. But how
is it, that the nature ofman is thus changed1 Take men as they_are fom;ied, and communicate
a secret,-and tellin~ them not todisclose it, only creates an itching to tell it to the ne;xt neigh-
bour, under a like inJunction., lfa secret be entrusted to a large number of men, even though
the disclosure is punishable with death in its ordinary shape, let it be circulated among a.great
number of men, and there never was a case1 but of the lodge, in which it was not disclosed.
The common means of enforcing secrecy, is not sufficient: while in this ease, the very dis-
closures show the most effectual teaching of secrecy, that human ingenuitr. and human power
could invent; for it is not to be punished trivially, but with death. And this corroborates the
very fact of the nature of their secrecy, and shows that the testimony which they have given,
·goes to tally with their conduct in this institution. .
Are there any other circumstances which corroborate the truth ofthese disclosures 1 I pass
over the many sup~ masonic executions, and the alleged execution of Pritchard, and the
author of Jachin and Boaz, for these facts might be disputed; and come to the fact, which we
all know, and no one doubts-the case ofWilliam Morgan, who did disclose their secrets, and
who was executed by men known to belong to this brotherhood, and of the degree to execule
this penalty. I do not say, that if it had not been for these disclosures, the mere execution of
Wilfiam Mor~ by masons, would prove such execution to be required or authorized by
masonry. Standing thus, it might have been nothing more than the execution of Morgan by
individUals who happened to be masons, and be passed by as an ordinary murder. But when
y-ou take these disclosures, and show that they thus exact death, and in pursuance of these dis-
closures, suchdeath was infilcted by just su~ persons as their laws would appoint execution-
ers, what candid mind is there-what impartial man exists-what man who IS not determined
io slmt his eyes to truth and light, whether right or wrong--:-what man is there, I appeal to
you, in the country, who would say that this is not strong corroborating testimony of the truth
of these discl~ 1
But what further do these disclosures ~o to show 1 They go to show that it is a part ofthe
duty of masons to aid each other in their business, and power, and in exalting them to high
pli!ill not travel out of the record, but treat it fairly. What is masonry now1 "It comprises
men of rank, wealth, office, and talent, in power and out of power, and that in almost every
place where power is of importance; and it comprises, among other classes of the community,
to the lotout, in large numbers, eifective men, Ulllted together, and capable of being directed Dy
the efforts of others, so as to hav\I the fwct ofconcert through t~ cillilil;td toorld."-SO says
their orator Brainard.
And are there no circumstances, independent or these, to corroborate1 Look around:
though but, one hundred thousand of the people of these United States are free-masons, yet
almost all the offices ofhigh profit and high honour are filled with gentlemen of that institution.
Out of the number of law judges in the state ofPennsylvania, eigliteen-twentieths are masons;
and twenty-two out of twenty-four states of the Union, are now governed by masonic chief
~strates. Although not a twentieth part of the voters of this commonwealth, and of the
Uwted States, are masons, yet they have contrived, by concert, to put themselves into eighteen
out of twenty of the offiees of profit and ~wer. I defy contradiction.to this statement,
When this is so, is it because the unirutiated are not fit for office; or is it because those prin-
ciples which have been disclosed are secretly acted upon1 And if the latter, is it not a strange
corroboration ofthe direct testimony of seceding masons1
Now, what is the consequence regularly deduced from this statement offacts andarguments?
I say that every man who had arrived at the higher degrees of masonry, and who perfectly un-
ders~ the principles, and ap_prov_ed of them, and adhered to ~em at the time of.Morgan's
execuuon--1 say, all those of the higher degrees, were accomplices before \,he fact, m the ma-
BOnic execution ofWilliam Morgan. I am satisfied that most masons know nothing about the
principles of the institution ; that they know nothing of the ultimate designs and vile 11.rinciples
held by the leaders of the order. Therefore that number would not be unplicated. But I am
sorry that it falls to the lot o(man to believe-and, sir, I am sorry for the sake of those whom
I respect, that it is a necessary consequence, from the proof emoraced in this report-that all
those who knew the principles and adhered to them, at that time, were implicated as a.ccessa-
ries before the fact. ·
I go further, and say, that all, since that time, who adhere to the institution, and knowing
its principles, att.em:pt to sustain it-we must say and believe, are accessaries, after the fact, in
that bloody deed.
What are the further consequences1 If these disclosures are true, then men that we han
been accustomed to listen to, as the oracles of. God-; who have been accustomed from day- to
day, and from year to year1 to assemble sound the table of the Lord, cannot be co~dered, if
\bey adhere to this inatituu<m, and uphold it, fit subjects for the conimunion, and for office ; fur
DEBAT£8. 181
if these disclosorea a:re true, if such things are done in the lodge, as the homd seene of pre-
tending to kneel at-the sepulchre of our Saviour, raising him from the grave, .and po.inting
him out as ascending to the heave~ ; speaking from the ~g bush, and representing, in
mortal shape, the character and voice of that God, whose voice made the mountains tremble ;
ii these acts exist, as the evidence shews, in my estimation they are more presumptuous than
any thinJ,!hich a Christian could endure. Pagans would blush at them, and consign such
men to e forever. Slight and trivial, compared with such heaven-braving acts, was the
daring blasphemy, which fiXed the eternal vulture on the living vitals of the Pagan malefactor.
Can it be that ·this people, and this community, will not examine, will not call out with one
unanimous inquiry:, whether these things are so1 Let them hold out the hand of fellowship
to all those who will repent, and return ; and exclude with a sorrowful, but determined force,
from all places of power, those who still belong to the inatitution ; and put them out from all
commumon with the holy and the ~-
The report was adopted.
Pri.day, 17th Sept. 1830.
The Conventionmet pursuant toadjourrunenL Prayerby the Rev. MR. MoasE, of N. J.
M&. WARD, of New-Yorli:, from the committee of seceding masons, asked leave to be dis-
charged from the duty of making tlieir report, on the ground that there was not time during
the session to make it sufficiently sstisfactory and perfect. After some discussion, the motion
was withdrawn. - ·
Ma. Aa111sTaONG, from the committee, then again submitted the report, amended so as to
embrace the fullowing possages from the "~uisitions to make a good mason" in the "Philo-
sophical Lodge of Knights Adepts of the Eagle or Sun:"-" Behold, my dear brother, what
you must fie:ht ~t, avd destr?f, before you can come to the knowledge of the true l?OOCi and
sovereign' liappmess ! Behold this monster which you must conquer; a serpent whiCh toe de-
test as' an idol, that is adored by the idiot and the =nder the name of RELIGION."
[The whole of the requisition from which the prec · passage is taken, isas follows. "You
must-shake oft" the yoke· of infant prejudice concerning e mysteries of the reigning re~on;
which worship has been imaginary, and onlyfounded on the spirit of .Pride; which enVJes to
command and be distinguished, ·and to be at the head of the vulgar ; m affecting an exterior
purity ; which characterizes a false piety; joined· to a desire of acquiring that which is not
its own, and is always the subject of this exterior pride, and unalterable source ofmany disor-
del'S ; which, being joined to gluttonness, is the daughter of hypoerisy, and employs every
mo.tter' to satisfy canial desires, and raises to these predominant passions, altars upon which
she maintains, without ceasing, the light of iniquit}", and sacrifices continually oft"erings to
luxury, voluptuousness, hatred, enV'y, and perjury. Behold, my dear brother, what you must
:fightagainst, and destroy, before you can come to the knowledge of the true ~and sovereign
happiness ! Behold thiS monster, which you must conquer ; a serpent which we detest as an
idol • that is adored by the idiot and the Vulgar, under the name of Rn1010N.'']
Ma. B&RN.t.RD llllid, that agreeably td the resolution, the seceding masons could not certify
t.Q the truth of any obligation ,of masonry of which they did not possess a personal know-
ledge. Now, althQugh he had received the most indubitable testimony of the accuraey of the
passage or obligation reported by the chairman of the committee, none of the seceding ma.sons
composing that committee personally knew its truth. They could not, therefore, certify it.
On motion of MR. HonJNs, of New-York, the report with this ameudment, was now
again recommitted, with instructions to the committee to make it perfect, when time should
permitaft.er the adjournment, and to report to the public. [See the resolution in the Journal.)
MR. Iaw1N, of Pennsylvania, from the committee appointed to consider and report the effect
and bearing of the obligations anq tias of masonry on the commerce and revenue of the
United States, moved, in c,onsequence of the want of time, that the committee be discharged
from the further consideration of the subject. The motion was carried.
M&. SLADE, of Vermont, from the committee to whom the report on the nomination of anti-
masonic candidates for President and Vice President was recommitted, submitted the same
report, in a more condensed furm. The report concluded with the rollowing resolution :
Re•olfled, That it is recommended to tlie people of the United States, opposed to secret
societies, to meet in Convention on Monday, the twenty-sixth day of Septemller, 1831, at the
city.of Baltimore, by delegates equal in number to their representatives in both houses of con-
gress, with power to make nominations of suitable candidates for the offices of President and
Vice President, to be supported at the next election : and for the transsction of such othe1
business as the cause of anti-masonry may require.
ML D&XT&R, of Michii!;an, said he was op_posed to the word " power." Many of our con-
stituents were ~ favour of an immediate nommatiOn. He wished the words, " for the purpose
pf no!llinatin&'," to be inserted instead of the words "with power to n'o,ninate." He moved
ihat ameudment.
M&. SLADE, of Vermont, said that this conyention had no "power'' to extend to other con-
ventions: much less could 1t impose obligations. Instruction to delegates was, where it alwayt1
should be, in the hands of the peoll!e. .
M&. HoLLET, of New-YorK; llll!d that we ought to adopt no dictatorial style. The spirit
was the same--it amounted io the same thing. It was not courteous, however, to seem to
Jll85e it obligatory. We had no power to do so. Oth!lr things were to be considered fOr
lH DEBATES.
the bmleit or anti-masonry, and it was not discreet for this convention fD aywliat another
should do.
Ma. M&nrAaD, of New-York, waa in fil.vour of gi'ring the "power" but not of impo11ing
t..lie obligation. We mWit pass what resolves we ple8sed ; we cowd not make them ®•
tory on another convenuon.
Ma. DnTEa, of Michigan, said there was already in the party, a iealousy of predilect.ions
for old parties. Nothing would satisfy our constituents but beingexpficit. It was well known
that IIllUly anti-masons had preferences in fil.vour of the other candidates ; and candidates
purely anti-masonic were necessary to keep the party from seattering.
MR. T oDD, of Pennsylvlllli11, moved, that the resolution be amended by striking out all that
pa.rt giving inst.ructions or directions at all. This motion was considered as for an amendment
to an amendment. -
He said !.hat from the part he hnd r.nken in the cause, no one woUld doubt his deTOtion to
tl1e pcincipies, or his o.rdent desire, for theiinal suecess of the party. He thought that a can-
dido.t1> should then be nominated, bat he was opposed to any dictation to another convention,
which tbe people, and not we, were to choose. In the people, and the people alone, rested the
right of inslrnction. He was a republiron, and believed that the representative was bomad by
the know11 will of his constituents. W hy, then, not recommend a convention, and let the
Jl60,Ple give those whom they may send, the necessary instructions? Events might transpire
which would alter the politiCal ll.SpCCt of affairs. No one could tell what would grow out
of the coming elections, in cw-York, Pennsylvania, and the Western States. Let this con-
vent.ion, however, determine as it might, he would acquiesce in its decisipn. But he knew
that hla constituents were in favow· of no instructions to them from any convention. This
right they reserved to themselves, e.nd would never surrender it. Let t.hiiJ convention return
to the JJllOple, without assuming a power or instruction, of right belonging to their constitu-
ents. Tbe new convention he believed, without detracting at all from the merilll of this,
ould be equally competent to c;arry imo execution the people's will ; it would come fresh
:&om their ranks, and could act under instructions on this very subject. Let us, then, recom·
mend that a convention assemble at Baltimore, tq consult and deliberate upon the great inter-
ests af anti-masonry, and let the people instruct its members what to do.
Ma. Tii:aaT, of Connecticut, said he understood the resolution differently. He agreed with
the gentleman from Pennsylvania.inhis principles, but thoughtthat theydidnot a:pply to the cue.
Ma. STEVENS, of Pennsylvania, was opposed to the amendment. He thougnt it woUld put
an extin.,"llisher upon the patty. It hRd been said that we have sinister objects in view. This
amendment wowd strengthen the suspicions. He thought there was more meant than met
thM'!.eiawrN, of Pennsylvania, said it was not his intention to have entered into a discossion,
but he was under obligation to do so. He was fully sensible of his own feeble energies, and
that it would be mucli more becoming for the youn_gest member of the convention to seek
instruction and imbibe wisdom, by listening to the venerable gentlemen wlo surrounded him,
than to offer views of his own. I am fully sensible, too, he continued, that the time of this
convention is precious, but I am forced mto this di~-mssion by the obligations which I am
under, to express the sentiments ofanti-masonry in the.t section of the country where I reside.
I hold in my hand a paper, embracing resolutions passed at a meeting in Pittsburg, May
15th, 1830. This meeting was representecf as being the largest anti-masonic meeting ever
held in that section of the country. As a delegate to this convention 'from that section of the
(l()untry, I feel it my duty to read these resolutions. The resolutions passed at that meeting
enjoined on the delegates, the duty ofca.JTying these resolutions into effect under these cireum..
stances. (The President here informed the gentleman that it would be out of order to read
the resolutions of any meeting, except that by which the gentleman was appointed ; but he
was at liberty to proceed with his remarks.]
I bee: leave to make a statement respecting public sentiment in that part of the country.
From ihe time anti-masonry first appeared in Western Pennsylvania, I have associated and cor-
~nded with the friends of the ·cause ; and without pretending to infallible accuracy, I
beheve I have ascert.aiiied the wishes and sentiments of that part of the country which I rep~
sent. That populous countrv, composing the congressional district, at present :represented by
my worthy colleague, in the early part of this business declared eublicly, that they woUld •how
by their words and their actions, that their purposes were political, and that they were deter-
mined to exercise the elective franchise. When, sir, it was urged by our opponents, and the
charge was brought forward, that we were trying to make our objections to the order bear on
poliucs, we met them at the threshhold, and allowed that we wished to accomplish a political
purpose. Butthat we claimed for its support the co-operation ofall good men, and thefoversof
iheJr country. The arts of disputatious politicians were lost ; they endeavoured to raise a cry
about persecution, and excite public sympathy, but it was in vain ; nothinl!: could draw the
honest yeomanry from the stand which they hRd tann. They were for applpng a coITeetiTe
to the e,vil at once. A guestion so ~portant as this i4 not to be pa~ over lightly, ordecided
-0n hastily. We have dISCussed subjects or less moment, and on which we have made up· our
minds. (Here the speaker was called to order by a gentleman from Massachusetts, who
moved the previous question. He was, however, mfonned by -the President, that the gentle-
man who bad the ftoor was perfectly jn order and at libertY'. to t>rooeed·l The spea.k;er lWWl1ed.
DEBATES. tss
Now I believe itto be a duty which was expressly enjoined on me by my constituents; and
although I am the youngest member of this convention, and althoug-h the gentleman opposite
aiay not wish to hear m_e talk, I shall take the liberty. I was gomg on to say, wheh I was
interrupted, that nothing could draw the people from the stand which they had taken. No,
air, ~ey could·not be provoked1and would not be C011J:ed to peraecute. To the fraternity they
~d, !fy~u t:hoose to be rulers ma secret government, you~~ not rule over us. .Our·repub-
lican J.!lStl~ut.J.o~ sh~ ~ open to the world. But your legislat.J.on, and the ei:ecuuon of yolir
laws, 18 hidden m nu~ darkness. We hold the conclaves of the lodge, and secret b<ldies
ofmen, as bad schools to leam political integrity; but11.5 it is the only corrective they int.ended
t.o use1 they wished to apply it to the fullest extent. They nre therefore nnxious that the
Unite<1 Sta~ ~y-~e a d~ided s~d in favor of po~tical anti-masonry._ The hue and cry
bas been raised, it will be raised agam1 that we are m fnvour of proscnplion. But the cry
scarce had any eft'.ect, except on the tinud and uninfunned-il is said now to affect them. The
people will understand tliat they have as good a right to withhold their sulfrugea from one
class of me~ as from another. They woulil not sanction the proSClription of mon,archists or
mistocrats; but if tlley ask for office, the peoJ>le will not trnst them with polit.ica.l power;
and in so doing they would act wisely; and so it is with regard to se!Jisb and all-grasping free-
masonry. Now, Mr. Preiiident, although it is my opinion that it is the wish of the anti·
masonic party generally throughout the United States, and I believe it to be the wish pa.rticu-
larly of anti-masons in W estem Pennsylvania, that this convention should nominate can-
didates, and I lately indulged the same wish ; yet for the 1111kc. of unrulimity, I shall
cheerfully submit to the views of this convention. Let me observe, I think it n duty to our-
aelves, to our party and our countlJ.:, to declare publicly and oeenJy, that we consider it a dis-
qualification for any office in the git\ of a free people, to be subject to a government notrecog-
nized by our laws and constitution. One word more, and I have done.
I must say that I was much astonished to hear a gentleman confe&S, that he was for the first
time to be il'lfonned that we met here for any political. purpose whatever. I humbly conceive
that we meet here for no other than a political purpose. Sir, we are a political party-we
are not personally oppoaed to free.masons as individuals, because that might be, and fairly
~ould be, co~de~ ~ption; but we are op{'Osed to the ~nic ~titution,_~nsidering
lt dangerous ID lts poliUcal tendency-subversive of our pnvate nghts as Cl.tlzen8, an(l
destructive to morality and religion. In this our opposition is, as it showd be, political. Tu
express our sentiments at a proper tim&-to correct the growmg evil, and warn young men
against the snare-to crush the moruster ofinici.uity, still wreaking with human blood, we must
go to the ballot-box, and therewithhold our suttrages from those who hold allegiance to a tyrant
more despotic than the one our glorious anceators oppoaed in 1776, and bytopj>Osing which they
secured the sacred indep_endence which we are here assembled to fortify agamst the secret foes
of freedom. Mr. President, l am done. I am ljOrry ifI have trespassed upon the t.inie of this
convention, but I trust its members will be satisfied with the motives which impelled me. ,
The previous question being called for and sustained by: the convention, the_question upon
Ma. ToDD's ameildment wsa put and loet. The question then recurring upon Ma. DsxT&a's
amendment, (to strike out the words "with power'') was put and carried. The resolution
was then adopied in the following words : ·.
Ruolftll, That it is recommended to the people of the United States, opposed to secret
IOCieties, to meet in c:onvention, on Monday, the twenty-ei.J:th day of September, 1831, at the
c:ity of Baltimore, by delegates equal in number to their representatives in both houses of
eo~ to make nominations of suitable candidates for tlie offices of President and Vice
Pre&ident, to be IUt>ported at the next election ; and for the transaction of such other buaineas
as the ca.use ofanu-masonry may: require.
Adjourned to 4, P. M. At 4, the convention reassembled.
Ma. W BITTL&S&T moved a resolution, authorizing the national committee of correspondence
tD open a corresl'l?ndence with candid members of the fraternity on the subject of lllCl.'et aocio-
tit11, and to publith their answers with the~ consent.
A motion to strike out the word" candid," waalost.
Ma. ST&VZ!i'S objected tothe resolution. It would lead tocontroversy, and thatwas not the
object ofthe convention. They were collectivelyinvited to quit the institution by the Adcbeu
which we have made.
Ma. WBITTLllU:T laid, it aeemed to be forgotten thatthemembers ofthe llWIOnic &atemity
Wfll'9 memben of civil IOciety. Many of them had the same, or nearly the aame, 'riewa on
the IUbject, with anti-masona, ud he entertained a 1trong hope that the correapondence.oon-
tanJllaied would elicit muchgood, andwouldiuducemanylll880llll to llUl'l'ellder their allegWlCe
toi6a &aternity. Be was in fiiTIIW' of aaving them.
Ma. 8HnlfB du>ught there wumon1 in the RBOluUell than met the~ TJae memben oC
die convention had gone far enough in patting their names to a lllOllt able adc1rei!9 ~ the people
of the Unlted States, in which tile fraternity were generally and alf'ectiona&ely mvited tocome
out from among them. Anti-masonry stoOd on broad ~d ; and he was oppoeed to 11'!"'
pging*="
an particular correapondence with any individual inthe ftatemity. Bethought it
woUld d e the ca1J1e. Be aeemed to think it impolitic to give oJlice.ieoking llWOJll a
eblnce · thum promoting their sel.fiah views. ·
•l'da. Bou.a.t.v ex~_the llDlo views.
114 D1i:BA.TES.
On the resolution for ope~ a correspondence with candid muons,
Ma. SI.ADIE, ofVermont, 88.ld that whatever doubts he might have entertained with regard to
the expediencyof bringing forward such a resolution, at this time, there could, itseemed to him,
be.none with regard to its adoption. For one, said Mr. S. I am unwilling to bear the imputation
which will follow its rejection,-the imputation of shrinking from the discussion, which thecon-
.templated correspondence may involve. Anti-masonry, sir, has nothing to fear from investiga·
~n: ~t is the very element of its existence, u are secrecy and mystery that. of the masonic
msutul.Jon.
We have, Mr. President, been charged with aiming, not to abolish the institution of fi:ee..
masonry, but rather to put its members under the ban of proscription, that we may engross
the offices and honours of the country. So Car is this, sir, from being true, that the whole
tendency of our efforts is to strip the institution of its borrowed robes, exhibit it in its true
character, and dia1oliie the charm by fJ1hich it maintain& it• empire Oller the mind1 of its member1.
It is not enough to array the community a~nst it-not enough to make it the obJect ofpopular
indignation, or to achieve a triumph over it at the ballot-boxes. Anti-masonry can never cease
its efforts while there remains a single human being ensnared in its toils. Sir, I am not satis-
fied to wait for the finale of masonry, till time shall have swept from the stage of life all the
men who now belong to the institution, I would hsve them affectionately invited, and earnest-
ly urged, to abjure their allegiance to it, and abandon it for ever. Come, let w reuon together,
is an appeal which, I am sure, they cannot all resist. Indeed, sir, there are, I am confident,
m,any, very many, who do really desire to come out, and want but the opportunity which such
an invitation as that which is contemplated by the resolution upon your table, would furnish.
Make such invitation a part of your system of operations, and I cannot permit myself to doub~
that masons will aoon be seen ll<lcking in great numbers to your standard.
There are, it should also be observed, some sections of our country which are yet in almost
total darkness, on the subject ofmasonry. There is not in New-Hampshire, or in Maine, or in
one of the States south of the Potomac, a single eress devoted to our cause, or that will freely
publish the truth, and the whole truth, concerning it! Now, sir, I wish masons in those
States, particularly, to be corresponded with, on the subject of their institution. There are,
I doubt not, many among them, who will freely respond to respectful inquiries concerning it,
and as freely express in regard to it, their decided disapprobation and their determination to re-
nounce it. We want to save them from masonry ; and we want their inlluence to save others
from it, and accelerate its downfall. Those portions of the country now in darkness, might
thus be~ to innstigation, and to the establishmentofpresses which should aid them in its
prosecuuon. '
Every view which I can take of this subject presents to my mind strong arguments in favour
of the resolution ; ud I cannot refrain from an expression of my earnest hope that it may
be adopted.
Ma. Iawm agreed with his colleague from Pennsylvania, that there was more in this~
lution than met the eye. This was not the way in which anti-masons in Pennsyhania had
met the fraternity. .
Ma. S&WAllD said, he thought the two gentlemen from Pennsylvania had suffered them-
selves to be ex-Oited into an unnecessary apprehensiveness on this subject. No one wbo·lrnew
the zeal and labours of the mover of this resolution, could suspect that, in offering it; he was
governed by sinister designs. In New York, and in the eastern states, such an interchange of
sentiments with candid masons was a favourite mode of promoting the cause of anti-masonry.
Ma. HANNA, of Ohio, objected to the resolution.
Ma. Pa&LPS could not for a moment doubt the motives of any member of this convention in
moving any proposition. He had full confidence in the 11ational committee of correspondence;
and he moved tlie reference of the resolution to that committee.
l.\la. W BITTL&S&T withdrew the resolution. He said t.laat if any one member objecled, ii
was motive enough for him to withdraw it.
Ma. Suoz, of Vermont, moved a resolution on the subjeet of raising funds in the
several states, for the gratuitous dissemination of iatelligence &e.-He said that the rll80lution
hehad just offered was suggestell to him by the report made yesterday on the state ofthe pre&
That report exhibitsa state of mets which may well excite our earnest attention.
The mstitution of masonry is extended over the whole of the United States,-illllbraees
probably about 100,000 of its population, and is 1111Stained by the inlluence ofwealth, of talents,
and of station. Its principles have excited to the coinmission of crimes of the most atrocious
character; while it lias succesdully interpoaed its eower to shield the perpetrators of them
from the claims of criminal justice. An investigauon of: the principles of the institution--
such an inves~tion.as will enable the peoele of I.he United States to pass their definitive sen-
tence upon it, lS demanded by every eonstderation connected with tlle safety of our citizens.
and the permanency of our Cree illltitutioris. This investigation can be carriedon only throuda
the mediwn of the preas; and to that have the people a right to look for the truth, and die
whole truth, upon a subjeCt which so deeplr concerns them.
Now, sir, what is tne state of ihe press m the United States 1 Of nearly 1000 newspaJl6?8t
there are but about 125 whose columns are open to the truth on the subject of lll8llOlllY1 It is
not my purpose, Mr. President, to comment at length upon this state of things. I will only
all~w niysel! to say that it exhibits an extent of masonic inlluence over the preae, which JllOo l
.....................................,.............___ . j
DBBATBS. 135
Shall this state or things continue 7 Shall the people remain longer in darkness on the sub-
ject of masonry 7 Sir, we have assembled to answer these questions with a decided negative.
"'1Ve have come ~ther to investigate the principles ofthe masonic institution, and look into the
fil.cts connected with the application of those pnnciples. But how are we to gain access to the
people of the United States 1 How are we to spread before them the result of our inquiries1
How are we to act on public opinion, and give it a right direction in regard to this subject 1
The resolution which I han just offered suggests the only answer that can be given to these
inquiries. It looks to measures for the gratuitous dissemination of intelligence on the subject
of speculati've free-masonry-measures which, if faithfully executed, will carry the truth: to
every door, and pour its light into every cottage, in the United States. Let anti-masons act,
immediately and efficiently, upon the recommendation of this resolutio~istributing thro~h­
out every state the proceedings of this convention, and other means of information, Blld an un-
pulse will be ~iven to our cause which noth~ can resist.
Hitherto, Sir, it is well known, that a few mdividuals in those sections of the country where
efforts have been made, have sustained a very disproportionate share of the expences which
those efforts have involved. Some of them, indeed, (and among them I number one, at least, of
my respected colleagues,) have materially impaired their estates by their generous devotion to
the cause. They should be relieved, sir, by the adoption of measures to raise the necessary
funds by more general contributions.
The gratuitous dissemination of intelligence which the resolution contemplates, is, in my
opinion, worthy of special regard, as connected with the establishment of anti-masonic presses.
Let the people in any particular section of the c.ountry, hitherto in darkness on the subject of
masonry, become thoroughly awakened to its importanc!; and they will take measures to estab-
lish presses which will beciime permanent fountains of lip;ht. It is by this process, that such a
revolution is to be effected in the newspaper press of the1Jnited States, as is demanded by the
justclaims of anti-masonry. Let private liberality, in the true spirit of anti-masonic benevo-
lence, go forward, and free presses will assuredly follow in their train. Such, I am confident,
will be the result in Vermont ; and such, I doubt not, will be the result, every where.
.llll the measures, Mr. President, which we propose for the advancement of our cause,
should not only be worthy of its noble and generous purpose, but adapted to meet, and over-
come the obstacles which it is destined to encounter. We must remember that we are contend-
ing with a wealthy and .a powerful fraternity, who are capable, in various ways, of exerting
fearful control ove~ the press of the country. We know liow much their cause depends for its
success upon the suppression of free inquiry ; and how ready those of them who are
labouring to sustain the institution, are, to stifle every effort to arraign it at the bar of public
opinion.
To meet, successfully, such an array of stren_gth, in a manner becoming the cause in which
we are engaged, will require sacrifices of no ordmary magnitude. They must be made-They
toill be made. The spint of anti-masonry, is a spint which will never shrink from making
them. It will not shrink, sir, because it is the spll"it of freemen, sustained by truth, and indig-
nant at the efforts which are made to suppress it. And what freeman can fail to feel indig-
nant when he sees the leading members of a powerful fraternity, labouri~ in concert, through·
out the whole country, to muzzle the/ress, and conceal from the public view, and shield from
just animadversion, the principles an practices of their institution1 Where is the freeman who
JS prepared to submit, quietly, to such a state of things as this1 Look at it, sir! MtuMlryJ muat
not be invtsligated! This is the doctrine-no matter how groundless ma:y be its pretenSion.-
how gross its imposture-how treasonable its principles-or how black its crimes-all-all is
sacred-inviolable.! A national intellect inv~rated by the spirit of freedom, g'raspa at elery
thing-investigates every thing. No association of men, no measures of government-no act
of any public man, can escape. Every thing meets its penetrating glance, and feels its resist·
less power. But masonry-:-the "l.llleient and honourable"--must be protected-<lefended-
guari:led, against its sacrilegious intrusions into her sanctuary.
Sir, this state of things is not to be endured. The truth must, and will have free course.
The people are beginning, in earnest, to inquire wherefore masonry should not be brought out
and examined in tlie broad day-light of truth. It is to meet and gratify this spirit of inquiry,
that I have brought forward this resolution. It aims to concentrate, so as to give effect to,
private liberality, for the purpose of presenting the trutla to the people of the United States,
that ~e:y ~ay _be enabled te pass their sentence of approval or condemnation upon the
masoruc msbtutlon. ·
• A resolution wa.s adopted for the publication of the whole proceedings of the convention, in-
cluding, of COW'lle, the several official reports of committees on resolutions referred to them.
:Me:. Hon:1Ns stated, that they would probably be stereot:yped:. _
A resolution of thanks to the president of the convention, having been moved and adopted,
as mentioned in the Journal,
Ma. GRANGER made his acknowledgments in a few very impressive and eloquent remarb,
in the course of which he said that the duties of the <;hair had been rendered light by the mag-
nanimous conduct of the convention, and by the correct deportment of the citizens of this con.
fessedly polished city, who had attended its deliberations. ·
The thanks of the convention were also voted to the Vice President and Secretaries.
Tbe convention, after prayer from the Rev. Ma. B&\UfARD, adjourned, rint ""-
--
APPENDIX.
............
The follot»ing Bemarb totr• recmed in a rtf'i1etl form, too late for inaertion
in their proper place.
In the debate on Ma. WRITTL&RY's report, '
Mr. Coo.:&, ofNew-York. All, I presume, who have heard the statpment of~ in the
report under consideration, will admit that it forms the most important object to which this
convention can direct its attention. It is a history of the basis, ground-work, and superstruc-
ture ofanti-mll.90nry. And before I proceed, I must say, that {feel a debt of' gratitude, I feel
the necessity ofacknowll!dging to the gentlemen who have furnished these tacts; our obligations
for the light they have shell u{ion this subject. I allude to those gentlemen who formerly be-
longed to the masonic instituuon. True it is; sir, that the outrage, violence, and crimes of the
insutution were such as to arouse the fears of the uninitiated, bUt without the diselesures of
those'who have seceded from the institution, we should have yet remained in a state of com-
parative darkness. It has been by the united efforts of those who have felt it their duty to
Beeede, together with others ofour committees, that the present infonnation is now before the
public. Heel bound to make the acknowledgment-it is due to these gentlemen.
It is due to this convention to explain in some detail the thousand.reasons why tbrther mets
have not been elicited, as stated in the report.
The report commences with the origin of the transactions in relation to William M~ .
At Batavia, in the western part of the state ofNew-York, the first act, relating to this subject,
was committed, which put at defiance the laws of the state. With the seizure of Mr. Morgan
commenced the history'of this tragedy, but with the termination of the life of that man, the
facts to be produced will not be terminated. The report alludes to violent e~ions, but it
has not been told what they were. I will mention a few. It was mentioned ~h masons
in the neighbourhood of the outrage men of the first respectability, that the boo alfuded to in
the report should be suppressed, and should never meet the public eye, if it cost their lives ;
that the lives of halfa dozen such men as Miller and Mo~ when put in comparison with
the appearance of that book, were of but little moment. This was before that man was ab-
ducted.
When the motley group assembled, at the dark hour of midnight, (o perpetrate an outrage
on that which is justly styled the palladium of the liberty of our country, when perhal_l8.o~e
hundred masons from fifty miles east, and forty miles west, were assembled, at the midnigtit
hour, in the peaceful villalie of Batavia; so strong fears had they of the laws upon their miiid,
llO convinced were they oftheir own criminality, and that the abOdes w.hich they were about to
11818.ult would be defended, that in a fright they abandoned their project, and sought a hidiug-
plaee from the light of day.
This was not il.ll, sir ; lifter thiri each resorted to his home-time was given for concert-a
party came from a distance, and seized and removed the man, as stated in the report. While
on the way from Batavia to Canandaigua, the prime mover, who sat u~n the oox of the car-
riage, made this ever-memorable declaration: when the driver had doubts whether he would
not be in danger, he engaged to ind~ him, and· said-and I wish every ono to observe it
-"They never shall retakeMorgan alive.
Here WBll a declaration of theirpurpose in the outset-it was repeated from time to time.
I now Jl88I! to Canan~
When Morgan was in jail he remarked to a fellow-prisoner, while Lawson was ~ in
eft"eetinghisrelease, "Ifthis man should betray me, IW-Ould not give muehfor mylifil." When
he got to the door of the _pl'ison, a single whiBtle broudit to theU" assistance the ru1lian bands
that carried him away. When they got him to the iloor he cried murder, but they carried
him to the back part of the village; and one single knock u~n the curb ofa well lirought a
carriage in waiting. When they were proceeding from the jail-a&ep to the auriage, one said
to hiDi, "You know you have forfeited your life." .
It is unnecessary to be very minute about his transportation to N~ county; thm are,
however, llDDI• 000Qrl'6llees Bfter he reached that county which it will be proper for me to
atate. ·
The report states that a reverend gentleman arrived by the stage at Murdock's. He had a
conversatia:the import ofwhich was unknown; he inqUired oftlie keeper of the house if he
was a ro arcli. mason, but being answered in the negative, he inquired if there was one in
the neildl ood ; and on being mtbrmed that there was one within about a mile, he de-
manded a pen and paper, and wrote to Jeremiah Brown. They then passed on in the atage,
&n'.i 1100n after Brown CIUll6 back to the tavern with two horses. The Carrillgll with Morgan
la ''badIM>t .Jet lllTivecL Brown procured feed for hiahones, and in a few nwmenca tho car-
DEBATES. 18'7
riage came along. Aft.or a moment's consultation they took the hones hDl their feed and
went on. It was fur a long time supposed that theee ho~ were attached to the ~
Bro"WD enntually got on the boXz_an~-ihey ~ved at Wright'&. aomewhere about IWldown,
and Burrage Smith pueed on to Loekp>rt. Here a witness, whoee testimony ill important,
ilad been spirited away by·~nie agency no less than. three times. The carriage was first
Qriven_under the shed, but being considered mseeure there, itwas taken out and removed to an
emclceed barn. Farewell, the witn- alluded to, was called, and he and another stayed in the
barn-while the otheiiswent to supper. During the time they w-with him, Morgan was
silent.. A lantern was brought; he was taken outofand returned to the carriage again; at this
time, he was blinded with a number of handkerchiefir, reaclling down to hia breast, in auch a
ma.nner as to exclude the light. They remained here till about 8 o'clock, and next arrived at
MolfDeux,-Mather atopped. and Brown, withPlatt'11 carriage, went on-they next arrived at
LewJBtown, where they let\ the ~e in a back street. At W~ht's, Bruce, sheritfofNia--
~ county, took charge, and Hague was in company. This carnage was obtained by Platt
at Roehester,-it was furnished to go weat, and how he (Platt) happened to know that it waa
to be charged to the" grand chapter pro tem.," I know not, but .0 he charged it, and had not
.received payment when he test.ified.
:Barton was called on at Lewistoii, by Bruce, for a carriage. It is a matter worthy of ob-
-nation, thet this man was aeen in comJllLlly with this same reverend clergyman the 11a111e
evening-I saw him. When they arrived atYoungstown they stopped, and called up William
King ; 1111d when within about forty rods of the fort they left. the carriage and prOOeeded on
fi:M>t. Alrived at the fl!rry-~ouse, this memore.ble declaration WllB ~e,-" yve have got the
raaca.l wlio has been diaclomig the aecreta of free.masonry." While atoppmg at the door at
K:ing's, the man made 110111e nol88, and it was undenitood to be a call for some water. At the
Cort, Bruce said to Giddins, "Let us have some water for the poor wretch." Theae were &he
epithets they applied to their victim. They Cl'08Bed the river, and Bruce and King proceeded
to N.uigara, where they found two or three brethren,.and came back again. At the beach
Morgan appeared to be in distress, and in one instance went so fii.r as to remark, "I am your
-prisoner, Sliow your magnanimity by treating Ill8 kindly." They told him to be ailent, upon
pain ofdeath. After a while he agam attempted to speil.k, but one of them took a pistol and
~ it against hill breut, and said, " Be silent, or you are a dead man."
When ther. tbund that no arrangement had been made for receiving him on the Canadaaide,
~ reet'Olllled to fort Niagara, and took him to the magazine, and there deposited him under
l I and k~!· f · · d "be hat. kind f building •'-'- . . Th
t may ..., a matter o eun0B1ty to eacn w o a ......, lllBgaZ1lltl 111. e
:furt was at the time abandoned, except.by two persons, the one a keeper, and the other a ferry.
man. The building is ofstone, some forty or fifty feet in length, and thirty to forty wide, and
the walls bomb-proof, Crom six to ten feet thick. There was no aperture except the door and
two windows, whicliwere strollldy filst.ened on the outside. It was here that this man was
incarosrated. He was depositeil about three or four o'clock in the moi:ning ofthe 14th ofSep-
tember, J8j6, the day appointed for the installation of the royal arch ~ter at Lewiston.
Kine: and Bruce went to Lewiston, and Giddins remained at the fort.
Aliout nine o'clock in the morning, Giddins and Jaclcson went to the magazine to aee the
situation ofthe prisoner, and to relieve his wants. On going to the prison the presentiment of
danger on llhe part ofMorgan was so strong, that he refused them entrance. Jackson ran away.
Morgan was at this time making a noise, and they endeavoured to still him, pretended to have
fire.arms, and threatened to shoot him ; this caused him to cry murder several times.
The nei:t atep was, that Jackson llhould be sent to Lewiston, with word that the prisoner
was making a noise, and th!lY were fearful ofdiscovery. ~e went and infoi;med H~e, who
bmerl1 had the care of him. llap went to the magazme. Morgan said, "I will not be
bled to death by that doctor." H~ had not sufficient courage to enter the cell, and went
back to Lewiston again, and ·two others proceeded to the fort to still the noise. Lewson, hill
frW!l4, made himself known to Giddins : ~ to the maitaZine, one said, " He will
'make no more noise a&er he hears me." He went mto the prison, and, as it was dark, said,
"Where are f.Ol!i Morgan1" andseized his hand, and gave hini some kind of grip which stilled
him, saying1 'If you are not silent, death is your port.ion immediately." Tliis man ~ed
till tha evening, at which time a large number was assembled of thoee who had met to lDBtall
the 6emeoktat cl&afltw at Lewiston. ' ·
Many called on their friend, Mr. Giddins: he was a faithful man, who had.had the~ or
Morgan,and they promoted hillinterestbydrinking athillhousefreely. Theoompan_ycontinued
i.il1 about eleven o'clock, when it was fowid that but. seven remained ofthe whole. These.seven
consulted u~n the pro_priety of inflicting the penalty ; each and au fell in with the sentnnent,
that he had forfeited his life : there was no contrariety of opinion--and their duty as mBB?M
w io inflict the pena!t&; They opened the prison, il.nd foUnd Morgan. He had freed him-
IOlf frmn his eord8 and nders ..
The ~ priest, for he was at this time hig!l priest, having that day been inatalled-hav-
ing on biia lireast-plate, and "Hollne1111 .to the Lord," iruicribed in fron~ wu the
man who addressed Morgan, in the ~e, when he knew that none but thelllltiatedcould
Mar-".How ~ you break your obligation-_prepare to meet your God-for you have but
a fow 11W11&toa t.o livoI"
188 DEBATEl!I.
This WBI the ~ of the high pries* of the Hnnormt cllopter of Lewiaton. Thia clan
ofaeven retired to the Common, where no eavesdropper could aJ>~ them without ~
discovered ; and they all agreed that the man must Ile executed, that he had forfeited hls rue;
and was entitled to no sympathy whatever; and it was their duty to put the penalty into
execution. They moreover devised a l_>lan how to do it without <letection. It was to tab
him to the Nia.,eara river, and there sink him, where he would be seen no more. They moved
towards the fort a little distance, when a young man, perhaps thi.nkinl!: of the advice ofan old
friend, fell in the rear. On being rallied, he says, " Gentlexqen, I am liound to go with you, if
you insist on it, but I beg to be excused." Otliers joined him, and it was agreed to ahBndon
i.he project for that night.
Word was sent to Morgan that he was not then to be put to death ; that they must send to
1erusalem to ask what was to be done with him. Thus ends the acene ofSe'ptember fOllJ'o
teenth, 18~.
These men, aft.er havihe: met and prepared their scheme, retired to their placea of abode.
On the 15th a new assemblage met at tlie fort, and among them the high priest and Elisha.
Adams. At that meeting the subject came up again, and there was some reluctance with part
ofthem; there was a little doubt with some as to the propriety of executing him at that tune.
There was one man, (and I am sorry to say it, for he lives not more than a mile and a half
from me, and a man whom I had ever held high as a moralist,) who, when a doubt was
exJ>ressed about the propriety ofthe act, to silence that doubt, brought forth a passage from the
Holy Bible to show that it was right that he should be executed. He not only stated it, but
insisted on it. A controversy, however, arose, and became somewhat warm; the keeper was
against putting the man to death; even Elisha Adams was silent, which was equivalent to an
olijection. The contest arose to such.a height,. that a personal combat had well nigli. taken
plAt.this time the high priest said, "How dare you advocate such doctrines in our presence1"
Ha~ charge of the whole aft"ait-, thi.i high priest direr..ted the keys to be given up to Adams,
who would be more submissive to his OTders. Giddins said, " Well, I am now ti'ee from this
matter." So much doubt had been expressed that the execution was-deferred. -
Adams remained there. Still Giddins was not so far released, but that he remained aid-
ing and assisting in keeping the man, but opposed to executing the sentence. He provided
the necessary food, &.c. and Adams attended to the administration. On the evening of the
I'7th ofSeptember, Giddins having business across the lake, 30 or 40 miles, embarked on board
a steam ooat, glad to clear himself from further interference in the matter. He remained till
the 21st of September, during which time an impenetrable veil covers all, through which
notbi~ has been yet discovered, nor will be discovered, unless there should be some valuable
accessions of seceding masons. - •
Giddins coming back, asked the captain of the steam boat ifthe prisoner was still there1
The reply was, "No; he has gone wliere he will write no more books." When he arrived at
Niagara, he fell in with Adams, the man who had remained at his house. Adams was much
distressed, and said that "theyliad murdered the man,"and gave the particulars, which are not
necessary to be mentioned. We have reason to infer, that he was murdered on the 19th of
September, 1826.
The people in that neighbourhood were entirely ignorant of all these things. I mean the
uninitiated. Most of the masons who attended the installation were acquainted with the fact
that Morgan was at the fort; yet, under such absolute subjection was ihe press, that though
living but seven miles from the fort, intimation of the event only came to us at Lewiston on
some of the first days of the month ofDecember following.
When the fact was reported to us, that this man had been carried through our village to
Niagara, we felt inclined to discredit it. The seemi~ impossibility, that in a country settled
like that, a man could be taken from Canandaigua m the way that he was, and deposited 1111
described, without our hearing ofit, rendered the thing in"eredible. The previous reports had
been, that Morgan had been carried to Hanford's landing, the place where Hubbaid put him
down. We supposed, at first, that he was carried across the lake from the mouth of
Genessee river.
- When the facts came to our knowledge, as citizens, we felt a deep interest in supporting the
laws and discotintenaneing the outrage ; not that we knew any thing ofMorgan or his fiuiiily;
but to vindicate the laws, we stepped forward and began to inquire of our neighbours, "Did
you know any thing of the fact of Morgan being t&li:en through this place to fort Niagara7"
On making this inquiry, there was but a single countenance among the masons of that
vicinity, and that was expressive ofcontempt. Those who embarked in it were cautioned,
" As you value your bUS1Dess, and all that IS dear to you in your high standing, take care not
to meddle with that Morgan affair." More than once have our committees been approached in
that way. Many falsehoods were got up-that Morgan had been seen floating upon the lab
on a field ofice; that he was somewhere peddling his books; that he was in Canada tending
bar, &.c. By these reports it was intended to stifle public investigation. The resul& was, that
every man that had not submitted himself to the dlsgraceful cable-tow, laid his hand on his
heart and said, Can it thus be, that the first men in the community have been engag.ea
ed in such
wickedness 1 You must not, cannot, inquire whether a man has been carried- through the
land _and conce!l1ed. Yes, such was tlie fact ; and the result was, tht: call of a meeting to
apPQll1t 11- eoumuttee whose duty it should be to act till the end of the tragedy could_ be aacer-
' DEB.A.TEI. lat
tained. I happened to be present, and had the honolll' to be placed upon this committee. We
entered upon: the duty, ana the people looked to us for information; and with the combined
efforts of the committees east, as the report sets forth, we performed our engagement.
On the assembling of the committee, certain tacts were communicated &om the Canada side
of' the river. It was known on the Canada side, that Mo~ had been brouldit to fort
Niagara; and some believed that the first penalty had been infilcted, ofhaving his tfuoat cut;
it was, at least, J>retty well understood that he was carried to the Ganada shore1.and lodged in
ilome part ofthe Town of'Niagara. This led us into Canada, thinking it probable that he had
been/ut to death in that place. Some of the committee took it upon them to go before the
gran jury in Canada. It was fuund that the foreman wasa m8.son. The jury agreed to con-
sider the subject. The names of witnesses were furnished-the courtwon after Gdjourned for
the night. Thoee masons whoee names had been furnished as witnesses, were called upon.
The next morning the member of the committee who made the complaint was informed, that
the grand jury, in their wisdom, had gone into the court room, infolmaily, and had advised
with his honour the judge, who was a mason. He advised them to have nothing to do with
the subject, except to meet and dismiss it. And they did as they were instructed.
I spealc of this as illustrative of the fact, that ma.soury is the same every where. We had
then a relation of a gentleman, who has since been a member of parliament.
· Some time in the latte'r part of January, there were several members &om the committees,
eeventeen in number, who assembled, and proceeded first to Niagara, in Canada, and then re-
turned and went into the fort. This was the first time that the m~e was thoroughly
searched after Morgan was confined in it. On entering the magazine, it was fuund that some
human being must have been confined in it. There were various evidences of the tilcl- On
return~ from that place, we met again at Lewiston, .and gave an invitation to many in
the surrounding country, informing them that the oommittee had assembled there mere!}" to
ascertain the facts in relation to Morgan's being carried through that place to Niagara. No
sooner was this notice ¢.ven, than a vast concourse of masons was assembled, not to give in-
tbrmation or facts, wh1i:h would enable the committee to proceed, but to insult, brow-beat,
and drive from the spot the gentlemen who had convened.
I am sorry to state the fact, but it was amo~ the first inhabitants of the village in which I
reside, that we found the most inveterate and 1D80lent opposers. Not only dicf they.molest
and hinder individuals who were inquiring after simple facts, but one man came into the room
and extinguished the light. It was Lho~ht that something violentwould ensue, but it turned
out otherwise: we separated without being attacked.
No information was obtained ; no mason came forward, though more than twenty of them
were weU~acquainted with all the ramifications and final termination of this tragedy. More
than twenty were in the committee room ; yet not one fact did they communicate. The next
thing was for the heralds of the press to proelaini that a self:.styled convention had assembled
from different counties, to disturb the innocent repose of the gOod citizens of the county of
Niagara. This they did with the most abusive language; and a mason who had sworn to
prosecute offenders against the laws, came forward and publicly insulted this body of men.
It may be asked, and probably will be, why did you not have a magistrate and put the laws
in force 1 We did attempt it, but the all-powerful hand of free-masonry interposed at every
step. An offender was arrested ; we had none but masonic witnesses. It must have been a
finiI magistrate who would not have been abashed at the formidable array and threatening
aspect of the fraternity : and under these circumstances it was difficult to press forward
the same searching inquiries as in common cases.
On looking round, we found that the magistrates were all masons. When we looked to a
grand jury, Eli Bruce was the sheriff, and the man to select thatjury. You might pursue any
course, and the result was the same-the judges were masons. This was the situation of the
county of Niagara. We intended to have done something at the January term, 1827; for it
bad not entered our conceptions, but what if men were in possession of facts, they would come
forward and disclose. them; but.in this we were in error.
· In April term ofour oyer and terminer, a complaint was preferred against Eli Bruce, for the
abduction of William Mor~ It was found, however, before the grand jury assembled, that
there were but two men with whom we could intrust the papers respecting the affair. To these
men the committee resorted ; they framed certain written questions whicli were handed over
to them; and they agreed that when masonic witnesses came before the grand jury, these
questions should be put and answered. I regret to say, that one of these two proved recreant,
llO that there was but one single man on the grand jury, out ofnineteen or twenty, who dared
to come forward and face the &owns of tlie m&Jonty, and ask a question upon the subject.
These witnesses, before they went before the jury, met and held a consultation as to what
answers should be given to any questions that should be put; and the resolution-I know not
by wha.t other name to call it-but the horrible resolution was, We will say we know nothing
about William Morgan or his abduction. Such was the resolution, and such the answer.
When these men retired from the grand jury chamber (and the examination took hut a
abort time,) one remarked, I told them I knew nothing ~ut it, and there it ended. The
deliberations ofthe grandjury were one of the most extraordinary phenomena of the day.
s.me of the most extraontmary measures ever heard ofbefore any pd jury in this country,
,,.,. \here taken.
140 DEBATE&.
When the complaiJ:lt wu pending against th\I accued, the '-an ofthe grand jury retired
from the room ; Ile who was swom to execute the Jaws impartially. He was BBB-'1 retuing to a
pnvate chamber, in consultation with the aoeuaed. I witnemed that, whiclr 6hook my confi-
ilence in the ~tion ofthe Jawa more than any thing else I had ever beheld. A witness
WU inirodueed, who testified that Eli Bruce made a coruBBBion materially implicating himsel£
When he had answered that question, he was told to retire. A me1111Bnger waa then sent, and
iniroduced three orfuur wi~ to impeach the cha.racter ofthe last. Thia game was played
oWagain and ~ till they aucceedeil, by this false and foul practice, in diacrediting the
testimony of the witne-.
In this gloomy aft"air, I felt that it was more likely I should be presented, than that the
aecued Would. The report st.ates that, after ~ up the proceedings of this grand jury,
with a view to rebut the statement sent to governor Clinton, they came out with another state-
ment, and forwarded it to him, decl_!uing that there was no ahll.dow of evidence that Morgan
was taken through that county. Here we aaw the Jaws aucceufully put at defiance; and
here the exertions to indict in the county of Niagara were abandoned. To Ontario county be
the_praiae given, ofindicting the lint conspirator, and puniahinit almost all the others. True,
at &ta.via, two or three were convicted of the abduction of Miller; but haa there been a con·
viction in &ta.via, Monroe, Orleana, or Niagara, for the abduction ofMorgan 7 Not one.
We abandoned the idea, of doing any tiiing to enforce the Jawa in the county ofN~
we had petitioned the legislature for aid ; they were P"."etMlinr that fomd/Mng mould be uone,
but inl"'4ing that nolAing should be done. A special officer was appointed to visit the coun-
ties and aaaiat the proeecuton. Thia officer entered on the diacharge ofhis duty, and procured
a number of indictment&
It may be uked, how could 1ae procure indictments, when they could not be procured pre-
vioualy. The law ~ the aelection of grand jurore had been altered, BO that he could
have some men on itrand junea besides mason& Thia officer prosecuted his duty, till it pleased
the authorities oftlie st.ate of New-York to remove him from the appointment, and introduce
aome man who was not BO extensively _acquainted with the fact& That officer entered upon
hia dut7 with great activity and indefatigable indua~, came well nigh to the conviction of
some o the membere of the fraternity ; when, on making a report to the executive thereon,
which ~ the masonic institution aa directly implicated,he was publicly insulted in the hall
ofthe l~ture. Hie report was treated with contumely, and that report never appeared in
the ~fficial guette of the state. Some portions of it were published, not calculated to bear
agam.st masonry.
When this officer was publicly insulted, and hia o11icial communication t.G the executive of
the state, whose duty it was to eilforce the execution of the laws, were disclosed to die counsel
for the defendants, could a man of the hii:h standing of that counaellor, just selected to fill a
station of such magnitude, nay, would it liave been right for him to submit to that in~ty 1
N1>, sir. He comes out to the world and states, you have treated your faithful agent with m-
.ty, and ha't'e disclOlled confidential information to the accuaed. We ask, then, can you
bnng men to justice under such circumat.ancea 7 I will retire from the sta.tion, said the iJide.
pe~ent coun8el, and you may take other and ddferent men-I will no longer act as your agent.
This was honourable to the man.
The appointment ofcounsel, as I before remarked, never was intended to lead to the convic-
tion of tliese men. When it was discovered that he was likely to effect that object, they took
meana to dismisa him indirectly, and to induce the public to believe it was done in good faitli.
In a short space oftime, another is exercising the duties ofthat office, and what taill 1ie done by
him ean onfy be IRll'lllised bv what htu been done.
I fear I aliall be tedious,.6ut I must mention a few important fact.a in relation to the trial at
N~ The late trial of Ezekiel Jewett, wJio had ihe care of the magazine, came on at a
special court appointed for the purpose. A high judicial officer, one ofthe bench ofthe Supreme
Court of the ata.te of New-York, was selected to preside at the trial. And what was the result1
It was the J>uniahment ofseveral witnesses, and a total exemp\ion from punishment of all the
accused. The judge said, if he could not pUniah the defendants, he could punish the wit·
neaaea.
The trial came on, and exhibited one of the most singular 1pectaclea ever aeen in a court o(
justice. It was not enough that three or four counsel came forward to defend the accused, u
the laws permit, but the witn- also had counael, and from time to time, as queationa were
put to them, theae witneaaea retired for consultation with their separate counsel.
Is this a court of justice 7 At least it exhibited a aew courae of proceeding. A q11811tion
would be put by tlie prosecuting officer. The witness would object to anawerieg it. Time
was consumed in urging the question ; then the Q>unsel for the w1tneaa would ri8e an4 object,
that the answer would have a bearing against him, and would ~ to show how and wliere:
an unprecedented courae of proceedillg, a kind of triane:ular t.rlaL
On this trial numerous witneaaea were called from dilrerent parts of the countr)'. All the
tacts sta.ted in the report respecting Morgan's being carried to Niagara, were substantiated
fully. The only means ofescape was, that no testimony appeared directly implicating Jewett
in the t.ransaotion, and bringing it home to his personal knowledge that Morgan waa eedned
in the magazine. The teatunony was much the same as that on the trial at Canaadaigua.
Isaac Farewell had been twice before sent for as a witness, and by the exertiona gf theCl;llllJlli&.
1
DEBATES. 141
tee, a fhw days before the trial, was proceeding homeward to his family, whom he had not
aeen f'or more than a year. On his way he came to the house ofSoloman C. Wriidit, who is
a free-mason. They succeeded, by the aid of Wright's wife, in making him believe, that
during his absence his wife's aftections had become alienated, and that She was about to be
married to another. This, with other circumstances, induced him to consent to be put into a
one-horse ~n, and to ~ covered O'!er with a buffalo s)rin, M:d transported _by the woman
and a small bOy fourteen miles, to the line of Canada. Finally, 1t was ascertained where he
had stop~andhis wife 11!'as employed to go after him, but before she reached the place
he had his residence to another place, not fil.r off; but, for fear of his being kid-
napped and ht to this side, the masons succeeded in transporting him further into the
interior, and the testimony ofthat man could not be procured on that trial, or the previous one.
Turner, who is now deputy marshal,·for taking the census of the county of Niagara, was
called on as a witness. He refused to answer, and contemned the laws.
The most important witness was Wm. P. Daniels, who was called upon to~. but he
refused ; the law was laid dQwn to him by the judge, but he refused to answer three, tour, Of
five different questions, on the express ground that it would eriminate himself, as an accessory
in the murder of William Morgan. This testimony was wrenched from him with great diffi-
culty : the writ.hines and contortions of the man sliowed that conscience was at work. The
judge remarked, "ff you answer in this way without its being true, you commit perjury." On
another occasion he said to one ofthe witnesses, "I fear you have more regard for the defendant
than you have for. yourself:" Such is free-masonry in its naked defonn1ty. These men had
nearly all occupied high stations in society, and the J'll.9Ult was, that although the testimony was
l!Uftiment to convince any intelligent jury, yet they were acquitted. .
I might have mentioned one other important fact. A juror was called on, but objected to on
account of his being a mason. The juror was asked to answer this question, " Is there any
thing in the laws of your institution, which will punish a mason for inlficting punishment on a
traitor 'l" He gave a negative answer, and for that, among other reasons, the.juror was set
aside....
, There are many other facts and circumstances which I might mention, to show the principles
of free..masonry to be the same in all parts of the world. · .
It is mentioned in the report, that these masons experienced the sympathy ofthe order. Eli
·Bruce was called up, and refused to testify ; and altliough under the sentence of the law upon
a previous conviction for this outrage, yet the house where he lodged was thronged by masons
passing to and from his lodging& lt appeared like a constant levee.
Another circumstance : It is mentioned that William ~ escaped from Cantonment
Towson, and returned to Niagara. Yet that man, whose guilt was established by many
witnesses, immediately after lie returned, inserted a notice in the papers1 that he, Wil-
' liam King, had returned to the county of Niagara, and if any one had busmess to transact
with him he was ready to wait upon them !
And what was the conduct of the brethren towards him1 They assembled about him, en-
circled him, visited him, drank with him, and toasted him, and most kindly sympathized with
him. So much were they encouraged, that the meetings of their chapter, wliicli had been for
a .considerable time suspended, were now revived. This, however, was of short duration.
Since then, that chapter has been as still as the house of death; and I hope it will ever re-
main so.
Turner was convicted ofcontumacious conduct, and put into the jail of Niagara. The first
act they did after he was lodged in the cell, was to procure for him certain articles of luxury
and el~ce, with which he was complimented.
There is another fact, which should excite a blush of shame. Young ladies, the daughters
of masons, assembled and went to the prison, and visited the young man, while he was im-
prisoned. When his term expired, a grand cavalcade was formed; and, with a, coach and
fol!.1".J drew up to take him from the jail to a public house. Thus ended that farce. ,
ttere is the sympath¥ of free-masonry for criminals. It shows itselfin every possible form
and Ma~. .
What I have mentioned I believe to be matter of fact. I have not attempted tQ exaggerate.
There are many other interesting facts which I have not mentioned. Time forbids to mention
them : and there are gentlemen present who are acquainted with the particulars of that out-
rage, who can furnish facts of the highest importance in addition to tliose which I have men-
tioned.
14! DEBATES.
Tiu .!J.dtlru1 of flat Convention to Ike Petlpl.e of flat United &Illa briftg llftdm- COIUWerGfion,
Ma. M01U11:, of New-Jersey, spoke as follows:
· Mr. President,-The address reported is just. M11110nie obligations an ·the same in
all countries; and the man who has assumed them is every where and always a mason.
Such was the understanding of the wriW.r of th!l letter to the Honourable LEWIS W 1r.-
LIAJQ1 chairman of the committee of claima, in the House of Representatives, attempting
to bribe him as a member and as a mason. Never have I before he&rd of this letter. Never
until this instant have I been apprised that this attempt had been made. Buti sir, I know
the writer personally and masonically; and I do not wonder at his confidence Bl the (sup-
posed) free-masonry of the Hon. Ma. W1LLIAM8. He had previously experienced the
power and fidelity of the craft. On the 4th of July, 1827, I was introduced to Col. JoIIN AN-
DllBSON, at Monroe, on the river Raisin, and on the next day he related to me in substance, the
following:-When the last war was declared, I was a British subject trading a& this place, and
refused to obey the proclamation ofa British commander, summoning his majesty's subjects to
return to the territory, and thereby exposed myself to the penalty of treason. As soon as
Gen. Hull surrendered, a British colonel was charged to arrest me. Fortunately for me, this
colonel was a mason. "I would give,'' 8'id_he, "the Devil his due. He did as he was bound
lly masonic obligations to do, for we both belonged to the society ; he sent on a messenger to
apprize me of my danger, that I nlight escape. But what was a day or two for a man to
cfose his business in and be off'? I had not been gone but a few hours before the British
colonel arrived, and his soldiers were in my house and store, breakine: open chests, &c. I lost
much property, was compelled to 11ee to the Scioto in Ohio, where f was forced to remain all
winte~ and such was the effect upon my mind that it caused my hair at OD.Ce to tum white."
Masonic obligations are the same upon the ocean as among Indians and Canadians: fur
when the son ol Benjamin Russell, Esq. grand muter of the grand lodge of Massachusetts,
was made a prisoner (in the late war) and carried into the harbour of Halitax, the British
masons effected his liberation, as an officer of that grand lodge informed ine, on account of the
masonic standing ofhisfather.
• 4
THE
ADDRESS
OPTB.B
UNITED STATES ANTI-MASONIC CONVENTION,
Hekt ·~ Philadelphia, September 11, 1830.,
TO THE
PJ;OPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ADOPTED UPON THE REPORT OF THE COIOUTTU1 OP WBICR
MYRON HOLLEY
OP NEW YORK W.A8 CJIAJJUUN,
PUBLISHED BY
JoBN Cuu.&, PHILADELPHIA: SKINNER AND DEWEY, Nzw You: D. B.
PAcKARD AND Co. ALBANY: WILLLUI WILLIAMS, UTICA: N. D.
STRONG, lliRTPORD, C01'l. JoBN l\Jusu AND Co. BosTON.
1830.
.·/l
TO THE
PEOPLE OF THE UNITED STATES.
FELLOW CJTIZBNS : . ;
IT is the. privilege of fi:eem~ iP consult together, openly and peaceably, 011
all sqJ>j~ts.interesting to their common welfare. And so long as the opinion
of 1fmajority shall prevail,,enlightened and frequent consultation, among them,
will furnish the most efficacious und acceptable means of expelling wrongs, and
removing fe~. Wro.~ the most. cruel and criminal have been committed,
and fears the most agi~ting and well founded, exist, among us. To confe1
together, 8.Jl.d wa~~ you~ upon these eY-ils~~d. the most wholesome means
to be adopted for; tli~ir euppression, we hav.e been delegated to assemble here,
bya portion ofyourcountrymea, ~~pectab1efor their intelligence, and dedicated
in hep,rt and life~ to the free cons~tiQDS and laws of our. country. In exeeq-
ting the,momentous duties assigl\ed: us, we would proceed, in the ingenuous and
free spirit of men, who earnes.tly seek the good of all.
Facts numerous and authentic, ~nstrate the exiiitenee..in this community,
of cri,mes and dangers, which, upon their first distinct diic~ to honest in-
quiry, excite equal surprise and solicitude; and which Cllllnot be reflected upon,
by any mind imbued with genuine self-respect, and a just rega.rd for human
rights, without the deepest.abhorrence and alarm.
'. Free~asonryis tJie.source ofthes.e crim~s~c!_dangel!'. ,. ,
In 1826, William·.. ;Morgan, your free fellow citizen,,WllB, by.highly exalted
membe-;s of f!ie. ~~nic fraternity, with unia•uI..vi'Olence, ·soiZed,-secretly
tnmspofltld ~ugh, \be 000Qtry more than one hundred mil~1 to a fortress of
the United States, then in charge of frtiemasons, who had;prepared it for his
.reception,~~.r:e i.Jnp,ri.soned, several c),.ys and nights, against bis uqnost efforts
toescape,~8.Jll;l.after suffering the mos.t unmanly insults, and the most;inhuman
abuse, he W:83 p,riya~ly mlll'dered. Previously to bis seizure, numerous meet·
ings of frl!C.masons,. in·lodges and ot;Jierwise, were held for the putpose of con·
triving and ~dopting the most certain means ofcarrying into eftect, their unlaw-
ful objects upo11. him. These me~ were attended, and the designs of them
approved, by several hundred ofthe most res~ and intelligent ofthe ma-
sonicbrethren. They ineluded legislators,judges, sheriffs, clergymen, generali,
physicians, and lawyers. And they proceeded in discharge of, what they
deemed, their masonic duties.
K
4 ADDRESS. [146
William Morgan was a royal arch maso~ And the cause of all this unlaw-
ful violence against his liberty and life, was, .his determination to publish the
secrets of the order. These seerets are now published, partlyfrom manuscripts
prepared by him, but more extensively from the deliberate testimony of many
worthy men, who had been initiated further into the dark mysteries of the
brotherhood, than he had. The precise motive,which impelled Morgan to the
determination of publishing, we do not know. .la the act was one of confor-
mity to his highest obligations, and therefore,_ of distinguished honour, we be-
lieve the motive to have been good. There is no room to doubt, that other
memJcs of the institution, being aware of the solemn fate, to which freema-
sonry had consigned him, for disobedience to its laws, felt themselves driven,
by the fearful responsibility of membership,most carefully to weigh its objects,
means, and teudency ; and finding these, upon mature examination, to be
whoJJy unjustifiable and dangerous, they were impelled, by &ood will to mari,
by allegiance to our government, and by the natural duire of self-approbation,
to proclaim its character, and renounce its authority.
To assist in publishing the secrets of freemasonry a printer was employed.
Against him, the malice ofthe fraternity was conspicuoUBly displayed. While
the manuscripts of Morgan, with all the printed sheets, were 9Upposed to be in
the printing office, itwas fired, in the night, by a masonic ineendiary, with such
ingenious preparations as were well calculated toinsure its 1peedy destruction,
with that of all its contents. The office was a wooden building, of which the !
siding immediately under the stairs leading to the printing apartment, wu i
smeared overwith spirits of turpentine ; and cotton balls, and straw filled with
the same combUBtible substance, were scattered around its foundations. The
fire was diseovered almost as soon as applied, and happily extiDguished. But
the reckless determination of the incendiary, and his coadjutors, is farther con-
firmed, by considering, that a family of ten persons 9CCUpied the lower pan of
the building; while the printer's assistants, six in number, always slept in the
upper rooms. - The incendiary is known, and was subaequently a principal in
the murder of Morgan.
Other evidences ofmalice against the printer have been manifelted.. On one
occasion, large numbers ofmasonic ruffians, armed with clubs, assembled under
dift"erent leaders, in th~ night time, in the vicinity ofthe printing office, with the
declared purpose of obtaining the intended publication, by violence ; from
which they were prevented only, by the formidable preparations to defend it,
-mad~ by the printer. On another occasion, a muonic constable accompanied
and abetted, by a crowd of his brethren, under a falae pretence of havinga
cri,miaal process, for that purpose, arrested him,--carried him to a neighbouring
village,-there illegally confined him in a lodge room,-assaulted him, and
threatened him with the fate of Morgan. By the lllSistance offriends, and the
exertion of his own activeintrepidity, the printer at length escaped. Itis a re-
markable cireumetanee evincing extensive concert and premeditation, that.on
the day of this arrest, all the magietrates of the town, where ittook place~ were
147] ADDJUiiSS.
summoned into another town as witnesses, and could not be applied to, for any
interposition of the civil authority, to preserve the public peace, or to protect the
rights of the intended victim. For theae otrenees, the constable and several
others were indicted, and convicted.
The scene of these occurrences was \he western part of the state of New
York•.
Where the people are intelligent and free, such enormities as those, to which
we have referred, could not be committed, without producing excitement.
Every unperverted feeling, and every upright voice, anxiously claimed the im-
partial nod prompt application to them, of the appointed powers ofour criminal
jurisprudence. Then began to' draw on, that dark eclipse, upon the vaunted
lights of freemasonry, which, to the public eye, is rapidly becoming total, and
through the eternal shadows of which, nothing will be discemible~hereafter, but
blood.
In this alarming emergency, the agents of government seemed paralyzed.
Our public institutions and provisions for the preservation oftranquility, andthe
repression of crime, seemed nugatory. And without the use of other means
than the law, and its official ministers, the most daring and brutal inroads, upon
\
our de~ rights, would have passed otr, without etrort to understand the4'
origin, punish their instruments, or provide.against their recurrence. No an,
were left untried by freema.sons to baftle the pursuit of truth, and defeat the ad-
ministration ofjustice. 'The lion's grip of the order was upon our courts, and
loyalty to that,..displaced fealty to the state.
A large proportion of the constables, justices of the peace, lawyers, judges,
sberitr1, and jurymen, of the counties where these acts were performed, were .
members of the society, and had taken oaths binding them, in terms, to conceal
each other's crimes. The high sheritrs were all masons, and at that time, sum.
mooed as grand jurors, at their discretion, any such men as had the common
qualifications. In the counties of Genesee and Niagara, where the fraternity
were most afraid of criminal prosecutions, majorities of freemasons are known
to have been corruptly returned as grand jurors. And thesesheritrsofthese
eounties were both indicted, subsequently, as parties to the conspiracy for the
abduction of :l\lorgan. One of them was tried and convicted;' the trial of the
other has not yet taken place.
Perceiving that the public funetionarie,e, whose duty it is to initiate proceed-
ings in criminal cases, were totally inactive, through cowardice or corruption
the people, who are both the proprietors and beneficiaries of every departrne~
of government, undertook to inquire and present for themselves, in relation to
these otrences ; with the determination, however, to use, as far as possible, .
.th
constituted authorities, and in no case, to overstep the rights reserved to them.
They proceeded, in the generous spirit of men, to whose enlijhtened views, the
general 11afety atrol'ds enough of motive and reward, for the mo11t arduous exer,.
tion. They ealled public meetings, at which ~onest and intelligent committees
were raised, to asoertain facts, and ~d the public funetionariee. And these
6 ADDRESS. (148
commit~ entered with patriotic alacrity, upon the performance of some ofthe
most difficult and respo1111ible duties of freemen. Without any emolument, at
great expense oftime and money, in defiance of the.most malignant, peneve-
ring, and ingenious counteiaction of freemasons, they suspended their private
ooncems, and gave themselves up to all the labours of a complicated investiga-
tion. In these proceedings they could obtain no testimony, which was not
volwitary, theyderived no assistance from office, their motives were most veno-
mously slandered, their conduct belied, and the,ir li~es t(ndangered. Still they
went on,fearlessly, disinterestedly, sagaciously, and successCully. The outrages
had extended over six countiea. It was a singull,U'.sp,ectacle, indicative of the
aafety,,and' prophetic of tlle perpetuity, of o~r f~ ;n~tuti~1111, to see private.
citizens'traversingthese counties, inquiring an~~~y an<J c~qtiously, butsevere- _.
ly, impartially, ~d peraistingly, int~~ the ~cumstances of crimelll the most .
revolting, for ibe sole purpose of openingthe way most likely to be eft"ectual, for
their judicial·exp0su~ and punishin~nt. · . , . .,.
Whatever couid be done by gQOd andwise men, without specia1 lawful autho-
rity. was performed, by .th~~ oommittees. 'l;hey ascertained the principal
facts respectingthe kidnapping and murder, both as to the persons directly ~D­
eemed in them, and t~eir motives and princi~~ of aeti~n; and thus laid a
sure foundntioo,-not for the lawful coovictio~ ~~d co~m.~on of\hose who.
are most guilty ; that has _hitherto been rendered impoesible, by the felon
eympathi~ and powerful interposition of freemasonry,-but for the universal
and endles~ execration of their crimes, and of the institution in which they
originated~ " . · . . · .. .
Bills of hullctment have been found for several of the ~or oft'encee ; and
convictions h~ve followed ina few cases,~~n the confession ofthe culprits, in '
some, and ai'ter protracted trials, in others. But most of those,lfho have been
indicted, have IM.ien acquitted. In the conduct ofthese trials, the lotluence of
freemasonry bu been constantly appare.nt ; and the whole force of it has been
> • ' ~ .. ••
exerted to exile truth and justice from their most co~ted altars.
A faithful and ab,le stateotlicer.,whoMi special duty it.,was made, by law, to
institute inquirie~ int0 these oft'ence~, officially reported, in ~1pect to the pro-
ceedings ofwhich be had the charge, " Difficultie1 whicp never occurred in any
other prosecution, have been met at ev~q 11tep. Witnell'!~ havebeen secreted.;
they have been sent off' in~ Can~,; an4:.Oto dift'ere~t states of the Union.
They have been apprised of procees being i88Ued ~. co~pe~ their attendance,
and have been thereby enabled to evade \~ serv~ce.i ~ one instance, after a
party implicated had been arrested a,ld ~..rought into ~ ~. (New York,) he
was decoyed from the custody oftheindividual havinghim inqu~rge, and filially
escaped. ·These QOOWTences have been so numerous and various as lO,forbid
the belief, that they are the result of in~vidual eft'ort alone; an4.•t4.ex have
evinced the concert of so ma?l.,~gents as to indicate an ~~n,!'i.ve com,1¥aation
to.BCree~ .froµi ~u~hment, those charged With a participation in the oft"elUlel
upon William Morgan." ·-'
149] . ADDRESS. ·.7
'
Tbe serriee1 ofthis o8ieer continued for but one year. By other prosecu-
ting o:fticers, and the committees, to which we have before alluded, many other
important facts have been ascertained. All the persons engaged, in these out-
rages, were royal arch masons, at the time of their perpe~tion, or made 10
immediately after. Mauy masons called as witnesses, have notoriously com-
mit~ perjury. Others have excused themselves from ~sP!ying, by alleging
that they could not do so, without oriminating themselves. Even since the
tmae has elapsed, beyond which no prosecution can be lawfully instituted, for.
any participation in them, not amounting to a capital offence, some witnesses
have contumaciously refused to be sworn at all ; and otlie,rs, having taken the
requisite oath, have repea.tedly .refUsed to answer questions decided to be lawful,
through the alleged fear of self-crimination, and that, after being warned from
the bench, that they would be guilty of perjury, ifthey persisted in it, and-were
not actually implicated in the murder. And yet, all the convicts, and these
witnesses mo.re infamous than the convicts, are held up, by the exalted and in-
fluential of the fraternitjr, as heroea of fidelity to their duty, and victims to. the
prejudices of-their.fellow citizens. And they are still retained, as worthy. and
chemhed members ofthe order.
Morgan's blood was shed; withoot any pretence that he had infringed the
·law& of the land, and with linle or ·no private malice, on the part of those·
by ;rhom he tell. The persons most deeply implicated, in the guilt of his fall,
were industrioiis, intelligent, and reputable citizens, bound to life and to society,
by all the usual ties.· They did not proceed hastily, nor adopt their ultimate
decision, without manifest and painful reluctance. Before they took his life,
they deliberated, earnestly, frequentl:t, and long, upon their masonic obligations.
These obligations they thought .binding. He had certainly and essentially
viOiated them. The ubanimous result of all their deliberations was, that he
mnst die. And in the understanding of all masonic exposition, as well as of
common sense, if the obligations were binding, they were right, in their de-
cision.
A brave man had determined mr~veal ~e ~off~~-~~; andas he
couid not J,>e prevented otherwise, his life was taken, in eonformitY with ma-
sonic laws. Haring gone thus far, in tra.nSgression, the titular dignitaries of
tlae order had less reluctance in going further. Accordingly, b:r banter, ridi-
cule, and misrepre1entation, they endeavoured to repress all inquiry into their
conduct. Finding themselves not wholly successful in this, they prepared, as
well aa they could, for the exigeneidlt of that judicial investigation, which they
were not able to avoid. ·
The most prominent of the criminals :fted. One of them confessing himself
stained with the murder, and claiming assistance from a masonic body, in the
eity oCNew York, received it, and was effectually aided to escape to a foreign
co~try. Some confessed themselves guilt.f of subordinate offences, to prevent
the examination of witnesses; whom tbef knew able to establish, in detail, the
foulest. Able standing counse~ were employed, by the frn~ty, to defend the
8 [150
........1.. Thw who were eonvicted, were 1Ubjectl of the deepelt masonic
911Dpathy, and received frequent aids, from organized bodies of their bret'hren.
While these various acta identified the institution at large, with the well
known criminals, and exhibited the true principles of the auoeiation, high in-
cliridual DU110na, and high bodies of the fraternity, were guilty of the gl'08lelt
arts of deception to mislead the public, and save the inatitutien. ThomJ190n
and Gaoson, who were active conspirators in the abduction of Morgan, and
the outrages accompanying it, 1igned a notice oft"ering a reward of one hundred
dollars for the conviction of the otrender, who set fire to the printing oftice !
The grand royal arch chapter ofthe state of New York, resolved that indioitl•
ally and tu a body, they diaclaimed all knowledge or approbation of the ab-
duction of William Morgan. In this grand maeonie body upwards of one han-
dred and ten chapters were repreeented, and Eli Bruce aod John Whitney were
memben of it, both of whom were afterw,ards indicted, and convicted of the
very otrenee wpecified in the re110lution I And several committeea of lodges,
chapter&, and encampments, in public addreues, pretended to surrender their
charters, in avowed ,Pursuance of public opinion, while in seeret, individuals
employed on these committees, at the time, and afterwards, exerted every intha-
ence in their control, to suatain the institution.
What, then, ate the extraordinary. principles ofa aociety, which requires and
justifies auch extraordinary acts?
In all human governments, the principles set forth and adopted, under the
Mnctions of an oath, are regarded as moet eBBeDtial. With the loyal, no others
are permitted to cancel these. And as they are expressed with the greatest
attainable perspicuity, the obviOU& import of the terms in which they are con-
veyed, is alnys that, in which they are to be received. An oath iStaken under
the strongest possible sanction, is intended to be used for the highest purposes,
and the form of .it is adopted by the supreme authority. Hence, the duti•
which it prescribes are of the most imperative obligation.
When good men join the masonic society, and inconsiderately swear.to obey
its injunctions, without knowing what they are, u every ID880D does, they
imagine there.mu8t, of course, be a rilservation in favour of all civil and social
duties. But this ia a total mistake. The tint oath, and many others in the
series, fatally precludes it. It ia a part of the language of the oaths, tbat the
specific engagements contained in them, Bhall all be performed, " without any
mental reservation, equivocation, orself-evuion of mind whatever." ,And any
brother who does not so perform them, l'Oluntarily aubjects himself to the pen-
alty of death.
What duties do the masonic oaths impose t
The entered apprentice 1wean, " I will always bail, ever conceal, and net'er
. reveal any part •• of the secrets ••• of freemasonry which I have receiTed, am
about to receive, or may hereafter be inetructed in, &e."
The fellow croft swears, " I will support the constitution of the grand lodge
••~••• ~ couform to all the by-laws, rula, and regulatiou ofthiJ or aDJ
151] ADDRESS. 9
other lodge or WUc;a.{...,become a member •.••• I will obeyall !Vi!plarsigns
and IAUDJDOna given, handed, sent, or thrown to me, by the hand of a brother
.fellow craft 1B810n, &c."
The master mason BW'ean, " I will not give the grand hailing sign of dis-
treu., exeept I am in real diatreu ••• and should I ever see th.at sign given, or
the word accompanying it, and the penon who gave i1 appearing to be in dis-
•tl'eSll, I will ily to hia relief, at the risk of my life, should there be a greater
probability orsaving hia life than orlosiq my own •••• I will not speak evil
.of a brother mason neither behind hia back, nor before his face, but will ap-
prile him of all approaching danger, if in my power ••• a master mason's
.ucrets given to me in charge 88 such, and I knowing him to be such, shall
remain as secure and inviolable in my breast as in his own,before communi-
.catad to me,·murder and treasonexcepted,and they left at myown election, &c...
The mark mastu awean, " I will support the conatitution of the general
grand royal arch chapter or the United States: also, the grand royal arch
cbapter of thia state, &c."
The royal arch mason swears, " I will aid and asaist a companion royal arch
mason, when engaged in any difficulty, and espouse his cause, so far as to ex-
tricate him from the same, if i~ my power, whether he be right or wrong. I
will promote a companion royal arch mas0n's political preferment. in preference
.to another of equal qualificationa. A companion roJal arch mason's secrets,
. given me in charge as such, and I knowing him to be such, shall remain as
aeoure and inviolabl~ in my breast 88 in his own, murder and treason not ex-
cepted, &c."
From the first obligation of the thrice illustriou8 knightof the cross, thecan-
didate under oath receives the following injunctions : " To the end of your life,
. you will not, in consideration of gain, interest. or honour, nor with good or bad
design, ever take any, the least stepor measure, or be instrumental in any such
object, to betray any secret appertaining to the order and degree known among
U1880D8 as the thrice illustrious order of the cross: should you know another to
~iolate any essential point of thia obligation,. you will use your most decided
endeavours, by the blessing orGod, to bring such person to. the strictest and
. most condign punishment. agreeably to the rules and usages of our ancient fra-
ternity, and thia by pointing him out to the world as an onw~y vagabond, by
opposing his interest, by deranging his business, by transferring his character
. after him wherever he may. go, and by exposing him to the conteqapt of the
whole hternity, and the world, but of oar illustrious order more especially,
. during his whole natural life : nothing herein going to prevent yourself, or any
other, when elected to the dignity of thrice illustrious, from retaining the ritual
of the order. Should any thrice illustrious knight, or acting officer of any
. eouneil, which may have them in hand, ever require your aid, in any emergency,
in defence of the recovery orthe said charge, your swear cheerfully to exe~iae
all uaistance in his favour, which the nature ofthe time and place will admit,
«en to the aacriice of life, liberty, andJ:.roperty, &e." From the second obli·
10 ADDR.£88. ·u~
gation or the same degree, the member leeeives .the fellowing injtmctioas :
"You promise to lead a life as upright and just, in relation to all mankilMI, as
you are capable of; but in matters of ditl'erenee, to prefer the intelelltS ofa com-
panion of the order, of a companion's friend, for· whom he pleads, to any mere
'Rlan of the world. YOU promise Dtmll' to engage in mea& party mife, a0r
conspiracies againat the government or religion of your eountry, whereby your
reputation may sutrer, nor ever to auoeiate with dishonourable mea;'for a'mo-
ment, except it be to secure the interest of such peraon, his family, or frieiadl,
to a companion, whose necessities may require this degradation at your bands,
~.'' From the third obligation of the same degree,the meniber Swean," To
put confidence unlimited in every illustrious brotherofthe·«irou,--neverto per-
mit my political principles to come counter to his, if forbeanmce and ·blOtherly
kindnesscan operate to prevent it,-to look on his enemie1 as my enemies, &e."
In the initiation of a candidate as an elected knight of N'me, he goes through
the form of munlering a traitor, and swears, " I will renmge the usaumidion
. of our worthy master, Hiram .A.bift", not only on the mUrderers, but also,on all
who may betray the secrets of this degree, &c."
In the degree ofknights adepts of the eagle or am, there is an exposition
of masonic emblems. One of these emblems iithat of a man·peeping, of which
the exposition is this : " The man peeping, and who w:as ditcOvered, and seri.ed,
and conducted to death, is an emblem of those woo come to be initiated into
. our secret mysteries through a motive ofeuri.oeity, and ifso indiscreet as to di-
vulge their obligations, we are bound to eawie their death, and take nngeanco
on the treason hythe destruction of the traitor, &c." ·
In the degree of knights of Kadosh, the candidate·nrears " to follow at all
times, and in all points,,every matter ~the is.ordered, and prescribed by the
illustrious knights and grand commander, without any:restrictions," and espe-
cially, " to sacrifice the traitors ofntasonry."
Such are some of the principles expressed in their own Iangaage,which me
adopted in the masonic degrees alluded to, and imposed upon the members,
under circumstances most indecent, profane and frightful. God is deliberately
called upon to take notiee of the engagements contsined in tbeae extractll, and
his vengeance invoked, byitJte member upon himself, if they ate not ob8erved:
end the member pledges his life to the society, ;to be sacrifieed, in the most
barbarous Corms,ifhe violates them.
More detestable principles cannot betimagined. They were never embodied
·for any purposes of mere speculation. No human mind is so constituted as to
derive satisfaction in their contemplatitm. They excite to crime, and W8l'e in-
tended for the shelter and protection of practiClll iniquity. Those who make
them their rules ofaction, are enemiesofthe human race.
To these principles Morgan was a traitor, and they required his blood. Tlte
best men of the fraternity' who knew of the·treachery, in the strength or their
infatuated allegiance, became YOluntary agents, in effecting the requisition. Af.
ter the treachery was ascertained, and the fraternity bepn to .move against tile
·.·i .:
153] 11
traitor, we see how cmuringly adapted tile whole masonic l8Mhiaery is, to tlae
aceomplislunent of their object With entire impunity. The proof oltbe authen·
ticity of the :reTelatiOtlS orseceding w;nuons, in which the whole machinery is
described, in detail, arising from the disinterested and J'e.luetant testimony of a
thousand original witnesses, is notgreater than tha.t· arisiiag'from the wonderf'ul
and exclusin fitness ofthe machineryto prociuce the reiults we haYe witnei.d.
Revealed freemuonry is a stupetidoua mirrort Whi~h refteets, m all'theirhOJTOrs,
the exact features of that vast spirit of cririie, with which this nation is 8ow
wrestling, for all that makes life desirable. ·' · ' · '
. ·~he grosser parts of this machinery, are the secrecy, the prlYate signs, past
·words~ tokens, gfipS~ and ciph~.; the subtler parts are the obli_ptions : _and
the foriner are valUable oniyasthey'are capableofbeing etnpioyed tO giTe eft"ect
to the latter. The obligations, it will be seen, compelled sueli as.a:Cbowlecigect
diem,-to passive obedience,-to 1rarDeach other ofall approachingdanger,-
to conceal each other's climes;'even the most aggravated,-to extricate each
other Crom diilieulty, right or ~ng,-to support each other's reputation· in all
cases,-to oppose the interest Md blast the character of unfaithful brethren,-
to sa.etifice the traitors'offreemasonry,-to give each otherdishonestpreferences,
in matters ordil"erenee, over the' uninitiated,..:..anct to admnee each . . .
political preferment in oppositionto another. · ·
" The practical efticaey of these obligatiObS 'ft baYe seen,-in aUthe0utrage1
conunitted to suppress Morgan's publication, including hie abduction and mur-
der,-in the violence upon the printer, and the. ~ttempt to burn his olice,-in
the corruption of courts, sherift's, and juries,-inthe pmjuriee atwien81888,-in
the libels up0n honest individuals, courts, and juries,-in the unlawful ipiriting
away·c,rwitnesses,-in the rescue Olpel'BODBimplicated, who were in the custody
of law,..:._in the giving'of iritelligenee to thoee who'were in danger·orbeing·ar·
rested as parties, or summoned as witnenes, intime for their eicape,-~ .the
·universal and persevering denial of facts, by adhering masons,-in the appro-
priation of money, by the brethren, individually, and eolleetively, in aid of the
convicts and other crlinioals,-in the employment of standing counsel, by the
fraternity, for the implicated,-in the abuse orlegal forms, county jails, and a
fortress of the United States to the worst purposes of tyranny, the arbitrary im-
prisonment of a fellow citizen,-in the good fellowship and sympathy of the
societywith the convicts,-in the contumacious refusal to be sworn in court,.by
some witnesses, who knew the worst, and to answer by others, after beiag11r~
to lawful questions, when the refusal neees8arily implied perjury, or participa-
tion in murder,~d in the political promotion ofsuch DllDlbers ofthe brethren,
as is utterly inconsistent with the equal rights of others. · .
Cari the well informed friends offreedom·tolerate a societythus characterizedT
ls it..consistent with the theory or practice of our most 'falu.ed establishments,
with any authority underived fiom itself, or any safety, but that of its adhering
members t It e~ercises the highest powers of government, rai8e8 and appi-o-
priiltes pioney, makes and executes laws extending to life itself, which eat.oft of
I~ [154
ita mbjecta,iJa the aacred form ofoUba, voluntaril7 abadona to its aotJaoritt. It
is a govenmient of hich priests, and kings,-.and illuatrioua knights,.and grand
commanders. And every p&rson, who maintains connexion w;ith it, in eifeet,
renounces all allegiance to other governments, by swearing to perform acts en-
tirely ineonaietent with such allegiance, without any mental reservation wbat-
ever. In war, in peace, ia .all the business of life, every obligated mason, is
bouad to prefer a brother muon to other perBODB, and masonic duties, to other
duties.
Are the muonic obligations bindiJlgT The united voice of all moral .and
political philosophy replies in the negative. The obligatiom of morality are
incurred anterior to all others : they are imposed. by au~ority absolute, and
supreme, and can never be remitted. Political obligations are a branch of
moral, and partake of the same early and divine origin. We hav.e seen,·that
the JDa80Dic obligations are opposed to these, and they are self-auumed : all
self-818U1Ded obligations are posterior, Uld have no force in opposition to ~
Tile nature of all obligation, as applicable to the mind, implies intelligence and
Cree will : no authority can impose it, where eitherof these is wanting. One of
them is always 1"&11ting, and sometimes both, in the oaths offreemasonry. No
greater absurdity can be imagined than that an immoral engagement is ren-
dered obligatory, by calling upon God to witness it, aDd to punish its nonper-
fO!DlUlce. It supposes that ignorance, vice, and presumption, by adopting tbe
fol'IQ of an oath, may, at will, employ the authority of the Supreme Being,
against his own most sacred and unchanging laws.
Do the oatha of freemasonry diaqualify for civil trusts T Wherever they are
regarded as obligatory.they do. They are inconsistent with fidelity to the con-
stitution, under which all our civil trusts are held, and to the support of which
they oblige us. All foreigners, even the most enlightened, though they may be
perfectly honest, and capable, though they may reside with us to their life's end,
and be practieal converts to the truth and beauty ofoursystems, are disqualified,
by being the mbjects of other governments. By stronger reasons, adhering
freemasons are disqualified; for there is no government so adverse to ours, as
theirs is, Uld none which punishes defection from allegiance with less ceremony,
or severer penalties. Is it a circumstance in favour of freemasonry, that it
encourages and supports its subjects in the secret usurpation of public oftiees
and honours, to increase its reputation, power and influence T No man dare take
upon himself the obligations of freemasonry in public. Or if a being should be
fuund hardy enough so to brave the most honoured decencies and duties of life,
.it is not credible, that, in all free judgment, it would not amount to a univer·
sal civil disqualification. Shall secrecy make it otherwise? Shall ~at which is
always the inCODte&tible badge of shame or guilt, when used to·cover a Btalld·
ing pursuit, and permanent relations, recommend those who wear it to the con-
fidence of open hearted integrity, and in a government of which the first
principles are publicity, accountability, and jealousy of powerT
· The maionie institution makes it the duty of those lYhO own its authority, in
155} ADDBESS. 13
d CB88ll where other circumltancel, in theirprepol8elled opinien, ue equal, to
Pft!f8r the interesta of a brother to those of any other citizen. Thia preference
is the great purpose of its whole organization, the most distinct impreea of its
entire eharaeter. It pl'OYidei the·mest. crafty and eft'ectual means to make this
pnferenee available. These meana are intended to be kept wholly concealed
from all those whose eqaal interelts and rights it proseribes : andthe more cer-
tailtly to secure this object, it makes high pretensions of promoting-the greatest
of our earthly blessings, science, charity, and religion. All authentic disclOllU?e8
of i'8 history show it·to be aelfish,eircumventive, and hypocritical, and arelittle
ehe than pregnant proofs of its dishonour. Every man, ~ho has taken its ob-
ligations, and considers them binding, by the clearest intimations of civil pm-
dence and moral rectitude, is disqualified, for o8ices ofpower and honour, out of
its own uahallowed precincts.
SupPosing only a part ofthe degrees, to which we have alluded, have been
taken, sueh men eannot llllfely be our generals, for they are bound, even in be-
h&lf ata. i'Oreign ~nemy, ifhe be a ID880n, to give him notice ofall approacbiug
danger, and to stay the uplifted sword oftheir country's battle. They cannot
safely be our negotiators for peace, against the negotiator of a foreign enemy,
if·he be a mason, for they are.bound to look on his enemies as their enemies,
and his friends as their friends. They cannot safely be our legislators. for ma-
sonry impliedly permits them to ebgage in mean party strife, and conspiracies
against the government, if they can do so Without 1088 of.reputabon,-and to
degrade themselres, by associating with diahonourable men, for the purpose of
~g their interest, and that of their friends, to a brother, whose ~ities
may require it. They cannot safely be ourexecutiYe otlicers, for they are bound
to aid a brother so as to relieve him from any difficulty, if in their power,
whether he be right or wrong. ·They cannot safely be our judges, orjurymen,
beeause they are bound to give a brother notice of all approaching danger, and
even fty to biB relief, uponbis.givingthem the masonic sign of distress,~there is
a greater probability of saving his. life than of losing their own, and because
they are bound to an unlawful partiality, in all matten. oC dift"mmoe between
their brethren and uninittated. Our laws intend, that all inquiries and deter-
minations, by grand jurors, shMI be Without fear, favour, partiality, or hope ol
reward, and that all trials, by petitjurors and judges shall be decided, by the
eYidence and the law appliaable thereto, aild by nothing else. Freemasonry
binds her votaries so other, and avowedly partial,· grounds of decision. Who
can describe the sum of injuries andwrongs corraptly inflicted upon the world,
through the medium of llleh oftlces, by such principles t In the great freehold
of our government, to confer SQeh o8icea upon such men, by those who never
have assumed the principles, or have cast them oft", would .be a self-sacrifice
equally reproachtUl and disastrous.
To contrive the true theory offree government, is the proudest evidence ofhu-
man intelligence : to institute such a government, the most glorious achievement .-"
of humaat ·wisdom : and to sustain it, with unfailing constmcy, the greatest
{156
mollUlllent of baman''riltae. Our penuaent is the ~iable purcbue of
the profound reileetioD, paUdhl laboun, ~ exertiom, and searchiag
trials, of all pmt.oges. It ill bee.. W•heJiel'e it to be the beat that f!NeJ existed,
became, more thiui cmy other, il ccmmpoada with .the.rights, JUld ~
the dutielJof all JQ4lJl, over •bom it is edmdecl; aad; tbos..-ore thaa anyotber,
seeks and prom~ the improvement and ~.of itt aubject(. But °""
~t ~ be cioDtinued..without the aetiYe, Mienuou, ·ani -conatant,
maintenance ofprinciples ~1 oppoaed to th01e of fleemuonry;
The fint ~mC)lt proJIUnent·in~·~ .freemescmq ia ae_gecy. Any
.violation of this it pQll.ilba with iDfamJaaddeatla. Secrecy is the abutting up
of the mind fi'om co1B11lunion with.other minds. And IO far u it prevails, in
relation to any Boci.i.good,it iiaelfiah, aom, ignorant, and restJ.esa. . Left ablo-
lutely aloll8,like a plant ~panted froni the.twth aad the air, we should~
wither and die. ADd itw-1d be ne matter how soon. for if it were poasible to
keep us in ~ a 1tate, ~ lohouldbe good for not,hiag. Our facultiel ue not .
at aJl adapted to it. Hermits are always the lllOlt milerable men. Aaceiie
and secluded ~ations haft never been wile, or good. or bappy.•· Neither
is freemuonry, wbich incalcates their wont prinaples, not. ia nielancl*y
aeclusioa froiq dte world, but in the. heart of it, the more 8QCCelltfully to preJ
upOn it. '
. A mtaoos mind cannot delight in secrecy. Its .joy is in communion. We
are made socioble by nature. OUr beat. a1l'ectioDs and our bigheet focukiel
equally indicate it. For they can neitMr be expanded into ueeful action, nor
carry with ~ their· appropriate rewards, witho11t l!QCiety.. At IOCial beUlgs,
ifwe disc:!over useful r.cts. orimportant troths, wedtllinl to eonununicate them
to all, who are~ of benefits fiom their application. As all the Pl'i'1~
ciples of science, charity, and religiou, are ausceptible of ~application
to the whole human race, good men and good govemmenta will•~ no aiti·
ficial restriction, upon their uniftlrnl dil'uaion. On the COQtrety, they will
8Uenuously exert themselves to promote it. And there ii no .Juqwm pnNie,
which imparts 10 much of the ineft"aWejoy, that will accompany-the,Pul ueU
tlorae divinely pronounced upon tbe viraaeu, u tlaat 1'hioh is the bcmest fr8it of
such exertions.
But secrecy i8 not more Metile to the spreading of WleiUl facts and truths,
than it is to their dilccwery. Free inquiry, free disouaaion, tieeco-...lcation,
are essential ~uisites Clo the most valuable knowledge. IA the IU't8 ~
sciences, in edllea anc1 theology, all liberal minds aclmow~ their iadiapen-
sable importance. ln the political eonduetoflife, diieir' importaaee it. ifpol!lli·
hie, still more manifeet. ,They ani the liring fuundationt of OQ1' penpaeat,
which woald be speedily dissolved, in blood, without them. No IPIUl IMaa tWer
yet sufficiently valued them : for they alone can 88fely be relied upon., to open
and illuminate all the paths, in which the majeltic power.et'palic opinioll dis-
playa itself. (But freeJDMOWy is oppaeed to free inquiitf, free diseusaion, and
free eommunfcation. Its great fear is publieity, its ~ Yirtue, silence..} It .,.. 1
,.
l.57] ADDRESS.
Cesses to have·inestimable ·treasures of aocial bencita, wllieb it refWies to dis-
close to any but the mnall 11111Dber ef its•evote4'followe1.111. In ~ace to all ·
others, instead of employing,. to communicate theta, the vatiouB languages, in
which all the patriotism and-.piety, the joJB and sorrows, the 11!M'Cul·discoveries
and honourable desigu; the undying thoughts and unfading hopes of the whole
human family have been. e~, it conceals them, by sulMti.futing ·barba-
rous signs and uncouth ciphers. It first enslaves the mind :by the ebai.n of
secrecy, then debases it by injurious ceremonies and rile principles, and finally · ·
insults itby mock titles and simulated virtaes. It is ineompe&ent to the sup-
port of any valuable oltject. There is no real'duty, no honest enjoyment, nb
. benevolent purpose, which cannot· beUel' be Bcbomplisbed without it. · It is a.
fit system for the outlaws of humanity ud hope, hatiag.the world, and making ·
war uponiit. With a misanthropic caution it excludes ell the helpless and in.:. '1
firm from .its coomiunion, andwith the stimUlated ingenuity. of experienced and ·
impenitent guilt, it provides against detection and expoaurt!. Its·e'xistence fu
our country is the.1greatest anomaly of modem times; and it is to be·acCc>Unted
· for only, hy the tlll8118p8Cting confidence in their fellow citizens~ natural to men · '·
·conscious of their liberty. Aware of this trait in the character of our people;
. designing members of the fraternity, and thoae who are weak en&Ugh to find · 1'
pleume in its fantaatic friwolities and bloatM titles, have lengtbenecl' its cords
till they now probably embrace more than a hundred thousand of our coun-
trymen. . .
Of, thill nun1ber1 we cannotdoubt, that a large proportion cheriah no· part of
the·spirit.of the institution• - ··Inrited to join it, by its lofty pretensions, in early
life they entered its threaithold. And, although disgusted at every step, for
· the purpose o£ undellltandmg an institution, which they had once consented to
enter, ~ 8Uft'efed tbeiueelvea to be railed to the 11eCOnd or third .degree. ··
Nothing oould induce Jhem.- to go .further.· Such were moat of the'masons,
. whose illustrious names have been so often· abusively and boastfully arrayed,
f,I) shield the i¥&titution from the consuming reprobation-now every where pro-
voked agairist it, in) unprejudiced mincls, by its 'run. and accurate exposure.
These D\en in the bottom of their aou1s have all renounced it. ·
I But.there are other members of very dift"erenc character; who adhere to it,
1"th a tenacity exactly proportioned to their;_e•timate of its·adaptation to their
.evil designs. W asbington represented it ulcapable of beiJig employed for the· · ·' '
basest purposes, and never visited a lodge, but once or twice, in the last thirty
years.of his life. ; ·· ·
We live in an age of singular interest; and:·are·the de~iitories pf immeasu-
Rble responsibilities. Our aD.cestors voluntarilyileft their native seats,-broke
up the strong and amiable ties ·of local association~-tore themielvea from all
their kindred, in spite ofthe absorbing and iogtaiilechft"eciionJ! o(consangu.iility,
and planted themselves, in the most secluded and dangeri>uB' wastes of nature•
. All th• ¢.vationsau.clIUft"eringaef.dlls couise,:they beroieaUy met and endured,
to preserve the rights of the mind. In these are to be found all the springs of
"
16 ADDRESS. . (158
liberty, civil and religious. And they coDStitute the only ineormptihle wealth
of the ereated, 6Dd uncreated, univene. By auerting them· and preeerring
them with unparalleled and holy rortitude, our ancestors laid a auref'oundation
f'or a most unaullied and CODBtantly increasing Came. All aooial action II! CGlll ·
mendable, or the reverse, aa it advances or opposes these rights. Falsehood•
. injustice, cruelty, oppression, murder, treason, and every other imaginable
crime, impliesJiostility to them, and is thererore to be resisted aud subdued.
These ate the great tru~, taught by our early history. And profoundly
impressedupon the minds or our citizens, they cannot be eradicated. One of
the important inCerences fiom them is, that individuals are not the property of
government, but- government the property of individuals, who have a right
to modify, change, or abolish it, llll a majority or those, who constitute it, may
think most conducive to tlie common welrare. ·In support or this inference, our
'\ revolutionary war was waged, and our civil constitutions adopted. And these .
glorious etents, while they have sent us forward, with unparalleled ·vigoUr. and
celerity in the road or improvement, have oJiened new prospects and awakened
higher hopes, in the•great family of nations. FoHowing our example~ the peo-
ple are, every where, gradually understanding and claiming their righP- The
arrogant pretenders to arbitnuy power are sinking into comparative disesteem.
And the only just government of human origin, that of public opini~ ilr uni-
Yersally raising on high, and spreading abroad, the welcome and protecting
ensigns of her supremacy. ·
To this government freemasonry is wholly opposed. It requires 1111resisting
submission to its own authority in contempt of public opinion,-\he claims of
co08Cience,-and the rights ofprivate judgment. It would dam up the majestic
' current of improving thoughts, among all its subjects throagnout the earth; by
restricting beneficial communication. In attempting to do this. it has staineft
our country with a brother's blood, tempted many of our in1luentilil eit.izem
into the most degrading forms of falsehood, and burst away, with its~
undiminished, its vengeance provoked, and its polluti >Dl!I manifest, from the
strong arm or distributivejustice.
It is one of the striking evidences of the wisdom of the framers or our con-
lltitution, and a bright presage of its perpetuity, that it is fit for all emergencia
It contains provisions, which are abundantly adequate to the subTenion of free-
masonry. Perfectly convinced, that such a subversion must be eft"ected or oot
liberties wrested from us, let us inquire, what are these provisions ?
They cannot be found in our state legislatures, or in that of·the union. ·The
great object of legislation among us is to secure the rights, and promote the im-
provement of the people. To do this, the powers to legislate are defined &lid
delegated. And· these powers must not be transcended, or legislation·W'Ould
become usurpation. Against such usurpation suitable checks are contrived, and
the people entertain a conservative jealousy.
All valuable discoveries, and beneficent exertions, originate with individuals.
To perfect these, and apply them to practical improvement, men must be free.
1£>0] ADDRESS. 17
Tiiey must be permitted to associate as they please. To prevent them from
meetingtogetherand communicating, according to their own inc:linations, either
aeeretly or openly, by legislation, would be, to shut out the most useful labows
and the purest enjoyments oflife. But for every encroachment upon the rights
ofothen, men must be answerable to some competent tribunal, orall, for which
governments are instituted, would be insecure. Such a tribunal cannot be a
legislature.
The means of overthrowiag freemasonry cannot be found in any, or in all,
of our executive authorities. These are discreetly restrained within limits en-
tirely too _.arrow for such an eft"ect.
They cannot be found in our judicial establishments. To these we are ac-
customed to look as the sacredshield of right, the inviolable refuge ofinnocence,
and the steadfaat avenger of guilt. They are the most trusted of our govern-
mental departments. The qualities intended to be combined in them, of know-
ledge, disinterestedness, and firmness ; the powers and duties, with which they
are invested, to inquire, to deliberate, and to determine ; and the means placed
io their hands, to enforce their determinations, upon all the wide range of pre-
cious interestscommitted to theircare, make them the most venerable and august
of humu;t institutions. They come up, in the estimation of good men, and m
the holiest attributes of earthly power, next to the sovereign people themselves.
But against freemasonry, the most alarming experience proves their ministry to
be unavailing. The same jealousy of delegated authority, which our spirit of
liberty applies to legislative and executive functions, it also applies, in some
degree, to those of our courts ofjustice. The disabilities imposed by the peo-
ple, to prevent oppression, upon every branch of power, carved out of the great.
aggregate of the national power, constitute the true reason, why all the branches
referred to, are insufficient to exterminate the evils of freemasonry. B\lt it does
not, therefore, follow, that no sufficient means exist. They do exist. They
belong to this nation by titles, which we deem forever indefeasible. They are
derived directly from the Most High. They have been in our possession, from
the commencement of our history, though sometimes defended by blood. They
consist in the just exercise of the rights reserved by the people to themselves,
as the great constituent, supervising proprietors of the republic.
In the first address of Mr. Jefferson, as president of the United States, he
denominates " the right of election by the people a mild and safe corrective of
abuses, which are lopped by the sword of revolution, where peaceable remedies
are unprovided." This is the only adequate correttive of freemasonry,-that
prolific source of the worst abuses. And to this we must·resort.
The abuses of which we complain involve the highest crimes, of which man
can be guilty, because they indicate the deepest malice, and the most fatal aim.
They bespeak the most imminent danger, because they have proceeded from
a conspiracy more numerous and better organized for mischief, than any other
detailed in the records ofman, and yet, though exposed, maintaining itself, in all
its moDBtrous power. That murder bas been committed, is now acknowledged
3
18 [lto
byan.· Thatithas been socommitted, and the m&letictors b&ve acted Ufdersuch
authority, aoc1 have been SO mded and comforted, 88 to carry the guilt oftfeasoDt
cannot be doubte<l. Protection ~ these crimes, ia the first duty of govern-
ment, and the objectfor which it is invested with its highest P<>~ers. But pio-
. tectiOn C8.1Ulot be secured, by the ordinary .means. Shall it therefore be al>QJi-
doi;t.tld t Shall we forego,.in· behalfof freemasonry, (Ir through fear pf il, ·the
primary purpose of civil orPnization? If we are true to ourselves it is eertain
we neednot forego it ; we can practically enfo~ it: for the right.I of eleetion
rem~n. In these may be found full means,-:Dot of punishing the criminals,-
but t)f precluding any repetition of their crimes,-Of giving us that seeurity
.apll\st' them, which is better than punishment, which is, indeed, the only pro-
per object .of all human punishment. The use of these means we advocate.
Our adversariti& reProbate it, and represent it as oppressive ~cl persecuting.
Tlie exeicise of the elective franchise is as much a functi~n of our ~verii­
ment ~ any one performed, by legislatures, executive magistrates,.or judp.
And the honest, intelligent, and fearleq use ofit, by all to. ~hom'it·pertains, is
as much a duty, in every case, as a similar use ofother funCtions is, in au.y case,
by th0se to whorii they pertain. Such a use of the 'elective t"uiiction is the duty
.most·imperious, because it is the great corrective, in the last resort, of all other
function&. . •·
To·say that the powers of government should·~P.i be applied to the masonic
on~ at all, would be so preposterous, as justly to-excite suspicion of being
implid&ted in them. Beiides, it is now too late for any persons. to s~y this with
consistency ; for since the inadequacy of all judicial application 'io them bas
bee-11 apPa.rent, even adhering freemasons say, it was n~ improper to appeal
to thtl courts: "punish the guily." B!Jtif.it was proper to appeal to the.~urts,
in the first piece, and that appeal h8s beei'l relldered nugatory,· by i4e cQ.min.aI
int$'£erence of freemasonry, the ~n\for appealing to the ~w.m.?C.f>~,~
ment againstthe outragea,is immeasurab1;r strengthened, not diminis~ed•.,'ll.ere
is, therefore, no impropriety in resQrting.to the elective fnµichise to co~ tlre
evils of freemasonry. . It invades no man's rights. ' lt ~ves no man re~~n· .to .
complain. It is no more disreputable than it:is to re8ort to a legislature, or. a
court of law, for the,OOrrection of an evil, which -~e, were ipstituted to redress.
would it be to~erated, for a moment, to stigma.~-as .ovpression and perse-
cution, a resort to our legislators, for the passage, ()~ a law to promote the public. , .
.security,'ol' to, our judicial tribunals. for the punia~ent ofcrime? Neither can
it be, th~s to stigmatize a resort to the elective Crimch~, for the abo~'or
I • t . • i ....1
freemasonry, which is fatal to all security, 8.IJ.d the very charnal house ofcrime.
If ireemasonry ought to be ~)ff~e~!.it shoi'ud ~rtainly be so abo~h~ ~ ~-
.prwent its restoration. No l!lew.is: of doing this can be concei;v~d 11<>,Ro:qt~"'°t· ,.
as tho8e furnished by the hallQt'bc>xes.. These means are cp~e~ded to our·
.adoption, by the most urgent considerations, by their mildness, their safety, their
suftici~ncy~ and the tested·insufficien~y of au others. They are the me8Ds pro-
vided, by the most venerated ofour political fathers. '!ho shall disparace them1
i61] ADDRESS. J9
Whoeverisopposedtofreemasonry and reallydesiresitsextinction,tnustusethem,
or confess himselfa slave or tyrant. To extinguish it,by violence, wouldbe tyran-
ny, if it were possible. To extinguish it, by the expression of honest convictions
' against it, would not be tyranny, but it cannot he accomplished, unless a majority
unite in such expression; and whether they do or not, cannot be ascertained,
without a general vote. To desire its extinction, and do nothing to effect it, must
proceed from indolence, fear, or the imagined force of assumed obligations in
its favour, either of which ~nts to a degrading slavery. To such slavery
who is willing to submit1 In truth none, who are not opposed to using every
other means against it, are opposed to using our elective rights against it ; and
those who are opposed to using our elective rights against it, uniformly use ~
their elective rights in its favour. The higher freemasons are expressly sworn
to do it. Thus tqey adopt a conduct, which they stigmatize in us, as oppres-
sive a.Dd pers'ecuting, and which is so, when adopted secretly, by virtue of un-
lawful obligations, and in favour of a class of citizens, who associate for secu~
ring to themselves unequal privileges.
Anti-mrumns would'defend their rights, the laws of their country, and the
111ost sacred treasures of liberty, from a fearful assault. Seeking to preserve
tl.Dd perpetuate all the blessings intended to be secured, by our government,
they would proceed, in the spirit of strict conformity with its provisions. And
they invite all, who appreciate these blessings, to join them. They have no
secret· purposes: to accomplish,...::..no selfish objects to promote,-no time, .nor
means to cast away,in idle ostent~tion, or for useless notoriety.-They know
the countij is in danger ; and they come forth, from their retirements, to shield
it. On their farms, in their shops, at their counters, in their offices, and at
their desks, they have heard the wail of the bereaved widow and orphans, and,
feeling the sympathies of humanity, they have inquired how they became so.
The answer to this inquiry, and the history connected with it, gave them their
distinctive appellation, and compelled them publicly and openly to unite, for.
defending the most essential objects of society. Attached to their government,
by conviction, habit, duty, and hope, they cannot patiently see its walls of' pro-
teetion overthrown, its prim;iples undermined, or its power derided. Iii tlieir
minds, no'nrunes ofhuman majesty are So dignified as that offreeman, no earthly
interests so valuable as those of the nation, and no course of action so sure to
be comme.ndable as that, which invites public scrutiny, and is held to a just
accountability; Murder and treason they cannot ··help regarding.with .abhor-
rence, however'disguised ; and Will resist, whoever may perpetrate or abet th~m.
Their chosen weapon of re11is~ance is the right of snfi'rage,~·weapon of ~qual
power in every freeman's hand, and which is so tempered, as they trust, in the
armory of patriotisin, that :deither the keen nor solid of ffeemasoury may resist,
its edge. · : · · ; · · : . ·
'Pellow citizens, are we callea to be anti-masons by the best feelings of our
nature 1··Are our objects the highest that can effect the civil character 1 Are our
means the most approved arid indispensable 1 Unite with us,_:_not for our sakrs,
L
ADDRESS. [l~
but your own.'T"'Aid us in working out the redemption ofour country Crom &ee-
masonry. We are misrepresented and calwnniated, as the chief public means
of defeating the cause we· have espoused. Examine by whom, and inquire into
their motives. Be not deceived. If individuals among us are in fault, through
ignorance, or passion, or interest, or profligacy, refuse. them your confidence.
But do not, therefore, betray your rights, and those of your country ; nor let
those beguile you into their support, who prefer secrecy to pul>licity, and free-
masonry to republicanism. We are for practical, .aceable,and most necessary
reform,-not for the destruction..,but the establishment of right. Freedom:, in
every beneficial sense, is the soul of anti-masonry.
Further revelations of the ceremonies and principles of freemasonry are not
required; for these are perfectly exposed ; and the exposition is so confirmed,
as to be incapable of material modification. It will go doWD; to all posterity
.among the undoubted reco~ ofimposture and guilt. But we cannot suppress
our anxiety to commend our cause to the decided confidence, and active support,
of all the nominal members of the fraternity. Among such, there are many,
who have long possessed, and who still possess, our high esteem ; all'd to whom
we are attached, by the bonds of the most inseparable and holy brotherhood,
those of a common nature, common wants, and a common destiny., We
earnestly invite them to come out, with us, in defence ofour common interests.
Our co~ has .~ adopted after diligent i.nquiry into facts, and an honest
comparison offreemasonry with the first principles ofcivil order ; and -..e have
no misgivings. We respectfully suggest to them similar inquiry and compari-
son. In proportion as men do this. we find our numbers increasi.Qg, and,
knowing the inquisitive character ofthe people ofthe United S~s, it is scarcely
more in our power, than it is in our wish, to exclude the anticipation of success.
We know freemasonry cannot meet with their deliberate approval. When it
was least suspected of evil, and highest in its harlequin ilttJactions,-when that
helinees to the Lorp, which is inscribed upon its gaudy gamiture, and that
charity with which its dark chambers are labelled, had not been publicly detected
as wholly counterfeit,-w,e know it was not a subject of their complacent re-
gard. Shall the crimes with which it is now inei"~bly brau.ded, and the
pertinacity with which it justifies them, pass without their condemnation and
rebuke 1 Shall that aJmse of their confiden~, which first brought their names
into connexion with the mountebal)k retainers of the order, be an argument for.
sustaining the mounU:banks, when their party coloured garments are ~ drip-
ping with the b.lood of innocenc;e, and we perceive their power to strike away
all the pledges ofonr common safety 1
We know that the private opinions of such members concur with ours. We
· beseech them to concurwith us in giving, to those opinions, a public.and deeided
expression ; for that will make them eft"ectual to the only end we have at heart,
the overthrow of freemasonry. We want n,ot, and we expect not, the aid()(
the sinister, or the dissol11te ; of the slaves of office, of prejudice, of viae,.pr of
faction. But we ~ously covet the association of all, wbo ~ wilJing, on all,
.. r
163] .lDDREss: 21
occasions, and at aJl times, through evil report, and through gpod report, to con-
tend for the great interests oftruth, and justi~ and freedom, and that llecurity
intended to be conferred, upon these intercsts,'1,y our laws and constitutions.
With such we 'are proud to labour, and, if need be, willing lo suffer: for we
shall not labour and suffer in vain~ But we perceive, on all sides, the presages
of our success ; in the unspeakable importance of our cause; in the intelligence
and self-respect of our fellow citi~ns ; in the peaceable and just means, with
which alone, we mean to pronltte it; in the favouring sympathies ofthe enlight-
ened and wise of every name and clime ; and in the undergoing, insuppressive,
and inspiring hope, with which we may seek, for it, the protection of that
Great Being, in.whose hands are all the allotments of nations, and'whose law
is that of perfect liberty.
Henry Ge.ssett.
Abner Phelps.
Amasa Walker-
Stephen Oliver.
Pliny Merrick.
Nathan Adams. ·
Alpheus Bigelow, Jr.
Nahum Hardy.
Joahua Longley.
Nathaniel Terry.
Zalmon Storr11.
Calvin Barber.
John M. Holley.
.Bates Cooke.
Henry Dll{la Ward.
Samuel St. John.
MASSACHUSETTS.
Moses Thacher.- It
Joseph Morton.
Micah H. Ruggles.
Samuel B. Barlow.
Gardner Burbank.
Joseph Goffe. -fl
Lovett Peters.
Nathan LazelJ, Jr.
..
CONNECTICUT.
NEW YQBK.
Jonathan Nichols.
Elisha Steams.
Henry Perkins.
Noble D. Strong.
Jos.eph Case•
- Frederick Whittlesey..
Caleb Green,.,,,,_,.
John L. Curtenius~
Vincent Whitney. .
John Ellis.
Alexander Sheldon.
Herbert A." Read.
John C. Morris.
William Williams.
Francis Granger....
Henry W. Taylor.
Samuel M. Hopkins.
George W. Stanton.
Robert S. Rose.
Thomas Lawyer.
John Bogardus.
·William H. Seward.
Elias Manchester.
Samuel N. Sweet._-
Jt>hn Williams.
Myron Holley~
Edward Bancroft.
.Sam•el P. Lyman.
W. H. Maynard.
George H. Boughton
· Charles Starr.
David J\ernard.
Lebbeus Armsirong.- It
Thofll'18 C. Green.
