{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__combe___system_of_phrenology.pdf","mytitle":"System Of Phrenology","mylang":"de"}
' •'Iff#..
.__,_......
A
SYSTEM
OF
PHRENOLOGY•
• BY
...
GEORGE COMBE,
LAT'E PRE81DEN't OF THE PHRENOLOGICAL SOCif:l'\,
·-
1/'HIRD BDI'l'IQN.
4
Ree non verba quaeeo.
JOHlf ANDBBSON JUN. EDINBURGH,
55. NORTH BRIDGE STREET,
AND LONGMAN & C01 LO.JPON·
MDCCCXXX·
.. .., . ·.
'
o;91t1zed by Google
\
I
I
...
NEILL & CO• RINTBM·
BOstON MEDICAL LIBRARY
lilliE
FRANCIS A. COUNTWAY
LIBRARY OF MEDICINE
oigit,zed by Coogle
~~ oLtbtr~,b~Lt~ @tiel!_t•'
lt.X.TBAA..O.~G :ro I'.NI FifiT"R.A'.t' I.NTUr.:JI'I.HG r.HBTR .lfBL.JI'IVB .POSTI'TO.V.J'.
ll'fT.IILLKI'Tl'J.L
~.1'.11111-..IIIPIIt.'t .11••r6JrriMI4T'rN 1. P•ar6.z-r.zr11 . u . .Jf.ll,l:llrr.rrs
J ~ .?.I(KUti
'" :vt~'-«dhm· :!11 !? ..frmYuntallf!; s.~r• J :.14 ~ 'tnr,m~'i,'T/. ,/l>(j
2 Dti~I'SJ' /?/ D l:tJW "';'I'!"'Vtat~Pn H.'! 21 fl'ml. .1&5 •.'1-S ,;,11.~~/ilft IN
·' tiJrtcmbwiJiiy-· .l11 J2 (iLu/1~ w.•.nl".~.<t 2f2 2~ !.irr .'l,£•7 1
f .fJN..WmN$ .J'fJ I; A.,,.,,..,""',. 2t/l .Z:S /14;7//1 ,\a..1
.. Uwl/ltdhl!fti'S.I .151H rmnuh<w· 27~ 2tl ,.;.;t111rhl(/
·;;;I
8 .&~
.ld..1l.J' .l'i"muzrss 2&5 '11 L•.:nnlll
+ .1/UnmfWt~N~U J.W. Ill aw.<>.
UilOL>usiii'S$28N :18 Morr~>lr 12il ,
' ~- J/1(!" .Byv •.f{Jf 29 ,~
..... 1.?1'
8 ~ ,M1./B
'""""" .w :w F.wnhm/Lip ~~ I
p ~,_ m J9
~""'
.m 31 r,;, I.'!-! I
? 1/nA.•~tituJ .t.'lt' .1! lim.- 1.1tJ
11! 1f£t <'1'.li'VtAIU!nttw .1/(J :u l:tmpi/UJf!t' IN:' '
21 ~ .1i.1
I
Digitized by G_
ooqle
- ----- -
PREFACE.
•
-
Tu.E following are the circumstances which led to the
publication of the present Work.
My first information concerning the System of Dn •
GALL and SPURZHEIM, was derived from No. 49. of
the Edinburgh Review. lt£4 away by the boldness
of that piece of criticism, I regarded their doctrines as
contemptibly abatilQ, and their &llthors as the most
disingenuous ofmen. In 1816, however, shortly after
the publication of the Review, my friend Mr BROWN-
LEE invited me to attend a private dissection af a re-
cent brain, to be perfonned in hishouse by Dr SPURZ-
HEIM. The subject was not altogether new, as I
had previously attended a Course of Demonstrative
Lectures on Anatomy by Dr BARCLAY. Dr SPUBZ-
HEIM exhibited.the structure of the brain to·all pre-
sent, among whom were several gentlemen of the me-
dical profession, and contrasted it with the bold aver-
ments of the Reviewer. The result was a complete
conviction in the minds of the observers, that the asser..
tions of the Reviewer were refuW<l by physi~.de!!J.on­
stration.
---------- Digitized by Coogle
-
IV PREFACE.
. The faith placed in the Review being thus shaken,
I attended the next course of Dr SPURZHEIM's Lec-
tures, for the purpose of hearing from himself a cor-
rect account of his doctrines. The Lectures satisfied
me, that the system was widely different from the re-
presentations given of it by the Reviewer, and that, if
true, it would prove highly important ; but the ~vi­
dence was not conclusive. I therefore appealed to
Nature by observation, and at last arrived at ~ll!Ple~
{lonviction otthe t!U!h ~-p~!~poJogy.
In 1818, the Editor of the "Literary and Statisti-
cal Magazine for Scotland," invited me to a free discus-
sion of the merits of the system in his work, and I was
induced to offer him some Essays on the subject. The
notice these attracted led to their publication in 1819,
in a separate volume, under the title of "Essays on
Phrenology." A second edition of these Essays has
since been called for, and the present volume is offered
in compliance with that demand. In the present
Work, I have adopted the title of a " System of Phre-
nology," on account of the wider scope, and closer con-
nexion, of its parts ; but pretend to no novelty in
principle, and to no rivalry with the great founders of
the science.
The controversial portions of the first edition are
here almost entirely omitted. As the opponents have
Digitized by Google
r
~
r
I
r -
•
jl.
- ~ -
PREFACE. v
quitted the field, these appeared no longer necessary,
and their place is supplied by what I trust will be
found more interesting matter. Some readers may
think that retributive justice required the continued
republication of the attacks of the opponents, that the
public mind, when properly enlightened, might express
a just disapprobation of the conduct of those who so
egregiously misled it; but Phrenology teaches us for-
bearance ; and, besides, it will be misfortune enough
to the individuals who have distinguished themselves
in the work of misrepresentation, to have their names
handed down to posterity, as the enemies of the great-
est and most important discovery ever communicated
to mankind.
In this work, the talents of several living characters
are adverted to, and compared with the development
of their mental organs, which is a new feature in phi-
losophical discussion, and might, without explanation,
appear to some readers to be improper : But I have
founded such observations on the printed works, and
published bwta or caata, of the individuals alluded
to; and both of these being public property, there ap-
peared no impropriety in adverting to them. In in-
stances in which reference is made to the cerebral de-
velopment of persons, whose busts or casts are not pub-
lish~ I have ascertained that the observations will
not give offence.
1825.
--- Digitized by Coogle
ADVERTISEMENT
TOTBB
T H I R D E D IT I 0 N.
-
THE call for a third edition of tiVs work, notwith-
standing the strenuous qpposition of a highly influ-
ential part of the periodical press, and the continued
neglect of another portion of it, is a proof that the
public continues to take an interest in the subject of
which it treats. In this edition, a full exposition of
the principles on which Phrenology is founded. is given
in the introduction ; and I respectfully solicit reflecting
individuals, whose prejudices give them a dislike to the
study, to peruse this portion of the work, before yield-
ing finally to their prepossessions. It has been written
expressly for readers in this condition. In other parts
of the work, considerable additions, and I hope some
improvements, have been made. Figures have been
introduced to illustrate the forms ofseveral ofthe heads
described. These, although far from being sufficient
to convey complete and correct notions of the objects
represented, will be useful in giving more precision to
Digitized by Coogle
Vlll ADVERTISEMENT.
the reader's conceptions, and may induce him to resort
to nature. It was my wish to have had all the figures
drawn to a scale, but the engraver has not been suc-
cessful in realizing this intention. The outline is ac-
curate, and there is an approximation to one standard
of proportion in the difFerent figures; but it is not
\
such as enables me to exhibit a scale.
Two subjects treated of in the second edition, are
omitted in this, lat, " On the Harmony of the Mental
Facultieswith each other, andWith the Laws ofPhysical
Nature;" and 2dly, "On Insanityand Criminal Legisla-
tion." The first is now embraCed in my work, "On
the Constitution of Man and its relations to external
objects," in which the practical application·of Phi-eno-
1ogy to conduct, education, and the science of ·morals,
is treated of ; and the second is more amply discussed
in Dr SPURZHEIM's work on Insanity, and in Dr
ANDREW CoMBE's treatise on the same subject.
Since the publication of the second edition, some
op~, who deny the truth of Phrenology, have as-
crihearis,snccess, which on the principle of its being
false is anomalous, not to its inherent merits, but to
the talent with which,-as they are pleased to say, I
have advocated its cause ; and they have relllinded the
public, that I am ~-n~~ in the literary .world OJtly
~L~- r!!r~uol.Qgi§.t.
Digitized by Goo$
ADVERTISEMENT ix
Few words will suffice in answer to these observa-
tions. Such critics greatly overrate the extent of my
ability ; for my strength lies in the goodness of my
cause. I have studied Phrenology, and read its doc-
• trines directly in the page of nature. What I assert
in point of fact, I have seen and handled ; and what I
maintain in argument, I have found confirmed by prac-
tical results. Those who have attacked the doctrines,
on the other hand, have not studied them as science ;
theyhave not read the facts, on which they found their
objections, in the book of nature ; and they have not
tried how their arguments would harmonize with other
ascertained truths, nor how they would issue if carried
into practical effect. Full of confidence in themselves,
and of contempt for their adversary, each has come to
the combat without arms and without armour; and if
in some instances the assailant has reeled back from
the shock of the encounter, the result must be ascribed
to the inherent weakness of his cause, which deprived
him of the advantages of his talents, while truth add-
ed to the strength of him whom he assailed.
I plead guilty of being known to the world only as
a Phrenologist. Believing, as I do, that the same
Divine Wisdom which ordained the universe, presided
also at the endowment of the brain with its functions ;
that the brain is the organ of the mind, and that mind
is the noblest work of GoD; convinced, also, that this
Digitized by Coogle
X ADVERTISEMENT.
discovery carries in its train the most valuable imluove-
ments in education, morals, and in civil and religious
institutions,-! cannot conceive a nobler employment
than that of vindicating its claims to consideration, and
stemming, to the extent of my feeble ability, the •
mighty flood of prejudice and injustice with which,
like all other important discoveries, it has been deluged.
These sentiments are not the ebullitions of mere ex-
cited enthusiasm. They are stated in sober calmness
in the work on the Constitution of Man above referred
to. To be recognised, hereafter, by impartial and en-
lightened men, as having been in any degree instm-
mental in braving the storm of popular derision with
which Phrenology was at first assailed, will more than
satisfy all the ambition for posthumous fame which
ever fired my bosom ; and I never was so extravagant
as to expect, while alive, any reward from "the great
in science and philosophy" except ridicule and dislike.
They have chosen their part, and I have chosen mine :
the long day will do justice to all.
CONTENTS.
Page
INTRODUCTION, • 1
Opposition to Discoveries, 2
The Brain the Organ of the Mind, 7
Plunlity of Faeulties aod Organs, 14
lniluence of Siz~ on the power of Organs, • 23
Tempenment and Disease modify the effects of Size, 32
Connexion of particular Faeulties and Organs, 36
Efforts of Metaphyeicians, 37
- - of Moralists, Poets, and Divines, 41
- - of Physiologists, • 43
History of Dr GALL's discovery,. 47
Functions of the Nerves and Spinal Marrow, 56
Principles of Phrenology, 65
Discrimination of Mental Dispositions aud Talenta, 67
The Brain, Cerebellum, and Skull, 70
Integumenta of the Brain, 76
Bones of the Skull, 78
Frontal Sinus, 81
Practical application of the Principles, 85
Length and breadth of organs, 89
Phrenological Bust, 91
Forms of Organs, 93
Terms used, 95
Absolute Size no criterion, 97
Brains of Lower Animals, 99
Temperaments, • 101
Power and Activity, . 103
What is a Faculty ? • 107
Division of the Faculties, 113
•
,
...__ ~--
'· o;9;tizedbyGoogle
I
xii CONTENTS.
ORGANS.
Page
ORDER I.-FEELINGS, 116
Genus I.-PROPENSITIES,
I. Amativeness,
2. Philoprogenitiveness,
3. Concentrativeness,
4. Adhesiveness,
5. Combativeness,
6. Destructiveness,
Alimentiveness,
Love of Life,
7. Secretiveness,
8. Acquisitiveness,
9. Constructiveneu,
Genus H.-SENTIMENTS COIIOION
LOWER ANWALS,
10. Self-Esteem,
11. Love of Approbation,
12. Cautiousness,
TO MAN WITH TUB
ib.
ib.
121
134
151
157
165
184
188
190
203
217
230
231
243
252
Genus III.-SuPERIOR SENTIMENTs, 260
13. Benevolence, 261
14. Veneration, 274
15. Firmness, 285
16. Conscientiousness, 288
17. Hope, 304
18. Wonder, 309
19. Ideality, 322
20. Wit or Mirtbfulnet~s, 340
21. Imitation, 353
ORDER 11.-INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES, 359
Genus I.-ExTERNAL SENSES, ib.
Feeling or Touch, 371
Taste, 372
s~~ ~
Hearing, 373
Sight, 375
Digitize by ~0--
•
•
CONTENTS. xiii
Page
Genu. II.-JNTELLEOTUAL PACI:LTIES WHICH PERCEIVE
EXISTENCE AND PHYSICAL QUALITIES, 379
22. Individuality, 380
23. Form,. 385
24. Size, . 389
25. Weight, 393
26. Colouring, 399
Genus JIJ.-INTBLLECTUAL FACULTIES WHICH PERCEIVE
RELATIONS OP ExTERNAL OBlBCTS, 414
27. Locality, ib.
28. Nomber, . 420
29. Order, 4~4
30. Eventuality, 425
31. Time, 434
32. Tune, 436
33. Language, 446
General Observations on the Perceptive Faculties, 462
Genua IV.-IbPLECTING FACULTIES, 465
34. Comparison, 466
35. Causality, 474
Mona OP AcTIVITY oP THB FAcULTIES, • 489
Of the Propensities and Sentiments, • 490
Of the Knowing and Retlecting Faculties, 497
Perception, 498
Conception, 500
Dreaming, 509
Imagination, 512
Memory, 515
Judgment, 522
Conaciousneu, 528
Attention, 531
A.88ociation, ib.
Passion, . 540
Pleasure and Pain, ib.
Patience and Impatience, 541
..
•• Digitized by Coogle·
\
vix CONTENTS.
Page
Joy and Grief, 541
Sympathy, 545
Habit, 553
Taete, 556
EtFecte of Size on the Manifestations, 562
Combinations in Size, 571
------Activity, 585
Practical application of the Doctrine of the Combinations, 591 ·
National Character and Development of Brain, 599
Objections to Phrenology, 622
Materialism, 631
Injuries of the Brain, 638
Conclusion, 664
Names of Organs adopted by Dr GALL, 668
Organe in previous Edition of this Work, • 670
APPENDIX.
No. I. Faculties of Dr GALL, 672
INDEX, 673
( XV )
,
LIST OF FIGURES•.
-
A., bead, with large Self-
Esteem, - 138
Alexander VI., Pope, head, (1) 672
Bellingham, murderer, altull, - 177
Brain, upper surface, - 71
--lower surfacet, - '1'1
Brazil Indian, skull, - 613
Burlr, murderer, bead, • - 8'1'
Ceylon-, skulls, - - 161, 201
Cbarib, skull, 130, 261, 611, 60'1'
Chaucer, head, (1) - • 330
Cobbett, head, (1) - - 330
CordoDDler, poet, head, (2) - 2S3
Curran, head, - - 380
Filber, Miaa Clara, head, • 368
Frenchman, skull, - - t6t
Frontal bone, .eetion o~ shew-
ing the Ff'fltliGI .WU, • - 81
George 111, head, (t) - 360
Giblon, John, bead, - 299
Greek, ancient, ekull, - 619
H., Mrs, bead, - 299
Haggart, murderer, bead, - ib.
Handel, bead, (1) - - 446
Hare, murderer, head, • • 8'1'
Head divided into regions by
Dolci, - - 22
Bette, Dr, skull, - - 1'1'4
Hindooe, akulls, 177, 202, 252, 606
Jervis, head, - • 261, 368
Locke, bead, (1) - SSO
Pace
M., Rev. Mr, bead, - 87, 117
Maxwell, robber, bead, - - 684
Melancthon, head, (1) - 672
Mitchell, murderer, bead (large
No. 1.), • 1J7
Moore, profile, - 426
Negro, akull, - • 615
Nerve, magnified, - - 67
New Hollauder, llkull, • 36, oos
New Zealander, skull, • • Gil
North American Indian, skull, ib.
Ormerod, Ann, • "'
Parry, Captain, head, • 666
Peruvian, skull (small No.2.), ISS
Pitt, profile, (2) • 425
Raphael, akull, - 36, 672
Rousseau, J. B., head, (1) • 330
Sandwich lalander, akull, • 617
Shakspeare, bead, (1) • 330
Sheridan, profile, • '26
Skull at birth, - 77
-- adult, - lb.
-- open, shewing /alcVorm
~-. &c. - - 78
- with large Phlloprogeni-
th•eoeas, • 133
--with large Veneration, - 27'
Spinal marrow and nerves, • 61
Swlse, skull, - • 618
Taao, head, (1) • 313
Wurmser, General, skull, • 161
• Tbe lpra mulled (I) are copied from encraved porualta ID a-1 drculatlon ;
U.C. muUd (I) ue from IDOdelled bulta;-tbe otllen ae llbb from l'tU llkuU., or from
aRa from 11atare, Ill tile collectiDD ol tile l'llniDololkal Soc:lety.
Tbe wbole llpno w.-e IDtalcled to be drawn to a ecale ; but the encrave hu lll!&lected
timID tbe- ol!'-baYing a black pouDd. The outi!Da, boweYel', acewatdy ahlblt the
fWMI, whk:b ue ~ u tbey n11t ID the orlpllll, without fONiborteliDg.
t Thll &pre- copied bJ tbe encranr, bJ mlltake, from an old plate, put Into 1111
baDole a.ely;.to abew tbe ID&IIIIer ID which the braiD wu to be ~ted. The mlllute detaU.
are aot perlectly corr~ and the.
llawe 11 too IGag; but It esblblta the geDGraJ appe~n~~C~e or
the putawlth IUtlldeDt ~ner for the purpoee metloaed on p. 70.
Digitized by Coogle
• ERRATA.'
PIP !M, 11De 18, ftW the orpn beiDc much larJIII' ID the fOI'IIIer lhiD ID tile latta' r""'
the orpn belag much larJIII' La tbe latt« than ID the formar.
311, 4, f.w MJI """' •Y
380, o, ftw requn riiGd require
•n. u, .uz. that
34, ftW ID thll rapect, that Pope &e. """' 1D thll rapect. Pope 6:c:.
DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER.
The Plate of the Phrenological Bust faces the Title-Page.
The Plate, representing Ideality in CHAUCER, &c., faces p. 330.
oigitizedbyGoo le
-----..
A
SYSTEM
OF
PHRENOLOGY.
INTRODUCTION.
PHRENOLOGY, derived from q>C"' mind, and~")~ disoourse,
professes to be a system of Philosophy ofthe Human Miudf
and, as such, it ought to throw light on the primitive pow·
ere of feeling which incite us to.action, and the capacities
of thinking that guide our exertions till we have attained
the object of our desires. It was first presented to public
consideration ou the Continent of Europe in 1'796, and in
Britain in the year 1814. It bas met with strenuous su~
port from some individqals, and determined opposition from
others, while the great~y of the public remain uninstruct.
ed in its merits. On this account, it may be useful to
present, in an introductory form, Iat, A short notice of the
reception which other discoveries have met with on their
first announcement ; 2dly, A brief outline of the principles
involved in Phrenology ; Sdly, An inquiry into the pr&·
aumptiona for and against these principles, founded on the
Jmown phenomena of human nature; and, 4thly, A histo.
rieal sketch of their discovery.
I shall follow this course, not with a view of convincing
the reader that Phrenology is true, because nothing short of
patient study and enenaive pereonal observation can pr~
A
.·
Digitized by Coogle
2 OPPOSITION TO DISCOVERIES.
duce this conviction, but for the purpose of presenting him
with motives \o prosecute the investigation for his own sa-
U&faction.
181, Then, one great obstacle to the reception of a diecov-
ery is the difficulty which men experience of at once part-
ing with old notions which have been instilled into their
minds from infancy, and become the stock of their under-
artandings. Pbreno~Ggy bas encountered this impediment,
but not in a greater degree than other diseoveries which
have preceded it. Mr LocKE, in speakbig of the common
reception of new truths, says, "Who ever, by the most co-
gent arguments, will be prevailed upon to disrobe himself
at once of all his old opinions and preteuions to knowledge
and learning, which, with bard study, he bath all his life-
time been labouring for, aad turn himself out starll naked
in quest of fresh notions ? All the arguments that can be
r used, will be as little able \o prevail as the wind did with
I
the traveller to part with his cloak, wbieh be held only the
faster/' (Book iv. e. 20. § ll.)
Professor PLAYFAIR, in his historical notice of diecove-
ries in physical ecience, published in the Supplement to the
Eneyelopa!dia Britannica, observes, that " in every soeiety
there are some who think themselves interested to maintain
things in the condition wherein they have foUJld them.
The considerations are indeed sufficiently obvious, which,
in the moral and political world, tend to produce this efFect,
and to give a stability to human institutions often so little
proportionate to their real value, er to their general utility.
Even in- matters purely in\ellectual, and in which the ab-
stract trutb111 of arithmetic and geometry seem alone con-
cerned, the prejudices, the selfishness, or the vanity of those
who pursue them, not unfrequently combine to resist im-
provement, and often engage no inconsiderable degree of ta-
lent in drawing back, instead of pushing forward, the ma-
chine of science. The introduetioo of methods e»tirely
aew, muat often change the relative place of the men en-
gaged in scientific pursuiU:, and must oblige many, after
Digitized by Coogle
- ...
OPPOSITION TO DISCOVERIES.
descending from the stations they formerly occupied, to
take a lower position in the scale of intellectual improv~
ment. The enmity of such men, if they be not animated
by a spiri' of real candour and the love of truth, is likely to
be directed against methods by which their vanity is morti-
fied, and their importance l888ened."-Diuertation, part ii.
P· 2'1.
Every age has afforded proofs of the justneaa of these
obeervations. " Tlie discipl~ of the various philosophical
schools of Greece inveighed against each othet, and made
reciprocal accusations of impiety and perjury. The people,
in their turn, detested the philosophers, and accused those
who investigated the causes of tbings, of presumptuously in-
vading the rights of the Divinity. PYTHAGORAS was driven
from Athens on account of his novel opinions ; and for the
same reason ANAXAGORAS was confined in prison. DEMO-
CRITUS was treated as a fool by the Abderite& for endeavour-
ing to find out the cause of madness by di•tions; and
SocRATES, for having demonstrated the unity 'or God, was
forced to drink the juice of hemlock."-.Dr SPURZHEIM's
PlayBiog. Sgst.
But let us attend in particular to the reception of the
three greatest discoveries that have adorned the annals of
philosophy, and mark the spirit with which they were
hailed.
Mr PLAYFAIR, a;peaking of the treatment of GALILEO,
<Ja)'B: "GALILEO was twice brought before the Inquisition.
The first time, a council of seven cardinals pronounced a
aen~ce which, for the sake of those disposed to believe
that power can subdue truth, ought never to be forgotten ;
viz. That to maintain the sun to be immoveable, and with-
out local motion, in the centre of the world, is an absurd
proposition, false in philosophy, heretical in religion, and
contrary to the testimony of Scripture ; and it is equally
absurd and false in philosophy to assert, that the earth is
not immoveable in the centre of the world, and, considered
theologically, equally erroneous and heretical."
A2
- __
__,.._ Digitized by Coogle
OPPOSITION TO DISCOVERIES.
Mr HuME, 'be historian, mentions the fact that HARVEY
was treated with great contumely on account of his diScove-
ry of the circulation of the blood, and in consequence lost
bis practice. An eloquent writer, in the 94th Number of the
Edinburgh Review, when advertingtothetreatment of HAR-
VEY, observes, that " the discoverer of the circulation of the
blood-a discovery which, if measured by ita consequences
on physiology and medicine, was the greatest ever made
since physie was cultivated-suffers no diminution of his
reputatioD in our day, from the incredulity with which his
doctrine was received by some, the effrontery with which
it was claimed by others, or tbe knavery with which it was
attributed to former physiologists, by those wbo could not
deny and would not praise it. The very names of these
envious and dishonest enemies of HARVEY are fKlarcely re-
membered; and 'he honour of this great discovery now
rests, beyond all dispute, with the great philosopher who
made it." This shews that IIARVEY, in hi&day, was treated
exactly as Dr GALL bas been in ours; and if Phrenology
be true, these, or similar terms, may one day be applied by
posterity to bim and his present opponents.
Agai~h Professor Pl.AYFAIR, speaking of the discovery of
the composition of light by Sir IsAAC NEwToN, says,
"Though the discovery now communicated had every thing
to recommend it wbich can arise from what is great, new,
and singular ; though it was not a theory or system of opi-
nions, but the generalization of facta made known by ex-
periments, and though it was brought forward in a most
aimple and unpretending form, a host of enemies appeared,
each eager to obtain the unfortunate pre-eminence of being
the first to attack conclusions which the unanimous voice
of posterity was to confirm." (P. 56.) "Among them,
one of the first was Father PARDIES, who wrote against the
experiments, and what he was pleased to call the Hypo- ·
thesis of NEWTON. A satisfactory and calm reply convin-
ced him of his mistake, which he had the candour very
readily to acknowledge. A countryman of his, MA.aroTTE,
o;9; ized by Goo le
OPPOSITION TO DISCOVERIES. 5
'Was more difficult te be reconciled, and though very con-
versant with experiment, appears never to have succeeded
in repeating the experiments of NEWTON."
Here, then, we see that peraecution, condemnation, and
ridicule, awaited GALILEo, HARVEY, and NEWTON, for an-
nonncing three great physical discoveries. In memal phi-
losophy, the conduct of mankind bas been similar.
ARISTOTLE and DEs CARTES " may be quoted as ex-
amples of the good and bad fortune of new doctrines. The
ancient antagonists of ARISTOTLE caused his books to be
burned. Afterwards, these books were received with a ve-
neration eqtial to that due to inspiration it8elf; and even
so late as the time of FRANCIS I., the writings of RAMUS
against ARISTOTLE were publicly burned, his adversaries
were declared heretics, and, under pain of being sent to the
galleys, philoeophen were prohibited from combating his
-opinions. At the present time the philosophy of ARISTo-
TLE is no longer spoken of. Again, DEs CARTES was per-
aecuted for teaching the doctrine of innate ideas ; he was
1100uaed of Atheism, thoqh he had written on the existence
i)f God; and his books were burnt by order of the Univer-
sity of Paris. A short time after, the same University
1Uiopted the doctrine of DEs CARTES in favour of innate
ideas; and when LocKE and CoNDILLAC attacked it, there
was a general cry of materialism and fatalism. Thus, the }
aame opinions were considered at one time as dangerous be-
cause they were new, and at another as useful becalUie they
were ancient. What is to be inferred from this, but that
man deserves pity; that the opinions of contemporaries, in
respect to the truth or falsehood; and the good or bad con- ~
aequencee of a new doctrine, are altogether suspicious; and •
t.hat the only object of an author ought to be that of point- :
ing out the truth ?"-Dr SPURZHEIM's PAysiog. Syst. '
P· 488.
To these extracts many more might be added of a simi-
·lar ·nature; but enough has been said to demonstrate, that,
-by the ordinary practice of mankind, great discoveries are
Digitized by Coogle
6 OPPOSITION TO DISCOVERIEI.
treated with hostility by the generation to whom they are
addreesed.
If, therefore, Phrenology be a discovery at all, and espe-
cially if it be also important, it must of necessity come in-
to collision, on the most weighty topics, with the opinions
of men hitherto venerated as authorities in physiology and
the philosophy of mind ; and, according to the custom of
the world, nothing except opposition, ridicule, and abuse,
could be expected on its fint announcement. If we are to
profit, however, by the leesons of history, we ought, after
surveying these mortifyingexamples ofhuman weakness and
wickednees, todismiss from ourmindseveryprejudiceagainst
our present subject, founded on its hostile reception by men
of established reputation of the present day. He who does
not perceive that if Phrenology shall prove to be true, pos-
terity will view the contumelies heaped by the philosophers
of this generation on its founders as aqother dark speck in
the history of scientific discovery, and he who does not
feel aru:ious to avoid all participation in this ungenerous
treatment, has reaped no moral improvement from the re-
cords of intolerance which we have now contemplated : but
every enlightened individual will say, Let us dismiss preju-
dice, and ~mly listen tQ ~vidence and reason ; let us not
encounter even the chance of adding our names to the me-
lancholy list of the enemies of mankind, by refusing, on
the strength of mere prejudice, to be instructed in the new
~octrines when submitted to our consideration ; let us en-
quire, examine, and decide.
These, I trust, are the sentiments of the reader ; and on
the faith of their being so, I shall proceed, in the second
place, to state very briefly tl1e principles of Phrenology it-
self.
It is a notion inculcated, often indirectly no doubt, but
pot less strongly, by highly venerated teachers of intellec-
tual philosophy, that we are acquainted with Mindand with
Body, as two distinct and separate entities. The anatomist •
treats of the body, and the logician and moral philosopher of
Digitized by Coogle
THE BRAIN THE ORGAN OF THE MIND. 7
the mind, 88 if they were aepa.-ate subject& of inveetigation,
either not at all, or only in a remote and unimportant de-
gree eonnected. in .oommon society, too, men ~peak of the
dispositions and facultiea of the mind, without it& occ~
to them that tbtty are in clo.ee connexion with the body.
But the Human Mind, 88 it exist& in this world, cannot,
by iiMlf, become an object of philosophical investigation.
Plaeecl in a ma&erial world, it cannot act or be acted upon,
but through the medium of an organic apparatus. The soul
sparkling in the eye of beaot.f does not transmit it& BWeet
inftuence to a kindred spirit, but through the filament& of
an optic nene; and even the bunt& ef eloquence which ftow
from the lips of the impasaiened orator, when mind appears
to W8D8fuae itself almost directly into mind, emanate &om,
and are transmitted to, corpor.I beings, through a volumi-
nona apparatus of org&DL If we trace the mind's progress
frona.the cradle to the grave, everyappearance which it pre-
4!1e11t& .reminds us of this important truth. In earliest life '
the mental po.w.era are feeble 88 the body, but when man-
hoodeomea, they glow with energy, and expand with power;
till, at last, the chill of age makes the limbe totter, and the .
laney's fire decay.
Nay, not onlytbe great stages of our infancy, vigour, and
decline, bot the experience of every hour, remind us of our
allimJce with the dutt. The lowering clouds and stormy
akydepreu the spirit& and enenetbe mind;-after abort and
lltatedintervala oftoil, ourwearied faculties demand repose in
aleep; famine or ~ is capable of levelling the proudest
eaergie8 in the ear1h; and even the fine&t portion of our
eomponnd being, the Mind itself, apparently becomes dis-
eued, and, leaving Nature's course, flies to self-destruction
to escape from pain.
Tbeee phenomena must be referred to the organs with
whieh, in this life, the mind is connected; but if the organa
uen eo great an el'ect over the mental manifestations, no
aya&em of philosophy is entitled to consideration, which
would neglect their inftuence, and treat the thinking prin-
Digitized by Coogle
•
8 THE BRAIN THE ORGAN OF THE MIND.
ciple 88 a disembodied spirit. The phrenologist, therefore,
regards man 88 be exists in this sublunarr world ; and de-
sires to investigate the laws which reguiate the connexion
betwixt theorgans and the mind, but without attempting to
discover the essence of either, or the manner in which they
are united.
It may be demonstrated, therefore, that the popular no-
tions are founded on an illusion, that, in point of fact, we
do not in this life know mind 88 one entity, and body as
another; but that weare acquainted only with the compound
existence of mind and body, which act constantly together;
and are so intimately connected that everystate of the mind
involves a corresponding state of certain corporeal organs,
and every state of these organs involves a certain condition
of the mind. A few remarks will suffice to place this doc-
trine in its proper light.
lat, We are not conacious of the existence amd functions
of the organs by which the mind operates in this life, and,
in consequence, many acts appear to us to be purely men-
tal, which experiment and observation prove iDcontestibly
to depend on c<trporeal organs. For example, in stretching
out or withdrawing the arm, we are conscious enly of an
act ef the wiD, and of the consequent mevement ofthe arm,
but have no consciousness of the apparatus by means of
which the volition is carried into execution. Experiment
and observation, however, demom~trate the existence of
bones of the arms curiously articulated and adapted to mo-
tion, of muscles endowed with powers of contraction, and
attached with infinite skill to the bones so 88 to put them
1n motion with the least efFort, and in the most beneficial
manner; and, lastly, three sets of nervous fibres all run-
ning in one sheath, namely, one which communicates feel..
ing, a second which transmits motion, and a third which
communicates to the mind information of the state of the
muscles when acted on by the other two; and all these or-
gaos must combine and act harmoniously before the arm
t:an be moved by the will on any one occa'Bion. All that a
Digitized by Coogle
THE BRAIN THE ORGAN OF THE MIND. 9
penon uninstruc~ in anatomy knows is, that he wills the
motion, and that it takes plac_, ; the whole act appears to
him to be purely mental, and only the thing moved, nam~
ly, the arm, is conceived to be corporeal. Nevertheless, it
is positively established by anatomical and physiological in-
vestigation, that this concJusion is erroneous-that the act is
not purely mental, but is accomplished by the instrumen-
tality of the various OrganS now enumera~. In like man-
net:, every act of vision is connected with a certain state of
the optic nerve, and every act of heAring, with a certain
·state of the tympanum, and other parts of the auditory ap-
paratus, of the existence and functions of which we are al-
together uninformed by consciousness.
Now, I go one step farther in the same path, and state,
that every act of the will, every flight of imagination, every
glow of afFection, and every efFort of the understanding in
this life, is performed by means of an apparatus of organs
unknown to us through consciousness, but which are capa-
ble of demonstration by experiment and observation ; in
other words, the braiQ is the organ of the mind. The
greatest anatomists admit this proposition without hesita-
tion. The celebra~ Dr CuLLEN of Edinburgh states, that
" the part of our body more immediately connec~ with
the mind, and therefore more eapeeially concerned in every
afFection of the intellectual functions, is the common origin
of the nerves ; which I shall, in what follows, speak of un-
der the appellation ofthe Brain." Again, the same author
says, " We cannot dnuht that the operations of our intellect
altoag• depend upon certain motions taking place in the
brain." The late Dr GREGORY, when speaking of memory,
imagination, and judgment, observes, that "Althoagh at
first sight these faculties appear to be so purely mental as
to have no connexion with the body, yet certain diseases
which obetructthem prove, that a certain state of the brain
is neceaaary to their proper exercise, and that the brain is
the primary organ of the internal powers." The great
physiologist of Germany, BLUMENDACH, says, "That the
Digitized by Coogle
10 THE BRAIN THE ORGAN 01-' THE MIND.
mind ia cleeely connected with the brain, ia demonstrated
by our consciouaness, and by the mental disturbances which
eoaue upon Ul'ections of the brain." {ELLIOTSON's transla-
tion, 4th edit. vol. i. p. 196.) MA.GENDIE, a celebrated
F•enoh physiologist, says, " The brain is the material in-
stnunent of thought. This is proved by a multitude of ex-
periments and facts."
Dr NEIL ARNOTT, in his recent work on Natllr&l Philo-
sophy, writes thus : " The laws of mind which man can dis-
cover by reaaon, are .not laws of independent mind, but of
mind in connexion with body, and inftuenced by the bodily
condition. It bas been believed by many, that the nature of
mind separate from body, is to be at once aU-knowing and
in&elligent. But mind connected with body, can only ac-
quire knowledge slowly, through the bodily organs of sense,
and more or leas perfectly, according as these organs and
the central brain are perfect. A human being bom blind
and deaf, and therefore remaining dumb, as in the noted
ease of the boy MITCHELL, grows up closely to resemble
an automaton ; and an originally JDis-ehapen .or deficient
bq.io, caU&eS idiocy for life. Childhood, maturity, dotage,
which have such differences of bodily ,Owers, have corres-
ponding dift'erenees of ID8ntal faculty : and as no two
bodies, eo no two minds, in their external manifestation,
are quite ali'e. Fever, or a blow on the head, will change
the moet. gifted individual into a maniac, causing the lips
of virgin innocence to utter the most revolting obscenity,
and those of pure religion, to speak the most horrible blas-
phemy : .aad ~M&t oases of madness and eccentricity can
now be traced to a peculiar state of the brain." (lntrodu~
tion, p. uili.) Let it be observed that these authors are
nowise incliaed to.support Phrenology.
The fact tU.t ~ 10ental .phenA)mena· of which we are
~ieus are the r.-ult of mind and brain acting together,
ia farther. eatahliahed by the ~ts of swooning, of compres-
&ion of the brain, and of sleep. In profound aleep, con-
eciou•ess is entir~ly auapended : this fact is explicable on
the principle of the organ of the mind being then in a state
Digitized by Coogle
THE BR:AIN THE ORGAN OF THE .PtHND, 11
of repose ;· but ahogelher inconsistent with the idea of the
immaterial principle, or the mind iteelf, being capable of
acting independently of the brain ; for if this were the cue,
thinking ehould never be interrupted by apy material oauae.
In a swoon, blood is rapidly withdrawn from the brain,
aad conBCioumeas is for the moment oblit.erated ; again,
where part of ihe brain baa been laid bare by an injury in-
fticied on the skull, it has been found tbat coneciooaneiB
could be suspended at the pleuure of the surgeon, by mere-
ly pre18ing on the brain with his fingers, and ibat it could
be restored by withdrawiDg the pr888ure.
A valuable authority on this point is furnished by the
Edinburgh Review. The author ofthe article on the ner-
voo& sya\emin ihe 94oth Number ofthat work, aya, ".Almoat
from the tint eaaual inspection of animal bodies, the brain
W&B regarded aa an organ of primary dignity, and more
particularly in the human .subject-the aeat of thought and
feeliug, the centre of allaen~ation, the me&ll8Jlger of intel-
leei, the presiding organ of the bodily frame." " All thw
superiority (of man over the brutes), all these faculties
which elevate and dignify him, ·this reasoning power, this
moral 88D1J8, these capacities of happine&B, these high as-
piring hopes, arefelt, and erfMJed, and marai.futed, by meana
of his auperior nervous ayatem. Ita injury weakens, ita
imperfectionlimita,.its deatruction (humanly speak:i.og) ends
them."
In addition to theBe authoritiea, I may remark, that con-
seioome&~~ or feeliag localizes the mind in t~e head, and gives
u a full conviction that it is 1ituated there ; but it does not
reveal what subetance is in the interjor of the skull. Itdoea
not tell whether the mind eecupies an airy dome ; a richly
furnished mansion; one apariment, or many ; or in what
Rate or condition it resides in ita ·appointed place. It is
only on openiug the·head that we discover the skull to con-
tain brain ; ·and then, by an act of the underatanding, we
inter tllat the mind mtlst have been connected with it in ita
operatiena.
I
Digitized by Google
12 THE BRAIN THE ORGAN OF THE MIND.
It is worthy of observation also, that the popular notions
of the independence of the mind on the body are modem,
and the offspring of philosophical theories that have sprung
up chiefly since the days of LocKE. In SHAK.SPEARE, and
our older writers, the brain is frequently used as implying
the mental functions ; and, even in the present day, the lan-
guage of the vulgar, which is less affected by philosophical
theories than that of polite scholars, is more in accordance
with nature. " A stupid person is vulgarly called a numb-
skull, a thick-head, or IMlid to be addle-paled; badly fur-
nished in the upper-storey ; while a clever person is said
to be strong-headed, to have plenty of brains ; a madman
is called wrong in the head, touched in the noddle, &c.
When a catarrh chiefly affects the head, we complain of
stupidity, because we have such a cold in the bead," &c.
(ELLIOTSON'S Btumenbach, 4th edit. P· 66).
The principle which I have so much insisted on, that we
are not conscious of the existence and functions of the or-
gans by which the mind acts, explains the source ofthe meta-
physical notion which has afFected modem language, that
we know the mind 88 an entity by itself. The acts which
really result from the combined action of the mind and its
organs, appear, previous to anatomical and pathological in-
vestigation, to be produced by the mind exclusively ; and
hence have arisen the neglect and contempt with which the
organs have been treated, and the ridicule CBSt upon those
who have endeavoured to speak of them 88 important to
the philosophy of mind. After the explanations now given,
the reader will appreciate the real value of the following
statement by Mr JEFFaEY, in his celebrated review of the
System of Phrenology. His words are, " The truth is, we
do not scruple to say it, that there is not the smallest rea-
son for supposing that the mind ever operates through the
agency of any material organs, except in its perception of
material objects, or in its spontaneous movements of the
body which it inhabits." And, " There is not the least
r8880D to suppose that any of our faculties, but those whiclt
Digitized by Google
THE BRAIN THE ORGAN OF THE MIND. 18
connect us with external objects, or direct the movements
of our bodies, act by material organs at all;" that is to say,
that feeling, fancy, and reftection, are acts so purely men-
tal, that they have no connexion with organization.
Long before Mr JEFFREY penned these sentences, how-
ever, Dr THOMAS BaowN had written, even in the Edin-
burgh Review, that "Memory, imagination, and judgment,
may be all aet to sleep by a few grains of· a very common
and simple drug;" and Dr CuLLEN, BLU.MENBACH, Dr
GREGORY, MAGENDIE, and, in short, all physiological au-
thors, had published positive statements that the mental
faeulties are connected with the brain.
What, then, does the proposition that the brain is the or-
gan of the mind imply ? Let us take the case of the eye as
somewhat analogous. If the eye be the organ of vision, it
will be conceded, first, That ttight cannot be enjoyed with-
out ita instrumentality; secondly, That every act of vision
must be accompanied by a corresponding state of the organ ;
and, vice verMJ, that every change of condition in the organ
must inftuence sight; and, thirdly, That the perfection of
vision will be in relation to the perfection of the organ. In
like manner, if the brain be the organ of the mind, it will
follow that the mind does not act in this life independently
of its organ; and hence, that every emotion and judgment
of which we are conscio~are the result of mind and its or-
gan acting together. Secondly, That every mental afFec-
tion must be accompanied with a corresponding state ofthe
organ; and, vice versa, every state of the·organ must be at-
tended by a certain condition of the mind. And, thirdly,
That the perfection of the manifestations of the mind will
bear a relation to the perfection of its organ, just as perfec-
tion of vision bears a relation to the perfection of the eye.
Tbe.e propositions appear to be incontrovertible; and to
follow as neceeeary consequences, from the simple fact that
the mind acts by means of organization. But if they be
well-foanded, how important a study does that of the organ
of the mind become ! It is the study of mind itself, in the
Digitized by Coogle
14 PI.tJRALITY Qlo' FACUI.'~lES AND ORGANS
only condition in whieh h is known to ua. And the very
fact that in put ages, mind has been studied without refer-
ence to organization, accoonta for the melancholy troth, that
up to the pl'eii8Dt day no philosophy of mind suited to prac-
tical porpoaei eXist&
Holding it then as established by the evidence of the
most esteemed phy.iologista, and aleo by observation, that
the brain is the organ of the mind, and that the state of the
brain inftuenees ita state, the next qoestion which presents
itself is, Whether the mind in every act employs the wllok
brain as one organ, or whether separate faculties of the
mind are connected with distinct portions of the brain as
their respective organs? The following considerations may
enable os to aolve tbia question :
lat, In all aaeertained instanctm, different functions are
never performed by thea ame organ, bot, the reverse : each
fonction has an organ for itself: thus, the stomach digests
food, the liver secretes bile, the heart propels the blood, the
eyes see, the Mr8 hear, the tongoe tastes, and the nose
smells. Nay, on anaJysing these examples, it is found that
wherever the function is compound, each element of it is
performed by means of a distinct organ ; thus, to accom-
plish taste there is one nerve, whose office is to move the
tongue, another nerve whose duty it is to communicate the
ordinary sense of feeling to the ~gue, and a third nerve
which conveys the sensations of taste. A similar combina-
tion of nerves takes place in the hands, arms, and other
partsof the body, which are the organs of feeling; namely,
one nerve gives motion, another feeling, and a third con-
veya to the mind a knowledge of the state of the organ ;
and, except in the ease of the tongue, all theAe nerves are
blended in one common sheath.
In the economy of the human frame, there is no ascer•
tained example of one nerve performing t:wo functions, such
as feeling and communicating motion, or seeing and llear-
ing, or tasting and smelling. In 'the case of the brain,
therefore, analogy would lead us to expect, that if reason-
oigit,zed by Coogle
PLURALITY OF FACULTIES AND ORGANS. 1&
•
ing be art aet different from loving or bating, tbere will he
one organ for reasoning, another for lo'riag, and.a tbird for
bating.
2dly, • It is an indiaputed truth, thet tbe ~ ;mental
powen of ID6D appear in suecewrion, aud, • a genuali'Uiet
tbat the reftectjng or reasoning faeulties are thoee wlaiclt
arrive latest at perfection. In the child, the powen el o~
eerving the exis~ce and qualitiesof external olJjeotaarrive
much sooner at their matmity·tban the reuonillg facultM&.
Daily observation shows that the brain andergoee a een'et'-
ponding change ; wbereu we htWe no evidence that the
~material principle varies iD its powers frem Jeer to yew.
If the brain, 88 a whole, is the organ of the mind, this snc-
ceaaive development of facultiee is utterly at variance with
what we should expeet a priqri; becauee, if the general or-
gan is fitted for manifesting with success one mental f'aeul-
ty, it ought to be equally so for the operation of all, which
we see is not the case. Observation, indeed, shows that dif-
ferent parta of the brain are really developed at cillrereut
periods of life. In infancy, according to CHAUSSIER, lhe
cerebellum forms one-fitteenth of' the encephalic ID888 j and
in adult age, from one-sixth to one-eighth, iw size being
thus in strict accordance with the energy of the propensity
of' which it is the organ. In childhood, the middle put of
the foreLead generally predominates ; in later lit'e, the up-
per lateral parts become more prominent, which facts al.o
are in strict accordance with the period8 o( uafoWihg of
the knowing and reasoning powen.
Sdly, Geniusis almost always partial, whieh k ought no&
to be, if the organ of the mind were single. A genius for
poetry, for mechanic., for drawing, for mosic, or for mMM•
matica, sometimes appears at a very early age in illdin.
duals, who, in regard to all other punuita, are mere ordi-
• The fuUowing ilutances ID'e taken from Dr ANDaEw Co11BB'e Obser.
vatioDI on Dr B.dcL.t.Y's Objections to Phrenology, publiehed in the
Tramactione of the Phrenological Society, page 413.
Digitized by Coogle
16 PLURALITY OF FACUI.TIES AND ORGANS.
nary men, ~d who, with every eft'ort, can never attain to
any thing above mediocrity.
4tlalg, The phenomena of dreaming are at variance with
the supposition of the mind manifesting all its faculties by
means of a single organ, while they are quite consistent
with, and explicable by, that of a plurality of organs. In
dreaming, the mind experiences numerous vivid emotions,
such as those of fear, joy, afFection, arising, succeeding one
another, and departing without control from the intellectual
powers ;~r, it is filled with a thousand varied;::oneeptions,
sometimes connected and rational, but more fr~uently dis-
jointed and absurd, and all difFering widely from the wak-
ing operations of the mind, in wanting harmony, consist-
ency, and sense. These phenomena harmonize remarkably
with the notion of a variety of faculties and organs, some of
which, being active, would commtmieate these ideas and
feelings which constitute a dream, while others remaining
asleep wo~d, by their inactivity, permit that disordered ac-
tion which characterizes the pictures formed by the fancy
4~sleep.
Were the organ of mind single, it is clear that all the fa-
culties should be asleep or awake to the same extent at the
same time; or, in other words, that no such thing as dream-
ing could take place.
5t/Jg, The admitted phenomena ofPartial Idiocy and Par-
tial Insanity, are so plainly and strongly in contradiction
with the notion of a single organ of mind, that PINEL him-
self, no friend to Phrenology, asks if their phenomena can
be reeonciled to such a conception.
Partial Idiocy is that state in which an individual mani-
fests one or several powers of the mind with an ordinary
degree of energy, while be is deprived to a greater or less
extent of the power of manifesting all the others. PINEL,
HASLAM, Rusu, EsQUIROL, and, in short, every writer on
insanity, speaks of the partial development of certain men-
tal powers in idiots ; and Rusu in particular not only al-
ludes to the powers of intellect, but also to the partial pos-
s
Digitized by Coogle
PLURALITY OF .FACULTIES AND ORGANS. 17
lle88ion of the moral faculties. Somt\ idiots, he observes,
are as remarkable for correct moral feelings aa some great
geniuses are for the reverse. In his Traite du Goitre et de
Ia Cretinisme, FonEaE' thus speaks, p. ISS:-" It is re-
marked, that, by an inezpli.colJk 8ingtllarity, some of these
individuals (cretins), endowed with so weak minds, are
born with a. particular talent for copying paintings, for
rhyming, or for music. I have known several who taught
themselves to play )l88R&bly on the organ and harpsichord;
others who understood, without ever having laad a masier,
the repairing of watches, and the construction of some
pieces of mechanism." He adds, that these powers could
not be attributed to the intellect, " for these individuals
not only could not read books which treated of the princi-
ples of mechanics, but il8 etaieltt derouta lorMJflun m parlait
et ne ~ perfectionnaientjaTTUJis." It must be observed also,
that these unfortunate individuals differ very much in the
lti1Ul as well as quantity of mental power possessed. For
example, an instance is given by PINEL of an idiot girl who
manifested a most wonderful propensity to imitate whatever
she heard or saw, but who displayed no other intellectual
faculty in a perceptible degree, and never attached an idea
to the sound she uttered. Dr RusH particularizes one man
who was remarkable for his religious feelings, although ex-
ceedingly deficient in intellectual power, and other moral
aentimenta ; and, among the cretins, many are to be found
who aearceJy manifest any other faculty of the mind except
that of Amativenesa. One is all kindness and good nature,
another quarrelsome and mischievous. One has a lively
perception of harmony in music, while another 1aas none.
It ought also to be observed, that the characteristic fea-
tllft8 of each particular case are strictly permanent. The
idiot, who to-day manifests the faculty of Tune, th~ feeling
of Benevolence, of Veneration, or of Self-esteem, will not
~morrow, nor in a year, change the nature of his predomi-
DUlt manif.tiona. Were the deficiency of the single or-
gao the ccnue of idiocy, these phenomena ought fUJI to ap-
B
Digitized by Coogle
18 PLURALITY OF FACULTIES AND ORGANS.
pear; for the general organ being able to manifest one fa-
culty, ought, according to the circumstances in which the
individual is placed, to be equally able to manifest all others,
whose activity may be required, and thus the character of
the idiocy ought to change with every passing event, which
it never does. FoDERE' calls these " inexplicable singula-
rities," and, no doubt, on his theory they truly are so. To
the Phrenologist, however, they offer no difficulty, for they
are in perfect harmony with kis views. The dift"erenee in
the ltind of powen manifested in cases of partial idiocy, be-
tween the capacity for mechanics, for instance, and the
sentiment of Veneration, Self-esteem, or Benevolence, is as
great as between the sensations excited by the perception
of a sound, a taste, or a smell. To infer, therefore, that
one organ serves for the manifestation of all these faculties,
is really much the aame in point of logic as if we were to
1111ppose all the external senses to communicate with the
mind through the medium of only one nerve, in spite of the
facta of many individuals being blind who are not deaf, or
deaf and still able to see and smell.
Partial insanity, or that state in which one or more fa-
culties of the mind are diseased, without affecting the in-
tegrity of the remainder, is known by the name of Mono-
mania, and appears equally with the Cermet' to exclude the
possibility of one organ executing the functions of all the
mental faculties; for the argument COBBtantly recurs, that
if the organ be sufticiently sound to manifest one faculty in
its perfect state, it wght to be equally capable of manifest-
ing all,-which, however, is lmown to be in direct opposi-
tion to fact. On this subject, I shall confine myself to the
etatement of a very few instances, merely in illustration.
Offolie raisouante PINEL thus speaks:-" H98pitals for
the insane are never without some example of mania mark-
ed by acts of e:.travagance, or even of fury, with a kind of
judgment preaerv~ in all its integrity, if we judge of it by
'be conversation ; the lunatic gives the most just and pre.
tise answers to the questions of the curious ; no incohe-
Digitized by Coogle
PLURALITY OF FACULTIES .AND OROANt::. J!J
renee of ideas is discernible ; he reads and wri• letters u
if his understanding were perfectly sound ; and yet, by a
singular contrast, be tears in pieces his clothes and bed-
covel'll, and always'find& some plausible reason to justify his
wandering and his fury. This sort of mania is so.fu from
rare, that the vulgar name of folU raiaorw.mte baa heeD
given to it."-P. 98. Another equally interesting ~
from the same author may be cited. " It is diitieult to
eoneeh·e," saya he, " the nature of one species of alienation
of mind. It consists, as it were, of a combination of rea-
son and extravagance, of discernment and actual delirium,
which appear so inconsistent as reciprocally to exclude
each other.'• " One Iunati<'.," he continues, "whose ma-
lady is of seven years• standing, is perfectly aware of· his
state, and fol'll18 as sound a judgment of it as if it were a
thing which did not immediately concern himself. He tries
~ make efforts to free himself from it; but, on the other
hand, he is convinced that it is incurable. If any onere·
mar~ the incoherence in his ideas in his .talkingt he read-
ilyac,lmowledges it, but answel'll, that this incliMtion OYer-
powers him so mueh, that he cannot but submit. He adds,
that he does not guarantee the soundn888 of the judgmenta
which he foi'JDB, but that it is not in his power to rectify
them. He believes, for ex3Dlple, that if he wiped his ~ose,
that organ would remain in his handkerchief; that if he
ehaved bimselt he must of necessity cut his throat, and
that, at the fim attempt to walk, his legs would break like
gla& He sometimes subjecte himself to rigorous absti-
qen~ for several days, uader the impression, that if he
took aliments, they would suffocate him. What are we to
think of an aberration of intellect so regular and so singu-
lu?·-r. 94.
It would be easy for me to multiply such instances as
these of the partial affection of the mental faculties, but it
ia needless to occupy time with more, and the above are
amply lltdlieient to ehow the nature and bearitl( of such
eaeee. Hei'Q apin the difficulty reeura of reconciling 11ur.h
2 B2
Digitized by Coogle
20 PJ.URAI.lTY OF FACULTIES AND ORGANS.
facta with the idea of one organ executing all the functions
of the mind. How comes that organ to be able to mani-
fest one, but 1f6t all the faculties ?
6t!Jy, Besides 'he phenomena of idiocy and ineanity,
there is aleo another class of facta (to which, however, I
shall only allude) equally at variance with the supposition
of a single ergan of mind, viz. partial injuries of the brain,
which are Said to have occurred without iujury &e dte men-
tal faculties. I merely observe, that if every part. of the
brain is concerned in every mental act, it appears strange
that all the processes of thought should be manifested with
tqua/8ffCCeu, when a great part of the brain is jnjured or
destroyed, as when ita whole structure is sound and entire.
If the fact were really as here stated, the brain would form
an exception to the general laws of organic structure; for
although a part of the luugt; may be sufficient to maintain
respiration, or a part of the stomach tO execute digestion,
in such a way as to support life, there is no iustance in
which these functions have been as successfully performed
by impaired organsas they would have been by lungs and a
stomach in their natural state of health and activity. The
Phrenologists are reduced to no such strait to reconcile the
occurrence of such cases with 'heir system ; for R8 soon as
the principle of a plurality of organs is acknowledged, they
admit of an easy and satisfactory explanation.
From the. preceding considerations, then, it appears
that any theory, founded upon the notion of a single organ,
ia uniformly at variance with all that is ascertained to be
fact in the philosophy of mind : and that, on the other
hand, the principle of a plurality of organs, while it satis-
factorily explains f1108t·of these facts, is consistent with all
of them. Ita truth is thus almO&t demonstrated, not·by ~
fetched or pretended facts, which few can verify, but by
facta which daily " obtrude themselves upon the notice of
the senses." This principle, indeed, bears on the face of it
ao much greater a degree of probability than the opposite
one,.as to have long since forced itself on the minds ef
Digitized by Coogle
PLURALITY OF }'ACULTIES A~D ORGANS. 21
many inquirers. FoDERE' himself a very zealous opponent
of Phrenology, after recapitulating a great many reuons
aimilar to those already mentioned, which had been em-
ployed by philoeophenantecedent to Dn GALL and SPuaz-
HEIM, for believing in a plurality of mental organa, is con-
strained to admit, that " this kind of reuoning has been
employed by the greater number of anatomists, who, from
the time of GALEN, down to those of our own day, and
even by the great HALLER, who experienced .a necessity
for asaigning a function to each department of tbe brain.
PINEL al&o (in the article Manie in the Eneyclopedie Me-
thodique).after relating some cases of partial insanity, asks,
whether all this collection of facts can be reconciled with
the opinion of a lingle faculty and a single organ of tbe
understanding?" Farther, the Edinburgh Reviewer,aJ.o el-
readyreferred to, commends MrCHARLES BELL for "attack-
ing the common opinion, that a.011 rate lleD8ation and voli-
tion are conveyed by the same .nervee, and for .81188ftiug
' the dift'erent functions of dift'erent parte of the cerebl'UID
and cerebellum.' "
These considerations early impreeaed reflecting men with
the conviction, that panicular mental powers must be con-
nected with particolar parts of the brain; and accordingly,
before the eighteenth century, when modem metaphysics
sprung up, we find traces of this opinion common, not on-
ly among eminent anatomists ~d physiologists, but among
authora on human nature in general. BuRTON, in his Ana-
tomy of Melancholy, says, " Inner &ell8e8 are three in num-
ber, eo calleel, because th~y be within the brain-pan, as
eommon eenee,.phantasie, and memory :" of common sense,
" the fore part of·the brain is his organ or seat ;" of phan-
\uie or imagination, which some call ll!stimative or cogita-
tive, his " organ is the middle cell of the brain ;" and of
memory, "his seat and organ, the back part of the brain."
This waa the account of the faculties given by ARISTOTLE,
and repeated, with little variation, ~y the writers of the
middle agee. In the thirteenth century, a head divided iD.·
Digitized by Coogle
22 PLURAL11'Y OF ~'ACULTl~S ANll OllGANS.
w· regi.ona, according to these opinions, was ·designed by
.ALB&RT the Great, bishop of Ratisbon ; and another was
published by PETRus MoNTAGNANA, in 1491. One pub-
Jiahed at Venice, in 1562, by Lunov1co DoLCJ, a Venetian,
in a work upon strengthening and preserving the memory,
ia here repreeented :-
REFERENCES TO FIGURE.
l Fnntasia.
2 Cogitntivn.
S Vennis.
4 Sensus Communis.
5 Imaginn.
6 lEstimntiva.
7 Memorativa.
8 Oltactus.
9 Gustus.
In the British Museum is a chart of the universe and
the elements of all sciences, in which a large head 80 deli-
neated is conspicuous. It was published at Rome 80 late
as 1682 •.
If, then, the majority of anatomists, for the last two thou-
sand years, and such illustrious playsiologists as HALLER,
and the others above referred to, were led to the belief of a
plurality of mental organs, by a perception of the contradic-
tion and inconsistency existing between the phenomena, and
the supposition of the whole brain being the single organ
of mind, I cannot be far wrong in saying, that the lat-
ter notion, 80 far from being self-evident, appears 80 impro·
bable as to require even stronger facts to prove it than the
opposite view ; and that the presumptions are all in favour
of a plurality of mental faculties, manifesting the108elves
by means of a plurality of organs.
I have nowendeavoured to shew, first, That the ridicule
• ELLIOTIOM'! Blumenbach, p. 206.
Digitized by Coogle
'PLURAf~ITY 01-' l 'ACULTIEii AND ORGANS. i3
~d abuse with which Phrenology was treated at its ·first
announ~mttnt, and its continued rejection by men of ee-
tabJW.ed reputation, whose opinions it contradicts, afFord
no preswnption that it is untrue, for all great discoveries
bave met with a similar fate : Seco~&dly, That weare really
unacqU...SO.&ed with the .mind, as au entity distinct from the
body, and that it is owing to the mind not being conscious
of its organs, that metaphysiciaoa have supposed their feel-
ings and intellectual perceptions to be emanations of pure
mind, whereas they are the results of mind and its organa
.aeting in coabination. 1'birdly, That the greatest anato-
mists and physiologists admit the brain to be the organ of
the mind, and CQmmon feeling localizes the mind in the
head, although it does not inform us what substance occu-
pies the interior of the skull : Farther, That the very idea
of the mind having an organ, implies that every mental
act ia accompanied with an afFection of the organ, and
tlice wrsa ; 10 that the true phil080phy of the mind cannot
be discovered without taking the influence of the organs in-
to account at every step. Fou~hly, That the analogy of
the nerves of feeling and motion, of the five senses, and
other pa.rta of the body, all of which perform distinct func-
tions by separate organs ; also the successive appearance of
the faculties in youth ; the.phel)ometut of partial genius, of
dreaming, of partial insanity, of monomania, and of partial
iJUories of the brain, furnish presumptive evidence that the
mind manifests a variety of faculties by means of a variety
of organs, and exclude the supposition of a single power
operating by a single organ. The next inquiry, therefore,
oaiurally is, What efFect does the condition of the organs
produee on the states of the mind? Is it indifFerent whe-
ther the organs be large or small, well or ill constituted, ill
heabh or in ~?
I submit the following facts to prove that in other de-
partments of organised nature, size in an organ, other con-
ditions being equal, is a measure of power in its function,
. , .
Digitized by Coogle
INFLUENCE OF SIZE
and the part on which it is ramified is merely a medium
for puttiDg it in relation with the specific qualities which it
is destiaed to recognize.
To shew the el"ect of size in regard to these nerves, the
following ca&e& may be mentioned, and they are stated on
the ~mtherity of DESMOULINS, a celebrated French physio-
logiat, when no other authority is given. The horse and
ox have much greater museular power, and much lesa in-
ten&ity of -sensation in their Umba than man; and, in con-
formity with the principle now under discussion, the nerves
of motion going to the four Umbs in the hone and ox are
at least one-third more numerous than the nerves of sensa-
tion going to the same parts; whereas in man the nerves of
motion going to the legs and arms are a fifth or a sixth
part .less than the nerves of sensation distributed on the
ame parts. In like manner, in birds and reptiles which
have scaly skins and limited touch, but vigorous powers of
motion, the nerves of sensation are few and small, and the
nerves of motion numerous and large. Farther, wherever
nature has given a higher degree of sensation or touch to
any particUlar part than to the other parts of an animal,
there the nerve of sensation is invariably increased ; for ex-
ample; the single nerv,e of feeling ramified on the tactile
extremity ofthe proboeeis of the elephant exceeds in size the
united volume of all the muscular nerves of that organ.
&me :speciea {ff monkeys possess great se01ibility in .the
tail~ and 110me species of bats possess gr~t sensibility in
their wings, and in these parts the nerves of sensation are
increased in- sia in proportion to th\' increased function.
Birds require to rise in the air, which is a medium much
lighter than their own bodies. To have enlarged the size
oftheir muscles would have added to their weight, and in-
«eaed their difticulty in rising. Nature, to avoid this dis-
:ad~ ' l.s bestowed on them large nerves of motion
-.hioh·infuse a very powerful stimulus into the muscles,
·and increaae their power of motion. Fishes live in water
-which is almost in equilibrium with their bodies. To them
Digitized by Coogle
ON THE POWER OJo" ORGANS. 27
Natnre 11M given large mueoles, in order to inereaee their
locomotive powere, and in them the nerves of motion are
Jess. In tbeee in8tances, nature curiously adds to the pow-
er of motion, by increasing the sise of that part of the ·lee~
motive apparatus which may be enlarged most conveniently
for the aoimal; but either the muscle or the nerve must be
enlarged, otherwise there i& no increase of power.
In regard to the external·senses, it is proper to observe
that every external sense is·eompo&ed, first, Of an instru-
ment or medium on which the impression is made ; the
eye for example ; and, seeondly, A nerve to conduct that
impression to the mind or brain. The same law of size
holds as to them; a large eye will collect more rays of
light ; a htrge 'ear more vibraiions of sound ; and large nos-
trils more Odorous particles than small ones. This i& eo
obvious, that it scarcely requires proof; yet, a& Mr JEFFREY
has ridiculed the idea, I may mention that MoNRO, BLU-
MENBACH, SoEMMER!NG, CUVIER, MAGENDIE, GEORGET,
and a whole hO&t of physiologists, support it. BLUMEN-
BACH, when treating of smell, says, " While animals of the
most acute smell have the nasal organs most extensively
evolved, precisely the same holds in regard to some bar-
barous nations. For instance, in the head of a North Am~
riean Indian (represented in one of his plates), the internal
nostrils are ofan extraordinary size," &e. And again, "The
neareRt to this in point of magnitude, are the interh~ nos-
trils of the Ethiopians, from among whom I have seen heads
very different from eaeh other, but each .poSsessing 0: nasal
organ much larger than that described by SoEMMEIUNG.
These anatomieal observations accord with the accounts
-given by the most respectable travellers, concerning the
wonderful acuteness of smell possessed by tbe&e savages!'
In like manner, Dr MoNRO primus, no mean authority,
in treating, in his Co'Dlp&rative Anatomy, of ·the large or-
gan of smell in the dog, says, "The sensibility fof'smeJI)
8eChD8 to' 'be increased in proportion !to the eur&ce; tmd
this will also be·found ~·take place iri all the other eeilses."
Digitized by Coogle
28 INFLUENCE OF SIZE
The same author states, " that the external ear in dil'erent
quadrupeds is difFerently framed, but always calculated to
the creature's manner of life; thus hares and such other
animals as are daily exposed to insults from beasts of prey,
have large ears directed backwards, their eyes warning
them of danger before."
These observations apply to the external portion of the
organs of sense. The inner parts or nerves are likewise
wbject to the same law of size. GEORGET, a late physio-
logical writer, in treating of the nerves, says, "The vo-
lume of these organs bears a uniform relation, in all the
different animals, to the extent and force of the sensations
and movements over which they preside. Thus, the nerve
of smell in the dog is larger than the five nerves of the ex-
ternal senses in man." The nerve of smell is small in man
and in the monkey tribe; scarcely, if at all, perceptible in
the dolphin; large in the dog and the horse, and altogether
enormous in the whale and the skate, in which it actually
exceeds in diameter the spinal marrow itsel£ In the mole
it is of extraordinary size, while the optic nerve is very
81D8ll. In the eagle the reverse is observed, the optic
nerve being very large, and the olfactory small. Most of
the quadrupeds excel man in the acuteness of their hearing,
and accordingly it is a fact ihat the auditory nerve in the
&beep, the cow, the hone, &c., greatly exceeds the size of
the same nerve in mao. In some birds of prey, which are
known to po88e&8 great seDBibility of taste, the palate is
found to be very copiously s11pplied with nervous fila-
ments.
But the organ of sight affords a moat intereating exam-
ple of the inftuence of size. The oftice of the ey.-ball is
to collect the rays of light. A large eye, therefore, will
take in moN rays of light, or, in other words, command a
greater sphere of vision, than a small one. But to give in-
teosity or power to vision, the optic nerve is also necessary.
Now, the ox placed upon the 8UJ'face of the earth is of a
heavy structure and ill fitted for motion, but he has a larg~
Digitized by Coogle
ON THE POWER OF ORGANS. 29
ey~ball which enables him to take in a large field of vision
wiihout turning ; but as he does not require very keen vision
to see his provender on which he almoat treads, the optic
nerve is not large in proportion to the eyeball. The eagle,
on the other hand, by ascending to a great height in the
air, enjoys a wide field of vision from its mere physical ~
eition. It look& down from a point over an extensive eur-
faee. It hae no need, therefore, of a large eyeball to in-
creaae artificially its field of vision; and, aooordingly, the
ball of its eye is comparatively small, but it requires, from
that height, to discern its prey upon the eurface of the
earth, and not only is the distance great, but its prey often
resembles in ·colour the ground on which it rests. · Great
intenaity of vision, therefore, is necessary to its existence.
Accordingly, in it the optic nerve is increased to an enor-
mous extent. Instead of forming a single membrane lin-
ing only the inner surface of the posterior chamber of the
eye, as in man and animals of ordinary vision, and conse·
qoently only equalling in extent the sphere of the eye to
which it belongs, the retina or nerve of vision in these
quick-aighted birds of prey is found to be composed of a
great number of folds, each hanging loose into the eye, and
augmenting, in an extraordinary degree, not only the ex-
tent of nervous sorface, but the mass of nervous matter,
and .giving rise to that intensity of vision which distin-
guishes the eagle, falcon, hawk;and similar animals. In the
case of all the ·eenaes, then, the law holds, that power of
function is in proportion to size of the organ, other circum-
stances being equal.
Let na now attend to the brain. Were I to a8irm that
clliference of size in the brain would produce no effect on
the vigour of its functions,-or that a small brain in per-
fect health, and of a sound constitution, is equal in func-
tional power and efficiency to a large one in similar condi-
tion, Would the reader, after the evidence which has been
laid before him of the influence of size in increasing the
power of function in all other parts of the body, be dispoa-
Digitized by Coogle
80 INFLUENCE OF SIZE
ed to credit' the assertion ? He would have the utmost
difficulty in believing it, and would say that if such were
the fact, the brain must rorm an exception to a law which
appears general over organized .nature ; and yet the phre-
nologists have been assailed with every species of vitupera-
tion, for maintaining that the brain does not form an ex-
ception to this general law, but that in it also vigonr of
function is in proportion to size, other conditions being
equal. I shall proceed to shew some evidence·in proof of
this fact ; but the reader is requested to observe that I am
here expounding only general principles in an introductory
discourse. The conditions and modifications under which
these principles fall to be applied in practice, will be stated
in a subsequent chapter.
First, The brain ofa child is small, and its mental vigour
weak, compared with the brain and mental vigour of an
adult •. Secondly, Small size in the brain is an invariable
cause of idiocy. Phrenologists have in vain called upon
their opponents to produce a single instance of the mind
being manifested vigorously by a very small brain. De-
ficiency of size, however, in the brain is not the only
cause of idiocy. A brain may be large and diseased, and
mental imbecility arise from the disease; but, although dis-
ease be absent, if the size be very deficient, idiocy will be
invariable. Thirdly, Men who have been remarkable, not
for mere cleverness, but for great force t>f character, such
as NAPOLEON BoNAPARTE, have had large heads. Fourth-
ly, It is an ascertained fact, that nations in whom the brain
is large, possess so great a mental superiority over those in
whom that organ is small, that they conquer and oppress
• It is certified by practical hatters, that the lower cl.uaes of the com.
munity, who are distinguished for muscular vigour much more than men.
tal capacity, require a smaller size of hat than those classes whose occu.
pations are chiefly mental, and in whom vigour of mind surpasses that of
body. But the Phrenologiet does not compare mental power in general
with size of brain in general ; and, besides, the hat dues not indicate the
size of the whole head. The reader will find detail~ on this point in the
4th volume of the Phrenological Journal
Digitized by Google
ON THE POWF.R OF ORGANS. Sl
them at pleasure. The HindoO brain, for eumpl~ is cc..
IJiderably smaJJer than the European, and. it ia well.lmowa
that a few thOWJallds of Europea118 haT• II'Ubdued and keep
in subjection millions of Hindoos. The Native Aaierioan
brain ia smaller also than the European, and .the same re.
suit has been exemplified in that country. Lastly, The in-
fluence of size ia now admitted bY the moat-«Diaant physi-
ologists. MA.GENDI.E says, " the volume ofthe·lmiin ia ge-
nerally in direct proportion to the capacity of the mi.nd.
We ought not to suppose, however, that every man having
a large head ia necessarily a penon of superior intelligence,
for there are many casea of an augmeotauon of the volume
of the head beeide the size of the brain, bot it ia rarely
found that a man distinguished by hia mental facultiee baa
aot a large head. The only way of estimating the volume
of the brain, in a living person, ia to measure the dimen-
lions of the skull ; ffVery other means, even that propoeed
by CAMPER, ia uneertaiD."-(Compeodium of Physiology,.
p. 104. edition 1826). The following pasaage which occurs
in the 94th Number of the Edinb'&U'g'h Review, also im-
plies not only that clliferent parte of the nervous system,
including the brain, have difFerent functions, but that an
increase of volume in the brain is marked by some addition
to, or ampl!llcatioa of, the powers of the animal. " It ia
in the oervoua system alone that we can trace a gradual
progress in the provision for the subordination of one (ani-
mal) to anether, and of all to man; and are enabled to as-
aociate every faculty which givea superiority with aome ad-
dition to the nervous mau, even from the smalleet iJlttioa..
tiona of sensation and will, up to the highest degree of aen-
..bility, judgment, and exprelllrion. The brain is obllerved
progreesively to be improved in its structure, and, with re-
ference to the spinal marrow and nerves, augmented in
volame more and more, until we reach the hnman brain,
each addition being marked by some addition to, or ampli-
ation of, the powen of the animal,-until in man we be-
hold it pcMI8e88ing some parts of which animals are desti-
Digitized by Google
J
8i TEMPERAMENT AND DISEASE
tute, and wanting none which theirs possess." There is
here, then, pretty strong evidence and authority for the as-
sertion, that the brain does not form an exception to the ge-
neral law of organized nature, that other conditions being
equal, size of organ is a measure of power of function.
The circumstances which modify the effects of size fall
next to be considered. · These are constitution and health.
The question naturally presents itself, Do we posscss any
index to constitutional qualities of brain ? The tempera-
ments indicate them to a certain extent. There are four
temperaments, accompanied with different degrees of acti-
vity in the brain-the Lymphatic, the Sanguine, the Bi-
lious, and the Nervous. The temperaments are supposed to
depend upon the constitution of particular systems of the
body; the brain and nerves being predominantly active
from constitutional causes, produce the nervous tempera-
ment; the lungs, heart, and bloodvcssels being constitu-
tionally predominant, give rise to the sanguine; the muscu-
lar and fibrous systems, to the bilious ; and the glands and
a88imilating organs, to the lymphatic.
The different temperaments are indicated by external
signs, which arQ open to observation. The first, or Lym-
phatic, is distinguishable by a round form ot'the body, soft-
ness of the muscular system, repletion of the cellular tissue,
fair hair, and a pale clear skin. It is accompanied by lan-
guid vital actions, with weakness, and slowness in the cir-
culation. The brain, as part of the system, is also slow,
languid, and feeble in its action, and the mental manifesta-
tions are proportionally weak.
The second, or sanguine constitution, is indicated by well
defined forms, moderate plumpness of person, tolerable ·
firmness of flesh, light hair, inclining to chesnut, blue eyes,
and fair complexion, with ruddiness of countenance. It is
marked by great activity of the bloodvessels, fondness for
exercise, and an animated countenance. The brain par-
takes of the general state, and is active.
Digitized by Google
MODIFY THE EFl"ECTS OF SIZE. 83
The Bilious temperament is recognised by black hair,
dark akin, moderate fulness, and much firmness of flesh,
with harshly expressed outline of the person. The func-
tions partake of great energy of action, which extends to
tbe brain, and the countenance, in consequence, shews
strong, marked, and decided features.
The Nervous temperament is recognised by fine thin hair,
thin skin, small thin muscles, quickness in muscular mo-
tion, paleness of countenance, and often delicate health.
The whole nervous system, including the brain, is predo-
minantly active, and the mental manifestations are propor-
tionally vivacious.
It is thus clearly admitted, that constitution or quality of
brain bas a great influence on the mental effects of size ;
but Jet us attend to the consequences. As a general rule,
all the parts of the same brain have the same constitution,
·Uld if size be a measure of power, then in each head the
large organs will be more powerful than the small ones.
This enables us to judge of the strong and the weak points
in each head. But if we compare two separate brains, then
we must recollect that the size of the two may be equal ;
and, nevertheless, the one from possessing the finest tex-
ture, and moat vigorous constitution, may be exceedingly •
active, while another, from being inferior in quality, may
be naturally inert. The consequence will be, that the beat
constituted brain will mmifest the mind with most vigour.
That size is nevertheless the measure of power, may be
proved by contrasting the manifestations of a small and of
a large brain, possessing the same combination of organs,
and eqnally well constituted; the power or energy will
then be found greatest in the latter. This is what is meant
by other natural conditions being equal. As the temper&-
mentsare diatinguiahable by the countenance, and the gene-
ral make of the body, md as the brain partakes of the ge-
neral constitution, we possesa an index to its natural quali-
tiee. I repeat that these remarks apply only to the case ot
c
Digitized by Google
84, TEMPERAMENT A~D DISEASE.
comparing one brain with another. The same brain hu
in genenl the aame constitution, and on the principle that
llize is a measure of power, the largeat organs in eaeh indi-
vidual will be naturally the moet vigorous. If the tem~
rament be lymphatic, all the organs will act slowly, but
the largest wiU be moet powerful and most active, on ac-
eount of their superior size. If the temperament be active,
all will be active, but the largest will still take the lead.
It is on this account that a student of Phrenology in search
ef evidence, should not compare the same organ in differ-
ent brains.
Further, the brain must possess a healthy constitution,
and that degree of activity which is the usual accompani-
ment of health. Now, the brain, like other parts of the
body, may be affected with certain diseases which do not
ttiminish or increase its magnitude, and yet impair its func-
tions. The Phrenologist ascertains the health by inquiry.
In cases of disease, great size may be present, and very im-
perfect manifestations appear ; or it may be attacked with
other diseases, such 88 inflammation, or any of thoee parti-
cular affections whose nature is unknown, but to which the
name of Mania is given in n0110logy, and which greatly ex-
alt its action ; and then very forcible manife&U.tions may
proceed from a brain comparatively small; but it is no less
true, that when a larger brain is excited to the aame degree
by the same causes, the manifestations become increased
in energy, in proportion to the increase of size. T.hete
cases, therefore, form no valid objection to Phrenology ;
for the phrenologist ascertains, by previous inquiry, that
the brain is in a state of health. If it is not, he makes
the necessary limitations in drawing his conclusions.
Let us turn our attelltion to the t)C)int of the argument
at which we are now arrived. We have seen that the brain
it the organ of the mind,-that it is not a single organ, but
&bat the analogy of all the other organs, the succeMivc deve-
lopmentofthe faculties,-the phenomena.ofpartial geniu11,-
Digitized by Google
..
WHAT ORGANS AND FACULTIES CONNECTED. 86
:partial insanity,-monomania,-dreaming,---:tLD.d partial in..
juries of the brain, indicate that it is a congeriee of orgaua
manifeeting a plurality of facultiee ; we have seen also, tha&,
in the cue of the bones, mWICles, nerves of motion, nervee
of sensation, and nerves of the five &eDSel, size has an in-
ftoence on vigour of function; and from the analogy of
th.e organs, and also from direct facts and physiological
authorities, we have come to the same conclusion regarding
the brain, that vigour of function bean a relation, other
eircumatances being equal, to size in the organ. From
theee premise&, it follows as a necessary conclusion, that, in
the manifestation of the mental faculties, it will not be in·
different in what direction the brain is most or least de-
veloped ; for example, if different parte of the brain posaeee
diWerent funetions, and if the strength of function be ill
proportion to the size of the part, the vigour of the faenl-
tiee connected with a brain in which the frontal region
predominates in size, mU&t necessarily be different from
that which would proceed from a brain in which the pre-
dominance of size was in the posterior portion ; and a differ-
ence would hold also in C88e& of preponderance in the su-
perior or inferior portions.
NEw HoLL.t.JIDJ:L
Here we have a representation of the skull of RAPHAEL,
and of the skull of a native of ~ew Holland; both taken
from eats in the collection of the Phrenological Society.
The difFerence in the forehead is very conspicuous. If
the part of the brain lying in that region have any func-
tion. connectM with intellect, and if size be a ·measure
c2
Digitized by Google
36 CONNECTION OF PAUTICULAK
of pOWer, the two beings should form a stroag contrut
of pOWer and weakness in that department. And, 8C•
oordingly, the caee is 80. RAPHAEL died at thirty-three
yean of age, and has left an imperishable memory on
account of his genius in art. Sir WALTER ScoTT describes
the other as follows:-" The natives of New Holland are,
even at present, in the very lowest seale of humanity, and
ignorant of every art which can add comfort or decency to
human life. These unfortunate savages use no clothes,
construct no cabins or huts, and are ignorant even of the
manner of chasing animals, or catching fish, unless such of
the latter as are left by the tide, or which are found on the
rocb; they feed upon the most disgusting substances,
snakes, worms, maggots, and whatever trash falls in their
way. They know, indeed, how to kindle a fire; in that r•
spect only they have stepped beyond the deepest ignorance
to which man can be subjected ; but they have not learned
how to boil water; and when they see Europeans perform
this ordinary operation, they have been known to run away
in great terror."
We have now arrived, by a fair and legitimate induction,
at strong presumptive proof in favour of the grand princi-
ples of Phrenology, viz. that the brain is the organ of the
mind, that difFerent parts of it are connected with difFerent
faenlties, and that the size of the organ, other conditions
being equal, exerts an influence on the power of manifesta-
tion. Here, then, the inquiry presents itself, What faculties
and what parts of the brain are mutually connected? This
is the grand question remaining to be solved, in order to
render our knowledge of the functions of the brain and the
organs of the mind precise and practically useful. Let us
Ptquire what progress the metaphysician and anatomist
have made in elucidating this point. It is of importance
to take a view of the past efForts of philosophers in the
science of mind on this subject, that we may be able cor-
rectly to appreciate both what remaina to be accom-
Digitized by Google
FACULTIES AND OltGANS.
pW.hed, and how far Phrenology preeente means capableof
attaining it.
The mind has been studied, by one set of philoeophers,
with too little reference to the body ; and the laws ofthought
have beeR expounded with as much neglect of organization
as if we had already " shuftled off this mortal coil." From
&his erroneous practice of many distinguished authors, such
as Locx:E, HuME, REID, STEWART and BROWN, a prejudice
has arisen against the physiology of mao, ae if the mind
were degraded by contemplating it in connexion with mat.
~;but mao is the workofthe CREATORofthe world, and
no part of his constitution can be unworthy of regard and
admiration. The whole phenomena of life are the result of
mind and body joined, each modifying each ; and how can
we explain a result, without atten4ing to allthe causes which
eombine towards ita production ?
Another -set of philosophers, ip avoiding Scylla, have
thought it necessary to dash into Charybdis, and have
taught, that the mind is nought but a combination of mat.
ter; and have endeavoured to explain its functions by sup-
poeed mechanical motions in ita parts; but, u we shall
hereafter see, this course of proceeding is equally erroneous
as the other. ~
In surveying the phenomena of mind, we are struck with
the variety of faculties with which it appears to be en-
dowed. Philosophers and the vulgar equally admit it to
be possessed of dUferent powers. Thus it is by one faculty
that it reasons; by another that it imagines, and, by a third,
that it discriminates between right and wrong.
If, however, we inquire what progress has hitherto been
made by metaphysicians in ascertaining the primitive mental
powers, and rendering the philosophy of mao interestingand
practically useful to persons of ordinary understanding, we
ehall find·a lamentable deficiency indeed. From the days of
AaUTOTLE to the present time, the most powerful intellects
Digitized by Google
S8 Efo'J..:ORTS m· METAPHYSICIANS.
have been directed, with the moat persevering industry, to
this department of RCience,-and system after system baa
ilourished, fallen, and been forgotten, in rapid and melan-
eholy succession. To confine our attention to modern tiplea,
Dr REID overturned the philosophy of Loco and HuliiE;
Mr STEwART, while he illuatra~ REID, yet differed from
him in many important particulara; anti, recently, Dr
THoMAS BRoWl'f has attacked, with powerful eloquence and
philosophical profundity, the fabric of STEWART, and it al-
ready totters to its fall. The very existence of even the
moat common and familiar faculties of the mind is still
in debate among these philosophers. Mr STEWART main·
tains Attention to be a faculty, which these other philo--
sophers deny. They, again, state Imagination to be a pri·
mitive power of the mind, while Mr STEWART informs
us, that " what we call the power of Imagination, is not
the gift of nature, hut the result of acquired habits, aided
hy favourable circumstances." (ElemenU, Chap. 7. § 1.)
Common observation informs us, that a taste for muaic,
and a genius for poetry and painting, are gifts of nature,
bestowed only on a few ; but Mr STEWART, by dint of
his philosophy, has discovered that these powers, and also
a geniua for mathematics, " are gradually formed by par-
ticular habits of study, or of business." (Outlinu, p. 16.)
On the other hand, he treats of Perception, Conception,
and Memory, as original powers; while Dr THOMAS BRowN
~enies them to be entitled to that appellation. REID, STEw-
ART, and BROWN, admit the existence of moral emotions;
but HoBBES, MANDEVILLE, Dr PALEY, and many others,
resolve the sentiment of Right and Wrong into a regard to
our own good, into perceptions of utility, obedience to the
laws, or to the Divine command. Thus, after the )apse and
labour of more than two thousand years, philosophers arc
not yet agreed concerning the existence of many of the
mOIIt important principles of action, and intellectual powel'll
of man. While the philosophy of mind s11all remain in this
Digitized by Google
EFFORTS OF METAPHYSICIANS. 39
uncertain condition, it will be impoaalble to give to morals
and nat111'8l religion a scienti1ic foundation ; and -nntil the~~e
shall 888UJDe the etablelle88 and precision of sciences, edu-
eation, political economy and legislation, must continue
empirical in their principles and application. If, therefore,
Phrenology could introduce into the philosophy of mind
even a portion of the certainty and precision which attenj
physical inveatigatioua, it would confer no small benefit OB
this in~reating department of science ; and that it is fully
eompetent to do so, shall be shewn after we have attended
&o a few preliminary points requiring consideration.
In the next place, BUpposing the number and nature of
the primitivefaculties to be ascertained, it is to be remarked,
that, in actual life, they are successively developed. The
infant feels fear, love, attachment, before it is alive to the
sublime or the beautiful ; and it observes occurrences long
before it reasons. A correct theory of mind ought to unfold
prineiplee to which theae facts also may be referred.
Farther, even after the full maturity of age is attained,
how.different tile tkgreu in which we are endowed with the
nrious mental powers. Admitting each individual to poa-
118811 all the faculties, the assemblage of which constitutes
the human mind, in what a variety of degreea of relative
strength do they appear in different persons ? In one, the
love of glory is the feeling which surpaases all ; another is
deaf to the voice of censure, and callous to the accents of
applause. The soul of one melts with softest pity at a tale
of woe ; while the eye of another never abed a sympathetic
tear. One individual spends his life in an ardent chace of
wealth, whieh he stops not to enjoy; another scatters in
'W'88teful prodigality the substance of his sires, and perishes
for want from a mere incapacity to retain. One vast intel..
leet, like NEWToN's, fathoms the profundities of science;
while another .feeble mind scarcely gropes its way through
tbe daily occurreneee of life. The towering imagination of
a SHAK!iPEARE, or a MILTON, soars beyond the boundaries
Digitized by Google
40 EFFORTS OF ME'l'APHYSlCIANS.
of sublunary s~e ; while the sterile fancy of another sees
no glory in the heavens, and no loveliness on earth.
A system of mental philosophy, therefore, pretending to
the truth of nature, ought not only to unfold the simple ele-.
menta of thought and of feeling, but to enable us to dis-
cover in what proportion8 they are combined in ditrerent in-
dividuals. In chemical science, one combination ofelement-
ary ingredients produces a medicine of sovereign virtue in
removing pain ; another combination of the same materials,
but differing in their relative proportions, brings forth a
mortal poison. In human nature, also, one combination of
faculties may produce the midnight murderer and thief; and
another, a FRANKLIN, a HoWARD, or a Fav, glowing with
charity to man.
If, however, we inquire at the philosophers on the mind,
for rules by which to discriminate the effects upon the char-
acter and conduct of individuals, produced by ditrerent com-
binations of the mental powers, what information do we re-
ceive ? Instead of light upon this interesting 11ubject, we
find in their works only disputes, whether such ditrerences
exist in nature, or are the result of education and other ad-
ventitious circumstances; many maintaining the one opi-
nion, while some few advocate the other. This department
of the philosophy of man, in short, is a perfect waste. Mr
STEWART is aware equally of ita importance IUld forlorn con-
dition. The varieties of intellectual character among men,
says be, present another very interesting object of study,
which, "considering ita practical utility, has not yet excited,
so much as might have been expected, the curiosity of our
oountrymen." (Diuert. Part ii. p. 198), The reason ap-
pears sufficiently obvious. The common modes of study-
ing man afforded no clew to the discovery desired.
In thus surveying the philosophy of man, aa at present
exhibited to us in the writings of philosophers, we perceive,
first, That no account is given of the influence of the ma-
terial organs on the manifestations of the mental powers ;
Digitized by Google
EJ•
'}'OU'l'S OF MOUALISTS. 41
that the progress of the mind from youth to age, and the
phenomena of sleep, dreaming, idiocy and insanity, are left
unexplained or unaccounted for, by any principles admitted
in their system : Secondly, That the f!xistence and function&
of some of the most important primitive faculties are still
in dispute ; and, tAirdly, That no light whatever has been
thrown on the nature and effects of combinations of the
primitive powers, in diff'erent degrees of relative proportion.
It is with greattruth, therefore, that Monsieur DE BoNALD,
quoted by Mr STEwART, observes, that "diversity of doc-
trine has increased from age to age, with the number of
masters, and with the progress of knowledge ; and Europe,
which at present possesses libraries filled with philosophical
works, and which reckons up almost as many philosophers
as writers ; poor in the midst of so much riches, and uncer-
tain with the aid of all its guides, which road it should fol-
low; Europe, the centre and focus of all the lights of the
world, has yet its philoaophy only in expectation."
While philosophers have been thus unsuccessfully engaged
in the study of mental science, human nature has been in-
vestigated by another set of observers,-Moralists, Poets
aod Divines. These have looked upon the page of life
merely to observe the characters there exhibited, with the
view of tracing them anew in their compositions : and cer-
tainly they have executed their design with great felicity
and truth. In the pages of SHAKSPEARE, ADDISON, JoHN-
soN, TILLOTSON and BLAIR, we have the lineaments of'
mind traced with a perfect tact, and exhibited with ID&tch-
lesa beauty and effect: But these authors had no systematic
object in view, and did not aim at founding their observa-
tions on principles which might render them subservient
to the practical purposea of life. Hence, although in their
compositions we find ample and admirable materials for the
elucidation of' a true system of the philosophy of man, yet,
without other aids than they supply, we cannot arrive at
fundamental principles sufficient to guide us in our inter-
course with the world. The charge against their represen..
Digitized by Google
E"l-'FORTS <a' l'OETS.
tationa of human nature is, not that they are incorrect, but
that they are too general to be uaeful. They draw strik-
ing pictures of good men and of bad men, but do not enable
ua to di100ver, prior to experieace, whether any particular in-
dividual with whom we may wish to connect our fortunes,
belongs to the one class or the other, a matter of the l88t im-
portance, because, in the course ofgaining experience, we en-
counterthe risk ofsuffering the greatest calamities. In short,
Poets and Novelists describe men 88 they do the weather; in
their pages they make the storm to rage with terrific energy,
or the sun to shine with the softest radiance, but do not en-
able ua to discover whether, to-morrow, the elements will
war, or the zephyrs play; and without this power, we can-
not put to sea with the certainty of favouring gales, nor
stay in port without the risk of IO&ing winds that would
have wafted us to the wished-for shore. Phrenology, there-
fore, ifa true system ofhuman nature, ought not only to fur-
nish to the popular readerthe keyofphiloeophy, to unlockthe
stores of intellectual wealth contained in the volumes of our
most gifted authors, but also to render their representations
of human character practically uaeful, by enabling him to
diacover the natural qualities of living individuals prior to
experience of their conduct, and thus to appreciate their ten-
dencies before becoming the victim of their incapacity or
puaions.
The causes of the failure of the metaphysician are eBSily
recognised. He studied the mind chiefly by reflecting on
his own con&eioU8De&B ; he turned his attention inwards,
observed the phenomena of his own faculties, and recorded
tlaese 88 metaphysical science. But the mind ia not con-
ecious of organs at all ; we are not informed by feeling of
the existenceofmuscles, ofnerves of motion, nerves oftaste,
nerves of smell, of an audhory apparatus, of optic nerves,
or of any mental organs whatever. All that consciousness
reveals is, that4the miad inhabits the head ; but it does not
infOrm us what material substances the bead contains ; and
hence it was im~ible for the metapl•y11ician to disoover
Digitized by Google
I.ABOUltS OF PHYSIOLOGISTS. 48
the organs of the mind by his method of pbiloaophiaing,
and no metaphyaical philOBOpher pretends to have discover-
ed them. The imperfection of this mode of investigation
accounts for the contradictory results obtained by dift'erent
metaphysician.. Supposean individual possessed of a brain
like a New Hollander, to turn philOBOpher; he would never,
by reflectingon his own consciousness, find an instinctive f~r
eulty for art ; and, therefore, he would exclude it from his
•
system. Another philOBOpher, constituted like RAPHAEL,
en the other hand, would feeHt strongly, and give it a pr&-
minent place.
When we turn our attention to the works of Physiolo-
gist&, we discover the moat ceaaele88, but fruitless, endeav-
OU1'8 to 88Certain and determine the parts of the body, with
which the several mental powers are most closely connected.
Some of them have diaected the brain, in the hope of dUt-
covering in ita texture an indication of the functions which
it perfoi'IIUJ in relation to the mind~ but succea& has not
hitherto crowned their efforts. When we examine, wiLh
the moat aompuloua minuteness, the form, colour, and tex-
ture of the brain, no sentiment can be perceived slumber-
ing in its fibres, nor half-formed ideasstartingfrom its folds.
It appears to the eye only as a 10888 of curiously convolute«t
matter ; and the understanding declares ita incapacity to
penetrate the purposes of its parts.
In short, we caanot, by merely diaeetiug any organ of
the body, dilcover ita functions. For example, anatomists,
for many centuries, dissected the nervea of tnoLion and feel-
itig, and eaw nothing in their structure that indicated the
dil'erence of \heir functions; and, at this moment, if the
nerves of taste and of hearing were presented together on
the table, w-e might look at them for ages without discover-
illg any traees of their functiona from their structure Molle.
Simple die&ection of the brain, therefore, could not lead to
the dilloovery of the functions of its different par&a.
The obstacles which have hitherto opposed the attaia•
ment of this information have been many.
oigi!lzed by Coogle
-64 LABOURS 01~· PHYSIOLOGISTS.
Imagination has been called in to afford information
which philosophy withheld, and theories have been in-
vented to supply the place of knowledge founded on
fact and legitimate induction. " The greater number of
physiologists, physicians and philosophers," says Dr Spuaz-
HEIM, " derive the moral sentiments from various vis-
cera, or from the nervous plexus and ganglia of the great
syp1pathetic nerve, that is, from the nerves of the abdomen
and thorax; but, comparative anatomy and physiology en-
tirely contradict this opinion. There are animals endowed
with faculties attributed to certain bowels or viscera, which
do not possess these viscera. Insects, for instance, become
angry, and have neither liver nor bile. Oxen, horses, hogs,
&c. have many viscera in structure analogous to those of
man, and yet they want many faculties which are attributed
to these viscera, and with which man is endowed." The
heart is supposed to be the seat of the tender affections ;
but the heart of the tiger and of the lamb are alike in
structure, and the one ought to be the organ of cruelty,
and the other of meekness, if this supposition were true.
(New Phya. Syst. .P· ISS). Other physiologists have
compared the size of the brain of man with that of
the lower animals ; contrasting at the same time their
mental powers ; and have been led to the conclusion
that it is the organ of the mind, and that its superior de-
velopment in man indicates his mental superiority over the
brutes; but these philosophers have not succeeded in de-
termining the functions of the different parts of this organ,
and have not been able, inany important degree, to connect
their discoveries with the philosophy of mind. CAMPER,
in order to measure the extent of the brain, and, as he ima-
gined, the corresponding energy of the intellectual faculties,
drew a vertical line, touching the upper lip and the moat
prominent part of the forehead ; and also a horizontal line,
croaaing the former, and touching the tips of the upper front
teeth, and the external opening of the ear, or, at least, cor..
responding to these points in its direction; and he thought
~.,
Digitized by Google
LABOURS OF PHYSIOLOGISTS. 45
that man and animals have more understanding, the more
the upper and inner angle formed by the two lines, or that
including the upper jaw, nose, &c. is obtU&e; and, on the
contrary, that man and animals are more stupid, the more
this facial angle is acute. But this manner of measuring
the inteUectual faculties is not more correct than those pre-
vioO&ly mentioned. The facial angle applies only to the
.anterior parts of the brain situated in the forehead, and is
inapplicable to all the lateral and posterior parts ; hence it
could, even if there were no other objection, indicate only
those facnlties whose organs constitute the forehead. Be-
llidee, in many Negroes, the jaw-bones are extremely promi-
nent, and the facial angle acute ; while their foreheads
are in fact largely developed, and their intellectual faculties
powerful, although, by CAMPER's rule, they ought to be in-
ferior to many stupid Europeans, whose foreheads are de-
ficient, but whose jaws recede. Hence, the facial angle
cannot serve as a means of measuring the moral sentiments
and intellectual faculties. (New Playa. Syat. p. 197, 198,
199.)
"Some physiologists, as Sa:MMERJNG and CuvrER, have
compared the size of the brain in general with that of the
face ; and, according to them, animals are more stupid as
the face is larger in proportion to the brain." But that
this rnle is not infallible, is easily proved, becaU&e LEo,
MoNTAIGNE, LEIBNITZ, HALLER, and MrRABEAu, 1iad
large faces and very considerable brains. BossuET, VoL-
TAIRE, and KANT, bad, on the contrary, small faces and
alao large brains. (New Playa. Syat. p. 200.)
The cerebral parts have likewise been compared with
each other, in order to ascertain their functions, as, the
brain with the cerebellum, the brain with the medulla ob-
longata, with the nerves, &c., but these modes also have
led to no satisfactory result& The elder writers, such as
ARISTOTLB and his followers, who assigned dift'erent facul-
tiea to difFerent parts of the brain, proceeded on fancy, or on
DOtioJl8 of auppoeed auitablenesa of the place in the head te
Digitized by Google
46 J.ABOUJlS OF PHYSIOI.OGIS1'S.
the nature of the power; and their views have been entirely
abandoned both by physiologists and metaphyaicians. In
short, it is well known, that no theory of the functions of
the brain is yet admitted and taught 88 certain acience,
such 88 the doctrine of the circulation of the blood, and the
functions of the mWICles, nerves, and bones.
Dr RoGET, an opponent of Phrenology, freely confeues
that " the brain is still 88 incomprehensible in its fun~
tions, as it is subtle and complex in its anatomy." (CJoanioB.
Sup. to Enc. Brit.); and the writer in the 94th Num-
ber of the Edinburgh Review, saya,-" Even within our
own time, although many great anatomists had devotei
themselves almost exelusively to describing the brain, this
organ used to be demonstrated by the greater number of
t.eachen, in a manner which, however invariable, WIUI a&-
auredly uot particularly useful. It was so mechanically
cut down upon, indeed, as.to constitute a sort of exhibition
connected with nothing. The teacher and the pupil were
equally dissatisfied with the performance, and the former
probably the most; the latter soon gave up the painful at,.
tempt to draw any kind of deductions from what he wit-
nessed, and disposed of the difficulty as he best could, when
he bad to render an account of what be had seen. Up to
thia day, our memory is pained by the recollection of the
barbaroua n&mEIIil and regular sectiona of what WIUI then the
dullest part of aoatomicaletu.dr; which, although often re-
peated, left no trace but of its obscurity, or its absurdity.
Here an ovalapaoe of a white colour, and there a line of
grey or curve of red, were Wsplayed ; here a cineritioua,
there a medullary miW8; here a portion white without and
grey within ; there a portion w~ within and grey without ;
here a gud· pituitary ; there a gland like grains of sand ;
here a ventriele ; there a cul-de-sac; with endless fibres,
and lines, ape) .globules, and .aimple marks, with appeJI~
t.ions no less timciful than devoid of meaning."
" The anatomist diaaected, and toiled on in this unpro-
mising terrlt.Gry, and entangled himself more in proportion
oigi!lzed by Coogle
LABOURS OF PHYSIOLOGISTS. 47
to his unwillingness to be defeated ; and he succeeded, no
doubt, in making out a clear display of all theee complicat.
ed parts, which few, however, could remember, and fewer
still could comprehend. Then came the phyeiologiat in
still greater perplexity, and drew his conclueiona, and aa-
signed office~~ to the multiplied portions and ramification•
of nervous subetance, by arbitrary conjecture for the most
part, and often with manifest inconsistency. Although the
brain was generally allowed to be the organ of the intellec-
tual faculties, it was supposed to give out, from particular
portions of the mus, but quite indifferently, nerves of sen-
sation, general and specific, nerves of motion, and nerves
of volition; the single, double, or multipled origin of nerves,
which bad not escaped notice, not being supposed to be
connected with these separate officee."
" Such, 80 vague, 80 obecure, 80 inexact, 80 UIUJ&tiafiu>
tory, wu the kind of knowledge communicated to the stu-
deJJ,t, until a very recent period; and the impresaion ]eft
by it wu that of confused and unintelligible profusion in
the distribution of nerves, of intricacy without meaning, of
an expenditure of resources without a parallel in the other
works of nature." Pages 447, 448.
Unlesa, then, Dr GALL could boast of some other method
of investigation than thoee of the ordinary phyliologiat and
metaphysician, he could offer no legitimate pretenaions to
the eolution of the question, What parts of the brain, and
what mental faculties, are connected ? but he, by great
good fortune, wu led to adopt a diif'ereot and superior
mode ofinquiry ; and tlais leads .ae to state shortly a few
particulars of the hiatery of the science which is now to be
expounded.
Dr GALL, a phy$cian of Vie1U18, afterwards resident in
Paris •, was the founder of the syateul. From an earlyage
be waa given to observation. and wu struck with the fact,
that each of his brothers and sisters, companions in play,
• Born at Tiefenbrun, in Suabia, on 9th March 1757, died at Paris 2td
August 1818.
Digitized by Google
48 HISTORY OF DR GALL'S DISCOVERY.
and schoolfellows, was distinguished from other individlllf.ls
by some peculiarity of talent or disposition. Some of his
schoolmates were characterized by the beauty of their pen-
manship, some by their succe88 in aritl1metic, and others
by their talent for acquiring a knowledge of natural history,
or languages. The compositions of one were remarkable
for elegance ; the style of another was stiff and dry ; while
a third connected his reasonings in the closest manner, and
clothed his argument in the most forcible language. Their
dispositions were equally different; and this diversity ap-
peared also to determine the direction of their partialities
and aversions. Not a few of them manifested a capacity
for employments which they were not taught ; they cut fig-
ures in wood, or delineated them on paper ; some devoted
their leisure to painting, or the culture of a garden; while
their comrades abandoned themselves to noisy games, or
traversed the woods to gather Bowers, seek for bird-nests,
or catch butterfties. In this manner, each individual pre-
sented a character peculiar to himself, and Dr GALL never
observed, that the individual, who in one year had dis-
played selfish or knavish dispositions, became in the next a
good and faithful friend.
The scholars with whom Dr GALL had the greatest dif-
ficulty in competing, were those who learned by heart with
great facility; and such individuals frequently gained from
him by their repetitions the places which he bad obtained
by the merit of his original compositions.
Some years afterwards, having changed his place of re-
sidence, he still met individuals endowed with an equally
great talent of learning to repeat. He then observed, that
his school-fellows, so gifted, posse888d prominent eyes, and
recollected, that his rivals in the first school had been dis-
tinguished by the same peculiarity. When he entered the
University he directed his attention, from the first, to the
students whose eyes were of this description, and found that
they all excelled in getting rapidly by heart, and giving cor-
rect recitations, although many of them were by no mean•
Digitized by Google
UISTORY 01-' DR G.\I.L'S DISCOVEUY. 49.
distinguisbed in point of general talent. This observation
was recognized also by the other students in the classes ;
and although the connexion betwixt talent and external
sign was not at this time established upon such complete
evidence as is requisite for a philosophical conclusion, Dr
GALL could not believe that the coincidence of the two cir-
cumstances was entirely accidental. From this period,
therefore, he suspected that they stood in an important re-
lation to each other. After much reflection, he conceived,
that if memory for words was indicated by an external sign,
the same might be the case with the other intellectual pow-
ers; and, thereafter, all.individuals distinguished by any re-
markable faculty became the objects of his attention. By
degrees, he conceived himself to have found external cha-
racteristics, which indicated a decided disposition for Paint-
ing, Music, and the Mechanical Arts. He bec.am.e ac-
quainted also with some indhiduals remarkable for the de-
termination of their character, and he observed a particu-
lar pan of their heads to be very largely developed. This
fact first suggested to him the idea of looking to the head
for signs of the Moral Sentiments. But in making these
observations, he never conceived, for a moment, that the
skull was the cause of the different talents, as hBB been er'7
roneously represented; for, from the first, he referred the
influence, whatever it was, to the Brain.
In following out, by observations, the principle which ac-
cident had thus suggested, he, for some time, encountered
difficulties of the greatest magnitude. Hitherto he had
been altogether ignorant of the opinions of Physiologists
touching the brain, and of Metaphysicians respecting the
mental faculties. He had simply observed nature. When,
however, he began to enlarge his knowledge of books, he
found the most extraordinary conflict of opinions every
where prevailing, and this, for the moment, made him hesi-
ta~ about the correctness of llis own observations. He
found that the moral sentiments had, by an almost general
consent, been consigned to the thoracic and abdominal vis-
n
Digitized by Google
50 RJSTORY OF DR GALL'S DISCOVERY•
cera: and that while PYTHAGORAS, PLATO, GALEN, HAL•
LER, and some other Physiologists, placed the sentient soul
or intellectual faculties in the brain, ARISTOTLE placed it
in the heart, VAN BELMONT in the stomach, DEs CARTES
and his followers in the pineal gland, and DREUNCOURT
and others in the cerebellum.
He observed also, that a great number of Philoso-
phers and Physiologists asaerted, that all men are born
with equal mental faculties; and that the diirerences
obeervable among them are owing either to education,
or to the- accidental circumstances in which they are
placed. If difFerences were accidental, he· inferred, that
there could be no natural signs ef predominating facul-
ties ; and consequently that the project of learning, by
observation, to distinguish the functions of the different
portions of the brain, must be hopeless. This difficulty be
combated by tl1e reftectioo, that his brothers, sisters, an4l
, :..~.., ~~ehoolfellows, had all received very nearly the same educa-
..,;"'· · tioo, but that he had still observed each of them unfolding
...
.; ~···\ a distinct character, over which circumstances appeared to
exert only a limited controuJ. He observed also, that not on-
frequently those whose education had been conducted with
tlae greatest care, and on whom the labours of te~Whers had
been most aBBiduously bestowed, remained far behind theiY
companions in attainments. "Often," says Dr GALL, "we
were accused of want of will, or deficiency in zeal ; but
many of us could not, even with the most ardent desire, fol-
lowed out by the most obstinate efforts, attain, in some pm-
suita, even to mediocrity; while in some other points, some
of us snrpassed our schoolfellow;a without an effort, and al-
most, it might be said, .without perceiving it ourselves.
But, in point of fact, our masters did not appear to attach
much faith to the system which taught equality of men-
tal faculties ; for they thought themselves entitled to exact
more from one scholar, and less from another. They spoke
frequently of natural gifts, or of the gifts of God, and con-
soled their pupils in the words of the G011pel, by 888uring
Digitized by Google
•
HISTORY OF DR GALL'S DISCOVERY. 51
them that each would be requirec:l to render an aceount,
ouly in proportion to the gifts which he had received •."
Being convinced by these facts, that there is a natural
and constitutional diversity of talents and dispoeitiona, he
enooun~red in books still another obetaole to his success
in determining the external signs of the mental power&
He found. that, instead of faculties for languages, drawing,
distinguishing places, music, and mechanical art&, corree.-
pondiag to the difFerent talents which he bad observed in
his schoolfellows, the metaphysicians spoke only of genenl
powers, such as perception, conception, memory, imagina-
tion, and judgment ; and when he endeavoured to discover
external signs in the head, corresponding to these general
faculties, or to determine the correctness of the physiologi-
cal doctrines taught by the authors already mentioned, re-
garding the seat of the mind, he found perplexities without
end, and difficulties insurmountable.
Dr GALL, therefore, abandoning every theory and pre-
conceived opinion, gave himself up entirely to the observa-
tion oi nature. Being a friend to Dr NoRD, Physician to
a Lwaatie Asylum in Vrenna, he had opportunities, of whieh
be aniled himael~ of making obllervations on the insane.
He visited prisons, and reeorted to schools ; he was intre-
dlaced to the eourta of princes, to coli~ and the •eata of
jUIJtice; and wherever be heard of an individual diniD-
guisbed in any particular way, either by remarkable _.
dowment or deficiency, he observed and •tudied the de-
'Velopment of bia head. In this manaer, by l\ll alowst imper-
ceptible inductioo, he at la&t coooeivcd himaelf warranted
in believing, that particular mental pow.en are indicated by
particular configurations of the bead.
Hitherto he had resorted only to physiognomioal indiea-
Uou, u a meau of ditcovering the functions of the brain.
On reflection, however, he was convinced that Physiology
it il!lperfect wb41l se~ from Anatomy. Having ob-
.. Pre&ee by Dr G.t.t.'L t., the "Anatomie, &e. du Cervtau," from which
~ r.ct. in t.IJit w.ork.are talen
D2
Digitized by Google
52 HISTORY OF DR GALI.'S DISCOVI<:RY.
served a woman of fifty-four years of age, who had been af-
flicted with hydrocephalus from her youth, and who, with
a body a little 11hrunk, possessed a mind as active and iL-
telligent as that of other individuals of her class, Dr GALL
declared his conviction, that the structure of tl1e brain must
be difFerent from what was generally conceived,-a remark
which TuLPIUS also had made, on observing a hydrocepha-
lic patient who manifested the mental faculties. He there-
fore felt the necessity of making anatomical researches into
the structure of the brain.
In every instance, when an individual, whose head he
had observed while alive, happened to die, he used e\·ery
means to be permitted to examine the brain, and frequently
did so; and found, as a general fact, that, on removal of the
skull, the brain, covered by the dura mater, presented a
form corresponding to that which the skull bad exhibited
in life.
The successive steps by which Dr GALL proceeded in his
discoveries, are particularly deserving of attention. He did
not, as many have imagined, first dissect the brain, and pre-
tend, by that means, to discover the seats of the mental
powers ; neither did he, as others have conceived, first map
out the skull into various compartments, and assign a fa-
culty to each, according as his imagination led him to con-
ceive the place appropriate to the power. On the contrary,
he first observed a concomitance betwixt particular talents
and dispositions, and particular forl08 of the bead ; he next
ascertained, by removal of the skull, that the figure and
aize of the brain are indicated by these external forms; and
it was only after these facts bad been determined, that the
brain was minutely dissected, and light thrown upon its
structure.
At Vienna, in 1796, Dr GALL, for the first time, delivered
lectures on his system.
f- In 1800, Dr J. G. SPURZHEIM • began the study of Phr•
nology under him, having in that year assisted, for the first
• Born at LoJl«'dch, near TreYes, on the Moaelle, 31st December 177fl.
Digitized by Google
HISTORY Olt DR GALL's DISCOVERY. 53
time, at one of his lectures. In 1804, be was 8880Ciated
with him in Ms labours ; and, since that period, bas not
only added many valuable discoveries to those of Dr GALL,
in the anatomy and physiology of the brain, but formed the
truths brought to light, by their joint observations, into a
beautiful and interesting system of mental philosophy. In
Britain we are indebted chiefly to his personal exertions
and printed works for a knowledge of the science.
In the beginning of his inquiries, Dr GALL did not, and
could not, foresee the result to which they would lead, or the
relation which each successive fact, as it was discovered,
would bear to the whole truths which time and experience
oiight bring into view. He perceived, for instance, that
the intensity of the desire for property, bore a relation
to the size of one part of the brain ; he announced this
fact by itself, and called the part the organ of Theft, be-
eaose be had found it largest in thieves. When be had
discovered that the propensity to destroy was in connexion
with another part of the brain, he announced this fact also
as an isolated truth, and named the part the organ of Mur-
der, because he had found it largest incriminals condemned
for that crime. In a similar way, when he had discovered
the connexion between the sentiment of Benevolence and
another portion of the cerebral 10888, he called the part the
organ of Benevolence ; and so on in regard to the other or-
gans. This mode of proceeding has nothing in c.-ommon
with the formation of an hypothesis; and, so far from a dis-
position to invent a theory being conspicuous, there appears,
in the disjointed items of information which Dr GALL at
first presented to the public, a want of even an ordinary
regard for systematic arrangement. His onJy object seema
to have been to furnish a candid and uncoloured statement
of the facts in nature which 1t.e had observed; leaving their
value to be ascertained by time and farther investigation.
AB soon, however, as observation had brought to light
the great body of the facts, and the functions of the facul-
ties bad been contemplated with a philosophical eye, a ay.-
Digitized by Google
5-' HISTORY OF DR GALL'S DISCOVERY.
tem of mental pblloeopllyappeared to emanate alm01t spon-
\aneously from the previous chaos.
When the process of discovery had proceeded a certain
length, the fads were found to be connected by relations,
which it was imposrri.ble sooner to perceive. Hence, at
first, the doctrines appeared as a mere rude and undigest-
ed mass, of rather unseemly materials ; the public mirth
was, not unnaturally, excited, at the display of organs of
Theft, Murder, and Cunning, as they were then named ;
and a degree of obloquy was brought upon the science, from
which it is only now recovering. At this stage the doc-
trines were merely a species of physiognomy, and the ap-
parent results were neither very prominent nor inviting.
Wht~n, however, the study bad been pursued for years,
and the torch of philosophy bad been applied to the facts
discovered by observation, its real nature, as the science of
the human mind, and its high utility, became apparent; and
ita character and name changed as it advanced. The fol-
lowing observations of Mr LocKE are peculiarly applicable
to its history and proapects. " Truth (says he) 8('U'Ce ever
yet earried it by votfl any where, at its first appearance.
New opiniODB are always suspected, and usually oppoaed
'Withoutanyother rea80D, than because they are not common.
B•t \ruth, like gold, is not the less eo, for being newly
brought out of the mine. 'Tis trial and examination must
@ive it price, and not auy antique fashion ; and, though it
be not yet current by the public stamp, yet it may, for all
that, be aa old • nature, and u certainly not the leu ge-
•uioe."
Having now unfolded the principles and method of i•
wetigation of Phrenology, I I!Olicit the attention of the rea-
der to ooe "J.ue&tioa. We have beard much ofAntiphrenolo-
«i&tB; and I WO\lld ask, What doe& Antiphrenologi&t mean ?
Does it mt'JaB a pel'BOn wlao, like Mr JE<FFREY, deaies that
the mind in feeling and rdecting usee organs at all ? To
-.b a ®e I reply, t'hat he oaght 'to call hilmelfu etiphy-
ftalogist; beodle, aa••dymMc;nM, every pbysiolopal
Digitized by Google
HISTORY 0~' DR GALL'S DISCOVERY. 55
writer of eminence, in Europe, maintains, that the brain ia
the organ of the mind, and that injuries of it impair the
mental functions. Or does Antiphrenologist mean one who
admits the brain to be the organ of the mind, but contends
that the whole of it is essential to every mental act? then
I request of him to reconcile with his theory the phenomena
of dreaming, partial genius, partial idiocy, partial insanity,
partial. lesion of mental functions arising from partial in-
juries of the brain, and the successive development of the
mental powers in youth. If Antiphrenologist means a
person who admits the mind to manifest a plurality of fa-
culties by a plurality of organs, but denies that Phrenolo-
gists have ascertained any of them, I ask him, Whether he
disputes the three grand propositions, first, That dissection
alone does not reveal functions ; second, That reflection on
consciousness does not reveal organs; and, thirdly, That
mental manifestations ma.y be compared with development
ofbrain? If he denies these principles, then he is beyond
the reach of reason ; while, if he admits them, I would aak
him to state what forms of brain, and what mental mani-
festations he found concomitant in his observations ? be-
cause, until he shall make such a statement, his denial of
the correctness of the observations of others is entitled to
no CODSideration. But an Antiphrenologist, in any of these
senses, has never yet appeared. The word, in its common
signification, seems to indicate only an individual who ia
pleased to deny that Phrenologists are right, without know-
ing either their principles or facts, or having any preten-
siou to advance the cause of truth, by propounding 80Uilder
da&a or correcter observations of his own.
3
Digitized by Google
56 )
GENEltAL VIEW OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE
SPINAL MAitUOW AND NERVES.
BEFORE entering on the discussion of the Brain, it may
be useful to give a brief account of Mr CHARLES BELL's
discoveries of the functions of the Nerves. Dr SPURZHEIM,
and many authors before him, very early published the
conjecture, that there must be different nerves for sensibi-
lity and motion, beeause one of the powers is occasionally
impaired, while the other remains entire. Mr BELL has
furnished demonstrative evidenc.e of this being actually the
fact. He has also given due prominence to the philoso-
phical principle, so urgently insisted on by Phrenolo-
gists, That, in all departments of the animal economy, each
' organ performs only one function ; and that where,·er com-
plex functions appear, complex organs may be safely pre-
dicated, even· anterior to the possibility of demonstrating
them. The present section is derived from Mr BELL's
Anatomy and Physiology of the Human Body, vol. ii., '7th
edition, 1829; and, in as far BB possible, I have adhered to
his own expressions. My object is to introduce general
readers to a knowledge of his discoveries, which form parts of
an extensh·e System of Anatomy, or of Philosophical Trans-
actions, or of professional publications, which they seldom
peruse. I shall omit all details necessary onlyfor medical stu-
dents, as Mr BEI.L's work is the proper source of instruc-
tion for them. Even the general reader will probably re-
sort to Mr BELL's pages, after being informed of their in-
teresting contents ; he will find them clear, instructive,
and most ably supported by evidence. Any errors or in-
accuracies in the following condensed abstract, are charge-
able against myself; for althouglt in general I have follow-
ed Mr BELL's own expressions, the arrangement is greatly
altered, and, occasionally, sentences of my own are intro-
(luccd.
o;91t1zed by Google
OF THE SPI~AL MARROW AND NEltVES. 57
A nerve, says Mr DELL, is a firm white cord, composed
of nervous matter and cellular substance. The nervous
matter exists in distinct threads, which are bound toge-
ther by the cellular membrane. They may be likened to a
bundle of hairs or threads, inclosed in a sheath com~
of tlJ.e finest membrane.
The figure represents a nerve greatly magnified, for the
sake of illustration, and consisting of distinct filaments ;
A, the nerve, enveloped in its membranous sheath ; B, one
of the threads dissected out. The nerves in thickness vary
from the diameter of a small thread to that of a whip-cord.
They are dispersed through the body, and extend to every
part which enjoys sensibility or motion, or which has a
-concatenated action with another part.
The matter of a nerve in health, and in the full exercise
of its influence, is of an opaque white; it is soft and pulpy,
betwixt fluid and solid, and drops from the probe. When
putrid, it acquires a green colour ; when dri~t is trans-
parent. Corrosive sublimate and muriate of soda harden
it ; alkalis dissolve it. Each fibril of a nerve is convolut-
ea, and runs· not in a straight line, but zig-zag, like a
thread drawn from a worsted stocking, which has by its
form acquired elasticity that it would not otherwise have
possessed. By want of use, the matter of a nerve is either
not secreted in due proportion, or it changes its appear-
ance ; for the nerve then acquires a degree of transpa-
rency.
There is no evidence that any fluid or spirit circulates
in the nerves ; nor is there any that the nervous fibrils arc
tubes.
Digitized by Google
58 GENERAL VIEW OF THE FUNCTIO~"S
Nerves are sopplled with arteries and veins, and their
dependence on the supply of blood is proved by the fact,
that if a limb be deprived of blood, the nerves lose their
powers, and sensibility is lost. If a nerve be partially com-
pressed, so as to interrupt the free entrance of the blood
into it, both the power over the muscles and the reception
of sensation through it are interrupted; and when the blood
is admitted again, painful tingling accompanies the change.
It is not the compression ofthe tubes of a nerve, but the ob-
struction ofits bloodvessels, which produces the loes ofpower
consequent on tying it. The brain, the nerve of the eye,
the ear, the nerves of sense and motion, are all affected by
the change of circulation ; and each organ, according to its
natural function, is variorulg influenced by the same cause
-the rushing of blood into it, or the privation of its pro-
per quantity.
A nerve consist& of distinct filaments ; but there is no-
thing perceptible in these filaments to distinguish them from.
each other. One filament serves for the purpose of sensa-
tion; another for mWJCular motion; a third for combining
~he muaclea, when in the act of respiration. But the sub-
serviency of any of all these filament& to its proper o8ice,
must be discovered by following it out, and oh&ening it&
relatioDB, ~d especially its origin in the brain and spinal
m&n'ow. In their substance there is nothing part.iculw.
They all aeem equally to contain a soft pulpy matter, ea-
veloped in cellular membrane, and so surrounded with a
tube of this membrane as to present a continuous track of
pulpy nervous matter, from the nearest extremity in the
brain to the extremity which euds in a muacle or in the
akia.
The key to the system will be fwnd in the aimple pro-
position, that each filament or track of nervous matter has
it. pemaliar eodowment;, iMependently 4M the others which
are bound up aloog with it ; and that it continues to have
the same endowment throughout its whole length. There
is no interchange of powers betwixt the different filaments ;
Digitized by Google
OF THE SPINAL MARROW AND NERVES. 59
but a minute filament of one kfnd may be found acCOlD-
panying a filament of a different kind, each giving a parti-
cular power to the part in which it is ultimately distributed.
Some nerves give sensibility ; but there are others, as
perfectly and delicately constituted, which poeseas no eea.-
sibility whatever. Sensibility results from the particular
part of the brain which is affected by the nerve. If the
eye-ball is pressed, the outward integumenbJ feel pain, but
the retina gives no pain, only rings of light or fire appear
befere the eye. In the operation of couching the cataract,
the needle must pierce the retina; the effect, however, is
not pain, but to produce, 88 it were, a spark of fire ; and
so, an impression on the nerve of hearing, the papille of
taste, or any organ of sense, does not produce pain. The
sensation excited has its character determined by the part
of the brain to which the nerve is related at its root. But
there are nerves which have no relation to outward im-
pression. There are nerves purely for governing the mus-
cular frame, these being constituted for conveying the man-
date of the will, do not stand related to aft organ of sense in
the braitt; hence no sensibility and no pain will be produced
by them. Each of these may be said to be a nerve of exqui-
site feeling in one sense, that is, it may be a cord which
unites two organs in intimate sympathies, so 88 to cause
them to act in unison ; yet, being bruised or injured, it
will give rise to no ~reeption of any kind, because it does
not stand related to a part of the brain, whose office it
is ro produce either the general impression of pain, or beRt,
or cold, 'Or vision, or hearing: It is llot the office of that
part of the brain to which it is relatfld to produce percep-
tion at all.
At the conftnx of the nervous filaments, small reddish
tumours appear, Which are named GANGLIONS (See D in
fig. p. 61). A ganglion ft&Cmbles in form the circn1ar
swellings which appear on the stalk of a straw or of a cane;
but gangtions do not rise at regular interval& on the nerves
•
Digitized by Google
60 GENERAL VIEW OF THE .FUNCTIONS
like these swellings. Ganglion& are laid in a regular Roc-
cession in the whole length of the body, and, in the verte-
bral animals, form a regular series down each side of the
spinal marrow ; the nerve of communication among them
is the great sympathetic nerve. There are other ganglion&
seated in the head, neck, and cavities of the chest and
belly, which are very irregular in their situation and form.
The colour ofthe ganglions differs from that ofthe nerves ;
it is redder, which is owing to the greater number of blood-
vessels : ·They consist of the same matter with the brain.
Wherever we trace nerves of motion, we find that, be-
fore entering the muscles, they interchange branches, and
form an intricate mass of nerves, which is termed a
PLEXUS. A plexus is intricate in proportion to the number
of muscles to be supplied, and the variety of combinations
into which they enter. The filaments of nerves which
go to the skin, and have the simple function of sensation,
regularly diverge to their destination, without forming a
plexus. From the fin of a fish to the arm of a man, the
plexus increases in complexity, in proportion to the variety
or «>xtent of motions to be performed in the extremit)r. It
is by the interchange of filaments that combination among
the muscles is formed.
Different columns of nervous matter combine to form
the SPINAL MARROW, (AB, p. 61.). Each lateral portion
of the spinal InarrOW consists of three tracks or columns ;
one for voluntary motion, one for sensation, and one for the
act of respiration. So that the spinal marrow comprehends
in all six rods, intimately bound together, but distinct in
office ; and the capital of this compound column is the
medulla oblongata.
The anterior column of each lateral division Qf the spinal
marrow is for motion ; the posterior column is for sensa-
tion ; and the middle one is for respiration. The two for-
mer extend up into the brain, and are dispened or lost in
it; for their ftmctions stand related to the sensorium : but
t
Digitized by Google
OF THE SPINAL MARROW AND NERVES. 61
the last stops short in the medulla oblongata, being in func- ·
tion independent of reason, and capable of its office inde-
pendent1y of the brain, or when separated from it.
A B the IJiinal marrow eeen in front; the division into lateral portions
appearing at the line AB. The nervous cord C arises from the poe-
. terior lateral division, and gives sensibility. The 8welling D is ita
ganglion. The nervous cord E arises from the anterior lateral divi-
sion, and gives motion. It has no ganglion. These two cords combine
at F, and proceed under one sheath to their destinations.
Mr BELL struck a rabbit behind the ear, so as to deprive
it of sensibility by the concuasion, and then exposed the
spinal marrow. On irritating the posterior roots of the
net:Ve, he could perceive no motion consequent on any part
of the muscular frame; but on irritating the anterior roots
of the nerve, at each touch of the forceps there was a cor-
responding motion of the muscles to which the nerve was
distributed. These experiments satisfied him that the dif-
ferent roots and cllirerent columns from which those roots
aroee, were devoted to distinct offices, and that the notions
drawn from the anatomy were correct.
Mr BELL performed certain interesting experiments on
the fifth pair of nerves, which originates &om the brain. In
his P.late I. he represents this nerve rising from two roots,
one of them coming from the crus cerebri, corresponding to
the anterior column of the spinal marrow; and the other
from the crus cerehdli, corresponding to the posterior co-
lumn of the spinal marrow. There is a ganglion on the
Digitized by Google
6i GENERAL VIEW 01<' THE FUNCTIONS
latter branch, and none on the former; whieh circumstance
also ie in exact correspondence with the nerves rising from
the spinal marrow. The two branches combine at a short
distance from their origin, and are universally distributed
to the head and face. Mr BELL conceived that this nerve
is the uppermost of those nerves which confer motion and
bestow sensibility. To oon6.nn this opinion, he cut across
the posterior branch, or \hat which has a ganglion, on the
face of an us, and it was found that the sensibility of the
parts to which it was distributed was ent.irely destroyed.
Again, he exposed the anterior branch of the fifth pair at
its root, in an us, the moment the animal was killed; and
on irritating the nerve, the muscles of the jaw acted, and
the jaw was closed with a snap. On dividing the root of
the nerve in a living a.Bimal, the jaw fell relaxed. Thus
its functions were no longer matter of doubt: it was ttt
once a muscular nerve and a nerve of sensibility. And
thus the opinion was confinaed, that the fifth nerve was to
the head, what the spinal nerves were to the other parts of
... body.
The JDU8Ciet have- two nerves, whieb fact :had aot been
noticed previously to Mr BELL's investigations, because
they are commonly botmd up together; but whenever the
nerves, as about the bead, go in a separate course, we find
that there is a sensitive nerve and a motor nerve distribut-
ed to the museular fibre, aJMl we have reuon to conclude
that those branches of the spinal nervea which go to the
mUIJcles, consist of a.Jilotor and a sensitive filament. The
Derfe of touch or feeling, ramiJied on the akin, ia distinct
from both.
It was formerly suppoleCI that the office of a muscular
nerve is only to earry out the mandate of the will, and tJo
excite the muscle 1lo action; but this betrays a very inac-
curate knowledge of the action of the muscular system ;
for before the muscular system can be controlled under the
in&ence ofthe will, there must be a consciousne&J or know-
*lge of the conditioa of the muacle.
When we admit that the various conditions of the muscle
oigi!lzed by Coogle
Qlo' THE SPINAl. MARROW AND NERVES. 63
must be e.timated or perceived, in order to be uDder the
due controul of the will, lbe natural qustion arisee, Is that
nerve which carries out the mandate of the will, capable of
conveying, at tbe same moment, an impression retrograde to
the course of that influence, which, obviously, is going from
the brain towards the mWICle ? If we had no facts of ana-
tomy to proeeed. upon, still reason would declare to ua, that
tbe IllUDe 61aroen' of a nerve could not eonvey a motion, of
whatever nature 1obat motion may be, whether vibration or
motion olspirita, in oppoeite directions, at the same momeat
of time.
Mr BELL bas found, that, to the full operation of the
mWJCular power, two distinct filaments of nerves are neeee.
sary, and that a circle is established between the &eruJOJ'ium
aad the muscle: that one filament or simple nerve <"aJTiee
the ia8ueaee of the will towards the muscle, which nerve
has no power to convey aa impression backwards to tlte
brain ; and that &llother aerve counects the muscle with the
brain, and, aeting as a sentient nerve, conveys the impres-
aion of the condition of the muscle to the mind, bat baa no
operation in a direction otl&ward from the brain towards tlae
muscle, and does not tbe.ref~re ucite tbe muscle, however
irritated.
There are four nerveB comiDg out of a track or coloma
of the spinal marrow, from which neither the nervs of
eenaation, nor of common voluntary motion, take their de--
parture. Experiment proves Uaat these nerves excite mo.
&ioos dependent on the aet of respiration.
Under the class of respiratory motions, we have to dis·
Unguish two kinds: first, the involuntary, or instinctive;
aeeondly, those which aceompany an act of volition. We
are UDCe~U~Cious of that state of ahemMion of activity and
relt which ebaneterises tbe inatioctive act of breathing in
aleep; and this condition of activity of the respiratory or-
pol, we know by experiment, is independeat of the brain.
But, on the other hand, we see that the act of l'espiration is
eometimes an act of volition, intended to accomplish &Ome
other operation, as that of smelling or speaking. Mr BELL
Digitized by Google
64 GENERAL VIEW OJ<' THE }'UNCTIONS
apprehends that it is this compound operation of the organs
ofbreathingwhich introduces a certain degree ofcomplexity
into the system of respiratory nerves. A concurrence of
the nerves of distinct systems will be found necessary to
actions, which, at first sight, appear to be very simple.
If we cut the division of the fifth nerve, which goes to
the lips of an ass, we deprive the lips of sensibility ; so that,
when the animal presses the lips to the ground, and against
the oats lying there, it does not feel them; and consequently
there is no effort made to gather them. If, on the other
hand, we cut the seventh nerve, where it goes to the lips,
the animal feels the oats, but it can make no effort to gather
them, the power of muscular motion being cut oft' by the
division of the nerve. Thus we perceive that, in feeding,
just 88 in gathering any thing with the hand, the feeling
directs the effort ; and two properties of the nervous system•
are necessary to a very simple action.
After the investigation of the regular system of nerves
of sensation and voluntary motion, the question that had
so long occupied Mr BELL, viz. What is the explanation of
the excessive intricacy of the nerves of the face, jaws,
throat, and breast? became of easy solution. These nerves
are agents of distinct powers, and they combine the muscles
in subserviency to different functions.
As animals rise in the scale of being, new organs are be-
stowed upon them ; and, 88 new organs and new functions
are superadded to the original constitution of the frame,
new nerves are given also, and new sensibilities, and new
powers of activity.
Mr BELL remarks, that we understand the use ,of all the
intricate nerves of the body, with the exception of the sixth
nerve, which stands connected with another system ofnerves
altogether, namely, the system hitherto called the Sympa-
thetic, or sometimes the Ganglionic System of Nerves; and
of this system we know so little, that it cannot be matter of
surprise, if we reason ignorantly of the connection of the
sixth with it.
Digitized by Google
PRINCI:PLES
OP
PHRENOLOGY.
-
IN the Introduction, I have shewn that the Brain is ad-
mitted by Physiologists in general, to be the organ of the
Mind; but that two obstacles have impeded the discovery
of the uses of its particular parts. 1st, Dissection alone does
not reveal the functionll of any organ. No person, by dis-
secting the optic nerve, could predicate that its office is to
minister to vision; or, by dissecting the tongue, could dis-
cover that it is the organ of taste. Anatomists, therefore,
could not, by the mere practice ol' their 'art, discover the
functions of the clliferent portions of the brain. 2dlg, The
mind is not directly conscious of acting by means of organs;
and hence the material instruments, by means of which it
performs its operations in this life, and communicates with
the external world, cannot be discovered by reflection on
conseionsqllls.
The phrenologist comparte development of brain with
manifestations of mental power, for the purpose of dis-
covering the functions of the brain, and the organs of the
mind. TbD COUI'IIe is adop&ed, in consequence of the acci-
den~ diacovery made by Dr GALL, that cer~in mental 1
powera are vigorously manifested, when certain portions of ·
the b,.U. are large, and vice veraa, as detailed in the Inh-o-
:a
Digitized by Google
66 ON THE PRINCIPLES
duction. It is free from the objections attending the ana-
tomical and metaphysical modes of research, and conform
to the principles of inductive philosophy.
No inquiry is instituted into the substance of the ~nd,
or into the question, Whether the mind fashions the organs,
or the organs constitute the mind? If dissection of organa
doea not reveal their functions, and if reflection on con-
sciousness doea not disclose the nature of the mind's con-
nection with matter, no means remain of arriving at phi-
losophical conclusions on these points; and speenlative rea-
eoning concerning them, although it may amuse the fancy,
cannot instruct the judgment. Mr STEWART justly ob-
eerves, "that the metaphysical opinions which we may hap-
pen to have formed concerning the nature either of body or
of mind, and the efficient causes by which their phenomena
are produced, have no necessary connection with our in-
quiries concerning the laws according to which the phe-
nomena take place." " Whether, for example, the caue
of gravitation be material or immaterial, is a point about
which two Newtonian& may di1Fer, while they agree per-
fectly in their physical opinions. It is sufficient if both
admit the general fact, that bodies tend to approach each
other, with a force varying with their mutual distance,
according to a certain law. In like manner, in the study
of the human mind, the conclusions .to which we are ~
by a careful examination of the phenome~ it exhibit41,
have no neceasary connection with our opinions concerning
its flllture an4 euence."-Elements, vol. i. Introduction. Th~
object of phrenology is to discover the Faculties of the
Human Mind; the organs by means of whieh .they are
manifested; and the inftuence.ef the organa 011 \lle manifes-
tauons. · It doea not enable us to predict actions.
A mental organ is a material instrument, by meana:of
which the Mind in this life maaifests a particular power. JW
GALL's discovery leads us to view the B~ 88 a coagpries
of such organs, and in the lntroducti~n, reasons have beEIO
astigned for regarding this proposition 88 sufficiently pro-
Digitized by Google
OF THE SYSTEM. 67
bable, to justify an inquiry into the direct evidence by
which it is supported. For the purpose of comparing men-
tal fBeulties with cerebral development, it is neceeury to
shew, Ill, That the mental qualities of individuals cnn be
discovered; and, 2dly, That the size of different pu18 of
the brain can be ascertained during life.
lat, DiacrinaiMtion of mental1Npo8itiou arul Talent&-
In regard to the Feelinga, men praetiaed in the business of ('
life have observed, that one individual is strongly addicted
to covetousness,-another to cruelty,--another to benevc.-
lence,-another to pride,--another to vanity; and they are
acc.-ustomed to regard these dispositions as natural, unifonn,
and permanent. They have never believed, that a man,
by aa eft'ort of the will, can totally change his nature, or
that the true character is so little manifested, that a person
may be prone to benevolence to-day, who yesterday was
addicted to avarice; that one who is now sinking in the
lowest abasement of self-humiliation in his own eyei., may
tD-morrow become conceited, confident and proud ; or that
tD-day an individual may be deaf to the voice of ceJHJUre or
of Came, who yesterday wu tremblingly alive to every
breath that was blown upon his charaCter. Nay, they have
even regarded these dispO&Riens as independent of ODe an-
other, and separable; for they have often found that the
~n of one' was not aeeompan.ied with the preseaoe
olthe whole. Hence, in addressing any individual, they have
been iu the custom of modifyiug their conduct, aceording to
their previous Jmowledge of his dispositions or genius, ob-
tained by observing his actions. To the covetous man they
address one motive; to the benevolent another ; to ibe
proud a third; and to the vain a fourth. When they wish
to move euoh individuals to act, they apeak to the 6m, qf
AU pv80itlll ittl£rut; to the aecond, qf tile pl«urge qf doing
gootl; to tlle third, qftile n«U1it7J qfpruerving Au own dig-
'llitfl ; and to \he fourth, qf tie great prai&e that will attend
tile performance of the action recoiiUDended.
E2
Digitized by Google
68 ON THE PRINCIPLES
As to intellectual endowments, a person who has heard,
for the most fleeting moment, the bursts of melody which
flow from the throat of CATALANI, cannot be deceived as
to the fact of her possessing a great endowment of the fa-
culty of Tune ; he who has listened but for a few minutes
to the splendid eloquence of CHALMERS, can have no doubt
that he is gifted with Ideality; and he who has studied the
writings of Dr THOMAS BROWN, cannot hesitate as to his
having manifested profound discriminative and analytic
talent. In surveying the prodigies performed by some in-
dividuals in mechanics, poetry, painting, and sculpture, it
ia equally impossible to doubt the existence of particular
powers, conferring capacities for excelling in these dift'erent
branches ofart. hisequallyeasyto find individuals, in whom
these various powers are as indubitably deficient. Hence
the difficulties of determining the existence of particular
intellectual talents, and their degrees ofstrength, are not un-
surmountable; especially if extreme eases be sought for,
and these, as the instantia ostentiva, ought to be first re-
sorted to. Men of observation have acted on these prin-
ciples without hesitation, and without injury to themselves.
They havet not designed for the orchestra, the individual
whom they found incapable of distinguishing betwixt a
rude noise and a melodioos sound, on the notion, that " a
genius for muaic" might be " acquired by habits of study
or of business." They do not place in difficult situations,
requiring great penetration and much sagacity, individuals
who cannot trace consequences beyond the stretch of three
ideaa: nor do they conceive, that a man, who has no intel-
lectual capacity to-day, may become a genius to-morrow,
or in ten years hence, by an effort of the will.
They, no doubt, have always observed, that the faculties
are developed in succession; that the child is not in posaes-
aion of the powers of the full grown man ; and that, hence,
a boy may be dull at ten, who may turn out a genius at
twentf y.ears of age, when his powers are fully unfolded by
timeL But they do not imagine that every boy may be
Digitized by Google
OF THE SYSTEM. 69
made a genius, by habits of study or of business ; nor be-
lieve, that, after the faculties are fully developed, any indi-
vidual may, by exeriions of the will, become great in a de-
partment of philosophy or science, for which he had pre-
viously no natural capacity. They have observed, that
cultivation strengthens powers, in themselves vigorous ;
but they have not found that education can render emi~
nently energetic, dispositions or capacities which nature
bas created feeble. On the other hand, they have remarked,
that, where Nature has bestowed a powerful disposition or
capacity of a particular kind, it will hold the predominant
sway iD the character during life, notwithstanding every
effort to eradicate or subdue it. They have noticed, too,
that where Nature has bestowed, in an eminent degree, the
faculties which constitute genius, the individual will mani-
fest his native superiority, in spite of great obstacles aris-
ing from circumstances or situation. The lives of poets,
painters, and artists, in every age, display examples of the
truth of this observation. ·
An individual, no doubt, may do particular actionS, or
even for a time follow a course of action, the same in ex-
ternal appearance, from difFerent internal motives. But
few men can pass their whole Jives in disguise, or acquire
the art of acting in the business and enjoyments of life, 80
habitually and 80 skilfully, a~ not to allow their true cha-
racters to appear to those who are placed in a favourable si-
tuation to observe them; or, if there be persons who do pos-
&e88 this power of dissimulation, it forms the predominant
feature in their mental constitution; and, as will afterwards
be shewn, it isindicated by a particular form oforganization.
But, farther, let it be observed, that it is only in so far as
the propensitiu and sentiments of our nature are concerned,
-that disguise is poBBible, even in a single case. In every
act that depends on the knowing and reSecting faculties,
it is abaolutely impracticable. No man can either write
logical discourses, or trace profoundly an abstract prin-
eiple, who has not powerful reflecting faculties. No one
Digitized by Google
70 'ON THE PRINCIPLES OJ:<"' THE SYSTEM.
am oompoee aquiai&e muaic, :who.has not ihe faculty of
Tune, or write exquiaite poetry, who has tWI ihe eentiment
of Idea!Ky. When, therefore, we ·perceive, even with the
most tl'81Wient glance, such acts ~ be ped'ormed, we have
evidence, iuauperable and irresistible, of the existence. of
the faculties which produce ihem.
These opinioue have been entertained by persons conver-
IIUlt with eoeiety, not in coneequence of logical deduction
or metaphysical iaveetigatione, but from .the observation of
plain facta, preeented to the cognizance of their understand-
ings.
Thus fortified, I venture to conclude that the first point
is established in favour of Phrenology, viz. that it .is possi-
ble, by accurate, .patient, and continued observation of ac-
tions, to discover the true dispositions and capacities which
individuals poeseae. As this philosophy is founded on a
comparison betwixt the manifestation• of these faculties,
and the development of the brain, the 8eC6fld point to be
ascertained is, Whether it be possible, in general, to dis-
cover tile true form qf tile brain, by observing the figure of
the bead.
OF THE BRAIN, CEREBELLUM, AND SKULL.
THE Anatomy of the Brain is minutely described by Dr
SPURZHEIM, in hie anatomical work. It is not indispen-
sably necessary, although highly advantageous, to become
acquainted with it, in order to become a practical phreno-
logist. A brief description of its general appearance will
suffice to convey an idea of it to the non-medical reader.
The proper subjects for observation are healthy individuals
below the middle period of life. The brain, stript. of its
outer covering the dura mater, is represented in figures 1.
and 2. TheMe figures and the accompanying descriptione,
are not intended for anatomical purposes ; the sole object of
them is to convey some conception of the appearance of the
brain, to readers who have no opportunity of seeing it in
nature.
Digitized by Google
OF THE BRAIN, CEREBELLUM, AND SJ[ULL. 71
FIG. 1.
A
Figure J. reprellllltl the upper mr&ce of the bn1D, lltript ofmem-
brule J the llkull, through the middle part ofwhich a horizontal eec:-
&ioa II ..de, IIUftOUIIdait. The front II at A1 and thel1De A B il the
dl'riliOD between the two bemilphera. A strong membrane called
the &lcitbrm proceea otthe tlurG ..,.,., represented on page 78, de..
·IIC8Dds into it ; and lol'JIII the partition. It goes down only about
two.Wrds of the depth; below which the two hemilpheres are
jeiaedtosetherby flbnll which croll, forming what II called the .,._
,.. ,..._ The waving lines are the convolutionl, the t'urron
between whicb de~eeJ~d from half an 1nch to an i.Dch in depth.
When waercntlec:ta in the internal partl they are unlolded, and the
bn1n preMDtl a uniform IUrface of great extent. The puts eeen
in thil ftRure are all compoeed externally ofcineritioua mbetance.
2
Digitized by Google
72 OF THE BRAIN, CEREBELLUM,
FIG. 2.
Figure I. represents the base of the brain taken out ctf Ute skulL
This figure has been copied from a dift'erent brain from that repre·
sented in figure 1. It is longer and narrower. The divislCin Into
hemispheres does not descend to the base. Anatomists, for the
sake ofgiving precision to descriptions, divide the brain Into three
lobes, called the anterior, middle, and posterior. The parts before
AA are called the frontal or anterior lobe; the parts behind CC, the
posterior lobe; and the parts between them, the middle lobe. Ana..
tomlsts draw lines from AA and CC directly up the sides, and over
the upper mrface of the brain, tlll they meet at the top, and in·
elude in the dift'erent lobes the whole parts eo mapped out; but the
lines are imaginary, aDd like those of latitude and longitude on a
globe, are introduced merely to indicate the localities of the parts.
The convolutions before AA lie chiefly on the bones which form
the roofs of t.be sockets of the eye-balls. The convolutlon11 be.
tween A and C lie chiefly above the ear. U D is the cenbellum.
Digitized by Google
\"
AND SKULL. 71
E 11 the IINIIullo ~ whkh duriDg life delcenda abnoet perpell•
diclllarly from the brain, and joins with the top of the epinal mar-
row.
The BRAIN is a ID8.88 of sot\ matter, not homogeneous, bnt
preeenting different appearances. Part of it is white in
colour, fibrous or striated in texture, arranged in linea dis-
tantly resembling the outer surface of a cockle-shell. Thia
is generally named medullary 8ti1Jitance, and abounds moat in
the interior. The other matter is of a grey colour, and
1uuJ no fibrous appearance. It is called cineritious, from
the similarity of its hue to that of ashes, and sometimes
cortical, from its supposed resemblance to bark. It forme
the outer part of the brain. The cineritious substance does
not blend gradually with the white medullary matter, but,
on the contrary, the line of distinction is abrupt. The ci-
neritious seems to have a greatn proportion of blood cir-
culating in it than tho medullary. There i~ no fat or adi-
~ e sub tance within the skull, ~tho~~ghTi·~~·aq~ e~~
other art of the body.
The brain consist of two hemispheres, separated by a
strong membrane, called the Falciform process of the dura
mater. Each hemisphere is divided into three lobes, the
anterior, middle, and posterior. The cerebellum is dis-
tinct from, but connected with, the brain. Mr BELL ob-
serves •, that "whatever we observe on one side has a cor-
responding part on the other; and an exact resemblance and
symmetry t is preserved in all the lateral divisions of the
brain. And so, if we take the proof of anatomy, we must
admit, that, as the nerves are double, and the organs of
sense double, so is the brain double ; and every sensation
• Anatomy of the Brain, ii. S8l.
t This statement of Mr BELL is not rlgldly correct. There is a gene-
ral correspondence between the parts on the oppot'ite aides or the brain.
but not "an exact symmetry," In the strict sense of these word& The
approximation to symmetry Is about u great u between the bloodves~elt
iD the r!Jht and left arms.
Digitized by Google
74 OF THE BRAIN, CEREBELLUM,
conveyed ~ the brain is conveyed to the two lateral parts,
arielthe operations peifomied must be done in both lateral
portions at the same moment."
The two hemispheres, and of course the organs of each
aide, are brought into communication and co-operation by
fibres running transversely; these are called the corpu
callosum, and the Anterior and Posterior commissure&
The cerebellum and brain are only slightly and indirectly
connected.
The gr~~t_
_
«;»(~~~-!s
-~~~itllte o!_ ~w§~-!_ility:
1~.!!!8..!_~~J!!~.r~_or cut wit~Q"!lt the__pat~~qt .~J~~Jl'e,
~1-~~1~~ of~ pain, that it is suffering_,m.i,u!I:, Mr
BELL' mentions, that he "had his finger deep in the ante-
rior lobes of the brain, when the patient, being at the same
time acutely sensible, and capable of expressing himself,
complained only of the integument." So far from thjnking
the parts of the brain which are insensible, to be parts in-
ferior in function (as every part has ita use), Mr BELL
states, that, even from this, he should be led to imagine
that they bad a higher office, namely, that they were more
allied to intellectual operations. The wide diB'erence of
function betwixt a part destined to receive impresai~~s,
and a part which is the seat of thought, is in accordab.ce
with the presence of sensibility in some parts of the brain,
and ita absence in others.
The external substance of the brain is arranged in con-
volutions or folds. The convolutions appear Jn~nded for
' the purpose of increasing the snperfieial extent of the brain,
with the least possible enlargement of ita absolute size ;
an arrangement ·analogous to that employed in the eye of
the eagle and falcon, in which the retina does not form a
continuous line, as in man and quadrupeds, bnt is present-
ed in folds to the rays of light, whereby the intensity of
vision is incre8sed in proportion to the extent of nervous
surface exposed to their influence. The rolling up of the
substance of the brain in folds in a similar manner, strong-
Digitized by Google
AND SKULL. 75
ly ·
..indicate& that .e:s:tent .of Jlurfaee is hi,hly important
io ita functions. In certain. low cl888e8 ef the hilerior
animals, there are no convolutions. As we ascend in tho
acale of beings, they ioereaae, " ancl in man above all
Qtber animals, are the convolutions numet'9us, and the
ltdt:i (or fulTOW8) deep, and, consequently, the cineritious
J~~Pe; greld, and ita e:s:tension of surface far beyond thi.t of
all other creatures."-Bell• 4ntJL ii. 886.
The cineritious matter is extended over all the upper,
lateral, and over part of the inferior surfaces of the brain :
the white or medullary matter lies within it, and in some
places in intimate combination with it. Medullary fibres
run from the convolutions of the brain upon one siae to
the eonvolutions on the other. These are called commia-
IIWU. "Un1eas," says Mr BELL, "the cineritious masses
were important organs, why should there be commissure&
or nerves forming a distinct system, arising and terminat-
ing in nothing? But if we take them 88 commissure&, i. e.
bonds of union betwixt the corresponding sides of the great
organ of the mind, we at once perceive how careful nature
is to unite the two lateral organs together, and out of two
Ollfl!l& to make ONE MORE PERFECT."-P. 886.
£Ach side of the brain, and also the cerebellum, are sup-
pliecl with separate arteries conveying the blood to them ;
but the sinuses or canals, by means of which the blood is
returned to the heart, are common to them all.
The CEREBELLUM is composed of the same nervous mat-
ter.with the brain, and presents both cineritious and me-
d.uUiiry matter; but, in form and internal arrangement, it
is quite unlike the brain. The cerebellum is separated
from the brain by a strong membrane, called the tentorium:
in animal• which ieap, 88 the cat and tiger, the separation
is produced by a thin plate of bone. Its fibres, however,
originate in.that part of the medulla oblongata called the
corpora rem.formia, from which also the organs of several
feelings or propensities arise ; so that the brain and cere·-
Digitized by Google
76 OF THE INTEGUMENTS
bellum, although separated by the tentorium, are both con-
nected with the m«lulla ohlongata, and through it with eaeh
other.
The MEDULLA OBLONGATA is sometimes spoken of 88 one
of the three great divisions of the brain. It is, in fact,
the part from which the fibrous matter of the brain and
cerebellum proeeeda, and it forma, 88 it were, the capital
of the column of the spinal marrow.
OF THE INTEGUMENTS OF THE DRAIN.
THE brain is formed before the bones which invest it.
The oaaification of the bones of the skull is a gradual pro-
eesa. The brain already formed is invested with strong
membranes, and betwixt the eoata of the outer membrane
the points of oaaification commence, which proeeaa ia not
completed until the ninth year.
Doring life, the brain is embraced in ita whole periphe-
ral extent by a very thin transparent and delicate mem-
' brane called the pia mater, which ainka down into ita fur-
rows, and serves to convey the bloodvesaela to ita dift'erent
parts. Immediately above the pia 11Uitw, is an extremely
thin membrane, named the tunica aracl&tWitlea, on account
ofita extreme tenuity, resembling a spiders web. It covers
the surface of the brain uniformly without passing into ita
fulda or cavities. It secretes matter, to lubricate the sur-
faces of the pia and dura mater. The dura mater is also a
1 thin but strong opaque membrane lining and strongly
adhering to the inner surface of the skull, and which
embraces the outer surface of the brain above the mem-
brane last mentioned. When in health it does not poa·
aeaa aenaibility, and bas been pricked without causing
pain. All these membranes are pliant in the highest de-
gree, and accommodate themselves precisely to the figure of
Digitized by Google
OF THE BRAIN. 77
the brain. The brain, enclosed in them, fills exactly the
interior of the skull; 80 that a caet, in plaeter, of the in-
terior of the skull, i& a flU! Bimile of the brain, covered
by the dura mater. Between the dura mater and brain a
very unall quantity of fluid i& &aid to exist ; but not ex-
ceeding a line in thickness. This fluid does not, in any
degree that can be distinguished by the band or eye, cause
the form of the interior of the skull to dift'er from the form
of the exterior of the brain enveloped by the dura mater.
The skull is not an adamantine barrier, confining the brain
within epecific boundaries; but a strong, yet yielding cover-
ing, &hielding it, and accommodating it~w.lf to it& size, while
in the progreu of it& growth. It resembles, in this respect,
the shell of a crab or of a snail. At birth, it is small ; it
increases as the brain increase&; and it stope in develop-
ment, when the brain has attained it& full size. A proee&&
of absorption and deposition goes continually on in itli sub-
atance; 80 that, if the brain pre&&e& from within, the reno-
vating particles arrange themselves according to this pres-
sure, and thus the figure of the skull and of the brain in
general correspond. The figures represent the skull at
birth and at maturity respectively.
SltVLL 4T BI&TB. ADVL'l' 8JtVLL.
A
c
llsutures. B mutotd procetll or bony pntjection behind the ear.
C procete ofthe occipital spine.
Digitized by Google
78 OF THE INTEGUMENTS
The skull is composed·of eight bones, for the most )l8l't
joined by indented edges (AA in figures p. 77), like dove-
tailing in carpenter-work. The lines ofjunction are named
Sutures •.
This figure represents the two sides of the skull cut away, down
nearly to the level of the eyebrow, leaving a narrow ridge in the
middle of the top standing. AAA is the edge of the skull, resem-
bling an arch. The outer surface is called the outer table, the
Inner surface the inner table ; the fine waving lines or net-wort
betweeu them, like ceU.in a marrow-bone, is the dlploi. The sub-
. 11tance hanging down from the skull, having delicate lines traced
on it, like the sap.veaeels in leaves, is the membrane which eepa.
ratell the two halves of the brain. It is called the &lciftmn proce81
of the dura __., from its resemblance to a scythe. The lines are
the bloodveseels; tJw blood returning from the brain to the heart,
goes up theee vesaels into a canal formed by the membrane all
along the line of its attachment to the skull. The courae of the
blood through the canalis from the front bactW'IU'Ib, and then down.
ward& The two hemispheres of the brain are completely sepa-
rated, u far u thi11 membrane extends in the cut : At the lower
edge of It a white spece appears, and the commillllure, or collection
of ftbrt!f wnicfi unitell the two sides, goes through that space. The
cere&elium litis at c; in a part of the lkull not opened. The mem-
bnmi; Ql1 r~hing the point at C, spresds out to the right and
left; aii:i rQrt~ f6rw&bl, and eeparatell the cerebellum from the
b~ ; t~e hi-lutllyWg above, and the cerebellum below it. B is
the mutoid process, or bone to which the mutoid muscles of the
neck are attached. It lies lJnmedlately behind the ·opening of the
ear, and is not connected with the brain.
The external and internal smooth surfaces of the bones
• Mr Lv:u: O'NJ:tLL eells a cut or the atull, accompanied by an ex-
planatory card, pointing out all the bones, sutures, and processes, with
their names ; •hlch will render the subject more intelligible than any de-
scription.
Digitized by Google
0~' THE BRAIN. 79
of the skull, are called their external and internal tahlu,
or plate8, to distinguish them from the intermediate part
called the diploe, which is of a .looser and somewhat cellular
texture, resembling the internal structure of the bones.
AJJ the diploe is nearly equally thick in every part, it fol-
lows that the two tables of the skull are nearly parallel to
each other. The internal, indeed, bears some slight im-
preBIIions of bloodve&~~els, glands, &c., which do not appear
externally, but these are so small as not to interfere with
phrenological observations. The departure from perfect
parallelism, where it occurs, is limited to a line, .
,.t17th or tth
of an inch, according to the age and health of the indivi.
dual. The dift"erence in development between a large and
a small organ of the propensities and some of the senti-
menta, amounts to an inch and upwards; and to a quarter
of an inch in the organs of intellect, which are naturally
1maller than the others.
The integuments which cover the skull on the outside,
indilpu.tably lie close upon its surface, and are so complete-
ly parallel, as to exhibit its true figure. Thus, then, there
is no obstacle in general to the discovery of the figure of
the braiJl, by observations on the form of the skull.
.This doctrine has been disputed by many opponents of
piJreuology; but the greatest anatomists have taught it.
MAoENDIE, in his Compendium of Physiology, says, that
" the only way of estimating the txJlume of tAe brain in a
living person, ia to metJ8W"e tAe dimensionB oftAe aAull; every
other means, even that proposed by Camper, is uncertain."
-Milligmia 'lranalation, p. 104.
Mr CHARLES BELL also observes, "Thus, we find that the
bone~ of the head are moulded to the brain, and the peculiar
ahape1 ofthe bones of the head are determined by the original
peculiarity in the ahape of the brain •. Dr GoRDON, also,
• IWI'• .4MI.ti. SOO. 11& BzLL adda ln foot note, "Cert.alnly the skull
wadapted to the form of the brain, but there is a deeper question, which
our crullologlats have tbrgotten,-Is t.he brain CODIItituted ln llhape with
• reference to the futuze form of the head P" It II cWilcult to see the
Digitized by Google
80 OF THE INTEGUMENTS.
in the 49th Number of the Edinburgh Review, has the fol-
lowing words : " But we will acquiesce implicitly for the
present in the proposition (familiar to physiologists long
before the age of GALL and SPURZHEIM), that there is, in
most instances, a general correspondence between the size
of the cranium and the quantity of cerebrum ; that large
heads usually contain large brains, and small beads small
brains."-P. 246.
There are, ,however, cases in which it is not possible to
discover the form of the brain by examining the skull.
These are instances of disease and old age. In disease, the
skull may be enlarged or diminished in volume, by causes
other than the development of the brain; and in old age,
the inner table of the skull sometimes sinks, while the outer
table preserves its original size ; in such individoalt!, the
true development of the brain cannot be accurately infer-
red from the development of the head.
There are parts at the base of the brain, in the middle and
posterior regions, the size of which cannot be discovered du-
ring life, and whose functions in consequence are still un-
known. From analogy, and from some pathological facts,
they are supposed to be the organs of the sensations of
Hunger and Thirst, Heat and Cold, and of some other men-
tal affections, for which cerebral organs have not been dis-
covered ; but demonstrative evidence to this efFect being
wanting, this conjecture is merely stated to incite to farther
investigation.
The sutures also interrupt the absolute parallelism ; but
importance of this question. Phrenologiats maintain that, d6 facto, at every
period previous to the decllne of llfe, the ekull u adapted to the form of
the brain ; thai. it meieuee in llize when the brain enlarges, and de-
c:reuea when it dimlnlahes. I have eeen one striking instance of the
akull decreaal.ng with the brain ; it occurred in an individual who died at
the age of thirty-two, after having laboured under chronic inllanity for
upwarda of ten yeare, and whOM mental weakneee augmented in propor-
tion to the diminution of his brain and shrinking of the ekull. The di.
minution'ofhis bead in llize attracted his own attention during life. His
brain was dileected by Dr A. Co•u after death--See this cue fully re.
perted in the Phra. Joum. voL iv. 496.
Digitized by Google
SUTUREs-FRONTAL SINUS. 81
\heir situation is known, and only one of them, called the
Lambdoidal, where it pasaes over the organ of Concentra-
tiveness, presents any difficulty to the student. The sagittal
suture, which runs longitudinally from the middle of the
crown of the head forwards and downwards, sometimes so
low as the top of the nose, occasionally presents a narrow
prominent ridge, which is sometimes mistaken for develop-
ment of the organs of Benevolence, Veneration, Firmness,
and Self-esteem. It may, however, be easily distinguished
by its narrowness and isolation, from the full broad swell of
cerebral development. In anatomy, projecting bony points
are called Processes. The mastoid process of the temporal
bone, Bin figure, p. 77., which is a small knob immediately
behind the ear, serving for the attachment of a muscle, is
sometimes mistaken for the indication of large Combative-
ness. It is, however, merely a bony prominence, and is to
be found in every head, and does not indicate development
of brain at all. Another process C, called in anatomy the
spinous process of the transverse ridge of the occipital bone,
requires to be known. Phrenologists generally name it
ahortly the occipital spine, and its situation is indicated by
C in the figure, p. 77.
There is one part of the skull where the extemal configu-
ration does not always indicate exactly the si7.e of the subja-
cent parts of the brain, and upon which objections have
been raised, viz. at the top of the nose.
TBK PRONT.U. SIN118•
.'7
'
The frontal sinus Ia the dark bole above the n01e. Tbla repl'\!8eDt8
it in ne individual. It Ia eometimes larger and sometimes smalleT.
At the part of the frontal bone immediately above the
top of the nose, a divergence from parallelism is some-
timee produced by the existence of a small cavity called
F
Digitized by Google
82 FRONTAL SINUS.
the frontal linus. It is formed between the two ploJa or
tahle1 of the bone, either by the external table swelling
out a little, without being followed by the internal, and
presenting an appearance like that of a blister on a biB-
emit, or by the internal table sinking in without being fol-
lowed by the external; and hence, as the outer surface does
not indicate the precise degree of development of brain be-
neath, it baa been argued that the existence of a frontal si-
nus is an insuperable objection to Phrenology in general,
becaUBe it throws so much uncertainty in the way of our.
observations as completely to destroy their value ; other
opponents. however, more rationally, confine their objection
to those organs only over which the sinus extends.
The first objection is manifestly untenable. Even grant-
ing the sinus to be an insuperable obstacle in the way of as-
certaining the development of the organs over which it is si-
tuated, it may be observed, firBt, That, in ordinary cases, it
interferes with only a few, viz. Form, Size, Weight, Irrdi-
riduality, and Locality; and, 2dlg, It cannot interfere with
the other thirty or thirty-one organs, the whole external
appearances of which it leaves as unaltered 88 if it did not
at all exist. It would be quite as logical to speak of a
snow-storm in Norway obstructing the high road from Edin-
burgh to London, as of a small sinus ~t the top of the noee
concealing the developments of Benevolence, Firmness, or
Veneration, on the crown of the head.
To enable the reader to form a correct estimate of the
value of the objection as applicable to the individual or-
gans particularly referred to, I subjoin a few observations.
In the first place, Below the age of twelve or fourteen,
the sinus, if it exists at all, rarely extends so high 88 the
base of the brain; 2dlg, In adult age, it frequently oc-
curs to the extent above admitted• ; and, Sdly, In old age,
• This may eeem at variance with a statement given in the ftnt edition
uf tbia work, 011 the authurity of a friend in Paris, who, in the course of
many mnDtbs• dlseectiOIJI, had never tbuud a frontal aiDus except in old
age and In dileale. In uwlng open the alo&U for aDMomlcal purpc111e1t
Digitized by Google
FRO!Ii!TAL SINUS.
and in disem;e, 88 chronic idiocy and insanity, it is often of
very great extent, owing to the brain diminishing in size,
and the inner table of the skull following it, while the
outeP remains stationary. Now, the first casea present no
objection, for in them the sinua does not exist so as to in-
terfere with the observation of the size of the brain ; the
third are inatances of disease, which are uniformly excluded
in phrenological observations; and thus our attention is
limited solely to the cases forming the &eCOnd class. In re-
gard to them the objection is, that large development of
brain, and large frontal ainu.a, preaent eo nearly the l!Uile
appearance that we cannot be sore which is which, and,
therefore, that our observations muat be ineonclosive.
To this the following 8JUIWer is given :-1#, We muat
distinguish between the possibility ofdillt::overing tl&ej'wlcl:il;u
ofan organ, and of applying this discoverypractically in all
cases, so as to be able, in every instance, to predicate the
~t degrees in which every particular mental power is
present in each individual. ·The sinua does not in general
extend 88 high as the base of the brain until after the age of
twelve or fourteen, before which is precisely the period
when Individuality is moat conspicuoualy active in the
mind. If, then, in children, in whom no sinua exists, that
mental poweris observed to be strong when the part of the
head ia large, and weak when it is small, we ascenain the
function, whatever IDRY subsequently embarrass us. If,
in after-life, the ainu comes to exist, this throwa a certain
impediment in the way of the practical application of our
knowledge; and, accordingly, phrenologists admit a diffi-
eulty in determining the exact degree of mental power,
which, in adult age, will accompany any particular develop-
the section is almost always made horizontally through the middle or \he
f'orehead, or owr the organs of Tww, TimB, and E~; and iD all
the cuee alluded to by the gentleman in Paris, this line wu followed, and
u the sinus rarely extends so high up, he could not, and did not, meet
'!Vith it. On examining vertical sections, however, for the purpose ofsee-
ing the sinus, he has sinet' frequently found it to the estent mentioned In
the l.ftt.
F 2
oigi!lzed by Coogle
84r FRONTAL SINUS·
ment of the organs lying immediately above t.he top of the
nose, except in extreme instances, in which even the sinus
itselfwill form buta small fraction of the difference between
great development and deficiency. In t.he next place, the
objection applies tmly to one set of cases. If there be a
hollow or depre88ion in the external surface of the skull at
the situation of the organs in question, and the sinus be ab-
sent, then the organ must nece888rily be deficient in pro-
portion to the depression. If, with such an external appear~
ance, the sinus be present, which is not generally the case,
but which, for the sake of argument, I shall suppose, then
it must be formed by the inner table receding more than
the outer table; and hence a greater deficiency of prgan will
actually exist than is externally indicated ; and, of course,
the deficieacy Gf mental power will be at ktut equ.al to the
externalindication ef deficiency in t.he organ. In cases of
this'kind, therefore, the sinus forms no objection. Thus
the only instanoes in.which it can occasion embarrassment
are those in which it causes a swelling of the parts of the
sknll in question outward, to which there is no correspon•
ing development of- brain within. Now if, in all cases in
you•, when no sinus exis~ sad in all cases in mature age
in which a depression is found, the mental power is ascer-
tained to correspond·with the external development ; ud
if,' in certain cases, in adult age, an external mdication
appears to which the mental power does not correspond,
what conclusion falls to be drawn according to the rules of
a correct logic? Not that the functions of the parts are
uncertain ; because they have been ascertained in cases not
liable to impediment or objection ; but only that, in the par-
ticular cases in mature age, in which the external develop-
ment is large, and the corresponding power absent, lhere
mfMlt be afranlal linus.
Finally, by practice in observing, it is possible, in gene--
ral, to distinguish between external appearances produced
by frontal sinus, and those indicating a large development
of organs. In thefirst instance, the forms of the elevatious
oigi!lzed by Coogle
APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES. 8S
are irregu]ar ; in the aectmd, they are symmetrical, and eOl'-
reepond to the shapes of the organs delineated on the bust&
If, then, men in general manifest their true and natural
sentiments and capacities in their actions; and if, in healthy
individuals, the form of the brain may be discovered, by
observing the figure of the head, it follows that the true
faculties, and the true development, may be .compared in
living subjects ; and, on these grounds, the proposition is
established, That the Phrenological mode of philosophising
is competent to enable us to attain the results sought for.
PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES OF
PHRENOLOGY.
IT has already been mentioned, that there are two he-
mispheres of the brain, corresponding in form and func-
tions. There are, therefore, two organs for each mental
power ; one in each hemisphere. Each organ extends from
the medulla oblongata, or top of the spinal marrow, to the
surface of the brain or cerebellum; and every individual
poaesaesall the organs in a greater or les&el" degree. When
the two organs of a faculty are situated immediately on
the sides of the middle line separating the hemispheres,
they are included in one space on the busts and plates.
To save circumlocution, the expression, " organ" of a
faculty will be used, but both organs will be thereby
meant.
The brain is not divided by lines corresponding to those
delineated on the busts; but the forms aasumed by its cillFe-
rent parts, when extremely large or small, exactly resemble
those there represented. Each part -
is inferred to be a se-
parate organ ; because:ita size, etNeriaparibtu,·bears a regu-
lar proportion to the energy of a particular men&al power.
AI. size, c<Bleril parilnu, is a measure of power •, the first
• See Introduction, p. !3, 26, 26, 26, &c.
Digitized by Google
86 Al'Pl.ICATION 01-' l'lllNCIPJ.ES.
object ought to be to distinguilih the size of the brain ge-
nerally, so 88 to judge whether it be large enough to ad-
mit of manifestations of ordinary vigour; for if it be too
small, idiocy is an invariable consequence. The second
object should be to ascertain the relative proportions of the
difFerent parts, so 88 to determine the direction in which
the power is greatest. ·
It is proper to begin with observation of the more pal-
pable dift'erences in size, and particularly to attend to the
relative proportions of the dift'erent lobes. The size of the
anterior lobe is the measure of intellect. In the brain it i8
eaaily distinguished, and in the living head it is indicated
by the portion lying before Constructiveness and Benevo-
lence. Sometimes the lower part of the frontal lobe, con-
nected with the perceptive faculties, is the la.rgt'st, and this
is indicated by the line before Constructiveness, extending
farthest out at the base ; sometimes the upper part, con-
nected with the reflecting powers, is the most amply de-
veloped, which occurs when the line extends farthest in
the upper region ; sometimes both are equally developed.
The student is particularly requested to resort invariably
to this mode of estimating the size of the anterior lobe, 88
the best for avoiding ~istakes. In some individuals, and
in some Peruvian skulls in particular, the forehead is tole-
rably perpendicular, so that, seen in front, and judged of
without attending to depth, it appears to be largely de-
veloped; whereas, when viewed in the way now pointed
out, it is seen to be extremely shallow; in other words,
the mass is not large, and the intellectual manifestations
will be proportionately feeble.
The posterior lobe is devoted chiefly to the animal pro-
pensities. In the brain its size is easily distinguished; and
in the living head a line may be drawn perpendicularly
to the mastoid process, and aU behind will belong to the
.,-terior lobe. Wherever this and the basilar region are
large, the animal feelings will be strong, and vice versa.
Digitized by Google
REGIONS OF THE BRAIN. 87
The coronal region of the brain is the seat of the moral
aentiments ; and its size may be estimated by the extent of
elevation and expansion of the head above the organs of
Causality in the forehead, and of Cautiousnesa in the middle
of the parietal bonee. When the whole region of the brain
rising above these organs is shallow or narrow, the moral
. feelings will be weakly manifested ; when high and expand-
ed, they will be vigorously displayed.
PBOPIJ,:S OP BUBKB.
PBOJ'ILB OP BDB.
Digitized by Google
8tJ APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
l"BOPILB OP BJ:V. KB J(.
AU that lies '6l.forw line AA II the anterior lobe, or organs of the intellec-
tual facultiE'L It lllaJpr in th~ Reverend Mr M. than in the other
two. The epace ~ the horizontal dotted Une B marks the nglon
of the moraleentimenta: The apace from A backwards, below B, in-
dicates the nglon fl( the propensities, which in Buan and HAD
II much 1aJpr in proportion to the me of the moral and intellectual
ftgione than in the Reverend Mr M. Theee ftguree were drawn by
Mr JoSEPH, by the Cam~ Iucida, from eaeta from nature. If de-
duction be made for the thickneee of the integument. and skull in all
the three, the proportion of the moral nglons in Buns and Bnz to
the animal region will be very smalL
By observing the proportions of the difFerent regions, it
will be discovered, that, in some instances, the greater
ID888 of the brain lies between the ear and the forehead ;
in others between the ear and the occiput; and in others
above the eat'.:~n perpendicular height. Great difFerencett
in breadth are also remarkable ; some heads being narrow
throughout, ~d· some broad. Some are narrow before,
and broad behind, and vice ver8ll. The busts of the Re-
verend Mr M ., MARY MAciNNES, PALLET, and lliGGART,
may be contrasted with this view •.
• The Casta and Skulls; referred to in the subsequent pages, as illustrat-
ive of particular organs, are to be found in the collection of the Phreno.
Digitized by Google
LENGTH AND BREADTH OF ORGANS. 89
After becoming familiar with the general size and coo-
figuration of beads, the student may proceed to the observa-
tion qfindividual organs; and, in studying them, the real
dimensions, including both length and breadth, and not the
mere prominence of each organ, should be looked for.
In estimating the size of the organs, both length and
breadth must be attended to. Tbe length of an organ is as-
certained by the distance from the medulla obllmgata to the
peripheral surface. A line passing through the head from
one ear to the other, would nearly touch the medulla oblonga-
ta, ansl- hence the external opening of the ear is assumed
as a convenient point from which to eetimate length.
Tbe breadth of an organ is judged of by its peripheral
expansion ; and it is a general law of physiology, that the
breadth of any organ throughout its whole course, bears a
relation to its expansion at the 8Ul'face : the optic and ol-
factory nerves are examples in point. It has been objected
that the breadth of the organa cannot be ascertained, be-
cause the boundaries of them are not sufficieotJy determi-
nate.
In answer, I observe, that although the boundaries of the
ditFere~t organs cannot be determined with mathematical
precision, like those of a triangle, a square, or rhomboid;
yet, in a single case, an accurate observer may make a very
near approximation to the truth ; and, in a great multitude
of cases, the very doctrine of chances, and of the compen-
sation of errors, must satisfy any one that theee boundaries
may be defined with sufficient precision for all practical
purposes. Even in the exact sciences themselves, an ap-
proximate solution is frequentJy all that is attainable; and
i( the opponents would only make themaelves masters of
logical Society, which, by the liberality or the Society, Ia open to pubUc
iDipectloD, in their Hall, Clyde Street, Edinburgh, f!Very Saturday ~
One to Three o•clock.
Duplicak!l of moet of theee eaata and ekulla are exhibited and eold by
llr J.a.XEI DB VILLE, Strand, Loudon ; by Mellll'll LVJtE o·NBILL and
So•, Canougate, Edinburgh ; and by their asenta.
Digitized by Google
90 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
the binomial theorem, or pay a little attention to the e:xw
pansion of infinite series, they would not persist in calling
for a degree of accuracy which is impossible, or in neglect-
ing an important element in a calculation, because it is in-
volved in a certain liability to error within very narrow li-
mit& The absurdity of the reason assigned for this omis-
sion, is rendered still more apparent by the ease of the
prismatic spectrum, which I conceive to be euetly in
point. Now, what is it that this beautiful phenomenon
displays ? The seven primary colours, arranged in a pecu-
liar order, and glowing with an almost painful intensity.
But each of these colours occupies a certain space in rela-
tion to the whole, the boundaries of which it may be im-
possible for the hand or eye to trace with geometrical preci-
aion, although the relative spaee in question has neverthe-
le&:& been made the subject of measurement, and a very
close appro:ximation obtained from the mean of a vast
number of trials. According to the principle followed by
some antiphrenologists, however, breadtA should be alto-
gether neglected, because the boundaries of the respective
colours are, forsooth, " purely ideal," as if a mathematical
line were not the most perfect idealism or abstraction which
the mind of man can pouibly form. This idealism or ab-
straction, however, has no more to do with those approxi-
mations which may be obtained practieally by repeated
trials, than the mathematical definition of a line with a me-
tallic rod ; and it is a mere quibble to pretend, for example,
that we ought not to measure the length of the rod, be-
eause it may not correspond with the definition of the line.
Upon the strange principle which some opponents have
adopted, they must be prepared to maintain, that the boun-
daries of a hill or hillock are purely ideal, and depend in
~ instance on thefancg of the measurer •.
An organ may thus be likened to an inverted cone, with
its apex in the medulla, and its base at the surface of the
brain ; the broader the base and longer thediatance between
• CGWontan Mercvrr, 11th June 1829.
Digitized by Google
PHRENOLOGICAL BUST. 91
it and the apex, the greater will be the size, or the quantity
of matter which it will contain •. This simile, however,
is introduced merely 88 an illustration, and I do not 888ert
that the organs may be seen regularly disposed in the brain
in the ahape of conea. Hence, if the line from the ear to
the forehead be much larger than from the ear baekward,
and the breadth nearly the same, we infer that the organs
in the forehead predominate. If, on the other band, the
forehead be very narrow, 88 in THURTELL, and the hind-
head very broad, we hold the posterior organs to predo-
minate, although the length be the same in both directions.
The wllok organs in a head should be examined, and
their relative proportions noted. Errors may be committed
at first; but without practice, there will be no expertneBB.
Practice, with at least an average endowment of the organs
ofForm, Size, and Locality, are necessary to qualify a person
to make observations with success. IndividuaJs whose
beads are very narrow between the eyes, and little de-
velopedat the top of the nose, where these organs are placed,
• " There are many convolutioDS," eaye Dr SPVUIDI:rx, " in the mid-
dle line between the two hemiapheres of the brain, and others at the buie
and between the an\erior and middle lobes, which do not appear on the
IIUI'filce; but it MeiDl to me that a great. part, at least., of every organ doea
preeeut lUelf there, and flll'iher, that all the part.e of each organ are
equally developed, 10 that., though a portion only appear, the state of the
whole may be inferred. The whole cerebellum does not reach the skull,
yet U. functloDe may be determined from the part which doe& The
cerebral parts, el.tuated in the middle line between the hemispheres, seem
proportionate to the euperirscumbent convolutlona; at leut I have a}.
-Y• obeerved a proport.ion in the vertiad direction between them."-
P-....,, p. 116.
The cerebral parte, situated around " and behind the orbit, alto re.
quire tome care aDd espedeDce on the put of the phrenologist., to be
judged of IICCUrateiy. Their development le diJcoverable from the poe~
&.ion oC the eye-ball, and from the figure of the eupercllla.ry ridge. Ac.
cording u t.be eye-ball i.e prominent or hidden in the orbit, depre.ed or
pu8hed .Weward, inward, or outward, we may judge of the development
olt.be org~~~~ ei.tuated around and behind it."--16W. Particular dlrectl0111
tor oblerYiDg the parte there eltuated will be given, when treat.ing of the
relatin orgua.
Digitized by Google
91 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
experience great difficulty in dietinguishing the situations
and minute shades in the proportions of different organs.
(See Note as to Dr GALL, No. L of Appendix). If one
organ be much developed, and the neighbouring organs
very little, the developed organ will present an elevation or
protuberance; but if the neighbouring organs be developed
in proportion, no protuberance can be perceived, and the
surface is smooth. The student should learn from books,
plates, and casts, or personal instruction (and the last is by
far the best), to distinguish thefor.m of each organ, and its
appearance, when developed in different proportions to the
others, because there are slight modifications in the position
of them in each head.
The phrenological bust shews the situations of the organs,
and their proportions, only in one head; and it is impouible
by it to communicate more information •. The different
• Attempts have been made by opponents to repreeent certain changes,
In the numbering and marking of the organs In busts recently publlahed,
u " a Revolution in Phrenology." A brief explanation will place this
matter In it. true light. The phrenological built eold in the shops is
an ~head, the utility of which depends on the degree In which the
delineation of the organa on it approaches to the appearances t110il gefllnlll'
pretented by the oqpne In nature. The first bust eold In this country
e:r.hibited the organs u they would be found in a particular head, not
nry common in thle country, the built having been imperted from the
Continent, and national heads being modified u much u national featUN~.
On lit October 18t-6, a new bun wae publlehed in Edinburgh, In which
the delineation approached nearer to the appearanees and relative propor.
tiona preeeuted by the organa in this country. Su*'ueat ebeervation•
shewed that thle bust might be breught ltill more doeely to reeemble the
moat common prgportloos of the organa In Britain ; and, on 1st. April
18t9, certain modifications were made on it accordingly. The nature of
thle operation may be explalned by a eimple illuatration. Suppose that,
tn 1819, an artllt had modeUed a bust, reeembling, u cloeely u hie ekill
could reach, the ~ molt commonly met with ln Scotland, and that, to
ave the trouble of referring to the di1ferent features by name, he had at-
tached numbers to them, beginning at the chin, and calling it No. 1.,
and eo on up to the brow, which we may euppoee to he No. SS. In this bust
be would n~y give certain proportion~ to the eyes, nose, cheek,
mouth, and chin. But euppoee be were tocontinue hie obaervatlone for ftve
years, lt ll quite conceivable he might cume to be of opinion that, bY
Digitized by Google
FORMS OF ORGANS. 98
appearances in all the varietiesof relative size, mustbe die-
covered by inspecting a number of heads; and especially by
contrasting instances of extreme development with othen
of extreme deficiency. No adequate· idea of the foundation
of the aeienee can be formed until thia is done. In ease& of
extreme size of single organs, the fonn delineated in the
bust is distinctly perceived.
The question will perhaps occur, If the relative pro-
portions of the organs differ in each individual, and if the
phrenological bust represents only their moat common pro-
portiqn8, how are their boundaries to be distinguished in
any particular living head? The answer is, By their form~~
and appearance& Each organ baaa form, appearance, and
eituation, which it is possible, by practice, to distinguish,
in the living head, otherwise Phrenology cannot have any
foundation.
malting the noee a little shorter, the mouth a little longer, the cheeks a
little broader, and the chin a little sharper, he could bring the artificlal
face nearer to the """' fl6ftMGl form of the Scottish countenance; and that
he might arrange the,...,.,..ofthe featureswit.h greater philosophicalaccu-
rii!Y; and suppose he were to publish a new edition of his bult with theee
modifications of the features, and with the numeration changed so that
the mouth should be No. 1., and the chin No.&., and the brow No. S&.,
what should we think ofa critic who should announce theee alterations u
"a revolution" In human physiognomy, and 8ll8ert that, bec:auae the num-
bers were changed, the nose had obliterated the eyes, and the chin had
exUnguished the mouth P This is what the opponents have done In re-
gard to the new phrenological bust. In the modifications which have been
made on it, the essential forme and relative situations of all the organa
have been preeerved, and there is no inltance of the organ of Benevolence
being turned into that ofVeneration, or Veneration into Hope, any more
than, In the supp<lled new modelled face, the nose would be converted Into
the eyes, or the eyert Into the mouth.
In regard to the numeration, again, the changes are e:uctly analogous
to thoee which are before supp<Med to take place in regard to the features:
The organ of Ideality formerly was numbered 16, and now it is numbered
19, but the organ and function are nothing dift'erent on this account. Dr
Sruazazul adopted a new order of numbering, &om enlarged observa-
tion of the anatomical relation of the organs, and his improvements have
been adopted in Edinburgh and Dublin.
Digitized by Google
94 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
When one organ is very largely developed, it encroacl1es
on the space usuaJiy occupied by the neighbouring organs,
the relative situations of which are thereby slightly altered.
When this occurs, it may be distinguished by the greatest
prominence being near the centre of the large organ, and
the swelling extending over a portion only of t11e other.
In these cases the sll.ape should be attended to; for the form
of the organ is then easily recognised, and is a sure indica-
tion of the particular one which is largely developed. The
observer should leam, by inspecting a skull, to distinguish
the mastoid process behind the ear, as also bony excrescen-
ces sometimes formed by the sutures, several bony promi•
nencea which occur in every head, from elevation.' produced
by development of brain.
In observing the appear~ of individual organa, it is
proper to begin with the largest, and select extreme cases.
The mask of Mr JosEPH HuME may be contra.Sted with
that of Dr CHALMERS for Ideality ; the organ being much
larger in the former than in the latter. The casts of the
skulls of RAPHAEL and HAGGART may be compared at the
same part; the difFerence being eqoa11y conspicuous. The
cast of the Reverend Mr M. may be contrasted with that of
DEMPSEY, in the Love of ·Approbation ; the former having
this organ large, and the latter small. Self-Esteem in the
latter being exceedingly large, may be compared with the
same organ in the skuU of Dr HETTE, in whom Love of
Approbation is much larger than Self-Esteem. The organ
of Constructiveness in RAPHAEL may be compared with the
same organ in tl1e New Holland sknlls. Destructiveness
in BELLINGHAM may be compared with the same organ in
the skulls of the Hindoos ; the latter people being in gene-
ral tender of life. Firmness large, and Conscientiousness
deficient, in King RoBERT BRucE, may be compared with
the same organs reversed in the cast of the head of a lady
(Mrs H.), which is sold as illustrative of these organs.
The object of making these contrasts is to obtain an idea of
2
Digitized by Google
TERMS DENOTING SIZE. 95
the different appearances presented by organs, when very
large and very small.
The terms used to denote the gradations of size in the
difFerent organs, in an increasing ratio, are
Very small
Small
Rather small
Moderate
Bather full
Full
Rather large
Large
Very large.
Captain Ross has suggested, that numerals may be ap-
plied with advantage to the notation of development. He
uses decimals ; but these appear unnece88arily minute.
The end in view may be attained by such a scale as the
following:
1. 8. Rather small 16.
2. Idiocy 9. 16. Rather large
s. 10. Moderate 17.
4. very IIIIBll II. 18. Large
5. 1!. Rather full 19.
6. Small 13. 20. Very large
7. 14. Full
The intermediate figures denote intermediate degrees of
size, for which we have no names. The advantage of' adopt-
ing numerals would be, that the values of the extremes
being lmowo, we could judge accurately of' the dimeoaioos
denoted by the intermediate numbers; .whereas it is difficult
to apprehend precisely the degrees of magnitude indicated
by the term. email, full, large, &c. except we have seen
them applied by the individual lvho uses them.
The terms small, moderate, full, &c. indicate the rela-
tiTe proportions of the organs to each other in the same
bead ; but as the d.UFerent organs may bear the same pro-
portiooa in a sma\1 and in a large head, these terms do not
enable the reader to discover, whether the head treated of
be in its general magnitude small, moderate, or large. To
enpply this information, measurements by callipers are re-
IOI'ted to ; but these are used not to indicate the dimenaioos
of particular organs, for which purpose they are not adapt-
ed, but merely to designate the general size of the heacL
Digitized by Google
g6 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
The following are a few measurements from nature taken
promiscuously from many more in my possession.
Table ofMecuuremmts by CaJJipera.
.;,.;, 0
....... ~~.
..
Malee .~ ~ ~ ]. I 0 :s6 t-
o"P: .. o·~
·- .. 2A" ·- ... i
between .!:-,4~
~ .. ...:a ... 3 .. ... :;s
26 tlo:s "E~ till'!
~~ !!~
;;a ..., .
and
o ...., OS ~ .... Uo ...~
s .. ,;o ....... ss:: s=
s .. s .... s 1'1 ...
ai"'
60. c.S:a e.s e•:; e] e:s 0 ..
.. &::.s:: ~~ ~j.g e a1
~!
""oo ... ""~ ~:::., r-.1'11'1
I. 75 4i 4j 5t 5t s: 5j
8
2. 66 Sf 4' s: 5j s: 41
• 11"
3. 8ll 4J 55 6t 6~ 6 5i
8 11" 11"
4. 7~ 4 5 s: 6 s: 51
•
5. 8 4l 511 6J 61 6 !)ll
11" 1J
6. 8 41 4• 5l 51 s: 5i
Jr
7. 74. 4ll 40 5: 6l 5j 51
11" 1J ll
8. 7• 4f 48 51 57 s: 51
lJ 11" 8 11
9. 7• 411 47 6 !)6 s; 51
• 11" 11"
• 1J
10. 811 5 5i 5i 611 s: 54
11" ! lJ
ll. 711 41 5 sz 5~ 511 40
J ll 8 Jr
12. 7• 41 5 6 5• 5i 40
II 1J ll
13. 75 4ir 41 51 5• so 5'
11" I .8 II
14. 71 St 4f 5~ 611 sg 5
8
15. 75 4} 4l 6} 6 6 5
II
16. 7i 41 5~ 6 6J 5i 5f
17. '1l 4. 5i 6t 6• 6l 5i
ll
18. 7• 4l 5 5i 50 55 47
1J J 1J II
19. 8 4f 5: 6j 6 6 47
11"
20. 7 41 4j bl 51 511 4CI
1J 1J 11"
151f 86J 991 us: 119~ 113j l03J
Tol.al di-
}11
vided by
41 .f,l g 51~ l)ln !)!4. 5-,llu
20 gives IJU IJU IO 110
avefBae.
These measurements are taken above the muscular iDte-
guments, and shew the sizes of the different beads in these
directions ; but I repeat that they are not given as indica-
Digitized by Google
ABSOLUTE SIZE NO CRITERION. 97
tions of the dimensi0111J of any particular organs. The cal-
lipers are not suited for giving this latter information, for
they do not measure length from the medulla oblongata,
nor do they indicate breadth, both of which dimensions
must be attended to, in estimating the size of individual
organs. The new Craniometer is preferable for ascertain-
ing length, and. the breadth may be judged of by means of
the hand or eye. The average of these twenty heads will
be higher than that of the natives of Britain ~nerally, be-
cause there are severallar~ heads among them, and none
small.
It ought to be kept constantly in view, in the practical
application of Phrenology, that it is the size of each organ
in proportion to the others in the head of the individual ob-
~ and not their ahaolute size, or their size in refe-
rence to any standard head, that determines the predomi-
nance in him of particular talents or dispositions. Thus, in
the head of BELLINGHAM, Dutructiveneu is very large,
and the organs of the moral sentiments and intellect are
small in proportion; and according to the rule, that, cateris
paribul, size determines energy, BELLINGHAM's moet power-
ful tendencies are inferred to have been towards cruelty and
rage. In the skulls of several Hindoos, the organ of De-
structiveness is small in proportion to the others, and we
conclude, that the tendency of such individuals would be
weakest towards the foregoing passions. Bot in the head
of GoRDON, the murderer of the pedlar boy, the absolute
size ofDestructiveness is less than in the head of RAPHAEL ;
yet RAPHAEL was an amiable man of genius, and Goanok
an atrocious murderer. This illustrates the rule, that we
ought not to judge by absolute size. In GoRDON, the or-
gans of the moral sentiments and intellectual faculties
are small in proportion to that of Destructiveness, which
is the largest in the brain ; while in RAPHAEL, the mo-
ral and intellectual organs are large in proportion to
Destructiveness. On the foregoing principle, the moet
powerful manifestations of RAPHAEL's mind ought to have
G
Digitized by Google
98 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
been in the department of sentiment. and intelleet, and
those of Goano:N's mind in Destructiveness and animal
paa~ion ; and their *tual dispoeitiona corresponded. Still
the diapositiona of RAPHAEL would be characterised by
the large size of thia organ. It would communicate that
warmth and vehemence of temper., which are found only
when it is large, although the higher powers might re-
strain it from abuse.
It is one object to prove Phrenology to be true, and an-
other to teach a beginner how to obser.ve organa. For the
first purpose, we never compare an organ in one head with
the same organ in another ; beeauae, it is the predominance
of particular organa in the &ame heaJ., that gives ascendency
to particular faculties in the individuals; and, therefore, in
proving phrenology, we compare the different organs of the
same head. But in learning to observE>, it is useful to con-
trast the same organ in different beads, in order to become
familiar with its appearance in difFerent sizes and combi-
nations.
With this view, it is proper to begin with the larger or-
gans; and two persons of opposite dispositions, in the parti-
cular points to be compared, ought to be placed in juxta-
position, and their heads observed. Thus, if we take the
organ of Cautiousne88, we should examine its development
in thosewhom we knowto be remarkable for timidity, doubts
and hesitation. We should contrast the appearance of the
organ in such cases with that which it present& in indi-
viduals remarkable for precipitancy, and into whose minds
doubt or fear rarely enters: or a person who is unable to
distinguish one note from another, may be compared, in re-
gard to the organ of Tune, with another who has a high
natural genius for music. N.o error~~ more~- ~- ay_
Q}!led,
th~ ~ginnins with the obs_ervati~n ~f the s~a!le~ ,()~&,
and examini~ these without a contrast.
An- ob}ectio~ -i~ freq~~ntly ~u;.ted, that personts having
large heads have " little wit," while others with small beads
are " very clever." The phrenologist never compares
mental ability in general with size of brain in general ; for
Digitized by Google
BRAINS OF LOWER ANIMALS. 99
the fundamental principle of the science ia, that different
parts of the brain.have dift'erent functions, and that hence
the~ abaolute qrumtity of brain, lf collllisting of intel-
lectual organs, may be connected with the higheet genius ;
while, if consisting of the animal organs, lying itnme-
diately above and behind the ears, may indicate .the Dl08t
fearful energy of the lower propensities. The braina of
Cbaribs aeem,to be equal in absolute size to thoee of ave-
rage Europeans, but the chief development of the former
is in the animal organs, and of the latter in the organs of
sentiment and intellect; and no phrenologist would ex-
pect the one to be equal in intelligence and morality to the
other, merely because their brains are equal in absolute
magnitude. The proper test is to take two heads, in sound
health, and of similar temperament and ages, in each of
which the several organs are similar in their proportions, but
the one of which is large, and the other small ; and then, if
the preponderance of power of manifestation is not in favour
of the first, Phrenology·must be abandoned as destitute of
foundation.
In comparing the brains of the lower animals with the
human brain, the phrenologist looks solely for the reflected
•light of analogy, to guide him in his researches, and never
founds a direc:t argument in favour of the functions of the
difFerent parts of the human brain from any facts observed
in regard to the lower animals ; and the reason is, that such
dift'erent genera of animals are too dissimilar in constitu-
tion and external circumstances, to authorise him to draw
positive results from com'Paring them. Many philosophers,
being convinced that the brain is the organ of mind, and
having observed that the brain of a man is larger than that
of the majority of tame animals, as the horse, dog, ox, have
attributed the mental superiority of man to the superiority
in absolute size of his brain ; but the phrenologist does
not acknowledge this conclusion as in accordance with the
principles of his science. The brain in one of the lower
creatures may be very large, and, nevertheless, if it be
c. ~
Digitized by Google
/
100 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
composed of parts appropriated to the exercise of mus-
cular energy, or the manifestation of animal propensities,
ita possessor may be far inferior in understanding or saga-
city to another animal, having a smaller brain, but com-
posed chiefly of parts destined to manifest intellectual
power •. Whales and elephants have a brain larger than
that of man, and yet their sagacity is not equal to his; but
nobody pretends that the parts destined to manifest intel-
lect are larger, in proportion to the convolutions intended
to manifest propensity, in these animals than in man; and
hence the superior intelligence of the human species is no
departure from the general analogy of nature.
, In like manner, the brains of the monkey and dog are
emaller than those of the ox, ass, and hog, and yet the
former approach nearer to man in regard to their intel-
lectual faculties. To apply the principles of Phrenology
to them, it would be necessary to discover what parts ma-
nifest intellect, and what propensity, in each species; and
then to compare the power of manifesting each faculty
with the size of ita appropriate organ. If size were found
not to be a measure of power, then, in that species, the
rule under discussion would fail ; but even this would not
authorise us to conclude that it did not hold good in re-
gard to man; for human Phrenology is founded, not on
analogy, but on positive observations. Some persons are
pleased to affirm, that the brains of the lower animals con-
eist of the same part& as the human brain, only on a smal-
ler IIC&le; but this is highly erroneous. If the student will
procure brains of the sheep, dog, fox, calf, horse, or hog,
and compare them with the human brain, or the casta of
it sold in the shops, be will find a variety of parts, espe-
cially in the convolutions which form the organs of the
moral sentiment& and the reflecting faculties, wanting in
the animals.
In commencing the study of Phrenology, it is of great
importance to have a definite object in view. If the stu-
• SPURZHEIM•s Physiognomical S.ntem, chap. 4.
Digitized by Google
TEMPERAMENTS. 101
dent desire to find the truth, be will consider first the ge-
neral principles, developed in the introduction, and the
presumptions for and against them, arising from admitted
facts in mental Philosophy and Physiology. He will next
proceed to make observations in nature, qualifying himself
by previous instruction in the foi'lllll, situations, appearances,
and functions of the orga08.
The circumstances which modify the effects of size, are
constitution, health, and exercise ; and the student ought
never to omit the consideration of these, for they are high-
ly important. The first and second have already been con-
sidered on pages 82, 88, and 84, to which I beg leave to
refer. In addition to what is there stated, I observe that
the temperaments rarely occur simple in any individual,
two or more being generally combined. The bilious and
nervous is a common combination, which gives strength
and activity; the lymphatic and nervous is also common,
and produces:sensitive delicacy of mental constitution, con-
joined with indolence. The nervous and IIBllglline com-
bined give extreme vivacity, but without corresponding
vigour. Dr THoMAS of Paris has published a theory of
the temperaments to the following effect. When the di-
gestive organs filling the abdominal cavity aro large, and
the lungs and brain small, the individual is lymphatic;
he is fond of feeding, and averse to mental and muscular
exertion. When the heart and lungs are large, and the
brain and abdomen small, the individual is sanguine ; blood
abounds and is propelled with vigour : he is therefore fond
of muscular exercise, but averse to thought. When the
brain is large, and the abdominal and thoracic viscera small,
great mental energy is the consequence. These propor-
tions may be combined in great varieties, and modified re-
sults will ensue.
In some individuals the brain seems to be of a finer tex-
ture than in others ; and there is then a delicacy and fine-
JIUII of manifestation, which is one ingredient in genius.
A harmonious combination of organs giYes justness and
Digitized by Google
10~ APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
soundnees of perception, but there is a quality of fineness
distinguishable from this. BYRON possessed this quality
in a high degree.
If, in eaeh of two individuals, the organs of propensity,
eentiment, and intellect, are equally balanced, the general
conduct of one may be vicious, and that of another moral
and religious. But the question here is not one of power,
for as mueh energy may be displayed in vice as in virtue,
but it is one of directWn merely. Now, in cases where an
equal development of all the organs exists, direction de-
pends on e:I:tental inftnences, and no phrenologist pre-
tends to tell to what objects the faculties have been direct-
ed, by merely observing the size of the organs.
Suppose that two individuals possess an organization ex-
actly similar, but that one is highly educated, and the
otlter left entirely to the impulses of nature ; the former
will manifest his faculties with higher power than the lat-
ter; and hence it is argued, that size is not in all cases a
measure of energy.
Here, however, the requisite of ctNe7V parilnu does not
hold. An important condition is altered, and the phreno-
logist uniformly allows for the effects of education, before
drawing positive conclusions •. It may be supposed, that,
if exercise thus increases power, it is impossible to draw
the line of distinction between energy derived from this
cause, and that which proceeds from size in the organs,
and hence that the real effects of size can never be deter-
mined. The answer to this objection is, that education
may cause the faculties to manifest themselves with the
highest degree of energy which tl£e .size ofthe organJJ will
permit, but that size fixes a limit which education cannot
surpass. DENNIS, we may presume, received some im-
provement from education, but it did not render him equal
to PoPE, much less to SHAKSPEARE or MILTON: there-
fore, if we take two individuals whose brains are equally
healthy, but whose organs differ in size, and educate them
• Phrenological Transactions, p. 308.
Digitized by Google
POWER AND ACTIVITY. 108
alike,· the .advan~ in power and ·attainment will be
greatest in ·the direct ratio of .the size, in favour of the
largeet brain. rrhue the objection ends in this,-that if we
oompare braiM in·oppoeite. conditione, we may be 'led into
error-which 'is gnmted; but this is not in oppesition to
the dootrine that, .etiJteri8 parilnu, size determines power.
Fmally..o..extreme deficiency in size produce&·ineapacity for
edueahon, u in ·idiots; while extreme development, if
healthy, 88 in Su.A&SPEARE, BuaNs, MozART, antici-
pates its effeetl, in so far that the individuals educate
themselves.
Ill saying, then, that, ~ parihul, size is a ·measure
of power, phrenologists demand no conceBBioD8 which are
not '11Ulde to physioiGgiata ill general; among whom, in this
instance, they :rank tbemeelves.
Ther~~--~~£~~. distinction ])eiW:tl!ll.J!!!WW an,~ actifJi!y
of mind ; and, 88 size in the organs is an indication of the
former only, it is proper to keep this dift"erenee in view.
In physics, ~ i!_JJ_~te distinguishable from activity.
The balance-wheel of a watch moves with mueh rapidity;
bot 10 slight is its impetus, that a hair would suffice to
stop it; the beam of a steam-engine traverses slowly and
ponderonaly through space, but its power is prodigiously
great.
In muecular action, these qualities are recognized with
equal facility 88 difFerent. The greyhound bounds over
bill and dale with animated agility; but a slight oblltaele
would counterbalance his momentum, and arrest his pro-
gress. The elephant, on the other hand, rolls slowly and
heavily along ; but the impetus of his motion would sweep
away an impediment sufficient to resist fifty greyhounds at
the summit of their speed.
In mental manifestations (considered apart from organi-
zation) the distinction between power and activity is equal-
ly palpable. On the stage, Mrs SmnoNs 8enitw aud Mr
JoHN KEMBLE were remarkable for the solemn delibera-
tion of their manner, both in declamation and action, and
Digitized by Google
104 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
yet they were splendidly gifted in power. They carried
captive at once the sympathies and understanding of the
audience, and made every man feel his faculties expanding,
and his whole mind becoming greater under the inftuence
of their energies. This was a display of power. Other
performers, again, are remarkable for vivacity of action and
elocution, who, nevertheless, are felt to be feeble and inef·
fective in rousing an audience to emotion. Activity is their
distinguishing attribute, with an absence of power. At the
bar, in the pulpit, and in the senate, the same distinetioB
prevails. Many members of the learned professions dis-
play great felicity of illustration, and ftuency of elocution,
surprising us with the quickness of their parts, who, ne-
vertheless, are felt to be neither impressive nor profound.
They posse88 acuten888 without power, and ingenuity with-
out comprehensivene88 and depth of understanding. This
also proceeds from activity with little vigour. There are
other public speakers, again, who open heavily in debate,
their faculties acting slowly, but deeply, like the first heave
of a mountain-wave. Their words fall like minute-guns
upon the ear, and to the superficial they appear about to
terminate ere they have begun their efforts. But even
their first accent is one of power, it rouses and arrests at-
tention ; their very pauses are expr888ive, and indicate ga-
thering energy to be embodied in the sentence tltat is to
come. When fairly animated, they are impetuous 88 the
torrent, briJliant 88 the lightning's beam, and overwhelm
and take possession of feebler minds, impre88ing them irre-
sistibly with a feeling of gigantic power.
ACTIVITY means the rapidity with which the facul-
ties may be manifested. The largest organs in each head
have the greatest, and the smaJJest the least, tendency to
natural activity.
The temperaments also indicate activity. The nervous
is the most active, next the sanguine, then the bilious,
while the lymphatic is characterized by inactivity.
In a lymphatic brain, great size may be present, and few
Digitized by Google
POWER AND ACTIVITY. 105
manifestations occur through inactivity; but present an ex-
ternal stimulus, and the power will appear. If the brain
be very small, any degree of stimulus may be presented
external or internal, and great power will not be mani-
fested.
A certain combination in size, namely, Combativeness,
Destructiveness, Hope, Firmness, Acquisitiveness, and
Love of Approbation, all large, is favourable to ge-
neral activity; and another combination, namely Comba-
tiveness, Destructiveness, Firmness, and Acquisitiveness,
small or moderate, with Hope, Veneration, and Benevo-
lence, all large, is frequently attended with inactivity in
the mental character ; but the activity of the whoie brain
is constitutionally greater in some individuals than in
others, as already explained. It may even happen, that,
in the same individual, one organ is naturally more active
than another, without reference to size; just as the optic
nerve is sometimes more irritable than the auditory ; but
this is by no means a common occurrence. Exercise
greatly increases activity ; and hence arise the benefits of
education. Dr SPURZHEIM thinks that " Ion~ -~~~!'.!..E!o­
duce more activity, and thick__!Th~..!!~!~Jnt~_ty."
'"'The doctrine that size is a measure of power, is not to
be held as implying, that power is the only, or even the
most valuable quality, which a mind in all circumstances
can possess. To drag artillery over a mountain, or a pon-
derous car through the streets of London, we would prefer
an elephant, or a horse of great size and muscular power ;
whlle, for graceful motion, agility and nimbleness, we
would select an Arabian palfrey. In like manner, to lead
men in gigantic and difficult enterprises,-to command by
native greatness, in perilous times, when law is trampled
under foot,-to call forth the energies of a people, and di-
rect them against a tyrant at home, or an alliance of ty-
rants abroad,-to stamp the impress of a single mind upon
an age,-to infuse strength into thoughts, and depth into
feelings, which shall command the homage of enlightened
men in every period of time,-iu short, to be a BaucE,
Digitized by Google
106 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
BuoNAPARTE, LuTHER, KNox, DEMOSTHENEs, SHAK-
SPBARE or MILTON, a large brain is indispensably requi-
site; but to display slrill, enterprise, and fidelity, in the
various professions of civillife,-to cultivate, with success,
the less arduous branches of philoeophy,-to excel in acute-
ness, taste, and felicity of expression,-to acquire extensive
erudition and refined manners, a brain of a moderate size is
perhaps more suitable than one that is very large; for where-
ever the energy is intense, it is rare that delicacy, refine-
ment, and taste, are present in an equal degree. Indivi-
duals possessing moderate-sized brains easily find their
proper sphere, and enjoy in it scope for all their energy.
In ordinary circumstances, they distinguish themselves ;
but sink when difficulties accumulate around them. Per-
sons with large brains, on the other hand, do not readily
attain their appropriate place ; common occurrences do not
rouse or call them forth ; and, while unknown, they are not
trusted with great undertakings. Often, therefore, such
men pine and die in obscurity. When, however, they at-
tain their proper element, they feel conscious greatneils, and
they glory in the expansion of their...powers. Their mental
energies rise in proportion to the obstacles to be sur-
mounted, and blaze forth in all the magnificence of ge-
nius on occasions when feebler minds would expire in de-
spair.
The term Faculty is used to denote a particular power
of feeling or thinking, connected with a particular part of
the brain. Phrenologists consider Man by himself, and
also compare him with other animals. When the lower
animals manifest the same propensities and feelings 88
those displayed by man, the faculties which produce them
are held to be common to both. A faculty is admitted 88
primitive,
1. Which exists in one kind of animals, and not in an-
other;
2. Which varies in the two sexes of the same species;
Digitized by Google
WHAT IS A FACULTY? 107
S. Which is not proportiona~ to the other faculties of
the same individual ;
4. Which doee not manifeat itlelf simultaneously with
the other faculties; that is, which appears and disappears
earlier or later in life than other faculties ;
5. Which may act or.rest singly;
6. Which is propagated in a distinct manner from pa-
rents to children ; and,
7. Which may singly preserve ita proper state of health
or di8ease •.
As phrenological observation establishes the existence of a
plorality of mental faculties, each connected with a par-
ticular part of the brain, the question occurs, Is the mind
simple, or an aggregate of separate powerst? It is ex-
tremely difficult to give a satisfactory answer to this in-
quiry. Looking at the facta presented to us by observa-
tion, the most obvious inference seems to be, that the mind
consists of an aggregate of powers, and that one of them
supplies the feeling of personal Identity, or the I of Con-
sciousness, to which, as their substance, all the other feel-
iags and capacities bear reference. This view is strongly
supported by some of the phenomena of insanity; for pa-
tients are sometimes insane in the feeling of personal iden-
tity, and in no other faculty of the mind. Such indivi-
duals lose all consciousness of their past and proper per-
sonality, and imagine themselves different persons alto-
gether ; while, with the exception of this erroneous impres-
sion, they feel and think correctly. Under the head of
Memory, in a subsequent part of this work, an abstract
will be found of a case of divided personality, occurring
through disease, reported by Dr DvcE of Aberdeen to Dr
HENRY DEwAR, and by him published in the Transactions
of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. A similar ease is
stated in "The Medical Repository," communicated by Dr
MITCHELL to the Reverend Dr NoTT, dated January 1816.
" When I was employed," says he, early in December
• Phrenology by Dr SPuazHIIIH, p. 126.
t See Phren. Jour. vol.l. p. 206.
Digitized by Google
108 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPI.ES.,
1815, with several other gentlemen, in doing the duty of a
visitor to the United States Military Academy at West
Point, a very extraordinary case of Double Consciousness
in a woman, was related to me by one of the professors.
Major Ellicott, who so worthily occupies the mathematical
chair in that seminary, vouched for the correctness of the
following narrative, the subject of which is related to him
by blood, and an inhabitant of one of the western counties
of Pennsylvania:-Miss R possessed, naturally, a
very good constitution, and arrived at adult age without
having it impaired by disease. She possessed an excellent
capacity, and enjoyed fair opportunities to acquire know-
ledge. Besides the domestic arts and social attainments,
she had improved her mind by reading and conversation,
and was well versed in penmanship. Her memory was
capacious, and stored with a copious stock of ideas. Un-
expectedly, and without any forewarning, she fell into a
profound sleep, which continued several ltours beyond the
ordinary term. On waking, she was discovered to have
lost every trait of acquired knowledge. Her memory was
tabula rasa,-all vestiges, both of words and things, were
obliterated and gone. It was found necessary for her to
learn every thing again. She even acquired, by new
efforts, the art of spelling, reading, writing, and calculat-
ing, and gradually became acquainted with the persons and
objects around, like a being for the first time brought into
the world. In these exercises she made considerable profi-
ciency. But, after a few montltB, another fit of somno-
lency invaded her. On rousing from it, she found herself
restored to the state she WaR in before the first paroxysm ;
but was wholly ignorant of every event and occun·ence that
had befallen her afterwards. The former condition of her
existence, she now calls the Old State, and the latter the
New State ; and she is as unconscious ofher double character
as two distinct persons are of their respective natures. For
example, in her old state, she possesses all her original
knowledge; in her new state only what she acquired since.
Digitized by Google
WHAT IS A FACULTY? 109
If a gentleman or lady be introduced to her in the old state,
and vice versa, (and so of all other matters), to know them
&atisfactorily she mUBt learn them in both &tate&. In the
old state, she possesses fine powers of penmanship, while
in the new, she writes a poor awkward hand, having not
had time or means to become expert. During four yean
and upwards, Phe has undergone periodical transitions
from one of these states to the other. The alterations are
always consequent upon a longand sound sleep. Both the
lady and her family are now capable of conducting the
afFair without embarrassment. By simply knowing whe-
ther she is in the old or new &tate, they regulate the inter-
course, and govern themselves accordingly. A history of
her curioUB case is drawing up by the Reverend TIMOTHY
ALDIN of Meadville." Such cases as the foregoing, have
led some persona to the inference, that the feeling of per-
sonal Identity .is a primitive mental affection, connected
with a particular organ, and hence liable separately to dis-
ease ; and because we have ascertained that each of the
other primitive feelings and intellectual powers is also ma-
nifested by a separate organ, the mind has appeared to them
toconsistofanaggregateofpowersactingtogether. Thisview
corresponds with the apprehension of mankind in general,
for popular language is framed on the principle of the I of
ConscioU&Dess being distinct from the other mental affec-
tions. We speak of evil thbughts intruding themselves into
our mind ; and of our having strong de&ires which we for-
bear to indulge. In such expressions, the our and we seem
to mean the principle of personal identity; and the evil
thoughts and desires appear to be regarded as affections of
that principle, originating in sources distinct from it, and
different from one another.
The more general opinion of philosophers is, that the
mind is a simple and indivisible substance, and that the se-
veral faculties are merely different states of it. This view
is espoused by my excellent friend the Reverend DAVID
WELslt, who successfully shews, that it is consistent with
Digitized by Google
111 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
the phrenological doctrine of a plurality of organs. " The
leading doctrine," says he," of Phrenology is, that different
portions or organs of the brain are connected with the pri-
mitive feelings of the mind. The truth of this position can
obviously be aacertained only by observation. But taking
it for granted that it is true, it may be asked, how it can
be reconciled with the great principle to which so frequent
reference bas been made, that the powers, thoughts, and
feelings of the mind are not different from the mind, but
merely the mind itself existing in different states ?
"It requires but little reflection to be satisfied that the in-
troduction of cerebral organs does not in any degree affect
Dr BRoWN's leading principle. The cerebral organs are
not the mind-nor is any state of these organs the mind.
The mind we believe to be a simple and indivisible sub-
stance. And the only difference that the doctrines of
Phrenology introduce in regard to Dr BROWN's principle
is, that, instead of the feelings and thoughts being merely
the relations of the simple substance mind, to its own
former 11tates or to external objects, they are the relations
of the simple substance mind to certain portions of the
encephalon.
" In looking upon any object--as snow-we have the no-
tion of a certain colour. Now, the notion is not in the
snow but in the mind. That is, the notion of colour is the
mind existing in a certain relation to an external object.
But it is allowed on all hands, that there is an intervening
step between the snow and the mind. There is an affec-
tion of the optic nerve. The notion of colour, then, is the
mind existing in a certain relation to the optic nerve. It
will be conceded, that this does not alter the question as to
the simplicity of the mind. And if this is conceded, it is
abundantly obvious, that another step in the process might
be conoeived, without taking away from the simplicity of
the immaterial part, and that, instead of an affection Of the
optic nerve being the immediate antecedent of the notion
of colour, it might be a particular portion of the encepba-
. 4
Digitized by Google
WHAT IS A FACULTY? Ill
Ion. Ae the notion of colour, upon this supposition, is are-
lation of the mind to the organ of colour, it follows, that, if
that organ were changed in any respect, the state of the
mind would also be changed. Thus, if it were larger, or
of a finer structure, or more active, the perception of co-
lour would be more delicate, or quick, or pleasing. The
same remarks might be extended to all the organs. Where
the organ of CaUBality is large, as in the case ofDr BROWN
himself, then there will be a tendency to reason ; which
tendency is a state of the mind in relation to a material or-
gan, which state would have been different had the organ
been different.
" A multitude of organs may all be affecting the mind
at the same instant, and in that case a variety of feelings
will be experienced. But still the mind is simple, and
it is only its relations to these different organs that are
complex.
" When we say, then, that when we have any power, as,
for example, of reasoning, we are not to suppose that the
power is different from the mind. There is a material or-
gan which is separate from the mind, but the perception of
relation is a state wholly mental. One state of the organ
may give the perception of relation, ano~er the desire to
perceive or discover it ; but the perception and desire are
both attributes, not of matter but of mind.-The effect of
the organ being large or small, active or inactive, in diffe-
rent individuals, or upon the same individual at different
times, is the subject to which I alluded in the chapter on
Cause and Effect, as that which Dr BROWN had not con-
sidered."
It is not necessary in studying Phrenology to decide
which of these views is the correct interpretation of nature,
because the effects of the organs on the mind is the same,
whichever of them be adopted. Holding the mind to con-
sist pfan aggregate of powers,-then each acts by means of
a particular organ, and is manifested with a degree ofenergy
in proportion to its size. Viewing it as a simple substance,
Digitized by Google
112 APPLICATION OF PRINCIPLES.
eapable of existing in a variety of states, it enters into each
state by means of a separate organ : when the organs are
spontaneously active, they induce their relative states;
without their influence. these cannot take place: when they
are large, the states are excited vigorously ; when they are
smaU, they exist feebly. The reader may therefore adopt
whichever theory appears to himself preferable. In the fol-
lowing pages the faculties will be treated of as distinct
mental powers, connected with separate organs, because
this view enables me to bring out the doctrine more simply
and luminously, than by considering them as merely par-
ticular states of the general power-the Mind ; and this
language, moreover, is correct even on the latter hypothe-
sis, because, according to this view, when the organ of
Causality, for example, is largely possessed, the individual
is capable of reasoning logically and acutely ; of which
mental acts he is incapable, when that organ is greatly de-
ficient. The word faculty or power, therefore, is used to
express the quality which is possessed in the one, and not ·
in the other case, and which, being active, is legitimately
designated, and universally recognised, by either of these
terms.
"It bas occurred to me,'' continues Mr WELSH, "that .
another difficulty of a metaphysical nature may suggest it-
self in regard to the principles of Phrenology. It may be
asked, What is the soul when deprived of the cerebral or-
gans ? But the system of Dr BROWN affords us no more
light upon this point, than the system of Dr GALL. In-
deed, a passage which I have quoted from his Lectures
shews, that be considered that those who engaged in such
inquiries were ignorant of tlte limits of our faculties. It is
only experience that can teach us in what state the soul
exists when separated from the body. And in this sense
the precept of the poet holds equally in a scientific and in
a religious point of view,
" 'Vait the great teacher Death, and Goo adore."
Digitized by Google
( 118 )
DIVISION OF THE FACULTIES.
Da SPURZHEIM divides the faculties into two orders,
FEELINGS and INTELLECT, or into affective and intellectual
faculties. The feeJings are subdivided into two genera,
PROPENSITIES and SENTIMENTS. He applies the name
propensities to indicate internal impulses, which invite only
to certain actions ; and Sentiments designate other feelings,
not limited to inclination alone, but which have an emo-
ti~n of a peculiar kind superadded. Acquisitiveness, for
example, is a mere impulse to acquire ; Veneration gives a
tendency to wol'8hip, accompanied with a particular emo-
tion, which latter quality is t.he reason of its being deno-
minated a Sentiment.
The second order of facoltit'S makes us acquainted with
. objects which exist, their qualities and relations ; and they
are called intellectual. They are subdivided by Dr SPunz-
HEJM into four genera. The fil'8t includes the external
senses and voluntary motion ; the second, those internal
powers which perceive existence; or make man and ani-
mals acquainted with external objects, and their physical
qualities ; and the third, the powers which perceive the re-
lations of external objects. These three genera are named
perceptivefaculties. The fourth genus comprises the facul-
ties which act on all the other powel'8, which compare,
judge, and discriminate ; and these are named rRjlective
faculties.
The names of the faculties employed in this work are,
with few exceptions, those suggested by Dr SPURZHEIM. To
designatepropeniity, the termination ive i11 added to a root or
fundamental word, and indicates the qwdity of producing ;
and naa, the abstract state, as Destructiveness. The ter-
mination oru, characterizes a sentiment, as Cautious, Consci-
eatious. To these is added naa, to express the abstract
H
Digitized by Google
•
114 DIVISION OF TirE VACULTIES.
state, as Cautiousness, Conscientiousness. The names of
lhe inteUectual faculties are easily understood, and do not
require any particular explanation.
Considerable difficulty attends the arrangement of the
faculties and organs. In the first and second editions of
this work, they were arranged and numbered according
to the order adopted in Dr SPURZHEIM's New Physiogno-
mical System, published in 1815. The principle of that
arrangement was, as far as possible, philosophical. The
organs common to man and the lower animals came first,
beginning with the lowest, and ascending. The organs of
th9 moral sentiments were next treated of; and, lastly, the
organa of intellect. Since 1815, the great divisions of this
classification have been retained, but repeated alterations
have been made by Dr SPVRZHEIM in the arrangement of
the details. It appears impossible to arrive at a correct
classification until all the organa, and also the primitive
faculty or ultimate function of each, shall be definitely as-
certained, which is not at present the case. Till this >!nd
shall be accomplished, every interim arrangement will be
in danger of being overturned by subsequent discoveries.
In the mean time, however, for the sake of uniformity, I
adopt Dr SPURZHEIM's last order of arrangement. Du-
ring his visit to Edinburgh in 1828, he demonstrated
the anatomy of the brain, and traced out the connexion
between the organs in a manner so clear and satisfactory,
that the basis of his .arrangement appeared founded in na-
ture. Dr GALL seems not to have adopted any philosophi-
<'.al principle of classification ; but it is proper that his
names and order should be known. I shall, therefore, add
to the present work a table of his order.
In the case of many of the organs, observations have
been made to such an extent, that the functions are held
to be ascertained ; and in regard to others, where the ob-
!lervations have been fewer, the functions are stated as pro-
bable. There is no difference of opinion among phrenolo-
gists in regard to the kind of manifestations which ~-
Digitized by Google
DIVISION OF THE FACULTIES. 115
company the organs set down 88 established; their differ-
ences touch only the result of the metaphysical analysis of
the feelinga and intellectual powers, and the order of their
arrangement.
I shall notice briefly the history of the discovery of each
organ, and state a few C88e8 in illustration of its function :
but the reader is respectfully informed, that I do not pre-
tend to bring forward the evidence on which Phrenology
is founded. I beg to refer those readers who are fond of
pe1118ing cases, to Dr GALL's quarto work, in 4 volnmee,
entitled, " Phyaiologie du Cerveau ;" to Dr SPURZHEIM's
work, " Phrenology ;" to the " Transaetiona of the Phre-
nological Society;" and to the " Phrenological Journal and
Miscellany." Those persona who desire philosophical con-
viction, are requested to resort directly to Nature, which is
always within their reach; for SELI'•CONVICTION CAN BE
OBTAINED ONLY BY SELF-OBSERVATION.
H2
Digitized by Google
t 116 )
ORDER I.-FEELINGS.
GBNUS I.-PROPENSITIES.
THE faculties falling under this genus do not form ideas;
their sole function is to produce a propensity of a specific
kind. These faculties are commen to Man with Animals.
I.-AMATIVENESS.
THE cerebellum is the organ of this propensity, and it is
situated between the mastoid process on each side, and the
projecting point in the middle of the transverse ridge of
the occipital bone. The size is indicated during life by the
thickness of the neck at these parts •, or between the ears.
In some individuals the lobes of the cerebellum descend
downwards, enlarging the base of the occipital bone, rather
than increaaing its expansion between the ears. In such
cases the projection may be felt by the hand, if pressed
firmly on the neck.
There is nearly half an inch of space between the cere-
bellum and the commencement of the posterior lobe of the
brain, at the insertion of what is called the Tentorium.
• Partell genitales, sive testes hominibus et freminis utems, propensio.
nem ad venerem excitare Bequeunt. Nam in pueria veneris stimulus
aeminia secretion! are~ antecedit. Plurea eunuchi, quanquam teatibus
privati, bane inclinationem conserTant. Sunt etiam freminee quee sine
utero natee, hunc atimulum manifeataut. Hinc quidam ex doctrinee noatree
inimicls, harum rerum minime inacli, aeminia preeaentiam in sangiline con.
tendunt, et hanc causam sufficientem exiatimant. Attamen argumenta
hujua generis verl physiologillonghbiiUnt, et vix citationedigna videntur.
Nonnulli etiam hujua incllnationia cauaam in liquore proatatico queerunt;
sed in aenibua aliquando ftuidi proatatici aecretio, sine ulla veneris incllna-
tione, copioaiuima eat.-Spur.dri111'• Plwrnolotw, ~ 123.
Digitized by Google
...
AMATIVENESS. 117
SMALL AJIATIVJUr£U.
The Tentorium is a strong membrane; which separate& the
cerebellum from the brain; in animals which leap, as the cat
and tiger, the eeparation is produced by a thin plate of boue.
The cerebellum is, however, connected with the brain.; for
its fibres originate in the rorpora reatiformia, from which also
the «gaos of the other aaimaJ propensities arise. Certain·
fibres originating .in that source, af*er passing through the
optic tJwltJMi, expand into the organs of Philoprogenitive-
ness, AdhesiveneM, Comhativeneu, Destructiveness, ·&c.
The nerves ef sight can be traced into the nata, lyiag very
near the IllUDe parts ; while the nerves of bearing apring
from ·the medullary streaks on the surface of the fourth
ventricle, lying immediately under the cerebellum. These
arrangements of structure correspond with the. facts, tbat
the eyes expre~& IDOI'e powerfully than the other senses, the
passion of love ; that abWie8 of this propensity produoe
blindness and deafness; and, that this feeling frequently
excites Adhesiveness, Combativeness and Destructiveness,
into vivid action, rendering attachment irresistibly strong,
and inspiring even females, who, in ordinary circumstan-
ces, are timid and retiring, with courage and determination
when under its inftuence. The cerebellum consists of three
portions, a central and two lateral. The central is in di-
rect comm~cation with the C(#[JOI"a rutiformia, and the
Digitized by Google
118 AMATlVJo~N.l::SS.
two lateral portiona are brought into communication with
each other by the pons Varolii.
Dr GALL was led to the discovery of this organ in the fol-
lowing manner. He was physician to a widow of irre-
proachable character, who was seized with nervous affec-
tions, to which succeeded severe nymphomania. In the
violence of a paroxysm, he supported her head, and was
strut"k with the large size and heat of the neck. She stated,
that heat and tension of these parts always preceded a pa-
roxysm. He followed out, by numerous observations, the
idea suggested by this occurrence, of connexion betwixt the
propenaity and the cerebellum, and he soon established the
point to his own satisfaction.
The faculty gives rise to the aemal feeling. In new-
born children, the cerebellum is the least dev~loped of all
the cerebral part& At this period, the upper and posterior
part of the neck, corresponding to the small cerebellum,
appears attached almost to the middle of the base of the
skull. The cerebellum is then to the brain as one to thir-
teen, fifteen or twenty. In adults, it is aa one &o six, seven
or eight. It attaina its full size between the age of eighteen
and twenty-eix. The neck then appears greatly more ex-
panded behind. The cerebellum is less in females, in gene-
raJ, than in males. In old age it frequently diminishes.
There is no constant proportion betwixt the brain and it in all
individuals, jost as there is no invariable proportion betwixt
this feeling and the other powers of the mind. Sometimes,
however, the cerebellum is largely developed before the
age of puberty. Tbia was the case in a child of three years
of age, in a boy of five, and in one of twelve; and they aU
manifested the feeling strongly. In "e C88t of the skull
of Dr HETrE, sold in the shops, the development is small,
and the feeling correaponded. In the casts of MITCHELL,
DEAN, and RAPHAEL, it is very large, and the manifesta.-
tiona were in proportion. Farther evidence of the tone-
tiona of this organ will be found in Dr GALL's "Physio-
logie du Cerveau ;" and several cases are mentioned in the
Digitized by Google
AMATIVENESS. 119
following works, viz. "Journal of Pathological Observa-
tions kept at the Hospital of the Ecole de Medecine,
No. lOS, 15th July 181'7," case of Jean Miclael Brigaud;
"Journal of the Hatel Dieo," case of Floral, 19th March
1819, and of a woman, 11th November 1818; " WEPFE-
nus, Hiatoriae apoplecticorum," edit. 1'724, page 48'7;
" Philosophical Transactions," No. 228, case by Dr Tv-
soN ; " Memoires de Chirurgie Militaire, et Campagnes,"
by Baron LARREY, vol. ii. p. 150, vol. iii. p. 262; "SEanES
on Apoplexy;" " RICHERAND's Elements of Physiology,"
pp. 9'79, S80, KEnnisoN's Translation ; " Dr SPunzuzut's
Phrenology," p. ISO.
" It ia impossible," says Dr SPunzHEIIII, " to unite a
greater number of proofs in demonstration of any natural
tmth, than may be presented to determine the function of
the cerebellum;" and in this I completely agree with him.
Those who have not read Dr GALL's section on this organ,
can form no adequate conception of the force of the evi-
dence which he has collected.
M. FLOURENS has lately performed some experiments on
the lower animals, chiefly by inflicting injuries on their ce-
rebella, and eontends that these experiments shew that the
cerebellum servE'S for the regulation of muscular motion.
" On removing the cerebellum," says he, " the anin_lal
loeee the power of executing combined movements." MA-
GENDIE performed similar experiments on the cerebellum,
and found that they only occasion an irruiliiWle tendency in
1M animal to rw, ttJallt;, or swim, backwards. He made ex-
periments, alao, on the corpora 1/trfrsta and tuhercwla qwa-
drigefllitta, with the following results: When one part of
these was cut, the animal rolled; when another, it tOMt
.fortoard, tMd eztended iU ltead mul mremitiu; when ano-
ther, it bent all tAue : so that, according to this mode of
determining the cerebral functions, these parts of the brain
poeaess an equal claim with the cerebellum, to be regarded
as the regulators of motion. The fact is, that all parts of
the nervous system are so intimately connected, that the
Digitized by Google
120 AMATIVENESS.
inftiction of injuries is not the way to determine the func-
tions of any, even its least imponant parte.
The great size of the cerebellum, however,-the cir-
cumstance of ita lateral portions not bearing the aame re-
lation to the middle part in all animala,--and also the re-
sults of some late experiments, have suggested the no-
tion that it may not be a single organ, but that, although
Amativeness is unquestionably connected with the largest
portion o' it, other functions may be connected by the
other parts. This seems not improbable, but as we have
no direct evidence in proof of the fact, or in illustration of
the nature of these supposed functions, it is unneceaaary to
do more than announce the proposition as one worthy of
investigation.
Mr ScoTT, in an excellent essay on the influence of this
propensity on the higher sentiments and intellect •, ob-
serves, that it baa been regarded by some individuals, aa
almost synonymous with pollution ; and the notion bas been
entertained, that it cannot be even approached without de-
filement. This mistake has arisen, from attention being
directed too exclusively to the abuses of the propensity.
I.ike every thing that forma part of the system of nature, it
bean the stamp of wisdom and excellence in itself, although
liable to abuse. It exerts a quiet but effectual influence in
the general intercourse between the sexes, giving rise in
each to a sort of kindly interest in all that concerns the
other. This disposition to mutual kindness between the
sexes does not arise from Benevolence or Adhesiveness, or
any other sentiment or propensity alone; because, if such
were ita sources, it would have an equal effect in the inter-
course of the individuals of each sex among themselves,
which it has not. " In this quiet and unobtrusive state of
the feeling," says Mr ScoTT, " there is nothing in the
least gross or offensive to the most sensitive delicacy. So
far the contrary, that the want of some feeling of this sort.
• Phrenological Journal, No. vii. p. 392
Digitized by Google
AMATIVENESS.
is regarded, wherever it appears, as a very palpable defect,
and a most unamiable trait in tbe.character. It softens all
the proud, irascible, and antisocial principles of our nature,
in every thing which regards that sex which is the object
of it ; and it increases the activity and force of all the kind-
ly and benevoleat aft'eetions. · This explains many facts
which appear in the mutual regards of the sexes.towards
each other. Men are, generally speaking, more generous
and kind, more benevolent and charitable, towards women,
than they are to men, or than women are to one another."
This faculty also inspires the poet and dramatist in compo-
sitions on the passion of Love; and it exerts a very power-
ful influence over human conduct. Dr SPURZH.ErH ob-
serves, that individuals in whom this organ is very large,
ought not to be dedicated to the profe811ion of religion,
in eo011triea where chastity for life is required of the
clergy.
The abuses of this propensity are the sources of innume-
rable evils in life ; and, as the organ and feeling exist, and
produce an influence on the mind, independently of exter-
nal communication, Dr SPURZHEIH suggeats the propriety
of instructing young persons in the consequences of its im-
proper indulgence, aa preferable to keeping them in " a
state of ignorance that may provoke a fatal curiosity, com-
promising in the end their own and their descendants, bo.
dily and mental constitution.',
The organ is established.
2.-PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
TuE attachment of the inferior animals to their young
haiJ often been the subject of admiration. In them it is at-
tributed to instinct. Instinct means ail original propensity,
impelling the animal endowed with it to act in a certain
way, without intention or purpose. Is the attachment of
Digitized by Google
l~i PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
human beings to ofFspring, the oonaequencc of a Rimilar in-
nate feeling, or is it the result of reason, or a modification
of benevolence, or of other feelings ? That it does not
spring from reflection is abundantly evident. Reason only
investigates caoses and effects, and decides on a compari-
eon of facts. The mother, while abe 81Diles with ineffable
joy on her tender oft'spring, does not argue bel'881f into the
deligbtfol emotion. The excitement is instantaneous ; the
object requires only to be preeented to her eye or imagina-
tion, aDd the whole impetus of parental love stirs the mind.
Hence a feeling or propensity is obviously the basis of the
aftection. It is not a modification of any other sentiment,
bot an original propensity; for, on going into society, we
find, that the Love of Oft'spring bean no perceptible pro-
portion to any other feeling or faculty of the mind. H it
depended on Benevolence, no selfish individual should be
ardently attached to oft'spring; and yet the opposite is fre-
quently the fact. If it were a modification of mere Self-
Love, 88 eome have supposed, then parental affection should
be weak, in proportion 88 generosity was strong; but this
theory also is contradicted by experience. Neither do we
find Love of Oft'spring bear a definite relation to intellec-
tual endowment. Sometimes a woman of limited under-
standing loves her children ardently; occasionally another
equally weak is indift'erent towards them. Some highly
intellectual women add maternal affection to their other
virtues; while others, not less acute in undenianding, look
on oft'spring as a borden. There are, therefore, the strong-
est reasons for holding it to be a primitive tendency of the
mind ; and phrenological observations coincide with this
conclusion.
The organ is situated immediately above the middle part
ofthecerebellum, and corresponds to the protuberance ofthe
occiput. Dr GALL gives the following account of its disco-
very. In the course of his observations be bad remarked,
that, in the human race, the upper part of the occiput is in
general more prominent in the female skull than in the male;
Digitized by Google
_,_
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 128
and Inferred, that the part of the brain beneath was the or-
gan of' some feeling which is stronger in women than in men.
Bot the question presented itself', What is this quality? Dn-
ringeeveral years variousconjecturesoccurred to him, which
he succelllri.vely adopted and rejected; and he frequently
lltated to his pupils the embarrasement he felt upon the sub-
ject. He remarked at last, that, in this particular point, the
crania of monkeys bore a singular resemblance to those of
women,-61ld concluded, that the cerebral part placed im-
mediately under the prominence, was probably the organ of
some quality or faculty, for which the monkey tribes and
women were distinguished in a remarkable degree. He
was led the more to entertain this idea, because, from the
discoveriea he had already made in this region, he was
aware that he was not to look for the seat of any superior
intellectual or moral faculty. He repeatedly revolved in
his mind all the feelmgs manifested by the monkey tribe, so
far as known to him. At last, in one of th011e favourable
momenta, when a lucky thought sometimes does more to
elicit truth than year of labour and reBection, it suddenly
occurred to him, in the midst of a lecture, that one of the
mo t remarkabl characteristics of monkeys, is an extreme
ardour of affection for their young. This quality had been
noticed in them by the most distinguished naturalists ; and
person who have re ided in countries where monkeys are
common, have also ob erved it, and remarked, that it led
..._
them to b tow ar es even on the young of the human
speci pecially Negro children, when these were ao
unlucky as to fall in their way. The thought flashed upon
his mind that tbi might he the feeling or quality of which
he w in ear ·h. Impatient to put this concluaion to the
test, by a comparison of all the male with the female skulls
of animala in hi. extensivecollection, be begged his hearers
to go away, and leave him to his researcbes;-and on this
examination be found, that there existed, in fact, the same
ditference between the male and female skull of the lower
animal& in general, which he had observed between the male
Digitized by Google
li4 PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
aud the female skulJ in the human species. This seemed a
oonfumation of the idea, that the quality of which this
cerebral part ia the organ, is that of affection for oftBpring-
which, he had already remarked, was possessed in a greater
degree by the females of the animal tribes, than by the
males. The inference appeared to him more plausible, from
the circumstance, that this organ was placed in close vici-
nity to that of the instinctofpropagation. Many subsequent ..
observations established the conclusion •.
The faculty produces the instinctive love of oftBpring and
delight in children.
The feeling ia beautifully represented in the following
linea of Lord Byron:
Where were then the joys,
The mother's joys of watching, nourishing,
And loving him P Sot\ ! He awakes. Sweet Enoch.
( SM f1061 to 1M cAild.)
Oh Cain I Look on him ; see how full of life,
Of strength, of bloom, of beauty, and of joy.
How like to me,-how like to thee, when gentle,
For 1/wm we are tdl alike : is't not so, c...ur P
Mother, and Sire, and Son, our features are
Reflected in each other.
Look ! how he laughs, and stretches out his arms,
And opens wide his blue eyes upon thine,
'J'o hail his father; while his little form
Flutters as wing'd with joy. Talk not ofpain!
The childless cherubs well might envy thee
The pleasures of a parent I Bless him, CAilf,
As yet he hath no wordt to thmk thee, but
His heart will, and thine own too.
Cain, .del III. SoeM I. .
The organ may be verified in the easiest manner by any
person who chooaes to observe nature. It ia one of the
moat conspicuous and easily distinguished in the head, pani-
eularly in the human species ; and the manifestations may
be recognised with equal facility. Those who poeaeaa the
• G.U.L Sur J«. FOIICtloal clu Ceneau. Edit. 1813. YOL lll.-Pbna. JOIUII. Yol. .U. p. a.
Digitized by Google
..
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 125
feeling in a strong degree, shew it in every word and look
when children are concerned; and these, again, by a recip-
rocal tact, or, as it is expressed by the Author ofWaverley,
by a kind of " free-masonry," discover at once persona
with whom they may be familiar, aud use all manner of
freedoms. It is common, when such an individual appears
among them, to see him welcomed with a shout of
delight. Other individuals, again, feel the most marked
indift'erence towards children, and are unable to conceal it,
when betrayed into their company. Romping disconcerts
them, and having no sympathy with children's pranks and
prattle, they look on them as the greatest annoyances. The
same novelistjustly remarks, that if such persons sometimes
make advances to children, for the purpose of recom-
mending themselves to the parents, their awkward attempts
are instinctively recognised, and fail in attracting recip-
rocal attention. On examining the heads of two persons
thus differently constituied, a prominence, corresponding
to thia organ, will be discovered in the hind part ef the
one, which will not be found te the same extent in the
other.
It is a remarkable ordination of nature, that the intensity
of this feeling bears a proportion to the weakness and help-
leiiJiless of its objects, rather than to any other of their
moral or physical qualities. The mother doats with fondest
delight on the infant in the first months of its existence,
when it presents fewest attractions to other individuals; and
her solicitude and affection are bestowed longest and most
inten&4jr on the feeblest member of her family. on this
principfe, the youngest is the reigning favourite, llDleBB
there be some sickly being ofmaturer age, who then shares
with it ihe maternal sympathies. The primitive function
of the faculty seems to be to inspire with an interest in the
helpleunetl8 of childhood; but it gives also a softness of
manner, in treating the feeble and tbe delicate even in ad-
VBDced life ; and persons in whom this organ is large in
combiDation with Benevolence, are better fitted for the
Digitized by Google
126 PHILOPROG E NIT!VENESS.
duties of a sick chamber, than those in whom PhiloprG-
genitiven~ is small. The natural language of the faculty
is soft, tender, and condescending. It is esaential to a
successful teacher of children. Individuals in whom the or-
gan is deficient, have little sympathy with the feelings of
the youthful mind, and their tones and manner of communi-
cating instruction repel, instead of engaging, the airections
of the scholar. This is the cause why some persons, whose
manner, in intercourse with their equals, is unexcep-
tionable, are nevertheless greatly disliked as teachers ; and
children are generally in the right in their antipathies,
although their parents and guardians, judging by their own
feelings, imagine them actuated altogether by caprice.
It has been remarked by Mr ScoTT, that the fondness which
unmarried females, or married ladies who have no children,
sometimes lavish "on animals, generally of the 81Daller and
more delicate kinds, whom they nurse and pamper with a
degree of devotedness and affection, which can be compared
only to that of a mother for her children," probably bas its
origin in this faculty. The feeling seems the same, its
objects only being dift'erent; and, instead of overwhelming
such individuals with ridicule, they deserve our forbearance
at least, if not respect, as " they are merely following the
bent of a strong natural propensity, implanted in them for
the wisest purposes, and which, in more favourable circum-
stances, would have rendered them aft'ectionate mothers,
and excellent mistresaes of families."
This propensity furnishes the spirit of lullabies, and
inspires the poet and dramatist in many of their representa-
tions. WORDSWORTH manifests it strongly, and some of
the faults of his manner are clearly attributable to an exce81J
of its influence. It characterizes the Lalre school of poetry
in general.
The feeling produced by this faculty is so intense and
delightful, that no other is more liable to abuse. When
too energetic, and not regulated by judgment, it leads to
2
Digitized by Coogle
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 127
pampering and spoiling children ; to irrational anxieties
regarding them, and sometimes to the most extravagant
conceit of their supposed excellencies. When misapplied,
it defeats the object of its institution; for, instead of condu-
cing to the protection and bappine88 of children, it renders
them highly miserable. When the organ is deficient, indif-
~· ferene.e and regardlessne&IJ about otlspring are the conse-
quences. Children are then felt as a heavy burden; they
are abandoned to the eare of menials, or altogether neglect-
ed, and left to encounter the perils and distresses incident
tu tender age, without solace or protection. Instances have
been known (as in the case of the cOuntess of MAcCLEs-
FIELD, mother of the poet SAVAGE), of mothers wh<t
conceived an unaccountable and seeminglycausele&IJ hatred
against their own offspring, and who persecuted them
with relentle&IJ severity. Dr GALL knew, at Vienna, a lady,
who lo.ved her husband tenderly, and who managed the
concerns of her household with intelligence ~d activity,
but who sent from home, as soon as they saw the light, all
the nine children to whom she successively gave birth, and
for years never asked to see them. She herself was some-
what ashamedof this inditlerence, and could not account for
it to herself. To quiet her conscience, she insisted upon
her husband seeing them every day, and taking a charge
of their education. From deficiency of the organ also,
combined with other feelings in a strong degree, probably
arises the cruelty of such barbarous mothers as ISABEL of
Bavaria, of whom history relates that she atifled all the sen-
timents ~f affection due to her children.
Among twenty-nine infanticides whom Das GALL and
SPURZHEIM bad occasion to examine, the organ of the Love
of Children was very feebly developed in twenty-five.
Dr GALL has oftener than once made the remark, that it is
not this defect in development alone which determines a
mother to child-murder; but that individuals defective in
this respect, yield sooner than others to those unfavourable
circumstances which lead to the crime, because they are
Digitized by Google
128 PHILOPROGENJTIVENESS.
not endowed with that profound feeling which, in the beart
of a good mother, will rise victorious over every such temp-
tation.
In selecting a nurse or child's maid, the phrenologist will
be directed by the development of this organ. This appli-
cation of the science, when mentioned to those who have
not studied the subject, generally excites a smile ; and cer- J
tainly, if the size of the part of the brain in question were
no indication of instinctive affection for children, no test for
qualification could be more justly deserving of ridicule than
the one now recommebded ; but, on the other band, if thP
organ be an unerring index of this disposition (which it is,
otherwise all we are now considering is a delusion), no
weakness can be greater than that which would fear to ap-
peal to it, because it might provoke a smile in those who
are ignorant that nature bas established the function.
The bead of the male is generally broader and rounder,
and that o~ the female longer and narrower, when con-
trasted with each other. This arises partly from the organ
of PhiloprogenitiveneBB being more developed in the female
head, and causing the occiput to project. The portion of
brain placed in the occiput is greater in women than in
men, though the entire brain of the woman is smaller than
that of the man. This difference is observable in the fretal
skull of the two sexes ; and is conspicuous in boys and girls.
The manifestations even in the earliest periods of life cor-
respond ; for the girl shews attachment to dolls and infants,
while the boy is addicted to romping and athletic sports.
A curious practical example of the difference in this feeling
betwixt males and females in general occurs in MoRIER's
Travels in Persia. " The surgeons of the Embassy'' says
he, "endeavoured to introduce vaccination among the Per-
sians, and their efforts at first were very successful; but on
a sudden its progress was checked by the government itself.
Several of the King's Ferashes were placed at the gate of
the Ambassador's hotel, nominally as a mark of attention
to.his Excellency, but really to stop all women from going
Digitized by Google
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 129
to our surgeons. They said that if the people wanted their
children to be vaccinated, thefatlaera, and not the mothers,
were to take them to the surgeon&r by which means the
eagerness for -.aecinatio• was stopped ; for we soon dis-
covered that the mala did not feel ene-half the same an-
xiety ~!' their oft'spriog as the ~,-SeroNd Jou1"Ret/
- tArflti{Jh P~Bia, p. 191•.
~ There are, nevertheless, exceptions to this general rule.-
8ometimes the occipital partof the brain is feebly developed
in a woman, and has acquired a very large size in a man.
In such eases, the diapositiens will be found t9 correspond
1o the development. Dr GALL conjectures, that in these eases
the woman will be found to resemble her father1 and the
man his mother, unless this peculiar conformation should
'be hereditary in the family. There are men thus organized
who have a particular affection for children, and in whom
the organs of Amativeness and Adhesiveness are smaU;-
who bear the loss of an affectionate wife, with a resigna-
tion which appears very philosophic, while the death of an
infant plunges them into a deep and lasting grief. The
want of children is with sU<'h men a constant source of
uneasiness, and ofteu this circumstance causes them to treat
1'1ith unkindness a partner exceedingly estimable in aU
other respects. ·
Dr GALL observes, that we find this organ more developed
in some mothers than in ethers. It is generally large in
Negroes; and infanticide is a erime almost unknown among
that variety of tbe species. Persons well acqtminted with
their character assure us, that they never heard of sueh a
erime committed by a black. The opgan is commonly well
developed even in male Negroes; and we find that Negro
men often consent to take charge of children. Travellers
Peport that the Tungusians and tho iohabitallts of North
America are singularly fond of their children. Dr GALL
mentions, that, in the skulls oftwo Tungusians and a North
American Indian, which be bad seen at Gottingen in the
collection of Professo~: DLUMENBACH, this organ was
Digitized by Google
ISO PHILOPROGENlTIVENESS,
large. Dr MuRRAY PATERSON states, that the Hindoos,
both male and female, are highly endowed with this feeling;
-it is manifested by them, he says, "in their predilection
for domestic quiet ; in the happiness they seem to feel when
IIUl'rounded by their children ; in the spirit of their lullabies,
and in their frequent and ardent embraces." Out of twelve
Hindoo skulls originally in the possession of the Phrenolo-
gical Society, eleven have this organ largely developed, and -
only one moderately so, and subsequent additions shew the
same result.
The feeling in question, so necessary for the preservation
and continuance of the species, is found strong in the most
aavage tribes. The organ is decidedly large, even in the
east& of the skulls of the Caribs, unquestionably the most
unfavourably organized, in other respects, of all the races
of which we possess any knowledge. Out
of five casts of Carib skulls in the Phre-
nological Society's collection, one bas
the organ very large, three have it large,
and the remaining one rather full. This
tribe appears, from their cerebral development, and the
accounts of travellers and historians with regard to their
manners and character, to be endued with the most brutal
ferocity, totally unregulated either by benevolence or intel-
lect; ·and, unless they possessed an instinctive propensity,
prompting them to take care of their children, they would
soon become extinct, without the intervention of famine,
pestilence, or an exterminating enemy. A satisfactory an-
swer is here afforded to those cavillers, who object that
there is no necessity for such a propensity as this, as the
feeling of Benevolence alone would be sufficient to prompt
parents to bestow the requisite care on their offspring. We
have only to point to the Caribs, and say, What reliance
could be placed on the benevolence of such beings ? And
yet they show attachment to their young, and submit to the
inconveniences of rearing them, amidst all the toils, priva-
tions, aad hardships, that abound in savage life.
Digitized by Google
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 181
This, like the other cerebral organs, is liable to disease,
and derangement in the manifestations of the propensity
is the consequence. Sometimes the most painful anxiety
is felt about children, without any adequate external eause,
and this arises from involuntary activity ofthe organ.
Dr ANDREW CoMBE attended a woman, while labouring
under a temporary alienation of mind, whose constant ex-
clamations during three days, which the fit lasted, wereabout
her children-she imagined that they were in distress, mur-
dered, ~arried away, exposed to every calamity. On reco-
very she complained of having a pain in the hind part of her
bead during the attack, pointing to the situation of Philo-
progenitiveness; but she had no other recollection of what
had paased. She was altogether unacquainted with Phre-
nology.
Dr GALL mentions a case of a woman in the great hos-
pital at Vienna, who was seized with a very peculiar kind
of madnes&-maintaining that she was about to be delivered
of six children. He was led, by his previous observations,
to conjecture that this hallucination was owing in part to a
great development, and partly to an over-excitement of the
organ of Philoprogenitiveness. The patient died, and be
mentions that the development of this organ in her head
was quite extraordinary. The posterior lobes of the brain
not only overhung the cerebe1lum more than is usual in
females, but were rounded and voluminous in a very re-
markable degree. At Paris, Dr GALL attended a young
lady of perfect modesty, who laboured under mental disease.
She Jived in the best society, and went to Vienna accompa-
nied by some most respeetable friends. She bad hardlyarriv-
ed, when she ran to all her acquaintances, and announced to
them, with the most lively joy and in the openest manner,
that she was pregnant. The circumstances of this declara-
tion, and the known character of the lady, were sufficient
to lead her friends to conclude her to be insane. In a
short time her joy gave place to angui11h of mind, and to a
mournful and invincible taciturnity. Soon afterwards she
I 2
Digitized by Google
lSi PHILOPROGENITIVENESS.
died of consumption. In her, also, this o~ was ex-
ttemely developed; and during her life she had been re-
markable for her love of children. mthe Lunatic Hospital
at Amsterdam, Drs GALL and SJWRZHEIM aaw a female pa-
tient, who spoke -of nothiDg but of being with child, thoagh
no such thing was.the ease. Her head 'MIS amall, and·theor-
ganofPhiloprogenitiYeness alonewasverylargelydeveloped.
In another hospital for lunatics, they aaw a man who main-
tained that he was with t'bild of twins. They announced
that he ought to have this organ large, and, on examining
his head, fo\md it to be so. These- cases· of the diseased
state of the organ, add to the already numerous proofs that
thie is·an original and a special propensity.
Dr G4LL relates, that he has examined, with allthe atten-
tion in his power, the skulls nf birds, from the smallest up
to the greatest, and ofmammiferous animals, from theshrew-
mouse to the elephant, and baa found throughout, that,
in the females, the cerebral part, which corresponds to ~he
organ of Philopregenitivenesa in the human species, is more
develo~ thau in the males. He says, that if there had
been presented to him, in water, tile fresh brains of two
adult animals of any species, one male and the other fe-
male, be could have distinguished the two sexes. In the
male, the cerebellum is larger and the posterior lobes of
the brain are smaller. In the female, on the contrary, the
cerebellum ia smaller, and the posterior lobes, or the con-
volutions connected with this fUBction, are larger and longer.
When these two organs are distinctly marked in the crani-
um, the two sexes may be distinguished by the simple in-
spection· of the skull. , In those species where the sexes dif-
fer very much in their regard for their young, the crania
differ sometimes so mueh in their form, that they have been
placed in collections as belonging to different varieties ofthe
same species, though in fact they belonged to individuals of
the same variety, but of different sexes.
Dr GALL adduces innumerable factA in support of this pro-
position ; but as these can hardly be made intelligible, with-
Digitized by Google
l
PHILOPROGENITIVENESS. 188
out the aaaistance of plates, I must refer those who wish to
pursue this inquiry to his work, to that of MoD&. VIMONT,
and to observations in nature. In pursuing it, the utmost
patience and attention are necessary, in order to avoid mis-
takes. The dift"erences will be found uniformly greatest
mthose species of which the males pay no regard to their
young; but it requires a praotiled .eye and great attention,
to discern the dift"erence in cJasses, of which·both t..he male
and female beatow care on their.ofFspring. There is, hew-
ever, a marked dift"erence in this .r.espeet, even in females
ofthe same species, who are fondest of their young. Every
cottager knows, .and :can clist.inguish mIter poultry-yard,
partieu.lar female fowls, ducks, geese, and turkeys, who
cover their .eggs and, bring up their young ones with the
greatest 'C8l.'e, while ther.e are .others who spell tllek'lleSta,
and neglecter. abandon their young. . On comparing the
heads of the animals,who show tbeae opposite qualities, a
decided differeuce of' conformation will be found in the or-
gan of Phlloprggenitivenesa.-Thoae, therefore, who wish
to form collections with this view, should.knGw not only
the natural history of the species, but the peculiar disposi-
tion of the individuals selected.
Almost all metaphysical writers admit the Love of Chil-
dren as an instinctive propensity of the human mind.
Phrenological observation points out the organ, and the ef-
fects of its dift"erent degrees of development, and aleo of its
healthy and sound state, on the maRifestations of the
feeling; and to this extent adds to the stock of general
knowledge. The following cuts repreaent. the organ large
and small: It is marked No. 2.
• I f ~ .., ~I ...
/f.
\
. •.
~~~)
Smalt PhUoprogcniUvcne&
· It is proper to bear in mind, that these and all othff eon-
Digitized by Google
••
184 · CONCENTRATIVENESS.
traata, are given in this work not to pro\"e Phrenology to
be true, but merely to represent the appearances of the or-
gans in difFerent degrees of development.-Eetablished.
S.-cONCENTRATIVENESS.
THE organ is situated immediately above Phlloprogeni-
tiveness, and below Self-Esteem. A bony excrescence of
the suture sometimes presents itselfat this part, which may
be mistaken for the organ of Concentrativeness; but the
former is much narrower and more pointed than the eleva-
tion caused by the latter, when it is large. A cerebral
convolution in each hemisph~re runs along the top of. the
corpus callosum, from the organs of Concentrativeness and
Self-Esteem, to the intellectual organs in the frontal lobe.
Observation proves that this is a distinct organ, because
it is sometimes found large, when the organs of Philopro-
genitiveness and Self-Esteem lying below and above it are
small, and sometimes small when these are large. Dr
GALL did not discover its function. Dr SPURZHEIM ob-
served it to be large in those animals and persons who
seemed attached to particular places. " I consider," says
he, " in animals, the cerebral part immediately above the
organ of Philoprogenitiveness, as the organ of the instinct
that prompts them to select a peculiar dwelling, and call it
the organ of Inhabitiveness. My attention has been and is
still directed to such individuals of the human kind as shew
a particular disposition in regard to their dwelling-place.
Some nations are extremely attached to their country,
while others are readily induced to migrate. Some tribes
wander about without fixed habitations, while others have
a settled home. Mountaineers arc commonly much attach-
ed to ~eir native soiJ, and those of them who visit capitals
or foreign countries, seem chiefly led by the hope of gain-
ing nioney enough to return hoine, and buy a little pro-
perty, even though the land should be dearer' there than
elsewhere. I therefore invite the phrenologists, who ba'·e
Digitized by Google
~--
CONCENTRATIVENESS. ISS
an opportunity of visiting various nations particularly f'ond
of their country, to examine the development of the organ
marked No. III., and situated immediately above Philo-
progenitivenesa. In all civilized nations some individuals
have a great predilection for residing in the country. If
professional punmits oblige them to live in town, their en"
deavour is to collect a fortune as apeedlly as possible, that
they may indulge their leading propensity. I have exa.-
mined the heads of several individuals of this description,
and found the parts in question much developed."-Piare-
110/ogy, p. 126. The function, however, is atated by him aa
ouly conjectural. From a number of observations, the fa.-
culty appears to me to have a more extensive sphere of ac-
tion than that assigned to it by Dr 8PURZHEIM.
Some persona posseas a natural consciousness of every
thing thatgoes on in their own minds, in which power othera
seem to be remarkably deficient. The former can detain
their feelings and ideas, and deliberately examine their
character and conaistency ; the latter cannot do this ; their
minds are like the surface of a mirror, on which each
f'eeling and thought appears like the shadow of a mov-
ing object, making a momentary impresaion, and passing
away. They experience great difficulty in detaining their
emotions and ideas, ao as to examine and compare them ;
and, in consequence, are little capable of taking systematic
views of any subject, and of concentrating their powera to
bear on one point. I have observed this organ to be large
in the former and small in the latter.
It is difficult to describe in words the manner of a man's
mind ; but the difference in manifestation is so great be-
tween those in whom this organ is small, and those in
whom it is large, that, if once comprehended, it will al"
ways be recognised. In conversing with some individuals,
we find them fall naturally into a connected train of
thinking; either dwelling on a subject which interests
them, till they have placed it clearly before the mind, or
passing naturally and gracefully to a connected topie.
Digitized by Google
•
1S6 CONCENTRATIVENESS.
Such persons uniformly ha'te this ·organ large. We meet
with others, who, in similar circumstances, never pursue
one idea for two consecutive seconds, who shift from topic
to topic, without regard to natural connexion, and leave
no distinct impresaion on the mind of the listener; and this
happene ev~n with individuals in whom reflection is not
.deficient·; but this organ is in sueh persons uniformly
amall. I h,ave meta militaey oiiceJ:, with Locality and Con-
centrativeness bo.
th lal-ge, who declared fl!at he Jiked the
&tirring ~-diffuse life of a soldier, while engaged in active
operations; but that when the army halted, be was equally
pleased, and found equal facility in concentrating his mind
to reading, writing, or business, and was not annoyed by
that di88ipation of intellect of which many of his brother-
officers complained. On the other hand, a gentleman bred
to the profession of the law, who has this.organ rather de-
ficient, declares that the effort of concentrated thinking is
to him painful, although he has excellent Comparison,
.Causality, and Language.
The question occurs, What is the primitive feeling which
ttives rise to these phenomena? The first idea that led me
to the conclusion, that it is the tendency to concentrate the
mind within itself, and to direct its powers in a combined
effort to one object, was suggested by a lady, who had re-
marked this quality in individuals in whom the organ was
larg.e. The Reverend DAVID WELSH and Dr HoPPE of
Copenhagen, having been informedof these views, unknown
to each .other, communicated to me the inference, that the
faculty gives a tendency to dwell in a place, or on feelings
and ideas, for a length of time, tlll all, or the majority, of
tile other faculties are satisfied in J"egar.d to them. Both
of these phrenologists acqu,iesce in the ~nifestations being
such -
as I have described them, when the organ is large or
small. An excellent letter on this subject appeared in tl1e
Phrenological Journal, vol iii. p. 193, from the pen of an
~onymous author, and contains many valuable remarks
on tb.Q ultimate principle of the faculty, and Javail mytWlf
of it with Jlleasure. The following are extructs. .
--~ ~ ~ ------- ---- Digitized by Google _
CONCENTRATIVENESS. 187
"' H we couider- the human mind,' says Mr HuME In
Ilia Dissertation on the Paasions, ' we shall observe that,
with regard to the pasaiou, it la not like a wind-iutru·
ment of music, which, in running over all the notes, im-
mediately l01e8 the sound when the breath ceases; but ra--
ther resembles a string--instrument, where, after each
stroke, the vibraUC)DB still retain some sound, which gra·
dually and insensibly decays.' From this he infers, that
when an object, which occasiou a variety of emotions,· is
presented to the mind, each impulse will not produce a
clear and distinct note of passion, but the one passion will
always be mixed and confounded with the other. In his ob-
aervatiou on the lawsofthe suggesting principle,DrTHoMAs
BaowN remarks the same fact, of permanence or co--exist-
ence, 88 taking place in our mental conceptions in general,
when associated with the interest of any mental emotion. ' I
look at a volwne on my table; says he, ' it recalls to me the
friend frem whom I r.ooeiv.ed it,-the remembrance of him
avggests to me the..conception of his family,-of an even·
iDg which I spent with them,-and of various subjects of
eur conversation. Yet the conception of my friend may
centinue, mingled indeed with various conceptions, 88 they
r..lse successively, but still eo-existing with them •.' Dr
BROWll proceeds, with the felicity and ingenuity which so
generally distinguish his writings, to explain how this co-
emtence {)f ideas gi¥es U8 the eapacity of prosecuting with
steadiness a mental design or plan of thought. His worda
eaunot be abMged without doing injustice to his meaning.
' Whea we sit down; he says, ' to study a particular
&Object, we must han a certain conception, though proba-
bly a dim and ~owy one, of the subject itself. To study
it, however, is not to hav.e that conception alone, but to
have successively various conceptions, its relations to which
we endeavour to trace. The conception of our particular
aubject, therefore, must, in the very first stage of our pro-
gress, suggest some other conception. But this second
• L«tures, vol. ii. p. S03.
Digitized by Google
188 CONCENTRATIVENESS.
suggestion, if it alone were present, having varioua rela-
tions of ita own, 88 well 88 its relation to the subject which
suggested it, would probably excite a third conception,
which bad no reference to the original subject,-and thia
third a fourtb,-and thus a whole series, all equally unr~
lated to the subject which we wish to study. It would
hence seem ~po&Bible to think of the same subjecteven for
a single minute. Yet we know that the fact is very dift'er-
ent, and that we often occupy whole hours in this manner,
without any remarkable deviation from our original design.
Innumerable conceptions, indeed, arise during this time,
but all more or less intimately related to the subject, by
the continued conception of which they have every ap-
pearance of being suggested; and if it be aJlowed that the
conception of a particular subject both suggests trains of
conceptions, and·continues to exist together with the con-
ceptions which it baa suggested, every thing for which I
contend in the present case is implied in the admission.'
"I apprehend," says the writer in the Journal, ".that
this principle suggests the true metaphysical theory. Ifwe
conceive that the simple function of this faculty is to give
duration or fixity to whatever conceptions or emotions oc-
cupy the mind, the various operations ascribed to Concen-
trativeness will fiow from that function 88 from an elemen-
tary principle. In Mr CoMBE's work lately published •, the
'primitive feeling,' which gives rise to the phenomena of
Concentrativeness, is said to be, ' the tendency to concen-
trate the mind within itself, and to direct its powen in a
combined effort to one object.' This, however, may be
considered rather as a description of the operation of the
power, than a statement of the primary element to which
its phenomena may be traced. It' we attend to what passes
in our minds when we endeavour to eoncentrate our
thoughts upon a subject, we shaH find that we do not at-
tempt any direct coercion on our different faculties, but
• System of Phrenology, 182:;.
oigi!lzed by Coogle
-~ - ------------
CONCENTRATJVENESS. JS9
aimply endeavour to eeize upon the object of thought, and
keep it steadily before the mind. We are all occasionally
con.acious of ineWeetoal eB'orts of attention ; if we examine
what we do on such occasions, we shall find that it conaieta
in an attempt to think of some subject which is, for the
moment, less attractive than some other objects which are
the causes of distraction. An eJfective concentration of
the faculties takes place only when the original leading
conceptions are of themselves powerful and permanent;
and the concentration will be found, consequently, to be
moat perfect when there is least eft"ort to produce it. We
are sensible of this on occasions which may be either pain-
ful or pleasant; when a subject, associated with strong emo-
tion, has taken possession of the mind ; ·and when we find
ourselves incapable of banishing from our thoughts, even
though very desirous of doing so, the train of conceptions
which bas so strongly concentrated our powers upon itself,
and continues to keep them in a state of sustained and per-
haps distressing activity. We speak of our minds having
the command of our ideas. This may be correct enough
in popular language ; but, philosophically speaking, our
ideas command our minds. And even in those cases which
appear .-oat like exceptions to this principle, it will be
found, on examination, that it is merely one class of ideas
assuming the predominance over another. When we vo-
luntarily change our train of thought, or endeavour to con-
eentrate our minda upon a subject, the process is one in
which, under an impression of the necessity or expediency
of attending to the particular subject, we pass from the
train of irrelevant ideas, and endeavour to reach, by the
aid of our associations, the subject which we wish to study.
Almost every individual is capable of this single eft"ort, and
he may repeat it again. But tl1at uninterrupted sustaining
of the attention so given, which constitutes Concentrative-
ness, depends on a quality distinct from efforts of atten-
tion,-a quality m06t strongly marked where least effort is
necessary,-and that is simply the property which this
Digitized by Google
14.0 CONCENTRATIVENESS.
mental power poaeasee of giving continuance to thoughta
and feelings when they have sprung up in the mind. This
property appears to exist in d.ift'erent degrees in difFerent
minds ; to which, of coUl'lle, the diversity in the manifesta-
tions of Concentl'ativeness, with which we are so often pre-
sented, is to be mainly attributed.
" It is not difficult to see in what way this property of
permanenceoperates in producingthevarious peculiaritiesof
a concentrative turn of mind. It is a law of thought which
all systems of mental philosophy recognise, although they
may explain it dift'erently, that a conception or feeling,
when present to the mind, naturally acts in calling up
other conceptions and feelings of the same clasa. Ideas of
Causality call forth other ideas of Causality; emotions of
Benevolence or Destructiveness are followed by trains of
conceptio~a 8880Ciated by sympathy with the previous men-
tal state. If, then, one predominating Conception or feeling
be held before the mind by the force of a strong Concen.
trativeness, the mental action just described will of neces-
sity be greatly enhanced. The secondary conceptions will
re-act upon the original, increasing the intensity of thought
and feeling, and adding to the excitement of the mind. A
more extensive range of ideas, all bearing the .-ne kin-
dred character, will thus be brought into view; and while
the intellect, seizing from a distance the pOint to be pur-
sued, arranges its materials on such a plan as is best adapt-
ed to attain it, it is at the same time prepared for execut-
ing the design with greater strength of conception, or, as
the nature of the subject may require, with a tone of more
powerful emotion. The effect of this concentration natu-
rally extenda to the active powers in cases where their c~
operation is necessary; the 8880Ciated volitions flow more
readily along with the mental train, and participate in the
harmony of all the other faculties.
"In perfect consistency with this view, we find that any
circum&tance which gives permanence to an emotion inde-
pendently of Concentrativeneu, produces the same effect.
oigi!lzed by Coogle
.CONCENTRATIVENESS. 141
The continued presence of a cause of provocation will ex-
cite Deatructiveneaa to a greater excess of paaaion. Large
Cautiousness, along with deficient Hope, will give a per.:.
manent tinge to all the mental feelings ; and, when excited
by disease, may so complefMy fill the mind with their
gloomy suggestions, as to render it inaccesaible to every
idea ofa brighter complexion. Every sentiment, whatever
ita t'haracter may be, casta ita own peculiar light over the
mental prospects; and the objects beheld reflect that light
alone to the mind, whether it be the splendour ofour more
bright and joyous feelings, or the fiercer glow of the de-
structive pasaions, or the sombre illumination of a more
melancholy mood.
"It occurs to me that the amount of this power, in the
composition of intellectual character, has not been fully
estimated by phrenologists. Independently of Phrenology
altogether, the varieties of mental constitution cannot, I
think, be satisfactorily accounted for, but by supposing
that Concentrativeness is an original element of mind, vary-
ing in force in different individuals. In connecting this
power with the cerebral organ, phrenologists have pro-
ceeded upon experience; and so far·as my limited observa-
tion has gone, I have been gratified by the remarkable coin-
cidences which it bas presented between fact and t.his part
of the system. The following remarks have been suggested
by observation, and are not merely speculative; but, at the
same time, they are submitted, to be set aside or confirmed
as to their phrenological accuracy by the more extensive
observations of our veteran phrenologists.
"What is the result of extreme defect in this organ I have
had no opportunity of knowing. Deficiency, in the more
ordinary degrees, discovers itself in different ways, accord-
ing te ita combination with other faculties. In some indi-
viduals it produces an indisposition to settle into any re-
gular plan of life; or, if this has been controlled by cir-
cumstances and other faculties, there may still be seen a
want of method, forethought, and continuity, in the vari-
Digitized by Google
149 CONCENTRATIVENESS.
ous coneeros of intercourse or business. The Individual
does not appear like one driving constantly towards a par-
ticular object ; his mind takes its direction from shifting cir-
cumstances ; and if other faculties conspire, he may be
characterized by a sort of carelees facility or vivacity of
disposition. Should these appearances be restrained by
large Cautiousness and Firmness, while the reflecting or-
gans at the same time are fu11, the manifestations of the de-
ficiency will be considerably different. There may be a
propensity to reason, and possibly to deal in abstract spe-
culation ; while the individual will exhibit, in his attempts
at argumeDt, a degree of cloudioesa and ambiguity of con-
ception, which evidently results from an incapacity of hold-
ing up distinctly before his mental vision the subject of
thought.
" We occasionally find persons with large reflecting or-
gans, whom we are surprised to observe Rttlct_given to sus-
tained reasoning or philosophical speculation. The writer
has noticed some such, with Causality and Wit both large,
while be has had reason either to knolv or to suspect, that
the organ of Concentrativeness was considerably deficient.
The intellectual perceptions of such appeared to be strong
and rapid, and_.possessed the momentary brilliancy imparted
by Ideality, or the energy derived from a large Combative-
ness. But the mental action was never sustained; the
energy ceased when its impression had just bf.en felt by the
auditor ; and the decisions of Causality and Wit were never
prolonged into a train ofconnected argument. They came
to their conclusions by judgments, and not by ratiocina-
tion. Whatever could be seen at a glance or two, they
perceived, and often with much perspicacity and origina-
lity ; but they failed in every thing requiring the investi-
gation of abstraet principles or logical deduction. They
excelled in whatever admitted of succession and variety of
remark, but were unsuccessful where a single point was to
be kept in view, and carried by argument. They were
better orators than writers, and more powerful still in con-
4.
Digitized by Google
CONCENTRATIVENESS.- 148
venation than in prolonged oratory. .It might be that they
argued well in conversational controversy; but this was
because the succeaaive replies of the debate broke the rea-
IIOning into steps, if I may aay so, and always presented a
new point for immediate judgment.-All this appears to
be the nat~UJ'). consequence of a deficient Concentrative-
ness. We must observe, however, that such a mind, when
its faculties are under the influence of atrong excitement,
may exhibit a degree of unity and sustainedness of thought
beyond what is usual to it at other moments ;-but this
would prove nothing against an actual deficiency in Con-
centrativeness. All poaeas the quality in 110me degree,
and, of course, on occasions of greater excitement, its
power will be augmented. And still it may be aaid, that
if great Concentrativeness were placed in the same cir-
cwnstances, its manifestations would be still more re-
markable.
"·Full or large Concentrativeneaa gives rise to other de-
scriptions of intellectual character. We may occasionally
observe a clasa of per110ns, who, with the intellectual or-
gans rather poorly developed, are notwithstanding great
dabblers in argument. They are a species of Lilliputian
gladiators, who are perpetually skirmishing and hair-split--
ting with all about them in behalf of certain favourite opi-
nions, to the merits of which few, alas! are sensible but
theDUJelvee. This is the extreme case, but various modifi-
cations of it will be found. The probability is, that in all
mch the faculty of Concentrativenea is full; it may be
teen, indeed, in the natural language of their looks and
geeturea : along with this, Causality will be discovered to
be relatively the largest of their intellectual faculties, al-
though abaolutely small. Their reasonings are distin-
guished by two qualities. The first of these is a deficiency
or etrength and breadth in the conceptions which compose
them ; eo that their track is 110mething like the lines of na-
vigators' courses in the charts, remarkable for nothing but
its continuousne88. The second is, that they take no com-
Digitized by Google
CONCENTB.ATIV.KNESS.
prehensivc survey of the general principles which bear
upon a queetion ; but having the power of seeing and dia .
secting that which is immediately before them, they work
onward by the help of certain little fonnolre, now right,
and now wrong, till they strike upon 80IIle palpable absur-
dity, some contradiction to more general principles or more
enenaive analogies. When such individuals are compared
with persons·drthe former class, who have large Causality,
and yet do not reason, an apparent eoJatradiction is pre-
sented to the phrenological account of Causality, as a fa-
culty which dispo&es to metaphysics, and '" gives the per-
ception of logical consequences in argument.' The con-
tradiction vanishes when we connect two powers together
as necessary to reasoning. The Causality ef every one
whose mind is sound, is capable of perceiving the relation
between a cause and ita etrect, or between simple premises
and a conclusion. If Concentrativeness be added, which
gives the power of keeping the subject of thought steadily
before the mind, there will be a capacity for punuisg such
a connected series of judgmeata as constitutes reasoniBg.
In mathematical reasoning,.where every term: has a defi-
nite extension, the above power will be sufficient for form-
iag sound conclusions. But, in the inveatigation of mora}
subjects, there is required a comprehensive conception of
the various relations of each term or principle employed in
our deductions ; and this appears to 'be the property of a
large Causality in eonjunction with the knowing organa ;.
-the former giving a powerful memery for relations pre-
viouly discoveFed, and the latter supplying the material&
en which the decisions of Causality are founded. In both
e£ these, such reasoners as we speak of are deficient; and
henoo their speculations want the elements both of strength
and cemprehensiveness of thought.
When full Coacentrativeness is joined tO large Causality
and lntiividuality, the power of philosophy and reasoning
· appears in its greatest perfeetion. The mind is at oRce pos-
seased of large intellectual resources, and is capable of
3
Digitized by Google
CONCENTRATIVENESS.
malring the most of them by its power of collecting its con-
ceptions into a strong mental picture, and conveying them
with the full force of a 8Witained representation to the
minds of others. The effects of a large Causality are just
the reverse of those we attributed to a smalL The intel-
lectual picture is enlarged in its dimensions, is more com-
pletely filled up with related conceptions, and has its lines
more strongly drawn ; and, along with this, there is a
more comprehensive view of the mUltiplied connexions
which the subject of thought has with other remoter
truths."
The styles of TACITUS and GRATI'AN appear to me high-
ly charaeterized by ConcentrativeneRS, while that of Du-
GALD STEWART is 80 only in a moderate degree. The qua-
lity is much more conspicuous in the poetry of THoMAS
CAMPBELL and CRABBE than in that of Sir WALTER ScoTT.
It seems to have been recognized by the late Dr THoMAS
BaowN, who names it a " Comprehensive Energy," and it
abounds in his own writings.
It has been objected, that concentration in style is, in
many inatances, the result of labour and condensation, and
in this I agree; but before an author will .bestow pains in
communicating this quality to his compositions, he must
have a relish for it himself; and this, according to my no-
tion, is inspired by the organ in question. The object of
his exertions is to bring his style up to a state which pleases
his own faculties; and if the organ be small, he will not
find pleasure in concentration either of feeling or thought.
It has been said, that Individuality and Eventuality,
when large, produce the effects here attributed to Concen-
trativeness; but I am acquainted with a literary gentleman
in whom these organs are large, and Concentrativeness de-
ficient, and who manifests great knowledge of facts and
details, combined with deficiency in the power of keeping
them continuously before his own mind, so as to discover
their relative bearings andapplications. On the other hand,
K
Digitized by Google
146 CONCENTRATIVENESS.
I am acquainted with a pbil010phieal author,.who poaaanea
large Concentrativeneae with deficient Eventuality, and
who oomplaina of experiencing great di8iculty in acquiring
knowledge of detalla, who requires to write down instantly
the results of his reading and observations, and whose
knowledge exist& in his portfolio more thaD. in his brain,
bot who, in reproducing his knowledge asan author, labours
Incessantly till be bas discovered ita natural relations, and
gives it forth in the most concentrated and 11f1t8matic form.
When Comparison and Causality are large in combination
with large Concentrativeness, there is a tendency to 8yst&-
matize knowledge: when the latter ia deficient thia is not felt;
and I regard one element in a syetematic mind to be the
power of giving continuouaneu to feelings·and ideal, there-
by enabling the intellect to contemplate the relatio01 sub-
listing among them.
Aecording to this account of the faculty, an individual
may have great liking fot a particular p111'8U.it, Botany, for
example, or Phrenology, if he poaaee1 the combination of
facultiel which takes pleasure in it; and he may pursue it
with ardour, and nevertheletJ& be deficient ill Concentrative-
nee& I know such persons, but all of them make eft'orta,
coJlect knowledge, or communicate ideas, without taking
a oomprehenaive and concentrated view of the objects and
relations about which they treat. Dr SPURZHEIM, bow·
ever, objects to my ideas, and states, that his experiellce is
in contradiction to them. Facta alone muat determine be-
tween ua. At the same time, there appears to be nothing
in the notio01 of Dr SPURZHEIM concerning lnhabitive-
ness, inconsistent with the more extensive views now taken
of the functions of this faculty.
It baa been objected by him, that " Concentrativeneaa
eannot pollibly be a primitive faculty, since it can neither
act alone, nor appear diseaaed singly; and since its very
existence only becomea apparent by the presence of other
powers directed to one object." There are various facul-
ties which cannot act alone : thus, Frrmness presupposes
Digitized by Google
CONCRNTRATIVENESS. 147
tbe activity of other powers, we persevere in passion, hi
love, in ba~ ambi.tion, or in study; but cannot well per•
severe in mere abstract perseverance : Cautiousness causes
na to fmr; but we always fear something, which depends on
other faeulties, and rarely experience abstract fear itself.
<Joneetitrativeness, therefore, is not singular in not acting
alone.
As to disease of Coneentrativeness, this ()rgan appearS
\0 suft'er mthose lunatics whose attention is immoveably
fixed on tiOme internal impression, and who rem8.in absorb-
ed in silent and profound meditation, insensible alike to
the threat& and caresses of those around them, and to tb~
efteet& of external objects. They difFer from ordinary mo-
nom.aniaei in thH, that the latter, With certain unsound
~lings or intellectual perceptions, or with unwound asso-
ciations on the presentment of certain external objects, earl
atiJI direct their attention to other ft!elings or ideas, and
concerning them can hold rational conversation. The state
now attributed to diseased ConcentrativeneRs, must be dis-
tinguished also from one for which it has been sometimes
mistaken, viz. dementia, apptoaehing to idiocy, in which a
fixed look and silent calmness appear, not from internal
meditation, but from utter insensibility to stimuli. In dts.
e88e of Coneentrativeness, the patient possesses intense
eon.selousneas, and, when cured, is able to give an account
of all that passed in his mind during the malady ; in de-
fittftlia, the period of the disease forms a blank in existence,
the individual recollecting nothing. Dr A. CoMB.£, to whom
I owe these observations, states, that be has heard EsQUI-
llOL, in his lectures at the Salpetri~e, speak of cases such
aa those now described ; and be has seen examples which
proved the accuracy of his account of them, although, ow-
ing to the function not having been discovered at the time,
he did not observe the condition of this particular organ.
I am &e4'!1!8inted with a gentleman in whom the organ is
large, and who, while labouring under a nervous affection,
in 'fVlrich Cautiousness and Conscientiousness were diseased,
K2
Digitized by Google
148 CONCENTRATIVENESS.
experienced a feeling 88 if the power of concentrating hll
mind were about to leave him, and who used vigoro~ ef·
forts to preserve it. He directed his attention to an object,
frequently a spire at the end of a long street, and reeolute-
ly maintained it immoveably fixed there for a considerable
length of time, excluding all other ideas from his mind.
The consequence was, that in his then weak state, a dis-
eased fixity of mind euaued, in which feelings and ideas
stood 88 it were bound up and immoveable, and thereafter
a ltate in which every impression and emotion was ftoating
and fickle like images in water. He was then unacquaint-
ed with Phrenology, but knows it now, and expreaaes hi.l
convictioa that the circumstances detailed were probably
referable to a diaeaaed affection of the organ in question. .
Dr SPURZHEIM objects farther, that "no one, in concen-
trating his mind, and directing his powers to one object,
exhibits gestures and motions indicating activity in the back
part of the head ; the whole of the natural language shews,
that concentration takes place in the forehead." With the
greatest deference to Dr SPURZREIM's superior skill and
accuracy, I take the liberty of stating, that, so far as my
own observation goes, those persons who really poaseaa the
power of concentration, while preparing to make a power-
ful and combined exertion of all their powers, naturally
draw the head and body backwards in the line of this organ.
The author of Waverley describes this 88 the attitude of
concentrated internal thinking. Preachers and advocatea
in whom it is large, while speaking with animation, move
the head in the line of Concentrativeness ~d Individuality,
or straight backwards and straight forwards. When Com-
bativeness predominates over Concentrativeness in a plead-
er, ho draws his head backwards and to tho aide, in the line
of Combativeness, and advances it in..acorresponding di-
rection.
" This organ," continues Dr SPURZHEIM, "is a1so com-
monly larger in women than in men, and I leave every one
to decide upon the sex which support& the more close and
Digitized by Google
CONCENTRAIJ'"IVENESS. 14t
vigorous attention." In Scotland, and I may almost say
in England, although my obsemtions there have been less
extensive, this is not the cise; the development being larger
in.men in general than in women. "It is moreover," says
he, " larger in Negroes and in the Celtic tribes than in
the Teutonic race& ; in the French, for instance, it is larger
than in the Germans.· The national character of these na-
tions not only does not confirm the opinion of Mr CoMBE,
but is in dii-ect contradiction to it." From this and some
other objections of Dr SPURZBEIM, which I pass over with-
out comment, I aui convinced that he has not correctly a~
prehended the quality of mind which I designate by Con-
eentrativeneaa. This must, no doubt, be my fault ; but il
affords a good reason for not prolonging disputation. So
far as my knowledge of French literature extends, it is not
marked by deficiency of Concentrativeness. The intellec•
tu&l range of the French is limited, but no nation attains-
to greater perf~en within the sphere which their faculties
are Calculated to reach : they write the best elementary
works on aeience of any people of Europe ; and to this
Concentrativeness is essential. They bring their powers to·
bear in a regulated manner on the point under considera-
tion, and.present it clearly and definitely to the understand~
iug. The Germans have more powerful·retlecting faculties
than the French, and also greater perseverance; but, if I'
may judge from the·limited knowledge of their literature
which I have been able to obtain, they appear inferior to
themin Concentrativeneaa. They introduce more frequentlr
exiraneous ideu and feelings, and do not arriVe-at so neat"
and complete a whole in their compositions.
Ia reganl to the tendency to "Inhabitiveness,'•I con•
eeive that concentration of mind is favourable to this ten·
dency, and t1lat men and animals, whose faculties are more
concentrated, have the greatest inclination to remain in
bne 1flace; besides, animals which brouse on rocks, and
w'}fah place their neat& in high and diJiieult situations, or
'bt the banks of rapid rivers, would require for their well-
Digitized by Google
150 CONCENTRATIVENESS.
being and comfort juat such a faculty as this, which should
enable them to maintain their position with ease, and at.
the same time to provide for their food and safety. The
eagle, which loves to soar aloft, requires certain faculties
to be exerted to maintain his equilibrium, while at the same
time his eye darts at once over a great expanse " through
the azure deep of air," to diacern his prey on the surface
of the earth. There are farther required a concent.rat.ioJl
~d simultaneous action of numerous faculties in the stoop
which he makes upon the prey itaelf, and in pouncing at
once upon the bird or lamb which he has selected for his
victim. Something of the same kind is required in the
water-fowl, whose cradle is the deep, in diving for his food
through the waters. The co-operation of all his powers
must ~ required to keep him in that. situation, and at the
same time enable him to secure what he wishes for food,
and avoid his nwneroll!l enemies. In ~.way I conceive
that the new functiou attribu.ted to this organ do not su-
~ the old, nor imply any in.correotJJ.ess in the obser-
vationa which led Dr SPuazHEilll to conjecture ita uses;
'*·the same.~e there ID&Y be a modification in the faculty
itse~ ~ W,'?fent species of animal!!, which IPY determine
some to high ud some to low ~~1)8; while in ~an it
~y be a more general faculty, wiihout determining to a
r.
esidence of any particular kind.
The strongest expre6flion of this faculty which I •ve.
qbserved. is in rope-dancers. Their COUJllenllilOOI shew •
gnl8t intar~ eft'ort of Olen~ concentratiou. watcbmg ~
dirtictpJg tlw slightest DlQtions of the body ; and ia the
head of Ducaow, of which tbe ~WeGQlogioal Society*
a cast, t.he organ ia very large. He manifeata tiJ.e faculty
in the highest degree.
'rh~ 1~ object of these discussions is to eQable .._
r~er tp form an i~ of the mental quality, if i~ be sqch,
iu~nded to b~ deaignated by Con~ntratiw:~ so that he
m~y be able to d.ec;i4e ou the U.uq~ou of the organ by hi.
owll obeervatiog& It ~ts. alpQg ~t.Jl th., *Uilg• Qa
Digitized by Google
ADHESIVENESS. 151
weU aa with the intellect, and prolongs emo\ione. .Ab-
.U,.Ct reuoning is not admitted in Phrenology u proof
in favour of any organ or faculty; and I have obeerved
that, by leading the mind insensibly to adopt a conclusion
for or against particular ideas, it prodnoee a teDcleaey to
eeek snpport for opiaione rather tUn tnRh, and there),y
retards the progreee ef aee'Uol'ate inveetigation.-The ftmc..
tion is stued u oaly proilaltle, aRd e&ande opea ilr fvtlaer
elucidation.
4.-ADHESIVENESS.
Tats orgais aituated at the middle of the posterior edp
of the parietal bene, oa eaelt side of Ceacenuativeaeee,
higher up than Philoprogenitivene&B, and just above the
lambdoidal snture. When very large, two unular protu-
berances will be observed there; or a general fu1Bell8, if the
neighbouring organs be large ; when emall, that part of the
head is narrow or depreued.
Dr GALL was r8f1De&ted to mould for his eollection the
·head of a lady, whe was described to him as a model of
friendship. Be did so, more through complaiance, .UO
in expectation of making any discovery. In examining the
head, he fonnd two large prominenees, in the form of a
segment of a circle, on the aides of the organ of Philopro-
genitiveoees. These prominences, which he had not pre-
viously observed, were symmetrjcal, and manifestly fol'Dled
by part of the brain ; and he therefore concluded, that they
indicated organs; but the quesU.on was, what are their
functions? Be inquired at the friends of the lady con-
cerning her dispositions and talents, and also obtained her
own opioioa of the feelings aud capacities which she most
strongly posse8I8CL All the informa.Uon concurred in re-
pil'd to the faot, *t she waa distinguished by inviolable
aMaehment to her friend&. Although at different periods
of her life; her fortune had undergone great changes, and
OD several occasions she had passed from poverty to riches,
Digitized by Google
15~ ADHESI\'ENES$,
her afFection for her former friends was never forgotten.
The idea naturally presented itself, that the disposition to
attachment might be connected with a particular part of
the brain. This inference acquired greater probability from
the circumstance, that the prominences on the head of this
lady were .Placed immediately above the organ of sexual
love, and on the two sides of that of the love of children, and
that the three feelings have obviout~ly some analogy to·each
other. Many subsequent observations confirmed tbi8 con-
jecture, and the organ has long been regarded as esta-
blished.
The faculty gives the instinctive tendency to attachment,
and causes WI to experience the greatest delight in a »eturn
of afFection. Those in whom it is large, feel an inTofuntary
impulse to embrace, and cling to any obj~ct which is capa-
ble of experiencing fondness. It gives ardour and a firm
grasp to the shake with the hand. In boys, it frequently
displays itself by attachment to dogs, rabbits, birds, horses,
or other animals. In girls, it adds fondness to the embraces
bestowed upon the dolL The feelings which it inspires
abound in the poetry of MooaE. He beautifully deecribes
its eft'ects in the following lines :
" The heart, like a tendril IICCuetomed to cling,
Let it grow where it will cannot flourish alone ;
But will lean to the neUest and loveliest t.hlllg,
It tan twine with iteelf, and make cloeely ita own."
It also inspires the verse,
" The heart that loves truly, love never forget~~,
But as truly loves on to the close ;
All the 1un-fiower turn~ to her god u be aeta,
The ti&Dle look that she turned when he rose."
The old Scotch ballad, " There's nae luck abont the
hout~e," breathes the very spirit of this faculty.
The organ is generally larger, and the faculty stronger,
in women than in IJlen ; and the extreme constancy with
which, in general, they adhere to the objects of their at-
tachment may be attributed to this faculty. "Man boasts
~ --- .........
Digitized by Google
ADHESIVENESS. 158
of his capaeity for friendship," says Mr ScoTT, "and false-
ly speaks of its joys as the purest of all human enjoyments.
But it is only in the heart of feeling, confiding, generous
woman, that friendship is to be found iB all the fulnesa of
perfection. It was part of the doom pronounced upeo her
at the fall, that ' her desire should be to her husband, and
that be should rule over her;' and, conformably to the first
clause in this sentence, we find Adhesiveness to be, in gene-
ral, far more powerful in the woman than in the man.
The most generous and friendly man is selfish in compari-
son with woman. There is no friend like a loving and af-
fectionate wife. Man may love, but it is always with a re-
serve, and with a view to his own gratification ; bnt when
a woman bestows her love, she does it with her heart and
sonl."-Phren. Journ. vol ii. p. 280.
Even in the most degraded criminals, this faculty 801De-
times manifests iteelf with a fervour and constancy of af-
feetion worthy of a better fate. MARY MAciNNES, execut-
ed in Edinb~rgh for murder, had gained the affection of a
person whose name need not here be mentioned; and her
attaehment to him continued strong in death, and assumed
even a romantic appearance in the last moments of her
mortal career. He had sent her a pocket-handkerchief,
having his name written in one comer, and also half an
orange, with a desire that she would eat the latter on the
sea1fold;in token.of their mutual affection, he having eaten
the other half the preceding morning at the corresponding
hour. She held the comer of the napkin in her mouth al-
most all the night preceding her execution, and even on
the scaffold. When seated on the drop, the turnkey gave
her the half orange. She took it out of his band, and, with-
out the least symptom of fear, said," Tell him (the object
of her attachment) that I die perfectly satisfied that be has
done all in his power for my life, and that I eat the orange
aa he desired me. May GoD bless him. Say to him that
it is my dying request that he may take care of drink and
bad company, and be sure nev~ to be late out at Dight."
Digitized by Google
1M ADHESIVENESS.
She eeeiD8Cl to forget eternity in tlae ardour of her attach-
ment to eartb. The organ is very large in lhe caat of her
la.d.-Piinn. 7rau. p. 876.
Thia great pronen.. to, and ardour ia, attachment oa
tbe put or the female .., render thoee JDell doubly guilty,
who, on the faJ.e hypo6heaill tMtatiection reaiily and warm-
ly bestowed, may be lightly withdrawn aad direeted to an-
ether, aport with this h.utiful trait of female ~~atare, aad
gaia the aft'ections of women, to betray tlteir honour, or
gratify a silly vanity by being loTed.
There is a great dUI'erence aaoog individuala ia regard
to the streugth of this feeliDg. Some men have many ac-
quaintancea but no friends ; while others remain attached
to-certain individuals during eTery chaage ofcircumstances,
and do not readily enlarge the circle of their intimates.
When the organ is large, great delight is felt in friendship
and attachment, the idea of distant friends often presents
itself, and the glow of afFection l'Wihe. iato the mind, with
all the warmth and viTacity of a paeaion. Those in whom
it is small care little fur friendship ; out of sight, out of
mind, i1 their maxim. We frequently eee individuals of
very difFerent characters and genius, lastingly attached to
each other. This faculty, strong in both, 11188188 to me t.e
be the bond of union. They perhaps feel many pointe of
repulsion, and are not happy if too leag and too closely
united ; but still, onbeing separated, they esperience a long-
ing for each other'• society, which makes them forget and
forgive every thing to obtain its gratifieation. There are
hna'band8 ud wives who cannot live together, and yet whe
become-miaerable when long separated. I conceive this flo
&rile from large Adheeiven.. in both. combined with
other faeulties in eaeh, which do not. harmonise.
This faculty is clearly di&tingaimable from Benevoleaoe,
for many peraou• are prone to attachment who are not. gene-
rous. It, however, has a more extensive inftuence ~ the
pl'Odaction of friendship amoug illdividuals, and appears fl9
give rise to the iaetiDcti.-o tendeney to congregate, wheace
Digitized by Google
--
ADHESIV]j!NESS. 155
society baa originated. M~ is cr~ obviously wit.a a
view to the social siate. His feeliaga of benevolence, love-
of praise and justice, require I!Ociety fer tw objects, u
much 88 the a&omach rectuires food to eaable it to perform
the process of digeeiion; aDd !Wnre, by JMaD.I of this &.
culty, seems to give the instinctive ~ to 8I80Ciate,
by meuas of which the whole powen of the mind ..,.., find
seope for exercise. If this view be COJTect, defieieney in
the organ will be essenUal to an udaorite or hermit.
Someof the lower animah po8&ell this propenaity u well
as man: It is remarbbly strong in the dog; and hones
and oxen sometimes become sick and pine, when deprived
of accustomed companions. " It is to be observed, how-
ever," says Dr 8PUBZBEIK, "that the i.nstiuct of being at-.
tached for life, and ~t of li\'ing in society, are not mere
degrees of energy, so that a lower degree prGduces attach-
ment for life, anda higaer degree for soci..ty. For the¥e are
animals which live in society with~ bei.Jsg attached fer life;
88 the bull, the dog, cock, &c.; others live in society, and
in famlly, u starlings, ravens, crows, &c. ; others again are
attached for life without living in society, aa the fox,
magpie.'' &c. The instinct, therefore, of living in eeciety,
aRCl t.bat.of living ia fulily,. U"e mod~ of the !Multy
in qv.estion ; j~ lift.••ll, althpvgh tile IJ80ie sense in h~­
bivorous and camivoroua aniqaa)s, • IQ8difted. in the fonur
te tab copW.ance of vegei&We substaue.e, and in the lat-
ter, of the ~ fibre and ••u.ria. '·'Man beloaga to t.be.
'UdwJtla w.hica are aoqial aaclat.techecLlor Jife ; IICriety ap.~
marriage.Me ~-ly etfecta:not of human re&ctiou.
but. o£ an:original decmee ef oatwe."-s~·a Pllflaiog.
Syat. p. 200. Cllld PhrenologtJ, p. 1.;&
Dr GALL does not coincide in the opiaioa ihat atta&h-
ment for life in man and animals results from this organ.
It appeaa to him, so far as his knowledge of natural his-
tory extends, that, in all species where both the male and
female concur in rearing the young, marriage for life ex-
ists ; and that, on the other hand, where the unaided female
Digitized by Google
Io6 ADHESIVENESS.
is suticlent to this end, the connection Is temporary. At
the same time, he speaks with much reserve on the sub-
ject, and is not prepared to decide, whether there i8 a se-
parate organ for attachment for life,-whether it is the re-
sult of a combination of several organs, or a modifteation
of Adhesiveness.-Vol. iii.·p.·485.
Exceaive energy of this faculty produces extreme re-
gret at the loss of friends, or at leaving our country. Nos-
talgia is supposed to result from disease of the organ.
. Mr STEWART • and Dr THOMAS BaowN t, admit this
tendency as a primitive instinct of our nature, aud concur
in general with the views of the phrenologists in regard
to it.
J. J. RoussEAU founds his celebrated Essay on the Origin
of the Inequality of Ranks, which obtained the prize from
the Academy of Dijon, on the non-existence of such a pro-
pensity in the human mind. He views man in his natural
state, as an isolated and wandering animal, satisfying his
hunger by the chase, or by the fruit of the forest, and
quenching his thirst at the spring or the brook, and having·
no more need or desire of society with his kind, than the
eagle or the W()lf. He conceives, that the individual who
first encl011ed a spot of ground and called it mine, and who
first cajoled his fellow men to settle around him and assist.
him in his projects, was the author of all the evil with
which human nature is now :aftlicted. Many volumes
have been written in answer to this absurd lucubration ;
but I submit; that Phrenology, 'hy shewing that those who
have this part of the brain large, are inspired with an in-
stinctive tendency to attachment and society, aft'orda a
brief and satisfactory refutation of the hypothesis.
The organ is established.
• OuUlDe8, p. Sf. t Lecture f1l.
- Digitized by Google
( 157 )
5.-COMBATIVENESS.
This organ is situated at the posterior-interior angle ol
the parietal bone.
Dr GALL gives the following account of ita discovery.
After he had abandoned all the metaphysical systems of the
mind, and become anxions to discover the primitive pro-
pensities of hnman nature, by means of observation, he
collected in his houae a number of individuals of the lower
clasaes of society, following diirerent occupations, coach-
drivers, servants, &c. After acquiring their confidence,
and diapoa.ing them to sincerity, by giving them wine and
money, he drew them into conversation about each other'&
qualities, good and bad, and particularly abOut the striking
characteristics in the disposition of each. In the portraits
which they drew of each other, they paid particular atten-
tion to those who everywhere provoked quarrels and di&-
putes; they also distinguished individuals of a pacific dia-
poeition, and spoke of them with contempt, calliDg them
poltroons. Dr GALL became curious to discover, whe-
ther the.heads of the bravou whom they described dif-
fered in any respect from those of.the pacific individuals.
He ranged them on opposite aides, and found, that those who
delighted in quarrels had that part of the head immediately
behind, and a little above the ear, much larger than the
others.
He observes, that there could be here no question about
the influence of education, and that this prominent feature
in the character of each oould never be attributed to the
inBuence of external circumstances. Men in the J"aDk to
which thef belonged, abandon themselves without reserve
to the impulse of their natural dispositions.
The spectacle of fighting animals was, at that time, &till
existing at Vienna. An individual belonging to the esta-
blishment was so extremely intrepid, that he frequently
presented bimaelfin the arena quite alone, to 8U8tain the
Digitized by Google
158 COMBATIVENESS.
combat against a wild boar, or a bull. In his head, the
organ was found to be very large. Dr GALL next examin-
ed the beads of several of his fellow students, who had
been banished from Universities for exciting contentions,
and continually engaging in duels. In them also the or-
gan was large. In the course of his researches, he met
with a young Jady who had repeatedly disguised herself in
male attire, and maintained battles with the other sex;
and in her, also, the organ was large. On the other hand,
he examined the heads of individuals, who were equally
remarkable for want of courage, and in them the organ
wu IDUlll. The heads of the courtageous penona varied
in tWery other point, but resembled each other in being
large iD. this part. Equal diJrerences were found in the
other parts of the heads of the timid, when compared with
each other, but all were email at CombativeneBB.
This faculty bas fallen under the lash of ridicule, and it
bas been objected, that the Creator cannot have implanted
in the mind a faculty for fighting. The objectors, howeTer,
have been equally shallow in learning, as in observation of
human nature. The profoundest metaphysicians admit its
exiatenoe, and the moat esteemed authors describe its in-
fluence and operation& The character of Uncle ToBY,
u dlawn by BTEILNE, ill in general true to nature, and it
is a penonification of the co111battve pr(Jpensity, combined
with great Benevolence and Integrity. ulf," aays Untie
ToBY, " when I was a school-boy, I could not hear a
drum beat but my IIMrt beat with it, was it my fault 1 Did
I plant the propensity there ? Did I sound the alarm with-
in, or nahJI'e ?" He proceedll to ju.tify himself against the
eharge.of cruelty suppuaed to be implied in a pusiun for
•he battle fteld. " Did. any one of you;" be continued,
" abed more tMn for H:sCToa? And when KltJg PRiAM
came to tbe camp to beg 1d.. body, and retutned weeping
back to TToy mthont it,-you know, brother, I could not
eM my dinner. Did that bespeak me cruel? or, because,
Btotber SHANDY, my Mood ftew out- iut(J the camp, nnd
l
Digitized by Google
COliBATIVENESS. 159
my bean panted for war, Was it a proof that it could not
ache for the diatrea of war too ?'
T~CITUS, in his history of the war by VESPABIAN agaiMt
VITELLIUS, mentions, that," Even women choee to enter
the capital and abide the liege. Amongst theae, the moet
signal of all was VERULANA GRACILIA, a lady, who followed
neither children nor kindred, nor relations, but followed
only the war."-Lib. iii. "Courage," says Dr JoHNSON,
" ia a quality eo neceaaary for maintaining virtue, that it is
always reepected, even when it is a.aeoeiated with vice."
Mr SnwART and Dr REm admit this propensity, nnder
the name of " sudden :resentment;" and DrTHoMAS BaowN
givee an aeeurate and beautiful deacription ofit, nnder the
name of " inatant anger." " Tlwe i8 a prillciple ift ow
.uul," aays he, " aoMc4 i8 to., lW a COIIItattt protectqr,
which may alumber indeed, but which slumbers only at
lleUOna when ita vigilance would be uaeleee, which awakes
at the firat appearance of nnjust intention, and which be-
comee more watchful and more vigorous in proportion to
the violence of the attaek which it hu to dread. What
ahould we think of the providence of nature, if, when ag-
greui.on was threatened against the weak and unarmed, at
a dis&ance from the aid of others, there were instantly and
uniformly, by the intervention of some wonder-w*tking
power, to ruah into the hand of the defenceless, a sword or
other weapon of defence ? and yet this _would be but a
feeble uai8tance, if compared with that which we receive
&om those aimple emotions which heaven baa caused to
nuA, 88 it were, into our mind, for repelling every attaek.''
-Vol iii. p. 824. This emotion is exactly the phrenolo-
gical propensity of Combativenese. Th~ chief difFerence
.,_ween Dr BaowN's views and ours, is, that he regard•
it • a mere IIUICeptibility of emotion, liable to be called
into action when provocation preeents itself, but slumber--
ing in quiescence in ordinary circumstancea; while we
look upon it 88 an active impulse, exerting an influence
on the mental constitution, independent of unjust attack.
Digitized by Google
160 COMBATIVENESS.
It is to express this active·quality, that " Combativeneaa"
is used to designate the faculty, in preference to" Cou-
rage."
Combativeneas, then, inspires with courage, and, when
properly directed, is useful to maintain the right. On this
account, a considerable endowment of it is indispensable to
all great and magnanimous characters. Even in schemes
of charity, or in plans for the promotion of religion or
learning, opposition will arise, and Combativeness inspires
its possessor with that instinctive boldness which enables
the mind to look undaunted on a contest in virtue's cause,
and to meet it without shrinking. Were the organ very
deficient in the promoters of such schemes, they would be
liable to be overwhelmed by contention, and baflled in all
their exertions. I conceive Mrs FRY would require no
small Combativeness to give her courage to undertake the
reformation of Newgate. Without it, her mind could not
have felt that boldness to encounter difficulty, which must
have preceded the resolution to undertake so great an en-
terprise. HowARD, the philanthropist, also must have
been supported by it in the perils he voluntarily undertook
in visiting the dungeons of Europe. Indeed, I have ob-
served that the most actively _benevolent individuals of
both sexes, those who, in person, minister to the relief of
the poor, and face poverty and vice in their deepest haunts,
to relieve and correct them, have this organ fully developed.
LuTHER and KNox must have required a large portion of it,
to enable them to perform the services which they rendered
to Christendom.
The organ is large in valiant warriors. In the skulls of
King RoBERT BRucE, and General WoRMSER, who de-
fended Mantaa against BuoNA.PARTE, it is exceedingly con-
spicuous. The figures, at the top of next page, represent
WoRMSER's skull contrasted at this organ with the skull
of a Ceylonese boy, in whom it is small.
Digitized by Google
COMBATIVENESS. 161
General WtrBJOEL Ceylonese Boy.
In feudal times, great Combativeness was more essential
to a leader than it is in modern wiU'fare. RicHARD CmuR
DE LION, BRUCE and WALLACE, could command the fierce
barbarians whom they led to the field only by superior per·
sonal prowess ; and, indeed, hope of victory was then found-
ed chiefly on the dexterity with which the chief could
wield his sword. In modern warfare, comprehensiveness
of intellect is more requisite in a General ; but still Com-
bativeness is a valuable element in his constitution~ NA·
POLEON distinguished accurately between these two qua-
lities. He describes NEY and MuRAT as men in whom
instinctive courage predominated over judgment ; and
notices their excellence in ~g an attack, or a charge
of cavalry, combined with their incapacity for great af-
fairs. The most perfect military commander, he says, is
formed when courage and judgment are in (JJ([UilihrW ;-in
phrenological language, when the organs of Combativeness,
moral Sentiment, and Reflection, are in just proportion.
This faculty is of great service to an advocate: it fur-
nishes him with the spirit of contention, and causes his
energies to rise in proportion as he is opposed.
It inspires authors with the love of battles. HoMER and
Sir WALTER ScoTT are fired with more than common
energy, when describing the fight, the slaughter, and the
ehonts of victory. From this sympathy of historians, ora-
tors and poets, with deeds of arms, warriors are too incon-
siderately elevated into heroes, and thus the trade of
butchery is fostered and rendered glorious, with small refe-
L
oigi!lzed by Coogle
16i CO)IDATIVENESS.
renee to the merits of the quarrel. Phrenology, by re-
vealing the true source of the paaion for war, will, it is
to be hoped, one day direct the public sentiment, to mark
with ita higheet disapprobation every manifestation of this
faculty that is not sanctioned by justice, and then we shall
have fewer battles and inflictions of misery on mankind.
Whea too energetic and ill directed, it produces the
worst results. It then inspires with the love of conten-
tion for its own sake. In private society it produces the
eontrovenial opponent, who will wrangle and eonteet
every point, and " thongh vanquished, who will argue
lltiiL'' When thus energetic and active, and not directed
by Conacientiousnesa, it becomes a great disturber of the
peace of the domeme circle: Contradiction is then a grati-
fication, and the hours that ought to be dedicated to pure
and peaceful enjoyment are embittered by strife. On the
great field of the world, ita ab111e8 lead to quarrels, and,
when combined with Destructiveness, to bloodshed and
evastMion. In all ages, oolllltless tho118anCle have throaged
round the standard raised for war, with an ardour 8nd ala~
erity which shewed that they experienced pleaaure ia the
oceupation.
Persons in whom \he organ is large, and not d.irected·by
superior sentiments, are auimated with an instinctive tend-
eney to oppose every measure, sentiment, and doctrine, ad-
vocated by others ; and they frequently impeae upon them-
ttelves, eo far as to mistake this disposition for an acute
spirit of philosophising prompting them to greater vigour of
investigation than other men. BAYLE, the author of the
Hiatorical Dictionary, appears to have beeo a personof this
constitution ; for, in writing, his general role WM to take the
side in opposition to every one elae; and hence it has been
remarked, that the way to make him write usefully, was to
at&aek him only when he was in the right, for he would
tben combat in favour of truth with all the energy of a
powerCul mind. WILLIAM CoBBET mentions, that, in his
youth, the rat~e of the drum inviting him to war was en-
Digitized by Google
COMBATIVENESS. 163
chanting music to his ears, and that he ardently became a
soldier. In his maturer years, the combative propenaity
seems -
to glow with equal vivacity in his mind, although
exerted in a different direction. By speech and writing be
now contends in favour of every opinion that is interesting
for the day. To Combativeness is probably owing no
small portion of that boldoeae which even his enemies can-
not deny him to possess.
The organ is large also in persons who have murdered
from the impulse of the moment, rather than from cool de-
liberate design. The c.asts of HAGGART and MARY MAc-
INNES are examples in point. The organ is' large also·in
eeveral castP of Cbaribs' skulls, a tribe remarkable f'or the
fiereenes8 of their courage. Dr SPURZHEIM mentions, that
the ancient artiste have represented this organ large in their
etatues of glautiators. The practice of that art, as also· the
prize..flghte of England, have for their object the· gratifica·
tion ortbi&·propensity.
When the organ ·is very large and active, it gives a hard
th1llllping 'sound to the voice, as if every word contained a
blow. Madame De STAEL informs us, that BuoNAPARTE'8
voice assumed this kind of intonation when he was angry ;
and I have observed similar manifestations in individuals,
whom I knew to possess this part of the brain largely de-
veloped.
When the organ is small, the individual experiences great
diilieulty in resisting attacks ; nor is he able to make his
way in paths where he must invade the prejudices or en•
counter the hostility of others. Excessively timid children
are generally deficient in this organ and ~ a large
Cautiousness ; their beads resembling the figure of the Cey-
louese boy on p. 161. I conceive the extreme diffidence
_..embarr8881Dent of CoWPER the poet, to have arisen from
atteh·a combination ; and in his verses he loathes war with a
deep abhorrenee. Deficiency of Combativeness, however,
4lbes not produce fear ; for this is a positive emotion, of..
ten of great·vivacity, which cannot originate from a mere
negation of an opposite quality.
L2
I
Digitized by Google
COMBATIVENESS.
Combativeness is generally more developed in men than
in women·; bui, in the latter, it is sometimes large. If i~
predominates, it gives a bold and forward air to the fe-
male ; and when a child ehe would probably be distinpiab-
ed ae a romp.
When the organ is large, andexcited by l'tr<mg potatione,
an exceeaive tendency to quarrel and fight is the conse-
quence. Hence some individuals, in whom it is great, but
whose moral and intellectual faculties are capable of re-
straining it when sober, appear, when inebriated, to be ofa
different nature, and extremely combative. The organ is
liable also to exeeeaive excitatien through disease. PINEL
gives eeveral examplea of monomania clearly referable to
this organ. A JIUUliac," saye he, " naturally peo,ct;/td and
gentle in dispoeition, appeared inspired by the demon of
malice during the fit. He was then in an unceasingly
miscbievoue activity. He locked up his compa.niona in
their cells, provoked and etruck them, and at every word
raiaedsome new quarrel and fighting." Another individuaJ,
who, during his lucid intervale, was mild, obliging, re-
eerved, and even timid in his manners, became, during the
fit, highly audacious, " and experienced the moat violen~
propensity to provoke thoee who approached him, to irri-
tate and fight them, avec outrtmee." On visiiliag London
Bedlam in 1824, I examined the head of a male patient,
and pronounced Combativeneae and Destructiveneae to be
uncommonly large. I was desired to look at his hands.
They were fastened to rings in &ll iron girdle round hia
waiet. He had committed murder in an acceea of fury,
and was liable to relapses, in which he manifested thea•
propensities with inordinate vehemence.
This organ is found aleo in the lower animals; bnt there
are great diiferences among them in reapect to ita energy.
Rabbite, for inetance, are more courageous than hares; and
one dog looks incessantly for an opportunity of fighting,.
while another always flies from the combat. The bull-dog
forms a contrastin this propensity to the greyhound; and the
Digitized by Google
COMBATIVENESS. 165
ltead of the former is much larger betw xt and behind the
ears than the latter. " ·This also is an unfailing sign to
recogoiae if a horae be shy and ~imid, or bold and sure.
The same ditference is observed in game-cocks and ga.me-
heu, in comparison with domestic fowls. Horse jockeys,
and those who are fond of fighting cocks, ha-.e long made
this obaervation."-Phgaiogn. Sgatetn, p.. 002.
The organ is establiehed.
6.-DESTRUeTIVENESS.
THIS organ is situa~ immediately abGve, and extends a
little backwards and forwuds ~ the external openiDg
of the ear, and corresponds to the lower pertion ef the
squamous plate of the temporal bone. In Dr GALL's. plate.
it extends a few lines f~ther back than in thoae given by
Dr SPURZHEJM ; a.Jld Dr. GALL mentiuns, that when it i.
exceaively large, the whole portion of the skull from the
inferior margin of the parietal bones to the ears is elevated~
and that,. in cases of smaller development, the prominence
is confined to the temporal bones. I have seen examples
of both kinds.
Dr GALl. gives, in substance, the following account o£
the discovery of this organ. In comparing attentively the
ekulla of several o£ the lower animala, he observed a ella.
•raeteJ:..tic difference betwixt thoee of the carnivorous and
the graminivorous tribes. In graminivorous animale, onlJ
a small portion of the brain lies behind the external open..
ing of the ear; while in the carnivorous, a considerably
larger DUI8 is situated the:re. For a long time he merely
communicated these observations w.his hearers, without
making &he least application of them to· Phrenology. He
only pointed out that, by inspecting the cranium, eveQ.
when the teeth are wanting, it is poeaible to distinguish
whether the animals belong to the graminivorous or carni,.
vorous genera. It happened, at length, that some one sent
him the skull of a panieide ; but he put it aside, without
Digitized by Google
166 DESTRUCTIV.EN£88.
imagining that the alru1ls of murderers could be of uy
uee to him in his researches. Shortly afterwards he re-
ceived aleo the cranium of a highwayman, who, not IIBtis-
fied with robbing, had murdered several o£ his victims.
He placed these two crania aide by side, and frequently
examined them. Every time that he did ao he was struck
with this circamatanoe, that although they dift'ered in aJ.
moat every other point, each of them presented a distinct
and corresponding prominence, immediately above the ex-
ternal opening of the ear. Having observed, however, the
same prominence in some other crania in his collection, he
thought that it might be by mere accident that these two
parts were so much developed in the skulls of the mur·
derers. It was only, therefore, after a considerable time,
that he began to reflect upon the ditferent conformation of
tbe brain in earnivorous and graminivorous animals; and
then observing that the part which was large in carnivo-
rous animals, waa precisely that which was so much de-
veloped ia the mu"rderen, the question occurred to him, Is
it pouible that there can be any connexion betwixt the
conformation of brain thus indicated and the propenSity to
kill? " At first," says Dr GALL, " I revolted from this
idea; bot when my only busine&B waa to observe, and to
atate the result of my observations, I acknowledged no
ether Jaw than that of truth." " Let us not, therefore,"
says he, " fear to unfold the mysteries of nature, for it is
only :wllen 'W'8 shall have discovered the hidden springs of
human actions, that we shall know how to guide the con·
duet of men.''
The organ hae been subjected to much ridicule, owing
partJty·to ita having been at fint named the organ of Mur-
der, ftom having been found largest in individuals who
llad suffered death for this crime. The propensity, bow-
ever~ ·riow designated Destructiveness, is recognised by
many authon a& existing in the human mind. Lord KAMES
observest that " thero is a contrivance of Nature, no less
sbnp1o t.hait efl'ectual, which engages men to bear with
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 167
cheerfulness the faUg11es of hUDting, and the uliceriabaty of
capture; and that is m& appetite for lumting."-:-" It ie aa
illustrious instance of providential care, the adapting the
internal constitution of man to his external circumstances.
The appetite for hunting, though among us little neceaaary
for food, is to this day remarkable in yoUDg men, high and
low, rich and poor. Natural properuritiea may be rendered
faint or obscure, but never are totally eradicated."-
SAdella, b. i.
VICESIMUS KNox, in his Essays, gives a similar theory
of hunting. The delight felt in this sport has been ascribed
to the excitement of the chase, to emulation, and to the
pleasure of succeeding in our aim; but if these were the
sole sources of the enjoyment, then it ought to be as plea-
sant to gallop over hiU and dale, and leap hedge and ditch,
without as with an animal in chase, and as agreeable to
shoot at any object thrown into the air as at a bird. This,
however, is not the case; unless there is a creature to suf-
fer the efFects of the hunting and shooting, these actsafford
but little pleasure.
The- feeling is familiar to poets and authors who deli-
neate human nature. . Tho description by Sir WALTER
ScOTT, of King RoBERT BRUCE avenging on CoRMAC DolL
the death of ALLAN, is written in the very spirit of Destruc-
tiveness:
Not 110 awoke the King I his band
Snatched from Ule flame a knotted brand,
The neat'eft weapoo ofhia wrath,
Witb ~· he croued the murderer'a path,
And venged young Allan well!
The spattered brain and bubbling blood
Hiseed on the half-extinguished wood ;
The miscreant gasp'd and felL
The same author recognises several of the phrenological
faculties in the following lines ; and, i.n partionJar, Love of
Approbation and Destructivenese: the latter, however, only
I
oigi!lzed by Coogle
168 DESTRUCTIVENESS.
in a state of abuse. The verses refer to the battle o( Ban-
nockburn:
But 0 r lllllid thAt waste of life,
WhAt various motives fired the strife!
The aspirlag noble Uedfor f-.
The patriot for hlB -.lrf'• claifA 1
This knight hie youthful strength to prove,
And thAt to earn hlB lady's love:
S-.e frNghl from ru,ffilm thirll qfblood,
From habit some, or hardihood.
But ruffian stern, and soldier good,
The nuble, and the slave,
From various cause the same wild road,
On the ~e bloody momlag trode,
To that dark Inn the grave.
In Recollections of the Peninsula, by the author of
Sketches in India, the following passage occurs : " As the
chill dews of evening were descending on our bivouack, a
staff-officer, with a courier, came gallopiug iuto it, and
alighted at the quarters of our general. It was soon known
among us that a severe and sanguinary action had been
fought by our brother soldiers at Talavera. Disjointed
rumours spoke of a dear-bought field, a heavy loss, and a
subseque\t retreat. I well remember how we all gathered
round our fires to listen, to conjecture, and to talk about
this glorious, but bloody event. We regretted that we had
borne no share in the honours of such a day; and we tallwl
with an undefined pleasure ahout tAe carnage. Yes ! strange
as it may appear, soldiers, and not they alone, talk of the
slaughter of battle-fields with a sensation which partakes
of pleasure •." I have observed f!Ome young men wbo
possessed good moral qualities, but whose thoughts ran ha-
bitually on killing and slaughtering. The impulse was re-
strained, but they confessed that it would have given them
great momentary gratification to smash and slay. In them
the organ was decidedly large.
• Page 39.
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 169
The function of the faculty in the human mind, and its
utility, are easily discovered. In regarding this scene of
creation, we perceive man surrounded by ferocious ani-
tnals, such 88 lions, tigers, bears, and wolves; which are
not only incapable of being tamed and put to use, but
which would be fatal to him, if he did not destroy them.
To maintain himself in existence, therefore, he must put
many animals to death. Moreover, he has received from
nature a stomach fitted to digest animal food, and a bodily
system that is nourished and excited, and preserved in
health and activity, by the aliment which it affords. To
gratify this appetite, he must bereave animals of life by
sudden destruction ; for their flesh is unwholesome and un-
fit for use, if they die of old age or disease. In the last
place, some human beings themselves are so inspired by
evil passions, that no terror short of that of death will suf-
fice to curb their appetites, and prevent them from inju-
ring their fellow men. Now, let us consider in what con-
dition man, placed in these circumstances, would have
stood, if he had wanted this propensity. The hare has no
Destructiveness ; and ita only safety is in flight. Man,
without this faculty, would have been as little formidable
to his foes as the hare ; be would have been the timid prey
of every ferocious animal in want of a meal. With De-
structiveness, the lion and tiger read their fate in his eye;
they recognise the natural expression of this power in him,
88 readily and strongly 88 in their fellows of the forest,
and dread the encounter, unless irresistibly impelled by
hunger.
Let us imagine, also, a community of men, known to
exist, in whom no Destructiveness was found; who would
reason, entreat, or flee from their adversaries, but never
raise a weapon in their own defence; how speedily would
the profligate and unprincipled.flock to the mansions of
such a people, 88 to their appropriate prey ; and what con-
tumelies and suft'eriugs would they not compel them to en-
dure ? But let the community possess the propensity in
2
Digitized by Google
170 DESTRUCTIVENESS.
question-let them. in short, raise their standard, and, like
Scotland's monarch, inscribe on it, "NetM me impune la-
eu&et ;" a motto inspired by Destructiven888 and Conscien-
tiousness combined; and let them act up to the spirit of the
words, by hurling vengeance on every wanton aggressor;
and sueh a people will subsequently live in peace under
their olive and their vine, protected by tho terror whicll
this faculty inspires into those who, but for it, would ren-
der the world a scene of horror and devastation. When
any power is so indispensable to human safety as this, na--
ture implants it in the mind ; and such an instinct is De-
structiveness.
Combativeness, then, gives courage to meet danger on-
appalled, and to resist it. Destructiveness makes the onset
perilous and terrible to the aggressor. Combativeness
enables us to meet and overcome obstacles, and having sur-
mounted them, desires no more. Destructiveness prompts
us to exterminate the causes of them, so that they may
never rise up to create fresh embarrassments. Combative-
ness would inspire LUTHER and KNoX with courage to op-
pose the doctrines of the Church of Rome, and to maintain
the truth as revealed in the Scriptures; Destructiveneat
wouJd prompt tbem utterly to destroy the Roman Hier-
archy, and to ~le its insignia under foot.
In actual lite, a good endowment of the organ is an in-
dispensable requisite to a proper discharge of the duties of
several situations. What restrains the domination of the
proud, but a knowledge, that, if they press too heavily even
on the meanest, the feeling of resentment will stan into
activity to repel the insult ; and resentment is the result of
wounded Self-esteem, aided by Destructiveness. In the
case of officers conducting difficult and dangerous enter-
prizes, what weight would the word of· command carry, if
every stnbbom mind that received it lmew, for certain,
that the leader's dispositions were so soft, that 'be would in-
flict no vengeance for didedience ?-and vengeance or pu-
nishment fio\VEI from Destructiveness direCted by justice.
Digitized by Google
DESTRUOTlV.ENESS. 17i
The sword, aceordingly, is carded before the sapreme-..
gistrate, and is an emblem of Desvuctiveneea ready to fall
oa the contemners of the law•
.These are not mere theoretical Weu, but viewt founded
on actual observations. The Hindoo head is smaller than
t.be European, and in pattieular Combativent88 and De-
atru.ct.iven.eaa are leas in it in proportion to &he other or.
pus ; and we see millions of the former conquered by
hundreds of.the latter. In actual life, I.have ~With per•
aona who were so.soft tbat they scarcely struck fire, how'·
ever hardly they were hit; who ehnm.k and retreated, yet
.-goniud under every insult, tbat was ofFered ; whose an•
ger wu so feeble, that 48 manifeetationa excited only a
deeper eeom, and incited to furiher outrages. Such indivi-
duabt poaaeased muill Combatlveneat and Dest.l'uctivene.,
and were carried through life on the ehoulders of others,
beiDg incapable of fighting their own ·way amidst the tur-
meile of &he world. Those who bave an ample endowment
of these orgaus, well regulated by auperior lleDtimenta, are
not aware how much they owe to it. In civililled society,
we pua yean without a conteet, but it is beoauae all know
t.hU the aent.inela are at their peat, and that attack is dan-
geroue. .•:A JMD·ia whom society recognises a deiicieney of
theae powers, ia DOt eqaally safe from aggre&lion.
Deltnletivenflll baa been regarded by some phreno-
1
... as communicating a more gs.ueral species of eneroo
gy to ·the miad. · In endeavouring to trace analytieally
abe m8RIVIJ' in w1riehit produces tbii J.teft'ect, it baa been
~ te giwe ua impatient era-ring at»Petite for exeite-
ment ; a desire to vent the mind, as it were, on something;
a feetiDg wtdeh would be delighted with smaslriog and tur..
.moi11 or .with any great irregular commotion, rather than
with tile list'leaaoesa of repose ; and hence a large de-
.\'eloprpent of it ie held to be incompatible with that drow-
.me..of diapoehion which dreams life away in vapid ioae:..
.ti.W,; ·is .eontented to. acoept of,ab&enee of aui'ering for
enjoyment, .avd feels acRemeat • pam, rather than
Digitized by Google
172 DESTRUCTIVENESS.
a BOurce of pleasure. In this view, it is suppaeed to give
a general stir and impetus to the mental faculties. The
organ is small in the Hindoos, and they are remarkable not
only for great tenderness of animal life, but for deficiency
in energy of character. In point of fact, however, the
brain in general, must be large, before great general power
can be manifested ; and the real eft'ect of Destructiveneas
appears to be to communicate ability to act with energy in
certain situations in which, with that organ small, the in-
dividual would be completely paralyzed. In this view, i&
may add vigour even to the manifestations of Benevolence,
to which, at first sight, it appears directly opposed ; but it
does BO, not by increasing the positive amount of that fee];.
ing, which depends on its own organ, but by fitting the
po88e880r to perform acts of real kindness, which require
severity as their means.
Destructivenea gives edge to sarcasm, satire, and invec-
tive, and prompts to the conception of images of terror,
which become sublime or horrible, according aa they are
clothed with Ideality, or presented in naked deformity.
In Lord BYRON's works, it is strongly manifested. His
appetite for fierce excitement,-the dark and dismal scenea
of suft'ering and mnrder which generally abound in his
stories, together with the deadly venom, and the fearful
vehemence of his pen, when directed against his enemies,
could proceed from no BOurce but the faculty in question.
It leada a poet, in general, to imagine scene& of devastatio11
and destruction, and to delight in the description of them.
BYRON's poem of" Darlm..a," exhibits in every image the
very form and preeaure of Destructiveness.
When the energy of thia faculty is great, indift'erence at
suft'eringand destruction isthe result. When too weak, and
Benevolence being strong, positive pain and poignant die-
tress arefelt at the sightofdeath, and suft'eringofevery kind.
We are surrounded every day by death in all its forms, and
by destruction in its every shape: and nature, by means of
thiflfaculty, steels our minds so far as to fit us for our condi.
oigi!lzed by Coogle
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 178
tion, and to render scenes which our situation conatrains
us to witness not unsupportable. A certain degree of ob-
duracy of feeling, regardlessness of sufFering, and indiffer-
ence to the calamities of our race, is absolutely necessary to
render existence tolerable in this world of mingled joy and
woe. I have seen individuals miserable from too feeble an
energy of this faculty. Every object in a state of pain
harrowed up their feelings, and lacerated their hearts, and
produced a degree of continued untl88iness scarcely con-
ceivable by persons of more obdurate dispositions.
The abuses of this faculty are easily recognised in society.
There are persons who fly into a passion upon every trifling
occurrence, and vent their rage on all who are subjected to
their authority. This is a rude and vulgar manifestation
of the propensity. There are others, however, who avoid
this form of misapplication, but who indulge in making
severe remarks and cutting observations, altogether uneall-
ed for, and introduced with no view but to give pain;
others issue their commands in harsh and angry terms,
backed by loud threatenings and terrible gesticulations;
others are severe to excess, on account of failures in duty,
and little mindful of the happiness of those who live under
their control: all these are abuses of Destructiveness.
When very active, this propensity gives a dark expression
to the countenance, and harsh and discordant tones to the
voice. If, in a friendly convene with a person in whom
the organ is large, and Secretiveness small, one happens to
touch on some irritating topic, in an instant the softness of
Benevolence, and the courtesy of Love of Approbation,
will be gone, and the hoarse growl of Destructiveness will
indicate an approaehing storm. I have seen it stayed, by
referring the rising wrath to its source in this propensity,
and calling on reflection to subdue it.
Cursing is an abuse of this faculty; and I have observed
among the lower orders, that some boys who attempted to
praetise this abominable vice through imitation, deeming it
manlf, could never infuee into their imprecations that force
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTIVENESS.
and expl'C8Sion which seemed to come quite instinctively to
otherli; • and this natural·incapacity for swearing proceed-
ed from Destructiveness being moderately developed in
proportion to the organs of the moral sentiments. I have
said that this faculty furnishes the threat which gives force
to command. In the Bible, every variety of motive is held
out to deter men from sin; and I have noticed, that those
individuals in whom Destructiveness predominates, have a
natur&l tendency to dwell on the tAreatenings of the Gospel,
while those in whom Benevolence, Hope and Veneration
are large, and Destructiveness deficient, hold out almost
exclusively its promises; or, if they do mention its denun-
ciations, these are so diluted by the softness of their own
minds, through which they pass, that more than halt their
terrors are kbated. Preachers of the first class, while they
sometimes harrow up the minds of more susceptible indi-
viduals, and cause them great uneasiness, frequently please
those of sterner natures by their vehemence. The latter
elass, on the other hand, are acceptable to those naturally
mUd in disposition, ~nd appear insipid to the others. Fear
is a lower motive tltan love, and where the mind can be
led by the higher feeling, it ought always to be preferred ;
but many are open to the influence of terror, who are not
alive to Hope and Veneration, and hence the use of both is
necem~ary. It is only inordinate dwelling upon the one to
the exclusion of the other that is reprehensible. The higher
the cultivation of the audience, the less is fear likely to be
requisite to make an impression. Fear is only aversion td
personal'euftering, and is totally different from the love of
good.
The pleasure which even humane and· cultivated iodin-
duals experience in witnessing an execution, is inexplicable
on any principle, except that of the existence of such a
faculty as this, aided no doubt by the love of excitement,
~ . 8,.,._. I would rather than forty shilllnga I cCIUld swe11r as well aa
that gentleman. "Body ofCesar-St Geo~d ~e fbot of Pharaoh.••
No. I ha'nt the right grace. Every .Man in hil Humour.
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTIVENEBS. 175
arising from Wonder, and some other facul~ " We
have," ays Mr ScOTT, in an admirable Essay on this pro-
pensity, "too much humanity ourselves to put a man to
death. But, if a man is to be killed, we have no objection
to witnesa the fact, or, if I may be allowed to say so, to
enjoy the pleasure of seeing it performed."-" Were De-
structiveness wanting, and Benevolence favourably de-
veleped, in persons present at an execution, they ~uld be
terrified, not delighted, by such a seene."-Phren. 7rmu.
p. 147.
In children, and even in adults, Destrnctiveneae r..
quently vents itself in destroying inanimate objecta. The
people destroy mile-posts, bridges, statues, and public build-
ings, wherever they can get access to them; and " no object
o( art, or even of utility," says a late writer, "is safe from
their depredations." He ascribes this tendency " to the
spirit of pure mischief,"-a correct designation for \mguid-
ed Destructiveness. The statute Sd Geo. IV. chap. 71.,
which ordains, " That, if any person or persons shall
fDa1llmlly tmd crudJy BEAT, ABUSE OR ILL TRBAT, any horse,
mai-e, gelding," &. he shall pay certain penalties to the
King, ia clearly directed against the abuses of this propen-
sity, and, of course, supposes its existence. The adjeotiv•
letJef't, hariA, angry, cruel, fierce, ferocioul, savage, hrvtal,
liarlJaroru, atroeiotu, indicate states of mind all originating
from it.
Metaphysical authors in general do not treat of any power
resembling this faculty. Accustomed to reflect in the closet
more than to observe actions, they were not likely to ditt-
cover it. At the same time, it is surprising that the eon-
temptation of the pages of history did not suggest a ten-
dency of this kind to their mind. CALIGULA is represented
cutting out the tongues of his victims,........(lelivering ihem to
be devoured by wild beasts,--f'orcing individuals to asst.t.
in executing their relations,-torturing and putting tO tho
raek unhappy wretches as an amusement to his own fero-
cious mind,-e.nd finally expressing a willh thai the Roman
people had· but one head, that he might cut it oft' by one
Digitized by Google
176 DESTRUCTIVENESS.
blow. Turning our eyes to NERo, we discover him indul-
ging in equal atrocities, causing BRITANNIA to be poisoned,
-murdering bi4 own mother,-eetting fire to Rome in four
quarters at once, and ascending a tower to enjoy the spec·
tacle of the conflagration. In modem times, we are pre-
sented with tho horrors of tho Sicilian Vespers, tho carnage
of St Bartholomew's, and the JD8888Cres of the French Re-
volution. These actions are inexplicable, on the supposi-
tion tha~ no propensity of Destructiveness exists; and, if
the metaphysicians bad applied their systems to human
conduct, they most have discovered that they contained no
principle, capable of accounting for the transactions allu-
ded to. In tho ancient busts of Nxao, the organ of Destruc-
tiveness is represented as enormously large.
The organ is large in the heads of cool and deliberate
murderers. It is very large, and Benevolence small, in the
skull of BELLINGHAM, who murdered Mr PERCIVAL. The
temporal bones protrude at least half an inch in the situa-
uon of the organ of Destructiveness, on each side, and the •
frontal bone presents a receding surface at th.e organ of
Benevolence, where the skulls of individuals remarkable
for benevolence generally rise·into an elevation of half an
incl1 or more. A cast of BELLINGHAM'S skull may be in-
spected in the Phrenological Society's Collection. The or•
gan of Destructiveness is also largely developed in the skull
of GoRDON, who accompanied a poor half-fatuous pedlar
boy, and, in the middle of a muir, beat out his brains with
the heel of his clog, and robbed him of his pack, not worth
twenty shillings. The skull itself is in the Society's Collec-
tion, and the bones protrude nearly half an inch on each
side at the region in question. It is large in CHARLES
RoTHERHAM, who pulled a stake from a hedge and beat
out the brains of a poor woman on the highway, and robbed
her of some very trifling articles. It is large also in the
skulls of HussEY, NISBET, and LocKEY, who were executed
for murder. It is very large, with deficient moral organs,
in BuaK and llAaB, who murdered sixteen human beings,
for the sake of the price of their dead bodies as subjects
Digitized by Google
•
DESTRUCTIVENESS•. 177
for dissection. It, and the organ of Acquisitiveneas, ap~
to have been very largely developed in the h~ -
of lb:A-
MAN, executed at Edinburgh for piracy and murder; also
in the head of RoBERT DEAN, executed for murdering a
child without any rational motive; and in the head of MIT-
CHELL, executed for murdering a young woman whom he
had seduced. . In the heads of DAVID HAGGART and MARY
MAciNNES,executed at Edinburgh, andofBooTH, a poacher,
executed at York, all for murders committed on the im-
pulse of the moment, it appears considerably developed;
while in them Combativeness is also very large.
The Society possesses casts of the skulls of five Cbaribs,
who are well known to be a ferocio~ tribe, and in all of
them the organ of Destructiveness is decidedly large. On
tho other hand, Dr GEORGE MuRRAY PATTERSON, surgeon
in the Honourable East India Company's Service, mentioDB,
as the result of three thousand actual examinations, that
the organ is small in the heads of .Hindoos in general, who
are known to be extremely tender in regard to animal life.
In the slqills of fourteen Hindoos, twelve of which were
presented to the Society by this gentleman, and two by Dr
J. S. CoMBE of Leith, the development of tho organ will
be fouhd to be decidedly less than in the skulls of Euro-
peans in general. The figures represent the skulls of BEL-
LINGH..AJI and a Hindoo.
BINDOO.
(J.
.
Datructlveneo~ Large. . ~ ...
When excited by intoxication, the organ sometimes be-
comes ungovernable ; and hence arises the destruction of
glasaes, mirrors, chairs, and every frangible object at the
close of many a feast. Hence also the temptation, often
almost irresistible, experienced by many a worthy citben,
:at
Digitized by Google
178 DtESTJI.UCTIVENESS.
wJum. inebn.tecl, to IJID88h, a lamp in his progress home.
One gentleman M8UI'8d me that the lamps have appeared
t& him, when in this state, aa it were twinkling on his path
with a wiclr.ed and econaful gleam, and. that he has fre-
queDtly lifted his stick to pooiah their impertinence, when
a remnant of reason N&trained the meditated blow. In him
Deatnlctiveneaa ia decidedly luge, but, when sobel', there
is not a more excellent person.
"l'ru. organ is a1ao liable to excitement by disease, and
then the propensity is manifested with irresistlole vehe-
mence. The author of Sketches in Bedlam, deaeribes the
ease of PAT. WALSH, a ferooioos maniac, who has been de-
ranged altogether about twelve yean, and has, it is aaid,
uniformly evinced a character o£ desperation, vengeance,
and sanguinary cruelties, scarceiy conceivable even in mad-
nta. Notwithstanding every precaution that was taken,
he baa killed three pel'80D& since his confinement. " His
propensity to llliaehief, 11181ice, ancl personal abuse, is as
incesaat1t as his taste fer bloodshed and slaughter. He baa
contrived, notwitbatandiug his restriction of hands and feet,
to break about seveaty panes of glasa witlhiu. the laat two
ye&l"..!!, in the dining-room w.indows, although guarded on
the inside by a mug iron wire lattice-work. This amuse-
ment he contrived to eKect by standing on a form placed
at some distance from the windows, and, taking the bowl
of his woodeu spoon in his mouth, he poked the l•andle
through the meshes of the wire-work, and thus broke the
pane." As this man is said to be confined in an iron cinc-
ture that surrounds his \vaist, with strong hand-cuffs at-
tached to it, I infer that he is the same whose head I exa-
mined in Bedlam in 1824, and in whom the organs of Com-
bativeness and Destructiveness were inordinately large.
Whenthis organ and CombMiveneea are very large, com-
bined with great deficieney in the moral aadintellectual or--
gans, there is an innate disposition to mischief and violence
which renders the individual dangerous to society. In
visiting the Richmond Lunatic Asylum in Dublin, in 1829,
o;g~ byGoog~
-..
DESTRUCTIV:i;Nl:6S. 179
a lllMl was preeeoted to me by Dr CRAWFORD, substitute
physician, and I wrote down the following remark~ :
l..arge
Du.
Very large
Do.
LllrRe
Do.
Mr CoMBEs Remarlu.
Patient's name, E. S.
AmativenetiB
PhUoprogenl\ivenen
~
C~u
Self-eeteem
Cautiouanese
Moral organs, deficient, part!-
. cularly Veneration aad Hope
Conscl.ento11811e88
Moderate
Ofthe m~ organs Benevolenceis nther well developed.
Intellectual orpns Rather well developed.
The patient wu wlthdnwn, and Mr CollliE added : This is \he
wont head I ever ••· The combination Ill wone than Hare's.-
· Combatlvt'Dea~ and.Destructiveness are fearfully large, and.the mo-
ral organs altogether very deficient : Benevolence is the best de.
Yeloped of them, but it is miserably small compared with the or-
gans ofColaabativeness and Destructiveness. I am aurprized that
that man wu not executed before he became insane.
Dr CuWJ'OBD had previously written down, and then
exhibit-00, the foUowing obeervationa :
Dr CB41rFOBD's Bemarlu.
PatJeDt E. S., aged lW. Ten years since first admission.
Tot.al WIDt of moral feeling and principle, grea\ depravity of charac-
ter, leeding to the indulgence ofevery vice, and to the coiDJIIisaion
evm of ..-... Considerable intelligence, ingenuity, and plausl-
IIWty ;· a IICOili'Je to hie fiunily from chUdhood; turned out of the
army u ua incorrigible villain : attempted the life ofa soldier ; re-
peatedly Bogged ; has since attempted to poison his father.
In preparing a report of this and other cases for the
Ph.renological Journal, I sent the proofsheet to Dr CRAW-
lORD for reviaal, which he returned along with a letter to
.the following effect : " I have a few remarks to make on
the lunatic, lettered E. S. You observe in your own notes,
2 K2
Digitized by Google
180 DESTRUCTIVENESS.
' I am surprised he was not executed before he became in-
sane.' This would lead to the supposition, that be bad
been aftlicted with some form of insanity in addition to a
naturally depraved character. Such, however, is by no
means the case; he never was different from what he now
is; he has never evinced the slightest mental incoherence
on any one point, nor any kind of hallucination. It is one
of those cases where there is great difficulty in drawing the
line between extreme moral depravity and insanity, and in
deciding at what point an individual should cease to be
considered as a responsible moral agent, and amenable to
the laws. The governors and medical gentlemen of the
Asylum have often bad doubts whether they were justi-
fied in keeping E. S. as a lunatic, thinking him a more fit
subject for a bridewell. He appears, however, so totally
callous with regard to every moral principle and feeling-
so thoroughly unconscious of ever having done any thing
wrong--so completely destitute of all sense of shame or
remorse when reproved for his vices or crimes-and has
proved himself so utterly incorrigible throughout life, that
it is almost certain that any jury before whom he might be
brought would satisfy their doubts by returning him in-
sane, which in such a case is the most humane line to pur-
sue. He was dismissed several times from the Asylum,
and aent there the last time for attempting to poison his
father, and it seems fit he should be kept there for life as
a moral lunatic; but there has never been the least symp-
tom of disea8ed action of the brain, which is the general
concomitant of what is usually understood as insanity.
This I consider might with propriety be made the founda-
tion for a division of lunatics into two great classes ; those
who were insane from original constitution, and never were
otherwise, and those who had been insane at some period
of life from diseased action of the brain, either permanent
or intermittent.-There would be room for a few addition-
al notes to the case of E. S., explanatory of what I have
said, if you think fi.t."-Dublin, 20th Julg1829,
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTIVENESS. 181
Dr GALL cites a variety of cases of diseased manifesta-
tions of this propensity, which had fallen under his own
observation, and quotes several others highly illustrative
fi'()Jn PINEL. I select one of these, in which the organ of
Destructiveness &eeiD8 to have been aft'ected singly, the
other organs remaining entire. The patient, during pe-
riodical fits of insanity, was seized with an " uncontrol-
lable fury, which inspired him with an irresistible pro-
pensity to seize IUl instrument or offensive w;eapon, to
knock on the head the first person who presented him-
self to his view. He experienced a sort of internal com-
bat between this ferocious impulse to destroy, and the pro-
found horror·which rose in his mind, at the very id.,a of
such a crime. There was no mark of wandering of me-
mory, imagination, or judgment. He avowed to me, dur-
ing his strict seclusion, that his propensitY to commit a
murder was absolutely forced and involuntary,-that his
wife whom he tenderly loved, had nearly become his vic-
tim, be having scarcely had time to bid her flee to avoid
his fury. All his lucid intervals were marked by melan-
choly reflections and expression of remorse ; and so great
did his disgust of life become, that he had several times
attempted, by an act of suicide" (this is common in the ex-
cess of Destructiveness) " to bring it to a close. What rea-
son have 1," said be, "to cut the throat of the superin-
tendent of the hospital, who treats WI with so much kind-
ness? and yet in my moments of fury I am tempted to rush
upon him, as well as others, and plunge a dagger in his
bosom. It is this unhappy and irresistible propensity
which reduces me to despair, and makes me attempt my
own life."-Sur l'Alienation Mentale, deuxieme Mition,
P• 102 et lOS. sect. 117.
Individuals who occasionally commit murder, or:set fire
· to property, without any rational motive, sometimes as-
cribe their actions to the temptation 'of the devil, assert-
ing that the devil whispered into their ears, "kill him,"
" kill him," and never ceased to repeat the exhortation till
Digitized by Google
181 DESTRUCTIVENESS.
UleyMd complied wkh H. Dieea8ed activity o( this organ,
filling the mini habikaally with a desire to destroy, p-o-
ba'Wy gives rille to this impn.ion.
One fona in wltich dilease of this orgaa sometimes ap-
pean, t'eqllirei pB"tieular notice ; it 1a wlaeo it protapte
female. of the moat imqueetioaable repatatioa to chili-
llmrder. I me the following from the public newapapera
(){May 1899. " On Sunday morning, about half-past ten
o'clock, 'B moat horrid murder of unparalleled inhtl'ID8Dity,
was perpetndit'd on the body of a fine female iafant, about
~ iDoutbs oW, namei SARAH MouNTFORD, by her owa
mother, wife ·of Mr MouNTPOiln, weaver, No. 1. Vitgiaia
:Rcnv, Betl!nal Green. The hU&.,..d, who is a MethodiSt,
lrad gone to ·chapel, Jeavillg hie wife to clean, 'BDd eend to
the Sunday school, ·her young family. Having done this,
it appeared abe cleaned herself and her infant, when, over-
come by some extraordinary abermtion of intelleet, she
cut off the head of the child with a l'allOr, and, besmeared
with the blood, immediately told the persona in the house
of the bloody deed, desiring to be given into custody, as
she wanted to be hanged. From the conduct of the
wretched woman after the transaction, no doubt can be
eatertained of her insanity. :Mr. MouNTFORD underwent
a abort examination on Monday, and was committed for
trial. A coroner's inquest has been held, which returned a
verdict of wilful murder agaiBSt the wretched woman.
The distress of the family is extreme. The unhappy hus-
band and two of the eldest daughters are eeen nmning
about the streets in a state of distraction. One of the lat-
ter bas been deprived of utterance since the horrid trans-
action." This woman is. said to have been " overeomc
by some extraordinary aberration of intellect.;" which mode
of expression may be forgiven in the writer of a newspaper
paragraph, although, viewed p1rilo&ophically, it is absurd.
The inte1Jectual powers enumerated by the metaphysicians,
Roch as Perception, Conception, Memory, Imagination,
IUld Judgment, furnish no propensities to action, which, be-
Digitized by Google
DESTRUCTIVElilESS. 188
ing deranged, could produce suoh a piece of bari.rity.
Derangement of intellect causes the pMiat to reason in-
correctly, and speak incohermtly ; but if his f~s be
sound, ·he is net mischievous. Here, however, the un-
happy woman aeema to have been inspired with a blin4
nd irresistible impulse to kill, arising from disease of De-
stractiven888.
'.Vheae aetails 8e soeeclingly painful, and the reader
may question .the iaste which permits their iDSertion ; but
great ignorance prevails in the public mind on this sub-
ject, mui the records of our criminal oourta atill shew euea
of wretches condemned to the gallows, who, if Phrenology
were bown to the judges and juries, would be consigned
to a lunatic asylnm.
This organ is larger in the male head than in the female;
and hence the male head is in general broader. The mani-
feltations corre11p0nd : for the propensity is leas vigorously
manifested by woman than by man,
As already noticed, the organ is common to man with
carnivorous animals. Dr GALL, however, remarks, " that
the organ is not, in all carnivorous animals, situated with
rigorous exactness above the external opening of the ear.
Among aome apeciea of birde, for example, in the stmk,
the cormorant, the heron, the gull, &c., the external open-
ing of the ear is considerably drawn back, and the organ
of the propeosity to kill is placed immediately behind the
orbits, fomring a large promillenee upon each side, the
&De of wbioh is fonnd to bear an uniform proportion to the
degree in which the animal m&Difeata the propensity to
kill. In comparing the crania of carnivorOUB birds with
&be .UU. of t.hoae that can live iadiffeaoently either upon
anjmpJa•or vegewbles, this prominence i8 found to be leea
COD8picuoua in the latter ; in the duck, for uample, and in
the dift'er.ent species of thrushes ; and it becomes 18118 and
Je. prominent in proportion BB the birds exhibit a more
dietinct preference for vegetables, such BB the swan, the
goose," &c. The diJrerences are illustrated by plates in Dr
G.u.x.'a work. If the brain of a sheep and that of a dog be··
Digitized by Google
184t DESTRUCTIVENESS.
compared, a great deficiency will be discovered in the
former at Destructiveness.
In 1827, Monsieur VIMONT presented to the Royal In-
stitute of France, a memoir on Comparative Phrenology, in
which he brings forward a vast collection of most interest-
ing facts, in regard to the dispositions and forms of the
brain in the lower animals. In regard to Destructiveneas,
he says, " All animalS which live on flesh, or which have a
propensity for destroying, have a particular part of the
cranium whose development corresponds with that of this
faculty. Thus all theferiz •, without exception, have the
squamous portion of the temporal bonet enlarged:in a per-
ceptible manner. We may cite as examples, the tiger, the
cat, the fox, the martin, the weasel, the ermine.
" In the carnivorous birds properly so called, the por-
tion of the cranium situated behind the orbit, corresponds
with the organ of carnivorous instinct, and presents a re-
markable development. In the omnivorous birds, the
enlargement is a little more posterior."
The organ is·established.
ALIMENTIVENESS, OR ORGAN OF THE APPETITE
FOR FOOD.
IT early occurred to Drs GALL and SPURZBEIM, that the
appetite for food is an instinct not referable to any of the
recognised principles of mind, and they therefore were dis-
posed to view it as a primitive power, having a separate or-
gan ; but they did not discover its situation.
In the sheep, the olfactory nerves, which arefery large,
are perceived to originate from two cerebral co~volutions,
lying at the base of the middle lobe of the brain, adjoining
and immediately be•ow the situation occupied by the or-
gans of Destructiveness in carnivorous animals. The sheep
• .Beasts of prey.
t Situated immediately outward of Destructiveness.
Digitized by Google
ALIMENTIVENESS. 185
is guided in the selection of its food by the seDJe of smell ;
and the inference suggests itself, that these parts may be
the organs of the instinct which prompts it to take nou-
rishment. Corresponding convolutions occur in the hu-
man brain, but the functions of them are not ascertained,
owing to their local situation presenting obstacles to the
determination of their size during ,life. · The conjecture,
however, seemed to me plausible, that they might serve a
similar purpose to that here s~pposed. to belong to them in
the sheep.
This subject has attracted the notice of that ingenious
phrenologist Dr HoPPE of Copenhagen, and he has treated
of it in two valuable communications, published in the
Phrenological Journal, Nos. V. and VII. He is of opinion,
that, besides the nerves of the stomach and palate, an af•
fection of which gives rise to the sensations of hunger and
thirst, there must also be an organ in the brains of animals
for the instinct of nutrition (taking nourishment for the
preservati~n of life), which incites them to the sensual en·
joyments of the palate, and the activity of which is inde-
penclenl of hunger and thirst. "How," says he, "should
the mere sense of hunger, more than any other disagree-
able or painful sensation, make the animal desire food, the
necessity of such not being known to him by experience ?
This could only be effected by inmnct, because either an
instinct, i. e. the immediate impulse of an organ, or else
experience and reflection, are the causes of all actions.
" We observe, that the chicken is no sooner out of the
egg, than it picks the grain that lies on the ground, and
the new-born babe sucks the nipple. Is this to be ex-
plained without the supposition of an organ analogous to
that which makes the duclcling immediately plunge into
the water, or ~es the kitten bite the first mouse it meets
with?
" Neither am I able otherwise to conceive how the new-
born animal can discriminate what is useful for its nutri-
tion ; that, for instance, the chicken neyer mistakes gravel
Digitized by Google
186 ALIMENTIVENESS.
for grain, aad 'bat the wilcl beaais a1...,. &'Void .,.-,nOU8
plants withoat·ever t.amng them.
" When &he child, even enjoying perfect health, aucks
till the stomach ia filled, in a -literal 1181188 of the wo:rd, it
surely feels no huger or thirst; ye&, if laid to tbe breaa&,
it will continue sucking, ·even 10met.imes havillg thrown oW
the last draught from over6lling.
" If nothing but hunger and thirst impelled rman ·to take
food, be would, when saU.ted, ·have ne» appeu6e for meat
and drink ; yet we every day observe people that canoot
resist the temptation of surfeiting tbem.selvea ·both with
meat ani drink, though they lmow it to be notdous, ani
o&bers again that never are tempted .to glnt6ony:•
Dr HoPPE adds ae\Teral other reasons in support of an
organ of nutrition, and sums up his views in the followin«
words : " Aooordiag to my opinion, Atmger and tlairlt mutt
be discriminated from the deaire of food which we call ap-
petite; for those I consider as only affectiona of the sto-
machical and palatic nerves, caused by deficiency of DeCe&-
sary supply; but appetite as an .activity of a fundamental
animal instinct, which baa in tbe ·brain an organ analogous
to the rest of the orgsas. Yet there ia a very intimate
connexion between these; thus, nothing can mOI'e eWecrt.u-
ally rouse appetite than hunger.'•
In lecturing on Phrenology, I bad for some years poin&ecl
out the part of the brain above alluded to as the pro-
bable seat of this organ ; and Dr HoPPE, without being
aware of this circumstance, or the r88BODS OD which this
conjecture was founded, arrived at a similar conclusion.
He proceeded even so far as to point out an external in-
dication of the size of the organ. " Regarding;• says he,
" the organ for taking nomiabment, I have been led to
think, since I wrote last, that the place where ita di«erent
degrees of development are manifested in the living body.,
is in thefOBsa zvgqmatica, uact~v under tAe organ o/Acqui-
aitivenuB, and bifore tlu.lt qf.l)utructiveneu. Before I bad
thought at all of Phrenology, I was struck with the re-
Digitized by Google
ALIMENTIVENESS. 187
markable Jugeness of the face or ·head of a frieati ofmiae,
~used, not by prominent eheek-'bonea. as in some v~
ofman1rlnd, but n~ore io-.arda the eara, by *he great cn-
vexity of ~ zygomatic arch. Knowing that U!ia inaivi-
doal was'eKoeediuglyfond ofgood liviDg, aad that, 8l'eB in
spite of a very powerful intellect, and propeuaitiea mode--
rate in almost every other respect, he was prone to iadu1ge
too freely in the joys of the table, I afterwards thought
that this form of the head, and tendency of the mind, might
bear a nearer relaticm to each other than had at first oc-
curred to me ; and in some other persons, notoriously
known to be foad ·of good eating and drinkiog, I found a
confinnation of my nppoamons. This prominence of t.be
boDy arch, I &bink, mut be an absolute conaequence of
the part of UJe C1'81Jiom lying under the temporal muscle
being pushed outwards, and diminishing, in that tiirec&ion,
the spawe of *la.e fot18tJ. Besides this greater convexity of
the arch, t.be part also of the skull situated immediately
above it, under the organ of Acquisitiveness, will in this
caae be oblerved. to be more full and protruding. The
largenea of head produced in this way can by no means
be mietaken for a mere prominent cheek-bone, nor .for the
organa of Aoquisitiveness, or Destructivenea, or Construc-
tivenea, situated higher, behind, and in front of it. Ha-
ving foond the aaid parts in some persons much eompre.
aed, in othen less so, and, as I think, the disposition of
mind always proportionate te it, and not yet having met
with any exceptions, I cannot but bold my opinion to be
true."
I have been informed that Mr Caoox. also, without
bowing Dr HoPn'a remarks, bad andved at a similar
conclusion as w the aitoation of the organ.
The external part to which Dr HoPPE alludes, was for-
merly incluaed by Dr SPURZHEIM within t.be limits of De-
~veoea~; kt in Dr GALL's busts and plates, that or-
gan waa not carried so far forward, and t1te function of the
part in queeuon was marked by Dr GALL as UllUCcrtained.
oigi!lzed by Coogle
188 ALIMENTIVENESS.
Dt SPURZHEIM now coincides in the soundness of the views
of Dr HoPPE, and the organ is regarded as probable. The
part of the brain indicated by these gentlemen is clliferent
from the convolutions corresponding to that in which the
olfactory nerves originate in the sheep. In the human
brain the function of that part is therefore still unascer-
tained.
ORGAN OF THE LOVE OF LIFE.
IN conversing with a variety of individuals about their
mental feelings, no fact has more forcibly arrested my at-
tention than the clliference which exists in the love of life.
It will be &88Umed by many, that this is an universal de-
sire, glowing with equal intensity in all ; but this is not the
fact. All possess the feeling, but its degrees vary much
more than is generally imagined. Some individuals desire
life so intensely, that they view death as the greatest cala-
mity; they declare, that rather than part with existence,
they would submit to live in endless misery; the bare idea
of annihilation is unsupportable to their imaginations ;-
and they found an argument for immortality on tbe posi·
tion that Goo cannot be guilty of the injustice of making
them conscious of so great a boon as life, and subsequently
depriving them of it ; to have Jived, according to them,
gives an indefeasable title to continue to live. Otherindi-
viduals, again, experience no such passion for existence ;
they regard pain and parting with the objects of their affec-
tions, as the chief evils of death ; so far as the mere plea-
sure of living is concerned, they are ready to surrender it
with scarcely a feeling of regret; they discover nothing ap-
palling in death, as the mere cessation of being; and do not
feel the prospect of immortality to be essential to their en-
joyment of the present life. I have found these different
feelings combined with the most opposite dispositions in
all other respects; the great lovers of life were not always
Digitized by Google
LOVE OF LIFE. 189
the healthy, the gay and the fortunate; nor were those
who were comparatively indifferent to death, always the
feeble, the gloomy and misanthropic; on the contrary, the
feeling exists strongly and weakly in these opposite cha~
racters indiscriminately.
Neither does the difference depend on the moral andre-
ligious qualities of the individua1s; for equal morality and
religion are found in combination with either sentiment.
This is a point in human nature not generally adverted to ;
nevertheless, I have obtained so many assurances of the
existence of these different feelings, from individuals of
sound judgment and unquestionable veracity, that it ap-
peara to me highly probable, that there are a special faculty
and organ for the Love of Life. We seem to be bound to
existence itself by a primitive instinct, just as we are led
by other instincts, to provide for its continuance and trans-
mission. The organ is probably situated in the base of the
brain.
The only fact tending to illustrate its position, is one
observed by Dr A. CoMBE, and recorded in the Phrenol~
gical Journal, vol. iii. p. 4.71. In describing the dissec~
tion of the brain of a lady upwards of sixty, who for many
years had been remarkable for continual anxiety about her
own death, he observes, that " the enormous develepment
of one convolution at the base of the middle lobe of the
brain, the function of which ia unknown, was too striking
not to arrest our attention ; it was that lying towards the
mesial line, on the basilar and inner side of the middle
lobe, and consequently of Destructiveness. The corres~
ponding part of the skull showed a very deep and distinc~
ly~moulded cavity or bed running longitudinally, with
high and prominent sides, and presenting altogether an ap-
pearance much more striking than in any skull I ever saw.
From the situation of this convolution, its development
cannot be ascertained during life, and hence its function
remains unknown. Whether it may have any connexion
with the Love of Life, is a circumstance which may be de-
Digitized by Google
190 SECRETIVENESS.
tennined by future obeervations ; all that we can IBY at
present is, that the Love of Life seems to be a feeling 8lri
generia, and not proportioned to any faculty, or combina-
tion of faculties, yet known,-that in the subject of this no-
tice it was one of the most permanently active which she
posse88ed,-and that in her the convolution alluded to was
of very unusual magnitude; but bow far the coincidence
was fortuitous, we leave to time aad obeervation to deter-
mine."
7.-SECRETIVENESS.
THE organ is situated at the inferior edge of the pR!'ietal
bones, immediately above Destructiveness, or in the middle
of the lateral portion of the brain. When the organ of De-
structiveness is much developed, it may be mistaken, by the
inexperienced observer, for the organ of Secretiven888; eo
that it is neceesary to remark, that the latter organ is placed
higher, and rather farther forward, than Ute former; and
that, instead of presentingthe form of a segment of a circle,
it is extended longitudinally. When both organs are high-
ly developed, the lower and middle portion of the side of
the head is characterized by a general fulness.
Dr GALL gives the following history of the ditcoYery of
this organ. In early youth, he was struck with the cha-
racter and form of the head of one of b.is companions, who,
with amiable dispositions and good abilities, was distia-
guished by cunning and finesse. His head W88 very large
at the temples, and in his natural attitude it projected for-
ward. Although a faithful friend, he experienced an ex-
traordinary pleasure ill employing every posaible device to
make game of his school-fellows, and to deceive them. His
natural language was absolutely the expression of cunning,
such as Dr GALL had often observed in eats and dogs,
when, playing together, they wished to give each other the
slip. At a subsequent period, he had another companion,
who, at first, appeared candour penooifted; no one had ever
Digitized by Google
SEC1lETITENESS. 191
ditltrus&ed him; but his gait and maaner were tboee of a cat
watching a mouse ; he proved false and perfidious, and de-
ceived, in an unbecoming maruaer, hie young school-feUowe,
hie tutms, and his paPeDts. He carried his head iD. the
same attitude as before meatioaed; hia figure waalwulsome;
and his head exceedingly large at the tempJes. One of Dr
GALL's 'patients, who died of phthisis, generally pa88ed for
a very honest man: after his death, Dr GALL was &truck
with the largeness of his head in the temporal region; and
shortly afterwards learned, that he had cheated his ac-
quaintances, and even his mother, of considerable sums of
money. At Vienna he was often in the company of a
physician, possessed of much infoi'DIIation, but who, on ac-
count of his character of a cheat, was generally despised.
Under pretence of dealing in objects of art, and lending on
pledpt, he robbed all who put confidence in him. He car-
ried his tricks and cheai.IJ to such a leogth, that the govern-
meat warned the public, through the medium of the public
jouruals, to beware of him ; for he had pract.ised hia arta
with such dexterity, that be could never be legally condemn-
ed. He often told Dr GALL, that he knew no plea.-
sure equal to that of deceiving, especially persons who di&-
trusted him most. As the heai of this individual also was
very large at the temples, Dr GALL was impressed with
the idea thM there is a primitive tendency towards cunning
in the mind, and that it is manifested by this particular
cerebral organ. An immense Bilmber of obsenations have
confirmed his conjectOI"e.
The nature and object of ibis propenaity appear to be
the following : The various faeulties of the human mind
are liable to involantary activity from internal causes, as
well as from external excitement. Tlau.a, Amativeneas be-
coming active, gives feelings corresponding to its nature :
.Acquisitivenees inspires with strong desires for wealth ; and
Love of Approbation fills the mind with projects of ambi-
tioo. Every one will be coD&Cious that these or similar
feelinge, at tim~ rush into his mind inv()luntarily, and fre-
Digitized by Google
192 SECRETIVENESS.
quently refuse to depart at the command of the onder- '
standing. If outward expression wel'e given to these im-
pulses, in all their vivacity, as they arise, social mtercourse
would be disfigured by a rude assemblage of disgus&g
improprieties, and man would shun the society of his fel-
lows as more loathsome than pestilence or famine. SuAK.-
SPEARE, with that accuracy of observation which distin-
guishea him, bas pourtrayed this featlll'e of the human
mind.
"Utter my thoughts? Why, say they are 9ile and talse-
As where'• that palace, wherelnto foul thi!lgl
Sometimes intrude not P Who hu a breast so pure
But some uncleanly apprehensions
Keep leet.s and law..days, and in lellion sit
With meditations lawful P"-OIMIIo, Act llL Scene 3.
Some instinctive tendency, therefore, to restrain within
the mind itself, to conceal, as it were, from the public eye
the various deairea and emotions which involuntarily present.
themselvea in the mind, was necessary to enable the under-
standing to regulate their outward expreesion ; and nature
appears to have provided this power in the faculty of Se-
cretiveneas. It is an instinctive tendency to conceal, and
the legitimate ·object of it appears to be, to restrain the
outward expresSion of our thoughts and emotions, till the
understandiDg shall have pronounced judgment on their
propriety.
Besides, man and animals are occasionally liable to the
assaults of enemies, which may be avoided by concealment,
in easea where strength is wanting to repel them by force.
Nature, therefore, by means of this propensity, enables
them to add prudence, slynesa, or cunning, according to the
direction given to it by other faculties of the individual, to
their means of defence.
A sufficient endowment of this organ is essential. to the
formation of a prudent character. It then imposes a salu-
tary reatraint on the manifestations of the other faculties,
4
Digitized by Google
SECRETIVENESS. I9S
and serves as a defence against prying curiosity. "When
NAPOLEON," says Sir WALTER ScoTT, "thought himself
closely observed, he had the power of discharging from his
countenance all expression, save that of a vague and inde-
finite smile, and presenting to the curious investigator the
fixed eyes and rigid features of a marble bust." Vol. iv.
p. 37. I have observed this power to be conferred by large
Secretiveness. Those in whom it is deficient, are too open
for the general intercourse ofsociety; they are characterized
by deficiency of tact,.a headlong bluntness of manner, and
the instantaneous expression of every thought and emotion,
as it flows into the mind, without regard to the proprieties
required by time, place or circumstances.
Mr ScoTT, in an excellent essay on this propensity, pu])..
lished in the Phrenological Transactions, observes, that it
communicates the desire to discover the secrets of otherF,
u well as to conceal our own. The author of Waverley,
in his novel of Quentin Durward •, draws the character of
Louis XI. with exact fidelity to this principle of our
nature. The King, says he, was " calm, crafty, and pro-
foundly attentive to his own interest. He was careful in
disguising his real sentiments and purposes from all who
approached him, and frequently used the expressions,-
that the King knew not how to reign, who knew not how
to dissemble ; and that, for himself, if he thought his very
cap knew his secrets, he would throw it into the fire. Like
all astutious persons, he was as.desirous of looking into
the secrets of others, as of concealing his own." This re.
presentation is historically correct. According to this view,
even a large development of the organ, if combined with
good sentiments, and an enlightened understanding, is a
valuable endowment. Persons so constituted, possessing
thenuielves the natural talent requisite for intrigue, if they
choose to direct the faculty in that way, are naturally fit-
ted to divine and discover intrigues and secret machinations
in others, and to defeat them. From the same cause they
• Vol. I. p. 7.
N
Digitized by Coogle
r
194 SF.CRETIVENESS.
read, with great acuteness, the natnrallanguage of conceal-
ment in other minds, and are able to discover, by the very
air and manner of a man, that be is hiding some object or
intention, when a person, in whom the organ is small, could
not perceive BUcb a purpose. In many of the affairs oflife
also, secrecy is indispensable both to prudent conduct and
SUCC888. ~
When too energeti<", or not properly directed, Secretive-
ness is liable to great abuses. It then leads to a liking for
concealment, intrigue, and crooked policy, for their own
sakes ; and to a feeling that it is wise and clever to wrap up
the purposes of the mind in the profoundest mystery : cun-
ning is mistaken for ability, and deceit for practical wisdom.
It may prompt to the use oflies, hypocrisy, intrigue, or dissi-
mulation, as means to gain an end. Persons in whom it
predominates, judging of mankind in general by themselves,
are never able to see the affairs of the world, or the con-
duct of others, in a plain and simple point of view, but
imagine life to be a continual stratagem, in which every
one is endeavouring to overreach his neighbour. Such
persons conceive, that the eye of the world is always look-
ing into their breasts, t~ read the purposes that are there
hatched, but which discovery they are resolved to prevent.
The propensity in some instances finds gratification in the
most trifting mysteries; an individual under its predomi-
nating influence will conceal his going out, his coming in,
his engagements, and all his transactions; even although
communication or these would greatly facilitate domestic
arrangements. In an argument a secretive man will evade
all admissions.
Dr JoHNSTON mentions of PoPE, that he took so "great
delight in artifice, that he endeavoured to attain all his pur-
poses by indirect and unsuspected methods; he hardly drank
tea without a stratagem. He practised his arts on such
small occasions, that Lady BoLINGBROKE Wled to say in a
French phrase, that he played the politician about cahbagu
and turnips."
Digitized by Google
SECitETI VEKESS. 195
Mercantile men, in whom this organ predominates, oc-
casionally conceal their circumstances, so that wife and
children proceed in the unsuspecting enjoyment of ima-
gined prosperity, till bankruptcy, like tbe explosion of a
mine, involves them in instantaneous ruin. These individu-
als generally plead in excuse, a pretended regard to the feel-
ings of their relatives: but the distrust implied in such
conduct, is a greater injury to sensitive minds, than the
evils they attempt to hide. The real sources of their eon-
duct are an overweening Self-esteem, which cannot stoop
to acknowledge misconduct or misfortune, and an inordi-
nate Secretiveness, inspiring them with an instinctive aver-
t~ion to candid and unreserved communication. A favour-
ite maxim with such men, is, that secresy is the soul of
trade. It is so, only in narrow minds misguided by this
propensity.
Persons i,n whom this organ is large, and who believe
that they r~ly conceal their trne character from the world,
are much startled at the exposure which Phrenolojy is said
to make of the dispositions of tbe mind, and they feel great
difficulty in believing it practicable to compare genuine
mental feelings with development of brain, because they
imagine that real motives and dispositions are never ex-
hibited in conduct. Such persons err, however, in their
estimate even of their own powers of concealment; for,
Secretiveness does not alter the aim, but affects only the
means of obtaining gratification of our ordinary desires ;
and, besides, if disguise be really the forte of their cha-
racter, Phrenology has the advantage of them still ; for it
exhibits the organ of Secretiveness large, and in tlteir very
concealment they will manifest most powerfully tlte faculty
whose organ is most fully developed.
Innumerable abuses of this propensity occur in the ordi-
nary intercourse of society. How polite, acquiescent, and
deferential, are some persons in their manners to all who
are present; and bow severe in their vituperations, when
the same individuals are gone ! This conduct results from
Secreth·eness addressing itself to Love of Approbation in
N2
Digitized by Google
196 ~ECR.ETJYENESR.
others, and endeavouring to please them by professions
of feigned respect. Many persons would not, for any con-
sideration, mention a disagreeable truth to an acquaintance.
This also arises from an abuse of the same faculty, com-
bined with great Love of Approbation.
To Mr ScoTT is due the merit of throwing great light
on the influence of Secretiveness in producing humour.
The power of representing, with a face of perfect gravity,
f;Ome ludicrous incident,is one species of humour. In this,
t11e grave exterior, the command over the outward expres-
sion of the face, while the most ludicrous ideas are
.intentally perceived, is just a .species of slyness, and is
clearly attributable to Secretiveness. This kind of humour
ala;o is absolutely addressed to Secretiveness in others. We,
as spectators, see the internal absurdity through the exter-
nal gravity, and this gratifies our Secretiveness, which
likes to penetrate disguises assumed by others, as well as
to disguise itself. Another species of humour consists in
detecting and exposing little concealed purposes and inten-
tions in our friends, and holding them up to view in all
their nothingness, when they are mystifying or concealing
them as matters of real importance. " The man of
humour," says Mr ScoTT, "delights in detecting these lit-
tle pieces of deception : and the ludicrOU8 effect of this
seems to arise from the incongruity which appears between
the real and the assumed character, the contrast between
'vhat is intended to he apparent at the surface, and that
which is seen to be at the bottom." It is proper to observe,
however, that Secretiveness affords only the slyness, the
aavoir faire, togethet· with the tact of detecting little con-
cealed weaknesses implied in humour; and that the fa-
culty of Wit is necessary, in addition, more or less, to pro-
duce ludicrous effect in the representation. Thus, a per-
son with much Wit, and little Secretiveness, will not excel
in humour, although he may shine in pure wit. A person,
on the other band, with much Secretiveness, and moderate
Wit, may excel in humour, although, in intellectual witty
combinations, he may make but an indifferent figure. It ill
Digitized by Google
SECltETlVENESS. 197
a curious fact, that the Italians and Euglish, in whom
Secretiveness is large, delight in humour, while the French,
in whom the organ is moderate, can scarcely imagine what
it is. In conformity with these differences in national de-
velopment, the English and Italians practise a prudent re-
serve in their intercourse with strangers, while the French
are open to excess, and communicate even their private af-
fairs to casual acquaintances. The French also delight to
live, and even to die, in public 1 while the Englishman
shuts himself up in his house, which he denominates his
castle, and debars all the world from observing his conduct.
Other faculties contribute to these varieties of taste, but
Secretiveness is an essential element in the relish for re-
tirement.
I have uniformly found Secretiveness large in the heads
of actors and artists, and, of these, I have been permitted
to examine a considerable number. In the cast of Miss
CLARA FISHER's head, it wiJl be seen amply developed.
The theory of its effects in aiding the former seems w be
this: The actor muat conceal or shade hie real cl1aracter,
and put forth the natural language of an assumed one.
Now, Secretiveness will enable llim to suppress or withhold
all the faculties which are not essential to the personage
whom he, for the time, represents; while, by withdrawing
its restraints from other faculties, it will allow them to
manifest themselves with full energy. Thus, suppose an
actor, in whom Benevolence and Conscientiousness are
large, to be called on to'play lAGo, a character in which sel-
fishness and viJlany predominate, then Secretiveness will
enable him to suppress the natural language of his own su-
perior faculties, while, by withdrawing its influence from
Combativeness, Destructiveness, and Self-Esteem, it will
permit the most forcible expression of tl1ese in looks, tones
and gestures; and this will be IAGO to the life. It aids the
..artist in a similar way. It is known, that a painter or
&eulptor, in working a figure, studies first the mental
feelings which it is intended to 11onrtray, then goes to a
Digitized by Google
~: 1:=-iJ'P • =
198 S~UETIVENESS.
mirror, and produces the expression of them in his own
penon, and copies it in his picture or block of marble. In
this process, he resembles an actor, and Secretiveness as·
aisls him in the manner before explained. In this analysis,
I differ in one point from Mr ScoTT. He thinks that
Secretiveness confers not only the negative power of su~
pressing _tho real character, but also the positive power of
calJing up, at wiJJ, the natural language of such faculties
as we wish to exhibit for the time. Thus, some persons
are able to load otl1ers with expressions of great esteem,
attachment, and goo<l wiJJ, when internally they hate
them. Mr ScoTT conceives that Secretiveness enables such
individuals not only to disguise their real enmity, but to
call up for the occasion the natural language of Adhesive-
ness, Benevolence, Veneration, and Love of Approbation,
IUld to use these as instruments of deception. This latter
efFect appears to me to depend on Imitation.
When Secretiveness and Cautiousness are both very large,
there is a great tendency to extreme reserve, IUld even,
\vhen little knowledge of the world is possessed, to suspi-
cion and terror of dark designs and sinister )>lots, hatching
on every hand against the unhappy possessor of this com-
bination. In general, these plots_
have no existence beyond
the internal feelings produced by those faculties.
Secretiveness, with small Conscientiousness, predisposes
to lying, and, combined with Acquisitiveness, to theft. In-
deed, Secretiveness is more invariably large in thieves than
Acquisitiveness; anc! it prompts to this crime, probably by
the feeling of secrecy which it generate~ in the mind. It
gives the idea. that all is hidden, and that no eye seeR,
and no intellect will be able to trace the fraud. It pro.
duces also that capacity for sly cunning which is essential
tP a thief. An excellent elucidation, by Dr ANDREW Co!IfBE,
of the efFects of Secretiveness, as a constituent element in the
character ofa thief, will be found in the Phrenological Jour-
nal, vol. i.p. 611. The organ is large in DAVJD HAGGART,
and in a variety of executed thieves, whose casts han~ been
Digitized by Google
---
SECllETIVENESS. 199
obtained. It is large, also, in JoHN GIBSoN, a boy who
manifested very extraordinary powers of deception at eight
years of age. His case is reported at full length, by Mr
DAVID BRIDGES junior, in the Phrenological Transactions,
voL i. p. 289. On 3d December .1828, I visited in Edin-
burgh jail, JoHN REID, a lad of sixteen, under sentence of
death (but su~uently respited), for housebreaking and
theft. His head was uncommonly large for his years, and
the organ of Secretiveness, in particular, was enormously
developed. Acquisitiveness also was large, and Conscien-
tiousness deficient. The ReverendMr PoRTEous, chaplain
to the jail, mentioned, that REID's power of concealing his
thoughts and feelings was most extraordinary, and that
daring and secrecy were manifested in his crime, in a de-
gree that was almost inconceivable. He had mounted on
the shoulders of an accomplice to the second storey of a
dwelling-house, entered by a window, and, although per-
sons slept in the bed-rooms of that ftoor, and the lamp in
the lobby was burning, be proceeded down stairs, reached
the dining-room, robbed the side-board of plate, and got
clear oft' without being heard.
Another efFect of great Secretiveness, especially wbeQ
aided by much Firmness, is to produce the power of re-
pressing, to an indefinite extent, all outward expression of
pain, even when amounting to positive torture. ANN Ross
(whose case is reported by Mr RICHARD CARMICHAEL of
Dublin •), with a view to excite the compassion of some
pious and charitable ladies, thrust needles into her arm to
produce disease, and carried the deception so far as. to
allow her arm to be amputated without revealing the cause.
The needles were found on dissection, and she was more
mortified by the discovery of the trick, than ·afB.icted by
the loss of her arm. She manifested the same faculty in
a variety of other deceptions. I examined her head, and
• Phren. Jouru. No. v.
Digitized by Google
200 S.ECllETIVENESS.
Mr CARMICHAEt. also furnished the Phrenological Society
with a cast of it, and in it the organs of Secretiveness and
Firmness are decidedly large. The North American In-
dians a1lb are celebrated for their power of enduring tor-
ture, and the samo combination occurs in casts of two of
their skulls in the Society's collection.
Dr MuRRAY PATTERSON mentions, that the Hindooe
manifest Secretiveness in a high degree, in the form of
eunning and duplicity, and the organ is very large in their
heads.
This propensity, when predominantly active, produces a
close sly look ; the eyes roll from side to side; the voice ia
low; the shoulders are drawn up towards the ears, and the
footstep is soft and gliding. The movements of the body
are towards the side. Sir WALTER ScoTT accurately de..
lineates the look produced by this faculty and Cautiousness
in the following lines.
Speaking of CoRMAc DolL, he says,
" For etril seemed that old man's eye
Dark tmd de.igning, fin'cf get •hg,
Slill hf atJIIided./Of'fi!Md loolt,
Bul 1/ouo and circum~peCtlg took
A circling nlt!ef' cearing glanct!,
Bg dotdlt and cunning mark'd at 011ce;
Which &hot a mischief.boding ray,
From under eye-brows shagged and grey."
lArd oftlUJ 11/u, Canto tv. p. 24.
When this organ is very large in the head of an author,
it produces a curious efFect on his style. The different
members of his sentences are involved, parenthetical, and
often obscure, as if he were in doubt whether he selected
the proper place for his expressions, and hesitated between
what he ought to put down and what he might leave to be
understood. He is also liable to quaintness. PoPE's style oc-
easionally indicates this quality, and the faculty is strongly
manifested in his character. Dr THOMAS BRoWN's style,
also, is characterized by Secrcth·cness, and the organ waa
Digitized by Google
SECRETIVENESS. 201
large in his head. CnoLY's poetry presents the expreaaion
of it. GoLDSl'IJTH's writings display a moderate endow-
ment. This faculty, by enabling an author skilfully to
work up l!is incidents and events, and to conceal-the de-
aouement of his plot or story, till the most appropriate time
and place for the elucidation, greatly aids him in producing
effect.
It prompts, says Dr GALL, the General of an army to the
use of stratagems to deceive the enemy, whiie it leads him
to conceal his own fOI'eea and enterprize&, to make false
attacks and counterfeited marches.
This organ is pOseea&ed by the lower animals, and Dr
GALL remarks, that it requires a particular study in each
species. In the eommon species of ape, for example, it
eommeneea above the origin of the zygomatic arch, and
extends forward to nearly the middle of this bone. Ita si-
tuation is the same in: the tiger, cat and fox. In gramini-
vorous animals, and in birds distinguished for .cunning,
this regiou will also, in general, be found large.
Manifestations of this propensity, clearly attributable to
disease of the organ, are described by authors on insanity.
The cunning shewn by many of the ineane, especially in
concealing their true state, has often excited astonishment.
FonERE' speaks of two patients who had been long con-
fined in the asylum at Marseilles. After an apparent cure
of considerable duration, their friends demanded their dis-
missal. He, however, suspected deception; and determined
to bold a long conversation with them. For an hour and
a half, during which he avoided the kind of ideas in regard
to which he knew them to be insane, they spoke, reasoned,
and acted like men of sound judgment. But when he in-
troduced the subject which excited their diseased faculties,
their eyes began to sparkle, the muscles of the face to con-
tract, and an evident agitation took place, accompanied
with an effort to preserve calmness. They were ordered to
be detained. PINEL mentions the cunning and tricks of
Digitized by Google
202 SECRETIVENESS.
some lunatics as remarkable. Dr MARSHALL • notices the
case of a man in Betblem Hospital in 1789, who fancied
he was a great man. " He was very crafty, and used
much flattery to the keepers, calling them ' fine men,
gentlemen," especially when he wanted any indulgence ;
but when his complacent looks and genteel expressions did
not avail him, he became revengeful, made up some plau-
sible story against them, and slyly told it to the steward.
When fresh patient& came into the bouse, he always intro-
duced himself to them ; he was very civil to them, and,
after gaining their confidence, he tried to get their money
from them, which, if he could not do by other means, he
had recourse to stratagem to get po88eS8ion of it."
The regular metaphysicians have not admitted any
faculty corresponding to this propensity, nor am I aware
that they give any theory of cunning, although it is an ob-
vious ingredient in human nature. The quality, however,
is familiarly recognised by a variety of writers. Lord
BACON, in his Essay on Cunning, graphically describes a
number of the abuses of Secretiveness. " We take cun-
ning," says be, " for a sinister or crooked wisdom, and cer-
tainly there is a great difFerence between a cunning man
and a wise man, not only in point of honesty, but in point
of ability. There be that can pack the cards, and yet can-
not play well ; so there are some that are good in canvasses
and factions, that are otherwise weak men."
Humoo. CEYLONESE.
S<nt'th'cnr>l l•rgc.
• rag,• 192.
Digitized by Google
SECRETIVENESS. 203
In Peveril of the Peak, we have the following dialogue.
"Your Grace holds his wisdom very high," said the atten-
dant. " His cunning al least, I do," replied BucKING-
HAM, " which, in Court affairs, often takes the weather-
gage of wisdom."
The organ is established.
8.-ACQUISITIVENESS.
THE organ of this faculty is situated at the anterior in-
ferior angle of the parietal bone. By Dr SPURZHEJM it
was called Covetiveness; Sir G. S. MACKENZIE suggested
the more appropriate name of Acquisitiveness, which Dr
SPURZHEIM bas since adopted.
The metaphysicians have not admitted a faculty in the
mind, the function of which is to produce the propensity
to acquire, and which is gratified by the mere act of acqui-
sition, without any ulterior object. Dr HuTcHESON says,
" Thus, as soon as we come to apprehend the use of
wealth or power to gratify any of our original desires, we
must also desire them; and hence arises the universality of
these desires of wealth and power, since they are the means
qf gratifying all other desires." In like manner, we are
told by Mr STEWART, that, " Whatever conduces to the
gratifit"ation of any natural appetite, or of any natural de-
sire, is itsdfdesired, on account ofthe end to wAicA it is sub-
servient ; and by being thus habituaJly associated in our
apprehension with agreeable obj~ts, it frequently comes,
iu process of time, to be regarded as valuable in itself, in-
dependently of its utility. It is thus that wealth becomes
with many an ultimate object of pursuit ; though, at first,
it is undoubtedly valued, merely on account of its st~bser­
viency to the attainment of other objects •."
The same author says in another place, that "avarice is
a particular modification of the desire of power ; arising
• Element~, I'· :188.
Digitized by Google
204 ACQUISI'l'l \'.ENESS.
from the various functions of money in a. commercial coun-
try. Its influence 88 an active principle is much strength-
ened by habit and association •."
Dr THoMAS BROWN t admits the desire of wealth to be
a modification of the desire of power, but he endeavours to
shew, that Mr STEWART's theory is defective in accounting
for avarice, and enters into a most ingenious speculation,
to explain how that feeling arises from association. He
takes Time into account, as an ingredient; and takes the
example of a boy purchasing an apple. " Before the boy
lays out his penny in the purchase of an apple or an
orange," says he, " it appears to him valuable, chiefly as
the mode of obtaining the apple or orange. But the fruit,
agreeable 88 it may han been while it lasted, is soon de-
t'OW'ed;-its value, with respect to him, has wholly ceased;
and the penny, he knows, is still in existence, and would
have been still hi8 own, if the fruit bad not been purchased.
He thinks of the penny, therefore, as existing now, and ex-
isting without any thing which he can oppose to it 88 equi-
valent ; and the feeling of regret arises,-the wish, that be
bad not made the purchase, and that the penny, as still ex-
isting, and equally capable 88 before of procuring some new
enjoyment, had continued in his pocket." This produces
" a slight terror of expense, which the habits of many
yean may strengthen into parsimony."
Nothing can be more ingenious than this speculation,
and it is a beautiful instance of the nature of metaphysical
science; but it is not sound. The question occurs, Why is
this " slight terror of expense" experienced only by some
boys and some men, since.association and the love of enjoy-
ment are universal qualities of human nature?
It is proper to mention, however, that Lord KAMES
(who bas been censured by the regular metaphysicians for
admitting too many faculties), recognises the existence of
this feeling as a l>rimitive propensity in man, and calls it
• Outlines, p. 02. t Vol. iii. p. 474-.
Digitized by Google
ACQUISITIVENESS. !05
the " hoarding appetite. Man,'' says his Lordship, " is by
nature a /warding animal, having an appetite for storing up
things of use ; and the sense of property is bestowed on
men for securing what they thus store up *!' He adds,
that " the appetite for property, in its nature a great bless-
ing, degenerates into a great curse, when it transgresses the
bounds of moderation.''
The observer of tl1e passion of avarice in real life, is not
satisfied with the theories of Mr STEWART and Dr BROWN.
Dr KTNG, in the Political and Lit~rary Anecdotes of his
own time, remarks, that an avaricious man "is born and
framed to a sordid love of money, which first appears when
he is very young, grows up with him, and increases in
middle age, and, 'vhen l1e is old, and all the rest of
his passions have subsided, wholly engrosses him.'' He
mentionR Lord Chancellor HARDWICK, the Duke of MARL-
BOROUGH, Sir JAMES LowTHER, Sir THOMAS CoLBY, and
Sir WILLIAM SMITH, 88 remarkable instances of it.
The metaphysical notions of Mr STEWAR'l' fail entirely
to explain the phenomena of avarice, under which passion
no enjoyment is sought, except that of accumulating
wealth. The character of TnAPBors, as drawn in the
" Fortunes of Nigel," and admirably represented on tlte
Edinburgh stage by Mr MASON, is a personification of the
faculty of Acquisitiveness, operating 88 a blind animal in-
stinct, exalted to the highest degree of energy and activity,
and extinguishing every feeling of the mind, except that
of fear; which it had culti\"ated and increased to minister
to its proteetion. This character is rt>cognised 88 natural ;
highly coloured, indeed, but true to life in its leading fea-
tures. It appears absurd, therefore, to ascribe, 88 the me-
taphysicians do, so intense a passion to a mere law of 8;880-
ciation 88 its source, to an error of the understanding, iu
mistaking wealth for the objects which it is fitted to ob-
tain. The very essence of the character is a desire lor
wealth, independent of every purpose of application. Pbre-
• Sketches, D. I. sect. t.
Digitized by Google
206 ACQUISITIYENESS.
nolegists have observed, that the intensity of the desire to
acquire, is in proportion to the size of a certain part of the
brain, and they, therefore, regard it as an original propen-
sity of the mind. The organ was discovered in the follow-
ing manner:
When Dr GALL was employed in comparing mental ma-
nifestations with cerebral development, he was in the ha-
bit of collecting in his house numbers of the lower orders,
with the view of more easily discovering the different pri-
mitive propensities, which he supposed would be found to
operate in them with greater simplidty and vigour, than in
persons of a higher rank. On many of these occasions, the
individuals assembled, encouraged by him to familiarity,
accused each other of petty larcenies, or of what they styled
chiperies, and took great pleasure in pointing out those who
excelled in such practices; and the chipeurs themselves ad-
vanced in front of their companions, proud of their supe-
rior saroir-faire. What particularly attracted his attention
was, that some of these men shewed the utmost abhorrence
of thieving, and preferred stan•ing to accepting any part
of the bread and fruit which their companions had stolen,
while the chipeurs ridiculed such conduct, and thought it
silly.
To discover whether this tendency to pilfer was con-
nected with any particular cerebral organ, Dr GALL di-
vided the persons whom he had assembled into three
classes; the first included the chipeurs; the second, those
wl10 abhorred the very idea of stealing ; and the third,
those who seemed to regard it with indifference. On
comparing the heads of these three classes, he was much
surprised to find, that the most inveterate cltipeurs bad a
lang prominence extending from the organ of Secretivenes~,
almost as far as the external angle of the superciliary ridge,
and that this region was flat in all those who shewed a
horror of theft, while in those who were indifferent about
it, the part was sometimes more and sometimes less de-
Ycloped, but never so much as in the professed thieyes ;
4
Digitized by Google
ACQUISITIVENESS. 207
and on repeating the experiment again and again with a
new assemblage, he found the same results uniformly pre-
sent them.selveR.
Having thus ascertained the constancy of thefacta, the
idea naturally occurred to the mind of Dr GALL, that the
propensity to appropriate must be somehow connected with
the peculiarity of cerebral configuration, which had so
strongly attracted his notice. It could not be the efFect of
education, for most of the subjects of his observations had
received none. They were the children of nature left to
their own resources. Some who detested stealing happen-
ed to be precisely those whose education had been most
completely neglected. The wants and circumstances of all
of them were nearly the same,-the examples set before
them were the same,--and to what cause, therefore, could
the di«erence be ascribed, if not to an original di«erence of
mental constitution ?
At this time Dr GALL was physician to the Deaf and
Dnmb Institution, where pupils were received from six to
fourteen years of age, without any preliminary education.
M. MAv, a distinguished psychologist, then director of the
establishment, M. VENUs, the teacher, and he, had it thus
in their power to make the most accurate observations on
the primitive moral condition of these children. Some of
them were remarkable for a decided propensity for steal-
ing, while others did not shew the least inclination to it,-
some of them were easily reformed, but others w.ere quite
incorrigible. The severest punishments were inflicted upon
one of them, but without any effect. As he felt himself
incapable of resisting temptation, he resolved to be a tailor,
because, as he said, he could then indulge his inclination
with impunity. On examining the heads of all these boys,
the same region was found to be uniformly developed, in
proportion to the endowment of the propensity. He made
casts of those of them who were confirmed thieves, in or-
der to compare them with such other heads of thieves or
robbers as might afterwards fall in his way.
Digitized by Google
208 .\CQUISITIVF.N.ESS.
About this time, also, Dr G.&u. met with anotl1er very
decisive proof of the connexion between this propensity
and a particular development of brain. In the House of
Correction he saw a boy of fifteen years ·of age~ who had
been a notorious thief from his earliest infancy. Punish-
ment having had no eft'ect upon him, h~was at last con-
demned io confinement for life as absolutely incorrigible•.
In a portrait of him in the 26th plate of Dr GALL's work,
a remarkable prominence in the lateral region of the head
is coiNlpieuous, corresponding t(} what is now ascertained to
be the organ of Acquisi\iveness. The forehead is low,
narrow, and retreating, and his intellt'c\ is s\ated to be
weak and defective to a great degree; and hence the as-
cendency and activity of the propensity in question are
easily explained. _
The instinctive appetite for acfumulation, produced by
this faculty, viewed only in itself, presents a mean and vuJ.
gar aspect, m1d we are apt to regard tl1e individual, in
whom it pred(}minates, as a base and sordid being, cased in
selfishness, and dead to every generous feeling. But wheR
we view it in its results, it rises ''astly in dignity and im-
portance. The first dem~md of nature is to live and to en-
joy ; and without Acquisitiveness tlte other feelings of the
mind would prompt man to kill and eat, or to weave and
wear, for the satisfaction of his present wants. But if he
bounded his industry by his necessities, and lolled in idle-
ness while not employed in indispensable pursuits, althouglt
he might not starve while in possession of health and
strength, he would never become rich. Wealth consists of
the savings of industry, after supplying immediate de-
mands: No,v, accordiag to the metaphysicians, there is ne
instinctive propensity in man, prompting him, by a natural
impulse, to save and to accumulate; they imagine that the
caJls of nature for immediate gratification, or the love of
power, are the only motives to such exertions. In the fa-
culty of Aequiaitiveness, however, the Phrenologist per-
ceives an instinct prompting the human being, after his ap-
Digitized by Google
_o\CQUISITIVENESS. i09
petites of hunger and thirst are appeased, and his person
protected against the elements of heaven, to labour from
the mere delight of accumulating ; and to the ceaseless
industry which this instinct produces, is to be ascribed
the wealth with which civilized man is everywhere sur-
rounded. It .,..mpts the husbandman, the artizan, the
~nnfacturer, the merchant, to activity in their several
vocations ; and, instead of being necessarily the parent
only of a miserable and degraded appetite, it is one of
the sources, when properly directed, of the comforts and
elegancies of life. Its regular activity distinguishes civi-
lized man from the savage. The prodigal, who consumes
the last shilling which he can command, dies and leaves
not a trace of his existence behind him. The laborious ar-
tizan, on the other band, who, under the impulse of this fa-
culty, consumes only bal~the produce of Jtis labour, leaves
the other half, as a contribution to the stock of national
capital, to maintain and set in motion the industry of ge-
nerations unborn. These, if animated by the same spirit,
will leave it with new acce&&ions to their pot~terity ; and
thus the stream of public prosperity will be swelled, in an
increasing ratio, to the remotest periods of time. When,
however, the pursuit of wealth becomes the business of
life, Acquiaitivenesa nsurps the place of the moral senti-
ments, perverts the ioteJlect, and becomes the source of the
greatest evils.
The faculty produces a general tendency to acquire,
which takes its particular direction from the other faculties
with which it is combined. In a great collector.-of object~'
of natural history, this organ and Individuality are large:
in a collector of pictures, this organ, Constructiveness, and
Ideality, are full ; in a collector of old coins, Aequiaitive-
neu and Veneration are large. In short, in no instance
where the desire to acquire and possess is strongly mani-
fested, is this organ defieient ; while, on the other band, in
those in whom there is no appetite for accumulation, who
allow their substance to slip through their hands, through
0
Digitized by Google
210 ACQUISITIVENESS.
incapacity to retain it, I have •n it smalL It is a curious
fact, that Mr OwEN of New Lanark main~ns, that the de-
sire for wealth, or individual property, is not a natural ia-
atine' of the human mind; and· in his own head, this ori-
gan, like that of Destructiveness, the feeling attached to
which he also denies, is by -no means largely developed.
So diff'erently do those feel in whom Acquisiuveness is
large, that they dHire te acquire for the mere B&l::e of ac-
. quisition. If a person so endowed be owner of fifty acres,
it will give him infinite delight to acquire fifty more ; if of
one thoU88Dd or one hunclred thoUB&D~ he will still he
gratified in adding to their number. His understaliding .
may beperfectly convinced ~ he already possesses ample
store fer every enjoyment, and abundant provision against
every want; but yet, if thie faculty be active, he will feel
his joys impaired, if he ceases to &ID&88. This explain&
the insatiable .nature of the passion ~ acquire, and the
source also ef the disappointment generally experienced by
pe1'80ns whose lives have been devoted to commerce, when
they retire from business with a view to enjoy the fruits of
their industry. The gratification of Acquisitiveness in ac-
cumulating wealth, coru;tituted the chief pleaaure of their
previous lives; and when this propensity ceases to be in-
iulged, and no other faculty has been cultivated with equal
ardour, ennui and disgust are the natural and unavoidable
resalts of their new situation.
It has been stated, as an objection to this propensity,
that property is an institution of socie,y, and that an organ
~t exist in the brain fOl' a factitious desire. The an-
swer to this argument is, that the idea of property spripgs
from the instinctive suggestions of the faculty in question;
and that the laws of sodety are the consequences, and not
the causes, of its existence. They are intended to regulate
the desires of mankilld for po88e88ions ; but this purpose
clf'&rly supposes such desires antecedently to exist.
Many persons, in whom Benevolence and Love of Ap-
prebatiou aPe large, as weD aa ACC~uilitiveness, can, with
Digitized by Google
ACQUISITIVENESS.
clliliculty, believe that the latter influences theu feelings.
They are so ready to disburse and to bestow that they ne-
ver accumulate, and hence persuade themselves that they
have no tendency to acquire. But such persons are keen in
their dealings, they cheapen in making purchases, kuow
where bargains are to be obtained; and, on consulting
their own minds, will find that schem,es of acquiring pr~
perty frequently haunt their imaginations. They are also
prone to ad~ire the ~h. .Persons, on the ~onU:ary1 in whom
the organ is s~, "think of. ~~ery th~g ~th more intet·est,
and pursue every object with more:avidity, than wealth.
They may be industrious to live, bot there is no intense
energy in ~heir pursuit of gain·; and their faneies, in build-
ing «lastle& in the air, rarely erect palaces of gold, or place
hap~ it;t·ltord• bf.ac~om~lated rich~.
1ie e6eets of this facolty are gr~ly·-modified by tl1e
strength.of'~f-Esteem. · The propensity in question de-
sires to-acqllirt i Self-Esteem produces the lave ofself; the
two conjoined, give rise to the Love of Acquisition for self-
gratification; and if both organs be largl', the individual
will have a strong tendency to sordid selfishness, unless the
moral and reflecting powers be particularly active and
energetic. The pauion for unique& also seems to arise
from this cpmbination.
Dr GALL states this organ to be little developed in thlt
11kulls of the Caribs. In accordance with this, travellers
say that they are little prone to theft; and, therefore, says
RocHESTER, in his History of the Antilles, when they are
robbed, they always insist that it must have been hy a Chris-
tian. The NegroeQ are also little prone to steal, and the
organ is moderately developed in 'them. Dr GALL had an
opportunity of obsen'ing among the Spanish troopS, that
both the Arragonese and Castilians have the anterior part
of the temporal region a good deal flattened, denoting a
small Acquisitiv~ness ; and he was assured that they are
the most faithful servant&, and equally incapable of steal:
iDg ae of lying. Tb.e Kalmucks, again, are the very op~
aite. 7ley have been renowned for thieving and ~
0 !!
Digitized by Google
212 ACQUISITIVENESS.
faith ; and in accordance with this, BLUMENBACH, an op-
ponent of Phrenology, in describing the Kalmuck skull,
observes, that it projects in the region of Acquisitiveness,
"capita 'ad latera eztantia." Dr GALL possesses two Kal-
muck skulls, and both correspond with BLUMENB.&cu's
description. Dr SPuazHEIM also tens us, "that a young
Kalmnck, brought to Vienna by Count STAHRENBERG, be·
came me1ancho1y, because his confessor, who instructed
him in reHgion and morality, had forbidden him to stea.J.
He got permission to stea.J, on condition that be should
give back what he had stolen. The young man, profiting
by this permission, stole his confessor's watch du;ing high
mass, but joyfully returned it after mass was over."
It is difficult to conceive a miser without a great endow-
ment of this propensity, although an individual may be a
thief with a moderate portion of it. Avarice arises from
Acquisitiveness, raised to the height of a passion. Theft
implies a want of regulating and directing influence from
the motal faculties, as much as an excessive and intense
desire to acquire property for the sake of possessing it.
Strong sensual propensities, which cannot be gratified
without money, JnaY lead individuals to resort to theft as a
means of supplying their wants, without the love of pro-
perty itself being strong; but Conscientiousness must be
weak, and Secretiveness powerful, before such an expe-
dient can be resorted to.
The existence of this organ throws Jight on the tendency
to s*eal, which some individuals, whose external circum-
stances place them far above temptation, manifest in a re-
markable degree. In them, it seems to be in a state of dis-
eased activity, and not to be contro1led by the moral and
reflecting faculties. Dr GALL mentions several cases of
c:liseased affections of this propensity. M. KNEISLER, go-
vernor of the prison of Prague, spoke to him and Dr SPURZ-
HEIM about the wife of a rich merchant, who stole continu-
ally from her husband in the most adroit manner, and who
was at last shut up .in a house of correction, which she bad
.arcely left, when she stole again, and was again confined.
oigi!lzed by Coogle
ACQUISIT!VENESS.
She was condemned to a third and longer imprisonment,
and again commenced her operations in the jail itself.
With the utmost address, she made a bole in the stove,
which heated the apartment in which the money was depo--
sited, and committed repeated depredations, which were
soon noticed. Every means were adopted to detect the
ofFender, and bells were suspended at the doors and win-
dows, but all in vain. At length a spring-gun was set,
the wire of which was connected with the strong box.
She was so dreadfully frightened by its explosien, that she
bad not time to eseape through the stove. At Copenhagen,
Drs GALL and SPURZHEIM saw an incorrigible thief, who
sometimes distributed the produce of his larcenieS to the
poor; and, in another place, a robber, who was in Confine-
ment for the·seventh time, 888Ul"ed them·with sorrow, dlat
he felt himself unable to act otherwise. He begged to be
detained in prison, and to be provided widl the means of
supporting himself.
At Munster, a man was eo•demned to imprisonment for
eight years, on account of some robberies :-He was no
sooner liberated dlan be committed fresh depredations, and
was thereupon imprisoned for life. Sixteen years thereaf-
ter he revealed a cbnspiracy whicn had been formed among
the criminals, and itwas proposed to reward him by setting
him free. The judge objected to this, that it would be
dangerous to do so, as the man himself had previously as-
<tured him that his thievish propensity was so rooted in his
constitution that he could not by auy possibility resist it.
Abouk year after, he escaped from prison, betook himself
to hiSold practices, and was again arrested ; shortly after
which he hanged himself. " During ten years that I have
known this man in the prison," said WERNEK.ING, from
whom Drs GALL and SPURZHEIM got these details, " he was
remarkable for activity and devotion during divine.service;
but I learnt after his death, that he had constantly been
committing theft, even in the prison itself.''·
Dr GALL mentions, that, among the young men_
conlined
Digitized by Google
il4 ACQUISI'IlVE~ESS.
in o~ of.the,p~:o~&din'(~t~); cme in parti•
~ular attnlct.ed ~~-attention of Dt SPuRzum•&JIIIl.~aelf.
,;h.ey strongly t8(JOmmended never to set him at liberif, as
t.hey.thought it imposlilible he could ever abstain from
i&8aliog.- They explaine4. their motive. te the gentlemea
who accompanied them, and, on examining the registers,
the latter were much sorprised to find that the man had
.from infancy manifested the strongest tendency to thieving•
.T~ or~& of the higher sentiments were extremely defi-
~ient, w~ile that of Acquisitiveness had acquit'ed the higll-
.~t degree of •vlllopment and energy. Its activity WBS
.alsQ greatly aided by his immense endoWJOent of.Secretive-
aeas. The man himself was little and '4hformed; his fore-
heJad v villanoualJ low," and depressed backwa,rds imme4
diately above the •yebrowa, but the lateral regions, or
temples, were broad and prominent. In such a CB&e no
phrenologist \Mlld hesitate to give the same advice.
In the prison at Berne, Dr GALL awl SPUJlZHEIM saw a
rickety and badly organized JM,y of twelve years of age,
who could n~t refrain. from stealing; awl who, with his
pockets filled with his own buad, purloiDed that of others.
At Haina, the officers spoke to them about an incorriaible
robber, named FESSEI.IIAYEa, whom ne puo.ishment could
amend. He stole in prison to such aa extent, that a ID&rk
waa put upon his arm, that all aight be upon their guard
against him. Beforeseeing him, Drs GALL and SPURZHEIM
s-.ed ~t his development ought to be, and tbeh:.predi•
tioo ·was.verified at the fi.rat glance. He had the appear-
ance of ·being sixt~u, altl,tqugh he was in reality ~enty­
aix years of ag~. .fl,ls head w~ round, and about the size
of that of,an infant·of-one fllllr•. He waa, moreover, deaf
arul dumb.
Numerous E~¥&JDplell of the diseased activity of this pro-
pensity occUJ' in all ·lunatic aayl~ ~nd afford strong proof
of the independent existence of the faculty and organ. PI-
WEL tells us, that it is a matter of common observation,
that men who, in their lucid intervala, are justly consider-
oigi!lzed by Coogle
ACQUISITIVENESS. 215
ed as models of probity, cannot refrain from ~iug.and
cheating daring the paroxysm; and Dr GALL ·giva. &ur
euea of women, who, in their ordinary stste, had.no tiQeh
tendency, but who, when pregnant, maoifeated.it in a high:
degree.
Two citizens of. Vienna attncted bis notice, both of
whom bad led irreproachable lives previous to becomingiu~
llaDe. Mter that time both were distinguished for an ex-
tr-aOrdinary inclination to steaL They wandered over the
hospital from morning to night, picking .up whatever they
eould lay their hands upop,--straw~ rags, clothes, w~
&c., which they carefully concealed in the apartment w;hich
they inhabited in common ; and, although lodged in the
same chamber, they stole from eaCh other. Inboth the or-
gan was very much developed.
M. EsQUJRoL, physician to the Salpetriere of Paris,
gave Dr GALL an account'of a Knight of Malta, who bad
quitted the army at the beginningof the French revolution,
and who, from excessive indulgence and disappointed love,
had become weak in intellect, violent in tem~, imd at
last a thief. On his way to M. EsQUIROL's. asylum, he
oontrivecl to steal spoons, covers, &c. from tlie ions at
which he dined. He then went about accompanied by a
servant, and not unfrequently refreshed himself in cofFee-
houses, and, instead of paying, put the cup, saucer, and
-Poon in his ,ooket, arid walked away. In other respects
he was mfticiently reasonable. This inclination to theft
was cored, although his intellect remained weak.
Ac&EL mentions a young m8n who was trepanned, in
oonsequence ofa severe wound on the temple, in the region
of the organ of Acquisitiveneu. After hia diamieBal from
the hospital, he manifested an irresistible propenlity to
steal, and after committing several lareenies, he was im-
pri.ooed, aad' would have been condemned, had not Acau.
declared him inaane.
" There are penonP," says that accurate and philosopbi-
oigi!lzed by Coogle
il6 ACQtJISlTIVE.~ESS.
cal observe1· and physician Dr RusH of Philadelphia •,
" who are moral to the highest degree as to certain duties,
but who, nevertheless, live under the influence of eome
one vice. In one instance a woman was exemplary in
her obedience to every command of the moral law except
one,-a/&e could not rifrain from 8tealiRg. What made this
vice more remarkable was, that 8/&e wa.t in ta81J circumstan.-
cu, and not addicted to eztravagance in anv thiRg. Such
was the propensity to this vice, that, when she could lay
her hands upon nothing more Yaluable, she would often,
at the table of a friend, fill her pockets secretly with bread.
She both confessed and lamented her crime."
The Journal ik Paris of 29th March 1816, states; that
" An ex-commissary of police, BEAu-CoNSEIL, has just
been condemned to eight years' confinement and hard la-
bour, and to the pillory, for having, when still in office,
stolen some pieces of plate from an inn. The accused per-
sisted to the last in an odd enough species of defence. He
did not deny the crime, but he attributed it to mental
alienation, occasioned by wounds which he had received at
Marseilles in 1815." Dr GALL observes, that if the pre-
vious conduct of BEAu-CoNSEIL was irreproachable, and if
be did really receive a wound in the head, either his de-
fender was inexcusable in not making the defence avail-
able, or the Court was blameable in not listening to it.
This propensity is found also in the lower animals.
Lord KAMES obRerves, that " the beavers perceive the tim-
ber they stOre up to be their property; and the bees seem
to have the same perception with regard to their winter
provision of honey." Dr GALL also mentions a variety of
the lower animals which manifest the sense of property.
The same pair of storks, swallows, nightingales, and·red-
breasts return, in spring or in autumn, to the same coun-
try in which they bad paased the season in the pteceding
year, and establish themselves, the storks on the same
steeples, the .wallows under the same roofs, and the night-
• Rvaa's Medical Inquirie~.
Digitized by Google
ACQUlSITlVENESS. 217
ingales in the same bushes. If another pair of birds at-
tempt to seize the place already appropriated, war isimme-
diately waged against them, and the intruders ·are forced
to depart. Cows returning from the paSturage, occupy
each its own stall in the byre, and defend it. The eat and
dog, in hiding food, to be used when hunger returns; and
the squirrel, hamster, and jackdaw, which collect provi-
sions for the winter,-undoubtedly have the notion of pro-
perty in the stores they accumulate. These animals, how-
ever, do not enact laws; and the sense of property is in
them an iDBtinct of nature. In the human race, says Dr
·GALL, the proceB8 is the same; nature inspires the mind
with the notion of property, and laws are made to protect
it.
This organ is established.
9.-CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
THIS organ is situated at that part of the frontal bone
immediately above the spheno-temporalsuture. Its appear-
ance and situation vary slightly, according to the develop-
ment of the neighbouring parts. If the zygomatic process
is very projecting, or if the middle Jobes of the brain, or
the forehead in general, or the organs of Language and
Order in particular, are greatly developed, its size is Jess
easily distinguished. The leading objeet ought to be to de-
termine the actual size of each organ, and not its mere
prominence; and, on this account, it is proper farther to
notice, that, if the base of the brain is narrow, this organ
holds a situation a little higher than usual, and there will
then frequently be found a slight depression atthe exter-
nal angle of the eye, betwixt the zygomatic process and the
organ in question, especially when the muacles are thin.
In such cases, it has sometimes appeared as high up as
Tone generally occurs. This slight variation from uniform
situation occurs in the distribution of all the parts of the
Digitized by Google
Ill
body; but the anatomist is not, on thii account, embarniaed
in his operations ; for the aberration never exceeds certain
limita, and he aequiree, by experience, the tact of recog-
nising the part by its general appearauce.
It has been objected, that the elevation or depreasion of
this part of the brain depends upon the force with which
the temporal muscles, which lie over it, have acted in the
individual; and it is said that carnivorous animals which
masticate bones, and in consequence possesa those muscles
in a very powerful degree, have .narrow. baa~ and little
brain.in the region of this etgan.
The aaswer to this is fourfold; ls4 Canriv~o118.at;~ima1B
do no~ lmild,..and the organ in queet?-on,UsiV~ ~tbta
The organ being absent, their heads are narrow of coursei;
but all this is in exact accordanbe witll Phrl!oolo_gy. · ~g,
In the beaver, which cuts timber with its..~th, and in
which the tempor&l muscles act With great energy, the or-
gan is large, an~t~~:hw.J~·b~«>M.~ .whic~~ harmonizes
with our doctrine, and contradicts that of the objectors.
Sdly, in the hwnaa race, the siz& of the head, at tbe "re-
gion in qu~tipn, which indicates the size of the organ,
does J1o~ ~ a proportion .~ ~e force with..which .uvwti~
catior;ds performed; fot so.me individQalg, Who li.ve chiefly
on sloP., $P(\ .cb~}f. lJttl~ )u~ve uarrow beads, and weak
constructive taleuta, while others, who eat bard viands,
have broad beads, and manifest gr~t mechanical skill ;
and, 41Alg, The actual size of the head in this quarter,
from whatever cause it arises, bears a regular proportion
to the actual endowment of constructive genius.
The temporal muscle differs· in tbiokness in dift'erent
persons, and the phrenologist ought to desire the individual
observed to move the lower jaw, and, while be does .SO, to
feel the muscle, and allow for its size. The uncertainty in
regard to the dimeDBions of the tempora1 muscle. renders
it UDBafe to predicate the size of the organs of ConstrQo-
tivenees and .Acqu.isiti:venees from cam of the Mad, unleBB
information as to tbe thickness of the fieahy fibres is com-
Digitized by Google
.UaiOafAML This orgim, tberefJre,·Is beat e.t.ahlis'heil; ~hy
.emiaining living heads, or sknlls, or casts of •kulls. ~ ·
· When Dr GALL first tamed bia attedton to the talent
lor construction, manifested by some individuals, he had
not dDcovered the fact, that every primitive faculty ia coil~
neeted with apariicular part of the brain as its organ ; and,
oa .tiWr aeoount, 1he directed his observations towards the
whole 1beed:.of· reat ineehanicians. He was frequently
aD:udr~-.jth the. ·_,ir6umatanoe, that the heads of such ar-
tisW ,_._ilsJatp·in the temporal region as at the cheek
boDel..:~-oowever, although occurring frequently, was
.. a~ au.d infallible characteristic ; and hence he
wultd.by Ugree& to believe, that the talent depended oa
a padimiiar:power. To W.Cover a particular indication of
it. ili:She.·head,-he sought acquaintance with men of distin-
guished iuec'hanical genius, wherever he found them; stU;
died-taeforma of their beads, and moulded them. He soon
met.some in whom the diameter from temple to temple waa
pea~ than that from the one zygomatic bone to the
etW; and at last found two celebrated mechanicians, in
whom there appeared two swellings, round and distinct at
411.-tomples. These heads convinced him, that it is not the
circUJQ&tanQQ P.( ~~ty in the zygomatic and.temporal
dia$ete.tll,· lFbi'lh .indicates a genius for mechanical con-
e~o.q, ·but '8 round protuberance in the temporal re-
giop,. s~. in some individuals a little ~bind, iQ o~ts
a li•le l7e1Qnd and above the eye. This development ~ a}..
ways to~~· in concomitance with great constructive talent,
and when_the ·zygoD,latie diameter ~ equal to it, then there
is a parall~ of the fact ; but, as the zygo~tic bone is
not connected 1V\th the org1U& ap~- p~;oj~ts p1ore or less in
dift'erent ind:i,vicl¥als, tkia form. of.(l()untenance is not in-
variably the ooneomitant.o(·construetive Went, JWd ought
not to be taken .,.-the measure nf the deYelo-pment of the
orpn.
Having thus obtained some idea of the seat and exter-
nal appearance of the organ, Dr GALL assiduously multi-
Digitized by Google
i20 CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
plied observations. At Vienna, some gentlemen of distinc-
tion brought to him a person, concerning whose talents
they solicited bitopinion. He stated that he ought to have
a great tendency towards mechanics. Tbe gentlemen ima-
gined·that he was mistaken, but the subject of the experi-
ment was greatly struck with this observation : He was
the famous painter UNTERBERGEN. To shew that. Dr
GALL had judged with perfect accuracy, he declared that
he had always had a passion for the mechanical arts, and that
he painted only for a livelihood. He carried the party to
his house, where he shewed them a multitude of machines
and instruments, some of which he had invented, and
others improved. Besides, Dr GALL remarks that the ta-
lent for design so essential to a painter, is connected with
the organ of Constructiveness, so that the art which be
practised publicly was a manifestation of the faculty.
Dr ScHEEL of Copenhagen had attended a course of Dr
GALL's lectures at Vienna, from which city he went to
Rome. One day he entered abruptly, when Dr GALL was
surrounded by his pupils, and presenting to him the cast of
a skull, asked his opinion ·of it. Dr GALL instantly said,
that he " had never seen the organ of Constructiveness so
largely developed as in the bead in question." ScHEEL
contiimed his interrogatories. Dr GALL then pointed out
also a large development of the organs of AmativeneSB and
Imitation. " How do you find the organ of Colouring ?••-
" I had not previously adverted to it~" said GALL, " for it
is only moderately developed." ScHEEL replied, witl1 much
satisfaction, " that it was a cast of the skull of RAPHAEL."
Every reader, acquainted with the history of this celebra-
ted genius, will perceive that Dr GALL's indications were
exceedingly characteristic. Casts of this skull may be seen
in the Phrenological Society's collection, and also in DE
VILLE's in London, and O'NEILL's in Edinburgh, and the
organs mentioned as large will be found very conspicuously
indicated. That of ConstructiveneSB in particular presents
the round elevated appearance above described, as the
Digitized by Google
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. 221
surest indication of its presence in a high degree. An ad-
mirable Essay by Mr Scon on the genius of RAPHAEL,
compared with the cerebral developmentedieated by this
skull, will be found in the Phrenological Journal, vol. ii.
p. 327.
RAPHAEL. New Hollander.
,,
These figures repreeent a side view and front view of the skulL! of RA·
PHAEL and a New Hollander. In the front view, the coronal region
of the New Hollander comes into the tlgul'f', and gives the forehead
an appearance of size and perpendicularity greater than nature.
But ·~ the organ ofConstructiveness, immediately behind and above
the external angle of the eye, the front view represents the real di-
memions in both skulls. In the New Hollander, the skull at Con.
atructiveness falls patly within the line of the cheek.bones; while
in RAPHAEL, the skull swells out at that organ.
Sir WALTER Scon gives the following description of the
New Hollanders. "The natives ofNew HolJand are even at
present in the very lowest seale of humanity, and ignorant
of every art which can add .comfort or decency to human
life. These unfortunate savages use no clothes, construct
no cabins or huts, and are ignorant even of the manner of
chasing animals, or catching fish, unless such of the latter
as are left by the tide, or which are found on the rocks."
Several of Dr GALL's auditors spoke to him of a man
Digitized by Google
CONSTRUCTI'VENESS.
who was gifted with an extraordinarY.taletd for mecbu..
nics; he described to·them beforehand what form of a bead
he ought to ba. and they went to visit him : it was th~
ingeniou8 matluinuitic&l instrumen~maker LtNDNJ:R, at
Vienna; and his temples rose out in two little rounded ir-
regular prominences. Dr GALL had previously found the
same form of bead in the celebra~ mechanician and
astronomer DAviD, Frere Augustin, and in the famous
VorGTLlENDER, mathematical instn1men~maker. At Pa-
ris, Prince ScHWARTZENBERG, then· Minister of Austria,
wished to put Drs GALL and SPURZHEIM to the test.
When they rose.from table, he conducted Dr GALL into an
adjoining apartment, and shewed him ayoting man: with-
out speaking aword, he and the Prince rejoined the com-
pany, and he requested Dr SPURZHEIM to go and examine
the young man's head. During his absence, Dr 0ALL told
the company what he thought of the youth. Dr SPURZ•
HEIM immediately returned, and said, that he bt>lieved
him to be a great mechanician, or a• eminent amst in some
constructive branch. . The Prince, in fact, bad brought
him to Paris on account of his great mechanical talen~
and supplied him with the means of followiug out his stu-
dies.
Dr GALL adds, that at Vienna, and in the wholeeourseof
his travels, he had found this organ developed in .mechani-
cians, architects, designers, and sculptors, in proportion to
their talent.
He mentions, that, at Mulhausen, the manufacturers do
not receive· into their employment any children, except
those who; from an early age, have displayed a talent for
the arts in drawing or clipping figures, because they kn~w,
from experience, that such subjects alone ·become expert
and intelligent workmen.
Dr SPURZHEIM mentions the case of a milliner of Vien-
na, who was remarkable for constructive talent in her at1tt
and in whom the organ is large. A cast of her skull
is in the Phrenological Societts collection, and it presents
3
Digitized by Google
CONSTRUCTIVENESS.,
an appeanmce, hi tJdst pa.ticular 'part; reseuibling RA·
PHAEL's.
When Dr SPURZHEIM was in EdinblUJh, in 181'7, h~
visited the work-shop of Mr JAMES MILNE, bl'888-founder,
a gentleman who himself displays no small inventive ge-
nius in his trade, and in whom Const~ctiveness is largely
developed, and examined the heads of his.apprentices. The
following is Mr MILNE's account of :what took place upon
the occasion :
" On the first boy presented to Dr SPURZHEIM, on his
entering the shop, he observed, that he would excel in.any
thing he was put to. In this he was perfectly correct, ae
he was one of the cleverest boys I ever had. On proeeed"-
ing farther, Dr SPURZHEIM remarked of·another boy, that
he would make a · good workman. In this instance; also,
his observation was well founded. An elder brother of his
was working next him, who, be said, would also turn out
a good workman, but not equal to the other. I mentioned,
that, in ·point of fact, the former was the best, although
both were. good. In the course of farther observations, Dr
SPURzHEIM temarked of others, that they ought to be .or•
dinary tradesmen, and they were so. At last he pointe41
out one, who;he·l!aid, oagbt to~ of'a di~rent "
cast, and
of whom I would lneivill'"\ti' ahle..to. mitk:B any thing as a
workman, ana tlris"turned ·eU.O tO b8 ·too cot'rect ; for the
boy served an apprenticeship of 88Ven years, lmd, when
done, he was not able to do one-third of the work per-
formed by other individuals, to whose instruction no
greater attention had been paid. So much was I struck
with Dr SPURZHEIM•s observations, and so correct have I
found the indications presented by the organization to be,
that when workmen, or boys to serve as apprentices, apply
to me, I at once give the preference to those possessing a
large Constructiveness ; and if the deficiency is very grea~
I would be disposed to decline receiving them, being con-
vinced of their inability to succeed."
The organ of this facuhy is very largely developed in 1\lr
Digitized by Google
224 CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
BauNEL, the celebrated inventor of machinery for making
blocks for the rigging of ships, by means of steam; and
who has, besidas, shewn a great talent for mechanics in
numeroUB departments of art. It is large in EDWARDS, an
eminent engraver; in WILKIE, HAYDON, and J. F. WIL·
LIAMS, celebrated painters; in Sir W. HERSCHEL, whose
great discoveries in astronomy arose from the excellence of
his telescopes, made by his own hands; and in Mr SAMUEL
JosEPH, an eminent sculptor. Masks of all these indivi-
duals are to be seen in the Phrenological Society's collec-
tion. In the late Sir HENRY RAEBURN, who was bred a
goldsmith, but became a painter by the mere impulse of
nature, without teaching, and without opportunities of
study, . I observed it large. It is large, also, in Mr Scou-
LAR, a very promising young sculptor, who displayed this
talent at a very early age. I have noticed it large in all
the eminent operative surgeons of Edinburgh, in distin-
guished engravers, and also in the most celebrated cabinet-
makers, who have displayed invention in their art. It and
Form are large in children who are fond of clipping and
drawing figures. It is large in taiJors who excel in their
art.
On the other hand, I possess a east of the head of a very
ingenioUB friend, distinguished for his talents as an author,
who bas often complained of so great a want of construc-
tive ability, that he found it difficult even to Jearn to write;
and, in his head, although large in other dimensions, there
is a conspicuous deficiency in the region of Constructive-
ness. Among the negative instances fall to be ranted the
casts and skulls of the New Hollanders, in the Phrenologi-
cal Society's collection, which are all remarkably narrow in
the situation of this organ ; and their low condition in the
constructive arts has been already mentioned. Contrasted
with them, are the ltaJiane and French. An accurate and
intelligent phrenologist authorises me to state, that, during
his travels in Italy, he observed a full development of Con£
struetiveness to be a general feature in the Italian head;
Digitized by Google
CONSTRUCTlVENESi. 225
and the same holds, but in a less degree, in the French.
Both of these nations possess this organ in a higher de-
gree than the English. Individuals, among the latter,
are greatly gifted with. it, and the nation in general pos-
sesses high intellectual organs, so that great discoveries in
art are made in this country by particular persons, and
speedily adopted and carried forward by those whom they
benefit; but the natural taste for works of art and·the en-
joyment derived from them, are here less in degree, and
less general,. than in France, and especially than in Italy.
The busts also of eminent artists of former ages display a
great development of this organ; in particular, ia the bWtt
of MICHAEL ANGELO,. in the church of Santa Croce at Flo-
rence, the breadth from temple to temple is enormous.·
The reflecting orgatts,· situated in the forehead, and like-
wise Ideality, in him are very large; and these add under-
standing and taste to the instinctive talent for works of art,
eonferred by Constructiveness.
These are pesitive facts in regard to this organ. I shall
aotice a few circumstances, illustrative of the existence
of a talent for construction, as a distinct power of the mind
apart from the general faculties of the understanding, from
which the reader may ferm an opinion tJf the extent to-
which the phrenological views agree or disagree with the
common pheaomenaofhuman nature. This is the more ne-
cessary, as metaphysical philosophers in general do not ad-
mit a primitive faculty of Constructiveness; and hold me-
ebanical arts to be the result entirely of re6ection.
AtDong the lower animals, it is clear that the ability to·
eonatruct. is not in proportion to the endowment of under-
standing. The dog, horse,. and elephant, which in sagacity
approach very closely to the more imperfect specimens of
the human race, never,. in any circumstances, attempt a
work of art.. The. bee, the beaver, the swallow, on the-
eoatrary,. with far less general intellect, rival the produc-
~ons of man. Turning our attention to man, we observe,
&bat whilet am.oag children of the same family, or the'
p
Digitized by Google
226 CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
same school, aome are fond of a variety of amusements un-
connected with art, others constantly devote themselves, at
their leisure hoUl'll, to designing with chalk varioua objects
on the boards of books, walls, and paper, or occupy them-
selves with fashioning in wax or cJay, or clipping in paper,
the figures of animals, trees, or men. Children of a very
tender age have sometimes made models of a ship of war,
which the greatest philosopher would in vain strive to imi-
tate. The young VAUCANSON had only seen a clock
through the window of ita case, when be constructed one
in wood, with no other utensils than a bad knife. A gen-
tleman with whom I was intimately aequainted, invented
and constructed, at six years of age, a mill for making pot-
barley, and aetually set it in operation by a small jet from
the main stream of the Water of Leith. LEBRUN drew
design11 with chalk at three years of age, and at twelve he
made a portrait of his grandfather. Sir CHRISTOPHER
WREN, at thirteen, constructed an ingenious maehine for
representing the course of the planets. MicHAEL AN-
GELO, at sixteen, executed works which were compared
with those of antiquity•.
The greater number of eminent artists have received no
education capable of accounting for their talents; but, on
the contrary, have frequently been compelled to struggle
against lhe greatest obstaeles, and to endure the most dis-
tressing privations, in following out their natural inclina-
tions. Other individuals, again, educated for the arts, on
whom every advantage has been lavished, when destitute
of genius, have never surpassed mediocrity. Frequently,
too, men, whom external circumstances have prevented
from devoting themselves to occupations to which they
were naturally inclined, have occupied themselves with
mechanics as a pastime and amusement. An eminent ad-
vocate at the Scottish bar, in whom Constructiveness is
la,rgely developed, informed me, that occasionally, in the
very act of composing a written pleading on the most
abstruse questions of law, vivid conceptions of particular
• G.u.x. lUI lea FonctioDI du Cerveau, tome v.
Digitized by Google
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. 117
piece. of mechani8JD, or of new appllcations of some me·
~banieal principle, dan into bis mind, and keep their place
so QS to interrupt the current of his voluntary thoughts,
until be has embodied them. in a diagram or description,
after whieh he is able to dismiss them. and proceed with
his professional dutie$, LEoPOLD I, PETER the Great,
and Louis XVI. eoostrueted locks. The organs of Con-
&tnlet.iveoess were largely developed in the late Lord Pre-
sident &AtR of the Court of Session, as appears from a
eut of his head, his statue, and also from his portraits :
and it is said, that be had a private workshop at Avondale,
in Linlithgowshire, in which be spent many hours during
the vacations ofthe Court, constructing pieees of mechanism
with his own hands. The predilection of sneh individuals
for the practice of mechanical arts cannot reaaonably be
ascribed to want, or to their great intellectual faenlties: for
innumel'able objects, more directly fitted togratifyor relieve
the underetanding, muat have presented themselves to their
notice, had they not been led by a speeialliking to the course
they followed, and felt theiDSelvesinspired bya particnlar ta-
lent for such avocations. Not only so, but examples of an
opposite description are met with; namely, of men ef great
depth and comprehensiveness of intellect, who are wholly
destitute of manual dexterity. LuciEN and Soc&ATEs re-
nounced senlpture, because they felt that they possessed no
genius for it. M. ScHuaR.a, formerly Professor of Natural
Philosophy at Strasburg, broke every article be touched.
There are persons who can never learn to lilake a pen or
sharp a razor; and Dr GALL mentions, that two of his
friends, the one an excellent teacher, the other" grand
ministre," were passiona~]y fond of gardening, but he
eonld never teach them to engraft a tree. As a contrast to
tlulse, men of considerable mechanical dexterity are fre-
quently found to be remarkably destitute of talent for
every other pursuit, and to possess very limited Uhder.
ataudinp.
c.es of disease ai.o tend to prove that ConstmctiveneM
P2
Digitized by Google
228 CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
depends on a special faculty, and is not the result merely of
reneral intellect~ Dr RusH mentions two cases in which a
talent for·design bad unfolded itself during a fit of in8anity ;
and be adds, that there is 110insane hospital in which exam-
ples are not found of individuals, who, although, prnio•llly
iO theid·oss·of nndersflanding, they never shewed the least
tnlceofmecbanica1 talent, have subsequentlyconstructed the
mo9t curious machines, and even shipscompletely equipped.
These cases are at utter variance with the notion that the in-
tellectual faculties produce this talent; for in them they were
deranged, while they accord with tbl! phrenological doc-
moe of this power depending on a separate faculty and or-
gan, which may remain sound when the others are d.iJI..
eased. FonERE', iD his Traite du Goitre et de 1a Cretinisme,
p. ISS, remark~ "Tbai;·by an inexplicable singularity, some
of these individuals (Cretins);.endowed with so weak minds,
are born with a particular talent for copying paintings, for
rhyming, or for music. I have known several who taught
themselves to play passably on the organ and harpsichord;
others wboo·understood, without eTer having bad a master,
the repairing of watches, and the construction of some
pieces of mechanism." He adds, that these powers could
not be attributed to the intellect, for these individuals not
only could not read books, which treated of the principles
of mechanics, "mais ils etaient derontCs lorsqu'on en par-
lait,·et ne st perfectibmaaitntjamau...
In the lower animals, nature has implanted- a propensity
to constt-nct, bnt in them it is always specific ; while in
IIIlUl a similar tendency is found, but general inits applica-
tion. For example,.nature inspiresthe beaver not ollly with
a desire to build, but ako with an instinctive and unerring
impulse, independent of acquired knowledge and expefi..
ence, to construct a dwelling of a particular form; and the
power of the animal to build is confined entirely within the
limited sphere of its intuitive inspiration. Man, on the
other hand, has received also from nature a propensity to
construct, but not a limited and intuitive instinct to build
3
oigi!lzed by Coogle
CONSTRUCTIVENESS. ii9
a house or a ship, or to weave a coat or a 11ie8t, or,.in short,
to ft&shion any particular object. The beaver ~ no ge-
neral reflecting powers to direct its propensity,,., hence it
was.neceasary to inspire it not enly,with ,a desire to build,
but with a piau of arcbitectUN. To,man, on the oontrary,
refiection is given ; Blld Ule faculties of the undent.a.nding
.enable him to invent plane, and to eUlploy.his impulse to
construct, in a gteat ,variety of ways.
Construetiveness, .then, confers .only the power of con-
atrueting in general, and the results .whieb it is capable of
Jlr.odueing are influenced by other faculties. For example,
intellect alone, with s.xtreUle deficiency of CoDStfuctiveness,
will never enable an individual to become an e¥pert m&o
chanician; but, if the developQ)ent of Constructiveness be
equal in two individuals, and the intellectual organs be
large .ia the one and small in the other, the former will ac-
complish mu~h higher designs than the latter: and the
reason is obvious. The primitive talent for construction is
the same in both; but the one, by means of reflection, is
endowed with the perception. of the relation of means to an
end, and hence is able to select, from the wide circle of na-
"'re and of art, every objectand appliance that may extend
and elevate his conceptions and aid their execution; while
the latter is limited to a mere mee~ieal talent, :oever
stretching beyond imitation of objects previously existing.
Dr GALL mentions, that it is difficult to diseoverthe posi..
.tion of this organ in some of the lower animals,.on acco.tmt
.~>f t~ diJI"erent disposition of the convolutions, their smalJ
aize, and the total absence of several of tho~ which are
found in man. The organ of Music in the lower creatures
is situated towards the middle of the ~reb of the eyebrow,
and that of Constructiveness lies a little behind it. In the
hamster, marmot, and castor, of .which he gives platef!, .it is
.easily recognised ; and at the part in question, the skulls of
these ~J.nimals bear a close rcsemblapce to each other. In
the " rongeurs," the organ will be found immediately
above an<l before the base of the zygomatic ;\reb, and the
Digitized by Google
2SO CONSTRUCTIVENESS.
greater tbe talent. for eonatruction, the more tbia region of
their bead is projecting. The rabbit burrowa under ground,
and the bare lies upon the surface, and. yet their external
members are the same. On comparing their skullt, this
region will be found more developed in the rabbit than in
.the bare. The same difFerence is preeeptible between
tbe crania of birds which build nests, and of those which.
do not build. Indeed the beat way to become acquainted
with the appearance of the organ in the lower animals, is to
oompare the heads of animals of the same species whi~h
build, with those which do not manifest this instinct; the
hare, for example, with the rabbit, or birds which make
Deats with those which do not.
The organ is established.
--
GENUS H.-SENTIMENTS.
THIS genus of faculties corresponds to the " el'notions" of
the metaphysicians. The feelings which they produce, are
not the immediate oonsequencea of the presence of external
objects, but are excited, only iJtdirectly, through the medium
of intellectual perceptions or sensations. They differ from
intellectual perceptions, in being accompanied with a pecu·
liar vividness, which every one understands, but which it is
impossible to express by any verbal definition•. They may
exist, also, with great intensity, by the internal activity of
the organs. Dr SPURZHEJM has named the~~e faculties Senti-
ments, because they produce a propensity to act, joined with
an emotion or feeling of a rertain kind. Several of them
are eommon to man and the lower animals ; others are
peculiar to man. The former shall be first treated of, and
they are styled the Inferior or Lower Senti~ents.
• Lectures by Dr Thomas Brown. Lecture 62.
Digitized by Google
( 281 )
.
1. Sentiments common to Man and the lower Animals.
10. SELF·~TEEM·
THIS organ is situated at the vertex or top of the head, a
little above the posterior or sagittal angle of the parietal
bones. When large, the head rises far upward and back-
ward from the ear, in the direction of it, see figures, p. 23S.
Dr GALL gives the following account of the discovery of
the organ. A beggar attracted his attention by his extraor-
dinary manners. He reSected on the causes which, inde-
pendently of an absolutely vicious conformation or of mis-
fortunes, could reduce a man to mendicity, and believed
that he had found one of the chief of them in levity and
want of f«esight. The form of the head of the beggar in
question confirmed him in this opinion. He was young,
and of an agreeable exterior, and the organ of Cautiousness
was very little developed. Dr GALL moulded his head, and,
on examining it with attention, remarked, in the upper
and back part of the middle line, a prominence extending
from above downwards, which could arise only from devel-
opment of the cerebral parts there situated. He had not
previo118ly observed this prominence in other heads; and,
on this account, be was very anxious to discover what it
indicated. His head, moreover, was small, and announced
neither strong feelings nor much intellect. After many
questions addreeaed to the beggar, with a view to discover
the remarkable traits of his character, he requested him to
·relate his history. The beggar said, that he was the son
of a rich merchant, from whom he had inherited a consi-
derable fortune ; that he had always ooen 80 proud 88 not to
be able to condescend to labour, either for the preservation
of his paternal fortune, or to acquire a new one ; and that
this unhappy pride was the only cause of his misery. This,
aaya Dr GALL, "called to my recollection those persons who
forbear to cut their nails, with the view of supporting the
Digitized by Google
SELF-ESTEEM.
idea tlaat they never require to work." He made several
fartJter observations to the beggar, and shewed llim that he
doubted his veracity ; but he always reverted to his pride,
lllld seriously stated, that even now he could not resolve to
follow any kind of labour. Although it was difficult to
~onceive how pri~e should ca~ a man to prefer begging
10 working1 yet Pr GALL was led, by this person's reite-
rated assurances, to reflect upon the sentiment, and to ob-
!Jerve the organ, and he found, at length, incontrovertible
proofs of their connection.
He mentions a variety of cases in illustration, of which I
select only the following :
A young Jl)an, e~dowed wi~h faculties above mediocrity,
)lad manifested, fr9m his infancy, insupportable pride. He
constantly maintained that he was of too good a family t&
work or apply lllmself to any thing. Nothing could free him
from this absus:dity ; he was even put, for eighteen months,
into a houseofcorrection at Hainar. A physician ofVienna,
~n otberwh!e amiable man, carried the feeling of pride to
aucl1 a pPint., tl)at every time wheu called to a consultation,
even with practitioners older tl1an himself, or with publie
professors, he regularly took the precedence, both in enter-
Ing and coming out of the apartment. When any doeu•
~ent was to be subscribed, he insisted on adhibiting hie
signature first. He l1ad.connected himself with the direct.
pr of the Great Hospital, but solely, as he himself told
afterwards, for the purpose of supplanting him. ·At Heid-
elberg, Dr G. saw a girl of eighteen, of a remarkable cha-
racter. Every word orgesture in the least familiar revolted
her. She called on Gon on every occasion, as if he took
~J special inter~st jn her affairs. When s~e spoke, assu-
rance and presumption were painted in her features; she
carried her head l!igh .artd a Ji~tle backwards, and all the
movements of her head expressed pride. She was not
capable of submission; when in a passion, she was violent
and disposed to proceed to alJ extremities. Although only
.the daughter of a quill-merchant, she spoke her native lan-
guage wit.h extraordinary purity, and communicated only
Digitized by Google
SELF-ESTEEM. 288
with persons of a rank superior to her own. In all these
individuals; the organ of Self-F..Mem was ·very largely dew
veloped. Dr GALL mentions, that he had examined also
the heads of a number of Chiefs of Brigands, remarkable
for this quality of mind, and that he had found the organ
largely developed in them all. Tbe figares represent the
ergan large and small.
F....-coia CollJ)ONNJ:u.
The faculty inspires with the sentiment of &If-Esteem or
Self-love, and a due endowment of it, like that of all other
faculties, produces on1y excellent effects. It imparts that de-
gree of satisfaction with self, which leaves the mind open
to the enjoyment of the bou.aties of Providence and the
amenities of life ; and inspires it with that degree of confi-
dence, which enables it to apply its powers to the best ad-
vantage in every situation in which it is placed. It aids
also in giving dignity in the eyes of others; and we shall
find in society, that that individual is uniformly treated
with the most lasting .~d sincere respect, who esteems
himself so highly as to contemn every action that is mean
or unworthy of an exalted mind. By communicating tlais
feeling of self-respect, it frequently and effectually aids tl1e
moral sentiments in resisting temptations to vice. Several
individuals in whom the organ is large, have stated to me
that they bave been restrained from forming improper con-
nexions, by the overwhelming sense of self-degradation ex-
cited in their minds by the mere prospect of sucb a circum-
stance ; and that they belie\'ed their better principles might
have yielded to temptation, had it not been for the support
afforded to them by the instinctive impulses of Self-Esteem.
Digitized by Google
SELF•ESTEEK.
An individual ia precliapoaed to humility, 'When the Org&Q
ia too small In such a case, want of confidence, and ofa
due &eDM of his owa importance, ia felt. He has no re·
Jiance upon himself; if the public or his 111periore frown,
he is unable to pursue even a vittuoue course, through
diffidence of hie own judgment. Inferior talent., combined
with a strong endowment of Self-Esteem, are often crown..
ed with far higher success, than more splendid abilities
joined with this sentiment in a feebler degree. Dr .ADAM
SMITH, in bie Theory of Moral Sentiments, remarks, that
it is better, upon the whole, for an individual to have too
much, than too little, of this feeling; because, if we pretend
to more than we arc entitled to, the world will give us
credit for at least what we poeee88; whereas, if we pretend
to less, we shall be takc~1 at our word, and mankind will
rarely have the justice to raise UB to the true level.
It is ooly when poBBe88ed in an inordinate degree, and in-,
dulged without restraint from higher faculties, that it pro-
llnces abuses. In children, it then shews itself in pettish-
ness, and a wilful temper. Those children in whom the
organ is small, are generally obedient, and easily directed
according to the will of others. In later life, a great
development of the organ, with deficiency of other powers,
produces arrogance, superciliousness of deportment, and
selfishness. The first thought of persons so endowed is,
how the thing proposed will affect themselves; they see the
world and _all its interests only through the medium of self.
I have seen individuals mistake the impulses of it for the
inspiration of genius, and utter common-place observations
with a solemnity and emphasis suitable only to concentrat-
ed wisdom. The musician, under its predominating influ-
ence, is sometimes led to embellish a tune with decorations
of his own inventing, ti11 its character is changed, and the
melody destroyed. In short, when the organ is inordinately
large, it communicates to the individual a high sentiment
of his own importance, and leads him to believe, that what-
ever he does or says is admirable, just because it proceeds
from him. It inspires him with magnificent notions of his
Digitized by Google
.SELF-ESTEEM.
-OWB reapeotabilit.y, aud prompca him. on comparing bimlle\C
wida.others,.to depreciate them, ia order to raiae himself
in the acale of oomparative excellence. It is a chief element
ia the disposition to ce1110rionmesa and envy. Persons who
are fond o£ ctiecuaaing the characters of others, and feel the
t.eadeuoy to vi&uperat.e rather than to praiae them, will be
fouDd to have this 01p0. large. It is the comparison with
88lf, and a eecret aatiilfaetion at fancied auperiori'f, that
givee pleanre in this practice. Envy is the result of
Self-Eeteem and Love of Approbation, oft'ended by the
excellencies of other&, and calling up Deetructiveuess to
hate them. To make way for this effect, however, Benevo-
lence and Couaeientiowmesa must be deficient.
When Selt-~teem predominates, it gives an intense
feeling of egotism; and the individual in his discoune,
is then prone to uae the emphatic I: " I did this, I aaid
the other thing." The faculty then gives a eolemn gra-
vity to the manners, an authoritative commanding tone to
the voice, and a kind of oracular turn to the mind,
which frequently shews itself in the moat ludiOToua man-
ner. CoBBETT's whole life and writings indicate an ex-
eeasively actin Self-Esteem, aided by Combativeneaa; and
he has maintainOO, at dift'erent times, every variety of
epinion that could enter the human imagination, and upon
every point of his changeful creed he has dogmatized with
more than oracular infallibility. Madame de STA.EL de-
scribes most graphieally another illustrious example of
the eft'ect& or an inordinate Self-Esteem, even on a powerful
mind. Speaking of one of the heroes of the Revolution,
she says that 'he possessed considerable talent&, " mais au ·
lieu de travailler il iettmnoit de hd mhn&" Some indivi-
dua1amaDifest a solemn good-natured patronizing tendency
towards other&, indicated in discourse by epithets such as
" my good sir," "my good fellow," and the like. This
arises from Self-Esteem and Benevolence both large.
Another effect of a predominating Self-Esteem, is-to ren-
der the individual extremely wen satisfied with whatever be-
Digitized by Google
SELF-ESTEEM.
longs to himself. An eminent phrenologist sailed as a
paseenger from the Clyde to a foreign port, in a vessel
commanded by a pe1'80n in whose head this organ was very
largely developed, and saw many striking manifestations of
it on the voyage. The captain said, that he thought no.
thing ofthe vesael when he first saw her, but after command-
ing her for a while, he thought her the first ship belong..
ing to the Clyde. This was evidently because she .had
become his v888el. On his voyage, he assumed the most
dictatorial airs; told the passengers he would send them
before the mast, that he was sole commander here, and
that all must obey ; spoke habitually of himself, and
seemed to have an insatiable appetite for power. He p«&-
seeaed little reflection, and was deficient in Conscientious·
nesa.
Under the influence .of this faculty, some authors appear,
in their compositions, to fall instinctively and unconsciously
into excessive use of pronouns of the first pe1'80n. The
following example is taken from the works of an esteemed
philosopher: '~ When I first ventured to appe&J:" before the
public as an author, I resolved that. nothing should ever
induce me to enter into any controversy in defence of mg
conclusions, but to leave them to stand or to fall by their
own evidence. From the plan of inductive investigation
which I was conscious of having steadily followed, as far
as I was able, I knew that whatever mistakes might be de..
tooted in the execution of mg design, no such fatal conse-
quences were to be dreaded to mg general undertaking, as
might have been justly apprehended, had I presented.to the
world a connected system, founded on gratuitous hypothesis,
or on arbitrary definitions. The detections, on the contrary,
of mg occasional errors, would, I Battered rngae{f, from the
invariable consistency and harmony of truth, throw ne:w
lights on those inquiries which I had c.onducted with gr~
er success; as the correction of a trifling mistatement in an
authentic history is often found, by completing an imper-
fect link, or reconciling a seeming contradiction, to di11pel
Digitized by Google
SELF-ESTEEM. !S7
the douhts which hung over the more faithful and accu~
rate details of the narrative.
''In·this hope I was fortified by the following sentence
of Lord BACON, which 1 thought I might apply to myself,
without incurring the charge of presumption: 'Nos autem,
si qua in revel maJe eredidimus, vel obdormivimus et mi-
nus attendimus vel defecimus in via et inquisitionem abru..
pimus, nibilo minus llS MODIS RES NUDAS ET APERTAS EX•
HIBEMus, ut errores nostri notari et separari possint; atque
etiam, ut facilis et expedita sit laborum nostrorum conti-
nuatio.'
" As this indi1f'erence, however, about the fate of my par-
ticular doctrines, arose from a deep rooted conviction, both
of the importance of my subject, and of the soundneu of my
plan, it was impossible for me to be insensible to such cri·
ticisms as were directed against either of these two fun•
mental assumptions. Some criticisms of this description I
had, from the first, anticipated ; and I would not have fail.
ed to obviate them in the introduction to my former work,
if !bad not been afraid to expose myselfto the imputation
of prolixity, by conjuring up objections for the purpose of
refuting them," &c.
Another amusing instance ofa similar f.rtyle ofwritingwill
be found.in an account of himself by" FLECHIER EvEQUE
de NzsMES," prefixed to an edition of his "Oraisons Fune-
bres," printed at Paris in 1802. I infer this to arise from
a great endowment of Self-Esteem. A plate of the author ·
last named'is prefixed to his work, in which a str:ong ex-
pression ofSelf...Esteem appean depicted on his countenance.
The portraits of GIBBON also indicate this expression in a .
remarkable degree. By pointing out this tendency of the
faculty, those in whom the organ is large will be put upon
their guard to avoid this ludicrous form of its manifestation.
Th~ feeling of individual personality has been supposed
by some phrenologists to arise from this faculty; and they
have been led to this conjecture, by the undoubted fact.,
that the prominence which the first person assumes in the
Digitized by Google
288 SELF-ESTEEM.
mind, bears a proportion to the size of the o1pn of Self-
Esteem.
Self-Esteem is an ingredient in the love of rmiquu. The
high value attached by some persons to objects which no
other person can poaseu, seems resolvable to a great ex-
tent into gratification of this feeling. In pot18888ing the ar-
ticle they enjoy a superiority over the whole world, and the
consciousness of this confers a high value on it in their es-
timation.
This faenl.ty is one element in the love of dominion and
power. It is large in the busts of AuGUSTUS ClESAR and
of BoNAPARTE; and I have observed that those indhi-
duals who, in private life, aspire most eagerly to office, and
who are most delighted with the possession of a little brief
authority, generally. have a large Self:.Esteem. From the
same cause, viz. that this faculty produces the love of
power, it happens that those who are most violent in thei&-
oppoeition to persons in authority, generally possess the
same organ also fully developed. In short, when two indi-
Tiduals equally thirst for dominion, ~nd when the one can
rule only by the other obeying, it is easy to perceive that
the subject will, in such a case, manifest little satisfaction
under the yoke, and that his very love of authority will
make him the most determined opponent of it in others.
Nations differ with regard to the degree in which they
possess this organ. It is large in the Hindoos, and the
English have more of it than the French; hence the man-
ner of a genuine Frenchman appears-to an Englishman to
be fawning and undignified; while the manner of an
. Englishman appears to the French cold, haughty, and su-
percilious. The great Self-Esteem of the English, and
their consequent instinetive aversion to all stretches of
power, are probably causes of their political liberty. Dr
ADA-M FERGUSON has recognised the operation of this senti-
ment in maintaining their freedom. Alluding to the
habeal corpus act, he remarks, " that it require~~ a fabric no
less than the whole political constitution of Great Britain,
..
Digitized by Google
--- - - ------~
SELF·ESTEEltf. 289
a gpirit no less tAan tAe refractmy and turbulent zeal of tAi•
fortunate people, to secure its efFects •."
Self-Esteem, when eminently powerful, and not com-
bined with the higher sentiments equally strong, causes
the individual to carry his head high and reclining back-
wards. It gives a cold and repulsive expression to the
manners, and it is in an especial degree ofFensive to other
individuals largely endowed with the same faculty.
Dr REID and Mr STEWART treat of this sentiment under
the designation of the Desire of Power. Dr THOMAS
BRoWN calls it " pride," and defines it as " That feeling of
vivid pleasure which attends the consciousness of our ex-
cellence t·" Dr BRoWN views the desire of power as a se-
parate principle; but the sentiment is the same as the one
which we name Self-Esteem ; and the latter appears to me
to be the primitive emotion, which is. felt and manifested
as the fundamental function of the organ ; whereas, the
desire of power is a direction of the faculty in a particular
way, resulting from a combination with Love of Approba-
tion, and depending on external situation. It is quite con-
ceivable, that a private individua1, removed from all means
of acquiring authority in public, may be very proud, and
manifest little of the appetite for dominion, except over
those of his household; but I do not conceive, that any one
could be found fired with an insatiable ambition for situa-
tions of command, in whom Self-Esteem is defective, or
even moderate in size; so that there appears no adequate
ground for assuming pride as one primitive sentiment, and
the love of power as another and distinct original desire.
In treating of Acquisitiveness, I mentioned, that the
practical efFects of that faculty were much modified by the
endowment of Self-Esteem, with which it happened to be
combined,-eelfishness being greatly increased by the com-
bination of both in a full degree of development. Mr
STEwART approaches close to the same doctrine, when he
observes, that " the idea of power is, partly at least, the
• History of Civil Society, part iii. sect. e. t VoL iii. p. 300.
Digitized by Google
240
foundation of our attachmenl to property •." A phrenolo-
gist, on analyzing the combination, would infer, that Ac•
quisitiveness desires to acquire wealth, and Self-Esteem to
bold and apply it to selfish gratification.
This organ appears to be possessed by the lower animals..
The turkey-cock, peacock, horse, &c.. manifest feelings re--
sembling pride or Self-Esteem.
Dr GALL, however, entertained views on this subject pe-
culiar to himself. He mentions, that, after having studied
the sentiment of pride as a primitive mental quality, and
ita organ in the human race, be wished to ascertain whether
his observations would be confirmed by the lower animals.
He, therefore, examined the heads of such of them as we
are accustomed to call proud,-tbe race-horse, the cock
and peacock. He did not find in any of these a remarkable
development of the cerebral parts, corresponding to the or-
gan of Self-Esteem in man ; but be found a considerable
development of these parts in animals in which he would
never have thought of looking for it, that i& to say, in those
which voluntarily remain ia the higher regions of the air,
living on mountains, and other elevated situations; for ex-
ample, in the roebuck,. the ehameis,. the wild goat, and
certain species of eagles and falcons ; and what struck him
most was, that the parts in question were the more de--
veloped, in proportion to the greater height o£ the dwelling-
places of the animals. Dr GALL himself was astonished at
this observation. That a predilection for physical heigh~
should, in animals, depend on the same organ as that to
which the sentiment of Self-Esteem is referrible In man,.
appeared to him, at first, altogether imprebable and inad-
missible ; yet, says he, " I have laid down the rule to com-
municate the progress of my observa.ons, as well as the
man11er in which they hav~ given rise to my opinions.
Opinions which have not facts for. their basis, if not erro-
neous, are at least very likely to be so; and a natural his-
torian eught to be less ashamed of committing an error in
• Outlines, p. 9t.
Digitized by Google
SELF-ESTEEM. 241
ltis interpretations of facts, than of founding his opinions on
reasoning alone." He accordingly enters into some inte-
resting observations on the various dwelling-places of ani-
mals; directing the attention of his readers both to those
which inhabit elevated regions, and to others which prefer
~ lowest situations ; and states, that, in all animals which
have their abodes in high places, there is a lengthened emi-
nence in the middle line of the head, immediately above the
organ of Pbiloprogenitiveness, and which entirely resem-
bles the organ of Self-Esteem in man •.
Dr SPURZHEJM holds, that this prominence in the brains
of the lower animals corresponds to the organ No. III. in
man, (named by him lnhabitiveness, and, in this work,
Concentrativeness) ; and, while he admits the accuracy of
the facts stated by Dr GALL, be differs from his conclu-
sions, and says, that it is not the same organ which pro-
duces in man the sentiment of Self-Esteem, and, in the
lower creatures, the love of physical heights; but that
there are distinct organs both in man and the lower ani-
mals for these separate mental qualities. It appears to me,
that Dr SPURZHEJM is correct in maintaining, that the or-
gan No. III. is distinct from that of Self-Esteem, both in
the lower animals and in man ; and the real extent of the
difference betwixt him and Dr GALL is tbis,-Dr SPuaz-
BEIM admits two organs lying betwixt Firmness and Pbi-
loprogenitivencss, but Dr GALL only one: Dr GALL consi-
ders the whole of the intermediate cerebral parts as the
organ in man of Self-Esteem, and, in animals, of the love
of physical height; while Dr SPURZHEIM regards the up-
per portion of these parts as the organ of Self-Esteem,
and the lower portion as the organ of lnhabitiveness in
both cases. I am satisfied that the organs are distinct in
the human species, and that the upper serves to manifest
Self-Esteem. Fartherobservations must determine the func-
tions of the lower organ, or No. III.
• Sur le~ Fonction~ du Cern•an, tome h·. P· 'l7!J.
Q
oigi!lzed by Coogle
SEI,F-ESTEEM.
When the organ becomes excited by disease, the indivi-
dual imagines himself to be a king, an emperor, a trans-
eendent genius, or even the Supreme Being. Dr GALL
mentions the case of a Monsieur B., in whom the organ
was naturally very large, and who was accidentally wound-
ed by a nail in this part of the brain. Wllile labouring un-
der the influence of the wound, he felt himself as it were
elevated above tl1e cJouds, and carried through the air, re-
taining, at the same time, and also manifesting, during his
convalescence, the same proud and haughty manners whic1t
had distinguisl1ed him during health.
"The organ was equally conspicuous in.an insane patient
at Baden, near Rastadt. This man's insanity consisted in
believing himself a Major. He had a small head, and the
enly organ which was developed in a l1igh degree was
. that of Self-Esteem; the whole other convolutions of the
brain being very smaH. In the charity work~house of Fri-
bourg, we saw an insane man wl1o was extremely proud.
He decl:tred, in a vehement and pathetic tone, "' qu'il est
Ja soucbe' by the aid of which Gon created and preserves
the world; tl1at he has been crowned by JEsus CHRIST;
that he is the young man whom the Queen of Heaven has
selected for her spouse. His attitude is that of an arrogant
despot. Deeply inspired with sentiments of his high im-
portance, l1e crosses his arms, and to give an idea of the
astonishing power which he possesses, he strikes ltis breast
and sides with violence. In general, he stands with· one
foot placed before the other, tl1e body erect, and a little in-
clined backwards. Wl1en I requested him," says Dr GALL,
" to allow me to touch his head, he replied with astonish·
ing arrogance, ' lch babe keinen Kopf, sondern ein Haupt,'
I have no head such as common men po88C8s, bnt a Haupt
or head peculiar to Kings and Gods. He turned aw·ay,
holding us to be totally unworthy of approaching him. We
observed, ho,vever, very distinctly, that he had the organ
of Self-Esteem very largely developed."
PINEL, FooEnE', and other authors on Insanity, men-
Digitized by Google
243
tion ca.Ae.S equally characteristi~ of disease of this organ.
" A patient" says PINEL, "confined in a private asylum in
Paris, during his fits, believed himself to be the Prophet
Mahomet, aRSumed an attitude of command, and the tone
of the Most High ; ' SeR traits etaient rayonnans, et sa
demarche pleine de majeste.' One day when cannon were
fired in Paris on account of some events of the Revolution,
be persuaded himself that it was to render him homage ;
he caused silence to be observed around him, and could not
restrain his joy.'' "A woman," continues the same author,
" extremely imperious, and accustomed to make her hus-
band obey with even more than docility, remained in bed
part of the morning, and then insisted that he should come,
and on his knees preaent her with drink. She ended, by
believing herself, in the ecstasies of her pride, to be the
Virgin Mary." In the Richmond Lunatic Asylum in Dub-
lin, I saw several cases similar to the foregoing, and which
are reported in the Phrenological Journal, vol. vi.
This organ is generally larger in men than in women;
and more males are insane through pride than females.
The organ is large in HAGGART and DEMPSEY, and mo-
derate in Dr H:&:TTE. It is regarded as established.
11.-I.OVE OF APPROBATION.
THIS organ is situated on each side of that of Self-
Esteem, and commences about half an inch from the lamb-
doidal suture. When large, it produces a remarkable ful-
nesa and breadth in the upper and back part of the head.
From ita situation, it cannot be brought into line, so as to
be repreaented succeasfully by figures, similar to those used
in illuatration of the other organs.
When Dr GALL was occupied in making observatioDB on
the organ of Self-Esteem, he met with a woman in a luna-
tic asylum who conceived herself to be the Queen of
France. He expected to find the organ of that sentiment
2 2
Digitized by Google
LOVE OF APPROBATION.
largely developed ; but, in place of this being the case,
there was a very distinct hollow in the situation of it, and
a round and considerable prominence presented itself on
each side. This circumstance at first caused him consider-
able embarrassment. He soon perceived, however, that the
character of this woman's insanity differed materially from
that of men alienated through pride. The latter were se-
rious, calm, imperious, elevated, arrogant ; and they affeeted
a masculine majesty. Even in the fury of their fits, all their
motions and expressions bore the impress of the sentiment
of domination, which they imagined themselves to exercise
over others. In those insane through vanity, on the other
hand, the whole manner was different. There was then a
restless frivolity, an inexhaustible talkativeness, the most
affected forwardness ; eagerness to announce high birth and
inexhaustible riches, promises of favour and honour,-in a
word, a mixture of affectation and absurdity. From thnt
time Dr GALL perceived the difference between the senti-
ment of Self-Esteem and that of Love of Approbation.
He draws, with great accuracy, the distinction between
pride, which is an abuse of Self-Esteem, and vanity, pro-
ceeding from abuse of Love of Approbation. The prood
man, says he, is imbued with a sentiment of his own su-
perior m~rit, and, from the summit of his grandeur, treats
with contempt or indifference all other mortals. The vain
man attaches the utmost importance to the opinions enter-
tained of him by others, and seeks with eagerness to gain
their approbation. The proud man expects that mankind
will come to him and acknowledge his merit. The vain
man knocks at every door to draw attention towards him,
and supplicates for the smallest portion of honour. The
proud man despises those marks of di!>tinction, which on
the vain confer the most perfect delight. The prood mao
is disgusted by indiscreet eulogiums. The vain man in-
bales with ecstasy the incense of flattery, although profuse-
ly offered, and by no very skilful hand •.
• GALL sur les Fonctions du Cerveau, tome h•. p. 296.
Digitized by Google
LOVE OF APPROBATION. 245
Dr GALL treats·of the abuses of this sentiment, under the
names of Vanity, Ambition, and the Love of Glory, rather
than of the primitive sentiment itself. To Dr SPURZHEIM
is due-the merit of elucidating the ultimate principle of
many of the faculties, and in particular the one under con-
sideration.
This faculty produces the desire to please, whence arises
the love of praise and fame. It makes us attentive to the
opinions which others entertain of us. The object of its
desire is approbation in general, without determining the
means or the manner of acquiring it.
There is a great difference in regard to the degree of en-
dowment of this faculty, in different individuals. Some
watch, with the most animated anxiety, every motion, and
every look, and intuitively feel when we approve or disap-
prove. When we approve, the eye sparkles, the counte-
nance opens, and the individual approaches us with a plea-
sing courtesy, expressive at once of the pleasure he has re-
ceived from our approbation, and of his desire to retain it.
He, on the other band, in whom the facu1ty is naturally
feeble, shews, by the undisturbed fixture of his counte-
nance, that our censure and applause are alike unimport-
ant to him. When we censure, he stares us in the face,
with the most matchless indifference, or gapes in stupid
wonder.
A due endowment of this faculty is indispensable to an
amiable character. It gives the desire to be agreeable to
others,-it is the drill-serjeant of society, and admonishes
us when we deviate too widely from the line of march of
our fellows,-it induces us to suppress numberless little
manifestations of selfishness, and to restrain many pecu-
liarities of temper and disposition, from the dread of gi"Ying
offence, and thereby incurring disapprobation ;-it is the
butt upon which wit strikes, when, by means of ridicule,
it drives us from our foUies. To be laughed at is worse
than death to a person in whom this sentiment is strong.
The direction in which gratification of it will be sought,
Digitized by Google
246
will depend on the faculties with which it is combined in
the individual. If the moral sentiments and intellect be vi-
gorous, it will prompt to moral emulation and the desire of
honoUrable fame. It animates the poet, the painter, the
orator, the warrior, and the statesiiUUl. In aome indivi-
duals it attains the height of a passion, and then glory is
pursued at the hazard of life and of every enjoyment
which it affords, and fame is sought for even in the can-
non's mouth. "Tbemistoclem illum," says CICERo, "sum·
mum Athenis virum, dixisse aiunt, cum ex eo qurereretur,
quod acroama, aut cujus vocem libentissime audiret? Ejus,
a quo sua virtue optime prredicaretur." CICERO himself
seems to have possessed this sentiment in a very high de-
gree : " Trahimur omnee landis st1Jdio," says be, " et ~pti­
mus quisque maxime gloria ducitur. Ipsi illi pbilosopbi,
etiam in illis libellis quos de contemnenda gloria scribunt,
nomen suum inaeribunt; in eo ipso, in quo prredicationem
nobilitatemque despiciunt, prredicari de se ac nominari vo-
lunt •." If the lower propensities predominate, the indi-
vidual may be pleased, by the reputation of being the best
fighter, or the greatest drinker of his circle.
The feeling which is most commonly experienced, when
this organ is large, even when favourably combined with
other organs, is anxiety about what the world will think of
us. A youth in whom it is powerful cannot do this thing,
because every body wi11 look at him ; or cannot do the
other, because the people would wonder. In older persons,
it produces a fidgety anxiety about the opinions of the
public, or of the circle of acquaintances who compose the
public to them. They imagine themselves continually be-
fore the public eye, and that the world is occupied with
little else than weighing their· motives, speeulating on their
conduct, and adjusting the precise point in the scale of im-
portance and respectability at which they ought to be
placed. A great portion of this feeling, boweYcr, is the mere
• Or~tio pro Archia.
2
Digitized by Google
•
LOVE OF APPltOBATION. 247
inspiration of a very active and powerful Love of Appro-
bation in their own heads. The public are too much en-
grossed with themselves and their own affairs, to bestow so
minute and permanent a degree of attention upon an Indi-
vidual. This anxiety about public opinion, when exces-
sive, is subversive of happiness and independence. It
renders the mere dicta of the society in which the indivi-
dual moves his code of morality, religion, taste, and philo-
sophy ; and incapacitates him from upholding truth or vir-
tue, if disowned by those whom he imagines influential or
genteel.
The distinguishing characteristic betwixt the disposition
to oblige, conferred by this sentiment, and the feeling of
genuine kindness, which springs from Benevolence, is, that
Love of Approbation prompts us to do most for those who
least require our aid; whereas Benevolence takes exactly
the opposite d.iJ:ection. Men, in general, care little for the
approbation of their inferiors, their own household, or
those of whom they are altogether independent ; and he
whose exertions are inspired chiefty by this faculty, will do
extremely little to benefit them. To serve or please the
great or the splendid, on the other hand, or strangers
whose l'oice may raise or depress his fiUDe, he will make
the most animated exertions. Persons, accordingly, in
whom Love of Approbation is very strong, and Benevo-
lence and Conscientiousness deficient, are frequently the
most agreeable acquaintances to those who are altogether
independent of them ; " they smile on all who care not for
their frowns," while they neglect or torment their inferiors
and equals.
The abuses of this faculty may be traced in all ages, and
in every variety of form. Combined with Secretiveness
large, it prompts its possessor to pay to other individuals
those unmeaning compliments which pass current in socle-.
ty, and which most persons receive well, when addressed
to themselves, but treat with ri~cule when bestowed
lavishly on others. It prompts to the equivoCation of" not
Digitized by Google
•
~48 LOVE OF APPROBATION.
at home," when the person is otherwise engaged. The
faculty of Conscientiousness would desire that the plain
fact should be stated ; but Love of Approbation produces
an instinctive feeling that the Self-Esteem of the person
calling will be ofFended at the idea that any engagement
could render it inconvenient to see him. To save this pang,
Love of Approbation and Secretiveness prompt to the in·
vention of the little equivoque. This deceit is seen through
by all, and nevertheless the use of it is more pleasing to
persons in whom Self.Esteem and Love of Approbation
arc very large, than the announcement of the simple truth.
Some individuals state candidly that they are " engaged;"
and I have asked persons in whom the above organs are
large, whether they felt more annoyed by this reply, than
by " not at home," even when they suspected that the
latter meant really the former. They acknowledged, that,
for the first time, they did feel slightly irritated by the idea
that their friend was in the house and would not see them ;
but that a moment's reflection satisfied them, that forcible
reasons must exist for the refusal, and that the very an-
nouncement of the truth was an appeal to their higher feel-
ings, and a proof of unhesitating confidence in their attach-
ment and good sense ; and ever after they were not ofFend-
ed by the reply "engaged." It is the same combination
of Love of Approbation with Secretiveness, which prompts
some individuals to the practice of calling on those whom
they are pleased to style their friends, when they are sure
they are not at home, for the purpose of leaving their card.
This proceeding is an ofFer of flattery to the Self-Esteem
and Love of Approbation of the persons called upon ; but
as it argues an absence of real affection and esteem for
them, it is, in truth, an insult; and, besides, it necessari1y
implies so great a deficiency of Conscientiousness in the in-
dividuals who practise it, that they are not to be relied on
in circumstances in which real friendship will be put to
the test.
When the development of Love of Approbation is execs-
o;9;t;z~yGoogl~
I.OVE O.t' Al'PROBATION. 249
sive, while the regulating organs are deficient, it is the
cause of great unhappineBB. It renders the little girl at
~~ehool miserable, if her dreBB and the style of living of her
parents be not equal to those of the parents of her asao-
ciates. It overwhelms the artist, author, or public speaker,
with misery, if a rival is praised in the journals in higher
terms than himself. A lady is tormented at perceiving,
in the poBBCSsion of her acquaintance, finer dresses or equi-
pages than her own. It excites the individual to talk ofhim-
self, his affairs, and coonexions, so as to communicate to the
auditor vast ideas of his greatness or goodness : in short,
vanity is one form of its abuse. "Sir," says Dr JoHNsoN,
" GoLDSMITH is so much afraid of being unnoticed, that he
often talks, merely lest you should forget that he is in the
company." When not combined with Conscientiousness
and Benevolence, it leads to feigned profeBBions of respect
and friendship ; and many manifest it by promises and in-
vitations, never intended to be fulfilled or accepted. It,
as well as Self-Esteem, prompts to the use of the first per-
son ; but its tone is that of courteous solicitation, while the
I of Self-Esteem is presumptuous, and fuJI of pretension.
When, on the other hand, the organ is deficient, and the
sentimont, in consequence, is fet'ble, the individual cares
little about the opinions entertained of him by others; and,
provided they have not the power to punish his person, or
abridge his poBBCBBions, he is capable of laughing at their
censores and contemning their applause. Persons of this
sort, if endowed with the selfish propensities in a strong
degree, constitute what are termed " impracticable" men;
their whole feelings are concentrated in Self, and they are
dead to the motive which might induce them to abate -one
iota of their own pretensions to oblige others. If actuated
by any strong passion, and endowed with intellect, it is as-
tonishing what they are sometimes able to accomplish, in
attaining their objects. Strangers to ceremony, and indif-
ferent to censure, they meet with a thousand rebuffs which
they never feel, and ure loaded with an hundred mortifica-
Digitized by Google
250 LOVE OF APPROBATION.
tiona which never affect them ; free from the restraints
which delicacy imposes upon others, they practise upon the
benevolence, the disposition to oblige, or the interest of
mankind, and succeed in circumstances in which a sensi-
tive mind would have found only obstacles unsurmountable.
Philosophers and acute observers of human nature, have
long distinguished betwixt Pride and Vanity, but neverthe-
16418, no error is more frequently committed by ordinary
minds than to confound them ; and no mistake is more
common than to imagine that beau.x and belles, and all in-
dividuals very tasteful and particular about their personal
appeanmce or equipages, are necessarily extremely conceit-
ed. A large Love of Approbation and much Ideality, join-
ed with Individuality, which produces attention to details,
and Order, wiJJ, in general, give rise to the passion for
neatness, propriety, and ornament; but such a combination,
in place of producing a proud or conceited character, in-
spires with the very opposite dispositions. I rarely see a
dandy who is not at bottom a polite, obliging, good natured,
but probably weak individual; and it is only when large
Self-Esteem is added to the combination, and which is not
an indispensable ingredient in beaux.ism, that the common
opinion will be justified by the result.
This faculty corresponds to the Desire of Esteem of Dr
REID and Mr STEWART, and to the Desire of Glory of Dr
THoMAS BRoWN. Their observations on its functions are
generally correct; but here, as in the case of Self-Esteem,
they treat only of its heroic manifestations, and present us
with no views of its operations on the more inter~ting
theatre of private life.
The faculty, when powerful, gives a soft soliciting tone
to the voice, puts smiles into the countenance, and produces
that elegant line of beauty in the lips which resembles
APOLLo's bow.
As formerly mentioned, the French are reiDarkable for
a large development of the organ, while the English excel
in Self-Esteem. The influence of the Love of Approbation
Digitized by Google
--- -
LOVE OF APPROBATION. 251
sl1ews itself in the manners, institutions, and daily litera-
ture of France, in an extraordinary degree. Compliments
and praises are the current coin of conversation, and a late
writer most justly observes, that, " in France, glory is the
condiment to the whole feast of life; and the trumpet of
fame is that lvhich makes the sweetest music to their
ears •." In private life also, an inJividual, who has a great
Love of Approbation in his own head, is extremely
prone to pay compliments to others, from an instinctive
feeling of the pleasure of being praised. The organ is very
large in -a.e American Indians; and the love of decorations
and ornaments, whether these consist of stars, garters and
medals, or of tatooed fa~es, bored noses and eagles' feathers,
spring from it.
The faculty is more active in women, in general, than in
men; and it is observed, that a greater number of women
tl1an of men become insane from this feeling. Dr SPuRz-
HEIM mentions, that he bad met with only one· man who
had become deranged from this cause. Its effects, when
diseased, have already been described in the history of the
discovery of the organ.
The organ is possessed by the lower animals. The·dog
is extremely fond of Approbation, and the horse displays
the sentiment, not only in his sensibility to marks of aft'ec-
tion, but in his spirit of emulation in the race. Dr GALL
mentions, that, in the south of France, the peasants attach
a " bouquet" to the mules when they have acquitted them-
selves well, and that the animals understand it as a mark
of approbation, and feel aftlicted when it is taken away.
He mentions also, that he had a female monkey, who, on
receiving a handkerchief, put it on as a robe, and took ex-
traordinary delight in seeing it trail behind her as a train.
In all these creatures the organ is largely developed.
The organ is large in Dr HE'M'E, the Rev. Mr M., in
King RoBERT BRucE, CLARA FISHER ; and deficient in D.
HAGGART and DEMPSEY.
It is established.
• Edinburgh Review, Nov. 1820, p. f94.
Digitized by Google
( 25i )
12.- CAUTIOUSNESS.
THis organ is situated near tlte middle of each parie-
tal bone, where the ossification of tlte bone generally com-
mences.
The figures represent its appearance when large and
small.
HniDoo. ~·RENCH SJtULL·
CautiOIWlal Large. Caut.loumeeo Small.
Dr GALL was acquainted at Vienna with a prelate, a
man of excellent sense and considerable intellect. Some
persons had an aversion towards him, because, through fear
of compromising himself, he infused into his discourses in-
terminable reflections, and delivered them with unsup-
portable slowness. When any one began a conversation
with him, it was very difficult to bring it to a conclusion.
He paused continuaJly in the middle of his sentences, and
repeated the beginning of them two or three times before
proceeding farther. A thousand times he pushed tlte pa-
tience of Dr GALL to extremity. He never happened by
any accident to give way to the natural flow of his ideas ;
but recurred a hundred times to what he had already said,
consulting with hiiD.llelf whether he could not amend it in
some point. His manner of acting was in conformity with
his manner of speaking. He prepared with infinite precau-
tions for the most insignificant undertakings. He sub-
jected every connexion to the most rigorous examination
and calculation before forming it.
CAUTIOUSNESS. 258
This case, however, was not by itself sufficient to arrest
the attention of Dr GALL; but this prelate happened to be
connected in public affairs with a Councillor of the Regen-
cy, whose eternal irresolution had prooured for him the
nickname of Cacaduhio. At the examinations of the public
schools, these two individuals were placed side by side, and
Dr GALL sat in the seat immediately behind them. This
arrangement afforded him an excellent opportunity of ob-
serving their heads. The circumstance which most forci·
bly arrested his attention was, that both their heads were
very large in the upper, lateral, and hind parts, the situa-
tion of the organ in question. The dispositions and intel-
lectual qualities of these two men were, in oq.er respects,
very different; indeed they resembled each other in cir-
cumspection, and in this particular development of head
alone. The coincidence between them in this point sug-
gested the idea to Dr GALL, that irresolution, indecision,
and circumspection, might be connected with certain parts
of the brain. Subsequent reflection on this disposition, and
observation of additional facts, converted this presumption
into certainty.
~~i!~J.r.!!l.c.iple i_!l_.P.hr.~~<:!logy, that lf.bsence of one qua-
l~t....SilE.fm.•.!li!QUwr. Every feeling is something
positive in itself, and is not a mere negation of a different
emotion. Fear, then, is a positive sentiment, and not the
mere want of courage; and it appears to me that the facul-
ty now under discussion produces this feeling. The ten-
dency of the sentiment ill to make the individual apprehend
danger; and this leads him to hesitate before he acts, and
to trace consequences that he may be assured of his safe-
ty. Dr SPURZHEJM names it" Cautiousness,"-which ap-
pellation I retain as sufficiently expressive, although the
primitive feeling appears, on a rigid analysis, to be simply
fear. Dr GALL says, "It was requisite that man and ani-
mals should be endowed with a faculty to enable them to
foresee certain events, to give them a presentiment of cer-
tain circumstances, and to prompt them to provide against
Digitized by Google
254 . CAUTIOUS:SESS.
danger. Without such a disposition, their atteation would
have· been occupied only with the present; and they would
have been incapable of taking any measure with reference
to the future." Accordingly, he describes the faeulty
which prompts to these actions, as if it comprised some-
thing intellectual ; and calls it " Circuwpection, Foresight."
Dr SPURZHEIM " does not believe that it foresees; it is, in
his opinion, blind, and without reflection, though it may
excite the reflective faculties." This observation appears
to me correct.
A full development of this organ is essential to a prudent
character. It produces a cautious, circumspect, and consi-
derate disposition of mbtd. Persons so organized, says Dr
GALL, "are habitualJy on their guard; they know that it
is more difficult to sustain than to acquire reputation, and,
consequently, every new undertaking is prosecuted with
equal care as the first. They look forward to all poasible
dangers, and are anxious to anticipate every occurrence ;
they ask advice of every one, and often, after having re-
ceived much counsel, they remain undecided. They put
great faith in the o~rvation, that, of a hundred misfor-
tunes which befal us, ninety-nine arise from our own fault.
Such j.ersons never break any article ; they may pass their
lives in pruning trees, or in working with sharp tools,
without cutting themselves. If they see a vessel placed
near the edge of the table, their nerves shrink. If they
give credit, or indulge in gaming, they never lose large
sums of money. Finally," says he, " they form a standing
subject of criticism to their ]eM considerate neighbours,
who look on their forebodings as extravagant, and their
precautions as trifling and absurd •." ·
When the organ is too large, it produces doubts, irreso-
lution, and 'Wavering ; and may lead to absolute incapacity
for vigorous and decisive conduct. A great and involun-
tary activity of it produces a panic,-a state in which the
• Sur les Fonctions du Cerveau, tome iv. p. 320.
CAUTIOUSNESS. 255
mind is hurried away by an irresistible emotion of fear, for
which no adequate external cause exists.
The organ is almost uniformly large in children, and
appears, from this circumstance, to be developed at an ear-
lier age than many of the other organs. This is a wise
provision of nature, 88 caution is never more indispensable
to the safety of the individual, than during the helpleBB
years of infancy and childhood. Children possessing a
large endowment may be safely trusted to take care of
themselves ; they will rarely be found in danger. When,
on the othelband, the organs are small in a child, he will
be a hapless infant; fifty keepers will not aupply the place
of the instinctive guardianship •performed by adequate
Cantiowmesa. In a boy of six years of age it was v.ery
small, and he took off his clothes to leap into an old quar-
ry full of water to recover his cap, which the wind had
blown into it, totally insensible to the danger, which was
imminent, of being drowned. In some very young chil-
dren, the organs are so prominent 88 to alarm mothers with
the fear of disease or deformity. Water in the head indeed
frequently shews itself by an enlargement of this part
of the head, and it is not uncommon for unskilful persons
to mistake a natural and healthy development of the organ
in question, for an indication of this disease.
In mature age, when the organ is very deficient, the
individual is rash and precipitate. He is never appre-
hensive about the results of his conduct, and often pro-
ceeds to act without due consideration. Persons of this
description are frequently of a gay, careless disposition, and
engroBBed entirely with the present ; they adopt rash reso-
lutions, and enter upon hazardous enterprises, without de-
liberation or advice. In domestic life, misfortunes over-
take them in consequence of their want of precaution.
From constitutional recklessness, they precipitate them-
selves against objects in the dark ; they break frangible
articles, owing to want of precaution in arranging them ;
and lose' the money which they,lend, by omitting to take
Digitized by Google
256 CAUTIOUSNESS.
proper security for repayment. Riding upon a slippery
path, quite insensible to danger, their horse falls and de-
prives them of life. A cat, or other animal, overturns the
candle which they have left burning, and sets their house on
fire. In short, they are subject to interminable misfor-
tunes, through want of caution in their conduct •.
This faculty produces a repressing influence, and, in
e.~timating its efFects, the faculties with which it is com-
bined ought to be kept in view. An individual, with large
Acquisitiveness and Self-Esteem, which produce instinctive
selfishness, was pointed out to me as remarkably careful of
his own interest, although the organ of Cautio116ness was
deficient in his head. It was admitted, ·however, that his
pru~ence consisted chiefly in resisting solicitations to per-
form generous actions, and to enter into suretiship ; but
that, when a tempting prospect of gain was held out to
him, although attended with great risk, he was liable to
dash into the· adventure, and in consequence frequently
sustained severe losses. His natural dispositions rendered
him little prone to exceSilive generosity, and in that respect.
no danger awaited him; but if CautiousneSil had been largp,
it would have rendered him alive to the perils of specula-
tion, and prompted him to prefer small and certain profits,
to the chances of greater but uncertain gain.
Extreme and involuntary activity of this faculty produ-
ces internal sensations of dread and apprehension, highly
distressing to the individual, although often very ridiculous
in the eyes of ignorant spectators. Many persons believe
that the feelings of the mind depend upon the dictates of
the understanding, and that individuals, if they would al-
low themselves io be convinced of the greundlessneSil of
their apprebensions, might, by an act of volition, remove
tbese terrors. Such notions argue great ignorance of hu-
man nature. As easiJy could we remove a pain from the
leg, by resolving to be quit of it, as the unhappy sufferer,
• GALL sur les Fonction~ clu Cer\'cau, P· 319.
•
Digitized by Google
CAUTIOUSNESS. i57
under diseased Cautiousness, could dispel the mental gloom
by which be is aftlieted.
A large development of this organ, combined with much
Destructiveness, predisposes to self-destruction. Cautious-
ness does not produce suicide as a specific act, but the sen-
timent, when excited to exces8 by disease of the organs,
gives rise to intense melancholy, anguish, and anxiety, and,
by _
rendering life extremely miserable, indirectly prompts
to this result. Hence tl1e fact, that the best of men, and
those in whose external circumstances no adequate motive
can be found, are sometimes led to that fatal deed. Let
no one suppose such an act done from mere error in judg-
ment. It proceeds always from internal and involuntary
feelings of a diseased nature, of the misery and torment of
which, 'no man, who has never felt any thing similar, can
form an adequate conception. The great ignorance of
mankind in general, regarding the state of mind which
predisposes to suicide, has arisen from the influence of the
organs having been entirely overlooked, and the fact not
being known, that disease in any of them deranges the cha-
racter of the sane feeling which it serves to manifest-, and
often renders it independent of the will. Dr A. CoMBE
examined a considerable number of suicides in the Morgue
at Paris, and found in them Hope generally small, with
Cautiousuess and Destructiveness Jarge; and I have seen •
several similar examples.
_Many instances of disease of this organ occur, not only
in hospitals for the insane, but in private life. Dr GALL
mentions, that, at Vienna, be attended two fathers of fa-
milies in easy circumstances, who, nevertheless, were tor-
mented night and day with the apprehension that their
wives and children were exposed to die of hunger. The
most earnest assurances of their friends were insufficient
to make them comprehend that this fear was altogether
chimerical. After their recovery, they could not bear to
hear their condition mentioned, through terror of a relapse.
Before their malady, they were known to be men of gloomy
di11poaitions.
Jt
Digitized by Google
258 CAUTIOUSNESS.
PINEL, under the bead of Melancholy, mentiona a varie-
ty of cases referrible to diseased Cautiousness. "A dis-
tinguished military oftit"er," says be, "after fifty years of
active service in the cavalry, was attacked with disease.
It commenced by his experiencing vivid emotions from the
slightest causes ; if, for example, be beard any disease spo-
ken of, be immediately believed himself to be attacked by
it; if any one was mentioned as deranged in intellect, he
imagined himself insane, and retired into his chamber full
of melancholy thoughts and inquietude. Every thing be-
came for him a subject of fear and alarm. If be entered
into a bouse, be was afraid that the Boor would fall, and
precipitate him amidst its ruins. He could not pass a
bridge without terror, unless impelled by the sentiment of
honour for the purpose of fighting."
The forms in which this afFection shews itaelf are num-
berless. It is in vain to address the understanding of the
patient by argument, because the disease consists in a dis-
ordered state of a corporeal organ, and the only conse-
quence of the most irresistible demonstration to the intel-
lect, would be a change of the object of terror, but no a}.
leviation of the feeling of painful apprehension itaelf.
Dr GALL mentions, that this organ is possessed in a high
degree by thoae of the lower animals, which venture out
only during night, as owls and bats, and also by thoae ani-
mals which place sentinels to warn them of approaching
danger, as the wild goose, chamois, cranes, starlings and
buzzards.
Among the lower animals, it is generally larger in fe-
males than in males ; and Dr GALL mentiona some cu-
rious facta, illustrative of the greater manifestation of the
faculty by the former than by the latter. He happen-
ed to kilJ, says be, as many as 20 squirrels, without find-
ing a single female among them ; although it was not the
season in which they are confined by the care of their
young. He caught, during three years, 44 cats in his gar-
den, among which he found only 5 females. Durin~ one
Digitized by Google
CAUTIOUSNESS. 259.
winter 500 bears were killed in the two provinces of Vir-
ginia, among which only 2 females were discovered. An
account of the wolves destroyed in France, from lst Ja-
nuary 1816 to 1st January 1817, was published officially
by Count GERARDIN, Captain of the Royal Chace, and it
shewed 1894. males, and only 522 females. Among the
goats, the leader is always a female, and their safety, it
will be recollected, arises from a high degree of circum-
spection. Among wild cattle, horses, and other animals
who are defended by courage, the leader is uniformly a
male, for in this sex, in general, Combativeness is larger.
This fact, of females in general being more cautious than
males, is corroborated by Captain FRANKLIN, in his Jour-
ney to the Arctic Regions. "It is extraordinary," says be,
" that although I made inquiries extensively among the In-
dians, I met with but one who said that he had killed a she
bear with young in the womb."
It has been remarked, in the way of criticism on these
statemenu, that more males are produced by nature than
females ; which is quite correct ; but this excess of males
does not extend to the twentieth part of the difference in
the number of their deaths by violence.
The metaphysicians do not treat of "fear," or of the
instinctive tendency to avoid danger, as an original prin-
ciple of the mind ; but Dr THOMAS BROWN ranks me/an-
c/wlg among the primitive emotions, which is one of the ef-
fects of this faculty in a state of constant but not violent
activity.
The organ is larger in the Germans, English, and Scots,
than in the French ; and it appears to be larger in tbe Eng-
lish than in the Turkish head. Mr FoRSTER, a civil servant
on the Madras Establishment, traveJled overland from Ben-
gal to England, in the year 1782, disguised as a Turk. In
all the numberless scenes through which he passed, he had
the address successfully to maintain his disguise, except in
one single instance, in which he was detected by one indi-
vidual, who w8e led to certainty in the discovery which htt
t R 2
Digitized by Google
260 CAUTIOUSNESS.
made by examining tl~e shape of tAe travelleYs A«<d. He
says, " a Georgian merchant, who occupied the room next
to mine, (it was in Cashmere), and was a very agreeable
neighbour, did not, I observed, give a ready credit to my
story, which he cross-examined with some tokens of suspi-
cion; and one day having desired to look at my bead, he
decidedly pronounced it to be that of a Christian. In a fu-
ture conversation he explained to me, and proved by com-
parison, that the head of a Christian is broad behind, and
flatted out at tAe croum ;-that a Mahomedan's head grows
narrow at the top, and, like a monkey's, has a conic form."
(FonsTER's Journey, vol. ii. p. 33.) This description indi-
cates Cautiousne88 to be larger in the Christian. It is large
in BRucE, RAPHAEL, HETTE, the Mummies and Hindooa;
moderate in BELLINGHAM, MARY MACINNES and Negroes.
The difference between a large and small development
frequently exceeds an inch in extent; and as the organ is
particularly easy of observation, it deserves the attention
of beginners.
The organ is ascertained.
GENUS III.-OF THE AFFECTIVE FACULTIES.
I 1.-Sttperior Sentiments.
HITHERTO we have considered Man so far as he is animal.
But, besides the organs and faculties already spoken of,
common to him with the brutes, he is endowed with a va-
riety of sentiments, which constitute the human character.
Of many of these the lower animals appear to be destitute.
Tbe convolutions which form the organs of Veneration,
Hope, and ConscientiousneBS in the human brain, run
transversely; and in the brains of the lower animals, so far.
as I have observed, no corresponding convolutions appear.
Digitized by Google
CAU'l'IOUSNESS. 261
The organs of Benevolence and Imitation, however, whieh
are here classed among the superior sentiments, run longi-
tudinally, and corresponding parts are found in the brains
of the lower animals. The faculties now te be treated of
produce emotions or feelin~.
13. BENEVOLE~CE.
THJs organ is situated at the upper part of the froutal
bone, in the coronal aspect, .imd immediately before the
fontanel. The figures represent the organ large and small.
J.&COB JEilVIS.
Beaevolence1111lA11.. •
One of Dr GALL's friends frequently said to him, tllat,
as be sought for external indications of mental qualities, he
ought to examine the head of his servant named JosEI•H.
" It is impossible," said his fi'iend, " to find a greater de-
gree ofgoodness than that young man possesses. For more
than ten years during which he bas been in my ser-
vice, I have seen him manifest, on aU occasions, only be-
nevolence, and swec.>tness of disposition. This is the more
surprising, as he does not poRSess the advantages of edu~a­
tion, and has grown up to manhood among servants of
very inferior habits." Dr GALL adds, that, previous to
that time, he had been far from supposing that what is
called goodness of heart could have any organ in the brain,
and, consequently, had ne,•cr looked for indications of it in
the head. The repeated solicitations of llis friend, however,
at length awoke his curiosity.
He immediately re~ollccted the habitual condnt"t of a
Digitized by Google
262 BENEVOLENCE.
young man, whom he had known from his most tendt>r in-
fancy, and who was distinguished from his numerous
brothers and sisters by his goodness of heart. Although
he was passionately fond of the games proper to his age, and
delighted in scouring the forests in search of birds' nests ;
yet no sooner did any of his brothers or sisters become
sick, than an inclination yet more irresistible kept him at
home, and drew from him the most assiduous attentions
towards the sufferer. When grapes, or apples, or cherries,
were distributed among the children, his share was always
the least, and he rejoiced in seeing the others partake
more largely than himseJf. He was never more pleased
than when &Ome good fortune happened to thot18 whom he
loved, on which occasions he often shed tears of joy. He
was fond of taking charge of sheep, dogs, rabbits, pigeons
and birds, and if one of these birds happened to die, he
wept bitterly, which did not fail to draw upon him the ri-
dicule of his companions. Up to the present time, con-
tinues Dr GALL, benevolence and goodness are the distin-
guishing characteristics of this individual. These disj,osi-
tions certainlydid not ariae fromeducation; on thecontrary,
he hadbeenall along surrounded by those whose conduct waa
calculated to produce the very opposite results. Dr GALL
then began to suspect, that what is called goodness ofheart
is not an acquired, but an innate, quality of the mind.
On another occasion, amidst a very large family, he
spoke of the boasted goodnu& of Ma.rt of the servant Jo-
SEPH. " Ah !" said the eldest daughter, " our brother
CHARLES is exactly like him ; you must positively examine
his head, I cannot tell you bow good a child be is."
" I had thus in my eye," says Dr GALL, " three cases, in
which goodness of disposition was strongly marked. I
took casts of their heads, placed them along side of each
other, and continued to examine them, until I discovered a
development common to the three. This, I at last found,
although th_, heads were in other respects very differently
formed. In the mean time, I tried to find similar cases in
Digitized by Google
BENEVOLENCE. 263
families, school., &e. that I might be in a condition to mul-
tiply and correct my observations. I extended my investi-
gation to animals also, and, in a short time, collected so
great a number of facts) that there is no fundamental qua-
lity, or faculty, whose existence is better established than
that of Benevolence, and the organ with which it is con-
nected."
The faculty produces the desire of. the happiness of
othen, and disposes to compassion and active goodnees.
It is easy to distinguish kindness flowing from this senti-
ment,-from acts of attention, arising from Love of Ap-
probation, or more interested motives. A warmth of man-
ner, and directness of purpose, are communicated by tb.i.
faculty, that touch the mind at once. We feel its cha-
racter, and recognise it as genuine, unalloyed goodness,
aiming at no end but the welfare of its object. There is, on
tbe other hand, an air of coldness and constraint attending
deeds of kindness, proceeding from interested motives, be-
traying the source from which they flow. The secret
spring, and ulterior objeet, are apparent, notwithstanding
the efforts made to conceal them. St PAUL gives a beauti-
ful description of the genuine character of this sentiment,
in his account of Christian charity, beginning, " Charity
suft'ereth long and is kind ; charity envieth not ; charity
vaonteth not itself; is not puffed up.'' The good Samari-
tan mentioned in Scripture, is a delightful instance of the
disposition formed by Benevolence when eminently power-
fuL
This faeu1ty is a great source of happiness to the posses-
eor. It communicates a lively, amiable, delightful tinge to
the impressions received by the mind from without. It
produees liberality of sentiment towards all mankind; a
diaposition to Jove them, and to dwell on their virtues ra-
ther than their vices. A pereon in whom this feeling ia
strong, rarely complains of the ingratitude or heartl6181less
of others. His goodness provides its own reward. The
organ ap~ very large in the mask of HENRI QuATRE,
Digitized by Google
264 BENEVOLENCE.
When some one spoke to him of an officer of the League, by
whom he was not loved, he replied, "Je vew: luifaire tant
cit:~ queje leforcerai ck m'aimer malgre lui." A person
thus endowed is so conscious of wishing well to others,
that he does not doubt of their good will towards himself.
Adhesiveness attaches us to friends and to country; but
Benevolence brings the whole human race within the circle
of onr affections. FENELON exhibited a beautiful manifes-
tation of it, when he said, " I am a true Frenchman, and
love my country ; but I love mcznAind better than my coun-
try." It inspired HENRI QUATRE also, when be replied to
those who exhorted him to rigour towards some places
which had joined the League ; "La satisfaction qu'on tire de
Ia vengeance ne dure qu'un moment; mais celle qu'on tire
de Ia clemence est eternelle." The organ is large, and
very distinctly marked, in the mask of JACOB JERVIs, pre-
sented by Dr ABELL to the Phrenological Society, andre-
presented on p. 261. That individual po88e88ed the senti-
ment in so high a degree, that he was obliged to hide him-
self when he saw persons coming to make improper soli-
citations, being con~ious of his inability to resist them.
It is a vu1gar idea that this faculty cannot be manifested,
except in bestowing alms or giving away money. It may
be exerted in the domestic circl~ and in society, in a thou-
sand ways, productive of advantage, without any idea of do-
nation. It is benevolence to those with whom we live, to or-
der our arrangements with a due regard to their comfort
and happiness ; not to deny them legitimate and proper
gratifications of their own dispositions ; it is benevolence
to suppress our own humonrs and tendencies, when these
would give unnecessary pain to others; to restrain Self-Es-
teem and Destructiveness, for example, in our commands ;
to be mild and merciful in our censures; to exert our in-
fluence aud authority to promote the welfare of otl1ers; and
one of the most benevolent of all exercises, is to visit the
poor and vicious, when suffering and wretched, even with
.the view of administering only the pecuniary bounty of
others.
Digitized by Google
BENEVOLENCE. 265
Deficiency of Benevolence does not proouce cruelty or
any JMMiiliveJy bad sentiment: but it leads to regardlessness
of the welfare of others. When the organ is small, a
powerful restraint is withdrawn from the lower propensi-
ties. In BELLINGHAM, HARE, GRIFFITHS, and other cold-
blooded and deliberate murderers, the organ is decidedly
deficient. Those in wbom this organ is lese than Ac-
quisitiveness and Self-Esteem, rarely feel themselves ca11-
ed on to join in works of charity, to eontribute to sub-
ecriptions, or to bestow personal exertions for the be-
Refit of others ; they generally urge the apology, that they
have enough to do with themselves, and that nobody ma-
aifests Benevolence to them. This last excuse may be just ;
for it is in the nature or all the higher sentiments to be
doubly rewarded ;jlrtJt, in the enjoyment which attends the
very exercise of them; and, strondly, in the good will and
kindly fee1ing which the manifestation of them generates
in others. Closely connected as men are in society, and
dependent, to a greater or less degree, on each other for
prosperity and happiness, no individual can enjoy, or leave
to his children, a richer and more valuable treasure, than
the esteem and affection of his fellows, founded on respect
and gratitude for his own virtues and generosity. Such
advantages, indeed, the selfish man cannot enjoy ; for his
eonduct excites no benevolence in others towards him, and
his selfishness becomes the more necessary, as he has cho-
sen it as his stay. When large Acquisitiveness and Self-
Esteem are combined with this organ small, the indi-
vidual will be an utter disbeliever in disinterested good-
ness, and will regard generosity, which has no selfish
end, as imbecility. Such a combination, also, if joined
with much Destructiveness, probably leads its possessors
to doubt of the benevolence of the Supreme Being. De-
ficiency of the organ, in short, exposes the mind to the
predominance of the lower feeling$, and the temper is
then apt to become cold, harsh, sour and unhappy. There
is little sympathy with enjoyment; the face of crea-
Digitized by Google
266 BENEVOLENCE.
tion does not appear to smile; moral and physical objects
are viewed on their darkest sides; and if Destructiveness
be large, the mind steels itself, with malignity, as a defence
against their imagined evil qualities; misanthropy, in short,
is the result. The character of Lucifer, as drawn by Mn.-
TON, and by BYRON in his drama of Cain, is a personifica-
tion of great Destructiveness and Intellect, with an utter
destitution of Benevolence.
The organ is small in tribes of men remarkable for
cruelty, for example, in the Charibs. In the representations
of 'l'IBERIUS, CALIGULA, CARACALLA, NERo, CATHERINE of
Medicis, CHRISTIAN the Cruel, DANTON and RoBESPIERE,
says Dr GALL, the organ is deficient; while it is large in
TRAJAN, MARcus AuRELius, HENRI QuATRE, and other
individuals distinguished for benevolent feeling.
Benevolence, admirable as it is in its own nature, re-
quires to be directed by Conscientiousness and Intellect,
otherwise it produces abuses. When too powerful, and
not RO guided, it leads to profusion. This kind of facility
is not the effect of mere weakness of reasoning power ; it
arises from an over ready disposition to give, without an
adequate motive or consideration, except the pleasure of
bestowing.
Benevolence very powerful, with deficient Firmness,_
may lead also to the sacrifice of the just interests of the
individual, to the necessities or cupidity of others. In
short, this sentiment, indulged without consideration, pro-
duces the worst consequences; indiscriminate donations
to beggars in the street encourage profligacy; and com-
pulsory assessments for support of the.poor, have often
proved the parents of idleness and careless conduct. It
can never be sufficiently inculcated, that the funetions of
the different faculties of the mind are distinct, that thoee
which feel give merely an impulse in general, and that
Nature intended the direction of them to be placed un- _
der the faculties which reason. Hence, the individual
who instinctively feels a vivid eompassion for every ob-
Digitized by Google
BENEVOLENCE. i67
ject in distress, ought to be aware, that this impulse is
not the voice of inspiration directing him to the mode
in which it ought to be indulged. On the contrary, the
stronger the emotion, the power of direction is not on-
frequently the weaker; because the feeling is 'in itself
of so excellent a character, and so delightful, that the
man who is inspired by it is the last to suspect the ne-
cessity of much consideration in regard to its exercise. On
the other hand, however, it must also be remembered, that
the faculties which reason do not feel Benevolence, and
that, hence, that individual is most fitted to mature wise
plans of charity, to whom Nature has given most of the fa-
culty which feels t]tis emotion, with most of the faculties
which trace consequences, and direct it.
It has been objected, that Nature cannot have placed a
faculty of Benevolence, and another of Destructiveness, in
the same mind; but Man is confessedly an assemblage of
various qualities. The great modern Novelist speaks of
" the well known c8ses of men of undoubted benevolence
of character and disposition, whose principal delight i8
to aee a milerahle criminal, degraded alike by his previous
crimes, and the sentence which be has incurred, conclude a
vicious and a wretched life, by an ignominioua and cruel
death •." This indicates Benevolence coexisting in the
~e individual with Destructiveness. The greatest of
Poets has said,-
" 0 thou goddess,
Thou divine Nature, how thyself thou blazon'st
In the8e two princely boys! They are u ~ntl~
A~ zephyrs, blowing below the viulet,
No~ wagging bileweet head; and yet as rough,
Their royal blood enchatr'd, as the rud'st wind,
That by the top doth take the mountain-pine,
And make him stoop to the vale."
Here SHAK.SPBABE informs us, that these boyt manifested
• St Ronan'• WelL
Digitized by Google
268 BENEVOLENCE.
much Combativeness and Destructiveness, combined with
great Benevolence. The sword is one of the emblems of
State, and what is it but the symbol of destruction ready to
fall on the heads of those who offend against the laws?-
ministering thus, in its very severity, to purposes of Bene-
volence and Justice. What are the implements of war but
instruments of destruction ; and for what end do soldiers
take the field, but to destroy their enemies ? And yet, sur-
geons and numerous assistants attend on armies, to succour
those on whom the calamities of war have fallen ; the two
faculties, which are deemed incompatible, being thus mani-
fested together, with deliberate design. Without Comba-
tiveness and Destructiveness there would be no war; and
without Benevolence, if these existed, there would be nei-
ther mercy nor compassion. Instead, therefore, of the co-
existence of these faculties forming an objection to the
phrenological system, it proves its harmony with nature•
Dr GALL refers, not only the feeling of benevolence, but
the sentiment of justice, to the faculty now under consi-
deration. " The reader will remember," says he, " that I
could not discover the functions of the different organs, ex-
cept when I met with them in a state of extreme develop-
ment, and when, consequently, the faculties were matJi-
fested with excessive energy. A mental power, in a state
of high excitement, sometimes exhibits a character quite
different in appearance from its ordinary form of manifes-
tation. Libertinism is the consequence of over activity of
Amativeness, and theft of Acquisitiveness. It is the same
with Benevolence. The individuals who had become re-
markable on accounl of uncommon goodness of heart, pre-
sented an extreme development of the organ in question.
Consequently, Goodness, Benevolence, Sensibility to Dis-
tress, are not the primitive destination, or ordinary func-
tion of this organ; but the manifestation of its exalted con-
dition. Benevolence, therefore, is something more than
tho primitive function of tho organ from which it proceeds.
What is the original sentiment? It being extremely diffi-
Digitized by Google
:PENF.VOLENCE. 269
cult to make positive observations on the fundamental des-
tination of an organ, I am obliged," continues Dr GALL,
" to resort to reasoning ; and I think there are plausible
grounds for holding, that the primitive tendency connected
with this organ is that which disposes man to conduct suit-
able to the maintenance of social order : I call it tAe Moral
Setue, tAe sentiment ofJuatice and Injtutice.', He proceeds
with a variety of arguments, and arrives at the conclusion,
that Benevolence "n,est qu, on degre d,aetion plus eleve do
sens moral •/'
Dr SPuRZHEIM dissents .from this view, and holds Con-
scientiousness to be a distinct sentiment, of which he has
discovered and established the organ ; although it was not
admitted by Dr GALL. There are only two ways of set-
tling this dispute ; the one by metaphysical analysis of the
feeling, and the other by obsen-ation of the organ. Tlte
result of both appears to me to be in favour of Dr SPURz-
HEIM.-i shall revert to the subject when treating of the or-
gan of Conscientiousness.
In another point, also, in regard to this organ, Dr
SPURZHEIM dift'ers from Dr GALL, and apparently on good
grounds. " An opinion of Dr GALL's," says he, " of which
I cannot appro\'e, is, that Benevolence may degenerate
into bad temper, and into the propensity to rejoiee in the
evil that happens to others, in the same way as the sense
of taste may degenerate into disgust at food, physical love
into aversion to the other sex, and the sense of melody to
aversion to music. The inactivity of Benevolence, or its
exhausted state, may produce indift'erence to its functions,
and make us avoid any opportunity of doing beneficent ac-
tions; but active wickedneu, and pleasure in the pains of
others, like cruelty, depend on inferior feelings, unaccom-
panied by superior sentiments t·"
· This organ is found in the lower animals, and when it is
• Sur lee Fonctlons du Cerveau, tome v. p. 178, et sequen.
t Phrenology, p. 190.
Digitized by Google
270 BENEVOLENCE.
largely developed, they are mild and docile; whereas, when
it is deficient, they are vieiotu, ill-natured, and intractable.
Dr GALL gives some interesting illustrations of this fact.
The head of the tiger, says he, is more Bat at this part than
that of the lion; and the heads of the hyrena and wolf are
more depressed than that of the dog. The organ is greatly
depressed immediately above the level of the eyE'S, in the
baboon; while, on the contrary, it is elevated in the ouran-
outang ; and the dispositions of all these animals are in ac-
cordance with their development. In the horse, the organ
is placed in the middle of the forehead, a little above the
eyes. When this region is hollow and narrow, a horse is
invariably viciotu, and disposed to bite and to kick. In
mild and good natured honea, on the contrary, this part
stands 88 far out 88 the eyes, or even farther. The driver
of a cabriolet of Neuilly, says Dr GALL, bought, at a low
price, a horse which nobody could use on account of ita ex-
treme bad temper; but it was an excellent runner. In the
first week it bit off two of the driver's fingers, and one of
his ears. He attempted to correct it by redoubled blows,
but these rendered it only more vicious. He then resolved
to try the effect of gentle treatment, and this succeeded to •
certain degree. The organ in question was very small in this
animal ; and the same conformation will be found in all
horses which require to be muzzled, to prevent them from
biting. On one occasion, a gentleman in the country men-
tioned at his dinner-table that he had two horses, one ex-
tremely mild, and the other very viciotu, in temper. They
were bronght out into the stable-yard, and by examining
their heads, according to Dr GALL's directions, I pointed
out each, without having previously seen them. The dif-
ference was so great, that several persons who were pre-
sent recognised it, the moment they were told where to
look for it. I have seen this experiment repeated with in-
variable success.
The same rule holds in regard to dogs. Dr GALL saved
two puppies of a litter of five, and watched their disposi-
Digitized by Google
BENEVOLENCE. 271
tiona with the cloeest attention. Even before their eyes
were opened he remarked a great diJFerence between them;
one of them, when taken into the band, testified, by its ges-
tures, that it waa pleased; the other growled, whined, and
struggled till it was put down. Searcely were they fifteen
days old, when one indicated, by the motions of it. tail,
contentment and gentleness, not only towards other little
dogs, but to persons who approached it; the other, on the
contrary, never ceased to grumble, and to bite every one
within its reach. Aware how much was attributed to edu-
cation, Dr GALL charged those who habitually approached
theae animals to bestow equal caresses on each. He him-
self took the greatest pains to soften the disposition of the
ill-natured one, but nothing could change its character. It
bit even its mother, if abe chanced to incommode it. In
the sixth month, the dogs were seized with distemper, and
with whatever degree of gentleness they were treated, the
one never ceased to growl and bite, till death put an end
to its efforts; while the other, on the contrary, till its last
moment, gave the most striking marks of attachment and
gratitude to those who took charge of it. Even the servants
.were forcibly struck with the 'difference in the dispositions
of these animals. Dr GALL states, that the difference in
their heads was equally conspicuous.
In observing this organ in the lowe(animals, it is neces-
aary to be acquainted with the osteology of their skulls, to
be able correctly to distinguish its place. In some of them,
the elephant, the sow, &e. the two tables of the skull are
not parallel at this part, and hence the size of the organ in
.them cannot be ascertained, except by dissection. In the
bull and cow, the inner table is separated to some distance
from the extemal table, but the two tables are parallel in
the region of this organ, and on this account its size may
be judged of during life. The same is the case, says Dr
GALL, with the cat •.
" There are examples," says Dr SPURZHEIM, "on record,
• Bur let Fonctions du Cerveau, tome v. p. 327.
Digitized by Google
272 BENEVOLENCE.
where animals have shewn high degrees of bene,•olence to
others, and even to man. A respectable family in Paris
told me, that they bad a horse and a cow living together in
the same stable ; that the horse several times got untied,
went to the comer where the sack of oats stood, and drew
it in his teeth near the cow; probably to make her partake
of the good cheer. Many dogs also exhibit the same feel-
ing. DuPONT DE NEMOURS saw a swallow caught by one
foot in the noose of a pack-thread, attached to the roof of
the French Institute at Paris. The prisoner screamed, and
attracted all the swallows of the neighbourhood. After a
long and tumultuous consultatiou, a great »umber formed
a line, one after another, darted at the pack-thread with
their bills, ud in half an hour delivered the captive •."
Some incidents of a similar uature have happened in this
country. Dr MILLAR favoured me with the fGllowing
statement~-" The ReYerend Dr WooRow, late of Steven-
ston in Ayrshire, when clergyman of Dunlop, a parish in
the same county, narrates a curious fact, concerning swal-
lows, in a letter to his relative, Mrs THOMSON of Edin-
burgh."-" At Dunlop manse, says he, in a very dry sum-
mer, one of their nests, attached to 'he comer of the par-·
lour window, fell down, and lay Gn the window-sill, with-
out any damage done either to the nest or its helpless inha-
bitants, four or five young ones. It was a few minutes be-
fore breakfast, when I observed the accident; and soon af-
ter it happened, I went out and carefully placed it on the
top of a cut hedge, and I waited to see the event. It was
pleasant to see the young ones fed at proper intervals, and,
at the Sam.e time, a great number of other swallows jointly
and busily employed, in a warm summer morning, in
building a new nest in the same place with the former ;
some of them bringing clay, straws, &c.: others making
use of these materials; others dipping tl1emselves into an
open well, and plashing the walls of the nest, and all of
them cheering one another to the useful work. In two
• Phrenology, p. 118.
Digitized by Google
BENEVOLENCE.
hours the new nest was completely finished, and then the
young ones were carried through the air under the wings
of one, sometimes two, old swallows, and safely placed in
their lodging; after which the noise and cheering of the
troop ceased." Dr PooLE also stated to me, that a cat hav-
ing seized a young sparrow, a flock of these birds perceiv-
ing it, attacked the cat, fastened on its back, pecked and
flapped till they made it let go its hold, and rescued the in-
tended victim. This happened in a garden behind St John
Street, Edinburgh, and was witnessed by a neighbour of
Dr PooLE's, who communicated the circumstance to him.
Dogs also are known to precipitate themselves into the wa-
ter, to eave persons in danger of being drowned; and they
attack with fury assassins who a1188il their masters.
I have mentioned before, that stimulating liquors, by ex-
citing the or~ give energy to the feelings or propensi-
ties which depend on them for the means of manifestation.
Some individuals become excessively profuse when intoxi-
cated. They would then give the world away; or, if they
had the power, they would create a new one, in which
every individual should enjoy infinite happiness. On the
principle, that intoxication can never create any feeling,
I am inclined to think that such persons have naturally a
large endowment of Benevolence, the organ of which is
stimulated to this great activity by strongpotations. This,
however, is only a conjecture.
This organ is liable to excessive excitement by disease.
Dr GALL mentions the case of a hU88ar, who had always
manifestedgreat benevolence of disposition, and subsequent-
ly became insane. He gave away all his clothes, and left
himself absolutely naked ; he never ceased repeating that
he wished to make every one happy, and he introduced into
all his projects of beneficence the Holy Trinity. In his
head the organs of Benevolence and Veneration were ex-
tremely developed. Idiots in whom this organ is largely
developed are good-natured and h~ess; while those in
s
Digitized by Google
•
BENEVOLENCE.
whom it is small, if Destructiveness be large, are mischie-
vous and wicked.
The ~tch metaphysicians in general admit the existence
of this sentiment, but HoBBEs, and many other metaphy-
sical writers, who re~~~olve all our actions into selfishness,
deny it. Dr THoMAS BaoWN succeafully and beautifully
answers the objection, that we are selfish even in our feel-
ings of good-will. " The analysis of Love," says he, "as
a complex feeling, presents to us always two elements ; a
vivid delight in the contemplation of the object, and a de-
sire of good to that object. Though we eannot, then, when
there is no interfering passion, think of Lhe virtues of others
?£'itlwutpleuure, and mut therefore, in loving virtue, •
wluzt is bg its own nal'Nre pleasing, the love of tlte virtve wltich
camwt eziRt witlwtd tAe pleaattre, is surely an afFection very
different from the love of the mere pleasure existing, if it
had been possible for it to exist, toithout tAe virhte,-a plea-
sure that accompanies the virtue only, as the soft or brilli-
ant colouring of nature flows from the great orb above,-a
gentle radiance that is delightful to our eyes, indeed, and to
our heart, but which leads our eye upward to the splendid
source from which it floWll, and our heart still higher, to
that Being by whom the sun was made •."
14.-VENERATION.
THis organ is situated at tho middle of the coronal as-
pect of the brain, at the bregma or fontanel of anatomists.
Tlte figures represent it large and small.
Skull in Dr GALL'e Collection.
\·m=llon larg~. Bene,-olencc
and l'lrmmu dclklent.
• Lecture .;a.
Dr BETTE.
Digitized by Google
VENERATION. 275
Dr GALL giveR the following account of the discovery of
this organ. His father's family consisted of ten children,
who all received the same education, but their talents and
dispositions were very dissimilar. One of his brothers ma-
nifested from infancy a strong tendency towards religion.
" Ses jouets etaient des .vases d'eglise qu'il sculptoit lui-
meme, des chasubles et des 8Ul'plis qu'il faiaait avec du pa-
pier." He was constantly engaged in prayer, and in Raying
m.a&l, and when obliged to be absent from church, he spent
his time in ornamenting and gilding a cntcifix of wood.
His father had intended him for a merchant, but he himself
disliked that occupation, because, said he, it ellfO&ed him to
the neeeaity of lying. At the age of twenty-three years
he abandoned merchandise; and having lost all hope of be-
ing then able to pursue the studies requisite for the Church,
he fted from his fathers house and became a hermit. His
father then allowed him to study ; at the en.l el five years
be took orders, and continued, till the period o{ his death,
to live in the exerei.le of devotion and the practice of pe-
aa:aoe.
Dr GALL farther remarked, that, in schools, some of the
childreu. took no interest in religious instruction, whilst
others reeeived it with avidity ; also, that th01e individuals
in the classes, who voluntarily devoted themselves to the
Church, were either studious, pious, virtuous, and booour-
able young men, or idlers of the worst description, indolent,
and totally destitute of talent. The Jatter, he observes, ob-
'rieusly had no other aim than that of living at the expense
of their fellow citizens ; while the former felt a lively in-
terest. in the vocation to which they aspired. This com-
mendaW.e feeling sprung.up in them, eays be, nobody knew
how, and it eertainly was not attributable to example or
education, or the circu~n&tances in which they had been
placed ; for many of them had embraced the profession of
the Church, even contrary to the intention of their parents
and guardians. These facts convinced him that the dispo-
sition to religion is innate.
s 2
Digitized by Google
VENERATION.
At a later period, no sooner bad be fixed his attention on
some of the primitive qualities of mind, than he recollected
these observations made in his youth, and imnrediately exa-
mined the heads of persons eminent for devotion. He vi-
sited the churches of every sect, and particularly observed
the l1eads of individuals who pray~d with the greatest fer-
vour, or who were the most completely absorbed in their
religious contemplations. The result was the cstab1ish-
ment of the part of the brain in (}Uestion as the organ of
Veneration.
Catholic countries afford particularly favourable opportu-
nities for s'lCh observations. Dr BRIGHT, a traveller in
Lower Hungary, informs us, that, in Vienna, " The
churches are almost constantly open, and enter them when
you will, servants, who have been eent on errands, are seen
kneeling before the altars or the images, with their baskets
or parcels by their sid~. Thus prayer, by its frequency,
becomes a habit and recreRtion, rather than the perfor-
mance of a duty ; and I have often been truly astonished
to observe, in the coldest weather, little children, when far
from the restraints of their parents, fall down upon their
knees before the images which adorn many of the comers
of the streets and passages in Vienna, and there remain
fixed for severkl minutes, as in serious devotion•." I have
observed similar facts in Catholic cities on the Continent.
The function of the faculty is to produce the sentiment
of Veneration in general ; or an emotion of profound and
reverential respect, on perceiving an object at once great
and good. It is the source of natural religion, and of that
tendency to worship a superior power, which manifests it-
self in every nation yet discovered. The faculty, however,
produces merely an emotion, and does not form ideas of the
object to which it ought to be directed ; and hence, ifno re-
velation have reacl1ed the individual, and if the under-
standing be extremely Jimited, the unforttmate being may
• Pages 4S, 44.
Digitized by Google
VENEUATION. 277
worship the genius of the storm, the sun, as the source of
light, beat, and vegetable life; or, if more debased in intel-
lect, he mily worsllip brutes, and stocks, and stones;
"Lo ! the poor Indian, whose untutored mind,
"Sees God in clouds, or hears him In the wind."
Tho organ is large in Negrees,. and also in MARY MAc-
INNJts, wl10 was extremely prone to.superstition.
It has been objected, that, if an organ and faculty of Ve-
neration exist, revelation was unnecessary. But Dr GALL
has weU answered, that tho proposition ought to be exactly
reversed, fol' unless a natural capacity of feeling religious .
emotion had been .previously bestowed, revelation would
have been as unavailing to man as it would be to the lower
animals ; while, i£~ a. mere general feeling o£ devotion, or
an instmctive but blind tendency to worship, which Vone-
ration truly. is, was given, nothing was more reasonable
than to add instruction how it ought to be directed. Dr
GALL observes, farther, t.ltat the existence of the organ is an
indirect proof of the existence of GoD. Destructiveness is
implanted in the mind, and animals exist around us to be
killed for our nourishment : Adhesiveness and Philopro-
genitivenesa are given, and friends and children are pro-
vided as objects on whom they. JnaY .be. exercised : Benevo-
lence is conferred.on ns, and the poor and unhappy, on
whom lt may shed its soft infiuence, are everywhere pre-
sent with ua; in like manner, the instinctive tendency to
worship is implanted in the mind, and, confonnably to
these analogies of nature, we Jnay reasonably infer that a
GoD exists whom we Jnay adore.
The organ is possessed by all men~ but in different de-
grees by different persons : and, on the principle, that the
natural power of experiencing an emotion bears a propor-
tion to the size of its organ, every sane individual will
be naturally capable of joining in religious worship; but
the glow of devotional feeling experienced by each, will
be greater or less in intensity, according to the develol)-
ment of this part of his brain. The difference in the feel-
Digitized by Google
278 VENERATION.
ing is certain, independently of PJ1renology, so that this
science only re,·eals the relation between ita intensity and
the size of the organ.
The organ is large in King RoBERT BRuCE, who, it is
mentioned in History, was strongly alive to religious feel-
ings, and ordered his heart to be carried to the Holy Land,
because he had not been able to fulfil a vow to visit it in pE'r·
son. It is large also in RAPHAEL, and the subjects which
chiefly occupied his pencil were connected with devotion
and the Church.
Dr GALL mentions, that, in the portraits of Saints re-
markable llr devotional feeling, thU. organ is represented
as large, and that the same configuration of bead has been
given by the ancient artists to their High Priests. It is
large in the portraits of CoNSTANTINE, MAacus AuaELIUS,
St AMBROSE, CHARLES I. of England, and MALEBRANCRE.
It is also greatly developed in philosophera and poe&s wi:Jo
are distinguished for piety, 88 in NEWTON, MILTON, and
KLOPSTOCK ; while it is flat in the bead of SPINOSA, who
professed atheism. The aame configuration is found in the
heads of CHRIST, repl'elentcd by RAPHAEL. In these, the
parts behind the ear, or the organs common to man and the
lower animale, are amall ; whereas the organa, situated in
the fo~ehead and in the coronal region, connected with ia-
tellect and the moral sentiments, are very large. This or-
ganization indicates great intellectual penetration, with
exalted Benevolence and Vt!llleration. Dr GALL pu&s the
question, Has this dhine form of head been invented, or
may we presume that it is a faithful eopy of the original ?
It is possible, &a)'II he, that the artists may have imitated
the beads of the most virtuous, just, and benevolent men
whom they eoald fiiNI, and thence drawn the character of
the head of CnRIST. In this case, the observation of the
artists coincides with that of Dr GALL,--a circumstance
which either suppoees a kind of presentiment of Organo'Wgy
on their part, or aD. accuracy of observation scarcely ad-
Digitized by Google
VENERATION. 279
missible. He considers it more probable, that the general
type, at )east, of the head of CHRIST bas been transmitted
to us. St LuKE was a painter, and how should he fail to
preserve the features of his Master? It is certain that this
form of the head of CHRIST is ofa very high antiquity. It
is found in the most ancient pictures and specimens of
mosaic work. The Gnostiea of the eeeood century poe-
eessed images of CaaiST and of St PAUL; hence Dr GALL
concludes, that neither RaPHAEL nor any other artist has
invented this admirable configuration •.
The metaphysicians in general do not admit Veneration
as an original emotion ; they traee the belief in GoD to the
perceptions of the understanding. We perceive order,
beauty, power, wisdom, harmony, in the works of Creation,
and infer from these qualities that a supreme creating and
directing Mind exists. In this view the phrenologists con-
cur: the understanding, however, only perceives facts and
draws infuences, but does not feel emotions; and, there-
fore, after th.ia deduction was completed, it would experi-
ence no tendency to adore the GoD whom it had discovered.
Now, in point of faet, the tendency to worship is a stronger
principle than the understanding itself; for the most igno-
rant and stupid are prone to venerate, while their intellects
are incapable of directing them to an object worthy of their
homage. Under the in8uence of a blind Veneration, men
cut branches from trees, and fall down and worship them ;
or they adore monsters and reptiles as deities,-faets which
were utterly inexplicable, till Phrenology pointed out an
instinctive tendency to venerate, altogether apart from un-
derstanding. This tendency is producetl by the faculty in
qnestion, and it is a great omission of the old philosophers,
that no such power is to be found in their systeiO&.
Hitherto we have considered Veneration only when di-
rected to religion, which is undoubtedly its noblest end;
• Sur les Fonc:tiona duCerveau, tome v. p. 380. See also a Brief Notice
ofsome ..\ncit!nt Coins and Medals, as illustrating the Progreu of Chris-
U:mity, by the Rev. n. wALIH, LL D. Chaplain to the Embassy at
Constanlinoplc.
Digitized by Google
280 VENERATION.
but it has also many other objects, and a wide sphere of
activity, in the present world. It produces the f~cling of
deference and respect in general ; and hence may be di-
rected to every object that seems worthy of such regard.
In children, it is a chief ingredient in filial piety, and
produces that soft and almost holy reverence with which a
ehild looks up to his parent as the author of his days, the
protector of his infancy, and the guide of his youth. A
child in whom this organ is small, may, if Benevolence and
Adhesiveness be large, entertain great affection for his pa-
l'ent as a friend ; but, in his habitual intercourse, there will
be little of that deferential respect which is the grand fea-
ture of the mind, when the organ is large. Children who
are prone to rebellion, littlo·attentive to command, andre-
gardless of authority, will generally be found to have Self-
Esteem large, and this organ proportionally deficient.
Veneration leads to .d«fe~cnce f~~-~~.£Cri~rs in rank as
well as in years ; and prompts to tho reverence of authority.
This organ is generally largely dev~loped-fn"ilic~A~iatic
head, and the tendency to obedience is strong in the peo-
ple of that quarter of the globe. Indeed, the hereditary
slavery which has descended among them through so many
generations, may be connected with the prevalence of this
disposition.
A lady who is in the habit of examining the heads of
servants before hiring tbem, told me, that she has found,
by experience, that tbose in wbom Veneration is large, are
the m9st deferential and obedient ; and that one with large
Combativeness and Destructiveness, and small Veneration,
became angry and abusive, when her conduct was censured.
This occurred, even although Love of Approbation and Con-
scientiousness were both large; but the passion speedily
subsided, and was followed by self-reproach and repentance.
If Veneration also had been large, it would have produced
that instinctive feeling of respect, which would have ope-
rated as instantaneously liS Combath·en<'t>il and Dcl'ltrnrtive-
n<'s,_, and re!:'fraincd th<' clmllitiom.
o,9;tizedbyGoogle_
VENERATION. ~81
Veneration may also produce respect for titles, rank and
power; for a long line of ancestry, or mere wealth ; and it
frequently manifests itself in one or other of these forms,
when it does not appear in religious fervour. Individuals
in whom Love of Approbation and Veneration are very
large, and Conscientiousness and inteJleet not in proportion,
venerate persons of higher rank than their own, and arc
fond of their society. Persons of rank, who do not possess
high virtues or talents, are fondest of the society of those
in whom this combination occurs. It inspires its possessor
with an habitual deference towards them, which is felt as a
constant homage. · On occasion of King George the Fourth's
visit'to Scotland in 1822, some individuals experienced the
profoundest emotion of awe anh respect on beholding him;
while others were not conscious of any similar excitement,
but were surprised at what appeared to them to be the ex-
aggerated enthusiasm of the first. I examined the head-1
of several of both.classes, and, in the former, found the or-
gan of,Veneration uniformly larger, in proportion to the
other organs, than in the latter.
This faculty is likewise the source of the profound awe
which some persons feel in visiting ancient temples, gothic
cathedrals, and places of sepulture for the illustrious dead.
It gives reverence for church-yards, and other burial-places
of our ancestors. A person in whom it is small experi-
ences a feeble influence, even from Westminster Abbey
and the monuments of departed genius there prest>rved.
This sentiment is one ingredient in the tendency to anti-
quarianism, and the love of old coins.
Veneration, like other powers, is liable to abuse. When
not subjected to the guidance of Reflection and Conscien-
tiousness, it produces a bigoted respect for old customs and
absurd institutions, if only sanctified by time ; and a blind
tendency to admire the wisdom of our ancestors, beyond its
real worth. It gives reverence for great names and autho-
rities in religion and philosophy, and thus often presents a
strong obstacle to the progress of truth. This kind of Ve-
Digitized by Google
28i VENERATION.
neration maintains every unenlightened devotee in a state
of bigoted subjection to his priests: an emotion of profound
and sanctified respecl springs up in his mind on contem-
plating the doctrines which they have instilled into him in
his youth, and every suggestion of the understanding, in op-
position to UU. feeling, is expelled as profane. In short,
Veneration, when vigorous and blind, produces complete
prostration of the will and the intellect to the object to
whom it is directed; and, even in our own country, it
frequently holds back the march of improYement. The
Holy Allies were bent upon cultivating this sentiment to
the highetn posaible degree in their subjects, and prostra-
ting reason ; they encouraged monks, processions, and su-
perstitious observances, while they bai;Uahed philosophers
and excluded works of science. If it had been posaible to
succeed, these Sovereigns would have rendered their people
blind worshippers of their own power, and trained them
to bow in humble subserviency to their will. The Spaniards
are a noble people, but, while their intellects have beeR
ehackled for many centuri~ Veneration hasbeen cultivated
to an extravagant height, &nd misdirected, in consequence
of which they have fallen intoa benighted and superstitious
condition.
This faculty, when unenlightened, produces every kind
of superstition, as worshipping beaets, ud stoob aad
etones. The Negroes, Indians, and even the Hindooe, have
a poor intellectual development, compared with Europeans,
and tbeir superstitions are more gross. SocRATEs did not
participate in the absurd superstitions of Greece, and in the
ueient busts of him, he is represented with a splendid
forehead •.
Defect of Veneration does not produce profanity, but
only indift'erence to religious sentiments, and little reve-
rence for power and aneestry. I have found Veneration
large in the head of the genuine Tory,-in him who really
delights in contemplating kings and nobles, and regards
• A copy ofhis bu~t will be found ill the Phrenological HalL
Digitized by Google
VENERATION. 288
them as invested with a degree of sanctity by a long line of
descent, and the pouession of hereditary authority. ID the
genuine Whig or republican, who &eea in kings and nobles
only men liable to all the frailties of human uature, and re-
quiring checks to prevent ~hem from abusing power, Vene-
ration is generally smaller, ia proportion to their intellec-
tual endowment. When Veneration, Self-Esteem, Consci-
entiousness, and Intellect, are all well developed, t~ indi-
viduals are moderate whigs or moderate tories, and readily
approximate in their sentiments. They ought to exercise
mutoal forbearance ; their di«erent feelings being the re-
sult of different natural constitutions. These observations
are limited to genuine tories and genuine whigs, for a man
may profess toryism through love of place, and whiggery
through mere factiousness, and in aueh eases other organs
will predominate.
As uature baa implanted the organ of Veneration in the
brain, and the corresponding sentiment in the mind, it is a
groundle&B terror to apprehend that religion can ever be
extinguished, or even endangered, by the arguments or ri-
dicule of the profane. Forma of worship may change, and
partieular reJigioua tenets may now be fashionable, and
aubaequently fall into decay; but while the human heart
eontinuea to beat, awe and veoeratioa for the Divine Being
will ever animate the soul; U.e wenhipper will cease to
Jmeel, and the hymn of adoratioll to rille, only when the race
of man becomes ext.inet.
The natural language of this faculty carries the.head up- .
warda ·1n· the direetion of the organ. The voice is soft,
subdued, reposing, and adoring. The greatest dllFerence is
percep~le in the tones and ID8DDer of prayer of clergymen
in whom U.e organ is large, compared with thoae in whom
it is small ; there is a soft breathing fervour of devotion in
the former, and a cold reuoning formality in the latter. I
have found the organ uniformly large in clergymen who
eeleeted the Church from natural liking, and not merely as
a means of subeisteuec.
Digitized by Google
·VENERATION.
The organ is generally larger in the female head than in
the male ; and women are more prone to devotion.
Dr GALL treats of _
this sentiment as producing religious
feeling alone; and to Dr SPURZHEIM is due the merit of
analyzing it, and treating it as the sourceof the emotion of
reverence and respect in generat
Nothing is more common in the hospitals for the insane,
says PINEL, than cases of alienation, produced by devo·
tiona! feelings excessively exalted; by conscientious scruples
carried to prejudicial excess, or by religious terror. As
this kind of insanity, says Dr·GALL, is often present wit~
out derangement of the other faculties, physicians ought to
have inferred that it is connected with disease of a parti-
cular part of the brain. He and Dr SPURZHEIM saw, in
the hospital of Amsterdam; a patient who was tormented
with the idea that he was compelled t6 sin, and that be
could not possibly be saved. In him the organ of Venera-
tion was very largely developed. In a priest, who de-
spaired of salvation, and in another patient, who had the
confirmed idea that he was condemned to eternal punish-
ment, the organ was also very large. A woman, named
ELIZABETH LINDEMANN, was brought to Dr GALL. At the
first glance he perceived that she possessed this organ in rui
extraordinary degree ; she continued standing before him,
lifting her eyes from time to time to Heaven, and indicat-
ing, by all her gestures, sadness and anguish. From her
youth, she had been excessively addicted to prayer. For
some time previous to tlie interview with Dr· GALL, she
" bad been subject to convulsions, and maintained that she
was possessed; the devil, she 'said, entered into her heart
by her mouth, and made efforts to carry her· to hell." Dr
GALL mentions also, that he bad seen, in the collection of
M. EsQUIROL, casts of the beads of three persons subjectto
religious insanity. In all the three the ·organ of Venera-
tion was largely· developed. If, says GALL, M. EsQUIROL
continues for some time to mould the beads of the insane
and to preserve their skulls, he will not fail to become one
of the most zealous and enlightened disciples of Organolo-
Digitized by Google
}'IRMNESS.
gy. EsQtfiRol. very justly remarks on this subject, that
although a particular sermon has often been blamed for
producing this species of insanity, yet it would not have
had that effect, unleBB there had been a predisposition to
tl•e disease, probably a pre-existence of it, in the indi-
vidual. In Dublin, I saw patients insane from Veneration.
The organ is established.
15. FIRMNESS.
Tors organ is situated at the posterior part of the coro-
nal region of the head, close upon the middle line.
Dr GALL observed, that persons of a firm and constant
character have this part of the brain much developed ; and
LAVATER had previously distinguished the same configura-
tion, in concomitance with that kind of disposition. It is
difficult to determine, by analysis, the ultimate principle of
this faculty. Dr GALL remarks, that, properly speaking,
F'mnness is neither an inclination nor a faculty; " c'eat tme
maniere d'ttre qui donne af lwm'!ne une empreinte particuliere
que IJ>'n appelle le caractere; he who is deficient in it," says
Jae, " is the sport of external circumstances, and of com-
municated impressions." Its effects, says Dr SPURZHEIM,
are mistaken for Will; because those in whom it is large,
are prone to use the phrase " I will," with great emphasis,
which is the natural language of determination ; but this
feeling is different from proper volition. It gives forti-
tude, constancy, persev:erance, determination, and, when
too energetic, produces obstinacy, stubbornness,and infato.a-
tion. It will be found very large in stubborn and uiltract-
able children.
The organs ofSelf-Esteem, Concentrativeness, and Firm-
ness, form a group which has no relation to external ob-
jects ; their influence terminates on the mind itself; and
they add only a quality to the manifestations of the other
2
Digitized by Google
286 FIRMNESS.
powers : thus Finnneu, acting along with Combativeness,
produces determined bravery; with Veneration, sustained
devotion ; and with Conscientiousness, inflexible integrity•
. It gives perseverance, however, in acting only on the
other faculties which are possessed in an available degret>.
· An individual having much FH'1Dn888 and considerable
Tune, may persevere in making music ;-if Tune were
greatly deficient, he would not be disposed to persevere
in that attempt; but if he possessed much Causality, he
might persevere in abetract study. At the same time Dr
GALL justly remarks, that Firmness of character ought not
to be confounded with perseverance in gratification of the
predominating di8positions of the mind. Thus an indivi-
dual, in whom Acquisitiveness is the strongest propensity,
may,although Firmness bedefieient,exhibitunceasingeft'orts
to become rich, but be will be vacillating and unsteady in the
means which he will employ ;-he will to-day be captivated
with one project; to-morrow with another ; and the next
day with a third; whereaa, with Firmness large, he would
adopt the plan which appeared to him most promising, and
steadily pursue it to the end.
When this organ pNldominates, it gives a peeuliar hard-
nees to the maDner, a stiffness and uprightness to the gait,
with a forcible and emphatie tone te the voice.
A due iegree of it is 888elltial to the attainment of emi·
nea.ee in any diilicult punait. Dr GALL observes, that,
whell it i8 Ia~ tlte motto of the indivitlual will be, " ~
ne e«k ntalis, sed COfftra liMfln.ci.tw w.'• It produces the
" ~ ~ mr.'• The organ is larger in the British
tban in the Freaeh, aad tlae latter ue estonished at the de-
termined peraeveranee of tlae fanner, in the prosecution of
their designs, whether these relate to the arts, seienees, or
war. NAPOLEON knew well the weakness of the French
eharacter in this point, and, in his conversations, recorded
by Count LAs CASU, ftoequent1y complains of it. In war,
the effects of this organ are very oonspicuous in the con·
I
Digitized by Google
FIR'MNESS.
duct of the two nations. The Frenclt, under the influence
of a large Combativeness, and moderate Cautiousneas, make
the most liTely and spirited attacks, shouting and cheering
as they advance to the charge; but if steadily resisted,
their ardour abates; and, from deficiency in F~rmness, they
yield readily to adversity. The British, on the other
hand, adTanoe to the assault with cool determination,
arising from great Firmne88, and considerable Cautiousness
and Secretiveness; and although repulsed, they are not dis-
comfited, but preserve presence of mind to execute what-
ever may appear moat advisable in the circumstanceswhich
have occurred.
This faculty contributes greatly to success in any enter-
prise, by communicating the quality of perseverence. Ex-
ha118tion will damp the ardour of the bravest after much
exertion, and hence he who is able to maintain his facul-
ties in a state of vivid application for the greatest length
or time, will at last frequently succeed, by merely weary-
iug out his opponent. Fortitude and patience, also, as dis-
tinguished from active courage, result from this faculty.
The organ is large in the American Indians, and their
powers of endurance appear almost incredible to Euro-
peans. Dr GALL found it very large in a highwayman,
who was exceedingly hardened in crime. He was kept in
cJose confinement for a considerable time, with the view of
forcing him to disclose his accomplices ; but this bad no
efFect, and he was then put to the torture by beating.
Finding this infliction intolerable, be strangled himsel£
with his chain. After his death, the parietal bones were
found separated precisely at the point where the organ of
Firmness is situated. Dr GALL could not determine whe-
ther the separation arose from the violent strangulation,
the excessive energy or the organ, or from accident ; but
reeords the fact, to call attention to similar cases, should
tltey occur iu future. This organ, and that of Destructive-
ness, are very large also in JouN THURTELL, executed for
the murder or WEA~F., nnd he manifested both powerfulJy
Digitized by Google
288 FIRMNESS.
in his conduct. The organ is also very large in King RoBERT
BRuer.; and he was distinguished for unshaken firmness,
in: circumstances in which an ordinary mind would have
been overwhelmed by despair. It is large in HAGGART,
who also manifested determination in crime and constancy
in suffering, in a remarkable degree.
When the organ is small, the individual is prone to yield
to the impulses of his predominating feelings. When Be-
nevolence assumes the sway, he is all kindness; when
Combativeness and Destructiveness are excited, he will be
passionate, outr~us, and violent : and thus afford a spec~
tacle of habitual weakness and inconsistency. If Love of
Approbation and Benevolence be large; and Firmness small,
solicitations will, with great difficulty, be resisted.. The
organ is very small in the cast of Mrs H., and she mani~
fested much unsteadiness of purpose.
The figures introduced on p. 299. represent this organ
large and small.
I am not aware that the metaphysicians admit any fa-
culty corresponding to this sentiment. It exercises a great
influence in forming the character, and its omission is very
important in any system of mental philosophy.
The effects of disease of the organ seem not to have been
observed. We may infer, that they will be the exaltation
of the function, namely, extreme stubbornness and infatua·
tion.
This organ is regarded as established.
16. CONSCIENTIOUSNESS,
THIS organ is situated on the posterior and lateral parts
of the coronal region of the brain, upwards from Cautious-
ness, and backwards from Hope. In Dr GALL's Plates,
the function is marked as unascertained, and the discovery
and establishment of the organ are due to Dr SPURZHEIM.
The dispute among philosophers about the existence of
Digitized by Google
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 289
a moral faculty in the human mind, ill of very ancient stand-
ing, and it has been conducted with great eagerness since
the publication of the writings of HoBBES in the middle of
the seventeenth century. This author taught, "that we
approve of virtuous actions, or of actions beneficial to socie-
ty, from self-love; because we know, that whatever pro-
motes the interest of society, has, on that very account, an
indirect tendency to promote our own." He farther taught,
that, " aa it is to the institution of government we are in-
debted for all the comforts and confideiC of social life, the
lawa which the civil magistrate enjoins are the ultimate
atandards of morality •."
CUDWORTH, in opposition to HoBBES, endeavoured to
shew that the origin of our notions of right and wrong is
to be found in a particular power of the mind, which dis-
tinguishes truth from falsehood.
MANDEVILLE, who published in the beginning of the last
oentury, maintained, aa his theory of morals, That by
nature man is utterly selfislt ; that among other desires
which be likes to gratify, he ltas received a strong appetite
for praise; that the founders of society, availing themselves
of this propensity, instituted the custom of dealing out a
certain·measure of applause for each sacrifice made by sel-
fishness to the public good, and calJed the sacrifice Vtrtue.
" Men are led, accordingly, to purchase this praise by a fair
barter;" and "the moral virtues," to use MANDEVILLE's
strong expression, are, " the political ojfapring which .flot-
let'J begot npon ~" And hence, when we see ?Jirlue,
we see only the indulgence of some selfish feeling, or the
compromise ·for this indulgence, in expectation of some
praise t·"
Dr CLARKE, on the other hand, supposes virtue " to con-
sist in the regulation of our conduct, according to certain
jitMuu which we perceive in things, or a peculiar congrui-
ty of certain relations to each other;" and WoLLASTON,
,.
• ITEIUBT's Outlines, p. 128.
t Fable of the Bees,voL 1. p. 28.30. Ovo. London, 1728; and B•owx's
Lec:turea, vol. iv. p. 4.
T
Digitized by Google
290 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
whose viewa are essentially the same, " su~ virtue to
consist in ading according to the trvtA oftking1, in treating
objects according to their real cAaracter, and not according
to a character or properties which they truly han not •."
Mr HuME, it is well known, wrote an elaborate treatise,
to prove, " that utility is the constituent or m888Ul'e of
virtue :" In short, to use the emphatic language of Dr
SMITH, " that we have no otAer reason for praising a man,
than that for which we commend a chest of drawers t·"
There is another system" which makes the vtility accord-
ing to which we measure virtue, in every case our own in-
dividual advantage. Virtue, according to this system, ia
the mere search of pleasure, or of personal gratification. It
gives up cnte pleasure, indeed, but it gives it up for a gr«*r.
It sacrifices a present enjoyment ; but it sacrifices it only to
obtain some enjoyment, which, in intensity and duration, ia
fairly worth the sacrilice." Hence, in every instance in
which an individual seems to pursue the good of others, u
good, he seeks his own personal gratification, and nothing
eleet.
Dr HuTCHESON, on the other hand, strenuously maintain•
the existence of a moral sense, on which our perceptions of
virtue are founded, independently of all other considera-
tions.
Dr PALEY, the most popular of all authors on moral
philosophy, does not admit a natural sentiment of justice as
the foundation of virtue, but is also an adherent of the sel-
fish system, under a modified form. He makes virtue con-
sist in " the doing good to mankind, in obedience to the
will ofGod, andfor the sok ofeverlasting happi:nus II·" Ac-
cording to this doctrine, " the will of God is our rule, but
private happiness our motive," which is·just selfishDess in
another form.
Dr ADAM SMITH, in his Theory of Moral Sentiments,
endeavours to shew, that the standard of moral approba·
tion is sympathy on the part of the impartial spectator,
• Baow11'a Lectures, vol. lv. p. 17.
~ Lib. cit. p. 64.
t Lib. cit. p. 32.
II Lib. cit. vol. iv. p. 100, 101.
Digitized by Google
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 291
with the action and object of the party whose conduct is
judged of.
Dr REID and Mr STEWART maintain the existence of a
faculty in man, which produces the sentiment of right and
wrong, independently of any other consideration.
These disputes are as far from being terminated among
metaphysicians at present, RB they were a century ago ;
a late writer on the subject, the Author of the article
Moral Philosophy in the Edinburgh Encyclopledia, dis-
putes the existence of a moral sense, and founds virtue upon
religion and utility.
I have introduced this sketch of confficting theories, to
convey some idea of the boon which Phrenology would con-
fer upon moral science, if it could fix, on a firm basis, this
single point in the philosophy of mind, That a power or fa-
eulty exiatll, the object of which is to produce the sentiment
ofjustice or the feeling of moral duty and obligation, inde-
pendently of selfishness, hope of reward, fear of punishment
or any extrinsic motive ; a faculty, in short, the natural
language of which is "Fiat justitia, ruat crelum." Phreno-
logy does this by a demonstration, founded on numerous
observations, that those persons who have the organ now
under consideration large, experience powerfully the senti-
ment of justice, while those who have that part small, are
little alive to this emotion. This evidence is the same in
kind as that adduced in support of the conclusions of phy-
sical science.
The faculty produces the feeling of obligation, incumben-
cy, right and wrong, for which we have no single definite
expression in the English language; just as Ideality pro-
duces the sentiment of Beauty. Justice is the result of this
sentiment, acting in combination with the intellectual
powers. The latter investigate the motives and consequen-
ces of actions; but, after having done so, they, of them-
~elves, experience no emotions. In surveying human con-
duct, however, as soon as the intellect has thoroughly pe-
netrated into the springs from which it proceeds, a feeling
T 2
Digitized by Google
292 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
of decicW approvalor condemnation, distiact from all other
sentiments, and from pure intellection, arises in the mind;
and this is produced by the faculty of Conscientiousness.
This faculty is of the very highest importance 88 a regu-
lator of all the others. If Combativeness be too active, Con-
scientiousness prescribes a limit to its indulgence; it permits
defence, but no malicious aggression: if Acquisitiveness
urge too keenly, it reminds us of the rights of othen: if
Benevolence tend towards profusion, this faculty issues the
admonition, Be just before you are generous : if Ideality
aspire to its high delights, when duty requires laborious
exertions in a bumble sphere, Conscientiousness supplies the
curb, and bids the soaring spirit stoop its wing.
Nay, not only does it operate 88 a curb upon our too ac-
tive desires, but as a spur to excite the faculties, when too
feeble in their energy. If Benevolence be weak, Conscien-
tiousness proclaims, in a voice of authority, that it is our
DUTY to relieve the miserable ;-if Acquisitiveness be too
feeble to prompt to industry, this sentiment calls aloud on
us to labour, that we may do justice to those around us.
From this regulating quality Conscientiousness is an im-
portant element in constituting a practical judgment and
an upright and consistent character.
When this faculty is powerful, the individual is disposed
to regulate his cotaduct by the nicest sentiments ofjustice :
there is an earnestness, integrity, and directness in laia man-
ner, which inspire us with confidence, and give us con-
viction of his sincerity. Such an individual desires to act
.justly from the love ofjustice, unbiassed by fear, interest,
or any sinister motive.
The activity of this faculty takes a wider range than re-
spect merely to the legal rights and property of others. It
prompts those in whom it is strong, to do justice in judging
of the conduct, the opinions, and the talents of others.
Such persons are scrupulous, and as ready to condemn
themselves as to find fault with others. When predomi-
nant, it leads to punctuality in keeping appointments, be-
Digitized by Google
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
eause it is injustice to sacrifice the time and convenience of
ethers, by causing them to wait till our selfishuesa finds it
agreeable to meet them. It prompts to ready payment of
debts, 88 a piece of justice to those to whom they are due.
It will not permit even a tax-collector to be sent away un-
satisfied, from any cause except inability to pay ; because
it is injustice to him, 88 it is to clerks, servants, and all
others, to require tLem to consume their time in unneces-
eary attead.auce, for what is justly due and ought at once
t6 oo paid. It leads also to great reserve in making pro-
mises, but to much punctuality in performing them. It
gives consistency to the conduct, because, when every sen-
timent is regulated by justice, the result is, that "daily
beauty in the life" which renders the .individual in the
highest degree useful and respectable. It communicates a
plt>aSing simplicity to the manners, which commands the.
esteem, and wins the affectiODII, o£ all. well constituted
minda.
A deftciency or·this sentiment produces effects exactly-
opposite. The weakness of the faculty appears in the g..
~aeml sentiments of the individual, although circumstances
may place him beyond reach of temptation to infringe the
law. The predominant propensities and sentiments then
act without this powerful regulator. If Benevolence. and
Adhesiveness attach him to a friend, he is blind to all his
imperfections, and extols him 88 the DUI8t matchlesa of hu-
man beings. If he happen to offend, he becomes a monster
of ingratitude and baseness; he passes in an instant from
an angel to a demon. If Conscientiousness had been large,
be would have been viewed all along 88 a man ; esteem
towards him would have been regulated by principle, and
the offence candidly dealt with. If Love of Approbation be
large, and Conscientiousneas deficient, the former will
prompt to the adoption of every means that will pleue, .
without the least regard to justice and propriety. Ifan in.
dividual have a weak point in his,character, Love of.Appro-
bation.will the11 lead to ~ttering it.; if he have utratl'-
Digitized by Google
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
gant expectations, it will join in all his anticipations ; if he
be displeased with particular persona, it will affect to hate
with his hate, altogether independent ofjustice. In abort,
the individual in whom this faculty is deficient, ia apt to
act and also to judge of the conduct of others, exactly ac-
cording to his predominant sentiments for the time : be ia
friendly when under the impulse of Benevolence ; severe
when Destructiveness predominates ; admires, when his
pride, vanity, or affection, give him a favourable feeling
towards others ; and condemns when his sentiments take an
opposite direction, alwa~ unregulated by principle. He is
not scrupulous, and rarely condemns his own conduct, or
acknowledges himself in the wrong. Minds so constituted
may be amiable, and may display many excellent qualities;
but they are never to be relied on where justice is concern-
ed; 88judges, their decisions are unsound; 88 friends, they are
liable to exact too much and perform too little ; as sellers,
they are prone to misrepresent, adulterate, or overcharge ;
as buyers, to depreciate quality and quantity, or evade
payment.
The laws of honour, as apprehended by some minds, are
founded on an absence of ConscientiousnC8&, with greRt
predominance of self-Esteem and Love of Approbation. If
a gentleman is conscious that be bas unjustly given another
ofFence, it is conceived by many that he will degrade himself
by making an apology; that it is his .duty to fight, but not
to acknowladge himself in fault. This is the feeling pro-
duced by a powerful Self-Esteem and Love of Approbation,
with greRt deficiency of Conscientiousness. Self-Esteem is
mortified by an admission of fallibility, and L~ve of
Approbation gives the feeling that the esteem of the
world will be lost by such an acknowledgment ; and if
no higher sentiment be present, in a sufficient degree, the
wretched victim will go to tbe field and die in support of
~onduct that is truly indefensible. When Conscientious-
ness is strong, the possessor feels it no degradation to ac-
knowledge himself in fault, when he is aware that he is
o;91t1zed by Google
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. 295
wrong; in fact he rises in his own esteem by doing so, and
knows that he acquires the respect of the world; while, if
fully conscious of being in the right, there is none more
inftexible than he.
This sentiment is essential t.o the formation of a truly .
phil0t10phic mind, especially in moral investigations. It
produces the desire of discovering truth, the tact of recog-
nising it when discovered, and that perfect reliance on its
invincible supremacy, which give at once dignity and
peace to the mind. A person in whom it is deficient, views
all propositions as mere opinie)ns ; esteems them exactly as
lhey are fashionable or the reverse, and cares nothing about
the evidence on which they rest. Love of Approbation
and Secretiveness, joined with thia sentiment deficient,
lead to paradox ; and if Combativeness be added, there
will be a tendency to general scepticism, and the denial
or disputation of the best-established truths on every seri-
oua subject.
No sentiment is more iacomprehensibJe to those in whom
the organ is small, than ·Conscientiousness. . They are able
to understand conduct, proceeding from ambition, self-in-
terest, revenge, or any other motive; but that determina-
tion of soul, which suffers obloquy and reproach, nay death
iteelf, from the pure and disinterested love of truth, is to
them utterly unintelligible. They regard it as a species of
insanity, and look on the individual as "essentially mad,
withoul knowing it." Madame DE STAEL narrates of
BuoNAPARTE, that be never was so completely at fault, in
hia estimate of character, as when be met with opposition
from a person actuated by the pure principle of integrity
alone. He did not comprehend the motives of such a man,
and could.not imagine how he might be managed. The
maxim, that "every man has his price," will pass 88 pro- '
foondly discriminative with those in whom Acquisitiveness
or Love of Approbation is very large, and Conscientious-
Dell moderate; but there are minds whose deviation from
t
the paths of rectitude no price could purchase, and no ho-
Digitized by Google
i96 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
nours procure ; and those in whom Conscientiousness;
Firmness, and Reflection, arc large, will give an instinc-
tive assent to the truth of this proposition.
I have observed that individuals, in whom Love of Ap-
. probation was large, and Conscientiousness not in equal
proportion, were incapable of conceiving the motive which
could lead any one to avow a belief in Phrenology, while
the tide of ridicule ran unstemmed against it. If the pub·
Jic opinion should change, such persons would move fore-
most in the train of its admirers : They instinctively fol-
low the doctrines that are most esteemed from day to day ;
and require our pity and forbearance, as their conduct pro-
ceeds from a great moral deficiency, which is their misfor-
tune rather than their fault. The fact that this organ is
occasionally deficient in individuals in whom. the organs of
intellect are amply developed, and the animal propensities
strong, accounts for the unprincipled basene&H and moral
depravity exhibited by some men of unquestionable talents.
It is here, as in other cases, of the greatest importance
to attend to the distinct functions of the several faculties of
the mind. No mistake is more generally committed than
that of conceiving, that, by exercising the faeulty of Vene-
ration, we cultivate those of Benevolence and Justice; but
if Vcneration be large, and Conscientiousness small, a man
may be naturally disposed to piety and not to justice ; or if
the combination be reversed, he may be just and not pious,
in the same manner as he may be blind and no' deaf, or
deaf and not blind. Deficiency of Veneration does not ne-
cessarily imply profanity ; so thai, although an individual
will scarcely be found who is profane and at the same time
just, yet many will be found who are just and not pious,
and vice versa. :
This faculty, when powerful, is attended with a senti-
ment of its own paramount authority O\'er every other, and
it gives its impulses with a tone which appears like the
voice of Heaven. Thcscenein "The Heart ofMid-Lothian,,
in which Jcany Deans is represented giving evidence on
Digitized by Google
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. i97
her sister's trial at the bar of the High Court of Justiciary,
affi>rds a striking illustration of ita functions and authority
when supported by piety. A strong sense of the imperious
dictates of Conscientiousness, and of the supreme obliga-
tion of truth, leads her to sacrifice every interest and aft'e()6
tion which could make the mind swerve from the paths of
duty; and we perceive her holding by her integrity, at the
expense of every other feeling dear to human nature.
Repentance, remorse, a sense of guilt, and demerit, are
the consequences of this faculty, when the actions have
been in opposition to its dictates. It is a mistake, howeTer,
to suppose, that great criminals are punished_by the accu-
sations of conscience ; for this organ is generally very defi-
eient in men who have devoted their lives to crime, and,
in consequence, they are strangers to the sentiment of re-
morse. HAGGART felt regret for having murdered the jailor
of Dumfries, but no remorse for his thefts. His large Be-
nevolence induced the uneasy feeling on account of the
first crime, and his small Conscientiousness was the cause
of his indift'erence to the second. If Conscientiousness had
been strong, he could not have endQred the sense of the ae-
cumulatcd iniquities with which his life was stained. In
BELLINGHAM, both Benevolence and Conscientiousness are
small, and he manifested equal in8ensibillty to justice and
mercy, and testified no repentance or remorse.
· Dr GALL did not admit a faculty and organ of Coucien•
tioomees. He formerly considered remorse as the reeult of
the opposition of particular actions to the predominant dia-
poeitions of the individual; and, according to him, there
were as many consciences as faculties : for example, if a
person, in wJaom Benevolence was large, injured another,
this faculty would be grieved ; and this feeling he consi-
dered to be regret or repentance. If a usurer or a liber-
tine neglected an opportunity, they would repent, the first
for not having gratified Acquisitiveness, the latter for not
having seduced some innocent victim. Dr GALL called this
natll1'al corwcience, and said, that we could not tmat to it;
Digitized by Google
298 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
and hence, that lawt and poeitive institutiona became ne-
ceeaary. Dr 8PURZHEIM anawered this argument in an
able manner, and shewed that the mere feeling of regret is
totallydiJI'erent from that ofremone. We mayregrettbatwe
loet a pair of gloves, or spent half-a-crown; but this feeling
bean no resemblance to the upbraidiugs of conscience for
having robbed a neighbour of his right, committed a fraud,
or uttered a malevolent falsehood. Dr GALL latterly re-
garded Benevolence as the moral faculty : but the sentiment
of right and wrong is u clearly distinguishable from mere
goodneu or kindneas, as Hope is from Fear; and, beside.,
poeitive facta prove that the two feeling. depend on dift'erent
organa.
This organ deficient, and Secretivene&& large, and espe-
cially when the latter is aided by Ideality and Wonder, pro-
duce a natural tendevcy to lying, which some individual&,
who have posaeased the advantages of education and good
society, have never been able to overcome.
Some criminals, on being detected, confess,.and seein to
court punishment, as the only means of auuagi.og the re-
morse with which their own minds are devoured. The
Phrenological Society baa a cast of the skull of one penon
who displayed this desire to atone for his crime. It is that
eC JoaN RoTHERHAM, who met a servant girl on the high-
way and murdered her, out of the pure wanton impulse of
Deatructiveneu ; for he did not attempt to violate her per-
IIOD ; and of her property, he took only her umbrella and
shoes. When apprehended, he confessed hia crime,-in-
aiated on pleading guilty,-and, with great difficulty, was
induced by the judge to retract bia admission. The organ
is large in him. He appears to have acted under an excee-
aive iDftuence of DestructivenellL
JAMES GoanoN, on the contrary, who murdered the ped•
Jar boy in Eskdale Muir, stoutly denied his guilt, and, after
eoavictioo, abused the jnry and judge for condemning him.
Before his execution, be admitted that bia aeutence wu
juat. In him, the organ of Conscientiouan.. ia detective.
Digitized by Google
CONSCIENTiOUSNESS. 299
The organ is very iarge in Mrs H., the Rev. Mr M., and
in Dr BETTE, who all manifested the sentiment powerfully.
Considerable attention is requisite to discriminate accurate-
ly the size of this organ. When Firmness is large, and Con-
scientiousness small, the head slopes at an acute angle down-
wards from Firmness, 88 in HAGGART and King RoBERT
BRUCE. When both Firmness and Conscientiousness are
large, the head rises considerably from Cautiousness to
Firmness, by a full and rounded swell, 88 in the Rev.
Mr M. When both of these organa are small, the head
rises very little above Cautiousness, but runs fiat acrose
to Cautiousness on the other side, 88 in the boy GIBSON, and
in MARY STREET, a child distinguished like him for lying
and deceit. The figures illustrate these combinations.
Mrs H.
Flrmnas email, Colllden-
UoUSIICIO large.
JOB:Ir GIBSON.
Flrmn- iarp, Coaoclm-
lloumfol deftdeat.
In Mrs H., FlnnneSP U Is small. and Consclentlouaness 16 large; In D.
H.&.oa.&.aT, Finnnees16is large,and Conecientlouenet~~~l8deficlent; and
iD JouN GIBSON both of these organs are deficient, which ill iDdica·
ted by the bead rising very little above 12 Cautiousness. If in Mrs H.
}'irmnesa bad been as large as Conscientiousness, or in HAGGART Con.
scientiousness had been as large as Firmness, the heads would have
presented a full and elevated eegment of a circle passing from Cau.
tiouenn. to Cautiousness, the ver1 op1101ite of the fiat and low lille
in the head of GIBsox. It IIof great i,Jnportance in practice to attend
to these different forms.
The difference qfdevelopment of this organ in different na-
tion• and individuals, and its combinations with other or-
gan., enable ua to account for the differences in the notions
of juatiee entertained at different times, and by dift'erellt
people. The aentiment of Truth is found by the English
Judges to be so ]ow in the Afri<'ans, the Hindoos, and in
Digitized by Coogle
300 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
the aboriginal Americans, that the natives of these coun-
tries are not received as witnesses in the Colonial Courts;-
and it is a curious fact, that a defect in the organ of Con-
scientiousness is a reigning feature iu the skulls of these
nations in possession of the Phrenological Society. The·
notions ofjustice of that individual are most fit to be aasum-
ed as a standard, in whom this organ is decidedly ~ U..
combination with a large eadowment of thq other moral
sentiments and re6ecnen ; just as we bold the person pos-
sessed of the greatest organ of Tune, in combination with
the organs of the moral sentiments and reflection, to be the
best judge of musical compositions. It is obvious, also, that
Jaws, or positive commands, ordering and forbidding cer-·
fain actions, become necessary as rules, to those who do no~
possess a sufficient endowment of this sentiment from na--
ture to regulate their conduct. Those who are favourably
gifted, arc, in the language of St PAuL, " a law unto them-·
selves.
It baa been objected, that persons possessing a large· dlt-
velopment of this organ, not unfrequently act in opposition.
to the dictates of tme sentiment, and practise selfishness, or
sacrifice justice t&- ambition, exactly as thoee do in whom
the organ is smalf; and it is asked, What becomes of the or-
gan in such instances ? The plurality of organs and facul-
ties explains this phenomenon. Conscientiousness is not
the only faculty in the mind, and, although it is paramount
in authority, it is not always so in strength. A person in.
whom Benevolence and Destructiveness are both large,.
may, under special cil'cumstancea, which strongly excite
Destructiveness, manifest tlaat faculty in rage, revea~ or
undue severity, in direct opposition to Benevohmee. In
like manner, an individual in whom Acquisitiveness and
Self-Esteem are Ja:rge, may, if these· are ver:y furcibJy ad·
dreesed, obey their impulse in opposition to that of Con-·
scientiousness; but the benevolent man, when the tempta-.
tion is past, feels the opposition between his conduct and.
the dictates of Benevolence; &Qd, in like IDIUUler, the indi-·
Digitized by Google
CONSCIENTIOUSNESS. SOl
vidual iaat mpposed, oo cool .-efieotion, becomes oonscioua
eF the opposil.ion betwixt his unjust preference of himself,
and the dictates of Conacientiouanesa ; both will repent,
and will make aU>nement, and desire to avoid repetition o£
such errors. If Benevolence and Conacientiouan888 bad
been small, they would not have felt that their actions were
WI'OIIg; 1bey woo1d have experienced no remorse; and their
lower faculties would have operated with greatly increased
violence. I have observed practically, that when Conscien.
'iousness is large in any individual, be will yield compliance
with demands made on him whenever a strong case in jus-
t.iee is made out by the applicant; but when the organ is
not large, he will be moved only by favour or partiality.
It is of the utmest importance to the respectability of
Government, and the welfare of tho people, that public
functionaries should possess the· former character. The
necessity of it in persons in authority will be more and
more felt as society advances in knowledge, discrimination,
and morality.
Another difficulty is experienced in the doctrine, that
ConseientiousneM is merely a sentiment, and does not form
specific ideas of what is just. This will be best removed by
an example : A judge hears one side of a caU&e, and Con-
scientiousness, acting on tho statement presented to it,
through the medium of the intellect, produces t.he feeling
that this first party is in the rig\lt. The other litigant is
next beard, new facts appear, and Conscientiousness may
now produce the feeling that justice lies on his side. If this
faculty itself had formed specific ideas of what is just, it
would have been an intellectual power, and reasoning
would have been in proportion to it, which is not the case;
but, as it is only a sentiment, its real fnnction is to pro-
duce an emotion of justice or injustice, on the particular
case ot assemblage of facts presented to 'it by the intellect.
An illustration of this doctrine is found in the " Hermit,,
by PARNELL. The angel throws the scrv&Dt over the
bridge ; and this is felt w be unjust, while nothing more
Digitized by Google
80i CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
is known than the renlt; but when the intellect.is after-
wards informed, that he intended next night to murder his
master,Coueientioomessfeels thathisdestruction bythe an-
gel was joat. This is not Conscientiousness givingoppoei&e
decisions on the same case ; bnt the intellect presenting
ditlerent cases, or different views of the same case, and
Consclentiousneas producing its peculiar emotion, in regard
to each according as it is laid before it.
This organ is occasionally found diseased, and then the
moat awful sentiments of guilt, generally imaginary, bar-
row up the mind. I have seen two individuals labouring
under this disease. One of them believed himself to be in
debt to an enormous amount, which he had no means of
paying. The other imagined himself to be guilty of mur-
der, and every variety of wickedness contained in the re-
eords of iniquity; when, in fact, the whole conduct of both
whi1e in health, bad been marked by the greatest honour
and scrupulosity. When this organ, and that of Cautious-
ness, are diseased at the same time, the individual imagines
himself to be the most worthless of sinners, and is visited
with fearful apprehensions of punishment. Such patients
tJOmetimes present a picture of despair which is truly appal-
ling. Slight degrees of disease of these organs, not amount-
ing to insanity, are not unfrequent .in this country, and pro-
duce an inward trouble of the mind, which throws a gloom
over life, and leads such persons to see only the terrors of
religion.
In the first edition of this work, I stated that gratitude
probably arises from this faculty; but Sir G. S. MAcKEN·
ZIE, in his " Illustrations of Phrenology," has shewed that
" gratitude" is much heightened by Benevolence,-a view
in which I now fully acqwesce.
It is premature to speak of the combinations of the facul-
ties, before we have finished the detail of the simple func-
tions ; but this is the most proper occasion, in other respects,
to observe, that Phrenology enables us to account for the
origin of the Yarious theories ofJDorals before enumerated.
Digitized by Google
CONSCIE'NTIOUSNESS. lOS
HoBBES, for instance, denied every natural sentiment of
justice, and erected the laws of the civil magistrate into the
standard of morality. This doctrine would appear natural
and sound to a person in whom Conscientiouanesa waa very
feeble ; who never experienced in his own mind a single
emotion ofjustice, but who waa alive to fear, to the desire of
property, and other aifeetions which would render eecurity
and regular government desirable. It is probable that
HoBBES waa so constituted.
MANDEVILLE makes selfishness the basis ofall ouractions,
but admits a strong appetite for praise ; the desire for
which, he says, leads men to abate other enjoyments, for the
sake of obtaining it. If we conceive MANlJEVILLE to have
possessed a deficient Conscientiousness, and a large Love of
Approbation, this doctrine would be the natural language
of his mind.
Mr HuM£ erects utility, to ourselves or others, into the
atandard ofvirtue; and this would be the natural feeling of a
mind in which Benevolence and Reflection were strong, and
Conecientiouaness weak.
PALEY makes virtue consist in obeying the will of GoD,
aa our rule, and doing so for the sake of eternal bappineae
as the motive. This is the natural language of a mind in
which the selfish or lower propensities are considerable, and
in which Veneration i.e strong, and Conscientiousness not
remarkable for vigour.
CuDWORTH, HuTCHESoN, REID, STEWART and BROWN •,
on the other hand, contend most eagerly and eloquently for
• I embrace this opportunity of paylnf a bumble tribute to the talenb
or the late Dr THOMAS BaowN. The acuten~ depth, and comprehen.
lliYenea of lntelleet dlaplayed in hie works on the Mind, place him in the
highest rank of philosopbleal authors ; and theae great qualities are equal.
led by the purity and vividnea of his moral perceptions. His powers or
analym are unriYalled, and hie eloquence is frequent.ly splendid. His
" Lectures" will remain a monument of what the human mind was cape.
ble of accompUabing, in lnYeStlgating Its o1rn constitution, by an lmper.
feet method. In proportion as Phrenology shall become known, the ad-
mira~ion of his genius will increase ; for it Is the highest praise to say,
Digitized by Google
3041 CONSCIENTIOUSNESS.
the existence of an original sentiment or emotion ofjuatice
in the mind, altogether independentof other considerations;
and this is the natural feeling of persons in whom tbis facul-
ty is powerful. A much respected individual, in whom.
this organ is predominantly large, mentioned U> me, that
no circumstance in philoeophy occasioned U> him greater
surprise, than the denial of the existence of a moral facul- .
ty ; and that the attempts U> prove it appeared U> him like
endeavours U> prop up, by demonstration, a self-evident
axiom in mathematical science.
The organ is regarded 88 established.
17.-HOPE.
THIS organ is situated on each side of that of Veneration,
and extends under part of the frontal and part of the ptrie-
tal bones. It cannot be brought into outline in a drawing,
and on this account no figure is given.
Dr GALL considered Hope 88 belonging to every faculty;
but Dr SPURZHEIM very properly observes, that although
every faculty being active produces desire, 88 Acquisitive-
nee& the desire for property, and Love of Approbation the
desire for praise; yet this is very different from Hope,
which is a simple emotion, sui generi8, susceptible of being
directed in a great variety of ways, but not desiring any
that, in regard to many pointa of great difficulty and importance in the
PhUoeophy of:Mind, he has arrived, by his own reftectioll!, at conclusioraa
harmonizing with those obtained by phrenolugical obaervatlon. or thla,
his doctrine on the moral emotion discull8ed in the text, is a striking in-
atance. Sometimes, indeed, his argumenta are subtle, his distinctions too
refined ; and his style is circuitous ; but the phrenologist will pass lightly
over theee imperfections, for they occur only occuionally, and arise ftom
mere excees of the faculties of Secretiveness, Comparison, Causality, and
Wit; on a great endowment of which, along with Concentrativenesa, hi•
penetration and comprehensiveness depended. In fact, be possessed the
organs of these powers largely developed, and they afford a key t.u his
genius.
...
Digitized by Google
HOPE. 305
one class of thingfl as its peculiar objects. Nay, desire i~
sometimes strong, when Hope is feeble or extinct; n crimi-
nal on the scafFold may ardently desire to live, when he has
no hope of escaping death. Dr SPURZHEIM was convinced,
by analysis, that Hope is a distinct primitive sentiment ;
and was led to expect that an organ for it would exist.
Numerous observations have since determined the situation
of ihe orian, on the sides of Veneration ; and it is now ad-
mitted by phrenologists in general as established. Dr
GALL, however, continued till his death to mark the func-
tions of this part of tho brain as unascertained.
~o faculty produces the sentiment of Hope in general,
or the tendency to believe in the possibility of what the
other faculties desire, but without giving the conviction of
it, which depends on Reflection. Thus a person with
much Hope and much Acquisitiveness, will hope to become
rich; another, with much Hope and great Love of Appro-
bation, will hope to rise to eminence; and a third, with
much Hope and great Veneration, will hope to be saved,
and to enjoy eternal felicity in heaven. It inspires with
gay, fascinating and delightful emotions; painting futurity
fair and smilil!g as the regions of primitive bliss. It
spreads freshness and joyousness over every prospect,
while Cautiousness hangs clouds and mists over distant
objects seen by the mind's eye. Hence he who has Hope
more powerful than Cautiousness, lives in the enjoyment
of brilliant anticipations, which are never realized; while
he who has Cautiousness more powerful than Hope, habi-
tually labours under the painful apprehension of evils
which rarely exist, excf.>pt in his own internal feelings.
The former also enjoys the present, without being annoyed
by fears about the future, for Hope supplies his futurity
with every object which his fancy desires, quite undisturb-
ed by the distance of attainment; the latter, on the other
hand, cannot enjoy the pleasures within his reach, through
fear that, at some future time, they may be lost. The life
of such an individual is spent in painful apprehension of
u
Digitized by Google
806 HOPE.
evils, to which ·he is in fact very little exposed; for the
dread of their happening excites him to ward them off by
so many precautions that it is scarcely possible they can
overtake him.
When too energetic and predominant, this faculty dispo-
. ses to credulity, and, in mercantile men, leads to rash and
incopsiderate speculations. Persons so endowed never see
their own situation in its true light, but are prompted by
extravagant Hope to magnify tenfold every advantage,
while they are blind to every obstacle and abatement.
They promise largely, but rarely perform. Intentional
guile, however, is frequently not their object; they are de-
ceived themselves by their constitutional tendency to be-
lieve every thing possible that is future, and promise in the
spirit of this credulity. Those who perceive the disposi-
tion in them, ought to exercise their own judgment on the
possibility of performance, and make the necessary abate-
ment in their expectations. Experience accomplishes little
in correcting those who po88e88 too large an organ of Hope;
the tendency to expect immoderately being constitutional,
they have it not in their power to see both sides of the pros-
pect, and, beholding only that which is fair, they are ne-
cessarily led to conclude that all is well. When the organ
is very deficient, and that of Cautiousness large, a gloomy
despondency is apt to invade the mind; and if Destructive-
ness be large, the.individual may resort to suicide to escape
from woe.
The faculty, if not combined with much Acquisitiveness
or Love of Approbation, disposes to indolence, from the
very promise which it holds out of the future providing for
itself. If, on the other hand, it be combined with these or-
gans in a full degree, it acts as a spur to the mind, by uni-
formly representing the object desired as attainable. An
individual with much Acquisitiveness, great Cautiousness,
and little Hope, will save to become rich ; another with the
same Acq~isitiveness, little Cautiousness, and mucl& Hope,
will speculate to procure wealth. I have found Hope and
Acquisitiveness large in persons addicted to gaming.
o1g1!1Zed by Google
HOPE. 807
Hope has a great effect in assuaging the fear of death. I
have seen persons in whom it was very large die by inches,
and linger for months on the brink of the grave, without
suspicion of the fate impending over them. They lwped to
be well, till death extinguished the last ember of the feel-
ing. On the other hand, when Hope, and. Combativeness,
which gives courage, are small, and Cautiousness an~ Con-
scientiousness large, the strongest assurances of the Gospel
are not always sufficient to enable the individual to look
with composure or confidence on the prospect of a judg-
ment to come. Several persons in whom this combination
occurs, have told me that they lived in a state of habitual
uneasiness in looking forward to the hour of death; while
others, with a large Hope and small Cautiousness, have said
that such a ground of alarm never once entered their ima-
ginations. Our hopes or fears on a point of such import-
ance as our condition in a future state, ought to be found-
ed on grounds more stable than mere constitutional feel-
ing ; but I mention these cases to draw attention to the
fact, that this cause sometimes tinges the whole conclusions
of the judgment; and the existence of such a source of
delusion being known, its effects may more easily .be re-
sisted.
In religion, this mculty favoU1'8 the exerciae of faith; and
by producing the natural tendency to look forward to fu-
turity with expectation, disposes to belief in a life to come.
The metaphysicians admit this faculty, so that Phrenolo-
gy only reveals its organ, and the effects of its endowment,
in different degrees. I have already stated an argument
in favour of the Being of a Goo, founded on the existence
of a faculty of Veneration conferring the tendency to wor-
ship, of which Goo is the proper and ultimate object.
May not the probability of a future state be supported by
a similar deduction from the possession of a faculty of
Hope ? It appear& to me that this is the faculty from
which originates the notion of futurity, and which carries
u 2
Digitized by Google
808 IIOPE.
the mind forward in endless progression into periods of
everlasting time. May it not be inferred, that this instinc-
tive tendency to leave the present scene, and all its enjoy-
ments, to spring forward into the regions of a far distant
futurity, and to expatiate, even in imagination, in the fields
of an eternity to come, denotes that man is formed for a
more glorious destiny than to perish for ever in the grave ?
ADDISON beautifully enforces this argument in the Specta-
tor, and in the soliloquy of CATO ; and Phrenology gives
weight to his reasoning, by shewing that this ardent Hope,
"this longing after immortality," is not a factitious senti-
ment, or a mere exuberance of an idle and wandering ima-
gination, but that it is the result of a primitive faculty of
the mind, which owes at once its existence and its functions
to the Creator.
PoPE beautifuUy describes the in6uence of the sentiment
of Veneration, in prompting us to worship, blindly indeed,
when undirected by information superior to its own. He
falls also into the idea now started in regard to Hope, and
represents it as the source of that expectation of a future
sta"' of existence, which seems to be the joy and delight of
human nature, in whatever stage of improvement it has
been found.
" Lo I the poor Indian whOle untutorecl mind
Sees GOD in clouds, or hears him In the wind ;
His soul proud science never taught to stray
Far aa the solar wallr, or milky way;
Yet simple nature to his Mpl has given,
Behind the cloud-topt hUI, an humbler heaven ;
Some eater world, in depth ofwooda embraced ;
Some happier Island in the watery waste ;
Where slaves once more their native land behold,
No fiends torment, no Christians thlrst for gold."
The organ is established.
Digitized by Google
309 ) •
18.-WONDER.
THIS organ is situated immediately above Ideality.
Dr GALL observed, that eome individuals imagine them-
selves to be visited by apparitions of persons deacJ or ab-
sent ; and be asks, How does it happen, that men of consi-
derable intellect often believe in the reality of ghosts and
visions? Are they fools, or impostors? or, Is there a par-
ticular organization, which imposes, in this form, on the
human understanding? and, How are such illusions to be
explained? He then enters into a historical sketch of the
most remarkable instances of visions. SocRATES spoke
frequently and willingly to his disciples of a demon or spi-
rit, which served him as a guide. Dr GALL remarks, that
he is quite aware of the common explanation, that SocRA-
TES referred only to the force and justness of his own un-
derstanding ;. but adds, that if he had not himself believed
in a genius communicating with him, the opinion that he
had one would have been lost in the twenty-three years,
during which ARISTOPHANES had made it a subject of ri-
dicule, and his accusers would not have revived it as a
charge ~ost him. JoAN op Anc also related an appear-
ance of St MicHAEL to her, who told her that GoD bad
pity on France, and that she was commissioned to raise the
siege of Orleans, and to instal CHARLES VII. as King, at
Rheiins. TAsso asserted hiinself to have been cured by
the aid of the Vugin MAllY, and St ScHoLASTIC, who ap-
peared to him during a violent attack of fever. In the his-
torical' notes which accompany the Life of-TAsso, the fol-
lowing anecdote appears, extracted from the Memoirs of
MANso, Marquis of Vtlla, published after the death of
TASSO, his friend.
" TASso, in his delirium, believed that be conversed
with familiar spirits. One day, when the Marquis endea..
2
Digitized by Google
310 WONDER•
•
voured to drive these ideas from his mind, TASSO said to
him, ' Since I cannot convince you by reason, I shall do
so by experience ; I shall e&U&e tbe spirit, in which you
refuse to believe, to appear to your own eyes.' I accepted
the offer," says the Marquis, "and next day, when we sat
by the fire conversing, he turned his eyes towards the win-
dow; and looking with stedfast attention, appeared 80 com-
pletely absorbed, that when I called to him, be did not an-
swer. ' See!' said he, at length, 'See I my familiar spirit
comes to converse with me.' I looked with the greateat
earnestness, but could see nothing enter the apartment.
In the mean time, TASSO began to converse with this mys-
terious Being. I saw and heard himself alone. Some-
times be questioned, and sometimes an&wered ; and from
his answers, I gathered the sense of what be bad heard.
The subject of his discourse was so elevated, and the ex-
pressions so sublime, that I felt myself in a kind of ecsta-
sy. I did not venture to interrupt him, nor to trouble him
with questions, and a considerable time elapsed before the
spirit disappeared. I was informed of its departure by
TAsso, who, turning towards me, said, ' In future you will
cease to doubt.' ' Rather,' said I, ' I shall be more scepti-
cal, for although I have heard astonishing words, I have
seen nothing.' Smiling, he replied, ' You have perhaps
heard or seen more than-' He stopt short; and, fearing to
importune him by my questions, I dropt the connrsa-
tion •." Dr GALL quotes this dialogue from " La Vie du
TASso, publice aLondres en 1810 ;" and I have translated
from Dr GALL's citation t·
SwEDENBORG believed himself miraculoualy called to re-
veal to the world the most hidden mysteries. "In 1743,"
says he, " it pleased the Lord to manifest himself to me,
and appear personally before me, to give me a knowledge
• Surles Fonctions clu Cerveau, tome v. p. 341.
t For the originnl, see lle\'• 1\(r DLACK's Life of T uso, ,·ol. ii.
fl· 2-tO.
Digitized by Google
WONDER. Sll
of the spiritual world, and to place me in communication
with angels and spirits, and this power has been conti-
nued with me till the present day." " SWEDENBORG,"
aays his biographers, "was a man of unquestionable sin-
cerity, but one of the most extravagant enthusiasts that
ever existed • ."
Dr GALL remarked, in the first fanatic who fell under
his observation, a large development of the part of the
brain lying between the organs of Ideality and Imitation,
and subsequently met with many similar instances. Dr
JUNG STILLING, says he, whom he often saw with the late
Grand Duke of BADEN, was a tailor in his youth, then a
tutor, afterwards doctor in medicine, moralist, divine,
journalist, illuminatus, and visionary ; and in him this part
of the brain was largely developed. He believed firmly in
apparitions, and wrote a book in exposition of this doc-
trine. In the Mo.Uon de Ddention at Berne, Dr GALL saw
a'fanatic, who believed that JEsus CHRIST, surrounded by
a brilliant light, as if a million of suns had combined their
splendoura, had appeared to him to reveal the true religion.
A gentleman, who moves in the best t~ociety in Paris, asked
Dr GALL to examine his bead. The Doctor's fint remark
was, " You sometimes see visions, and believe in appari-
tions." The gentleman started from his chair in astonish-
ment, and said, that he had frequent visions; but never,
up to this moment, had he spoken on the subject to any
human being, through fear of being set down for being ab-
Burdly credulous. On another occasion, Dr GALL, when
he ob.erved the development of the head of Dr W., said,
that he ought to have a strong liking for the marvellous
and supenmtural. " For once," replied he, " you are
completely mistaken, for I have laid down the rule to be-
lieve in nothing which cannot be mathematically demon-
strated." After talking with him on various scientific sub-
jects, Dr GALL turned the conversation towards animal
magnetism, which appeared a fit topic to put the mathe-
• Lib. cit. p. 34~.
Digitized by Google
312 WONDEll.
matical rigour of his proofs to the test. He instantly be-
came greatly animated, 888ured Dr GALL again very so-
lemnly, that he admitted nothing as true that was not ma-
thematically demonstrated ; but added, he was convinced
that a spiritual being acted in magnetism; that it operated
at great distances; that no distance indeed presented an
obstacle to ita action, and that, on this account, it could
sympathize with persons in any part of the wor:ld. " It is
the same cause," continued be, " which produces appari-
tions. Apparitions and visions are rare, no doubt, but
they undoubtedly exist, and I am acquainted with the laws
which regulate their production." " On this occasion," says
Dr GALL, " I thought within myself, that my inference
from his development was not so very erroneous as the
worthy Doctor wished me to believe.',
A man named HALLERAN, of Vienna, imagined himself
continually accompanied by a familiar spirit; be saw the
spirit, and conversed with it. . When be reached his six-
tieth year, hie genius appeared as if he wished to leave
him, and only on certain days in the month was he fa-
voured with hie presence. At Gersbach, near Durlach, in
the Grand Duchy of Baden, Dr GALL knew a curate who
was confined because he conceived himself to have a fami-
liar spirit. At Manheim there was a man who saw himself
continually attended by several spirits: Sometimes they
marched at his side, in visible forms ; at other times they
attended him under ground. In these persons Dr GALL
found the part ofthe brain in question largely developed. He
states as questions for consideration, "Does this convolu-
tion form part of the organ of Imitation ? and, Does ita ex-
treme development exalt the talent for mimicry, to such a
degree as to personify simple ideas, and to give them, thus
metamorphosed, a locality, out of the individual? or, Does
it constitute parts both of Ideality and Imitation? or, final-
ly, Does it constitute a separate organ? These points can
be determined only by farther researches *.',
• Sur lcs Fonctions du Cen·cau, tome v. p. 346.
Digitized by Google
•
WONDER. SIS
Sir WALTER ScoTT observes, that " no man ever suc-
ceeded in imposing himself on the public as a supernatural
personage, who was not to a certain degree the dupe of hie
own imposture •."
Dr GALL mentions, that the organ appears large in the
busts of SocaATES, JoAN oF Aac, CRoMWELL, SwEDEN-
BORG, and other individuals by whom tho &endency before
described has been manifested.
In the portrait of TASSO, it and Ideality both appear
largely developed.
Dr SPURZHEIH, in his recent work " Phrenology t,''
observes, "There is still a sentiment which exerts a very
great influence over religious conceptions, and which, in
my opinion, contributes more than Veneration to religious
faith. Some find all things natural, and regulated by the
laws of creation ; many others are amused with fictions,
tales of wonders, and miraculous occurrences. They find
in every pasaing event extraordinary and wonderful cir-
cumstant"e&, and are constantly searching after whatever
can excite admiration and astonishment. This sentiment
is to be observed among mankind at large, both among sa-
vages and civilized nations. In every age, and under
every sky, man has been guided and Jed by his credulity
and superstition. The founders of all nations have had a
fabulous origin ascribed to them, and in all countries mi-
raculous traditions and marvellous stories occur in ample
• Life of NAPOLEON lJuo:KA.PAJLt.E, voL iv. p. 88.
t P. 206.
Digitized by Google
8141 WONDER.
abandance. There are many disposed to believe in dreams,
sorcery, magic, astrology, in the mystic influence of spirits
·and angela, in the power of the devil, in eecond sight, and
in miracles and incomprehensible representations of all
sorts. Some, also, are disposed to have visions, and to see
ghosfB, demons, and phantoms. This sentiment gains cre-
dence to the true and also to the false prophflt, aids su~
stition, but is also essential ·to faith 4nd·nmned religion.
It is more or leu active, not ~ in tlftrerent indlviduaJs;
but also in whole nations. Its functions 8l'e often disO.rder-
ed, constituting one species of insanity•.
"The legislators of antiquity, aware of the great influ-
ence of this faculty, made frequent use of it to enforce and
to confirm their laws. They spoke in ~e name of Goo, of
angela, or of supernatural power&. In our own days, the
religious sects ofSwedenborgians, Methodists, Quakers, and
many others, particularly demonstrate ita influence and
presence. In dramatic representations, the introduction of
ghosts, angela, transformations, and supernatural events,
proclaims its activity bo\h in the author, and in the public,
by whom such exhibitions are relished and sought after.
" The existence of this feeling is certain. Its organ is
situated anterior to Hope, and a great development of the
convolutions on which it depends, enlarges, and elevates
the superior and lateral parts of the frontal bone. It is re-
markably prominent in the heads of S9cRATES, of ToR-
QUATo TAsso, Dr PRICE, YouNG STILLING, WESLEY, &e.
My observations on it are extremely numerous, and I con-
sider it as established."
My own observations on this organ are the following.- ·
I have met with persona excessively fond .of news, which,
if extravagant, were the more .acceptable; prone to the ex-
pression of aurprise and astonishment in ordinary discourse;
deeply affected by tales of wonder ; delighting in the
Arabian Nights' Entertainments, and the mysterioua inci-
dents abounding in the Waverley Novels; and in them I
have uniformly found the part of the brain in question
Digitized by Google
WONDER. 815
largely developed. When the organ predominates in an
individual, there is a peculiar look of Wo~Jder, and an un-
conscious turning up of the exterior .angles of the eye.
lashes, expressive.of surprise. In other persooe, I have
found the part of the brain in que.tion ama1l, and in them
it was accompanied with a staid sobemesa of feeling, diame.
trically the oppoeite of the lll8Difestatiou above deecribed.
Such individuals were annoyed by every thing Dew 01'
atrange; they scarcely felt or expreaed surprise, and had
no laate for narratives leaving the beaten track of probabi-
lity or reality, and soaring into the regions of supernatu-
ral fiction. On analyzing these manifestations, they all
appear to be referrible to the sentiment of Wonder, an
emotion which is quite distinguishable from those hitherto
enumerated.
Philosophers have long been p11Zzled to account for the
circumstance, that a particular form of flll'Diture or dress
is pleasing, and ·is regarded as even beautiful, when first
introduced, but that it appears ridiculous and antiquated,
after it bus been supeneded by a newer fashion. Probably
one cause of this feeling may be found in the faculty now
under coDBideration ; and the agreeable impre88iona made
on it by new objects, may be one source of the gratification
which a change of. fashion afford& Love of Approbation
unquestionably prompts multitudes to foiJuw the fashion,
without much relish for novelty itself; but some indivi-
duals must take the lead, and t}Jere must be some prin-
ciple in the mind to be gratified by m~re . change, which
excites them to do so ; and Wonder may contribute to this
effect. Indeed, as every faculty bas a uaeful and legitimate
sphere of action, I am•disposed to infer, that the legitimate
tendency of this sentiment is to inspire the mind with a
longing after novelty in every thing, and that its proper
effect is to stimulate to invention and improvement. Fa-
shion is not u real element of beauty in external objects ;
and to persons who possess a good endowment of Form,
more pleasing and permanently agreeable, than forms of
Digitized by Google
816
Constructiveness and Ideality, intrinsic elegance is much
less merit, recommended merely by being new. Hence
there is a beauty which never palls, and there are objects
over which fashion exercises no controul. A Chinese
teapot may be rendered agreeable, by being fashionable,
but will look ugly when the mode changes; while a vase of
exquisite form will please in all countries and in all ages.
The teapot I conceive to owe its attractions to the impres-
sion which its novelty makes on the faculty of Wonder ;
but when this has ceased, it is judged of by its proper qUa-
lities, and condemned, from the inelegant proportions be-
ing then criticised by the eye of taste ; while the vase, by
gratifying the faculties which take cognizance of intrinsic
beauty, continues always to please. This view is strength-
ened by the fact, that the greatest votaries of fashion have
frequently execrably bad taste ; a result perfectly accordant
with the supposition, that the mere love of novelty is the
chief element in this disposition.
The French in general possess a considerable develop-
ment of the organs of Ideality, Wonder, and Love of Ap-
probation ; and they have long been celebrated as leaders
of fashion. Their ordinary discourse, also, is replete with
terms of admiration and approbation, which to English-
men appear excessive. Every object is " auperbe," " mag-
niftque ;" and the terms bon, beau, u:cellent, express such
faint praise as almost to imply disapprobation.
Captain Ross, R.N. mentioned to me, that young men,
born and bred up in inland situations, who enter the Navy
voluntarily, generally possess a large development of this
organ, the gratification of which, he inferred, incites them
to choose the sea as a profession.
According to this view, Wonder may aid genius, by
prompting to novelty in all the conceptions of the mind. Dr
SAMUEL JoHNSON is strongly suspected of baring believed
in ghosts and apparitions, which indicates an excessive en-
dowment of this faculty; and his style is full of new words
and unusual forms of expression, to which. he was prQ-
Digitized by Google
WONDER. 817
bably led by the same feeling. Dr CHALMERS also shews
a strong tendency to coin aew vocables, and occasionally
to give strange turns to his discourse; which perhaps ori-
ginates from Wonder .acting with Comparison, as his bril-
liancy and elevation spring chiefty from Ideality. Mr
TENNANT, the author of Anster. Fair, and Mr HAZLITT,
shew some degree ofthe same disposition in their writings;
and I have observed the organ full in both of their heads.
The faculty prompts, as Dr SPURZHEIM remarks, to the
use of machinery in poetry, and to the introduction of su-
pernatural agency. In the portraits of SHAJtSPEARE, and
the busts of Sir WALTER ScoTT, it is large.
Dr SPURZHEIM concludes hie account of this facu1ty
with the following remarks. "The preceding facts," says
he, " determined me formerly to designate this feeling by
the name of Supernaturality; and it is certain that it is
principally manifested by a beliefin miraculou& mul superna-
tural circumstances, in the foundation of religion by super-
Datural means, and in its dogmatical points. As, however,
the feeling may be applied both to natural and supernatu-
ral events, and in every case fills the mind with amaze.
ment and surprise, I do not hesitate to change the name of
Supernaturality into that of Matwllmuneu. This name I
prefer to that of Wonder, adopted by Mr CoMBE, because,
according to Dr JoHNSON's Dictionary,WOflllelo is applicable
only to surprise excited by natural objects, whilst flla1"Vel-
lotuJtea embraces both kinds oiastonishment caused by na-
tural and supernatural circumstances."
When Dr SPURZHEIM observes, in the foregoing paaaage,
that this faculty is " principally manifested by a belief in
miraculous and supernatural circumstances," I do not un-
derstand him to mean that this belief is its kgitimatefunc-
tion. The period when Divine Power manifested itself by
extraordinary means was brief, and is long air,lce past ; and
philosophy cannot acknowledge any object or event that
occurs in the present day as miraculous or supernatural; a
special faculty, therefore, for belief in such objects appean
oigi!lzed by Coogle
:ns WONDER.
inadmiaible. The fact, however, mentioned by Dr SPuaz-
HEJM, that pel'liOB& in whom this organ is large have a na-
tural dispoaition to believe in the wonderful and miracu-
lous is certain. Some individuals, so endowed, have in-
formed me, that when any marvellous circumstance is
communicated to them, the tendency of their minds is to
believe it toitlwfd ezamirtation ; and that an effort of philo-
sophy is necessary to re8i# the belief, instead of evidence
being requisite to produce it. This tendency appears to
me to arise from too great energy tn this faculty, not di-
rected by refteetion ; but it is not inconsistent with the
idea, that the primary eentiment is that of Wonder. Every
propensity and sentiment d.esiPes objects suited to afford it
gratification ; Acquisitiveness longs for wealth, Love of
App.-obation for praise; RDd, in like manner, Wonder will
ardently desire the marveJloUR. Individuals, therefore, in
whom the organ is large, will delight in extraordinary nar-
ratives, and the pleasure felt in them will render the in-
tellect little prone to a .evere scrutiny of their truth ; hence
the ·tendency to believe in such communications is easily
aeoounted for. Still, however, this longing for the mar·
Yelloue appeara to be an ahuse of the sentiment. Philoso-
phy does not reoognise the "supernatural," while it ad-
mits surprise at new and extraordinary circumstanees as a
legitimate.state of mind. With ~he greatest deference to
Dr SPuRZHBTllf, therefore, Wonder appears to me to be
.... more oorrect name fur this faculty ; and in this ana-
lysis I am supported by the authority of the metaphysi-
cians.
This organ, in a state of esaltation, is the great foun-
~o of fanaticism in religion. When largely developed, it
is liable to energetic activity, from iw mere physical size,
and the impre88ion8o which it then excites are mistaken by
persons ignot'81lt·of its nature for direct communications
from heaven, and reason is contemned. It is then also
liable to be vividly called inoo action by exten1al commu-
aieations of a marvellous and fanMieal -character, and
4
Digitized by Google
WONDEll. Sl9
hence the wildest dopatiilt pretending to superior illumi-
nation, finds no diffieulty in drawing after him a crowd of
devoWd admirers.
Dr ADAM SMITH, in the History of Astronomy •, calls
Wonder a sentiment, and attempts to distinguish it from
surprise. " We 'WOIUkr," he says, " at all extreme and un-
common objects; at all the rarer phenomena of nature ; at
meteors, comet&, eclipse8 ; at singular plants and animal. ;
au.d at every thing, in ehort, with which we have before
been either little, or not at all acquainted; and we still
woader, though forewarned of what we are to see."
" We are 8UI'pri8ed," he continuee, " at those thinga
which we have seen often, but whieh we least of all ex-
pected to meet with in the place where we find them ; we
are surpriled at the sudden appearauce of a friend, whem
we have eeen a thousand times, but whom we did not ima-
gine we were to see there."
Dr THoMAS BaowN t also admits Wonder 88 a primitive
emotion, and contends.with suooeaa, that surprise and woa-
der are intrinaioally the same feeling, only excited by dif-
ferent objects or oeeurrencee. We wonder at the·®met,
from its novelty ; we are 8ll1'pl'iled to meet a friend in
Edinburgh, whom we believed to be in London ; but it is
the DOlfel and unexpected ·ftlturtion in which. w.e meet him,
that ca'D881 the anrpriae, and not his appeuanee·Uaelf. .
Dr BaoWN·t aomewhat straogelf observes, that " it
seems moat probable that the feeling of WOIIder, which now
attends any striking event that is unexpected by us, would
110t arise in the infant mind on the occurrence of events, all
of which might be regarded 88 equally new to it ; since
cocntt.ielr implies, not the mere feeling of 1WH/Iy, but the
knowledge of seme otAer circumBtanou, which were ex-
peeted to occur, and is, therefore, I eonceive, inconsistent
with tib8oiMte ignqrance." The facts which we daily observe
prove the very oppoaite of this doctrine. The organ of
• Page 2. t Vol. UL p. MJ, :j: Vol. iii. P· S6.
Digitized by Google
320 WONDER.
Wonder existing, every new object excites it, and calls
forth the emotion ; and hence the greater the ignorance, the
more frequent and more intense the astonishment, for then
every occurrence is novel.
Dr BaowN • observes more jWJtly, that " we may be
struck at the same time with the beauty or grandeur of a
new object, and our mixed emotion of the novelty and
beauty combined, will obtain the name of admiration."
Mr STEWART and Dr REID do not treat of this emotion.
The subject of visions is stiJJ attended with considerable
difficulty. I have met with cases similar to those recorded
by Drs GALL and SPURZHEIM. In London Bedlam, I exa-
mined the head of a patient whose insanity consisted in
seeing phantoms, ·and being led to act as if they were reali-
ties; although, as he himself stated, he was convinced by
his understanding at the very time, that they were mere
ilJWJions ; but could not regulate his conduct by this con-
viction. . In him the organ of Form was well developed,
and that of Wonder was decidedly large. When asked
whe~her he experienced any sensation in the head when af-
flicted with visions, he pointed ~ the spot on each side
where the organ of Wonder is situated, and said that he
felt an uneasy sensation there.
In the Richmond Lunatic Asylum in Dublin, I saw se-
veral patients in whom this organ predominates, and whose
insanity consisted in believing themselves to be superna-
tural Beings, or inspired. See PhrenoWgical Jormud,
vol. vi. p. 81. 84..
I have also seen a person in the west of Scotland, who is
liable to spectral illWJions. He is thirty-eight years of age,
in sound health, remarkably intelligent, and by no means
liable to extravagance either in his sentiments or ideas. He
mentioned that there is almost constantly present to his
mind the appearance of a carpet in motion, and spotted
with figures. On visiting Glasgow, he saw a large log of
• Vol. iil. p. 67.
Digitized by_Googl~ _
WONDER. 921
wood, mounted on two axles and (our wheels, passing along
the street ; and on returning l10me, the apparition of the
timber and its vehicle, with the horses, driver, &c. stood
before him in the dimensions and hoes of aetna} existence.
On another occasion, he saw a funeral pass J.y the bottom
of Queen Street, Glasgow; and for some time afterwards,
whenever he shut his eyes or was in darkness, the proces-
sion moved before his mind, as distinctly as it had preYi-
ously done before his eyes. These are merely a few in-
stances, out of many, of objeets and beings whom he has
'seen reappearing to his fancy. He is not conscious of the
appearance of the phantom of any object which he has not
previously seen; and he is rarely, or almost never, troubled
with these visions, when actual existences are before his
eyes in broad light ; but at all times they appear to a
greater or less extent when his eyes are shut, or darkness
prevails. His bead is in general well formed ; the differ-
ent organs, with the exception of the organ of Wonder
(which is decidedly large, and which seems to be the origin
of this aft"ection), are fairly proportioned; the Knowing Or-
gans preponderating a little over the Reflecting.
He mentioned, that this peculiarity bas descended to his
son. Lately, the boy made up to what he conceived to ~
a beggar-man, and endeavoured to speak to him. The
figure retired ; and the boy followed, till it disappeared at
a high wa11, seeming to glide into it. The boy ran up to
the wall, and groped it with his hands, when he discovered
that the beggar was a spectral i11usion. I had not an op-
portunity of examining the head of the son ; but the father
stated, that, in other respects, there was no peculiarity
about his mental constitution.
This tendency of mind, occurring in remote and secluded
districts of the Highlands, has probably given rise to the
second BigAt. The individual above described, if placed in
a situation where his chieftain, his clansmen, their dogs
and their Socks, were almost the only animated objects
presented to his eyes, would have been visited with fre-
x
Digitized by Google
822 WONDER.
quent spectral appearances of them. If, after the occur-
rence of such apparitions, the chief bad been killed, or the
clansmen drowned, or their flocks buried in the snow, the
coincidence would have been marked, and the event held
to have been predicted by an exercise of the second sight.
Where nothing followed the spectres, nothing would be
said of their appearance, just as happens in the case of
dreams. A correspondent of the Phrenological Society •,
gives an account of a Highland gentleman, who believed
that an apparition of the second sight bad occurred to him-
self; and he states, that, in his head, the organ of Wonder
is large.
At the same time, it is difficult to comprehend, how an
exalted state of this organ should produce these effects,
unless we suppose it to excite the organs of Form, Co-
louring, &c. to activity, so as to conjure up illusions
fitted for the gratification of Wonder; just as involunta-
ry activity of Cautiousness during sleep, excites the in-
tellectual organs to conceive objects of terror, producing
thereby frightful dreams. This theory is rendered pro-
bable by the fact, that diseased excitement of the knowing
organs produces spectral illusions, independently of an af-
fection of the organ of Wonder. Mr SIMPSON bas commu-
nicated an admirable paper on this subject to the Phreno-
logical Journal t, to which I shall have occasion afterwards
to refer.
The general function of the organ is regarded as ascer-
tained; but its metaphysical analysis is still incomplete.
19.-IDEALITY.
THIS organ is situated nearly along the lower edge of the
temporal ridge of the frontal bone. Dr GALL gives the fol-
lowing account of its discovery.
• No. vii. p. 362. t No. vi. p. 290.
Digitized by Google
IDEALITY.
The first poet whose bead arrested his attention, on ac-
count of its form, was one of his friends, who frequently
composed eztempqre verses when least expected to do 80 ;
and who bad thereby acquired a sort of reputation, although
in other respects a very ordinary person. His forehead
immediately above the nose, rose perpendicularly, then re-
treated, and extended itself a good deal laterally, as if a
part had been added on each side. He recolleeted having
seen th~ same form in the bust of Ovm. In other poets,
he did not find, as a constant occurrence, the forehead first
perpendicular and then retreating. so that he regarded this
shape as accidental; but in all of them he observed the
prominences in the anterior lateral parts of the bead, above
the temples. He began then to look upon these promi-
nences as the distinctive marks of a natural talent for poe-
try; but still he spoke to his hearers on the subject with a
degree of doubt, especially as, at this period, be was not
convinced that a talent for poetry depended on a primitive
mental faculty. Be waited, therefore, before deciding de-
finitively, till he had made a greater number of obaerva-
tioDB.
A short time afterwards, be got the bead of the poet ALx-
INGER, in which this part of the brain, and also the organ
ofAdhesiveness, were very much developed, while the other
portions were 80 only in a small degree. A little after this,
the poet JUNGER died, and GALL found the same promi-
nences a180 in his head. He found the same parts still lar-
ger in the poet BLUMAUER, with a large organ of Wit. At
this time, WILHELMINE MAISCH acquired reputation at
Vienna by his poetry; and the same enlargement was
found in his bead, above the temples. Dr GALL observed
the same organization in Madame LAROCHE, at Offenbach,
near Francfort; in ANGELIQUE KAUFMANN; in SoPHIA
CLEMENTINA of Merklen; in KLOPSTOCK; in SCHILLER,
of whom he had a mask; and also in GESNER of Zurich.
In Berlin be continued to speak of this organ still with
X 2
Digitized by Google
IDEALITY.
considerable reserve, when M. NicOLAI invited him and
Dr SPURZHEIM to see a collection of about thirty busts of
poets in his po88888ion. They found, in every one of t11em,
tbc part in question projecting more or less considerably,
according as the talent was manifested in a higher or lower
degree in each poet. From that moment he taught boldly,
that the talent for poetry depends on a primitive fac~lty,
and that it is connected with this part of the brain as its
special organ.
In Paris, Dr GALL moulded the head of LEGOUVE' after
his death, and f(lund this organ large. He and Dr SPunz-
HEIM opened the head of the )ate DELILLE, and pointed out
to several pl1ysicians who were present, the full develop-
ment of the convolutions placed under the external promi-
nences at this part ; these convolutions projected beyond
all the others. Dr GALL preserved a cast of one of the
hemispheres of the brain; so that this statement may sti11
be verified. In a pretty numerous assemblage, Dr GALL
was asked what he thought of a little man, who sat at a
considerable distance from him ? As it was rather dark, he
saia, that, in trut11, be could not see him very distinctly,
but that he observed, nevertheless, the organ of poetry ilX-
tremely developed. He was then informed that this was
the famous poet FnAN~Ois, generally named Cordo'Mier,
from his having been bred a shoemaker•. " If we pass in
review," says Dr GALL, "the portraits and busts of the
poets of all ages, we shall find this configuration of head
common to them all ; as in PtNnAn, EuniPIDES, SoPHOCLES,
HERACLIDES, PLAUTus,TERENCE, VIRGIL, TIBULLus,Ovm,
HoRACE, JuvENAL, BoccAcio, AniosTo, ARETIN, TAsso,
MILTON, BoiLEAU, J. B. RoussEAu, PoPE, YouNa, Gnos-
SET, VoLTAIRE, GESNER, KLoPSTOCK, WIELAND," &e. Dr
BAILLY, in a letter, dated Rome, SOth May 1822, addressed
to Dr BRAYER, says: "You may tell Dr GALL that I have a
• A cast of the head of this individual is in the Phrenological Society's
collection, Edinburgh, and in DB VILLE's London. The organ in ques-
tion is uncommonly large.
Digitized by Google
IDEALITY.
818Sk of Tasso, taken from nature, and that, although part
of the organ of poetry be cut off, nevertheless the lateral
breadth of the cranium in this direction is enormous."
The bust of HoMER presents an e.rtraordinary develo~
ment at this part of the bead. It is doubted whether it be
authentic ; but, be it real or ideal, the existence of the
prominence is remarkable. If it be ideal, why was the
artist ted to give this particular form, which is the only one
in accordance with nature? H be modelled the bead of the
most distinguished poet of his day, as the best representa-
tive of HoMER, the·existence of this development is still a
fact in favour of the organ.
We owe to Dr SPURZHEIM the cotsrect analysis of this
faculty, and the very elegant and ·appropriate name by
which it is designated. " It is impossible," says he, "that
poetry in general should be confined to one single organ ;
and I therefore think that the name ' Organ of Poetry,
(used by Dr GALL), does not indicate the ~ntial· facul-
ty."-" In every kind of poetry, the sentiments are e.x.alted,
the expressions warm; and there must be rapture, inspi-
ration, what is commonly called Imagination or Fancy.''
This faculty producea the-
desire for exquisiteness, or per-
fection, and is delighted with what the French call "Le beau
ideal.'' It is this faculty which gives inspiratWn to the
poet. The knowing and reflecting faculties perceive qua-
lities as they exist in nature; but this faculty ·desiPeS, for its
gratification, something more exq~tely perfect than the
scenes of reality. It desires to elevate and to endow with
a splendid excellence·every object presented to the mind.
It stimulates tbe faculties which form ideas to create scenes,
.in which every object is invested with the qualities which
it delights to contemplate, rather than with the degree of
excellence which nature usually bestows. It is this facul-
ty whieh.inspires with exaggeration and enthusiasm, which
prompts to embelJishment and splendid conceptions. It
gives a manner of feeling and of thinking, befitting the re-
gions of fancy, rather than the abodes of men. Hence
Digitized by Google
326 IDEALITY.
those only on whom it is powerfully bestowed can possibly
be poets, and hence the proverb, "Poeta ruucitur, nunfit."
Those who experience a difficulty in conceiving what the
faculty is, may compare the character of BLOUNT with
that of RALEIGH in Kenilworth: " But what manner of
animal art thou thyself, RALEIGH," said TRESSILIAN,
" that thou boldest us all so lightly?''-" Who I?'' replied
RALEIGH, "An eagle am I, that never will think of dull
earth, while there is a heaven to soar in, and a sun to gaze
upon;"-Or they may compare the poetry of SwtFT with
that of MILTON; the metaphysical writings of Dr REID
with those of Dr THoMAS BRoWN ; the poetry of CRABBE
with that of BYRON; or Dean SwiFT's prose with that of
Dr CHALMERS.
It was this faculty, " by whose aid" SHAK.SPEARE ima-
gined the characters of Ariel and Prospera. Prospero'8
concluding speech in the Tempest, is a beautiful specimen
of the style of writing which it produces.
" I have bedimmed
The noon-Lide sun, call'd forth the mutlnllus winds,
And 'twixt the green sea and the azur'd vault
Set roaring war ; to the dread rattllng thunder
Have I giv'n fire, and rifted Jove's etout oak
With his own bult; the strong bas'd promontory
Have I made shake, and by the spurs pluckt up
The pine and cedar ; graves at my command
Have waked their sleepers; open'd and let them forth
By my 10 potent art. But t.his rough magic
I here atUure ; and when I have required
Some heavenly music, which even now I do,
To work mine end upon their sen~~e~, that
This idry charm is for ; I'll break my staff;
Bury it certain fathoms in the earth ;
And, deeper than did ever plummet sound,
I'll drown my t.ook.,.
Individuals differ exceedingly in regard to the endow-
ment of this faculty which they po88ess. According to the
energy and activity of it, poetry is prized or relished. I
ltave met individuals who declared that they could pert'eiv~
Digitized by Google
IDEALITY. 327
no excellence in poetical compositions, and could derive no
gratification from them ; and yet such individuals were en-
dowed with every degree of understandingand penetration,
according as tbey possessed the other faculties strongly or
weakly, and were not uniformly deficient, either in moral
sentiments or judgment, in proportion to their want of
poetic fire.
This faculty gives a peculiar tinge to all the other facul-
ties. It makes them, in every thing, aspire to Ideality.
A cast of the human head is a plain transcript of nature;
a bust is nature, elevated and adorned by the ideality of a
CHANTRY, a JosEPH, or a MACDONALD. Add a large de-
velopment of this organ to the other propensities, sentiments
and reflecting powers, and it expands the field of their in-
terest; carries them outwards, and forwards, and upwards :
and causes them to delight in schemes of improvement. In
common life, we easily distinguish those who have, from
those who have not, a considerable endowment of it. The
former speak, in general, in an elevated strain of language,
and, when animated, &how a splendour of eloquence and of
poetical feeling, which the latter are never able to com- .
mand. It gives to conversation a fascinating sprightliness
and buoyancy, the very opposite of the qualities expressed
by the epithets, dryness and dulness.
Some sects in religion, and, among others, that most re-
spectable body The Society of Friends, declaim against or-
nament in dress, furniture, and other modes of life ; they
renounce these as vanity, while they hold up the solid and
the useful as alone worthy of rational and immortal beings.
Now, this is the natural feeling of persons in whom Bene-
volence, Conscientiousness, and Veneration are large, and
Ideality very deficient,-and I have no doubt that the ori-
ginal propounders of these notions possessed this combina-
tion; but this is not the language of universal human na-
ture, nor of physical nature either. Where Ideality exists
to a considerable extent, there is an innate desire for the
beautiful, and an instinctive love and admiration of it; and
Digitized by Google
1DEALI'l'Y.
so far. from the arrangements of the Creator in the material
world being in opposition to it, he has scattered, in the
most profuse abundance, objects calculated, in the highest
degree, to excite and gratify the feeling. What are the
flowers that deck the fields, combining perfect elegance of
form with the most exquisite loveliness, delicacy, and har-
mony of tint, but objects addressed purely to Ideality, and
the subordinate faculties of Colouring and Form ? They
enjoy not their beauty themselves, and afford neither food,
raiment, nor protection to the corporeal frame of man: on
this account, some persons have been led to view them as
merely nature's vanities and shows, possessed neither of
dignity nor utility. But the individual in whom Ideality
is large, wilJ in rapture say, that they, and the lofty moun-
tain, the deep glen, the roaring cataract, and all the varied
loveliness of hill and dale, fountain and fresh shade, afford
to him the banquet of the mind; that they pour into his
soul a stream of pleasure so intense, and yet so pure and
elevated, that, in comparison with it, all the gratifications
of Acquisitiveness, and Self-Esteem, and Love of Appro-
bation, in the pursuits of wealth, and power, and conse-
quence, sink into insipidity and insignificance. In short,
to the phrenologist, the existence of this faculty in the
mind, and of external objects fitted to gratify it, is one,
among numberless instances, ofthe boundless beneficence of
the Creator towards man ; for it is a faculty purely of en-
joyment, one whose sole use is to refine, and exalt, and ex-
tend, the range of our other powers, to confer on us higher
susceptibilities of improvement, and a keener relish for all
that is great and glorious in the universe.
In conformity with this view, the organ is found to be
deficient in all barbarous and rude tribes of mankind, and
large in the nations who have made the highest advances in
civilimtion. It is smalJ in atrocious criminals; and I have
observed, that pet·sons who are born in the lower walks of
lifo, hut whose talents and industry have raised them to
wealth, are suscrptiblc of refinement in their manners, and
oigi!lzed by Coogle
IDEALITY. 329
habits, and sentiments, in proportion to the development of
this organ, and that of Love of Approbation. When it is
small, their primitive condition is apt to stick to them
through life; when large, they make rapid advances, and
improve by every opportnnity of intercourse with their su..
perion.
This faculty, then, joined with Love of Approbation, and
using Constructiveness, Form, Colouring, and other know-
ing faculties as their instruments, produce ~ll the orna-
ments of dress and architecture; they lead to the produc-
tion of poetry, painting, sculpture, the fine and ornamental
arts. The Society of Friends, therefore, and the foJlowers
of Mr OwEN, who dl'claim against ornament, ask us to
shut up one of the greatest sources of enjoyment bestowed
upon us. An elegant vase, a couch, or chair, fashioned in
all the delicacy of form and proportion that Ideality, aided
by the other powers, can attain, or the human form attired
in dress, in which grace, utility, and beauty, are combined,
are objects which our faculties feel to be agreeable ; the
pleasure arising from them is natural, and of so excellent
a quality, that it is at once acknowledged and approved of
by intellect, and every other faculty of the mind.
In private life, Ideality generally displays itself, as one
element in producing correctness of taste. Great Jove of
approbation may give a passion for finery, but we some-
times see intended ornaments tum out deformities) through
a want of taste in their selection, and this, I conceive, to
arise partly, from a defective endowment of the faculty in
question. If, on the other hand, we enter a house in which
exquisite taste reigns in every object, in which each parti-
cular ornament is made subservient to the general effect,
and the impression from the whole is that of a refined and
pleasing elegance ; we may be almost certain of finding
Love ofApprobation combined with large Ideality in one or ·
both of the possessors. Indeed, where the degree of wealth
'is equal in different persons, we might almost guess at the
extent of these two faculties, by the different degrees of
Digitized by Google
880 IDEALITY.
splendour in their domestic establishment ; and in cases
where homeli~ess is the prevailing feature, while amuence
is enjoyed, we may predicate a very moderate Ideality in
the one or other of the heads of the family. I have fre-
quently obeerved, in persons who, from a humble origin,
have become rich by commerce, an intense passion for this
species of domestic splendour, and, without a aingle excep-
tion, I have remarked Love of Approbation and Ideality
largely developed in their heads.
The Plate represents the organ large in CHAUCER,'
SHAKSPEARE, RoussEAU, and deficient in LoCKE and WtL-
LIAM CoBBETT.
The relish for poetry or the fine arts is generally in pro-
portion to the development of Ideality. It is necessary
to a player of tragedy. The tone or note of voice suit-
able to Ideality is elevated and majestic, and hence it
is essential to enable the actor to feel and express the great-
ness of the personages whom he represents.
In some individuals the front part of this organ is most
developed, in others the back part; and from a few cases
which I have observed, there is reason to believe that the
latter is a separate organ. The back part is left without a
number on the bust, and a point of interrogation is in-
scribed on it, to denote that the function is a subject of in-
quiry. The back part touches Cautiousness; and I suspect
an excitement of this organ, in a moderate degree, is an in-
gredient in the emotion of the sublime. Tire roar of
thunder, or of a cataract; the beetling cliff suspende,J. half
way betwixt the earth and heaven, and threatening to
spread ruin by its fall,-impress the mind with feelings or·
terror ; and it is only such objects that produce the senti-
ment of sublimity. It would be interesting to take two in-
dividuals with equal Ideality, but the one possessed of
much, and the other of little, Cautiousness, to the Vale of
Glencoe, the Pass of Borrowdale, tl1e Cave of Staffa, or
some other scene in which tbc clements of the sublime pre-
dominate, and to mal"k their different emotions. I suspect
4
Digitized by Google
Digitized by Google
~ig1t1ze~ by Goc:_gle_
IDEALITY. 881
the large CautioUBness would give the most profound and
intenee emotions of eublimity.
Thie faculty, like all othere, may be abueed. When per-
mitted to take the aecendancy of the other powers, and to
seek ita own gratification, to the neglect of the serioUB du-
ties of life, and when cultivated to eo great an excess ae to
produce a finical and sickly refinement, it then becomes a
source of great evils. It appears in RoussEAU to have
reached this state of diseaeed excitement. " The impossi-
bility of finding actual beings (worthy of himself), threw
me," 88YS he, " into the regions of fancy; and seeing that
no existing object was worthy of my delirium, I nourished
it in an ideal world, which my creative imagination soon
peopled to my heart's desire. In my continual ecstasies, I
drank in torrents of the most delicious sentiments which
ever entered the heart of man. Forgetting altogether the
human race, I made society for myself of perfect creatures,
as celestial by their virtues as their beauties, and of sure,
tender, and faithful friends, such ae I have never seen here
below. I took such delight in gliding along the air with
the charming objects with which I surrounded myself, that
I passed hours and days without noting them ; and losing
the recollection of every thing, scarcely had I eaten a mor-
sel, but I burned to escape," and return to this enchanted
world. The theory of thie condition of mind appears to be
thie: Roussuu elevated every faculty in his imaginary
personages, till it reached the standard of excellence fitted
to please hie large Ideality, aud then luxuriated in con-
templation of the perfeetion which he had created.
In common ·life, the passion for drees, ornament, and
finery, which in eome individuals goes beyond all reason-
able bounds, and usurps the place of the serious and re-
speetable virtues, results from an abuse of Ideality, Won-
der, and Love of Approbation, and ie generally combined
with a deficient development of Conscientiousness and Re-
fteetion.
ln an bospital, Dr GALL found this organ considerably
Digitized by Google
IDEALITY.
developed in a man who was insane ; and remarked to tli(J•
physicians who accompanied him, that he observed the ex-
terior sign wbich indicated a talent for poetry. The patient,
in point of fact, possessed this talent; for in his state of alie-
nation, he continually composed' verses, which sometimes
were not deficient in point and vigour. He belonged to the
lowest class, and had received no education. In the col-
lection of M. EsQUlROL, Dr GALL saw a maslc of an insane·
person, who also was habitually occupied in versifying;
and in it the organ iR question is considerably lat'ger than
any of the others.
This faculty corresponds in some degree to that of
"Taste," admitted by Mr STEWART; only he regards taste
as one of the powers acquired by habits of study or of ba-
siness.
Dr THOl!rfAS BR.oWN*' treats of beauty as an originaremo•
tion of the mind, and his doctrine might, with the change
of names, be almost adopted by th~ phrenologist in speak-
ing of Ideality. According to our doctrine, the knowing
and reflecting faculties perceive objects, as they exist in na--
ture, say a landscape, or a-Grecian temple; and the faculty of
Ideality, CJr;cited into activity by their featuret; glows with
a delightful and elevated emotion; and· to the qualities in
the external objects which kindle this lively sentiment of
pleasure, we ascribe the attribute of beauty. Beauty,
therefore, as a etrong· emotion; is enje~ ·only when the
knowing and· reflecting faculties act in conjunction with
Ideality. If the intellect acts alone, Ideality remaining
quiescent, no vivid feeling of beauty will be experienced;
-or, if a person is extremely deficient in Ideality, then the
most lovely objects iD external nature will appear to him
invct~ted in aU their attributes of form, coloor, eize, and re-
lative position ; but he will never thrill with that sublime-
emotion, or that ecstatic delight, which draws forth the ex-
clamation that the object contemplated is exquisitely beau-
tiful. Dr THOMAS BaowN, in perfect conformity with-
• Vol. iii. p. 13(.~.
Digitized by Google
IDEALITY. 888
lhis doctrine, says, " You ve now in no danger of con-
founding that view of Beauty, which regards it as an emo-
tion, dependent on the existence of certain previous percep-
·tions or conceptions, which may induce it; bat may also,
by the operation of the common laws of suggestion, induce,
at other times, in like manner, other states of mind, exclu-
sive of that emotion,-with the very different doctrine,
that regards beauty as the object of 8 peculiar internal
~e~U~e, which might, therefore, from the analogy conv('yed
in that name, be supposed to be uniform in its feelings, as
our .other senses, on the presence of their particular
ebjects, are uniform, or nearly uniform, in the intimations
afForded by tlu!m. Such aseme of beauty," says he," as a
fixed regular object, we assuredly have not; but it does not
follow, that we are without such an original susceptibility
of a mere emotion, that is not, like sensation, the direct and
uniform effect of the presence of its objects, but may vary
in the occasions on which it rises, like our other emotions ;
love, for example, or hate, or astonishment, which various
circumstances may produce, or various circumstances may
prevent from arising."
If Dr BROWN had added to his theory, that some indivi-
duals po88088 from nature a great susceptibility of experien-
eing the emotion of beauty, while others appear almost in-
sensible to it, as is the case also with the emotions of love,
hate, and astonishment, which he mentions, and that this
constitutional difference is one great cause of the different
perceptions of beauty enjoyed by different persons, he would
uve rendered his explanation of the phenomena nearly
complete.
Mr STEWART has written an Eseay on Beauty, in which
he arrives at the conclusion, that this word does not denote
one single and simple emotion only, but that, in a variety
of instances, in which external objects excite agreeable
feelings, they are said to be beautiful, although the kinds
of emotion which they call forth are very different. Thus,
it is correct speech to call a mathematical theorem beauti-
!
Digitized by Google
884 IDEALITY••
ful, a rose beautiful, and a lovely woman beautiful ; yet the
qualities of these three objects, and the kinds of emotion
which they excite, are so different, that they have no com-
mon property, except that of the feeling excited by all of
them being agreeable.
Mr STEwART appears to be correct in this observation,
and it is valuable, in so far as it directs our attention to
the vagueness of ihe word beauty; but it throws no light
on the theory of the beautiful itself. Phrenology, however,
enables us to supply Mr STEWART's deficiency in this re-
spect. Every faculty is gratified with contemplating the
objects to which it is naturally related. An elevated hymn
pleases the faculty of Veneration, and is, on account of rais-
ing this delight, pronounced to be beautiful. A symmetrical
figure gratifies the faculty of Form, and, on account of the
pleasure it produces, is also termed beautiful. A closely
logical discourse pleases Causality and Comparison, and on
this account ia also said to be beautiful. Hence, the inven-
tors of language, little prone to nice and metaphysical dis-
tinctions, framed the word beauty, to expre&A only the ge-
neral emotion of pleasure, of a calm and refined nature,
arising in the mind, on contemplating a variety of outward
objects; and in this sense a person may be alive to beauty,
who enjoys a very imperfect endowment of Ideality. But
the function of this faculty is to produce a peculiarly grand
and intense emotion of a delightful nature, on surveying
certain qualities in external objects; and it surpasses so
vastly in strength and sublimity, the feelings of beauty
communicated by the other faculties, that it may itself be
regarded as the fountain of this delightful emotion, and be
styled the Faculty of the emotion of Beauty. When active
from internal causes it desires beauty, splendour, grandeur,
and perfection, for its gratification, and prompbl the other
faculties to produce and seek out objects invested with
these qualities.
The question has been much agitated, What constitutes
~ ? The answer afforded by Phrenology is, that the
Digitized by Google
IDEAJ,JTY. 885
elements of poetry are all the feelings and perceptions of
the human faculties, and all their productions embued with
the quality of Ideality. Ideality itself is a primitive emo-
tion, which may be described but cannot be defined. It
harmonizes, and may therefore blend with every emotion,
conception, and production, whose striking qualities are
not in opposition to its own nature. If it be the feeling of
the beautiful, then it will naturally combine with the high-
est and best manifestations and productions of the other fa-
culties, and stand opposed to all imperfection.
By communicating the desire of perfection, Ideality erects
a high standard in the mind, by which to compare actual at-
tainments. Viewed inthis light, itappears to be an important
element in themental constitution ofman,asa progressivebe-
ing. To the lower animals, which cannot paRS beyond their
primitivecondition,a desire ofarrivingat a moreperfectstate
would have been a source of pain ; whereas to man, with
an undefined scope of improvement before him, no feeling
could be more useful and delightful. When regulated by
reason, the perfection which it aims at is not that which
belongs to GoD or to superior Beings; but that which re-
sult$ from the best action of all the powers of man as a li-
mited being.
Mr JEI'FR'EY's article on Beauty, in the Supplement to
the Encyclopmdia Britannica •, appears to me to proceed
on a misconception of the theory of Dr BaowN, and to
be unsound and inconsistent with human nature. Mr JEF-
I'REY conceives that all " emotions of beauty and sublimity
must have for their objects the sufferings or enjoyments of
sentient beings ;" and he rejects, " as intrinsically absurd
and incredible, the supposition, that material objects, which
obviously do neither h"urt nor delight the body, should yet
excite, by their mere physical qualities, the very powerful
emotions which are sometimes excited by the spectacle of
Beauty." Accordingly he lays it down, that the pleasure
we enjoy in contemplating a Highland landscape, arises
from 8880Ciating, with the wilds which we gaze upon, ideas
• Page H!l. .
Digitized by Google
996 IDEALITY.
of the rude sons of the mist and the mountain who inhabit
them; from our conjuring up, while we look upon their
scenes, recollections of their loves, their hates, their strifes,
their shouts of victory, and their lamentations over the dead;
and from our ascribing the delight occasioned by these emo-
tions to the external object.R themselves, as their cause, and
conceiving them to possess the quality of beauty, when in
truth they are only the occasions which excite these other
emotions in our minds. In the bust of Mr JEFFREY,
Ideality is not the most prominent feature ; but the or-
gans of ~ventuality, Comparison, and Causality are large;
and this combination would produce t>recisely such a
state of mind, on surveying a mountain-pass, as he here
describes. Ideality not being very energetic, the emotions
of sublimity and grandeur would be secondary in power ;
whereas Eventuality, Comparison, and Causality, being
more vigorous, and in ceaseless activity, would suggest a
thousand incidents and their relations connected with the
scene. This state of mind, however, would be peculiar to
those possessing this combination.
To t>ut this theory to the test of experience, I accom-
panied a French gentleman to the Trosachs, and marked
his emotions as he stood right in the gorge of the pass lead-
ing towards Loch Katrine. He was comparatively a stran-
ger to the manners, customs, and history of Scotland; al-
though, at the same time, from acquaintance with English
literature, he might have possessed some few ideas concern-
ing the inhabitants of the mountains to associate with the
rocks which he beheld. He possessed, however, consider-
able Ideality, ·and a cultivated understanding. When the
scene burst upon him, in the full effulgence of its glory, he
stood in mute astonishment and delight, until I asked him,
What idea8 were passing in his mind ? His answer was,
" Mon Dieu, je sene, et je ne pense pas.'' I explained to
him the motive of the question, and he declared that he ex-
perienced only emotions of the most intense and elevating
kind; that every nerve thrilled with pleasure, and that he
Digitized by Gooo[~
- - - - 0
IDEALITY. 337
thougJ,t of nothing, but resigned llimself entirely to these
delightful sensations. On analyzing his emotions he said,
that he felt his mind excited to rapture, by the ri<:hness and
exquisite elegance of tl1e trees and shrubs with which the
mountains were clotlted ; that his soul was awed into
sublimity, by the stupendous cliffs which towered in mag-
nificence to the clouds ; and that even the chill of fear crept
silently along his nerves, as the projecting precipices were
perceived threatening to fall, and cut offcommunicationwith
the world around : and again he declared, that he thought
not, and cared not, who inhabited the wilds, until the
force of the first and most exquisite impression was·spent;
and then his mind began to be occupied with ideas of col-
lateral objects, or coolly to think, and every moment there-
after the impression diminished in intensity, and at last
ceased entirely to be felt.
On another occasion I accompanied a gentleman, also of
education and a culth·ated understanding, but wlth little
Ideality, to the same spot. He looked calmly around and
observed : " Pretty trees these ! High bills ! Terrible up-
roar of elements been here ! Difficult pass for the High-
landers!" &c. &c. but exhibited no emotion, and no deep--
toned sentiment of the sublime, like the other.
The first of these instances shewed, that the supposition
" that material objects, which obviously do neither burt nor
delight the body, should yet excite, by their mere physical
qualities, the very powerful emotions which are sometimes
excited by the spectacle of beauty," is not quite so" intrin-
sically absurd and incredible," as Mr ·JEFFREY imagines;
while the second instance indicated that Ideality is truly
the faculty which feels the beautiful and the sublime, and
that, where it is not powerful, the most magnificent scenes
may be regarded with pleasure, but with no intense feeling
of beauty.
In composition, this faculty imparts splendour and ele,;a-
tion to the style, and it may manifest itself in prose as well
as in poetry. The style of Lord BACON is remarkably
y
Digitized by Google
888 IDEALITY.
imbued with the aplendoOl'B or Ideality, sometimes to ex-
cess, while that of LocKE is as decidedly plain ; and the
portraits of both shew that their beads corresponded with
these d.ift'erent manifestations. HAzLITT's bead, which I
have seen, indicates a large development of ldE'ality, and
the faculty glows in all his compositions. In Mr JEFFREy's
bead, as it appears in the bust, it does not predominate.
The report was current at the time, that the review or
Lord BYRON's Tragedies, which appeared in No. lxxii. of
the Edinburgh Review (February 1822), was the joint pro-
duction or these two celebrated authors; and keeping in
view the fact, that Mr JIA.zLrTT's Ideality is larger than Mr
JEFFREy's, it would not be difficult, by a careful analysis
of the article, to assign to each the sentences which he
wrote. Mr JEFFREY's predominating intellectual organs
are Eventuality, which treasures up simple incidents and
observations; Comparison, which glances at their analogies
and relations; and Causality, which gives depth and logical
consistency to the whole. HAZLITT, on the other hand,
possesses a large Comparison, resP,Cctable Causality, with a
decidedly large Ideality, elevating and adorning his intel-
lectual conceptions. Proceeding on these views, I would
attribute the following sentence to JEFFREy's pen, as cha-
racteristic of his manner. Speaking of the qualities of
8HAKSPEARE'S writings. the reviewer says, " Though
time may have hallowed many things that were at first but
common, and accidental asaociations imparted a charm to
much that was in itself indifferent, we cannot but believe
that there was an original sanctity which time only matured
and extended ; and an inherent charm, from which the
aaeociation derived all its power. And when we look can-
didly and calmly to the works of our early dramatists, it is
impoaaible, we think, to dispute, that, after criticism has
done its worst on them; after all deductions for impossible
plots and fantastical characters, unaccountable forms of
speech, and occaaional extravagance, indelicacy, and hor-
rors ; there is a facility and richness about them, both of
Digitized by Google
IDEALITY. 889
thought and of diction; a force of invention, and a depth
of sagacity ; an originality of conception, and a play of
fancy; a nakedness and energy of passion, an.d, above all,
a copiousness of imagery, and a sweetne88 and flexibility of
verse, wbioh is alt(lgeth•'llBrivalled ia.eadier. or ip later
times ; and .pla.Ces thetti, in olir ~timation, in the very
highest and foremost place among aaciant or m.odern
poets •." In this passage, we have the minuteneas of enu-
meration of Eventuality, the discrimiuation of Compa1ison
and Cansality, and the goQd taste of a-.mit, 'Qut none of the
elevation, on1ament, ·anti iatensity of a large,· Ideality. Ia
another part of-the same review, we find the folJowing sen-
tences: In BTRONt, "there. are some sweet lines, and
many of great weight and energy ; but the general march
of the verse is cumbrous and unmusical. His lines do not
vibrate like polished lances, at once strong and light, in
the bands of his persons, but are wielded like clumsy ba-
tons in a bloodless affray."-" He bas too little sympathy
with the ordinary feelings and frailties of humanity, to
succeed well in their representation. His soul is like a
star, and dwells apart!'-" It does not 'bold the mirror up
to nature,' nor catch the hues of surrounding objects ; but,
like a kindled furnace, throws out its intense glare and
gloomy grandeur on the narrow scene which it irradiates."
Here we perceiv4! the glow of Ideality; the simplicity of the
former style is gone, and the diction bas become elevated,
figurative, and ornamental. I am not informed l'egarding
the particular sentences which each of the above gentlemen
wrote in this review ; but these extracts will serve as brief
examples of the differences produced on the style, when
Ideality sheds few or many beams on the pen of the
author; and I regard the probabilities as very strong, that
the passages are assigned to their appropriate sourcee.
The organ is ascertained.
• r. -tiG-t1. t r. 420.
y 2
Digitized by Google
·( 340 )
~0.-WIT, OR MIRTHFULNESS.
EvERY one knows what is meant by Wit, and yet ne
word presents more difficulties iu its definition. Dr GALL
' .
observes, that, to convey a just idea of the faculty, he could
discover no better method than to describe it as the predo·
minant intellectual feature in RABELAIS, CERVANTES, Boi-
LEAu, RAciNE, SwrFT, STERNE, VoLTAIRE. In all these
authors, and in many other persons who manifest a similar
talent, the anterior-superior-lateral parts of the forehead
are prominent and rounded. When this development is
excessively large, it is attended with a disposition, appa-
rently irresistible, to view objects in a ludicrous light.
Wit, however, is not the only cause of laughter. Laugh-
ter, like crying, may arise from a variety of faculties. I
am acquainted with a boy in whom Acquisitiveness is
large, and he laughs when one gives him a penny. Ano-
ther youth who possesses a large Lo\"e of Approbation,
laughs when unexpected praise is bestowed upon him.
These facts, to which many more might be added, shew
that we may smile from any pleasing affection of the senti-
ments, or even of some of the propensities; and that the
cause of a smile is not always the ludicrous. This view is
confirmed by the circumstances which occur in l•ysteri<'.al
affections. It is not uncommon to see a lady or child laugh
and cry alternately and involuntarily, apparently on ac-
count of some varying affection of the whole mental sys-
tem, rather than from any particular, ludicrous, or dis-
tressing idea presenting itself by turns to the fancy. I
have noticed farther, that a large development of Hope,
Benevolence, and Wonder, producing happy emotions, pre-
disposes the possessor to laugh ; while Veneration, Consci-
entiousness, and Reflection, when predominant, give rise
to a natural seriousness and gravity, adverse to laughter,
the tone of these faculties being grave and solemn.
Digitized by Google
WIT. 3~1
There may be much excellent wit, without exciting us to
laugh. Indeed Lord CHESTERFIELD lays it down as a cha-
racteristic feature of an accomplished gentleman, that be
should never laugh ;- and although this rule is absurd, yet
there may be a high enjoyment of wit without laughter. The
following are instances in point. There is a story of a Not-
tinghamshire publican, Littlejohn by name, who put up the
.figure of Robin Hood for. a sign, with the following lines
below it:
" All ye that relish Ale that's good,
Come in and drink with Robin Hood;
If Robin Hood is not at home,
Come in and drink with LiiUejolu.."
Tliis is genuine wit, what even CHESTERFIELD would al-
low to. be so; and yet it does not force us to laugh. Ano-
ther instance is the following: Lours XV. once beard
that an English nobleman (Lord STAIR) at his court was
remarkably like himself. Upon his Lotdsltip's going to
court, the King, who was very guilty of saying rude
things, observed, upon seeing him, " A remarkable like-
ness, upon my word !·-My Lord, was your mother ever in
Ii'rance?' To which ·his Lordship replied, with great po-
liteness: "No, please your majesty, but myfatAer was."
This also is admirably witty; but it does not excite laugh-
ter. In P.axoa's song upon a young lady entreating her
mother to allow her to come ottt (as it., is called), there is
an allusion which, also, .is very fine wit, although it is not
laughable. The lady is alluding to the liberty enjoyed,
and the conquests made, .by her elder sister. The last
v.erse ia 811 follows-:
" Dear, dear mamma, for once let me
IJke.IWfo my fortune try,
I'll have an Earl as well as 11he,
Or know the reason why."
The fair prevaUed,-mamma gave way,
Aod KITTY, at her desire,
0BT.U.NED THE CUAilJOT FOR A DAY,
.AxD SET THE '1\"0ilLD ON FIRE."
Digitized by Google
84i WIT.
In all these instancos, every one endowed· with aoy por-
tion of the organ now under consideration, mustfeel wi&,
although no vivid emotion of laughter is excited. In
the following cases, again, the risible muscles are much
more afFected, when, in fact, the real point ofwit contained
in them is infinitely less.
· ·The story of the Nottingham publican, named Lrrru:-
"JOHN, who erected the sign of &Jbin Hood, goes on to say,
that Mr LrrTLEJOHN having died, his successor thought it
F a pity to lose 80 capital a sign, and ao much excellent
poetry, and accordingly retained both, only erasing his pre-
decessor's name, he substituted his own in its place. The
lines then ran thus :
ot All ye who relish Ale that'• good,
Come in and drink with RobiA Hood;
If.Rolma Hood Is not at home,
Come In and drink with S.urvzL Joalfeolf."
The whole wit is now gone, and yet the lines are infi...
nitely more laughable than before. In like manner, when
a servant Jet a tongue fall from a plate, and a gentleman at
the table said, " Oh, never mind ; ita a mere lapBtU lin-
!J'tUB ;" there was genuine wit in the remark ; but when
another servant, who had heard that this was witty, let fall
a shoulder of mutton, and thought to get oft; by styling
this accident, too, a lap8U8 lingutB, the whole wit was ex-
tinguished, but laughter would be more irresistibly pro-
voked. Now, in what does the wit of the first instances
consist? and what is the cause of the more laughable ef'eot
of the second class of cases, in which the wit is actaally
extinguished ?
This leads us to a definition of Wit. LocKE describes
Wit as " lying most in the assemblage of ideas, and put-
ting these together with quickness and variety, wherein can
be found any resemblance or rongruity, thereby to make up
pleasant pictur~, and agreeable visions in .the fancy •."
• EIISIIy, b. li. c. xi. § 2. ·
Digitized by Google
WIT.
Now, it may be demonstrated, that this definition is erro-
neous. For example, when GoLDSJilTH, in his beautiful
verses on Hope, compares that great bleaaing of humanity
to the light of a taper, he adds a circumstance of resem-
blance, which, according to Loco's definition, would be
the perfection of Wit :
" Hope, like the gUmmering taper'a light,
Adorna and cheera the way,
Jfnd llilllll darbr grt1fll6 1M ,.,.,
BrMII 11 6rifAiw rtlll·"
But this, in point of fact, is only exquisitely beautiful, and
not in the least witty. In like manner, MoonE, in the
following verses, introduces comparisons, which also are
admirably beautiful, but destitute of every ingredient of
Wit. In his song on music's powers to awak~ the memo-
ry, he says:
" Lw. the gale whleh sigbs along
Beds of oriental flowers,
111 the grateful breath of eong
That once waa heard In happier hours.
Fllled with balm, the gale sighs on,
When the tlowen have sunk in death,
So when pleuure'• dream is gone,
Ua memory lives In music's breath."
.Again, in speaking of the pains of memory, he says,
" When I remember all
The friends 10 link'd together,
I've seen around me fall
Llk1 leaves In wintry weather;
I feel like one who treads alone
Some banquet hall deserted ;
Wh01e lights at·e fled, whOle garlands dead,
And all but he departed."
In these instances we have the most une-xpected resem-
blances presented to the mind, beautif~J, as I have said,
but not witty ; and when we analyze the images, we arc
Digitized by Google
.
344 WIT.
able to refer them all to Comparison and Ideality as their :
origins; the suggestion of simple resemblance, adorned with
beauty being tl~eir constituent elements. ·
Wherein, then, do the comparisons which arc witty, such
as those already cited, or Hudibras's famous simile,
" When, like a lobster boiled, the morn
From black to red began to tuna,"
differ from those which are not witty ? This brings \IS at
last to the true definition of Wit, and to the main object
of all these remarks, the functions of the organ now under
consideration.
The authority of the metaphysicians tends to support the
idea that tl1e talent for perceiving resemblances is distinct
from that which discriminates differences. MALBRANCHE
observes, tl1at " There are geniuses of two sorts. The one
remarks easily the di.fferenc_es existing between objects, and
these are the e;Xcellent geniuBefl. The others imagine and
suppose resemblances between things, and these are the su-
perficial mind11 •." LocKE makes the same distinction.
After speaking of Wit, as ".lying most in the assemblage
of ideas wherein any resemblance can be found," he pro-
ceeds thus: "Judgment, on the contrary, lies quite on the
other side, in separating carifullg, OIUl from anotker, ideas
wherein can be found tlte least difference, thereby to avoid
being misled by similitude, and by qffinitg, to take one thing
for anotAer t·, Lord BAcoN says, that "the chief and (as
it were) radical distinction betwixt minds, in regard to phi-
losophy and science, is tbis,-that some minds hnve greater
power, and are more fitted for the observation of the di.ffe·
rences, others for the observation of the resemblances, of
tthings.,
These ideas will be better understood by an il1ustration.
The objection is often stated, that Phrenology is no science,
l1ecausc n large organ of Destructiveness and a large organ
• REcn de Ia Vtrite, liv. ii. 21! part c. ir.
·t F.~sn)·, &c. b. ii. c. xi. sect. f.
Digitized by Google
WIT.
of Benevolence may be found in the same head, and then
they will neutralize each other, like an acid and an allwli.
This objection would spring from a mind in which the
power of perceiving resemblances was greater than that
which perceives differences, and would appear conclusive
at tint sight to minds similarly constituted. But a person
having a large endowment of the faculty for perceiving
distinctions, would discriminate in a moment the dijference
bet.ween two chemical substances, placed in a state of me-
chanical mixture, and two organs subsisting separately,
having distinct funetions, and calculated for acting on dif-
ferent occasions; and he would see that the analogy had
no force whatever.
The question, then, occurs, Wllieh is the faculty that
perceives dijferences? Mr SCOTT has been led to believe,
that it depends upon the faculty of Wit, and that the primi-
tive function of this power is to distinguish differences,
while Comparison ·perceives resemblances. He conceives
that in all the foregoing instances in which Wit is recognis-
ed, there is " a mixture of congruity and incongruity, or
incongruity appears where congruity was expectecl," which
in principle is one and the same thing. This is nearly
the definition of Wit given by BEA'M'IE, and it also ap-
proaches closely to that given by CAMPBELL and Dr THOMAS
BaowN. Now, he says that the proper function of the facul-
ty under discussion is to perceive difference, to observe,
in short, iTuxmgruity, and that it is only when this is done
that Wit is at all recognised. The wit in Lord STAJR's re-
ply lies in the incongruity between the answer which Louis
received, and that which he expected. He evidently anti-
cipated that STAIR would say that his mother had been in
France; and the King meant it to be inferred, that she had
been false, and that STAIR was his brother. His Lord-
ship's reply, on the t'ontrary, completely turned the tables
on the King. " No, but my father was," impli~ that
Louis, by parity of reason, was descended of STAIR's father.
Digitized by Google
WIT.
In like IDIUlller when KITTY
" 0/JtaiMtJtM daMiolfor G daf
And ultM fiiOf'ld tmjin i"
we perceive·comparison between the yonng beauty's exploit
and that of Phaton with the chariot of the Sun, and the dif-
ference or incongruity is so striking, that we feel it 88 an
easential ingredient in lbe description, and relish it 88 wit.
In the comparison of Hope to the taper, on the other hand,
" Which etlll u darker grows the night
Emits a brighter ray,"
we attend only to the resemhlance, which is very atriking
and beaotifnl, attd not to tAe poiftt8 of dilference ; and then
the image strike& us 88 a pure ctm~pariaon, and not 88 im-
plying any incongruity, and, in conaequence, it is not felt
&8 witty.
Wit, therefore, appears to consist chiefly in an itttelkctual
perception ofdijfereRCe, of·congruity amid incongruity; and
hence Wit, like an argument, may be retailed a thousand
times, from mind to mind, without losing its intrinsic qua-
lities; while humour, which is aecribed chiefly to Secretive-
ness, is entirely personal, and must be witnesaed at the firat
hand to be at aU enjoyed •. These are Mr Scows ideas.
Dr SPURZHEIM, on the other hand, maintain& that the
perception of resemblance is the resolt ofa lower, and that
of difference of a higher, degree of power and acuvity in
each intellectual faculty; Colour, for example, when feeble,
8e88 a resemblance between hues, which by a more powerful
organ are at once discerned to be different; a feeble organ
of Tune perceives harmonies, where a higher faculty tfis..
covers discord&; feeble Causality sees resemblances between
two causes, which a more intense Causality distinguishes
to be different. Hence every organ perceives both resem-
blances and differences within its own sphere. This ob-
jection appears to me to be conclusive ; and the instances
• The theory or Humour is explained on P· 11)6.
Digitized by Google
WIT.
before cited from the .netaphyalcians, reeeive a ready ex-
planation by supposing that the geniuses which are capti-
vated chiefly by resemblances, posaees the weaker, and
those which discriminM8 difFerences, the higher endowment
of the various intellectual facultie~ related to their several
aubjects.
Dr SPURZREIM considers the faculty now under consi-
deration to be a Mlfftirnmt " which disposes men to view
every thing in a gay and joyful manner." He regards it
as " given to man to render him merry, to produce gaiety,
--feelings not to he confounded with satisfaction or con-
tentmeat : these are affections of every faculty, whilst gaie-
ty and blughter belong k) that which now occupies our at-
tention." ·A:-ccording to this view, Wit consi8tAJ in concep-
tions, formed by the intelJectual powers imMled with the
sentiment of the ludicrous ; in the same way aa poetry oon-
eists in the manifestations of the other facnlties, acting in
eembination with, and elevated by Ideality.
In the Phren. JoumaJ, vol. vi. p. 451, Mr HEWE'M'
WATSON has given a different analysis of this faculty, and
illostt"Ated it with much ability. He regards it as an intel-
lectual power, whose function is to take cognizance of the
nattl!'e or intrinsic properties of things, the o'ftice of Causa-
lity being to perceive the " relatione of causation and de-
pendence in general.'' Accorcling to him, the ludicrous is
a 1ltOde·of mauifeatation of all the intellectual faculties, and
he- gives examples in which SHERIDAN and MooRE diaplay
great Wit, chiefly from Individuality aad Compariaon.
The faculty ·now under discussion, produces wit also aa a
fltOde of manifestation ; but he conceives that it does eo al-
ways, ·by comparing or contrasting the intrin8ic qualitiu of
objects. The study ofcharacter "is included in thefnnctioDs
ofWit, not merely the actions performed, but the real dispo-
sitions.'' " Let us now take up," says be," the Sentimental
Tour of Sterne, in whose mask Causalityand Witare predo-
minating organs. Almost the whole tenor of this work, un-
like that ofmost tourists, consists ofdisquisitions concerning
I
Digitized by Google
348 WIT.
the dispositions and inherent qualities orpersons and things~.
for, instead of narrating whom and what he saw, his atten•
tion seems to have been absorbed in speculations as to tl1eir
conditions, dependences, nature, and qualities. We wish
to condense the evidence in support of the views now ad~
vanced concerning the organ of Wit, and shall therefore be
sparing in our quotations from each author, and, indeed,
select them rather as examples than evideBCe;.leaving te
those who may feel inclined the office of. trying their
soundness, by reference to. the general writings of the au..
thors enumerated. In the Preface written for the Senti~
mental Journey we have the following disquisition:
"'Your idle people leave their native country, and ge
abroad for some reason or reasons, which may be deriv.
cd from one of these general causes,-Inferiority of body;
-Imbecility of mind;-or Inevitable necessity.
. "' The two first include all those who travel by land or
by water, labouring with·-pride,.curiosity, vanity, or spleen,
subdivided and combined ad i,yinitum..
"' The third class includes the whole army of·peregrine
martyrs; more especially those travellers who set out upon
their travels with the benefit of clergy, either as delinquents
travelling under the direction of governors recommended
by the magistrates,--or young gentlemen transported by
the cruelty of parent& and guardians, and travelling under
the direction of governors recommended.by Oxford,.Aber.
deen, and Glasgow.
"' There is a fourth class, but their number is so small,
that they would not deserve a distinction, were it not ne-
cessary in a work of this nature, to observe the greatest
precision and nicety, to avoid a confusion ofclw-actu. And
these men I speak of, are such as· cross the seas, and so.
journ in a land of strangers, with a view of saving money
for various reasons, and upon various pretences; but as
they might also save themselves and others a great deal of
unnecessary trouble, by saving their money at home, and
as their reasons for trayclling are the least complex of any
Digitized by Google
WIT• 849
.other species of emigrants, I sltall distinguish these gentle-
men by the name of ' Simple Travellers.'
"' Thus the whole circle of travellers may be reduced to
.the following beads :
Idle Travellers,
Inquisitive Travellers,
Lying Traveller&,
u ·c Then foUow
Proud Travellers,
Vain Travellers,
Splenetic Travellen.
The Travellers of Necesslty,
The Delinquent and Felonious Traveller,
T,he Unfortunate and Innocent Traveller,
The Simple Traveller; and, lastly,
The Sentimental Traveller (meaning thereby myself)."
"''There is in these distinctions an admixture both ofPhilo-
80phy and Wit, but certainly more of the former ; and if our
l'eaders have gone along with our previous conclusions,
they will scarcely hesitate to attribute both the one and the
other to the organ bearing the cognomen of the latter.
Again, he says :
"The sons and daughters of service pal't with liberty,
but not with nature, in their contracts ; they are flesh and
blood, and have their little vanities and wishes in the
midst of the house of bondage, as well as their task-mas-
ters.''
"SHERIDAN enjoyed no slight reputation as a wit, but any
one taking the trouble to analyze his manifestations in that
way, will soon perceive that the wit of this remarkable in-
dividual almost always consists of comparisons, or con-
trasts of proportion, position, objects, and events, with lit-
tle or no reference to their attributes or inherent proper-
ties. For instance, he compares a tall thin man with a
11bort fat wife, to a church aud steeple ; beaux flirting with
a lady seated in a very high carriage, to supporters bang-
ing half way up tho door; a tall thin man, to a tree run
up against a wall ; and such an one with his arms spread,
to a cross on a Good-Friday bun."
2
Digitized by Google
350
"As, therefore, in the works of individuals noted for the
large development of Wit, we find a peculiar tendency to
dWf.ll on the essential properties of things, and, at the same
time, in some of them an equal tendency to ridicu.le aH
fancy, philosophy, and reasoning, wherein there appears ne-
glect or ignorance of these attributes ;-as we are not aware
of any other organ which can include perceptions of this
nature in its function ;-and as the inherent propertiea. of
the constituent parts of creation seem to be intellectual
perceptions, equally distinct from those of condition or de-
pendence as those of objects are from those of their posi-
tion and physical properties ;-there seems no slight pro-
bability for supposing the existence of some distinct organ
for such perceptions; and, further, if we find them mani-
fested strongly when·the organ of Wit is large ; if the peen•
liar wit and satire believed to be connected with the func-
tion of this organ is found to depend essentially on suc1t.
perceptions ; and if other kinds of wit-that of CunRAN and
SHERIDAN, for instance-may exist with a moderate or de-
ficient endowmeat of this organ ; we shall be almoat neces-
sarily forced to the conclusion that perception of inherent
properties does depend on the organ of Wit, unleea it can
be shewn to exist powerful when the organ ia feebly deve-
loped, which we have in vain looked for.
" It hence appears that the range of this faculty is far
more extensive, and that it forms a much more essential
ingredient, in our philosophic eapacities than could be pr&-
dicated from only observing its manifestations when acting
along with Secretiveness, Self-esteem, Combativeness, and
Destructiveness, to pt"oduce irony, sarcasm, ridicule, and
satire ; or, with other intellectual powers, to sparkle in the
sallies of wit. Directed towards man, it probably gives a
tendency to investigate the real character, instead of rest-
ing content with observing appearances or actions, which
seems to have been greatly the bent of STERNE's mind, and
considerably so of that of FRANKLIN. Taking the direc-
tion of Religion, it will inquire into the nature and attri-
Digitized by Google
WIT. 851
butes ol Gon, 88 manifested in creation. Cowna aft'ords
an example of this, and SocRATES may be also named. In
physiology, primary or euential function, as distinct from
modes of manifestation, and particular actions and direc-
tions, will be its aim. To the metaphysician it will impart
a strong desire for ascertaining the nature and inherent
powers of mind, and of creation in general. Phrenology,
being an union of the two latter-the metaphysician and
the physiologist-its founders will atrord;us a suitable illus·
tration. In the buat of Dr GALL the organ is represented
much less developed than in that flf Dr SPURZHEJM; -and
the superiority of the latter in discriminating modes of ma-
nifestation and particular directions of the mental powers
from the powers themselves, is familiar to all phrenologists.
Perhaps, too, we shall not err in adducing LoCKE 88 a ne-
gative instance of the faculty. In the portraits of this phi-
losopher, Comparison and Causality appear greatly larger
than Wit ; and his system derives not only ideas, but the
mental feelings, from external impressions; but as he was
obliged to give the mind a capability of being affected by
impressions on the external senses, be endowed it with the
faculties of perception, contemplation, memory, compari-
son, and abstraction, which are in reality but modes of ac-
tivity, not inherent powers. His grounds for denying the
innateness of ideas were their non-manifestation, or vari-
ous modifications in different individuals, from which it
would seem that modes of being were to him in lieu of in-
nate powers.
" It baa been supposed that the organ of Wit gives a ten·
dency to view every thing in a ludicrous light ; but il the
ideas here proposed concerning its function prove correct,
such a suppoeition must be untenable ; and that it is so, in
point of faet, may be shewn by reference to nature. Tile
masksof Drs CULLEN, FRANKLIN, and SPURZHEIM, exhibit
a greater development of the'organ than do those of CuR-
RAN, Sw1n, and SHERIDAN. And further, let any one ap-
peal to his own private friends in whom the organ is large-
Digitized by Google
352 WIT.
ly developed, and ask whether they arc not oftener pained
than pleased by things of opposite and unhnrmonizing na-
ture brought into unnecessary contact ; and, on the other
band, delighted by harmonies between the properties or at-
tributes, whether real or imaginary, of different objects."
"It seems that almost aU amusing wit consists in a
slight resemblance addressed to the function of one organ,
and at the same time a difference to that of another,-tlms
coming still nearer to Mr SCOTT'~ theory of laughter than
his owu view of wit could do. For, if there were distinct
organs to perceive resemblance and difference, each would
be similarly excited by the specimens of wit ; but if these
be modes of activity common to all the intellectual powers,
then one of them is agreeably excited by the similarity, and
the other jarred by the contrast, producing different 8tate8
of excitement. We say " jarred," because the more any
organ is developed, the more are similarities and harmo-
nies between its perceptions sought after; Tunc, Colour,
and Number, for example."
I present these different views, because they are ingeni-
ous; but the facts adduced are much too few for forming a
judgment on the question. Mr WATsoN's observations are
highly interesting, but considerable difficulties attend them.
In SHERIDAN, Individuality and Eventuality are by much
the predominant intellectual organs, but Wit is also mo-
derately developed; and his manifestations arc in exact
correspondence with Dr.SPURZHEIM's views ;-namely, his
elementary ideas are drawn chiefly from Individuality and
Eventuality, and they receive a colouring from Wit, wlaich
renders them ludicrous ; but they do not partake very
highly of this quality, and in their nature they differ from
the witty manifestations of STERNE and VOLTAIRE, in
whom large Causality was combined with large Wit. I am
acquainted with two individuals in both of whom Indivi-
duality and Eventuality are large; but in the one Wit is
small, and in the other rather large, and the former almost
never intentionally presents witty combinations of ideas,
Digitized by Google
WIT.
while the latter is prone to do so, as a habitual disposition
of mind, without study or intention. This case also is in
harmony with Dr SPURZHEJIIl's doctrine.
When this organ large is combined with muoh Comba-
tiveness aad Destructivene88, it leads to satire. It gives
the talent also for epigrams. Persons in whom it is smaU,
if their predominating faculties be grave, regard Wit as im-
pertinenct>, and are apt to be offended by it. It is greatly
aided by Iddividuality, Eventuality and Comparison, which
furnish intellectual materials which it invests with a lu-
dicrous appearance.
· I include Wit among the sentiments in the present edi-
tion, with a view to preserve uniformity with·Dr SPuR~
HEJM in the numbering of the organs with reference to the
lmst. Dr SPUBZHEIM; in the dissection of the brain, shews
that,· anatomically, Ideality and Wit belong to the same de:
partmeat of convolutions ; whence a presumption arises of
their functions belonging to the same class of mental facul•
ties; and as Ideality has been uniformly regarded as a sen•
timent, Wit may with propriety be placed under the same
head. Mr WA.TSON has been led to regard Ideality al11o as
an intellectual power; but his ideas are not sufficiently ma...
tured for publication. It will be observed, that all these
differences relate to the metaphysical analysis of the facul-
ty, and that phrenologists are agreed on the fact, .that wit-
ty and mirthful manifestations are connected with the or•
gan now under consideration. Tho organ, and its general
functions, therefore, are regarded as ascertained.
21.-11\HTATIO~.
i>a GALL gives the following account of the discovery fJf
Ulls faculty and organ. One day, a friend with whom he
conversed about the form of the head, assured him that his
had something particular, and directed his hand to the su-
perior-anterior region of the skul]. This part was elevated
in the form of a segment of a circle; and behind the pro-
z
Digitized by Coogle
IMITATION.
tuberance there was a depree~ion. Before thia time Dr
GALL had not observed this conformation. This man had
a particular talent for imitation. Dr GALL immediately
repaired to the institution of the deat' and dumb to exa-
mine the bead of the pupil CA8TEIGNER, who only six
weeks before had been received into the establishment, and,
from his entrance, bad attracted notice by his amazing fa..
lent for mimicry. On the mardt-graa of the Carnival, when
a little play was presented at the institution, lie bad imi-
tated so perfectly the gestures, gait, &e. of the director, in-
spector, physician, and surgeon of the establishment, and
above a11 of some women, that it was impossible to mistake
them. This exhibition was the more amusi»g, 81 nothing
of the kind was expected from this boy, his education ha-
ving been totally neglected. Dr GALL states, that he quite
unexpectedly found the part of the head in question as ful-
ly developed in this individual as in his friend HANNIBAL,
just mentioned.
Is the talent for mimicry, then, said GALL, founded on a
particular faculty and organ ? He sought every opportuni-
ty of I!lultiplying observationa. He visited private fami-
lies, schools, &e., and every where namined the heads of
individuals who poesessed a distblguiahed talent for mi-
micry. At this time, Mons. Lax, aeeretary to the mini-
ster at war, bad acquired a great reputation, by several
characters which he played in a private theatre. Dr GALL.
found in his head the same part of the head swelling
out as in CASTEIGNER and IIA.NNIB.AL. In all the other
persons whom he examined, he found the part in question
more or less elevated in proportion to the talent for imita-
tion which they possessed. It is told of GARRicK, says Dr
GALt., that he peea«aed such an extraordinary talent for-
mimicry, that, at the court of LouiS XV., havingseen for a
moment the King, the Duke D'AuMOl'fT, the Duke
D'ORLE.ANS, and MflS81'8 D'AuMoNT, BRISSAC, RICHELIEU,
Prince SouBISE, &c. he carried off' the manner of each
of them in his recollection. He invited to supper somo
Digitized by Google
IMITATION. 855
friends who had accompanied him io court, and aid, " 1
have seen the court only for an instant, but I shall shew
you the eorrectneae of my powers of observation, and the
extent of my memory;" and placing his friends in two
files, he retired from the room, and instantly returning, hie
friends exclaimed, "Ah! behold the King, Louis XV..
to the life." He imitated in succession all the other per-
sonages of the court, who were instantly recognised. He
imitated not only tlleir walk, gait and figure, but also the
expression of their countenances. Dr GALL, therefore, easi-
ly understood bow greatly the faculty of Imitation would
assist in the formation of a talent for acting; and he exa-
mined the heads of the best performers at that time on the
stage of Vienna. He found the organ large in them all,
namely, in MuLLER, LANGE, BaocKMANN, ScHR.IEDEn,
BAUMAN, Koca, and hie daughter. He got the skuU of
JuNGER, a poet and comedian, and he afterwards used it to
c\emonstrate the organ. Subsequently, be and Dr SPunz-
HEIM, in their travels, met with many confirmations of the
organ; in particular, in the house of correction at Munich,
they saw a thief who had this ergan large. Dr GALL said
he must be an actor: surprised at the observation, be ac-
knowledged that be bad for some time belonged to a stroll-
ing company of players. This circumstance was not known
in the prison when GALL made the observation. On these
grounds, Dr 0AI.L coneeived himself justified in admitting
the existence of a particular talent for imitation ; that is
to say, a faculty which enables the possessor in some degree
to personify the ideas and sentiments of others, and to exbi-
bit them exactly by gestures; and he considered this talent
to be connected with the particular orgaa now pointed out..
This organ contributes to render a poet or author dra-
matic, such as S&AKSPEARE, CoRNEILLE, MoLIERE, VoL-
TAIRE, &c. It is large iB the portraits of SHAKSPEARE,
and also in the bust of Sir WALTER SCOTT, whose produc-
tions are strongly characterised by their dramatic scenes.
This faculty produces the talent for imitation alone ; and
z 2
Digitized by Google
856 11\IITATlON.
Mr ScoTT has ebserved, that, in perfeot acting,. there is.
more than imitation. There is expression of the propensir
ties udsentiments of.the mind in all the truth and warmth
of actual and natural excitement ; and this power of throw-
ing real expression into tbe outward representation he con·
ceives .to depend. upoa SecretiTeness. Thus,. says Mr
ScoTT, a person with much Imitation and little·Secretive-
ness, could represent what he had seen, but he would give
the externals only in his representation ; add Secretiveness,
and be could then enter into any given character as it.
would appear if existing in actual nature : he could, by
means of this latter faculty, call upall the internal feelings
w.hich .would animate the original, and give not a copy
merely, but..another of the same,-a second edition, as it
were, of the person represented. In this aoalysis of act-
ing, perhaps, too much influence is ascribed to SeeretiYe-
ness, and too little to Imitation: My own opinion, as ex-
pressed on p. 197, is, that Secretiveness produces chiefly a
restraining effect, and that Imitation enables its possessor
to enter into the spirit of those \vhom it represents.
While, however,. Secretiveness and Imitation together
may thus be regarded as general powers, without which no
talent for acting can be manifested,.it is proper to observe,;
that the effect with which they can be applied in repre-
senting particular characters, will depend on the degree in
which other faculties are possessed in combination with
them.. They confer on the individual only the capacity of
applying, in this varticular way, the \Vhole other powers of
the mind, so far aa he possesses them ; but they do not
supply the want of these powers. For example; an actor
destitute of Thne, however highly he may be endowed with
Secretiveness and Imitation, could not imitate CATALANI,
or, what is the same thing, perform her parts on the stage;
and neither could an individual possessing little Combative-
ness and Destructivenua, represent with just effect the fiery
Coriolanus; because the natural language of indignation
can no more be called up by Secretiveness and Imitation,
Digitized by Google
IMITATION. 857
without Oombativeness and Destructiveness, than melody
without the aid of Tune. Hence, to constitute an accom-
plished actor, capable of sustaining a variety of parts, a ·ge-
.neral full endowment of the mental organs is required.
Nature rarely bestows all these in an eminent degree on
one individual; and, in consequence, each performer bas a
range of character in which he excels, ancl out -ef-whieh he
is nothing; and I have found, by repeated observations,
that the lines of suceess and failure bear a decided refer-
ence to -the organs fully or imperfectly developed in the
brain·. Any one may easily put this ·observation to the
test of experiment. Actors incapable of sustaining the dig-
nity of a great character, but who excel in low comedy,
will be found deficient in Ideality ; while, on the other
hand, those who tread the stage with a native dignity of
aspect, and seem as if bom to comman~ will be found to
possess it largely developed ; and also Fi:rmnus, Self-esteem,
and Love ofApprobatian. It does not follow, however, from
these principles, that an actor, in his personal conduct,
must necessarily resemble most closely those characters
which he represents to the.best advantage. To enable an
individual to succeed eminently in acting ShylocA, for ex-
ample, Firmness, Acquisitiveness and Destructiveness, are
reckoned indispensable ; but it is not necessary, merely
because Shylock is represented as deficient in Benevolence,
Justice, Veneration, and Love of Approbation, that the
actor also should be so. The general powers above re-
ferred -to, although they do not supply the place of defi-
cient faculties, are quite competent for the time to suppress
the manifestations of opposite l!lentiments. Hence, in .his
proper character, he may manifest in the highest degree the
moral sentiments ; and yet, by shading these for the time,
by the aid of Secretiveness, and bringing into play only the
natural languages of the lower propensities, which also we
suppose him to possess, he may represent a scoundrel to
the life.
This faculty is indispensable to the portrait painter, the
Digitized by Google
358 IMITATION.
engraver, the sculptor; and, on examining the heads of Mr
DouGLAS, Mr JosEPH, Mr UwiNS, Mr W. Au•.ur., Mr
JA.¥ES 8TEwAKT, Mr SELBY the ornithologist, and MrLAw-
RENCE MAcDONALD, I foDild it large in them all. Indeed,
in these arts, it is as indispensable as Constructiveness. It
also aids the mWiician and linguist, and, in llhort, all who
practise arta in which expression is an object.
Imitation gives the tendency to express by gestures the
thoughts and feelings of the ·mind, and hence is requisite
to the aecomplished orator. In private life, some indivi-
duals accompany their speech with the most forcible and
animated expreesions of countenance, the nascent thought
beams from the eye, and plays upon the features, before it
is uttered in words ;-this is produced by much Imitation,
Secretiveness, and Ideality.
This organ is.possessed by some of the lower animals,
such as parrots and monkeys, which imitate the actions of
man.
W11en this organ and that of Benevolence are both large,
tl•e anterior portion of the coronal aspect of tbe head riSe&
high above the eyes, is broad, and presents a level surface,
88 in Mi88 0LARA FISHER, who, at eight years of age, ex-
hibited great talents as an actress. When Benevolence is
large, and Imitation small, there is an elevation in the
middle, with a rapid slope on each side, as in JAcoB J.tn-
VIs. The organ is large in RAPHAEL _It is regarded as
ascertained.
,JACOB ,JERVIII• CLA1lA FrsUEil.
In both of these figures the head risea to a great height above the
eyes; but in JER\'IS it slopes rapidly on the two sides of 13, Be-
nevolence, indicating Imitation deficient; whereas in Miss CLA•
DA F1suEu. it is as high at 21, Imitation, as at Benevolence, in-
<licating both organ~ to be larg('.
Digitized by Google
( 359 )
ORDER 11.-INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
THESE faculties communicate to man and animals know-
ledge of their own internal sensations, and also of the ex-
ternal world; their object is to know -existence, and ~ per-
cein qualities and relations. They consist of three ge-
·nera; the first genus includes the Five SenseR ; the second,
those powers which take cognizance of external objects
and their relations, named Knowing or Perceptive Facul-
ties; and the third, the faculties whicn trace abstract re-
lations, and reason or reflect.
GENUS I.-EXTERNAL SENSES.
BY means of the Five Senses, man and animals 'are
brought into communication with the external world. Dr
SPURZBEIM, in his " New Physiognomical System," and, in
his recent work "Phrenology,'• gives admirable treatises
on the eenees ; of which I avail myself largely in the fol-
lowing pages.
The opiniona entertained by philosophers in regard to the
functions of the aenses, have been whimsical, extravagant,
and contradictotj. Since the time of BAcoN and LocKE,
tbe greater number of pbilosopbieal aystems rest on the
axiom of ABISTOTLE, that all ideas come into the mind by
means of the extemal senaee. According to this notion, he
wbo posse•• them ill the higheet etate of perfection, is
aWe to manifest most powerfully the faculties of the
mind; or, in other word., tlte .faculties, both of man and
•imals, ought to be proponionate to the perfection of the
nve lleWI8II, and to the education beetowei upon them.
Daily experienee, however, contradicts this hypothesis.
Philoeophers of another class maintain, that the mind
.acta independently of all organization, and that the senses,
Digitized by Google
·360 FUNCTIONS OF THE
instead of being Uistruments of action, are rather impedi-
ments to it. They complain much J>f the illusions of the
five senses; and despise all testimony, aud all concluaions
grounded upon sensation. Such notions are unworthy of
being refuted.
A great many philosophers have also attributed to the
.external senses many acts which are performed by the in-
ternal faculties alone. For instance, HELVETIUS has said,
that man owes his arts to the structure of his bands ; and
.that, if the hoof of the horse bad been joined to the human
.8l'IQ, he would have been still wandering wild in the woods•
.But many animals have instruments equally curious and
perfect in their structure as those to which peculiar capa-
cities of mind have been attributed in man ; and yet these
instruments do not produce in them tlie corresponding func-
tions. Monkeys have hands almost.& nicely formed as those
which are attached to the human arm; .but, do monkeys
-
put wood upon the ·fire to support ·combustion ? or, do
-they construct works of art? According to this opinion, ·
.also, insects, craw,.fisb, lobsters, and still mo~:e the cuttle-
·fisb, ought to have exact ideas of extension, of size, and of
·the theorems of geometry, inconsequence of their numerous
and perfect organs of touch.
In point of fact, however, the external instruments are
.often similar, while the functions performed by them are
.quite..differcnt. The hare and rabbit have similar feet ; yet
the hare lies on the surface of the fields, while the rabbit
·burrows under ground. Wc have also examples of similar
·functions observed in animals which have instruments quite
.different. The proboscis is to the elephant what the band
is to man and to the monkey. The hands of monkeys, and
the feet of parrots and squirrels, are certainly different;
ye.t, by means of these instruments, they all move their food
to .their months in eating. In order to dig up truftles, the
hog ploughs the earth with his snout, and the dog scratches
it with his feet.
Other philosophers, again, have taugllt, that the func··
Digitized by Google
FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES. 861
tions of tho senses are not drdained by nature, but acquired
by experience. For example, the metaphysicians have writ-
ten much about the rectijicotion of the sense of sight, by
means of touch ; and about what they call the acquiredper-
ceptions of sight.
Each sense, however, performs its functions in conse-
quence of its own innate constitution alone, and the rela-
tions of every sense to external impressions are determi-
nate, and subjected to positive laws. If an odour make an
impression upon the olfactory nerve, the impression is im-
mediately found to be agreeable or disagt'eeable ;. and this
feeling arises from the constitution of the sense, and the
relation established betwixt it and the odorous particles
which excite it to activity. The functions of every sense
depend only on its peculiar organization ; and hence no
preceding exercise or habit is necessary, in order to acquire
the special power of any sense. If the organization be
perfect, the functions are perfect also ; and if the organiza-
tion be diseased, the functions are deranged, notwithstand-
ing all preceding .exercise. If the optic apparatus be per-
fect in newly hatched birds, their sight is perfect; as is the
case with chickens, ducks, partridges, and quails : If, on
the contrary, at the first entrance into life, the organiza-
tion of the eyes or the ears be imperfect, the power of
the animal to see or bear is proportionally deficient. In
adult persons, vision is deranged if the eyes be diseased.
In old persons, the functions of the five senses lose their
energy, because the vital power of the organs is dimi-
·nished.
It is indeed ridiculous to suppose that Nature should
·have produced any sense which could not perform its func-
tions, without being supported by another and a different
11ense :-that, for example, we should not be able to see
without feeling, or to hear without seeing. Hence the pro-
positions appear self-evident,-that no sense acquires its
functions by means of any other sense, and that any one
Digitized by Google
36i FUNCTIONS OF THE
8eJl88 cannot be the instrument of producing the &eDSat.ious
experienced by means of all the &eD8ell collectively. But
we must obeerve, that dift'ereut 88D8el may enable ua to
pereeive the same object; and that one sell&e ia more fitted
than another to make us acquainted with dift'erent objectl,
and their qualities. For example, we may obtain a con-
ception of the figure of a book, by means of the seuee of
touch, and also by means of the &eDM of sight.
Each sen~~e, as already observed, ia subject to its own po-
sitive lawa. For example, we see, according to th.e laws of
the refraction of light; and hence, a straight rod half
plunged in water appears crooked, although touch proves
that, in thia situation, the rod continues straight.
Thia is a kind of rectification ; but it must not be con-
founded with. the doctrine which maiutaiDB that one seuee
acquires ita functions by means of the rectification of ano-
ther sense. Touch may shew, that a rod which ia plunged
in water, and looks crooked, ia straight ; but the eyes will
see it crooked as before. The rectificat.ioDB, thus efFected
by the &eD&eB, are mutual, and not the prerogative of one
sense. In this view, the eyes may rectify the eeuee of
touch. H, without our knowledge, a piece of thin paper
be placed betwixt one of our fingers and the thumb, we
may not feel, but we may «e it. Even smell and taste
may rectify the senses of seeing and of touch. Thus, many
fluids look like water ; and it would be impossible to disco-
ver them to be dift'ereot aubatancea by the sense of touch ;
but it is easy to do ao by smell and taste. Thus each sense
has its peculiar and independent functions, and each is sub-
ject to positive laws. But every seuee also perceives im-
pressions of which another is not BUBCeptible; and it is in
eoDBequence of this circumstance that the external senaes
rectify one another ; or rather produce, by their eo-opera-
tion, an extent of accurate conception, which, in an un-
connected state, they would have been incapable of pro-
·dueing.
3
Digitized by Google
FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES. 863
It Is a task of COD&iderable difticulty to point out accu-
rately the precise limits of the functions of the senaes, be-
cause, in every act of perception, their instrumentality is
oombined with that of the internal faculties of the mind;
and it is not easy to discriminate to what extent the act
depends upon the one, and to what extent upon the other.
For the elucidation of this point, I submit the following
ooDSiderations to the attention of the reader.
The senses themselves do notform ideas. For example,
when an impression is made upon the hand, it is not the
organs of touch which form the conception of the object
making the impression ; but the nerves of feeling in the
hand receive the impression, communicate it to the brain,
and a faculty of the mind perceives the object. Without
the nerves of feeling, the internal faculty could not ex-
perience the perception; because the medium of communi-
cation betwixt it and the object would be wanting. But
neither eould the band experience the perception without
the instrumentality of the internal faculty, beeause the
nerves of feeling do not perform the function of percep-
tion.
Hence, previous to every perception, there must be an
impression on the organs of sense ; and the function of
these organs appears to consist in receiving and transmit-
ting this impression to the brain and internal faculties. The
nature of the impression depends on the constitution of the
senses, and on the relations established betwixt them and
external objects; and, as it is absolutely impossible for the
human will to change either the constitution of the senses•
or the relations betwixt them and the external world, it is
clearly absurd to speak of acquired impressions.
But, as the senses are constituted with a determinate re-
lation to external objects, so the brain and internal faculties
are constituted with a determinate relation to the organs of
sense. In virtue of the first relation, a certain object makes a
certain impression ; and, in virtue of the second, a certain
Digitized by Google
S64 FUNCTIONS OF THE
impression gives rise to a certain perception ; and both
depend on nature, and not on the will, nor on exercise or
habit.
But ~ must distinguish betwixt the perceptions we ex-
perience of external objects, and the inferences concerning
their qualities, which we draw by reasoning fl"om these
perceptions. All those ideas whieh are pure perceptions
are formed intuitively, on the presentation ·of objects fitted
to excite them. Inferences from these, on the other hand,
are the result of our reaJOning powers. What nre some-
times called " acquired perceptions," are merely haJJita of
reasoni11g, from the impl.'e8Sions naturally made on the
senses; and these habits are just as much a part of our na-
ture as the original perceptions. It appears to me, that
the visible and tangible appearances of bodies are simple
perceptions, because, after the amplest experience of some
of these being deceitful, we cannot, in the slightest degree,
alter our perceptions of them. For example, a rod half
immersed in water, appears crooked, in defiance of every
endeavour to see it straight. When we stand three or four
yards distant from a minor, and perceive our image in it,
we cannot, })y any efforts, succeed in perceiving the image
as if formed on the surface of the minor, although we
know perfectly that it is so. It appears always at the same
distance behind the surface as we are before it. If a pic-
ture be painted according to the rules of perspective, and
the laws of optics, so as to represent a vista in the country,
or a long street in a city, we are altogether incapable,
when in the proper position for viewing it, of perceiving
the surface to be plain. The picture appears to us to re-
present objects at different distances, and the meat deter-
mined resolution to see them all equally near, is of no
avail, u.lthough we know that, in point of fact, they are so.
If, previous to experience, all objects seen by the eye ap-
pear only as of different colours and shades, and all equal-
ly near, although really at .different distances; and if we
learn by experience only, that this natural appearance is
oigi!lzed by Coogle
FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES. 365
deceitful, and that, in point of fact, one object is near an.l
another distant ; I cannot perceive a reason why we might.
not learn by experience also, to perceive pictures as plain
surfaces, and images as if formed on the surfaces of mirrors ;
and, in short, to get quit altogether of the iUusions of op-
tics. If it be easy to acquire, by habit, the power of per-
ceiving objects as at difFerent dist,ances, which naturally
appear to the eye, as all equally near, it ought to be no dif·
ficult matter to learn by experience, to perceive a surface
to be plain which really is so, after we are certain of the
fact ; and yetto I have never beard of an instance of a per-
son who bad made such an ac:quisition.. Colour, Form,.
Magnitude, and Distance, appear to be objects of intuitive
pePception; and, accordingly, no experience, and no repe-
tition of acts of volition, can alter such appearances, if the
refraction of light, state of the eye, and the internal facul-
ties, remain the same.
The following appears.to me te be a correet mode ofascer-
taining the lii:nits of the functions of the senses : Whatevelf
perceptions or impressions received from external objects,.
canbe renewedbyan act ofrecollection, cannot depend exclu-
sively upon the senses; because the organs of sense are not
subject to the wilJ, and never produce the impressionswhich
depend upon their constitution, except when excited by aD
external cause. On the other band, whatever impressions
we are unable to recal, must, for the same reason, depend
on the senses alone.
These principles willbe best elucidated by examples. Fol'
instance, when a bell bas been rung in our presence, md
the impressions have ceased, they cannot be recalled by aa
effort of the will; because their existence depended on the
apparatus of the ear being in a certain state of excitatioDt
which cannot be reproduced by an act of volition. Hence
these impressions belong to the ear alone. But if an indi-
vidual is endowed with the internalfaculty of Tune, and if
a piece of music be played over in his presence, then, after
.the sound of the instrument has ceased, although he cannot
oigi!lzed by Coogle
866 }'UNCTIONS OF THE
neal that sound, he can with facility reproduce the inter-
nal impressions which the notes made upon his mind ; in
abort, he can enjoy the tune internally anew, by an act of
recollection. The power of experiencing the perception or
melody, and of enjoying the impressions which it makes,
appears, therefore, to depend on the internal faculty ofTun~
while the sound alone .depends upon the ear. Hence the
perfection of the power of perceiving melody in any indi-
vidual, is not in proportion to the perfection of the external
ear alone, but in joint proporiion to the perfection of that
organ, and the internal faculty. Without the external ear
the internal faculty could not receive the impressions ; but
the external ear could never of itselfproduce the perceptions
of melody. Accordingly, we see every day that many in-
dividuals enjoy the sense of hearing UBimpaired, who haYe
no perception of melody. The same principles applied to
the other senees will point out distinctly the precise limit
of their functions. We may take an example from the
aense of ~ueb. If we embrace a square body with tl1e
Jumds, certain impre&&ions are made on the. nerves of touch,
called Sensations, in consequence of which the mind forms
an idea of the figure of the body. Now, we can recal the
conception of the figure ; but not the sensation which excit-
ed it. The conception, therefore, depends on an internal
faculty ; the sensation on the nerves of touch. The func-
tions of the nerves of touch appear to produce the sensa-
tion ; but the power of conceiving is not in invariable pro-
portion to the power of feeling, but in proportion to the per-
fection of the internal faculty and the external senses joint-
ly. The perception, however, depends as entirely on na-
ture as the sensation ; and the power of perceiving the form
of the body is not acquired by experience.
Dr SPURZHEIM observes on this head, that, where the
.ame idea~ are acquired by the instrumentality of two or
more senses, the ideas cannot possibly be formed by the
/JeMU' because Nature, so far as man has discovered, never
endows dijferent iMtrumtnts with the same functWns, in the
o;9;t,zedbyGoogle
FIV EXTERNAl. SENSES. 867
same individual. For example, we ean JSCquire ideas of
Form by the instrumentality of the senseof Sight, and like-
wise by means of Touch. Now, from this circumstance
alone, it is evident that the conception of figure is formed,
not by the eyes, or by the nerves of Feeling, because this
would be an instance of two separate senses performing the
aame functions; butby an internal faculty, which perceives
Figure, in consequence of impressions made on either of
these two dift'erent senses. The impressions made upon the
eye are totally dift'erent from those made upon the nerves
of Touch, but the internal faculty is adapted by nature to
both; and hence the same perceptions are experienced by
means of the same faculty, although through the instrumen-
tality of different media; but the same function is not per·
formed by dilltind senses.
These views of the functions of the senses are illustrated
and confirmed by the phenomena which take place when
die organs of Sense are diseased. For example, when the
Ear becomes inftamed, it often happens that spontaneous
sensations of MUDd are experieucei ; when too much blood
flows into the Eye, impressions. like those of light, are felt;
when the nerves of Taste become diseased, disagl-eeable sa-
vours are experienced ; when the nerves of Touch are ex-
cited by internal eaosee, a tickling or disagreeable sensation
is felt; when the muscular system is relaxed by nervoua
diseases, and flying spasms occur over the body, impressions
oeeuionally arise from these spasmodic affections. 80 pre-
ei.eely resembling those of touch, that the individual is at a
loea to distinguish them.
Every one is acquainted with the ridieulou.s theoriee
which have been framed by philoaophera, to account for tbe
phenomena of perception. ARJITOTLE taught, says lli
REID, " That, as our senses cannot receive external Jnate-
rial objects themselves, they receive their species, that is,.
their images or forma without the matter, aa wax receives
•he form of the seal, without any of the matter of it •:'"
• Euay on lrtlellectual Powers, p. !5.
Digitized by Google
868 FUNCTIONS OF THE
The Platonist& differed from ARISTOTLE in maintaining,
" That there exist eternal and immutable ideas, which were
prior to the objects ef sense, and about whieh all science
was employed/' They agreed with him, however, as to
\he manner in which these ideas are perceived. Two thott..
sand yeara after PLATO, Mr LocKE represents our manner
of perceiving external objects, by comparing the under-
standing " to a closet, wholly shut from light, with only
some little opening left, to let in external visible resem•
blances or ideas of things without." The notion of all these
philosophers was, \hat, from the existence of these image&
or ideas, the mind inferred, by a process of reasoning, the
existence of the external objects themselves.
Dr REID refuted, by a very simple process, these doc..
trines. He pointed out merely the fact, that the mind is so
formed, that certain impressionst produced by external ob-
jects, on our organs of sense, are followed by certaitr sen..
sations ; and that these sensations are followed by percep-
tions of the existence and qualities of \he bodies by which
the impressions are made;. and \hat all the steps of this
process are equally involuntary and incomprehensible.
, It will at once be perceived, that the doctrine here laid
down regarding the functions of the senses, correspond&
precisely with the philosophy of Dr REID.
The organs of each sense are double; and yet the con--
sciousness of all impressions experienced by the mind is-
single. Various theories have been propounded to account
for this fact ; but none of them are satisfactory. Dr GALL
ventured to give an explanation different from all these~
" He distinguishes two states of activity in the organs of \be
senses, calling one active, the other passive.. The function&
are passive, if performed independently of the will; the eye,.
for instance, necessarilyperceives the light which falls upoa
it, and the ear, the vibrations propagated to it. Now, w&
perceive passively with both organs, says he; we see with.
'hoth eyes, b~~r with both ears, but the active state is eon-
fined to one orpn, and commoply to the strongest•. We see
Digitized by Google
--
FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES. 869
with both eyes at the 1ame time, but we look with one only;
we hear with both ears, we listen only with one ; we feel
with both hands, we touch with but one, &c.
"There is no doubt that we look with one eye only. In
placing a pencil or any other thin body between ns and a
light, keeping both eyes·open, and throwing the axis ef vi-
sion, the stick, and the·light, into a right line, did we look
with both eyes, the pencil should occupy the diagonal, and
its shadow fall on the MSe. But this always fa.Ws OB one
eye, on that which the person, who makes the experiment,
ordinarily uses in looking with attention. If the pencil be
kept in the same- position, and the eye not employed in
looking be- shat,· the relative direction of the objects wiH
seem to remain.the same ; lmt if he shut the eye with which
he looked, it will be altered, and the peDcil wiH appear re-
moved far from its former place. Again, let any one look
at a point but a little way distant, both eyes will seem di-
rected towards it;.. let him then shut his eyes alte11nately~
If he close the oae with which he did not look, the other
remains 'm&tionless; but if he shut that with which be
looked, the otherturns immediately a little inwards,in ordeP
to fix the point. Moreover, the eyes of many animals are
placed lBteraUy, and cannot both be directed at once to the
same object. Finally, the gestures of man and animals
prove that they look with one eye,· and listen with one ear;
for they direct one eye or one ear towards the ebject to be
seen or heard •.
" Notwbhstanding what has been said, Dr GALL•s expla-
nation, seems to me," says Dr SPURZBEIM, "littlesatisfac;.
tory. lnfleed, it is very remarkable, that passively, we
perceive, at the same time, the impressions of both organs
ofany seue,. not only il one, but also if dift'eren~ objects
impress the two. Even difFerent impressions of difFerent
objects may be perceived by both organs of two senses at
once. We may,. for instance, with both eyes aee different
objects at the moment that witb both eara we hear different
• Dr SPUBZBEJX's Phrenology, p. 211.
A a
oigi!lzed by Coogle
870 }'UNCTIONS OF THE
sounds. Aa soon as we are attentive, however, as soon as
we look or listen, we perceive but one impreaion. It is
impossible, therefore, to attend to two diHerent discourses
at once. The leader of an orchestra hears passively all the
instruments, but he cannot be attentive except to one.
The rapidity of mental action deceives several, and makes
them think it possible to attend to clliferent objecte at the
same moment. It follows that there isa diHerenee between
the active and passive state of the senses; but whether this
clliferenee suftices to explain the single consciousness of
every sense is another question ; I think it does not.
" FJ.rSt, this explanation would only apply to functions
in their active, not at all in their paasive state; and the
cause of ~ngle consciousness must be the same in both.
Funher, the active state is not produced by the external
senses themselves, any more than voluntary motion by the
mere muscles. Some intenaal powerrenders the sensesac-
tive; they themselves are always paasive, and merely pro-·
pagate external impressions ; they appear active only, when
something internal employs them to receive and to trans-
mit impressions to the brain. It is therefore probable, that
the internal cause which excites only a single organ of the
external senses to activity, is also the cause of the single
consciousness of different impressions. Dr GALL's explana-
tion of single consciousness is consequently not only
grounded upon an inaccurate notion, but would be far
from satisfactory, were the supposition even true •."
The mind bas no consciousness either of the existence of
the organs of sense, or of the functions performed by them.
When the table is struck, and we attend to the subject of
our own consciousness, we perceive the impression of a
sound ; but by this attention we do not discover that the
impression bas been experienced by the instrumentality of
any organ whatever. Hence the perceptions of the mind
are always directed to the objecte which make the impres-
sions, and not to the inatrumente by means of which the
• Lib. cit. p. 123.
Digitized by Google
FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES. 571
impressions are experienced. The instruments perform ·
their functions under Nature's care ; and, as has been al-
ready observed, are not subject to the will. We should
have been distracted, not benefited, by a consciousness of
their internal action, when they perform their functions.
It is when they become diseased that we become conscious
of their action, and then the consciousness is painful.
Every one must be sensible of this fact, whose eyes or ears
have been diseased.
Dr SPURZHEIM observes, that " the brain seems to be
necessary to every kind of perception, even to that of the
immediate functions of the external senses ; but it is not
yet ascertained, though it is probable, that one fundamen-
tal power, inherent in a particular part of the brain, knows
and conceives as sensations,·all the varied impressions made
on the external senses. Some phrenologists think that each
external sense has a peculiar portion of brain for this end,
and that the combined action of its nerve and of this cere-
bral part, is necessary to the accomplishment of its func-
tions. That the nerve of taste and a portion of brain, for
instance, are necessary to perceive savours ; the olfactory
nerve and a cerebral part, to distinguish odours, &c. I do
not believe that consciousness happens without brain, but I
see no reason to surmise that the immediate functions of
each external sense require a particular portion of the brain,
in order to be recognised as determinate sensations." (Dr
SPURZHEIM's PhreMIOfJ'U, p. 257.)
After these genenLl considerations, which apply to all the
external senses, a few words may be added on the specific
functions of each sense in particular.
FEELING OR TOUCH.
DR SPURZHEIM inferred, from pathological facts, that the
nerves of motion must be distinct from the nerves of feel-
ing; and subsequent experiments have proved his inference
Aa2
Digitized by Google
872 FUNCTIONS OF THE
to be well founded. This subject has been treated of.on
:page 59. The.sense. of feeling is continued, not only over
tJte whole external surface of the body, but even over
the intestinal canaJ. It gives rise to the sensations of pain
and pleasure ; of the variations of, temperature ; and of
dryness and moisture. These cannot be recalled by the
will ; and I therefore consider them as depending on the
sense alone. The impressions made upon this sense serve
as the means of exciting in the mind perceptions of figure,
of roughness and smoothness, and numerous other classes
of ideas ; but the power of experiencing these perceptions,
is in proportion to the perfection of certaiu internal facul-
ties, and of the sense of touch jointly, and not in propor-
tum to the perfection of this sense alone.
TASTE•
THE functions or-this sense are, to produce sensations of
taste alone ; and these cannot be recalled by the will. We
may judge of the qualities of external bodies, by means of
the impressions made on this sense ; but to form ideas of
such qualffies is the province of the internal faculties.
SMELL.
Bv means of smell, the external world acts upon man
and animals f~om a 'distance. Odorous particles are con-
veyed from bodies,..and infOl'JD sentient beings of the exist-
enee of the substances from which they emanate. The
functions of smell are confined to the producing of agree-
able or disagreeable sensations, when the organ is so affect-
ed. These cannot be- reproduced by an effort of the will.
Various ideas. are formed of the qualities of external bodies,
by the .impressions which they make upon this sense;
but these ideas are formed by the internal faculties of the
mind.
Digitized by Google
FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES.
HEARING.
IN new-born children, this sense is not yet active ; but
it improves by degrees, and in proportion as the vigoUl' of
the organ increases. It is a very common opinion, that
inusic, and the faculty of speech, are the result of the sense
of hearing ; but this notion is erroneol18.
As already mentiollOO, the audit61'y·apparstus being ex-
cited to activity by an external eause, produces ·only'the
impression of sound : and here its functions terminate. If,
besides, the faculty of Tune is possessed by any individual,
melody in sounds is perceived by that faculty. If the
faculty is not possessed, such perceptions cannot 'exist.
Hence, among birds, the female bears as weJl as the male;
and yet the song of the male is very much superior to that
of the fema1e. Among mankind, also, many individuals
hear, and yet are insensible to melody. Thus, both in man
and other animals, there is no proportion betwixt the per-
fection of hearing, and the perfection of the power of per··
ceiving melody. If it were part of the fdnctions of the
auditory apparatus to give the perception of melody, how
does it happen that, in one individual, the apparatus can
perform only one-half of its functions, while in others it
performs the whole? This is not like Nature's work. Fi-
nally, hearing cannot produce music; because the auditory
apparatus is excited only by sounds, which are already pro-
duced. The first musician began to produce music before
he had heard it; and he did so from an internal impulse
given by a faculty of the mind. Singing-birds, moreover,
which have been hatched by strange females, siag natu-
rally, and without any instruction, the song of their spe-
cies, as soon as their internal organization is active. Hence
the males of every species preserve their natural song,
though they have been brought up in the society of indivi-
duals of a different kind. Hence also musicians, who have
lost their hearing, continue to compose. They possess the
internal faculty ;' and it being independent of the auditory
Digitized by Google
FUNCTIONS OF THE
apparatus, conceives the impressions which d.ifi'erent sounds
naturally produce, long after the ear has ceased to be ca-
pable of allowing these sounds to be experienced anew;
hence, likewise, deaf and dumb persons have an innate sen-
timent of measure and cadence. Though, however, hear-
ing does not produce music, yet, without an auditory appa-
ratus, fitted to recein the impressions made by tones,
melody could not be perceived; and, unless that apparatus
had once been possessed, neither could melody be produced,
because the individual could not judge of the impressions
which the sounds he made were fitted to make upon those
who hear.
It is a very common opinion also, that hearing alone, or
hearing and voice jointly, produce the faculty of speech.
This error will be refuted, by considering in what any Ian·
guage consists, and how every language is produced. Lan.,
guage has been divided into two kinds, natural and ~
oial. In both kinds, a certain sign is used to indicate to
others certain feelings or ideas of the mind. Various mo.
tions of the body, and expressions of the countenance, indi·
cate, the moment they are beheld, certain emotions and
sentiments. In this case, the expression of the counte--
nance, or the motion of the body, is a sign fitted by na--
ture to excite in 1lS the perception of the feeling. It is ob-
vious, that the power of the sign, in this case, to excite the
perception, does not depend either upon hearing or voice;
for neither is employed in producing it : but that th~ effect
is an ultimate fact of our constitution, which must be re--
ferred to the will of our Creator. Besides these signs, how-
ever, we make use of many others to communicate our
thoughts, which have no original connexion with the things
aignifi.ed. For example, the word TABLE has no necessary
oonnexion with the thing upon which I now write. How,
then, does the word come to indicate the thing? The in·
ternal faculties first conceive the object : having done so,
they wish to fix upon a sign by which that conception shall
be always indicated again. They, therefore, emplog the
Digitized by Google
FIVE EXTEnNAL SENSES. 875
voice to make the sound which we express when we utter
the word tohk. The thing itself being pointed out, and
the sound being uttered at the same time, the meaning of
it comes to be understood ; and hence every time it is pr~
nounced, the idea of the thing is BUgge&ted. But we are
not to suppose that the auditory apparatus, or the organs
of voice, conceive the idea of the table. This was done by
the internal faculties alone; and these merely made use of
the organs of voice as instruments for producing a sign.
Hence the reason why monkeys do not speak is, not be-
cause they want the sense of hearing, and organs of voice
but because they have not certain internal faculties, which
fix upon signs to indicate the conceptions formed by the
mind.
The proper function, then, of the sense of hearing, is
confined to the production of the impressions which we call
eounds ; yet it assists a great number of internal faculties.
The auditory nerve has a more intimate connexion with
the organs of the moral sentiments, than with those of the
intellectual faculties.
SIGHT.
THIS fifth and last of the senses, is the second of those
which inform man and other animals of remote objects, by
means of an intermedium ; and th; intermedium, in this
instance, is Light.
This sense has been said to acquire its functions bytouch
or by habit. Bishop BERKLEY is supposed by the meta-
physicians to have discovered the true theory of vision, and
the result of his investigation is, " that a man born blind,
being made to see, would not at first have any idea of
distance by sight. The sun and stars, the remotest objects
as well as the nearest, would all seem to be in hie eye, or
rather in hie mind."-STEWART's Dissert. p. ii. 109. Dr
REm, and many other philosophers, have written ingenious
diequillitions, to shew that our perceptions of distance,
figure, and motion, are acquired. These speculations have
Digitized by Google
876 }'UNCTIONS OF THE
proceeded on the principle, that Nature has done little for
man, and tbat he does a great deal for himself, in endowing
himself witla perceptive powers. But vision depends on
the organization of the eye; and is weak or energetic, as
the organization is imperilet or perfect. Some animals
.come into the world with perfect eyes; and these see per-
fectly from the first. The .butterfly and honey-bee fly at
the first aUempt, through fields and flowery meadows; and
the young partridge and chicken run through stubble and
~rn fields. The sparrow, on taking its first Bight from
the nest, does .not strike its head against a wall, or mistake
the root of a tree for its "branches; and yet, previoua to its
first attempt at flight, it can have no ezperience of distance.
On the other band, animals which come into the world
with eyes in an imperfect state, distinguish size, shape, and
distance, only by degrees. This last is the case with new-
hom children. During the first six weeks after birth, their
eyes are almost insensible to light ; and it is only by de-
grees that they become fit to perform their natural func-
tions. When the organs are so far matured, however, the
.children see, without habit or education, as well and as
accurately as the greatest philosopher.
indeed, as has been formerly mentioned, the kind of per-
ception which we enjol by means of the eyes, is dependent
solely on the constitut1011 of the eyes, and the relation esta-
blished betwixt them and the refraction of light. So little
power has experience to alter .the nature of our perceptions,
that even in some cases where we discover, by other senses,
.that the visible appearance of objects is illusive, we still
.continue to see that appearance the .same as before. For
example, the .greatest philosopher, standing .at one end of a
long alley of trees, cannot see the oppottite rows equally
distant from one another at the farthest end, as they appear
to be at the end .nearest to him, even after experianc.-.e has
satisfied him that the fact really is so. He must see ac-
cording to the laws of perspective, which make the rece-
ding rows appear to approach ; and there is no difference in
Digitized by Google
FIVE EXTERNAL SENSES. 877
this respect, betwixt his perceptiona, and those of the mO&t
untutored infant. In like manner, the greatest philoso-
pher, on looking into a concave spoon, cannot see his right
hand.upon the right side, and his left hand upon the left
side, even after.he has learned, hy the study of the laws of
optics, that the image of himself, which he sees in thespoon,
is reversed.
So confident, however, is Mr STEwART in the ()pinion
that we .learn to see, and do not see instinctively, that
he says, " CoNDILLAC fi1'Bt thought that the eye judges
Mturaliy of figures, of magnitudes, of situations, and of
distances. He afterwards was convinced that this was
an error, and retracted it." STEWART adds, " nothing
short of his own explicit avowal could have convinced me,
that a writer of such high pretensions, and of such unques-
tionable ing.enuity 88 CoNDILLAc, had really commenced
his metaphysical career ander so gron and unaccount-
able delusion." Mr STEWART also expresses his surprise,
that ARISTOTLE should maintain that it is not from seeing
often or from hearing often, that we get these senses; but,
on the contrary, instead of getting them by using them, we
use them becaUse we have got them."
· It is worth while to inquire on what grounds the meta-
pbysiciaas maintain such extraordinary opinions.· They are
two : first, The fact that new-born children miss the object
they mean to seize, and shew clearly that they do not ap-
preciate size; distance, and relative position accurately:
&wndly, The fact that a blind .man couched by CHESSEL-
DEN, on the first influx of light to the retina, saw all exter-
nal objects 88 situated in his eye, and after a few weeks per-
ceived distance and magnitude like ordinary persons. From
these facts, the metaphysicians infer that the human being
does not perceive distance, size and form instinctively, but
learns to do so by experience. The answers are obvious.
The eye in the child is not perfect till six weeks after birth.
The eye newly couched is not a sound eye instantly, nor
do the muscles and various parts which had lain dormant
Digitized by Google
378 FUNCTIONS OF THE
for thirty yean, act with perfect eft'ect at the first attempt,
amid the irritation and tonnent of a painf'ul operation ;
and, even admitting that the eye w88 perfectly sound, the
internal organa which perceive the distance are not so. By
disuae, every organ or the body becomes unfitted for the
due perfonna.nee of ita functioDL In civilized nations, the
muscles of the external ear being prevented from acting
during childhoOd, by the head-dreu, not only loee all cum-
traetile power, but actually dwindle itito nothing. In the
savage state, the power of moving the ear is often 88 per•
feet in man 88 in the lower animals. The same unfitneaa
for action is observed after long confinement of a limb for
the enre of fracture, &c., and the muscles diminish in size.
In the same way, during blindneaa, the organs which judge
of colour and distance never are called into action, and
therefore become, to a certain degree, unable to execute
their functions, and it is only by degrees that they acquire
sufficient energy to do so.
Dr THOMAS BaowN, whose acuteness I shall have fre-
quent occasion to notice and to praise, admita that the
lower animals perceive distance instinctively; and, al-
though, on the whole, he agrees in the opinions of BsaJt-
LEY, REID, and STEWART, yet he holds .the opposite opi-
nion, which the phrenologists maintain, 88 far from ridicu-
lon& "It is," says he, "not more wonderful, tl priori, that
a sensation of colour should be immediaUlg follbwed by the
notion of a mile of distance, than that the irritation of the
nostril, by any very stimulant odour, should be immediate-
ly and involuntarily followed by the sudden contraction of
a distant muscular organ, like the diaphragm, which pro-
duces, in sneezing, the violent expiration necessary for ex-
pelling the acrid matter.,-Vol. ii. p. 69.
It is very true that Nature does not give us intuitive per-
ceptions of the number of feet or inches at which any ob-
ject is distant from us ; because these are artificial mea-
sures, with which nature baa nothing to do. But when
two objects, equal in ai,..e, are presented to the eye, the one
Digitized by Google
:nVE EXTERNAL SENSES. 879
double in point of di.stanee to the other, the mlnd has al-
ways an intuitive perception that they are not equally near,
unless the external or internal organs, or both, are deficient
or deranged.
What, then, are the true functions of the eye? No organ
of sense forms ideas. The eye, therefore, only receivee,
modifies and transmits the impressions of light ; and here
its functions cease. Internal faculties form conceptions of
the figure, colour, distance, and other attributes of the ob-
jects making the impressions : and the power of forming
these conceptions is in proportion to the perfection of the
eyes and the internal faculties jointly, and not in propor-
tion to the perfection of the eyes alone. Henee the lower
animals, although they have eyes equal in perfection to
those of man, are not able to form the ideas of the qua-
lities of bodies, which he forms by means of his internal
faculties, through the instrumentality of the eye, because
in them the internal faculties are wanting.
~ tea~ea may be exercised, and th~ j,Ow8ra~gr.eatJy
impror.~:by;~t;~c~. The taste of tile~ gourmand U. zqore
~ .~~of the peasant; and the t.Quch of tb,.,.rti-
san ~- ~ of the ploughman.
GENUS II. -INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES WHICH
PERCEIVE THE EXISTENCE OF EXTERNAL OB-
JECTS AND THEIR PHYSICAL QUALITIES.
THE faculties now to be treated of take cognizance of
the existence and qualities of external objects. They cor-
respond, in some degree, to the Perceptive Powers of the
metaphysicians; and form ideaa. Their action is attended
with a sensation of pleasure, but (except in the case of
Digitized by Google
sso INDIVIDUALITY.
Tune) it is weak, compared to the emotions produeed by
the faculties already treated of; and the higher the func.--
tions, the less vivid is the emotion attending their active
state. In judging of the size of these organs, the rules laid
down on pages 89. and 91. requires to be particularly at-
tended fD.
'22.-JND'lVJDUALrTY.
Tats organ is situated in lhe middle of the lower part of
lhe forehead, immediately above the top of the nose. When
large, it produces breadth and desccnl between the eye-
brows, at that part ; when small, the eye-brows approach
closely to each other, and lie in a horizontal line. The
iigure of King GEoRGE III. shews the organ large; that of
CunRAN moderate.
Ku10 GEoaoE III.
Jndlvldu•lity, 22, l&r~:
and Form !13, large.
J.P. CuaJLur.
Individuality, £2, moderate:
Fonn small.
In surveying the external \vorld, we may observe, 1st,
Objects simply as substances or existence!!, such aR a rock,
'a ·horse, a 'tree, 11. man ; tlaese perceptions are designated by
substances; ·in the next place, the properties or attributes
of things which exist, such as their form, size, weight, co-
four, number; Sdly, their relations to other objects, such
as their place and order of arrangement. Aft~r these
-perceptions, we may notice their aciivc phenomena, the
rock falls, the horse runs, the tree grows, the man walks ;
these actions are designated by Yerbs. As size, form,
Digitized by Google
INDIVIDU.ALI'l·Y. sst
weight, and colours are adjuncts of physical existence,
Time is an adjunct of action. Now, the faculty of Indivi-
duality observes objects which exist ; it gives the notion of
substance, and forms the clau of ideas represented by
nouns when used without any adJected woJ'd. We owe to
Dr SPURZHEIM the discovery of the organ, and analysis of
its functions.
The facuby gives the desire,. accompallie.t with the abi-
• lity, to know objects as mere existences, without regard to
their modes o£ action, or the purposes to which they may
be subservient. Individuals in whom it is large, will ob-
serve and examine an objec(.t with intense·delight, without
the least consideration whence it has come, or to what it
may be applied, a quality of mind wbicb is almost incom-
prehensible to persons in whom the organ is small and
Causality large. It prompts to observation, and is a great
element in a genius fox: those sciences which consist in a
knowledge of specific existences,-suchas natural history. It
leads to giving a specific form to all the ideas entertained
by the mind. A student in whom this organ is small, and
the reflecting organs large, may have his mind stored with
general principles of science, and with abstract ideas, but
will experience much difficulty in reducing them into pre-
cise and specific foi'IDIJ. Another, in whom this organ ia
large, will have all his Jmowlege individualized; if he hear
lectures or conversation in which general views chiefly are
presented, he will render. them specific fer bimaelf; but
unless his reflecting organs also be large, he will be prone
to miss the essential principle, to seize upon the most pal-
pable circnmatance attending it, and to embrace this as
his conception of it.. Such pel'tlell& are learned, and owing
to the sfm'e of facta with which their memories are reple-
nished, to the great definiteness and precision of their
ideas, and the readiness with which they command them,
they often take a lead in public business-; but if their r..
fleeting organs are deficient, .they show no depth in com-
prehensivepese of understanding; they do not advance the
Digitized by Google
88i INDIVIDUALITY.
principles of acience, and rarely acquire a pe~ent repu-
tation.
In common life, this organ large, confers a talent for ob-
servation, curiosity to know, and aptitude for acquiring
knowledge of details. The character of Miu Pratt, as
drawn by the author of ''Inheritance," a novel, is a per-
sonification of Individuality, when predominantly power-
ful, and not directed by higher facultiee. " But people
who make use of their eyes," says this author, "have of-
ten much to see, even between two doors ; and in her pro·
gress from the hall door to the drawing room, Miu Pratt
met with much to attract her attention. True, all the ob-
jects were perfectly familiar to her ; but a real loolter, like
a great genius, is never at a loss for a subject-things are
either better or worse since they saw them last-or if the
things themselves should happen to be the same, they have
seen other thingw, either better or worse, and can therefore
either approve or disapprove ofthem. MissPratt's head then
turned from side to side a thousand timesas she went along,
and a thousand observations and criticisms about stair-car-
pets, patent-lamps,hall-chairs,slab-tables,&e.&c. &e. passed
through her crowded brain.-At length Miu Pratt and Mr
Linthay were announced, and thereupon entered Miu Pratt
in a quick paddling manner, as if in all haste to greet her
friends."-" Miss Pratt then appeared to her ( Gertru!k) a
person from whom nothingcould be hid. Here eyes were not
by any means fine eyee-they were not reflecting eyee-
they were not softeyes-they wer~ not sparkling eyes-they
were not penetrating eye!P; neither were they restless eyes,
nor rolling eyes, nor squinting eyes, nor prominent eyes-
but they were aetive, brisk, busy, vigilant, immoveable
eyes, that looked as if they could not be surprised by any
thing-not even by sleep. They never looked angry, nor
joyous, or perturbed, or melancholy, or heavy; but morn-
ing, noon, and night they shone the ~mme, and conveyed
the same impression to the beholdel) viz. that they were
Digitized by Google
INDIVIDUALITY. S88
eyes that had a look-not like the look of STERNE's monk,
beyond this world--brlt a look into all tAiag1 OJI tAef~ of
tAil world. Her other features had nothing remarkable in
them; but the ears might evidently be clasaed under the
ume head with the eyes-they were 110mething resembling
rabbits'-long, prominent, restless, vibrating ears, forever
listening, and never shut by the powers of thought."
From communicating this talent of observation, Indivi-
duaJity greatly 888iste Imitation in promoting mimickry.
The organ is large in MATTHEW&, and it is obvious that ac-
curate observation of the manners and appearances of men
is a fundamental element in a talent such u hi&, of pour-
traying on the stage living Individuals in their minutest
peculiarities.
When the organ is deficient, the individual fails to ob-
serve object& that exist around him; he may Tiait a house,
and come away without knowing what object& were in the
rooms. Such a person walks in the street., or through the
country, and observes nothing. In short, although then:-
temal senses are in perfect health, owing to the feebleness
of .this obeel'Ving power, they are not called into activity
for the purpose of acquiring knowledge.
This organ, when large, prompts to discovery by obser-
vation. Persons 110 endowed do not seek to arrive at new
truths by reasoning, but inquire at DBture, at men, at
books for information ; and hence, many brilliant physical
discoveries have been made by persons largely endowed
with these and the other perceptive orgaot~, whose refiect..
ing faculties have not surpassed mediocrity. Since BA-
coN's rules of philosophizing have been duly appreciated
and become faahionable, science baa been extenaively and
succeufully cultivated by a cl888 of minds, which, while the
methodofspeculativereasoning prevailed,wue~cludedfrom
such pursuits. This claaa is composed of persons in whom
the organ under consideration greatly predominates over
those of the refiecting powers. Such individuaJa are eon-
sti&uted by nature to become observers ; and natural his-
•
oigi!lzed by Coogle
•
INDIVIDUALITY.
tory, particularly botany, anatomy, and even chemistry,
arc great departments of knowledge fitted for the exercise
of their peculiar talent. The substance of these eoiences
consists in a knowledge of the existence, appearances, and
properties of natural objects asfacts ; and we need not be
surprised to meet with eminent professors in these branches,
in whose heads the knowing organs plledominate over the
reflecting.
To the artist this organ is of great importance.. It
enables him to give body q.d substance to the conceptions
of his other faculties, and confers on him a capacity for at-
tending to detail. In the pictures of an artist in whose
head Individuality is deficie11t, lhere is an abstractness of
c.'onception, and a vagueness of expression, that greatly de-
tract from their eKect. In the works of an individual in
whom these organs are large, every object appears full of
substance and reality; and if be paints portraits, the spec-
tator will be so impressed with their Indi,iduality, that
he will be apt to .timcy hiJDSelf acquainted with the ori-
ginals.
Persons who excel at whist, generally ll088ess it and
Eventuality large. If both of the organs be deficieJJ.t, emi-
nence will net easily be attained in this game.
This faculty gives the tendency to·personify notions and
phenomena, or to ascribe existence to mere abstractions of
the mind, such as Ignorance, Folly, or Wisdom.
The organ was large in SHERIDAN, and it is large ·in Sir
WALTER ScoTT. It is small in the Scots in general; it is
larger in ~e English, and still larger in the French.
The frontal sinus is generally present at the situation of
this organ in adults, and this throws a difficulty in the way
of judging of its size. The function, however, is ascer-
tained, by observing young persons in whom the sinus is
not formed, and by the negative evidence ; that is, when
externally part of the skuD at the top of the nose is nar-
row, contracted, and depressed, the portion of brain below
is necesaarily small, and then the mental power is found
3
Digitized by Google
INI>IVIDUALITY. 885
invariably weak. This concomitance of large size and
great power in young persons, and of deficiency of size and
feebleness of power in all ages, proves the function ; al-
though in some individuals there is an external elevation
caused by sinus, and not by brain, which is not accompa-
nied with the corresponding organ in the mental faculty.
23.-FORM.
DR GALL was struck with the circumstance, that certain
persons and animals recognise, with the greatest facility,
individuals whom they have not seen for years, and even
then only in passing. In himself, this faculty was weak;
and frequently, on rising from table, he had no recollection
of the person who had sat next to him, so as to be able to
recognise him again in society, and he was, in consequence,
exposed to many painful embarrassments and awkward
mistakes. Being desired to examine the head of a young
girl who had an extreme facility of distinguishing and re-
collecting persons, he found her eyes pushed laterally out-
ward, and a certain squinting look: after innumerable ad-
ditional observations, he spoke of an organ of the know-
ledge of persons.
The organs lie on tbe two sides of, and contiguous to,
the crista galli. When small, the orbitar plate approaches
close to the sides of tl1e crest, and then the external width
across the nose from eye to eye is small ; when large, there
is a considerable space betwixt the orbitar plate and the
crest, and a great external breadth across the nose.
In some instances the frontal sinus is found at the situa-
tion of this organ ; but it very rarely leads to difficulty in
ob&erving its size. The organ was large in King GEORGE •
III., and, combined with his large organ of Individuality, it
gave him that extraordinary talent for recollecting persons
for wl1ich he was celebrated. It is very moderately de-
Bh
Digitized by Google
veloped in CuRRAN, and by referring to the figures on page
380, it will be observed that the distance between the eyes
in King GEORG.E III. at 28, is much greater than in CuRRAN.
Dr GALL observes, that those individuals who never be-
stow more than a superfieial attention on phenomena, and
who have always reasonings, or at least sophisma, ready in
explanation of every fact, pretend that a deficiency, such aa
he experienced in recognising persons, is owing to the
eyes ; that, in Btlch caaee, the vision is indistinct, or there
is a squint. His personal experience, he adds, affords are-
futation of this hypothesis; for he never had a squint, and
his vision waa particularly acute and clear •. Often chil-
dren from three to five years of age have a great memory
for persons. Some dogs, at the distance of yean, recognise
an individual whom they have only once seen, while others,
after a few days' absence, do not know again persona whom
they have seen frequently. MonkeyR, dogs, horses, ele-
phants, and even birds, distinguish, with greater or less
• Dr GALL mentions, that, although he could neither paint nor design,
he was able to seize with great facility the numerous forma of the head ;
which statement is at variance with great deficiency in the organ ofform;
hut from the general tenor of his observations, it appears that his power
of distinguishing forms was not so great as he imagined it to be. Dr
SPURZHEJ.II: gives the following note in his reprint of the article Phre.
nology, in the 3d Number of the Foreign Quarterly Review:-" The
phrenological faculties of Dr GALL's infantile genius were, IndividualitT,
Eventuality, and Causality in an eminent degree.
" It has been remarked as singular, that Dr G.6.LT. should have been the
first founder ofthis new science, whilst he could not recollect persona af.
ter dinner, though they had been near him at table, and since he could not
fin:I his way again to places, where he had been before; or, in phrenologi-
cal terms, Iince be had Form and Locality very smalL Those who make
that remark, can neitherknow the proceeding of Dr G.6.LL, nor understand
the true meaning of the two phlleDological denominations. Dr GALL
compared the aize of individual cerebral portions with certain talents or
characters eminent in any way ; and he was not deficient in the power
ofperceiving size and ita differences. The want of Locality did not pre-
vent him from maldng discoveries. any more than the want ofseeing cer-
tain colours hinders any one to cultivate geometry or mathematics in ge-
neral. Dr GALL's deficiency in form explain~ why he constantly attached
oigi!lzed by Coogle
FORM. 887
facility, their master, or those who have been kind or cruel
to them, among a thousand. All the animals which belong
to a herd, and also all the bees in a hive, from ·20,000 to
80,000 in number, know each other. When a stranger
attempts to introduce himself, they drive him away, or kill
him•.
Dr SPURZHEIM bas analyzed the mental powerconnected
with the organ in question, and considers it in the follow-
ing manner: "To me," says be, "there seems to exist an
essential and fundamental power, which takes cognizance
of configuration generally, and one of whose peculiar appli-
cations or offices is recollection of persons ; for persona are
only known by their forms. I separate the faculty which
appreciates configuration from- that of Individuality, since
we may admit the existence of a being without taking ita
figure into consideration. Individuality may be excited by
every one of the external senses, by smeU and bearing, as
weU as by feeling and sight ; whi1e the two latter senses
alone 888ist the faculty of configuration. It is this power
which disposes us to give a figure to every being and con·
ception of our minds ; that of an old man, to GoD ; to
Death, that of a skeleton, and so on. The organ of confi·
guration is situated in the internal angle of the orbit; if
large, it pushes the eye-baH towards the external angle a
little outwards and downwards. It varies in size in whole
nations. Many of the Chinese I have seen in London had
it much developed. It is commonly large in the French,
and bestows their ski11 in producing certain articles of in-
dustry. Combined with Constructiveness, it invent& the
patterns of dresa-makers and milliners. It leads poeU! to
himself to isolated elevations and depressions on the surface of the bead,
rather than to their general configuration~ and left this rectification of
Phrenology to my exertions; be, nevertheless, bas the great merit of
having discovered first, certain relations between cerebral development
and mental manifestation&"
• Surles Fonctions du Cerveau, tome v. p. 1, 2, &c.
Digitized by Google
888 FORM.
describe portraits and configurations, and induces those
wh~ make collections of pictures and engravings to prefer
portraits, if they have it in a high degree. It is essential to
portrait-painters. Crysta.Uography also depends on it ; and
to me it appears that conceptions of smoothness and rough-
ness are acquired by its means •." I have met with nume-
rous facts, in proof ofthis faculty and organ.
A gentleman of this city, who had a passion for minera-
logy from early youth, has a very large development of this
organ, as also of Comparison ; and I have seen many chil-
dren who were expert at cutting figures in paper pos-
sess it with the organs of Imitation and Constructiveness
large. A gentleman called on me in whom Constructive-
ness, LocaJity, and other organs which go to form a talent
for drawing landscape and botanical figures are large, but
in whom Form is deficient; and he said, he could not, ex-
cept with great difficulty and imperfection, draw or copy
portraits.
In the casts of two Chinese skulls, in the Phrenological
Society's Collection, the organ is greatly developed; and, in
a collection of portraits of eminent painters, presented by
Sir G. S. MACKENZIE to the Society, the organ appears un-
commonly large in those who excelled in portrait painting.
The metaphysicians do not admit a faculty of this kind.
Mr JEFFREY, in the article "Beauty," in the Supplement
to the Encyclopredia Britannica, agrees with another au-
thor, whom he quotes, Mr KNIGHT, in maintaining, that
"There are noforms that have any intrinsic beauty, or any
power of pleasing or affecting us, except through their asso-
ciations, or affinities to mental affections, either ~expressive
of fitness and utility, or as types and symbols'ff certain
moral or intellectual qualities, in which the sources of our
interest are obvious." From these observations one would
suspect Mr JEFFREY and Mr KNIGHT to be endowed with
small organs of Form themselve~, and that they have taken
• Phrenology, P• 274.
oigi!lzed by Coogle
FORM. 889
their own experience as that of mankind in general. The
notion which Mr JEFFREY has erected into a fundamental
principle, and on which his whole essay on Beauty is
.built,-that external objects possess no qualities of their
own fitted to please the mind, but that all their beauty and
interest arise from human feelings which we have associated
with them, is contradicted by daily experience. The mine-
ralogist, when he talks of the beauty of his crystals, has a
distinct and intelligible feeling to which the name of Beauty
is legitimately applied ; and yet be connects no human
emotions with the pyramids, and rhombs, and octagons,
which he contemplates in the spars. In short, I have met ·
with persons in whom this organ is large, who declare
that they enjoy a perceptible pleasure from the contem-
plation of mere form, altogether unconnected with ideas of
utility and fitness, or of moral or intellectual associations;
and that they can speak as intelligibly of elegant and in-
elegant, beautiful and ugly shapes, regarded merely as
shapes, as of sweet and bitter, hard and soft.
Dr GALL remarks, that some authors present the reader
with descriptions of the persons whom they introduce,
drawn with great minuteness and effect. MoNTAIGNE, for
example, and STERNE are distinguished for this practice,
and in the portraits of both the organ of Form is conspi-
cuously large.
It is regarded as established.
24.-siZE.
THE faculty of distinguishing Form differs from the fa-
culty of Size ; because th«:re is an essential difference be-
tween the idea of size and that of form. The size may be
the same, and the form different. One of these kinds of
knowledge may exist without the other ; and there is no
proportion between them. Besides, as formerly mentioned,
Digitized by Google
890 SIZE.
the nerves of touch, and the orgau of sight, do not form
ideas of any kind; so that the power of conceiving size
cannot be in proportion to the endowment of them. Dr
SPuazBEIM, therefore, inferred by reasoning, that there
would be a faculty, the function of which is to perceive
Size; and observation has proved the soundness of this con-
clusion, for the situation 888igned by him to the organ has
been found correct, and it is regarded as probable. In dis-
secting the brain, the convolutions which constitute Size
and Form are found intimately connected. The organ is
placed at the internal comer of the arch of the eyebrow,
• on the two sides of Individuality.
A member of the Phrenological Society called on Dr
SPURZHEJM in Paris, and the latter remarked tbat he had
this organ largely developed. This proved to be a correct
indication of the talent in his case ; for he possesses the
power of discriminating size with great nicety. He is able
to draw a circle without the aid of any instrument, aud to
point out the centre of it with mathematical accuracy.
Being in the army, he found himself able to make his com-
pany fall from column into line with great exactness ; esti-
mating correctly by the eye the space to be occupied by
the men, which many other officers could never learn to
do. Locality, which also he largely possessed, would aid
him in this practice.
There is reason to believe that this faculty is connected
with the power of perceiving distance, and that it is a chief
element in a talent for perspective. Mr FERGUSON, tutor
in the family of Sir G. S. MACKENZIE, stated, that he had
a difficulty in "understanding a landscape" in a picture;
and explained, that " it appeared to him to present a group
of objects on a plain surface, without any perceptible fore
or back ground." He attributed this defect in his percep-
tions to his not having been taught the rules of perspective
at school. In the course of farther interrogation, he stated,
that he sees the forJ08 of obj("cts distinctly, as also their
colour ; that he likes brilliant tints best, and that in nature
Digitized by Goo le
•
SIZE. 891
he perceives distance also. He baa viSited Roslin (in the
neighbourhood of Edinburgh), and not only perceived the
beauty which characterizes that delicious spot, but enjoyed
it with a keen relish. He has also seen many pieces of
Highland scenery, and been delighted with them. Rivers,
meadows, trees, or cultivated ground, are, however, the ob-
jects which interest him moat. On turning his back upon
any natural landscape, or shutting his eyes upon it, his re-
collections instantly become very confused. He is not able
to recal in his mind the " relative positions" of the ob-
jects ; while he distinctly recollects the pleasing imprusions
which they made upon him; this remembrance does not
soon fade. His recollection of Roslin, for example, is like
that of a confused picture of rocks and trees, and a river
winding through them ; but his remembrance of the im-
pressions of grandeur and beauty, produced by the objects,
is vivid and distinct.
For a long time it was difficult to account for this curi-
ous deficiency of mental power. Mr F. permitted a cast
of his face and forehead to be taken (which is sold in the
shopa), and in it the organ of Size appeared to be decidedly
small, and Form and Locality not very fully developed ;
while, by examining his head, it appeared that Ideality,
Wonder, Benevolence, with the organs of the other sentid
ments, and also of the intellectual powers, were nowise de-
ficient; but to which of the three organs of Size, Form, or
Locality, the imperfection fell to be ascribed, it was not
easy to determine.
Subsequently, however, Mr DouGLAS, miniature painter,
a member of the Phrenological Society, stated in conversa-
tion, that one of the earliest indications of a liking for
painting which he had experienced, was an extraordinary
interest in matters connected with perspective. When a
mere child, the appearance of approach in the far end of
ploughed ridges puzzled him exceedingly, and be crawled
across the fields, before he could well walk, to measure the
Digitized by Google
•
SIZE.
actual distance betwixt each ridge with a stick, and was
lost in astonishment when.he found that the space between
each was actually the same at both ends, notwithstanding
of the great difFerence which appeared between them to the
eye. He continued from this time to take a great interest
in perspective, as a quality in painting, and gave up land-
scape for miniature painting, not from inclination, but from
motives·of a difFerent kind. On comparing his head with
Mr FERGUSON's, the organ of Size was found to differ more
than any of the others; it was very large.
On subsequently examining the head of Mr P. GIBSON,
who was known greatly to excel in perspective, I again found
the organ of Size very large. And, finally, in the head of
a gentleman with whom I am intimately acquainted, this
organ is developed rather below than above an average;
and he stated to me, that, with the power of perceiv-
ing and recollecting distance with facility, he has neverthe-
less felt great difficulty in representing it correctly on pa-
per ; and, while he understands the general theory of per·
spective, he could never learn to practise it by tact of
hand, and, on this account, gave up all attempts at draw·
ing. In the last edition, I mentioned the case of a lady who,
having Form large and Size deficient, copied figures accu·
rately in regard to form, but inaccurately in regard to size.
To which statement Mr JEFFREY objected that size is ne.
cessary to proportion, and proportion to form; and that there
was inconsistency in the account of the lady's talents. Mr
JEFFREY is right : she informs me that it is only the simplest
forms which have few parts that she is able to copy cor·
rectly, and in drawing eveo them she will err in size; but
that when a figure bas detached parts, although she may
give the outline of each part by itself with considerable ac-
curacy, it will be larger or smaller than the original; whence
the whole figure will be deficient in proportion. In draw-
ing from nature, she failed in perspective ; nevertheless
she feels great pleasure in observing forms, recollects them
Digitized by Goo,gle
- - - -
SIZ~. 393
easily, has a complete mental consciousness of the powers
of Form and Size being different, and of tlus one being
strong and the other weak in her mind.
The frontal sinus throws a difficulty in the way of ob-
serving)his organ; and the negative evidence is. therefore,
chiefly relied on.
It is stated as only probable.
25. WEIGHT.
THERE seems to be no analogy between the weight OI'
resistance of bodies, and their other qualities. They may
be of all forms, sizes, and colours, liquid or solid, and yet
none of these features would necessarily imply that one
was heavier than the other. This quality, therefore, be-
ing distinct from all others, we cannot logically refer the
cognisance of it to any of .the faculties of the mind which
judge of the other attributes of matter; and, as the mental
power undoubtedly exists, there appears reason to conjec-
ture that it may be manifested by means of a special organ.
Persons who excel atarchery and quoits, also those who find
great facility in judging of momentum and resistance in
mechanics, are observed to possess the parts of the brain
lying nearest to the organ of Size largely developed; and
the organ is now regarded as probable. STATics, or that
branch of mathematics which considers the motion of bo-
dies arising from gravity, probably belon~ to it. Persons
iri whom Individuality, Size, Weight, and Locality, are
large, have generally a talent for engineering, and those
branches of mechanics which consist in the application of
forces; they delight in steam-engines, water-wheels, and
turning-laths. The same combination occurs in persons
distinguished for successful execution of difficult feats in
skating ; in which tho regulation of equilibrium is an im-
\lortant element. Constructiveness, when Weight is small,
oigi!lzed by Coogle
S94 WEIGHT.
leads to rearing still fabrics, rather tb~ to fabricating
working machinery.
Mr SIMPSON published in the Phrenological Journal
(vol. ii. p. 410.) an interesting and ingenious Essay on this
organ, in which he enumerates a great number of examples,
in proof of its functions. It is large, says he, in Dr CHAL-
MERS, Dr BREWSTER, Sir JAMEs HALL, Sir GEoRGE MAc-
KENZIE, Professor LESLIE, and in Mr JARDINE and Mr
STEVENSON, two eminent engineel'tl. " We haYe lately
seeu," he continues, "Professor FARISH of Cambridge, who
manifests a high endowment of mechanical skill, and has
the organ large; as has Mr WHEWELL of the same Univer-
sity, who has written a work of merit on the same subject.
In a '\isit we lately made to Cambridge, we saw much that
was interesting in regard to this organ. Professor FARISH's
son inherits the mechanical turn and the organ. We &aw
both the statue and bust of Sir IsAAC NEWTON, by RuBIL-
LJAc. The bust was a likeness taken in the prime of hiP
years, and in it the knowing organs are still more promi-
nent than in the statue. Weight is very pre-eminent. The
same organ is very large in .the bust of the lamented Dr
CLARKE, the traveller; and, as might have been expected,
Locality quite extraordinarily developed •. We met with
several peraons with small Weight, who at once acknow-
ledged deficiency in mechanical talent, and awkwardness
• In the numerous living heads we saw at Cambridge, we met ol\en
with the organ of Number large, and found, invariably, that it Willi accom-
panied in the individual with algebraic celebrity. The organization gene•
rally corresponded to the cause of the Jlenoon's rank in the Univenoity;
and, although there were exceptions, most of the persons who have achieved
honours, evidently owe them to the great power of their knowing or-
gans ;-clearly shewing, that those who were also git\ed with deeply re-
flecting ar.:t combining poweno, are not called to use them either in classi-
cal or mathematical studies. Many men, on the contrary, have tigured
in public life, in virtue of their great endowment of Cau:~~~lity and Com-
parison, who, from " smaller gil\ of the knowing orgunll, have held a very
humble grade at Oxford and Cambridge.
Digitized by Google
WEIGHT. 895
in their actions and movements. A child of two years old
was mentioned to us, although we did not see it, quite re-
markable to every one for the large development of brain at
this part of the frontal bone, and for the uncommon steadi-
ness of its walk, at an age when other children totter, and
it is the theme of wonder to all who know it." The organ
is large in the mask of MAcLAUCHLAN, a weaver of Salt-
coats, who spent much time and money in devising means
to regulate the stroke of the common pump, so as t.o make
the working-rod move with the same momentum up and
down. It is large also in the mask of BRUNEI., the cele-
brated engineer and mechanician. In examining masks, a
depression of muscle, which sometimes takes place at this
part, must not be mistaken for a fulness ofthe organ.
Mr SIMPSON proceeds: '' The faculty now under consi-
deration, in high endowment, manifests itself in engineer-
ing, in dynamical skill, in the knowledge and application
of mechanical forces. What may be its le88er endow-
ments? Where do we find the organ ? Situated in the
midst of that group, which gi,·es us the perception of the
qualities of material objects; namely, Form, Size, Locality,
Colouring, Order, and Number. It is evident there is a
quality of bodies moat essential to their nature, not includ-
ed in these qualities, singly or combined; namely, their
density and corresponding weight. As bodies gravitate in
a well-kno\m ratio to their density, and their density and
weight are the same thing, Weight is only one name for
gravitation. Does it then serve any important purpose in
our being, or is it essential to our animal existenc.-., that
we should have an instinctive perception of gravitation,
operating constantly and independently of reason? That
state of rest which the law of gravitation constitutes the
natural state of all bodies, solid, fluid, and aeriform, is
ealled their Equilibrium. Tho simplest animal motions,
what are they but alternate disturbance and restoration of
eq~~ilibrium ?"-" Tho land-animal walks and runs, and
&\'ails itself of the resistance of the earth,-the bird flies by
Digitized by Google
896 WEIGHT.
its instinctive perception of the resistance of the alr,....:..the
fish uses its fins and tail, instinctively perceiving the resist-
ance of the water."
" Some degree, therefore, of the power of adapting mo-
tions to the law of gravitation, some power over equili-
brium, must be possessed by the whole animated creation,
-for without it, it i11 plain, they must perish. May the
organ of Weight be the organ of this faculty ? To man
alone is given the capacity to aid this power, and render his
motion more effectual, and force more availing by the use
of instruments,-and FRANKLIN well named him a tool-
making, or rather a tool-using animal. What are his tools?
They are all modifications of the elementary mechanical
powers. His club and bow are levers,-his axe, knife,
sword, and arrow, are wedges. He instinctively aids his
own muscular force by the lever, when he applies a bar of
wood to raise a stone from· the ground ;-if he wishes to
raise tha' stone to a certain height, perpendicularly, he will
instinctively counteract its gravitation by forcing it up an
inclined plane, instead of applying his own bodily force to
lift it perpendicularly. The principle of the pulley will
suggest itself whenever he has obtained a block with a
cord, or thong, to draw water out of a pit. The screw is
only the inclined plane wrapt spirally round a cylinder; to
avail himself of which he would be led, whenever he at·
tempted, as be early did, to build a tower."
These views, says Mr SIMPSON, are strongly supported
by diseased affections ofthis part of 'he brain. Miss S. L.
was attacked with headach, and pain in the region of the
organ of Weight, " her perception of equilibrium was de-
ranged, and she experienced giddiness, inclined position
of horizontal floors and ceilings, and the sensation of being
lifted up, and of again falling down and forward. Her ac-
count of it is worthy of remark, for she said abe felt as if
alae had been tipsy." Mr SIMPSON refers to a diseased con-
dition of thill, and some other of the knowing organs, a
curious mental aft'ection, which Mr JouN HuNTER, the
Digitized by Google
WEIGHT. 897
~lebrated anatomist, experienced in 17'76, and which is
recorded in his life, written by Sir EvERARD HoME. " From
great anxiety of mind," says he, " Mr H. had a severe ill-
ness. It attacked him on a journey, and his first sensation,
it is well worthy of remark, was that of lw.ving drunk too
muclt, although he had taken nothing but a little weak
punch. On going to bed, be felt as if sv.spended in the air,
and soon after the room seemed to go round with very great
rapidity. This ceased, but the strange sensation, like Miss
S. L.'s, of being lifted up, continued; and, on being brought
home in his carriage, his sensation was that of sinking or
going down. The symptoms of whirling and suspension
increased; and his own bead, when be raised it from his
pillow, seemed to move from him to some distance with
great velocity. When be became able to stand without
being giddy, be was unable to walk without support ;
" for," says Sir E. HoME, " his own feelings did 1Wt give
Aim informatian respecting his centre of gravity, so that be
was unable to t'alance his body, and prevent himself from
falling." We need not add, continues Mr SIMPSON, the
obvious comment, that the organ of Weight was diseased,
and the very function we have imputed to it, the instinct
of equilibrium (expressed almost in our own words by Sir
E. HoME), unequivocally impeded •.
The phenomena of intoxication are explained by Mr
SIMPSON in a similar way. " Both Mi88 S. L. and Mr
JoHN HuNTER," says he, " bore testimony to the illusive
feeling of being intoxicated, while Miss S. L. had acute pain
in the organ of the instinct or power of preserving the
balance, and maintaining an upright posture. But for an
innate, steady~ and never-failing perception of equilibrium,
animal movements would be only staggering and tumbling.
The intoxicated soon lose a steady gait, fall down, see per-
pendiculars at other angles, believe the floor itself perpen-
dicular, and grasp the ground to save themselves from fall-
• Phrenological Journal, vol. ii. p. 302.
Digitized by Google
898 WEIGHT•
••
ing off its surface; they feel lifted up, sinking down, and
whirling round. Sickness would follow these senaations,
independent of the stimnlu.S of the liquor to.the stomach ;
and it is extremely probable that sea-sickness results from
the inverted feelings occasioned by motion which violates
our habitual perception of equilibrium •."
A correspondent of the Phrenological Journal mentionat,
that he was struck with this remark about sea-sickness
arising from the disturbance of equilibrium, and found by
experience when at sea, that, by standing at the vessel's
side, directing his eyes to an object on shore perfectly stil1,
the top of a mountain for example, and shutting out with
the palms of his hands all sight of the ship and the sea,
sickness invariably left him, but always returned whenever
be withdrew his bands, and allowed any part of the vessel
to catch his eye.
Sir G. S. MAcKENZIE has suggested the name " Resist-
ance," as more appropriate for this faculty than that of
Weight. "We cannot judge," says he," of Weight, as we
do of Form, without repeated experience. We may see
before us two balls of the same size and colour. We take
up one of them, and perceive that it requires a certain ex-
ertion or resistance on the part of the muscles of tl1e arm
and hand to support it. From this, however, we cannot
determine that the other ball will produce the same effect,
for it may be hollow. Now, although we have obtained
the experience that two similar balls may not produce the
same effect; this experience is of no use to us, for we must
always make the experiment of lifting both, in order to
determine which is the heavier. The impression of Ruist-
ance is, however, left with us; and probably it is the func-
tion of the faculty which Dr SPURZHEIM calls that of
Weight, to give us conceptions of resistance in general!·"
Mr SIMPSON, I believe, is now disposed to admit the cor-
rectness of this analysis.
• Phrenological Journal, voL il. p. 428.
+Illustrations ofPbrenology,.p. 160.
t No. viii. p. G• .S.
o;9; ized by Goo le
899 )
26.--cOLOURING.
ALTHOUGH the eyes are affected agreeably or diaagree-
ably by different modifications of the beama of light or by
coloU1'8, yet they do not conceive the relations of different
colours, their harmony or discord, and they have no me-
mory of them. Certain individuals are almost destitute of
the power of perceiving colours, who yet have the sense of
vision acute, and readily perceive other qualities in external
bodies, as their size and form. This fact has been remarked
by Mr STEWART. He says, " In the power of conceiving
colours, too, there are striking differences among indivi-
duals: and indeed I am inclined to suspect, that, in the
greater number of instances, the supposed defects of sight
iu this respect, ought to be ascribed rather to a defect in
the power of conception. One thing is certain, that we
often see men who are perfectly sensible of the difference
between two colours when they are presented to them, who
cannot give names to these colours with confidence, when
they see them apart ; and are, perhaps, apt to confound the
one with the other. Such men, it should seem, feel the
sensation of colour like other men, when the object is pre-
sent; but are incapable (probahlg in ~eof some early
Wit of inottenticm), to conceive the sen&ation distinctly,
when the object is removed •." ·
In this quotation, we have a specimen of the usual mode
of conducting metaphysical speculations. When the most
curious and striking phenomena of the mind are mentioned,
and when we look an:xionsly for an explanation of them,
/whit or cusociation is dragged in to solve the difficulty; and
this often merely in a parenthesis, as if no difficulty ex•
isted.
Observation proves, that individuals who have the part
of the brain m~rked No. 26. largely developed, possess in a
• Elements, cb. iii.
Digitized by Google
400 COLOURING.
high degree the power of discriminating colours, and, on
this account, the phrenologist admits this as a fundamental
faculty of the mind.
MrJEFFREY objected to this doctrine, that light is always
coloured, indeed nothing else but colour; and that it is
impossible for any one to see acutely who cannot distinguish
colours with equal success, because all visible objects must
necessarily be distinguished by colour alone. The answer
is, that the eye receives the external impression of light,
and transmits it to the organ of Colouring, just as the ears
transmit sound to the organ of Tune; and both are requisite
to the perception of colour. If the eye be perfect, and the
organ of Colour deficient, the individual may be capable of
distinguishing degrees of intensity of light, although he
cannot discriminate differences of tint; and the former is
sufficient to acute vision, as is proved by engraving and
black chalk drawing ; in which form distance and expres-
sion are successfully represented by mere differences oflight
and shade, or by different degrees of light independently of
colour.
The faculty, when powerful, gives a delight in contem-
plating colours, and a vivid feeling of their harmony and dis--
cord. Those in whom the organ is deficient experience little
interest in colouring, and are almost insensible to difference
of hues. In the Phrenological Transactions, Dr BuTTER
reports the case ofMr RoBERT TucKER, whose eye-sight was
not deficient, and who was able neither to distinguish nor to
recoll~t many of the primitive colours, even when shown to
him. " Orange, he calls green, and green colours orange ;
red, he considers as brown, and brown as red ; blue silk
looks to him like pink, and pink of a light blue colour; in-
digo is described as purple •." The organ is reported to be
decidedly deficient in this gentleman's head. The case of
Mr JAMES MILNE, brass--founder in Edinburgh, is also pe-
culiarly illustrative of this faculty; and, as I obtained the
facts from himself, they may be implicitly relied on.
• Page 210.
Digitized by Google
COLOURING. 401
Mr MILNE's grandfather, on the mother's side, had a de-
ficiency in the power of perceiving colours, but could cH.
tinguish forms and distance easily. On one occasion, this
gentleman was desirous that his wife should purchase a
beautiful green gown. She brought several patterns to him,
but could never find one which came up to his views of the
colour in question. One day he observed a lady passing on
the street, and pointed out her gown to his wife, as the eo-
lour that he wished her to get; when she expressed her as-
tonishment, and assured him, that the colour was a mixed
brown, which he had all along mistaken for a green. It was
not known till then that he was deficient in the power ofper-
ceiving colours.
Neither Mr MILNE's father, mother, nor uncle, en the
mother's side, were deficient in this respect; so that the im-
perfection passed over one generation. In himself and his
two brothers, however, it appeared in a decided manfter;
while in his sisters, four in number, no trace of it is to be
found; as they distinguish colours easily. Mr SPANK.IE, a
cousin once removed, has a similar defect •.
Mr MILNE is rather near-sighted, but never could find
glasses to aid his defect. He rather excels in distinguish-
ing forms and proportions; a:nd, although he cannot discover
game upon the ground, from the faintness of his perception
of colours, yet he is fond of shooting : and, when a boy, was
rather an expert marksman, when the birds were fairly visi-
ble to him in the air. He sees them, however, only in the
sky-light; and, on one occasion, when a large covey of par-
tridges rose within ten or twelve yards of him, the back
ground being a field of Swedish turnips, be could not per-
ceive a single bird. His eye is decidedly convex to a con-
siderable degree.
• I have examined the heads of Mr MILNE's brothers, who are defl.
dent in the power, and in them the organ is evidently little developed.
I have also eumined Its development in one of his sisters, and found no
deficiency, but rather a fulneu in the organ. Mr Lvox, a member of the
Society, states, that he has examined the head of Mr SPANKIE, and found
the organ rather deficient.
cc
Digitized by Google
402 COLOURU\G.
Mr MILNE's defect was discovered in rather a curious
manner. He was bound appTentice to a draper, and con-
tinued in his service for three years and a half. During
two years, he fell into considerable mistakes about. colours,
but this was attributed to inexperience and ignorance of the
names of the tints merely. At length, however, in scU~
ing a piece of olive corduroy f9r breeches, the purchaser
requested strings to tie them with; and Mr MILNE was
proceeding to cut off wbat he considered as the best match,
when the person stopped bim, and requested strings of the
Mme colour as the cloth. Mr MILNE begged him to point
out a colour to please himself; and he selected, of course, a
green string. When he was gone, Mr MILNE was so con-
fident that he himself was right, and the purchaser wrong,
in the colour that he had chosen, that he cut off a piece of
the string which he intended to give, and a piece of that
which had been selected, and carried both home, with a
piece of the cloth also, and shewed them to his mother.
She then told him that his ribbon was a bright scarlet, and
the other a grass-green. His masters would not believe in
any natural defect in his power of perceiving colours; and
it was only after many mistakes, and some vituperation,
that he was pcrJpitted to resign the business, and to betake
himself to another, that of a brass~foundcr, to which he had
a natural disposition ; for he had used the turning-loom in
constructing playthings, when a mere boy.
As to the different colours, he knows blues and yellows,
certainly ; but he cannot distinguish browns, greens and
reds. A brown and green he cannot discriminate or name
when apart ; but when together, he sees a difference be-
tween them. Blue and pink, when about the same shade,
and seen in day-light, appear to him the colour of the sky,
which he calls blue; but seen in candle-light, the pink ar,_
pears like a ~irty buff, and the blue retains the appearance
which it had in day-light. The gr888 appears to him more
like an orange, tl1an any other coloured object with which
he is acquainted. Indigo, violet and purple, appear only
Digitized by Google
COLOURING. 408
different shades of one colour, darker or lighter, but not
difl'ering in their bases. He never mistakes black and
white objects : he distinguishes easily between a black and
~.bl!le, and is able even to tell whether a black be a good
o.r.a bad ~ne. In the rainbow he perceives only the yellow
and the blue distinctly. He sees that there are other tints
in i&, but what they are he cannot distinguish, and is quite
unable to name them. In day-light, crimson appears like
blue or purple, but in candle-light it seems a bright red.
When in Glasgow, his greatcoat was carried oft' from the
travellers' room },y mistake, and on inquiring at the waiter
what had become of it, the question was naturally put, what
was the colour of the coat ? Mr Mn.NE was quite puzzled
by the interrogatory ; and although he had wom it for a
year, he could only reply, that it was either snuff-brown
or olive-green, but which he could not tell. The waiter
looked as if he suspected that Mr MILNE wanted to get
a coat instead of wishing to recover one ; but the coat
was found, although even yet Mr MILNE is not able to tell
the colour. He is apt to mistake copper for brass, unless
he distinguish them by the file.
A mask of Mr MILNE is sold in the shops, and in it the
organs of Form, Size, and Constructiveness • are well de-
veloped, while that of Colouring is decidedly deficient;
there being a depression in the part corresponding to this
organ, into which the point of the finger falls on passing
it along. All a contrast, the reader may compare with it
the masks of Mr !}AVID WILKIE, Mr HAYDoN, Mr DouG-
LAS, or Mr WJLLIAMS, all eminent painters; and as the or-
gan is large in these masks, a very marked difference will
be perceptible•.
Cases of this description are not rare. In the mask of
Mr SLOANE of Leith, the development is small, and in a
letter, dated 20th February 1822, addressed to me, this
gentleman says, " When I see a piece of tartan, or any
• This is an cxam~le of the organ of Cr.nstructivcncss being eituatctl
higher than usual, as noticed on p. 217.
cc2
Digitized by Google
404 COLOURING.
other complication of Colours, I can easily distinguish the
difFerence of shades ; but were the difFerent Colours pre-
sented to me singly, I could not say which was which. I
feel particularly at a 1088 to distinguish betwixt green and
brown, and likewise ~twixt some shades of red and blue.
I am not sensible of being ch!ficient in seeing any thing at
a distance, or of being unable to perceive as small a par-
ticle 88 the generality of men can do." In this mB.I!k, the
deficiency is not 80 great as in that of Mr MILNE, but the
organ of Colouring is greatly less developed in it than in
the masks of the painters before alluded to.
The proper way to observe the .development of this or-
. gan, is to distinguish to what extent the centre of each eye-
brow projects forward. In Mr MILNE it is slightly de-
pressed below the neighbouring parts; in Mr SLOANE, it is
scarcely depressed, but it does not project, 80 as to over-
hang the eye-ball; in the painters it is large and promi-
nent, forming a heavy shade above the eye. Dr Spunz-
HEtM mentions that a large development of it is indicated
by an arched appearance in the middle of the eyebrow,
and that this sign is found in the portraits of RuBENs,
TITIAN, REMBliANDT, SALVATOR RoSA, CLAUDE LoRRAINE,
&c. ; but its large size is also indicated by the projection
forward of this part of the eyebrow without arching. It
presents this appearance in the masks of the late Sir HENRY
RAEBURN, WILKIE, HAYDON, and other ftminent painters.
Dr GALL states it 88 an indubitable fact, that determi-
nate laws of proportion in colours exist. The three primi-
tive colours of blue, yellow, and red, says be, do not har-
monize. If we mix two of these, an intermediate colour
is produced: Blue and yellow gi\'e green; blue and red,
violet; red and yeHow, ol'IUlge. To obtain a harmonious
combination, we must place alongside of a primitive colour
a mixed one, into which the primitive enters as an ele-
ment; the mixed colour will always be in harmony with
the two primitive colours from which it is produced. If
we place, says be, a silk ribbon, of a blue colour, and about
Digitized by Google
€0LOURING. 405
an inch broad, on a sheet of white paper, and look at it
stedfastly; at the end of a short time, we shall see, besides
yellow and red, and (at the side) orange, resuJting from
their mixture •.
Mr .JEFFREY, in the article " Beauty," already alluded
to, mforms us, " That colour is, in all cases, absolutely in-
different to the eye;, 8.1ld adds, " that it is no doubt quite
true, that among painters and connoisseurs, we hear a great
deal abovt the harmony and composition of tints, and the
charms and difficulties of a judicious colouring. In all this,
however, we cannot help thinking that tAere is 110 little pedan-
try mul t10 little j'srgOA." Speaking of the natural gamut of
colours, be continues, " We confess we have no faith in
any of these fancies ; and believe, that if all these colours
were wrly arranged, on a plain board, according to the
most rigid ruJes of this supposed harmony, nobody, but the
author of the theory, would perceive the 81Wlllest Beau~y in
the exhibition, or be the least offended by r~versin_g their
collocation." It is a curious fact, that the organ of Colour-
ing in Mr JEFFREY's bead is actually depressed; and it
appears that, in the usual manner of metaphysical writers,
he has conceived his oWn feelings to be an infa1Jib1e stan-
dard of those of huinan nature in general. It is quite true
that the eye is affected only by the degrees of light, but by
this expression, the mind is here obviously meant. The
author, when speaking in the next sentence of the gamut,
draws no distinction between the powers .of :the mind and
those of the eye. Those individuals, then, whoee cases .I
have cited, and who cannot distinguish dark brown from
scarlet, butf from orange, or violet from pink, would pro-
bably subscribe to Mr JEFFBEv's positions. But 'Other .in-
dividuals, such as WILKIE and HAYDON, ba,·e an intense
sensibility to shades of every hue, and of every degree ;
and some painters have assured me, that they experiencl'
a very decided emotion in contemplating colours, indepen-
dent of every aasociation; and declare, that they perceiv("
• S•Jr les Functions du Cerveau, tome v. p. 82.
Digitized by Google
406 COLOURING.
l.armony, congruity and incongruity, in their arrangements,
even on a plain board, as certainly and as distinctly ft8 they
distinguish harmony and discord in sound.
Mr JEFFREY, in his review of the System of Phrenology,
in the Edinburgh Review, No. 88, controverts these infe-
rences. He says, " Without meaning to eall in question
the fact of the depression of his skull, we happen to !mow
that the individual here mentioned hftB a remarkably fine
and exact perception of colours, 80 as to be able to match
them from memory, with a precision which has been the
admiration of many ladies and dressmakers. He hftB also
an uncommon sensibility to their beauty ; and spends more
time than most people in gazing on bright flowers and pea-
cocks' n('cks, and wondering, he hopes innocently, what can
be th.; cause of hiJJ enjoyment. Even the phrenologists, we
think, must admit, that, in his case, it cannot be the pre-
dominance of the appropriate faculty, since they have as-'
certained that he is totally destitute of the organ."
In a Jetter which I addressed to Mr JEFFREY, in answer
to this criticism •, I Mked, "how could you assert in the
Encyclopredia, that ' Colour is in all cases absolutely indif-
fermt to the eye,' if you were conscious when you wrote
of possessing ' an uncommon sensibility to their beauty ?'
How could you stigmatise as 'pedantry and jargon,' th~­
doctrine of ' the harmony and composition of tints, and
the charms and difficulties of a judicious colouring,' and
assert., ' that if all those colours were fairly arranged, on a
plain board, according to the most rigid rules of this sup-
posed harmony, nobody but the author of the theory would
perceive tl~e smallest beauty in the exhibition, or be the least
offended by reversing their collocation,' when all the time
you enjoyed in yourself ' a remarkably fine and exact per-
ception of colours, so as to be able to match them from me-
mory with a precision which has been the admiration of
many ladies and dressmakers ?''
• Phren. Journal, vol iv. p. I., nnd al:;o p. 242.-1 beg leave to refer
the reader to these Letters for an answer to the whole of Mr JEFFREY's
criticisms on this work.
Digitized by Google
COLOURING. 4.07
In a ;Note to the 89~h :Number of the Review, l\lr JEF-
FJlEYteplied to this argume~t as fQlJows: "There are two
questions here; ftr~t, whether ·there are any grounds, from
inconsistency or otherwise, to impeach the credit of the
Reviewer, when he says that he can diatinguish colours,
and shades of colours, with .more than comm()n accuracy ?
and, secondly, whether there arc any such grounds for dis-
believing hi.J:)l, when he says .that he has a strong sense of
their beauty? The first is the main allegation, and formed
the whole original subject of controversy. Mr CoMBE al-
leged that the organ of colour was actually depressed in
the head of that individual, and inferred that he probably
did not know scarlet from brown : it was answered that
this was a mistake,-for he was known to have a remark-
ably iine perception of colours and their diversities : and
the replication to this in the pamphlet, is, that that cannot
well be, since he himself had stated, in the Encyclopredia,
that all colours are indifferent to the eye, and one just as
beautiful as another. Well, suppose he bad said so, where
would have been the inconsistency? for, where is the con-
nexion between the allegations that are held to be contra-
dictory ? A man who happens to think brown as beauti-
ful as scarlet, may surely perceive tM dijference between
them,-or, rather be mrut perceive it, when he compares
them, in this way, as two distinct and distinguishable ob-
jects. There is not, therefore, the shadow of a pretext for
discrediting the Reviewer's leading allegation, that the in·
dividual alluded to, though destitute of th• phrenological
organ, can discriminate colours with unusual readiness and
precision.''
In answer to these remarks, I beg leave to observe, that
Mr JnFREY overstates my objection. The paragraph on
which he comments is printed in this work verbatim as it
stood in the previous edition, and the reader will perceive
that I did not allege that the organ was absolutely wanting .
in his head, and did not inf(\r that he was incapable of per-
ceiving colours, or that "he probably did not koolv scarlet
Digitized by Google
4.08 COI,OURING.
from brown." On the contrary, the statement was merely
that the organ is "depressed," that is to say, that in him
it is deficient in sift relatively to the other organs; where-
as in the painters it is large. The work itself afforded in-
formation of the efFect of a depressed organ ; it is said " that
PERCEPTION is the Wwut degree of activity," of every know-
ing and reflecting faculty; ,. when a coloured object is
presented, and the individual cannot perceive, so as to dis-
tinguish the shades, he is dutittde of the power of mani-
festing the faculty of colour:" " Each ·organ will enable
the mind to recal the impressions which it served at first
to receive ;" ancl memory is merely " a degree of activity
of each faculty." A friend in India, after reading Mr JEF-
FREY's note, wrote to me as follows: "Melody is the plea-
sure arising from successions of simple sounds suited to
each other. Harmony is that arising from combined sounds,
or from several striking the ear simultaneously, as in a
band playing difFerent parts. The former requires much
less of the organ than the latter, and hence the Scotch,
with no great Tune, are melodists, but nothing as musi-
cians. In like manner, the allocation of simple colours is
their melody, and the combination of several is harmony.
Mr J EFFttEY might thus place one ribbon beside another
very well, but not perceive the harmony of combined
colours •." There is no inconsistency, therefore, between
the depression of Mr JEFFREY's organ of Colouring and the
manifestations which he describes. Mr MILNE even is able
to perceive some colours, to distinguish difFerences between
them, and he has memory of some of them; although in
him the organ is considerably more depressed than in Mr
JEFFREY,
The real objection stated in the work was, that painters
not only distinguish difFerences, but enjoy direct pleasure
from "contemplating colours independently of every 8880-
• I understand that thla defect is apparent in some painters' they are
~pable of matching a few simple colours, but when a numerous 8llllem•
blage of them requires to be introduced into a picture, they fall in giving
them harmony.
Digitized by Google
COLOURING. 409
ciation, and that they perceive harmony, or congruity and
incongruity, in their arrangements, even on a plain board,
as certainly and 88 distinctly 88 they distinguish harmony
and discord in sound,, which assertions Mr JEFFREY desig-
nated 88 pedantry and jargon.
In answer to my statement, therefore, hi! ought to have
proved, that, notwithstanding of his depreased organ, be
possesses the faculty in this higher degree, that he actually
receives direct pleasure from colours, and perceives their
harmonies and disCords. In No. 88. of the Review, he en-
deavoured to do this, by referring to his " remarkably fine
and exact perception of colours, so 88 to be able to match
them from memory;" and, to his delight, " in gazing on
bright Bowers aud peacocks• necks;" and in No. 89. of the
Review, be favours us with the following additional argu-
ments in support of this position.
" 2. Bot, in the next place," says Mr JEFFREY, " and this
is still more material, it is certain that the individual in
question does ftOt maintain, in the Encyclopmdia, that there
is no beauty in colours, or combinations of colours,-but
the very reverse. His whole object in that treatise, 88
every one must know who bas looked into a line of it, is,
not to deny the existence of beauty, but to u:plain its na-
ture and causes, in colours as in every thingelse : And, ac-
cordingly, not only is there no doubt thrown on the fact
of their beauty, but its reality, and that of the peculiar
pleasure afForded by it, is both expressly asserted, in a va-
riety of passages, and constantlg assumed and taken for
granted, 88 the very basis of the theory, and the test of its
illustrations, which are urged in its support. The theory
is, that colours are beautiful, not in consequence of the
mere organic operation of their physical qualities on the
eye, but in consequence of their habitual auociation with
certain simple emotions or mental qualities, of which they
remind us in a great variety of ways. Thus Blne, for ex-
ample, i& said to be beautiful, because it V. the colour of
the unclouded aky,-Green, because it is that of vernal
Digitized by Google
410 COLOURING.
woods and summer meadows,-and Red, because it· re-
minds us of the season of roses, or of the blushes of youth
and innocence ;-and, accordingly, when these associations
are disturbed, the beauty which they created disappears.
Green would not be beautiful in the sky, nor blue on the
cheek, nor vemiilion on ihe gr888. The doctrine is pre-
cisely the same as to the beauiy of combination of oolours,
and it is attempted to be proved by similar illustrations.
Throughout it is distinctly stated, and invariably assumed
as indisputable, that tl~~ey are beautifid, and afford pleasure
to those who admire them,-though it is alleged that there
is a good deal of pedantry in those who dogmatise on the
laws of their harmony, and affect to limit their pleasing
combinations exclusively to certain arrangements. It is
maintained, as before, that their beauty depends entirely on
the associations with which they are connected ; and while
it is admitted that certain combinations will generally ex-
cite the same associations in those who are devoted to the
same pursuits, it is denied that these are either universal
or unvarying, or thai the feeling they undoubtedly excite
can ever be referred to the organic action of the coloured
light on the sense. These opinions may be right or wrong.
but the only question now at iBBue is, whether they are in-
consistent with the admission of the fac~ that colours are
beautiful? and whether the man who holds them must be
disbelieved, when be says that he has a keen sense of this
kind ofbeauty?"
In this note, Mr JEFPREY no longer wonders what can
be the catae of his enjoyment from the bright flowers and
peacocks' necks. He informs us distinctly, that he has no
direct perception of beauty in their colours as mere colours,
but that the beauty perceived by him de~nds " entirely on
the associations with which they are connected." " Co-
lours," says h~ "are beautiful., not in consequence of the
mere QT'ganic operation of their phyiJicaJ qualitiu on the eye,
but in consequence of their habitual association with cer-
tain simple emotions or mental qualities of which they re-
Digitized by Google
COLOURING. 411
mind us in a great variety of ways." It now turns out,
accordingly, that his pleasure in contemplating the bright
flowers and peacocks• necks arose, not from any quality in
these objects themselves, or from any direct effect produced
by them on his own mind, but .that he instantly passed away
from the contemplation of their hues, and dwelt on some-
thing else, which they serv~ merely to introduce to his
fancy. He was pleased, for example, with the red of the
flowers, not because it was a colour grateful in itself, but
because it reminded him of the lovely season in which
roses are produeed, or of the blushes of youth and inno-
cence; and he delighted in the blue of the peacocks•
necks, not because that colour was intrinsically pleasing,
but because it excited the recollection ofthe unclouded sky.
The painters, on the other hand, in whom the organ is
large, state that all this is the very opposite of the sources
of their pleasure from colours. They inform me that the
very circumstance of Mr JEFFREY preferring bright flowers
and peacocks• necks, indicates that his mental power is
weak, that it requires a strong stimulus to excite it to action,
and even when thus stimulated, it is not capable of pro-
ducing feelings of direct pleasure, or perceptions of har-
mony and discord, which, from their large organs, they de-
cidedly enjoy. His experience, therefore, corresponds in
the most complete manner with the " depressed•• state of
the organ in ltis bead.
This is so plain as scarcely to admit of ilJustration ; but
we may suppose an author to assert tl1at there is no bar-
. mony or discord in sound, and no direct pleasure from
melody ; but that, nevertheless, J:c enjoys great delight
in hearing a military band. If we were to proceed to ask
such a person, what could be the source of his delight
in the band, and he should answer, " Oh, the notes them-
selves of the bugle, clarionet, and flute, gtve me no plea-
sure, but they remind me of the gay uniforms, the wav-
ing plumes, and fine martial forms of the lancers ; they
recal the summer evening parade, \Vith the loveliness of
Digitized by Google
4li COJ.OURING.
earth and sky in that delightful season, the smiles of beauty
and faahion that animate and adorn the scene ; and hence
the band gives me the highest gratification!' If suc.-h
a statement were made, who that enjoys a sensibility to
music, would not say that Phrenology would be in fault if
such a man were not deficient· in the organ of Tune? In
fact, the individual supposed, would never dwell for a mo-
ment on the music itself; to him it would be mere sound,
to excite in his mind the ideas of the lancers and the pa-
rade ; which would be the real sources of his enjoyment,
and objects of his admiration. This case is an exact pa-
rallel to that of Mr JEFFREY, in regard to colours. The
colours themselves exhibit no beauty to his mind; they
make no impression of an agreeable nature, so as to en-
gage his attention with their own loveliness ; they merely
usher ift extraneous ideas and emotions, in which he finds
real gratification. Would not Phrenology be in fault, if
in him the organ of Colouring were otherwise than " de-
pressed?"
A legal practitioner, in a country town of Scotland, whom
I have seen, and in whom this organ was very large, was
engrossed by a passion for showy Bowers, even to the ne-
glect of urgent caBs on his attention. It is probable that
the intense sensibility to colours, which accompanies a large
development of the organ, was the source of this interest.
Phrenologists are accustomed toinfer the particular powers
which are most vigorous in an author's mind, from the ma-
nifestations of them in his works ; and none affords better
scope for obsenation than the faculty of Colouring. Un-
less the impressions made on the mind of.an author by co-
lours were very strong, he bas no inducement to introduce
them, for he can easily treat of a great variety of subjects,
without adverting to their hues. When, therefore, we
find him minutely describing shades and tints, and dwell-
ing on colours and their effects with evident delight, we
may safely infer that the organ is large. Mr TENNANT,
the author of Auster Fair, frequently does so, and in his
bead the organ is large.
Digitized by Google
COLOURING. 418
Tho organ is generally larger in women than iD men ;
and, accordingly, some women, 88 colourisU, have equalled
the masters among men ; while 88 painter~, women, in ge-
neral, have always been inferior to the other sex. The fa·
culty aids the flower-painter, enameller, dyer, and, in ge-
neral, all who occupy themselves with colours. Its great
energy gives a passion for colours, but not necessarily a de-
licate taste in them. Ta<~te depends upon a perfect rather
than a very powerful activity of the faculties. In several
oriental nations, for example, the faculty appears, from
their love of colours, to be strong, and, nevertheless, they
display bad taste in the application of them.
Dr SPURZHEIM observed, that, in persons born blind, the
organ of Colouring is in general less de\·eloped than in
persons who see, or who have become blind after mature
age. Dr GALL mentions, that he had seen a bookse11er or
Augsburg, blind from birth, who maintained that it is not
the eye but the intellect, which recognizes, judges and pro-
duces proportion among colours. This individual asserted,
that, by means of an internal sense, he had precise notions
of colours ; and it is a fact that he determined their har-
mony exactly. He had a number of glass beads, of various
colours, which he formed into dift'erent figures, and always
produced harmony in the arrangement of the colours. Mter
making a great effort, of this kind, he experienced pain
immediately above the eye, particularly above the right
eye.-(Vol. v. p. 85.) I have seen a blind man in Stirling,
who distinguished colours with great accuracy by means
of touch. DERHAM, in his Physico-Theology, b. iv. ch. 6.,
mentions a similar case, and observes, that " although the
eye be the usual judge of colours, yet some have been able
to distinguish them by feeling." These facts shew that it
is not the eye alune which judges of colours, because a func-
tion can in no case be pos~~essed without the organ on which
it depends.
The organ is considered as established.
Digitized by Google
( 414
GENUS 111.-INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES WHICH
PERCEIVE THE RELATIONS OF EXTERNAL OB-
JECTS.
27.-LOCALITY.
DR GALL mentions, that the taste which he had for na-
tural hiRtory induced him frequently to go into the woods
to catch birds, or to discover their nests; and although he
was expert in accomplishing these objects, yet, when be
wished to return to the nests, he generally found it impos-
sible to retrace his way, or to light upon the tree which he
had marked, or the snares which he bad placed. This dif-
ficulty did not arise from inattention, for, before quitting
the spqt, he_stuck branches in the ground, and cut marks
on trees, to guide him in his return, but all in vain. He
was obliged to take constantly along with him one of his
school.fellows, named ScHEIDLER, who, with the least pos-
sible effort of attention, went always straight to the place
where a snare was set, even although they had sometimes
placed ten or fifteen in a quarter that was not familiarly
known to them. As this youth possessed only very ordi-
nary talents in other respects, Dr GALL was much struck
with his facility in recollecting place~ and frequently asked
him bow he contri\'ed to guide himself so surely ; to which
be replied l,>y asking GALL, in his turn, how he contrived
to lose himself everywhere. In the hope of one day ob-
taining some explanation of this peculiarity, Dr GALL
moulded his head ; and endeavoured to discover persons
who were distinguished by the same faculty. The cele-
brated landscape-painter ScHlENBERGER told him, that, in
his travels, he was in the custom of making only a very
general sketch of countries which interested him, and that
afterwards, when he wished to produce a more complete
picture, every tree, every group of busl1es, and every stone
2
Digitized by Google
LOCALITY. 415
of ariy considerable magnitude, presented itself sponta-
neously to ltis mind. About the sa~e period Dr GALL be-
came acquainted with M. MEYER, author of the romance
of " Dia-na-Sore," a person who found no pleasure except
in a wandering life. Sometimes he went from house to
house in the country, and at other times attached himself
to some man of fortune, to accompany him in extended tra-
vels. He had an astonishing faculty in recollecting the
different places which he had seen. Dr GALL moulded his
head also; be then placed it and the other two together,
and compared them attentively; they presented great dif-
ferences in many points, but he was struck with the singu-
lar form which appeared in all the three a little above the
eyes, and on the two sides of the organ of Individuality,
viz. two large prominences commencing near each side o£
the nose, and going obliquely upwards and outwardll, al-
most as high as the middle of the forehead. From that
time be was led to suppose, that the talent for recollecting
places depended on a primitive faculty, of which the organ
was situated under this part of the skull; innumerable sub-
sequent obsen·ations confirmed this inference.
Dr SPURZHEIM states, that "the special faculty of this
organ, and the sphere of its activity, remain to be deter-
mined. It makes the traveller, geographer, and landscape-
painter, recoUect localities, and gives notions of perspec-
tive. It seems to me, says be, that it is the faculty of Lo-
cality in general. As soon as we have conceived the exist-
ence of an object and its qualities, it must necessarily oc-
cupy a place, and this is the faculty that conceives the
places occupied by the objects that surround us *·" Sir
GEORGE S. MACKENZIE considers the primitive faculty to
be that ofperceiving relativeposition. Dr SPURZHEIM states,
that " notions of pt'r&pective" are given by Locality, but
certain facts, already noticed, appear to shew that these
depend ratlter on Size : in other respects his observations
coincide with my own experience.
• Phrenology, p. Y80.
Digitized by Google
416 LOCALITY.
Persons in whom this organ is large, form vivid and dis.
tinct conceptions of situations and scenery which they have
seen or heard described, and they have great power in re-
calling such conceptions. When the faculty is active from
internal excitement of the organ, such ideas are presented
to them involuntarily. In the mask of Sir WALTER ScoTT
the organ is large. Readers, similarly endowed, are almost
as much delighted with his descriptions of scenery, as by a
tour made by themselves amid the mountain glens ; while
those in whom the organ is small, are quite uninterested
by his most splendid poetical landscapes. This author
writes so pictorially, that he almost saves an artist, who
means to illustrate his pages, the trouble of invention.
An author, in whom this organ is moderately developed,
treats of places in a very different manner. Mr TENNANT,
the author of Auster Fair and the Thane of Fife, merely
designates, by appropriate epithets, the leading features of
a landscape, in a way which excites a pleasing and distinct
recollection of it in those who have seen it, but which calls
up no picture in the mind of a reader who was not familiar
with it before ; and in his head the organ of Locality is be-
low IPl average size. The following lines are characteristic
·of his manner :
"Nest them the troopers each on fervent steed
That dwelllllithin 1M tmrm and .f1ofHf7 daiR
W.vr. .Arman and fiiMre Elk, and Liddle, 1«ul
TMir Mrt4flll dCNM tripping tlwt!ugh 1M ~Wnng ro~e.,
And where the llnmgtlr and _.. ft~Jflliflg TfiiMl
Ef1fllf'pil from lair rrddkmd mounlt.lin, trail~
v~ and broad lair~ dCNM
To meet the briny sea by bulwark'd Berwick town."
The organ is large in the busts and portraits of all emi-
nent navigators and travellers, such as CoLUMBUS, CooK,
and MuNGO PARK; also in great astronomers and geo-
graphers, as KEPLER, GALILEO, TvcHo BRACHE', and
NEWTON. In TAsso the poet, it appears also to have been
very large, and he manifested the faculty in a high degree.
3
Digitized by Google
LOCALITY. 417
This faculty gives what is called " Coup d'reil," and judg-
ment of the capabilities of ground. It is necessary to the
military draughtsman, and is of great importance to a ge-
neral in war. Dr GALL mentions, that he had observed the
organ large in distinguished players at chess ; and he con-
ceived their talent to consist in the faculty of conceiving
clearly a great number of the possible positions of the men.
Some persons have an instinctive tact at discriminating
and recollecting the situation of the organs on the Phreno-
logical bust, while others experience the greatest difficulty
in doing so. The former have Locality and Form large,
the latter small, indicated by a general narrowness at the
top of the nose. The latter state their own inability as an
objection against the system; but this is equally logical as
if Mr MILNE were to deny the existence of a variety of co-
lours, because his own organ of Colouring is so defective
that he cannot perceive them.
Locality appears to be an element in a genius for geo-
metry. In the heads or busts of six or seven eminent
mathematicians which I have carefully examined, this or-
gan, and also those of Size, Individuality and Comparison,
are large. Indeed, pure geometry treats only of the rela-
tions of space, and does not imply agency, or any rela~ion,
except that of proportion; and hence it might he legiti-
mately inferred to belong to the sphere of the organs now
mentioned. Negative cases also coincide with these posi-
tiv~ observations. ZHERO CoLBURN, the American youth
who was celebrated for his arithmetical powers, turned his
attentio~ to mathematics, but with very little success. He
etated to me that he had been taught the first six books of
Euclid, and underetood the proposition&, but felt no inte-
rest in the study. He liked algebra much better; and he
has the organ of Number large, but that of Locality defi-
cient. The gentleman who had taken charge of his
education, it is said, at first intended him for a mathe-
matician, but afterwards, finding that his genius did not
lie that way, directed his attention to law. Mr GEORGE
nd
Digitized by Google
418 LOCALITY.
BIDDER, when a mere child, displayed such astonishing
talent as a mental calculator, that several gentlemen in
Edinburgh were induced to take charge of his education ;
and, on the supposition that his abilities extended to mathe-
matical science generally, selected for him the profession
of an engineer. Having heard of this intention, and ha-
ving observed that in his bead the organs of the mathema-
tical faculties were not developed in any extraordinary de-
gree, I inferred that his eminence as a mathematician would
not equal that which he had attained as a calculator, and
communicated this conviction in writing to Principal BAIRD,
one of his patrona. Mr BIDDER subsequently pursued the
study of mathematics ; but, at the end of two years, both
he himself and Professor WALLACE informed me, that he
was not distinguished for more than common ability in the
cl888. I have since heard that Mr BIDDER baa not pro.e-
cuted the profession of an engineer; but obtained employ-
ment in a public office, in which his great talent for com-
putation renders him particularly useful.
When the group of organs situated at the top of the nose,
namely, Individuality, Form, Size, Weight, and Locality,
are all large, there is generally a strong talent for dyna-
mics. Persons thus endowed excel in turning, and in
archery; and if ConstructiveneBB be also full, and they
have been bred to professions in whieh they find no scope
for these faculties, they frequently Ret up private work-
shops, and become inventors and improvers of machinery.
The organ of Locality is generally much larger in men
than in women; and the manifestations correspond.
Dr GALL cites several cases of diseased affection of this
organ; and in the Phrenological Journal•, Mr SIMPSON
gives a highly interesting detail of symptoms attending dis-
order of this and the other knowing organs already treated
of.
This organ is possessed by the lower animals, and many
interesting facts are recorded of their manifestations of the
• No. vii. p. ,!HI.
Digitized by Google
LOCALITY. 419
faculty. Dr GALL mentions several instances of dogs re-
t.arning to their homes from a great distance, without the
possibility of tl1eir having been guided by smell or sight.
"A dog,'' says be, "was carried in a coach from Vienna
to St Petersburgh, and at the end of six months reap-
peared in Vienna : Another wu transported from Vienna
to London ;-be attached himself to a traveller, and em-
barked along with him; but at the moment of landing, be
made his escape and returned to his native city. Another
dog was sent from Lyons to Marseilles, where he was em-
barked for Naples, and he found his way back by land to
Lyons/' The common hypothesis, be observes, that dogs
retrace their way by the aid of smeU, appears abundantly
absurd, when applied to cases in which they were trans-
ported by water, or in a coach; and the idea that these ani-
mals can discover the effluvia of their master's person acrO&S
a space of several hundred leagues, appears equally pre-
poRtcrous. Besides, a dog does not return home by the
straightest road, nor even by the precise line in which he
was carried away; and some naturalists have therefore been
obliged to admit an occult cause of this surprising talent,
and named it a sixth sense. Dr GALL considers it to belong
to the organ of Locality. The falcon of lc.-eland returns to
its native place from a distance of thouaands of miles; and
carrier pigeons have long been celebrated for a similar ten-
dency, and have occasionally been employed in consequence
to convey dispatches. Swallows, nightingales, and a va-
riety of sea-fowls, migrate from one climate to another at
certain seasons of the year, which is attributed by Dr GALL
to periodical and involuntary excitement of this organ.
The frontal sinus has been stated aa an objection to Lo-
cality, but it rarely ascends higher than the lower part of
it ; and while prominences formed by the sinus are irre-
gular in form, and generally horizontal in direction, the
elevations occasioned by a large development of Locality
are uniform in shape, and extend obliquely upwards towards
the middle of the forehead. Further, the negative evidence
od2
Digitized by Google
420 NUMBER.
in favour of tbe organ is irresistible, and it ia tlaerefore
held as established.
28. NUMBER.
A scholar of St PoeJton, near Vienna, WRS greatly
spoken of in that city, on account of his extraordinary ta-
lent for calculation. He was the son of a blacksmith, who
had not received any particular instruction beyond that be-
stowed on other boys at the same school ; and in all other
respects was nearly on a footing of equality with them.
Dr GALL made him come to Vienna, and presented him to
his audience when he was nine years of age. " Lorsqu'on
lui donnait," says Dr GALL, " je suppose, trois nombrea
e:xprimlls chacun par dix adouze chitrres, en lui demandant
de les additionner, puis de les soustraire deux adeux, de
les multiplier et de les diviser chacun par un nombre de
trois chitrres; il regardait une seule fois les nombres, puis
il levait le nez et les yeux en l'air, et il indiquait le r~ultat
de son calcul mental avant que mes auditeurs n'eussent eu
le temps de faire le calcul Ia plume a Ia main. 11 avait
cree lui-m~me sa methode.'' An advocate of Vienna stated
his regret that his son, of five years of age, occupied him-
self exclusively with numbers and calculation, in such a
manner that it was impossible to fix his attention on any
other object, not even qn the games of youth. Dr GALL
compared his head with that of the boy just mentioned, and
found no particular resemblance, except in a remarkable
prominence at the external angle of the eye, and a little to
the side. In both, the eye was in some degree covered by
the extemaJ angle of the upper eyebrow. These cases sug-
gested the idea that the talent for calculation might be con-
nected with a particular organ; and Dr GALL sought for
men distinguished for this power, in order to verify the dis-
covery. He repaired to the Councillor MANTELLI, whose
favourite occupation was to invent and solve problems in
Digitized by Google
NUMBER.
mathematics, and particularly in arithmetic, and found the
same configuration in him. He next went to Baron VEGA,
author of Tables of Logarithms, at that time Professor of
Mathematics, and who, in every other talent, " etait un
homme fort mediOcre," and found in him the same form of
head. He then visited private families and schools, and
desired the children distinguished for ability in calculation
to be pointed out to him ; and still the same development
recurred. He therefore felt himself constrained to admit a
special organ and fiU.'ulty for this talent.
The organ, when large, fills up the head outside of the
external angle of the eye, a very little below the point
called the external angular process of the frontal bone.
The special function of the faculty seems to be calcula-
tion in general. Dr GALL calls it " Le sens des nomhres ;''
and, while he states distinctly that arithmetic is its chief
sphere, he regards it. as also the organ of mathematics. Dr
SPURZHEIM, on the other hand, limits itll functions to arith-
metic, algebra, and logarithms; and is of opinion that the
other branches of mathematics, u geometry, &c. are not
the simple results of this faculty. In this analysis be ap-
pears ·to me to be well founded. Mr GEORGE BIDDER,
when only seven years of age, and without any previous
instruction, shewed an extraordinary talent for mental cal-
culation ; and I have seen him, when only eleven, answer
the most complicated questions in algebra, in a minute, or
a minute and a half, without the aid of notation. When
he first came to Edinburgh, and before I had seen him, a
gentleman waited on me, accompanied by three boys of
nearly equal ages, and said, " One of these is GEoRGE
BIDDER, the celebrated mental calculator, can you tell
which is he by his head ?'' On examining the organ of
Number in all of them, I replied that one of them ought to
be decidedly deficient in arithmetical talent; that another
should possess it in a considerable degree; but that the
third must be BIDDER, because, in him, the organ was de-
veloped to an extraordinary extent. The gentleman then
Digitized by Google
422 NUMBER.
stated that the indications were perfectly correct ; that t~
first was a boy who had been remarked as dull in his arith-
metical studies ; the second was the most expert calculator
selected from a school in Edinburgh ; and the third was
BIDDER. Dr GALL mentions a similar experiment which
was tried with him, and with the same result. He gives a
detailed account of ZHEao CoLBURN, the American youth
who exhibited great talents for calculation, and in whom
also the organ was found large. This young man visited
Edinburgh, and afforded the phrenologists of this city an
opportunity of verifying Dr GALL's observations, which
were found to be correct. Masks of him and BIDDER were
taken, and now form part of the Phrenological Society's
collection. These two examples, however, prove that Dr
SPURZHEIM is right in limiting the functioR of this faculty
to calculation of numbers ; as neither of these young men
have proved so eminent in geometry as in arithmetic and
algebra. The organ is large also in the mask of HuMBOLDT,
celebrated for his powers of calculation. This organ, and
Individuality, both large, give the talent of recollecting
dates.
I am acquainted with other individuals in whom this or-
gan is deficient, and who experience great difficulty in
solving the most ordinary arithmetical questions, who, in.
deed, have never been able to learn the multiplication table,
or to perform readi1y common addition and subtraction,
even after persevering efforts to attain expertness. This
organ is small in the mask marked " French M. D. ;" and
it serves as a contrast, in this respect, to those just men-
tioned, in which it is large.
Dr GALL observes, that when this organ predominates in
an individual, all his faculties receive an impression from
it. He knew a physician in whom it was very large, who
laboured to reduce the study of medicine, and even the vir-
t.ue of particular medicaments, to mathematical principles ;
and one of his friends, thus endowed, endeavoured to found
an universal language on similar grounds.
Digitized by Google
NUMBER. 423
Dr SPURZHEiltt mentions, that" certain races of Negroell
make five the extent of their enumeration, that is, they
count only as far as five by simple terms; they say, " five-
one, five-two, five-three," &c. " Negroes in general," he
continues, " do not excel in arithmetic and numbers; and,
accordingly, their heads are narrow in the seat of the o~
gan of Number." HuMBOLDT also mentions that the Chay-
11188 (a people in the Spanish parts of South America)
" have great difficulty in comprehending any thing that
belongs to numerical relations;" and that " the more intel-
ligent count in Spanish with an air that denotes a great ef-
.fort of mind, so far as SO, or perhaps 50 ;" and he adds,
that " the corner of the eye is sensibly raised up towards
the temple."
Dr GALL mentions, that two of his acquaintances felt
pain in the region of this organ, after being occupied for
several days in succession with difficult calculations. In
the Hospital of Vienna, he saw a patient whose insanity
degenerated into idiocy, but who nevertheless occupied him-
selfsolelywith counting. He stopped, however, regularly al
ninety-nine; could never be induced to say one hundred,
and recommenced counting at one. M. L. A. G.ELis, in
his Treatise on Acute and Chronic Hydrocephalus, men-
tions the case of a boy, who, though stupid in every other
respect, still manifested, in his twelfth year, an astonish-
ing memory for numbers, and a strong feeling of Benevo-
lence ; which qualities, however, he adds, disappeared in
proportion as his malady, hydrocephalus, increased.
It seems difficult to determine whether this faculty ex-
ists in the lower animals or not. GEoRGE LERoY state&
from observation, that magpies count three ; wltile DuPONT
DE NEMOURS asserts that they count nine: Dr GALL does
not decide the question.
The organ is established.
Digitized by Google
424
29. ORDER.
OnDER supposes a plurality of objects; but one may
have ideas about a number of things and their qualities,
without considering them in any order whatever. Every
arrangement of external articles is not equally agreeable to
the mind; and the capacity of being delighted with ord~r,
and distressed by disorder, is not in proportion to the en-
dowment of any other f~ulty. There are individuals who
are martyrs to the love of order, who are distressed beyond
measure by the sight of confusion, and highly satisfied
when every thing is well arranged. These persons have
the organ in question large. The sort of arrangement,
however, imposed by this f~ulty, is different from, although
perhaps one element in, that philosophical method which is
the result of the perception of the relations of things. The
faculty of which we here speak, gives method and or-
der in arranging objects, as they are physically related;
hut philosophical or logical inferences, the conception of
systematising or generalizing, and the idea of classifica-
tions, are formed by the reflecting faculties. Dr SPunz-
HEIM mentions, that the Sauvage de 1'Aveyron at Paris,
though an idiot in a very high degree, cannot bear to see
a chair, or any other object out of its place ; .and as soon as
any thing is deranged, he, without being excited to it, di-
rectly replaces it. He saw also in Edinburgh a girl, who,
in many respects, was idiotic, but in whom the love of or-
der was very active. She avoided her brother's apartment,
in consequence of the confusion which prevailed in it.
Dr GALL mentions, tl1at be has met with facts which
strongly indicate, that " order" depends on a primitive
faculty; but that, on account of the difficulty of observing
the organs placed in the superciliary ridge, and the small
size of this organ in particular, as pointed out by Dr
SI;unzHEII\J, he has not been able to collect a sufficiency
Digitized by Google
EVENTUALITY. 425
of determinate facts to authorise him to decide on ite situa-
tion •.
I have seen several instances in confirmation of this or-
gan. A gentleman of this city, whose mask is sold as an
illustration of "order," has a large development of it; and
his perception of symmetrical arrangement is exceedingly
acute. On each superciliary ridge of this cast, there is an
elevation resembling a small pea, which is frequently mis-
taken for the organ; that, however, appears to be merely
a projeding point of the frontal bone, to which some fibres
of the temporal muscle are attached. The development of
the organ is indicated by a great fulness, producing a square
appearance at the external angles of the lower part of the
forehead. I have seen other cases, in which that part of
the brain was very small, and the Jove of order was ex-
tremely defi'cieot. On the whole, therefore, I am disposed
to admit the organ as ascertained. The organ is large in
the mask marked "French M.D.,'' and in HUMBOLDT,
brother of the traveller.
30. EVE~TUALlTY.
Tuts organ, when large, gives prominence or rounded
fulness to the middle of the forehead.
Moo:aE. SHE:RlD.All.
If. IDdhldaallty modente. ft. lDdiYidaallty 1aqJe. lt. IDdhldaallty larp.
30. EYeutaallty Wp. 30. Evctuallty amall. 30. ETmtuallty Jarae, IDd
:H. Comparlloo rather Jarwe. M. Comparlloo nry Jarse. 34. Comparlloo tuJI.
After Dr GALL had discovered an external sign of the
talent for learning by heart, he was not long in perceiving
that it by no means indicated every species of memory. He
• Sur les Fonctiona du Cerveau, tom. lv. p. 467.
Digitized by Google
426 EVENTUALITY.
observed, that, among his school-fellows, some excelled in
verbal memory, and remembered even words which they
did not understand ; while others were deficient in this
qualification, but recollected with uncommon facility facts
and events; that some were distingui&hed by a great me-
mory of places; some were able to repeat, without mistake,
a piece of music which they had heard only once or twi~,
while others excelled in recollecting numbers and dates ;
but no individual possessed aJJ of these talents combined in
himself. Subsequently to these observations, he learned
that philosophers before him had arrived at similar conclu-
sions, and had distinguished three varieties of memory,-
memory of things, " memoria reali& ;" verbal memory,
" memoria verbalis ;" and memory of places, " memoria lo-
calis." In society, he observed persons who, though not
always profound, were learned, had a superficial knowledge
ofa11 the arts and sciences, and knew enough to be capable
of speaking on them with facility ; and he found in them
the middle of the lower part of the fonbead very much de-
veloped. At first he regarded this as the organ of the
" memory of things ;" but, on farther reflection, be per-
ceived, that the name "memory of things" does not in-
clude the whole sphere of activity of the organ now under
consideration. He observed, that persons who had this
\.part of the brain large, possessed not only a great memory
for Caete; Otlt 'Wl!lre distinguished by prompt coocept.ion in
general, a11d 1111 extreme facility of apprehelltlion ; a strong
desire r... iotwination and instruction ; a disposition to
study all t..adtes of knowledge, and to teach these to
othea; ad 111M, that, if not restrained by the higher fa-
t'ultiea, each penons were oaturalJy prone to adopt the opi-
nions of others, to embrace new doctrines, and to modify
their own minds according to the manners, customs, and
circumstances with which they were surrounded. He
therefore rejected the name, " memory of things," and he
adoptetl the appellations " Sens tks clwses, sens d'educabi-
lue, de perfectibilitc ;" to distinguish this faculty.
o;91t1zed by Google
EVENTUALITY. 427
These observations of Dr GALL apply chiefly to the part
of the brain now designated by Eventuality ; he did not
treat of Individuality as a separate organ ; and in his plates
it is left without mark or number.
The function of this faculty is to take cognisance of mo-
tion or active phenomena, indicated by verbs. In such ex-
pressions as the ROCKfa/l8, the HORSE gallnps, the BATTLE is
..fougllt, the substantive springs from Individuality, and the
verb from Eventuality. It prompts to iuvestigation by ex··
-periment, while Individuality leads to observation. Indi-
viduality gives the tendency to personify abstract ideas,
such as Ignorance or Wisdom; and Eventuality to repre-
sent them as acting. In a work written by an author witl1
whom I was acquainted, and in whom both ofthese organs
were large, Ignorance and Common-sense were represented
as personages who addressed the peopl", excited them to
action, and themeelves performed a variety of parts ; Igno-
rance " stole a march on Common-sense," who by dexterous
expedients extricated himself from the difficulty. An au-
thor in whom Individuality is large and Eventuality smalJ,
will treat his subjects by description chiefly ; and one in
whom Eventuality is large and Individuality small, will
narrate actions, but deal little in physical description.
SHERIDAN possessed both organs large, with those of
Size and Locality amply developed; and the following pas-
sage affords an example of the prominence which the phy-
sical appearances of objects obtain in his composition.
Speaking of a woman and her husband, he says, " Her fat
arms are strangled with bracelets, which belt them like cord-
• ed brawn.-You wish to draw her out as you would an ope-
ra-glass.-A long lean man, with all his arms rambling, no
way to reduce him to compass, unless you could double
him up like a pocket rule.-With his arms spread he'd lie
on the bed of ware, like a cross on a Good Friday bun.-
lf he standa cross-legged, he looks like a caduceus, and
put him in a fencing attitude, you would take him for a
chevau-de-frise,-to make any use of him, it must be as a
Digitized by Google
4i8 EVENTUALITY.
apontoon or a fishing-rod.-When his wife's by, he follows
like a note of admiration.-See them together, one's a mast,
and the other all hulk,--ehe's a dome, and he's built like a
glass-house ;-when they part, you wonder to see the steeple
-separate from the chancel, and were they to embrace, he
must hang round her neck like a skein of thread on a lace-
maker's bolster; to sing her praise, you should choose a
rondeau, and to celebrate him you must write all alexan-
drines."
In the bu11ts and portraits of PoPE, Individuality is great-
ly inferior in dimensions to Eventuality; and this author
rarely excels in describing physical appearances, while he
surpasses in representing action. The following lines from
the Rape of the Lock are intended to describe a beautiful
lady; but it will be observed that they represent action,
condition, and quality, almost to the exclusion of substan-
tive existence, with its attributes of form, colour, size, and
proportion •.
"Not with more glories in the etherial plain,
The sun first rises o'er the purpled main,
Than, issuing forth, the rival of his beams
Launched on the bol'Om ofthe silver Thames.
Fair nymphs and >Yell.dressed youths around her shone;
But every eye was fixed on her alone.
On her white breut a sparkling cross she wore,
Which Jews might kiss, and infidels adore.
Her lively looks a sprightly mind discloee,
Quick aa her eyes and as unfixed aa those:
J:o'avoura to none, to all abe smilet extends :
Oft she rejects, but never once offend&
Bright as the 10un her eyes the gu;era strike ;
And, like that aun, they shine on all alike.
Yet graceful t!ale, and sweetness void of pride,
Might hide her faults, if belles bad faults to hide:
Ifto her share aome female errore fall,
Look on her face, and you'll forget them alL"
Raps qftAl Loclt.
• Some acute and interesting obeervatlona by Mr HEWETT W.t.Taow,
on the relation between the writings of these and other authors, and their
cerebral organs, will be found in Nos. 24 and IIi of the Phrenological
Journal.
Digitized by Google
EVENTUALITY. 429
This organ is largely developed in children, and gives
them an appetite for knowledge, in the form of stories and
narratives. In practical life, it chiefly gives the talent of
observing, recollecting, and describing action ; in other
words, of observing the occurrences of which history is
composed, and of telling the story of what we know.
When deficient, great difficulty is experienced in observ-
ing, recollecting, and describing active phenomena. Such
a person may have his head filled with general impressions
of conversations, without any precise ideas of the topics
discll88ed; so that when be shall attempt to report what
be bas heard, he will discover that he cannot do so, from
knowing no part of it distinctly.
When the organ is large, the individual will remember
the precise statements of an author, whose works he has
read ; when small, he will recollect only the general im-
port.
If Eventuality be large, and Concentrativeness deficient,
the qualities of observation and narration may be possessed,
but the narrative will resemble a description of figures in
a carnival ; it will be full of life, action, and incident, but
deficient in onward continuity; with Concentrativeness
large, the story would more nearly resemble a regular
drama.
If Individuality be large, physical substances may be re-
membered vividly by it, their relations by Locality, and
their causes and efFects by Causality; but if E,·entuality
be deficient, extreme difficulty will be experienced in bring-
ing together these items ofinformation, and presenting tl1em
in the form of a natural narrative.
A person in whom this combination exists, and in whom
Concentrativeness is large, will feel strongly the desire of
communicating the quality of .continuity to his narrative,
and on important occasions he will produce it by labori-
ously writing down all the elementary ideas of his sub-
jl'ct, by transposJng them, by filling up, and striking out
3
Digitized by Google
430 EVE~TUALITY.
parts, until the whole shall cohere with neatneBS and con-
sistency. Such a combination will fit its possessor for stu-
dying physical more successfuJly than moral science; be-
cause action is the primary element of the latter.
If Conceutrativeness and Eventuality be both deficient,
the literary or philosophical productions of the individual
will be marked by omissions of important intermediate
ideas ; in oral discourse" he will combine description with
inference, without taking sufficient notice of modes of
action; he will often wander from his subject; and, in
short, he will display great knowledge of objects which
exist, together with profound reflection on their rela-
tions, and yet be unsuccessful in conveying to the minds
of his readers or auditors philosophical convictions, similar
to those which exist in his o\m mind; and this will be ow-
ing chiefly to deficiency in the power of representing by
Eventuality modes of action, and of giving, by Coocentra-
tiveness, continuity to the thread of his discourses.
Individnality, Eventuality, and Concentrativeness, are
indispensable qualities to a successful teacher. I have ne-
ver seen a person capable of interesting children and
exciting their intellects, who was deficient in both the first
and second. His manner of communicating knowledge is
then vague, abstract and dry, altogether unsuited to their
mental condition. These three organs large, combined
with large Philoprogenitiveness, Benevolence, and Consci-
entiousness, and an active temperament, constitute the
leading elements of a good teacher.
When both Individuality and Eventuality are large, the
individual possesses two important qnalities for general
business. They confer that readiness of observation and
talent for detail, which are essential to the management of
affairs. The lawyer so endowed is enabled readily to appre-
hend the details of his cases, easily to recollect the princi-
ples of law, the dicta of legal authors, and the decisions of
courts, as matters of fact ; and to reproduce the whole in a
connected narrative before a judge or jury. His power
Digitized by Google
EVENTUALITY. 4Sl
of applying principles to new cases, depends on the re-
flecting faculties; but although these be powerful, yet,
if Indhiduality and Eventuality be deficient, he may
feel great difficulty in preparation, and in the reproduc-
tion of his ideas. In point of fact, the most eminent
practical lawyers, particularly in England, are distinguish.
ed by a great development of these organs ; which are
equally necessary to the public speaker, to give him a com-
mand over the materiel or details of his subject, and to
enable him to set it forth clearly and naturally to his audi-
ence. I have observed them large also in practical physi-
cians; for, in the profession of medicine, prompt and accu-
rate observation is one important element in excellence.
Both organs are large in authors who acutely observe
objects that exist, and also life, manners, and occur-
rences, such as LESAGE, DE FoE, and the Author of Wa-
verley. They are essential to the composition of such
works as Robinson Crusoe and Gulliver's Traveh!, in
which a strong impression of reality is produced by a mi-
nute description of particular objects and actions. In a
mask preserved in Dublin, and said to be that of SwiFT,
the organs appear very large.
When both organs are small, the individual will retain
only general ideas, and will experience great difficulty in
becoming learned ; he may see, hear or read many facts,
but they will make only a faint impression, and soon
escape from mind ; he will feel great difficulty in com-
mandinr, without previous preparation, even the knowledge
which he possesses.
These faculties desire only to know existence and facts,
and do not reason or trace relations. Hence a person in
whom they are strong, and in whom the reasoning powers are
deficient, gains his knowledge by questioning and observa-
tion. If we tell him two facts, which clearly imply a third,
he will not naturally endeavour to find it out by his own
suggestion, but will instantly put another question. Hence,
I
Digitized by Google
EVENTUALITY.
also, the tendency of these faculties is to recollect fact.R,
according as they occur, and not according to any phi)OS&-
phical relations between them. Mrs Quickly's speech to
Falstaff is a beautiful illustration of this kind of under-
standing. She is reminding him of his promise of mar-
riage, and says, " Thou didst swear to me on a parcel-gilt
goblet, 8itting in my ddpkin-chamher, at the round-table, by
a sea-coal fire, on Wednesday in Whitsun-week, when the
Prince broke thy head for likening his father to a singing
man of Windsor ; thou didst swear to me then, as I was
washing thy wound, to marry me, and make me my lady
thy wife. Canst thou deny it? Did not goodwife Keech,
the butcher'a wife, come in then, and call me Gossip Quickly 'I
coming in to borrow a mesa qfvinegar ; telling us, she had a
good dish qfprawn&; whereby thou didst desire to eat BOme;
whereby I told thee, they were ill for a green wound; and
didst not thou, when she u•as gone down stairs, desire me to
be no more sofamilUzrily with such poor people, saying, tl1at
ere-long, they should caJl me Madam ? And didst thou not
lt.isa me, and bid me fetch thee thirty sltil/ings ? I put thee
now to thy book-oath ; deny it if thou canst •." Here is a
surprising variety of trivial circumstances, connected by
no link but that of the order of their occurrence. Yet
every one must perceive, that they have an efFect in pro-
ducing the impression of reality on the mind. We feel it
impossible to doubt the promise, which is substantiated by
so particular a detail of facts, every one of which, indeed,
becomes, as it were, a witness to its truth.
Dr SPURZHEIM, in treating of Eventuality, says, " This
faculty recognises the activity of every other, whether ex-
ternal or internal, and acts in its turn upon all of them.
It desires to know every thing by experience, and conse-
quently excites all the other organs to activity ; it would
hear, see, smeJI, taste, and touch ; is fond of general in-
struction, and inclines to the pursuit of practical know-
• Second Part !>fKing Henry IV. Act iL !cene 2.
Digitized by Google
EVENTUALITY. 488
ledge. It is essential to editors, secretaries, historians and
teachers. By knowing the functions of the other powers,
this faculty eontributea eaentially to the unity of Consci-
ousnea. It seems to perceive the impresaions, which are
the immediate functions of the external senses, and to
change these into notions or ideas. Moreover, it appears
to be esaential to attention in general, and to the recogni-
tion of the entity mgse{fin philosophy. Its sphere of acti-
vity is very great, and every philosophic system has taken
account of some of its operations •."
Dr GALL regarded the part of tl1e brain here named Even-
tuality, as the organ of" the .sense'' ofthings in man, and of
edncability or perfectibility, in the lower animals. While
he admits that every faculty is susceptible of improvement
by education, he forms a scale of the heads of animals,
from the crocodile and frog up to man, with the '\iew of
proving, that the more this part of the brain is developed
in each species, the higher are its natural susceptibilities of
being tamed and taught. CAMPER and LAVATER, he adds,
had made similar observations; but they did not distin-
guish special faculties and organs. Dr SPURZHEIM ac-
knowledges the correctnea of the facts stated by Dr GALL,
that tame animals have fuller foreheads than wild ones,
and that animals arc generally tameable, in proportion to
the development of their foreheads; but conceives, that Dr
GALL attributes to a single faculty, manifestations wl1ich
depend on intellect generally. Eventuality does not fill the
whole forehead ; and the other organs, situated there, also
contribute to the effects observed by Dr GALL. The ob..
servation of the latter, therefore, is deficient in precision,
rather than in tl·uth. Dr GALL regarded the organ of Be-
nevolence, in the lower animals, as the source of gentle-
nesa of disposition, and described it as situated in them in
the middle of the upper part of the forehead. The organ
• Phrenology, p. 283.
Ee
Digitized by Google
TIME.
of Educability, which is distinct, he says, is situated ill tlut
middle of the lower part of the forehead.
The older metaphysicians do not treat of any faculty
distinctly analogous to Eventuality ; but Dr THoMAS
BnowN •, whose acuteness I have so often praised, admits
a power of the mind onder the name of " Simple Sugges-
tion," which corresponds very closely with it ; and he re-
duces Conception and Memory of the metaphysicians to
this principle of Simple Suggestion.-The organ is esta-
blished.
!U. TIME.
~5.--~THE power of conceiving Time, and of remembering cir-
cumstances connected by no link, but the relation in which
they stand to each other in chronology, and also the power
of observing time in performing music, is very difFerent in
different individuals. Many observations have been made
on this organ; and it is now ascertained. The special faculty
.-ecms to be the power of judging of time, and of intervals
in genera.l. By giving the perception of measured cadence,
it appears to be one source of pleasure in dancing. It is
t·sRt·~tial to music and versification.
Mr SIMPaoN, in an excellent essay on this faculty, pub-
lished in the Phrenological Journalf, states, that" We have
found the organ largely developed in those who shew an
intuitive knowledge of the lapse of minutes and hours, so
ar; to name the time of the day, without having recourse to
the clock ; and also in those who perceive those minuter
divisions, and their harmonious relations, which constitute
rhythm, and who, when they apply the tact to music, are
caJled good timists,-a distinct power from that of the
mere melodist, and often wanting in him ; while it is mat-
ter of the commonest obser\'ation, on the other hand, that
,
• Lectures, vol. ii. p. 192. t Vol. ii. p. 134.
Digitized by Google
TIME. 485
this sensibility to rhythm, called Time, is marked in those
who have a very moderate perception of melody. Such
persons are invariably accurate dancers, observing delicately
the time, though indifferent to the melody of the violin.
We have made many observations, both in persons who
haTe both Time and Tune large, and in those who have
only one of them in large endowment, and we have never
found the manifestations fail. Vcry lately we were struck
with the uncommon prominence of the organ of Time in a
whole family of young people, and inquired whether or not
they danced with accuracy, and loved dancing? We were
answered, that they did both in a remarkable degree ; and,
as we lived near them for some weeks, we observed that
dancing was a constant and favourite pastime of theirs,
even out of doors. Their dancing-master informed us, that
the accuracy of their time exceeded that of any pupils he
had ever taught. There was thus evident in these young
persons an intense pleasure in accurate rhythmical move-
ments."
The fact that many Deaf and Dumb persons dance with
precision, and much pleasure, is thus accounted for by
Mr SIMPSON. " That Time," says he, " may be marked
with the utmost precision to the eye, is a fact familiar to
every one who has seen a regiment of soldiers go through
the manual and platoon exercise, without a single word of
command, by obeying the movements of the fugle-man,
who gives the time to the eye ; and who that l1as seen this
done by a practised corps, is ignorant that there is great
pleasure in witnessing the exquisitely timed movements of
the exercise? Now, suppose a dancer, unaided by music,
were to keep his eye on any person or object which was
marking dancing-time to his sight, it cannot be doubted
that he could dance to it. A deaf person could perform the
manual exerciHe from the time given by the fugle-man ;
and just as easily could a deaf person dance with his eye
upon the vioJin-bow, or the player's arm, or on the move-
ment of the drumsticks.
Ee2
Digitized by Google
486 TUNE.
" It is unnecessary to go farther, and shew that the senso
of touch may be the channel through which the organ of
Time is excited, as well as the sense of hearing and sight.
No one will dispute that a soldier could perform the manual
exercise to a succession of taps on the shoulder ; and to
time, in the same way given, might a person dance.
" Wbat we have said is confirmed by fact. It is well
known that the deaf and dumb do dance, taking the time
by the eye, either from the violin-player's arm, or at second
hand, but instantaneously from the other dancers. We are
acquainted with a young lady and gentleman in England,
both of rank, who are deaf and dumb, and who, in addition
to many other accomplishments, dance with the greatest
grace and precision."-See also Phren. Journal, vo1. iv.
p. 509.
The origin of the notion of Time has greatly puzzled tho
metaphysicians. Lord KAMES says, that we measure it by
the number of ideas which pass in the mind ; but experience
contradicts this supposition, for time never appears so short
as when ideas are moat numerous, and pass most rapidly
through the mind. The idea, that it depends on a separate
faculty and organ, on the other hand, is in harmony with
this fact; for, as the organ of Time may remain inactive,
while the others are vividly excited, it follows, that our
perceptions of duration will, on such occasions, be indis-
tinct, and time will, in consequence, appear brief.
32. TUNE.
. ~
\ \ ,'·,···-
' '
DR GALL mentions, that a girl named BIANCHI, of about
.five years of age, was presented to him, and he was asked
for what talent she was most distinguished. He discovered
in her no indication of an extraordinary memory ; and the
idea had not then occurred to him, that the talent for music
could be recognised by the conformation of the head. In-
deed, he had not at that time ascertained the different kinds
of memory; but his friends ncvc1·theless maintained, that
Digitized by Google
1'UNE. 487
the young BIANCHI had an extraordinary memory for mu-
sic, and, as he had not discovered that talent in her, they
inferred that the doctrine which he taught of external signs
for different kinds of memory was unfounded. This child
repeatedwhatever she heard sung or played on the piano,and
recollected whole concerts if she had heard them only twice.
Dr GALL asked if she learned every thing by heart with
equal facility, but be was told that she possessed this as-
tonishing memory in music alone. He concluded that a
well marked difference exists between memory for music,
and the other kinds of memory with which he was then ac-
quainted, and that every kind has its distinct organ. He
prosecuted his observations with fresh ardour, and at last
discovered that the talent for music is connected with the
organ now under discussion. He calls it, " Le sens des
rapporl8 des /Qn&;" "expression," says Dr GALL, " qui
rattache Ia mauiere dont l'intellect du musicien met en
reuvre les rapports des tons a Ia maniere d'agir des sens
en general.''
The organ of Tune bears the same relation to the ears,
which the organ of Colour does to the eyes. The ear receives
the impressions of sounds, and is agreeably or disagree-
ably affected by them; btt~ the ear has no recollection of
tones, nor does it judge of their relations; it does not per-
ceive the harmonies of sound ; and sounds, as well as co-
lonrs, may be separately pleasing, though disagreeable in
combination. A friend, in a letter written from India,
formerly quoted, says, "Melody is the pleasure arising from
successions of simple sounds suited to each other. Harmony
is that arising from wmbined sounds, or from several striking
the ear simultaneously, as in a band playing different parts.
The former requires much less of the organ than the latter;
and hence the Scotch with no great Tune are melodists,
but nothing as musicians."
A great development of the organ enlarges the lateral
parts of the forehead ; but its form varies according to the
direction and form of the convolutions. Dr Srr;nzBEIM
Digitized by Google
488 TUNE.
observes, that, in GLucK, and others, this organ had a py-
ramidal form; in MozART, VJOTTI, ZuMSTEG, DusSEK,
CRESCENTINI, and others, the external comers of the fore-
head are enlarged, but rounded. Great practice is neces-
sary to be able to observe this organ successfully ; and be-
. ginners should place together one person possessing a ge-
nius for music, and another who can scarcely distinguish
between any two notes, and mark the difFerence of their
Leads. The superior development of the former will be
perceptible at a glance. The faculty gives the perception
of melody; but this is only one ingredient in a genius for
music. Time is requisite to a just perception of intervals,
Ideality to give elevation and refinement, Secretiveness and
Imitation to produce expression ; and Constructiveness,
Form, Weight, and Individuality, are requisite besides, to
supply mechanical expertness, necessary to successful per-
formance. The largest organ of Tune will not enable its
posse880r to play successfully on the harp, if Weight be de-
ficient; the capacity of communicating to the string the
precise vibratory impulse requisite to produce each parti-
cular note wi11 then be wanting.
Dr GALL mentions that he had examined the heads of the
most celebrated musical performers and singers, such as
RosiNI, CATALANI, &c. and found the organ uniformly
large, and that the portraits and busts of HAYDEN, GLiic&,
MozART, &c. shew it also largely developed. I have e~
amined the heads of Madame CATALANI, and many emi-
nent private musicians, and found the organ confirmed in
every instance. Dr GALL remarks farther, that a great
development is not to be expected in every ordinary player
on a musical instrument. With a moderate endowment,
the fingers may be trained to expertness ; but when the
!Wul feels the inspiration of harmonious sounds, and the
countenance expresses that voluptuous rapture which thrills
through the frame of the real musician, a Jarge organ will
never be wanting.
"n me parait," continues Dr GALL, "que les hommes
Digitized by Google
TUNE. 489
qui soot capable& de deduire les lois de 1a. composition des
lois des vibrations sooores, et des rapports des tons, et
d'etablir ainai les principea les plus generaux de Ia musique,
doivent etre doues en meme temps d'un ()'I'Qan£ des nombres
tres develloppe; car I'exercise de ce degre du talent musi-
cal e:xige, 88.118 contredit, beaucoup de calcul; au&8i Ia cir-
convolution inferieure de l'organe musical, Ia plus large de
toutes, se continue.immediatement dans l'organe des nom-
bres. ceci explique pourquoi on pent etre excellent inusi-
cien, et n'avoir pas le talent de Ia composition ; etre grand
compositeur 88.118 etre en meme temps grand musicien •."
The heads of Italians and Germans in general are broad-
er and fuller at the situation of this organ than those of
Negroes, Otabeitians, Spaniards, Frenchmen and English-
men, in general; and musical talent is more common in the
former than the latter.
Mr Scon has published in the Phrenological Journal t,
two admirable Essays "on Music, and the different faculties
which concur in producing it," which will be found highly
deserving of attention. He conceives Tune to be the pri-
mitive faculty which distinguishes, " lst, That agreement
of component vibrations in simple sounds, which consti-
tutes them musical; 2d, That relation in separate sounds
emitted together, which constitutes harmony; and, 3d, That
relation in successive notes, which constitutes melody."
He then considers the .au:eiliary faculties requisite to the
practical musician (namely those before enumerated), and
points out the effect of each in conducing to musical ge-
nius. " Imitation," aays he, " is necessary, particularly to
the vocal performer, to enable him to imitate the sounds he
bears, and to give, by his own vocal organs, a correct copy
of the music which he wishes to execute. Accordingly, it
is matter of observation, that all singers who sing naturally
and easily, poaaess a considerable organ of Imitation." He
then enters, at considerable length, into the subject of mu-
• Sur lcs Fonctions du Cerveau, tome v. p. 120.
t Vol. ii. PP· l TO. and 556.
Digitized by Google
TUNE.
a calm and composed, but not a touching expression.
When Benevolence, and the kindly and eocial affections
are large, and when Tune, Imitation, and Ideality, are at
the same time large, the voice has a degree of bewitching
softness, as may be observed in the case of Miss STEPHENS
or Miss TREE. But there occur in private life many in-
stances to the same effect. When Benevolence and the
higher sentiments are both united in full proportion, the
voice is felt to be peculiarly delightful and harmonious.
In men there is generally too much of the lower propensi-
ties to admit of this in its highest degree; indeed, these
seem so essential to a manly character, that in them it
would not be desirable. But .we have met with women
whose every tone is music, and whose voices, even in ordi-
nary discourse, have about them a delightfulness which is
quite irresistible, and which makes its way directly to the
heart. This softness and sweetness of voice, is remarked
as a great point of female excellence by King Lear, where
the old distressed monarch is enumerating the excellencies
of his favourite Cordelia,-
" - Her voice was ever soft,
"Gentle and low,-n exc:eUen~ thing in woman •."
These observations of Mr ScoTT are very interesting,
and numerous cases have been observed in accordance with
them; but they are not absolutely correct, because I have
met with decided exceptions. One gentleman, in particu-
lar, has : moderately sized bead, small cerebellum, and
the other propensities below an average, whose voice is ne-
vertheless a deep rich bass. It is certain that the develop-
ment of brain has some, and even an important influence
on the quality of the voice: but so have the lungs and Ia- •
rynx ; and it is still unascertained how much of the actual
effect is attributable to each.
When an average develotlment of Tune is combined
witlt high intellectual organs, the superior objects with.
• Phrenological Journal, Yo!. ii. p. 562.
Digitized by Google
TUNE•.
which these are conversant, generally attract the mind, and
music is little cultivated.. When, on the.other hand, these
are small, and Ideality, Hope, Benevolence, Veneration,
and Wonder, which Tune is particularly calculated to gra-
tify, are large, the tendency to practise music is much
stronger. Hence, with the same absolute development of
this organ, very different practical results may ensue; but
this is in exact accordance with the principles of the
science; for it is the predominance of particular organs in
an individual that decides the bias of his mind ; the organs,
largest in size, always tending most powerfully to seek
gratification.
Tune is occasionally found strong in idiots, and, in some
insane patients, its activity remains unimpaired amidst an
extensive derangement of the other faculties. I have seen
two idiots who manifested it in a considerable degree.
The following case is reported by Dr ANDREW CoMBE,
which occurred in his own practice :
" A young lady of high musical and intellectual powers,
and of a very active mind, and who has for some months
past been subject to frequent attacks of hysteria in all its
ever-changing forms, and who sufFers almost constantly in
a greater or less degree from headach, complained on Sa-
turday, 22d Aprill826, of feeling acute pain at the exter-
nal angle of the forehead, precisely in the situation of the
organs of Tune, which are largely developed, and upon
which, in describing the seat of the pain, she placed most
accurately the points of the fingers. Next day the same com-
plaintof pain in that region was made ; and about two hours
after I saw her, she was suddenly seized with a spasmodic
or rather convulsive afFection of the larynx, glottis, and ad-
joining parts, in consequence of which a quick, short, and
110mewhat musical sound was regularly emitted, and con-
tinued with great rapidity as if the breathing had been
very hurried. On examination externally, the os hyoides
at the root of the tongue and the thyroid cartilages were
~en in constant motion, and in the act of alternately ap-
Digitized by Google
444 TUNE.
proximating and receding from each other. The will was
so far powerful in controlling this motion, that tho young
lady was able to utter a few short sentences at a time with-
out much difficulty, interrupted, however, by two or three
movements. After this singular state had continued for
ubout two hours, she herself remarked, that it waa becom-
ingrather too musical, and wished that it would cease,which
it did at the end of another half-hour, from accidental pres-
sure with the finger in pointing out the motion to another
person ; she was then as well as usual, only somewhat fa-
tigued.
"On Monday, 24th April, she still complained of pain
in the situation of the organ of Tune ; and stated, that she
had been dreaming a great deal of hearing thefinest music;
that she felt quite excited by it, and could not even now
get the impression out of her head. The day passed on,
however, and nothing remarkable occurred.
" On Tuesday I found that I had been rather anxiously
expected. During the night the young lady had been tor·
mented with the recurrence of the musical dreams, during
which she heard and performed the most beautiful airs,
with a distinctness which surpassed those of the preceding
night. These dreams continued for some hours, and left
such an impression, that on awaking she thought she could
almost note down one piece of composition which had par-
ticularly pleased her. But what is very remarkable, the
excessive excitement of the faculty of Tune had now
reached a height that could not be controlled ; the patient
felt, not to say a desire only, but a strong and irresistible
passion or craving for music, which it was painful beyond
endurance to repress. She insisted on getting up, and be-
ing allowed to play and sing ; but that being for many rea-
sons unadvisable, she then begged to have a friend sent for
to play to her, as the only means of relief from a very
painful state; but shortly after the craving of the faculty
became so intolerable, that she got hold of a guitar, lay
down upon a sofa, and fairly gave way to the torrent, and,
oigi!lzed by Coogle
TUN.E. 445
with a volume, clearneB&, and strength of voice, and a fa-
cility of execution, which would have astonished any one
who had seen her two days before, she sung in accompani-
ment till her musical faculty became spent and exhausted.
During this time the pain at the angles of the forehead was
still felt, and was attended with a sense of fulness and un-
easiness all over the coronal and anterior parts of the fore-
head. Regarding all these phenomena as arising from
over-excitement chiefly of the organs of Tune, I directed
the continued local application of cold, and such other
measures as tended to allay the increased action, and soon
after the young lady regained her ordinary state, and has
not since had any return of these extraordinary symp-.
toms.
" In this case, the order in which the phenomena occur-
red, put leading queries on my part, or exaggeration or de-
ception on the part of the patient, alike out of the question.
The pain in tl1e organ was distinctly and repeatedly com-
plained of for many hours (at least 36) BEFORE the first
night of dreaming, and for no Jess than three days before
the,irresistible waking inspiration was felt. When my at-
tention was first drawn to the existence of the pain, I ima-
gined it to arise from an affection of the membranes cover··
ing that part of the brain, and had no conception tl1at it
was to terminate in any such musical exhibition as after-
wards took place ; and, in fact, although the young lady
had mentioned her previous melodious dreams, my surprise
was quite equal to, although, thanks to Phrenology, my
alarm was not so great as, that of her relations, when, on
entering the house on the morning of Tuesday, the 25th,
I heard the sound of the guitar mingling with the full and
harmonious swell of her own voice, such as it might shew
itself when in the enjoyment of the highest health and vi-
gour."
Dr SPURZHEIM mentions, that the heads and sku1Js of
birds which sing, and of those which do not sing, and the
heads of the different individuals of the same kind, which
Digitized by Google
446 LANGUAGE.
have a greater or less disposition to sing, present a conspi-
cuous difFerence at the place of this organ. The heads of
males, for instance, and those of females of the same kind
of singing birds, are easily distinguished by their difFerent
development. The organ is large in HAYDN, MAcviCAR;
small in SLOANE, and remarkably deficient in ANN ORME-
ROD. This girl was admitted, at twelve years of age, into
the asylum for the blind at Liverpool, and during. two
years, means were unsparingly employed to cUltivate and
improve any musical talent which she might possess, but
" with such decided want of success, that her teachers, Mr
HANDFORD and Mr PLATT, men of unceasing perseverance,
and constantly accustomed to the most stubborn perverse-
ness, were at last under the necessity of abandoning the
attempt altogether."-Phren. Joum. vol. ii. p. 642. The
figure represents her head, the organ of Tune being thrown
into the outline on her left side, and the head of HANDEL,·
the organ being brought into line on his right side.-Eata-
blished.
HANDEL. ANN OaxEaon.
Tunc very small.
33. LANGUAGE.
THE history of the discovery of this organ l1as already
been given in the introduction, page 48.
A large development of this organ is indicated by the
prominence and depression of the eyes, tl1is appearance
being produced by convolutions of tho brain, situated in
tl1e posterior and transverse part of the upper orbitary
plate, pressing the latter, and with it the eyes, more or less-
forward, downward or outward, according to the size of
4
Digitized by Google
LANGUAGE. 447
the convolutions. If the fibres be long, they push the eye
as far forward as the eyebrows ; if they are only thil'k,
\hey push them toward the outer angle of the orbit, and
downwards •. When the knowing organs are very large,
and the eyebrows project, the eyet may appear less promi··
nent than they really are. The projection of the eyes over
the cheek-bone, and their depression downwards, are the
proper signs of the organs being large.
The fun~tions of this organ will be understood by a short
elucidation. The difFerent faculties being active, produce
desires, emotions, and intellectual conceptions. The mind
wishing to communicate a knowledge of these to other in-
dividuals, can accomplish this end only by making sigm
exprearive of their existence. These signs may consist of
the peculiar gestures, looks, and cries, that naturally ac-
company the activity of the several faculties, and which
being part of our constitution, are universally understood,
and constitute what is termed natural Language; for ex-
ample, nature has formed an 8880Ciation betwixt the exter-
nal appearance of misery, and the faculty of Benevolence,
80 that, on the presentation of the appearance, the faculty
starts into activity, and generates the emotion of pity:
She bas 8880Ciated the faculty of Wit with external objects,
80 that, on the presentment of certain circumstances, laugh-
ter is instantaneously e;Kcited. These signs require only to
be presented, and they are understood in all countries, and
by all nations.
B~t mankind possess the power of inventing and esta-
blishing arbitrary signs to express their feelings and con-
ceptions. For example, the words Love, Compassion, and
Justice, are mere conventional signs, by which we in Bri-
tain agree to express thr~e internal feelings or sentiments of
the mind ; and there is no natural connexion betwixt the
signs and the things signified. The metapl•ysicians might
attribute this power to .As&ociation ; but we observe it to
• The organ of Form produces (lnly di6tancs between the eyes; without
rendering-them prominent, or pushing them downward,
Digitized by Google
448 LANGUAGE.
belong to the faculty of Language. Persona possessing
this faculty strongly, have a great natural power of invent-
ing arbitrary signs, and of learning the use of them, when
invented by others. But this faculty gives the capacity of
learning the signa al<J'M, and the meaning of them is &c•
quired by other faculties: If a horse, for instance, is pre-
sented to the mind, the faculty of Language gives the de-
sire to find a name or sign, by which to indicate the con-
ception of it, and also the power of associating !be appear-
ance of the object, with the sound or name when invent-
ed. But the meaning or signification which the word will
embrace, will depend on the perfection of other faculties.
For example, the faculty of Form will judge of the form of
the horse; Size, of its dimensions; Colouring, of its colour.
Now, a blind man, by aid of the faculty of Language, may
learn to connect his own notions of a horse with the sound
of the name ; but it is obvious that his conceptions must
be very different from those attached to it by a person who
sees; for the blind mao could not judge of its colour at
all, and not very correctly of its form and size. In the
same way, any one having the faculty of Language, may
learn the occasions and manner in which the word justice
is generally used; but how imperfect must be the meaning
attached to it, in the mind of a person like DAviD HAG-
GART, who was extremely deficient in the organ of Con-
scientiousness, compared with the notion attending it in
the mind of a person in whom that organ is extremely
large?
Every metaphysical author complains of the ambiguity of
words, and shews how the vagueness of their signification
retards the progress of moral and intellectual science ; and
the exposition now given shews whence this vagueness
arises. Before individuals can attach precisely the same
conceptions to words expressing feelings and judgments of
the understanding, they require to possess a similar combi-
nation of faculties, so as to be capable of feeling and judg-
ing a1ike; and as no two individuals do possess exactly si-
Digitized by Google
LANGUAGE. 449
milar combination of faculties, so as to be capable of feel-
ing and judging alike; and as no two individwtls do pos-
sess exactly similar combinations, there will be shades or
difference in the meaning attached by different persons to
such terms, in spite of every effort to define them. In con-
sequence of this difference iu faculties, the very definition
itself is differently apprehended. In mathematics and al-
gebra, the things indicated by the signs are not feelings,
which vary in every individual, but proportions and rela-
tions of space and quantity, which have a fixed and ab-
stract existence, and which, if apprehended at all, can be
conceived only in one way. Hence the precision of the
Language of these sciences compared with that of meta-
physics or moral philosoplay.
If these principles be correct, they demonstrate the im-
possibility of framing a philosophical langwage, applicable,
with perfect precision, to moral disquisitions. To appre-
hend the very definitions of the words, we must be able to
experience the sentiments which they are intended to indi·
cate; and many persons are capable of doing so only in a
very imperfect degree. In attending to the style of an au-
thor, he will be found to use those words with most precision
and felicity, which express mental feelings or operations
naturally vigorous in himself. Mr STEWART, for example,
writes with great beauty and correctness in narrative, and
on every topic connected with moral sentiment; but his style
becomes loose and inaccurate when he enters upon original
abstract discussion, requiring the activity of the higher in-
tellectual powers. I infer from this, that, in him, the
knowing and sentimental organs were more amply developed
than those of reflection. 1\fooRE uses epithets and illustra-
tions, expressive of attachment, with great frequency and
inimitable beauty; and we may conclude, that, in him,
Adhesiveness, which gives such feelings, is very strong.
JoHN BELLINGHAJ\1, on the other hand, in his voluminous
memorials, petitions and letters, was continualJy writing
about justice and .injustice, about cruelty and oppres·
F f
Digitized by Google
I.ANGUAGE.
sion, exercised towards him ; but the acts which he speci-
fies are discovered by every well constituted mind, not at
all to possess the character which he ascribes to them, and
his writings on these points are replete with the grossest
abuses of words. This, I apprehend to arise from the
great deficiency of Conscientiousness which is discerni-
ble in his head. In professional practice, also, every law-
yer meets with individuals who pretend to be ardently de-
siring justice, and who speak incessantly about it, but who
evidently do not perceive at all what it is; the selfish faculties
in their case so far predominating over Conscientiousness,
that they never have correct notions of the nature of jus-
tice. The same thing happens in regard to religion. Many
talk about it, and against it, without in the least comprehend-
ing the object of their vituperation. In like manner every
one will acknowledge in words that charity is a duty ; but,
on inquiring at different persons what constitutes charity,
we shall find their notions of the meaning of the word, and
of the duty also, to vary exceedingly, according to their de-
velopment of Benevolence, in proportion to Aequisitinness
and Self-Esteem•.
The power of associating, by means ofthe faculty of Lao-
• Theee principles enable us to explain, in a simple manner, the source
and nature of eloquence. It ia a trite observation, that every passion is
eloquent, that is to say, any propensity or sentiment being vividly active,
excites the faculty of Language to give it utterance ; and as the mental
emotion is strongly felt, the words partake of the force, and are diatin.
guished by the precision, which characterise the feeling. Popular eloquence
draws largely from the propensities and sentiments, and hence in many
distinguished orat.:~rs we do not discover so large a development of the in.
~ellectual organs, as those would expect who imagine that oratory ia alto.
gether an intellectual product; but in them an ample endowment of the
organs of the propensities and ~entiments will be di!covered. The Phre-
nological Society posseaaes masks of Bun.E and CuaaAN· The former
is by much the moat distinguished for intellect in his printed remains, and
his forehead ia the best developed; but the impression made by CunBAN
or. a popular assembly was perh9ps the greater of the two. On analyzing
CuauN's orations, however, no higher degree of reflecting power wlll be
dbcovered in them than is indicated by his mask.
Digitized by Google
LANGUAGE. 451
guage, conceptions of external signs, is limited, however,
in one respect. Any itulflferent object may be selected and
used 88 the arbitrary sign of a propensity, feeling or con-
ception; but if the object stands already in a natural rela-
tion to any faculty, it cannot, except with great difficulty,
be made the arbitrary sign of an opposite emotion. For
example, we might, by a mutual understanding, constitute
a square fignre the artificial sign of the emotion termed
rage. After the agreement was understood, that figure
would suggest the notion of rage, just as well 88 the let-
ters now composing that word, which are mere marks,
placed in a certain order: But, if we were whimsical
enough to make the outline of a sweet and smiling coun-
tenance, which likewise is merely a species of form, the
sign of this emotion, we could not, except with great ditli-
culty, learn to associate the idea of rage with that figure,
for it is already the natural sign of emotions, entirely op-
posite ; it would excite Benevolence directly, more forcibly
than Destructiveness indirectly, through the medium of
Language ; it would call up ideas of joyfulness and inno-
cence, rather than of anger and cruelty. In the same way,
we might 8880Ciate feelings of veneration, pity, affection or
grief, with soft and •low notes of music, because these
notes, which produce emotions of a specific kind them-
selves, may become arbitrary signs of any other emotions
of a /wmogeneou8 kind. But it 'would be difficult to form
an aaaociation, by which soft, slow and delicate tones,
would become the artificial signs of violent rage, jeal-
ousy and fury ; because the natural character of such
sounds is directly opposite to the character of such feel-
ings.
Philosophers have written voluminous disquisitions on
the influence of words on thought; but if the view, now
presented, be correct, feelings and conceptions must, in
every instance, precede words ; and the invention of a term,
for which no idea exists, instead of being a great step to-
F f2
Digitized by Google
LANGUAGE.
wards the advancement of knowledge, would be a almple
absurdity. It is true that the language of any nation is a
correct index of its attainments; but this happens, because,
in proportion as the people acquire notions, they invent
words to express them,· and hence their Language is com-
mensurate with their mental states.
The art of writing greatly facilitates the progr888 of know-
ledge ; but it does so only by giving precision to words and
permanence to thought. Written words are to thinking
what cyphers are to calculation ; they record our past at-
tainments, and enable us to advance, unincumbered, in the
path of discovery: in no instance, however, can they possi-
bly precede the march of ideas. The new nomenclature of
chemistry smooths the study of that science; but the no-
menclature itself was the reSult of correct and enlarged
ideas of the nature and relations of chemical substances,
and could not possibly have been formed before these were
obtained.
Persons who have a great endowment of the organ of
Language abound in words. In ordinary conversation
their language flows like a copious 8tream,-in speech they
pour out torrents. When this organ is extremely large,
and those of reflection small, the individual is prone tore-
}>eat, to the inconceivable annoyance of the l1earer, the
plainest sentences again and again, as if the matter were of
such difficult apprehension, that one telling was not suffi:-
cient to convey the meaning. This practice appears to
originate in an immoderate power and activity of the faculty
of Language, so great, that delight is felt in mere articula-
tion, independent of reflection. T11e same combination
produces a verbose, cumbersome, and inelegant style of
literary composition. THOMSON's Seasons are chargeable
with a redundancy of words, and, in the portraits of the
author, the organ appears very large. In " Dramas of
the Ancient World," by DAVID LINDSAY, we meet with ex-
amples of this kind of writing.
Digitized by Google
LANGUAGE.
"lly gracious l.insman
What good occaslon now hal.h brought thee hither ?
No.&u-Nothing ofgood, for good ls flown for ever
Away frOm this .tained world, and 6p01iu1 truth,
And weeping mercy, veiling their briglu looks
With their ~prtKIIl pinions, have forsaken earth,
And sought a refuge at the sacred foot
Of the ALK1GHTY'a throne."
Tlut 1Hhlg6, p. IG.
453
Another example occurs in the following passage, ex-
tracted from a periodical publication•.
" We hope it will prove interesting to our readers, occa-
sionally to take a popular sketch of the brilliant succus at-
tending the meritorious activity of the respectahk circk of
8Cientific chemists, whose pursuits, if judiciously exllibited,
are fitted to interest every miad endowed with intellectual
curiosity."
When the organ is very small, tbere is a want of com-
mand of expression, a painful repetition of the same words,
and a consequent poverty of style, both in writing and
speaking. The style of that author is generally most agree-
able, in whom the organs ofLanguage and of Reflection bear
a just proportion to ee.ch other. If the intellectual powers
be very acute and rapid, and Language not in equal pt·opor-
tion, a stammer in speech is frequently the consequence. In-
dividuality and Comparison greatly assist this faculty, when
applied to the acquisition of foreign languages and gram-
mar. I have observed that boys who are duxes in classes
for languages generally have Individuality, Eventuality,
and Comparison large; and that this endowment, with mo-
derate Language, accomplishes more, in the way of scholar-
ship, than a large development of the la~ter organ, with a
small endowment of the former. Such individuals have a
great facility in recollecting rules, as matters of fact and
detail, in tracing etymologies, and in discriminating shades
of meaning; and the combinat.ion alluded to gives tltem
great readiness in using their knowledge, wltatever the ex~
tent of it may be.
Digitized by Google
454. LANGUAGE.
The doctrine before laid down, that the signification of
words is learned by other faculties, removes an apparent
difficu1ty that sometimes presents itself. A person with a
moderate organ of Language will sometimes learn songs,
poetry, or particular speeches by heart, with considerable
facility and pleasure ; but in all such cases, the passages
110 Cl)mmitted to memory will be found highly to interest
his other powers, such as Ideality, Causality, Tune, Vene~
ration. Combativeness, Adhesiveness ; and the study and
recollection of vocables only is to him difficult and dis-
agreeable. To a person, on the other hand, in whom the
organ is decidedly large, mere words are interesting, and
he can learn them without caring much about their mean-
ing. Hence, also, a person with a moderate organ of Lan-
guage, and good reflecting organs, may, by perseverance,
learn languages, and attain to proficiency as a scholar; but
he will not display copiousness, fluency, and richness of
expression in his style, either in his own or in a foreign
tongue.
It is difficult to determine precisely, on what powers the
talent for learning the spirit of languages depends. The
fact is certain, that some individuals easily learn the spirit
of different languages without having a great memory for
words ; while others readily acquire words, without catch-
ing the spirit of any language. Dr GALL admits two or-
gans of language ; one he names " Sens des mots, sens des
noms, memoire des mots, memoire verbale ;" and the other
" Sens du langage de parole ; talent de la philologU ;" and
attributes to the latter the talent of philology, and acquiring
the spirit of languages. The former organ he describes as
lying on the posterior half of the super-orbitar plate, and,
when large, it pushes the eyes outwards ; it gives a talent
for learning and recollecting words ; and persons possess-
ing it large recite long passages by heart, after reading
them once or twice. The latter organ, says he, is placed
on tl1e middle of the anterior part of the super-orbitar plate,
and the eye-haJJ, in consequence, not only projects, but iii
Digitized by Google
LANGUAGE. 455
depressed ; the depression producing the appearance of a
.bag, or folding in the lower eye-lid. Persona possessing
this form of eyes, he adds, have not only an excellent me-
mory of words, but a particular talent for the study of lan-
guages, for criticism, and, in general, for all that has refe·
renee to literature •. Dr GALL states, at the same time,
that the determination of the size of the organ of words is
.attended with much difficulty ; as, from its situation, it
may extend itself to the sides, ~ well as forwards, increas-
ing, in the former case, the general breadth of the head
across the temples, or even between the eyes; so that much
remains to be ascertained in regard to it.
Dr SPURZHEIM, on the other· hand, admits only one or-
gan of Language, lying transversely on the posterior por-
tion of the super-orbitary plates ; and holds, that it takes
cognizance both of words and the spirit of languages. " It
&eeiDS to me," says he, "that the organ of words must have
its laws as well as those of Colour, Melody, or any other
faculty. Now, the law of words constitutes the spirit of
language. I am satisfied," he continues, " that this opi-
nion is correct ; because the spirit of every language is the
same, just as the essence of all kinds of music is alike ;
that is, the laws or principles of music and of language
rule universally, and are constant; they are only modi-
fied in different nations, by modifications in their organs,
and dissimilar combinations of these in each f."
I am disposed to coincide with Dr SPURZHEIM.in this
view; and, perhaps, by analyzing the source whence the
structure of Language proceeds, we may obtain some light
on the origin of a taste for the spirit of languages, as dis-
tinguished from the power of learning and reco1lecting
words.
Language, then, expresses merely the feelings and con-
ceptions formed by the various primitive faculties, acting
separately, or in combination. Now, Jet us imagine the
• Sur lea Fnnctions du Cerveau, tome v. P· 18. ami 30.
t Phrenology, p. 268.
Digitized by Google
456 LANGUAGE.
cerebral development of a nation to be distinguished by
large organs of the Propensities, Sentiments, and Knowing
Faculties, small Reflecting organs, and little Secretiveness.
Their language being the spontaneous growth of such a
combination, would naturally abound in words expressive
of simple feelings, conceptions of individual objects, and
their qualities; while it would be poor in terms of abstract
relation, conceived by the faculties of reflection. For the
same reason, the transitions of such a language would be
like those in Mrs QJ,tickly's speech, rapid, and in the order
of the casual occurrence of the circumstances which ex-
cited the ideas; Secretiveness being small, there would
naturally be little involution in the arrangement of the
words. Suppose, on the other hand, that in another nation
Secretiveness, and the Reflecting organs, predominated,
the genius of their Language would dift'er widely from that
of the people first described. Their expressions for dis-
criminating individual conceptions would be fewer, while
their stock of words and phrases, designative of abstract
relation, would be more extensive, and the general struc-
ture of their sentences would be more involved. Now, sup-
pose two individuals, with equal organs of Language, and
consequently equal power of learning words, as mere signs,
to possess, the one a bead like the former, and the other a
head like the latter people, and that they attempted to learn
these difFerent languages, it appears probable, that the one
with the first mentioned development would find tbe ge-
nius of the first language the most easy and natural to
him; he would acquire its forms of collocation, its niceties
of designation, and all its prettinesses, with facility and de-
light, because they would coincide with the modes of feel-
ing and thinking of his own mind. If, on the other hand,
his attention were directed to the language of the second
people, be would meet with greater difficulties. Although
he might master the words, he would not find the idioms
natural ; and the forms of expression depending on the re-
flecting powers, and likewise the involution introduced by
Digitized by Google
LANGUAGE•. 457
Secretivenes~1 would appear to him extremely intricate and
uninteJligible; be would be obliged to learn them by rule,
through defect of instinctive tact in apprehending them ;
and rules alone oover produce a really exceJlent linguist.
The iecond language, on the other hand, would come quite
naturally to the other individUal possessing a bead Jike that
of the people who invented it.
If these vieW& be correct, the talent for learning the ge-
nius or spirit of -different languages will depend upon the
development of the organ of words, taken in conjunction
with the power of the individual to enter into the feelings,
and form the precise kinds of intellectual combinations, of
different nations; or, in short, upon the capacity to go out
of himself, and to enter into the mental states of others ;
and this is conferred chiefly by Secretiveness, Imitation,
Individuality and Eventuality, aided of course by the other
primitive faculties. This will be best .understood by an
example. If two individuals have an equal development
of all the organs except the four now mentioned, which
the one po88C8Ses in a high degree, and the other only to a
very limited extent, the former will have a power of enter-
ing into the feelings and reflections of others, which the
latter would want; and this power, according to the view
now presented, would render him more apt in acquiring the
spirit of different languages. This, however, is merely a
theory, thrown out for the conaideration of the reader, but
it bas been suggested by facts. I know an individual, who
bas an excelJent development of many of the organs, but is
a very decided character, and possesses little of the talent
of entering into, or accommodating himself to the feelings
of others, and be experienced an inconceivable difficulty in
acquiring the simplest French idioms. I know another
young gentleman who was in the same situation in regard
to Latin, and who bas little versatility. In them, the or-
gan of Language is rather deficient; but then I have met
with several persons in whom the organ was equally defi-
cient, and who possessed the power of learning foreign
Digitized by Google
458 J,ANGUAGE.
idioms ; and in them, on the other hand, the power of
amalgamation with the mental states ofothers, was decided-
ly greater, and their organs of Secretiveness, Imitation, In-
dividuality and Eventuality, were larger.
Although the theory of the talent for philology is in-
volved in considerable obscurity, it is quite certain that the
ready command of words in speech or writing is in propor-
tion to the development of the organ situated above the
super-orbitar plate, and that a ftuent orator or author is n&-
ver found with a deficiency of it.
Numerous cases arf' on record of the power of using
words having been impaired by disease, when the ability
to articulate, and the powers of perception and judgment,
remained entire. In the Phrenological Transactions, Mr
Hoon of Kilmarnock has communicated a very interesting
instance of this kind which fell under his own notice as
medical attendant. The patient, a sober and regular man
of 65 years of age, po88CS8ed of the ordinary knowledge of
written and spoken language, on the evening of 2d Sep-
tember 1822, suddenly began to speak incoherently, and
became quite unintelligible to all those who were about
him. " It was di8covered tJuzt he luulforgotten the name of
every object in nature. His recollection of things seemed to
be unimpaired, but the names by which men and things are
known, were entirely obliterated from his mind, or rather
he had lost the faculty by which they are called up at the
control of the will. He waa by no means inattentive,
however, to what was going on ; and he recognised friends
and acquaintances perhaps as quickly as on any former oc-
casion ; but their names, or even his own, or his wife's
name, or the names of any of his domestics, appeared to
have no place in his recollection.
" On the moming of the 4th September," says Mr
Hoon, " much against the wishes of his family, he put on
his clothes, and went out to the workshop; and, when I
made my visit, he gave me to understand, by a variety of
signs, that he was perfectly well in eve~ respect, with the
4
oigi!lzed by Coogle
LANGUAGE. 459
exception of some slight uneasiness referrible to the eyes
and eyebrows. I prevailed on him, with some difficulty,
to submit to the reapplication of leeches, and to allow a
blister to be placed over the left temple. He was now so
well in bodily health that he would not be confined to the
house; and his judgment, in so far as I could form an esti-
mate of it, was unimpaired ; but his memory for words was
so much a blank, that the monosyllables of affirmation and
negation seemed to be the only two words in the language,
the nse and signification of which he never entirely forgot.
He comprehended distinctly every word which was spoken
or addressed to him ; and, though he had ideas adequate to
form a full reply, the words by which these ideas are ex-
pressed seemed to have been entirely obliterated from his
mind. By way of experiment, I would sometimes mention
to him the name of a person or thing. His own name, for
example, or the name of some one of his domestics,-when
be would have repeated it after me distinctly, once or
twice; but, generally, before be could do so a third time,
the word was gone from him as completely as if he bad ne-
ver heard it pronounced. When any person read to him
from a book, he had no difficulty in perceiving the mean-
ing of the passage, but he could not himself then read; and
the reason seemed to be, that he had forgotten the elements
of written language, viz. the names of the letters of the al-
phabet. In the course of a short time, he became very ex-
pert in the use of signs ; and his convalescence was marked
by his ·imperceptibly acquiring some general terms, which
were with him at first of very extensive and varied ap-
plication. In the progress of his recovery, time and space
came both under the general appellation of time. All fu-
ture events and objects before him were, as he expressed it,
" nezt time ;" but past events and objects behind him were
designated " last time." One day being asked his age, he
made me to understand that he could not tell; but, point-
ing. to his wife, uttered the words " many timei' repeated-
ly, as much as to say that he bad often told her his age.
Digitized by Google
460 LANGUAGE.
When she said he was sixty, he answered in the aftirma4
tive, and inquired what "tirwr it was; but as I did not.
comprehend his meaning distinctly, I mentioned to him the
hour of the day, when he soon convinced me that I bad
not given him the proper answer. I then named the day
of the week, which waa also unsatisfactory; but, upon men-
tioning the month, and day of the month, he immediately
signified, that this was what he wanted to know, in 01·der
to answer my question respecting his age. Having suc-
cet>ded iri getting the day of.the month, he. then pointed
out the " time' or day of the month on which he was
born, and thereby gave me to understand that he was six--
ty years of age, and five days or " times," as he expressed
it."
In the month of December 1822, h_
is convalcscepcc was
so complete, that he could supJ>Qrt conversation without.
much difficulty. The headache, with which he had been
eo long affected, recurred occasionally; but in other re-
spects be enjoyed, generally, tolerably good health. On
lOth January 1825, be suddenly became paralytic pn the
left side. On 17th August. be bad an attack of apoplexy,
and on 21st he expired. In the Phrenological Journal,
voJ. iii. p. 2g, Mr HooD has reported the dissection of his
brain. In the left hemisphere, lesion of the parts was found,
which terminated " at half an inch from the surface of the
brain, where it rests over the middle of tho super-orbitar
plate." Two small dep1·essions or cysts were found in the
substance of the brain, "and tl1e cavity, considered as a
whole, expanded from the anterior part of the brain till it
opened into the ventricle in the form of a trumpet." The
right hemisphere did not pre8ent any remarkable appear-
ance."
Dr SPURZHEIM mentions having seen, at Inverness, a
case closely resembling the·foregoing; and also one of the
same nature at Paris. Dr GALL also cites the case of a
notary recorded by PINEL, who, after an attack of apo-
plexy, bad forgot his own name, and that of his wife,
Digitized by Google
LANGUAGE. 4.61
ehildren and friends, although his tongue preserved all its
mobility. He could no longer read or write, but never-
theless remembered objects which had formerly made an
impreSBion OD his senses, and which related to his profes-
sion. He frequently pointed out with his finger the files
which contained documents that could not be found, and
indicated, by other sigris, that ·he preserved the former
train of his ideas entire •. . Dr GALL mentions also the
case of a soldier sent to him by Baron LARREY, whom he
found to be very nearly in the same condition as the no-
tary mentioned by PINEL. " It was not his tongue," says
he, " which was the source of his einbariasSment,'' for he
waS able to move it with great agility, and to pronounce
even a great number of isolated words. It was not his
memory either which was in fault, for he shewed evident
dissatisfaction with himself upon many subjects which be
wished to mention. . The only faculty in him which was
impaired, .was .that o~ speech. .This soldier, like the pa-
tient of M:. PINEL, is no longer capable of reading or writ·
ingt.
Some individuals in whom Language is large, state
as an objectio~ that they have a bad memory of names ;
but they will be found in general to have a deficient
memory of the objects which the . names indicate ; for
ex~mple, if they cannot recollect names of persons, they
will have deficient Form and Individuality ; and if they
cannot recollect namea of tunes, they will be deficient in
Tune. The defect lies in the faculty wllich apprehenda
and recollectS the primitive.idea, for which Language re-
collects the name; and it is quite conceivable, that al-
though Language may be powerful, yet it may not furnish
names, as mere words, when the thing signified is not pre-
sent in the mind.
. The lower animals appear to have this organ in some de-
gree ; for they learn the meaning of arbitrary signs in so
• PnrEL sur 1'Ali6nation mentale, 2de &lition, p. lOa.
t Physiologie du Cerveau, vol. iv. p. 84.
Digitized by Google
462 LANGUAGE.
far as they possess the feelings and conceptions which they
express.
This faculty is by far too extensively cultivated in ordi-
nary education. The notion seems generally to prevail,
that knowledge of words necessarily implies comprehension
of the ideas which they are intended to signify; but this is
a great mistake. A good education must embrace the cul-
tivation of all the faculties, by exercising each directly on
its own objects, and regulating its manifestations. The
mere storing the mind with words never can accomplish
these ends.
The organ is large in the companion of GALL, Sir J. E.
SMITH, HuMBOLDT, VoLTAIRE; and small in the mask of
FRASER.-Established.
GENERAl, OBSERVATIONS ON INDIVIDUALITY, AND
T~E OTHER KNOWING OR PERCEPTIVE F ACUL·
TIES.
No objtction to Phrenology is more frequently repeated
than that such and such persons have retreating foreheads,
and yet are very c1eYer. A short explanation will serve to
remove this difficulty. In the first place, a forehead may
appear retreating, not because the reflecting organs are
greatly deficient, but because the knowing organs are very
prominently developed, so that if the latter were diminish-
ed in size, the former would appear relatively larger : But
every one must perceive, that, in such an event, the men-
tal powers of the perceptive class would be proportionaJJy
diminished, and the talents of the individual lessened,
while the unskilful observer might imagine him to possess
a better development of forehead. In the mask of HENRI
QUATRE, for example, the forehead appears to slope; where-
as, if the knowing organs were reduced to the same state
of projection beyond the cbeek bones, as in the mask of
VoJ.TAIRE, the forehead would appear much more perpen-
Digitized by Google
ON THE KNOWING ORGANS. 463
dicular. This, however, would clearly detract from his
mental power. It would cause the reflecting faculties to
predominate only, by diminishing his talent in the depart-
ment of observation.
But, in the next place, suppose that a head does retreat
exceedingly, still Individuality, and the other knowing or-
gans, may be large; and if we attend for a moment to the
range of these powers, we shall perceive, that the indivi-
dual may be deficient in Causality and Comparison, and yet
be 'Ve1'!/ ckver. A wide range of sciences, falling under the
scope of Individuality and Eventuality chiefly, has already
been pointed out, and in which a person so endowed may
be very learned. Farther, the details of history, statistics,
geography, and trade, aU belong to the department of
simple knowledge; and in them also he may be eminently
skilled; and, finally, in the daily occurrences of life, acute-
ness of observation, and the power of treasuring up the
lessons of experience whi~h he will possess, are important
elements in a practical judgment. If, then, to a large en-
dowment of the knowing organs, a nervous temperament
be added, the individual will be active and enterprising ;
if Cautiousness be large, he will be prudent, and rarely
venture beyond the scope of his abilities; if Conscien-
tiousness be large, he will enjoy that delicacy of senti-
ment which tells instinctively where the right lies, ami
where the path of honour terminates ; and with these en-
dowments there is no wonder that he may act creditably
and cleverly in the ordinary walks of life. These are not
imaginary suppositions ; but descriptions drawn from ob-
servation of numerous individuals in active life. Sucb
persons, however, are never distinguished for profound and
comprehensive views of abstract principles ; which belong
to the reflecting faculties not yet treated of.
In the preceding pages, it is stated, that the faculty of
Form perceives the forms of objects ;-Colouring, their co-
lour ;-Size, their dimensions ;-that Individuality takes
cognizance ofexistences, and E\·entuality of events in gene-
Digitized by Google
GENERAL OBSERVATIONS
ra1. The question naturally occurs, if the minor knowing
powers apprehend all the separate qualities of external ob-
jects, what purposes do Individuality and Eventuality serve
in the mental economy? The function of Individuality is
to form a single intellectual conception out of the different
items of information communicated by the other knowing
faculties, which take cognizance of the properties of exter-
nal objects. In perceiving a tree, the object apprehended
by the mind is not colour, form, and size, as separate qua-
lities ; but a singk thing or being named a tree. The mind
having, by means of Individuality, obtained the idea of a
tree, as an individual existence, may analyze it, and resolve
it into its constituent parts of form, colour, magnitude;
but the contemplation of it in this manner is at once felt
to be widely different fr~m the conception attached to the
word Tree as a whole. The function of Individuality,
therefore, is to embody the separate elements furnished by
these other knowing faculties into one, and to produce out
of them conceptions of aggregate. objects as a whole; which
objects are afterwards viewed by the mind as individual
existences, and are remembered and spoken of 88 such,
without thinking of their.constituent parts. · Children early
use and understand abstract teriJUl, such as tree,.man, ship;
and the organ of Individuality is very prominently de-
veloped in them.
Farther, Form, Colour and Size, furnish certain elemen-
tary conceptions, which Individuality unites and conceives
as one, such as Man. The faculty of Number called into ac-
tion gives the idea of plurality ; and that of Order furnishes
the idea of gradations of rank and arrangement. Now, In-
dividuality, receiving the intimations of all these separate
faculties, combines them again, and contemplates the com-
bination 88 an individual object, aud this is an armv. After
the idea of an army is thus formed, the mind drops the re-
collection of the constituent parts, and afterwards thinks of
the aggregate onl1J, or of the combined conception formed
by Individuality ; and regards it as.a single object.
Digitized by Google
ON THE KNOWING ORGANS. 465
Eventuality is .surrounded by Individuality, Locality,
Comparison and Causality, and forms individual concep-
tions from their combined intimations. A storm is not an
object of specific existence, nor is it a quality of any exter-
nal object; yet the mind clearly apprehends it. It is the
result of physical elements in violent commotion, and all
the faculties last enumerated, together with Eventuality it-
self, which observes motion, combine in furnishing indi-
vidual conceptions, which Eventuality unites into one idea,
designated by a " storm." Revolution is another ex-
ample : A revolution does not exist in nature as a substan-
tive thing, but arises from the combined action of nume-
rous moral and physical causes, the result of which Even-
tuality conceives as one event.
It is interesting to observe the Phrenological System,
which at first eight appears rude and unphiloeophical, har-
monizing thus simply and beautifu1ly with nature. Had
it been constructed by imagination or reflection alone, it is
more than probable that the objection of the minor know-
ing faculties rendering Individuality and Eventuality su-
perfluous, would have appeared so strong and insurmount-
able, as to have insured the exclusion of one or other as
unnecessary; and yet, until both were discovered and ad-
mitted, the formation of such terms as those we have consi-
dered was altogether inexplicable.
GENUS IV.-REFLECTING FACULTIES.
THE intellectual faculties which we have considered,
give a knowledge of objects and their qualities, and of
events ; those to which we now proceed, produce ideas of
relation, or reflect. They minister to t.he direction and
gratification of all the other powers; and constitute what we
call Reason or Reflection.
Digitized by Google
( 456 )
S.f.. COMPARISON.
Dr GALL often oomersed on philosophical subjects with
a Bfavanl, possessing much vivacity of mind. Whenever the
latter was put to difficulty in proving rigorously his posi-
tions, he had always reeourse to a comparison. By this
means he in a manner painted his ideas, and his opponents
were defeated and carried along with him; effects which he
could never produce by simple argument. As soon as Dr
GALL perceived that, in him, this was a characteristic trait
of mind, be examined his head, and found an eminence of
the form of a reversed pyramid in the upper and middle
portion of the frontal bone. He confirmed the observation
by many subsequent instances. He. names it '" perspica-
city, sagacity, esprit de comparaison."
The faculty gives the power of perceiving resemblances
and analogies. Tune may compare different notes; Colour
contrast different shades; but Comparison may compare a
Tint and a Note, a Form and a Colour, which the other
faculties by themselves could not accomplish.
Comparison thus takes the widest range of nature with-
in its sphere: "It compares," says Mr ScoTT, "things of
the most opposite kinds, and draws analogies, and perceh;es
resemblances between them, often the most unexpected.
It compares a light seen afar in a dark night, to a good
deed shining in a naughty world ; or it compares the king-
dom of Heaven to a grain of mustard-seed. It discerns re-
semblances between things the most distant and the most
opposite. It finds analogies between the qualities of matter
and mind ;" a.nd from these comparisons and analogies, a
great part of our language, expressive of the qualities of
mind, is drawn ; "a great part of it being almost metapho-
rical, and applied originally in its literal sense to designate
qualities of matter." For this reason, the language of every
nation proves whether this organ is much or little developed
Digitized by Google
COMPARISON. 467
in the greatest number of its individuals. If they l1ave this
faculty in a high degree, their language is replete with
figure. Dr MuRRAY PATTERSON mentions that the Hin-
dostanee language abounds in figures, and that Comparison
is larger than Causality in the heads of the Hindoos in
general. It is the origin of proverbs, which in general con-
vey instruction under figurative expressions.
This faculty attaches us to comparison, without deter-
mining its kinds; for every one must choose his analogies
from his knowledge, or from the sphere of activity of llis
other faculties. He who has the faculty of Locality in a
high degree, derives thence his examples; while another,
in whom Form predominates, will illustrate from it. Dr
CHALMERS draws his illustrations from mechanics and astro-
nomy; and the organs which take cognizance of these are
large in his mask.
It was formerly supposed that this faculty takes cog-
nizance only of resemblances, and that another discrimi-
nates differences; but, in treating of the faculty of Wit,
p. 846, I have stated that perception of resemblance is the
result of a lower, and discrimination of differences of a
higher, degree of power in every intellectual faculty.
This faculty gives a tendency which is frequently called
Reasoning, but which is very different from the correct and
severe inductions of a sound logic; namely, it endeavours
to prove that one thing is of such and such a nature, be-
cause it resembles another which is so and so; in short, it
reasons by analogy, and is prone to convert an illustration
into an argument. The late Mr LoGAN, the minister of
Leith, is an example of this kind of intellect. He is al-
ways establishing a proposition, and, to those who do not
analyze profoundly, appears to be an argumentative preach-
er; but his argument is not induction, it is a mere state-
ment of analogies, closed by an inference that the case in
point must be as he views it, otherwise it would be an ex-
ception to the ordinary arrangements of nature. The ten-
dency of this faculty, when feeble, is to perceive only re-
ug~
Digitized by Google
..
·i68 COl\IPARISON.
semblances, and not the differences of tliings; and, as a
difference in one point out of a hundred frequently de-
stroys the whole force of the analogy, no reasoning is so
often false and sul1erficial as that of persons in whom Com-
parison is the leading intellectual organ, but in whom
nevertheless it is not large. The late Mr PLAYFAIR may
be cited as an example in opposition to these. In him
Causality was as large as Comparison, and his comparisons
are merely illustrations. His argument, in general, stands
in the relation of necessary consequence, and his conclu-
sion is in the form of a direct deduction from his premises.
This faculty is more rarely deficient than any of the other
intellectual powers, and the Scripture is addressed to it in
nn eminent degree, being replete with analogies and com-
parisons.
This faculty, from giving readiness in perceiving analo-
gies hlld resemblances, confers great instantaneous acute-
ness. The organ is largely developed in a neighbouring
nation; and it is correctly observed by a late writer, that
" ingenuity in discoYering unexpected glimpses and superfi-
cial coincidences in the ordinary relations oflife, the French
possess in an eminent degree •." In schools, the best scho-
lars generally have much Language and Comparison. The
faculty is of essential service to orators and popular preach-
ers. It and Eventuality are the largest organs in tl1e fore-
head of the )ate Right Honourable WILLIAM PrrT. It is
large also in the busts of CuRRAN, CHALlUEns, BunKE, and
JEFFREY. In Mr T. MoonE it is very large, and in the
Westminster Review, No. 8, it was remarked that there are
two thousand five hundred similies in his Life of SHERI-
DAN, besides metaphors and allegorical expressions. Dr
GALL correctly observes, that close reasoning and rigid in-
duction, is always disagreeable to a popular audience, be-
cause their faculties are not cultivated or exercised to fol-
low abstract conceptions. The great charm of poplllar
• Edinburgh Revie'll·, Nov. 1520, p. 389.
Digitized by Google
COMPARISON. 469
speakers, therefore, consists in perspicuity of statement,
and copiousness of illustration.
From giving power ofillustration and command offigures,
this faculty is of great importance to the poet, and it aids
Wit also, by suggesting analogies. By common observerF,
indeed, the metaphors, amplifications, allegories, and ana·
logies, which Comparison supplies, are frequently mistaken
for the products of ldt1ality, although they arc very dif-
ferent.
Ideality being a sentiment, when greatly excited, infUSCii
passion and enthusiasm into the mind, and prompts it to
soar after the splendid, the beautiful, and the sublime, as
ebjects congenial to its constitution •. Comparison, on the
other hand, being an intellectual power, produces no pas-
sion, no intense feeling or enthusiasm ; it coolly and calmly
plays off its sparkling fire-works, and takes its directiou
from the other powers with which it is combined. If unit-
ed with great Individuality and Causality in any individual,
the comparisons employed will be copious, ingenious, and
appropriate; but if Ideality is not large, they will not be
impassioned, elevated and glowing. Add to Comparison,
again, a large Ideality, as in Dr CHALMERS, and its similies
will now twinkle in delicate loveliness like a star, now
blaze in meridian splendour like the sun, while intense
feeling and lofty enthusiasm will give strength and majesty
to all its conceptions.
It is large in RAPHAEL, RoscoE, EDWARDs, HENRI
QuATRE, Mr Hu:ME, Hindoos; deficient in Charibs.
Hitherto the function of this organ bas been considered
as limited to a perception of general resemblance and dif-
• It is under the influence ofldeality, that
" The poet's eye, in a flue frenzy rolling,
Doth glance from Heaven to Earth, ti·om E:uth to Heaven;
And as imaginatiora bodies forth,
The forms of things unknown, the }>Oet's pen
Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing
A local habitation and a name"
Digitized by Google
470 COMPARISON.
ference between objects compared ; but a new view baa
been suggested by my ingenious friend Mr HEWETT WAT•
soN. He conceives that its simple function probably is "a
perception ofconditions ;" and he proposes the term " Con•
ditionality'' as the name. "It is admitted," says he, "that
the faculty of Form compares forms, Tune compares notes,
and Colouring compares colours. In these faculties, Com-
parison is a mode of activity only; and it is contrary to all
analogy to assign comparison to another organ as its pri-
mitive function. The organ XXXIV, therefore, will pro-
bably originate some specific perceptions distinct in kind
from those of any other organ; and its comparisons will ·
be made between its oum perceptions only ; as is the case
with every other intellectual faculty." A few illustrations
will render these ideas more clear.
When we utter the word " Man," we address Individua-
lity alone; we speak of a being which exists, without epe-
dfying his form, size, colour, or weight; without mention-
ing his actions ; and without intimating his condition.
When we say the man walks, we add a new idea, that of
walking: In this proposition we call in the aid of Eventua-
lity, which perceives action or events. If we say the tall
man walks, we address Size, Individuality and Eventua-
lity; or if we say the black man rides, then Colour, Indi-
viduality and Eventuality combine in uttering and in un-
derstanding the proposition : But, suppose that we are told
that the miserahle man runs along the road ; here we have
first, the man,--second, his condition, miserahle,-and third,
his action, running: now, what organ takes cognizance of
his condition." It is obvious that it must be an organ dis-
tinct from the other two, because the mind can conceive
the man, without his action ; it can conceive the man and
his action without thinking of his condition; and his condi-
tion without adverting to his action; his condition is there-
fore a third and separate consideration, introduced as an
article ofadditional information. Again, suppose that we are
told that Mr A. and Miss B. were married last week at the
Digitized by Google
COMPABlSON. 471
altar of their parish church ; the information would be
communicated· by and addressed to the organs of lndivi- •
duality, which take cognizance of Mr A. and Miss B. as
indhiduals, and the altar and church as things which
exist; Locality would inform us of the place of the mar-
riage, and " Time" of the date of it; but in all this nothing
is said of the condition of the parties. Now, suppose ~hat
we should meet them coming from the church, and should
wish them much " happiness" in their " new condition,"
it is evident that some conceptions different from the for-
mer are added. We now contemplate them in the " mar-
ried condition," and we express our wish that they may
exist happy in that state.
Mr WATSoN•s idea is, that the primitive function of Com-
parison is to take cognizance of the condition in which
beings and inanimate objects exist ; and that it compares
the conditions, just as Colour compares colours, and Tune
compares sounds. Of aJl the means of creating interest or
affording illustration, the specification of the condition of
objects or beings is the most effectual. Thus, the man
exists, is announced by Individuality, and produces little
interest ; the man dies, is announced by Individuality and
Eventuality, and is more affecting; but the "good and just
yqung man dies," stirs up a far deeper emotion ; and it is
the addition of his qualities and condition "good, just, and
young;• that makes the difference. Poets and orators,
therefore, in whom this organ is large, will possess vivid
perceptions of the condition and quaJities of objects and
beings ; and if every faculty compares its own objects, it
will compare conditions. If this be correct, we ought to
find authors in whom IndividuaJity predominates, illustrat-
ing their subject chiefly by comparing simple individual ob-
jects ; one in whom Eventuality predominates illustrating
by comparing actions ; and one in whom the organ now
under discussion predominates, illustrating by comparing
conditions or states; and such accordingly is actually the
ease. The following illustrations are furnished chiefly by
Eventuality.
Digitized by Google
47~ COMPARISON.
" When AJAX 1trivea 80me rock's huge weight to throw,
The line too, labours, and the words move slow;
Not 80 when swift C.uiiLLA acours the plain,
Flies o'er the unbending com, and sldms along the main."
PoPE.
Mr WATSON observes, that,· in SHERIDAN, Individuality
and Eventuality are large, and Comparison only full; and
the example already given on page 427, from his works,
corresponds with this development.
In MooRE, Individuality is large, Eventuality deficient,
and Comparison very large ; and that his descriptions are
confined so much to conditions, that any artist who should
attempt to transfer one of his beauties to canvas, would re-
quire to invent every item of form, proportion, colour, and
indeed, every thing except condition. " The harp that
once through TARA's halls" iS a good example of this; the
whole piece being but a description and comparison of con-
4itions. In another short poem, " Though Fate, my girl,
maybid us part," the same occurs; and the following is
.another example,-
"' When I remember aU
The friends 80 linked together,
I've seen around me fall
Like leaves in wintry weather;
I feel like one who treads alone
Some banquet-hall deserted;
Whoae lights are fled, whose garlands dead;
And all but he departed." ·
It is quite obvious, that condition is the,prominent featUre,
.indeed, almost the whole physiognomy of these lines.
In the busts of PoPE, Individuality is moderately de-
veloped, Eventuality very large, and Comparison con-
siderable. " The styles of PoPE and MooRE," says Mr
WATSON,~' seem to be quite contrasted in this respect, that
PoPE narrates all the circumstances of his stories in succes-
sion, as they may be supposed to occur. MooRE, on the
other hand, gives us a series of highly finished pictures,
describing clearly and beautifully the state of the earth,
Digitized by Google
COMPARISON. 47S
atmosphere, sky, clouds, and dramatis per801UB, for the
time being, but by no means with that regular sequence of
occurrences which is io be found in PoPE. His stories are
the whole routine of real life ; those of MoonE stage repre-
sentations, where a good deal is done behind the scenes,
and only the most effective parts brought into view. PoPE
writes historical documents with the minute aceuracy and
detail of a French pedigree; MoonE•s pen is like the pen~il
of an artist, and creates a gallery of paintings, where we
see the same persons in different situations at difFerent
periods, but with no more information of what becomes
of them in the interim, than we can obtain concerning
the noon-day dwelling of Oberon, or the Ghost of Royal
Hamlet. Their styles being thus different, we should ex-
pect their similies to exhibit a corresponding diversity, if
there be really no special organ of Comparison : those of
PoPE should be less strongly characterized by resemblance
of condition, and show a greater or more proportional va-
riety in the points of similitude; the comparisons should
be more diversified, and the resemblances more comprehen-
sive!'-Phren. Jqurn, vi. 889.
I communicated Mr WATSeN•s ideas to Dr SPunzHEtM,
before they were published in the Phrenological Journal;
and he favoured me with the following remarks, in a letter,
dated Dublin, 16th May 1880:-" My description of Com-
parison involves the essence of Mr WATSoN•s idea:-
Among your examples, young horse belongs to it, but not
lively horse. The horse being lively, is known by Eventua-
lity, in the same way as motion in general. The generality
of attributes and all abstract ideas and general notions are
conceived by Comparison. Condition indicates not only
state, but also cause ; and if Campariaon shall be replaced
by another term, it cannot be Conditionality. Abstraction
or generalization should be preferable. Yergleichender
&lw.rfBinn is very significant : It compares, discriminates,
i~eparates, abstracts, adapts, and generalizes. The philoso-
phers styled Nominali8t1 had it in an eminent degree, whilst
s
Digitized by Google
CAUSALITY.
Individuality was predominant in the RealUts. Compari-
son compares conditions or states, and conditions or eauaes.
Its essential result is generalization and discrimination!'
These differences of opinion apply only to the metaph,..U-
cal analysis of the faculty : the organ and the manifesta-
tions which accompany it are held to be perfectly ascer-
tained. Examples of the organ are given under Eventua-
lity, p. 425.
S5. CAUSALITY.
IT has long been a matter of general observation, that
men posRessing a profound and comprehensive intellect,
such as SocRATES, BAcoN, and GALJLEo, have the upper
part of the forehead greatly developed. At Vienna, Dr
GALL remarked, that, in the most zealous disciples of
KANT, men distinguished for profound, penetrating, meta-'
physical talent, the parts of the brain lying immediately
outwards, and to the sides of the organ of Comparison, were
distinctly enlarged. He and Dr SPURZHEIM subsequent1y
saw a mask of KANT himself, moulded after death, and
perceived an extraordinary projection of these parts. At
a later period, they became personally acquainted with
FtcHTE, and found a development of that region still larger
than in KANT. Innumerable additional observations satis-
fied them concerning the functions of this organ ; Dr GALL
named it "Eaprit metaphysique, Proftmdeu.r d'upril," and
Dr SPURZHEIM " Causality."
Dr THoMAS BRowN says, "a cause, in the fullest defini-
tion which it philosophically admits, may be said to be,
that which immediatelyprecedes any change, and which, ezi&t-
ing at any time ia similar circumstances, has been alwa1JS,
and will be always, immediatelyfollowed by a similar change.
Priority in the sequence observed, and invariableness of
antecedence in the past and future sequences supposed, are
the elements, and the only elements, combined in the no-
tion of a cause." This is a definition by means of Indivi-
Digitized by Google
CAUSAUTY. 475
duality and Eventuality, of the functions of Causality, but
it is not complete. When we treat of an original and simple
power of mind, all we can do is to state the circumstances
which excite it, and to give the mental affection a name.
We cannot, for example, by means of a definition, enable
a pe1'80n who never felt sweetness, to understand what it
is. We can only say that sugar, and other saccharine
substances, when applied to the organ of taste, excite in
them a particular sensation, which we call sweetneu. It is
the same with Causality. All we can accomplish is to point
out the circumstances in which the mental afFection con-
nected with that organ arises, and to give a name to the
affection itself. Now, the metaphysical definition describes
with sufficient accuracy the circumstances which excite the
afFection ; but it does not convey any notion of the original
mental state itself which is thereby produced : In addition
to the invariable sequence which Eventuality perceives,
an impression of power or efficiency in the antecedent to
produce the consequent, appears to me to be excited in the
mind, by contemplating instances of causation in nature ;
and this impression seems to be the primitive mental afFec-
tion connected with the organ of Causality.
It is said, that it is only by experience, and by observing
the invariableness of the sequence that we discover the
connexion of cause and effect, and this is correct ; but in
this respect Causality does not differ from the other facul-
ties. Caloric as a substance existing in nature is one thing,
and the feeling of heat produced by it in the human nerves
is another. Before the mind can experienee the feeling,
heat must be applied to the nerves ; but after it has been
applied and the sensation felt, the mind knows nothing
about what caloric is in itself, or how it comes to have
the quality of exciting the sensation. All that the mind
discovers is, that caloric, be it what it may, exists; and that
it is capable of exciting in the nerves, the peculiar feeling
which is named heat or warmth. The same holds in re-
gard to Causality. Before the mind can know the pre-
Digitized by Google
476 CAUSALITY.
sence of a caWJe, it must have manifested itself to the
faculty by producing an effect. The presentment of ca-
loric to the nerves produces the feeling of heat; and the
presentment of an instance of causation excites in Cau-
sality the impression that a cause exists. Suppose a bent
bow, with the arrow drawn to the head, but retained in
this position, to be presented, it is said that Causality,
prior to experienc~ could never discover that, on the re-
straining power being withdrawn, the bow would expand
and propel the arrow; and this is quite correct; because
a bow in this condition is an object which excites only
the .faculties of Form, Size, Colouring, &c. It is an ob-
ject of still life, of simple existence ; when it expands, and
the arrow starts from the string, it becomes an object of
Eventuality, which perceins the motion ; but in addition
to the perception of the bow as a substance, and to the per-
ception of the motion of the arrow, an instinctive impres-
sion is generated, that the expansion was the cause of the
arrow'smotion; andthis impression is producedby Causality.
The most illiterate savage would repeat the operation in the
confidence that the effect would follow. A monkey, bow-
ever, although it might find the arrow very useful to knock
down fruit which it could not reach with its feet, would
not repeat the operation although presented with the bow
and arrow. It possesses hands and arms quite adapted to
draw the string, but having no organ of Causality, it would
not receive the impression of causation ; it might see the
phenomena succeed each other, without any idea of effi-
ciency being excited •.
• Beavers and othersof the lower animals appeaT, at first sight, to have
some degree ofCausality. Beavers adapt the structure of their dam with
eut'priaing ugacity to the pressure ofthewateT; and in preparing it, they
not. only cut trees in such a way, as to make certain of their Calling into
the water, and not on dry land, but they select trees so situated, that
when they do Call, the stream shall carry them to the spot where they
wish them to be placed. There appears a knowledge of cause and effect
In these opcrnti(lna; and yet. the beaver cannot apply this knowledge out
of ita own department. I am inclined, therefore, to give a different ex.
Digitized by Google
CA~SAUTY. 477
Individuality, Eventuality, nud Comparison take cogni-
:tance of things obvious to the senses. CauaaJity looks a
little farther than these, perceives the dependencies of phe-
nomena, and furni11hes the idea of causation, as implying
something more than mere juxta-position or scquence,-
as forming an invisible bond of conne:xion between CllURe
and effect. It impresses us with an irresistible conviction,
that every phenomenon or change in nature is caused by
something, and hence, by successive steps, leads us to tho
First Cause of alJ. In looking at the actions of men, it leads
us to consider the motives, or moving causes, from which they
proceed. Individuality judges of direct evidence, or facts ;
Causality of circumstantial evidence, or that by inference.
In a trial, a juryman, with large Individuality and small
Causality, will have great.difficulty in convicting on circum-
planation. It is probable that each knowing faculty is adapted to the
natural laws of its objects ; the organ of Tune is fitted not only to feel
in accordance with the laws of harmony, but instinctively to seek to obey
them in producing music; it desires melody, and melody cannot be
produced except in conformity with those laws: it therefore trit!ll, and
tries again, until at last it succeeds in producing sounds agreeable to itself,
and just becau~~e its constitution and the laws of harmony are in accord-
ance, it at wt fulfil!l these laws by instinctive impulse, without knowing
them. It is probable that the organs of Constructiveness and Weight in
the beaver, are in like manner adapted to tbe laws ofgravitation, and that.
it instinctively obeys them without knowing any thing of the laws them-
selves. This would account for its powers being perfect, yet limited in
their sphere. Constructiveness and weight in man also may be adapted
to these laws, but, by the addition ofCausality, he may become acquaint.
ed with natural powers as general agents, and become capable of tracing
their general application. Thus, a heaver, an elephant, and a savage,
may, by the mere instinct of weight and momentum, roll or pull up
an inclined plain a heavy body, which they cannot lift, without know.
ing any thing of the causes why they succeed in raising it in this way ;
but a philosopher, with great Cau88lity, may recognl!le the existence
of the cause, ascertain the laws of its operation, and then adapt it to a
variety of purposes. This would account for philosophers often excelling
in particular branches of science, who are very deficient in Causality,
NEwTox, for example, in mathematics and weight; lVhile no mau is ever
observed to be eminent for his talent of applying causation generally, who
has a deficiency of that kind.
Digitized by Google
478 CAUSAI.U'Y.
stantial e\·idence. He in whom Causality is large will often
feel that kind of proof to be irresistible. It induces us, on
all occasions, to ask, Why is this so? It gives deep pene-
tration, and the perception of logical consequence in argu-
ment. .It is large in persons who possess a natural genius
for metaphysics, political economy, or similar sciences.
When greatly larger than Individuality, Eventuality, and
Comparison, it tends to vague generalities of speculation,
altogether inapplicable to the affairs of life; and hence those
in whom it predominates are not calculated to shine in gene-
ral society. Their sphere of thought is too abstracted to
be reached by ordinary minds; they feel this, and remain
silent ; and hence are reputed dull, heavy, and even stupid.
A great defect of the organ renders the intellect superficial ;
and unfits the individual for forming comprehensive and
consecutive views, either in abstract science or business.
Coincidence only, and not Causation, is then perceived in
events: Such persons are often admirably fitted for common
situations, or for executing plans devised by profounder intel-
lects ; but, if they are entrusted with the duties oflegislators,
or become directors in any public affair, embracing Causa-
tion, it is difficult to make them comprehend the natural
dependencies of things, and to act according to them. Blind
to remote consef]uences, they stigmatize as visionary all in-
tellectual perceptions which tlleir own minds cannot reach ;
they reject principle as vain theory ; are captivated by ex-
pedients, and represent these as the beau ideal of practical
wisdom.
Dr SPURZHEIM observes, "that the faculty of Individua-
lity makes us acquainted with objects and facts; the facul-
ty of Comparison points out their identity, analogy or dif-
ference; and Causality desires to know the causes of all
events : consequently, those three faculties together form-
ing systems, drawing couclusions, indications, or corollaries,
and pointing out principles and laws, constitut~ the true
philosophical understanding."
It is interesting to trace the effects of this faculty, strong
!
Digitized by Google
CAUSALITY. 479
or weak, in the mental character, as it exhibits itself in the
occurrences of life. I accompanied two gentlemen to see
a great public work, in one of whom Individuality was large
and Causality small, and in the other of whom the propor-
tions of these organs were exactly reversed. The former,
in surveying the different objects and operations, put ques-
tion after question to the workmen, in rapid and long con-
tinued succession; and nearly all the information which he
carried away with him was acquired in answer to specific
interrogatories. His mind scarcely supplied a step by its
own reflection _
; and did not appear to survey the operations
811 a systematic whole. The latter individual looked a long
time in silence before be put a question at all ; and when
he did ask one, it was, What is the use of that ? The answer
enabled his own mind to supply a multitude of additional
ideas; be proceeded in his examination, and it was only on
arriving at another incomprehensible part of the apparatus,
that he again inquired. At last he got through ; then
turned back, and, with the most apparent satisfaction, con-
templated in silence the operations from beginning to end
as an entire system. I heard him afterwards describe what
he had seen, and discovered that he had carried offa distinct
comprehension of the principles and objects of the work.
It is probable that a superficial observer would have re..
garded the first as the acute, intelligent, and observing man
of genius; the per&On who noticed every thing, and asked
about every thing ; and the latter at a dull uninteresting
person, who put only two or three questions in all, looked
heavily, and said nothing.
A gentleman in a boat was unexpectedly desired to steer.
He took hold of the helm, hesitated a moment what to do,
and then steered with just effect. Being asked why he hesi-
tated, he replied, "I was unacquainted with steering, and·re-
quired to think how the helm acts." He was requested to
elEplain how thinking led him to the point, and replied, That
he knew, from study, the tAemy of the helm's action; that he
just run over in hi. mind the water's action upon it, and its
action on the boat, and then be saw the whole plainly before
Digitized by Google
480 CAUSALITY.
him. He had a full Causality, and not much Individuality.
A person with great Individuality and Eventuality, and
little Causality, placed in a similar situation, would have
tried the experiment of the helm's action, to come to a know-
ledge of the mode e>f steering : he would have turned~it to
the right hand, and to the left, and observed the effect, then
acted accordingly; and he might have steered during his
whole life thereafter, without knowing any thing more abont
the matter.
A question arose in an evening party concerning the cause
of the harvest moon. In one gentleman present, Indivi-
duality and Eventuality predominated; in another, Causality
was the larger intellectual organ. In an instant the former
said that the harvest light was owing to the moon's then ad-
vancing north to the Tropic of Cancer at the time of her
being full. The latter paused for a time, and added, "Yes,
Sir, you are quite right." Observing the difference in their
heads, and perceiving by their manner that they had arrived
at the result by different mental processes, I asked them to
explain how they knew this to be the cause. The first said,
" Oh! I recollect ProfeiiSOr PLAYFAIR stated it in his I~
tures to be so." The other replied, " I had forgot the pre-
cise fact, but I recollected the principle on which the Pro-
fessor mentioned it to depend, and by a moment's reflection
I followed it out, and arrived at the concliL<~ion which this
gentleman has just announced." " I am not sure," said the
former, "that I could now master the principle, but of the
result I am quite certain; because I distinctly recollect of
its being stated by Mr PLAYFAitt." This is a striking ex-
ample of the mode of action of these different faculties.
Individuality knows only facts; Eventuality events: and
Causality takes cognizance of principles alone.
Causality is the fountain of resources. Place an indivi-
dual, in whom it is small, in new circumstances, and he will
be helpless and bewildered; place another, in whom it is
large, in a similar situation, and he will shew his superiori-
ty by the extent of his inventions. A mechanic, with
little Causality, will be at a stand if his ordinary tools are
Digitized by Google
CAUSALITY. 481
wanting, or if employed out of his ordinary line; another,
having this faculty powerful, will find a thousand substitutes.
If a person deficient in Causality be placed in charge of any
•tab~ishment, comprehending a variety of duties •hich
arise the one out of the other, and all of which cannot be
anticipated and specified apriori, he will be prone to neglect
part of what he ought to attend to. He will probably plead
forgetfulne88 as his excuse, but want of comprehensiveneBS,
and consecutiveneBS of thinking, Will be the real cause of
his imperfections.
If a person, poRSessing little Causality, write a book, he
may shine in narrative, provided Individuality or Even-
tuality and Language be amply developed; but when he
endeavoun to reason, he will become feeble and confused.
One endowed with much Causality, in reading a work,
written by an author in whom this organ is deficient, will
feel it characterized by lightneBS and want of depth ; it will
furnish him with no stimulus to thinking. When, on the
other hand, a pel'BOD possessing only a small Causality,
peruses a book composed by an author in whom this or-
gao predominates, such as LocKE's Essays, or BRowN's
Lectures, he will regard it as heavy, abstract, and dry, and
be oppressed by it as if a night-mare were weighing on his
mind.
Among metaphysicians, HuME, Dr AnAM SMITH, and
Dr THOMAS BRowN display great Causality, Dr REID not
so much, and Mr STEWART still leBS. In the portraits of
the fint three the organ is represented as decidedly large.
It is large, also, in BAcoN, LocKE, FRANKLIN, and PLAY-
FAIR; and likewise in the masks of HAYDON, BuRK.E, BRu-
NEL, WoRDSWORTH, and WILKIE. It is moderate in PITT,
.Sir J. E. SMITH; and very deficient in the Charibs and New
Hollaodel'B. A late writer observes, that, " of whatever
has been said and written upon the moral and ·political
sciences in France, the general characteristic is a deficiency
in extensive views of human nature, in profound investi-
gation of the heart, pourtrayed in all its strongest feelings
• Edinburgh RevieW', Nov. 11120, p. 389.
H h
Digitized by Google
482 CAUSAI.ITY.
and multitudinous bearings •." Without subscribing to tlte
accuracy of this observation in its full extent, the fact may
be mentioned as certain, that, in the French head in gene.
raJ tiJe organ of Causality is by no means largly developed.
" The ancient artists," says Dr SPURZHEIM, " have given
to Jupiter a forehead more prominent than to any other an-
tique head; and hence it would seem they had observed,
that the de,·elopment of the forehead bas a relation to great
understanding." The bust of SoCRATES (of which the
Phrenological Society posseeses a copy), shows a very large
development of the reflecting organ&. It is either a correct
representation of his real appearance, and then it presents
an interesting coincidence betwixt his character and devel-
opment ; or it is supposititious, and, in that case, shews
the impression of the ancient artist, that such a mind as
that of SocRATES required such a tenement for its abode.
As already mentioned, when the organ now under con-
sideration is very deficient, the individual has great difficul-
ty in perceiving Causation ; and when two eventsare present,..
ed to him following each other or concomitant, he sees only
coincidence. Illustrations of this observation frequently
occur in discu88iona ·relative to Phrenology. When. Cau-
sality is well dc\·eloped in an observer, and several decided
instances of concomitance betwixt particular forms of head
and particular powers of mind are presented to him, the
feeling of connexion between them is. irresisbhle; he is
struck with it, and declares that there is 110mething. here
which ought to be followed out. When the same facts are
exhibitedto a person in whom Causality isdeficient, he smiles
surprizedly, and ejaculates "a curious coincidence;' but his
mind receives BO strong impression .of connexion between
the phenomena; it feels no desire to follow out the ideas to
their consequences, and has no wish to prosecute the inves-
tigation. It was from this cl888 of minds,. ever ready to
catch superficial glimpses, that the public r.eceiYed the first
accounts of Phrenology ; and on them is chargeable the
misrepresentations which so long impeded its course.
• Edinburgh Re,•lew; Nov. 1820, p. 389
oigi!lzed by Coogle
CAUSALITY. 488
This faculty is an ingredient in the judgment of the meta-
physicians. It is also, to a certain extent, the fountain of
abstract ideas, viz. those of the relation of cause and effect,
and bears, in this respect, an analogy to their abstraction.
It and Comparison correspond to the Relative Suggestion of
Dr THOMAS BRowN : " A tendency of the mind," says he,
" by which, on perceiving or conceiving o~jects together,
we are instantly impressed with certain feelings of their mu-
tual relation •." By dispensing lvith Perception, Concep-
tion, &c. as separate faculties of the mind, and dividing the
intellect into the two faculties of Simple Suggestion and Re-
lative Suggestion, Dr BROWN has made an interesting ap-
proach to tlte results of phrenological discovery, nod to a
correct analysis ofthe actual constitution of the human in-
tellect. It was impoBBible, by means of the old faculties of
Conception, &c. to point out the distinctive characteristics of
a mind which collected only facts in the order in which
they were presented to it; and of another, which struck out
a multitude of new ideas from every object which it con-
templated, and instinciively inquired from what causes all
phenomena proceed, and to what results they tend. Dr
BRowN's Simple Suggestion denotes the one, his Relative
Suggestion the other; and in Phrenology, the Perceptive
Faculties correspond to the former, and the Reflecting
Powers to the latter.
We are now prepared to consider some points which have
occasioned great and animated discussions among the philo-
sophers of the old schools. It has been stated, that Indivi-
duality takes cognizance of objects that exist. A tree, a
ship, a mountain are presented to the mind ; and ideas
or conceptions of them are formed; and the conception
is followed by an instinctive belief in their existence.
Bishop BERKELEY objects to the belief in their existence as
unphilosophical, because, says he, the conception or idea is
a mere mental affection, and no principle or reason can be
assigned, why an external object must be believed to
• J..ectures, vol. iiL p. J._
H h 2
Digitized by Google
...
484 CAUSALITY.
exist, merely because we experience a mental affection.
A Hmell, for example, is nothing more than a certain
impret~t~ion on the mind, communicated through the ol-
factory nerves. But no necessary connexion can be per-
ceived between this affection and a belief in the t»xistence
of a rose : the mind may undergo the affection called a
smelJ, just as it experiences the emotion called joy, and a
material ohject may have as little to do in causing the one
as the other. Hence Dr BERKELEY concluded, that we
have philosophical evidence for the existence only of mind
and mental affections, and none for the existence of the
material world. HuME carried this farther, and argued,
that as we are conscious only of ideas, and as the existence
of ideas does not necessarily imply the existence of mind,
we have philosophical evidence for the existence of ideas
only, and none for that of either matter or mind. Dr REI o
answered BERKELEY•s objection by observing, that the be-
lief in external objects, consequent on per<'eiving them, is
instinctive, and hence requires no reason for its support.
Phrenology enables us to refer these different specula-
tions to their sources, in the different faculties. Individua-
lity (aided by the other pereeptive faculties), in virtue of
its constitution, perceives the eAternal world, and produces
intuitive belief in its existence. Dut BERKELEY employed
the faculty of Causality to discover why it is that this per-
ception is followed by belief; and because Causality could
give no account of the matter, and could see no necessary
connexion between the mental affection, called Perception,
and the existence of external nature, lae denied the latter.
Dr REio•s answer, translated into phrenological language,
was simply this,-the cogni?..ance of the existence of the
outward world belongs to Individuality; Individuality bas
received its own constitution, and its own functions, and
cannot legitimately be called on to explain, or account
for these, to Causality. In virtue of its constitution, it
perceives external objects, and belief in them follows; and
if Causality cannot see haw this happens, it is a proof that
Digitized by Google
CAUSALITY. 485
Causality'~; J)()Wers arc limited, but not tl1at Individuality
is deceitful in its indications.
Another class of philosophers, by an error of a similar
kind, have denied Causation. When Eventuality contem-
plates the relation of cause and effect, it discovers only one
event following another, in immediate and invariable se-
quence: For example, ifa cannon be fired, and theshotko~k
down a wall, Individuality observes only the existence of
the powder, E,·entuality perceives the fire applied to it, the
explosion, and the fall of the building, as four events fol-
lowing in succession ; but it forms no idea of power or
energy in the gunpowder, when ignited, to produce the ef-
fect. When Causality, on the other hand, is joined with
Eventuality in contemplating these phenomena, the impres-
sion of power or ~ in the gunpowder to produce
the explosion, arises spontaneously in the mind, and Cau-
Rality produces an intuitive belief in the existence of this
efficiency, just because it is its constitution to do so; and
it is as absurd for Eventuality to deny the exilitence of some
quality in the matter which gives r~ to this feeling, be-
cause only Causality perceives it, as for Causality to deny
the existence of the external world, because only Indivi-
duality perceives it.
A practical application of much importance follows from
these doctrines.
Some men deny the existence of Gon; and others stre-
nuously maintain, that that existence is demonstrable by a
legitimate exercise of reason. The former, who deny Gon,
say, that all we perceive in external nature is existence and
the BUCCeBsion of phenomena ; that we can form no idea
of efficiency or power; and that, therefore, all we know
philosophically is, that matter exists, and undergoes cer-
tain changes. This is the natural conclusion of men in
whose heads Individuality and Eventuality are large, and
Causality small ; and, accordingly, Atheists are general- 4~
ly very deficient in the organ of Causality, and shew its
weakness in their general arguments on other topics. If,
Digitized by Google
486 CAUSALITY.
on the other hand, a mind in which CaUiality ls very
powerful, surveys the phenomena of nature, the conviction
of a Cause of them arises irresistibly and intuitively from
the mere exercise of the faculty. Benevolence and design,
in the arrangements of the moral and physical world, are
clearly perceived by it ; and it therefore instinctively in-
fers, that Ben~ity and Intelligence are attributes of the
Cause which produced them. Hence the fact is phrenolo-
gically explained, why all master spirits are believers in
Gon. SocRATES, PLATo, and the ancient philosophers, are
represented as endowed with large organs of Causality; and
they aU admitted a Deity. VoLTAIRE had too large a Cau-
sality to doubt of the existence of Gon; and FRANKLIN
continued to reverence the Supreme Being, although he
had renounced Christianity.
To some who, pet·haps for the sake of argument, have
seemed inclined to deny the existence of a Deity, I have
made the following appeal, without receiving any satisfac-
tory answer :-A tree with roots exists ; the earth exists;
and there is exquisite adaptation of the one to the other.
The adaptation is not a quality of the tree, nor of the earth;
but a relation between them. It has no physical existence,
but is clearly apprehended by mind. Mind, therefore, must
have contrived it ; and this mind we call the Deity. Cau-
sality perceives the adaptation.
Another argument resorted to by atheists finds an an-
swer in the principles now explained. They object that
we have no evidence of the self-ezistence of Gon ; and af-
firm, that, for any thing we know to the contrary, the Ma-
ker of the world may himself owu a superior, and have been
created. Their objection is stated in this form : " You who
believe in Gon infer his existence from seeing hill works,
en the principle that every effect must have a cause.
But," say they, "this Being himself is an ejfect. You have
no evidence from reason of his self-existence, or self-creation;
and as he does exist, you must assign a cause ofhim, on the
same principle that you regard him as the cause of the ma-
Digitized by Google
CAUSALITY. 487
terial creation." The atheists carry this argument the
length of a denial of Gon altogether, in respect that it is
only thejirlt CIJU8e that, according to them, can be entitled
to be regarded as Deity; and the first cause, say they, is to
us unknown.
This speculation may be answeredas follows : Individua-
lity perceive8 eziBtmce directly, and Causality infers qualities
from their manifestations. To be able to judge thoroughly
of any object, botA of these faculties require to be employed
on it. When a watch, for example, is presented, lndivi-
~uality, and the other Knowing Faculties, perceive its
wheels, spring, lever, &c. 8Jld Causality discerns their ob-
ject or design. If the question is put, Whence did the
watch proceed ? From the nature of its materials, as per-
ceived by the knowing faculties, Causality infers that it
could not make itself; and from discovering intelligence
and design in the adaptation of its parts, this faculty con·
eludes, that its Cause must. have possessed these qualities,
and therefore assigns its production to an intelligent artifi-
cer. Suppose the statement to be next made,..;.." This
artificer himself is an existence; and every existence must
have a cause, Who, then, made the watchmaker?" In this
case, if no farther information were presented to Causality
than what it could obtain by contemplating the structure of
the watch, the answer would necessarily be, that it could
not tell. But let the artificer, or man, be submitted to the
joint obeervation of Individuality and Causality, and let the
question be then put, Who made him ?-Individuality and
the knowing powers, by examining the structure of his
body, would present Causality with data from which it
could unerringly infer, that, although it perceived in him
intelligence and power sufficient to make the watch, yet,
from the nature of his constitution, he could not possibly
make himself. Proceeding in the investigation, Causality,
still aided by the knowing faculties, would perceive farther
the most striking indications of power, benevolence, and
design in the human frame; and from contemplating these,
3
Digitized by Google
488 CAUSALITY.
it would arrive at a complete conviction, that the watchma-
ker is the workmanship of a great, powerful, and intelligent
Being. If, however, the question were repeated, " Whence
did this Being proceed ?" Causality could not answer. It
would then be in a situation similar to that in which it
would be.placed, if required to tell, from seeing the watch
alone, who made the watchmaker. Individuality cannot
observe the substance of the Maker of the human body ;
and none of the perceptive faculties can reach him. His
existence is the object of Causality alone; and all that it can
accomplish is to infer his existence, and his qualities or at-
tributes, from perceiving their manifestations. I have stated
the argument in the plainest language, but with perfect re-
verence ; and we are arrived at the conclusion, that this
faculty is silent as to the cause of the Creator of man,
and cannot tell wb~tber be is self-existent, or called into
being by some higher power; but thus far it can go, and it
draws its conclusions unhesitatingly, that be must exist, and
must possess the attrihutes which it perceives manifested in
his works ; and these points being certain, it declares that
be is Gon to tu; that he is our Creator and Preserver; that
all his qualities, so far as it c.an discover, merit our pro-
foundest respect and admiration ; and that, therefore, be
is to man the highest and most legitimate object of vene-
•·ation and worship.
The organ is established.
Digitized by Google
489
-
MODES OF ACTIVITY OF THE FACUL-
TIES.
ALL the faculties, when active in a due degree, produce
actions good, proper, or necessary. It is excess of activity
that occasions abuses ; and it is probable that Phrenology
has been discovered only in consequence of some indivi-
duals, in whom particular organs were very largely de-
veloped, yielding to the strongest propensities of their na-
ture. The smallness of a particular organ is not the cause
of a faculty producing abuses. Thus, though the organ of
Benevolence be small, this does not occasion cruelty ; but,
as it will be accompanied with indifference to the miSeries
of others, it may lead to the omission of duties. When,
also, one organ is small, abuses may result from another
being left without proper restraint. Thus, powerful facul-
ties of Acquisitiveness and Secretiveness, combined with
weak faculties of Reflection and Conscientiousness, may, in
certain circumstances, lead to theft. Powerful Combative-
ness and Destructiveness, with weak Benevolence, may pro-
duce cruel and ferocious actions.
Every faculty, when in action, from whatever cause,
produces the kind of feeling, or forms the kind of ideas,
already explained as resulting from its natural constitu-
tion.
.The faculties of the PROPENSITIES and SENTI-
MENTS cannot be excited te activity by a mere act of the
wiJJ. For example, we cannot conjure up the emotions of
Fear, Compassion, Veneration, by merely willing to expe-
rience them. These faculties, however, may enter into ac-
tion from an internal excitement of the organs; and then
the desire or emotion which each produces is experienced,
whether we will to experience it or not. Thus, the cere-
bellum being internally active, produces the corresponding
Digitized by Google
-
490 :!\-lODES OF ACTIVITY
feeling; and this cannot be avoided if the organ be excited.
We have it in our power to permit or restrain the mani-
festation of it in action ; but we have no option, if the or-
gan be excited, to experience, or not to experience, the
feeling itself. The case iR the same with the organs of
Fear, Hope, Veneration, and the others. There are times
when we feel involuntary emotions of fear, or hope, or
awe, arising in us, for which we cannot account ; and such
feelings depend on the internal activit)' of the organs of
theae sentiment& '
" We cannot Nature by our wishes rule,
Nor at our will, her warm emotions cool."
CuuE.
In the second place, these faculties may be called into ac-
tion independently of the will, by the .presentment of the
external objects fitted by nature to excite them. When an
object in distress is presented, the faculty of Benevolence
starts into activity, and produces the feelings which de-
pend upon it. When an object threatening danger is per-
ceived, Cautiousness gives an instantaneous emotion of
fear. And when s~upendous objects in nature are con-
templated, Ideality inspires with. a feeling of sublimity.
In all these cases, the power of acting, or of not acting, is
dependent on the will ; but the power of feeling, or of not
feeling, is not so.
"It s~ms an unaccountable pl~ure," says HuME •,
which the spectators of a well-written tragedy r~ive
from sorrow, terror, anxiety, and other passions, that are
in themselves disagreeable 8.!il Wleasy. The more they are
touched and affected, the mdi-e are they delighted with the
spectacle. The whole art of the poet is employed in rous-
ing and supporting the compassion and indignation, the
anxiety and resentment of his audience. They are pleased
in proportion as they are afflicted, and never are so happy
as when they employ tears, sobs and cries, to give vent to
• Eseay 22.
Digitized by Google
OF PROPENSITIES AND SENTIMENTS. 491
their sorrow, and relieve their hearts, swollen with tho ten-
derest sympathy and compassion."
Many volumes have been written to solve this problem.
Those authors who deny the existence of benevolent and
disinterested feelings in man, maintain, that we sympathize
with Cato, OthelJJJ, or King Lear, becaose we conceive the
possibility of ourselves being plaeed in similaT ·situations,.
and that then all the feelings arise in us which we would
experience, if we were ourselve8 sutfering under similar ca-
lamities. Mr S'l'EWART, who, on the other hand, admits
the existence of generous emotions in the human mind,
states it as his theory, that we, for an instant, believe the
distress to be real ; and under this belief feel the compas-
sion which would naturally start up in our bosoms, if the
!luft"erings represented were actually endured. A subse-
quent act of judgment, he says, dispels, in an almost im-
perceptible portion of time, the illusion, and restrains the
mind from acting under the emotion ; which, if the belief
of reality continued, it would certainly do, by running to
the reliefof the oppressed hero or heroine; but still he con-
siders that a momentary belief is neeessary to call up the
emotions which we experience.
The phrenological doctrine just delivered appears to me
to furnish the true explanation. ·Each propensity and sen.
'imeot may be called into activity by presentment of its
object, and, when active, the corresponding feeling or emo-
tion attends it, in virtue of its constitution. Happiness
con~ists in the hahnonious gratification·ofall the faculties ;
and the very es&encc of gratification is activity. "Thus
the mUScular system," says Dr A. CoMBE, "is gratified by
motion, and pleasure arises ; 'the eye is gratified by looking
at external objects ; ·CombativeneM, by overcoming ·oppo-
sition ; Destructiveness, by the sight of destruction, and
the infliction of pain ; Benevolence, by the relief of suft'er-
iog ; Hope, by looking forward to a happy futurity ; Cau-
tiousness, by a certain degree of uncertain\y and anxiety,
&e. As the degree of enjoyment correspond.-to the num-
Digitized by Google
492 MODES OF ACTIVITY
her of faculties simultaneously active and gratified, it fol-
lows, that a tragic scene, which affords a direct stimulus to
several of the faculties, at the same moment, muat be agree-
able, whatever these may be ;-lst, If it does not aL the
same time, outrage any of the other feelings ; 2dlg, If it
does not excite any faculty so intensely as to give rise to
pain ; just u too much light hurts the eyes, and too much
exertion fatigues the muscles." In the play of Pizarro, for
example, when the child is introduced, its aspect and situa-.
tion instantly excite Philoprogenitiveness, and individuals
possessing this organ largely, feel an intense interest in
it ;-the representation of danger to which it is exposed
rouses Cautiousness, producing fear for ita safety; when
Bol/4 saves it, this fear is allayed, Philoprogenitivenesa
is highly delighted, Benevolence also is gratified ; and
the excitement of these faculties is pleasure. All this
internal emotion takes place simply in consequence of
the constitution of the faculties, and the relation establish-
ed by nature betwixt them and their objects, without the
understanding requiring to be imposed upon, or to form
any theory about the scenes, whether they are real or fic-
titious. A picture raises emotions of sublimity or beauty
on the same principles. " The cloud-capt towers and gor-
geous palaces" are fitted by nature to excite Ideality,
Wonder, and Veneration; and these being active, certain
emotions of delight are experienced. When a very accu-
rate representation of these towers and palaces is pre-
sented on canvas, their appearance in the picture excites
tho same faculties into action, wbieh their natural linea-
ments would call up, and the same pleasures kindle in the
soul. But what would we think, if Mr STEwART assured
us that we required to believe the paint and the canvas to
be real stone and lime, and the figures to be real men and
women, before ·we could enjoy the scene ? And yet this
would be as reasonable as the same doctrine applied to tra-
gedy. We may weep at a tragedy represented on canvas,
and know all the while that there are only colours and
Digitized by Google
PROPENSITIES AND SENTIMENTS. 493
forms before us. On tho same principle we may shed tears
at seeing a tragedy acted, which is just a representation, by
means of words and gestures, of objects calculated to rouse
the faculties, and yet suffer no delusion respecting tlte rea-
lity of the piece.
If the propensities and sentiments become excessively ac-
tive from these representations, they may overpower the
intellect ; a temporary belief may follow ; and the fooling
will be tlte stronger ; but, in thi11 case, it appears to me,
tl1at the strong emotion does not arise from a previous i/Ju-
Bion of the understanding ; but ~hat misconception in tlte
intellect is the ccmsequence of the feelings having become
overwhelming.
The law of our constitution now explained, accounts also
for several of the phenomena of insanity. All the organs
are liable to become Yiolently and inyoluntarily active
tJ.rough disease; this produces mental excitement, or vio-
lent desires, to act in tbe direction of the diseased organs.
If CombativenCRS and Destructiveness be affected in this
manner, madness or fury, which is just an irresistible pro-
pensity to violence and outrage, will ensue. If the organ
of Cautiousness become involuntarily and permanently ac-
tive through disease, fear will constantly be felt, and this
constitutes melancholy. If Veneration and Hope be ex-
cited in a similar way, the result will be involuntary emo-
tions of devotion, the liveliest joy and anticipations of
bliss; which feelings, fixed and immoveable, amount to
religious insanity. It frequently happens that a patient is
insane on a single feeling alone, such as Fear, Hope, or
Veneration, and that, if the sphere of acthity of this feel-
ing be avoided, the understanding on other subjects shall
be sound, and tl1e general conduct of the patient rational
and consistent. Thus, a person insane in Self-Esteem,
sometimes imagines himself a King; but on all other topics
he may e'ince sound sense, and consecutiveness of judg-
ment. This results from the organs of intellect being
sound, and only the organ of Self-Esteem diseased. Some-
Digitized by Google
494 MODES OF ACTIVITY
times well-meaning individuals, struck with tlae clearness
of the understanding in such patients, set themselves to
point out, by means of argument, the erroneous nature of
the notions under which they suffer, supposing that, if they
could convinr.e their intellect of the mistake, the disease
would be cured; but the malady consists in an unhealthy
action of the organ of a sentiment ot• propensity, and as
lotig as the disease lasts, the insane feeling, which is the
basis of the whole mental alienation, will remain, and ~r­
gument will do as little to remove it, as a speech in re-
moving gout from the toe.
The converse of the doctrine now explained, also holds
good ; that is to say, if the orwm be not active, the propen-
sity or emotion connected with .it cannot be felt ; just as
we cannot hear a sound when the auditory apparatus is not
excited by the air.
The most important practical consequences may be de-
rived from this exposition of our mental constitution. The
larger any organ is, the more is it prepared to come into
activity, and the smaller, the less so. Hence an indivi-
dual prone to violence, to excessive pride, Yanity, or ava-
rice, is the victim of an unfavourable development of
brain ; and in our treatment of him we ought to bear this
fact constantly in mind. If we had wished, for example, to
render BELLINGHAM mild, the proper proceeding would
haTe been, not to abuse him for being ill-tempered, for
this would have directly excited his Destructiveness, the
largeness of which was the cause of his wrath, but to ad-
dress ourselves to his Benevoleuce, Vencrationa and Intel-
lect, that, by rousing them, we might assuage the vehe-
mence of Destructiveness. In a case like that of DAVID
HAGGART, in whom Conscientiousness was very deficient, we
ought always to bear in mind, that in regard to feeling the
obligation ofjustice, such an individual is in the same state
of unhappy deficiency as Mr MILNE is in perceiving co-
lours, and ANNE ORMEROD in perceiving melody; and our
treatment ought to correspond. We would ·never think of
Digitized by Google
OF PROI>ENSITlES AND SENTllfENTS. 495
supplying ANNE ORMEROD's deficiency of Tunc by harsh
treatment; and if HAGGART's Conscientiousness was natu-
rally as deficient, we could as little have succeeded in ena-
bling him to feel and act justly by mere severity of punish-
ment. The reasonable plan in such eases is, fi~t, to place
the indiYidua1 in circumstances as little as possible requir.;
ing the exercise of the deficient' faculty ; nono place ANNE
OaMEROD in a band of singers; nor one like D.A'VID HAG-
GART in a confidential situation, where property is entrust.;
ed to him. Iil the next i>face, to present to an the orgims
of the higher sentiment& which he possesses largely d~
veToped, motives· calculated to control the propensitie~
so as to supply, a8 much as poesible, the place of the feeble
Conscientiousness.
If the principle· that large organs give strong desires,
an(l small organs weak impulses, be correct, . Phreno-
logy ·must be calculated in an eminent degree to be
practiCally useful in' society. · If, in choosing a 'servan4
we are afraid or ashamed to examine the head,·and light
upon one with a brain e:rlremely deficient, 'like tliat· of
MARY MAciNNEs;and if certain strong animal feelings ac-
company this development, we ehaJl unquestionably sufFer
great annoyance as the consequence. If we select a ser-
vant very deficient in Conscientiousne88 'as a child's"maid,
she will labour tinder a natural blindness to truth, and not
only lie herself, but teach the children entrusted tO her
care this abominable vice. If a merchant selects a clerk
witb a head like DAvin HAGGART's, and places money at
hiS dispost\1, the mong animal feelings, unrestrained by
Conscientiousness, will prompt him to embezzle it. It is
incredible·to what 'an extent' evils might be mitigated, or
prevented in society, by the practical applieation of this
principle. I have applied it in ·the selection of· servantS
with great·admtage.
In the next place; if the preseniment of the 'object of a
faculiy rouses it into instant activity, as sufFering bene-
volence, or danger fear, this becomes a highly important
principle in the edueation o£ children. If we put on the
Digitized by Google
496 MODES OF ACTIVITY
natural language of Destructiveness and Self-Esteem in our
intercourse with them, we shall cultivate those very facul-
ties in their minds, by exciting the organs ; if we manifest
Benevolence and Veneration in their presence, we shall
excite the same faculties in them ; if we discourse con-
stantly about money, the desire of increasing it, and the
fear of losing it, we shall stimulate the organs of Acquisi-
tiveness, and Self-Esteem in them, and increase the power
of these prGpensities.
In the third place, The faculties of which we are now
speaking may be excited to activity, or repressed, indirect-
ly, by an effort of the will. Thus, the Knowing and Re-
Booting Faculties have the function of forming ideas. If
these faculties be employed to conceive internally objects
fitted by nature to excite the propensities and sentiments,
the latter will start into activity in the same manner, but
not with so much intensity as if their appropriate objects
were externally present. For example, if we conceive in-
wardly an object in distreu, and Benevolence be powerful,
compassion will be felt, and tears will sometimes flow from
the emotion produced. In like manner, if we wish to repress
the activity of Ideality, we cannot do so merely by willing
.that the sentiment be quiet; but if we conceive objects fit-
ted to excite Veneration, Fear, Pride, or Benevolence,
these faculties will then be excited, and Ideality will sink
into inactivity. The vivacity of the feeling, in such cases,
will be in proportion to the.strength of the conception, and
the energy of the propensities and sentiments together.
Hence he who has any propensity or sent~ent predo-
minantly active from internal excitement of the organ, will
have his intellect filled with conceptions fitted to gratify
it; or, in other words, the habitual subjects of thought in
the mind are determined by the organs which are predo-
minantly active from internal excitement. If the cerebel·
lum be permanently active, the individual will be prone to
collect pictures, books and anecdotes, fitted to gratify this
feeling; his mind will be much occupied with such ideas,
and they wiJI afford him delight. If, in another indivi-
Digitized by Google
OJ:.' PROPENSITIES AND SENTIMENTS. 497
dual, Constructiveness, Ideality and Imitation, be inter-
nally active, he will desire to see picturN, busts, and
works of art, in which skill, beauty and expression, are
combined. He will kno\v much about such objects, be
fond of possessing them, and of talking of them. If, in
another individual, Acquisitiveness be internally active,
he will feel a great and natural interest in all matters eon-
nected with wealth, and be inspired with an eager curio-
sity to know the profits of different branches of trade, and
the property possessed by different individuals. If Benevo-
lence be internally active, the mind will run habitually on
schemes of philanthropy, such as those of HowARD, Mr
OWEN, or Mrs FRY. In these cases, the liAing for the ob-
ject or pursuit depends upon the particular propensities or
sentiments which are active; the intellectual faculties serve
as the ministering instruments of their gratification.
These principles explain readily the great variety of
tastes and dispositions among mankind; for in no two in-
dividuals is exactly the same combination of organs to be
found, and hence every one is inspired with feelings in
some degree peculiar to himself, and desires objects fitted
for his special gratification•
.AB the faculties of the Propensities and Sentiments do
not form Ideas, and as it is impossible to excite or recal
directly by an act of the will, the feelings or emotions pro-
duced by them, it follows that these faculties have not the
attributes of Perception, Conception, Memory, Imagina-
tion : They have the attribute of Sensation alone; that is
to say, wh~n they are activ.e, a sensation or emotion is
experienced. Hence Sensation is an accompaniment of
the activity of all the faculties which feel, and of the
nervous system in general ; but sensation is not a faculty
itself.
The laws of the KNOWING and REFLECTING facul-
ties are different: These faculties form Ideas, and perceive
Relations; they are subject to the will, or l'Bther constitute
1 i
Digitized by Google
4~8 MODES OF ACTIVITY
will themselves, and minister to the gratification of the
other faculties which only feel.
181, These faculties, also, may be active from internal ex-
citement of the organs, and then the kinds of ideas which
they are fitted to form are presented involuntari11 to the
mind. The musician feels the notes flowing on him uncall-
ed for. A man in whom Number is powerful and active
calculates by a natural impulse. He in whom Form is
vigorous, conceives figures by internal inspiration. He in
whom Causality is powerful and active, reasons while he
thinks, without an effort. He in whom Wit is energetic.-.,
feels witty conceptions flowing into his mind spontaneous-
ly, and even at times and places when he would wish them
not to appear.
2dlg, These faculties may be excited by the presentation of
external objects fitted to call them into activity ; and,
Sdlg, They may be excited to activity by an act of volition.
When excited by the presentation of external objects, the
objects are PERCEIVED, and this act is called PERCEPTION.
Perception is the lowest degree of activity of these faculties;
and if no idea is formed when the object is presented, the
individual is destitute of the power of manifesting the facul-
ty, whose function is to perceive objects of that kind. Thus,
when tones are produced, he who cannot perceive the melo·
dy of them, is destitute of the power of manifesting the fa-
culty of Tune. When a coloured object is presented, and
the individual cannot perceive, so as to distinguish, the tints,
he is destitute of the power of manifesting the faculty of
colour. When the steps of an argument are logieally and
distinctly stated, be who cannot perceive the relation be-
twixt the steps, and the necessity of the conclusion, is des-
titute of the power of manifesting the faculty of Causality;
and so on. Thus Perception is a mode ofaction ofthe facul-
ties which form ideas, and implies the lowest degree of ac-
tivity; but Perception is not a separate faculty.
This doctrine is not theoretical, but is c1ear1y indicated
Digitized by Google
OF INTEI.LECTUAL FACULTIES, 499
by facts. In the case mentioned by Mr HooD •, a patient
having lost the memory of words, yet enjoyed perception of
their meaning. He understood language spoken by others,
or, in other words, the organ of Language retained so much
of its power as to enable him to perceive the meaning of
words when presented to his mind, but so Jittle of its ener-
gy as not to be adequate to the act of recalling words by an
act of his will, so as to express his thoughts. The case of
Mr FERGUSON t is another in point. He enjoyed so great a
degree of the· organ of Size as to enable him to perceive
distance when natural scenery was presented to his mind,
but so little as to be quite unable to recollect it, when the
objects were withdrawn. Mr SLoANE :t: is in a similar situa~
tion in regard to colouring. He perceives the differences of
hues when they are presented to his eyes, but has so little
of the organ that he does not recolleet, so as to be Jtble to
name, them separately. Many persons are in a similar con-
dition in regard to music ; they perceive melody and enjoy
it, when presented to the ear, but have so little of the facul-
ty of Tune R8 to be unable to recal the notes after they have
ceased to be heard. The same hold in regard to the re-
flecting powers. Many persons possess faculties acute and
vigorous enough to perceive an argument, if placed before
them, who are quite incapable of inventing it themselves.
Here, again, a highly valuable practical result presents
itself. If we place a person with a forehead like FRASER's,
in whom the reflecting organs are deficient, in a situation,
or apply to him for advice in circumstances, requiring great
natural ~ity and depth of intellect, we ahall R88uredly
be disappointed; whereas, if we npply to one having such a
combination as Dr FRANKLIN, in whom reflection was very
large, there will be much more of the instinctive capacity
of tracing out beforehand the probable chain of Causation,
and anticipating the effects of measures which we propose
to follow. FRASER might shew good sense and sound judg-
• Page 468. t Page390. ;:Page 403.
I j 2
Digitized by Google
500 - MODES OF .ACTIVITY
ment after the consequences were pointed out to him, be-
cause he pouesses development sufficient to give him percep-
tion of causation when presented; but he could not, like
FRANKLIN, anticipate effects, as this is a higher power.
According to this view of Perception, which regards it as
the lowest state of activity of every intellectual faculty, an
individual may possess acute powers of perception as to one
class ofobjects, and be quite unable to perceive others. Thus
Mr MILNE bad an acute perception of form, although he
cannot perceive some colours; other individuals perceive
symmetry distinctly who cannot perceive melody. This
exposition has the merit of coinciding with nature ; for we
frequently meet with such examples as I have now cited.
The metaphysicians, on the other hand, treatofperception
as a general faculty, and when their doctrine is applied to
nature, the extraordinary spectacle is presented of their ge-
neral power performing in the same individual half its func-
tions with great effect, while it is wholly inefficient as to
the other half; just as if a leg could walk east and be quite
incapable of walking west. Dr THOMAS BROWN has aban-
doned this absurdity; and differs from REID, STEWART, and
all his predecessors, in denying perception to be any thing
more than an act of the general power of the mind. We
call it an act of several special faculties of the mind; but
with these Dr BROWN was not acquainted.
CONCEPTION. When the Knowing or Reflecting or-
gans are powerfully active from internal excitement, whe-
ther by the will or from natural activity, ideas are vi-
vidly and rapidly conceived ; and the act of forming them
is styled CONCEPTION; if the act amounts to a very high
degree of vivacity, it is called IMAGINATION. Thus
pet·ception is the lowest degree of activity of any of these
faculties excited by an external object ; and conception or
imagination are higher degrees of activity depending on in-
ternal causes, and without the interference of an external
~bject. Each faculty performs the act of conception in its
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 501
own sphere. Thus, if one person have a powerful organ
of Tune, he is able to conceive, or call up in his own mind,
the notes of a tune, when no instrument is sounding in his
ears. If his organ of Form be very small, he may not be
able to bring shapes before his mind with equal facility.
Some persons read music like a book, the written sign of
a note being sufficient to enable them to call up the im-
pression of the note itself in their minds. This is a very
high degree of activity of the faculty. Temperament has
a great effect on internal activity; the lymphatic tempe-
rament requires external objects to rouse it to vivid action,
while the sanguine and nervous glow with spontaneous
.and constitutional vivacity. Hence imagination, which
results from a high degree of activity, is rarely found with
a temperament purely lymphatic, but becomes exalted in
proportion to the approach of the temperament to the ner-
vous.
In treating of Colouring, I cited a passage from Mr
STEwART, in which, after stating the fact that some men
are able to distinguish different tints when presented toge-
ther, who cannot name them when separate, he attributes
this want of discrimination to defect in the power of concep-
tion, probably arising, be supposes, from early habits of in-
attention. So far be is correct : an individual like Mr
SLOANE may be found, whose organ of Colouring enables
him to distinguish hues when seen in juxta-position, and is
yet so weak as not to give him conception or memory of
them when seen apart, and this would certainly indicate a
deficient power of conception; but then the power of con-
ception may be deficient in this faculty alone, and very vi.
gorous in all the others. On Mr STEwART's principle, that
conception is a general power, we would have the anomaly
of its performing one portion of its functions well, while
deficient as to another, which defect is accounted for by
him, by supposing early habits of inattention ; whereas if a
faculty be naturally strong, it eagerlyattends to its objects,
just u a vigorous and empty stomach desires food.
Digitized by Google
502 1\IODES OF ACTIVITY
When any of the Knowing or Reflecting organs is inter-
n&lly ctive, the mind conceives, or is presented with ideas
of the objects which it is fitted to perceive. Thus Locality,
Colouring, and Size, being active, we are able, with our
eyes closed, to conceive a landscape in all its details of hill
and dale, sunshine and shade. If this internal activity. be-
come morbid, through disease of the organs, then ideas be-
come fixed, and remain involuntarily in the mind ; and iC
this is long continued, it constitutes insanity. Many per-
sons have experienced, when in the dark, vivid impressions
of figures of every variety of colour and form passing be-
fore the mind, sometimes invested in alarming brilliancy
and vivacity. I conclude that this arises from an internal
excitement of the organs situated at the superciliary ridge,
viz. Form, Locality, Colouring, &c. occasioned generally
by an unusual accumuJation of blood. This affection is, in
most instances, only momentary ; but suppose that it were
to become fixed and continuous, then the mind would be
haunted with permanent and vivid conceptions of innu-
merable and fantastic beings, investE'd with more than the
forms and hues of reality. This would be insanity; not a
diseased feeling, such as melancholy, or fury, or religious
joy, but an intellectual delusion; so that every sentiment
might be sound, and yet this aberration of intellect remain
fixed and immoveable by the will. If we suppose this dis-
ease to take place in several Knowing organs, leaving the
organs of Reflection entire, it is quite possible to imagine
that the individual may have false perceptions on some
points, and not only be eane on all others, but be able, by
means of the faculties that remain unaffected, to distinguish
the erroneous impressions.
The phenomena of apparitions, or spectral illusions, may
be accounted for by the principles now explained. If se-
veral organs become active through internal excitement,
they produce involuntary conceptions of outward objects,
invested in all the attributes of Form, Colour, and Size,
which usually distinguish reality. ·Several interesting ex-
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 508
amples of this a.fl'ection are given in the Phrenological
Journal•.
The Knowing organs, and the organ of Wonder, seem to
be the chief seats of these diseased perceptions, which ap-
pears obvious from the descriptions of the apparitions
themselvl'S. Thus NICOLAI, the Berlin bookseller, saw the
form as of a deceased person within eight steps of him-
vast numbers of human and other forms equally in the day
and night-crowds of both sexes-people on horseback,
birds and dogs-of natural size, and distinct as if alive,-
of natural colour, but paler than reality. ' He then begm&
to hear tAem talk. On being blooded with leeches, the
room was crowded with spectres-in a few hours their
cokJur began to fade, but in a few more they were white.
They dissolved in air, and fragments of them were visible
for some time. Dr ALDERSON of Hull furnishes two other
cases. Mr R. left his wife and family in America, but
saw them and conversed with them in this country-saw
trains of living and dead persons-in a bright brQIJIJ Wck
again saw his transatlantic friends, and always in that
lock-had violent headach. A pothouse-keeper in Hull
saw a soldier in his cellar whom he endeavoured to seize,
but found an illusion-attempted to take up oysters from
the ground, which were equally unreal-saw crowds of the
living and dead-scarcely knew real from spectral custom-
ers-suffered repeated flogging from a waggoner with a
whip, who was an illusion. In VoL II. of the Journal,
page Ill, is given the case of a man in the west of Scot-
land, with a large organ of Wonder, who sees inanimate
things and persons in visions-had a spotted carpet for a
long time before his eyes-a funeral-a log of wood on
wheels. His son has the same tendency-he followed a
beggar, who glided and vanished into a wall. All these
perceptions are clearly referrible to the Knowing organs.
Mr SIMPSON has ,communicated to the Phrenological
Journal the following case, which is particularly interest-
• VoL i. p. 441, and voL ii. pp. 111, 293, 361.
Digitized by Google
504 MODES OF ACTIVITY
ing and instructive. Concomitance of pain in the precise
seats of the organs, with disorder of their functions, forOUJ
a striking feature in it ; and the author states, that he is
ready to afford the mearis of verification of the facts to any
philosophical inquirer.
" Miss S. L.," says Mr SIMPSON, "a young lady, under
twenty years of age, of good family, well educated, free
from any superstitious fears, and in perfect general health
of body and soundness of mind, has nevertheless been for
some years occasionally troubled, both in the night and in
the day, with visions of persons and inanimate objects, in
almost all the modes and forms which we have already
related. She was early subject to such illusions occasional-
ly, and the first she remembers was that of a carpet spread
out in the air, which descended near her, and vanished
away.
"After an interval of some years, she began to see hu-
man figures in her room as she lay wide awake in bed, even
in the daylight of the morning. These figures were whit-
i8h, or rather greyand transparent like cobweb, and generally
above the 8ize of life. At this time she had acute headache,
very singularly confined to one small spot of the head; on
being asked to point out the spot, the utmost care being
taken not to lead her to the answer, our readers may judge
of our feelings as phrenologists, when she touched with her
fore-finger and thumb, each side of tlte root of tlte no&e, tlte
commencement of tlte eyebrows, and tlte spot immediokly over
the top oftlte 1WBe, tlte ascertained aeat8oftlte organs ofForm,
Size, and Lower Individuality I Here, particularly on each
side of the root of the nose, she said the sensation could
only be compared to that of running sharp knives into the
part. The pain increased when she held her head down,
and was much relieved by holding her face upwards •.
Miss S. L. on being asked if the pain was confined to that
spot, answered, that some time afterwards tlte pain e:rlentkd
• Quere,-Doe& not this look like a pressure of blood on that region of
the brain?
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 505
lo rigid and kft along tAe eyebrows, and a little olxnJe tAem,
and completely round tAe eyes, whichfelt often as ifthey would
burst from tl&eir sockets. When this happened, her visions
were varied precisely as the phrenologist would have anti-
ci~, and she detailed the progress without a single lead-
ing question. Weight, Colouring, Order, Numher, Locality,
all became affected; and let us observe what happened.
The whitish or cobweb spectres assumed the natural colour
CJf the objects, but they continued often to present them-
selves, though not always, above the size of life She saw
a beggar one day out of doors, natural in size and colour,
who ,•anished as she came up to the spot. Colouring, being
over-excited, began to occasion its specific and fantastica1
illusions. Bright spots, like stars on a black ground, filled
the room in the dark, and even in daylight; and sudden and
sometimes gradual illumination of the room during the
night often took place, 10 that the furniture in it became
visible. Innumerable balls of fire seemed one day to pour
Jike a torrent out of one of the rooms of the house down
the staircase. On one occasion, the pain between the eyes,
and along the lower ridge of the brow, struck her suddenly
with great violence,-when, instantly, the room filled with
stars and bright spots. On attempting, on that occasion, to
go to bed, she said she was conacious of an inability to bal-
ance herself, as if she had been tipsy, and she fell, having
made repeated efforts to seize the bedpost; which, in the
most unaccountable manner, eluded her grasp, by shifting
it& place, and also by presenting her with a number qf bed-
posts instead of one. If the organ of Weight, situated be-
tween Size and Colouring, be the organ of the instinct to
preserve, and power of preserving equilibrium, it must be
the necessary consequenceof the derangement of that organ
to overset the balance of the pereon. Over-excited Number,
we should expect to produce multiplication of objects, and
the first experience she had of this illusion was the multi-
plication ofthe bedposts, and subsequently of any inanimate
object she looked at-that object being in itself real and
Digitized by Google
506 MODES OF ACTIVITY
single ;-a book, a footstool, a work--box, would increase to
twenty, or fifty, sometimes without order or arrangement,
and at other times piled regularly one above another.
Such objects delnded her in another way, by increasing in
&ize, as she looked at them, to the most amazing excess,-
again resuming their natural size-less than which they
never seemed to become,-and again swellingout. Locality,
over-excited, gave her the ilJusion of objects, which she had
been accustomed to regard as fixed, being out of their
places; and she thinks, but is not BUre, that, on one.occa-
sion, a door and window in one apartment seemed to have
changed places,-but, as she added, she might have been
deceived by a mirror. This qualification gave us the more
confidence in her accuracy, when, as she did with l'egard
to all her other illusions, she spoke more positively. She
had not hitherto observed a great and painful confusion in
the visions which visited her, so as to entitle us to infer the
derangement of Order. Indi?Jiduality, Form, Size, Weight,
Colouring, Locality, and Number only, seemed hitherto
affected.
" For nearly two years, Mi88 S. L. was free from her
frontal headache, and-mark the coincidence-untroubled
by visions, or any other illusi~e perceptions. Some months
ego, however, all her distressing symptoms returned in
great aggravation, when she was collJICious of a want of
health •. The pain was more acute than before along the
frontal bone, and round and in the eyeballs; and all the
orgaq.s there situated recommenced their game of illusion.
Single figures of absent and deceased friends were terribly
real to her, both in the day and the night, sometimes cob-
web, but generally coloured. She sometimes saw friends
on the street, who proved phantoms when she approached
to speak to them ; and instances occurred where, from not
having thus satisfied.herself of the illusion, she affirmed to
such friends, that she bad seen them in certain places, at
• Constitutional irregularity would, It is very probable, e:rplain the
whole disorder.
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL l''ACULTIES. 507
certain times, when they proved to her the clearest alibi.
The confusion of her spectral for018 now distreued her.-
( Order affected). The oppression and perplexity was in·
tolerable when figures presented themselves before her in
inextricable disorder, and still more when they cbauged-
as with NICOLAI-from whole figures to pans of figures-
faces, and half-faces, and limbs,-sometimea of inordinate
size and dreadful deformity. One instance of illusive Dis-
order, which she mentioned, is curious ; and bas the farther
effect of exhibiting (what cannot be put in ter018 except
those of) the derangement of the just perception of gravi-
tation or. equilibrium (Weight). One night as she sat in
her bed-room, and was about to go to bed, a stream of
spectres, persons' faces, limbs, in the most shocking confu-
sion, seemed to her to pour into her room from the window,
in the manner ofa cascade ! Although the cascade continued
apparently in rapid descending motion, there was no ac-
cumulation offigures in the room, thesupply unaCcountably
vanishing after having formed the cascade. Co/Qasal figures
are her frequent visitors. (Size.)
" Real but inanimate objects have &88umed to her the
form of animals ; and she has often attempted to lift ar-
ticles from the ground, which, like the oysters in the pot-
bouse cellar, eluded her grasp.
" More recently she bas experienced a great aggravation
of her alar018; for, like NICOLAI, -she began to bear her
spectral visitors speak !-With Mr R. of Hull, the spectres
always spoke. At first her crowds kept up a buzzing and
indescribable gibbering, and occasionally joined in a loud
and terribly disagreeable laugh, which she- could only im-
pute to fiends. These unwelcome sounds were generally
followed by a rapid and always alarming advance of the
figures, which often on those occasions presented very large
and fearful faces, with insufferable glaring eye& close to her
own. All self-possession then failed her, and the cold
sweat of terror stood on her brow. Her single figures of
the deceased and absent then began to.gibber, and soon
Digitized by Google
.508 MODES OF ACTIVITY
more distinctly to address her ; but terror has hitherto
prevented her from understanding what they said •.
" Of the other illusive perceptions of Miss S. L. we may
mention the sensation ofbeing lifted up, and of sinAing down,
andfallingfarward, with the puzzling perception of objects
off their perpendicular; for example, tk room,jlwr and aU,
sloping to one Bide. (Weight)."
Mr SiMPSON concludes, by remarking " how curiously.
the old-established phenomena of ghosts are seriatim ex·
plained by this case. White or grey ghosts-the grey
bodach of M'lvor in Waverley,-result from excited Form,
with quiescent Co/Quring, the transparent cobweb effect
being colourless. Pale spectres and shadowy yet coloured
forms, are the effect of partially excited Co/Quring. Tall
ghosts and dwarf goblins are the illusions of over-excited
Size. Creusa appeared to ./Eneas colossal in her size :-
" lnfelix simulacrum atque ipeius umbra CreUBal
Visa mi.hi ante oculos et nota filiijot- imago."
" The ghosts of Ouian are often colossal. Gibbering
and speaking ghosts, with an unearthly confusion oftongues
and fiend-like peals of laughter, as if the demons revelled,
are illusions which many have experienced."
The illusions of the English opium-eater are no longer
a horrible mystery ; they are explained in Mr SIMPSON's
paper here alluded to.
There are persons who imagine themselves to be made
of glass, and who refuse to sit down, or assume any posi-
tion, in which glass would not be safe, lest they should
break their bodies in pieces; others have conceived, that
some object was attached to their nose, or that some figure
was impressed upon their forehead ; who in every other re-
• We may here mention, that the phrenological explanations of the
distreaai.ng a1fection which have been given Miss S. L, have had the
happy effect of a1fording her much more composure when visited by her
phantoms than she thought possible. She is still terrified with their
speaking ' but her mind, on the whole, is greatly eaaed on the subject.
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTU,\L FACULTIES. 509
spect were sound in mind. Such aberrations appear to be
fixed and permanent conceptions of a diseased nature, re-
sulting from morbid and involuntary activity of the organs
of the Knowing Faculties. The cure will be accomplished
by removing the organic cause, and not by a logical demon-
stration that the object does not exist, fitted perhaps to con-
vince a sound understanding, but altogether inapplicable to
the removal of illusions springing from a diseased brain.
Another form of mental derangement, arising from in-
ternal excitement of the organs, is the tendency to involun-
tary and sometimes unconscious manifestation of the fa-
culties. Some insane patients talk night and day to them-
selves ; and in hysterical affections, the individual often al-
ternately laughs and cries involuntarily. The last pheno-
mena are explicable by the supposition of different organs
becoming active and quiescent in turns, in consequence of
spasmodic or some other irregular action in the brain. Dr
A. CoMBE saw a lady in Paris, who, when just emerging
from insensibility, occasioned by a fit of apoplexy, mani-
fested the faculties of Wit and Imitation quite unconsci-
ously, but with so admirable an effect, that her relations
were forced into fits of laughter, mingled with floods of
tears for her unhappy condition: on her recovery, she did
not know of the exhibitions she had made. The organs of
Wit and Imitation were large. Phrenology accounts for
such facts, in a simple and natural manner, by the effects
of diseased activity of the organs.
DREAMING may now be analyzed. If the greater
number of the organs remain inactive, buried in sleep,
and two or three, from some internal excitement, con-
fined to themselves, become active, these will present the
mind with corresponding conceptions, and being separated
in their action from the other organs, which, in the waking
state, generally co-operate with them, the result will be the
creation of disjointed and fantastic impressions of objects,
circumstances, and events; in short, all the various phe-
2
Digitized by Google
510 MODES OF ACTIVITY
nomena of dreaming. Thus, every circumstance which
disturbs the orgauization of the body may become the cause
of dreams ; a heavy supper, by encumbering the digestive
powers, aft'eets the brain painfully by sympathy; and
hence the spectres and hydras dire which affect the sleep-
ing fancy. Fever, by keeping up a morbid excitement in
the whole system, 8U8tains the brain in a state of uninter-
rupted activity; and hence the sleeplessness which attends
the higher, and the disturbed dreams which accompany the
lower, degrees of that disease. Thus, also, is explained
another familiar fact relative to the mind. If, during day,
we have been excessively engaged in any particular train ·
of study, it haunts us in our dreams. During day the or-
gans of the faculties chiefly employed were maintained in
a state of action, intense and RU&tained, in proportion to
the mental application. By a general law of the consti-
tution, excessive action does not subside suddenly, but
abates by insensible degrees ;-on going to sleep, so much
activity continues to stimulate the organ, that the train of
ideas goes on ; till, after long action, it at last entirely
ceases.
On inquiry I find, what indeed might have been anti-
cipated a priori,. that dreams in different individuals have
most frequently relation to the faculties whose organs are
largest in their brains. A .friend, in whom Tune is large,
and Language deficient, telJs me that he bas frequently
dreamt of bearing and making music, but very rarely of
composing discourses, written or oral. Another gentleman,
in whom Language is full, and Tune deficient, states that he
never but once in his lift- dreamt of hearing a musical note,
while manya laboriouspage he bas imagined himselfwriting,
reading, and speaking in his dreams; nay, be bas repeatedly
dreamt of conversing with foreigners in their own tongue,
with a- de~ee of fluency which he could never command
while awake. In the same way, a person in whom Loca-
lity is large &88ured me, that he bad very frequently dreamt
of traveUing in foreign countries, and enjoyed most vivid
1
Digitized by Google
OF INTELI.ECTUAL FACULTIES. 5Jl
impressions of the scenery; while another, in whom that
organ is small, never dreamt upon such a subject. One
friend, in whom Combativeness is large, told me that many
a tough and long contested battle he had fought in his
dreams ; while another, in whom that organ is moderate,
stated that he never dreamt of fighting but once, and that
was when his imagination placed him in the bands of mur-
derers, whose heads he attempted to break with a poker,
and wakened in terror at his own combative effort.
A curious illustration of the principle now under eluci-
dation occurs in ScoTT, who was executed in 1823, at Jed-
burgh, for murder. It is stated in his life, that some years
before the fatal event, be bad dreamt that he had com-
mitted a murder, and was greatly impressed with the idea.
He frequently spoke of it, and recurred to it as something
ominous, till at last it was realized. The organ of Destruc-
tiveness was large in his head, and so active that he was
an enthusiast in poaching, and prone to outrage and vio-
lence in his habitual conduct. This activity of the organ
might take place during sleep, and then it would inspire
his mind with destructive feelings, and the dream of mur-
der would be the consequence. From the great .natural
strength of the propensity, he probably may have felt, when
awake, an inward tendency to this crime, and joining this
and the dream together, we can easily account for the
etrong impreeaion left by the latter on his mind.
I presume, although I do not know it as a fact, that per-
sons in whom cautiousness is small, and Hope and Be-
nevolence large, will, when in health, generally enjoy bril-
liant and happy dreams ; while others, in whom Cautious-
ness is very large, and Hope small, will be ·wading in diffi-
culties and woe.
Mr ANDREW CARMICHAEL of Dublin, in a pamphlet on
Dreaming, which he wrote some years ago, suggests the
idea that sleep may be the occasion, when the waste of sub-
stance in the brain is repaired by the depositation of new
particles of matter. There is no direct evidence of the
Digitized by Google
512 MODES OF ACTIVITY
truth of this conjecture ; but the brain, like every other
part of the animal structure, is furnished with bloodvessels
and absorbents, and is known to waste like them. That
the waste should be repaired, therefore, is a fact of neces-
sary inference; and that the period of sleep, when the men-
tal functions are suspended, would be particularly suitable
to this operation, is also matter of very plausible conjec-
ture; but here the point at present rests, and I mention it
merely as a suggestion.
This view of the phenomena of dreaming gives a death-
blow to the superstitious notion of warnings and superna·
tural communications being now made to the mind in sleep;
while it explains naturally the occasional fulfilment of
dreams, as in the case of ScoTT.
Thus the internal excitement of the organs of intellect
produces conception ; the ideas conceived bearing relation
always to the particular organ or organs called into action.
This excitement, when morbid and involuntary, produces
fixed conceptions or ideas, which is a species of insanity ;
and the same excitement taking place in some organs during
sleep, while others remain in a state of inactivity, produces
dreams. Hence these phenomenaare all connected in their
cause, however dissimilar in their external appearance.
IMAGINATION. The metaphysicians frequently em-
ploy the words Imagination and Fancy, but neither of them
are synonymous with the phrenological term Ideality.
Imagination is defined to be, " The power of forming ideal
pictures; the )lOWer of representing things absent to one's
self or others." In this sense, which I hold to be the pri-
mitive and most correct, there is scarcely a shade of diffe-
rence betwixt Conception and Imagination. Locality, Size,
Colouring, and Individuality, being active 1ty~mmand of
the wi11, we may call up in our mind the ftitures of a
landscape, and we may then be said to C071Ci!ive it. If to
this act the word imagine were applied, and we were said
to imagine a landscape, it would not be felt a8 improper. Mr
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 513
STEWART, therefore, if he had confined Imagination io the
Jimits here pointed out, viz. "of representing things absent
to one's self or others," would not be blameable for doubt-
ing if it were a faculty di11tinct from Conct1ption~ lvhich he
has ranked as such. At the same time, his notion, that
'' Imagination is not the gift of nature," but formed " by
particular habits of study or of business," is even on this
!Mipposition erroneous ; for there is no mode of activity of
tfte mind which is not the gift of nature, however much it
may be improved by judicious exercise. There is, bow-
ever, a .difference between Conception and Imagination;
the former is the cool and methodical representation of
things absent, as they exist in nature~ to one's self, or to
others. lmRgiriation is the·impass-ioned representatUm of the
saine things, and not merely in the forms and arrange-
merits of nature, but in new combinations formed by the
mind itself. In Phrenology, therefore, Conception is view-
ed as the sewnd degree of activity of the Knowing and Rc-
Beciing Faculties, and Imagination as the third. Imagi-
nation is just intense, glowing, forcible, conceptions, pro·
cceding from great activity of the intellectual facultic11,
not confined to real circumstance~~, but embracing 8N
many new combinations as they are capable of calling
forth. In this way, Imagination may be manifested with·
out ornament, or illustration ; and this is the case when
such faculties as Form, Locality, Order, Colouring, or
Causality act by themselves, unaided by Ideality and
Comparison. Hence, the assertion of D'ALEMBERT •, that
" metaphysics and geometry are of all the sciences be-
longing to reason those · in which Imagination has the
greatest share," is quite intelligible, and may have been
seriously said. If in this individual, Form, :Size, Locality,
Order, Number, and Causality, in short, the faculties whi<'h
go to constitute a genius for mathematics and metaphysics,
were very ac~ive, he would be conscious of imagining, with
great interest and vivacity, many new relations of space,
• STEWART, Prelim. Dissert. to Sup. F.ncyclop. Brit. Part J. p. 6.
Kk
Digitized by Google
514 MODES OF ACTIVITY
magnitude, and causation, and looking to the usual delini-
tions of Imagination, he was entitled to designate these acta
as exercises of that faculty.
The metaphysicians attach a different and more exten-
sive meaning to the word " Fancy;" and, according to my
understanding of the functions ascribed by them to this
supposed power, it embraces a wider range than Imagina-
tion, and necessarily implies ornament and illustration.
Hence, comparison and probably Ideality require to be
combined with the Activity of the Knowing and Reflecting
Faculties to constitute Fancy. The latter faculties will
call up ideas of objects as they exist in nature, Ideality will
invest them with beauty, Comparison will cu11 similes and
trace analogies throughout the boundlees fields of space,
and the intellectual compound may be designated as the
Creation of Fancy. The significations commonly attaehecl
to the words Imagination and Fancy, are, however, by no
means precise. The conceptions of the Knowing and Re-
flecting Faculties, illustrated and diversified by Comparisoa
alone, are frequently designated Fancy; and in this sense
an author or orator may be said to posse~~~ a brilliant fancy,
although Ideality be by no means a predominant organ in
his bead. On the other hand, many passages of MILTON
are the result merely of the Knowing Faculties, and Cau-
sality imbued with intense Ideality, and in them·Compari-
son supplies but few illustrations; nevertheless these are
said to be highly imaginative, and certainly are so. Tbua,
in judging of genius, Phrenology teaches us to be minute
and discriminating in our analysis, and to avoid the error
of inferring the presence of all the powers of the mind in
an eminent degree, because one great talent is possessed.
Improvisatori are able, without stndy or premeditation,
to pour out thousands of verses impromptu, often1f no des-
picable quality, upon any subject which the spectators
choose to suggest. I have not seen any of these individuals,
but Phrenology enables us to conjecture the constituent
elements of their genius. In the first place, we may infer
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 515
that they posael8 a high nervous or aanguiue temperament,
communicating to the brain great internal activity. They
would require, in the next place, Language, Individuality,
Eventuality, Comparison, Tune, and Ideality, all large.
The great and uncommon activity supposed, would pro-
duce the readinen of conception and warmth of feeling
which &.!e the first requisites ; large endowment of Indivi-
duality and Eventuality would supply facta and incidents
neeessary to give substance and action to the composition ;
Comparison would afford similes, metaphors and illustra-
tions ; Ideality would contribute elevation ; Tune give
rhythm, and Language afford expression to the whole ideas
so formed and combined. Observation only can determine
whether these conjectures be correct, but the C'&uses here
asaigned appear to be adequate to the effects, and this, in a
hypotheeis, is all that can be expected.
MEMORY also is a mode of Activity of the faculties.
In most individuals, the mind has no power of calling up,
into fresh·existence, the emotions experienced by means of
the propensities and sentiments, by merely wilrmg t'hem to
be felt, and hence we hold these faculties not to possess
Memory. The ideas, however, formed by the Knowing
and Reflecting Faculties, can be reproduced by an act of
recollection, which powers are, therefore, said to have Me-
mory. Memory is thus merely a degree of activity of the
Knowing and Reflecting Organa. I have said that Concep-
tion and Imagiuation also result from the internal activity of
the organs ; and the queation naturally arises, in what re-
spect does Memory di1Fer lrom them? The di1Ference ap-
pears to be this,-in Conception and Imagination, new
combinations of ideas are formed, not only without re-
gard to the time or order in which the elementary no-
tions had previously existed, but even without any di-
rect reference to their having at all existed before. Me-
mory, on the other hand, implies a new conception of
impressions previously received, attended with the idea of
Kk2
Digitized by Google
516 liODES OF ACTIVITY
past time, and consciousness of their former existence ; and
it follows the order of the events as they happened in na-
ture. Each organ enables the mind to recal the. impres-
Rions which it served at first to receive. Thus, the or-
gan of Tune will reeal notes formerly bard, and give the
memory of music. Form will recal figaTes previously ob-
served, will give the memory of persons, pieturee, and ~
tals, and produce a talent for becoming learned in matters
connected with such objects. Individuality and Even-
tuality will confer memory for facts, and render a pel'80n
skilled in history, both natural and civil. A person in
whom Causality is powerful, will po88ess a nattiral memory
for•metaphysics. Hence there may be as many kinds of
memory as there arc Knowing and Reflecting Organs;
and an individual may have great memory for one
class of ideas, and very little for another; GEORGE BID-
DER had an almost inconceivable power of recollecting
arithmetical calculations, while in memory of history or
languages be did not surpass ordinary men. As the
recollection of facts and occurrences is what is commooly
meant, in popular language, by a great memory, indivi-
duals 80 gifted will generally be found to po88688 a good
development of IndiYiduality, Eventuality, and probably
of Language.
There appears to be a quality of brain, which gives re-
tentiveness, 80 that one individual retaias impressions
much longer than another, although their combination of
organs be the same. It is said that Sir WALTER Scm
possesses tlus characteristic in a high degree ; but the
cause of it is unknown. This fact does not invalidate the
theory of Memory now given.; because in every individual,
the power of retaining one kind of impretiBiona is greater
than that of retaining another, and this power bears a uni-
form relation to the size of the organs.
Dr WATTS seems to have anticipated, by a very acute
conjecture, the real philosophy of Memory. He says, " It
is most probable that those very fibres of the .brain which
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 517
assist at the first idea or perception of an object, are the
same which assist also at the recollection of it; and then it
will follow, that the memory has no special part of the
brain devoted to its own service, but uses all those in ge-
neral which subaerve our sensation, as weU as our think··
ing and reasoning powers •." This conjecture coincides
exactly with Mr Hoon's case of the person in Kilmarnock,
who, although able to articulate, lost all power of recollect-
ing arbitrary signs, and, with a sound judgment and clear
understanding, forgot, through disease, his own name and
the names of every person and thing with which preViously
be was most familiar. This could be accounted for only
on the principle, that the organ of I..aDguage lui.d los~ the
power of internal activity at command of the will, while
the organs of the reflecting powers remained entire. The
fact, also, of the memory failing in old age, before the
judgment is impaired, is accounted for on the same prin·
ciple. Age diminishes the ~tUSCeptibility and activity of the
organs ; and hence they are uriable to receive aud to re.
produce impressions with the vivacity of youth. J udg-
ment is au exercise of the faculties on present objects, and
does not require the same portion of internal and sponta-
neous excitement for its execution. It is known, that, af-
ter the mind has become dead to the recollection of recent
occurrences, it recalls, with great vivacity, the impressions
of youth arid boyish years. These were first imprinted at a
time when the whole system was extremely susceptible,
and subsequently have been often recalled; hence, per-
haps, the organs are capable of resuming the state corres:-
ponding to them, after they have eeased to be capable of
retaining impressions from events happening when their
vigour has decayed.
The doctrine that memory is only a degree of activity of
the faculties, is illustrated by the phenomena of diseases
which particularly excite the brain. Sometimes, under the
• Page 18.
Digitized by Google
518 MODES OF ACTIVITY
influence of disease, the most lively recollections of things
will take place, which had entirely escaped from the me-
mory in a state of health. " A most remarkable example
of this kind occurred some years ago at StThomas's Hos-
pital •. A man was brought in, who had received a con-
~derable injury of the head, but from which he ultimately
recovered. When he became convalescent, he spoke a
language which no one about him could comprehend.
However, a Welsh milk-woman came one day into the
ward, and immediately understood what he said. It ap-
peared that this poor fellow was a Welshman, and had
been from his native country about thirty years. In the
COUI'Se of that period, he had entirely forgotten his native
tongue, and acquired the English language. But when he
recovered from his accident, he forgot the language he had
been so recently·in the habit of speaking; and acquired the
knowledge of that which be had originally acquired and
lost !" Such a fact as this is totally inexplicable, on any
principle except that of the existence of organs by which
the faculties are manifested : for it could not be the mind
itself which was affected, and its faculties impaired by the
fever, or which recovered long 1oat knowledge, by the in-
fluence of disease. At the same timt, the manner in
which suoh an effect is produced, is entirely unknown.
The case of which the following is an abstract, was
communicated by Dr D.KWAR to the Royal Society, and al-
though highly interesting, is at present inexplicable.
In a " Report on a communication from Dr DvCE of
Aberdeen, on Uterine Irritation, and its eftects on tlur fe-
JD&le constitution t ," Dr DEwAR states, that " It is a case
of mental disease, attended with some advantageous mani-
festations of the intellectual powers; and these manifesta-
tions disappearing in the same individual in the healthy
state. It is an instance of a phenomenon which is some-
times called double conseioumeu, but is more properly a di-
• TuPP.Ea'sinquiry into GALL's System, p. 83.
t Read to the Royal Society ill Febl'WU'y 1822.
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 519
.nded C0118Cioumeu, or double per801111litg, exhibiting in some
measure two separate and independent trains of thought,
and two independent .mental capabilities, in the same
individual; each train of thought, and each capability,
being wholly diasevered from the other, and the two atatea
in which they respectively predominate subject to frequent
interchanges and alternations."
The patient was a girl of sixteen, the affection appeared
immediately before puberty, and disappeared when that
state was fully established. It lasted from 2d March to
11th June 1815, under the eye.of Dr DvcE. "The first
symptom waa an uncommon propensity to fall aaleep in
the evenings. This was followed by the habit of talking
in her sleep on these occasions. One evening she fell
asleep in this manner, imagined herself an Episcopal cler~
gyman, went through the ceremony of baptizing three
children, and gave an appropriate eztempore prayer. Her
mistress shook .her by the ahouldel'll, on which abe awoke,
and appeared unconacious of every thing, except that she
bad fallen asleep, of which she shewed herself ashamed.
She sometimes dresaed herself and the children while in
this state, or, as Mrs L. called it, "dead asleep;" an&wered
questions put to her, in such a manner as to shew that ~he
understood the question; but the answers were often,
though not always, incongruous.'' One day, in this state,
she " set the breakfast with perfect correctness, with her
eyes shut. She afterwards awoke with the child on
her knee, and wondered how she got on her clothes.''
Sometimes the cold air wakened her, at other times she
was seized with the affection while walking out with the
children. " She sang a hymn delightfulJy in this state,
and from a comparison which Dr DYCE had an opportu·
nity of making, it appeared incompal"Bhly better done than
she could accomplish when weU.''
" In the mean time, a still more singular and interesting
symptom began to make its appearance. The circumatancea
wAicl& occurred during tAe paroxysm were completelgforgotten
Digitized by Google
520 MODES 01' ACTIVITY
bg l~er wllen the parozynn WtU over, lnd were perfectlg re-
membered during suhsequent paro:r:gtmU ;" and it is on this
account tba:t I have introduced the case under the head of
Memory. " Her mistress said, that when in this stupor
on subsequent occasions, she told her what was said to
her 4?n the evening on which slte baptized the children."
Other instances of this kind are given. A depraved fellow-
servant, understanding that she wholJy forgot every trans-
action that oocurred during the fit, clandestinely introdu-
ced a young man intO the house, who treated her with the
utmost .nideaess, while ]ter fe1low-servant stopped her
mouth with the bed-dothes, and otherwise overpowered a
vigorous resistance which was made by her, even during
the influence of her complaint. Next day she bad not the
Rlightest reco1lection even of that transaction, nor did any
peTSOn interested in her welfare know of it for several days,
till she was in one_ of her paroxysms, when she related the
whole facts to her mother. Next Sunday she was taken to
the Church by her mistress, while the paroxysm was· on
her. She sl1ed tears during the sermon, particularly du-
ring the account given of the execution of three young men
at Edinburgh, wl10 Lad described in their dying declara-
tions the dangerous steps with which their career of vice
and infamy took its commencement. When she returned
home, she recovered in a quarter of an hour, was quite
amazed at the questions put to her about the Church ser-
mon, and denied that she had been in any such plR<'e ; but
next night, pn being taken ill, she mentioned that she had
been at Church, repeated the words of the text, and, in Dr
DvcE's hearing, gave an aceurate account of the tragieal
narrative of the three young men, by which her feelings
ltad been so powerfuUy affected. On this occasion, though
in Mrs L-'s house, she asserted that she was in her
motlter's."
Dr~ D¥cE and DEWAn do not give any theory to account
for these very extraordinary phenomena. They mention
that the girl c~mplained of confusion and oppression in her
Digitized by Google
01~· IN'l'F.LLECTUAL FACULTIES. 521
bead a~ the coming on of the fits ; and that after the flow-
ing of the menses had been fairly established, the whole
symptoms disappeared. We are unable phrenologically to
throw more light on the case than these gentlemen have
done; and the only conclusion which seems to arise from
it is, that, before memory can exist, the organs require to
be afFected in the same manner, or to be in a state analogous
to that in which they were, when the impression was first re-
ceived. This inference is supported by several other facts.
Dr ABEL informed me of an Irish porter to a warehouse,
who forgot, when sober, what he ltad done wht:n drunk; but
being drunk, again recollected the transactions of his for-
mer state of intoxication:. On one occasion, being drunk,
be had lost a parcel of some value, and in his sober mo-
ments could give no account of it. Next time he was in-
toxicated, he recollected that he had left the parcel at a
certain house, and there being no address on it, it had re-
·mained there safely, and was got on his calling for it.
The same phenomena present themselves .in the state of
somnambulism, produced by animal magnetism. In the
works on this subject, it is mentioned, and the fact luw
been confirmed to me by a very intelligent friend, who has
observed it in Paris, that a person who is magnetized so as
to produce the kind of magnetic sleep termed Somnambu-
lism, acquires, like the girl in Aberdeen, a new consoious-
ness and memory ; he does not recollect the transactions
of his ordinary state of existence, but acquires the power of
speaking and of thinking in his induced state of abstraction
from the external world. When this state bas subsided,
all that passed in it is obl~terated from the memory, while
the recollection of ordinary events is restored. If the
magnetic state is again recalled, memory of the circum-
stances which formerly happened in that state is restored ;
and thus the individuals may be said to live in a state of
divided consciousn~ss. In this country, the doctrines of ani-
mal magnetism are treated with the same contempt which
has been poured upon Phrenology. I am wholly unaequaint-
Digitized by Google
HODES OF ACTIVITY
ed with their merits ; but the circumstance now stated, of
· alternating memory and forgetfulness, is mentioned in tht'
books on the subject which I have consulted, and W.. ~n
certified to me 88 true, by a gentleman whose unde~tand..
ing is too acute to allow me to believe that he wae de-
ceived, and whose honour is too high to adn:rlt of his
deceiving othera. Theee facta cannot be accounted for
in a satisfactory way ; but by communicating a knowledge
of their existence, attAlntion will be drawn to them, 811d fu-
ture observations and reflection may ultimarely throw light
upon the aubject.
JUDGMENT, in the metapbysi.cal418nee, belongs to the
REFLECTING Facultiea alone. The Knowing Facultiea may
be said, in one sense, to judge, as, for example, the facul-
ty of Tune may be agreeably or disagreeably affected, and
in this way may judge of sounds : but Judgment, in the
proper aense of the word, is a perception of relation, or of
fitness, or of the connexion betwixt means and an end,
and belongs entirely to the reflecting powers. These fa-
culties, as well 88 the Knowing Facultiea, have Perception,
Memory and Imagination. Caus8lity, for example, pert:ftvu
the relation of ca118e and eft'ect, and also remmibers or ima-
gmes that relation, jWit 88 Locality perceives, remembers,
or imagines the relative position of objects. Hence J udg-
ment is the decision of the Reflecting Faculties upon the
feelings furnished by the Propensities and Sentiments, and
upon the ideas furnished by the Knowing Faculties. This
I conceive to be the strictly phrenological analyais of J udg-
ment; but thi& term, in the popular sense, has a more ex-
tensive signification. It is common to observe of an indi-
vidual, that he poesesses an acute or even profound intel-
lect, but that he is destitutAl of judgment. Thi& apparent
paradox may be explained in two waya : Fir#, By " an
acute or profound intellect," is frequently meant a great
but limited talent, which we would refer to some of the
Knowing Faculties. Thus, a person may be distinguished
Digitized by Google
-
OF ISTEI.LECTUAL FACULTIES. 528
for ability in mathematics or painting, and not be eminent
for reflection or judgment, in the stricter seDJe. There ia,
however, a aecond explanation. which is preferable. To
judge of the line of conduct proper to be foHowed in the
affairs of life, it is neceseary tofeel correctly, as well as to
reason deeply, or rather, it is more necessary to feel rightly ·
than to reflect. Hence, if an individual po88888 very
powerful reflecting organs, such 88 Lord BAcoH'I, and be
deficient in Conscientiousneu, as his Lordship seems to
have been, be is like a fine ship wanting a helm, liable to
be carried from her course by every wind and current.
The reflecting organs give the power of thinking, but
Conscientiousness, and the other sen.timents, are necessary
to furnish correct feeling, by which practical conduct may
be directed. Indeed, Lord BACON is a striking example, .
how poor an endowment intellect, even the mott transcen~
dent, ia, when not accompanied by amiable and upright
sentiments. That mind which embraced, in one compr~
hensive grasp, the whole circle of sciences, and pointedout,
with a surprising sagacity, the modes in which they might
best be cultivated,-that mind, in short, which anticipated
the progress of the human understanding by a century and
a half, possessed so little judgtnmt, so little of sound and
practical sense, 88 to become the accuser, and even d&o
famer of EssEX, his early patron and friend ; to pollute the
seat of justice by corruption and bribery; and to stoop to
the baseet ftattery of a weak king, all for the gratification
of a contemptible ambition. Never was delusion more
®mplete. He fell into an abya of degradation from
which he never ascended; andto thia day, the darkness ofhis
moral reputation forms a lamentable contraat to the bril.
liancy of his intellectual fame. There was here the moat
evident defect ofjudgment; and with such reflecting powers
88 be posseseed, the aeat of his errors could lie ooly in the
sentiments, deficiency in some of which prevented him from
feeling right, and of course withheld from his Jlllderstao.d.
1
Digitized by Google
• 5!a4 MODES OF AC'l'IVlTY
ing the data from which sound cobclusions respecting con-
duct*could be drawn.
In common life, the efFect of the feelings in originating
opinion, is by far too little attended to ; and we frequently
hear persons carrying on angry disputations, with a view to
convince each other's understandings; when, in fact, the
·canse of their difference lies in a feeling, so that if it could
be made the same in both, no disagreement would exist.
It is common in such cases to say, " my sentiments are
entirely difFerent from yours;" a form of expression which
is strictly philosoph~cal, and harmonizes with the explana-
tion now given ; but t~e parties do not perceive that a
" sentiment," in the strict sense, or in popular language a
" feeling," cannot be co~unicated by argument; and
hence maintain the controversy, by an address to the un-
derstanding alone, and generalJy with no satisfactory re-
su~t. If, on the other hand, two persons meet, whose pro-
pensities and sentiments harmonize, tl1eir " sentiments,"
in the popular sense, generally coincide, although, in the
depth of their intellectual powers, there may be consider-
able disparity. In estimating, therefore, the degree of
sound and practical judgment for the afFairs of life, the
good sense, or mother-wit, of any individual, we ought not
to confine our attention to the forehead alone, under the
notion that it is exclusively the seat of Judgment; but to
look first to the temperament, that we may judge of the
ootivity of the brain, and next at the combination of or-
gans ; for we shall invariably find sound sense to be the
accompaniment of an equable development of all the or-
gans, those of the moral sentiments and intellect predo-
minating in Size. There are then no exaggerated and no
defective powers ; so that no desires 888ume an undue ascen~
dency, and no emotions are so feeble as not to be adequately
experienced. This combination is rare, and hence high prac-
tical sense \a more uncommon than great partial talent. A
person was pointed out to me as possessing the foreh~d ofan
idiot, who yet had conducted himself with remarkab1e pru-
_ Digitized by Go~g~~
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 525 •
dence and success in trade, and, by his ·estimable qualities,
had gained th~ esteem of the little circle in which. he moved.
On examination, I found a fine nervous and sanguine tem..:
perament ; a forehead greatly retreating indeed ; but with
a full development of the knowing organs ; and, on turning
to the region of the propensities and sentiments, the for-
mer were found in fair proportion, with an excellent de-
velopment ofthe latter. ConscientiousneSs; Veneration, Be-
nevolence, Love of Approbation, Adhesiveness, and Cau-
tiousness, were all large ; and the sources of his prudence,
good sense, and amiable qualities, were at once apparent.
To shew that Phrenology and the -head were not at vari-
ance, I inquired into his powers of logical or profound ar-
gumentation; when his friend said, that, although he was
fond of reading, his acquaintances w~re surprised that he
never learnt the meaning of a great many plain words; and
on asking what these were, they turned out to be abstract
terms and expressions, referable for their signification to
Causality and Comparison. The individual in question·
not only could not reason consecutively, but in ordinary
discoune misapplied, and seemed not to understand, the
terms now adverted to. This was ~xactly what a phreno-
logist would have predicted. .I
In deacribing, therefore, the eft'ect of the Reflecting Fa-
culties in ordinary life, I would say that the propensities
and sentiments furnish the desires which prompt to action,
and also the feelings which regulate conduct; while reflec-
tion, without being able to alter their nature, judges of the
motives presented by them to its consideration; taking in an
extent of view, greater or less, in proportion to the size· of
the intellectual organs. For example, if Cautiousness be
excessively large, and Hope small, this combination will
present dismal forebodings to the mind; and the under-
standing cannot alter the feelings so as to render cheery
and brilliant, scenes which they tinge with melancholy and
gloom. IfHope be very large, and Cautiousness very sm&ll,
then the moet delusive anticipations of felicity wi11 be sug-
Digitized by Google
516 MODES OF ACTIVITY
geated, and the understanding will aee objects under thia
impreMion. If, again, both Cautiousness and Hope be
large, each will fumish its own emotions on the objects of
contemplation; and the understanding now having two
view., will J>08IMBI elements for judging, and be able, by
comparing, to come to a sound determination between
them.
If these principles be correct, they enable us to explain
why, among lawyers, a bad pleader sometimes makes a
good judge, and 'Dice versa. To a pleader, intellect and
propensity are more essentially necessary than Conscien-
tiousness; to a judge, on the other hand, great moral or-
gans are indispensable; for without an ample development
of the'Dl, his inteUect is liable to be led astray by subtleties
and false views, and in his decisions the grand element of
justice will be wanting. I have noticed, that, where Con-
scientiousness is large in a lawyer, and he is pleading a bad
cause, he betrays instinctively, by his natural manner, his
impression that he is in the wrong. Another individual,
in whom thia organ is deficient, views all cases chiefly as
questions of opinion, and contends for victory with that ar-
dent spirit which the f9rmer can display only when advo-
cating the cause of truth.
The tame principles enable us to judge of the propriety
ofa very important regulation in one of the institutions of
the coontry,-1 mean the requisite of tmaninaity in juries in
civil cauaea. If two individuals were constituted umpires
on a claim of damages for defamation, and if one of them
poueseed from nature an immense Love of Approbation,
judging, from his own feelings, be would rather suft'er
deat.h than live defamed ; if the other was extremely defi-
cient by natural constitution in thia sentiment, he could
pass his daya unmoved by the censures or applauses of the
world, and the two could not, by any eft'orts of their un-
derstandiags, come to view the injury sustained by the
plaintift' in the same light, nor agree about the amount of
damages which would constitute an equitable compensation
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL .I!'ACUI.TIES. 527
for the slander. The one must either surrender his eon-
science to the other, or allow a third party to decide be-
tween them; for real unanimity is excluded by the very
constitution of their minds. No exercise of the 'UtUlerlltafld-
ing will produce it. It is difficult to admire the wisdom of
that legislature which is so ignorant of the human mind as
to imagine that men can by argument, if they will, arrive
at one conclusion in such cases : or which, if it knowa that
they cannot in natnre agree, neverthele1!18 conceives it pro-
found and beneficial to require a verdict in direct opposi-
tion to the constitution of the mind; to produce an Gpp«U'•
cmce of unanimity, when the llflhBtance is unattainable.
Many voluminous arguments have been brought forward
on the opposite sides of this question : bot it appears to me,
that the mode of judging of it afforded by Phrenology
carries us to the ultimate principles at once. If it be natu-
rally in the power of men, by honest efforts. to eee ques-
tions of conduct, such as occur before Jury Courts, in the
118Dle light, then unanimity ought to be required; but if
this perfect harmony of sentiment is excluded by nature, it
is mere littleness and imbecility, to pretend to produce it
by an act of Parliament; accordingly, nature prevails here
as in every other case, for all senaible jurors before com-
mencing their deliberations, arrange that the minority shall
yield to the majority; and the only ef'ects of the law are to
put it in the power of some very obstinate or very wicked
individUAl to conc'088 his fellow juror& into adoption of his
opinion-which, on the ordiaary chances, from his at~mding
alone, will be placedat an extl'eme point in the seale of ab-
sordity....;..or else to defeat the object of the parties, by de-
pri'ri.ng them altogether ofa verdict.
It bas been said, that 'he tequiaite of unanimity produces
attention in the jury to the caee, and disoualon ofthe subject
among themselves. This I have no doubt may be true,
but even with every degree of attention and discU88ion, una-
nimity in general is morally impossible. Obvious ques-
tions of evidence or right, in which all men may agree, are
Digitized by Google
-
528 MODES OF ACTIVITY
not tho8e thAt come mo8t frequently before courts of justice;
but difficult cases, in which the most conscientious and en-
lightened men may differ in opinion. Out of twelve or fif-
teen persons there is.always a risk that two or more may
stand in the antipodes of moral and intellectual consti-
tution to each other. Under the present system such in-
dividuals must yield unconvinced. It appears to me, that,
by leaving out the extremes, and requiring a majority of
three-fourths, or some such proportion, the advantages of
discussion would be gained, and tl1e evil of the great body
of a jury being concussed into a verdict by one obstinate
individual, might be avoided. A proposition to which nine
men out of twelve would voluntarily assent, would be near-
er truth than one modified by mutual concessions to conci-
liate (but 1Wt to satisfy) the whole.
Having now discussed the metaphysical faculties of Per-
ception, Conception, Imagination, Memory and Judgment,
and shewn them to be merely modes of activity of the
p\lrenological faculties, with which the metaphysicians
were unacquainted, I proceed to notice several other men-
tal operations and affections, which make a figure in the
common systems of mental philosophy, and to refer them
also to their principles in this science.
CONSCIOUSNESS means the knowledge which the
mind has of its own existence and operations. Dr THOMAS
BROWN denies that it is a power, or any thing different
from sensation, emotion, or thought, existing at any mo-
ment in the mind. It gives us no intimation of the ex-
istence of the organs, and reveals to us only the operations
of our own minds, leaving us entirely in the dark regard-
ing the mental affections of others, where they differ from
our own. Hence, by reflecting on consciousness, which
the metaphysicians chiefly did, as their means of studying
the mind, we can discover nothing concerning the organs
by which the faculties act, and run great danger of forming
2
Digitized by Google
OF INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES. 529,
erroneous views of human nature, by supposing mankind
in general constituted exactly like ourselves.
Each organ communicates consciousness of the feelings
and ideas which it serves to manifest ; thus, if the organ of
Tune be extremely deficient, the individual will not be
able to attain consciousness of melody; a person in whom
Conscien&iousness is extremely deficient, will not be con•
scious -Of the sentiment of justice,. nor of its obligations ;
one in whomVeneration is very feeble, will not be conscious
ofthe emotion of piety, nor of the duties arising from it. H
we should place individuals so constitu~ ia situation&
requiring vivid consciousness of these emotiona, for the di-
rectioll of their conduct, we shall be disappointed.. This
shews the great importance of a well constituted brain.
On the other band, when the organs are large and the tem-
perament active,. intense consciousness 9f the corresponding
feelings and ideas is experienced; and some persons,- mis-
taking the emotions arising in this manner from Wonder,
Veneration, and other faculties, for supema•ural commu.;...
cations, fall into fanaticism and superstition.
It has been argued by some sceptics, that the human
mind poasesses no certain knowledge, because not only the
senses and understanding occasionally deceive us, but even
Consciousness itself gives false intimations ; thus,. a maa
whose leg bas been amputated, is sometimesconscious, years
after the operation, of a pain in the toe of the lost foot ; or
a patient suft'ering under chronic disease of the liver, feels
DO uneasiness in it, but is conseious of a pain at the top of
the right shoulder. The anawer to this argument is, that
each nerve and faculty has received a definite constitution,
in virtue of which it gives certain intimations when affect-
ed in a certain manner; thus, when the nerve of the tee ia
aB'ected, the nerve itself gives consciousness of pain, ac-
eompanied wiili an instinctive reference to its seat. Mter
the leg bas been amputated, part of the nerve remains, and
when affected in the same manner as while the toe existed,
Ll
Digitized by Google
530 MODES OF ACTIVITY
it comp1unicates the impression which belonged to it in its
entire state. In this there is no deception, because the
nerve which originally intimated pain in the toe, is affected
in the same manner as it was when the toe existed. In like
manner the liver itself po811esses little sensibility, but the
phrenic nerve whic.'h is ramified on it communicates with
the shoulder, aud the nerve being highly sensitive, is affect-
ed by the state of the liver, and produces pain in the
shoulder. The nerve in this case is really affected, and
the pain is the correct indica~ion of its state. lt is the of·
fice oi Causality to discover the causes of these affections,
Consciousness being limited to the intimation of the sensa-
tions themselves. Every derangement of an organ of sen-
sation or perception is accompanied with disorder of Con-
ecioumess to a corresponding ez~nt : Thus, in jaundice,
the mind has consciousness of all objects being yellow; in
cases like that of Miss S. L., detailed on p. 504, there is con-
sciousness of disturbed equilibrium ; but Cauaality refer&
tlaese perceptions to diseases as their causes. When the de-
rangement embraces the organs of Cauaality themselves,
the power of discrindnating the impression to be diseased
is lost, and inRRnity is established.
It would be of much practical utility to teach individuals
the dependence of Consciousness on the states of the mental
organs ; as a means oj inducing them, when under morbid
excitement, to distrust'their own impressions, and seek re-
lief from sensible advisers. In the present system of edu-
cation, the connexion of the feelings and intellect with ma-
"'
terial organH, is sototally overlooked, and everyemotion and
perception is represented as so p~y mental, that when
these become exalted or disordered, it Ia extremely difficult
to enable the individual te comprehend how they can be
delusive, or in any way ai"ected by corporeal conditions ;
and hence he suffers much uneasiness in secret ; avoids re-
course to a physician ; persists in acting on his morbid im-
pressions, as if they were sound ; till at last disease is per-
manently established, which, under more enlightened guid-
o1g1!1Zed by Google
OF INTELLECTUAl. FACULTIES. 581
ance, might easily have been averted, or cui short at its
commencement.
It is extremely difficult to determine whether the feeling •
of personal Identity indicated by the pronoun I is connect-
ed with a particular organ, or the result of the general ac-
tion of the whole organs. The reader is referred to what
is said on this subject on p. 107, 287, and 488.
ATTENTION is not a faculty of the mind, but consists
merely in the application of the Knowing or Reflecting Fa··
culties to their objects. Thus the faculty of Tune, excited
by melody, attends to notes; the faculty of Causality, ad·
dre&Sed by a demonstration, attends to the steps of the ar-
gument; and the other faculties of the intellect, in like
manner, attend to their various objects. Concentrativeneas
gives continuity to the impressions of the faculties, Indivi-
duality and Eventuality direct them to their objects, and
Firmnesa maintains them in a state of application, and
.these greatly aid Attention; but still attention, in itself, is
a mere act of the different intellectual faculties, and not
the attribute of any particular power, established exclusive.
ly for ita production.
ASSOCIATION. The metaphysicians have endeavour•
ed, by reflecting on their own co08Ciousness, to discover
universal laws, by which the succe&Bion of ideas in man-
kind in general is regulated. They imagine our thoughts
to follow each other in established orders, and have at-
tempted to find out the circumstances which determine
these orders, and the ctaUBe& in virtue of which one idea
introduces another into the mind. Such an attempt ap.
pears to me to be futile, and incompatible with succeBB.
Suppose that we wished to ascertain the laws by which
the meceasion of notes emitted hy an ..Eolian harp is regu-
lated, we should first endeavour to discover the caUBe&
which produced them. Similar caUBe&, acting in similar
circnmatances, produce similar effects ; bl!t if we vary
L 1 2
Digitized by Google
:MODES OF ACTIVITY.
one ciretlDUltance out of a thousand, we cannot calculate
on the result. Now, the causes which determine the suc-
cession of notes from an Molian harp are, the structure of
the harp ; the impetus of the air; the order in which it ex-
cites the various strings. Render all these circumstances
the same in the case of every harp, and the same succe&Bion
of notes may be assuredly predicted. But if the air, that
emblem of inconstancy, will not blow twice with the same
force on the same spot in a month, or will not excite the
same stringp twice in the same order of succession in a
year; and if no two Molian harps can be made in every
particular· of string, form, and substance, alike,-who, by
observing- the- notes arising from one harp, wiJl succeed in
unfolding the laws by which the succession of notes from
lEolian harps in general may be determined, whatever
their size, structure, and number of strings, and the cir-
cumstances in which they may be placed? This iJlustra-
tion is completely applicable to the case of the human facul-
ties. Ideas are affections of tllue, just as notes are affec-
tions of the strings of the harp. Ideas arise from impres-
sions on the val"ious faculties of the mind ; and there is as
little regularity in the order in which they are received, as
in the breathing of the air on the strings. And, lastly, if
liarps mag·vary in structure, human beings do positively
differ in tlie relative strength of their powers. Hence the
llftiD.e impressions must produce very different effects, or
introduce very different ideas into minds so dissimilarly
constituted; and how, amid such a oountleRs variety of
causes, can similarity of effects be expected?
If we place a number of persons on a hill-top, say Arthur
seat, overlooking- a champaign country, and the sea, aud
bid each declare his thoughts·;-we shaU ind that one,
with tdeality predominant, will think of the magnificence
of nature, the boundless extent of the ocean, the vastness
of the mountains ,. and on recalling the scene, these ideas
and emotions will be ft880ciated with it in his mind : another,
with great Causality and Constructiveness, and little Ide-
Digitized by Google
ASSOCIATION. 5SS
ality, will admire the akill which he sees displayed in farm-
ing the fields, and in constructing the housee and the
ships : one, with Benevolence large, will think of the happi-
ness enjoyed hy the people who inhabit the plain : another,
with Acquisitiveness active, will think how the various
branches of industry will pay; and one, with a strong Ve-
neration, will probably take occasion to admire the great-
ness and goodness of God. Now, the metaphysician expects
to find out law., by which, on Arthur Seat being after-
wards mentioned, in the presence of these individnals, we
may be able to tell the train of thoughta whieh it will in·
troduce into their several minds ; and be hopes to anive at
this result, by studying the train which ariaes in his own
mind, on the hill being referred to as an object of theught.
Such an expectation must necessarily be futile. Each of
the individuals supposed would, on the mention of the hill,
experience a train of ideas corresponding to the first im·
pressions which he received on the top, and nothing can
be more dissimilar than these. As weJJ, therefore, to use
the words of an ingenious phrenologist, may we expect,
by studying the forms and hues of the clouds, which ·Bit
along the sky to-day, to be able to diseover laws, by which
their succession will be regulated to.morrow : as, by reflect-
ing on the ideas which pass in oue mind, to discover links
of a880Ciation, by which ideas in the minds of mankind in
general will be uniformly connected, and introduced in a
determinate succession.
Although, however, it is in vain to expect ·&o.find any
law or principle regulating the a880Ciatiou of one idea wi~
another, the mutual influence ·of orgaua by association ia
determinate. There are also natural assoeiations betwixt
certain external objects and the internal faculties : and,
lastly, artificial 8880Ciatione may be formed betwixt objects
and the feelings of the mind ; and the laws which regulate
these constitute certain knowledge, and .are interesting to
be kllown. Let us, therefore, inquire briefly into these
laws ofassociation.
Digitized by Google
534 ASSOCIATION.
In thefirst place, we are able to perform anew, when we
wish to do so, any voluntary motion which we have per-
formed befure. This shews that the nerves of motion are
so 8880Ciated or connected with the organa ot the mind, 88
to be at the command of the will.
In the 8eCfmd place, by conceiving an object in diatresa, we
can raise the emotion of pity in the mind; by conceiving a
splendid scene in nature, we can excite the emotion of su-
blimity and beauty produced by Ideality ; by reading a ter-
rific story, we are able to experience the chilling emotions
of fear creeping along the nerves. These facts point out
a close connexion betwixt the organs of Intellect and the
organs of the different propensities and sentiments. Indeed,
in the dissection of the brain, the closest relation betwixt
its ditferent parts is perceived, combined with arrangements
for separate functions; but this is connexion rather than
8880Ciation.
Farther, Mr ScO'rl', in his" Observations on Phrenology,"
has pointed out, in a very ingenious manner, the beautiful
8880Ciation, in point of arrangement, of the organs, for the
purposea of mutual assistance in their action. " When I
began," says be, " to consider the schedule or map present-
ed to us by Drs GALL and SPURZHEIM, I could at first see
none ofthis beauty in it. In looking over their list ofpowers,
I could observe no order or connexion between them. The
whole presented to me a rude appearance, quite diB'erent,
88 I then thought, from what is commonly found in nature.
After a more attentive t>onsideration, however, light began
to dawn upon me, and, beginning to consider the faculties
in a certain way, and to group them after a certain order,
the whole gradually formed themselves before me into a
system of surprising symmetry ; and, like the disjointed
parts of an anamorphosis, when seen from the proper point
of view, collecting themselvea into one "elegant design, de-
lighted me with the appearance of that very order and
beauty which I would beforehand have expected to find
in them. In a scheme such as this, where we find powers
Digitized by Google
ASSOCIATION. 685
which are aulogou'l, which resemble one another in their
natlll'e and use1, or which act upon and co-operate with one
another, or mutually aid and aasiat, or control and balance,
each other, we should naturally expect the organs of these
powers to be situated near to one another, and in such a
way as either to adjoin, or at least to admit of an easy
communication. Accordingly we find this to be the case."
Immediately above Amativeness, for example, we see in
the bust Philoprogenitiveness, giving the love of offspring,
and Adhesiveness, producing the propensity to attachment,
the three together constituting the group of the domestic
feelings. Next to them we find Combativeness, as if there
were no dearer objects than these for which the variouR
powers could be exerted. Adjoining to Combativeness is
Destructiveness ; the former giving courage to meet the
enemy, the latter putting peril in the onset, and threatening
him with destruction.
Amid the difficulties of life, it is necessary to use not
only ca11tion but also so much of secrecy regarding our own
purposes, as not to carry " our hearts on our sleeves for
daws to peck at," and we find Secretiveness surmounted by
and in juxtaposition with CautiousneBB.
Turning to the region of the Sentiments, we find Vene-
ration, which produces the tendency to religion, surround-
ed by Benevolence, Hope, Perseverance, and Justice; or
the fountains of the whole charities and duties of life asso-
ciated in a group, and beautifully arranged for reciprocal
aid and combined action.
We find Ideality approaching these, but a little below
them, yet so near to and above ConstructiveneSB as to elevate
ita designs. Ideality also adjoins to Wit and Tune, as if to
give soul and fancy to poetry.
In like manner we find the organs which simply perceive,
or the Knowing Organs, arranged together, along the su-
perciliary ridge, and t110se of Reflection occupying the
summit of the forehead, like the powers which goycrn and
direct the whole.
Digitized by Google
586 ASSOCIATION.
Mr ScoTT, after exhibiting these views, obaerves, that
sach an arrangement is more beautiful, systematic, and ap-
propriate, than human ingenuity could have devised ; and
taken in connexion with the faet, that the organs were
discovered at d.ift"erent times, and in separate situations,
arid that Order and Beautyappeared only after the ultimate
filling up of the greater part of the brain had taken place,
it affords a strong argument apriori, that the organs were
di8covered, not invented, and that the system is the work of
nature, and not of Drs GALL and SPURZHEIM.
In treating ofthe organ of Language, I have explained the
association of ideas with signs. I may here add, that the
doctrines of Mnemonics are founded on this power of the
mind to associate ideas with arbitrary signs. In devising
means for aiding the memory, it ought constantly to be
kept in view, that every individual will associate, with
greatest ease, Ideas with such external objects as he bas
the greatest natural facility in perceiving. For example,
sometimes apace is used as the medium of recalling the
ideas wished to be remembered. . The room is divided, in
imagination, into compartments, and the first topic of the
discourse is placed in the first compartment, the second into
.the second, and so on; so that, by going over the spaces,
the different beads of the discourse with which they were
associated w.ill be recalled. It is obvious, however, that it
is only if Locality be large that such a device can be ser-
viceable; because ifthis faculty be weak, it will be as diffi-
cult to imagine and recollect the eompartmenta, as the dis-
course itself. If, in like manner, numbers arel'e&Orted to
as the connecting medium, so that on hearing one idea,
.which we wish to recollect, we shall associate it with the
number one, and on hearing.another ~hich we wish to re-
collect, w.e shall associate it with .the number two, it is ob-
vious, that, unless the faculty of number be powerful, this
will be a more difficult process than that of simple recollec-
tion. Hence, different modes of recollection should be used
for different individuals. He who has Number most power-
Digitized by Google
ASSOCIATION. 5S7
ful, will associate words most easily with numbers; he who
has Form most energetic, will associate words most easily
with figures; he who has Locality most vigorous, will asso-
ciate words most easily with space ; and he who has Tune
most powerful, will associate words most easily with musi-
cal notes. Hence, also, the influence of associations on
our judgmetlt is easily accounted for. He in whom Vene-
ration is powerful, and to whom the image of a saint has
been from infancy presented as an object to be venerated,
experiences an instantaneous and involuntary emotion
of Veneration, every time the image is pre~~ented to him,
or a conception of it formed ; because it is now the sign
which excites in him that emotion, altogether independently
of Reflecting Faculties. Until we can break this associa-
tion, and prevent the conception of the image from operat-
ing as a sign tO excite the faculty of Veneration, we shall
never succeed in bringing his understanding to examine the
real attributes of the object itself, and to perceive ita want of
every quality that oughtj ostly to be venerated. In the same
way, when a person is in love, the perception or conception
of the object beloved stirs up the faculties which feel in-
to such vivid emotion ; that emotion is so delightful, and
the Reflecting Faculties have so little Cousciousncss, that
the real source of the fascination is in the faculties which
feel, that it is impossible to make the lover see the object
with the eyes of a disinterested spectator. Ifwe couldonce
break the association betwixt the object and the faculties
which feel, the Reflecting Faculties would then perform
their functions faithfully, and the object would be seen in
ita true coloUl'B. But, while we are unable to break this
link, and to prevent this fascination, we may reason ad sem-
pitemum, and our conclusions will never apPear to be sound,
because the premises, that is, the appearance of the object,
will never be the same to the party most interested in the
argument and to us.
Thus, the associations which mislead the judgment, and
perpetuate prejudices, are those of words or things with
Digitized by Google
588 ASSOCIATION.
feelings or ~~ and not 8880Ciationa of conceptions
with conceptions, or merely of ideas with ideas. The whole
classes of ideas formed by the Knowing and ReSecting
Faculties may be asaoeiated ad ¥nituta, if these ideas do
not become linked with the propensities and sentiments,
and no moral prejudices will arise.
In studying the Jaws of 88ll0eiation, therefore, we must
go beyond the ideas themselves, and consider the faculties
which form them. If the faculties be kept in view, the
whole phenomena of association will appear lucid and in-
telligible ; and we shall find nature confirming our princi-
ples, because they will be founded on her laws. We shall see
the individual who bas the RejlectUl{J faculties most power-
ful, associating ideas according to the relation of necessary
consequence ; we shall perceive him who bas the Knowing
Faculties most powerful, associating ideas according to the
relations of time, place, and circumstances ; and, very often,
although not always, we shall find each individual associat-
ing with most facility, and recollecting most perfectly those
ideas, which minister to the gratification of his most power•
ful propensities or sentiments. H we seekonly for relations
among individual ideas themselves, or for general laws, ac-
cording to which ideas are associated in all in~ividuale, our
researches will never be crowned with success. No stronger
proof of this fact could be found, than the circumstance,
that, although difFerent individuals will use the same pro-
cess of reasoning to prodace the same conviction, yet no
two will state their arguments in the 18.11le words, or make
use of the same iUustrations. The general identity of the
reasoning prooeS& depends on the identity of the constitu-
tion of the faelllties which reason ; but difference in words
and illuatratioo arises from the particular combination of
organs beJonging to the individual, and from the circum-
stances. in whleh he has been placed, which afford his
faculties the particular materials which he uses.
In all ages, unprincipled individuals have availed them-
selves of the law of association before explained, to enslave
Digitized by Google
ASSOCIATION. 539
the minds of their fellow men. By means of early Im-
pressions, they have connected certain practices and no-
tions favourable to their own power, with the eentimenta of
Cautionsneu, Conscientionsness and Veneration in the peo-
ple, and thereby caused them to fear objects existing only
in imagination, and to perform actions inconsietent with
the welfare of society. Phrenology will tend to bring this
species of tyranny to an end. Each faculty has a sphere
of legitimate action, established by the Creator, which
is in harmony with every interest that he acknowledges as
pure and beneficial ; but there is also a boundless field of
abuse of each, favourable to base and selfish purposes.
While the faculties themselves, and their relations to each
other, and external objects, are unknown, and the human
intellect ia uncaltivated and ignorant, it is extremely diffi-
cult for ordinary minds to distinguish accurately the boun~
daries of right ; and hence a wide door is opened to abuse
of every power. From this cause error is extensively
mixed up with truth, and deliberately so, by the unprin-
cipled, who hope to profit by delnsion; hence the opinions
and institutions of society in most countries present a
feeble and inconsistent appearance ; so that, in the moral
world, we per~ive little of that magnificent power and
comprehensive design, applied for benevolent ends, which
are so conspicuons in physical creation. In this state of
things, it is not difficult to impress false and prejudicial
notions on the minds of youth, and to support them
through life by observances fitted to give them perma-
nence; and on this basis individual interest erects its bane-
ful structures. But when the faculties, and their relatione,
shall be generally studied, and knowledge of their legiti-
mate spheres of action shall be obtained, the discovery will
be made, that creation is constituted in harmony only with
their proper manifestations, and then acute perception of
right, with high determination to punue it, will 1ake the
place of gropiDg blindness, and irresolute imbecility, which
now characterize the moral aspects of society in many
countries of the worJd.
Digitized by Google
PASSION.
PASSION is the ldghest degree of activity of every fa-
culty ; and the passions are as dift'erent as the faculties:
Thus, a pasaion for glory, is the result of a high activity of
the Love of Approbation ; a passion for money, of Acquisi-
tiveneaa ; a passion for mllllic, of the faculty of Tune ; a
passion for metaphysics, of CaUBBlity. Hence there can be
no snch thing as factitiotu passions, although such are
spoken of in varions books. Man cannot alter his nature ;
and every object that he can desire must be desired in con-
seqnence of ita tending to gratify some natural faculty.
"Locx.z, and many modem writers," says Dr SJ>uaz-
HEIM, " maintain that children are destitute of pessiona;
and it is true, that there is, in adults, one paaaion which is
not observed in children, tbe passion or love. There have
been, however, some individuals, who, ~ three or four
years of age, have felt passionately this~ropensity; and,
in general, the greater number of inclinations manifest
themselves with energetic activity in children. The op-
ponents of Phrenology, for the most part, confound the
objects upon which the particular faculties act at different
ages, with the inclinations themselves. Children, it is
true, have no inclination to defraud the orphan of his inhe-
ritance, or to conquer kingdoms : but they sometimes de-
ceive one another for a bird's nest; they fight for play-
things, and they are proud to occupy the first place at
school;" and the same faculties which give the desires for
these objects, when differently directed in after-life, pro-
duce the various passions which characterize our maturer
years. The boy who is extremely mortified at losing a
place, and burns with a desire to stand at the top of hi.
class, will not be destitute of ambition when a man.
PLEASURE and PAIN are affections of every faculty.
Every faculty, when indulged in ita natural action, feels
pleasure ; " when disagreeably affected feels pain : conse-
quently the kinds of pain and pleasure are as numerons as
the faculties. Hence one individual delights in generonsly
Digitized by Google
PATIENCE ANU IMPATIENCE. 541
pardoning ofFences, and another in taking revenge; one is
happy in the possession of riche&, and another glories in
disdaining the vanities of mankind." ThuS, " pain and
pleasure are the result, and not the cause, of the particu-
lar faculties •."
PATIENCE, and IMPATIENCE. Patience as a po-
sitive feeling, arises from large development of Benevo-
lence, Veneration, Hope, Conscientiousness, and Fmnness,
combined with small Self-Esteem. This eombinati~n is ac-
companied with meekness, humility, constancy and resig-
nation ; the constituent elements of a patient and enduring
spirit. Apathy may arise from a highly lymphatic tempera-
ment, or great deficiency of brain; by persons ignorant of
hnman nature, this state is sometimes mistaken for pa-
tience ; just as th~ extinction of thought and feeling in
a nation, is mistaken by a de~pot for the repose of oontent-
ment.
An individual possesaing an active temperament, and Self-
Esteem, Combativeness and Destructiveness, larger than
Benevolence, Veneration, and Conscientiousness, will be im-
patient of opposition and contradiction ; one in whom Tune,
Time, and Ideality are large, will be impatient ofbad music;
one in whom Benevolence, Conscientiousness, and Causality
are large, 'will be impatient of hypocritieaJ and selfiah eon-
duct. If the nervous and S&Dguine temperaments predo-
minate, the organs are very active, and tlt.e indi'ridual will
be impatient of all slow proeing movements, whether in
speech or actions.
JOY and GRIEF. Mr HuHE enters into a very aente
and refined analysis, to shew that grief and joy are merely
ntU:turu of lwpe and fetll'. After treating of several pas-
sions, be continues thus : " None of these passions seem to
• Dr S.vazazzx'a New Ph;piognomical Syatem.
Digitized by Google
JOY AND GlUEF.
contain any thing curious or remarkable, except lwpe and
fear, which, being derived from the probability of any good
or evil, are mixed passions, that merit our attention."
"Probability," says he, "ari&ee from an opposition of
contrary chances or causes, by which the miud is not
allowed to fix on either side ; but is incessantly tossed
from one to another, and ia determined one moment to
consider an object as existent, and another moment 88 the
contrary."
" Suppose, then, that the object concerning which we
are doubtful, produces either desire or aversion, it is evi-
dent that, according 88 the mind turns itself to one side or
the other, it must feel a momentary impression of joy or
sorrow."
" The passions of fear and hope may arise, when the
chances are equal on both sides, and no superiority can be
discovered in one above the other. Nay, in this situation,
the passions are rather the strongest, 88 the mind has then
the least foundation to rest upon, and is tossed with the
greatest uncertainty. Throw in a superior degree of pro-
bability to the side of grief, you immediately see that pas-
sion difFuse itself over the composition, and tin<.-ture it with
fear. ~crease the probability, and by that means the
grief; the fear prevails still more, till at last it runs insen-
sibly, 88 the joy continually diminishes, into pure grief.
After you have brought it to this situation, diminish the
grief by a contrary operation to that which increased it,
to-wit, by diminishing the probability on the melancholy
side, and you will see the pas&ion clear every moment, till
it changes insensibly into hope ; which again runs, by slow·
degrees, into joy, 88 you increase that part of the compo-
sition by the increase of the probability." Mr HuME con-
eludes by this qoe8tion : " Are not these 88 plain proofs that
the passions of Fear and Hope are mixtures of Grief and
Joy, 88 in optres it is a proof that a coloured ray of the sun,
passing through a prism, is a composition of two others,
when, as you diminish or increase the quantity of either,
4
Digitized by Google
.JOY AND GRIEF. 548
you find it prevail proportionally, more or less, in the com-
position?.,,
These views are exceedingly ingenious, and, to a certain
extent, sound ; but Phrenology preaents us with still more
distinct and accurate elucidations of the nature of grief and
joy. Each propenaity desires to attain its object, and the
attainment aft'ords to the mind a feeling of gratification.
Acquisitiveness desires wealth ; Love of Approbation longs
for praise and distinction, and Self-Esteem pants for autho-
rity. The obtaining of wealth gratifies Acquisitiveness;
this is attended with pleasing emotions, and these emo-
tions coustitute Joy. The losing of wealth robs Acqui-
Ritiveneea of its object ; this, again, is accompanied with
painful sensations, and these are grief. The same re-
marks may be applied to Love of Approbation, Self-Es-
teem, or Phlloprogenitiveneas. When a lovelt chlld is
born, the delight experienced by the parents will be in
proportion to the ardour of their desire for offspring ; or,
in other words, their joy will be great in proportion to the
gratification of their Philoprogenitiveness. If they lose
the child, their griefwill be severe in proportion to the in-
tensity of this feeling, lacerated by the removal of its ob-
ject. In all these instances we find joy and griif existing
without involving either , . orfear.
Let us now advert to Mr HuME's analysis. Cautious-
ness and Hope are both primitive sentiments, the fonner
producing fear, and the latter an emotion sui generia, at-
tended with delight. Both have relation to fuhwe objects,
and·in this respect differ from the other faculties, the gratifi-
cation ofwhich rela&es topruenttime; but this circolDBtance
does not change the laws of their operation. If the pros-
pect of future evil be presented to the mind, this excite.
Cautiousness, and fear is produced ; this emotion is pain-
ful, but fear is not grief. It is to be observed, however,
that there must be the fear ·of wmdlaing ; and as evil is a
diaagreeabJe affection of some primitive faeulty; of Acqni-
• H uHll:'l Dissertation on the Passions, sect. 1.
Digitized by Google
JOY AND GRIEF.
sitiveness or Philoprogenitiveness for example, Cautions-
ness is never affected almle, but always in conjunction with
some other power. Thus, if a son is sick, Cautiousness
fears that he will die, and Philoprogenitiveness is painfully
affected by the prospect of that event, which painful emo-
tion is grief. Here fear and grief are conjoined ; but they
arise from difFerent sources, and although the ftar cannot
exist without the griif, in SOIDI' degree or other, yet the
griifmight exist without thefear; and would do so~ if the
child were carried in a corpse without a moment's warn-
ing. In the same way, if a penon hopea, he must lwpefor
llflflldAing. If for gaining £ 1000, the prospect gratifies
Acquisitiveneu, and this isjoy. Here the active Hope and
gratified Acquisitiveness mingle in producing Joy, but still
their sources are separate ; and if the £ 1000 were rea-
lized, Joy would exist without the Hope, although Hope
can acarcely be active without Joy. The principles here
unfolded will be found to elucidate every instance of the
operation of Hope and Fear, Joy and Grief, which can
be supposed, and this is a strong proof that we have found
the truth. They explain beautifully, for instance, how,
with many individual&, the anticipation of good is more de-
lightful than the enjoyment of it. If .Acqui8itiveness and
Hope be both strong, the proapect of gain excites and grati-
fies botA facultiu at once; whereas, the actual attainment
pleases onlg.Acqui8itiveneu, and excludes Hope. Bnt Hope
being one of the higher sentiments, and Acquisitiveness
only a lower propensity, the delight& attending the activity
of the former are greatly more elevated and excellent thu.
those accompanying the latter; and it is easy to coaceive
that the e:«rcile ofbotA must be JIIQI"e delighffvl than that of
either separately, and that when Hope ia dropped from the
combination, the better half of the pleasure is gone.
The convene of this holds equally good. The prespect
of distpt evil is more painful than the experienee of it
when actually present. While the lOBS of a child is con-
templated at a distance, Cautiousness adds its melancholy
3
Digitized by Google
SYMPATHY. 545
and heart-sinking fears to the pains of a wounded Philo-
progenitiveness; but when the event happens, the influence
of Cautiousness is withdrawn, Philoprogenitiveness alone
suffers, and the actual distress is less grievous than the an-
ticipation of it.
Great wisdom and benevolence on the part of the CREA-
TOR are displayed in this constitution of our minds; for we
are thereby prompted, wi~ double ardour, to avoid evil,
while yet at a di11tance and subject to control from our. ef-
fort..
SYMPATHY • may be defined to be a fellow-feeling, ia
one pel'80n, with emotions experienced by another. By
attending to the laws which regulate the activity of the
mental faculties, we shaH discover the true nature of this
affection, and the circumstances most favourable to its oc-
enrrence.
Every internal faculty, like each of the external senses,
is most powerfully and most agreeably roused to activity
by the direct presentment of its own objects; CautiousnesB,
for instance, by the aspect of danger; Benevolence, hy
that of suffering ; and so on. Heno~ if two indi"iduals of
nearly similar constitutions of mind be expesed to the ope-
ntion of the same external causes, the same faculties being
called into activity in both, will give rise to similar emo-
tions ; and they may then be said to sympathize with each-
other. This is one kind f>f sympathy, bot it is not the state
ef mind to which that term is most conectly applied..
The next source of stimulus to the faculties, is that af-
forded by Natural Language. When any faculty is pl'e-
dominant)y active, it giTes a peculiar expression to the fea-
tures, and certain determinate attitudes to the body, the
import of which is instinctively understood by all who pos-
&e88 the same faculty evea in a moderate degree. Thus,.
Self-Esteem being predominantly active, communicates to
• I am indebt~ to the kindlleu of Dr A. Coxu for the following ob-
etmltiOilJ on Sympathy.
KID
Digitized by Google
546 SYMPATHY.
the body a cold, formal, erect, aad haughty air. This air
ill reeognieed inatinctively by the spectator as indicating
exceasive pride in the iDdividual who exhibits it; and it is
caUed the natural language of Self.Eateem •. Now, by a
law of our constitution, the natural language of any active
faculty invariably excitee the same faculty to actiYity, and,
eontequently, gives riae to the same emotions, in the mind.
of those who witneat it. The forbidding Ptrut of great
Self-Eeteem, for inatance, in a penon whom we never aaw
before, addresses itself directly to our Self-Esteem ; we in-
stinctively draw up, and feel moved to support our own
eonsequence by a coldneae proportioned to his. In like
manner, when we meet for the first time with a penon
whose countenance and geatnrea expreae kindness, eandour,
and open-hearted friendship, which are the natural Jan..
gnage of active Benevolence, Conacieotiousnesa, and Ad-
hesiveness, the same emotions are excited in ourselves, and
we instinctively return his advances with a kindneu cor-
responding to his own. Or, let us imagine that we hurry
to meet a friend, whom we expect to find all bappiDeas and
gaiety, and that, instead of this, seriousness, anxiety, and
grief, are depicted on his countenance, and indicated by
his gestures, these being the natural language of Caution&o
nees and other faculties painfully affected, will call up a oor-
rMponding afFection of the same faculties in our minds, and,
without knowing what baa distreued him, our features and
attitudes will inatantly aaaume an exprel8ion consonant with
his own. It is to this involuntary and almost uRconscious
eomtnunication of feelings and emotions from the mind of
one iDdividual to that of another, through the medium of
aaturallangu&88, that the term Sympathy is moet properly
applied.
• Drs GALL and SPUilZBEIJI have investigated the la11"S which deter-
mine the natural language of each taculty, lllld their exposition or them
It highly mterettlng and inAruetlve. The leading priuclple k, that the
motions are always ln the direction of the seat of the organs ; Self.Esteem,
for instance, produces an attitude in which the bead and body are held
high and reclining backward ; Cautiousness carries the head backward and
to the aide; Veneration, upward and forward; and so on.
Digitized by Google
SYMPATHY. 547
An excellent illustration of this kind of sympathy is to
be found in the effects of a panic, or exceasively excited
Cautiousness, in one individual, exciting the same feeling
in all who behold it. The very sight of a panic-stricken
pel'80n, when we do not know the e&Uie which has given
rise to the alarm, excites a general uneasinees about our
own safety; and if a great number of persons together,
and at the same instant, perceive.the terrified expression,
it instantly rouses the faculty of Cautiouane88 to its highest
pitch of activity in all of them, and produces the moat in·
tense feelings of dread and alarm. Such are the caUSH and
origin of panics in battles and 1
in mobs; and hence the
electric rapidity with which passions of e\"ery kind pervade
and agitate the minds of assembled multitudes.
Another and very familiar example of this kind of aym·
pathy may be seen in a crowded city. Let any one in pass-
ing along London Bridge, for instance, atop abort, and
turn up his face, with his mouth half open, as if stupifted
with wonder and amazement, and immediately the same
expresaion, being the natural language of Individuality
and Wonder, will be transferred to the countenances of
nine-tenths of the paaaengera, not one of whom, of course,
will be able to assign any direct caUie for the emotion with
which hia mind will be filled. As the propensities and
sentiments employ the intellect to minister to their gratifi-
cation, if the wag happens to say that it is something vast-
ly surprising in the heavens which attracts his gaze, the
majority of the curious in wonders will soon, bya stretch of
intellectual conception, come to perceive tJOmethi"ff whei:e
nothing actually exists.
Trne sympathy, then, arises from the natural language
of any active feeling in one individual exciting the same
feeling in another, " anJecedent to ang knowledge ofwhat ex-
cited it in 1M peraon pritu:ipallg concerned;" and, therefore,
as the atimulns of natural language is secondary or inferior
in power to that derived from the direct presentment of the
objects of any faculty, it is easy to explain why the person
Mm2
Digitized by Google
548 SYI\IPATHY.
who feels sympathetically, feels less deeply than the penon
with whom he sympathizes. The same principle explains,
also, why all men do not sympathize in the same degree,
and why, in some cases, the spectator does not sympathize
• at all. If the obj~ta presented are such as to afford a di-
rect stimulus to a different faculty in us, from that exhibit-
ed in activity by another, it follows, that, in virtue of the
stronger influence of the direct excitement, the particular
faculty which it addresses will be roused into higher activi-
ty than the one which has only the less powerful stimulus
of natural language, and thus a totally dissimilar emotion
will be experienced. For example, let us suppose, that a
man with a good endowment of Combativeness is attacked
on the highway. The menacing looks and gestures (the
natural language of Combatinness) displayed by the ag-
gressor, instantly rouse the same faculty into energetic ae-
tiea in the defender, and force is repelled by force. But,
suppose that the attack is made upon a woman or an indi-
vidual, in whom Combativeness is only moderate, and in
whom Cautiousness predominates, the attack then becomes
a direct stimulus to Cautiousness, which, being excited,
produces fetJT ; and the direct stimulus of Cautiousness
overpowering the indirect stimulus of Combativeness, sub-
miuion or flight is resorted to, rather than defence.
Dr ADAM SMITH • supposes, that there are emotions with
which we have no sympathy. " The furious behaviour of
an angry man," says he, " is more likely to exasperate us
against himself than against his enemies." According to
the theory, however, of sympathy, that it excites in us the
same emotion which others feel, this opinion seems to be
untenable. H Combativeness in one excites, by sympathy,
Combativeness in another, which I hold it to do, it foJlows,
that, as the function of Combativeness is to attack or to re-
pel attack, whea that faculty is roused, it must, from ita
~ery constitution, exert itsell against something or some-
• Theory of Moral SenUmenta, p. Sl.
Digitized by Google
SY:&IPATHY. 549
body. H we know the cause of the anger and approve of
it, and direct our Combativeness against the an~ man's
enemies, this is climly sympathy in every sense of the
term. But if we disapprove of the cause, then he himself
becomes the object of our combativeness ; and in popular
~guage it may be said, that, in this case, we do not sym-
pathize with him; but it must be observed, lst, That the
activity of Combativeness in 1tim is the.cause ofrousing the
same faculty mus ; and, 2dty, That the reason of its being
clireetecl against himself is to be found in his having out-
raged, by his conduct, our moral sentiments, and presented
us with an object (an unreasonably furious man) which sti-
mulates them directly ; and they being excited, determine
the direction which Combativeness shall take. The same
reasoning applies to the sympathy 'Of -
Self-Esteem and of
other faculties, hitherto supposed not to sympathize.
The proof that we do sympathize with anger, when pro-
perly directed, as well as with grief or pity, is to be found
in the cordiality with which we approve of and indeed en-
courage a just degree of it. Fortunately, in the case of
Combativeness, as well as of all the other propensities, our
sympathy, beyond certain limits, is soon arrested by the di-
rect stimulus which the moral sentiments receive from the
conduct of the angry person, and by the deep sense of their
inherent supremacy which is then felt. In consequence we
sympathize with or approve of the actions produced by the
lower faculties of others, only when these are guided by the
faculties proper to man. For example, we never sympa-
thize with Combativeness when indulged for the mere plea-
sure of fighting; or of Destructiveness, when -gratified for
the mere delight of being ferocious; or of Acquisitiveness,
when directed to the sole purpose of accumulating wealth.
But we sympathize with the action of all ofthese faculties,
when directed by justice and understanding. Such, how-
ever, is the beautiful constitution of our nature, that we
sympathize with the action of the sentiments proper to
man, even when tmmingled 'vith any other .rootive; for
Digitized by Google
550 SYMPATHY.
example, we sympathi:~e with Benevolence, from the mere
glow of charity ; with Veneration, from the mere inward
feeling of devotion; with Justice, from the pure dictates
of ConscientiousneM ; and actions done, apparently ·from
&he impu1ees of theae faculties, lose their character of puri-
ty and excellence in our estimation, in exact proportion to
the alloy of the inferior faculties which we perceive to be
mingled with them. Kindness, in which we perceive in-
terest, ia always lesa valued than when pure and unadul-
terated. Activity, in the service of the public, 10118 ita
merits in our eyes, in exact proportion aa we perceive the
motive to be the Love of Approbation, unmingled widl
Conscientiousnesa and true Benevolence. These facta
prove the accuracy of the phrenological doctrine, that the
higher faculties are made to govern the lower ; and it
proves the curious circumstance, that man is coneeioua of
possessing feelings, nece&IIU'Y, no doubt, in themselves, but
of the gratification of which, when undirected by the supe-
rior powers, he himself disapproves. Even the higher sen-
timents, however, must, to be approved of, act conformably
to the undel'8tanding; and exceM of veneration, o£ be-
nevolence, or of scrupulosity, is always regarded as weak-
ness, juat as excess of any lower propensity is regarded as
vice.
The doctrine of sympathy leads Cio valuable practical
consequences. The natural language of any faculty is in-
telligible to and excites the IllUDe faculty in another, and
this simple principle explains why harshness is much lea
powerful thanmildnessiDcommandingthe servicesofoth81'8.
Harshne&IJ is the natural language of active Self:.Bsteem,
Combativeness, and Firmness : in virtue of the above rule,
it naturally excites the same faculties in those against
whom it is directed, and an instinctive tendency to resist-
ance or disobedience ia the molt. Among the uneducated
classes this process ia exhibited every day. A parent, in
a harsh and angry tone, commands a child to do, 01" to ab-
stain from doing, something; the child iDstiru:tiveJy resists ;
oigi!lzed by Coogle
SYMPATHY. 5~1
and .loud threatening& and at laat violence enaue. TJu.
Jut are direct etimulanta to Cautioi1.8De8a ; and overpower
the faeolties excited, ooly by the indirect stimulus of harah.-
neu, and obedience at lust takes place. Thia is the ani.
form effect of the imperious commands : obedieoee oenr
808088 till coneequeoce. alarming to Cautioumeu are per..
eeived, and then it ia ~tended with a grudge. Veneration;
Conseieotiousuu, Love of Approbation, and Benevolenee,
on the other band, are the faculties which lead to willing
aubmi&lion and obedience, and to which, therefore, we
ought to address ourselves. If we stimulate them, compli.
ance will be agreeable to tbe individual, and doubly benefi-
cial to the person who commands.
To priuciple explain• al&o the force of example in
training to good eondnct, and affords instructive rules for
the proper education of the propensities and sentiments..
Where parents and aeniol'B act habitually under the iniu--
eDce of the higher eentiments, the same sentiments in chil-
dren not only receive a direct cultivation, but they are su.
tained in enduring vivacity by the natural expre.ion of
their activity thua exhibited. Children having the orgau
of the aentimente early developed, ean judge of what ia
right and wroog long before they can reMOn, and beoce
the importance of alway• manifestiug before them the .u-
premaeyof the 1e11timent& .Much of the effect of eumple
upon future ehaneter has been IUJCJ'ibed to Imitation ; but
although this hM an infinence, I ~ persuaded that U is
small compued with that of Sympathy 8IJ now unfolded.
Thore ia a state of mind which bas been confounded with
Sympathy, but which ariees from the direct excitement of
the faculties, by their own object~. When we aee a at.roke
aimed and ready to fall upon the leg or arm of aDOther per-
son, we naturallyahrink and draw back our own legorarm,
aad wheo it doea fall, we in aome meaaure feel it, and are
hurt by it aa well as the •tdrerer. Dr ADAM SMITH pro.
ceeds to explain this by saying, that our fellow feeling
here arises from our changing places in fancy with the auf.
Digitized by Google
552 SYMPATHY.
ferer. Thus, if our brother is ,upon the rack, says he,
" By the imagination we place ourselves in his situation,
we conceive ourselves enduring all the same torments; we
enter as it were into his boiy, and become in some meaaure
the same person with him, and thence form some idea of
his sensatioD&, and even feel something, which, though
weaker in degree, is not altogether unlike them. His ago-
nies thus brought home to ourselves, when we have thus
adopted, and made them our own, begin at last to afFect us,
and we then tremble and shudder at the thought of what
he feels•."
This theory, however,appears to be incorrect, for weoften
feel intensely for another's misery, without, even in idea,
ehanging places with him. In beholding sufFering, we feel
deep commiseration with its object, simply because the fa"
culty of Benevolence, .
the function of which is to manifest
this emotion, is a primitive mental power, having the same
relation to external misery or pain, as light has to the eye ;
and as such -it is as instantlyand irresistibly reused by pre-
sentment of a sufFering .object, as the eye is by the admis-
sion of light, or the ear by the pel"CU88ion ol sounds. In
witnessing another's misery, we, in virtue of this constitu-
tion of mind, first feel the emotion of pity, aDd, i11 propor-
tion to its strength, fancy to ourselves the pain which he
endures : But the pity always precedes, and the efFort to
eonceive the pain ·is the l'jfect, and not the cause of the pity.
Hence those who are. remarkable for a moderate endow-
meat of Benevownce, although pos&eBBing superior intellec-
wal or conceit:iRg powers, .never even try to fancy them-
selves placed in the situation of the sufFerer, because they
feel no motive impelling them to the attempt. The bene.
volent idiot, on the ·other band, with scarcely any power
of conception, feels the most poignant distress.
The aamc principle explains our shrinking from a blow
impending ov.er another. The feeling then experienced is
· • Theory of Moral Sentiments, Jl· 30.
Digitized by Google
HABIT. 558
a compound of Fear and Pity, Caotiouaness and Benevo-
lence. Fear sees the danger, and Pity looks to the conse-
quent pain. Danger is the direct stimulant of Cautioua-
nesa, and sofFering that of Benevolence ; and, therefore,
when these objects are presented to the mind, we ean no
more help feeling the correspc)nding emotioDS, than we can
help seeing or hearing. The direct end or function of
Cautiouane&& is the care and preservation of lelf; there-
fore, when it is excited by the aspect of danger, we look
exeJuainly to self, and necessarily draw in our own leg or
arm as parts of ourselfJu; but this results directly from
the eonstitution of the faculty, and not from putting our-
selves in the place of another. The direct end or function
of Benevolence, again, is the good and happiness of others,
and therefore, when it is excited by the misery of another,
it necessarily,· from its very con8titution,, feels for them,
and not for us.
An active temperament greatly conduces to sympathy,
by producing vivacity in aU the cerebral functions, but this
does not supersede the laws of sympathy before explained.
HABIT. Next to Association, Habit makes the most
eonspicuoua figure in the philosophy of Mr STEwART. He
~fers the incapacity of some individuals·to discriminate
colours to habits o£ inattention. The powers, also, of wit,
fancy, and invention in the arts and sciences, he informs
u, are not the original gifts of nature, " but the result of
acquired habits •." " The power of taste, and a genius for
poetry, painting, music and mathematics," he states, " are
gradually formed by particular Aabita of study or of busi-
ness." And not only does habit execute these magnificent
functions in the system of Mr STEwART, but, in the esti-
mation of individuals in private life, it appears to be viewed
as almost omnipotent. On reading to a friend the account
of the boy GIBSON's early atrocities, be attributed them all
to bad AabiU formed in the Charity Work-house of Glas-
• Elements, \·ol. 1. chap. v. p. 1. sect. 4.
Digitized by Google
554 HABIT.
gow ; on exhibiting an individual whoee meutal cb.aracter
was directly opposite, he attributed the difference to good
WiU, formecl under the tuition of his parents. Thue,
there are no talents 10 transcendent, and no dispositions 10
excellent or eo depraved, but habit is suppoeed by many,
at once, to account for them in such a manner, as to super·
eede the neceaaity of all further inveatigation. What, then,
u HABIT, and what place does it hold in the Phrenologic:al
System?
Every voluntary action is a manifestation of scnne ooe 01'
more faculties of t.he mind. " Habit" is defined to be " a
power in a man of doing any thing acquired by frequent
doing it." Now, before it can be done at all, the faeulty
on which it depends must. be posaeued; and the atrooger
the faculty, the greater will be the facility with which the
individual will do the thing at first, and with which be will
learn to repeat it. GEORGE BIDDER, for example, the cel&-
brated mental ealcnlator, has acquired the habit of eolving,
in an incredibly short time, the most exteoaive and intricate
arithmetical problems, without the aid of notation. Before
he could begin to do such a thing, he required to possess the
organ of Nnmber; poueasiDg it largely, he made great and
rapid acquisitions of akill; and at .even years of age esta•
bliahed the Wit which lltruok us with 10 much surprise.
Other individual. 81"8 tD be found endowed with a small .
organ of Number, who, although fomecl by cirCUDUtaocea
to practise the nse of figures, never au.ceeed in acquiriDg a
habit of performing even the simplest arithmetical quee-
tions with facility and success. Thia illustration may be
applied to paiot.iug, poetTy, music and mathematics. Be-
fore the habit of practising theae branchesof art and science
can be acquired, the organs on which they depend 1'JlU8t be
largely poeeessed; and being so, the habits result sponta-
neotl81y from exercising the powers. If a boy at eehool
acquire a habit of quarrelling and fighting, it is obvious
that as these acta 8l'e numifestationa of Combativeoe-, De-
structiveness, and Self-Esteem, be will the more readily
Digitized by Google
HABIT. 555
acquire the habit the larger these organ• are, and the lees
controlled_ by others. · If these organs are small, or if the
higher organs decidedly predominate, the lley will be na-
turally indispoaed to quarrelling, and will acquire the habit
of it with great difliculty, wherever be may be placed. ile
may repel unjust aggreasions made upon him, but he will
not be the promoter of mischief, nor leader in the broils of
his companions.
Ezerci8e· causes the orga'/18 to act with ~ea~r facility'
and it is in this way that the real effects of habit on the
mind, which are important, may be accounted for; bot still
the organ must possess ooneiderable natural power and ac-
tivity, to render it susceptible of the exercise by which
habit is formed. The practice of debate by advocates
at the bar, gives them great facility in delivering ex-
teMpore harangues, oompa.red with that enjoyed by per-
sons whose avocations never lead them to make speeches;
and this facility may be said to be acquired by the habit of
speaking ; bot it wilt always bear a proportion to the ori-
ginal endowment of the faculties, and we shall find, that,
while habit gives to one individual great fluency and oo-
piouaneaa of diction, it often leaves another in much poverty
and embarrassment of utteranee. ~ powers of both wiU
be greatly superior to what they would have been without
the practice of speaking; but disparity in eloquence will
continue to characterize them, owing to dif'ereoees in their
original constitution.
The metaphysiciane, as we have aeen, attribute many
important mental phenomena to the ed'ecta of habit, and
yet they altogether neglect the inftuenee oforganisation on
the mind: According to our views, it is the organ wltieb
acquires activity aad superior facility in performing ita
funetiou, by being properly exercised, just as the fingers
of the mosieian acquire rapidity and facility of motion by
the practice of playing ; and heoce the eft'ecta of habit in
giviDg readineaa 8ad ease are aceo1Ulted for, iDa manner
that is at least intelligible and npportecl by aaalt'g'y. ~
Digitized by Google
556 TASTE.
metaphyaiciana, on the other hand, must imagine that it ia
the immaterial principle itself which improves by exercise,
and gains st~Wtgth by habit,--6 notion which is altogether
inconceivable, and in opposition to the attributes of a purely
apiritual Being. The doctrine of a plurality of organs also,
explains why, by praetising music, we do not acquire the
habit of speaking or writing with facility, or why, by study-
ing mathematics, we do not acquire the habit of reasoning
deeply in moral or ·political science. It teaches that the
organ of Tune is distinct from tha! of Language; that the
organs of Size, Order, Locality, Individuality, and Compa-
rison, on which mathematical talent depends, are dift'erent
from the organ of Causality, by which general reasoning is
performed ; and that it is quite possible to exercise one or-
gan, and leave another in inactivity. Those physiologists,
however, who hold the brain to be a single organ, and
every part of it to be employed in every act of the mind,
require to explain how it happens, that exercising it in one
way does not improve it in all; or, in short, (to use an il-
lustration applied by Dr JoHNSON to genius), to inform
us why the man who can walk east is unable to walk west :
u the organs by means of which he walks east be dijfe-
rmt from those by which he walks west, no difficulty will
occur ; but if they be tile same, the question certainly will
require some portion of ingenuity on the part of the dis-
eiples of the old school for its satisfactory solution.
TASTE. Mr STEWART speaks of Taste as a power or
faculty, and, as already mentioned, supposes it to be ac-
quired by habit. I am not aware that any other metaphy-
sician coincides with him in these views ; but a great deal
has been written upon the subject, and no satisfactory
theory of it yet exists. I shall point out the manner in
which it might be treated phrenologically, but the subject
is too extensive to allow me to enter into it in detail.
In thejir&t place, every act of the mind must be a mani-
festation of some faculty or other: and every act must be
Digitized by Google
~fASTE. 557
characterized either by good or bad taste, or be wholly in-
dift'erent in this respect. Let us inquire into the origin of
bad taste, and this will lead us to distinguisla ita opposite,
or correct taste. .Bad taste, then, appears to arise from an
excessive or improper mallifestation of any of the facul-
ties. Lord BvaoN is guilty of very bad taste in·some pas-
sages of Dma JutUt, in which he exhibits the passion of love
in all the gr088ne&s of an animal feeling: this arises from an
excessive lD&Ilifestation of Amativeness, not purified and
dignified by the moral sentiments and reftection. In the
same work, there ia a scene in a boat, in which Don Juatt
and his companions are made to devour his tutor. To a
being under the sole dominion of Destruetinness, such a
representation may perhape be gratifying; but unlen this
propensity be very powerful, it will be impossible for any
mind deliberately to invent and enjoy such a picture of
human misery. No thoughtlessness, levity, freak of fancy,
or other folly, could produce it, without a predominant De-
structiveness. This great defect of W.tl\ therefore, may
be ascribed to an excessive manifestation of this faculty, Ull•
relieved by Benevolence, or other higher feelings. MooRE,
also, in his earlier veraes, was guilty o£ sins against taste,
from excessive manifestations of the amative propensity ;
bot this error be has greatly corrected in his later pro-
ductions.
Faults in taste, however, arise not only from unbecoming
manifestations of the lower propensities, but also from an
inordinate expreesion of the sentiments and intellectoaJ
faculties. In Peter &ll and Chriatahell, and in the pro-
ductions of the Lake School of Poetry in general, much
bad taste springs from mawkiah and infntine manife*ta-
tiooa of Benevolence, Philoprogenitiveness and Adhesive-
ness. Even Ideality itself may be abuaed. It is undottbt-
edly the fonntaiu of beauty, but in excess it degener8tei in-
to bombast, rant and exaggeration ; or that speciee of com-
poaition which a contemporary critic has appropriately de-
signa~ lly the epithet of "drunken sublimity.'• · WoRM-
Digitized by Google
558 TAS'l"E.
WORTH aft'ords examples of errors in taste, arising from an
abuse of Causality; he introduces abstruse and unintelli-
gible metaplq'tri.cal disquisitions into his poetry, and mie-
tifies it, in place of rendering it profound.
In like manner, the expreeaion of any sentiment or pro-
pensity in an undue degree in conversation or conduct, is
essentially characteristic of bad taste. An exeeu of vani-
ty, and the tendency to engrOIS conversation, is one form of
it which occurs in society, and arises from over active
Love of Approbation and Self-Esteem. The tendency to
wrangle, dispute and contradict, is another fault which
springs from an excessive activity of Combativeness. The
disposition to flatter, and utter a profusion of agreeable
things to persons whom we do not esteem, but wish to
please, is also characterized by bad taste, and arises from
an improper manifestation of Secretiveness and Love of Ap-
probation.
The question naturally occurs, What is the distinction
betwixt bad taste and bad morality? I would answer, that
bad morality always implies bad taste, for it springs from
an improper manifestation of aome lower feeling, to the
outrage of the sentiments of Justice, Benevolence and Ve-
neration. Bad taste, however, may occur without moral
turpitude, and this arises from an undue activity of any of
the faculties, without offence against justice. The effemi-
nacies of Peter Bell, for example, stand low enough in the
acale of taate; but as the greatest tendernees for asses does
not necessarily imply any breach ofjustice to other beings,
the taste only is bad, and not the morality. In like man-
ner, when an individual, under the infiuenee of an exces-
sive Self-Esteem and Love of Approbation, constitutes
himself the bore of a party, as his offence does not amount
to an attack upon such rights as we guard by the senti-
ment of justice, we set him down as ill-bred, but not as
immoral.
CHESTERFIELD, and aome dictators. in manners, deli-
berately recommend slight offences agaiut eandour, not
Digitized by Google
TASTE.
only aa not liable to the imputation of bad taste, but as es-
sential to good taate. Thus, CuESTERFJELD admits a great
deal of deceitful compliance into his characteristics of a
gentleman ; but, with great deference to his Lordship's au-
thority, I cannot aobacribe to the doctrine that bad mora-
lity and good ta1te are in any degree compatible in the
same action. An individual may act veey improperly in
many parts of his conduct, and ahew conaiderable refine.
ment in other instances ; and this is eaally understood ; for
the higher sentiments may co-exist with great animal pro-
pensities, and one occasion may call forth the former,
and another excite only the latter, and the conduct may
thus 888ume different aspects at different times; but the
question ia, Whether the .ame action can be charac-
\erized both as immoral and as po88e8led of. good taste?
In my opinion it cannot. It is good taste to restrain
the expression of our opinions or views in society, when
an oppoeite conduct would cause only dissensions and
broils ; but thia is good morality also. CHESTERFIELD,
however, goes farth«.>r, and allows an expression of senti·
menta, which we do not entertain, if they be pleaaing to
those to whom they are addressed, as perfectly compatible
with good mannen ; and this is a breach of candour. Thia
practice ia an insult to the person who is the object of it ;
and if he saw the real motives he would feel it to be
such. Nothing which, when examined in all its lights, and
its true colours, is essentially rude, can poesibly be correct
in point of taste; so that it bas only the appearance, and
not the true qualities, of politen~ In short, purity in
the motive is equally requisite to good taste as to sound
morality ; for the motive constitutes the eaaence of the ac-
tion.
The sources of good taste may now be adverted to. The
nervous and .anguine temperaments, by giving finenees to
the subatance, and vivacity to the action of the brain, are
highly conducive to refinement. All authors and anista
whoee worb are characterised by great delieacy ucl beau·
2
Digitized by Google
560 TASTE.
ty, have fine temperaments combined witll Ideality. The
most exquisite mental manifestations are those wbicb pro-
ceed from a favourable combination of the whole facultiee,
in which each contributes a share of ita own good quali-
ties, and is restrained by the others from running in~ ex-
cess or abuse. Thus, I conceive the very admirable taste
of CAMPBELL the poet, to arise from a great endowment of
the higher sentiments, Reflection and Concentrativeneas ;
iJO that, on any feeling or image occurring to his mind,
these faculties judge .by an intuitive tact of ita fitness,
and modify it to the point at which it pleases them
all. If a favourable development of this kind be ~'
the higher that Ideality risett, not to run into excess, and
the finer the temper&Qlcnt, the more perfect will be the
taste. At the same time, and for the same reason, there
may be much good taste, of a simple kind, with moderate
Ideality, if the other faculties be favourably balanced.
As Taste arises from fine quality of brain, and a favour-
able combination of organs, the explanation is simple, how
it may be possessed without genius. Genius arises from
great vigour and activity, depending on large size, and a
high temperament : these are greater endowments than
equability, and an individual may be deficient in them,
and yet be so favourably conatituted, with respect to the ba-
lance ofthe pqwera, as to feel acutely the excellencies or the
faults of genius manifested by others. Henc.-e many per-
sons are really excellent critics, who could not themselves
produce original works of value ; hence also, many origi-
nal authors, of great reputation, display very questionable
Taste.
- In applying these principles to actual cases, I fiad them
borne out by numerous facta. Dr CHALMERS occasionally
sins against taste, and in his head Ideality and Cemparison
are out of due proportion to Causality, and some other or-
gans. In Mr JEFFREY's bust, on the contrary, there is a
very beautiful and regular development of Eventuality,
Comparison, and Causality, with a tair balance betw.een the
s
Digitized by Google
TASTE. 561
propensities and sentiments ; and his taste is generally ad-
mirable.
As good taste is the result of the harmonious action of
the faculties, we are able to perceive why taste is suscep-
tible of 80 great improvement by cultivation. An author
will frequently reason as profoundly, or soar as loftily, in
his first eseay, as after practice in·writing for twenty years;
but he rarely manifests the same tact a& the outset of his
career, as be attains by subsequent study, and the admoni-
tions of a discriminative criticism. Reasoning. depends
on Causality and Comparison, and lofty flights of ~magina-.
tion on Ideality ; and if the organs of these faculties be
large, they will execute their functions intuitively, and
carry the author forward, from the first, on a bold and
powerful wing ; but as taste depends on the balancing and
adjusting, the suppressing and elevating, the ordering and
arranging, of our thoughts, feelings, and emotions, 80 as to
produce a general harmony of the whole; it is only prac-
tice, reflection, and comparison with higher standards, that
enable us successfully to approximate to excellence; and
even these will do so only when the organs are by nature
equably combined ; for if the balance preponderate greatly
in any particular direction, no effort will produce exqui-
site taste.
Much has been written about a standard of Taste; and in
considering this question, a distinction requires to be made.
If, by fixing a standard, we mean ·determining particular
objects, or qualities of objects, which all men shall regard
as beautiful, the attempt must necessarily be vain. A per-
son possessing Form, Size, Constructiveness, and Ideality,
may experience the most exquisite emotions of beauty from
contemplating a Grecian Temple, in which another indivi-
dual, in whom these organs are nry deficient, may per-
ceive nothing but stone and lime. One individual may
discover, in an arrangement of colours, beauty which is
quite imperceptible to a person deficient in the organ of
Colouring. Or one may be delighted with music, in which
NO
Digitized by Google
-
562 TASTE.
another, through imperfection in the organ of Tune, may
perceive no melody. Thus no object, and no qualities of
objects, can be fixed upon, which all manAind, whatever be
their original constitution, will acknowledge to be beauti-
fuJ, and in this view no standard of Taste exists.
But defJreu qf Beauty may be estimated, in which
sense a scale at least, if not a standard, of Taste, may be
framed. The more favourable the original constitution of
an individual is, and the greater the cultivation bestowed
on his powers, he becomes the higher authority in questions
of Taste. The existence of a sentiment of Justice has been
denied, because individuals are found in whom it is so
weak, as scarcely to influence their conduct ; but Phreno-
logy, by pointing out their defect, shews that these persons
form exceptions to a general ruJe, and then no one thinks
of appealing to them, to determine whether an action be
just or unjust in any particular case. In like manner,
men deficient in the fac.-ulties which give the perception of
Beauty, are not authorities in Taste; but that individual is
the highest judge in whom large Ideality is combined with
a fine temperament, and the most favourable development
of the organs of propensity, sentiment, and intellect; and
who, besides, has exercised his faculties with the greatest
assiduity. His determinations in regard to degrees of
beauty in objects, will form the best standards of Taste
which our imperfect nature is capable of attaining.
~FFECTS OF SIZE IN THE ORGANS ON THE MANI-
FESTATIONS OF THE FACULTIES.
TaE reader is referred to the distinction betwt>en POWER
and ACTIVITY in the mind, as stated on page 108 of the
present work. Cateris paribus, size in the organs is the
measure of power in tbe manifestations of the faculties.
The .practical application of this doctrine remains to be
stated; and it will be understood now, after the functions
Digitized by Google
EFFECTS OF SIZE. 563
and modes of activity of the primitive faculties have been
elucidated.
As size in the organs is an indUpensable requisite to
power in the mind, no iostaDce ought to occur of an indi-
vidual who, with a small brain, has manifested clearly and
unequivocally, great force of character, animal, morai and
intellectual, such as belonged to BaucE, BuoNAPARTE, or
Fox ; and such accordingly phrenologists affirm to be the
fact. The Phrenological Society possesses casts ofthe skulls
of BaucE, RAPHAEL, and LA FoNTAINE, and they are all
large. The busts and portraits of Lord BAcoN, SHAK-
SPEARE and BuoNAPARTE, indicate large heads; and among
living characters no individual has occurred to my obsen'&-
tion who leaves a vivid impression of his own greatness
upon the public mind, and who yet presents to their eyes
only a small brain.
The European head is distinguished from the Asiatic
and native American, not more by difference of form than
of size; the European is much the larger, and the superior
energy of this variety of mankind is known. The heads
of men are larger than those of women, and the latter
obey ; or to bring the point to the clearest demonstration,
we require only to compare the head of an idiot with that
of Buau, or of a child with that of a full grown mao, as
represented on p. '7'7. If, then, size is so clearly a conco-
mitant of power in extreme eases, we are not to presume
that it ceases to exert an influence where the differences
are so minute that the eye is scarcely able to detect them.
The rule, Eztremisprobatis media prcuumuntur, is complete-
ly applicable here.
The doeu·ine, that power is a characteristic of mind, dis-
tinguishable at once from mere intellectual acumen, and
also from activity, is one of great practical importance; and
it explains a variety of phenomena of which we previously
possessed no theory. In society we meet with persons
whose whole manner is little, whom we instinctively feel
N n 2
Digitized by Google
564. EFFECTS OF SIZE
to be unfit for any great enterprize or arduous duty, and
who are, nevertheless, distinguished for amiable feeling
and good sense. This springs from a small brain fa-
vourably proportioned in its parts. Other individuals,
again, with far less polish, inferior information, and fewer
amiable qualities, impress us with a sentiment of their
power, force, energy, or greatness; we instinctively feel
that they have weight, and that, if acting against us, they
would prove formidable opponents. This arises from great
size. BuoNAPARTE, who bad an admirable tact in judging
of human nature, distinguishes between mere cleverness
and force of character, and almost always prefers thelatter.
In his Memoirs, be speaks of some of his generals as pos-
sessing talents, intellect, book-learning, but as still being
nobody, as wanting that weight and comprehensiveness
which fit a man for great enterprizes; while he adverts to
others as possessing limited intellect and little judgment,
but prodigious force of character ; and considen them as
admirably adapted by this qualification to lead soldien
through peril and difficulty, provided they be directed by
minds superior to their own. MuRAT was such a man;
and BuoNAPARTE appeats on the whole to have liked such
officers, for they did not trouble him with thinking fol'
themselves, while they possessed energy adequate to the
execution of his most gigantic designs. The leader of a
popular party who has risen to that rank by election, or
assumed it with acquiesceuce, will be found to have a large
· brain. The leaders of an army or a fleet also require a si-
milar endowment, for otherwise they would possess autho-
rity without natural weight, and would never inspire con-
fidence in their fol1owets. BuoNAPARTE had a large bead;
and officen and soldiers, citizens and statesmen, bowed
before his mental greatness, however much they might de-
test the use he made of his power. In him, all the organs,
animal, moral, and intellectual (Conscientiousness and,
perhaps, Firmness, expected), seem to bave been large;
•
Digitized by Google
IN THE ORGANS. 565
great activity was added ; and hence arose commanding en-
ergy, combiued with profound and comprehensive intel-
lectual capacity.
The Society poesesaes casts of the beads of .Captains
FRANKLIN and PARRY; and both are decidedly large, with
an excellent proportion j,n the different orders of organs.
These commanders displayed great force of character in
their respective expeditions in quest ofa North-west Passage.
No tendency to mutiny, or insubordination, occurred even
in the moet trying circumstances ; and this would be the
case, because the men under their command would instinc-
tively feel natural superiority coinciding with artificial rank.
The figure represents the east of
Captain PARRY, taken by DEVILLE.
The brain is large, the portion before
the ear greatly exceeds that behind it.
The asterisks indicate the seat of Cau-
tiousness and Causality ; the region
abov,e th~m belongs to the moral sen-
timents; it is large; Firmness is con-
spicuously developed; but the hair gives J>art of the eleva-
tion at Firmness, and alJowance faJls to ~e made for its
thickness.
The men who are able to attend to their private duties,
and at the same time carry a load of public business on
their minds, without feeling encumbered, owe this quality
to great size in the brain, combined with large Knowing
Organs. Those who, having small brains, find their whole
powers absorbed and exhausted by theu· particular occupa-
tions, wonder at such men, and cannot comprehend either
their motives, or the means by which they accomplish so
much. It is power wllich distinguishes them, so that
duties which to others are oppressive, press lightly on tl1em,
or afford them only amusement or relaxation. Mr JosEPH
HUJIIE, M. P. is a beautiful illustration of this doctrine.
He pc>BseSSeiJ moderate organs of Causality, little Wit, less
Ideality, with no great endowment of Language; and yet
Digitized by Google
·566 EFFECTS OF SIZE
even his opponents allow him to manifest great force of cha-
racter, with a power of application and perseverance which
to ordinary minds is incomprehensible. If we look at the
large brain indicated in his cast, and attend to the combi-
nation of organe which it displays, we shall perceive the
source of his weight. THURTELL also shewed great force
of chnraeter, and his brain was large. This quality in
TuunTELL was the source of the intense and long endu-
ring interest which he created and supported in the public
mind. He made deep impressions on those individuals
who came in contact with him, they wrote and printed
their emotions, and the public caught the feeling.
In examining the beads of criminals in jail, I have found
the most daring, desperate and energetic to possess large
brains. When great size and an unfavourable combination
occur together, the officers ofjustice are reduced to despair
of correcting the offender. They feel a strength of charac-
ter which they cannot subdue, and an evil bent which they
cannot direct ;-the result genera1ly is a report from the
police that the individual is incorrigible; the first capital
offence is prosecuted to extremity, and be is hanged for
the sake of protecting society from farther mischief. In
professional pursuits, also, the men who are indisputably
paramount to their fellows not merely in cleverness, but
in depth and foree of character, have large heads ; and
this holds not only in the learned professions, but in mer-
cantile avocations. I have observed, that individuals who,
born in indigence, have risen to wealth, by conducting
great and extensive establishments, have uniformly brains
above an average size ; and mercantile travellers who suc-
ceed in procuring orders, and pushing a trade amidst a
keen and arduous competition, are distinguished by the
same quality. Such men make an impression, and act
with a confidence of power, which gives effect to aU they
say or do. In a school, if the children care nothing for
the master, treat him with disrespect, and he fail, after
using every severity, to maintain discipline and subordi-
Digitized by Google
IN THE ORGANS. 561
nation, be will be found to have a small head. In the do-
mestic circle, if the mistress of a family (while in good
health), is easily overcome, annoyi!d and oppressed with
the cares and duties of her household, tlle origin of the
evil will he found in too small a heacL
In the Church, the effects of size are equally conspi·
cuous. A preacher with a large brain is felt by his flock
to possess weight, and they submit willingly to he led and
taught by him, while they treat with indifference the
feebleness that aecompanies a little head. If, as occa-
sionally happeus, a preacher possess an excellent combina-
tion, that is, the organs of the sentiments and intellect
large in proportion to those of the animal propensities,
he will be aeute, amiable, sensible, and interesting; but if
the general size of his brain he under an average, he will
not he impressive and commanding.
The principle that Size gives power of manifestation,
forms the key to the fQllowing criticism on Dr CHALMERS.
"His mnnner, 80 far from·being graeeful," says a contem·
porary writer, " is very nearly uncouth 1 his tones are nei·.
ther musical, nor under strict subordination : in the selec-
tion of words, and management of figures, his taste, 80 far
from being pW'e, ia sometimes very much the reverse ; his
pronunciation, though vigoreus and distinct,.is beset with
provincialisms, which time and a city audience have done
very little to correct; and as to gesture, wherever we have
heard him, he appeared to be totally unconscious that he
had got such a thing as buds and arms to manage. In
what, then, it may be asked, consists the secret of the
Doctor's eloquence? Simply, as we take it, in this,-that,
while his arguments and illu8trations are for the most part
8lrill.ing and original, he possesses prodigj,ous enthusiasm and
eneTU1J in enforcing them ; that the defects of his rhetoric
are completely lost in the force of his ratiocination ; tbat
while he has mathematics or rogic enough to maAe hi& rea-
Mming acute, grasping, and irresi8tihle, he has poetry enough
to prevent itfrom being dull; thus evincing the very high-
Digitized by Google
.568 EFFECTS OF SIZE
est speci.ea of iniellect, the union of a souad and com~
liveju.dgrM;flt, with a fertik awl bri/Jio.rtl imagiltation. We
have said he posseaees eReTfW, and this we take to be the
great aud redeeming quality of his manner, compared to
which the tiny graces sink into insignificance. Whether
we are facile or fastidious, whether we like or dislike the
preacher's doctrine, one thing is eertain, be forces as to
attend lb Aim. A man migiiJ eMily get AiBpocket picAed wAilc
IU!tening to Dr CH.ALMEBS, but we defy Aim to fall asW:p."
.The bust of Dn CHALMERS indicates a large brain.
In authonthip, the same law holds good. Critics have
been puzzled to account for tbe high rank which Dr
SAMUEL JoHNSON holds in English literature, and to dis-
cover the qualities of mind on which his eminence is
founded. He bas made no discoveries in morals ot in sei-
ence to captivate the mind. His style is stately and sono-
rous, and his arrangement in general good ; but equal or su-
perior graces may be found in GoLDSMITH, TuoMsoN, and
other authors, whom nobody would compare with him in
~eoius. His great characteristic is force and weight; and
these are the concomitants of great size in the organs.
MILTON's wtitiugs are highly characteristic of power, as
are also those ofLocKE. ADDISON, on the other band, is a
specimen of genius produced by a felicitous combination of
sentiment and intellect, without preponderating energy
from great size. Power is the leading charm of SwiFT's
writings; he is not graceful, far from elegant, his reason-
ing is frequently superficial, and his conclusions question-
able; but he is rarely feeble. Strength, energy, and deter-
mination mark every page.
To produce its full effects, large size must be accompa-
nied with sound health and an active temperament, as ex-
plained on p. 101 ; but these, while necessary to give it ef-
fect, will never compensate for its absence.
ACTIVITY in the organs, on the other hand, gives live-
liness, quiekne88, and rapidity; Dr SrunZHEIM thinks that
Digitized by Google
IN THE ORGANtl. 569
long .fibres contribute te activity. The .nguille and u.er~
voua temperamenta.dellcribed on pages 82, SS, and lOt, af.
ford external indications of CODetitutional activity. Mode--
rate size of brain, with favourable combination, awl much
activity, will constitute what is commonly underetood by a
clever man in ordinary life; such an individual will form
ideas rapidly, do a great deal of work, shew tact and dis-
crimination, and prove himselC really a valuable and use-
ful member of society ; but he moat not be overloaded
with difficulties, or encumbered with obetacles, nor must
the field in which he is called on to labour be too exten-
sive.
Great errors are often committed in society tbrough ig-
norance of this fact. An individual po88888ing a small
brain, but a fine temperament, and.favourable combination,
perhapa distinguishes himself in a limited and subordinate
sphere, or he makes one great and successful effort, in
whieh his powers are tasked to the utmost of their limits ;-
.tbe notion is then a&dopted that he is capable of higher du-
ties, and of exhibiting habitually the force of mind thus
displayed on a single occasion. He is, in consequence,
promoted to a more arduous station. H~ continues to exe-
cute small matters so well, that it is difficult to point out
individual instances of failure, and yet a general impres-
sion of his incapacity arises, want of success and discou·
tent increase, and at last, after great suft'ering to him-
self, and annoyance to his employers, be is dismissed. The
small brain is the origin o( the incapacity ; and ignorance
of ita effects the cause of his being miti!placed.
Mankind, in extreme eases, recognise polver or feebleness
of mental character, and modify their conduct accordingly.
Those in whom moral and religious principles do not consti-
tute the habitual rule ofconduct, treat indh·iduals in the most
different manner, according to the impression which they
receive from their manner, and the estimate they form from
it of their strength or weakness of mind. There are men
who carry in their \'ery look the intimation of greatnt>Kt:,
Digitized by Google
570 EFfECTS OF SIZE
whose inanner at once proclaims, " Nemo me impmte lacu-
8et ;, the world reads this notice, and holds it safest to al-
low them to follow their own course without obstruction,
while they avoid giving oft'ence. Contrasted with them,
are the feeble and vacillating; men as unstable as water,
unsteady as the wind. The wicked seize upon them, and
make them their prey. The treatment received by differ-
ent persons from society, is thus widely dift'erent; and it
may truly be said, that a large portion of mankind cau-
not easily conceive the miseries inflicted on the weak by the
powerful and unprincipled taking advantage of their defi-
ciencies.
·When a favourable combination, a fine temperament,
and large size, are conjoined in an individual, they consti-
tute the perfection of4@'enius. This I conceive to have
been the case in HoMER and in SHAKSPEA..RE. Vivacious
buoyancy, ease, and fertility, arising from the first and se-
cond causes, joined with depth, strength, comprebensiv&-
ness, and masculine energy, the result of the third, place
these authors above all others whom the world bas ever
seen. And when we consider that these rare and splen-
did gifts must again be united in one individual, be-
fore their equal can reappear, we shall have no difficulty in
perceiving why so few HoMERS and SHAKSPEARES are gi-
ven by nature to the world.
In these observations, I have treated of the eft'ects of
Size in the brain in general, on the general manifestations
of the mind, to bring the doctrine clearly and forcibly be-
fore the reader; but I beg of him not to fall into the mis-
take of taking general size as an indication of particular
power, for then difficulties without end will be encounter-
ed. For example, it bas often been objected, that a parti-
cular individual wears a large bat, indicating a large brain,
and yet that be bas no scope of intellect, and no ability, in
the general sense of the term. The answer is, that we
must look for the power in the direction ofthe Size, as ex-
plained on p. 97. If the largo hat is requisite, on account
Digitized by Google
IN THE ORGANS. 571
of a great development of the animal organs, we must ex-
pect the individual to be only a powerful animal, and he
may be this, and at the same time a weak man. If the
size predominate in the region of the sentiments, we may
then look for greatness in moral worth ; bnt it is only
when great size, combined with an active temperament,
pervades the whole three classes of organs, Propensities,
Sentiments, and Intellect, that Phrenology authorises us to
expect a general character, vigorous, comprehensive and
profound.
The circumstances which modify the e.ffect8 of Siu have
alJ;"eady been stated (pp. 82, 88. 101), when treating of the
principles of the science, to which the reader is respectful-
ly referred.
•
COMBINATIONS IN SIZE, OR EFFECTS OF THE OR-
GANS WHEN COMBINED IN DIFFERENT :B.ELA-
TIVE PROPORTIONS.
THE primitive functions of each organ were di8coverel4
by observing cases in which it decidedly predominated
over, or fell short of, other organs, in point of Size; and by
similar observations each must still be verified. After the
discovery is established, its practical application deserves
attention. Every individual possesses all the organs, but
they are combined in difFerent degrees of relative size in
different persons ; and .the manifestations of each are mo-
dified in some degree by the influence of those with which
it is combined. The effect of combination, however, is
not to change the proper functions of the different organs,
but only to modify the manner in which they are manifest-
ed ; or the acts in which they seek gratification.
Three rules may be laid down for estimating the effects
of differences in relative size, occurring in the organs of the
same brain.
RuLE FIRST.-Evcry faculty desires gratification with a
Digitized by Google
572 C01\1BINATIONS IN SIZE.
degree of energy proportionate to the size of its organ • ;
and those faculties will be habitually indulged, the organs
of which are largest in the individual t·
.&:amplu.;_Ifthe animal organs in general are large, and
the organs of the moral sentiments and intellect in general
small, the individual will be naturally prone to animal
indulgence in the bigbest degree, and disposed to seek
gratification in the directest way, and in the lowest pur-
suits.
If, on the other band, the organs of the moral sentiments
and intellect greatly predominate, the individual will be
naturally prone to moral and inteJlectnal pursuits; such
persons are "a law unto themselves."
In illustration of this rule, the skull of a Charib, and the
head of Pope ALEX.NDER VI., who was a monster of
wickedness in human form, may be contrasted with the
skulJ of RAPHAEL, and the head of MELANCTHON the Re-
former.
CH.&JliB· Pope ALEX4MDEa VI.
RAPH.U:L. MELANCTUON.
• The condition, MlerV pcrih•u, is always understood, and therefore
need not be repeated, in treating of the effects of Size.
t Ha,·ing been solicited to state, in methodical order, the eff~ts of the
t'ombination~ so far as observetl, I tried to do this in the 1\fS. of the pre-
Digitized by Google
COMBINATIONS IN SIZE. 573
In farther illustl'atioo, the heads of BuRKE and HARE
the murderers, represented on page 8'7, may be contrasted
with thO&e of the Reverend Mr M., given on page 88, and
Captain PARRY, on p. 565. In the Charib, ALEXAN-
DER VI., BuRKE, and HARE, the bAsilar and posterior re-
gions of the brain, dedicated to the animal propensities,
greatly preponderate over the anterior and coronal regions,
which manifest the intellect and moral sentiments • ; in
RAPHAEL, the basilar region is large, but the intellectual
and moral decidedly preponderate ; in MELANCTHON, who
was distinguished for benignity and wisdom in a rude and
excited age, the anterior and coronal regions very greatly
predominate ; in the Reverend Mr M. the same favour-
able combination occurs, and he was remarkable for a si-
milar character; and in Captain PARRY, the base is large,
but with great predominance of the anterior and coronal
regions. Now, under the rule before stated, the first class
will be naturally prone to low and degrading pursuits, ha-
ving for their object the gratification of Amativeness, De-
structiveness, Acquisitiveness, and other inferior feelings;
they will possess very few aspirations after tlte noble and
beneficent virtues which dignify human nature ; be blind
to the obligations of justice, piety, and mercy; and totally
incapable of appreciating the advantages of science. The
second claas will form a direct contrast to them. They
sent work ; but found the result to be a tedious enumeration of propos!.
tionto, adapted to Individuality alone, difficult to be remembered, atJd
witilal extremely incomplete. I have therefu:re preferred lltating priDci.
plee chiefly, accompanied with Wuatratio111, to render them ~telligible,
and shew their application. Thia method was adopted In the Elementa for
the sake of brevity, and, on mature examination, it appears to be prefer-
able in ltaelr. The reader in whom the Reflecting Organs and Concentra-
tlveneaa are amply developed, will not only euily comprehend the ru1el
here laid down, but be able greatly to enlarge the sphere oftheir applka.
tlon.
• The size of the coronal region is best judged of by the height and
breadth of the brain above Cautiousness and Causality, the situation of
which organa is iDdlcated in 8011ltt of the figures by uterlab. Wherever
that region ie shallow or narrow, the moral feelings wW be coUJparaUvely
feeble.
Digitized by Google
574 COMBINATIONS IN SIZE.
will naturally feel the superiority of moral and intelJectual
pl11'11uita, ardently desire to aclvance in the career of im-
provement, and instinctively love every virtue and attain-
~ that is calculated to increase the true dignity and
ha· iness of Man. It is common for indhriduals to assume
the lves aa standards for judging of mankind in gene-
t no criterion can be mot"e fallacious ; the con-
sciousn of men belonging to the inferior class would re-
present the race as base, grovelling and selfish, that of the
higher as elevated, benignant, and intellectual.
RuLE sEcoNn.-As there are three kinds of faculties,
Animal, Moral and Intellectual, which are not 110mogene-
ous, it may happen that eeveral large animal organs are
combined in the same individual, with several moral and
intellectual organs highly developed. The rule, then, will
be, that the lower propensities will take their direction
from the higher powers ; and such a course of action will
be habitually followed as will be calculated to gratify the
whole faculties whose organs are large.
&amples.-lf the organs of Acquisitiveness and Con-
acientiousness were both large, stealing mightgratify Acqui-
sitiveness, but it would offend Conscientiousness. Accord-
ing to the rule, the individual would endeavour to gratify
both, by acquiring property by lawful indWitry. If Com-
bativeness and Destructiveness were large, and Benevo-
lence and Conacientioumess also amply developed, wanton
outrage and indiscriminate attack might gratify the first two
faculties, but they would outrage the last two ; hence the
individual would seek for situations calculated to gratify
all four, and these may be found in the ranks of an army
embodied for the defence of his country; or in moral and
intellectual warfare against the patrons of corruption and
abuse in Church and State. LuTHER, KNox, and many
other benefactors of mankind, were probably actuated by
such a combination of faculties; WASHJNGTON nobly dis-
played it.
Digitized by Google
COMBINATIONS IN SIZE. 575
If, in an individual, the cerebellum is very large, and
Philoprogenitiveness, Adhesiveness, and Conscientiousness
deficient, he will be prone to seek the directest gratifica-
tions of the animal appetite ; if the latter organs are large,
he will perceive that wedlock affords the best means of sa-
tisfying the whole group of faculties.
If Benevolence, Self-Esteem, and Acquisitiveness are all
large, giving charity may gratify the first ; but unless the
individual be very rich, the act of parting with property
may be disagreeable to the last two faculties : he will there-
fore prefer to gratify Benevolence by personal kindness ; he
will sacrifice time, trouble, influence and advice, to the
welfare of others, but not property. If Benevolence were
IJ71Iall, with the same combination, be would not give either
money or personal advice.
If Love of Approbation large, is combined with large
Ideality and moderate Reflecting Faculties, the individual
will be ambitious to excel in the splendour of his equipage,
style of living, dress, and rank. If, to the same combina-
tion, be added a powerful inte11ect and large Conscientious-
ness, moral and intellectual excellence will be preferred, as
the means of obtaining the respect of the world.
An individual in whom Benevolence and Love of Ap·
probation are very large, and Conscientiousness deficient,
will be exceedingly kind and attentive to those persons
who praise him loudly and extol his benevolence ; but he
will overlook humble, retiring, and unostentatious merit;
he will speak much of his own good deeds. If Conscien-
tiousness and Benevolence bad predominated, these last
would be the first objects of his regard, and the good done
would never be proclaimed by himself.
If Self-Esteem large, is combined with deficient Love of
Approbation and Conscientiousness, the individual will be
prone to gratify his selfish feelings, with little regard to the
good opinion, or the just claims of society. If Self-Esteem
large, is combined with large Love of Approbation and
Conscientiousness, the former will produce only that de-
Digitized by Google
576 COMBINATIONS IN SIZE.
gree of self-respect which is essential to dignity of charac-
ter, and that degree of independence of sentiment, without
which even viPtue cannot be maintained.
If Cautiousness large is combined with deficient Comb&-
tiveness, the individual will be extremely timid. If Com-
bativeness be large, and Cautiousness small, reckless intre-
pidity will be the result. If Combativeness be equally
large with Cautiousness, the individual will display courage
regulated by prudence. If Cautiousness, Conscientiousness,
Self-Esteem, Secretiveness, and Love of Approbation, are
all large, and Combativeness moderate, bashfulness or maf4oo
vaise bee will be the consequence. This feeling is the
result of the fear of no' acquitting one's-self to advantage,
and thereby compromising one's l'ersonal dignity.
If Veneration and Hope are large, and Conscientiousness
and Benevolence small, the individual will be naturally
fond of the act of religious worship, but averse to the prac-
tice of charity and justice. If the proportions are reversed,
the result will be a constitutional dispoRition to charity and
justice, with no great tendency to the exercise of devotion.
If all the four organs are large, the individual will be natu-
rally inclined to engage in the worship of GoD~and to dis-
charge his duties to men. If Veneration large, is combined
with large Acquisitiveness and Love of Approbation, the
former sentiment may be directed to superiors in rank and
power, as the means of gratit'yillg the desires for wealth and
influence depending on the latter faculties. If Veneration
small be combined with Self-Esteem and Firmness large,
the individual will not naturally look up to superiors in rank.
The intellectual faculties will naturally tend to such em-
ployments as are calculated to gratify the predominant
propensities and sentiments. If the organs which consti-
tute a genius for painting are combined with large Acqui-
sitiveness, the individual would paint to become rich; if
combined with Acquisitiveness smalJ, and Love of Appro-
bation large, he would probably labour f'or fame, and starve
while attaining it. '
Digitized by Google
COMBINATIONS IN SIZE. 577
Talents for different intellectual pursuits depend upon
tho combinations of the Knowing and Reflecting Organs
in certain proportions. Form, Size, Colouring, Individua-
lity, Ideality, Imitation, and Secretiveness large, with Loca-
lity small, will constitute a portrait, bul not a landacape,
painter. Diminish Form and Imitation, and increase Lo-
cality, and the result will be a talent for landscape, but not
for portrait, painting. Constructiveness and Weight com-
bined with Tune large, may produce a talent for mtUical
instrument making : Without a large Tune the other facul-
ties could not take this direction. Constructiveness com-
bined with Size and Number large, may lead to matliemati-
cal instrument making. Causality, combined with large
Secretivenea, Ideality and Imitation, will seek to discover
the philosophy of the fine arts ; the same organ combined
with Benevolence, ConscientioDBness, and Concentrative-
ness, large, will delight in moral and political investiga-
tions. If to Individuality, Eventuality, Comparison, and
Causality, all large, an equally well developed organ of
Language be added, the result will be a talent for author-
ship or public debate; if Language be smaU, the other facul-
ties will be more prone to seek gratification in the business
of life, or in abstract philosophy.
One great difficulty frequently experienced, is to com-
prebend the effect ofthe Reflecting Powers, added, in a high
degree of endowment, to the Knowing Faculties, when the
latter are exercised in particular branches of art, for which
they appear to be of themst>lves altogether sufficient. It is
stated, for example, that Constructiveness, Secretiveness,
Form, Size, Ideality, Individuality, Colouring and Imita...
tion, constitute a genius for painting; and it may reason-
ably be inquired, What effect will the Reflecting Organs,
large or small, produce on this combination? This ques.-
tion is easily answered. When the Reflecting Organs are
small, Form, Colour, Beautg, constitute the leading objects
of the painter's productions. There is no story, no event,
no comprehensiveness of intellect displayed in his works.
00
Digitized by Google
578 CO:MDINATIONS IN SIZE.
They require to be examined in detail, and as single objects,
unconnected with others by any of the relations perceived
by the higher powers. Add the Reflecting Organs, however,
·and then Outline, Form, Colouring, Perspective,will all sink
into the rank of meam, which the intellect employs to ac-
complish a higher object ; such as the expression of' some
great action or event, some story, which speaks to the judg-
ment, and interests the feelings.
These ideas are beautifully illustrated in an Eesay on the
genius of RAPHAEL, compared with his cerebral develop-
ment, by Mr ScoTT •. In the cast of RAPHAEL's skull,
'the organs here enumerated as essential to a painter, are
all large, and those of Caneality, Comparison and Wit,
are likewise far above an ordinary sW.e. Now, a critic on
the productions of RAPHAEL t says, " In composition RAF-
FAELLO stands pre-eminent. His invention is the refined
emanation of a dramatic mind, and whatever can most in-
terest the feelings, or satisfy the judgment, he selected
from nature, and made his own. The point of time, in his
'historical subjects, is invariably well chosen; and subordi-
nate incidents, while they create a secondary interest, usen-
tially contribute to the principal event. Contrast or combi-
nation of Jines makes no part of his works as an artificial
principle of composition; the nature and character qf tile
event create theforms best calculated to express them. The
individual expression or particular figures corresponds with
their character and employment; and whether calm or agi-
tated, they are at all times equally remote from affectation
or insipidity. The general interut of his subject is ltept up
·througlwut the whole composition; the present action impliu
t/111 past, and anticipates the future. If, in sublimity of
thought, RAFFAELLO has been surpassed by his great eon-
temporary MICHAEL ANGELo,-if, in purity of outline and
form, by the antique,-and in colouring and chiaro-oscuro
by the Lombard and Venetian schools; yet in historical
• Phrenological Journal, voL ii. p. 327.
t Life ofRAPIIAEL, London 1818, anonymous.
Digitized by Google
- - -
COMBINATIONS IN SIZE. 579
compositions he has no rival; and for invention, expres8Wn,
and the power of telling a story, he has never been ap-
proached...
M. FusELJ, speaking of the qualities of RAPHAEL's style
as a painter, says, that " perfect human beauty he has not
represented. No face of RAPHAEL's is perfectly beautiful;
no figure of his, in the abstract, possesses the proportions
that could raise it to a standard of imitation. Form to him
waa only a vehicle of character or pathos ; and to these he
adapted it in a mode, and with a truth, which leaves all at-
tempts at emendation hopeless. His composition always
hastens to the 'I1W8t neceuary point aa its centre; and.from
that disseminates, to that leads back, its rays, all secondary
ones. Group, form, and contrast, are subordinate to the
event; and common-place is ever excluded. His expres-
sion is unmixed aud pure, in strict unison with, and decid-
ed by, character, whether calm, animated, agitated, con-
vulsed, or absorbed, by the inspiring passion : it ner1er con-
tradicts its cmue, and is equally remote from tameness and
grimace. The moment of his choice never suffers the ac-
tion to stagnate or to expire. Itis tile moment oftranaitiun,
the crisis big with the past, and pregnant with the future.
His invention connects the utmost stretch of possibility with
the most plausible degree of probability, in a manner that
equally"surprises our fancy, persuades ourjudgment, and af-
fects our hearts."
In all this criticism we have tbe most exact description
of the manifestations of Comparison and Causality, whicl1
give scope, depth, and force of intellectual conception, the
power of combining means to attain an end, and the natu-
ral tendency to keep the means in their appropriate place,
as accessaries merely to the main design.
RAPHAEL's genius, accordingly, can be fully appreciated
only after having exercised the higher intellectual faculties
on his works. Sir JosHUA REYNOLDS acknowledges that it
was only after repeated visits, and deep rejlection, that he
disco\'ered their merits, his first impression having been
0 0 2
Digitized by Google
580 COMBINATIONS IN SIZE.
that of mortification and disappointment, from not seeing
at once aU their greatness. The excellence of RAPHAEL's
style, says he, is not on the surface, " but lies dup, and at
the first view is seen but mistily. It is the florid style which
strikes at once, and captivates the eye for a time, without
ever satisfying the judgment." If, on the other hand, the
Knowing and Constructive Organs alone had predominated
in RAPHAEL, all these accessaries would have become prin-
cipals ; and the critic who possessed intellect, would have
felt a decided deficiency of design, story, interest, and ob-
ject in his paintings. Hence high Reflecting Organs are
i11dispensable to .historical painting; and HAYDON, who has
manifested great power of conception in this line, possesses
these in an eminent degree. The late Sir H. RAEBURN,
whose style of portrait painting approaches, in point of
dignity and force, the historical, possessed also a full de-
velopment of the upper part of the forehead, as well as the
pictorial organs. In sculpture the same rule holds. The
artist who has Form, Size, Constructiveness, and Ideality
large, without high Reflecting Organs, may chisel a vase,
or cut out a wreath of flowers ; but he will never reach
grandeur of conception, or confer thought, dignity, and
pow~r, upon his productions.
It follows from these principles, that a sculptor or painter
will represent one class of objeeUI with greater truth and fi-
delity than another, according to the particular combina-
tion of organs which predominates in his head. Thus, to
model the exquisite softness, delicacy, and symmetry of the
female form, the constructive organs, Ideality, and the mo-
ral sentiments, may suffice, without much depth and power
of reflection. To represent, on the other hand, whether on
canvas or in marble, the man of genius, profound in
thought, and elevated and intense in emotion, the artist
himself must possess great organs of sentiment and reflec-
tion, in addition to the organs of art before described,
otherwise be will never be able adequately to conceive or
to express these modes of mind, when they occur in his
Digitized by Google
COMBINATIONS IN SIZE. 581
subjects. This fortunate combination occurs in conjunc-
tion with a fine temperament in LAWRENcE MAcDONALD,
and hence the admirable qualities for which his aculpture
is already so highly distinguished.
The same rules hold in architecture and music. The ar-
chitect possessing only the Knowing Organs large, may
produce the plan of a house, or a particular object, with
success ; but he ought never to attempt a work in which
design, combination, and thought, are the leading objects.
From not attending to this law of nature, many abortions
in architectural designs occur in this country. An artist,
with a constructive and knowing head, may produce a piau
which will look beautiful on paper, and which, in fact, is
beautiful as an individual object ; but if the Reflecting Or-
gans are deficient, he will be incapable of considering it in
its relations to surrounding objects, and of divining how it
will afFect the mind, when presented in all its relations ;
hence, when executed, it may turn out a deformity. Add,
however, the Reflecting Organs, and the efFects of collateral
objects will be anticipated and provided for. An architect,
in whom the Reflecting Organs are large, and the Knowing
Organs deficient, will fail in practical efFect, to which a
command of details is indispensable.
The musician, in like manner, who shall be able to ex-
press thought, feeling, and emotion, with exquisite efFect,
with whom sound is subordinate to sense, design and ex-
pression, must always possess the higher powers in addition
to the merely musical faculties.
In oratory, too, a person with Individuality, Eventuality,
Comparison, Ideality, and Language, may be erudite, fluent,
brilliant, and, if propensityand sentiment be added, he may
be vehement, pathetic, or sublime; but, to give great com-
prehensiveness, deep sagacity, and profound elucidation of
principle, Causality must be added to the combination.
TASTE in every branch of the fine arts is distinguishable
from power and comprehensiveness, and it depends, as al•
ready explained •, on a harmunious combination, and due
• Page 456.
Digitized by Google
582 COMBINATIONS IN SIZE.
cultivation, of the organs in general. In RAPHAEL these
requisites occurred; and it is because Nature rarely unites
the particular organs which constitute a painter,-high r~
fleeting organs, large general size, harmonious proportion,
and natural activity,-all in one individual, that so few
RAPHAELS appear.
In no instance is it a matter of indifference to the talents
and dispositions of the individual, whether any particular
organ be large or small. If it be large, although its ahwJes
may be prevented by restraint imposed by the other facul-
ties ; still its presence will operate on the mind. If, for in·
stance, large Combativeness and Dest.ructiveoess be com-
bined with a large development of the moral and intellec-
tual organs, the whole life may be passed without the oc-
eurrence of any outrage ; and it may be asked, What ef-
fect, in this case, do the former organs produce ? We shall
find the answer, by supposing all the other organs tor~
main large, while those are diminished in size, and tracing
the effect of the change. The result would be an undue
preponderance of moral and inte11ectual qualities, degen~
rating into effeminacy. Large Combativeness and Destruc-
tiveness, add the elements of repulsion and aggression to
such an extent as io permit the manifestation of manly en-
terprise and courage. Hence, in the case supposed, these
organs would be duly performing their functions, when the
auperficial observer would imagine them to be entirely su-
perfluous.
In like manner, if an organ be greatly deficient, its small
aize cannot be compensated for by that of the other organs,
however large. Suppose, for example, that, in an indivi-
dual, Benevolence, Veneration, Love of Approbation, and
Intellect, are all large, and Conscientiousness very deficient,
it may be thought that the absence of Conscientiousness
will be of small importance, as its influence will be com-
pensated by that of these other faculties. This, however,
will not be the case. The sentiment of duty originates
from Conscientiousness. Hence the individual supposed
Digitized by Google
CO.MBlNATIONS IN SIZE. 583
would be benevolent, when Benevolence predominated ; re-
ligious, when Veneration waa paramountly active; obliging,
when Love of Approbation glowed with unwonted fervour;
but if all or any of these were on any occasion counteract-
ed by the solicitations of the inferior propensities, he would
not, if the organ of Conscientiousness were small, feel the
obligation ofduty enforcing the dictates of these other senti-
ments, and increasing their restraining power ; in short, he
would be deficient in the sentiments of justice, duty, and in-
cumbency; he would obey all the impulses of the higher
faculties when inclined, but if not inclined, be would not ex-
perience so strong a sense of demerit in neglecting their so-
licitations, as if the organ of Conscientiousness were large.
Farther, the sentiments which we have supposed him to
posseas, would themselves, if not directed by Conscientious-
ness, be continually prone to run into abuse. Benevolence
to one would tend to trench on the justice due to another;
devotion might occasionally be substituted for charity, or
vice versa.
If we take the opposite case, and suppose that an indi-
vidual poBBess&l great Intellect and ConscientiousneBB, with
deficient Benevolence, Veneration, and Love of Approba-
tion; then, if the propensities were strong, his conduct might
be the reverse of amiable, notwithstanding his large Con-
scientiousness. With this combination be would be actu-
ated by vigorous selfish feelings, which probably might
overpower the single sentiment of duty, unaided by Bene-
volence, Veneration, and Love of Approbation ; and be
might act wrong in opposition to the clear dictates of his
own Conscientiousness. Video meliora prohoque, deteriora
aequor, would be his motto. If his propensities, on the
other hand, were moderate, he would be strictly just ; he
would give every one his due, but he would probably not
be actively benevolent and pious. The faculty of Benevo-
lence inspires with the feeling of charity, and Conscien-
tiousness enforces its dictates; but if (to suppose an ex-
treme case) the feeling of charity were not inspired at all,
Conscientiousness could not produce it, nor act upon it; i~
Digitized by Google
584 COMBINATIONS IN SIZE.
would strongly impreBB the command, Do not injure ano-
ther, because this duty emanates from itself; but it. would
not inspire with the desire to do him good, this being be-
yond its limits.
Occasionally, very unusual combinations of particular or•
gans present themselves, the effects of which cannot, by
ordinary sagacity, be divined; and in such cases the phre-
nologist ought not to predicate any thing, but ask for in-
formation. As, however, nature is constant, he may speak
with confidence the next time he meets with a similar case.
Before it was ascertained that Secretiveness and Imitation
confer the talent for acting, I met with an instance of this
combination, and predicated something from it, which was
entirely erroneous. This occurrence was loudly and ex-
tensively proclaimed as subversive of Phrenology; but to
me it was a valuable lesson, and a discovery of some im-
portance ; ever afterwards I found that talent accompany
that combination.
RuLE THIRD.-Where all the organs appear in nearly
equal proportions to each other, the individual, if left to
himself, will exhibit opposite phases of character, accord-
ing as the animal propensities or moral sentiments predo-
minate for the time. He wiJI pass his life in alternate sin-
ning and repenting. If external influence is brought t.o
operate upon him, his conduct will be greatly modified by
it ; if placed, for instance, under severe discipline, and
moral restraint, these will cast the balance, for the time,
in favour of the higher sentiments; if exposed to the soli-
citation of profligate aBBociates, the animal propensities will
obtain triumphant sway. MAxwELL, who was executed for
housebreaking and theft, is an example of this combination.
In his bead the three orders of organs
are well developed, but the region of
the Sentiments, lying above the aste-
risks, is deficient in size, in proportion
to the basilar and occipital regions ma-
nifesting the Propensities. While sub-
~itizedbyGOQgle_
COMBINATIONS IN ACTIVITY. 585
jeeted to the discipline of the anny, he preserved a fair
reputation ; but when he fell into want, his propensities
assumed the ascendency, he joined a company of thieves,
adopted their practices, and w8s executed.
The prineiples now laid down remove an objection that
has frequently been stated, viz. that as dift'erent combina-
tions modify the manner in whieh the faculties are mani-
fested, and as the functions of some ~ at the base of the
brain are still undiscovered, no certainty can be obtained
regarding the functions even of the higher organs; because,
say the objectors, aU the manifestations actually perceived
may be the result of the joint action of the known and un-
known parts, and hence it is impossible to determine the
specific functions of each. The answer to this objection
is, that the function of each organ reoiains invariable, what-
ever direction the manifestations may take in consequence
of its acting in combination with other organs. Hence, if
we suppose the unknown convolutions at the base of the
brain to be the organs of Hunger and Thirst, as several
facts indicate, then Tune combined with these parts large,
would be directed to Bacchanalian songs; if combined with
these small, and Veneration large, hymns would become
the subjects of its manifestation ; lhlt, in either case, Tune
would perform only its primitive function of producing
melody.
COM1JINATIONS IN ACTIVITY.
WHERE several organs are large in the same individual,
they have a natural tendency to combine in activity, and to
prompt him to a line of conduct calculated to gratify them
all. Where, however, all or the greater part of the organs
are possessed in nearly equal proportions, important practi-
cal effects may be produced, by establishing Combinations
in activity among particular organs, or groups of organs.
For example, if Individuality, Eventuality, Causality, Com-
3
Digitized by Google
586 COMBINATIONS IN ACTiVITY.
parison and Language, be all large, they will naturally tend
io act together, and the result of their combined activity
will be a natural talent for public speaking, or literary
composition. If .Language be small, it will be extremely
difficult to establish such a combination in activity, and the
natural talent will be deficient ; but if we take two indivi-
duals, in both of whom this group of organs i8 of an ave-
rage liu, and if we train one of them to a mechanical em-
ployment, and the other to the Bar; in the latter, the Re-
flecting Organs and that of Language will be trained to
act together, and the result will be an acquired facility in
writing and debate; whereas, in the former individual, in
consequence of the organ of Language never being accus-
tomed to act in combination with those of Intellect, this
facility will be wanting. On the same principle, if a per-
son having an excellent eodowment of the organs of Pro-
pensity, Sentiment and Intellect, were introduced for the
first time into higher society than that to which he had
been accostomed, it might happen .that he would lose for a
moment the command of his faculties, and exhibit an un-
happy specimen of awkwardness and embarrassment. This
would arise from irregular ~and inbarmoniou action in the
clliferent organs; Veneration powerfully excited would
prompt him to manifest profound respect ; Love of Ap-
probation would inspire him with a strong desire to ex-
hibit a pleasing and becoming appearance; Cautiousness
would produce alarm, lest he should fail in an essential
of breeding; Self-esteem would feel compromised by em-
barrassment stealing on the mind; and the intellect, dis-
tracted by these vivacious and conflicting emotions, would
be unable to regulate the conduct according to the rules
of propriety. When familiarized with the situation, the
sentiments would subside into a state of less energetic and
more harmonioos action; the intellect, assuming the su-
premacy, would regulate and direct the feelings; and then
the individual might become the idol and ornament of the
circle, in which he at first made so awkward a debut.
Digitized by Google
COllBlNA'l'IO~S IN AC'l'lVITY. 587
It ia in virtue of this principle that education produces
its most important efFects. If, for instance, we take two
individuals, in each of whom all the organs are developed
in an average degree; and if the one of them bas been.edu-
cated among persons of sordid and mercenary dispositions,
Acquisitiveness and Self-Esteem would then be cultivated
in him into a high degree of aetivity, and self-interest and
personal aggrandisement would be viewed as the great ob-
jects of life. If the Love of Approbation were tnU.ned into
combined activity with these faculties, it would desire dis·
tinction in wealth or power : if Veneration were trained to
act in concert with ·them, it would take the direction of
admiring the rich and great ; and, ·Conscientiousness not
being predominantly vigorous, would only intimate that
such pursuits were unworthy, without possessing the power
by itself of overcoming or controlling the whole Combina-
tion against it. If another·individual, possessing the 8ame
development, were trained amidst inoral and religious so-
ciety, in whO&e habitual conduct the practice of benevolence
and justice towards men, and veneration towards Go»,
was regarded as the leading objects of human existence,
the Love of Approbation, acting with this combination,
would desire esteem for honourable and virtuous actions ;
and Acquisitiveness would be viewed as the means of pro-
curing gratification to these higher powel'll, but not as it-
self an object of paramount importance. The practical
conduct of the two individUals might be very di1Ferent, in
consequence of this difference of training.
The principle now under discussion is not inconsistent
with the influence of size ; because it is only in individuals
in whom the organs are nearly on an equality in point of
size, that great effects can be produced by combinations in
activity. In such t'ase& the phrenologist, in estimating the
efFects of size, always inquires into the education bestowed.
The doctrine of combinations in activity explains several
other mental phenomena of an interesting nature. In
viewing the beads of the higher and lower classes of socie-
Digitized by Google
588 COMBINATIONS IN ACTIVITY.
ty, we do not perceive the animal organs preponderating in
point of size in the latter, and those of the moral sentiments
in the former, in any very palpable degree. The high po-
lish, therefore, which characterizes the upper ranks, is the
resuit of su8tained harmony in the action of the different
faculties, and especially in those of the moral sentiments,
induced by long cultivation ; while the rudeness observable
in some of the lower orders results from a predominating
combination in activity among the lower propensities ;
while the awkwardness that frequently characterizes them,
arises from the propensities, sentiments, and inte1lect, not
being habituated to act together. If, however, an indivi-
dual is very deficient in the higher organs, he will remain
vulgar, in consequence of this defect, although born and
educated in the best society, and in spite of every efFort to
communicate refinement by training ; while, on the other
hand, if a vt~ry favourable development of the orgaus of the
higher sentiments and intellect, with a fine temperament,
is possessed, the individual, in whatever rank he moves,
will have the stamp of nature's nobility.
Several moral phenomena, which were complete enigmas
to the older metaphysicians, are explained by this principle.
Dr ADAM SMITH, in his Theory of Moral Sentiments,
Chapter II., " On the influence of fortune upon the senti-
ments of mankind, with regard to the inerit and demerit of
actions," states the following case : A person throws a large
stone over a wall into the public street, without giving
warning to those who may be passing, and without regard-
ing where it may fall ; if it light upon a person's head, and
knock out his brains, we would punish the ofFender pretty
severely; but if it fall upon the ground, and hurt nobody,
we would be ofFended with the same measure of punish-
ment, which, in the former event, we would reckon just,
and yet the demerit in both cases is the same. Dr SMITH
gives no theory to account for these difFerences of moral
determination. Phrenology explains them. If the stone
fall upon an unhappy passenger, Benevolence in t.hc specta·
Digitized by Google
COMBINATIONS IN ACTIVITY. 589
tor is outraged ;-if the suft'erer had a wife and family,
Philoprogenitivene&& and Adhesivene&& are offended. Self-
Esteem and Cautiousne&& also are excited, by the idea that
we might have shared the same fate ; all these rouse Des-
tructiveness, and the whole together loudly demand a
smart infliction on the transgre880r. In the other event, -
when the stone falls to the ground, and hurts nobody, the
only faculties excited are Intellect and Cooscientiousne&&,
and probably Cautiousness, and these calmly look at the
motive of the offender, which probably was mere thought-
le&s levity, and liward a slight punishment against him.
The proper sentence, in such a case, is that which would
be pronounced by Intellect, and the moral sentiments act-
ing in combination, uninfluenced by the lower propensities.
Dr SMITH states another case. One friend solicits a
place for another, and after using'tbe greatest efforts is un-
suece88ful. Gratitude in this case is 1888 warm than if the
place bad been obtained ; and yet the merit is the same.
In the event of succeM, Self-Esteem, Acquisitivene88, and
the other animal organs, are gratified, and excite Conscien-
tiousne&&, and Benevolence to gratitude. In the opposite
result, the repressing influence of these faculties, disappoint-
ed and grieved, chills the glow of Benevolence and Conscien-
tiousness, and feeble gratitude is feb.
When a penon becomes judge in his own cause, his in-
tellect may present to him the facts exactly as they hap-
pened, but these excite in his IQ.ind, not simply the sen-
timent of Conscientiou&De&8, but also Self-Love, Acquisi-
tivene&&, and, if he bas been grievously injured, Destruc-
tiveness. Hence the decision of his own mind, on his own
case, proceeds from Intellect, influenced and directed by all
these lower feelings acting along with Conscientiousne88.
Present the same case to an impartial spectator, favourably
constituted, and his decision will be the result of Conscien-
tiou&De88 and Intellect, unalloyed by the intermixture of
the selfish emotions.
Pure or abstract justice, then, in the proper sense of the
Digitized by Google
590 COMBINATIONS IN ACTIVITY.
term, is the result of combined activity of Intellect and
Conscientiousness, uninfluenced by the animal propensities.
For example, if we are called on to judge of the conduct of
a person accused, in order to arrive at an absolutely just
decision, the intellect must present to us a clear perception
of his real motives, and the tendency of his action ; if
either of these is wanting, the sentiment of Conscientious-
ness acts not on a real, but on an imperfect or imaginary
case ;-in the next place, all the animal propensities must
be quiescent; because, if offended, Selfishness or anger, or
Acquisitiveness or ambition, or Adhesiveness, mingle with
Conscientiousness, the fountain is polluted, and the stream
cannot be pure. It is an interesting fact, that the dictates
of ConscientiousnN&, when perfectly enlightened, and not
misled by the lower feelings, will be found always to har-
monize with the enlightened dictates of Benevolence and
Veneration; because the moral sentiments have been so
constituted as to coincide in their results; and hence,
wherever any action or opinion is felt to stand in opposi-
tion to any of these sentiments, we may, without hesita-
tion, suspect either that it is wrong, or that the intellect is
not completely informed concerning its nature and legiti-
mate consequences.
In party-politics, Adhesiveness, Love of Approbation,
and Benevolence, not to mention Combativeness and De-
structiveness, are extremely apt to enter into vivid activity,
in surveying the conduct of an individual who has distin-
guished himself by zealous efforts upon our own side ; and
our judgment of his conduct will, in consequence, be the
determination of Intellect and Conscientiousness, disturbed
and led astray by these inferior feelings.
The doctrine or the primitive functions of the faculties,
explained in the first part of this work, and of the Combi-
nations now laid down, shews why Phrenology does not
enable us to predict actifms. Destructivenefls, for example,
is not a tendency to kill a lnan or a beast as a specific act,
but a mere general propensity, capable of leading to de-
l
Digitized by Google
COMBINATIONS IN ACTIVITY. 591
stt·uction as its ultimate result, but which may be man~­
fested in a great variety of ways (many of them justifiable,
others unjustifiable), acc(lrding as it is directed by the fa-
culties, \Vbicb, in eaclf particular instance, act along with
it ; thus, aeting along with large Acquisitiveness, and in
the absence of Conscientiousness, it may prompt to mur-
der ; while acting along with large Conscientiousness and
Benevolence, it may prove the orphan's help, and the wi-
dow's stay, by arresting the arm of the oppressor.
PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE DOCTRINE OF
THE COMDINATIO~S.
I CANNOT too earnestly repeat, that the principles now il-
lustrated are practical and important. If any one require
the assistance of a human being in afFairs of moQlent, Jet
him be assured that attention to the three elements of tem-
perament, combination of mental organs, and education or
training, will afford him more certain information regard-
ing the inherent qualities of the object and his practical
capabilities, than certificates of character and attainments,
such as are commonly reJied on. The extent to which this
work has already attained, prevents me, however, from
doing more than making a few observations.
In one instance I refuSed to hire a boy as a servant, be-
cause I found his head to belong to the inferior class, al-
though he was introduced by a woman whose good character
and discrimination I had long known, and who gave him an
exceUent character. That individual was at first greatly
incenSed at my refusing to engage the boy, but within a
month she returned, and said that she had been grossly im-
posed upon hel'l!elfby a neighbour, whose son the boywas;
that she had since learned that he was a thief, and had
been dismissed from his previous service for !itealing. On
Digitized by Google
592 PRACTICAL APPI.ICATION OF THE
another occasion I hired a female servant, because her head
belonged to the superior class, although a former mis-
tress gave her a very indifferent character,-the result was
equally in favour of Phrenology. !he turned out an ex-
cellent servant, and remained with me for several years,
until she was respectably married •.
When a servant is to be hired, the points te be attended
to are the following.
First, The temperament.-If this be lymphatic, there
will be little spontaneous activity ; work will be a burden ;
and exhaustion will soon follow from forced application.
It it be purely nervous, there will be great vivacity, and a
strong natural tendency to activity ; but physical strength
will not be present in a corresponding degree. Combina-
tions of the sanguine and bilious, or bilious and nervous
temperaments, are the best; the bilious bestowing the qua-
lity of endurance, and the sanguine or nervous that of
activity.
Second, The proportions of the dift'erent regions of the
brain to each other.-lf the base of the brain, the seat of
the animal organs, be large, and the coronal region be shal-
low and narrow, the animal feelings will be strong, and
the moral weak ; if both of these regions be large, and the
anterior lobe of the brain small, the dispositions may be
good, but the intellect will be weak. If all three be large,
the moral and intellectual predominating, the best combi:--
nation of qualities will be present.
Third, The proportions of particular organa to each
other.-If the lower region of the forehead be largely de-
veloped, and the upper deficient, the intellect will execute
well whatever work is placed before it ; but it will be limited
in ita capacity of foreseeing what ought to be done, if not
pointed out, and o£ arranging details in reference to the
• A report of eleven cases observed in the Dublin Penitentiary is pub-
lished in the Phrenological Joumal, No. ::ni. p. 88, in which the diJpost.
tiona were inferred from development ofbrain.
Digitized by Google
DOCTRINE OF THE CO~IBINATIONS. 598
whole. If the upper part of the forehead be large, and the
lower deficient, the power of abstl'act thinking (whiclr a
.servant rarely requires, and is almost never called on to
exercise) will be oonliderable, but qUite uncultivated, and
destitute of materials to act on ; while the talent for ob-
serving details, the love of order and arrangement, and, in
short, practical usefulness, will be deficient. The best
·combination of the intellectual organs for a servant, is that
which occurs when the lower region of the forehead is
large, the middle region immediately above the nose, up to
the line of the hair, is also large, and the upper lateral re-
gion full. The dispositions depend on the combinations of
the moral and animal organs. If Acquisitiveness, Secre-
tiveness, Love of Approbation, and Veneration be all large,
and Conscientiousness deficient, the servant will be selfish
and cunning; but extremely plausible, deferential, and ~
lite; eye-service will be rendered abundantly, but consci.-
entious discharge of duty will be wanting. If Benevolence,
Conscientiousness, Fumness, Self-~teem, and Combative-
ness be large, in combination with Cautiousness, Secretive-
ness, Love of Approbation, and Veneration moderate, there
may be great fidelity and honesty, with heat of temper, un-
bending stiffness of deportment, and, in short, atJ exterior
manner, the reverse of the former ; but internal disposi..
tiona and practical conduct in situations of trust far supe-
rior. The combinations also determine the fitness of the
individual for particular employments; a female with small
Philoprogenitiveness ought never to be employed as a nur-
sery-maid ; ·nor one deficient in Order and Ideality as a
.lady's maid. A man deficient in Conscientiousness is un-
fit to be a butler or steward. The varieties of combina-
tion are extremely numerous, and the effects of them can
be learned only by experience.
Fourth, The education or training of the individual falls
to be inquired into.-Phrenology shews only the natural
qualities, but the direction which they have received must
be ascertained by inquiry. No combination of organs
Pp
Digitized by Google
iJ94 PRACTICAL APPLICATION O'F 'l'liE
will render 1m inctivldual an expert cook, Mthdut INnJDg
practised cookery, or an acoomptished coaehlll'WD, ...,..._
out havmg practically taken chuge of hOI'Bel, ud ker...t
to drive.
Pift", The relation of "the natural qualities oF the ID88Hr
or mistress to those of the sen·ant must he Mtendetl to.......
If a mistress with a smail btain, having Con.eientioUBDa.
and Benevolence moderate, and Seif-Eeteem acl Comba-
tiveness large, should hire a servant posseued of -a ~
active, and well proportioned br~in, the lattm- 'ft7iU ina~
·ttvely feel that nature has made her the superior, akbo.gh
fortune has ·reversed their relative poi!lticmt. The misVeal
'Will feel this too, bot will maintain her commad by im-
periousnE'es, Captiousness, or violence. In this conttitien,
the beet·dispositions of the servant may be outraged, and
conduct produced of a discreditable 'Dattn·e, when contem-
plated by itself, apart from the provocation. A tervant
With a 'Bmall brain, but favou.table combination, would
prove a tr~asnre to a mistress potseued of aimilar ctnali-
tics ; whereas she would be felt as too feeble and inefficieut
'in her whole mannei" and 'mode of acting, by a ladf
whose brain was very large, veey f&to~ly "eOmbiued,
and very active. 'I'his principle ell!plllins Why the 1..-e
indiviaual may be found to be an exce11ent servaut ·in oae
family, and a:n unsuitable one in another.
-Si:ttk, The qualities of -servant&, in refereoee to each
:Other, ought to b~ eonsidered.~Two indlvldualt, ~
11ei!Bing large and activ~ brains, :great Self-tiateem, l.o1te
!of Approktion, wtd Combativ4ttlues, aay, if 'they btwe
al8o latge Betlevolende, 'Venetmlon,•and ·Cons~o118Dt!J88,
prove eXcellent serV1ints to their ~mployen, whom "~they-.
gard as legitimate objects of veneratlon·sncl Mmwientioua-
ness; but may make very indift'er~nt eCJmpanions to •eaeh
other. Each will desire deferl!noo and respect from the
other, which neither will yield rand in all probability, they
will quarrel and manifest only ·th6ir propensities·in·tbeir
mutual intercourse. Instruction in ·tbefr own -a&tUl'e, and
I
Digitized by Google
DOCTRINE OF THE COl\IBINATIONS. 595
in the proper direction of their feelings, would, in..many
instances, remedy this evil. But while ignorance conti-
nues, it ia advisable to rely chiefly on natural qualities: for
example, if one servant has Self-Esteem large, a compa-
nion should be selected in whom this organ is moderate t
and the same with Combativeness. When this is neglect-
ed, the natural language of Self-Esteem or Combativeness
in the one involuntarily excites the ilame feeling in the other,
and harmony is nearly impossible : whereas, if one has Self-
Esteem large, and the other has it small, the natural ex-
pression of the former is not painful to the latter; on the
contrary, the absence of pretension, which attends a small
Self-Esteem, renders the latter agreeable to the former,
and a sincere mutual regard may arise between them.
It will be obvious to every reflecting person, that the
circumstance of a servant being rejected by a phrenologist,
is no proofof the individual being essentially bad ; it shews
only, that, in one or other of the six points before men-
tioned, the individual did not suit the particular phrenolo-
gist, and no more. The servant may be admirably quali-
fied for a different employer. ·
These observations are offered as hints of several parti-
culars which appear to me proper to be attended to, and
not as complete practical directions. The elements which
compose human character are 80 numerous, their combina-
tions 80 intricate, and so little has been done in the practi-
cal application of the science, in the manner now recom-
mended, that it is impo88ible to be too modest either in giv-
ing directions or promising results. Experience is the
great teacher, and my sole object is to induce phrenologists
to seek experience by practice. I am aware that many of
my readers will feel, that, to act upon the principles un-
folded even in this brief statement, would require much
greater attainments than they at present possess ; and
hence, many of them may consider the remarks as altog&·
tber useless ; but several answers may be made to this ob-
jection. Fir&t, There are several phrenologists who actu-
P p 2
Digitized by Google
596 PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE
ally practise what is here recommended, and have ex-
perienced great advantages from it ; and what bas been
done successfully and with benefit by some, may be accom-
plished by others. Secondly, Science is useless unless it be
practical ; all practical sciences must advance by experi-
cn~e ; and it is only by beginning and persevering that ex-
:perience can be gained. And, thirdly, Even those persona
who are conscious of incapacity to practise these rules,
must perceive the advantage of acting on them if they
could ; and must feel that, until some mode of guiding the
judgment in the selection of servants shall be resorted to,
which shall bring into view the points before treated of,
uncertainty, disappointment, and annoyance, must aftlict
both masters and servants. And,.finally, Every person of
common reflection will acknowledge, that while it would
be a great advantage to obtain the foregoing knowledge of
human character, there is no system of mental philosophy
in exist~nce which affords even the least aid in attempting
it, if Phrenology does not do so.
This. application of. Phrenology has suggested the ques-
tion, Are individuals "ith " ill shaped· beads" to become
"outcasts from society?" This is precisely the evil which,
under the actual system of <'riminal legislation, exists, and
which the phrenologists are labouring to remove. An un-
·favourably developed brain, and good natural dispositions,
·are two conditions which do not co-exist in nature. Phre-
nologists, therefore, by establishing the fact, that an im-
perfectly formed brain renders an individual naturally
prone to vice, will afford an inducement to society to treat
men so constituted as moral patients, and to use more eft"oo-
t.ual means for restraining their propensities than any that
are at present adopted. This, in my opinion, would be
preferable to the existing practice, which leaves men with
the worst natural dispositions at liberty, in the worst of
circumstances, to follow their instinctive tendencies, and
only punishes them severely after having committed crimes.
At present these beings are surrounded by want, misery,
Digitized by Google
DOCTRINE OF THE COMBINATIONS. ~97
and the means of intoxication. - They trimsgress the crimi-
nal law, are confined in jails and bridewells, calculated tO
excite their propensities, and to aft'ord little cultivation to
their moral powers; they are steeped in vice, branded with
infamy, and then ejected into the immoral atmosphere from
which they were taken; a mode of treatment which could
not exist, if Phrenology were believed and widerstood.
It has been further asked by way of objection, " Does
Mr CoMBE deny, that in the case he mentions, the bey
whom he rejected might have had a good character, not-
withstanding the indications of his original propensities ?
If he denies this, he denies a proposition which he himaelf
bas always stated, and from which be derives the practical
value of Phrenology; namely, that the original propensi-
ties can be corrected, and even· eradicated, by education;
-&nd other means!'
A1unoer: I have not stated that the " original propensities
can be eradicated by education and other means." If so,
-
Phrenology would necessarily be a dream. What I have said
ia this,-tbat all the faculties may be directed to proper ob-
jects, and, when so directed, their action will become
good. But to guide strong animal propensities to virtue,
there must be a directing power. If there 1Je vigorous,
moral, and intellectual faculties in the individual himself,
he wiU, in that case, be a law and a guide unto himself.
If, however, th.e moral and intellectual facUlties be defi-
cient, which was the case with the individual under dis-
-cussion, then I certainly maintain, that str~g animal feel-
ings will not gwM/8 tbern&elves to virtue. In this ease, the
directing power must be auppliedfrom witlwut. The case
of E. S., mentioned:in .th.e Phrenological Journal, No. XXL
p. 82. and 147, is exactly in point, and illustrates the po-
-sitions here maintained. Now, if the boy bad been placed
from infancy in an asylum, from which temptation to vice
was excluded, and in which the highest moral and intel-
lectual treatment was administered, he might haYc had a
good character, notwithstanding of the form of his brain ;
3
Digitized by Google
598 PRACTICAL APPLICATION OF THE
because, 10 aituatet4 he could not have OfFended. But I Was
informed that he had been brought up in the ordinary cir-
co.matanees ·of the labouring classes in this coontry ; and
extensive obeenation had oonvinced me, that that condi-
tion does not withdraw temptation froin the propenaitiet,
imd does not supply moral and intellectual stimulus to the
higher faculties, sufficient to direct a mind conStituted like
his to morality. I ther~fore inferred, that his good character
was false ; which it actaally proved to be. At yreaent so-
ciety is greatly deficient in institutions in which the mo-
ral influence of higher minds can be brought habitually
to bear on inferior minds, in the absence of external temp-
tation.
In consequence aJao of the lamentable ignorance of the
nature of individuals, which too generally abounds, the
mental deficiencies in which the tendency to crime origi-
nates are not understood, and still less is the immense
power of moral influence which the best order of minds
could wield over the inferior dnly appreciated. This in-
fluence, however, cannot exert itself efficiently, unless ex-
ternal temptation to evil be withdrawn, which cannot be
the case without institutions formed for the ptirpose. Phre-
nology will hasten the day when these shall exist. Society
is in possession, from history and observation, of a pretty
accurate knowledge of human nature in general; but this
knowledge is too generOJ to be practically useful. When
an individual is presented to them, they cannot tell whether
he is naturally a CALIGULA or a WASHINGTON. . Phreno-
logy not only gives a scientific basis and form to the g~
ral knuwledge of mankind already existing, but renders it
available in partiitdar instances ; it unfolds the natural
qualities of individual men, and enable& us to judge how
far they will be inclined to one cour8e of action or to ano-
ther. ~consider it, therefore, neither unjust nor inhumane
to decline taking into my service individuals whom I know
to be unfitted by their mental qualities for· the duties which
they would be required to perform. In short, if society at
Digitized by Google
DOCTRINE. QJ' TllE CQMBl~ATIONS. ~
large.would. read the marb ~ by Providenc~ o~ ~' ~
awt accordiug to :r&ISOn alld ~cmnd morality, 'he~t~, iDa~
ef ping false chuaot;era of vicio"Wt individuals (~roug'll
Benevolence. aethlg without ~Q&ci~ntio~ees), ·and, ~ll
eonsequenct\ exposing each other to I~ of pro~y ~4
life·bf erimi~ depredaticma, *hey wquld ~e ~e propriety
of treatiug, .aa moral patients, tlulee persoaa whofe m~~
4eficienciea render them incapable of guidiag ~JQ&el~W.
virtue.
The prineipl.-.now expounded, apply to the selection of
individt'lala.to fill every situation in life. In JPY ae~&e
work, on " the Constitution of Man," the appli~ti!>ll of
Phrenology to morala 4Uld practical condnot, is fwtber elu-
~idated.
QN TilE COINCIDENCE BETWEEN THE NATURAJ,
TALENTS 4~D DIS:P.OSITIONS OF NATI9NB, AND
.THE DEVELOPMENT Oi' THEIR BBAINS.
TJIE ~tal character of an individual, at any given
time, is the result of ~ natural endowment of faculties,
modified by the circumstances in which he has been placed.
The first eleJDent, o.r ~tural constitution, is admitted, by
Q108t thinking men, tQ form the basis of, and prescribe t~e
limits.to, the ,~ration of the second. If a child is by n~­
ture e.xtrem,ely .com.bat.ive, and very little cautious, highly
prone to covetQuBDeas, and very insensible wj~stice, a re-
.1l!'cti~ guardian ~ adopt a di.Jl'erent method of education,
AUld u.pect dift'erent consequences, than if his natural dis-
~iti,Q~ were e~aetly the reverse•
.A nation is comJ>986d of individuals, and what is true of
.Uthe P'rta (which.in a nation preserve their individuality),
.must hold good of the whole ;~nevertheless the fashionable
d~trine iR, that national .cheracter depends altogether on
.~rna.l circumstances ;.and that the nativestock of animai,
moral, and intellectual powers on which these operate, is
the same in New Holland and in England, in Hindostan
Digitized by Google
600 ON THE CEREBRAL
and in France. Mr STEWART informs us, " That the •
pacitie8 of the human mind have bee~ in all agee, the
same ; and that the diversity of phenomena exhibited by
our speeies is the result merely of the different cireUJD8tan- .
ees in which men are placed." " This," says he, " has ·
long been received 88 an uncontrovertible logical maxim ;
or rather, such is the influence of early instructio~ that we
are apt to regard it as one of the most obvious suggestions
of common sense. And yet, till about the time of .MoN-
TE8Qt11EU, it was by no means so generally reeognised by
the learned as to 'have a ·sensible· influence on the fashion-
able tone of thinking over Europe •."
- There is some ambiguity in this passage.-The proposi-
tion, that " the capacities of the human mind have been,
in allA.GEs, the same," does not necessarily imply that they
h.~ve been .alike in all NATIONS. The Hindoo mind may
have been the same in the year 100 88 in the year 1800,
and so may the English and all other national minds ; but
it does not folloW that either in the year 100 or 1800 the
English and Hindoo minds were constituted by nature alike;
and yet this is what I understand Mr STEwART to mean ;
for be adds, " that the diversity of phenomena exhibited by
our speciu is the result merelyof the different circumstances
in which men are placed;" embracing in this proposition
men of every nation 88 equally gifted in natural powers.
Now, there is reason to question this doctrine, and to regard
it 88 not merely speculatively erroneous, but 88 laying the
foundation of a great deal of most hurtful practice.
· When we regard the different quarters of the globe, we
are struck with the extreme dissimilarity in the attainments
of the varieties of men who inhabit them. If we glance
over the history of Europe, Asia, Africa, and America, we
shall find distinct and permanent featUres of character which
strongly indicate natural differences in their mental consti-
tutions. The inhabitants of Europe have manifested, in all
~ a strong tendency towards moral and intellectual im-
• Dissertation, p• .SS.
Digitized by Google
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONS. 601
pr~vement. .As ear back as history reaches, we find socie-
ty instituted, arts practised, and literature taking root, not
only in intervals of tranquillity, but amidst the a1anns of
war. Before the foundation of Rome, the Etruscans had es-
tablishedcivil.imtion and the arts in Italy. Under the Greek
and Roman empires, philosophy, literature,· and the .fine
arts, were sedulously and successfully cultivated; and that
portion of the peOple whose wealth ell8bled them to pay for·
education, attained a high degree of intelligence and refine- .
ment. By the irruption of the northern hordes, these
countries were subsequently involved in a chaos of igno-
rance ;-but again the sun of science rose, the clouds of
Gothic darkness were dispelled, and Europe took the lead
of the world in science, morals, and philosophy. In the
inhabitants of this portion of ·the globe, there appears an
elasticity of mind incapable of being permanently repressed.
Borne down for a time by external violence, their mental
energies seem to have gathered strength under the re-
straint, and, after a Reason, to have burst their fetters, and
overcome every obstacle opposed to their expansion.
When, on the other hand, we tum ourattention to Asia,
we perceive manners and institutions, which belong to ape-
riod too remote to be ascertained, and yet far inferior to the
European t~tandard. The people of~ early arrived at a
point comparatively low in the scale of improvement, which
they have never passed.
The history of Mrica, so far as Africa can be said to
have a history, presents similar phenomeDa. The annals
of the races who have inhabited that Continent, with few
exceptions, exhibit one unbroken scene of moral and inte};.
lectoal desolation ; and in a quarter of the globe embracing
the greatest varieties of soil and climate, no nation is at this
day to be found whose institutions indicate even moderate
civilizatio~ •.
• SIDce ~he obee"ation in ~e ~~ wu writ~ aceountl have appear•
eel ofa people diacovered by M.Uor Cu.PPEJLTOX in lhe interior ofAUica,
in a state of comparaUve elviliaatlon. n ia said, that., al~ough ~ey are
Digitized by Google
601 ON THE C.EREBJI.AL
The aapeot of native Ameriea is atill more deplorable.
Surrounded for centuries by European knowledge, enter-
prise, anil energy, and incited tO ·impronment by the ax-
ample of European institutions, t1aey remain, auhe present
time, the same miserable, W&Ddwg, houaele&~~, and lawleea
sayages as their ancestors ......-e, when CoLUIIBV.S firat set
feot upon their soiL Partial exceptioDS·to.tbis deaeription
may k found in 801De of the soutltem di.tricta of North
America; bot the numbers who have even attempted to
adopt the modes of civilized·Jife are ao small, and the pro-
gress made by them so limited, that, ~ng of the race,
we do not exaggerate ·in ·aaying, that they relll&in to the
present hour enveloped in all their primitive·barbarity, and
t.U.t they have prOfited nothing by the introduction amongst
them of arts, scienees, and philoeopby. The same observa-
tions have occurred to a writer in the Ediobvgh Review.
The folloWing remarks, on the natin~1 American character,
appeared in that work in an artiele on " HowisoN's Upper
~" June 182! :.-..." FrOm all that we learn," says the
Reviewer, " of the state <ef!the aborigines of this great oon-
tirient from·-this volume, and irom enry other soarce of
information; it·is evWeat that 'they ue making .no advan-
ces towards Civilisation. It is certainly a striking and
myaterio08 fact, that a race -of men should thus have con-
tinued for ages mliona.ry in ·a state of the rudest barba-
rism. That tendency to improvement,-a priDcipJe that Las
~teen thought more than perhaps aay-otber- to.~tiogoish
man from the lower anU..ls, =
weald -eeem ~ · be toWiy
wantibg io•them. Generation af~rgenera.Uon pB8I88 away,
abel no traeee-of ild'\WlOOmenhlistiDguiah·~'M last:&cm.the
first. The migh~ 'wllderne.--the,-· iababit may be tra¥.er·
.ed· from 81id to- ·end, -and har~y a >
v.eetige be .d.iaco-vered
that ·'marks the 'lniltd· of·IJB8D. It might .naturally have
jet black, they are not Negroes, and it ia conject.ured that they are the
desc:endarits ofthe Numidians of ancient history. If the repreeentations
of their attainments 'be ·correct, I anticipate in them a brain developed
l!lce the European.
Digitized by Google
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONS. 6'0!
been expected, that, in the course of age., 10... lillperior
genius would have arisen among them to inspire bi8 coun-
trymen with a desire to cultivAte the arts of peace, and ~
tablish some durable civil institution ; or that, at least, du·
ring the long period sinee the EuropeaxlS ..,.e bee1l settled
amongst them, and taught them, by such striking eX&mplee,
the benefits of industry and soeialorder, they would have
been tempted to endeavour to patiicipate in blessings tboa
providentially brought within their reach. But all has been
unavailing; and it now seems certain that the North Ame-
rican Indians, like the bears and wolves, are destined to
ftee at the approach of civilized man, and to fall before his
renovating himd, and disappear from the face of the earth
along with those ancient forests which alone a«ord them
sustenance and shelter."
The theory usually advanced·to account for these difFer-
ences of national character is, that they are produced by
diversities of soil and climate. But, although these may
reasonably be supposed to exert a certain inftuence, they
are aitogether inadequate to explain the whole phenomena.
We ought ever to bear in mind, that Nature is constant in
her operations, and that the same causes invariably pro-
duce the same efFects. Hence, when we find exceptions in
result, without being able to assign difFerences in causes,
we may· rest assured that we have not found the true or
the only cause, and our diligence ought to be quickened
to obtain new light, and not employed in maintaining the
wfliciency of that whieh we posse..
If we survey a map of the world, we shall find nations
whose soil is fertile and climate tempel'llte, in a lower de-
gree of improvement than others who are less favoured.
In Van Dieman's Land ancl New South Wales a few na•
tives have existed in the moat wretched poverty, ignol'ance,
and degradation, in a country which enriches Europt>ana
as fast as they possess it. In America, too, Europeans and
native Indiana have lived for centuries under the influence
of the same physical causes, the former have kept pace in
Digitized by Google
604 ON THE CEREBRAL
their advances with their brethren in the Old Continent,'
wbile the latter, 88 we have seen, remain stationary in sa-
vage ignorance and indolence.
Such dift'erences are not confined to the great continents
alone; hut dift'erent tribes in the IIIUiie hemisphere seem to
possess dift'erent native minds, and these remain unchanged
through numerous agee. TACITUS describes the Gauls 88
gay, volatile, and precipitate, prone to rush to action, but
without the power of sustaining adversity and the tug of
strife ; and this is the character of the Celtic portion of the
French nation down to the present day. He represents the
Britons 88 cool, considerate, and sedate, possessed of intel-
lectual talent, and says that he prefers their native ap-
titude to the livelier manners of the Gaul!i. The same
mental qualities characterize the English of the nineteenth
century, and they and the French may still be contrast-
ed in similar termR. TACITUS describes the Germans, al-
lowing for their sta.te of civilization, 88 a bold, prudent,
self-denying, and virtuous people, possessed of great force
of character ; and the same features distinguish them still.
The native Irishman, in manners, dispositions, and capa-
cities, is a being widely different from the lowland Scotch-
man; and although we tracethe two :qations to the remotest
antiquity, the same characteristic dift'erences are found.
. These dift'erenees between .nations living under similar
climates, are commonly attributed entirely to the religious
and political institutions of the several countries. Presby-
tery and parish schools, for example, are supposed to have
rendered the Scotchman habitually attentive to his own in-
terest, but cautious, though.tfnl, and honest; while Popery
~d Catholic priests have made the Irishman free and gene-
rous withal, but precipitate and unrefleeting,-ready in the
gust of passion to sacrifice his friend, and in the glow of
friendship to immolate himself. It is forgotten, that there
were ages in which Popery and priests had equal ascen-
dancy in all the British isles, and that the Englishman,
Irishman, and Scotchman, were beings as specifically dis- .
Digitized by Google
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIO~S. 605
tinct then as at present ; besides, the more correct, as welt
'as the more profound view, is to regard religious and poli-
tical institutions, when not forced upon a people by exter-
nal conquest, as the spontaneous growth of their natural
propensities, sentiments, and intellectual faculties. Hier-
:archies and constitutions do not .spring from the ground.
.but from the tninds of men: If we suppose one nation to
be gifted wit.h much Wonder and Veneration, and little
Conscientiousness, Retlect.ion, and Self-Esteem, and ano-
ther to possess an endowment exactly t~e reverse, it is ob-
.vious that the first would be naturally prone to superstition
in religion, and servility in the state ; while the second
would, by native instinct, resist all attempts to make them
reverence things unholy, and tend constantly towards poli-
tical institutions, fitted to afford to each individual the gra-
tification of his Self-Esteem in indepepdence, and his Con-
scientiousness in equality before the law. Those who con-
tend that institutions come first, and that character follows
as their effect, are bound to 8S8ign a cause for the institu-
tions themselves. If they do not spring from the native
mind, and are not forced on the people by conquest, it is
difficult to see whence they can originate.
The phrenologist is not satisfied with these common
theories of national character ; he has observed that a par-
ticular form of brain is the invariable con~mitant of par-
ticular ~itions and talents, ud that this holds in the
case of nations as well as of individuals.
In the Phrenological Transactions, an account is given
.of the Phrenology of Hindostan, by Dr G. M. PATTERBOW.
The IUNDOOS are remarkable for want of. force of cha-
racter, so much so, that a handful of Europeans overcomes
in t-ombat, and holds in permanent subjection thousands,
.nay millions, of that people. Power of mental manifesta-
tion bears a proP9rtion to the size of the cerebral organs,
and the Hindoo bead is small, and the European large, in
_
precise conformity with the different mental characters •.
• At the end of this section a table or measurements is given or all tbe
skulls mentioned in it. . ·
Digitized by Google
ON THB CEREBRAL
Farther, the Hindoo is distinguished Bn~»oo.
by a great respect for aniDUll life, and
abeence of cruelty in his dispositions ;
while, at the same time, he is dMtitute
of fil"e, and of that energy of mind
which overcomes obstacles and gives
force to command. The European is precisely the oppo-
site; he lives to a great extent upon animal food, is fierce
in his anger, and is charactt>rized by great combative and
destructive vigour. The Hindoo brain indicates a manifest
deficiency in the organs of Combatif"eness and Destruc-
tiveness ; while, iil the European, these parts are amply
developed. The Hindoo is cunning, timid, and proud ; and
in him Secretiveness, Cautiousness and Self-Esteem, are
large in proportion to the organs last mentioned. In intel-
lect, the Hindoo is more prone to analogical than direct
reasoning, is fond of metaphors and comparisons, and
little given to discriminating differences ; and the organ of
Comparison is much larger in his head than those of Cau-
eality and Wit. Dr PATTERSON states, that theae facts are
drawn from upwards of three thousand observations ; and
they are illustrated by a collection of Hindoo skulls, pra.
sented by him to the Phrenological Society. These skulls •,
twelve in number, and a large addition of skulls of the
aame nation, acquired by the Society from other quarters,
have long been exhibited to public inspection. Mr MoNT-
GOMERY has called in question ·the jostnesa of the charac- "'
ter aasigned to the Hindoos,· but his objections have been
ably answered by Dr CoRDEN THoMSON. -See Phren.
Journ. vol. vi. p. 244. I still regard the statements made
by Dr PATERSON to be correct.
The Society's collection contains other specimens of na-
tional developmentof brain equally interesting. The CHA-
Rm skulls present a striking appearance. They are much
• I strongly recommend to the reader to inspect the casts of national
altulls here referred to. The study of them will make nn impre!1!1ion in-
ftni~ly de.-per lhan any description.
Digitized by Google
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONS. ti07
l~~r.ger dtan tLe Hiadoo head&, ud, in
Geafonaity with the priaciple, that
size indicates power, t.hia tribe is the
...,.t re1B8l"'mble, among -all the native
Americana, for force ef character. Tbe
Europeans have in win a.Uempted to
aubdae them ; they bve hunted them don like wild
beasts, aod nearly extirpated them, but failed in every at-
taD.pt to enslave them in a mass, as the Portuguese atul
Spaniards did the natives of Mexico aod Brazil. Far~
ther, the Charib brain is prodigiously developed in the re-o
gious of Combativeoeu and Destructivenea, ill which the
Hindoo bead is deficient;. aod the former race is as fero-
cious as the latter is mild and inoffenaive. In the reflect-
ing organs, the Cbarib is the most deficient of any human
beings whose skulls hue come noder our notice; and be
is described as rushing with unbridled violence on present
gratification, blind to every consequence, and incapable of
tracing the shortest linka in the ciWB. .of causation. If the
ear be taken as a centre, and a line drawn from it to the
most prominent part of the forehead of the Cbarib skulls,
and another line be drawn f.rom the same point to the most
prominent part of 'the oooiput, it will ae found, that by far
the ,Jargest quantity of.the brain is situated behind tbe ear;
or, in other words, that the .organs .of the animal ·pr~
pensities greatly .preponderate over those of the .in"'lleo-
tual facultiet~ ; if the •egion .above the organ. of Cautious-
De. be measured, the height will be found to be .6JJ18}),
compared with t.he European,-en indication that the ol\-
gans of the moral sentiments aJeo are defi.cientin.size. The
Society possesses casts of five skulls of.Cbariba, all of which,
with individual dlfferencee, preaent:a general type.cbarac-
teri.tic of the whole. ln StThomas' Hos¢.tal, London, .I
have seen the original of Doe of these casw :-the whole
were procured by Dr SPUBZHEIM from authentic akulht,
and their genuineo888 may be relied on.
Mr S.soo&wrcK, Secretary to the Phrenological Society
Digitized by Google
608 ON THE CEREBRAL
.of Lofidon, communicated an interesting Essay to the Phre.
nological Journal (vol. vi. p. 8'7'7.) on "the artificial com-
pression of the infant head, by harharoos nations," in which
he clearly establishes that the Charib and other Indian
tribes flatten the forehead of their children by compression,
·some of them by means of a small hag of sand, others by
confinement of the infant head between two small pieces
of "!ood, one placed before and the other behind, both being
firmly bound tOgether; and others, on the north-west coast,
by a board in the cradle brought over the forehead, and
tied firmly do1vn upon the head of the infant. The child
is seldom taken from the cradle, and the compression is
continued till it is able to walk. With the cause of the
flatness, however, I am not at present interested, the only
point I wish to establish being thefact of concomitance be-
tween the deficiency of organization and deficiency of men-
tal ability, which is so certain as to be altogether indis-
putable.
The NEW HOLLAND skull rises
a little above the Charib, but indi.
cates a lamentable ·deficiency in the
regioJUJ of the·intellectual and moral
organs. The organs of Number,
·Constructiveness, Reflection, and Ideality, are particularly
deficient; while those of the animal propensities are fully
developed. The Society possesses casts of two skulls of
natives of New Holland, and Sir GEORGES. MAcKENZIE
has presented to it the actual skulls of a chief and a female
·of that country; and the whole correspond, in a strikin~
·mariner, in their general features.
If these skulls were put into the hands of a phrenologist
to state the dispositions which they indicate, he would say
that there ought to be considerable energy and determina-
tion, but extreme ignorance, rudeness, and grovelling low-
.ness of character. Every talent necessary for architecture,
and the constructive arts in general, is defective, while
Ideality is so small, that sen~iments of refinement or ele~
Digitized by Google
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONS. 609
gance will scarcely be at all experienced. The moat un-
accustomed eye will perceive bow far this skull and that of
the Charib fall short of the European in the organs of Re-
flection, Ideality, and Constructiveness.
The following account of the actual condition of the na,..
tives of New Holland, is given in SMELLIE's Philosophy of
Natural History:-" It would appear that they pull out
the two fore-teeth of the upper jaw; for in neither sex, nor
at any particular period of life, are these teeth to be seen •.
They are beardless ; their visage is long, without exhibit-
ing a single agreeable feature ; their hair is black, short,
and crisped; and their skin is equally black as that of the
Guinea Negroes. Their only clothing consists of a piece of
the bark of a tree tied round their waist, with a handful of
long herbs placed in the middle. They erect no lwrue8;
and, without any covering, they sleep on the ground. Men,
women, and children, associate promiscuously to the num-
ber of 20 or SO. A small fish, which they catch in reser-
voirs made with stones in arms of the sea, constitutes their
chief nourishment; and with bread, and every species of
grain, they are totally unacquainted t·" I select this de-
scription on account of its brevity.-SMELLIE refers to
DAMPIER as his authority.
Captain CooK was the first who explored tl1e eastern
coast of New Holland, of the natives of which he gives the
following account : " They appeared to have no fixed habi.,.
tations; for we saw nothing like a town or a village in the
whole country. Their houses, if houses they may be called,
seem to be formed with less art and industry than any we
had seen, except the wretched hovels at Terra del Fuego,
and in some respects they are inferior even to them. At
Botany Bay, where they were best, they were just high
enough for a man to sit upright in, but not large enough
for him to extend himself in his whole length in any direc-
• These teeth are wanting in the chief's skull presented by Sir Gzo•aw:
S. MA.cnwzrz to the Society.
t VoL U. p. 8(.
Digitized by Google
610 ON THE CEREBRAL
tion : they are built with pliable rods, about as thick as a
man's finger, in the form of an oven, by sticking the two
ends into the ground, and then covering them with palm-
leaves and broad pieces of bark : the door is nothing but a
large hole at one end, opposite to which the fire is made
Under these houses or sheds they sleep, coiled up with
their heels to their bead; and in this position one of them
will bold three or four persons."-" The only furniture be-
longing to these houses that fell under our observation, is a
kind ofoblong vessel made ofbark," which were supposed to
be used as buckets for carrying water. Captain CooK men-
tio:fiS also, that " both sexes go stark naked;" that they have
no nets or vessel in which water can be boiled. " The
canoes of New Holland," he continues, "arc as mean and
rude as the houses," being, on the southern parts of the
coast, " nothing more than a piece of bark, about tweh·e
feet long, tied together at the ends, and kept open in the
middle by small bows of wood;" and in the northern parts,
merely the hollow trunk of a tree. These were the inha-
bitants of a different part of New Holland from that visited
by DAMPIER. Their want of curiosity also was very re-
markable, and forms a good contrast with the wonder with
which some American tribes regarded the Spaniards and
their ships on their first appearance in the new world.
Captain CooK relates, that of about twenty natives who
were seen on the shore, not far from Botany Bay, " not
one was observed to stop and look towards us, but they
trudged along, to all appearance without the least emotion
of curiosity or surprise, though it is impossible they should
not have seen the ship by a casual glance, as they walked
along the shore ; and though she must, with respect to every
other object they had yet seen, have been little less stu-
pendous and unaccountable than a floating mountain, with
all it woods, would have been to us •."
In MALTHUs's Essay on Population f, will be found a
character of the New Hollanders, founded on this narrati\'e
• See CooK's First Voy;~ge, b. ii. rh. ii. and vi. t Book i. rhap. 3.
DEVELOPllENT OF NATIONS. 611
of CooK, and on. CoLLIN's "Account of New South Wales,"
coinciding in all important particulars with the foregoing.
The NEW ZEALANDER rises above the New Hollan~
der. The size of the brain is pretty
nearly the same as that of the Euro-
pean, but the great predominance of
size is in the region of the propensities.
The anterior lobe is larger than in the
New Hollander, but less than in the
European, while the coronal region above CaJitiousness is
broad, but extremely shallow. The character which thi11
head indicates is one of considerable energy, cruel, cun-
ning, cautious, vain, and decidedly deficient in Benevo.-
]ence, Veneration, and Conscientiousness.
The skull of a NORTH AMERICAN INDIAN is high
from the ear upward, and short from the front to the back.
The forehead is not largely developed,
while Firmness, Secretiveness, and
Cautiousness, are very prominently en-
larged ; as is also Destructiveness. Ad-
hesiveness and Concentrativeness, espe-
cially the latter, are small. The So-
ciety possesses only two casts of skulls of this tribe, and
their general form and appearance are alike. It is impos-
sible to draw any safe inference from so limited a collec-
tion, yet it may be worth while to notice their character.
for the purpose of inducing travellers to att(>nd to their
cerebral development in their future descriptions.
" To flee from an adversary that is on his guard, and to
avoid a contest where he cannot contend without risk to
his own porson, and consequently to his community, is the
point of honour with the American. The odds of ten to
one are necessary to warrant an attack ori a person who is
armed and prepared to resist, and even then, each is afraid
-of being the first to advance. The great object of the most
renowned warrior is, by every art of cunning and deceit,
by every mode of stratagem and surprise that his invention
Q q 2
Digitized by Google
612 O:S THE CEREBRAL
can suggest, to weaken and destroy the tribes of his ene-
mies with the least possible loss to his own. To meet an
enemy-on equal· terms is regarded as extreme folly. To
fall in battle, instead of being reckoned an honourable
deat11, is a misfortune which subjects the memory of the
warrior to the imputation of rashness and imprudence.
But to lie in wait day after day, till be can rush upon his
prey, when most secure and least able to resist him; to steal
in the dead of night upon his enemies, set fire to their huts,
and massacre the inhabitants, as they flee naked and de-
fenceless from the flames, are deeds of glory, which wiJl be
of deathless memory in the breastR of his grateful country-
men •."
To this description may be added, that these savages pos-
sess insuperable determination : when the fate of war has
placed one of them in the power of his enemies, he knows
that the most ~readful tortures await him ; but the point of
honour then is to set the malignity of his tormentors at de--
fiance, and to surpass in his powers of endurance the ut-
most limits of their barbarous inflictio~s of pain. The
American savage, besides, as already noticed, has rarely
been found a member of regular society, but has continued
a wanderer since the sun first rose upon his deserts till
the ·present day. Even contact with European settlers,
surrounded by arts and enlightened by intelligence, has
scarcely communicated one spark of energy to this mise-
rable race. When Europe has been conquered, the victori-
ous and the vanquished have in a few ages amalgamated
together, been blended into one, and have formed at last
a single and united people. The native Americans have,
on the contrary, uniformly receded before the Europeans;
and even in those states of the Union in which their privi-
leges are equal \vith those of the whites, they rarely rise
above the dignity _of a barber or a shoe-black.
The exact coincidence betwixt the development of these
skulls and the character of this people would lead us to sup-
• Malthus on Pop. B. j. cb. iv.
Digitized by Google
- - -
DEV.ELOP.MENT OF NATIONS. 613
pose that they represent the national shape. The general
size is greatly inferior to that of the average European bead ;
indicating inferiority in natural menta) power. The com-
bination of Destructiveness, Secretiveness, Cautiousness and
Firmness corresponds remarkably with their timid, cunning,
.persevering ferocity; while their deficient sentiments, Con-
centrativeness, and Adhesiveness, would account for the
looseness of their social and patriotic relations.
The head of the BRAZIL INDIAN
bears some resemblance to the former.
The deficiency in Size is the same, in-
dicating natural inferiority ofmind, and
the combination of organs is similar,
only Firmness is not so great, and
Concentrativeness, ·and Philoprogenitiveness are moderate.
The dimensions are annexed in the Table.
It is known that the Jesuits attempted to civilize anum-
ber ofthese tribes, and that, by humane and intelligent treat-
ment, they acquired a great moral ascendancy over them, in-
duced them to settle, and establi,;;hed something like order
and the arts of social life among them. If their brains had
possessed the European development, we should have been
Jed to expect that the seeds of improvement sown, and
fostered for years by a protecting hand, would have sprung
up, flourished vigorously, and produced an abundant har-
vest of permanent civilization ; but the picture is precisely
the reverse.-" It must be admitted," (says the reviewer of
KosTER's Travels in Brazil,)" that Mr KosTER's represen-
tation of the Indians is by no means favourable; and the
epinions which he expresses are ofthe more weight, because,
as his feelings and principles are of the best kind, they lead
him always to judge charitably, and to look forward with
Hope. Infinitely ameliorated as the condition of the In-
dians has been, theirs is still no very desirable state of ex-
istence ;-they are always regarded as children, and not al-
ways treated as they were by the Jesuits, with paternal
kindness. But when they escape they shew little capability
Digitized by Google
614 ON THE CEREBRAL
of aeting for themselves, and an evident tendency (as it
instinctive) to return to a wandering and savage life;-
it does not arise from any feeling connected with the
love of their ancestors, or a tradition of their free state ;
they do not appear to know that their ancestors bad
been slaves, much less would any knowledge be preserved
of their anterior state. The Indian who bas escaped from
control scarcely ever plants for himself,-if he does he
sells the growing crop for half its value, and removes to
some other district; fishing and hunting are his favourite
pursuits, and be is never stationary fOl' any length of tim~
unless it be near a lake or a rivulet." The strangest and
worst part of their character is their want of natural affec-
tion,-an old charge against them, which Mr KoSTER's
unexceptionable testimony confirms. " They appear," be
says, " to be less anxious for the life and welfare of their
children, than any other race of men who inhabit that
country."
These observations present the most fertile field of spe--
culation to the phrenologists. The cast of the Brazil Indian
shews a deficiency in size compared with the European ;
and hence it corresponds with the fact, that these Indians
are regarded and treated as children, that they are desti··
tute of foresight, and that degree of steadiness of purpose
which pursues a remote advantage through numerous in-
tervening obstacles. An Individual is treated as a child in
the general case, not out of perversity in his parents or
guardians, but because his inferiority in intellectual power
is felt both by him and them, although this may not be
stated in so many words as the reason of his being subject-
ed to guidance. When strength of mind appears, we are
constrained, by the very laws of our constitution, to treat
the possessor with respect, however infantine in bodily sta-
ture, or limited in point of age. Were the Indians, there-
fore, equal in their natural energies to Europeans, they
would soon, by dint of this mental power, acquire their
knowledge and accomplishments, and instead of being their
slaves, would become their rival~.
Digitized by Google
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONS. 615
These Indians, however, have derived some improvement
from education, although it has not supplied the defect of
native energy, "If education has hitherto done little in
implanting good qualities, it has done much in eradicating
evil ones. They were among the fiercest and most revenge-
ful of the human race ; they are now quiet and inoffensive,
rarely committing murder, (in a country where murder is
accounted venial, and generally obtains impunity, if not ap-
plause;) and even those who are dishonest confine them-
selves to pilfering."
Mr KosTER draws the following compariAOn between the
Negroand the Brazil Indian :-"The Negro character," says
he, " is more decided; it is worse, but it is also better.''-
" The Indian seems to be without energy or e~ertio11, equal-
ly incapable of great evil or ofgreat good. Rich mulaUoes
and negroes are not uncommon ; there is no instance of a
wealthy Indian, nor did he ever see an Indian mechanic.
The priesthood is open to them, but to little purpose. Mr
KosTER heard of only two Indians who were ordained as
priests, and both died of excessive dXinking."
It would be interestingto know whether the native Mexi-
can brain is better developed, for a rude form of society ex-
isted there before the European conquest.
The skull of the NEGRO evidently
rises in the scale of development of the
moral and intellectual organs : the fore-
head is higher, and the organs of the
sentiments bear a larger proportion to
those of the propensities, than in the
New Hollander. The organs of Philo-
progenitiveness and Concentrativeness are largely de-
veloped ; the former of which produces the love of chil-
dren, and the latter that concentration of mind which is
favourable to settled and sedentary employments. The or-
gans of Veneration and Hope, also, are considerable in
size. The greatest deficiencies lie in Conscientiousness,
Digitized by Google
616 ON THE CEREBRAl.
Cautiousn~ Ideality, and Reflection. The dimensiona of
this skull are given in the table.
The different tribes which inhabit Africa present very
different appearances in point of civilization; but none of
them have made so great a progress as the European na-
tions. I have been informed by persona who have been
long resident in the West India Islands, that great diffe-
rences are observed in the natural talents of the Negroes,
according to the provinces from which they have been
brought. Some parts of Africa yield persona capable of
becoming excellent operative mechanics; others, clerks and
accountants ; and some mere labourers, incapable of any
intellectual attainment. It would be extremely interesting
to learn in what respect they differ in the forms of the
heads.
Some nations of Mrica greatly surpass others in energy
of character and mechanical skiJJ. " The Caft'res are en-
tirely black, but bear no trace of the Negro features. In
the form of their skull and face they differ little from the
most perfect Europeans." This race is ingenious in seve-
ral arts; but, on account of their constant wars, agricul-
ture is in a depressed state. Although their coast is «.'overed
with excellent fish, they do not catch them, and indeed
have no boats or canoes. Marriage is invariably conducted
by sale. The Boshuans are represented as "gay, gentl~
and peaceable" in their manners ; yet they " carry on war
as fiercely as all other barbarians.-Mr CAMPBELL having,
,in the course of religious instruction, asked one of them,
' for what end was man..made,' the answer was, ' for plun-
dering expeditions •."' Mr BowDITCH gives an account
of tli~ .Asharltees, by which it appears that they display
great activity and considerable ingenuity of mind ; but that
they are debased by the most ferocious dispositions and the
grossest superstition. The descriptions given by a variety
of travellers of Timbuctoo, and of the commerce carried on
• LEYDEN and Moauy's Historical Account of Discoveries and Tra-
vels in Africa, voL U. pp. 33!, 3110.
Digitized by Google
DEVELOPMENT 01·' NATIONS. 617
upon the Niger by the natives of Africa, if they can be at
all depended upon, also indicate considerable scope of mind,
and some capacity for the social state, and place the Mri-
cans decidedly above the native Americans; all these facts
coincide with the expectations which a phrenologist would
form, on examining their different skulls.
One feature is very general in descriptions of the Afri·
can tribes; they are extremely superstitious. They pur-
chase fetiches, or charms, at a high price, and believe them
to be sure preservatives against all the evils of Jife. This
ebaracter corresponds with the development which we ob-
serve in the Negro skulls; for they exhibit much Hope,
Veneration, and Wonder, with comparatively little reflect-
ing pon•er. Their defective Causality incapacitates them
for tracing the relation of cause and effect, and their great
Veneration, Hope, and Wonder, render them prone to cre--
dulity, and to regard with profound admiration and r&-
t~pect any object which is represented as possessing super-
natural power.
The beads of the SANDWICH ISLA~DERS are under
rather than equal to the average size of
the European head ; and the race cer-
tainly does not indicate so high a na-
tural character as the European, al-
though closely approaching to it. The
Phrenological Society possesses five
skulls.of tue Sandwich Islanders. They are characterized
by the long form of the European-the Caucasian variety
of BLUJ\fENBACH; by the greater proportion being before
than behind the external orifice of the ear, indicating the
predominance of intellectual over animal endowment. This
is remarkable particularly in two of the skulls. The co-
ronal region is broad and oolerahly well developed, but not
equal in height above Cautiousness and Causality to the
European. The anterior lobe, manifesting the intellect, is
pretty well developed, being decided}y larger than that ofthe
Negro American Indians and New Hollanders. All of them
Digitized by Google
618 ON THE CEREBRAL
have a considerable portion of Eventuality, a faculty which
Dr GALL long ago denominated Educability, and which
must greatly expedite civilization. Three of the skulls are
decidedly ancient, and having been obtained from the older
Morais or burial-places, probably afford correct specimens
of the beads of the aboriginal inhabitants, before the islands
were discovered by Captain CooK. This navigator found
this race very superior to most of the other savage tribes
which be visited ; and the advance which they have since
made towards civilization, is evinced by their respectful re-
eeption of the bodies of their king and queen, who had died
in London, the appearance of the chiefs in English mourn-
ing, the procession to the church, and the high improvement
conspicuous in the whole community,-circumstances which
have been noticed by the public papers, and are given more
in detail in a narrative of the voyage of the Blonde Frigate
to the Sandwich Islands, published in the year 1826 •.
The brains of the different EUROPEAN NATIONS
differ considerably from each other, but a common type cha-
racterizes them all, and distinguishes them from those now
deeoribed. They are decidedly larger
than the Hindoo, American Indian,
and Negro heads ; and this indicates
superior force of mental character.
The portion before the car, connected
With the intellectual faculties, and the
coronal region, or the organs of the moral sentiments, are
more amply developed in proportion to the base and poste-
rior inferior parts of the brain, the organs of the animal
propensities. In short, they indicate a higher natural
power of reflection, and a greater natural tendency to jus-
tice, benevolence, veneration, and refinement, than the
others. The organs in which the European brain in an
especial degree excels, are, Ideality, Conscientiousness,
Causality, and Wit. The organs of these faculties are
• A more particular account of the Sandwich Islanden will be found
in the Phrenological Journal, vol. ill. p. 421.
Digitized b~G~ogle_
DEVELOPMENT OF NATIONS. 619
almost invariably 8Dlall in barbarous and savage tribes.
The European skull belongs to the Caucasian variety of
Blumenbach, which he considers as the most beautiful and
perfect of all the national crania in the world ; and in this
point he and the phrenologists agree. The cut represents
a Swiss skull, which is not large, but very favourably de-
veloped in the region of the moral sentiments. If the space
above the asterisks, Cautiousness and Causality, be com-
pared with the same region in the New Zealander or New
Hollander, a Yery marked inferiority in the latter will be
observed.
The ANCIENT EGYPTIANS appear, from the stupen-
dous monuments of artand science left behind them, to have
been a highly intelJigent and civilized people: and it is a
striking fact, that the skuJls of ancient mummies are found
a1most invariably to belong to the same class as those ?f mo-
dern Europeans. In the Society's collection, there are two
skulls of mummies, five casts of the skulls of mummies,
and I have seen or obtained accurate descriptions of the
skulls of half a dozen more ; -full size, large development
before the ear, and broad coronal region, characterize them
a11; indicating the elements of a superior character.
The Society possesses also several skulls of ANCIENT
GREEKS. They are large, and ex·
hibit a favourable development of the
coronal region and intellect, combined
with large organs of the propensities.
In particular, the organs of Construc-
tiveness and Ideality are large, and in
this respect, they form as striking a
contrast to the skulls of the New
Honanders, as the hovels of the latter do to the templea
and works of art of the Greeks.
These facts appear to indicate, that when a nation is in-
dependent, and left at liberty to folJow the bent of their
own judgment and dispositions, their institutions spring
from the peculiar mental constitution which they have re-
Digitized by Google
620 ON THE CEREBRAL
ceived from nalure, and that this constitution is in exact
accordance with the development of their brains. Climate
and other external causes modify to some extent the effects of
natural endowment, but the distinguishing features of each
people seem to bear a more direct and uniform relation to
the size and form of their brain, than to those adventitioU8
cireumstances. Where a people is subjugated by a foreign
power, as the Greeks by the Turks, and the Italians by the
Austrians, the national character has no adequate opportu-
nity of unfolding its peculiarities; and hence, if this circum-
stance is overlooked, the same race may seem to present
different characteristics at different periods of their history.
The modern Greeks, it was lately said, no more resemble
their ancestors than the Hindoos the Europeans ; and this
was urged as an insuperable objection against Phrenology.
Now, .however, when the Turkish yoke is loosened so as to
allow the native qualities to shoot, we see the same force of
character, the same deliberate and determined heroism, the
same e.apacity for stratagem in war, with all the fickleness
and proneness to dissension, the same aacendency of pas-
sion which distinguished the Greeks in the days of Pericles,
reappearing in their descendants. Many millions of Hin-
dooa, Africans, and American Indians, have been for ages
independent of a foreign yoke, and never displayed quali-
ties such as those exhibited by independent Europeans.
The effects of temperament are distinguishable in na-
tional skulls. The grain of the New Holland skulls is ex-
tremely rough and coarse; that ofthe Hindoos, fine, smooth,
and compact, more closely resembling ivory ; the Swiss
.skulls are open and soft in the grain, while the Greek are
closer and finer. There would be a corresponding quality
of brain ill the individuals, which would influence the men-
tal character.
The Phrenological Society have more specimens of na-
tional skuJls than are here noticed. They afford interest-
ing materials for philosophical reflection, but the great
length to which this work bas extended, compels me to
omit the notice of them.
Digitized by Google
0
cg.
N.
~
$!
C"J
0
~
~
MEASUREMENTS OF NATIONAL SKULLS.
From Phi- From From De. From Se- From
lopr~ni. Concen. FromEar From Eat From Ear!From Ear atructivt>- cretive- Cautious. From
tivenesa to uativeneas to Philo- to lndivi to to Bene. ness to [ness to Se. ness to Ideality
Individua- to Com- progeni. duality. Firmness. volence. Deatruc- cretive. Cautious- to
lity. parison. tiveness. tiveness. ness. Delillo Ideality
1-·
-
Inches. Inches. Inches. Inches. Inches. Inches. Inches. Inches. Inches. !nches.
Hindoo, ............... 6: 6l s: 4 4l 5i 4t 5 5i .J,l
Charib, ......•..•.....
lr
711 511 4j 41 5l 4: 5~ 51 5~ 47
New Hollander, .....
.. li lr
711 57 5 48 54 45 5 5 41 4
Neg-ro, ..•••..•..•.....
1J '8 If 8 1J
71 7 48 45 51 5yl1J 4t 5 5: 4"
1J l[ ll'
American Indian,... 68 5 36 47 51 58 51 5J 58 45
Brazil Indian, .......
lr lr lr 1J 1J 11'
611 5j se 48 4i 47 4f 41 5 4ll
Swiss, •.•••••••••••••••
1J 1J lr lr 11'
6j 611 4 4' 5} 5!1 5f 51 5~ 46
Ancient Greek, ......
1J lf lr . Jr
7 6f 4• 4: 5f 5• 5t 5i 51 4•
Sandwich Islander,..
I 1J 11'
7 6:J 4 45 5 4j 5 5f 5 4i
Mummy,; ••...•.....••.
I I
7!1 6J 4f 48 5f 5f 5~ 5j ! 41
lr J
These measurements do not represent the size of any organs in particular, for tbe reasons U.ed on p. 97.
e;,
I"
<
t'l
t""
0
~
!;.1
...
t'l
z
.,
0
..,
z
;..
.,
....
0
z
!'l
They are intended to indicate whether the skulls are large or small. They do not, howeverecomplish this 0)
object successfully, in consequence of the impossibility of measuring irregular spheres by .meters. They ~
ON THE CEREBRAL
~ . di tions merelv of th.. 1..nath of the partl·_
are there ore 1D ca. h dift'~rent skulls; from which a
cular lines stated 10 t let. diiDensions of the skulls may
h timate of the re a 1ve .
roug es • ~ _.,ue of measurement ts much
be formed. A ea:urements are taken from individual
---~·..., and cannot be given as an exact statement of the
average of the different national crania. They are, how-
ever, an approximation to truth, and are sufficient to shew
the interest of the investigation. The collection is still too
limited to enable us to draw average results. The Negro
skull is a very favourable specimen, and the Swiss is per-
haps under the average.
The real characters of foreign nations will never be
philosophically delineated, until travellers shall describe
their temperaments, and the size and combinations of their
brains. BLUMENBACH's extensive work on National Crania
is destitute of moral interest, owing to his omission of all
notice of the characters of the nations whose heads he re-
presents. ' Donations of national skulls are highly esteemed
by the Phrenological Society.
OBJECTIONS TO PHRENOLOGY CONSIDERED.
Having now considered the elements of Phrenology, I
shall notice briefly some objections which have been urged
against it. These shall be given, as nearly as possible, in
the words of actual opponents, and an answer shall be
subjoined.
Ofdection.-The idea of ascribing different faculties to
different parts of the brain is not new. Many authors did
so before Dr GALL; but their systems have fallen into di&-
repute, which proves that the doctrine is not true.
Answer.-Dr GALL himself has called the attention of
philosophers to the fact, that tbe idea alluded to is very
ancient; he has given a l1istory of previous opinions concern-
!
Digitized by Google
DEVELOPMENT O:t' NATIONS. 628
ing the functions of the braln ; and shewn, that different
functions have been attributed to different parts of it for
centuries past, while he has assigned reasons for these ideas
falling into oblivion. Dr SPURZHEIM in his work'l does
the same; and, in the Phrenological Journal, No. VIL
Art. 8, "An Historical Notice of early Opinions concern-
ing the brain" is given, accompanied with a plate of the
head, shewing it marked out into different organs in 1562,
it is·copied on p. ~2 of this work. The difference, however,
between the mode ofproceeding of prior authors and that of
Dr GALL, is so great, that different results are accounted
for. Former speculators assigned to certain mental facul-
ties local situations in the brain, on account of the suppos-
ed aptitude of the place to the faculty. Common sense,
for example, was placed in the forehead, because it was
near the eyes and nose ; while memory was lodged in the
cerebellum, because it lay like a store-house behind, to re..
ceive and accommodate all kinds of knowledge, till required
to be brought forth for use. This was not philosophy. It
was the human imagination constructing man, instead of
the intellect observing how the Creator had constituted him.
Dr GALL acted on different principles. He did not assnme
any mental faculties, and neither did he assign them habi-
tations in the brain according to his own fancy. On the
contrary, he observed, .first, the manifestations of mental
talents and dispositions; and, aerondly, The form of brain
which acoompanied each of these when strong and weak.
He simply reported what Nature had done. There is the
same difference between his method of proceeding and that
of prior authors, as between that of DEs CARTES and NEw-
TON ; and hence it is equally intelligible, why he should be
successful in discovering truth, while they invented only
ingenious errors.
Objection.-It is ridiculous to suppose that the mind has
thirty-five faculties; why not fifty-five? or an hundred and
Digitized by Google
ODJECTIO:SS TO
five ? Besides, the phrenologists have been continually al-
tering the number.
Amwer.-As well may it he said to be absurd, that we
should possess exactly five senses; why not ten, or fifteen?
The phrenologists deny all responsibility for the number of
the faculties. They admit neither fewer, nor a greater
number, than they find manifested in nature. Besides, au-
thors on mental philosophy admit as many, and some more,
faculties than the phrenologists. Lord K..uiEs, for ex-
ample, admits twenty of the phrenological faculties; while
Mr DuGALD STEWART, in his System, ascribes more facul-
ties to the mind than are enumerated in the phrenologi~l
works•· The increase of the number of the phrenological
faculties is easily accounted for. It has invariably been
stated, that the functions of certain portions of the .brain
remain to be discovered ; and, in proportion as this diB-
covery proceeds, the list of mental powers will necessarily
be augmented.
OIQectUm.-" On opening the skull, and examining the
brain towards the surface, where the organs are said to be
situated, it seems to require no small share of creative fan-
cy, to see any thing more than a number of almost similar
convolutions, all composed of cineritious and medullary
substance, very nearly in the same proportions, and all ex-
hibiting as little difference in their form and structure, as
the convolutions of the intestine." " No phrenologist has
ever yet observed the supposed lines of distinction between
them; and no phrenologist, therefore, has ventured, in the
course of his dissections, to divide a hemisphere of the
brain accurately into any such number of well marked and
specific organs."
This objection was urged by the late Dr JoHN BARCLAY,
and is answered at full length by Dr A. CoMBE, in the
Phrenological Transactions. A summary only of his ob-
• See answer to Mr JEI'F&ET in Phren. Jour. _
voL iv. p. 30.
Digitized by Google
PHRENOLOGY CONSIDERED. 625
aervations can be introduced here. Fitst, Although tho
objection were literally true, it is not relevant. ; becatise it
is an admitted principle of physiology, that the form iwd
structure of au organ are not sufficient to convey an idea of
its functions; no man who saw an eye, an ear, or a nostril;
for the first time (supposing it were possible for a mari. to
be 80 situated), could, merely by looking at it,· infer it.&
uses. The most expert anatomist had looked frequently
and long upon a bundle of nervous fibres, enclosed in a
common sheath, without discovering that one set of theni
was the organ of voluntary motion, and another that of
feeling; on the contrary, from the~ similarity of appear-
ance, these nerves had, for ages, been regarded as possess-
ing similar functions. Nevertheless, Mr C. BELL and MA
GENDJ~ have demonstrated, by experiment, that they pos--
sess the distinct functions of feeling and motiou. Mr BELL
has, more recently, proved, that another ne"e, the·use of
which nobody had conjectured from its structure, serves to
convey to the brain intimation of the state of the muscles,
80 that there is now evidence of the muscular system being
supplied with three distinct sets of nerves, having separate
functions, which was never conjectured from appearances.
These discoveries are discussed on p. 56. It may there-
fore competently be proved, by observation, that different
parts of the brain have distinct functions, although it were
true that no difference of structure could be perceived.
But, 2dly, it is not the fact that difference of appearance
is not discoverable. It is easy to distinguish the anterior,
the middle, and posterior lobes of the human brain from
each other; and, were they shewn separately to a skilful
phrenological anatomist, he would never take one for the
other. The mental manifestations are 80 different, accord-
ing as one or other o( these lobes predominate in size, that
there is even in this case ample room for establishing the
fundamental proposition, that different faculties are con-
nected with different parts of the brain. Farther, many of
the organs differ 80 decidedly in appearance, that they
Rr
Digitized by Google
OBJECTIONS TO
could be pointed out by it alone. Dr SPURZHEIM says,
that he " should never confound the organ of AmatitJetteU
with that of PAiloprogmilivenus; or PAi!IJprogmitivettU&
with ~at of &cretiveneu ; or ~e organ of the duire I» ac-
quire with that of ~t or Peneratima ;" and, after
llaviug seen Dr SPURZHEIM's disseetions of the brain, I
bear my humble testimony to the truth of this aaaertion.
Even an ordinary observer, who takes a few good casts of
the brain in his hand, may satisfy himself that the anterior
lobe, for example, uniformly presents convolutions difFe-
rent in appearance, direction, and size from those of the
middle lobe; while the latter, towards the coronal mrface,
uniformly presents convolutions differing in appearance and
direction from those of the posterior lobe ; and, above all,
the cerebellum, or organ of AmatiVette~s, is not only widely
different in structure, but is separated by a strong mem-
brane from all other organs, and can never be mistaken for
any of them. Difference of appearance, therefore, being
absolutely demonstrable, there is much better reason on the
aide of the phrenologists for presuming difference of func·
tion, than on that of the opponents for maintaining unity.
Sdly, It is admitted that the organs are not perceived to
be separated in the brain by strong lines of demarcation ;
but those persons who have either seen Dr SPURZHEIM dis-
sect the brain, or have attended minutely to its impressions
on tbe skull, will support me in testifying, that theforms
of the organs are distinguishable, and that the mapping out
is founded in nature. To bring this to the test, the stu-
dent bas only to observe the appearance of any particular
organ in a state of large development, the surrounding or-
gans being small ; the form will then be distinctly visible.
This subject is discuesed at more length on p. 93.
{)IQection.-All parts of the brain have been injured or
destroyed without the mental faculties being affected.
Answer.-The aaaertion is denied : There is no philo~
pbieal evidence for it. The subject is discussed at length
Digitized by Google
- - - - -
PHRENOLOGY CONSIDERED. 627
byDr A. CoMBE, in the Phrenological Transactions, and in
a subsequent part of this work. The objection is now ge-
nerally abandoned by persons who have considered the
case~t, with the answers to them. /
!;
Olq"ection.-Tbe world bas gone on well enough with the
philosophy of mind it already possesses, which, besides, is
consecrated by great and venerable names, while Phreno-
logy has neither symmetry of structure, beauty of arrange•
ment, nor the suffrages of the learned to recommend it.
Ita votaries are all third-rate men-persons without scien-
tific or philosophical reputations. They are not entitled
therefore, to challenge the regard of those who have higher
etudies to occupy their attention. They complain that on-
ly ridicule and abuse are directed against them, and that
no one ventures to challenge their principles or refute their
facta ; but they do not yet stand high enough in public es-
teem to give them a right to expect any other treatment.
Anawer.--Phrenology being a new science, it follows
that men who possess reputation in physiology or mental
philosophy would appear to lose rather than gain renown,
were they to confess their present ignorance of the func-
tions of the brain and the philosophy of mind, which is a
neceeaary prelude to their adoption of Phrenology; and
the subject does not lie directly in the department of other
scientific men. In this manner it happens, oddly enough,
that those who are most directly calJed upon by their situa-
tion to examine the science, are precisely those to whom
ita triumph would prove most humiliating. LocKE humo-
rously obeerves on a similar occasion, " Would it not be
an insufferable thing for a learned professor, and that
which his scarlet would blush at, to have his authority of
forty years standing, wrought out of bard rock, Greek and
Latin, with no small expense of time and candle, and con-
firmed by general tradition, and a reverend beard, in an
instant overturned by an upstart novelist? Can any one
expect that he should be made to confess, that what be
nr2
Digitized by Google
628 OB.JEC'l'lONS TO
taught Lis scholars thirty years ago was all error and mis-
take, and that. he sold them hard words at a very dear
rate? What probabilities, I say, are sufficient tQ prevail
in such a case ? And who ever, by the most cogent ~rgu­
ments, wiJl be prevailed with to disrobe himself at once of
all his old opinions and pretences to knowledge and learn-
ing, which with hard study be hath all his time been la-
bouring for, and tum himself out stark-naked in quest of
fresh notions ? All the arguments that can be used will be
aa little able to prevail as t)le wind did with the traveller
to part with his cloak, which be held only the faster •."
Human nature is the same now as in the days of LocKE.
There is, however, another answer to the present objec-
tion. Some individuals are born princes, dukes, or even
field-marshals ; but I am not aware that it has yet been an-
nounced, that any lady was delivered of a child of genius,
or an infant of established reputation. These titles must
be gained by the display of qualities which merit them ;
but if an individual quit the beaten track pursued by the
philosophers of the day, and introduce any discovery, al-
though equally stupendous and new, his reputation is ne-
cessarily involved in its merits. HARVEY was not a great
man before he discovered the circulation of the blood, but
became such in consequence of having done so. What was
SHAKSPEARE before the magnificence of his genius was
justly appreciated? The author of Kenilworth represents
him attending as an bumble and comparatively obscure
suitor at the court of Queen ELIZABETH, and receiving a
mark af favour in an " Ah ! WILL SHAKSPEARE, are you
there ?'' And he most appropriately remarks, that here
the immortal paid homage to the mortal. Who would now
exchange the greatness of SHAK.SPEARE for the splendour
of the proudest lord that bowed before the Maiden Queen?
Or let us imagine GALILEo, such as he was in reality, a
feeble old man, humble in rank, destitute of political in-
fluence, unprotected by the countenance or alliance of the
• Book iv. c. 20, sect. U.
Digitized by Google
- - -
PHRENOLOGY CONSIDERED. 629
great, poor, in short, in every thing except the splendid
'gifts of a profound, original, and comprehensive genius-
and conceive him placed at the bar of the Roman pontif'
and the seven ·cardinals, men terrible in power, invested
·with authority to torture and kill in this world, and, as
was then believed, to damn thro.ugh etemitf ; men magai-
ficent in state, and arrogant in the imaginary possession of
all the wisdom of their age-and let ua say who.was t4m
great in reputation-GALILEO or his judges? But who is
now the idol of posterity-the old man or his persecutor&.?
The case will be the same with GALL. If his discoveries of
the functions of the brain, and of the philosophy of the
mind, stand the test of examination, and prove to be a cor-
rect interpretation of nature, they willsurpasa, in substan-
tial importance to mankind, the discoveries even of HAR-
VEY, NEWToN, and G.u.ILEO; and this age will in conse-
quence be rendered more illustrious by the introduction of
Phrenology, than by the victories of BtroNAPARTE, or
of WELLINGTON. Finally, the assertion, that no men
of note have embraced Phrenology, is not supported by
fact. In the New Monthly Magazine for January 1823,
it is said, " There are xnany men here (Paris) amongst the
most eminent for their medical and physiological know-
ledge, who, though differing widely upon other scientific
topics, yet agree in saying, that there is much not only of
probability, but oftrutA, in the system of GALL." Professor
. UcELLI of Florence has recently sacrificed his academical
chair for Phrenology. Besides, the writings of the phre-
nologists will bear a comparison in point of akilJ, extent
of' information, correctness of logic, and profundity· of
thought, with those of the most eminent of ~eir op~
nents.
Olqedion.-AJl the disciples of Phrenology are persona
ignorant of anatomy and physiology. They delude lawyers,
divines. and merchants, who know nothing about the
brain ; but all medical men, and especially teachers of ana-
Digitized by Google
680 OBJECTIONS TO
tomy, are so well aware of the fallacy of their doctrines,
that no impression is made on them. They laugh at the
discoveries as dreams.
Answer.-This objection, like many others, is remark-
able more for boldne88 than truth. For my own part, be-
fore adopting Phrenology, I saw Dr BARCLAY, and other
anatomical profe880rs, di88ect the brain repeatedly, and
heard them declare its functions to be an enigma, and ac-
knowledge that their whole information concerning it con-
sisted of "names without meaning." It is acknowledged,
in an article on the Nervoua System, in No. 94. of the
Edinburgh Review, quoted on p. 46, of this work, that the
functions of the brain are unknown to anatomists, and that
their mode of dissecting it is absurd. This circumatance,
therefore, puts the whole faculty, who have not studied
phrenologically, completely out of the field aa authoritiea.
Thefact, however, is the very reverse of what is stated in
the foregoing objection. Drs GALL and SPURZHEIM are
now pretty generally admitted to be admirable anatomists
of the brain, even by those who disavow their physiology;
and in the list of the Phrenologit"al Society, out of 86
members, there are 13 doctors in medicine, and 11 sur-
geons, a proportion considerably larger than that of the me-
dical profession to society in general. The leading medical
journals also have adopted Phrenology as true.
Objection.-" It is inconceivable, that, after the discovery
was made, there should be any body who could pretend to
doubt of its reality. The means of verifying it, one would
think, must have been such as not to leave a pretext for the
slightest hesitation; and the fact that, after twenty years ----
preaching in its favour, it is far more generally rejected
than believed, might seem to afford pretty conclusive evi-
dence against the possibility of its truth."
This objection has been answered in the Introduction,
p. 2, where it is shewn that all important discoveries have
Digitized by Google
-PHRENOLOGY CONSIDERED. 681
been equally despised and rejected at their first &mlounce-
ment.
The obeervations there quoted from PLAYFAJR. ani
Lo~E, are completely applicable to the ease of Phrenolo-
gy. The discovery ia new, important, and widely at vari-
ance with the prevailing opinions of the present _genera-
tion ; and its reception and progress have been precisely
such as any sensible pel'SOn, acquainted with the history of
science, would have anticipated. " The discoverer of the
circulation of the blood," says the Edinburgh Review •,-
" a discovery which, if measured by its consequences 011
physiology and medicine, was the greatest ever made since
physic was cultivated, suffers no diminution of his reputa-
tion in our day, from the incredulity with which his doo-
trine was received by some, the effrontery with which it
was claimed by others, or the knavery with which it was
attributed to former physiologists, by those who could not
deny, and would not praise it. The very names of theae
envious and dishonest enemies of HARVEY are scarcely re-
membered ; and the honour of this great discovery now
rests, beyond all dispute, with the great philosopher who
made it.'' Posterity will pass a similar judgment on Dr
GALL and his opponents.
JI. MATERIAI.ISM.
THE objection, that Phrenology leads to materialism, has
been frequently urged against the science; but it appears
singularly nnphilosophical, even upon the most superficial
consideration. Phrenology, viewed as the 88Bertion of cer-
tain physical facts, cannot, if unfounded, logically lead to
• No. xcrv. p. 76. The article quoted in the text is" On the Nervous
System;" and the names ofDrs GALL and SPuazBEIK are not mention-
ed in lt from beginning to end. The author, however, in the above re-
marks, aft'unis them just grounds of consolation, although he exempliftts
the injustice he so eloquently condemns.
Digitized by Google
632 OBJECTIONS.
any result, except the disgrace and mortification of its sup-
porters. On such a supposition, it cannot overturn reli-
gion, .or any other trutA; because, by the .constitution of
the human intellect, error constantly tends to resolve it-
aelf into nothing, and to sink into oblivion ; while trnth,
.having a real existence, remains permanent and impreg-
nable. In this view, then, the objection, that Phrenology
leads to materialism, is absurd. H, on the other hand, the
6Cience is held to be a true interpretation ofnature, and if it
be urged, that, nevertheless, it leads fairly and logically to
.materialism, then the folly of the objection is equally glar-
ing ; for it resolves itself into this,-that materialism is the
constitution of nature, and that Phrenology is dangeroua,
beeanse it makes this constitution known.
The eharge assumes a still more awkward appearance in
one shape, in which it is frequently brought forward. The
objector admits that the mind uses the body as an instru-
ment of communication with external nature, and main-
tains that this fact does not necessarily lead to materialism.
In this I agree with him ; but I cannot perceive how it
should lead nearer to this result, to hold that each faculty
manifests itself by a particular organ, than to believe that
the whole mind acts on external objects by means of the
whole body, or the whole brain. In short, in whatever
point of view tht' system is regarded, whether as true or
false, the objection of materialism is futile and unphiloao-
phieal ; and one must regret that it should have been
.brought forwud in the name of religion, because every im-
becile and unfounded attack against philosophy, made in
.this sacred name, tends to diminish the respect with which
it ought always to be invested.
The questiQn of materialism itself, however, as a point of
abstract discussion, has of late excited considerable atten-
.tion ; and I shall offer a fe\v remarks upon its general me-
rits. In entering on the subject, it is proper to take a view
of the nature and extent of the point in dispute, and of
the real effect of our decision upon it. The question then
Digitized by Google
MATERIALISM. 688
is, Whether the ~ of which the thinking principle is
composed be matter or spirit? And the efFectofour decision,
let it be observed, is not to alter tl&e nature oftAat substance,
whatever it is, but merely to adopt an opinion consonant
with, or adverse to, a fact in nature over which we have
no control. Mind, With all its faculties and functions,
has eXisted since the creation, and will exist till the human
race becomes extinct, and no opinion of man, concerning
the cause of its phenomena, can have the least inftuence
over that cause itself. The mind is invested by nature
with all its properties and essences, and these it will pOs-
sess, and manifest, and maintain, let men think, and speak,
and write what they will, concerning its substance. If the
Author of Nature has invested the mind with the quality
of endless existence, it wiJl, to a certainty, Sourish in iJn..
mortal youth, in apite of every appearance of premature
decay. If, on the other hand, Nature bas limited its exist-
ence to this passing acene, and decreed that it shall perillh
for ever when the animating principle passes from the body,
then all our conjectures, arguments, discussions, and asser-
tions, respecting its immorta1ity, will not add one day to
its emtence. The opinion~~ of man, therefore, concerning
the substance of the mind, can have no influence whatever
in changing or modifying that mbstance itself; and if so,
as little can these opinion~~ undermine the constitution of
the mind, or its relations to time and eternity, on which,
88 their foundations, morality and religion mu&t, and do,
relit 88 on an immutable basis. According to Phrenology,
morality and natural religion originate in, and emanaate
from, the primitive con11titution of the menta1 powers them-
selves. Innumerable obeervation11 have proved, that facul-
ties and organs of Benevolence, Hope, Veneration, Justice,
and ReSection, exist. Now, our believing that the mind
will die with the body, will not pluck these sentiments and
powers from the soul ; nor will our believing the mind to
be immortal implant a single one more of them in our
constitution. They would all remain the same in func..
Digitized by Google
6841 OBJECTIONS.
tiona and constitution, and render virtue amiable, and
vice odious, although we should believe the mind to be
made of dUit, juat as they would do were we to believe the
mind to be a more immediate emanation from the Deity
himself.
In short, therefore, this question of materialism is one of
the most vain, trivial, and uninteresting that ever engaged
the human intellect ; and nothing can be more unphiloeo-
phical, and more truly detrimental to the interests of mo-
rality and religion, than the unfounded clamour, or cant
eball I call it, which has been poured forth from tbe pe-
riodical journals about the dangers attending it. A manly
intellect, instead of bowing before prejudice, would dissi-
pate it, by ahewing that the question is altogether an illu-
eion, and that, adopt what opinion we will, concerning the
substance ofthe mind, every attribute belonging to it muat
remain unaltered and unimpaired.
But not to stop in our investigation till we have reached
the goal, we may inquire, whether it be possible to discover
the substance of which the mind is eompoaed, whether it
be material or immaterial ? Previous to doing eo, however,
we ought to endeavour to ascertain what means we poasesa
of arriving at a knowledge of the essence of the mind. All
our knowledge must be derived either from consciowm..
Ol' obaet"Vation. Now, by reflecting on what we feel, we
discover nothing concerning the nature or eseenee of the
thinking being. We do not feel a spiritual subatance
stirring about within us, and elaborating sentiment and
thought ; and neither do we feel a 1lUiterial 8llbltance pro-
ducing these eft'eet&. We are conacious only of feelioga
and emotions, of friendships and attachments, of high t\on-
eeptions and glorious thoughts ; but whether these origi-
nate from matter or spirit ; whether the first embryo sub-
etance of reflection dwelt lowly in the dust, or soared a
pure ethereal esaence amid the regions of boundleas space,
before it was constituted a part of us; whether GoD, in
creating man, was pleased to invest his material organs
Digitized by Google
1\IATERIALISM. 685
with the property of thought, or to inf01e into him a por-
tion of immaterial fire ;-on all these points Consciousness
gives us ao information. A great deal of popular delusion,
indeed, has been kept alive on this point, by ~e fact being
overlooked, that we are not conscious of the operations of
the brain. Men in general, because they are sensible only
of thought and feeling, and not of the movements of any
material organ performing these acts of the mind, imagine
that it is necessarily an immaterial substance, which is
thinking and feeling within them; but they are equally un-
conscious of the contraction and relaxation of the muscles,
and they might as well imagine that their arms and legs are
moved, not by material organs, but by the direct impulse
of spirit, as entertain the supposition in question. In short,
the truly philosophical conclusion is, that, by means of
consciousness, we are unable to discover of what substance
the thinking principle is composed.
Does observation, then, throw a stronger and steadier
light upon this long agitated question ? The mental or-
gans, while in health, and in the natural state in which
their functions are most perfectly performed, are complete-
ly hid from inspection. No eye can penetrate the inte-
guments of the head, the tables of the skull, the dura
mater, and the pia mater, to obtain a view of the opera-
tions performed in the brain, while the thoughts run high,
and the sentiments swell with emotion ; and when external
injury or disease removes these coverings, the mind does
not disport in all the vigour of ita healthy action. Be-
sides, even when all these external obstacles to inspec-
tion are removed, still it is only the surface of the convo-
lutions which is perceived, and the soul may be enthroned
in the long fibres which extend from the surface to the me-
dulla oblongata, or thought may be elaborated there, and
still evade detection. It will be said, however, that death
will solve the question, and allow the whole secrets of the
soul to be disclosed ; but, alas ! when the pulse has ceased
to beat, and the lungs no longer play, the braio presents
Digitized by Google
686 OBJECTIONS.
nothing to our contemplation, but an inert maaa, of a soft
and fibrous texture, in wbieb no thought can be discerned,
and no sentiment perceived, and in which also no spirit
or immaterial substance can be traced ; so that from
inspecting it even imagination receives no food for conjec-
ture, as to the presence or absence of an immaterial gneat
while life and health yet animated ita folds.
Observation, therefore, reveals as little in regard to the
substance of the mind, as does reftection on conaeiouaneas ;
and as no other modes of arriving at certain knowledge are
open to man, the solution of the question appears to be
placed completely beyond his reach. In abort, to use an
observation of Dr SPURZHEIM, Nature baa given man fa..
culties fitted to observe phenomena as they at present exist,
and the relations subsisting between them ; but has denied
to him powers fitted to discover, as a matter of direct per-
ception, either the beginning, or the end, or the essence, of
any thing under the ann; we may amuse our imagination
with conjectures, but will never arrive at truth, when we
stray into these interdicted regions.
The solution of this question, therefore, is not only un-
important, but it is impossible ; and this leads me to ob-
serve, that no idea can be more erroneous than that which
supposes the dignity and future destiny of man as an·im-
mortal being, to depend, of neceaaity, on the substance of
which be is made.
Let us allow to the materialist, for the sake of argument,
that the brain is the mind, and that medullary matter
thinks,-What then? If, in fact, it does so, it must be the
beat possible substance for thinking, jut because the CREA-
TOR selectedit for the purpose, and endowed it with this pro-
perty. In this argument, the religious constantly forget, that
the same OMNIPOTENT band made the brain that created
the mind and the universe itself, and that, in the dedica-
tion of every cerebral convolution to ita objects, be they
thinking or any other process, the Divine Wisdoin is as
certainly exercised, as in impressing motion on the planets,
Digitized by Google
MATEUIALISM. 687
or infusing light and heat into the sun. If, therefore, de
facto, Goo bas made the brain to think, we may rest as-.
sured that it is exquisitely and perfectly adapted for this pur-
pose, and that His objects in creating man will not be de-
feated, on account of His having chosen a wrqng sub8tance,
out of which to constitute the thinking principle. But
what are His objects in creating man ? This brings us t()
the jet of the question at once. Mr LAWRENcE, it is said,
founds no moral doctrine on his opinions regarding the es-
sence of the mind; but other materialists, who make these
opinions the foundation of atheism, wish us to believe that
the best evidence of the Divine intention in creating the
human soul, is to be found by discovering the sub&tance of
which it is made; and_they insinuate, that, if it be consti-
tuted of a very refined and dignified material, the conclu-
sion necessarily follows, that it is intended for magnificent
destinies, while, if it be composed of a rude and vulgar
stuff, it must be intended only to crawl on this filthy world.
Here, however, sense and logic equally fail them: for no
principle in philosophy is more certain than that we cannot
infer from a knowledge of the mere substance of any
thing for what ends it is fitted. Exhibit to a human being
every variety of imaginable essence, and if you allow him
to know no more of its properties than he can discover from
examining its constituent parts, he will be utterly incapable
of telling whether it is calculated to endure for a day, or
last to eternity. The materialist, therefore, is not entitled,
even from the supposed admission that medullary matter
thinks, to conclude that the human being is not immortal
and responsible. The true way of discovering for what
end man bas been created, is to look to the qualitiu with
which be bas been endowed, trusting that the substance of
which be is composed is perfectly suited to the objects of
his creation. Now, when we inquire into his qualities, we
find the thinking principle in him to differ, not only in de-
gree, but in Aind, from that of the lower animals. The lat-
ter have no faculty of justice, to indicate to them that the
Digitized by Google
638 OBJECTIONS.
unrestrained manifestation of Destructiveness or Acquisi-
tiveness is wrong; they have no sentiment of Veneration
to prompt them to seek a Goo whom they may adore ; they
have no faculty of Hope, pointing out futurity as an object
of ceaaeleu annety and contemplation, and leading \hem
to desire a life beyond the grave ; and, indeed, the convo-
lutions of the brain, which in man form the organs of these
sentiments, appear not to exist in the lower animals.
Those organs also, which in man serve to manifest the fa..
enlties of Reflection, are, in the lower animals, eminently
deficient, and their undentanding, in exact correspondence
with this fact, is so limited as to be satisfied with little
knowledge, and to be insensible to the comprehensive de-
sign and glories of creation. Man, then, being endowed
with qualities which are denied to the lower creatures, we
are entitled, by a l~timate exercise of rejkctitm, the sub-
ject being beyond the region of the external senses, to con-
clude, on principles truly philosophic, that be is designed
for another and a higher destiDy than is to be allotted to
them, whatever be the u1ence of his mind.
III. ON THE EFFECTS OF INJURIES OF THE BRAIN
ON THE MANIFESTATIONS OF THE MIND.
(By Dr A. COMBE.)
OP all the arguments advanced for the subversion of
Phrenology, no one bas been more frequently or more con-
fidently urged, than that which rests on the alleged fact of
the brain having, in various instances, been wounded or
destroyed in whole or in part, without in any degree im-
peding the nsnal operations of mind. When narrowly exa-
mined, however, this objection proves to ~eat variance
with the views of those who maintain it, and completely
demonstrative of their ignorance of the principles of tho
science against which it is directed. " The system of GALL
oigi!lzed by Coogle
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 639
and SPURZHEIH," it is said, " however ingenious or amllr-
sing in theory it may be, is annihilated by the commoneet
reference to fact. Experience has shewn us, that a man
may live in the full enjoyment of hi• mtellectuolfacultiu, al-
though a partof his brain is destroyed by disease. Portions
of the brain, various in situation and size, have been found
to have been entirely disorganized, yet no single power of
the mind was impaired, even to the very day of the patient's
death. It would be difficult to find any one portion of the
brain, that has not, in some case or another, been deranged
in its structure, without injury to the mind. Certainly, of
the parts specified by GALL and 8PURZHEIM, every one
has, in its turn, been found wanting, without any deficiency
in that intellectual faculty which they would represent it
either to produce or sustain •." Such are the ip8i88imo.
f'trba of a learned and respectable, though prejudiced op-
ponent ; and although others might be quoted, who go still
farther than he does, I am ready to admit, that, if the
statements here recorded were as clearly substantiated as
they were sw~ingly made, neither the system of philoso-
phy which we advocate, nor any other which acknowledges
the necessity of the intervention of a material instrument
for the manifestation of the mind, could possibly survive
for a day.
At first sight, the foregoing objection appears to be highly
plausible and relevant; and coming as it generally does,
directly or indirectly, from the members of the medical
profession, who, naturaUy enough, are supposed to be best
qualified to judge, it is received by many with implicit
confidence, and thus operates upon them with all the force
of truth ; and, in faet, to those who are alike ignorant of
Anatomy and of Phrenology, and who, therefore, han no
means of forming an accurate estimate of its force, it does
prtwent a very formidable upect. AB, however, to those
who are acquainted with both these sciences, and who are
eoneeqnently better qualified to judge correctly, the very
• RENNEL on Scepticism, p. 100.
Digitized by Google
OBJECTIONS.
facta upon which the objections are grounded, seem, in-
stead of invalidating the fundamental principles of the new
philosophy, to be clearly and unequivocally demonstrative
of their truth; it may be useful to state such an abstract.
of the evidence itself, as shall enable even the unprofes-
aional reader to determine how far it authorizes the infe-
rences whieh have been deduced from it by our opponents·
With this intention, I shall first make some observations
on the testimony offered of the alleged integrity of all the
mental faculties, in cases of extensive injury of the brain;
and then examine anatomically, how far the extent, sitUa-
tion, and nature of the injuries sustained in the cases allud-
ed to, authorize us to infer the partial or total destruction
of any individual phrenological organ ; and, lastly, I shall
offer a few remarks on the possibility of discovering the
functions of the brain, from noticing the effects of its in-
juries,-a mode of proceeding. lately recommended from
high authority.
In proceeding to this inquiry, it must first be observed,
that, without a single exception, all the cases alluded.to.are
related by surgical authors, for purely professional pur-
poses, without the remotest idea of their being afterwards
founded on, to prove that entire preservation of the mental
faculties ·may coexist with extensive disorganization of the
organ of mind ; consequently, in all of them, 88 will .be
seen by a reference to Dr FERRIAR's paper, in the 4th
volume of the Manchester Memoirs, and to the 48th num-
ber of the Edinburgh Review, the state of the mind is men-
tioned merely incidentally, and in very vague and general
terms, 88 it was, in reality, scarcely attended to. For in-
stance, it is stated in one case, that " the senses were retain-
ed to the last;" in another, that "there was no loss of sen-
sibility;'' ina third, that there was "no alienation of mind;''
and, in a fourth, that " the patient remained quite well."
The want of precision, indeed, and the utter inadequacy
of the statements to eli!tablish the important conclusions de-
duced from them, are so palpably conspicuous, that even
3
Digitized by Google
IN.JURIES OF THE BRAIN. 641
the Reviewer already alluded to, hostile as be is to tbe
doctrines of Phrenology, expresllfls a " wish to see cases
more minute in all their details; and obsen:ed, wiln a view
specially to this physiological inquiry, substituted for those
we at present possess •," before he ventures to pronounce an
irrevocable decree; and if he hesitates, it would surely be
too much to expect. us to pronounce, upon testimony re-
jected by him, a verdict against ourselves.
But, even granting that these cases had been observed,
witA a view specially to this physiological inquiry ; still this
testimony, to be of the slightest ,.aJue in establishing tbe
point contended for, necessarily supposes two conditions or
requisites in those by whom they are narrated, which were
manifestly pot possessed, viz. 1st, A perfect k1WWkdge ofthe
number and nature of the primitive faculties of the human
mind; and, 2dly, A previous knowledge of their relative
degrees of endowment and energy during health, in the in-
dividual cases under consideration.
Now, as to the first of these, it is well known that scarce-
ly any two metaphysicians who make the philosophy of
mind their particular study, are agreed either upon the num-
ber or nature of the primitive mentaJ powers. Much less,
then, can we expect the surgeon, engaged in the hurry of
general practice, to be better informed. " Certain crude
ideas," says the Edinburgh Reviewer, in his notice of Sir
E. HoME's paper on the Functions of the Brain, " are at-
tached to the words Intellectual Faculties; a t•ague conjec-
ture arises as to the seat and nature of these faculties t ."
How, then, I would ask, can any one certify, even after
the most scrupulous attention, that .all the powers of the
mind are retained, when he is ignorant what these powers
are ? When he is ignorant, for instance, whether the pro-
pensities of Destructiveness, Acquisitiveness or Secretive-
ness exist, aDd whether the sentiments of Veneration, Hope
or Conscientiousness, are primitive emotions. The state of
these, and other feelings and propensities, proved by Phre-
• Edinburgh Review, No. 4-8, p. US. t lb. p. 43t.
s •
Digitized by Google
642 OBJECTIONS.
nology to be primitive, is never once alluded to in the his-
tory of injuries of the brain; and, consequently, for any
thing we are told to the contrary, they, along with their
respective organs, might have been entirely wanting, in
every one of the cases which are advanced as instances of
entire poRSession of the faculties. The opponents never
speak of any except intellectual faculties; and in expecting
lesion of these powers, when, for instance, it is only the
cerebellum, or posterior lobes of the brain, that are dis-
eased, they display at once their own ignorance of the na-
ture and number of the primitive faculties, and their most
profound ignorance of the doctrines which they impugn.
If any injury occurs in that portion of the brain lying un-
der the most prominent part of the parietal bone, which
the phrenologist states to be the organ of Cautiousneas,
and if we be in doubt as to the accuracy of the function
assigned to it, and wish to have our observations confirmed
or refuted by the phenomena attending such a case, one
would naturally suppose that, as the organs are all double,
we would begin. by observing, whether the corresponding
portion of brain on the opposite side partook in the dis-
organization or not ; and that we would then proceed to
investigate the state of that particular faculty, of which
these parts constitute the organs, and thus ascertain whe-
ther the feeling of Cautiousness ever remained undiminish-
~' where, from the extent of the disease, it ought, ac-
cording to the ordinary laws of the animal economy, to
have been either impaired, or entirely awanting.
Tllis mode of proceeding, plain and simple as it appears,
is not that pursued by the opponents of Phrenology. The
.opponent does not care, and does not inquire, whether it is
one side only, or both sides, which are diseased: be makes
no inquiry about the presence or absence of the manifes-
tations of the sentiment of Cautiousness: he proceeds at
once to the state of the intellectual powers, with which
Phrenology most distinctly teaehes that that part of the
brain has no direct connexion ; and finding none of the
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 6iS
faculties which be calls Attention, Perception, Memory or
Imagination at all impaired, he, with great confidence,
concludes, that the part in question cannot be the organ of
Cautioumess ; and so satisfied is he with his own reason-
ing, that he thinks himself entitled to ridicule those who
do not see its cogency as clearly as he does himself. On
any other subject, this mode of reasoning would be looked
upon as proceeding from a very blameable and lamentable
degree of ignorance; but such was once the state of the
public mind, that, when directed against Phrenology, it
was l1ailed almost universally as highly philosophical and
satisfactory.
Even supposing, however, that the number of primitive
faculties was known, still no dependence can be placed
upon cases not observed, with a view " specially to this
physiological inqUiry ;" for daily experience proves, that
whenever a patient is able to return a rational answer to
any simple question about his .health, the surgeon and at-
tendants, whose attention is not directed to the point, inva-
riably speak of him·as in full possession of all his facul-
ties, although he is as unable to think or reason on any se-
rious subject, with his accustomed energy and facility, as
a gouty or rheumatic patient is to walk with his accustom-
ed vigonr. In one sense, no doubt, the former may be said
to be in possession of all his faculties, just as the latter,
merely because he can drag himself acrose a room, may be
said to possess the power of muscular motion; but then the
power of exercising the faculties may be, and is, as much
diminished in the one case, as that of using the muscles in
the other. Even take a convalescent from any acute dis-
ease, in which there has been no particular affection of the
brain, and introduce a subject which requires a train of
thinking, and concentration of mind, to which, in health,
he is fully equal, so far from retaining his powers undi-
minished, be will soon be reminded of his enfeebled state, by
painful confusion in the head, and other disagreeable symp-
toms. But, confine his attention to any tlJing which re-
s 8 2
Digitized by Google
644 OBJECTIONS.
quires no effort on his part, and you benefit rather than
harm him by such exercise, for it is then suited to ~he di-
minished vigour of Isis mind. Now, this is precisely the
kind of discourse which the judicious surgeon permits to
his patient, and from it alone he forms his own opinion of
the state of the mind; and, therefore, a person in such state
is uniformly said " to retain .his faculties," &c. In like
manner, the convalescent, gouty or rheumatic patient, if
gently exercised by strolling about his room, reaps benefit
and strength ; but suppose you force him to an effort be-
yond wl1at his muscular energy is calculated to support,
the same bad effect is produced as in the case of the mind,
and as well might this person be said to retain his power of
voluntary motion undiminished, as the other all his force of
intellect unimpaired.
That the evidence as to the state of the mind, after
wounds or alteration of the cerebral mass, is really so
vague and unsatisfactory, may easily be shewn from Dr
FERRIAR's paper, and from tl1e Edinburgh Review, the
text-books of the opponents. Besides the objection of ex-
treme latitude in such expressions, as " no loss of sensibi-
lity," " no loss of voluntary motion," &c. &c., when used
to indicate the condition of all the mental faculties, it may
be remarked, that Dr FERRJAR speaks of one man as re-
taining all his faculties entire, who, it appears, had labour-
ed under hypochondriasis for ten years ; a disease, the very
.existence of which implies a morbid activity of some of the
mental feelings, and which, consequently, ranks in the list
of insanities; and of a girl who, with evident symptoms of
oppressed brain, is also said to have retained be.r faculties ;
a)ld that the reviewer speaks of a lady, who, " the day be-
fore her death, was capable ofbeing rousedfrom her stupor,
and was then in possession of all her senses." But the
idiot from birth, when roused from his natural stupor by
the exaltation of a fever, appears sometimes to gain a con-
siderable share of intellectual power, only to be lost upon
recovery. Will be, too, then, be said to be in full posses-
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 645
eion of every faculty, because thus shewn to be susceptible
of excitation from stimuli ? The inference, in the one case,
is certainly as logical as it is in the other.
But, even allowing also that, from a previous acquaint-
ance with the number and functions of all mental powers,
we were qualified to judge of their presence or absence, it
seems still to be a self-evident proposition, that before we
can affirm that a man possesses them all unimpaired under
disease, we must have had some previous knowledge of the
relative degrees of endowment and energy in which he po&-
8E'88ed them when in health. The differences gf intellec-
tual vigour, of te~per, and of moral dispositions, between
man and man, are exceedingly great. The scale extends
from the lowest pitch of idiocy, up to the highest endow-
ment of genius ; and the history of diseases informs us, that
a man, whose faculties have sufFered a great diminution of
energy, may still be able to return a rational answer to a
question, although his mind is unable to fathom the depths
it penetrated before. If, then, our first acquaintance with
a patient sufFering from an injury of the brain is formed
by the side of llis sick-bed after the accident has occurred,
what means do we possess of knowing how far his mental
powers in general, or any one in particular, have been in-
jured or impaired? Even under the most favourable cir-
cumstances, the difficulty is by no means easily surmount-
able; and, when we consider that injuries of the head are
by far more frequent in hospital than in private practice;
and that, in the former, the surgeon bas seldom seen the
patient before, it will be obvious, that, even supposing the
testimony as to the actual state of the faculties to be as
specific and precise &.'1 it is general and vague, still, in a
great majority of instances, the surgeon is unfavourably si-
tuated for speaking ofthe comparative force of any of them,
seeing that this does not form the direct or usual object of
his inquiries, and that, although it did, be must neceRSariJy
be ignorant of the degree in which they were manifested
before the injury was sustained.
Digitized by Google
646 OBJECTIONS.
Having now shewn that the obsernrs quoted by tbe op-
ponents were evidently neither acquainted with the num-
ber and functions of t.he mental faculties, nor in possession
of any means ofjudging of the actual existence, or compa-
rative diminution of any individual faculty, in cases of dis-
ease or wounds of the cerebral mass, I proceed to point out
an anatomical requisite, which, although as essential as the
other two, seems not to have been possessed in any percep-
tible degree by any of those to whom the cases occurred,
or by whom they are quoted. I allude to knowledge of
the situation, form, and direction of fibre of the several or-
gans of which the phrenologists state the brain to be a con-
geries. Without this knowledge, any observations must ma-
nifestly be imperfect :-how, for instance, is a man to ascer-
tain that the organ of Cautiousness bas been wounded or
destroyed, if he knows neither its local situation, nor the
direction in which its constituent fibres run ? And yet
this is precisely the state of mind of those upon whose au-
thority the objection we are now refuting is so strenuously
urged :-nine-tenths of tlae cases occurred long before the
organs were discovered, and the remaining tenth were, I
believe, observed in ignorance of the discovery, so that all
come under one cJass. If any one, indeed, could pro,·o
that he has found both the organs ofCautiousness destroyed,
while the corresponding feeling was manifested as powerful-
ly as before, then he would prove the operation of that senti-
ment to have been erroneously ascribed to that particular
part of the brain. But unless he knows accurately the si-
tuation of that organ towards the surface, and the direction
of its fibres towards the interior, wlaether they are ltOrizon-
tal, vertical, or oblique, and unless he ascertains the condi-
tion of the organs of both sides, How can he venture to af-
firm tlmt they were destroyed either in whole or in part?
We are told, it is true, by Mr RENNEL, and other oppo-
nents, that every individual part specified b)• GALL and
SPURZHEIM has in its turn been destroyed, without injury
o the faculty of which they call it the organ. But if we
_ Digitized by ~oogle
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN.
examine the foundations npon which such asaertiona ren,
the same want of precision, the same inconclusive vague-
ness, will be found to prevail, 88 in the evidence of the state
of the mind. Not a single case in point can be produced ~
and it is evident that Mr RENNEL, 88 well 88 the other op-
ponents, supposes the organa to be confined to the surface
of the brain, instead of extending to its very base, to the
medulla oblongata. They aleo, by what rules of logic I
know not, appear to think injury of one organ sufficient to
destroy the function ofboth, although they may see there-
verse exemplified in individual& who hear or see well with
one ear or one eye, after that of the opposite side has been
tiestroyed.
The brain has been considered by many physiologists, and
particularly by those of them who are hostile to Phreno-
logy, to be a single organ, every part of which concurs in
executing a single function, viz. that of manifesting the
mind; but 80 far from supporting their own conclusions,
the oases Teferred to, if true, are directly subversive of
them, and leave no choice, except between tl1e phrenologi-
cal doctrine of a plurality of cerebral organs, and the no·
tion that the brain, the most delicate, the best protected,
and apparently the most important organ ofthe body,is, after
all, a mere useless incumbrance, or at most, a mere mass
fitted into a case, and placed at the top of the neck, more
for the sake of ornament, or of preserving equilibrium,
than for any more rational purpose ; a conclusion which,
however logically deducible from their own premises, they
would, I am satisfied, be fully more averse to admit than
the truth of Phrenology itself. The :vhrenologieal doctrine
is, indeed, the only one by which these fact&, 80 far as they
are true, are at all explicable; for the moment we can
prove, not only that the bl-ain consists of two halves or he-
mispheres, but that each half is a congeries of parts per-
forming distinct functions, all difficulty disappears, and the
phenomena become consistent with the ordinary laws ofna-
ture. We then see bow one side or one part may be wound-
Digitized by Google
648 OBJECTIONS.
ed or diseased, without involving the functions of the·oppo-
site side, or ofthe other parts, just as one t>ye may be put out
without destroying the function of the other, and the or-
gan of one sense, sight for example, be injured or destroy-
ed, while the organs of all the others remain sound.
Upon the same principle, it will be evident, that, before
we can expect complete loss of any one faculty, the entire
organ of both sides must be destroyed,-a fact which baa
been altogether overlooked by the objectors. For it will
be seen upon an attentive examination of the cases quoted,
that not a single inatance is recorded in which this dutruc-
tian of both organ~~ has occurred, while the alleged manifesta-
ticma existed. In almost all the cases, the injury or disease
is expressly said to be on one side only ; and where it is
on both, the parts affected implicate different organs. But
this will be better understood by an abstract of the cases
themselves, as they are recorded in the Manchester Me-
moirs and in the Edinburgh Review. In perusing them,
I beg the reader's attention to the vagueness of the iDfor-
mation which they offer in regard to the integrity of the
mental faculties, and also to the extent and nature of the
cerebral injuries.
Mr EARLE relates the case of a man whose sensibility re-
mained unaffected till within a few hours of his death, al-
though au abscess occupied nearly one-third of the right
hemisphere. Mr ABERNETHY saw a gentleman who liv-ed
for two years in the full posse88ion of every faculty, not-
withstanding a cavity two incl1es broad by one long in the
right hemisphere. Another was perfectly sensible with an
abscess in the left hemisphere. Sir JoHN PRINGLE* found
an abscess in the right hemisphere, as large as an egg, in a
patient " who had never been delirious, nor altogether insen-
lible ;" and in another, " who had never been so insensihle
lUI not to answer reQ.8()11(1/}[y when spoken to," he found an
abscess in the cereheUum as large as a pigeon's egg. Dr
FERRIAR says that Dr HuNTER found the whole of the right
• Diseases of the Army, p. 2~9.
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OF THE BRAI:S. 649
hemisphere destroyed by suppuration, in a man who re-
tained his faculties to the last. One of WEPFEa's patients
manifested no lo6s qf sensibility, although a cyst was found
in the right hemispbere of the brain as large as a ben's egg.
DIEMERBROEK saw a young man who received a thrust
from a sword, which entered at the eye, and passed up-
wards through the right ventricle, as far as the sagittal
suture. During ten days he " remained quite wt.ll," with
no )OStJ of sensibility, of voluntary motion, or ofjudgment.
"cum sociis convenienter, et bono cum judicio, quacunque
de re di.sserens ;" after which he was cut oft' by a fever.
PETIT • saw a soldier, shot tl1rough the left lobe of the
cerebellum and left posterior lobe of the brain, live forty-
three hours, whose faculties were perfect to the last. An-
other man, mentioned by QuESNAI as seen by BAGIEU, re-
ceived a musket-shot from below upwards through the
right anterior lobe, who had 1W bad symptom till the twelfth
day, and ultimately recovered. Next are mentioned three
cases ; in the first of which a ball, in the second the end of
a stiletto, in the third a part of a knife, remained in the
brain witlwut inronvenience for some years. GENGA tells
us of a man who, from a blow on the left parietal and occi-
pital bones, lost a portion of brain as large as a pigeon's
egg, and yet recuvered. PETIT saw a man with a corpus
striatum converted into a matter like dregs of wine, with
no loss qfsen&ihility, although one side was paralyzed. VAL-
SALVA saw an old man who was 1Wl insensible, with an ab-
scess of the right thalamus opticus extending to the surface
of the brain. Then come some cases of diseased pineal
gland and cerebellum, without loss of sensibility. The
Reviewer then speaks of a lady who complained for a fort-
night of an affection of the head, became comatose, and
died. " The day before her death she was capable of being
roused from her Rtupor, and was then in full poBBession qf
all her senses." The left hemisphere of the cerebellum was
converted into pus. Then follows a case from LA PEY-
• Mimoirea de l'Acad. 1748.
Digitized by Google
650 OBJECTIONS.
RONJE, nearly similar, without bJu ofBtUibility. DRELIN•
CURTIUS • saw a steatomatous tumour as large as the fist
between the cerebrum and eerebe1lum, produce first blind-
ness, then deafness, and at last the abolition " omnium sen-
suom et functionum animalium, et neeem ipaam." Dr
TYsoN t mentions a ease wbere the left hemisphere of the
cerebellum was found sphacelated, and the testis of that
side enlarged and stony. The patient had been ill two
months, and for the most part rational. In the Memoires
de 1'Aead. Royale, 1703, DuvERNEY relates a ease of ex-
tensive injury, witJwat lms of BenBihility. The Chevalier
Co'LBERT received a blow from a stone upon the temple,
which drove in the bones forming the back part of the
orbit, as well as the sella turcica. The inferior portion of
the middle lobe of the brain, as far as the cerebellum, was
found broken down, and partly in a suppurating state. He
Jived seven days, "retained his judgment perfectly, con-
tinued to perform all his function~.~, and exhibited a sur-
prising tranquillity of mind till his death." FERRU.R at-
taches little importance to tllis case, as confused. One of
the most remarkable cases, is that quoted by the Reviewer
from PLANQUE, and by Dr FERRU.R from LA PEYRONIE,
as having occurred to BILLOT +• A boy of six years re-
ceived a pistol-shot in the middle of the brow, which paso-
sed through to the occiput. He survived eighteen ;days,
and lost a portion of brain as large as a nutmeg daily, and
yet remained quite well until within a few hours of his death.
The portion of brain, found remaining in the skull, did not
exceed the &ize ofa small egg.
The Reviewer then quotes three cases of hydrocephalus
internus, or water in the bead, which convince him that
sensibility may remain after the whole brain has been de·
stroyed.
Many of the Reviewer's cases are taken from Dr FER·
RIAR's paper in the Manchester Memoirs. I shall, there-
• Addend. ad WEPFEII., Hiat. Apop. Obs. 83. t PhU. Trans. No. m.
:;: :Mem. de l'Acad. 17tl.
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OF THE DRAIN. 651
fore, select the most interesting of those which he has
omitted. DJEI\JERBROEK • quotes a case from LJNDANUS,
of a patient receiving a wound in OJie of the lateral ven-
tric1es, who went about as usual for fourteen days, and then
died. His surgeon thrust a probe into the ventricle every
day, without exciting any sensation. He says t he saw a
woman who lost a portion of brain as large as the fist, from
a fracture of the rigllt side. She lived thirty·six days with-
out alienation of the mind, although paralytic on the oppo-
site side. In the appendix to WEPFER's Hist. Apoplect.,
Dr BRuNNER mentions a case of a drunken blacksmith,
aged sixty-four, who died of apoplexy, whose faculties were
rather excited than impaired, although he observed, after
death, " piam matrem aqua turgiclissimam.-Ablata dura
matre serum perpetim exsudavit et effiuxit limpidum. Uter-
que ventriculus aqua scatebat turbida, quin omnes recessus
et eerebri cavitates hac inundatre et repletre fuerunt. Cere-
bellum minime ftaecidum, sed sieut reliqure eerebri partes
firmum apparuit, &c. He was rather acute in his inte11ect
towards the end. LA PEYRONJE mentions a case of a man
who had been troubled with hypochondriat'al symptoms for
ten years, whose faculties were never affected, although the
fourth ventricle and cerebellum were found diseased. A
girl died in the fourth month of an arthritic complaint,
lvith evident symptomt ofoppressed brain, but in perfect pos-
session of her intellectual powers, although the brain was
soft and water efFuRed. BoNNET saw a cas«.>., where, after
eleven days• illness, and, only towards the end, occasional
alienation of mind, "tota fere basis cerebri, imprimis cere-
bellum, et ea pars medul1re spinalis qure primis vertebris cx-
t'ipitur, spl•acelo inventre 11unt correptre.''
Dr FERRJAR concludes, by quoting from AMBROSE PAnE',
what he considers a most extraordinary case; but PARE"a
authority being very great, be tl1inks it merits confidence.
It is that of tbe Due DE GuisE, "who was wounded in the
head by the thrust of a lance, which entered under the right
• Anat. lib. iii. p. 637. t p~ 560-1.
Digitized by Google
OBJECTIONS.
eye, near the noee, and came out at the neck, 'between the
ear and the vertebrre. The steel remained in the brain, waa
extracted with great difficulty, and the patient recovered."
Such are the principal cases.
The farther removed an account is from what we are ac-
customed to observe in ordinarycircumstances, the stronger
is the evidence required, before we can believe it, and in-
versely. So, in the present instance, when we find almost
all the cases mentioned, consisting of very partial injury of
one side only of the brain, with no striking disturbance of
inldlect, \Ve are not disposed to be scrupulous in admitting
them to be true. We see such things occur in our own
day, and they are, in themselves, sufficiently probable;
seeing that the organs are double, and that one may be
afFected witl1out the other participating in the injury ;
and that the organs of the intellectual faculties constitute
so small a portion of the brain, as to leave uearly two-
thirds of the whole masH to be destroyed on both sides, with-
out necessarily interfering with tbe intellect. But when
we come to such cases as that of the boy, who is said to
have lost all his brain excepting "about the bulk ofan egg,"
and yet "remained quite welf' till \Vithin a few hours of his
death, we are compelled to pause, and ask for stronger evi-
dence than that afForded by a quotation at third hand of a
single case. Neither the Reviewer nor Dr FERRIAR ap-
pear to l1ave seen BILLOT's own account of it, since each
has quoted from a difFerent source ; and not having been
able to procure the original work, I know not whether it is
correctly quoted by either. But if one such case could be
made out by incontestible evidence, it would not only lay
prostrate the whole fabric of.Phrenology, but it would
save us a great deal of time and useless labour nt present
spent in trying to find out the functions of a part, which,
according to this account, could not possibly have any ;
· and, therefore, when we see the whole body of physiologista
persevering in their endeavours to discover the uses of the
brain, with as much zeal and earnestness as if no such case
oigi!lzed by Coogle
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 653
bad ever been beard of, the only conclusion which we can
legitimately draw is, that they, hostile as most of them are
to Phrenology, have just as little faith in the accuracy of
the details as the phrenologists themselves; and if they
disregard the story as unworthy of credit, we have surely,
at least, an equal right to pursue a similar course, and to
withhold our belief. In like manner, when we are told,
as in the thr~e cases alluded to by the Reviewer, of the
faculties remaining entire after the complete destruction
of the brain by water, we are entitled to require evidence
of no ordinary force before giving credit to their truth,
more especially since the late discoveries by GALL and
SPURZHEIM of the structure of the brain, shew the fallacy
of the appearances commented upon as indicating the ab-
sence of that organ.
Out of tl1e twenty-nine cases here quoted from difFerent
authors, eighteen expressly refer to injury of one side only.
These require no remarks; for, granting that none of the
faculties were lost, there still remained the sound organs
of the opposite side to execute the functions. Five more
expressly refer to injury or disease of the cereheUum and
fourth ventricle, parts which have no immediate connexion
with the exercise of the inteUectual faculties, which alone
are mentioned. In two, the side is not mentioned. In
three more, the whole brain was extant, but altered in ap-
pearance; and, lastly, comes the case par excellence, in
which the brain had almost disappeared, and which, if ad-
mitted, would undoubtedly bury Phrenology and its oppo-
nents in one common ruin. Some of these demand a few
observations.
In Dr BRUNNER's case of .the drunken blacksmith, wl10
died apoplectic, the whole of the brain was still extant at
his death ; but a quantity of water was found effused upon
it ; notwithstanding which, he not only retained his fa-
culties, but was even more acute. "Cerebellum minime
tlaccidum, sed sieut reliqure cerebri partes firmum appa-
nait." This_ is the consequence of a certain degree of in-
Digitized by Google
654 OBJECTIONS.
fiammation, which, in the case of the brain, as well as in
that of other organs, often exalts instead of diminishing the
function. Hence it proves nothing against ns. The efFu-
sion appears to have been the cause of the apoplexy and of
death.
In the hypochondriacal patient, already referred to, even
supposing all the faculties to have been unimpaired, the vi-
sible seat of the disease was confined to the cerebellum and
fourth ventricle, and did not extend to the organs of the in-
tellectual powers. In BoNNET's case of eleven days' illness,
with occasional alienation towards the end, where the cere-
bellum, part of the base of the brain, and a portion of the
medulla spinalis, were mortified, " spbacelo inventre sunt
correptre," the part of the base of the brain is not mention-
ed; and, therefore, no conclnsion can be drawn in favour of
any o( the organs of the intellectual faculties having been
even partially destroyed ; and, besides, there is every rea-
son to believe the sphacelus not to have existed for any
length of time, but to_have been the immediate forerun-
ner of death.
Lastly, Although what Dr FERRIAR calls the very ex-
traordinary case of the Due DE GuisE, be concluded in the
eighteen cases of injury of one side only, it is deserving of
particular attention. The lance entered under the right
eye, near the nOHe, and came out at the neck between the
ear and vertebre. The steel, it is said, remained in the
brain, was extracted with difficulty, and recovery followed.
The state of the faculties is not even mentioned. In this
case, be says, the base of the brain must have been exten-
sively injured. I humbly apprehend, however, that the
brain was not, and could not be touched. Let any one ~a­
mine on the living, or on the dead subject, the direction of
such a wound, and he will instantly agree with me in opi-
nion, and will then be at no loBS to account for the difficul-
ty of extracting the steel. Having seen it stated in BoYER's
Traite des· Maladiu Ckirw'gicales, that the spear entered
above the eye, I procured the original work of AMBROSE
!
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OP THE BRAIN. 655
PARE', and found that Dr FERRIAR was right in saying that
it entered wtder the eye. But PARE' never once mentimts
either brain or faculty. He says, " The head of the lance
stuck so fast as to require a pair of smith's pincer& for its
extraction. Although the violence of the blow was so
great, that it could not be without fracture ofthe bones, a
tearing and brea.Aing of the nervu, veins and arteries, and
other parts, yet the generous Prince, by the favour of Goo,
recovered," p. 235, Jib. x. Although the state of the facul-
ties is not mentioned by Dr FERRIAR, I remember to have
read in some French historical author, that the Duke bore
the extraction with great fortitude, and retained his facul-
ties apparently undiminished, and the above quotation ac-
counts perfectly for the fact; for it Rhews that the brain
was not in the least affected, the wound being altogether
below it. In the case of the Chevalier CoLBERT, also, Dr
FEBRIAR says, the eye was crushed to pieces, and the orbit
knocked in ; which misapprehension must have arisen from
the confused account given by the original author DuvER-
NEY; for, in point of fact, the stone struck the temple, and
not the front of the eye.
Little confidence can, at any time, be placed in the his-
tory of dissections, made only to discover the cause of death,
when afterwards applied to physiological purposes. The
surgeon, who has been in the habit of seeing numerous dis-
sections, and particularly in hospital practice, made with
this object alone in view, knows well how very general the
examination of the diseased parts frequently is, even when
seated in organa whose structure and functions are both
known; and this obeervation naturally applies wiih double
force to parts so little known as those contained in the ca-
'ri.ty of the cranium. The Edinburgh Reviewer himself, in
•peaking of some parte (such as the corpus callosum, for-
nix, &e.), which have not been e:qn'U8ly mentioned as de-
stroyed, says, p. 446, " We believe, indeed, that several, if
not the whole of them, were actually destroyed in the eaaea
we have quoted ; but that they were omitted in the detail
Digitized by Google
656 OBJECTIONS.
of the dissection, either from a fear of being tedious, or be-
cause the authors did not conceive minuteneu ofdescription
to be an object either ofpractical or physiological importance.
As it is, however, instanc-es are still wanting, in which the
parts we have enumerated are expressly stated to have hem
destroyed; and we beg leave to call the attention of the
physiologists to this circumstance,, &c. The phrenologists
in like manner, beg leave to call the attention ofthe public
to thi8 circumstance, that instanceR are still wanting, in
which any one of their organs is expressly stated to have
been destroyed, and the function to have remained unim-
paired.
To such an extent, indeed, have anatomical structure and
minuteness of detail been neglected in the history of the dis-
eases and injuries of the cerebrum and cerebellum, in 80far
as they are connected with the mind, that in almost every in-
stance, the palpable fact of the organs being double has been
overlooked: and not only has no attention been paid to the
situation of the individual organs, in examining the effects
of their injuries in relation to Phrenology, but it never bas
once been taken notice of by the opponents, that., while
they confine their attention to the state of the intellectual
faculties a/Qne in all cases of wounded brain, the organs of
these faculties, in the new system, constitute not more than
one-third of the whole cerebral mass, and that the other
two-thirds constitute the organs of the sentiments and pro-
pensities, which are never inquired into, as not being con-
ceived to have any thing to do with the brain.
As it appears, then, notwithstanding the affirmations of
the opponents, to be quite consistent with the principles of
Phrenology, that injuries of the brain may occur, without
necessarily affecting the intellectual faculties, I might, per-
hapa, here safely drop the subject. Before quitting it,
however, we may shortly inquire how far the cases refer-
red to coincide, or are compatible with the doctrines which
the opponents themselves profesa. Many of them teach,
for example, that the whole brain is the organ of mind, and
2
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 657
that every part of it is engaged in every act of thought.
Now, it seems to me, that their own cases are fatal to any
such theory ; for as the brain is subject to aJl the ordinary
laws of animal organization, were any part of that general
organ injured, the function, even according to their own
account, ought always to be impaired in proportion. In-
stead of which, they tell us, that the function which they
believe it to execute, does not suft'er with almo8t total de-
struction of the organ f No other part of the human body
is known to retain its functions unimpaired, amidst total or
partial change, or destruction of its structure; and, there-
fore, had they not been blinded by preconceived opinions,
they must have perceiyed that the very circumstance of the
brain being partially injured, without any considerable de-
rangement of intellect, was sufficient to prove that every
part of that organ was ftOt necessary to every individual
act of mind, and that·tbe brain was not the single organ
they believed it to be.
Phrenology, or the doctrine of a plurality of organs and
faculties, alone satisfactorily explains the apparent contra..
diction, by ahewing that the state of one organ, or part of
the brain, does not necessarily afFect the condition and
functions of the others, and thus the phrenologist, who con-
aider& particular parts of the brain to be the organs of dis-
tinct mental faculties, may be quite consistent in believing,
that one of these organs, and the faculty with which it is
connected, may be wounded and impaired without neces-
sarily inducing any elimination or alteration in the func-
tions of the others; and as he·thinks it proved, that two-
thirds of the brain. constitute the organs of the propensi-
ties and sentiments, he may still be quite consistent in be-
lieving, that large portions of these two-thirds, even on
both sides, may be injured without necessarily disturbing,
in any high degree, the intellectual operations carried on by
the remaining sonnd third, which he has previously ascer-
tained to constitute the organs of the intelkctual facultiea.
But the opponent, who believes in the unity of the brain,
T t
Digitized by Google
658 OBJECTIO~S.
is very difFerently circUIDitanced, and can no more ac-
count for the intellect continuing unimpaired, after the de-
struction of ang part, than he could for sight remaining
unaffected by disease, or destruction of the eye. What,
then, are we to tbink of the consistency of those philoeo-
phera, who, like Dr FERRIAR, in one page gravely doubt
whether the brain bas not been altogether deatroyed, with-
out losa of mental faculties ; and yet in another declare
that they consider, 88 he does, " these medical facts 88 al-
most demonstrating that the brain is the i111trummt,-not
the cause, of the reasoning powers ?" We, too, consider
the brain 88 the instrument of the·mental faculties ; but we
are not so inconsistent 88 to suppose, that it is a matter of
indifFerence to the manifestations of these faculties, whether
that instnunent be a whole or a broken one, or have even
altogether·ceased to exiat. We farther consider that Phre-
nology, ao far from having any thing to fear from these
" medical facts," derives additional confirmation from
them, since it is upon phrenological principles alone that
they are either explicable or consistent with any of tbe
lmown laws of uatOl'e. It is in such circUID8taDces that
the new acienee rises so far superior to any theory of the
mind hitherto invented ; and it can only be from its being
founded on the solid basis of truth, that it is ever so beau-
tifully and simply colllistent with the observed phenomena
of mind, alike in a atate of health and of disease.
I proeeed, before concluding the aubjeet, (being in aome
meaaure connected with the present essay), to mab a f~w
obaervations on 8 mode of investigating tbe fonc&ions of
the individual parts of the braiD, proposed' by that ex~I­
Jent surgeon Sir E. HoME •, and differing widely from that
in uae among the phrenologists. " The varioua attempts,"
•y• he, "which have been m8de to procure aecu.late iD·
formation respecting the function& that belong to incJivi..
dual portions of the' human brain, having ~ attended
with very little succeS&, it has occurred to me, that were
• PbUoaophical Tran~&etiona for 1814, p. 469.
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 659
anatomical surgeons to collect, in one view, all the appear-
ances they had met with, in cases of injury of that organ,
and of the effects that such injuries produced upon ita
functions, a body of evidence might be formed, that would
materially advance this highly important investigation."
As this mode of inquiry is still looked upon by many as
the most promising and philosophical that bas yet been·
tried, and as such is recommended by the Edinburgh Re-
view, it may be worth while to see what it is really able to
effect. To me it appears to be totally inadequate to the
purposes of original difK'.overy, although it may be usefully
employed to procure additional information, after the func-
tions ofthe different parts of the brain have been ascertain.
ed by other means.
The defects of this mode of investigation, are, lat, That
so long as we remain unacquainted with the situation and
limits of the different cerebral organa, it is impossible for
us to pronounce, whether, in any given case, one only, or
several, are implicated; and also, whether the destruction
of any organ is partial or complete.
2dly, That so long as we remain ignorant of the number
and functions of the mental faculties, and of the eft'ecta of
their various combinations with each other, we are necea.
&arily unable to decide in any case, what particular faculty
or quality of mind has been impaired or destroyed. Some
faculties, for instance, require the presence of such exter-
nal objects for their operation, as are not to be found in the
chambers of the sick, or in the wards of an hospital ; and,
therefore, it is poll8ible that the power may be altogether
destroyed, and yet ita absence may not even be suspected
by the surgeon or his attendants, who never were aware of
its existence as an independent faculty, even when the brain
was entire.
Sdly, That the complex and delicate structure of the
brain makes it exceedingly difficult, if not. impossible, to
injure or destroy one part without the neighbouring parts,
and the functions which they perform, participating in a
T t 2
•
Digitized by Google
660 OBJECTIONS.
greater or less degree. Thus, ProfeBSOr RoLANDO of Tu-
rin, who has devoted much of his time to the study of the
anatomy and functions of the brain, in speaking of mutila-
tions, which he had performed with a view to discover the
functions of a particular part of that organ in the lower
animals, complains of this 88 u almost unsurmountable
obstacle. "I have made," says he, "innumerable experi-
ments to discover the results of injuries done to the bige-
minal tubercles, and the parts in the neighbourhood of the
optic thalami, but I have rarely obtained con8istent ruvlts ;
which is not surprising, if we consider ·the peculiar inter-
lacing of the numerous medullary fibres which meet in
these parts; for, 88 it is extremely difficult to know what
bundles of fibres have been afFected in these operations, we
cannot draw clear and precise conclusions where there is
a difference in the result." If this holds true with regard
to mutilations performed with every precaution to avoid
wounding other parts, and under every advantage which an
acquaintance with anatomy can afFord, it certainly applies
with tenfold force to injuries, the result& of accidental and
unguided violence.
Laatlg, That, from the mere aspect of the wound, we are
never certain of the precise extent of the injury done to the
brain; and, consequently, can never positively refer the
phenomena to an affection of any particular part, and of it
alone. One injury, for instance, apparently of the very
slightest nature, often produces the most serious constitu-
tional symptoms, and disturbance of ,the whole mind ;
while another, to appearance much more severe, is produc-
tive of little inconvenience. In the former, the efFects of
the violence seem to extend either immediately or from
sympathy over the whole brain, or at least, much farther
than its external or visible seat, while, in the latter, the af-
fection is more strictly of a local nature ; and thus the re-
sults obtained in one case·are often entirely negatived by
those obtained in another.
.. In accordance with, and iii corroboratiop of the opinion
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 661
which I have here ventured to expreea, as to the total ina-
dequacy of this mode of investigation for the purposes of
original discovery, I would ask no better authority than Sir
E. HoME himself. For although, for the Bake of greater
accuracy, be confines himself to cases which have come un-
der his own immediate notice, and, although these must
have been observed with a view specially to this inquiry ;
yet, his own essay on this subject affords the most con-
vincing proof and apposite illustration of all the defects of
the mode which it is written to recommend. The first
things, for example, that strike the reader on referring to
it, are, 1st, That out of the ten clasAes, into which the cases
are purposely divided by Sir EvERARD, no less than seven,
(1. Undue pressure of water on the brain, 2. Concussion of
the brain, S. Preternaturally dilated or diseased bloodves-
sels of the brain, 4. Extravasated blood, 5. Formation of
pus, 6. Depression or thickening of parts of the skull,
7. Pressure from tumours), resolve themselves into affec-
tions, in which the totality of the brain is, in some way or
another, concerned; 2d, That, in one, (viz. 8. Injury of
the medulla spinalis), tAe entire brain i4 unajfected; and,
Sdly, That in two only, (9. Injury to the substance of the
brain ; and, 10. Alteration of stmcture), is the afFection
pnerally confined to i1UlivtchuzJ portions of that organ ; al-
though in very many instances, even in these two classes,
it extends over the whole brain. From his own statement,
then, the reader would naturaJly anticipate a priori, that
the efFects resulting from most of these injuries would be
mch as are known to indicate derangement, not of one, or
of several, but of all the parts of the brain ; and, conse-
quently, that they could not, by any possibility, lead to the
discovery wished for, of the functions of its individual por-
tions. Accordingly, Sir EvERARD himself informs us, that
the efFects produced are, delirium, convulsions, coma, apo·
ple:ry, siclmus, watching, and the like, and not lesion of any
particular faculty, or of any individual function. In one
or two instances, indeed, the state of the memory and of
Digitized by Google
662 OBJ'ECTIONS.
the external senses is mentioned, but without being con-
nected in any way with specific injury. The reviewer
himself, with every wish to be pleased with Sir EVERARD's
method, is constrained to say, that the resuJts obtained in
this manner are so vague and contradictory, that they
" serve on1y to confirm what had already perhaps been suf-
ficiently made out by the authors we have named ; to-wit,
that there is no sort of nniformity either in the kind or de-
gree of the symptoms which accompany diseases of the
brain." And in this sentiment I cordially concur with
him, in so far as regards violent injuries.
To render the results obtained, either from observing the
effects of cerebral injuries in man, or from the performance
of mutilations upon the brains of animals, at all valuable in
illustrating the cerebral physiology, a previous knowledge
of the seats of the organs, and of the nature of the faculties
which they subserve, has been already shewn to be an in-
dispen.aable requisite ; and if we suppose these to have been
accurately ascertained by other means, then the facility of
making interesting and precise physiological and pathologi-
cal observations is so greatly increased, that much valuable
information may be obtai!led; especially in some individual
cases, in the two last mentioned classes of Sir E. HoME.
But without this preliminary knowledge to guide us in our
observations, it is obvious that nothing precise or practi-
cable can be got at.
If an injury of the cerebellum, for example, or of part of
the posterior lobes of the brain, occur& to a philosopher,
who is firmly satisfied in his own mind " that the whole
brain is engaged in every act of thought," and that no part
of it is appropriated to the manifestations of any of the
propensities or sentiments, what inference can be draw as
to the function, upon finding no inte11ectual faculty with
which he is acquainted impaired or wanting? He cannot
consistently investigate the state of the propensities, and re-
fer any irregularities among them to the injury sustained,
becavse these are not intellectual faculties, and, according
Digitized by Google
INJURIES OF THE BRAIN. 668
to him, have no connexion with the brain. He remains of
necessity 88 much in the dark 88 ever. But let such a case
occur to the phrenologist, or to him who has ascertained,
by previous observation, the uses of the part, it is evident,
that, although he could not, any more than the philosopher,
jnfer the. function from a consideration of the .symptoms
alone; yet, having discovered it by other means, he come8
to the inquiry fully competent to judge whether his former
observations are confirmed or ref~ted by the phenomena
now before him. It ia only when in poaaeaaion of this pre-
vious qualification that we can derive any advantage from
such cases in increasing our knowledge of mind.
That the philosopher, with such views, could never have
been led to the discovery of the eonnexion between certain
parts of the brain and the propensities and sentiments, by
the mere observation of their injuries, is proved by wounds
of .these parts having been actually attended with symp-
toms corresponding to their phrenological functions, and
neither he ·nor the anatomical surgeon having drawn any
such inference. Wounds and diseases of the cerebellum,
for instance, have forced then1selves upon their notice,
where the sexual propensity was extinguished by loaa of
substance, or preternaturally excited by the subsequent in·
ftammatory action ; and yet no one drew the inference that
the cerebellum was the organ of Amativeneaa •. The tem-
per and moral sentiments have also been entirely changed,
in consequence of certain injuries of the brain, while the
intellect remained unimpaired ; and no one drew the con-
clusion that the parts affected were the organa of the~~e sen-
timents. Nor would they have been warranted in doing
so, because instances of injury confined so entirely to one
part as to affect ita function, without having any inftnence
upon those of the neighbouring parts, are so rare, in com-
parison to those of an opposite kind, that no just inferences
can be drawn from them alone; although, combined with
other evidence, they are highly important.
• WEPFEaus' Historicc Apoplecticorum, edit. 1124-, p. 487. MAGEX·
Digitized by Google
( 664.
CONCLUSION
(To 1M 8-.d Edilton.)
IN the lutroduction to this work, it is observed, that~
" in surveying the philosophy of mao, as at present exhi-
bited to us in the writings of philosophers, we pereeive,
first, That no account is given of the influence of the ma-
terial organs on the manifestations of the mental powers;
that the progress of the mind from ·youth to age, and the
phenomena of aleep, dreaming, idiocy, and insanity, are
left unexplained or unaccounted for; BtCOndlg, Thatthe exist-
ence and functions of some of the most important primitiTe
faculties arestill in dispute; and, tAirdlg, That no Jight what-
ever has been thrown on the nature and eft'ecta of combina-.
tions of the primitive powers in different degrees of relative
proportion. It is with great truth, therefore, that Monsieur
DE BoNALD, quoted by Mr STEWART, observes, that, "di-
versity of doctrine baa increased from age to age, with the
number of masters, and with the progress of knowledge ;
and Europe, which at present possesses libraries filled with
philosophical works, and which reckons up almost as many
philosophers aa writers; poor in the midst of so much
riches, and uncertain, with the aid of aU its guides, which
road it should follow ; Europe, the centre and focus of all
the lights of the world, has yet its phi/o8Qphg only in ex-
pectation."
May I hope that Phrenology will now appear to the at-
tentive reader calculated to supply the deficiency here
pointed out, and to furnish Europe, at last, with the Phi-
losophy so long in expectation?
Hitherto the writings of Dr GALL have been little known
to'the British public, except through the medium of hostile
DIE's Journal de Physiologle fbr April and August 1822; also Medical
Repoait'lry, voL xviU. p. 268-358.-LAB•ET's 1\lemoires de Chirurgie MI.
litaire et Campagnea, vol. ii. p. JSO ; voL iii. p. 262.
oigi!lzed by Coogle
CONCLUSION. 665
reviews; and the most unmeasured ridicule and abuse have
been poured out against them, as if they were a diagraee
to the century in which they were produced; his fellow-
labourer Dr SPUBZHEIM has sustained an equal share of
this unmerited storm. In preparing the present ~olilme
for the press, I have drawn largely from the works of both
of these founders of the science; in many instances I have
compared their statements of fact with nature ; sifted their
arguments, and weighed delilierately their conclusions;
and I now feel it an imperious duty to state, that the pre-
sent generation bas, in my humble judgment, re-acted, in
their eases, the scenes which have attached 80 deep a stig-
ma to the ages of GALILEO and HAavEY. The discoveries
of the revolution of the g1obe, and the eireuJation of the
blood, were splendid displays of genius, interesting ·and
beneficial to mankind; but their resuJts, compared with the
consequences which must inevitably follow from Dr GALL's
discovery of the functions of the brain, (embracing, as it
does, the true theory of the animaJ, moral and intellectual
constitution ofman), sink into relative insignificance. Look-
ing forward to the Ume when th~ real nature and ultimate
eft'eets of Dr GALL's discovery shall be fully recogniSed, I
cannot entertain a doubt that posterity will manifest as eager
a desire to render honour to his memory, as his contempo-
raries have shewn to trC?&t himself with indignity and eon-
tempt. Ifthe present work shall tend in any degree to rouse
the public attention to his merits, and to excite the philoso-
phers of England to do him justice ere he die, it will ac-
complish one great end of its publication. Let them at last
lay aside the prejudice which Las 80 long kept them back
from looking with their own eyes into his works, and from
appealing, with the lights which he affords, to Nature, aa
the standard by which to try the merits of his pretensions.
If they will examine, they will find that a fortunate thought
opened up to him a vast region of discovery, and that be baa
displayed gigantic powers in pr~uting it to its resu1ts; that
Dr GALL, instead of being an ignorant pretender to know-
Digitized by Google
66() CONCLUSION.
ledge, is a man of profound and solid erudition ; that, so far
from beinga ree~less theorist, he is the most stubborn adbe-
nnt to fact that bas perhaps ever appeared in the annals of
inductive philosophy ; and that, instead.of being character-
ized by a weak understanding and bewildered imagination,
he manifests an intellect at once profound, regulated, and
comprehensive.
Dr SPURZHEIM,s works and lectures have rendered him
better known in this country, and the force of trut.b bas
for some years been operating in his favour. No reviewer
would now reckon it creditable, to use the terma so unce-
remoniously applied to him in 1815; but a great debt of
respect and gratitude remains to be paid by Britain aud
the world to Dr SPURZHEIH. Ho.is second in fortune ra-
ther than in merit to Dr GALL. The great discovery of
Phrenology unquestionably belougs to the latter; but to Dr
SPURZHEIM is due the praise of early appreciating its im-
portance, of fearlessly dedicating his life to the .enlarge-
ment of its boundaries and the diMemina&n of its prin-
-ciples, at a time when neither honour nor emolument, but
obloquy and censure, were bestowed on its adherents. In
admiring the science as it now appears, it becomes us to re-
collect, that we owe much of its excellence and interest to
this gifted individual. He has enriched it with the most
valuable anatomical discoveries; ascertained the functions
of several highly important organs; shed over it the lights
of a refined and analytic philosophy, and pointed out the
most important fields of its application. With profound
gratitude and respect, therefore, I acknowledge myself in-
debted to him for the greatest gift which it was possible for
one individual to confer on another,--a knowledge of the
true Philosophy of Man.
To my excellent friends, also, the Reverend DAVIDWELSH,
Mr ScoTT, Mr SIMPSoN, Mr LYoN, and Dr ANDREW CoMBE,
fellow-labourers with me in Phrenology, I owe many obli-
gations. In availing myself freely of the lights they have
struck out, it hns been my constant \Vish to acknowledge
Digitized by Google
CONCLUSION. 667
the source of my information ; bnt if, amidst the habi-
tual interchange of ideas with which they have honoured
me, their discoveries have, in any instance, been amal-
gamated with my own thoughts, and their authors for-
gotten, I solicit their forgiveness, assuring them that in-
advertency alone has been the cause of any such mistakes.
EDINBUllOB, Oci«Jer J825.
POSTSCRIPT TO THE THffiD EDITION.
.
SINCE the foregoing observations were written, Dr GALL
bas been numbered with the dead. Like many other be-
nefactors of mankind, he has died without his merits being
acknowledged, or his discoveries rewarded, by the " great in
literatureand science," of his own age; but he possessed the
consciousness of having presented to the world, one of the
most valuable discoveries that ever graced the annals of
philosophy, and enjoyed the delight of having opened up
to mankind a career of improvement, physi«'.al, moral, and
intellectual, to which the boldest imagination can at pre-
sent prescribe no limits. This appears to be the reward
which Providence assigns to men eminently gifted with
intellectual superiority; and we may presume that it is
wisely suited to their nature. A great duty remains for
posterity to perform to the memory of Dr GALL, and I
cannot entertuin a doubt, that in due time it will be amply
discharged.
It gives me the greatest satisfaction to renew, after five
years' additional experience, the acknowledgments of my
highest gratitude and esteem for Dr SPURZHE1M; and to
express my earnest wish that Britain may, by suitable en-
couragement, retain him permanently to herself.
EDUIBUIIGD, October 1830.
Digitized by Google
( 668
Namu and Orders oftM Organs adopted bg Dr G4LL.
Et<GLIA•
No. Faa•ca. a......... Nameogl,...bJ
Dr SPuazaai•.
f - -------
1. Instinct de Ia genera- Zengnngstrieb. Amativeness.
tion.
2. Amour de Ia p~ni- Jungenliebe, Philoprogeni-
ture. Kinderliebe. tiveneu.
3. Attachement, amitie. Adhesiveness.
4. Instinct de Ia defense Moth, Raufsinn. Combativeness.
de soi-mAme et de
.. proprieth.
5. Instinct carnauier. Wurgsinn. Deetructivenesa.
6. Rnse, finesse, ~&voir- List, Schlauheit, SecretiveJUlll&
faire. Klughcit.
7. Sentiment de Ia pro- Eigenthumsinn. Acquisitiveness.
prieth.
8. Orgueil, fierth, hau- Stolz, Hochmuth, Self-Esteem.
teur. Herschsucht.
9. Vauite, ambition, a- Eitelkeit, Rhum- Love of Appro-
mour de Ia gloire. 11ucht, Ehrgeitz. bation.
10. Circonspection, pre- BehutAamkeit, Cautiousness.
voyance. Vorsicht, Vor-
sichtigkeit.
II. Memoire des choses, Sachgedrechtniss, Eventuality.
mllmoire de11 faits, Erziehungs-
sensdes choses, lldu- Fcehigkeit.
cabilite, perfectibi-
lite.
o;91t1zed by Google
CLASSIFICATION OF ORGANS. 669
No. FaaRcR.
ElfQLISR
NamNIJiven by
DrSPua&aauo.
I---------- - - - -
12. Sens des localites, Ortsinn, Raum- .Locality.
sens des rapports sino.
de l'espace.
13. }Jl!moire des per- Penonen...inn.
sonnes, 8eD8 des per-
sonnea.
14. Sens des mote, scns Wort-Gedmcht-
des noms, memoire nia.
des mote, ml!moire
verbale.
15. Sens de langage de Sprach-For-
parole, talent de Ia schunga-sinn.
philologie, &c.
16. Sens des rapports des Farben...inn.
coulenrs, talent de
Ia peinture.
17. Sens des rapports des Ton-sinn.
tons, talent de Ia
mnsique.
18. Sens des rapports des
nombres.
Form.
Language.
Held by Dr
SPURZHEIM to
be included in
the last organ.
Colouring.
Tune.
Number.
19. Sens de mechanique, Kunst-sinn, Ban- Construc&iven8118.
sens de construe- sinn.
tion, talent de !'ar-
chitecture.
20. Sagacite comparative. Vergleicheuder- Comparison.
scharfainn.
21. Esprit metaphysique, Metaphysischer- Ca111ality.
profondeur d'esprit. Tiefiinn.
22. Esprit caumque, es- Wits.
prit de saillie.
Wit.
23. !Talent poetique. Dichter-Geist. Ideality.
Digitized by GoogIe
670 CLASSIFICATION OF ORGANS.
ExeLaea
No. Pulxca. Gau.Ax. N-g!YeDby
Dr Srvaaaxa•·
r-- -
24. Bonte. bienveillaace, Gotm«ethigkeit, Benevolence.
donoeur, compaa- Mitleiden, &c.
aion, &c.
25. Faculte d'imiter, mi- Imitation.
mique.
26. Sentiment religieux. Veneration.
27. Fermete, constance, Firmness.
penreverance•
•
Names and Orders Q/' the Organs, aceo1·ding to the Classifi-
cation in the Preview Editicns Q/' this Work.
ORDER I.-FEELINGS.
Genus I.-PROPENSITIES.
J• Amativeness. 6. Destructiveness.
2. Philoprogenitiveneas. Appetite.for Food.
3. Concentrativene88. 7. Constructiveness.
4. Adhesiveness. 8. Acquisitiveness.
5. Combativeness. 9. Secretiveness.
Genus H.-SENTIMENTS.
I.-Sentiments common to Man with Lower Ani11Ulu.
10. Self-Esteem. 12. Cautiousness.
11. Love of Approbation. 13. Benevolence.
2.-Sentiments proper to Man.
14. Veneration. Wonder.
15. Hope. 17. Conscientiousness.
16. Ideality. 18. Firmness.
Digitized by Google
·- - -
--
CLASSIFICATION OF ORGANS. 671
ORDER H.-INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES.
Genus I.-ExTERNAL SENsES.
Feeling or Touch.
Taate.
Smell.
Hearing.
Sight.
Genus 11.-INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES WHICH PERCEIVE
ExiSTENCE.
19. Individuality.
Upper Individuality.
Lower Individuality.
20. Form.
21. Size.
22. Weight.
23. Colouring.
Genus 111.-INTBLL:BCTUAL F ACULTIE8 WHICH P:BBC:BIVE THB
RELATION OP :BXTEBNAL OBJECTS.
24. Locality. 27. Number.
25. Order. 28. Tune.
26. Time. 29. Language.
Genua IV-REFL:BCTJNG FACULTJEs.
30. Comparison. 32. Wit.
31. Cauaality. 33. Imitation.
Digitized by Google
672
APPENDIX, No. I.
-
FACULTIES OF DR GALL.
The Note referred to on page 92 is printed on page 386, to
which the reader is respectfully referred.
o;9~zedby~oog~e _
( 6;8 )
INDEX.
uu
Digitized byGoogle
( 675
INDEX.
-
ABDOXIlfAL ~penmeDt, 101.
Abeolute size ofa c:ezebral oqpo no
criterion of the pm!omlnance of
the faculty attached to it, 9'7·
Abuaes ofthe facultlee, what, 489.
Acqulsi.Llvene~~, organ of, it. situa-
tion,.JO& History of ite diaco-
Tery, 108. Large 1a thievee, ib.
11.8 eb:e in different nations, 211.
Cues of individuals in whom it
was 1arze, 112-14. Ite dlaeue,
216.
- a primitive propenaity, not
admitted by the metaphyaiciana,
20S. Admitted by Lord Kamee,
20'- Gives rile to avarice, t06,
212. Not in itselfhue or sordid,
108. 11.8 ue, 109. Ita exiltence
disputed by Mr Owen, tlO. Ite
effects modified by Self..Eateem,
211. Gives rile to a tendency to
1tea1, 11t. Mllllifelted by the
lower animals, tJ&
Acrel, cue of diaeaaed Acqulaltlve.
neu from, 216.
Acting, theory of, 197, 3M~, 367.
Aetivity of the ficultlee, modee of,
489. Influenced by temperament,
601.
- - - of mind dlatinguiahable
from power, 103,663. Definition
of, 106; How indicated, 104.
Combinal.ion of ticulttee avour.
able to, 106.
Acton have large organs of Secre-
UveneM and Imitation, 197, 266,
365. '
- tragic, Ideality necet~~~ry to,
sso.
Acuteneee, instantaneoua. conferred
by Comparison, 468.
Adaptation of parte of the uoiverse,
provee the exiateDee of God, 486.
Addison, an accurate obeerver of bu.
man nature, 41. Nature of his
genius, 6fJ8.
Adheeivene~~, one of the propenai.
tiel, effects of on the character,
1.54. Diatinguiabable from Be.
nevolence, 166. Gives rile to so.
clety, lb. Very strong in the dog
and other animala, 166. Its ef·
fecte in combination, 676.
- OJ'R&D of, its Bl.tuatlon, 161.
Hlatory of its discovery, ib. Its
functions, 162. Generally larg\!r
in women than in men, ib. Its
d!Jease,156.
Affective faculties, Me> II .g.
Africans, character of the, 601, 616.
Their auperstition, 617. Their
sentiment of truth weak, 299.
uu~
Digitized by Google
676 INDEX.
Aldereon, Dr, of Hull, his cases of
spectral illusion, 603.
Alexander VI., Pope, engraving of
his held, 671.
Algebra, talent for, 411.
Alimentivenea, or organ of the ap-
petite for food, 184. Dr Hoppe's
views o~ 18.5. Supposed situation
0~ 186.
Allegorical style, 468.
AJ.ms..giving, not the only manifes-
tation of Benevolence, 264.
Amativeness, situation of the organ
o~ 116. History ofita dilcovery,
118. Gives rile to the sexual
feeling, ib. Ita influence on so-
ciety, 120. Ita abuaea, 121. Ita
effects in combination, &76.
Ambroee, St, his Veneration repre-
sented large, ll18.
American brain amaller than the
European, 31.
- Indians, their Love of Ap..
probation and Firmness large,
261, !81. Their sense of truth
weak, 900. Their unimproveable
nature, 601.-See Norllt Aflllrriccua
Indiant.
Analogies, perception o~ 466.
Anatomists,·objection that they dis-
believe Phrenology answered,
829.
Anatomy of the brain, 11. Ita re.
cent state, 48.
~ of the skull, 76.
Ancient temples, respect for, pro.
dueed by Veneration, 181.
Angelo, Michael, hislarge Construc-
tiveness, &c. 215.
Anger, an abuse of Destructiveness,
173.
Animal magnetism, 621.
Animals, the lower, brains o~ 99.
Their· Philoprogenltiveness, 132.
Coneentrativeneas, 149. Adhe.
siveness, 1M. Combativeness,
164. Destructiveness, ISS. Se-
cretiveness, !01. Acquisitiveness,
216. Constructiveness, 125, 228,
129. Self-Esteem, 240. Love or
Approbation, !51. Cautiousness,
268. Benevolence, 210. Imita.
tion, 368. Form, 886. Locality,
418. Number, 4!8. Language.
461. Have no Causality, .476.
Their BU5ceptibillty ef being
tamed and taught, 4SS.
Anterior lobe of the brain, ita size
a measure ofintellect, 8'J.
Antiphrenologiata unreasonable and
ignorant, 64, 66, 641, n #t/•
Antiquarianism, tendeucy to, by
what caused, 281.
Apathy, whence arising, 641.
Apparitions, belief in, ariJes from
the sentiment of WoDder, :109,
Sll.-See V"uiont.
Appetite for Food, suppoeed organ
of, IM. Distinguishable from
hunger and thirst, 186.
Approbation, Love o£-See ~ttl
A~
Arachnoid tunic of the brain, 7&
Archery and quoits, talent ofexcel-
lence at, 593.
Architectural talent, 681.
Architecture, ornamental, love of,
whence arising, 329.
Aristotle, his account of the facul.
ties, 21. His amgnment of them
to difFerent part& of the brain, 65.
Placed the intellect iu the heart,
50. His theory of the senees,
367.
Arithmetic, the chief sphere of l.he
filculty of Number, 411.
Amott, Dr Neill, on the connexion
between mind and body, 10.
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 677
.Arragonese and Castilians have
mWl Acquisitiveness, 111.
Arrangement, love of, 4.24.
Artists have large organs of Secre-
tiveness, 19'1 ; Constructivene~~~,
224. ; and Imitation, 86& lndi.
viduality useful to, '884. E1fect
of temperament on, 659.
A~hantees, their cbar3cter, 616.
Asiatics have generally large Vene.
ration, 280. Inferior to Euro-
peans, 601.
.Asa, brain ofthe, 100•
.Association, analysis of, 631.
.Astronomers, eminent, their LocaU.
ty large, 416.
Atheists. their Causallty generally
deficient, 485. Answers to some
of their arguments, 48&
.Attention, analysis of, 631.
.Augustus Ctesar, Self-Esteem large
in the busts of, IS&
.Aurelius, Marcus. his Benevolence
and Venerstion represented large,
266, 17&
Authors, manileat their predominant
fila&ltiea in their worts, 411. Ef.
tecta of their large or email Cau.
aality ou their worts, 481. Ef.
feet oftemperament on, 669. Ef.
fect of large heads of, .568.
Avarice, 106, 211.
.Awe, religious, produced by Vene-
ration, 181.
Bacon, Lord, on cunning, tot. His
style imbued with Ideality, 38'1.
On the faculties of perceiving re.
aemblancea and dift"erences, 344.
Hie Cauaality large, 4.81. Hie
want of moral eentiment, 6IS.
Hie large head, 663.
Barclay, Dr John, an objection of
hie to Phrenolog.v, 624.
Bashfulness, cause of, 67&
Baai1ar region of the brain, tunc-
tiona of, unknown, 80.
Bayle, Peter, Combativene11 of,
162.
Beauty, emotion of, arises from 1.
deality, 381. Dr Thomas Brown
on, 381. Mr Dugald Stewart on,
383. Mr Jeffrey on, 2361 888.
Beavers, Acqulsitiveneaa and Con-
structiveness of, 216, 1261 128.
Have no Causality, 4761 '"*·
Bees, Acqulsitiveneaa and Construe•
tiveneaa of, 216, 226•
Bell, Mr Charles, on plurality of ce-
rebral organs, 21. A view of his
discoveries of the functions of the
spinal marrow and nerves, 66.
Admits thaL the shape of the skull
is determined by that ofthe brain,
79.
Bellingham, John, murderer, 96,
97, 1'16, 260,2661 291, 460. En·
graving of his skull, 177. Hi•
style, 449.
Benevolence, organ of, ita situation,
261. Engravings of two heads in
which it is large and amall, lb.
History of ita discovery by Dr
Gall, ib. Deficient in the heads
ofdeliberate murderers, 166. Sup.
poeed by Dr Gall to be the organ
of J118tice, 268. Ita effects on the
lower animals, 2701 273. How to
be observed in them, 272. Ita
diseaee, 27S.
- one of the superior eenti.
menta, ita aim, 26S. Difference
between it.." manifestations and
those of Love ofApprobation, ib.
Ita effects on the mi.Dd ofit11 pos.
tlel80r1 263, 266. Ho• it ought
to be exerted in society, 264•
.Eifects of its deficiency, 266. Its
Digitized by Google
678 INDEX.
abUJell, 266. Ita esiateoce not
lllconliatent with that ofDeltruc-
t.ivenea, 167, 346. Ita existence
generally admitted by metaphyll-
clans,t74.
:Berkeley, :Olahop, hia theory of Vi-
sion, 876. His ideu on the evi..
dence ofexistence of the material
world, 484.
:Bidder, George, mental calculator,
418, 4.21.
:OWou1 temperament, how diJUn.
· guilhable, 33. Ita eff'ectl, ib.
Birds, carnivorous, have large or-
gans ofDestructivenets, 184.
-migration of, 419.
-llnglng, alcull.s of, 4(6.
:Blair, Dr Hugh, an IICCUJ'Ilte ob-
terVer of human nature, 41.
- Lord President, his Construc-
tiveness large, 227.
:Blind men, case of one couched by
Cheeelden, 377· Cues of their
distlnguiehing colours by touch,
41S.
:Olumenbacll teaches the connexion
of the mllld with the brain, 9.
On anell, !7.
· :Bonaparte'•head JarRe, Sl, 683, 664.
His deteriptlon of the characters
ofNey and Murat, 161. Intona.
tion ofhil voice when angry, 163.
His SecreUvenellll, 19S. His
Self.Eateem, 138. Was unable to
understand integrity ofcharacter,
296. His generals, .564.
:Booth, murderer, 177.
Bolhuans, some account of the, 616.
:OO..Uet'• face smalland brain large,
46.
Boundarlet of the cerebral organs,
89, 9S, 600.
'Brain, demonstrated to be the or-
gan of the mind, T-IS. Partial
injuria of, JO, 848, el MJ• In-
fluence of llze in, t9. Small in
chlldren, the lower clules, and
idiot-, SO. Functions ~ not dit-
coverable by diuection, 43. Re-
cent state of ita anatomy, ~.
Gall's reeearchet on ita structure,
62. Its anatomy, '71. Engrav.
ings ~ 71, '12. Its cineritious
and medullary subltanees, and he-
mispheres, 72. Its insensibility,
'14. Its integuments, 77. Its fi.
gure during life discoverable by
observation, '19. Brains of the
lower animals, 99. .Texture of
the brain finer in some indivi-
duals than in others, 101. Dif..
ference of ita shape in males and
· females, lSI. Its di1ferent parte
distinguishable, 6t6. Answer to
the objection, that its parts may
be !JUured wlthuut affecting the
mllld, 616, 638. Oblervatlons 011
Sir E. Home's proposed method
of investlgat.ing the function• of
ita difFerent parts, 668.
:Brazil Indians, account of their cha-
racter and brain11, 61S. Engrav.
ing of the skull of one, lb.
Brewster's, Dr, organ of Weight
large, 394.
:Bright's account of the devotion of
the inhabitants ofVienna, 276.
Brown, Dr Thomas, on the connex.
ion of mind with body, IS. On
the simpllclty orcompound nature
of the mind, llO. On instant an-
ger, U9. His style characterized
by Secretiveness, 200. His view1
ordesire of wealth, 204 ; ofpower,
139; and ofglory, 260. On 1\{e.
lancholy, 169. On :Benevolence,
27f. Eulogy ofhls character, ln.
tellect, and phllosophy, 303, f!Oie.
INDEX. 679
His views of&.uty, SSR; V11ion,
878; Wonder, 319 ; aDd Simple
Suggestion, 4.34. HJa definition
of a cause, 47t. Displays great
Cauaality, 481. His views of Be.
laliYe Suggestion, 483; Pereep.
tlon, .500 ; CoDIIcioumeee, &i&
Bruce, KiDg Robert, 160, 161, 160,
178, t88, Itt. His large head,
11«13.
Brunei, engiileer, his large organs
· of Conltructiveneu, Weight, aDd
Callllllity, 114, 38&, 481.
BUll-dog's Cembdiveneealarge,and
that of the pyhOW1d IIIDal.l, 16,,
Burk ud Hare, profiles ot; com-
pered with that of the~. Mr
H., 87. Development of, 176.
Buri:e•e eloquellce, 4160, not.. Hie
Comper:ieoD and C.uality latge,
688, 481.
Burton's diviaioil of the brain into>
organs, II.
BUiineel, ueefulneee of Individuali-
ty aDd Eventuallty in, 480.
Bust, phrenolosftaf, ita usee, 92.
Byron•• poeme atrongly manifest
Deettuetiveneu, 171. Bad tute
dleplayed in IOD18 ~ of hill
])q,. ,_, 667.
Cabinet-makers, skilful, ha't'e large
ConstructiTene., tit.
Caft'res, some account of the, eur.
Calculation, talent for, friO.
Callgula, dWicter of, 17& Hie Be-
nevolence IIIDall, toe.
Callipers, use o~ 97.
CampbelJ, the poet, hie good taRe,
whence arising, 660.
Camper's Cadal angle described, ·"-
Its taiJacy, 46.
Caracalla•s Benevolence small, 266.
Carmichael, .Mr A., hie 'riewa of
sleep, IUl.
Carmichael, Mr Richard, his report
of case of ADD Rolli, 199.
Carnivorous and graminivorous ani-
male,clliferencebeeween the brains
~ 166. Destructiveaeea of the
former, 183, 184.
CutilianaandArragoneaebaveamall
Aequlaitiveneu, 111.
Catllani, Madame, her organ of
Tune, 48&
Catherine of Medicla, her Benevo-
lence email, 166.
Catholicletrongly manl.f'eet Veoera-
tlon, 176.
Caucasian tariety of Blumenbach,
619.
CaUIIlity, one of the reflecting &.
eul\iee,474> Analylie ot; .&7riiii«J.
Not pOIIelled by the lower ani·
male, 476. Dr Spurzhelm on, 478.
Effects of Its atnmgneee or weal!.
neee in aetive Ufe, 479, 480. Ita
eifects in the worb of authon,
· 481. Its effects in prodw:iJIB be-
lief in Phrenology, 48t.
- - - organ o~ history of ita
diacovery, 474. In whom large,
481. NoL large in the French,481.
Represented large in the headt ot'
Jupiter and Socrates; ib. Ita ef-
fects in combination, 577.
Cause, Dr T. Brown•• cle1lnition of,
476.
C8uae and eifect, perception or, 47.,
477.
Cautioumeu, a poaitive sentiment,
and not the mere want ofcourage,
16& Ita aim, ib. Ita effects on the
character, tilt. Its effects in eom.
binatlotl with other &cult.lee, 246,
676. Effects of ita extreme acU.
dty,I.S6.
Digitized by Google
680 INDEX.
Cautioumea, organ of, iti altuatiou, Charles I. of England, bia Venera-
16!. Cuts of two skulls in which tion repreeented large, 1'78.
it Is large and small, lb. History Chaucer, engraving of his head,
of its discovery by Dr Gall, ib. lhewblg large Ideality, SSO.
Large in children, 253. Effects of Chaymu, their d.lfiiculty in com-
its deficiency, ib. Combined with · prehendlng numeratiou, ~IS.
large Destructiveneu and deft· Cheeelden, cue of a bUnd man
cient Hope, predisposes to euiclde, couched by, S77.
267, 306. Its diaeue, 267. Larger Cheu-playen, emlneot, their larJe
among the lower animals in fe- Locality, ~17.
males than in males, t6& Larger Cheaterfield on laughter and wit,
in the Germans, English and Scots Ml. His recommendation ofpo-
than in the French, 269. Di1fer- lite deceit, MS.
ence of its size in dift'erent heads, Children have tmall cerebella, 11,
260. and tmall bnW, 30. Their otp~~~
Cemorlousneu and envy, abuaes of ofCautloumettlarge,26.S. Effec:U
Self-Esteem, IS!. of Veneration on, 180. Stubborn,
Cerebellunl, size of, at dift'erent pe- have large Flrmneaa, 186. Their
rlods of life, u, 118. Supposed EventualitY sud Individuality
by Drellncourt te be the -t of large,D9,~ Theiuhrill voices,
the soul, 60. Its anatomy, 76. It ~. Their education, 486. Their
the organ of.Amativeness, 118. pualons, 640. Ho"' miiSt euily
Cerebrum, the brain-See Brain. rendered obedient, S.Sl.
Ceylonese, engravings of ekullt of, Chinese, their organ of Form, 887,
161, 202. 888.
Chalmen, Dr, bia Ideality large, 9'- Christ's cerebral deYelopment, how
Fond of unUIU81 words and ex- represented by Raphael, 278.
preealons, 317. His Weight large, Chronolggy, memory of, 636.
S9t. His Comparison~· ~1, Churchyards, respect for, produced
f.OS. Sometimes alne against taste, by Veneration, 181.
660. His large head and powerful Cicero's love offiune, 146.
mind, 667. Cineritioua eubatance of the brain,
Charlbs, 99. Their PhUuprogeni- 73, 7.S.
tlveness large, ib. Engraving of Circumspection, fiu:ulty of, 26t.-
the ekull of one, lb. 671, 607. See c~
Their Combativeness, 16S; De- Clarke, Dr, bia theory of virtue,l89.
structiveneas, 171; Acquisitive. - the traveller, his organa of
ness, 211; Benevolence, 161; Weight and Locality large, SM.
Comparison, 469; and Caufi!Lllty, Claasi1ication of the faculties and or-
481. Account oftheir brains and gans, 113, 668.
character, 130, 606. Clergymen,difference between thole
Charity, Christian, St Paul's de- having large and tmal1 OlpDI of
ecription of, 168. Veneration, 288.-See P,.,..,.,_
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 681
Clerks, choice of, by the aid of phrc.
nology, 49&. .
Clevemeas, what, 669.
Climate and soU, eft'ect. of, on the
character ofnations, 60S.
Clipping and drawing figures, talent
for, 224.
Cobbett's Cllmbativeoess, 162. His
Selt.Esteem large, 1186. Engrav-
illg of hill head shewing Ideality
IIDall, sso.
Colburn, Zhero, calculating boy,
~lT, ~H.
Colby, Slr Thomas, hill Acquisitive-
ness large, 206.
Colouring a perceptive faculty, 899.
Poaeseed by blind men, ~IS.
- - - organ of, eftects of its
largeness and deficiency, 400.
Cues of' its deficiency, .a1~
Its size, how to be distinguished,
.a'- Generally larger in women
than in men, ~IS.
Colours, perception of, not depen-
dent on the acuteness of vlaion,
899. Dr Gall on the laws of thelr
harmony, ~ Thelr harmony
denied by Mr Jeffrey, .a&..~l2.
Distinguished by some blind men
by touch, ~IS.
Columbus's Locality represented
large, ~16.
Combativeness, one of the propeDBi·
ties, objections to its existence
&DIW'ered, 168. )fore essential to
leaders in feudal than modem
times, 161. Inaplrea authon with
the love ofbattles, lb. I t1 abuses,
162. Ita eft'eets on the voice, 163.
Its eft'ectl in combination, .ST.,
578.
- - - - - situation of the or-
gan of, lri7. History of ita disco-
very, lb. Its functions, 160. En-
gravlngs of slrulla in 'IVhlch it is
large and amal1, 161. Elfectl ofita
deficiency, lb. Generally larger in
men than in women, 1M. Ita dia-
eue, lb. Its appearance in the
heads ofthe bull-dog, grey-hound,
hone, and game-cock, 164..
Combe, Dr Andrew, on plurality of
organs in the brain, 16. On size
and power, 23. On sympathy,I)M.
His a01wer to Dr Barclay's objec-
tions, 82'- On the effects of in-
juries of the brain on the mental
manifestations, 638.
Comblnatio1111 in size of the cerebral
organs, 40, S7l. In their activity,
68&. Practical application of the
doctrine of, 591.
Commands, moat eft'ectual •ay of
giving, .560.
Commissure& of the brain, n, 7&
Companion of Gall, hill large organ
ofLanguage, 48, '62.
Comparative Phrenology, 911, 182,
149, 164, 164, 186, 183, 18t, 101,
116, 22&, 219, 2.a, 2-Sl, 268, 270,
SSB, 888, 418, ~28, "1, 476.
Comparison, one of the reftecting
faculties, j66. History of the dis-
covery ofits organ, lb. Its func~
tion, ib. Mr Scott on, lb. et .ey.
Gives a tendency to analogical
reasoning, 467, and instantaneous
acuteness,"8. Important to poets,
469. Mr H. Watlon's views of,
~70. Dr Spurzheim on, 413. ,
Compliments, prompted by Love of
ApprobaUon, 1'7.
Composers, musical, talent of, ~.
Comprehensive energy of Dr Tho.
mas Brown, U6.
Compression of the brain, eft'ectl of,
11. of the in&nt head by savage
nations, 608.
1
oigi!lzed by Coogle
682 INDEX.
ConcealmeDt of deeiree and emo-
tiou, power of, produced by Seo
c:retiYenet~, U'l.
Cooeelltratlveoe~~, situation of the
orpn ~ 134. FUDCtlODI ot; 136.
VJ.en ofMr Welah and Dr Hoppe
OD the functloDI of, ISO. Bemarb
on, by an author lD the Phrenolo.
gleal Jo\ll'DIIl, 1S7. .Anewera to
Dr Sp\U'&heim'a otUectiou, U.6,
US. Diaue of the orpn, 14.7.
Not admitted by Dr Gall, 261.
Effeeta of ita deficiency with
large and amall Eventualit1, 629,
480.
Conc:epUon, a mode of activity of
the lDteu.ctual &cultlet, $00. .
Configuration, organ ~ S87.-Bee
Ftwfrlo
Conscientiousness, organ of, ita si-
tuation, 188. Not admitted by
Dr Gall, 297· Eatabliahed b_y
Spurzhei.m, 188, 198. lta dl8eaee,
sot.
-----one of the auperior
eentlments, ft&nc:tlon ~ 291, 191.
Ita dfect on the DlllllDer&, 19S.
Coneequencea of ita deftcienc1, ib.
Is the origin ofthe aenae of truth,
29._ Ita eft'ecta lD combination,
800~67~77.
CoDici.ouanela does not reveal or-
pna, 8, 41, 870, 6ll8. Localiaes
the mind in the head, 11, 4.1. Uni-
ty ot; 438. Analyala o~ 618. Does
not inform ua of tho nature of
mlnd,634.
dnuble or divided,
cues o~ 108, 618.
Constancy conferred by Firumea,
186.
CouatantlDe'a Venemtion repreeent-
ed large, 278.
Constitution ofbrain, influences the
efl'ecta of ita lllze, S3. Indicate4
to 110me extent by temperament,
St, S69.
Collltruel.ivene., one ofthe propen- ·
sitiet, tlb. Ita difference in man
and the lower animaJ.a, H8. Ita
uae, 2119.
- - - - - organ ot; ita aitua-
tion, 117. An obj~ regud1ng
the effects of the temporal mus-
cles answered, 218. Hittory of
lta discovery, t J9. lAr'Ke in Jla,.
phael, and 111nall in New Holland-
era, 221. Large in eminent engi-
neers, engravera, pal.nten, ec:ulp-
ton and operative IUJBeOILI, 224.
Larp in the Italians and French,
lb. Examples of ita great and
amall development, 226-7-8. Ita
diaeue, 118. Ita situation lD the
heada of the lower animaJ.a, US.
Ita effects in combination, 677•
Convolutions t>t'the brain, 7._
Cook, CaptalD, his J.arse Localit1,
416. H1l account of the New
Hollandera, 600.
CordoDDier, Fran~ engraving of
the head o~ 188. His large Idea.
Uty, 314.
Coronal region of the brain, the eeat
of the moraleentimenta, 87.
Corpua callosum of the brain, what,
14.
Coup d'.U conferred by Locality,
4.17.
Courage inspired b1 the faculty of
Combativene-. 160.
Covetiveness, Ae~lullitiveness for-
merlyao called, 203.
Cowper, t.he poet, diffidence of,
whence arising, 163.
Craniometer, use of; 91.
Crawford, Dr, of Dublin, remarks
OD insanity b1, 180.
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 689
Credulity, energetic Hope dlspueea
to, S06.
Cretinl, Con•tructivenees of the,
. 218.
Criminal legislation, 696.
Criminals not always punished by
remone, IG7-8. Their Ideality
generally small, sts. Effects of
large heads 0~ 686.
Critlcl.sm, t.alent for, W.
Croly's poetry secretive, 201.
Crook, Mr, on the organ of.A.limen-
tiveness, 187.
Cryatallography, 888.
Cudworth maintained the existence
ofthe moral sense, 289,303.
Cullen, Dr, teaches the connexion
of the mind with the brain, 9.
Cunning, arises from Secretiveness,
.tc. 192.
Curiosity to bow details, arises
from Individuality, 881.
Curran, J.P.,engraving of his hsd,
shewing moderate Individuality
and small ~·orm, 880, 386. His
eloquence, 450, fWttt, His Com-
parisOn large, ._
Cursing, an abuse of Destructive-
ness, 17S.
D'Alembert's usertinn regarding
the Imagination, 61S.
Dancing, love ofand skillin, wheDce,
·~
Dandyism, 260.
Danton'• Benevolence small, 266.
Deaf and dumb dancera, 485-&
Dean, murderer, 118, 177.
Death viewed in various ltgbts by
ditferent individuals, 188. Fear
~ auuaged by the sentiment of
Hope,307.
De Bonald, Mons., on the diver.
•
sity of phlloso('hlcal systems, 41,
664.
Deference and respect, feellng of,
produced by Veneration, tao.
Defoe's Individuality and Eventua.
llty large,~··
Degrees, different, in which the fa.
culties are pOIIelled, 89, 51.
Dempsey, murderer, M, 248, 161.
Deran~ment,men~I~
Derham on distinguishing coloura
by touch, 41S.
Descartes placed the soul in the pl.
neal gland, 60.
Desire produced by every active fa.
culty, S04r.
Despondency, caUM o~ 167-8, S06.
Destructiveness, one of the propen.
sities, illustrations of, 167-8. Dis-
tinguished from Combativeness,
170. Its effects in IOclety, lb.
Supposed by some phrenologists
to give energy to the mind, 171.
Gives ed~ to ll8l'CII8III, 11tire and
invective, and abounds In the
poems of Lord Byron, 171. Et.
fects of its weakness, ib. Its a.
buaes, 17S, 176.
- - - - - organ o~ its sltua.
tion, 166. History ofits discovery,
lb. Its functions, J00. Large in
murderers, 176. Large ill t.he Cha.
ribs, and small in the Hindoos,
177. Exdted by intoxication, lb.
Its dlseue, 178, 181. Its situation
in the lower animals, ISS. Its n.
lstence not inconsistent with that
of Benevolence, 267, 346. Its ef.
fects in combination, 674.
Details, taleDt for acquiring lmow-
l~:of, conferred by Individua.
llty,l38t, m.
Detcrminabon, arises from F'll1D·
ness, !86•
Digitized by Google
6841 INDEX.
Development of the cerebral organs
bow ueertalned, 89, &A:-See Qr.
garu.
DeYil, actions sometimes uc:rlbed to
the temptation of the, 181.
Dewar, Dr, his report of a cue ofdi.
vided conseioumea, 618.
DifFerences, fi.c:ulty of perteiving,
M-6.
Diploe of the skull, what, 78.
Discovery by observation prompted
by large Individuality, S83.
J)lscrimination of dispositions and
talents practicable by observation,
10.
Dbeue modifies the effects of size
of the brain, :U.
Dispositions, natural, diversity o~
99, 51, 67, 4.79.
Dlaection of an organ does not reo.
veal its functions, 43, 65.
Distance, power of perceivi11g, 990.
Dirlnes have successfully observed
human nature, 41.
Divlllion of the faculties, liS.
Dogs, their brains, 100. Adhesive.
ness very strong in, 1116. Their
Destructh·eness, Ifill ; Love of
Approbation, 261; Benevolence,
170, 27:1-8. Their Locality sup.
poled to enable them to return
home from a great distance,
419.
Dolcl, Ludovico, his division of the
head into compartments, 11.
Dominion and power, love of, whence
arising, ISS.
Double Consciousness, cases of, 108,
618.
Doubts, irresolution and wavering,
whence arising, 164.
Douglas, Mr W., painter, his inte-
rest in perspective, 891. His large
organs of Size and Colouring, 391,
4.08.
Dramatic authors have large Imita-
tion, 855.
Drawing, talent for, m, 388.
Dread and apprehension, wheDce
rising, 166.
Dreaming explicable only by plura.
lity of cerebral organa, 16. Ana-
lysis of, 609.
Dreams frequently have relation to
the largest organs in the brain,
lHO.
Drelincourt placed the soul in the
cerebellum, U.
Dress, ornamental, love o~ whence
arising, 329.
Ducrow, the equestrian, his large
organ ofConcentratlvenese, 160.
Duelling, 2S..
Dura mater, what, '16.
Duty, sense of, produced by Con-
scientioumess, 191, 197.
Duxes of classes for J.anguages, what
organs they have large, 463.
Dynamics, talent for, 4.1&
Ear does not recollect or judge or
eounds, 437.
Edinburgh Review, on the connec•
tion of the mind with the brain,
11. On the nervous system, 21,
Sl. On the recent state of the
anatomy of the brain, 46. Be.
view of Byron's Tragedies in,
388. On injuries of the brain, MO,
el MKJ•
Edit.ors, Eventuality essential to,
4SS.
Educahillty, 11e111e of, 416, 4SS.
Education not the cause of the in·
equality of mental fi.c:ulties, .SO.
Modifies their manifestations, 101-
Faculty of Language too exten-
sively cultivated in, 461. Eftec:ta
of, 587.
o;91t1zed by Google
INDEX. 685
Edwards, engraver, his Construe.
tiveuess and Comparison 1aJBe,
124,S.SS.
:Eflotbm, the J'el\llt of predominat.
ing Self..Bsteem, 236. Eumple
of, 136. Produced also by Love
of Approbation, 249.
Egyptians, ancient, heads of, 619.
Elephant's brain larger than that of
man, 100.
Elevation, ph.Y'ical, love of, in 110111e
animals, 149, 240.
Eloquence, 110urce and nature of,
460, ft014, 681.
Energy of chanu:ter supposed by
110me phrenologlstll to arlle from
Deltructiveueas, 171.
Engineering, talent for, 39S.
English delight in humour, 19'1.
Their Self-Esteem, Cautiouanesr,
and Fll111Dea, larger than those
ofthe French, 238,269,286. Pro-
bable cause of their political liber-
ty, 238.
Engravers, eminent, have large or-
Rilll' ofConstructiveness and I ml-
tation, 226, 368.
Envy, by what caused, ISii.
EplgralDll, talent for, arises from the
oi'Billl of Wit, S63.
Equilibrium, instinct of, S9&.
E. S. of Dublin, character and de-
velopment of, IT9.
Eaquirol, cues ofinsanity from, 116,
284.
Europeans, their large heads, 663.
Their moral and intellectual na-
ture, 600. Account of their heads,
818.
Eventuality, 011e of the perceptive
faculties, function of, 427. Useful
to men of business and lawyers,
430. lin Quickly an illustration
of, 432. Dr Spurzheim on, lb.
Observations on, 466.
Eventuality, organ of, ita size bow
discriminated, 4.25. Three engrav-
ings ofheads illustrative ofit, 4t6.
History of ita diacovery by Dr
Gall, 4.16. Large in Sheridan, 417.
Effects of ita largenea and defl.
ciency, 429. In combination with
large and small Concentrative-
ness, &c. lb. 430, 6'17.. Luge in
observant authors, 431.
Eumple, explanation of ita power.
ful effects on children, 661.
Executi011s, pleasure in witneeslng,
whence arising, 174..
Exercise of the cerebral organa in.
creaaes their activity, 666.
Existence of material objects, evi.
dence of, 483.
Experiment, tendency to lnvestl.
gate by, conferred by Eventuali-
. ty, 427, 4St.
External senaes.-See s-
Eyes, only one used in looking, 389.
Their functions, 879. Memory of
forms and colours not dependent
· on the, 386, 399. Do not perceive
the relatione of colours, 399, 4.13.
Large organ of Langu&Be indi-
cated by their prominence and de-
. preaaion, 48, 4o4o6.
Face, elze of, compared with that of
the brain, 46.
Facial angle of Camper de!Crlbed,
44. 11.1 &llacy, 4.5.
Faculties, plurality of, 14, 87.
Appear successively, 16, 38.
Connesion of, with particular or.
gana, 36, el •If· Combinations of,
40,671. :Meaningoftheterm, 108.
What faculties are admitted to be
primitive, lb. Dr Spurzheim's
division of them, 113. Modes of
.their activity, 489, el let/• Ex.
cited by the presentment of their
Digitized by Google
•
686 INDEX.
ob,iect.a, •76. EWecta ot me ill
the 01p111 on tbe1r mepif•aUon,
1161, r.7L Delire rlgratiftcadaa In
prvpoJtioa to tM llze of their
orgam, 6n. h:a:LDrea, na.
~lb. ......... ao..
S68. IJ&'DLLJ:cTu.u. F.t.evt.-
Tdll, W. &lwtttJl ..... S69-
S79, FUtlllla ~ ..W.
'*"• S'f9.613. p-a;. ,..,._
fltg ,.,.,._, -61'-'U. B.ni.J:CT•
nre F.acUI.TJD, 4o86-488.
Flitb, aerclle o4 favoured by
Hope, SOT.
Fame, lOTe o~ "&.
Famlllar lpirlta, beUef iD, arilel
from Woader, 309, Sll.
Fanaticiam, religioua, produced by
excited WODder, SIS.
Fancy, &14.
Farish, Proteeaor, ofCambridge, ldl
organ ofWeight laJp, S94.
Fahiona iD clreta, &:c.,causeoLtheir
mutablllt7t Sl6.
Fear, wheucear11iDg, 188, t6S.
Feeblene11 and power of c:hancter,
30, 66S, &68.
Feeling or Touch, II8Die ~ 371.
Feellngl, ns. n .-g.
Females have a greater endowmezrt
ofPhllopfOReDiUvene~~ thanma1ea,
lt8, 131. Diiferences between
theif bralDI and Uaoae or·ma1ea,
IS!. Their Combatlveneu IDiat.
ler, 164. Their Cautlo11111eea and
Veneralloolarger, 168, 184.-See
w-.
- - - among the lower aDbnals
more cautlout than malea, t68.
Fenelon'• Beuevolence, t64.
Fene, the orgaa of Deetructiveneea
large In the, 184.
Ferguaon, Dr Adam, on the politi-
cal freedom of the English, 238.
- - - Mr, cue of inability to
perceive perspective, a His
organ of Size 8b1all, 31H, -.
Ferriar, Dr, Caaea of ~ of the
bl'aiD meadoned by, M6, 661,864.
FeYer, how produrllve ot eleepless-
a•and dreaming, 610.
Figurative 1utpage, wbeDee, 466.
Filial piety arilet c:hle6y £10111 V e.
Dtntion, 180.
Fine arts, by what &cultletl pro-
cbtced, Sfi-30, 367. Tu&e iD,
681.
F1rnmelt, one of the eelltimeDts,
Ule o~ t86. Appears DOt to be
admitted by metaph)'lldanl. 188.
---., organ o4 Ita lltuatiou.
286. Hiltary oflta dilccrrery, ib.
Etrecta of ita predomibaoce, Oil
the maaaer, 286. Ltqer In the
British than in the French, 288.
Etrec:tt ofita deftcleocy, 288. Ita
dbeue, lb.
Fisher, Milt Clara, her large Secre-
tlveneea, and Love of Approba-
tioD, 197, i&L Engra"rillg ofher
head, lhewlng 1up Imitatiou,
a.sa.
Flecbier, Eveque de Niamet, ego.
tllm 0~ 137
Flourene' experlmenta on the cere-
bellum, 119.
1Poder6 on partial genius in idiots,
17. On plurallty of eerebral or.
gus, fJ. Cues of lneanltyfrom,
201. On the CollltrucUvenc. of
fhe Cretins, a&
Folie raiJonante, what, 18.
Feme of c:hancter alway~ IICeOID·
panied by a 1arJe braiD, 30, 568.
Forehead, sloping, 462.
Form, one of the perceptive &cul-
Uea, its vigour not proportionate
to the acnteneu or vilion, 386.
Mauifested by animals, ib. Dr
Spurzheim's analysis of, 887.
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 687
~·orm, OJRU ~ history of its dilco-
very by Dr Gall, 386. Ita tdtua.
tio•, ib. Ita size, bow diltln-
guillhable, lb. 447, """· Engrav.
lng. of two beads, iD which it Ia
large aad IIDall, sao. Ita e&'eeta
in combination, 677•
Forster'& jourDey from Bellgal to
England. t6Q.
~·ortit\lde conimed by FinnJiear,
t8L
Fox, Charles Jamee, hia large head,
663.
Fran.-ois COl'donnier, poet, engrav-
ing ofhithead, ISS. Hll ldeelity
large, Sl4.
Fzuklln, Captain, his laJp head,
666.
Fra11Jdin, Benjamin, 40. H"11 Cau.
lllllly larJle, 481. BeYaenced
God, Ul®Jb he renounced Chria-
tlaalty,-
Fl'aM:'s l.aDgulge small, 4ft.
Fre!Wa, •• a hUJDOIOWI D&tloa,
197. Tbeir Coutrw:dnmeu
~ U4. TheU Self..ENem
and Flrmne11 ID1Iller thaD those
of \h. Euglllla, i38, llfNL Their
Love of Approbation aDd Cau.
tioUIDell very large, 261, 269.
Are the leaden of 1Uhion, aDd
why, 316. . Tbeir ladl.wu.Jity
and Form large. 3M, S8'1· Tbelr
Tuae, 4Se. Their Comparieoa
Jarae, 668. Tbelr Caualliy not
Jarp, 4.8&
French H. D., cut, 4ri'J, d6.
Frontal dnua, what, 81. OJUeetiolll
to Phrenology founcJ.d on ita ex..
llteuoe, IDIWe:red, 81. Throws a
dii&culty iD. the way of the obter·
vatlon of IDC!iriduality, 3841
Form, 886 1 Size, 393 c and Lo-
cality, ,.9.
Fry, Mrs, Combativeness o~ 160• .
FuaeU on Raphael's atylit ot' paint.
ing, 679.
Future state, dilpoaltion to belief
o( an- from the aentlment of
Bope, 807.
Futurity, brilliant aD~ of,
arise from the Sentiment ofHope,
306. Notion~ 307.
Gaiety, by what produced, S.lT.
Galenpl8ced t.he IOUl in thebrain, SO.
Gallleo and his- di8coverlea, how
treated by his conWm}IOrviee, 3..
His Locality large, '16. His
greatnea, 8!8.
Gall, Dr F.J., the thunder of Phre-
nology, 47. Birth uddeath of, lb.
Diecovered J>hrenology hy obaer.
vation, 48, 628. Abandoned all
theorie., .n. Hll anatomical re.
leU'Chel, 61. Fint lectured in
1798. HJs opinion of the faculty
of Adheslvenea, 166. Did not
admit a dlltinct organ ofJ uatice,
168. Oo FirmiMII, 286. Did
not admli. the OJli8D of Conlclen.
tioume~~, 197. His theory of the
td11gle iDlprestdona perceived by
double Org&DI of the external
llebllllt 368. Hll views of the
faculty of Hope, 304. His OIJIIID
of Form deficient, 386,388, """·
His !DfimCile gemu., ib. On the
harmony of oolonn, 696. His
views ot lh·entuality, 438. Ad.
mitted two OIJPUI8 of Language,
464. Hit meritlllld dllcoverles,
886, 687· Names of the OJ'8Ull
adopted by him, 618.
Game.cocb and pme-hens have
luger CcabatiYeneaa t.han do.
meatic fowls, and may be diiUn.
guilhed by the llhape of their
heada, 166.
Gaming, love of, whence, 300.
Digitized by Google
688 INDEX.
Gaugllone, what, 69.
Garrick'• large organ of Imitation,
example of, 364.
GauD, their charaeter u given by
Tacitue, 604.
General~, quali.ficatiODI ~ 161,101,
417.
Genlwr, ca111e of, 660, 570.
- for mwdc, &c. See Mtuic, fo.
-----, partlal, explicable only by
plurality ofcerebral organa, 16.
Geographen, eminent, .tbelr Loca-
lity large, 416.
Geometry, genlue for, 417.
George III. hle large organa of In·
dividuallty and Form, 380, 886.
Engraving ofhie head, 380.
Georget on ·elze and power of
nervee, 18.
Germane have larger Cautioumeea
and Tune than the French, 259,
489. Tacitue' deac:ription oftbem,
804.
Gboete and vlllone, beliefin, whence
ariling, S09o-See Yilionl.
Gibbon'• Self.lfsteem very large,
237.
Glblon, John, 199, 299. Engrav-
ing of hil bead, 299.
- Mr P., painter, hie large
organ of Size, and excellence in
perspective, S92.
Gladiatora repreeented with large
organs of Combatlvenea, 163.
Glory, love of, whence, 246.
Gluck'• organ ofTune, 438.
God, existence of, indirec:Uy proved
by the organ of Veneration, 277,
279. Demollltrable by reaaon, 486.
Goldsmith's writings dleplay mode-
rate Secretiveness, 201. Hie Love
of Approbation, 249. His veraea
on Hope, 243.
Gordon, James, murderer, 97, 176,
298.
Gordon, Dr John, admitted the cor.
respondence between the elze of
the skull and that of the brain,
- so.
Graminivorousand carnlvoroua ani-
mala,differencebetween the braiDs
of, 166. Secretivenet!ll ofthe ror.
mer generally large, 201.
Grammar, talent for, 453.
Gratitude, whence arising. 302.
Grattan's style characteriJ:ed by
Concentrativeue~~, 146.
Great meJa, why they have not em-
braced Phrenology, 627.
Greek philosopherscalumniatedeach
other, S. Persecuted by the peo.
ple, lb.
Greeb, ancient, skulls of, 619. En.
graving ofon.
e, lb.
Gregory, Dr, admits the connexion
of the mind with the brain, 9.
Greyhound's Combativene~~IIDaller
than that of the bull-dog, lN.
Griefaud Jby, analyaia at; Ml.
Griffitba, murderer, 265.
Guilt, sense of, the effect of Con.
lclentiousnesa, 297.
Guile, Due de, remarkable cue of
iJUury of the brain, 661, 664.
H., Mrs, 94, iSS, 299.- Engraving
of her bead, 299. -
Habit, &nalyaia of, 668.
Haggart, David, murderer and rob.
ber, 88, 9t, 163, 177, 198, 243,
161, 288, 297, 299. Engraving of
ble head, 299.
Hall,Sir James, hie orsanofWe)ght
. large, 394.
Haller saw the necessity of a plu.
rallty of cerebral organs, lU, 22.
Had large face and brain, 46.
Placed the soul in the brain, 60.
Handel's Tune large, 446. Engrav·
ing of his bead, ib.
Digitized by Google
INDBX. 689
Hands of man not the origin of hill
arts, sao.
·bead appears to slope, 4.62. Hit ,
Comparison large, "9.
Happinees consists in the harmoni-
ous gntlfication of the ficulties,
491.
Herschel's ConstructiveneM large,
2t4.
Hardwicke, Lord Chancellor, his
Acquisitiveneeslarge, 206.
Hare, William, murderer, 176, 266.
Profile of the head of, 81. ·
Hares and. rabbitll, dift'erence of
their skulls, 239.
Harmony and Melody, what, 437,
-'S9.
Harvey and his discoveries, how
treated by his contemporaries,
4, 631.
Hats, diversity of sizes of, SO, 670.
Haydn's organ of TUDe large, ~
•U6.
Haydon, Mr, painter, his organs of
Constructiveness, Colouring, and
Causality large, 2U, f03, ~1,
480.
Hazlitt'• Ideality large, 338. Part
of a review of Lord Byron's Tra-
gedies attributed to him, ib. Ma-
nifests the eentiment of Wonder,
St7.
Head, engraving of, as divided into
regions by Dolci, 22. Dl1Ferent
shape of, in males and females,
118. Relation between its size
and the veice, 440. Effects ofits
great and small size, 66S.f.
Hesman, murderer, ITT.
Hearing, eense of, 373- Not the
origin of Kuaic and Spet>Ch, ib.
Heart not the -t of the tender
ldfection., "- Supposed by Aris-
totle to be the-t ofthe soul, 40-
Helvetius, his erroneous theory, that
man owes his arts to the struc.
ture of his bands, seo.
Henri Quatre, ·French poet, his
Benevoleuce large, 2413. His fore-
Bette, Dr, 118, 243, 241, 260, 299.
Hindoos have small brains, 31.
Engravings of skulls of, 177,
201, 606. Their sentiment of
truth weak, 299. Their language
figurative, -'67. Account of their
brains and character, 606. No-
tic..-es oftheir development, 94, 97,
171, 177, 200, !38, 260.
~istorlans, Eventuality essential to,
433.
Hobbes denied the existence of the
eentiment of Benevolence, 174.,
and of the moral sense, 289, SOS.
Hog's brain, 100.
Home, Sir Everard, observations on
his proposed mode of investigat.
ing the functions ofthe brain, 668.
Homer's Ideality represented large,
326. Suppoied cause of his ge••
nius, 670.
Honour, lawa of, on what founded,
29t.
Hood's cue ofa patient who lost the
use of language, -'S8, 449, 417.
Hope, one of the higher sentiments,
Dr Gall's views of,~ Its func-
tions, 306. Its effects on the
character, S06. AAuagee fear of
death, 307. Favours the exercise
offaith, and disJioses to belief in
a life to come, SOT. Admitted by
metaphysicians, ib.
- - organ of, its lituation, ~
Not admitted by Dr Gall, SO&.
Ita deficiency predisposes to de.
spondency and suicide, S06. Its
effects in combination, &76.
Hoppe, Dr, his views of Concentra.
tiYeness, 136, and Alimenth·e-
new, 186.
XX
Digitized by Google
690 INDEX.
Hones, lhy and timid, may be dis. displayed by quakers, l:c. SB.
tinguished by the appearance of' Its gratification provided for in
their heads, 166. Their Love of nature, 828. Its effec:ta in private
.Approbation, 251. Their Bene- life, 827, 329. Its ab-a. 331.
't'Olence, no. An important element in the COD•
Humboldt, brother of the traveller, stitution of man u a prOgressive
his large orgaza of Number and being, 385. Different effec:ts pro-
Order, 422, 426. dueed by sublime ecenery in two
Hume, David, his theory of virtue, minds in which it wu strong and
290, 303. Diaplaya great c.u. weak, 336, 387. Its effeets on
aality, 681. His ideas on the evi. style, 337.
dence of exiltence of mind and Ideality, organ of, its situation, sn.
matter, 4~. On the pleasure History of its discovery, 313.
derived from a mournful tragedy, Large in poets, lb. 324. Deficient
490. On Joy and Grief; 641. in savagesand mostcriminala, 818·
- Mr Joeepb, his Ideality Engravings of heads in which iUs
small, 94. His Comparison large, large or amall, 330. Ita back part
469. His large head and power- eonjeetured to be a aepuate organ,
ful miDd, 666. 330. Its disease, 331.
Humility, cauaed by deflcl.eney of Ideas do not oriJPn&te from the ex•
St>lf-Esteem, la34. temal 11e111e11, 369, 363. Are
Humour, influence of Secretiveness formed only by the inteUect, 4t'l.
in producing, 196. Diat.iDguished Association of, 631.
from wit, ib. Identity, personal, feeling ~ 10'1,
Hunger and Thirst diatinguiahable · 23'1, .SS, SSl.
from .AppeUte, 186. Idiocy, partial, explicable only
Hunter, Mr John, anatomiat, dis- by a plurality of cerebral or.
eue ofhis organ of Weight, 396. gana, 16.
Hunting, natural appeti~ for, 167. ldiota have amall or diseeeed braiDs,
Huuey, murderer, 176, 30.
Hutcheson, Dr, on the desire of Imagination, what, 612.
wealth and power, 208. Main- Imitation, a primary faculty, indis-
taina the existence of a moral penaable to artists, 368. Ita ma-
aenae, 290, 303. nifestation in priVI\te life, ib. Ne-
Hydrocephalua, 266. cee.ry to. .,gera,489.
Hypocrisy, lying and dissimulation, organ of, history of ita
prompted by Sec:n!tiveneae, 196. discovery, sa Large in actors,
Ideality, one of the higher &eDti·
menU, produces a desire for ex-
quisiteneee and perfecUon, 826•
.Authors in whose worb it is pre-
dominant or deficient, 326. Ita
effeeta in combination with other
faculties, S27, 329, 677. Little
366. Contribute. to render a poet
or author dramatic, 866. Engra't'·
ing of two heads in which it is
large and amall, 368. In combi-
nation, 577.
Immorality and bad taste, distinc-
tion betweeu, 668.
Immortality of the soul, 308, 68S.
Digitized by Google
INDEX•
lm.-tieDce and .-Uence, 6-'l·
Improvisator!, conjec:t~ explana-
tion oftheir genius, 614. ·
Indi'ridual penonality, feeling of,
-Seer~.
Individuality, one ofthe intelledual
faculties, its fuoctlons, 381, 464.
Prompts to obeerntion, 381. Ef.
f"ects of its deficiency on the cha·
racter, S8S. When large, prompts
to ditcovery by oblervation, ib.
Ueeful to the artist, 384. Ueeful
to men ofblllinea, 430. General
obeervati0118 on, 481.
----organ ot; its situation,
880. Its size, bow judged ot; ib.
Engraviuga ofthe heads ofGeorge
III. and Curran, in whom it is
large and moderate, lb. Disl»-
vered by Dr Spurzbelm, 381. Its
obllerntlon obetructed by the
frontal sinus, 384.
lnf'anticldes generally p011e111 feeble
Philoprosenitlvenea, 1n.
Infiltuation, an effect of~ Finn-
neea,tll&
Inhabitiveuesa, organ ot; according
to Dr Spurzheim, 1M-See c-
.~
lqjuries of the brain, their effects
prove the plurality ofcerebral or-
gans, 20. AniiW'er to objectio01
that they do not always afFect &he
mind, 628, 888.
IDiaDity, sometimes not easily dis-
tiDguilhable from moral deF.a-
vity, 100. Some of the pbeao-
mena of, explained, 48& Of the
intellec:tual facultiee, 601....
- - - partial, explicable only by
a plurality of cerebral carpna,
11, 1& &samples ot; 181, 493.
Intepmenta ofthe bJain, 7&
Intelled.ual facultiee, what, US,
S6t. Model ol their activity,
.
49'1, II Iff/· Their lDIIDity, &cJt.
609.
Intoxication, efFects of, on the milld,
177, !'IS. Explanation of: the
Jlhenomena of, 897.
Intriguing diaposition, arlsee from
Secretiveness, 1es.
Irreeolution, doubts and wavering,
whence arising, taL
Italians, de1igbt in humour, 197.
Their CoDttructivenelland Tune
large, 224, 489.
.JardiDe, llr, engineer, his OJ'RID of
Weight large, 394.
Jeffrey, Hr l!'raac:is, denlea the con-
nexion of mind with body, 11.
Deniel that lize is a meuure of
power, 27. Ills theory of Beauty,
336, 388. Hia Ideality not large,
SSf. Part of a renew of Lord
Byron's Tngediea uaigned to
him, SS& On .Form and Size,
892. On Colouring, 400, 40S, 411.
His Comparison large, 468. His
good taste, .sao.
Jervis, Jacob, engraving of hit
bead, shewing Jur OfJP.D of Be-
nevolence, 161. Ria character,
266. Hla Imita~~ deftclent,
Joan of Arc, appearance of St
Michael to, 309.
Jobnlon, Dr Samuel, an accurate
obeerverof human nature, 41. On
Courage, 169. His ICCO'Ilnt ofthe
secretive character of Pope, 194.
Suspected to have beUeved ill
· shoeU, 316. Fond of unueual
. worde and expreaiona, ib. ~is
large head and eDer£1 of c:barac·
ter, 568.
Joeeph, Hr Samuel, aculptor, bla
CoutrucUt'cmeet and Imitation
Jarae, 214, 86&
xx2
Digitized by Google
692 INDEX.
:Joy and Grie~ analysis of, 1141.
Judgee, ConeclenUouanese of, 301,
&26.
Judgment, 483. Allalylil of, 612.
----. cOJ'l'eet, of one'e own
cauee, difficult, &89.
Jupiter'• forehead repreeented pro-
minent by ancient artists, 48!.
Jurymen dift'erenUy affected by the
IllUDe arguments, <i'f'f, 616.
J'uetlce, the eldstence of an inde-
pendent eenUment of, demon•
strated by Phrenology, 191. Pure
orabstract, whence resulting, 689.
Xalmucb have large Acquiaitive-
nea, tit.
Kames, Lord, on appetite for hunt-
ing, 166. Admite Acquisitivenese
to be a primitive propensity, 104.
On Time, <&36. Admits twenty
of the phrenologic:al faculties, 62._
Kant's face email and brain large,
~. His Caueality large, -'7._
Kepler's Locality large, 416.
King, Dr, on avarice, 105.
Klopstock'a Veneration repreeented
large, 178.
Knight's Theory of Beauty, 81!8.
Knowing or Perceptive FacUlties.
-See P~iw Facultiu.
Knox, John, his Combativeness
large, 160, 170, 1174.
---, Vicesimus, on hunting, 167.
Koster's Account of the Brazil Indi·
aD!!, 613-15.
La Fontaine's head large, 663.
Lake echool of poetry characterized
by PhUoprogenitlvenese, 116.
Causes ofbad taste in it, 11117.
Lambdoidal suture of the !Ckull, 81.
Language, one of the perceptive fil.
cultles, 4~ Too extensively cuJ..
tlvated in ordinary educ.:ation, 462.
Language, organ ~ history of ita
discovery, 68. Its sb:e how indio
cated, 446. Its functiorur, 447.
Effects ofits great endowment on
style, <f.llt. Effecte of its deft.
ciency, 468. Suppoeed by Gall to
be double, 4M. Dr Spurzhelm'a
views of, 466. Its dileue, fo&S.
~1.
- - - - natural and artificial,
374, ""7, 646-8. Figurative, .00.
Languages, talent for learning the
spirit of, 4&4-6, 4111. Different
national, 4115..6.
Laughter, causes of, 340.
Laws of honour, on what founded,
294.
Lawyers, Individuality and Even-
tuality neceaary to, 430. Effect
of large Conscientiousness in, 0!6.
Legislation, criminal, 1196.
Leibnitz had largeface and brain, 46.
Leo had large face and brain, 4.11.
Le Sage's Individuality and Even-
tuality large, 431.
Leslie, Pro£, his organ of Weight
large, 394.
Liberty, political, of the F.ngllah,
probable cauee of the, 2S8.
Life, love of, supposed organ of, 186.
Ita probable situation, 189.
Limits of the human understanding,
6S6.
Lindner's Constructiveness large,
m.
Lindsay, David, hill style verbose,
..at.
Lobes of the brain, 86, 6211.
Locality, one of the perceptive fa-
culties, Dr Spurzheim on the ana-
lysis of, 415. An element in ge-
nius for geometry, 417.
---organ of, bistoryofits dis-
covery, 4l<i. Its situation, 41&.
Its effecte on the mind, 618-
Digitized by Google
~-- - - --~
INDXX.
Large in eminent navigaton, tra-
vellen, astronomers and geogra-
phen, 416. Larger in men than
in women, 418. POIIIe8Bed by the
lower animals, ib.
Locke, on the diftlculty ofcombating
old opinione,2, 54, 1127. Engtaving
ofbia he.d, lhewing Ideality small,
330. Hia style plain, 838. Hia
theory of Wit, 34!. On the Fa-
culty of perceiving cWferencea,
34.. On Idea, 868. Hia Cau.
aallty large, -MI. Hia writings
~terized by power of mind,
MS.
Lockey, murderer, 176.
Logan, Mr, of Leith, hia analogical
method of reasoning, 467.
l..oflarithma, talent.fur, 4!1.
Logical consequence in argument,
perception of, arises ftom Cauaali.
ty, 478.
Louis XI., Secretiveness of, 193.
L<.ve ofLife, suppOied organ of, 188.
Its prubable situation, 189.
Love, physical or sexual, 118.
Love of Approbation, one of the in-
ferior sentiments, aim o~ W.
Its eft'ects on society, ib. Dlatin.
guiabed from Benevolence, 147.
Its abuses, ib. Admitted by lleid,
Stewart and Brown, 160. Its in.
ftuence on the F'rench, 261. More
active in women than in men, ib.
Diatincl.ion between its manifes-
tations and those of Benevolence,
263. An element in correc~ taste,
Sl9.
- - - - · - - - organ of, its
situaUon, 243. History of Its dis-
covery by Dr Gall, 143. Effects
of its deilc:iency, lf-9. POIII!IIed
by the lower aniD:aala, U 1.
Lower orders hue small heads, 30.
Lowther, Sir James, hia Acquiai.
tiveness large, 205.
Lucifer, character of, 206.
Ludicrous, feeling of th~, whence
ariaiJsg, :wo, 361.
Luther's Combativeness large, 160,
170,614.
Lying prompted by 8ecretiveneu,
194, J98, 198.
Lymphatic temperament, bo... cUs.
tlnguiabable, 32. Its effects, 0..
Cause of, according to Dr Tho-
mae, 101.
M., Rev. Mr, proftle of, compared
with those of Burk and _Hare, 86.
Hia development, 94, 261, 299.
Engraving of the back of hiahead,
first figure, 117.
Macdonald, Lawrence, sculptor, 681.
Macinnes, Mary, murderer, 163,
HIS, 177, 260, 277•
Mackenzie, Sir G. S., on gratitude,
sot. Hia organ of Weight large,
394. On weight and resistance,
898. On relative position, f-15.
Maclachlan, his large organ of
weight, 396.
Macvicar'e Tune large, 4MJ.
Madneas.-See 1-.mity.
Magendie asserts that the brain ia
the organ of thought, 10; that
there ia generally a direct propor.
tion between its size and capacity
ofthe mind, 81; that itseiumay
be dlacovered by measuring the
skull, 79. Dis experiments on the
cerebellum, 119.
Magnetism, animal, 611.
Malebranche, hia Veneration repre.
eented large, 278. On the ftoc:ul.
ty of perceiving dilference., 344.
Malthus's Account of the North
American Indians, 611.
Man, SQcial nature o~ 166. A pro-
greeRve being, ss.s.
Mandeville's theory or virtu~, 88,
189,303.
Digitized by Google
INDEX.
Marl.otte uever could repeat New.
ton'• experiment., 6.
Marlborough, Duke of; his Acquiai-
tivenealaqfe, 106.
Marriage, 676.
llrfuabaU, Dr, cue of inlule 8ecre.
tiveuea from, 102.
Marvelloumees, 817.--See JV...,.,
Kuter and ~ervantl, relation of
their uatural qualities, 694.
llrfutoid proceu, what, 81.
Materialilm, objection that Phreno-
logy leads to, conaideted, 631.
Mathematkal language, preclslon
ot;448.
llrfatbematiclanl, Acu1tiet of; 417,
421.
llrfattbews, comediaD, his 1aTge or.
gan of Individuali~y, S8S.
Maxwell, robber, engraviug of his
"head, 684.
)leuurements of atuUa, tables of,
86, 611.
Mechanicians, their organs of Con-
etrucUvenea, 211 ; Sille, S9S.
Medical men, objection that they
disbelieve Pbrenolilgy, coneidered,
§9.
Medulla obloagata, "'hat, 60, 78.
Medullary matter of the braiD, 73,
76.
Kelancboly, cauee of, 107-&. 806.
Kelancthon, engraving of his excel.
lent head, &71.
Melody and harmony, what, 637,
489.
Memory, analyaie of, 616. How af.
fected by lie and d1seue, 617.
Memory of fbrms, 386, 6161 of co-
lours, 899 : of places, 414 ; of
numbe.rs, 420; of evente, '16;
<>f music, 6S6; of worda, 446; of
names, tel.
Menlal derangement.- See 1-.
..u,.
Metaphoricall.anguage,wbeuce, 4fe.
Metaph.}'liclane, neglected organi,.
zaUon, or suppoeed the miDd to
be material, 87, 40. Dift'er widely
from each other, 88, 49. Re8ect.
ed on their own Co~
41, 628.
Metaphyllica, talent tbr, 474.
Meyer, Mon&, a lover of wader.
iDg, ••6.
llrfigratlon of birds, '19.
Milllner of Vienna, case nf large
ConetrucUvenea in a, tit.
Milne, Mr James, Dr Spurzheolm'a
villi~ to hie workshop, 63. Hie
cue ofinability to distinguiah co-
lours, 401.
Milton, 27& Hie writinge cbarac.
terized by great power of mind,
668.
Mimicry, talent for, ariees from the
organ of Imitation, aaslsted by
IJldb.iduality, SU, 383.
Mind known. only in connexlon with
body, 7, 23, 37, 66, 112. Whether
simple or compound, 1, 107. Ita
substance unknown, 63&
Hlrabeau had large filce and brain,
4.6.
llliraculoue events, origin of beUef
in, Sl7.
:\lirthfulneu-See W'll.
Misen, largeAcqulsitlvenea of,lUI.
llrfitcbell, 118. Engraving of hie
head, eecond figure, 117.
Mnemonics, 636.
Modes of activity of the facul\iea,
'Bt. Of the propenaltles and lieD·
timenta, lit. Of the knowing and
reflecting fiacultlea, 497·
Monkeys, their brains, 100. Have
large Phlloprogenitivenet~&. Love
of Approbation, 128, 161. Their
bands nicely formed, 360. Have
no Causality, •78.
Digitized by Google
lNDEX. 695
Monomania, what, 18. Proves the
plurality of cerebral organs, lb.
Monro P,.,.., leaches the relation
between size and power of the o:.
ternal --. 1'1·
Montalgne had large face and brain,
~. His Form large, S89.
Moore's Comparison, SO, 416, ~
Engraving ofhis profile, 4t4. His
style, 449, 488, 471. Bad taste of
some of his early verses, &67.
Moralists have suceesaf'ully ob-
IN!l'Ved human nature, 41.
Morals, disc:ordant theories o~ 289,
SOt.
Moral. sen11e denied by some philo-
sophers, 289, 303.
- - sentiments, 160, 61 WJ· Erro-
neou~ly derived from viscera, 44.
Morier's Travela ln Persia, an illus-
tration of the dltFerenc:e ofaia of
PhUoprogenitiveness in men and
women, from, 128.
Motives of actions, cWF~t, applied
to ditf'erent mlnlb, 67.
Motor nerves, 69, 61, ttl 1«1·
Mountford, Mrs, murderer, ease o~
182.
MOUlt's organ of Tune, 638.
Mules, their Love of Approbation,
I .St.
Mummies, t60, 619.
Murat, Napoleon's detcription ofthe
character of, 161. His energy of
mind, 664.
Murderers, what organs they have
large, 163, 174. What organs de-
ficient ln, t66.
Muscular ne"es, .st, 61.
Music, not the result of the sense
of hearing, 373. Time ln, 436,
438. Not perceived or judged of
by the-, 637. Geulus for, by
what produced, 438-9, 681. Mr
Scott's esays on, oQ9.
Musical compoel.tion, talent for, 439.
Mystery, love of, arises from Secre-
tiveness, 194.
Names, talentfor memory o~ whence
arising, 481.
Napoleon--See Bflfl4p4f'N.
Nations with small brains conquered
by thOte with large, 31. Colncl-
dence between their characters
and the development of their
braina, 699. Table of measure-
ments of the skulls of cWFerent,
6tl.
Natural language, 87', 447, 646-6,
MO.
Navigators, eminent, their Locality
large, 416.
Negroes have promlnentjaw-bones,
46. Their development and cha.
racter, 129, 211, 260, 177, 61&.
Their limited numeration, 41&
Engraving of the skull of one,
615.
Nero, character of; 176. His De.
1tructiveness large, lb.; and Be-
nevolence deflclent, 166.
Nerves, telation of size to power of,
Ill. General view of the anatomy
and functions of, 66.
- of sen•tion and motion, 69,
615.
Ne"ous temperament, how dlstin.
guishable, S3. Its effects, lb. Con-
duces to refinement, 569.
New HoUanden, engraving ofskulls
of, 36,211, 608. Sir W. Scott's de.
scription of them, 86, 121. Their
Cau..tity emall, 481. Description
of their heads and character, 608.
Captaln Cook's account of them,
609. Their want of curiosity, 610.
New opinions generally opposed, S,
li, 64, 627.
NewZealanders, character and brainJ
Digitized by Google
696 INDEX.
of; 611. Enpving of t.
he skull of
one, lb.
Newe, love of, arises from the eenti-
ment of Wonder, 31-&.
Newton, Sir 18118C, oppoeition to his
diecoveries, 4. His large Vene-
ration, 278 ; Weight, 39'; md
I.oa!lity, '16.
Ney aDd Murat, Napoleon's descrip-
tion of the characters of, 161.
Nicolai, cue of spectral illusions,
603.
Ni!bet, murderer, 176.
Nomenclature of Phrenology, 11~
668.
Nominalists md Realists, '73.
North American lndiaue have large
Philoprogenitiveneaa,. 119. Their
power of enduring to~ure, 209,
612. Their unimpro"V:a~le nature,
602, 612. Account of their cha-
racter and heads, 611. Engraving
of the skull of one, lb.
Nostalgia, Pupposed to result from
dieeaee of the organ of Adhesive.
Pe!'ll, 156.
Novehy, love of, arises from tbe
aentiment of \\•onder, 316.
Number, one of the ~ptive fa..
cultie&, situatio11 md history of
the discovery of ita orgsn, 420-1.
Ita functions, 421. Effects of ita
deficiency and predominance, <&2.S.
Diseaee of ita organ, 423. Sup-
posed by Gall to be neceuary to
mullical composers, '-89.
Nympho~ia, ita influence on the
tone of the voice, 4~.
Obedience 11f children to their pa-
rents, how best promoted, 661.
To superiors in rank, 280.
Objections to phrenology considered
-That there are clever men with
retreating foreheads, 462; that
the llclence is not new, 6H; that
the faculties are thirty-five in
number, 623; that the different
cerebral organs cannot be distin-
guished by disaect.ion, 62.£ ; that
the brain has been iDjured with.
out affecting the mind, 626, 638;
that no great men or anatomialt!l
have embraced tbe acience, 627,
629 ; that every body does not
believe in it, 630 ; that It leads
to materialism, 631.
Obeervation, J;alent for, conferred
by Individuality u.d Eventuality,
381-2, 430. Discovery by, prompt-
ed by Individuality, S8S. D~
not reveal the $UbstaDce of mind,
63$.
ObBUnacy, the effect of large Firm-
ness, 186.
Occipital spine, what, 81.
Old age, ita effects on the memory,
.517.
Opinions, difference of, 624.
Orators sided by Comparison, 468.
Oratory, talent fur, 681.
Order, one of tbe intellectual facul-
ties, its objects, <&24. Size of ita
organ how distinguished, ,u,
Organa, cerebral, their plurality de-
m(lnstrated, 14-23. Particular,
connected with particular facul-
tle~~, S6, •' uq. The function• of,
not discoverable by diaeectlon, ~
Definition of the term, 66. Dupli-
city md extent of, 86. Length
md breadLh of, how ucert&ined,
89, 91, IIDU. Bolllldaries of, 89,
626. Their relative, not absolute.
size, a criterion of the predomi-
nance of the faculties which they
manifest, 98. Talent of recollect-
ing their situation, -617. The lar-
gest most prone to acLivity, 464.
Their arrangement, 03"- Effects
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 897
of their me and activity on the
manifestation ofthe faculties, 661,
668. Their effects in combination,
671. Their difference of appear-
ance diacoverable, 626. Their plu-
rality explains many phenomena
othenriae unaccountable, 656,641,
658. Claselfication of, 668, 670.
Ormerod, Ann, her small organ of
Tune, 446. Engruing ofher head,
lb.
Oaification of the skull, 76.
Owen, Mr, of New Lanark, denies
the existence of the faculty of
Acquleitiveneu, 210.
Ox'• brain, 100.
Pain and pleuure, what, 640.
Pain, power of repressing the out-
ward expreesl.on ot; whence, 199.
Painters, eminent, their Construc-
Uveneaa, tU; Form, 388; and
Size, 891-2. Combination of fa.
cult.ies in, 677.
Painting, talent for, from what fia.
cultlee arising, 329, SS7, S84o.
Paley denied the eldatence of the
moral se1111e, SS, 290, SOS.
Pallet, James, murderer, 88.
Panic, whence an.ing, and what,
264,647.
Panllelism ofthe tablea ofthe skull,
79.
Pardies, Father, opposed Newton's
discoveries, 4.
Park, Mungo, his Locality repre-
sented large, 416.
Parnell's H.,.U, illustration ofCon-
acientiiiUSDeas from, SOl.
Parry, Captain, engraving of hill
large bead, 666.
Partial genius, 16. Insanity, 16, IS,
181, 498. Iqjuries of the brain,
20, 648tt~.
Partiality, th~ effect of deftc:lent
Conaciantlousneaa, SOl.
Pualon, what, 640.
Patience reault• from Firmness, 287.
Analy&is of, 641.
Patterson, Dr G. M., his account of
the Phrenology ofHind011tan, 606.
Perception ill the function of the
brain, not of the external aenaes,
or of the nerves, 863. Is the low-
est degree ofactivity of the intel-
lectual faculties, 498. Treated by
the metaphyliciarul as a general
filculty, 600.
Perceptive faculties, what, 113. Fa-
c:ultlesiJerceptive ofthe existence,
37~13, and relations of exter-
nal objecta, 4-14-462. General
observations on them, 462. Each
probably adapted to the natural
laws of its objecta, 411, fiOI6.
Modeaofthelr activity, 497,et•q.
Perfection, deaire of, produced by
Ideality, 826.
Perseverance conferred by Finn-
ness, 286-6-7.
Penonal identity, feeling of, 101,
237, 483, 631.
Personality, double, caaes of, 108,
616.
- - - - individual, suppoaed by
some phrenologists to arise from
Self-Esteem, 167.
Personification of notions and phe-
nomena arises from Individuality,
884, 387, 4>27.
Perspective, idea of, pt'Oduced by
the faculty of Size, 390-888,
4-1&
Peruvian, engraving of the akull of
a, (small No.2.), ISS.
Philology, talent for, 464, 468.
Philoprogenltiveness, an original
propensity, 12Y. Illustrations of,
from Byron's Cain, J2'· lttc or.
Digitized by Google
698 INDEX.
gan and manifestatlons euily ob.
.erved, ib. Ita influence Oil the
character, 12~. Ita abUiel, 126.
Feeble in infimtlcldee, l 2'1. Stron.
ger in women than in men, 128.
Distinct from Beoevolence, 190.
Pldloprogenitlveness, organ of, 111.
Ita lituatlon, Ill. Biltory of its
dhlcoYery, ib. Produces love of
c:hlldren, llU. Larp in \he Ne-
groes, ac. 129. 'B:umples olita
~ 1Sl. Engravings of two
akulls in which it b large and
small, 133.
Philosophers, Greek, how trated,
s.
Phrenology defined, 1. Date of its
publication, lb. Great opposition
tu, 1, 8, 82'7. Principles of, 8, ~~
HfJ· 66, d Mlf· History ofita dis-
covery by Dr Gall, 4.7-M. Pro-
8'"' of the dilcovery of, 6& De-
mOIIItrates the exietence ofa mo.
ra1 sense, 291. Ita simplicity and
harmony with naturt>, 4.8&. E£.
fecta of Cauaality in producing
bellet'in, 4.82. Its practical utility,
496. Why it does not enable us
to predict actlona, 690. Objections
to, considered, 612, 668. A new
lclence, 622. Why not embraced
by grest men, 6Z7. Explains the
phenomena ofiJUurivaofthe brain,
647.
:J'hyliologista have failed to ucer.
tain the organs of the faculties,
48.
Pia mater, what, 78.
Pictures raise emotions ofsublimity,
how,492.
Piety, filial. arises chiefly trom Ve-
neratlon, 280.
Pineal gland supposed by Descartes
to be the seat ofthe soul, 60.
Pinal on partial insanity, 16, 11. On
4
Jolw I"'IUonan#, 18. Cases of inaa•
nity ftom, 164, 181, liOI, WI, U8,
liM, 460.
Pitt, engraving of hia fbrehead, 414.
Hia Eventuality and Compariloo,
488. His Causality· modf'rate,
481.
Plato placed the IOUl in the braiD,
60. His Cauality repreeeuted
Jarse, 486.
Platonista, their opinions regarding
ideu, S68.
Playfair, Prof., OD the dl1Bculty of
combating old opiniODs, 2. On the
treatment of GaWeo, S. On the
opposition io NewtOD's dilcove-
ries, 4. His large Comparison and
Causality. 4.88.
Pleasure and paiD, what, MO.
Plexus of nnves, what, 60.
Plurality of th.culties and cerebral
orpna demonstrated, 14, d Mlf·
Explains many of the mental phe-
nomena, 566, 647, 656.
Poetry, &om what facultiea arising,
S29, 569. Use of machinery in,
prompted by Wonder, 317. Fi-
gurative, H9.
Poets have obferved human nature.
41. Their Ideality luge, SIS-.S.-
- dramatic, their Imitation 1arJe,
866.
Politica, party, bias ofjudgment in,
690.
Pope, secretive character of, 196,
200. His idea of Hope producing
belief in a future state, 308. His
Individuality and Eventuality,
428, 472. His style, ib.
Posterior lobe of the brain, the seat
ofthe animal propensities, 87.
Powerand dominion, loveof, whence
arising, 238-9.
Power, rank and titles, respect. for,
produced by Veaeration, 181.
Digitized by Google
lTDEX. 899
Power ofmind, dlatlnct from activi-
ty, lOS, 663, 668. Produced by
~ braiD, lOS, ·688.
Practical appllcation of the princi-
ples of·Perenok>gy, 86. Of the
doctrine of the combillltiona of
size and aetlvl\y oforgana, 691.
Prai8e, loYe ot; M6.
Pratt, Mill, in • The Inheri&ance,'
a peraoni&ation of Individuality,
882.
PrNcllers dwell on the threats or
promitee of the G011pel, according
to ~heir endowment of Destruc-
tlveneea and Moral Selltiment,
174. Effi!cts of email beads ot;
68'1.-&eC~
Pride, an abWJe of Self.Eateem,184.
Dietinguiabed &om vanity, !44,
260.
Principles of Phrenology, 6, tll•lf·
66, tiiMJ·
Priu-fighta, 163.
l"rocnns, mastoid and occipital,
what, 81.
Profull.on, an abWJe of Benevolence,
266.
Propensities, 116, 213. Modes of
their aetivity, ~.
Propensity, what, llS.
Property, Ides of, arleea from Acqui-
titiveness, 210.
Proportions ofdilFerent parts of the
brain, an index of character, ~
691.
Prudent character, Secretlyenesa ne-
-.y to .. 191.
Punetualily in teepblg appolD\.
mentl and paying debts, arleea
&om Conscientiou.ml!ll, 29!, i98.
Py\bagoru plaeed the eoul in the
brain, 60.
Quaintneea of style, arises from Se-
cretivenese, ~.
Quakers dilplay little Ideality, Si'7.
Quickly, Mrs, an illustration OfIn·
dividuality and E'ventuality, 4Ss.
Quoits, talent of excellence at, S93.
Rabbits and hares, dilFerence of
their stulls, ISO.
Raeburn, 8lr Henry, hie Collstruc-
tlveneaa l.arJe, 12'- Hie 1tyle of
painting, 680. .
RamUI persecuted for writing a.
gainat Aristotle, .S.
Rank, titles and power, respect for,
produced by Veneration, 281.
Ranks of eoclety, IUbordinatlon of,
280. Diiference of manners of
the higher and lower, bow es.·
plained, 681.
Raphael'• stuD, engraving of, 86,
221, 672. Hie development, 114,
97, 118, 211, 260, 27i, 8&8, 469,
678. Hie repreeenlation ofChrist'•
head, 178. Hie head large, 683.
Character of his work11, 678.
Rubneaa and predpitation, whence
arising, 266.
Realiatl and nominalists, '78.
Reuon,what,486.
Re.&soning by analogy, 467.
Befinelllf'Dt of maDDers, 8Wieeptibl.
lity of, by what produced, 868,
669.
Reflecting faculties, •hat, 11S, 466.
Modeso(their activity,497, 11 «fl•
Regret, feeling of, what, 298.
Reid, Dr Thomas, trests. of Deldre
of Power, 139, and Deslre of Ea.
teem, 250. Maintains the exiet.
ence of the moral~en~e, litH, 303.
On the external een-, 368. His
answer to Berkeley'• argument
about evidence of existence, 484.
Hie Cauaallty not large, 481.
- John, thief, secretive cbarac.
ter of, 19~.
Digitized by Google
700 lSDEX.
Relative augge.tion of Dr Brown,
.as.
Religion, natural, the eifect of Vtl-
neraLion, 176, ISS.
Religious f'anatidam, the eifec:t of
excited Wonder, SIS.
- - - insanity, 284., 302.
- - - illltitutions, their eft'ec:te
on the character of nations, 604..
Remorse ca~ by Conaclentious-
nees, 297. Does not always pun.
ish criminals, ib. 298.
Rennell on the eft'ec:ta of injuriee of
the brain, m.
Repentance, the effect ofConaclen-
tiousneea, m.
Resemblance and difference, pen:ep-
tion o~ SW, 846, 468.
Reserve ofcharacter, whence, 198.
Reeietance, &culty of, S98. -See
WftgAI.,
Reapec:t and deference, feellnr of,
produced by Veneration, 1'16,
tSO.
B.eepiratory nerves, 6S.
Revelatlun, 277.
ReJ11olds, Sir Joshua, his impres-
sions on seeing Raphael's pictures,
679.
B.obeepierre'e Benevolence defl.
clent, 168.
Roget, Dr, supposes the functions
of the brain to be etlll incompre-
hensible, .f.CJ.
Rope-dancers manifest strongly thll
&culty of Concentrativenees, 160.
Roecoe, 469.
Roslni's organ of Tune, 4311.
Ross, Ann, cue of, 199.
-.- Captain, on the nutation of
development, 90.
Rotherbam, John, murderer, 176,
198.
Roughneaa and smootbne&'l, percep.
tion of, 888.
Rousaeau, J, J,, deniea the allCial
nature of man, 166.
- - - J. B., engraving of m.
bead, shewing Ideality large, SSO.
Dilleased excitement of that orpn
in him, S31.
Rush, Dr, on partial idiocy, 16, 17.
On tendency to tbet\, 218. Cues
ofineanity from, 128.
Sagittal suture oftbe ekull, 81.
Saints, their organs of Veneration
repreeented large, 278.
Sandwich Islanders, account oftheir
cbarecter and beads, 617. En-
graving oft.be ekull of one, ib.
Sanguine temperament, how dietin.
guiebable, st. Its effects, S3.
Causeof, according to Dr Thomas,
101. Conduces to refinement,
669.
Sarcasm, satire and Invective sharp-
ened by Destructiveness, 172.
Satire, produced by Deetructiveneas
and Wit, 172, SSS.
Savages have generally a large or-
gan of PbU&progenltivene&~, 130.
Their rompreasion of the lnf'ant
bead, 608.
Scepticism, by what caueed, 296.
Scluen'berger, painter, his powerful
faculty of Locality, 414.
Scheidler, a companion of Dr Gall,
....
Scientific men, their perceptive of.
ten larger than their reflecting
organs, SSS, 884.
Seolding women, voices of, 441.
Scots have generally amall Indivi.
duality, 884.
Scott, Sir Walter, hie description of
the New Hollanders, 86. His de-
~~eriptlon of King Robert Bruce's
vengeance on Cormac Doll, 16'1'.
Recognlae!l several phrenological
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 701
flaeulties, ib. His account of the
aec:retive character of Napoleon
and Louis XI., 193. His deJi.
neation of Cormae DoU's Secre-
tiveness, 200. His I mit.ation
large. 866. On wpematural per-
sonages, 313. His Wollder large,
817. His Individuality and Even-
tuality large, SS., 481. His large
Locality and picturial description
of ecenery, 416. His retentive
memory, IH6.
Scott, Mr William, on Amativeneea,
120. On PhUoprogenitinneea,
116. On Adhesiveness, US. On
Secretiveneea, 193. On humour,
196. On the genius and cerebral
development of Raphael, 211. On
the functions nf t.he organ of Wit,
346. His theory of aeting, 856.
On Mualc, '39. On Comparison,
.&66. On the arrangemmt of the
cerebral orpna, AM.
-- murderer, ominous dreama ot;
&11.
Scripture much addrelwed t.o the fa-
culty ofComparison, -'68.
Sculpture, talent for, from ,what fa-
culties ariring, 112, st9, 868, .sao.
Ses, love of the, in landsmen, gene.
rally caullt!d by large organa of
Wonder, 816.
Selwiclrnesa, Mr Simpson's views of
ita probable cause, 898.
Second sight, whence arialng, stl.
Secretaries, Eventuality eaaential
to, .sa.
Becretiveneea, one of the propensi-
ties, nature and objects of it, 191.
Ita abuaea, 19', 196. An tnp.
dlent in ~. 196. Stronger
in the English and Italians than
in the French, 191. Givea the
power of repreasing t.he outward
exprelllion of pain, 199. Illualra..
tion ot; from Sir W. Scott, 200.
Its eft'ecta on the style c.f authors,
ib. Prompts generals tu employ
stratagems, 201. Not admi\ted
by metaphysicians, 202.
SecreUnnesa, organ ot; ita situa-
tion, 190. History of its disco-
very, ib. Large in actol'll and ar-
tiste, 197. Large in thieves, 198.
Ita situation in the heads of the
lower animals, 101. Ita disease,
lb. Engravings of two skulls, in
which it Is large and small, tot.
Sedgewick, Mr, his ·essay on the
compression ot the infant head by
barbarous nations, 601.
Self-Esteem, one of the inferior sen.
timenta, uses ot; ISS. Its abusetl,
1M. Gives rile to egotism, 186.
Supposed by some phrenologists
to be the origin of the feeling of
individual personality, 1ST. Ad.
mitted by Reid, Stewart, and
Brown, 139.
- - organ of, ita situation, 181.
Hiatory of ita discovery, lSI.
Cues illustrative ot; 181. En-
gravings of two heads in which it
Is large and moderate, 283. Its
deficiency prediapolles to humili-
ty, 134.. Its physiognomy, 189.
Posaesllt!d by the luwer anlmala,
UO. Ita disease, 2U. Gene-
rally larger in men than in wo-
men, 143.
Selfishness, by what produced, 211,
2!W, 266.
Sensation, what, ..S7. Nerves ut;
69, 61.
Senses, external, their power in pro-
portion to the size uf t.heir organs,
27-tt. Their functions, 869. Er.
roneous opinions that all ideas
come into the mind through them,
&c. ib. Do not form ldflls, 368,
Digitized by Google
702 INDEX.
S6l. :Mode ofucertainiag Ute li-
mits of their fuDCtiona, 36&. Ef-
feete of their dt.ue, 86'7· Why
they, though double, perceive M-
gl6 lmpretlllion1, 368. The mind
not eonacloua of the exlatenee of
their organs, S70. DrSpurzbelm's
opinion that they have OM com-
mon cerebral organ, 371. Improv-
able by exerclae, 379. Feeling,
S71. Tute, S'Jl&. s-n,ib. Hear-
ing, S7S. Sight, S76.
Sentiment, what, US, 130.
Sentiments common to man and
the lower animal., ISl-180. Su-
perior, or proper to maa, 160-
sa&. Modell of t.heir activity,
...
Servants, choice ~ by the ald uf
Phrenology, 118, 180, 496, 591.
Poin• to be attended to in cbOOI-
ing t.bealt on.
Sexual feeling orgiDatellIn Amative-
nns, 118.
Shabpeare, an accurate observer of
human nature, 41. His Ideality,
8ll6. Engraving ofhia bead, 380.
Hill large Imitation, S66 ; and
Woader, S17. Hla head largl-,
66S. Suppl*ld cau11e of his ge-
niu., 170. His greatn-, 6d.
- - Ulustrations of Phrenology
from, 12, 191, 267, 481, 468.
Sheep, their Destructiveness defl.
"cient, 188. Origin of their nl&c-
tory nerves, liM.
Sheridan, Mr H. Wataon's analysis
of his wit, 849, SU. Hla In£.
viduality large, 384, 4.27. En.
graving of his profile, 426. Hie
Eventuality large, 4t;. Speci-
men of his eompOiition, ib.
Sight, sense of, acute in proportion
to the lize of ita oqpne, S8. Er-
roneous theory of Its rectiftcation
b.r touch, 861, 9e2, 876. Tbe me-
mory and judgment of forma and
colours independent of its exllt-
ence or acutenea, S86, SOD, •ts.
Simple auggestlon of Dr Thomas
Brown,~
Simpson, Mr James, _on Weight
and Equilibrium, SK. On Tl-,
4M. Hie report of the cue of
Mia S. L. &04.
Sizlsen, their organa of Tune and
Imitation, 4oS8, ~.
Sinus, frontal-See Ff'OitltiJ .....
Sin and form, ideas of, difFereot,
sst.
Size of. an orpn. ,..;. ,..W.., a
meuure of power in ita fUndioo,
18, ... E6cta ot; mocWled by
temperament and dieeue, 31, M.
How ucert:alned, 89, 91, ,.._ Ita
eft"ect on the manifestation of the
filculty' 661, ., MJ•
- one of tile perceptive Jitcultlel,
probably connected with the pow-
er of perceivlng distance, 1111d the
talent for perspective, 390. IJ.
lWitrative cases ot; ib. S9I, sn.
- organ of, ita existenoe inferred
by Dr Spurzheim, by re&I<IDiDg,
seo. I&e mtuation, ib.
Sbtiug, talent for, S9s.
8tull, never euppoNd to be the
cause ofdUferent talents, ... A.c-
eommodatee itself to the size and
form of the brain, 77,79, ,..,_ Ita
anatomy, 78. Its plates near.
ly parallel, 79. EfFects of dileue ·
and old age upon itl lltnleture,
80. Its plates not parallel in
beads of aome animala, 171. E£.
fects of temperament on ita tex.
ture, 610.
8. L, Hilll, eurioua caR of spectral
illusions, 396, A()4.
Sleep proves the c:oDDUioo of the
Digitized by Google
..
INDEX. 708
mind with the brain, 10. Mr A.
Carmichael's theory of, 511.
Sloaae, Mr, case of inability to dir.
tinguish colours, 403, 499. His
Tune 1!11X18ll, 4>46.
Slynees, arises from Sec:retiveneea,
191.
Smell, eense of, 27, S7t.
Smellie's account of the New Hol-
landers, CI09.
Smith, Dr Adam, on Self-Esteem,
1M. On virtue, 290. On Won-
der and Surprise, S19. Displays
great Causality, 481. On Sym-
pathy, 568, s.u. Explanation of
two cases stated by him, 588,
589.
-SirJ,E.,his organ ofLanguage
large, 461; and Causality mode-
rate, 481.
- Sir William, his Acquisltlve..
ness .larp, 106.
Smoothness and roughness, percep-
tion of, 888.
8oclal state natural to man, 164.
Society, uses of Benevolence in,
164.
Socrates had no genius for aculpture,
117. His great forehead, 181,
481. His Demon, sot. Admit-
ted a Deity, 486.
SoU and climate, eft'ect of, on the
character ofnations, 60S.
Soldiers, their Combativeness, 160.
Manual and platoon exereiae of,
4SS.
- Britllh aad French, differ-
euce of their cbaraeter, t87.
Somnambulism produced by animll1
magnetism, eft'eets of, 611.
Soul unknown but in connexioa with
the brain, 111.-See Mirtd.
Spaniardlo, Ignorance and eupenti-
tlon of the, 181.
Sparrowa, an example of their Be-
llevolence, 273.
Spectral illuslonL-See Yifio!N.
Speculative minda, 478.
Speech, faculty of, no& the reeult of
the sense of hearing, S74..-8ee
~·
Spinal marrow, anatomy and func-
tions of, 60. Consists of three
columna, ib.
Spurzheim, Dr J, G., birth of, 51·
AMociated with Dr Gall, ib. His
labours, 5.1. His division of the
facultiea, 113. On Inhabltive-
nees, 1341 lfo6. His visit to Mr
Milne's workshop in Edinburgh,
H3. On Consclentloueuesa, 169.
His analysis of Veneration, 184..
On Firmness, 286. His analysla
of Ideality, St.S. On the percep-
tion ofresemblance and dlft'erence,
346. On the faculty of Wit. M7.
On the !'ause of.-.,. impressions
being communicated to the mind
by douiM organs of een-, 369.
On the faculty uf Hope, S04.
On Marvellousne~~, S1S, Sl7;
Form, 887 4 Locality, 416'; Even-
tuality, m ; Language, ..s.s ;
Comparison, 473; Causality, 471!-
0n the pusiona of dilldren, .uo.
His merits and dlacoveries, 667.
Stammering, 4&!.
Standard ofTute, 661.
Statica, S9S.
Stealing prompted by SecretlveneM
and Acquilitiveoess, 198, 206, 107,
112.
Sterne, Mr H. Watson's analysis of
the wit of Ilia Sentimental J OU1'-
ney, 347, S6t. His large Form,
989.
Stevenaon, Mr, engineer, W. organ
of Weight large,_394.
Stewart, .Mr Dugald, on habit, S8,
&SS. On variety ofcharacter, 40.
His style deficient in Concentra-
tivenesa, 145. On the desire of
Digitized by Google
INDEX.
wealth, toS. On deaire olpower,
t39. On delire of esteem, 160.
Admits a moral eenae, t91, 303.
On Tute, SSt. On Beauty, 333.
On Vision, S77• On the inabili-
ty ofsome men to distinguiah co-
lours, S99. Hill style of language,
~f.9. His Causality not great,
481. Hill theory of the origin of
the pleasure derived from trage-
dy, 491. On Conception, 601.
On Imagination, 618. On Tute,
M6. On the difference of the ta-
lents and dispositions of nations,
CIOO. Admits more faculties than
the phrenologists, 624.
Stomach, supposed by Van Hebuont
to be the seat of the soul, SO.
Stra~ military, prompted by
Secretiveness, 201.
Street, Mary, 209.
StubbomDess, the e1f«t of large
Firmness, 285.
Style of authon how aflected by
their predominant faculties, '1.2,
449 ' by their Secretiveneu, too ;
Ideality, 387; Concentrativeness
and Eventuality, 145, 420, 480;
and Language, Ul, 468.
Sublime, feeling of the, 880, 886.
Successive appearance of the facul.
ties, a proof of the plurality of ce-
rebral organs, 16.
Sudden reaentment of Mr Stewart
and Dr Reid, 159.
Suicide, predisposition to, by what
caUied, t47, 306.
Sulcldes, theircerebraldevelopam1t,
167.
Supernatural events, belief iu, pro-
duced by the eentiment of Won•
der, SIS, S17.
Supematurality, Sl7.-See Wor!Mr.
Superstition, by what caused, 176,
279, t82.
Surgeons, eminent operative, have
large Constructiven-, 224.
Surprise and Wonder, Dr Adam
Smith on, 819.
Sutures of the . skull, what, 78.
Slightly interrupt its para11eli.sm,
80.
Swallows, Constructiveness of, 226.
Benevolence of, 272. Migratinn
of, 419.
Swedenborg'a beliefin supernatural
revelation to himae~ SlO.
Swif\'s Individuality and Eventua-
lity large, ~1. His powerful
writings, 668.
Swiss skull, engraving of, ens.
Swooning, proves the connexion of
the mind with the brain, 10. ~
Sympathy, analys~ of, 646.
Tacitus, his style characterized by
Concentrativeneas, 14.5. His de.
eeription of the Gauls and Ger- ,
mana, 604.
Tact, confened by Secretiven-,
le3.
Tailors, skilful, have large Construc-
tiveness, 224.
Talents, natural diversity of, 61, 67.
Tuso'a Ideality very lut!e. 3U.
Believed that he saw and con-
versed with apirits, 809. Portrait
of, shewing Ideality and Wonder
large, 313. His Locality large,
416.
Tute, eenae of, 872.
- correct, produced by Love of
Approbation and Idee.lity, 819.
--in colouring, 413.
-- analysis of 656. How auacep-
tible of cultivation, 661. Stand-
ard of, ib.
Teachers, qualifications ·of succesa-
ful, 480, 48& Effects of amallneu
of heads of, 666.
Digitized by Google
INDEX. 705
Temperaments iDcUcate t.o a certain
extent the constitutional quaHties
of the brain, S2, 669. Deacrlp..
tion and supposed origin of the
dUferent, ib. Modify the effects
of Size, ib. Are seldom found
pure, l 01. Dr Thomas' theory
o~ ib. Their effects on internal
activity of the filculties, 60].
Nervous and sanguine, conduce t.o
refinement, 669. Their effects on
the texture of the skull, 620.
Temporal muscles, not the cause of
narrow heads, 118. Present a
difficulty in observing the size of
the organa of Conatructiveneaa
~d Acquisitiveness, ib.
Tennant, Mr, poet, evinces the sen-
timent of Wonder, S17. His or-
gan of Colouring large, 411; and
that of Locality deficient, 416.
Tent.orlum, what, 76, 117.
Tenna uaed t.o denote the gradations
ofsize in dl.lferent cerebralorgaus,
95.
Thet\ prompted by Secretiveness
and Acquisitiveness, 198,106,107,
212.
Thomas, Dr, his theory of the tem-
peraments, 101.
Thomson'• Seuons verbose, 4.S2.
Thoracic temperament, 101.
Thurtell, John, murderer, 287. His
large head, 666.
Tiberius, his Benevolence small,
286.
Tillotson, an observer ofhuman na-
ture, 41.
Time, one of the intellectual facul-
ties, ~U. Ita function, ib. Es.
sential t.o muaic and versification,
ib. Mr Simpson on, lb. Neces-
sary to accurate dancers, 436.
- power of conceiving, '34, 436.
May be marked to the eye, 436.
Lord Kames on, 438.
Titles, raDk and power, respect far,
produced by Veneration, 281.
Tone of voice, relation between it
and cerebral development, 4~.
Tories have generally larger organs
ofVeneration than Whigs, 281.
Touch or Feeling, sense o~ 371.
Tragedy, pleasure arising from see-
ing a mournful, whence, 490, 491.
Tragic actors, Ideality neceesary to,
3SO.
Tfl\ian's Benevolence large, 166.
Trapbols, in the novel, a personifi-
cation ofAcquisitiveness, 206.
Travellers, eminent, their large Lo-
cality, 416.
Truth, aentiment of, arises from
Conscientiousness, 196.
Tucker, Mr Robert, case of inabili-
ty to distinguish colours, 400.
Tulpius on the structure of the
brain, 62.
Tune, one of the intellectual facul-
ties, 486. An ingredient in ge.
nius for music, 438, Mr ScoWs
views of, 439.
-- organ of, hlst.ory of ita dilco-
very, 436. Its appearance and
form, 437. Large in musicians,
4S8. Ita effects iD combinatiorr,
U2, 44S, 677· Case of ita dis.
ease, lb. Different appearance of
the skulls of singing and mute
birds, u.s.
Tungusians hne large Philoproge-
nitiveness, 129.
Turks, their Secretiveness, 269.
Tycho Bnu:he's Locality large, 41&.
Ucelll, Professor, of Plorence, a
phrenologist, 629.
Unaaimity ofJuries, 62&.
Uncle Toby,character of, a personi-
fication of CombatlYeness, Bene.
volence, and Integrity, 158.
Yy
Digitized by Google
706 INDEX.
Umques, puaion for, whenc:e, 211,
2S8.
Unterbergea, painter, hie COIIstruc-
tiven- large, HO.
Van Belmont placed the intellect
in the stomach, 60.
Vanity, an abuee·of Love of Appro-
bation, 1.._
Variety of character, 40, 61, 67,
4'79.
VaucauiOil'a Conatructiveneae, 2tG.
Veneration, one or the superior sen-
timents, functions of; 176. The
aourc:e of natural religion, 178,
ISS. Not generally admitted by
metaphyliclans, 179. Ita objects
in the present world, taO. Ita
abuses, 181. Effecta of its defi.
ciency, 182.
- - organ of, ita situation, 174.
Engravings of two skulls in which
it is large and small, 274. His-
tory of its discovery, 176. Its
natural language, 283. General-
ly larger in women thau In men,
184. Its disease, 284.
Verbosity ofatyle produced by pre-
dominant Language, 461.
Venlftcatlon, faculty of Time essen.
tial to, 4M.
Verulana Gracilis, a Roman lady of
great courage, 169.
Vienna, veneration of the inhabi-
tants 0~ 178.
Vimont., Mons., on Comparative
Phrenology, J8"-
Virtue, different theories of, given
by the metaphysicians, t89.
Viscera, ·not the organs of any fa.
culties, '"-
Vision-See Sight.
Visions and GhOIIts, belief in, and
liability to see, arise from these~­
timeat of Wonder, 809, Sll. Sub-
ject ~ atill attended with eonli-
derable diftl.culty, 920, S2t. Casea
of, 309, 310, S!O, aos, el MJ· Bow
accounted for, 601.
Voice, connexion between ita duill-
neas and the cerebral develo1,_
ment, 440.
Voltaire's face small and brain large,
46. HiB organ of Language large,
-661. HiB forehead, 462. Be-
lieved in the exiatence 'ot God,
486.
'
Walah, Patrick, a maniac, his Com.
baliveneea and Deatruct.i.veness
very large, 176.
Washington, 67"-
Water in the head, 166.
Watson, Mr Hewett, his analym of
the faculty of Wit, 84'1. On the
writings of Sheridan and Pope,
•20, ta01e. On Compariaon, 470·
Watts, Dr, his explanation of Me-
mory, 616.
Wealth, desire o~ 203, 20tL
Weight, a perceptive faculty, SOS.
Necessary to harp-playing, 438.
- - organ of, ita emtenc:e pro-
bable a priori, S93. Large in en-
gineers, &c., ib. 39"- Supposed
by ~lr Simpson to be the organ
of the instinct of Equilibrium,
396. Cues of ita diaease, lb. Sir
George Macke11zie'll views of,
898.
Welah, Rev. David, on the indivisi-
bility of the mind, lot. Hie
views uf the faculty of Concen-
trativenees, 136.
Whales have larger braina than men,
100.
Whewell, Mr,ofCambridge, hia or.
gan of Weight large, 304.
WhiKS hue geBerally small• or.
Digitized by Gooo[e
- -- - a. . ------·
INDEX. 707
gana of Veneration than Tories,
283.
Whist., excellent players at., have
large Individuality and Eventua.
lity, 384.. ~
WilfWne11 ~d pet~e11 in chil-
dren an abuse of Selt-Eat.eem,
234.
Willde, Mr David, painter, his or-
gana of Colouring and Cauaality
large, 403, 481.
Will does not rule the propensities
and llelltimenta, ~89 ; but ~ in-
directly excite them, 496. Con-
stituttd by the intelleetual facut.
ties, 491. FirmnetiS sometimes
mistaken for, 2116.
Williams, J. F. painter, hie Con-
structivenee~and Colouring large,
214,403.
Wine, effects of; on the mind, 117,
!13.
Wit, difficulty ofits definition, !MO.
Does not necessarily excite laugh-
ter, Sftl. Instances of this, ib.
Mr Scott's analysis o~ Ml;. Mr
H. Watson's analyaia of, S41.
-- or Mirthfulness, one of the fa-
culties, situation of the organ of,
MO. Functions o~ 34ft. Ita ef-
fects in combination, sas Leads
to aatire and epigrams, S63.
Wollaston's theory of virtue, 289.
Women are more largely endowed
with Phlloprogenitivene1111 than
men, Jlt8. An illustration of this
fact, ib. Have generally Adhe.
siveneas large, U2. Their Com.
bativeneas, Deetructiveneaa, and
Sell-Esteem not 10 large as those
of men, 164, 1&<1, ~~ Their Ve-
neration larger, 184. Their eo-
louring generally larger, 413.
Their Locality smaller, ft18.
Their heads smaller and voices
shriller than thoee of males, ..0,
MS.
Wonder or Marvellouaness, one of
the sentiments, Dr Spurzheim's
views of; 313. Gives a longing
for novelty, 316. Displayed by
the French, Dr J ohnaon, Dr
Chalmers, &c. 316. Admitted by
Dr Adam Smith and Dr Thomas
Brown, 319. Gives rile to belief
in apparitions, ib. 320. Is the
probable origin of second sight,
321.
- - organ of, ita situation, sot,
History of ita diaeovery, 311.
Worda, memory of, 446. Preceded
by feelings and cenceptions, 461.
Word~worth, the poet, strongly ma-
n.ifeata Phlloprogenit.ivenee~, 126.
Hie Causality large, 481. Errors
of tillite in hie poetry, 658.
Wren, Sir Christopher, Construe-
tivenell of, 226.
Writing, art of, ft52.
Wurmser, General, Ilia Combative-
Dell very large, 160. Engraving
ofhia ekull, 161. ,
l~INIS.
Digitized by Google
•
..
NEILL .. CO., PRINTERS.
Digitized by Google
