{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__raphael___royal_book_of_dreams.pdf","mytitle":"Royal Book Of Dreams","mylang":"de"}
·~---------------------------.~
WBICB WABllUB,.D IN f'BB BAR'l'B DURING BBYBRAL CBN'l'URIBB.
CORTAIIIIIIO
O!IE TBoVSA!fD k 'l'WBN'l'i·POVR ORACLES,
oa,
ay A CUIIIOVa, YaT P811P8CTLY PACIL8 AliD 8UY IIIITBOD, 'fOlD OP ALL
AaaTaun OR DIPPICVLT CALCULATIOJia; WB8li&BY ANT Pltli80N
OP OIIDIRAII~ CAPACITY MAT DIICO't'llll TROIII IBCR&TI
OP PAT&, WHICH TB& Ulfl't'&IIIAL PUT OP ALL
X ATIONI, I !I &Y&&T .AG& AlfD CLtlll•, HAl
ADilROWLIIDOIID TO II& POIIT&IIDBD BY
Dli&Alll AIID ROCTUIIIIAL 't'IIIOJIS,
LONDON:
EFFINGHAl\1 WILSON, ROYAL EXCHANGE.
I 30 • •
9"'cd .,Coogle
o'o'' edbyGoogle
TO
PHILIP JOHN MILES, EsQ., M.P.
UID
l'tOPili!TO& OP TH£ MANSION WRUI! TR£ NANOSCAIPT HlliEAnER
T&£AT£D Of WAS fiRST DIICOV£R£D,
Til II
SIN.GULAR BUT AUTHENTIC TRANSCRIPT,
fROM A COIUOOS RELIC OF TROll£ ANCIENT SUPERSTITIONS
WHICH IN FO&NBR TINES WERE 80 ~NTHUSLUTICALLY
PURSUED BY ALL CLASSES Of SOCIETY;
IS RBSPBCTPULLY DEDICATED,
BY
"THE ASTROLOGER OP THE NINETEENTH CENTURY,"
London,
April, 1880.
" 11 1o, 1 IDe!, rfclll ...s Judlclouo, _, cor<frollr aDclp•Uitlr to ""•- a l><luflu
oapemataral .....,,.,,; bat It will be lone bofon I become eltber 10 wloo or oo bold u lo
mote IDJ oach anqaall4ed declaratloo. I lla DOt weak eDOGJb to lma&1ae mJoelf IW"·
I'Olloded bJ qrirUI aud ,.,..,.,..,, or jootliDg through a crowd of q><elrtl.u I walk the
otreo11; DOltber do I pYa •"""- 1o all tbe Idle taleo of aDOleat - · 01 frlllaleoed
cblldnn toacblac oach matten; but .me. I katbe the lllr, .... oee tbe 11'1111 rrow
aDder '"' feet, ,.....,.., bat feel that H1 wbo II•"' me power to lloMll tbe ..,,, or """"
..,., apon tbo otA<r, boo aloo the power 1o - · for ,...W ,..,.,..,, oach ......., and
.,..., u H•ID blo- ~~~aroee It; aud which, 111,....., <(joct, are not more lncom-
preheoolble ID •IIIIa tbe....,....,.,#«U, wlddl we_, cloy trl-arlalng from
IIDkllowa ca-l
"Plr.UDiop...., _, pon, aud In the might of their UltleDeoo, ud the orlldltloo of their
lpon.D", dtYelop ucl dllclole, arsue aod ~; '*'• wbeD tbe liP wbo tDeen at tbe
.,._biUI)' of ,,_,. wUl oaplala 1o me lloe - of aunc-aud gra'llladon, wAr
tAl ..,..... l>lotol, .,A, tAl tu.. rib •~d,Jft>, or wAr IAI U,/ol 1Ailwl (ell"ecto perceptible
bJ all men), tA~ ..Ull...,_U lA• juliet •IAII.,.....,.,Ur-tben wW I jointbonnko or
the locndaloaa."
THEODORE HOOK.
THE ROYAL BOOK OF DREAMS.
A BRIEF ACCOUNT OF THE SINGULAR MANNER IN
WHICH THE MANUSCRIPT WAS DISCOVERED.
IT was towards the latter part of the summer of 182-, that
I had occasion to traverse through the county of Somerset,upon
a tour, partly of pleasure, and partly for scientific purposes.
While sojourning for a few days in the vicinity of Bristol, I
resolved to visit some of its most picturesque scenery; and,
accordingly, I pursued my track along the western side of the
river Avon, determined to trace once more the scenes of my
youth, especially the extensive domains of the ancient manor
hard by (denominated" the manor of Abbot's Leigh"), which,
independent of the recollections imprinted on my mind, as
being the chief theatre of my youthful " enactions," I well knew
contained many rich objects ofantiquarian research, well worthy
the notice ofthe pedestrian who is attached to the memory and
usages of the '' olden time." To me, I need scarcely add, the
recollections the well-known scenery inspired, were fraught
with the intensest interest. ·
I had spent the greater part of a fine summer's day in ram-
bling through the rich foliaged woods that skirt the river which
flows through this ancient and wealthy city, admiring, with
all that rapture which a lover of nature's magnificence invari·
ably posselllles, the multiplicity of natural curiosities that every
B
I fl:flt lto»al IJoot of Jlreamt
where surrounded me: such as the terrific, jutting, and craggy
" Rocks of St. Vincent." whose frowning precipices reared op-
posite to me their gigantic heads aloft. in silent grandeur, The
deep g~s, atmost impervious to the noon-day sun, rendered
more solitary still by the hoarse dashings and murmurings of
the stream, which, far beneath me, rushed rapidly up the river
as the tide approached-no unapt emblem, as I mentally ob-
served, of the noisy and boisterous train of parasites ,ttendant
upon mortals, when, perchance, the tide of fortune flows on
briskly to the "flood" of wealth and honours. Moralizing thus,
and tired of even the " goodly scenery" which surrounded me
(so fickle, alas! are our transitory enjoyments), I had mecha-
nically seated myself in a solitary spot, through which my path
Jay, and which, I may venture to affirm, was as secluded from
the busy haunts of man, and from the turmoil of all those popu-
lar objects inseparable from cities, as if I had been actually
traversing a lonely desert in foreign parts, when I was fore-
warned by the unusual stillness of the atmosphere, and cer-
tain appearances in the clouds overhead, that a storm was
approaching.
I am one of those "weather-wise" pedestrians who pique
myself upon a knowledge of the element wherein we breathe,
and which is the great alembic of those changes so frequently
happening, but of which so few have forewarning. Having, year
after year, pursued what I may be bold to term a rationally phi-
losophical system of elementary philosophy, known but to few,
and to those only who have the essence of patience in their re-
searches, I have ever found this part of my worldly wisdom
peculiarly useful; and so it proved to be in this instance, for it
was not long ere I heard the low muttering of the distant thun•
der, the sure precursor of the elementary strife so usual at this
period of the year. Gathering up therefore, my store of pedes-
trian "needfuls," I began to quicken my pace, being but poorly
provided for the chance of a two-miles' watk throughthe pelting
I
rain. aueb.being the distaDce of the village of Leiib, the JleaN8t
possible resort fOr shelter or refreshment.. I had.an addNonal
allurement, however, to prefer this village beyond othet plaeea,
even bad they been more adjacent, as I k.Dew I should spend
an evening of (to me) more than usual interest, at the 10IiW'y
inn of the " George," where I expected to hear various k!geods
of'' times long gone by" from " mine host" (a right.merry and
sociable epitome of ancient customs). aad the villagers, which
would, as I deemed, amply repay me iOr uy.little privatiODB of
comfort I might endure in the adventure•. Nor were 18¥ expeo-
tations doomed to be disappointed, as the sequel will prove.
Behold me then, courteous reader, after having first satisfied
the cravings ofhunger, from the copiousstores of "minehost's"
well-stocked larder, whi~ on this occasion (perhaps owing te
the increased keenness of my appetite, after a fast of several
hours in duration) seemed to me to have been prepared,writh
no slight knowledge of '' gastronomic akill,.. seated ir.a the old-
fashioned, and in truth somewhat sombre, apartment of the
"George," which, however, was the best the only inn in the YH-
Jage could furnish; bewre a cheerful fire.of blazing logs, enjo:J~o
ing the gratefulness of warmth .and rest after fatigue; for the
evening, although it was summer~was more than usually.homi11,
damp, and cbilly. There I sat, listening tQ the tude paltering
of the rain against the casements, the sighing and .wltislling of
the wind amongst the creaking old elm-treesthat surroundedthe
house, and other effects of tbe tempestuous elements; fur my
prognostications of a storm, which, as before hinted, are seldom
&llacious, had, in this instance, been the forerunners of a per-
fect hurricane, accompanied by tonents, instead of summer
showers, so that I felt more than usually gratified at my having
obtained such a convenient shelter. Behold me then, gentle
reader, "in thy mind's eye," chatting cheerfully over a bottle of
rul" venerable old Port," with " mine host" and !IUDdry fre.
quenters of his chary old mansion, in the following manne.r.
B2
-"And so, maybe, axing your honour's pardon,'' ejaculated an
honest rustic, in the west-country dialect, "your honour may a
time back, when you was in our part of the country, have seen
the ould court-house, which stood down the lane yonder; and,
ifso, your honour will, I reckon on't, be mightily vexed to hear
tell how our new lord ofthe 'state has had it pulled down to the
ground, all but a few of the ould walls, a few harvests ago.- I
have heard 'em say how that many wondt>rful and strange sights
were once seen about the place, after dark; and I have myself
hearde them tell a power of wild tales about it, frightful enow,
but I 'spose the like of your honour does not put faythe in
ghosts?"-
Here, thought I, is the very place I am in search of, the iden~
tical thing I want. A haunted house, and, no doubt, some
marvellous legend of "deep and awful interest," worth the
recording.
"Why, as yet,'' replied I, to my rustic interrogator, "I have
not been able, during my short stay in the west, to spare the
requisite time sufficient for exploring the antiquities of the man-
sion you speak of. I remember, however, some years back,
having wandered over its precincts, and having also minutely
inspected its interior. But do I understand you rightly, when
you tell me the manor house is entirely demolished ?''-
"No, sir," reJiied ht>, "not entirely;" and mine host, who
was really an intelligent man, and had some partiality for anti-
quities, besides being the oracle of the village, replied, breaking
in upon the conversation (to the no smalldispleasure of the rus-
tic)," I am much at a loss to know the reason why the 'squire'
has left the old weather-beaten gable, at the western end, still
standing, roofless and exposed to the effects of the elements,
which will, of course,in a few years, level it to the ground with
the rest, even without our 'squire's permission. It is, if I recol-
lect aright, standing as high all the second chamber, a curiona
monument ofancient ruins amidst modem finery, butill suitiniJ
I
(in my mind) with the fine plantations, fish-ponds, and all the
other famous contrivances of its rich and splendid owner, that
surround it on every side.. But they tell me he is bound by an
old charter to keep it as it is; and there is, moreover, a curious
story gQing about of his reasons for so doing, but with what
share of truth I am at a loss to guess. Perhaps you have not
beard how, that while one of his labourers was digging undet
the foundations of the old Roman.Catholic Chapel, joining the
court-house, it was his good luck to discover, at a great depth
under the soil, a great curiosity."-
" Indeed!" replied I. •' Some ancient crock, I suppose,
filled to the brim with good old gold, or rare old coins!"-
•• No, Sir," he answered, "it was o.ot exactly that, certainly,
which the man hit on, in the nick of time (for it so happened,
you must know, that the overseer of these poor men was away
when it was found), but what, perhaps, a few persons, even in
our unbelieving days, may count of value, namely, an old,
worm-eaten, oaken coffer, containing, among sundry Popish.
relics, a battered silver crucifix, a le!lden breastplate, with
many uncouth crosses and signs upon it; and aQ old, soiled,
discoloured, and partly-defaced parchment volume."-
At the mere mention of the Iutter, I at once saw the nee~
sity of using some precaution, lest I should either lose sight
of the precious relic, or be duped into paying perhaps quadru-
ple its value, even to an antiquary, as I well knew the con.
sciences ofcertain characters were not over scrupulous. How-
ever, after some further information, I adroitly turned the
conversation to another subject ; and, in the course of the
evening, the treat of a few bottles of wine put me in posse&•
aion of the name, residence, and character of the person who
found the chest or coffer; and, on the following morning, the
reader may rest assured, I lost no time in bartering sundry
pieces ofgold, with his most gracious majesty's impress upon
them, for what, to me, was a treasure ·far more. precious, but
8 3
«teltovallloot of •mat.
to the rustic was but, u he afterwards confessed, " a parcel
of ould worm-holed lumber, scarcely worth houseroom :" _.
mean, the coft'er and its curious manuscript; as for the cru-
cifix, he would not part with it on any t rms, being himself
of the Catholic pel'lluasion, which accounted for his refusal of
a coin, which persons in his station of life rarely tum their
eyes from.
It was, if I remember distinctly (for I have no memorandum
of the date), some eight or ten years previous (accounting
from the year 182-), that I had in reality visited the mansion
where the manuscript which forms the substance of the follow-
ing pages was found. It was then a very ancient building,
aaid to have been erected as eacly as the sixteenth century.
This was evident, from the general outline of the mansion
itself, its adherence to the monastic style of architecture, ita
pointed gables, perpendicular roofS, coated with lead of an
immense .thickness, its massy architraves, ponderous friezes,
ornamented with a variety of sacred and grotesque emblems,
atrangely combined ; its castellated wide embrasures, turreted
clock-house, deep channeled windows, gothic oriels, and
many other indications, external and internal, of those times
of old, when the mitre and the crosier, the cross and the keys
of St. Peter, bore ample sway. And within; its lofty halls,
spacious apartments, rooms of state, tapestried chambers,
fretted and vaulted roof, richly-worked ceilings, polished oak
floors, and numerous heraldic feudal bearings, sculptured in
freestone, or carved in oak and ebony, bore out the assump-
tion. To these some later hand had (probably two centuries
later) appended the royal arms of England and France; indeed
it is still traditionally related, and in the village sacredly be-
lieved, that King Charles the Second, "the merry monarch,"
sojourned a night here, in rude disguise, in a secret closet,
while retreating from one of his unfortunate .battles with Crom-
well. This closet was not only shown at that time as a cu-
.,
riosity, but some few years afterwards, at a public sale in the
•illage, a block of wood was sold in chips at a high price, and
eagerly purchased; upon which, it was affirmed, his sacred but
unfortunate majesty that night rested from his fatiguing ffight
from his pursuers.
I remember well, when I was a youth, wandering over the
mansion, exploring, with boyish eagerness, the wonders of ita
stately chambers, filled with ponderous cabinets, gilded and
gorgeous to the sight, admiring, in silent ecstasy, the solemn
and gloomy grandeur of its lofty rooms, the imposing and
almost regal splendour of its gothic furniture, antique pof-
traits, suits of armour, and other appendages of these baronial
residences ; or perhaps viewing it of an evening, when I might
have said, with my favourite poet,-
'' The moon on the eaat oriel shone
Through slender shafts of shapeless atone,
By foliaged tracery combin'd I
Thou wouldst bave thought somt! fairy's hand,
'TwiJ.t poplars straight, the ozier wand
In many a freakish knot had twin'd,
Then fram'd a ~pell when the work waa done,
And chang'd the willow-wreaths to stone !''
Even to my youthful mind, these spectacles never failed to
throw an air of more than ordinary interest on the scene, bor-
dering on enchantment; which those of my readers, who have
visited the antique mansions offormer times, viewing them, as
I have often done, at such peculiar seasons, can well describe.
In addition to these, I may mention, that the mansion waa
surrounded by a noble park, thickly tenanted with game of
every kind, from the timid. fawn to the gay-plumaged phea-
sant; that its grounds contained a huge pond, wherein sported
at ease the natives ofthe aqueous element; marble basons (fed
by springs of great extent), containing " a store ofgolden and
8
silver fuhes," as the old deeds express it ; capacious and
roomy baths, old-fashioned and grotesque statues and orna-
ments; a noble carriage drive, over a smooth and verdant
lawn ; and gardens filled with rare horticultural curiositiesJ
I have been the more particular in th('Se recitals, as it may
r~cal to the memory of many of my readers, not only the re-
semblance of customs defunct, and days long since expired;
but may perchance, to some of them, raise up as it were the
vision or similitude of the dwelling described ; particularly as
nearly the same style of architecture existed in various parts of
:england, not many years back : and some few may percbanc:e
recollect having visited the identical spot before treated of,
from whence the " lords of the manor" exercised their feudal
sway, down to as late a period as the termination of the
f:ighteenth century.
To return, however, to the contents of the coffer.-The
leaden '' breast-plate," a.~ it was called by the rustics, proved
to be a charm or amulet worn for some magical purpose,
which of course I could not discover. The manuscript was the
great object of my research : it was a huge and uncouth-look-
ing parchment volume, rudely bound in wood, with leather
thongs, and enormous clasps, of what was once, no doubt,
highly polished steel; chased and ornamented with DEATB's
BEADS, SKULlS, CROIS BONES, SCYTHES, ARROWS, or
DARTS, and sundry Monkish emblems of mortality. Time
had, however, corroded these with its usual rust; and the
volume itself was al!IO so grievously discoloured, and the ink
wherewith it was written so &ded, that part thereofwas abS'>-
lutely illegible. It appeared, upon further observation relative
to tl1e formation of its penmanship, and the style of its ortho-
graphy, to have been written in the fifteenth century. .And, as
it was dii!Covered under tbe foundations of that part of the
edifice denominated. the Chapel, it was no doubt the labour of
aome secluded mystical monk or friar, who thus sought to be-
o'o'' edbyGoogle
0
guile the asperity of his devotions. Its execution as a work of
caligraphy was elaborate enough to authorize the belief that
years were requisite for its completion.
The curiosity which this volume itself had, from the veryfirst
mention of it at the inn, excited in my mind, I found amply
rewarded by a perusal of its very extraordinary contents, part
.whereof treated of" the arte magicke,'' ofthe ''invocations and
calls ofdemones," of"telesmes," " charmes," " enchantments,"
.and " the arte negromancye." But these were nearly all ille-
gible and imperfect, the greater part defaced entirely, as if tim~
itself had waged especial war with the ungodly lore they taught.
This, however, did not grieve me, for I have ever held such
superstitions as unlawful, and 111 .far remote from the J1111'e ~ei­
ence o.fthe 1tan 111 light is from darkneu; an.i my researchet
were soon gratified in a more pointed manner by my discover-
ing that one part ofthe manuscript contained an entire treatise
or part on a most interesting subject, and my joy was great
when I found this part to be perfectly legible, decipherable,
translateable, and, as bibliomanists term it, in "good preserva..
tion ;" the perusal of which at a subsequent period determined
me to submit its contents for public approbation at some future
season. It was entitled, moreover, par ezcellenu, I presume-
" Qt Jlltgal tiollt of JDrttmtt :
a mnbtllout anlJ fa»tfJefull enounlJtr
of N»lfJtt 1;1itioutt."
1 have preserved the orthography of the title entire, as it is
curious when compared with the elegant phraseology of the
present day. From this manuscript, so singularly preserved
for several ctmturies, it is that the following pages are compiled ;
and, making allowances for the expunging of obsolete words,
10
the alteration of similes now no longer to be understood, and
such like unavoidable differences (for were the MS. to be
printed in its original form, it would be useless to all but anti-
quarians), the transcript therefrom is as much like the original
as it could possibly be, consistent with the enlightened literature
of the nineteenth century. While, as an original work, I may
without fear of contradiction affirm, that nothing oftire kind lrtu
em' yet appeared; and, whether we regard its extreme simpli-
city (although the answers appear founded on the occult mys-
teries of figures); the quaint pointedness of its ORACLES;
or the extraordinary variety of its signs, which are upwards
of one thousand in number, I think I may be allowed to
term it A CURIOSITY UNIQUE OF ITS KIND, consequently
valuable, even to those who affect to deny the forewarnings or
presages derived from dreams. I am aware there are many
such as these, but there are few persons who have not had their
incredulity staggered at timer by the coincidences occurring be-
tween certain dreams and the events preceding. And, on the
other hand, full two thirds of mankind, on a moderate.compu-
tation, believe and "put faith" in nocturnal admonitions.-To
such as the latter, I presume it will prove a valuable present,
while to aU classes it must prove highly interesting as a record
of ancient superstitions in a tangible form, regarding the noc.
turnal wanderings, excitements, and imaginations of the souL
Qe......... of...... 11
A SHORT ESSAY ON DREAMING;
WITH A SUCCINCT ACCOUNT OF SEVERAL FAMOUS
DREAMS OF THE ANCIENTS AND JIODERNS.
TsE phenomena of dreaming has exercised tbe ingenuity of
llianltind in all ages, and various have been thetheories iDYented
flO account for it. EPictJRUI fancied that "an infinite Dumber
of subtle images, some flowing from bodies, some formed l!f
their own accord, and others made up of different things vari-
ously combined, were continually moving up and down in the
air about us; and that those images, being of extreme fineness,
penetrate our bodies, and, striking upon the mind, give rise to
that mode of perception which we call ImtJBiMtion, and to
which he refers the origin, both of our waking thoughts and of
our dreams.
ARisTOTLE seems to think '' that every object of ord10ord
sense makes, upon the human soul, or upon some other part of
our frame, a certain impression, which remains for some time
qfter the object that made it is gone ; and which, being after-
wards recognised by the mind in sleep, gives rise to those visions
that then present themselves."
LocKE says, " The dreams of1leeping men are all made up
of the wakingman's ideas;" but that this is 1101 tile cau the ex-
perience of huadreds will prove, for there is scaroely a person
now in existence, who, if appealed to whether they have not
dreamed of places and persons they have never even thought of,
and of events ofwhich they have had DO manner or kind of ap-
prehension, but would answer in the affirmative. To say no-
11· «te ~Covat•oolt of areaJU.
thing of the vast multitude of omi11oru and prophetic dreams
that the history of almost every family, and certainly of every
generation, both in past and present times, will furnish.
Otker personsadduce the phenomena of dreaming as a proof
of the immortality of the soul, grounding their opinions upon
the numerous instances recorded in" Holy Writ;" where pro-
phetic inspirations and forewarnings were derived from these
nocturnal visions. Mr. BAXTER, the celebrated divine, goes
so far in this subject as to ascribe " all our dreams to separate
apirits, having access to our minds and furnishing us with ideas
while we sleep."
The celebrated Dr. You.No hath poetically summed up the
cases of common dreams, in his wual sprightly, yet solemn
manner, thus :
" 'Tia put conjecture ; all tbiDga riee iD proof:
While o'er my limbe sleep's aoft dominion apreads,
What though my soul futaetic measures trod
O'er fairy fields; or moum'd along the gloom
Of pathle11 woods; or, down the craggy steep
Hurl'd headlong, swam with paiD the mantled pool;
Or scaled the clift"; or danc'd on hollow winds
With antic ehapee, wild native• of the brain ;
Her ceuele11 ftigbt, though devious, sptokl h4r 1111ture
Ofmbller IUifiCI than the trodden t'lod ;
Active, aerial, tow'ring unconfin'd,
Unfetter'd with her groaa companions' fall.
E'en silent night proclaims my soul immortal!
E'en eileut night proclaims etemal day!
For hum&D weal, Heaven huabanda all events ;
Dull aleep inatructs, nor 1p0rt vain dream~ in vain r'
The accomplished ADDISON, in one of his Spectaton, con-
aiden our common dreams as giving us some idea of the great
excellency of a human soul, and some intimation of ita intk-..
-
.
11
pendencies on matter. The heads of what he observes upon
them, are as follows :-First, " our dreams are great instances
ofthat activity which is natural to the human soul, and which
it is not in the power ofsleep to deaden or abate. Secondly,
•• Dreams are an instance of that agility and perfection which
are natural to the faculties of the mind, when they are dben-
gaged from the body:• Thirdly, "the passions affect the
mind with greater strength when we are asleep, than when we
are awake." Fourthly, what gives us a very high idea of the
nature of the soul, in regard to what passes in dreams, is that
innumerable multitude and variety of ideas which then arise in
ber." Fifthly, "the next property of the soul is, that wonder-
ful power of producing her own company on these occasions."
Sixthly, " the last property of the soul I would mention, is
ITS POWER OP DIVINING IN DREAMS." See Spectator, 487,
where all these heads are enlarged upon.
The excellent Bishop BuLL delivers the following sentiments
relative to dreams, in his discourse on the office of the holy
angels. " It is true, indeed," says this pious man," the good
angels do not now ordinarily appear in visible forms, or speak
by audible voices to men, as in ancient times they did. After
God had once spoken unto men by his own son, manifested in
the ftesh, and by him fully revealed his will to the world, and
confirmed that revelation by a long succession of unquestion-
able miracles, there was no such need of angelic appearances,
for the instruction, confirmation, and con~olation of the faithful.
The succeeding ages do indeed afford us very credible relations
ofsome such apparitions now and then; but ordinarily, I say,
tbe government of angels over us is now administered in a secret
and invisible manner. Hence too, too many havebeen inclined
either flatly to deny, or at least to call in question, the truth of
the doctrine we are now upon. But they have souls very much
ilnmersed in ftesh, who can apprehend nothing but what touches
pd affects theirsenses; and they that follow this gross and sen-
e
••
~ual way of procedure, must at last necessarily fall into down.
right Epicurism, to deny all particular providence of God over
the sons of men, and to ascribe all events to those cau~s that
are next to them.
" But, besides, although the mini~try of angels be now for
the most part invisible, yet to the observant it is not altogether
indiscernible.
" We may trace the footsteps of this secret providence over
us in many instances, of which I shall note a few. How often
may we have observed strong, lasting, and irresistible impulses
upon our minds, to do certain things, we can scarce for the
present tell why or wherefore; the reason and good success of
which we afterwards plainly see. So, on the contrary, tht>re
are oftentimes sudden and unexpected accidents, as we call
them, cast in our way to divert us from certain enterprises we
are just ready to engage in, the ill consequences whereof we do
afterwards, but not till then, apprehend. Again, qt14ntum est
in subitis casibul ingenium I How strange many times are our
present thoughts and suggestions in sudden and surprising dan-
gers ! We then, upon the spot, resolve and determine as well
as if we had a long time deliberated, and taken the best advice
and counsel ; and we ourselves afterwards wonder how such
thoughts came into our minds. Hither, also, we may refer that
lucky conspiracy of circumstances which we sometimes expe-
rience in our affairs and business, otherwise of great difficulty :
when we light upon the nick ofopportunity; when the persons
whose counsel or assistance we most need strangely occur, and
all things things fall out according to our desire, but beyond
our expectation. What strange ominous forebodings and fears
do many times on a sudden seize upon men ofcertain approach-
ing evils, whereof at present there is no visible appearance!
And have we not had some unquestionable instances of men
not inclined to melancholy, strongly and unalterably persuaded
of the near approach of their death, so as to be able punctuall,y
to tell the very day of it, when they have been in good health,
and neither themselves nor their friends could diseern any pre-
sent natural cause for such a persuasion,and yet the.event bath
proved that they were not mistaken. And, although I am no
doter on dreams, yet, I verily believe, that some dreams ar,
monitory above the power of fancy, and impressed on us by
some superior influence; for of such dreams we have plain and
undeniable instances in history, both sacred and profane, and
in our own age and observation. Ncr shall I so value the
laughter of Rceptics, and the scoffs of the epicureans, as to be
ashamed to profess that I myself have had some convincing
experiments of such impressions. Now, it is no enthusiasm,
but the best·account that can be given ofthem, to .ascribe these
things to the ministry of those invisible instruments of God's
providence, that guide and govern our afiairs and concerns,
-namely, the angels ofGod."
I may here observe, that it has been .the opinion ofall ranks
and denominations of men, in all ages and nations, among
Heathens, Jews, Mahometans, and Christians, that the.Divine
:Being doth make known his will upon some occasions in this
manner. The holy scriptures always take it for granted, and
indeed give us abundance of instances of such manifestations.
Neither are other writings, whether ancient or modem, wanting
in similar well-attested relations. The following are a few in-
stances out of the Sacred Scriptures.
I. The firllt we meet with in the Bible, is in the fifteenth
chapter of Genesis, where we are told God appeared unto
Abraham, and acquainted him with the captivity and deliver-
ance of his posterity.
2. In the twentieth chapter we are also informed, that Abi-
melech, king of Gerar, had a dream, wherein God made known
unto him that Sarah was the wife of Abraham.
3. In the twenty-sixth chapter it is said, the Lord appeared
unto Isaac by night, and blessed him.
c2
16
4. In the twenty-eighth chapteris recorded a very remarkable
mysterious dream that Jacob had of a ladder, and the angels of
God ascending and descending upon it,
5. In the thirty-first chapter we find the angel of the Lord
spake unto Jacob in a dream, and showed him the reason of
Laban's cattle bearing ring-straked, speckled, and grisled young.
6. In the same chapter it is related, that God spake unto
Laban by night in a dream.
7. In the thirty-seventh chapter, we have two other prophetic
dreams of Joseph; the one about the sheaves making obeisance
to his sheaf, and the other about the sun, moon, and eleven stars
doing him honour.
8. In the fortieth chapter we have two other significant and
prophetic dreams ; the one by the chief butler, and the other
by the chief baker of Pharoah.
9. In the next chapter of the same book it is related that
king Pharaoh himself had two expressive and prophetic dreams,
both which, as well as the two former, Joseph truly interpreted.
10. There is another singular one recorded in the seventh
chapter of the book of Judges, about a cake of barley bread
which tumbled into the host of Midian, and which was inter-
preted .to be the sword of Gideon. After this interpretation
Gideon was encouraged to attack the enemy, and obtained a
complete victory.
11. In the third chapter of the First Book of Kings, it issaid,
that the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream, and held a con-
versation with him. It is a very instructive one, and therefore
I will produce it at length :-In Gibeon the Lord appeared to
Solomon in a dream by night; and God said, Ask what I shall
give thee. And Solomon said, thou hast showed unto thy ser-
vant David, my father, great mercy, according as he walked
before thee in truth and righteousness, and in uprightness of
heart with thee, and thou hast kept for him this great kindness
that thou bast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this
day. And now, 0 Lord, my God, thou bast made thy servant
king instead of David my father, and I am but"a little child; I
know not how to go out or come in. And thy servant is in the
midst ofthy people which thou hast chosen, a great people, that
cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. Give, there-
fore, thy servaat an understanding heart to judge thy people,
that I may discern between good and bad: for who is able to
judge this thy so great a people ? And the speech pleased the
Lord, that Solomon had asked this thing. And God said unto .
him, because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for
thyself long life, neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast
asked the life of thine enemies, but hast asked for thyselfunder-
standing to discern judgment; behold, I have done according
to thy words; lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding
heart, so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after
thee shall any arise like unto thee. And I have also given thee
that which thou hast not asked, both riches and honour; so
that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all
thy days. And if thou wilt walk in my ways to keep my sta-
tutes and my commandments, as thy father did walk, then I
will lenghthen thy days. And Solomon awoke, and behold,
it was a dream; and he came to Jerusalem, and stood before
the ark of the covenant of the Lord, and offered up burnt-offer-
ings, and peace-offerings, and made a feast to all his servants.
12. The dreams of Nebuchadnezzer, king of Babylon, are
very remarkable, and involve the history of the world. Those ·
of Daniel, too, are much of the same kind, and contain a figu-
rative view of the ~tate of mankind to the end of time, and the
dissolution ofall things.
Several other dreams and night-visions are recorded, both in
the Old Testament and in the Apocryphal books, highly wor-
thy the attention of the curious; but as the volume in which
they are contained is in every person's hand, and lest I should
c3 ·
18
appear too tedious in multiplying quotations, we will pass on
to those in the New Testament.
13. When our Saviour was about to be born, there were
several notices conveyed to the mind of Joseph, his reputed
father, in the same supernatural manner. Yea, in the two first
chapters of St. Matthew's gospel there are no leiS than five ad-
monitory dreams recorded.
14. I do not know if our Saviour's temptation in the wilder-
ness was not of the dream or vision kind ; for, ifwe read it con-
siderately, we shall see that there are some circumstances in it
that cannot easily be accounted for on any other principle.
15. The dream of Pilate's wife appears evidently to haYe
been supernatural and ad~onitory.
16. In the eighteenth chapter ofActs we have a relation ofa
vision that St. Paul had, saying, be not afraid, but speak, and
hold not thy peace: for I am with thee, and no man shall set on
thee, to hurt thee ; for I have much people in this city.
17, And again, in the twenty-seventh chapter, there is one
similar: there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose
I am, and whom I serve, saying, " Fear not, Paul, thou must
be brought before Cll!Sar ; and lo, God hath given thee all
them that sail with thee."
These relations are also recorded in the holy scriptures. Se-
veral of them have been attended with the most important con-
sequences in the history of mankind ; and they are also so in-
terwoven with the sacred story, that they cannot be rejected
without shaking the credit of the whole book wherein they are
found. But the truth of lwly scripture is establuhed upon surh
an immoveable foundation, that it can never be subverted, but
upon prinriples that would overturn the .faith ofuU history. Be-
fore we can commence infidels,_
therefore, with respect to these
parts of the Bible which record the divine interpositions by
dreams and night-visions, we must be prepared to reject the
10
whole system of revelation ; for the credit of the former stands
or lalls with that of the latter.
Among the ancients, we know that those fiunous philotO-
pher~~, SooJU.TBS, PLATO, XENOPBON, ARJBTOT£2, CJ·
coo, and PuNY, and several more of the great men of
antiquity, believed the doctrine of dreams and night visions,
as also the ancient poets. HoMRR, in particular, expressly
tells us, in the beginning of his immortal Poem, the Iliad, that
"dream~ ducendfrem Jove." And he gives us a fine example
of one, in the beginning of the second book, thus translated by
POPE:
" Now, pleaaing sleep bad aeal'd each mortal eye,
Stretch'd in the tents the Grecian leaders lie,-
Th' immortals alumber'd on their thrones abo•e;
All, bot the ever watchful eyes of Jove.
To honour Thetis' aoo, he beot his care,
And plunge the Greeks in all the woes ofwar;
Then bids an empty Phantom rise to sight,
And thua commaoda the visions of the night :
'· Fly hence, deluding dream! and, light u air,
To Agamemnon'a ample tent repair.
Bid him in arma draw forth the embattled train,
Lead all his Greciaoa to the dusty plain.
Declare e'en t101D1 'tia given him to destroy
The lofty towers of wide-extended Troy !
For now no more the gods with fate cootend,-
At Juno'• suit the heavenly factions end.
Destruction bangs o'er yon devoted wall,
And nodding llioo :waits the impending fall.'
Swift as the word tltl vain illuainnfod,
Ihleend•, and hi>Vel'l o'er Atridu' htad !
Cloth'd in the figure of the Pyliao eage,
Renown'd for wisdom, and rever'd for age,
AroUAd his temple• 1preada his golden wing,
10
AIICl tbua the it.tterillg dream deceive~ the kiag.
• Canst thou, with all a monarch's care oppreet,
Oh, Atreus' son I cust thou indulge thy rest !
Ill 6ta a chief who mighty nationa guides,
Directs in council, and in war presides--
To whom ita aafety a whole people owes,
To wute long nights in indolent repose.
Monarch, awake! 'tis Jove's command I bear,-
Tbou, and thy glory, claims his heavenly care.
In just array draw forth the embattled train,
uad all thy Grecians to the dusky plain :
E'en now, 0 King! 'tis given thee to destroy
The lofty towers of wide-extended Troy.
For now, no more the Goda with fate contend,-
At Juno's suit the heavenly factions end.
Destruction bangs o'er yon deserted wall,
And nodding Ilion waits the impending fall!
A"•ake, but waking this advice approve,
-And trust the vision that descends from Jove.'
The Phantom said; then, vaoisb'd from his sight,
lteaolves to air, and mixes with the night.''
HrPPOCRATEs, the ancient renowned physician, has some
curious observations relative to dreams. •• To dream of fire,"
says he, " indicates a redundance of yellow bile ; to dream of
fogs, or snow, indicates a predominancy of black bile ; to
dream of seeing a fall of rain, or snow, or a great quantity of
ice, shows that there i~ a redundancy of phlegm in the body;
he who fancies himself among bad smells, may be assured
that he harbours some putrid matter in his body; to have red
things represented before you in sleep, denotes a redundancy
of blood. If the patient dreams of seeing the sun, moon, and
stars, hurry on with prodigious swiftness, it indicates an ap-
proaching delirium ; to dream of seeing the earth overflowed
with water, or of being immersed in a pond or river, indicates
... ...
tl.
a redundance of watery humours in the body ; to dream of
a turbid sea, indicates abdominal disorders; to dream ofseeing
the earth burnt up, or parched, is a sign ofgreat heat and dry·
ness; the appearance of monsters and frightful enemies, indi.
cates deliriums in diseases ; and to dream of being thrown
down from some very high place, threatens an approach-
ing vertigo, or some other disorder of the head, as an epilepsy,
apoplexy, or the like."
The poet IIEsroo, who, it is supposed, lived nearly a thou·
sand years before our Saviour, imagined our nightly impres-
sions to be mpernatural, and derived from guardian genii ;
he writes thus :
" Exactly mark, ye rulers of mankind,
The ways of Truth, nor be to justice blind.
Consider, all ye do, and all ye say,
The holy demons to their god convey ;
.Aerial.IJiirits, lty great Jove design'd
To be on earth the guardians of mankind.
Invisible to mortal eyes they go,
And mark our actions, good or bad, below.
The immortal apiea with watchful care preside,
And thrice ten thousand round their charges glide:
They can reward with glory or with gold,
A power they by divine permission hold.''
Hru.roo.A.B.A.LUS, the Roman emperor, is said by historians
to have had such a dread of dreams and visions, that •• he
watched in the nights, and slept in the day," which custom
was repreheuded by Seneca, the philosopher, as •• discom·
meodatory and unfit for practice."
Socru.1'D, the night immediately preceding the day he saw
Plato, dreamed that a swan, being presented to him, rested in
his lap, and thence flying, pitched upon that gate of .4tAem
2i
which \vas called Academicce, where it so stretched out its
neck, that it reached and pierced the heaven : the next day,
while Socrates related his dream to his scholars, Plato's father
presented his so~ to Socrates to be instructed, whereupon So-
crates cries out,-Behold! this is the swan that shall soar up to
the celestial secrets, and discover bidden things.
There is an ancient tradition, that while Plato was an infant,
sleeping in his cradle, a cluster or swarm of bees pitched
themselves on his lips, and afterwards dispersed themselves in
the air. The ancients prophesied, from thence, that the child
would be a great philosopher, as it indeed proved.
It is related by historians, that Nero'• mother, while preg-
nant with that afterwards inhuman monster, dreamed that she
gave birth to'' a cruel great dragon," which, rising up against
the mother, tore her to pieces. This dream being related to
the soothsayers, they prophesied that she should " bring forth
a wicked man, one who would be the cause of her own death:"
it happened accordingly.
Suetonius relates of Calphumia, JuliiU Cuar'1 wife, that the
night before the assassination she dreamed that the roof of the
house fell, that her husband was stabbed, and that the cham·
ber door of itself ftew open. Julius himself also had a vision,
that he flew above the clouds ; another time, that be shook
hands with Jupiter; and, another time, that he was cast down
headlong, all which were ominous of his tragic end and dis-
astrous exit.
The Emperor DARIUS, before the last battle with Alexander
the Great, dreamed that he saw a burning army marching
through Asia, coming even to Babylon, where he saw Alexan-
der clad in a Persian robe, entering the temple, and presently
vanishing. By which dream Darius was persuaded, that by
the ftames destruction was meant to the Macedonian army;
and that Alexander being clad in a Persian habit, signified he
should be brought under the power of the Persians. But the
e.ent made it appear, that by the Sames was portended the
swift and victorious pr9gl'ess of Alexander, like that of fire,
devouring all things : by the Persian habit, the Persian empire
was foresignifled to Alexander.
CAMBYBEB dreamed that his crown touched the heaven,
and that he sat in his brother Smeidis's royal seat, which was
an omen of his death.
The favourite of Ptolomie Alezander, being hurt with a
poisoned dart, through the grievousness of the pain, was in
bodily tortures. Alexander, it is said, sitting by him, fell
asleep, and in his dream saw a dragon, which his mother
Olympias kept, carrying a little root in hill mouth, and show-
ing the place where it grew, declared by signs it was of such
virtue, that it would cure his friend. Alexander, upon
awaking, told his dream, and sent to seek that root (for the
place was not far off), which having found, it cured not only
Ptolomie, but many of the soldJers that were burt with those
kinds of darts.-Sucb verifications, also, befell the ominous
dream of PsiUP, the father of Alexander the Great, at the
nativity of his son, of an eagle being on his palace; with
numerous other instances that might be here adduced from the
ancient historians.
WHEN Socrates was in prison, Crito went to pay him an
early visit, and told him, he was informed by persons come '
from sea, that the ship from Delos would return that day; the
consequence of which was, thatSocrates should be put to death
on the morrow. Be it so, said Socrates, if it please the gods;
yet, I think, the ship will not be here to-day, but to-morrow.
Wby so, dear friend? said Crito. Because this night, replied
Socrates, a woman of a beautiful form, clothed in a white robe,
appeared to me in a dream, and, calling me by name, said,
" The third d4!J shall land thee safe at fruitful Phtia." They
are the words of Achilles in Homer, when he proposed to
return to his home. Socrates took it for a prediction of his
14
death, because he judged that to die was to go home to his
own country. And his dream was accomplished.
Before the martyrdom of PoLYCARP, he had a vision: the
pillow under his head seemed to him on fire, upon which he
said prophetically, that he should be burned alive, which ac-
cordingly took place, three days afterwards.
The EmperorMAacus ANTONJNus, in the first chapterof his
Commentaries, professeth, " that he owed it to the gods that
certain remedies were suggested to him in dreams, and among the
rest, that against spitting of blood and giddiness of the head, as
happened to him at Gaeta.''
Soranus tells us, that HIPPOORATEs, the father of physic and
prince of physicians, was divinely admonished in a dream to go
and settle in Thessaly.
GALEN, after Hippocrates, prince of the physicians, chOfe
phgsicfor his profts~ion from a dream which his father bad a
little before his death ; and Pliny writes that "the cures of
many diseases, unknown before, had been discovered in
dreams.''
When Cicero was forced into exile by an opposite faction,
while he abode at a village in the fields of Atinas, in his sleep
he thought, that while he wandered through desert places and
unknown countries, he met with C. Marius, in all his consular
ornaments, and that he asked him, wherefore his countenance
was so sad, and whither he intended that uncertain journey of
his ? And when he had told him of his misfortune, be took
him by the right hand, and gave him to the next Lictor, with
command to lead him into his monument, insomuch as there
was reMlrved for him a more happy fortune, and chanjle of his
condition. And it came to pass accordingly; for in the temple
of Jupiter, erected by Marius, there it was that the senate
passed the decree for the return of Cicero from his exile.
A rich vessel of gold being stolen out of the temple of Her-
cules, Sophocles was showed the resemblance and name of the
II
thief in his sleep, which, for the first and second time, he neg-
lected ; but, being troubled the third night, he went to the
.Areopagi, to whom he made known what had paned. They,
upon no other evidence, summoned the party before them,
who, after strict examination, confessed the fact, and made
restitution of the vessel.
CI'O!Sus, king of Lydia, had two sons : one of which being
dumb, was a perpetual subject of aflliction to him; the other,
named Atys, distinguished himself by all kinds ofgood quali-
ties, and was his great consolation and delight. The father
dreamed one night, which made a great impression upon his
mind, that this beloved son of his was to perish by iron.
Upon this, care was taken to remove out of the young prince's
way every thing made of iron. No mention was made ofarmies,
wars, or sieges, before him. But one day there was to be an
extraordinary hunting-match, for the killing of a wild boar,
which had committed great ravage in the neighbourhood. All
the young lords of the court were to be at this bunting. Atys
very earnestly importuned his father, that he would give him
leave to be present, at least as a spectator. The king could
not refuse him that request, but let him go, under the care of
a discreet young prince, who had taken refuge in his court,
and was named Adrastus. And this very Adrastus, as he was
aiming to fling his javelin at the hoar, unfortunately killed
Atys. And so the dream of his father was accomplished, not-
withsllmding all his precaution.
The next is singularly remarkable, and as well authenticated
as any thing of the kind is well capable of being. I will give
it in the words of Rollin.
When Alexander laid siege to Tyre, the Samaritans sent
him a considerable body of troops ; whereas the Jews thought
they could not submit themselves to him, so long as Darius,
to whom they bad taken an oath of allegiance, should be
living.
D
IG trte Koval JJoot of amatt.
Alexander, being little used to such an answer, particularly
since he had obtained so many victories, and thinking that all
things ought to bow to him, resolved, the instant be had con-
quered Tyre, to march against the Jews, and punish their diso-
bedience as rigorously as he had done that ofthe Tyrians.
In this imminent danger, Jaddus, the high-priest, who
gcwemed under the Persian~ seeing himself exposed, with
all the inhabitants, to the wrath of the conqueror, had recourse
to the protection of the Almighty, and gave orders for the of-
fering up public prayers to implore his assistance, and made
sacrifices. The night after, God appeared to him in a dream,
and bade him to cause flowers to be scattered up and down
the city ; to set open all the gates, and go, clothed in his
pontifical robes, with all the priests dressed also in their vest-
ments, and all the rest clothed in white, and meet Alexander,
and not fear any evil from the king, inasmuch as he would
protect them. This command was punctually obeyed; and
accordingly this august procession, the very day after, marched
out of the city to an eminence called Shapha, whence there
was a view of all the plain, as well as of the temple and city
of Jerusalem. Here the whole procession waited ihe arrival
ofAlexander.
The Syrians and Phrenicians who were in his army, were per-
suaded that the wrath of this prince was so great, that he would
certainly punish the ·high.priest after an exemplary manner,
and destroy that city in the same manner as he had done Tyre;
and, flushed with joy upon that account, they waited in ex-
pectation of glutting their eyes with the calamities of a people
to whom they·bore a mortal hatred.
As soon as the Jew~ heard of the king's approach, they set
out to meet him with all the pomp before described. Alex-
ander was struck at the sight of the high-priest, in who~e mitre
and forehead a golden plate was fixed, on which the name of
God was written. The moment the king perceh·erl the high-
--
21
priest, he advanced towards him with an air of the most pro-
found respect; bowed his body, adored the august name above
mentioned, and saluted him who wore it with a religious
veneration. Then the Jews, surrounding Alexander, raised
their voices to wish him every kind of prosperity. All the
spectators were seized with inexpressible surprise ; they could
scarce believe their eyes; and did not know how to account
for a sight, so contrary to their expectation, and so vastly
improbable.
Parmenio, who could not yet recover from his astonishment,
asked the king how it came to pass that he, who was adored by
every one, adored the high-priest. " I do not," replied Alexan-
der, "adore the high-priest, but the God whose minister he is:
whilst I was at Dius, in Macedonia (my mind wholly fixed on
the great design of the Persian war,) as I was revolving the
methods how to conquer Asia, this very man, dressed in the
same robes, appeared to me in a dream ; exhorted me to
banish every fear; bade me cross the Hellespont boldly; and
assured me, that God would march at the head of my army,
and give me victory over that of the Persians."
Alexander added, that the instant he saw this priest; he
knew him, by his habit, his stature, his air, and his face, to be
the same person whom he had seen at Dius ; that he was firmly
persuaded, it was by the command, and under the immediate
conduct of Heaven, that he had undertaken this war; that be
was sure he should overcome Darius hereafter, and destroy the
empire of the Persians; and that this was the reason why he
adored this God in the person of his priest. Alexander, aftet
having thus answered Parmenio, embraced the high-priest, and
all his brethren; then walking in the midst of them, he arrived
at Jerusalem, where he offered sacrifices to God, in the temple,
after the manner prescribed to him by the high priest.
Amongst the Orientals, the presages made from dreams are
held sacred; traditional historians relate many instances thereof.
D2
18
It is said that the Cather of OsMAN I., who laid the foundation
of the Ottomanempire,was instigated thereto by the denounce-
ments of a dream. A few weeks before the birth of Osman, he
saw, in a dream, a spring of water break forth from his own
house, with such abundance and rapidity as to form immediately
an immense torrent, which in its impetuous course almost en-
tirely overflowed the globe. When he arose from his sleep he
addressed with terror an aged Scheykh, an interpreterofdreams :
" Take confidence," said the old man : " thy family has the
blessing of God; thou shalt soon have a son, whom thou shalt
behold the founder of a monarchy which shall embrace all the
countries ofthe world."
The same annals ascribe equally to a dream the civil and
military virtues of this fil'llt of the Othoman monarchs : he was
persuaded, they say, one night, that he beard a voice which
warned him " to be faithful to the duties of the throne, and to
all the laws of the prophet;'' hence, in 1304, immediately after
the conquest of Nice, he shared the plunder with his soldiers,
and distributed among them the territories of that city, under
the title of timar, or military fiefs.
In 1365, a vision also caused the seat of the empire to be
established at Adrianople, by Mourad I. This prince declared
that be was commanded by a celestial spirit, who pointed out
to him in a dream the place where he should erect his palace.
Some years afterwards,Mohammed II. carriedon a war against
Ouzounn Hassan, and marched himself into Persia, at the head
of a powerful army. He dreamed that Ouzounn Hassan, in the
habit of a wrestler, appeared on an immense plain, challenging
all the heroes of his time to enter the lists with him ; that, in-
flamed with uncommon ardour, he had instantly thrown oft'
his clothes and assumed those of a wrestler ; that be engaged
his antagonist, and that the victory was disputed with the most
furious intrepidity ; that fortune appeared at first to declare
against him; that, yielding to the first effort of his antagonist,
..........
he had bent his bee to the earth ; but that, exerting his whole
strength, he instantly recovered, and by a skilful and vigorous
blow threw his rival on the ground ; that he then opened his
side, and cast part of hisentrailson the plain; and that Ouzounn
Hassan, covered with dust and infamy, and weltering in his
blood, vanished from his sight, filling the air with cries and
lamentations. When he awoke, Mohammed U. mentioned
this vision to his courtiers, ministen, and principal officers :
they considered itas prophetic ofthe most signal fortunes. The
report was circulated through the camp, and had a powerful in-
fluence on the soldiers : they marched with confidence against
the enemy, and every event of the war testified the favourable
opinion which had been entertained of this mysterious dream.
In the second year <1f the reign of Osman II., a dl't'alll is said
to have had a wonderful effect upon the destinies of the empire.
He dreamed that he was clad in armour, seated on his throne
and reading the Courann, when Mohammed appeared, and
with an angry aspect dashed the book from his hand, despoiled
him of his· armour, smote him on the face, and threw him to
the ground, from whence he was unable to rise, to embrace the
knees of the prophet. To relieve his perplexity, Osman went
incognito the same day to consult a celebrated Scbeykh, who
was r~spected as a saint, and considered as the most skilful of
all interpreters ofdreams. This sage told him in general terms
that his vision was a celestial warning to repent of his prevari-
cations, and to become, during his future life, attentive to the
duties ofthe throne, and to the precepts and practice of religion.
Osman now no longer hesitated to consider his vision as a hea-
venly oracle: he determined todepart, hastened the preparations
for a pilgrimage, and rE'jected, with unshaken firmness, all the
remonstrances of the divan. Mankind are acquainted with the
melancholy fate of this young monarch, and with the destructive
consequences ofhis death, which, during many years, distressed
and desolated the empire.
D3
30
Numerous modern instances of prophetic dreams might be
here recited, and those too well testified by creditable witnesses.
Monsieur Calignan, Chancellor of Navarre, was esteemed a
man of singular virtue : being at Berne, one night as he lay
asleep, he heard a voice which called him by his name, Calig-
nan!! Awaking and hearing no more of it, he imagined it
only a dream, and fell asleep again. A little afterwards he beard
the same voice calling him in the same manner: this made a
greater impression on him than the former, so that. being awa-
kened, he called his wife, who was with him, and told her what
had happened. They both lay waking for some time, expect-
ing to hear it a third time ; at length, they went to sleep toge-
ther, when the voice awalred him again, calling him by his name,
and advising him to retire immediately out of the town, and to
remove his family, for that the plague would rage horribly in
that place in a few days. He followed the direction, and within
a few days after the plague began in the town and destroyed a
great number of people.
When the celebrated DR. H.~RVEY, being a young man,
went to travel towards Padua, he went to Dover with several
others, and showed his pass, as the others did, to the governor.
The governor told him that ''he must not go, but he must keep
,him prisoner." The doctor desired to know the reason, and
what he bad done amiss; be said, " it was his will to have it
so." The packet-boat hoisted sail in the evening, which was
very clear, and the doctor's companions in it-a terrible storm
ensued, and the packet-boat, with all the passengers, was cast
away: the next day the melancholy news was brought to Dover.
The governor was a total stranger to Dr. Harvey, but by name
and by face: only the night before be had a perfect vision, in
a dream, of Dr. Harvey, who came to pass over to Calais, and
an order to stop him I This the doctor was told by the go-
vernor the next day, and he told the story again to his friends
in London.
II
THoMAs WoT'I'ON, Esq., a little before his death, dreamed
that the University of Oxford was robbed by five men. He
wrote to his son, who was then in Oxford, and told him the
particulars of his dream. The university V1DI robbed accord-
ingly, tile very night before tile letter came to hU wn's luJnd!
As soon as morning arrived, therewas a great noise concerning
the robbery ; whereupon the young man showed his letter to
the persons concerned, and all the five men were taken up and
found guilty.
WILLIAM NESBENUS, on a certain day at dinner, in a gentle
sleep he had, dreamed that he was passing a river in a fisher's
boat, as he frequently did for his diversion, and that the boat,
striking on the trunk of a tree, was overturned, and he was
drowned. This dream he told to Philip Melancthon, who then
accidentally came to see him, at the same time deriding the
vanity of dreams. But, however,.that very evening his dream
had its accomplishment. ·
JoHANNES MARIA MAUROSENUB, a senator of Venice,
while he was p11etor in Dalmatia, saw in his dream one of his
brothers, whom he much loved, come to embrace him, and bid
him farewell, because he was going to the other world. And
having, as he thought, followed him a little way weeping, he
awaked all in tears, and was in great fear for his brother at
Venice. On the third day letters were brought him from home,
acquainting him that his brother died on that night and about
the hour he had dreamed of. This he frequently told with tears
in his eyes.
In the year 1695, one· JooN STOCKDEN, of the parish of
St. Giles's, Cripplegate, was robbed and murdered; soon after
which the said Stockden appeared several times to one of his
old neighbours, named Elizabeth Greenwood, in her dreams,
and laid open to her the whole business, in consequence of
which the murderers were taken, confessed the fact, and were
executed. And again, after the murderers were taken, Mrs.
II
Greenwood dreamed that Stockden came to her in the street,
and said, 1' Elizabeth, I thank thee; the God of heaven reward
thee for what thou hast done." This affair made a great noise
at the time, and is attested by the Bishop of Gloucester, the
Dean ofYork, the Master ofthe Charter-House, and Dr. Allix,
who had the particulars from Mrs. Greenwood.
DOCTOR PITCAIRNE is said never to have related the fol-
lowing story without some emotion of mind. His friend, Mr.
Lindsey, upon reading with the doctor, when very young, the
known story of the two Platonic philosophers, who promised
to one another that whoever died first should return a visit to
his surviving companion, entered into the same engagement
with him. Some years after, the doctor, at his father's house
in Fife, dreamed one morning that Lindsey, who was then at
Paris, came to him and told him that he was not dead, as was
commonly reported, but &till alil'e, and lived in a very agree-
able place, to which he could not as yet carry him. By the
course of the post news came of Lindsey's death, which took
place, exceeding suddenly, the very morning ofthe dream.
Some years ago the lady of CoLONEL GALE, having lost her
husband, was going to Kingston, in Jamaica, to administer to
his effects. In her way she stopped all night at a friend's
house, intending to proceed on her journey the next morning;
she accordingly ordered her coachman to be ready to set out at
the appointed hour. Mrs. Gale's waiting-woman, who accom-
panied her mistress, dreamed that night, that her master ap•
peared to her, and inquired where her mistress was; the servant
told him that her lady was going to Kingston, and was now on
her journey ; the colonel replied, she must not go,-she must
return with him, for he was come to fetch her; this the servant
told next morning to the family where they were. Soon after-
wards she went into her lady's room to call her up, but was
told by her that she found herself somewhat indisposed, and
did not think she should be well enough to proceed on her
o'o'' edbyGoogle
33
journey that day : she moreover desired the servant to forbid
the carriage being got ready, according to the order given the
coachman the night before. When the lady of the how;e per-
ceived her friend very feverish and indisposed, the doctor was
called in, but all to no purpose, for the fever increased upon her
to such a degree that she survived little more than a week or
ten days.
In the night of the lith of May, 1812, Mr. Williams, of
Scorrior House, near Redruth, in Cornwall, awoke his wife.
and, exceedingly agitated, told her that he had dreamed that
Ire was i11 the lobby of the HoUle of Commom, and saw a man
1/wot, with a pistol, a gtmtlemtm who had jUit entered the lobbg,
who was said to be tlu: Chancellor; to which Mt·s. Williams
naturally replied, that it was only a dream, and recommended
him to be composed and go to sleep as soon as he could.
He did so; but shortly after he again awoke her and said that
he had, a second time, had the same dream ; whereupon she
observed that he had been so much agitated with his former
dream, that she supposed it had dwelt on his mind, and begged
of him to compose himself and go to sleep, which he did.
A third time the same vision was repeated, on which, not.
withstanding her intreaties that he would lie quiet and endea-
vour to forget it, he arose (then between one and two o'clock)
and dressed himself. At breakfast the dreams were the sole
subject of conversation, and in the forenoon Mr. Williams went
to Falmouth, where he related the particulars of them to all his
acquaintances that he met. On the following day, Mr. Tucker,
of Trematon Castle, accompanied by his wife, a daughter of
Mr. Williams, went to Scorrior House on a visit, and arrived
about dusk. Immediately after the first salutations on their
entering the parlour, where were Mr. Mrs. and Miss Williams,
Mr. Williams began 'to relate to Mr. Tucker the circumstance
of his dreams, and Mrs. W. observed to her daughter, Mrs. T.,
laughingly, that her father could not even suffer Mr. Tucker to
be seated before he told him of his nocturnal visitation; on the
statement of which Mr. Tucker observed, that it would do very
well for a dream to have the Chancellor in the lobby of the
House of Commons, hut that he would not be found there in
reality. And Mr. Tucker then asked what sort of a man he
appeared to be, when Mr. Williams described him minutely;
to which Mr. Tucker replied, "Your description is not at all
that of the Chancellor, but is certainly very exactly that of Mr.
Percevtll, the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and, although he
has been to me the greatest enemy I have ever met with through
life (for a supposed cause which had no foundation in truth), (or
words to that effect), I should be exceedingly sorry indeed to
hear of his being assassinated, or of any injury of the kind hap-
pening to him."
Mr. Tucker then inquired of Mr. Williams if he had ever
seen Mr. Perceval, and was told that he bad never seen him, nor
bad ever written to him, either on public or private business;
in short, that he had never had anything to do with him, nor
had he ever been in the House ofCommons in his lifetime. At
this moment Mr. Williams and Mr. Tucker, still standing, beard
a horse gallop to the door of the house, and immediately after,
Mr. Michael Willfams, of Trevince (son of Mr. Williams of
Scorrior), entered the room, and said that be bad galloped out
from Truro (from which Scorrior is seven miles distant), having
seen a gentleman there who had come by that evening's mail
from town, who said that he was in the lobby of the House of
Commons on the evening of the 11th, when a man, called Bel-
lingham, had ,/,ct lUr. Perceval; and that, as it might occasion
some great ministerial changes, and might affect Mr. Tucker's
political friends, he had come out as fast as he could to make
him acquainted with it, having heard at Truro that he had
passed through that place in the afternoon, on his way to
Scorrior.
After the astonishment which this intelligence created had a
S5
little subsided, Mr. Williams described most minutely the ap-
pearance and dress of the man that he saw in his dream fire the
pistol at the Chancellor. About six weeks after, Mr. Williams,
having business in town, went, accompanied by a friend, to the
House of Commons, where, as bas been already observed, he
had never before been. Immediately that he came to the steps
at the entrance of the lobby, he said, "This place is as dis-
tinctly within my recollection, in my dream, as any room in
my house," and he made the same observation when he entered
the lobby. He then pointed out the e:ract spot where Bellingham
actually stood when he fired, and which Mr. Perceval had reached
when he was struck by the ball, where he fell. The dress both
of Mr. Perceval and Bellingham agreed with the description
given by Mr. Williams, even to the most minute particulurs.
The foregoing dream is the more marvellous and astonishing
on account of the striking conformity of its details to those of a
contemporaneous event, which was performed nearly three
hundred miles from the person of the dreamer. Moreover, to
silence all those doubts which those who fancy theycan theorize
upon dreams continually offer to the public, when anything of
the kind becomes realized, it must be stated, that the person who
dreamed the dream is now alive; the witnesses to whom he matk
known the particulars of it at the time are also living; and the
whole comes therefore under the denomination of a special and
undoubted type or warning of what afterwards happened. The
great respectability of the parties who are ready (as they have
assured the author) to make oath on the subject, sets aside every
appearance of wishing to impose upon public credulity. It is
here recorded as a matter of fact, which may cause the sceptic
to pause ere he pronounces all dreams as the offspring of the
imagination, or the effects of bodily infirmities.
To these I shall just add the following curious account, pub-
lished by the " Author of Waverley," in one of his notes to the
;g; zed ,,Coogle
36
new•edition of the "Antiquary,'' and thus conclude this intro-
duction.
"Mr. R-d, of Bowland, a gentleman of landed property
in the Vale of Gala, was prosecuted for a very considerable
sum, the accumulated arrears oftiend (tithe), for which he was
said to be indebted to a noble family, the titulars (lay impro-
priators of the tithes).
Mr. R--d was strongly impressed with the belief that his
father had, by a form of process peculiar to the law of Scotland,
purchased those lands from the titular, and therefore that the
present prosecution was groundless. But, after an industrious
search among his father's papers, an investigation of the public
records, and a careful inquiry among all persons who had trans-
acted law businessfor his father, no evidence could be discovered
to support his defence.
The period was now near at hand when he conceived the
loss of his lawsuit inevitable, and he had formed his determi-
nation to ride to Edinburgh next day, and make the best bar-
gain he could in the way of compromise. He went to bed
with this resolution, and, with all the circumstances of the case
floating upon his mind, had a dream to the following purpose.
His father, who had been many years dead, appeared to him,
he thought, and asked him why he was disturbed in his mind ?
-In dreams men are not surprised at such apparitions. Mr.
R--d thought that he informed his father of the cause of his
distress ; adding, that the payment of a considerable sum of
money was the more unpleasant to him, because he had a strong
consciousness that it was not dne, though he was unable to re-
cover any evidence in support of his belief. " You are rigid,
my son," replied the paternal shade, " I did acquire right to
those teindsfor pa;yment qf which you are now prosecuted. The
papers relating to the transaction are now in the hands of
Mr.---, a writer (or attorney), who is now retired from
professional business, and resides at lnveresk, near Edinburgh.
He was a penon whom I employed on that occasion for a par·
tieular reason, but who never on auy other occasion transacted
business on my account. It is very possible;• p•rsued the
vision, •• that Mr. - may have fOrgotten a matter which
is now or a very old date; but you may call it to hls recollec-
tion by this token, that when I eame to pay hw aceoGDt, there
was difficulty in getting change for a Portugal piece or gold,
and that we were forced to driDk out the balance at a tavern."
Mr. R--d awaked in the morning with all the worda or the
vision imprinte4 on hls mind, and thought it worth while to
ride 8Cr09S the country to lnveresk, instead or going straight
fOrward to Edinburgh. When he came there, he waited on the
gentleman mentioned in the dream, a very old man: without
~ayirig anything of the vision, he inquired whether be remem-
eered having conducted such a matter fOr his deceased father,
The old gentleman could not at first bring the cireumstaoces to
his recollection, but, on mention of the Portugal piece of gold,
the whole returned upon his memory; he made an immediate
search for the papers, and recovered tbem; so that Mr. R-d
carried to Edinburgh the documents necessary to gain the cAuse
which he was on the ?erge of losing.
The author hu oftell heard this story told by persons who
bad the best access to know the (acts, who were not likely them-
selves to be deeeived, and were certainly incapable ofdtceptiori.
Milton tells us that-
" MiUious of apiritual creatures walk the earth,
Uaeeeu, both when we wake and when be aleep."
It is perfectly consistent with our fullest beliefof a merciful
providence, that some occasional evidences should be given of
a state after death; nor does it at all lessen this probability, that
B
ias&ances of&uch appearances are very zare, because, wheoe:ver
tlaey &ave happeoed, ar do happen, it is to be supposed, tAat
f'eaiOfll mb.Utfor it wAich an at prueret unlmovln to 111. Witch·
craft is ~rtiag nature; but this is DOt the case with appari·
tiOD!I·aQY more than dleams, and many other proofs tbat aft!
givSB of the ~pound llll.ture ofmau. It mull be coofesaed.
indeed, tAM .this is a sulpjeet-enveloped in considerable obacu·
rity.-.-d that it is the'IOilree<>f mucb weakness and imposbare
hut illl this will not watTant a peremptory conclusion agaiDat
the ltypottisia·ofU!e eusWIIIce~ apirits, beeaute~ .ia a s:~~bject
of which .
we.are'not as yet compe&ent to judge.
I aball conclude in -the words of MoNSJWR BAYL£, tbe
celebrated Fxeuch1tcholw 1md pbil010pher, who was flu from
being ovel'lltocked with credulity, but could not withhold his
1111eftt .from the doctriRe of monitory dreams. " 1 think," says
l.e, " we may 11ay of dreams the ~~a~~~e almost 1IS of s<iham.
m&Dta, that they are 6\r /ur mys'«ious than people beM~e;
;mdIOillewbatllloretban'UDbelievers fancy. 'fBB lfiSTOBJal OP
AU ~ItS <AND P.L&iCES ltBLA.TB, BO'I'B WITH BEII'IICJT '1'0
DaBAMs AND !IA:GIG, 80 MANY SUBPBiatJIO TII:IJI10tl, TIU.'l'
'l'lfOSB WHO •OBSTIN:a\TI:LY DENY 'J'IBII ALL, .JlENDB&
THEMSELVES SUSPECTED, ICITHBB OP WANT OP SJNCJ!:RJTY,
01l IVDGIIEN'l' TO DJ1;0EBN TBB FOilOK .QJ' TBB PROOFS.
A violetrt prejudice or a certain tum of mind blinds their ao.
deMtancling,1dlen they compare the reasons pro and a~~~.
oigi:_edb,Google
«tr•fl!al1teet ef JlrratU.
THE
METHOD OF WORKING THE SfGNS
nr
nt Olmh TO OBTAIN A COR1t!C1'" ANt> ORACtTLAtt
ANSWER AS TO THEIR PRESAGES : ACCORDING TO
'r.RJr l'tU!ICBPN 01' THR ANCIENT JKANUSCRJPT
~lUI Sl'OKEN OJ'.
" l&fiOtatbet tf»OU. Afl. into whose hands these
re~Mrcilea in the art of diviniug by the .viaiQDS of the night,
aball fi>rtUDil to Wit itWJbl btd~ thattbey are llei\herlight.
..aia. IIOl friYOlo!IS, but tae wearisoiH labows and the midnigbt
IOila of fuU 1DaD)' a seuoa of deep thought. s"bde .ueatioo,
and Uliuo\18 4Ddea~IS iuto the bid.derl mys\eries of natwe.
Albei&, tboll awqst reet uauted that. iDthese tireloJDe retearcbel
aDd manifold watclWiga, ~ WGUld spriug up at tilllet g.oodly
re&esbmeot b)' reason of thole subtle truths \hat I eYer and
anoo made manifest. Peradventure otherwise, these writings
of mine bad. fonooth. been pbmged,. ere 110w, illto the dark
gull of oblivion.there to perish. u unworthy thyespecial notiee.
But, tlrtet, they now appear before thee in fair aDd goodly
array, clothed in the garb of truth. Yet, ere thou proceedest
to unrul their mystic contenta, Bmmltn tYJo• bnll,
to ESCHEW ALL EVIL, VAIN, AND FRIVOLOUS DOUBTING&;
E2
clothe thyself with FORTITODB; arm thyself with the goodly
HABNBII OF SINCERITY j and learn, also, to ADORE AND
UYBRBNCB THY ALMIGHTY MA.IDUl ! He itis who speaketh
to man when deep sleep falleth on his eyes; from his inspiration
alone canst thou hope to derive instruction. Nevertheless, by
the curious art hereafter laid down, shalt thou be enabled to
divine much of the future; and the visions of the night, the
phantasms of thy deep slumber, shall so prove to the IIIOST ,
AMPLE AND INIT.RUOTITB FOJlEWAJU(INOS!
u tl:t)eret'ore, when the dreamer would know the true
interpretation of hil vision, which troubles his thoughts and
disquiets his soul, let him in the first place mark down, with
any convenient instrument (as pen, pencil, or any thing capa-
ble of making the marks distinct), TBK LIKBS o•
C:ll!'BBB.S, as shown hereafter, without counting
them, so as the number thereof may be (as far as the diviner
knows) left to chance-albeit,chance hereinhas but little to do;
but the number of his Ciphers must not be arithmetically
counted or known at the time, while the diviner is marking
them, but set down as it were at random, no matter how
roughly they are made; for therein lays the little secret of this
book-that the occult principleof the IOul lhall10 guide or coun-
tel the dreamer (or diviner) and control hU hand, that he 1/uJl
mark down thole sign~ alone which will con~ a true amwer, in
the matter of his cogitations. All men have knowledge what
wonderful power these Ciphers have allotted them, in increas-
ing and diminishing certain numbers in the art decimal and
the art of arithmetic; and be assured, they have equal power
when used as vehicles of presaging in Dreams and Visions.-
From whence this art has been, by those of old, termed the art
of MtJromanep. .Pursue, therefore, in full faith and
credence, these aforesaid rules, and the foreknowledge of the
dream shall be made known to thee.''
41
You ean tOrm the lines of Ciphers as if at rt.ndom, in this
manner:
00000000000000
0000000000
0000000000¢00
00000¢00000
0000000
000000
00000000
00000000000
QQOOOOOOOOQ
OOOOOOOOOOQOO
The odd numbers are,
Then, let the dreamer pro-
ceed to count the Ciphers
ineachlineofthewhole, se-
parately,and mark down the
number ofeachline,whether
it be an oddoran even num-
ber therein.
1. a. 5. '7. 9. n. ta. 16. 11. 19. 21.
The even numben are,
2. 4. 6. 8. 10. 12. 14. 16. 18. 20. 22.
Going through eachlineseparately,let him count the Ciphers,
and if the number of Ciphers in the first line be odd, let him
mark down ONE Cipher as the result; but, ifeven, TWO : thus
proceeding through the first five lines, which will constitute the
Pint Sign, marked in the Columns of0racl6!1 as No. I.
Then go through the other five lines, in the same manner,
and proceed as before, counting the Ciphers in each line, and
marking them dQwn as odd or even. This will give the Second
Sig-a, marked in the Columns ofOracles as No.2.
Here follows an Example of the whole process:-
Une. · · Bien 1.
l.o o o o o o o o o o o o o o inalll4ciphers, even. o o
2.oooooooooo 10ditto, e~~e~~,oo
3.ooooooooooooo - 13ditto, odd, .o
4.ooooooooooo 11 ditto, odd, o
5.o o o o o o o 7 ditto, odd, 0
Tbo~e five lines of Ciphers make thus one Sign.
Une. . !llgn 2.
6. o ooooo inall6oipbers,ewn, oo
7.oooooooo 8d1tto, even, oo
8. ooooooooooo 11 ditto, odd, o
9. c:> o o o o o o o o o o t I ditto, Odd, o
10.0000000000 000 13 ditto, odd, 0
And the second five lines of Ciphers make the Second Sign.
£3
9'"•d ,Google
ttf)e ttovaliJoot ofIJnamt.
In the next place, let the dreamer place the two signs toge-
No. 1. No.2. ther, thus, as in the marginis shown, and refer
c c c c to the pages of Oracles in the book, looking
c:> c:> c:> c:> carefully down the sides thereof for the cor-
e c:> responding Signs, which will be most rea-
c:> c:> dily found, and the answer to the Dream
c:> c:> will be opposite to the Sign, thus :-
For the foregoing Signs, formed as above, you will find at
page 51, the following Oracle, or Interpretation:
" The interyretation of thy Dream is thil : That Jhy fate is
about to undergo a powerfulchange, andfriends, as wellaa a llet-
terfortune, await thee."
But note, that due care must be taken to notice the Signs
rightly-that is, the order ofthe first and second Sigm, for the
answer otherwise differs: that is to say, not to mistake in
placing No.2, for No. 1, and 'Vice 'VfN/J. But a little practice
will render this pursuit plain, intelligible, and easy ; and, with-
out practice, the easiest methods, it must be remembered, will
seem difficult.
Here follows another Example, at large :-
QCQQQQQQQQ
QQQQQQQ
QQQQQQQQQQQ
QQQQQQQQ
. c:>c:>c:>c:>c:>c:>
QQQQQQQQQQQQQ
QQQQQQ
QQQQQQQ
QQOQQQQQQ
Sip 1.
QQ
Q
Q
QQ
QQ
Blpl.
Q
• QQ
Q
Q
QQQQQQ QQ
Now tum to the Book, and in the columns of Oracles you
will find your signs, at page 143, give this interpretation, or
response:
o'o'' edbyGoogle
4S
Sip 1. Sip 2.
o · o o " Mo/'.Y qfthy ~fi are no more, yet th!l vilion
· o o 1tillforewarn~ thee to beware !"
00 0 }
oo e
oo ee
One more Example of these cases will suffice to render the
reader perfect in the revelations of Dreams :-
81pl.
oeeoooooo 0
000000 00
eoooooooooo e
00000 0
00000000 eo
81p2.
00000000 oe
' oeooeoooooooo 0
00000 e
000000 ·oo
oooooooo eo
At page 143 is the Oracular response thereto, namely:-
Sip J, Si&D So
0 :
0
o
0
}'' Misfortune. approach-bewarned: th!J Dream
0 0 foretelll a lou of mcney, or dearth of eold
o o o und lilver."
00 00
With sincerity on the part of the Querist, the foregoing sim-
ple instructions are all that are requisite in this curious inquiry,
and it is presumed, the pleasure derived from such attention to
the foregoing rules will more than recompense for the dilliculty
of learning them.
Jt,ou.
In order to render the niethod of predictions by Dreams still
more easy, the following additional instructions are adjoined to
the original plan of the manuscript. ·
Having formed the two Signs by Ciphers, as before shown,
place them tngether side by side, as underneath, and out of the
two figures make an Index, or third figure, by counting the
points ofeach, whether odd or even. Example:-
Sign I, Sign 2.
00
00
0
0
0
In the 1st line are 4 Ciphers,
which are even : therefore, mark
down two Ciphers
In the 2nd line 4
In the 3rd line 4
In the 4th line 4
In the 5th line 4
00
00
0
0
0
Indez.
00
00
00
00
- 00
This makes the Third Sign, or IU'btX, which having found,
r~fer to tlu! Table cif Indexes, and see what word a71S10erf thereto:
that word will be found at the top cif tl1e page which contai111 the
Signs and their A711Wers. By this method, the interpretations
will be easily found without further difficulty. Thus, the word
0 ~ 88
over the Index §8 is ARIES ; over the Index § is SoL,
and so of the rest, in due order, as before. A little practice
will render this familiar to the Reader.
Bote also, that in order to obviate entirely any seem-
ing difficulty in counting the Ciphers, the reader may join
them together by two and two, aa underneath shewn, in the
following example :-
Qe ltopiWoot of IJmna. .5
Sica a.
o-o o-o o-o o-o 00 00
o-o 00 00
o-o o-o o-o 00 00
o-o o-o o-o 0 0
o-o o-o o-o 00 00
Sica t.
o-o o-o 00 00
o-o o-o o-o 00 00
o-o o-o o-o 0 0
o-o 0 0
o-o o-o o-o 0 0
Place these two signs together, thus, and draw out the index,
as before shown:-
Sicn 1.
00
00
00
0
00
ladn:.
00
00
0
00
0
Sica t.~
00
00
0
0
0
The index answers to the word or key DIANA, page 121;
and the following is the interpretation of the dream:-" Tile
dream presages mooey and guotb, in due 1e01011 ; the star of the
clreamer'1 dutiny shines kindJ!J."
And mo~eober observe, that when one rign is found in
tire columns, the otheril ealily discovered, by it~ corresponding
signature, in every case that can possibly occur.
o;g,,edb,Google
'l'he following are the tabular names of the Indexes, which
are at the head of each page :
Srtet. ~ol. ttnru. •••
• • • •• •• • •
••• • •• • • • • ••
• • • • • • • •
Gemtnt. auna. eranm. ~tunr.
•• • • • •• • ••• • • • ••
• • • •
• • •• • • • • • • • • • • ••
&eo. flllart. 'WitgO. JantRiu..
• • • • ••• • • •
• • • • •• • •••
• • • • ••• • • •
&tllra. 'Wmu•· ~torpto. •anat.
• • • • • •
• • • • • • • • • ••• • •
• • • • • •
~gittafJ!. ,Juno. &pfitonr. «ern.
• • • •• • • • •
• • • ill
• • • • • • •
• • • •• • • • •
Squariu•. 'Wnta. 1U•m· IJtana.
• • • • • • • • • • •
• • • • • • • • •
• • • • • • •• • • •
.ftlebuu. 1J~oebu•· Jttetate. \Ipolio.
• • • • • • •..: • •
• • • • • •• •
• •• •• • • • •
,lortuna. Neptune. ®rion. §itti..
• • • • • • • • •
• • • • •• • • • ••
• * • • * • • • •
By a study of the foregoing Table, the answers will euily be
discovered; although the index may beleft out ofthe question,
9'"•d ,Google
41
and the dream interpreted without this latter process, if the
Reader take the trouble to tum over the pages of the book,
and seek out the Signs in the Columns of Oracles. The Index
in all cases is made by counting the odd and even points, and
care must be taken with its formation, so as not to mistake the
Signs: a slight degree of practice will render this familiar.
And Note Ultll, that thil il the jint Book in tl1e EnglisA
language which contaim the " Sephromantic Art," or Divinatiora
~ Cipher•, being totall!l diltinct from tlwle workl which uu
pointl or lina. The number of ten lines of Ciphers is arbitrary,
as it has reference to the ten numeral figures in Arithmetic.
Note also, that the more earnut and intent the Retuier
7110!1 be upon dilcovering the interpretatiora of Ail Dream, in the
111111e ratio may the truth ofthe Oraclebe relied on; for, although
there is no kind of divination perfect, without the entire con•
currence of the mind " to will and to do,' void of all attention
to surrounding objects, yet doubtless much amu.ement, and in
some instances aooo INSTRUCTION,may be derived from these
proceedings. Of all kinds of prescience into futurity, tbe
science of BJu1Jitial9tttOIOgp holds pre.eminence.-
But, from a variety of difficulties, which naturally arise in the
pursuit of that branch of knowledge, the art of interpreting
dreams thereby is abstruse and intricate. These difficulties are
obYiated in the present work, which, although itcannot be said
to lay claim to the unerring calculations derived from •• the
counes of the Stars," is, nevertheless, well worthy strict atten-
tion.
i£4ttlp eDttrbe, that it is by no means essential for
the Reader to make the Ciphers or marks perfect: ANY KIND
OR IIETBOD OF MAKINO THEil WILL ANSWER TBB Pt1.RP088,
even if they are mere blot• imkad ofCiplters, if the Reader be
perfectly sincere in his wishes to interpret the Dream.
;g; zed ,,Coogle
OJ'
TBS
THIRTY-TWO
B.O:L:LS 0~ Ol\AC:LBS.
J'
THE
TBB :E'IB.ST B.OJ:.J:. 0:1' OB.ACJ:.IIS.
Signs.
I. 2.
00 00
00 00
0 c
0 0
0 0
00 co
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
C" 0
00 00
0 0
co 00
00 00
00 00
88 00
00
0 0
00 00
00 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
• •
••
• •
• •
• •
IThe interpretation of thy dream is this, that thy
fate is abouttoundergo a powerful change,and
friends as well as a better fortune await thee.
IA full merry and right joyful dream : it tells of
banquets and feasting.
IA dream of disappointments.
IThy dream presages a saturnine enemy.
IA dream of waters, voyages, and flitting from
place to place.
IThis vision has little or no meaning. -
IA sign of anger, angry words, and contention.
Be careful to eschew strife.
IThis is a dream connected with a multitude of
business and great deeds.
1'2
5ll
Sl,ne.
I. 2.
00 00
00
88
00
0 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
0
00
0
00
0 0
00 00
88 00
00
0 0
0 0
0 0
8 0
0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
oo 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
c 0
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
o_o 00
0
0 0
co 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
00
0
00
0
00 00
0
00
0
00
AB.IES.
IThis presages travelling, with some mishap
therein.
IA goodly planet lordships: the dream is a right
merry one; some joy is at hand.
IThis dream foretells hasty news.
IA doleful dream the dreamer has dreamed,
warning of sepulchres.
IBeware! an enemyisendeavouringtoinjure thee.
IAn alarm or fright is hereby admonished.
ITo a male, this foretells marriage festivals.
ITo a female, this dream has good forebodings.
IThe sign is evil; the dream is sad and grievous.
IThis dream foretells corning mi.:ifortunes.
IUnless on a Friday, this vision forebodes some
happy and cheerful fortune.
IIt were a marvel indeed, did not the dreamer
soon have some great good fortune.
oigi:_edb,Google
Sign!'.
1. 2.
C> 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
c 0
0 C>
OC> oc
0 c
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
C> 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 C>
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
AB.IES.
lSaturn opposes, with a tincture of Venus; it
foretells a cross in the affections.
lA dream of manifold and divers crosses.
IThis foretells journeys.
ICares, toils, and anxious forebodings are im-
plied by this peculiar omen.
ILet the dreamer be careful of his worldly stores.
IThis is a sign the dreamer will be deceived in
something expected.
IThis is a sign of counting money and bartering
goods.
IUnless thou hast erred in thy points, a funeral is
probable in thy family connexions.
IThe dreamer will ere long lose a friend.
IThis foretells the fellowship of the great.
IA sign of mixed, fleeting, and fickle fortunes.
IThis dream prognosticates victory over one thou
dreadest, shortly.
F3
.THE
SBCOKD B.O:r.:r. OJI OB.AC:LBS.
Signs.
1. 2.
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 co
00 00
00 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 0
0 0
00 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 0
00 0
00 00
00 00
00 0
0 00
0 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EaiBLEMS.
• •
• •
•
•
•
~ lb
IPrepare for a journey within a short season.
IThis dream foretells heaviness of mind.
IA dream of uncomfortableness; many toils will
ensnare the dreamer.
IBe on thy guard: a faithless friend is near thee.
IThis dream forebodes striving, contention, and
perchance bloodshed.
IMars predominates, and his influence over thy
vision is manifest ; eschew prevarications.
IThy dream rroceeds from an ill compo;;ure of
mind, an from bodily affections.
IOn the first day of the moon, this presages a
legacy; at other times, friends.
cte lto»al ...t lit Jlrtmt. II
Signs.
so:r..
1. 2.
00 000
IBoth a treachery and a gift is here prognosticated.
0
00 0
00 0
00 0
00 00
IThis dream on a Saturday is doleful.
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
ISaturnine and Mercurial! avoid chance pursuits.
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
1The harm portended is over, but be wary.
00 00
0 00
00 0
0 00
00 00
IHeavy, grievous, and gloomy annoyances may
00 00
00 0
be expected by the dreamer.
00 0
0 00
00 00
IThis portends sad news.
00 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
ILet the dreamer clothe himself gayly-a bridal
00 00
00 0
banquet is near.
00 0
00 0
0 0
ITo a male, the love of a fair woman is at hand.
00 00
0 00
To a female, an espousal.
0 00
0 00
0 0
IThis portends a thievish friend near thy dwelling.
00 00
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
IPleasures will end in sorrow, is the moral of
00 00
0 00 this dream ; the signs are not beneficial.
0 00
00 0
00 co
IPreparations for the imprisonment of a friend
0 0
g 00 are going on in another quarter.
00
00 0
000 00
IQuit not thy dwelling the day after thy dream,
0
go 0 lest thou abide sorrow.
0
00 00
I
9'"•d ,Google
56 qe llOJ!ill .._Itof JJnaat.
I.
SiKn·
2. sor..
0 0
IAnger, contentions, and disappointments are
0 0
0 00
indicated.
00 0
0 00
0 0
IMake active preparations to receive an absent
0 0
00 0
friend.
0 oo
00 0
0 0
IThe voice of slander is loud against thee.
0 0
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
IEven now the star of thy fortunes wanes.
0 0
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
IOn third and sixth days of the moon this dream
00 00
00 0
is profitable; on other days, evil.
0 00
0 00
0 0
IThis portends a journey on the
00 00 morrow, or
0 00 within a short season.
00 0
00 0
00 00
IGold and silver are allotted thee.
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
IA friend is announced-thou art fortunate, be
0 0
0 00 also happy; thy dream is auspicious.
00 0
00 0
0 0
IThis dream, to a mariner, bids him beware of the
00 00
0 00 treacherous ocean.
00 0
0 00
0 0
ISomething concealed or a hidden treasure will
00 00
000 0 be discovered by the dreamer.
00
00 0
00 00
IThis dream foretells legacies within three years,
0 0
00 0 to a great amount.
0 00
00 0
00 00
IThree years' approach of happy fortune to the
0 0
0 00
dreamer.
00 0
0 00
oigi:_edb,Google
Qe ICqallflld of .....
THE
TB:rBD ao:r.:r. OP OBAC:LBS.
Sign.
1. 2.
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
00 0
00 0
00 0
00 0
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 000
00
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
0 00
00
8
00
00 0
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 0
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 00
0 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS•
•
•
•
•
•
IThis is a dream of obscurity, proceeding from
an ill composure of the mind.
IThe dream forebodes the quickness of a passing
trouble, but rather heavy for a season.
IObserve the day on which thou askest the ques·
tion; if on any other day but Saturday, good
is divined.
IThe dreamer will shortly receive money.
IThis signifies paying away and losing money.
IA trouble is approaching in money matters-
be careful of thy coffers.
IThe dreamer will shortly be introduced to a
new friendship.
IObserve well thy actions: one opposes thee who
may work something villanous.
j
I
68 «te llOJ!Ill ~5ooft of JDreamt.
I.
Sign.
2.
TA.VB.US.
00 0
IThese signs forebode deceit, guile, heaviness of
0 000
8§
0 mind, and malignancy of private foes.
0
o0 o
8
0
8°8
00
IA pleasant matter, on which the dreamerrelies,
will tum to reproach or cause weeping.
8g
0
IThis foretells vexation concerning letters or
00 8
0 00 papers.
00 0
0
8g IThis foretells rivals, albeit the} may not over-
0
0~0
00
come thee. ·
c
00
88
00
•0
8
8
00
IA star of lowering and unlucky fortune pre-
sides; beware of irritating thy enemies.
§· co
IOne of tall stature and saturnine visage is thy
00
0 88 adversary; take caution.
00 0
e 00
IA dream o~joy, proposticating good news:
88
.o
00 8
00 0
0 00
IPleasant and right merry are the presages.
§8 c
0
0
00 0
0 00
IThe dreamerisundertheinfiuences of travelling.
80§
0
o8 o
000 0
iExpect journeys, agitation, and the sight of
g §§ friends from afar off, within a short period.
00 0
0
0
88
0
00
co
0
o0 o
IThe dream is unlucky, morose, and grievous.
88 080 IThis signifies a loss by neglect or want of using
0
caution in business.
0 00
00 0
Digi: edbyGoogle
fl:f)e lio»allJoofl: of Drum•. 119
Sign.
1. 2.
'l"AVB. VS.
0 00
IBe careful of thy signature or handwriting.
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 0
IThis is an unfortunate sign for most things.
0 00
0 00
00 0
00 0
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
IThe vision is denoted by such signs to foretell
money.
00 0
IThis tells of letters containing evil reports.
000 0
00
00
o0 o
0
0 00
IExpect various rumours against thy credit: be
0 00
000 0
sure, therefore, to take counsel in due season.
00
00 0
00 0
IA sign of deceitful friends: let the dreamer
0 00
00 0 take caution in whom he places trust.
00 0
0 00
o0 o
00
IThis foretells sickness in thy dwelling.
0
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 00
IDelay or trouble concerning papers is shewn
00 0
00 0
0 00 here.
00 0
000 0
ILetters and hasty news are approaching.
00
o0 o 00
0
0 00
00 0
IThe signs are fortunate ; in a short space the
0 00
00 0 fate of the dreamer will change.
0 00
0 00
0 00
ILet the dreamer remember, that present plea·
00 0
0 00
sures frequently end in coming losses.
00 0
00 0
o0 o 00
IThere is a train of remarkable influences ap·
0
0 00
preaching.
00 0
0 00
o'o'' edbyGoogle
THJ!.
:E'0 VB.T B B.O:L:L 0 :E' 0 :a.A C :LB S.
Sign•.
I. ll.
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
00
00
00
88
0
0
8
0
00
88
0
0
0
0
oo
oo
00
0
~0~
00
0
0
0
oo
oo
oo
00
oo
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
00
oo
00
0
00
0
00
00
~0~
00
00
HIEBOGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS,
•
•
•
••
••
IThe signs evince some change at hand.
IThe dreamer may prepare for a journey, and
may cross the deep waters.
IIf this dreambedreamed on the third day of the
moon, expect a loss; on any other day it is
unfortunate.
IThese are signs of an unexpected misfortune;
have a care of thy dwelling.
lLetters of thine are intercepted.
IThe omens are particularly fitful, and prone to
sorrow or family troubles.
IThese are signs that the horoscope of the land
wherein thou sojournest is exposed to perils.
IUnless thou wert careless in diviningthy omens,
the interpretation threatens an alarm.
Sign•.
'· 2.
00
oo
00
0
00
0
0
0
0
00
00
0
0
0
00
0
00
00
0
00
0
00
c
0
0
00
00
00
00
0
00
0
0
00
00
0
00
00
00
00
0
00
00
0
00
00
0
0
0
00
00
0
00
0
0
6l
J'OV::£.
IPrepare thy garb of funeral hue: one of thy
relatives may ere long die.
IScandals, and the annoyances of divers worldly
cares, are foretold hereby.
ITh!s portends a return of some grievance.
IAn~er, or angry words, is denoted by this
VISIOn.
IRejoice, dreamer! thy horoscope no longer
threa~ens to overw.helm thee, as of late ; for-
tune IS more prop1t10us.
IExpect extraordinary tidings from friends.-
This is a sign of much action for the space of
full three moons.
IThis is certainly a cross and ill-omened vision.
IIn thy dwelling there will be peril, grief, or the
hand of secret affliction.
IThese are signs of riding on horseback, or ca-
reering with animals, but to thy loss.
IOld grievances are likely to be suddenly re-
newed.
1
1 Th.is. portends marriage rites, or nuptial re-
JOICmgs.
I
I The interpretation of this dream is more in·
I dined to mirth than sorrows or cares.
G
61 «~ ICOI411Soot llf JDrealltt.
Sign.
1. 2. J'OV&
0~0 8°8
8
IThis foretells invitations ofa pleasant kind.
gog
0
0
080
8
IThou hast dreamed a dream ofsorrows.
8
88
0
00
00
0
00
0
IThe dreamer is subject to evil influences.
88
0
000
8
00
000
IThe dream foretells a new and beneficial friend-
ship within the short space of a month.
o0 o 000 IThis dream ill very full of signs of loss; more
· 0 00 especially if dreamed on the third day of the
000 000 moon.
8°8
0
0
~~~ ISeek toavoid thosedisputes the dream portends.
00
c0o IThreenoted friends wilt thoumeetwiththisyeat.
0
000 0
0
00 00
0
080
00
~0~
0
00
IThe dream has various and divers signifi-
cations; among the rest, it foretokens mar-
riage, to one who is single.
88 0~0 IIf thy dream was terrific, still fear no harm.
8
00 00
0
88 IAngry words are here denoted.
·o0 o 0
0
o0 o
00
0 00
IThe signs of the times were foreshadowed in
o0 o
00
0 thy nocturnal admonitions : they are hostile.
8 8
808 8 IFear but little harm under these omens, what~
8
000 ever thy vision might consist of.
0
oigi:_edb,Google
61
THE
I'I:P'l"B B.O:L:L O:P OB.AC:LB&
,Sign.
l. .2.
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 . o
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
00
00
0
0
0
0
0
0
00
00
0
0
gg
00
00
00
00
0
0
00
00
0
0
0
0
0
00
00
00
0
0
0
00
00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEM$.
• •
• •
•
• •
• •
IThe signs foreshow journeys, or crossing the
far-distant waters.
IThis foretells abundance of business, and
having to deal with books, papers, and
writings.
IThe interpretation tells thee that an enemy to
thy peace will die, ere long.
IThis denotes that something the dreamer has
urgently wished for, has gone by.
IGood fortune, winning, and a plenteous purse,
are among these omens.
IThe dreamer will gain shortly by some bargain.
IThis dream gives victory over enemies.
IThe dreamer will shortly be invited to merry-
making.
G2
64 «te "qallJooft of Dreamf.
Sign.
1. 2, GBJIIIXI.
QQ
gQg ;8;
IGreat falsehood among friends very near thee,
and sicknessin the vicinity of thy sojoumings.
Q8Q QQ
IThl enemies are false, treacherous, and scorn·
Q
88
8Q I, but thy dream foretells the victory.
o8
gQg
g<::> IWhatever thou bast in band, on the morning
QQ Q8: after thy dream, fear troubles.
88 o8
IExpect letters, and messages,and absentfriends.
Q80
8o
0
OQ
co
~:~ IThe dream is one of sadness.
8<::>8
<::>g
QQ
000
gg
IA funeral bier is preparing for a near companion.
8<::>8
§Q§
0 IThe dream has a prosperous-nay, verily, a
8°8
full jovial portent, and may prove also
fortunate.
o0 o
8°8 §Q§ IThisdreamproceedsfro~regretsofjoysnowpast.
80§
00
Q
OQQ
000 IThis dream portends a loss by thieves.
Q'OQ
o:<::>
0
8<::>8
IBeware of those who would treacherously deal
with thee,-they are at band.
QgQ QQQ ITo a female, this foretells marriage to one of
:Q: tall ~tature and fair, within the year.
00
000
:8:
IUnless the signs be cast on the day of the new
OQQ moon, or when the moon is eclipsed, expect
00 some great pain.
«te Mttil•et of •natnll. ~.5
Sign.
GEMIXI.
}. 2.
0 0
ITo a male, thi foretells the love of a beautiful
00 00
0 00
and comely damsel, and friendship to all.
0 0
0 0
0 0
IThese are signs of coming troubles.
00 00
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
IThy dream verges upon evil.
0 0
0 00
co 00
0 0
0 0
lIn general, these signs predict imprisonment
0 0
00 0
and harassing of mind.
00 00
0 0
0 0
IAlas ! for the signs are evil: rporeover, one
0 0
0 00
of thy expectations will come tp naught.
0 c
00 00
0 0
There is a trouble near thee, in thine own
0 0
00 0
mansion.
0 0
00 00
00 co
IThe rays of many goodlfc stars unite to cause
0 0
0 00
the amendment of thy ortunes.
0 0
0 0
00 00 IOn ~Friday, this vision foretells deceit; on a
0 0
Monday, a journey; on other days, a new
00 0
0 0 friencl.
0 0
00 00
IQuarrelsome and vile are the signs.
0 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
IThis dream proceeds from ill health.
8 0
00
00 00
0 0
0 0
IThe dream is more joyful than otherwise.
oo og
g o_
oo 0-0
0 0
IThe dream here sought to be interpreted, pre-
00 00
00 0
diets a loss of goods, or discr~dit.
0 0
00 00
G3
9'"•d ,Google
THE
81S.~B B.O:r.:r. O:P OB.AC:r.BS.
Sicn.
I. t.
00 oo
0 oo
88 88
00 oo
00 00
00 0
00 00
00 oo
00 00
oo 00
co 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 00
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
•o 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
••
•••
• •
••
IBe warned ! the orbs above indicate signs of
guile and dissimulation.
ISorrows will now leave the dreamer ; his fears
are groundless, and void of harm.
IDoubtless, thy horoscope is at this hour con-
figurated with some happy conjunction, pro-
mising wealth.
IThis dream, if rightly cast and duly inter-
preted, foretells seven long years of good
fortune.
ISaddle thy horse, and open thy portals,-aswift
sign is here ofjourneys and changes.
IThis foretells a voyage or adventure with a plea-
sant and choice damsel.
IThis is a sign that absentfriends are in trouble.
ILosses will happen in thy family.
o'o'' edbyGoogle
1. Sign. 2. I.V Jr A.
8 8 0 00
0 IThis denotes something mercurial,-that the
o dreamer will be much busied with books or
00 00
o o o o papers;.
000 00 IT
000
~
0~ h:e~!~rpretation of the dream foretells hasty
00 00
oo· o0 o I
8 8 o0 o This is a sign of a removal.
o0 o 00
o0 o g 8 The dream is a sign of receiving money.
00 00 I
o0 o o0 o
o o o0 o IThy dream predicts deaths amongst rela-
§ g o o tions, or a funeral, wherein thou wilt
0 °0 ° grieve. .
~0~ gg·IThe dream foretells sickness.
00 00
0 0
o0 o 8 IThis is a full fortunate dream, indicating a good
8 8 8 8 store of gold and silver.
00 00
ogo 8°8 lThe dreamer will find out something secret.
00 00
00 00
o0 o 8 IHe who has dreamed such a dream, may well
80
8 80
8 prepare for sickness and calamities.
8 °o0 The dream foreshows a removal.
00 00 I
o0 o o0 o
0 0 ° 8 deeds, or writings, and verges greatly upon
o o o o IThe vision speaks of confusion among papers,
ooo ooo loss.
J
68
Siga.
J. 2.
0 0
8 00
0
o: 00
0 0
o0 o
0
8
0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 00
8 0
0
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
co 00
00 00
00 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
0 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 0
0 0
0:0 00
0
00 00
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
co 0
00 00
0 0
co 00
0 0
0 00
00 00
0 0
00 00
IExpect a month of quarrelling and losses, if
these signs are cast aright.
IWhen these signs appear, thou art under the
hostile aspects of Mars and Venus. Look
well to thy actions.
IA dream, predicting a funeral within a twelve-
month.
IThe fickleness of the world's enjoyments is
here manifest.-It is a dream of trouble.
IThe dreamer's better fortune prevails. This
foretells money, presents, and prosperity.
IA golden influence prevails. Slight it not.
IThis dream is one of a universal description:
it betokens troubles among divers mighty
persons.
ILet the dreamer take heed what he does the
day after such a vision.
IThe dream thou hast dreamed was grievous or
frightful, but its portents are the reverse.
IShortly expect a journey.
IThis foretells the sickness or death of a friend.
IThis dream proceeds f;om affliction, and por-
tends grief.
oigi:_edb,Google
THE
sDVB•~• ao:r.:r. or o:a..a.c:r.zs.
Sign.
1. ll.
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
co 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
o0 o
0
0
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 00
HIE.ROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
••
• •
••
•
••
IIf this dream were of money, it tells ofsome de-
ceit ; otherwise, it portends naught.
IThis dream portends a voyage, or news from
voyagers.
IThis is a vision of melancholy and affliction.
lThis signifies loss of friends.
IThis vision foretells approaching aches and bo-
dily ailments in a few days hence.
IThis foretells sickness.
lThe interpre~ation of this dream tells of victory
over enemies.
IThis is a dream of coll$ternatiou, or ill words.
10
Sign.
1. 2.
CA1'lC:Bl\.
g g g g ITo a dark person, and saturnine, this is an in-
c 0 0 g fallible sign of many friends.
00 00
gog gog ·IThis is a dream of mirth and merry makings.
0 00
00 co
o 0 o o 0 o constellation doubtless bears rule in thy
0 o o o IThis is an ill dream,-some malignant star or
g g 0 °0 nat1v1ty.
0 o 0 0 o 0 Suddenly, thou wilt meet with a foe, and con-
00 00 I
0o0 8 8 quer him.
§
0
§ ggg IHeaviness, sadness, and cares, .this forebodes.
gg ggIo~ht~ef~~~:hd~; ~rx~~ed~;~.nj~;r;e~~e~~s:h?r~
g 0 0 ° teenth, a funeral; on any other day, sorrows.
o
0
o o
0
o I
g g o0 o Tidings ofjoy are approaching.
00 00
0 0 I
00 00
IBeware of a secret and treacherous foe.
00 00
0 00
00 00
0 0
IIf the dreamer has prepared for a journey, this
00 00
oc 00
foretells a disappointment.
00 0
.o 0
c 0
lThe ominous importof this dream is at hand.
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 0
oo · 00
IThy dream foreshows travelling.
c 0
0 0
0 00
00 00
00 00
IThis foreshows, first a journey, next a voyage,
0 0
0 0
or dealings with mariners.
00 0
00 00
ttte llD»~~I lleolt of Jlhuall, 71
Sigo.
CANC:Bll.
I. 'l.
0 0
IThis may have been a pleasant dream, but the
00 00
0 0
signs are full guileful and treacherous.
0 00
0 0
0 0
IThis vision speaks of treachery from a female.
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 0
00 00
IThis dream is amazingly fortunate.
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 0
000 00
lThis foretells money by messengers, or letters.
0
0 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
IThis foreshows variances amongst friends.
0 0
00 00
00 0
00 00
0 0
IThe dream prognosticates sickness.
0 0
00 00
0 00
00 00
0 0
ISomething the dreamer has begun will be frus-
0 0
00 00 trated.
00 0
0 0
0 0
IThis is a sign of eminent friends, rich and noble.
0 0
00 00
0 00
0 0
00 00 IThe sunshine of prosperity will ere long sur-
0 0
round the dreamer, and many moons of good
00 00
0 00 fortune will succeed.
0 0
00 00
IMany of the dreamer's wishes will fail.
0 0
00 00
00 0
0 0
0 0
IThese are omens of loss.
00 00
0 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
IThis dream is an index of much diversity.
00 00
0 0
0 00
00 00
9'"•d ,Google
71
TBB
zza•~• ao:r.:r. or oa.a.c:r.zs.
Sigu.
1, 2.
§§ 00
00
00
00 00
0 00
gg 00
00
co 00
00 00
00 c
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
o0 o 0
0
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 00
oc 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
eo 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
88 00
0
0 0
0 0
0 0
000 00
00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
••
• •
••
• •
•
§ ~ ~11mn-Q
IThis dream is a sign of funerals.
IThe interpretation is, that some abse~t friend
will soon depart this life for a better.
IThis dream is an omen of a thing remote, that
the dreamer shall not obtain lightly.
IThis is a sign of sepulchres, biers, aud funeral
feasts.
IThis foretells potations of wine and strong
drink, merry-making, dances, and wassails.
IThis dream is a sure pledge of friendship.
IThese are signs ofanger.
ISometh_ing which the dreamer expects, shall in
no w1se come to pass.
~be lto!!all;ooft of Dreams. 73
Sign. SATUB.N.
I. 2.
00 00 IThe signification of this vision foretells remark-
00 00
able gain and joyfulness through letters or
0 0
00 00 books.
00 0
00 00
IThis is a sign of legacies, and gain bythe dead .
00 00
0 0
00 00
0 00
00 00
IOne whom the dreamer receives with great
0 0
00 00
courtesy, will prove a base and vile deceiver.
00 00
00 0
00 00
IThesi! omens are marvellously fraught with dis·
0 0
00 00
simulation.
00 00
0 00
00 00
IWithspeedysteps fortune will visitthedreamer.
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 0
00 00
IFull sore and grievous are thy thoughts, but this
00 00
00 00
sign speaks an aspect ofjoy.
0 0
0 00
0 0
ISomething the dreamer has lately sought after,
00 00
00 00
shall be accomplished without labour.
00 00
00 0
0 0
IBeware of signing wills, deed~, or bonds.
00 co
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 00
IMarvel not, dreamer, if thy purse receive full
0 0
0 0
speedily a goodly replenishment.
0 0
00 0
00 00
IThese are signs offriends,and the tideof fortune.
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 0
IFair and goodly damsels will woo the dreamer.
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 00
o0 o
0
,. These imply letters treating oflove and courtship.
00
0 0
0 g
00
H
Sien.
I. ~.
0 0
0 0
88 00
00
00 0
8 0
0
00 00
00 co
0 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 00
00
0
00
0
00 00
c 0
00 0
0 0
00 00
0 0
o: 00
c co
0 c
00 00
0 0
00 00
co 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
0 co
00 00
0 0
0 0
co 00
00 0
0 0
0 0
00 co
0 0
00 0
c 0
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 oo
«te •ovallloot of IInam•.
SATVB.:N'.
IIn the midst of difficulties the dreamer is safe.
IThis is a sign of riding on horseback, and tra-
velling with speed.
IThe dream implies changes at hand.
IThis is an unlucky and doleful vision; variou~
are the interpretations-but they cross thy
desires.
IThe signification of this dream is under dura-
ble signs; and yet it foretells great store of
riches.
ISpread thy sails, dreamer, to the wind; a pros-
perous fortune illumines thy path: perse-
vere!
IThis is a true sign of lo~ses.
IThis implies thieves near thy dormitory.
ILetters, news, and messengers, are prognosti-
cated.
IExcept on a Sunday, this foretells money.
IThy dream foretells angry words.
IBe careful ofred-haired persons.
oigi:_edb,Google
THE
Kl!f'I'B B.OI.I. 01' OB.ACI.BS.
Sign.
}. 2.
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 oc
00 0
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
•
• •
• •
• •
••
IA dream of celestial influences, denoting the
plentiful favours offortune.
IThis denotes gain by merchandise, or money
from one beyond seas.
ILetters, news, and presents are indicated.
IThe dreamer will shortlymeetwith akind friend.
ITo a man of merchandise (or business), this is
a good and true sign of money; to a private
person, it tells of friends.
IThis foretells marriage within a year.
ISomething the dreamer pursues will fail.
IThis tells of loss by writings or papers; and, if
the dreamer be about to take a journey, he
will be in peril.
H 2
TO Ctr •1141 •ot of lkralllf.
st1...
1. t.
z.zo.
88 0
lThe dream foretells lo SE.'s by law-suits, and
00
0 0 confusion amongst papers or deeds.
oo eo
oo 00
0 oo llfthis dream happens on the third dny of the
00 00
moon, expect a death amongst those allied to
0 0
oo oo thee by blood.
oc 00
00 0
lThis is a sign of secret enemies.
0 0
88
00
00
co
0 00
IThe dreamer has secret enemies, but he will
e 0
88 00 obtain the mastery over them.
00
co 00
00 0
lThe .signs forebode the return of some
88 00 past
00
0 c gr~evance.
00 00
0 00
ITake heed, or thou wilt have a loss.
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 co
00 0
IThis is a sign of deaths among those of kin.
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 co
IA sign of funerals.
00 00
00 00
00 00
c 0
00 c
IBe careful to what thou affixest thy signature.
0 e
c 0
0 0
00 00
0 00
IThou wilt suffer loss by thieves.
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 00
c 00
lAvoid those quarrels which this sign foretells
0 0
0 0
will shortly surround thee.
00 oo
0 0
00 0
IThissignifiesanger, concerning letters or papers.
0 c
0 0
000 00
0
o;g,,edb,Google
«te._tal.._of.,...
"
Sign. !.BO.
I. 2.
00 0
IThe aspects of the stars to which this sign bears
00 00
000 00
reference, foretell manifold changes.
0
0 0
0 00
IThis is a sign of dismay and dolorous news.
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 00 IAspects of deceit surround the dreamer; his
0 0
00 00 dream forewarns of putting trust in the
00 00 thoughtless.
0 0
00 0
lA sign of anger, strife, and ill news.
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 0
lThe dreamer may expect the speedy arrival of
0 0
00 00
some bettsr fortune.
0 0
0 0
0 00
IThis foretells good tidings from friends.
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 00
IA loss is likely to happen to the dreamer.
000 00
00 o0 o
0 0
00 0
IThis forewarns of a secret enemy.
00 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
00 0 IEven though the dreamer were immersed in the
0 0
deep waters of tribulation, this sign foretells
000 00
0 good fortune.
00 00
0 00
IThis forebodes crossing waters.
0 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
0 00
IA sign of speedy news from the female sex,
00 00
0 0 and of some friend in jeopardy of substance.
0 0
00 00
00 0
IThe dreamer will soon take a journey.
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
u3
q,••v-t•ot or area~~~.
THE
~--~B B.O:r.:r. 0:1' OB.ACZ.BS.
Signa.
), 2.
gog
00
g§
00
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 oc
00 00
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
co 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
8 0
00
0 00
000 00
0
0 0
oo 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
oc 00
0 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
•
• •
• •
• •
•
IThe dream foretells weeping and sorrow.
IOne related to thee in a far-distant land will,
ere long, be committed to the silent tomb.
) On a Monday or Wednesday only, this is a
1 dream of good fortune.
IT!)is foretells a journey.
IThe dream foreshows aplentifulsupply ofmoney.
IThis dream foretells presents or gifts.
IThe dreamer may expect a kind friend within
three weeks from the casting of this sign.
IThis is an omen of happiness.
Si«D·
). 2.
00 0
000 00
0
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 00
0 0
000 00
00
00 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 0
0 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 00
00 c
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 00
0 0
0 0
......9 00
00 0
00 co
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
00 oc
0 00
00 0
0 0
0 0
00 00
00 0
Til
MABS.
IThese are signs of manifold business, letters,
papers, charts, writings, and activity of
mind.
IThis predicts vexation through a dark woman.
INothing can be more deceitful and fraudulent
than these omens: on thy peril, trust not a
red-haired man.
INews will ~hortlyreach thee that a friend is sick.
IA!though, of late, perils may have beset the
dreamer, his destiny will mend shortly.
IThis is an omen of grief.
IThy dream foretells a full manifold mixture of
joys and sorrows.
IThis foretells joy after weeping or vexation.
IThis a sign of marriage
lOn the seventh day of the moon, this dream
foreshows a jouruey; if on any other day,
pleasant companions.
IThis is a sign ofdisputes relating to writings.
IPrepare the sepulchre: thy dream foretells the
sudden death of a friend.
oigi:_edb,Google
80
Sign.
I. 2.
0 00
0 0
g 0
0
00 0
co 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
oo
00
0
00
00 00
0 0
0 co
0 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 0
o0 o
0
00
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
00- 0
-
00 0
0 0
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
0 00
1¥1 A l\ S .
IThe dreamer has had a vision of trouble.
IA halo of troubles surrounds the dreamer,-let
the utmost warine8s be used.
IThe dream foretells disappointments concerning
gold and silver.
IThis is a sign of delay in the expectations.
J After tarrying, thy dream brings good fortune.
ITo a female, the dream presages marriage ; to
a male, deceit among friends.
IThe dreamer has dreamed a dream presaging
many months ofsuccessive good fortune.
IThis presages angry words about money.
lSome of thesesignsspeak ofthe receiptofmoney.
IThe dream foretells sudden news.
IThis is a dream of little or no import.
ILet the dreamer prepare for a removal, unless
this omen falls on a new moon.
o'o'' edbyGoogle
81
THE
BZ.BVBlfTB B.OLL 01' OB.A.CLB8.
Sign.
}. 2.
00 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
00 0
00 00
0
8
0
00
00
8
0
00
0
00
00
0
0
0
0
00
00
0
00
00
00
0
0
0
0
0
0
00
0
00
00
0
00
00
0
0
0
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
• •
•
•
•
• •
IIf the moon be not at the full, this foretells a
long journey, and great activity.
IThis foretells voyages and journeys.
ITh~ dreamer will have some obstruction in bu-
smess.
ITh~ chief import of this vision ends in vexa-
tions.
IThis dream foretells present pleasure, solacf,
and marriage, more especially on a Thurs-
day.
IOn the ninth day of the moon, this dream pre-
sages a loss by robbers; on any other day,
decE:"it from a friend.
IThe dreamer will be introduced to rich and
noble persons.
IThe signification of this dream briogeth about
the dreamer's wishes and intents.
oigi:_edb,Google
Sll «te ltOJ!al •ooft of Drum-.
Sign.
VIBGO.
1. 2.
-----
IThis denotes riches after poverty, abundance
00 00
00 0
0 00 after scarcity, and the accomplishment of
00 0 wishes.
00 00
00 00 IA sign that the dreamer is destined to bear
0 00
00 0 lordship and rule over other persons, and to
0 00
receive honours.
00 00
00 00
IThis dream on a Friday is very unlucky.
0 00
00 0
00 0
00 00
00 00
IThis foretells presents from rich person>.
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
IThis is a sign of journeys, or flitting from
00 0
00 0
0 00 place to place.
00 00
00 00 IThe dream imports buying of houses or pon-
0 00
0 00 derous goods, and oftentimes to a female tells
00 0 of marriage.
00 00
00 00
IThis is a sign of delay in marriage.
00 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 00 IThis is a dream denoting nuptials, or pleasant
0 00
0 00 tidings, and profitable errands, or of things
0 00 the heart is pleased with.
0 0
0 0
IThe dream foretells divers and manifold com-
00 0
00 0
binations of hatred, joy, and sorrow.
00 0
00 00
0 0 IThe dreamer has many secret enemies, and
0 00
o?e particularly saturnine, of dark colour in
0 00
0 00
00 00 vrsage.
0 0 IThis is a good sign for a sick person ; and, on
00 0
the increase of the moon, foretells the coming
0 00
0 00 of money.
0 0
0 0
IThe dream signifies a reward for something
0 00
00 0
done.
co 0
0 0
«tr llo»al IJoolt of •rtftlt. 81
Sign.
1. 2.
VIRGO.
o o o This betokens servitude to the rich, and profit
0 0 I
~0
0 °0 ° to the poor.
0 0
0 0 I
g g g This foreshows a cross in lo\·e.
0 00
0 0~~~~~--~~----~----~~~----~
co-o o IThis foretells danger, hurt, and death, to the
00 0
o0 o 0 o::> sick; but, to one captive or in grief, it tells
o o of a release.
00 00 I
g g 8 This is a sign ofsickness through feasting.
00 0
0 0
0 0 I
o o o The dream predicts merry-makin~, new gar-
g 8 8 ments, wassailing, and banqueting.
00 00
0~0 080 IThe dream is both profitable and pleit!mnt.
0 00
00 00
o0c 0o0 notes the dreamer to be a very fortunate and
o o o o 1Except on the day of the new moun, this de-
g 0 0 0 happy person.
00 oo I f
o o o This is a dream of stability, signi ying long
ooo ooo life.
~0~--~0·--~l------------------------------------
~~~ o:o [Let the dreamer beware of deceitful friends.
ogo 0~0 IThis is a sign of quarre11.ing.
0 00
0 0
~~~ c:o IThis is a bad hieroglyphic for the dreamer.
00 00
080 °~0 IThe dream foretells sickness.
0 00
00 00
THE
'l'WBLP.I'B B.OLL 01' OB.ACLB8.
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
•
• •
•
•
•
Sign.
I. 2.
o o o IIf this dream was dreamed on a Friday
0 0 ° 8 8 night, from sunset to the rising of the sun, it
g g g foretells marriage.
00 0 I
g g ~0 This foretells a pleasant voyage.
co 0
00 0~~---------------------------------
----o-o 0 I
8 c0 o This presages manifold grief and heaviness.
0 C>O
0 00~~---------------------------------
00 0 I
c0 o 8 The dreamer has a secret and malignant enemy.
00 0
00 0
o o o o This foretells manifold and great riches in the
co 0 I
8 8 8 dreamer's old age.
0 00
0 o0 g g I This vision is one of happy fortune, but, by
c o c 1 reason of the signs, many years will pass ere
~ g g=-T---
it_t_
a_
ke
_
s_p
~l_
a_
ce
_.______________________
o c The dreamer shall get money >tnd riches, albeit
0 001
0°0 °0° he may afterwards lose them all.
00 0
co 0 I
c0 o 8 Gold and silver are allottecl to the dreamer.
0 00
0 00
o'o'' edbyGoogle
q, Kqallholtot JktaJ.
Slga. MBB.GVB.IVS.
I. 2.
00 0
IThis is a sure hit>roglyphic of riches in the last
00 00
0 co half of the dreamer's life.
00 0
00 c
0 00 IThe dreamer, for a season, shaH get neither
00 00
00 0 money nor riches, by reason of his negli-
0 00 g-ence.
0 00
00 0 IThis dream relates to the commonweal, and
00 co
00 0 is a sign of troubles to divers in high
0 00 places.
00 0
0 00
IThe dream signifies discredit.
00 00
0 00
00 c
0 00
00 0
ITrouble and sadness, after merry-making, are
00 00
00 0
here represented.
00 0
0 00
0 00
IThis foretells the getting of a sure and certain
00 00
8 00
friend.
00
00 0
0 00
IBeware, dreamer, of a loss by theft.
00 00
00 0
00 0
0 00
00 0
IJourneys, or riding on horseback, are pre-
00 00
0 co dieted.
0 00
00 0
00 0
IWithout any doubt, the dream presages re-
0 0
0 00
movals or voyages; but vexatious.
0 00
00 0
0 00
IThe dream foretells much evil on a Saturday.
0 0
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 00 I The dreamer will be in jeopardy by an evil-
0 0
0 00 I minded malicious foe, but will gain the ad-
00 0 vantage over him.
0 00
00 0
IThis dream
0 0
is fortunate.
co 0
0 00
00 0
86 «Oe lloJPalBooft of •reamt.
Sign.
}. 2. MBBOUiliU
IThis bi?s the dreamer beware of private
enem1es.
o0 o 8 moon, the dream presages mortality amongst
o o o lOn a Friday, or on the thirteenth day of the
0 0 ° 0 °0 those of kin.-lt is unlucky.
8 o0 ~' · Merry, pleasant, and felicitous is the vision.
~0 0 I
g 88
g o o IThe starry orbs doubtlessly look favourably .on
o o 8 the lord ofthe house of wealth. for this dream
8 8 8 foretells great riches.
8 8 o~o IThis is a good dream : it foretells profit a'nd
0 0 ° 0 o honour.
0 00
o0 o 881Let the dreamer beware of horned cattle, or
0 °0 °0 ° four-footed beasts of the earth.
00 0
00 0 I
00 00
o o 0 o The signs predict letters, with news.
00
0 00
o0 o 8 81The omens tell of sickness, and that full near
co 0
0 o 0 o
0
o thee. 1
00 0
1
8 o0 o A sign of much walking, or journey~.
00 0
0 00
o0o o riners, and ship-men, and hasty inteUi-
O 0 0 0 IThis foretells dealings with merchants, ma-
o0o 0 0 ° gence.
00 0 l
g 0 o0 This foreshows that the person dreaming shall
e o o for a season change into a worse estate.
00 0
. THE
~BIB.TBBKTllaGLZ.OroaACz.m&.
Sign.
}. 2.
0 00
0 00
0 eo
00 00
0 00
00 0
00 0
00
o0 o
00
00 0
0 00
0 oo
0 00
0 0
0 00
00 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
O.:> 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 co
0 00
oc 00
00 0
00 o -
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS•
•
•
•
•
• •
•
ILll mm~Q
IAspects of evil, signs of some approaching loss,
or a robbery, are uear the dreamer.
IThe dream foretells gain by fair persons.
IOne from a journey will soon visit thy house.
ILetters and packets will speedily bring the
dreamer a store of money.
IThe dream is fortunate ; durable and of great
signification ; many months hence it will re-
main so.
IThe dream signifies great gain in business.
IThe dream foretells a spiteful enemy.
IPrepan! for some sudden ill news.
12
88 q, llatallltal of llrmat.
Sip.
l. 2.
I.IBBA.
88 0
IThis shows confusion among servants.
0
0 r:>O
88 00
0
0 00 IThere has been of late some secret foe,
0 00
working great mischief with the dreamer's
88 0
00 name.
0 <::>0
00 0
IThis is an hieroglyphic of deceit and false
0 00
00 0
friends.
00 00
00 0
0 oo
'Ifthe dreamer be a male, he will have some
00 0
0 00
very troublesome adventure with a female.
00 00
0 00
0 0 o0 - ~ Many of the dreamer's troubles are quickly pass-
00
00 0 .
00 o o mg.
00 0
00
0 I
0 00 . . .
0 o o This lS a Sign of money.
00 00
0 00
0 00
IExpect a journey or removal within six months.
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 00
00 0
IThis forebodes some misfortune: be wary.
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
IThe dream foretells travelling or removals.
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 0
0 00
IThe signification of thy dream forewarns thee
00 0
00 0
of a funeral in thy family.
0 0
0 00
0 00
IThis, to a roan, is a sign of approaching nup-
00 0
0 00 tials; to a female, it shows a courtship.
0 0
0 00
00 0
IOn a Thursday, Tuesday, or Wednesday night,
0 00
00 0
this dream forebodes great good-fortune.
0 0
00 0
;g; zed ,,Coogle
q .......... of .......
Sirn. Z.IBB.A.
1. 2.
0 00
IThis tells of a loss in thy purse.
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 0
00 0
IThe dream forebodes sickness.
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 00
00 0 IThe dreamer may, within six weeks from the
0 00
0 00 hour of his vision,expect a stroke of good for-
0 0 tune.
0 00
0 00
IThis dream warns absent friends of trouble.
00 g
00
0 0
00 0
0 00 IThese are signs ominous of the death of ene•
0 00
00 0 mies; while, to the dreamer, they are oracles
00 00 of wealth.
00 0
00 0
IThis vision ill a mixture of good and evil.
00 0
0 00
00 00
0 00
00 0 IThe interpretation of thy dream is fortunate•
0 00
00 0 prosperous, and presaging a marriage among
0 0 thy kindred.
0 00
0 00
ILoss and sickness near thee willbe prevented.
00 0
g 00
0
00 0
0 00 ISigns like these forewarn of a troublesome
00 0
month to succeed ; but on a Sunday the
0 00
00 00 omen is goon.
00 0
00
o0 o IVerily, these are visions fraught with influences
0
00 0 unfortunate, inimical, and full grievous.
00 00
0 co
00 0
IThy dream proceeds from naught but ill health.
00 c
0 00
c 0
00 0
0 co
IThis foretells a friend.
0 00
00 0
0 0
0 00
I 3
90
TUB
:rOUB.TBBKTBB.OLLO:rOB.ACLBS.
Sign.
I. 2.
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
eo 0
00 2
00
c
00
00 00
0 eo
0 00
0 co
0 00
0 0
00 0
00 0
00 0
co 0
0 0
00 0
co 0
0 co
0 00
0 0
0 00
o0 o
eo
0
00 0
0 0
0 00
0 00
e 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
•
•
•
•
• •
I
IThe dream is sad : full many and divers are
the signs of lamentation therein.
IAbsent friends are in calamities.
IThis dream foretells changes in thy habitation.
IThe omens of evil are manifold, albeit they may
endure but for a little season.
IThe sign~, and their interpretations, are fortu-
nate.
IThe dreamer will first be disappointed, and
then receive large quantities of money.
00 0
00 00
00
IOn thl:! tenth day of the moon, and on tht! day
of the sun, this foretells riches in the middle
~~~~~--a~g~e_
. ____________________________
IOne who strives with the dreamer will die.
0
00 0
00 0
0 00
00 00
Sign.
1. 2.
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 00
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
e
00
00
00
00
00
0
0
0
00
oe
0
00
00
0
00
0
0
0
00
0
00
00
00
00
00
0
00
00
0
0
00
0
0
0
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
00
00
00
0
0
00
8
0
0
c
00
oe
00
0
0
0
0
00
0
0
co
00
00
0
00
0
0
e
0
91
VENUS..
IThis tells of the coming ofthe ab ent.
ISevenmouthsoftrouble are allotted thedreamer.
IAnger, choler, ill words, and loss by treachery,
are the interpretations of the omens.
IA dark person is near thee; beware of him-
unless it chance that the dream proceeds from
ill health.
IThe dream is one of fortune's favours.
IThou wilt travel quickly.
IThis foretells rejoicings and marriage to a
female.
IBeware of a red-haired man, if thou art a fe-
male.
IBe on thy guard against a false friend.
IThis forewarns thee of crossing thy enemy's
threshold.
IFull many and numerous are thy cares, but
the signs promise many months of better for-
tune.
IThis is a sign of a death at a distance.
o;g,,edb,Google
Ill «te...........,Jlnat.
Slcn.
I. t. v:axvs.
~8§ 888 IExpect to receive moo~ in a short season;
and papers of a joyful ind.
00
888
0 IThe dream is blended with signll of heavy cares.
§0§
and yet the oracles tell ofvictory over adnr·
20
saries.
8;8 :s:ITbi.s foretells a disappointment concemingwri·
tJngs.
0
e8o
s;sIAfter three delaya, the dreamer will escape
eo harm. · .
. ., - ....:.
ee
0
e8e
oee
e
oeo IThis dream foretells a prosper~u~-~~r. _
~~~
e0e
080
IThis vision is fortt,mate for one.in .ffie walks of
public life, and good for voyagers. . .
e0 e ::>oe IFull lightly shall the dreamers troubles annoy
oe
8°8
him.
e0 o
0 00
' 'This presages·deceit amongst'friends.
00 o .
0 000
co
00 00
8g 0 ITravel not, nor cross the silent but treacherous
0
0 O ·Q . waters; for the spae~e of -one moon, after this
000 0 vision.
0
0 00
1
·This, foretells to the dreamer a sudden rise in
0 OQ
00 0
his fortunes. · .
8
00
=
o · q:>Q ·
ISome o( 'lhese ominous sign~ are of a sad and
gg. 080
o0 o
funeral natnre. .
00
00 0
ILet the dream'er look well to his own health.
0
88
8°8 0
00 I
o'o'' edbyGoogle
Sign.
1, 2.
00 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 0
gg g
00 0
oc 00
0 cc
00 0
00 0
co 0
TBB
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
••
•
•
•
..
IThe horoscope : the sign and the omen are pros-
perous for the dreamer's fortunes.
IExpect money, friends, and great prosperity,
and pleasure througl• divers events.
IThis foretells a joyful voyage.
IThis is .doubtless a dream of little or small
meamng.
ITarry awhile,-thy fortunes will amend.
IOne near the dreamer, a bosom friend, will
prove even as a serpent in the grass.
IAn adversary will rise up against thee, but fear
him not.
IThis is a sign of sickness.
oigi:_edb,Google
N «...._.....,.,....
Slra. SGOB..IO.
I. t.
00 00
INews from afar off or from one long supposed
00 0
0 00
to be dead, ill here presaged.
00 0
00 0
00 00
IThis foretells a plentiful store of gold and silver.
.
0 00
00 0
0 00
0 co
00 00
IThe dream bids the dreamer shun a law-suit.
00 0
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
IA sign that the dreamer will have his wish.
0 oo
0 00
00 0
0 00
00 00
IA sign that the dreamer shall get a little riches,
00 0
00 0
and full short while shall he keep them.
00 0
0 00
00 00
ISudden surprises are presaged.
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
ITake caution relative to thy advisers.
00 0
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
IThis is a sign ofapproaching funeral ceremonies.
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
IThe dreamer will be invited to merry-makings,
00 0
0 00
feasts, festivals, and bouts of rejoicing.
0 00
0 00
0 0
IThe dream foretells a courtship.
0 00
00 0
00 0
00 0
0 c
ITo a female, this presages wooers, courters, and
c 00
0 00
a chance of wedlock.
00 0
c 00
0 0
IThis dream is unfortunate.
00 0
00 0
0 co
00 0
9'"•d ,Google
Sign.
1. 'l..
00 00
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 ~0
0 00
0 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
00 0
- o 00
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
0.0 0
0 00
0 0
0 00
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
0 00
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 0
0 00
e 0
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
e o_o
00
00 0
0 00
00 00
eo 0
0 00
0 00
00 0
. 96
SCOB.PIO.
IThis dream foretells victor)' over an adversary.
ILet the dreamer beware of scandals.
IWithin three weeks the dreamer will be afflicted.
IThis foretells the dtath of a near relation.
IThis vision is futile and of little meaning.
IIn like manner, nothing is especially denoted.
I
lThe dreamer has had a vision which predicts a
full tide of prosperity, travelling, and plea-
sures.
IThis is an omen of letters or news within a
short season; some with money. - -
IThe dreamer is at present unfortunate.
IOn the fourth, fifth, or twentieth day of the
moon, this dream foretells a funeral.
IThe chief import of this dream is an~er.
IThe dreamer's best friend will shortly be in-
volved in troubles requiring his assistance.
00
THE
SIXTBB!I'TB :a.o:r.:r. OP OB.AC:LBS.
Si~n.
1. 2.
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 co
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
00 0
00
00
0
0
0
00
~0~
00
00
0
00
0
c
00
00
0
00
00
00
00
0
0
0
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
• •
• •
• •
•
•
IThis is a saturnine dream, and bodes no good
to the dreamer; moreover, on the new moon
it is worse.
ITakeheed thatthou crossnotthe watery element.
1
,, Fortunajcwetjatuus," fools have fortune, says
the proverb, but trust them not after such a
dream.
IThis dream foretells much labour in vain to
the dreamer in divers ways.
IThis is a sign ofwealth.and plenty.
IThe dream imports prosperity, joy, pleasure,
health, and concord, among kindred.
IThe omen foretells the approach of th1eves or
enem1es.
IThis dream gives fear of death to the sick, but
to the hale and heary, sadness.
o'o'' edbyGoogle
Sicn.
I. 2.
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
0 00
0 0
00 00
co 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 00
00 co
0 00
0 00
0~
0
00
00 00
00 0
0 00
~0
0
00
00 00
0 00
00 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
8 0
0
00 0
0 oc
0 0
00 00
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
co 0
oc 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
PAJ.LAS.
IThis is an evil dream for all men.
IMost commonly, this dream prognosticates
affliction.
IThis dream relates to the seasons : it foretells
the approach ofbad weather.
IThis is a dream of hope.
IOn the first day of the moon this predicts a
journey; on the third day, a friend; on other
days, deceit.
IThe dreamer is molested by jarring and sinister
constellations ; Let him be watchful and fear
not.
IThis is a sign ofjourneys.
IThe dteam foretells alarming news.
I
IWere the astronomer to cast the horogcope of
the hour, it would presage a marriage
festival.
IThis dream is good for man or woman, for it
signifieth to go out of evil times and affairs.
IThese are true omens of secret enemies.
IBeware, dreamer, in whom thou trustest.
K
o;g,,edb,Google
98 «.. .........of ....
Si~n.
.AI.I.AS.
J. 2.
-- 00
-0- 0 IThis is a sign of expedition in business, much
0 0
walking, cogitations, and difficult dealings.
0 00
0 00
coo 00
IThis is an omen of good success in the magis.
0
0 0
tery or trade.
00 0
00 0
0 0
IVoyages and the return of the absent are foretold.
c0 o
0
00
co 0
co 0
0 0
IThis dream signifies future evils to the common-
0 0
co co weal by war, pestilence, or famine.
g oc
co
0 0
IBeware of deceitful advisers.
0 0
00 00
co 0
0 00
0 0
IThis is a dream of vexation.
0 0
co 00
0 oc
co 0
0 c
IThis foretells a cross in the affections.
00 00
0 0
co 0
0 00
0 0
IThe omens are mischievous, threatening losses.
00 00
0 0
c 00
00 c
00 00
IThe fortune of the dreamer will change speedily,
0 0
co co and he will receive money.
0 co
00 0
co 00 IThe signs of the dream are replete with false-
0 0
hood, but within three days expect good
00 co
co 0
0 00 news.
oo 00
IThese are signs of letters and books.
00 00
0 0
oo 0
0 00
oo 00
ILet the dreamer beware ofthe sea.
ooo oo
0
0 00
co 0
THE
SEVENTE!INTH ROLL OF ORAOLJ,;S.
Sign.
I. 2.
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
00 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 00
g g
0 0
00 0
~0 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 ctl
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
HJEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
•
•
••
::
IThe signs presage some great good fortune.
IOn a Saturday, these signs being cast, forbode
trouble of mind; otherwise, they foreshow
money.
IThis foretells a journey.
ILet the dreamer prepare for removals.
IOn the fifth, eighth, or twelfth days of the
moon, these are ominous of funerals.
IThis foreshows fresh business.
IEven as the deceitful calms of the treacherous
ocean forebodes a tempest, so doesthis vision
indicate some approaching grievance.
ISickness wlll happen in tby dwelling.
K2
oigi:_edb,Google
100 Qt Kopl•oolt of •namt.
Blc•·
1. 2. SAG I If' If' A B.T .
88 0
IThe dream is one ofjeopardy.
0
00
0 0
00 00
0
88 ITbis is a dream of losses,crosses, and affiiction.
0
00 00
0 0
00 00
00 0
ISadness and care are signified by the interpre-
00 0
00 00
tations of this dream.
00 00
0 0
0 00
ITbis is a sign of riding in vehicles, on horse-
0 00
00 00
back, and much walking.
00 00
0 0
0 00
IEvil news may be expected shortly.
88 0
00
00
:.o 0
00 0
ITake heed of a false friend, but one thou hast
0 00
88 00
trusted heretofore.
00
0 0
00 0
IThedream denotesthe arrival of!etters and news.
0 00
0 0
0 0
00 00
0 00
IA vexatious event will shortly befall thee.
00 0
0 0
0 0
oc 00
0 00 I This dream is pleasant, fortunate, and governed
00 0
I by Venus; it moreover denotes ;r wedding
0 0
0 0 1 amongst thy kindred.
0 0
00 0
IThe dream foretells pleasure and felicity.
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
IThis dream forebodes anger.
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
00 0
IA journey or removal will in a few weeks
00 0
0 0
happen.
00 00
0 0
o'o'' edbyGoogle
q, ....l . .of...... 101
Sico.
I. 2. SAGIIJIIJIABV.
~
o8 IBeware ofgoinf where homed cattle frequent;
08 it is a sign o some bodily hurt or injury.
00 00
888
00 0§0
IA tall saturnine person is thy secret foe.
i8 0:0
IThis is a dream of much good fortune ; it
foreshows a plentiful supply of money and
-8 0 goods.
0
§8 ILet the dreamer avoid an impending law-suit.
0
000 go
0
0 000 ISome great delay will take place in the dream-
88 080 er's expectations, and then he will sue-
8 a.ed.
000 o0o IThis i~ a sign of money by trade. or merchao-
000 080 dize.
0
0 00
ILet the dreamer go not near the water during
o0 o
0~0
000 this present moon.
080
000 ~:~ IThis is a dream of feasting and mirth.
:~: 8:8 IThis dream is one of rapid good fortune.
00
8°8
000 ITbis dream iruCorts trouble by law, or the hand
~o:
of justice; et the dreamer guard moreover
o0o against theft.
o:o
88
00
888
IThis foretells some disgrace.
00 0
IThis foretells a happy life, and the goods of
888
000
00 fortune.
00
11:3
102
THE
IIIGBTBII!I'TBB.OI.I.OJ'OB.ACI.IIS.
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS•
•
Signe.
1. s.
• •
••
• •
I •
0 80 B~ IThis is a dream that forebodes imprisonment,or
o o _ some change for the worst.
0 0
go o I
g§ 8:8 Death of friends is shown by the dream.
~
0
80 8
0
IWithin three months after this dream expect
0 o the death of a friend.
888 g IThis foretells unprofitable removals,
9_0 8~~-----------------------------
g 8 8 IMany ofthe dreamer's present adventures will
g 080 end doubtless in loss and vexation.
o o o 'Ill health is more aptly portended by this
e
8 °o0 vision ,· albeit some deceitful friend may also
00 0
o be near thee.
o o o This signifies abundance of idle words, and is
0 001
8°8 o~o a sign of sickness to thyself.
:~~ 88
8 1This is a dream of loss and no profit.
81ga.
I, 2.
oc 0
co 0
0 0
00 00
00 0
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 00
00 0
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
0 0
0 00
00 0
co 0
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 co
c 00
00 oc
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 00
00 -0
00 0
c 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 c
0 00
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
oc 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
101
~VII'O.
IOn the ninth day of the moon, this dream is
ominous of a Joss by theft or cheating.
ISome extraordinary accident is nigh unto the
dreamer.
ITo a female, this denotes •m offl!r of marriage ;
to a male, it tells of angry words.
IThis denotes family crosses.
IThis is a sign of the friendship of aged persons.
IThe dreamer has many envious opposers.
IThis is a dream of affliction and unhappiness.
IThis dream which the dreamer has dreamed,
has signification of poverty and misfortune;
Jet him heed his doings.
1
This dream is unstable, and proceeds from
gross humours.
IThis is a dream of deceit and slander, being un-
der the vilest aspects of Mars and Jupiter.
IThis dream denotes an old age, and a happy
end.
IBoth Venus and Mercury bear lordship in the
dream; the fortune of the dreamer is under
aspects of prosperity,
104
Sign.
J. 2. ~Vft'O.
IThis drea~, by reason of its omens, speaks
prospenty.
o~o 0l' IThis is a sign of trouble through beautiful
o o women. _
00 0
8
0 8-:8:-tThis denotes back-biting, envy, and malice.
0 o0 o
Let the dreamer adventure not on the watery
element.
IA great delay will take place in the wishes of
the dreamer, and the dream is more evil on
a Friday.
ILet the dreamer, if a male, avaunt from lewd
women; if a female, it denote~ love-epistles.
IThis foretells pleasure after pain.
IThe death of a neighbour is represented.
IThis dream foretells ill health.
ISickness is near, or some harm by fire.
IThis is a dream of repining and mourning,
and of ill words from those the dreamer deals
with.
IFull false and fleeting are many of thy hopes.
&leo.
J, t.
0 0 0
00 80
00 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
88 8 8
00 0
00 0
0
00
0
00
00
g
0
00
00
00
00
0
0
0
0
8
88
tr:te )tol!al Woot of llrumt.
THB
HIEROGI.YPHICAL EtiBLEMS.
•
• •
• •
•
•
105
IThe dream speaks of the church, or religious
friends.
IThis dream foreshows counting of money, bar·
tering of riches, and exchange of fortune.
ITo the dreamer's astonishment, he will shortly
obtain the fellowship ofgreat persons.
IThe dreamer will hear from one long absent,
and will shortly receive epistles.
IThis is a sign of lying reports.
IThis dream forebodes trouble.
IThe dreamer hath had a vision of gladness.
ITh~s is a sign of some good news shortly to ar-
nve.
106
Sign.
1. 2.
00 0
00 00
0 0
00 0
00 0
0 00
00 00
0 0
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
00 00
88 0
0
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 00
0 00
o · o 0
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 00
00 0
0 00
0 00
88 00
00
0 00
00 0
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
00 0
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
CAI'B.ICOB.:N.
IBeware of pleasures; the dreamer will shortly
be in peril from such.
IUnder the star of Venus, this foretells wed-
dings, or assemblies ofjoy.
ISigns 1_1nder Mars, of strife and anger hold do-
mmwn.
IThe dream denotes some sudden fright.
IThis is a sign that something will be stolen
from thee.
lThe dream foretells good news.
IThis is a sign that the dreamer will be subject
to some kind of disgrace or humiliation.
IThe dream forebodes griefof mind.
IThis is a sign ofsolace and comfort.
IThe death of an enemy is foretold.
IExpect good news.
IThis is a vain dream,-it borders on anger;
moreover, it proceeds from much agitation
of mind.
ttf}e ltepl llooft of Jltta1ltll. Ul7
Sign.
CA:P:BICO!l:N'.
J. 2.
0 00
IThe dream foretells the flight of an enemy-a
0 0
0 0
0 00 strange guest-and a letter, or epistle.
00 0
00 0
IThis is a dream of poverty.
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 00 IThis, on a Friday, imports news; on a Sunday,
0 0
00 00 money; on Monday, travelling: on Tuesday,
00 0 a quarrel; on other days, strife.
00 0
00 0 IOn a Thursday or Sunday this presages money;
0 0
000 00 and on the twelfth day of the moon foretells
00 a legacy.
0 00
0 00
IThis dream portends advancement after toil.
0 0
00 o_o
00
0-0
0
00 0
IThe coming of a friend is prophesied.
0 0
00 00
0 00
00 0
0 00
IThis is an hieroglyphic of deceit and vain words.
00 00
0 0
00 0
0 00
00 0 IThe dreamer need be wary-a cross is near
00 00
him ; albeit, his fortune will afterwards
0 0
0 00
1 amend.
00 0
00 0
IOne who gainsays thy fame, is near thee.
00 oc
0 0
00 0
0 co
0 00
IThe dream predicts sickness.
0 0. 00
0 0
0 00
00 0
00 0 IThis is a dream of bad news, and is most evil
0 0
when the hieroglyphics are made on a Mon-
00 00
oc 0 day.
0 00
0 co
IThis is a sign ofgreat labour and small lucre.
0 0
00 00
0 00
00 0
o'o'' edbyGoogle
108 ~· ltoval iloolt of mrtalllt.
THB
TWBIIfTIBTB B.O:r.:r. 0:1" OB.AC:LBS.
Slcn.
1. t.
000 gg
00 00
0 00
0 co
0 0
oo 0
0 0
oc 0
oo 0
oo 00
00 0
0 0
0 co
0 00
0 0
0 00
0 0
oo 0
oo 0
0 0
oo 0
0 0
0 00
0 oo
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMULEMS.
• •
•
• •
•
•
IThe dreamer is born to good fortune; even now
the stars shine brightly on his horoscope.
IThese are evident signs of monl!y and riches.
IThis foretells an enemy,business, and a change.
IThe vision is vain, and of little import.
IAdversity flies, and the star of the dreamer's
fortunes receives the beams of prosperous
satellites.
IThe arrival of a friend is denoted.
IMake preparations for a banquet, the hierogly-
phic foretells rejoicings.
IOn a Monday, this dream being dreamed, pre-
sages a marriage among friends; on other
days, gladness. ,
Jiqitized by Coogle
8i1n.
1. 2..
:=i
QQ
8
Q
Q
QQQ QQ
QQ
8 0
QQ
QQ
QQ OQ
QQQ 88
88
Q
Q
§8 QO
Q
Q
88
Q
88
Q
QQ
00
QQQ
CQ
0
QQQ 0
8
8Q8 QQQ
§§
Q
~Q~
QQQ
QQ
Q~Q
QQ §Q§
~Q§
8-
QQ
Q
Q
Q8Q
8
Q
8Q
Q8
OQ
§Q§
Q
Q
QQ
0
Q ·OQ
:~~
Q
C:Q
88
Q
100
OBBBS.
IThis is a dream foretelling news and l~tters.
IThis signifies travelling thrice in the ensuing
twelve months.
ILet the dreamer receive the vision as a warning
to beware of false friends.
IWithin a month hence, a friend will die.
IThe interpretation of thy dream is this, that
thou hast an enemy to thy peace.
IThe signs are evil,-they denote six months of
tribulation.
IWhenever these s1gns appear before thee, have
due caution to thy purse-they are omens of
loss.
IThis literally implies profit succeeding losses.
IThe interpretation of these signs foretells some
great cause of discontent or dolor to disap.
pear.
IThe evanishing of fears is here predicted.
IThis shows hurts by falls and bruises.
IThe death of a relation will take place within
a twelvemonth of this dream.
L
o;g,,edb,Google
JIO
CEB.ES.
00 00 I
8
° 0 0 ° This is a ign hieroglyphical of funerals.
oe
oo e
0 - 0 8 These foretell the decease of friends abroad.
eo oo I
o;;o 0 o0
g 0~0 lln~=t~~1~h~~!ef~~:~v~~e~~~:~;r~,n~~!
ooo ooo thee
_·----~~~.---~------.---~.-
0 S? - ,-On the second, fourth, or other even days of the
0 c0 c moon, this dream foretells removing; on
0 °0 0 0 ° other days, crosses.
g 0 0 0 IA spiteful enemy to thee and thine will die;
o c nevertheless, the omens are those of trouble
0 °0 °0 ° to thyself.
o o o Thi3 dream, and those signs, represent weeping
o e I
e0 o 8 and tears.
c 00
o o IIf this dream be on a Thursday, it foretells a
0 00
o o ~
o good and happy yt:UI' to follow ; otherwise, it
g 8 0 betokens gain.
8;8 ggg IThis is a dream of divers discontents.
<":>80 o0 o IThi~ .dream is one of heavy cares and animo-
o o 0 o0 sthes.
0 00
o0 o 8 IOn a Saturday only is this dream good; on any
0 0 ° 8 8 other day it betokens misfortunes.
00 0
c 0 00 I
2 °o
0
° The dream foretells money.
C-0
0 00
co 00 I
0~0
0 80 This is a dream of !lluch good fortune.
::::o c
111
THB
TWENTY-FIRST ROLL OF ORACLES.
Sip.
1. 2.
0 00
00 00
0 00
00 00
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 0
00 00
co 0
0 00
0 0
0 00
0
o0 o
0
00 0
0 0
00 0
0 0
co 0
00 0
00 00
0 00
0 0
0 cc
0 00
00 00
00 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 00
00 00
00 0
co 0
0 0
00 0
00 00
0 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
•
• •
•••
•
IThou hast been warned in thy night-visions of
some great disapjlQintment.
IGo not on, or near, the water.
IA dream of disappointments in money.
IThis dream is fortunate.
IThe dreamer is forewarned of those who would
swear falsely against him.
IThesigns presage enemies of the kin, or of very
1 near ne1ghbours.
IOn the ninth or third days of the moon, this is
a vision of deceit from counsellors; on other
days, unlucky.
IBe careful of false friends.
L2
111 ttf)e llo»al ~ook otDnalml.
Sigo.
AQVAB.IVS.
I. 2.
00 0
IThis is a dream of unusual bustle and business,
00 00
0 00
and ofttimes implies voyages.
00 00
00 0
0 00
IThis is a dream of many cares.
00 00
00 0
00 00
0 00
00 0
IThe dream forebodes gloomy prospects.
0 0
00 0
00 00
00 0
0 00
INews of the severe trouble of a friend; and, if
0 0
0 00
dreamt on a Thursday, foretells a funeral, also.
cc 00
c oc
oc c
IThis vision is doubtless the forerunner of some
00 00
00 0
good fortune, being under the signs of Venus.
0 0
00 0
c oc
ILoss and damage by women are likely, but
00 cc
0 co friendships will follow, after all.
0 0
0 00
00 0
IBeware of one near thee, who is perfidious.
00 00
00 0
00 00
0 00
0 00
IThis indicates fear of sickness.
00 co
0 00
00 00
00 0
0 00
IThe dream foretells a faithful and trusty friend.
00 00
00 0
00 00
00 0
00 0
IThis is a sign of journeys.
00 00
0 00
00 00
0 00
000 0
INews from absent friends, is the chief meaning
0
0 00
of thy vision; albeit, it also means epistles_.
0 0
00 0
0 00
IThis denotes a powerful enemy.
0 0
00 0
0 0
0 00
«tt llO»lil lloolt of •reatll•· 113
Bien.
1. t. AQVABIVS.
c§c
C,§' IThe dreamer is under a horoscope of malignant
~00 stars: sickness is near him ; and, moreover,
0 divers foes obstruct his path.
00
§ IOut of many of his troubles the dreamerwill be
0
080 rescued; hut itmay happen lhat he will receive
00 annoyance fit'St.
o§c o'8b IThe dream foretells lhe receipt ofmoney.
c
0 oc
c~o
co
IThis dream is more pleasant lban fortunate.
g
co 8
80§
o0c IThese signs are durable: they foretell, first, a
c8c
loss by theft, then a present, and, lastly, a
0 funeral.
c
§8 IFortune crosses and vexes the dreamer in his
co
0 00 purse, person, and property.
c0c 0
88§
00 I On a Monday, this is a sign of trouble; lbe like
c~o I on a Wednesday; but on Tuesday,Thursday,
Friday, Saturday, or Sunday, foreshows news.
=~=
0
IThis is a sign of news from absent friend~.
0
00
88
0
IThe party dreaming Ibis, will hardly escape a
8c8 peril.
0
000 IThe dream presages hurts from four-footed
0 beasts.
85
8:8
This vision is likely to portend scattering· of
thy goods.
0
808 8:8
IThis dream is stable and durable, foretelling
o0o 0
poverty in youth and riches in a~e. . .
L3
-
114
THE
'l'WElt'l'lt•SIJOO!i'D ROLL OF ORACLES.
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
* *
Sign.
1. 2.
00 00
0 00
0 o0 88
oc 00
88 00
00 o0 o
00 0
00 00
0
0
8
0
0
00
0
00
0
*
* *
*
* *
IThe drt-amer is fortunate,-friends and money
are his lot, and thrice in seven years the sign
will be repeated.
lThis denotes gain by the death of some one in
a foreign or distant land, and is an omen of
wealth in old age.
IThe vision is vain and of no import.
g IThis dream portends travelling.
8~----------------------
00 00 I
0 0 ° g This dream signifies a future inheritance.
0 00
0 0
0
00
0
00
~
00 00 I
o o o The stars of heaven are friendly; the dreamer
o0 o g will experience a run of good fortune.
0 0
g 0 o0 This is a sign of nuptials, wine, and mirth.
0 0 I
88 o0 o
0
0
0
00
00
IAmong thy kindred a wedding is at hand.
116
jllp>.
1. 2. VB 8'1' .A..
g g 0 0 This denotes much news during the ensuing
0 o0 ~ month: some part thereofwill tell thee evil
o o oco news offriends.
O~o g0
g ILetters and news are coming speedily : more-
0 over, the sign warns thee of one in secret
0 0 8 8 thy foe.
000 ~2,
gg ~
0= This dream foretells accidents in thy dwelling.
gg 000 I
o0 o g g This vision is a sign offraud from servants.
0 0 00
88 00000 I
g g This dream is a prediction of many crosses•
. 0 g
~
0;
0
o 2 ·0
go., This dream denotes riches to come hereafter in
o divers ways; unlooked for and unexpected-
g 0 0 doubt it not.
d~o ogoo I
2 g Dissentient tongues secretly injure thee. .
00 00
8 g0 o IThese signs are crossed and contrariwise: they
~o~ g g denotegood, butbroughtabout by ill-fortune.
0°2 8 IThis is a sign of great troubles among friends,
80o 0 g0 . some whereof will be imprisoned, others die.
0 o0 ·O man, widowhood; to a female, courtships
o 2 IThis to a male presages marriage ; to a married
8 °o0 and delectations. . .
~ o IThis dr~ denotes that once in thy boro-
0o00 o!Co scope there are signs ofdanger by poisonous
0 liquids.
... ate..,.•._.ot1trtam.
.,,..
l. t. 'V' B 8 'I'.&.
~~~ 8:8
IThis denotes crosses and losses in the dream-
er's fortunes.
~~~
8~8 ~~=
IThis dream is vain, proceeding from bodily
distempers. '
~§~ 8~8
~~~
IThis is a sign of pride and ambition, but fore-
tells the coming of advancement. .
8~8
~~~
~§~ IThe vision foreshows good by ecclsiastical per-
sons.
§8§
~~
8~8
~
IThe dreamer will receive impediment in his
wishes.
8:8
~§
88 A vision like this foretells deaths and troubles.
8
88
o~g IThe dreamer will be relieved ere long from
0~ some peril he is now prone to fall into.
0~
8°8 888
IGood to come, after evil received, is foretold by
~00
this vision.
00
ggg
0
IThis denotes that the dreamer is faithful, but
00
og= has full many and divers unfaithful friends.
0
8:8
0
IThis signifies danger by the fall of heavy
gog weights.
~ 0
88
:8: IThe dreamer shall prevail against his enemies:
o~b 00
;s; 888 IThis is a dream foretelling long life; albeit, great
part thereof will be spent in sorrow.
OQ ' .
117
THE
TWIIXTY-TBIB.D BOLL OF OB.ACLEIS.
Sign.
I. 2.
0 00
00 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
~0~ g
0 0
0 0
0
00
00
0
0
0
8
00
00
~0~
00
00
0
0
0
00
00
HIEROGLYPHICAL ltMBtEMS•
•
• •
•
• •
• 1t
IThe dream is one that forebodes misfortunes.
IThis is a sign of disappointment.
ITravelling, or much walking, and changes, are
the chief interpretations of the vision.
IA friend is coming to thy abode.
IThis dream foretells the handling of gold and
silver.
IThe delay of money will bring the dreamer
into scenes of trouble.
IBeware of those persons who, by fraudulent
intents, seek to mar thy interests.
IThe dream foretells loss in lending money.
The dreamer will do well to look to his
purse.
118 t:te llqallloolt of .ff41lll,
Sip.
I. !l. PISCZS.
88 0
IThill is a sign of epistles, or hasty news, within
00
0 og a short space of the dream.
00
8o
00
0 00
IThe dreamer will soon be introduced to the
§~
00
0
company of many excellent friends.
00
00
88 0
IThe dream is vain and unprofitable.
00
00 0
0 0
00 00
0 00
IThe dream foretells danger by bruises or acci-
00 00
0 00
dents.
0 0
00 00
00 0 ITravel not for the space of a month after this
00 00
00 0 dream : the signs and omens are warnings of
00 00 some peril.
0 0
0 00
ITo a female, this gives signs of courtship; to a
00 co
0 00
male, it shows, on the contrary, rivals.
00 00
0 0
0 oc IOn the ele9enth day of the moon, this fore-
00 00
00 0 shows vexatious trifles; on the other days,
coo 00 removals.
0
00 0
IThis brings letters or news to thy dwelling,
00 00
0 00
some of which will vex thee.
00 00
0 0
000 0
] This dream is a sign of merry-makings.
0
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 00
lExpect a wedding among thy kindred.
0 g
00
0 0
00 00
0 00
IThe dreamer's fortunes are becoming changed ;
00 00
0 00
and the change is manifestly for the better.
0 0
0 0
co 0
IThis dream foretells taking of money.
00 00
00 0
0 0
0 0
«te lh»al IJoot of JDmmll. 119
Slgo.
1-ISCZS.
1. z.
0 00
IThe interpretation of this dream denotes quar-
0 0
0 00
00 00 I relling, strife, and fear of bloodshed.
0 0
00 0
IThis dream is vain, deceitful, and importless.
0 0
eo 0
00 00
0 0
0 00
IA death within a twelvemonth among kindred,
0 0
0 00
is foretold by this strange dream.
0 0
00 00
00 0
IThe dream forewarns of hazard or jeopardy by
0 0
~0~
0
0 1 fire.
00
00 0
ILetters and news are the interpretations.
0 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 00 ISome great measure of discontent, at present
0 0
vexing the dreamer, will ere long be no
00 0
8 0 more.
0
0 00
ILet the dreamer prepare for one absent.
0 0
oc 0
00 00
00 co
co 0
IThe dream foretells riding on horseback, or tra-
8 0
00
veiling.
co 00
00 00
0 00
IThe dreamer must be aware of false friends.
c 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
00 0
IThis dream is fortunate.
0 0
0 00
00 00
0 0
00 0 IOn the third or seventh day of the moon these
00 oc are omens of sickness; on any other day,
0 co
0 0 they foreshow grievances.
00 00
0 00
IThe dream is a sure sign of vexation.
00 00
00 0
0 0
00 00
••
TBB
YWBII'I'*·PO'Ull'I'B BOLL OP OBACLE&
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEliS.
• •
••
•
••
' fr.;J
IWere the horoscope of the dreamer to be cast,
it would prophesysome coming good fortune.
IThe dream bas reference to business, and the
signs are full fortunate as well as active.
IThis dream denotes the revealing ofsecrets.
IThis foretells hazard by water.
IThe interpretation of the dream is happy-it
presages a run of approaching prospenty.
The dream presages money and goods in due
season; the star of the dreamer's destiny
shines kindly. .
ITo the sick, this threatens intlammations; to
the hale and hearty, divers grievous events.
IMany future evils are here foreboded, as well
. to the dreamer as to the land of his nativity.
tr:te llo»al lloot of •red•· 121
Bien. DIA.:N'A..
I. 2.
00 00 IThis is a sign the dreamer will be near some
00 00
disgrace upon a criminal account, or by a
0 00
00 00 false friend.
00 0
00 00
IThe dream is an omen ofsickness.
00 00
00 0
00 00
0 00
00 00
IThis signifies secret and treacherous enemies.
0 0
00 0
00 00
00 0
00 00
IBe careful to what paper or chart thou affixes!
0 0
0 00
thy signature,-it forewarns some confusion.
00 00
0 00
0 0
IThis is a dream of pleasure and profit.
00 00
00 0
00 00
00 0
0 0
IThe dream predicts news.
00 00
0 00
00 00
0 00
0 0 IThis dream, in tae moon's increase, tells of a
00 00
disaster; in the wane of the moon, it foretells
00 0
00 00 funerals.
0 00
0 0
IThis is a sign ofevil ne\vs.
00 00
0 00
00 00
00 0
00 000 IThe dreamer will live long, and his old age will
0
0 00 bring riches, honours, and various good
o0 o
0 fortune.
0
000 00
tThis dream is under constellations offelicity.
0
00 0
0 0
0 00
o0 o
0 IThis is a sign of marriage to one in single life ;
00
0 00 to one married, it foretells an increase in the
0 0
0 co progeny.
0 0
IThis is a dream oftears.
00 00
00 0
0 0
00 0
M
Ill cte llotal lfook of •ru•·
I .
len.
2. DIA!f'A.
0
8 IThis is a sign of anger.
0
0
88
000 00
0 0
IThe signification of this dream is doubtful.
0 0
00 0
00 00
00 0
0 0
IChiefly from an afflicted state of body does this
0 0
8 00
dream arisE' ; therefore, heed it not.
0
00 0
(J) 0
IThe vision is dark, obscure, and void of clear
0 0
00 0
portents.
0 0
0 00
00 00
IAmity, joy, and fellowship, are allotted the
0 0
0 co dreamer. •
0 0
0 00
00 00
IThe dreamer will shortly receive money.
0 0
000 0
0
00 0
00 00
1The dream is an omen of affliction.
00 00
00 c
0 0
0 00
co 00 IOn the first, fifth, or eleventh day of the moon,
00 00
this dream is fortunate; on other days it is
0 00
0 0 a warning of evil.
oo 0
0 0
IThis is a sign of evil times.
00 00
000 0
0
0 00
0 0 ITo a male, this foretells pleasure with the frail
00 00
sex ; to a femalE', pregnancy if in wedlock ;
0 00
0 0 otherwise, temptations.
00 0
00 00
IA deceitful friend is nigh unto thee-remember!
0 0
gg 0
00
0 00
00 00
/ Thi~ foretells anger about papers or books.
0 0
0 00
00 000
oo
Ill
TBB
TWENTY-PIPTB BOLL OP ORACLES.
Sign.
1. t.
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS•
• •
•
• •
••
•
QQ og I
8:8 §g Beware of one of red hair, fair and comely.
i2g o0 o 1This betokens, to the rich and happy, injury
o o g and mishap ; but, to the poor and afilicted,
0 0 aid and comfort.
~ :~: IThis dream threatens shame or reproach.
0~0 § IThe dream forebodes sickness.
o0 o 0
8_8 0 0 0 IIf a poor man dr!iam this, it is a sign he will
...., g hereafter become rich, but to the rich it be-
~0_0 tokens care.
QO 00
g ego
00 0
To a single person, this is a sign of amorous
friendships.
Si? 0~0
o ._, This foretells a IClss by servants.
00 00
00 0
IThe dream is a warning to beware of thieYes.
M2
IIC
Sip.
•. t.
IOn a Thursday, this dream is a sure omen of
many years' happy fortune to come; on any
other day, it is a good dream.
IThis vision presages hasty or strange news.
IThe dream is a sign of accidents by sharp wea-
pons, or peril by four-footed beasts.
~ ~ :o: IThis shows the dreamer will weep, shortly.
o0 o 8
·:~~ !o!IThe vision is an omen of being promoted in life••
~
0§ 8 IThis signifies trouble to the dreamer at first,
8 8 but to end in the receipt of money.
0
g:g ~0~ ILossordamagetothepropertyispresaged hereby
o 8 IIt is to be feared that the dreamer will have
gg ~ o some evil mishap befall him within three
0 0 8 months hence.
8 0¢~ IThis is a dream of paying away huge sums of
g 00
o 8 0 money, and is very evil on the seventh day
e o of the moon.
0o~0 o IThe dreamer will be invited both to a funeral
g and a wedding festival within a twelve-
0 0 month.
0
§
0
°§0 IMany private enemies are prognosticated.
«te Jtopliholt of JDreamt. 125
Sip.
I. ll. MZDVS.&.
0 0
IThis dream is a sign of deceitful pleasures.
0 000
o0 o
0 gg
0
080
lTravel, and labour in vain, is signified by this
~0~ dream.
0
080 gg IThis dream is a presage of victory over ene-
o8o
mies; albeit, it may befall him that he may
0 meet annoyance first.
~8~
000
On a Tues:a;, this dream signifies money; on
a Wedn ay or Fridj;, gifts; on a Monday,
0 a friend ; on a Thurs ay, a ring; on a Sa-
8 turday, a foe; on a Sunday, a joumel.
88 00
IThe hieroglyphic foretells money.
0
o8
o 000
00
000
8g
IThis dream is one of durable fortune ; it is a
00 00 presage of an happy old age, great store of
o0 o 0 riches and goods of fortune.
0 0
IThis foretells a sudden cross in thy luck.
00
o:o
080
00
:::
gog IThe dream denote> sore affliction, ·
0
0
00 000
IThis dream betokens but small good to the
00
0~0 o0o dreamer.
00
080 og lAn hindrance in the dreamer's affairs is fore·
88 ~~0 told.
0
8
og Grief and heaviness are the interpretations.
00 o8
o
~0
0
8°81This is a sign ofsudden anger.
080 01
oo x3
126
TBB
TWENTY·SIXTB ROLL OF ORACLES.
Sign.
1. 2.
0 00
00 00
00 00
0 00
00 00
00 0
00 00
gg coo
00 00
0
0
g
0
00
0
0
0 0
0
00
c
0
00
0
0
0
0
0
0
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
•
• •
• •
•
• •
IThe dreamer has divined a sign of sadness.
IThis foretells danger by water.
IThis dream is an omen of ill-luck and misfor-
tune by theft, or some secret foe.
IThis dream signifies news.
o o o IFor the fair sex, this dream is fortunate; to vir-
coo 0 c0 gins and widows, it signifies marriage; to
g C0°_+-~
o_
th
_e_
r~
s,~p
Lu
_r
_
c_
h_a_se
_
s_a
_
n
_
d
__
ri_
c_
h_es
_.____________
0 001
o o o o To the sick person this dream isgood : to others,
0 °0 g unprofitable.
0 0.~~----------------------------------
-o
--
co I
0
80
g This is a sign of profit and gain.
90 0 0
co 0 I
g g This dream fore~ells deliverance from trouble.
o0 o gg
«tt •o»al 11ool of 8ream. )If
Sign. :ltHCE:B US.
1. 2.
00 0 IOn a Wednesday this dream, to a single person,
00 00
0 0 foretells marriage; on a Sunday, riches; on
00 0
other days, good friends.
00 00
0 00
IThe dream properly signifies a reward.
00 00
0 0
0 00
00 00
00 0 lThis dream fo1 the poor is good, and signifies
0 0
present relief; to the wealthy it denotes se-
00 00
00 0 cret envy.
00 00
0 00
lGrief.and danger are near the dreamer.
0 0
00 00
0 00
00 00
00 0 lOn the thirteenth day of the mQon only, this
00 00
foretells a death; on otherdays, itsl\ows sick-
co 00
0 00 ness at hand.
00 00
0 00
IThis is a sign of success in thy pursuits.
00 00
00 oc
00 0
00 00
0 00
IThis is a sign of discovering hidden secrets.
co 00
00 00
00 0
0 0
00 0
lThe dream denotes ruin to an adversary.
00 00
00 00
g .l 00
0
0 00 lThese hieroglyphics are signs that the dreamer
00 00
is fated to become rich, honoured, and re-
0 c
0 co spected.
0 0
00 0
lTh.e dream foretells invitations to merry-mak-
00 00
0 0
00 0 mgs.
0 0
0 00
IThis signifies the death of an enemy.
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 0
00 0
ISome joy will shortly befall the dreamer.
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 c
128 «te lto»al IJoek of JDrtam•.
Sign.
It BeE: BUS.
1. 2.
0 00
IThis warns the dreamer of spiteful enemies.
0 0
0 0
0 00
co 00
cc 0
IA funeral among relations is approaching.
0 0
0 0
00 0
oc 00
0 00
IThis denotes that the dreamer will become ac-
0 c
00 00
quainted with some new friends.
00 0
00 00
00 0
jThis is a dream denoting money.
0 0
00 00
0 00
oc 00
0 00
IThis foretells the deliverance from some loss or
0 0
00 00
hurt, which impended over the dreamer.
00 0
0 0
00 0
IThe dream is fortunate.
0 0
00 00
0 00
0 0
0 00
ISadness, or sad news, is to be feared.
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 0
o·o 0
IThis signifies an obstruction in business.
00 00
00 00
00 0
0 0
0 00 IOn a Monday, this forebodes sickness; on
00 oc Sunday, love; on Friday, friendship; on
0 0
00 0 Wednesday, a gift; on other days, losses.
00 00
00 0
IBe careful of thy handwriting.
00 00
0 0
0 00
00 00
00 0
IPrivate enemies are near the dreamer; they
0 0
00 00
cross his fortunes.
00 0
0 0
0 00
lA fair tall man is a private adversary.
0 0
00 00
0 00
0 0
- ....
THE
i WBJITI.aBVBJITB JlOLL OF CD.A.CLB1.
oo
00
00
00
00
00
00
0
0
0
0
00
00
00
0
00
0
00
0
00
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
00
00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EKBLDIS.
•
• •
•
•
• •
lin the horoscope of the dreamer arises even
now a goodly star of pleasure and fortune.
IThe dream tell5 of mirth and rejoicing, carols,
son~ and invitations to feasts: it is right
merry.
IFor a seaiOO, reigns sorrow; anon, joy cometh.
IThe dream forewarns of many spiteful enemies.
IA rich person will prove thy friend.
IThis is a dream of delay and repinings.
IThis denotes the receipt of money.
IThe dreamer has had a vision of great success
and gain.
ItO
Sip.
1. !..
00 0
00 00
o0 o
o...,o
co 0-0
0 00
00 oc
00 0
0 co
00 00
00 0
o0 o
0
0
00 0
00 00
0 00
0 0
0 co
0 00
00 00
00 0
0 0
0 00
co 0
c 0
0 00
c 0
00 0
0 oco
0
co ceo
go
0 0
co 0
c 0
c cc
co 00
c 00
c ---
- .....
0 c
0 oe
cc 00
85 0
0
cc 00
co 0
cc 00
0 .co
0 oc
co co
e~ c
0 c
.;:: co
e co
eo ce
0 co
0
oc c
go c
e 0~
B B G A 'I' B.
IThis is a sign ofsome evil news.
IOne near the dreamer slanders him.
IThis dream is truly unlucky on every other day
but the third of the moon.
IOn a Tuesday, this shows an enemy; on a
Monday, a friend, but deceitful; on all other
days, it is min.
IThis is a dream of pleasure.
IMerry-makio0 are near at hand, but ending in
orrow.
I
IThi- i a _ign of weddings.
1
.-\. friend of the dreamer will ere long depart this
life.
IThe dreamer ";u be in,;ted to feasting and
minh.
IThe dream is furtunate.
ITh. dream is" si~ ora remora~.
IHa!!ty and extraordinary or ;tnngenews is near
at hand.
o;g,,edb,Google
f&f)e Uol!alllook of IJrtautll. 181
Sicn. IIZCJATB.
I. 2.
0 00
IThe dream foretells gain in business.
0 0
o0 o
00
0
0 0
00 0
IThis is a sure sign of a particular friend.
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
00 0
IBoth pleasant and profitable are these omens.
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 0
0 00
IThis is an omen of sickness.
0 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 0
IOn a Friday, this dream forewarns ofsome di~-
00 00
00 0
aster; on other days, it shows weeping.
0 00
0 0
0 00 ILet the dreamer, if a man, beware of pleasure;
00 00
0 00 if a female, one near her seeks her dis-
00 0 grace.
0 0
0 00
IThe dream signifies delay in the expectations.
00 00
00 0
0 00
0 0
00 0
ILetters and news are foretold.
00 eo
0 00
00 0
0 0
0 00
IThe dreamer is envied by some spiteful person.
00 00
0 00
00 0
00 00
00 0
IAmong relations, this year will bring a funera...
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 00
000 0
IThe dreamer will take a journey, or see one
0
0 00
from afar off, before long.
00 0
00 00
0 00
tBe discreet-there are many eyes upon thee.
0 0
00 0
0 00
00 00
Ill
TUB
TWBII'rt-EIOBTB ROLL OF ORACLE&
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
••
•
•
• •
•
IThis dream is a certain sign of future honour
and dignity.
IThis is a signification of receiving money.
IThe dream is full unprofitable.
IThe signification of this dream is diversified,
and ofdivers origins: it forebodes trouble.
IThis dream is to the dreamer a sign of joy and
gladness.
ITo the dreamer this foretells health, wealth,
and friends. -
IThe dreamer will profit and increase in his
goods.
IThis dream is a presage of evil.
o'o'' edbyGoogle
llgo.
1. ,_
00
00
00
0
0
0
00
00
00
OQ
ua
.a.~or.r. o.
IThis is. a dream of strife and hatred from
enem1es.
IA scene of treachery, even as a deep pit, lays
before the dreamer, but he will escape.
This signifies some misfortune.
lOn a Tuesday, this shows treachery; on a Sun.
day, evil ; on a Monday, news ; on aWednes-
day, letters; on other days, anger.
1
This dream is good and true ; it is, moreover,
durable, and presages many years hereafter
of rich and jovial fortune.
IIn marriage, this foretells quarrels; in love,
rivals.
IOne of the dreamer's family or friends will die.
IThis dream signifies adversaries.
IThis dream is felicitous ; many of the signs
foretell a plentiful store of money and goods.
IThis signifies anger concerning money.
IThis is a sign of some preferrneut to the
dreamer.
IEvil news is at hand, but no harm will befall
the dreamer.
N
;g; zed ,,Coogle
.... «te •evat...t ef •tt4111•.
Sica. A. P 0 Z. Z. O.
I. '·
0§
0 ~~~ IThis dream is the forerunner of a funeral.
o8o 0~0 IFrequently, these are signs ofsickness.
c 0
00 0
o - -o-~ On the third, fifth, seventh, or tenth days of
8 8 8 the moon, this dream is a certain sign of a
0 0 0 g death within a twelvemonth.
o0 o g IProcePding materially from an affiicted mind,
0 0 ° 0 this dream is vain, and not prophetic.
0 00
o0 o 0 c0 This is a dream of evil fortune.
c 0 I
00 00
00 0
0~0 ogo IThe dreamer has many secret enemies.
coc gg
o8o 0~0 IOnTh~~~~~~~~ ~~!~ ~f;~:! ~a~r~~e;tt;du0ent~
'::
0 ° g g the dreameq on other days, it is vain.
0~0 ogo IThere are many troubles before the dreamer.
00 00
00 0
00 00 1
o0 o 0 g0 This dream is a good presage of money.
g 00
00 00 I
o0 o o This dream is pleasurable, albeit but of small
c 0 o0 profit.
00 c
:~: o:oIThis is a sign of friendship.
0 0 I
0 00
o0 o g Many pleasant scenes are before the dreamer.
0 00
Jiqitized by Coogle
13$
THE
TWEIITY·NINTB BOLL OF ORACLES.
Sign.
I. 2.
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
0
0
0
00
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
0 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
00 00
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
* •
• *
*
•
••
II'<& m~urn A~
IThe dream is a sure and eertain omen of a
funeral among relations within the year.
IThis foretells sorrow and secret grief.
1The dream is unfortunate.
IOn a Saturday, this dream shows an accident;
on any other day, trouble.
IA happy and fortunate star is arising the
m
dreamer's horoscope.
IAfters divers largesses and expenditures, this
denotes money.
lBe careful whom thou trustest.
IThis is an omen of trouble through a woman.
1'12
o;g,,edb,Google
... CteMatal~ef._.
lip.
t. 2. 'I'OBIIJI'II'JI' A .
88
0
00
00
§8
0
00
IThis dream foretells strange tidings and news.
o8
8o
0
00
88
0
00
00
IMuch business this dream presages.
00 00
IA false and treacherous confidant,or one under
0 0
00 0
the garb of a friend, is near the dreamer.
00 0
00 00
00 00
IThis dream foretells a loss by cheating.
0 0
080
og
8o
o0 o 0
ISomething auspicious and joyful approaches.
00
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 c
IThis dream is an omen of pleasure.
00 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
0
o0 o IAn absent friend is ill.
00
00 0
00 0
0 0
o0 o 0
IBe very w~ryof whom thou speakest against.
00
0 00
0 00
0 0
8 0
IIf the dreamer be not very careful, anger will
0
0 00
overtake him.
000 0
0
0 0
IThis dream foretells a removal.
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
ITo the sick person this is a ~erilous dream ; to
0 0
0 00
0 00 one in health it denotes dtsappointment.
00 00
0 0
IMany secret enemies are foretold thee.
0 0
00 0
00 0
00 00
oigi:_edb,Google
«te•o»&ltloot of llnams. 1ST
1.
Sip.
2. :1"01\TVX A.
00 00
ISomething unpleasant will shortly occur in thy
0 0
0 00
dwelling or near thy person.
0 00
0 0
00 00
IAn enemy is at hand, but he is concealed.
0 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 00 IOn a Sunday, this shows a sudden piece- of
00 00
co 0 good news; on a Monday, a quarrel; on all
0 00 other days, money coming.
0 0
00 00
IThis is a sign of great prosperity.
00 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
0 0
IOne who is thinking of thy welfare will
00 00 soon
00 0 see thee.
0 00
0 0
0 0 I
00 00
IThis, to one single, is a sign of wedlock.
0 00
00 0
I
0 0
00 00
IThe dream the dreamer inquireth after is for-
0 0
000 0
tunate.
00
0 0
00 00
IThis is a sign of money an~ friends.
0 0
0 00
00 0
0 0
000 00
IThere are delays about, but a month of pros-
0
00 0
perous fortune follows.
0 00
00 00
oc 00
IThe dreamer is in danger of or by animals.
0 0
0 00
00 0
00 00
0 0
IThis shows delay iil the wishes.
00 00
0 00
00 0
00 00
0 0
IThe dream is unfortunate, divers ways.
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 oc
N3
• j
188
THB
THIRTIETH BOLL 01' ORAC:LES.
HIEROGLYPlUCAL EMBLEMS.
* *
Sign.
1. 2.
0~ 00
0 00
0 00
00 00
00 00
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 0
~0 00
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 0
0 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
0 0 co
0 0
00 0
00 0
00 00
00 00
*
*
* •
••
IOn the second day of the moon, this vision
foretells gold and silver to the dreamer; on
other days, travelling and news.
IThis is a sign of great increase in business.
IThis dream is rather unfortunate.
ISome unhappiness is betokened to the dreamer.
IThis is a good and prosperous dream,-it pro-
mises some preferment.
IThe dreamer will attain to we:J.Ith and power.
IThis is a sign of prosperity to a man ; and of
marriage, within the year, to a woman.
IThis dream signifies to getthe betterof enemies.
81811·
1. 2.
00 00
00 0
0 00
00 00
00 00
00 00
:> 000
00
00 00
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 00
00 00
0 00
0 000
0
00 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 0
00 00
0 00
0 00
00
0
00
0
0 0
00 0
00
00
0
0
00
0
0 c
0 00
0
00
0
00
00
0
0 0
00
o0 o
0
0 c
0 0
0 0
0 00
00 0
0 0
0
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 00
0 0
0~ 0
000
00
0
0
00
XZPTVX:B.
IThis dream is a sign of insults from enemies.
ILet the dreamer be careful of being overthrown
at law.
IThis dream is a sign of sickness.
IIn the dreamer's family, or among his rela-
tions, there will befall a funeral within a year.
1This hieroglyphic foretells evil tidings.
ISuccess and comfort in life are here foreshown.
ITo one sick this denotes recovery.
ILet not the dreamer undertake ·any business
of much importance the day succeeding this
dream.
ITo .a male this ill an omen of a happy mar-
nage.
IThis dream foretells feasting and rejoicing.
IThis dream is a sure and certain omen of
trouble.
IThe dream hath signification ofenemies, who
would work divers harm and annoyance.
00 00
8 gg
g 8
00
gg
8
0
0
00
00
00
0
0
00
00
0
0
00
0
00
0
00
00
0
0
00
0
00
0
0
00
0
00
0
00
00
0
00
00
0 •
00
0
0
0
0
0
00
0
00
00
0
0
00
00
00
0
00
0
00
0
0
0
00
00
0
00
00
0
0
00
0
00
0
0
00
00
00
0
00
0
!lEP'l'V!lE.
IOn a Thursday, Friday, or Wednesday, this is
a sign of acquiring riches; on other days, it
betokens friends.
IThis dream is full fortunate.
IThe dream presage~ prosperity in trade or
merchandise.
IThis is a sign the estate of the dreamer will
shortly amend.
IThis dream is a sign of pain, labour, and grief.
IThe dreamer is beset with evil aspects.
f
IThis is a fortunate dream, and presages money.
IAbsent friends are coming from afar.
IThis dream denotes trouble among relations.
ITo a single person this foretells marriage.
IA friend will change to an enemy.
I
IThi~ dream presages e\'il news.
«te•••••ottflkedll. .,.
THE
TBillTY-FillST BOLL OF OllAOLBS.
2.
00
88
00
00
0 00
0 00
g 0~0
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS.
•
•
• •
•
• •
IThis dream foreshows that fortune will vex the
dreamer.
IThi_
s dream or vision hath an evil interpreta-
tiOn.
IMany things in the dreamer's fate at this time
go contrary to his wishes.
8 8 8 IThis is a sign the dreamer will escape from
o~o g some heavy trouhle.
888 0 8
0 -1
The dreamer will receive benefit fr.:~m many.
0 0
g 80 8 IThis denotes a fall, or hurt from a four-footed
oo o be~L
0 0
0 001
0 00
0 o0 8 The dream denotes sickness.
00 00
8 8 8 IOn a Sunday, Tuesday, or Thursday, this
g 0 o0 dream is a sign of honour and substance; on
o o o o other days, friends.
10
Sip.
I. t. OBI OX.
IThis denotes persecution from ignoble and vile
persons.
IThis dream is an omen of aftliction.
IOn the sixth, seventh, Gr ninth days of the
moon, this dream has no interpretation ; on
other days, it tells of sickness. ,
IThis denotes a loss of credit and friends.
IA malevolent dream this is, and the signs of
the stars are averse to the dreamer's des-
tiny. ·
ILet the dreamer beware of over feasting and
excess of mirth.
IThis dream is ever the forerunner of good for-
tune.
ITo one inquiring, this foretells anger.
IThis dream is under a happy constellation :
long life, and the plenteousness of fortune,
is the dreamer's earthly lot.
IThe vision is predictive of money and riches,
yet to come, but all in due season.
IThis literally forebodes a cross in thy fortunes.
ISome particular legacy will be bequeathed the
dreamer.
;g; zed ,,Coogle
Sip.
I. 2.
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 00
00 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
00 0
00 00
0 00
00 0
0 0
0 oc
0 0
00 0
0 co
0 0
00 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 00
0 0
~ o_o
00
0 0
oo 0
0 0
00 0
00 0
00 00
0 00
c 0
0 00
0 00
00 00
oo c
0 0
0 00
oo 0
oo 00
0 00
0 0
co 0
o0 o 00
00
oo 0
c c
0 co
oo 0
0 0
0 00
oo 00
oo 0
0 00
o0 o 0
0
oo 00
t!:{le ~ovallioolt of Jlrram!l. 143
o:a.xox.
IThe dream may have promised many things,
but the interpretation speaks of performing
nothing.
IMany slippery friends surround the dreamer.
IThis denotes wandering hereafter into strange
countnes.
IThe dreamer, by his wit and contrivance, or
I skill, will amass money.
IOn a SatUJday, this denotes a rich present; on
aSunday, ajourney; on a Wednesday,labour
in vain ; on other days, profit.
IIn the increase of the moon, this forebodes
wedlock.
IThi~ is a sign of news, reports, and rumours,
of divers kinds.
ILet the dreamer beware of dissemblers.
IA dissentious tongue will slander or vex the
dreamer.
IThis is a sign of strife and discord.
IMisfortunes approach-be warned : thy dream
foretells a loss of money or dearth of gold
and silver.
IMany of thy griefs are no more, yet thy vision
still forewarns thee to beware.
THE
TBillTY-SBOOND llOLL 01' ORAOLBS.
HIEROGLYPHICAL EMBLEMS•
•
•
• •
•
•
ILet the dreamer beware,-a contentioua penon
and a sower ofdiscord is near him.
IThis is a sign of anger and travail of mind.
IIn a dream relating to business, the sign is
good, as it foretells great activity.
IThis is a sign ofchanges and removals.
IThe dream foretells a delivery from ill fortune.
IThis dream foretells the dreamer to thrive in
the condition fortune has placed him.
IThe dreamer is likely to he wronged by friend•
or neighbours.
IThis denote~ great traffic in business.
Slga.
•• 2.
00 0
0 00
00 00
00 0
00 0
0
00
00
,o
..o
00
00
00
~0
00
00
0
00
00
00
00 0
00 0
00 00
00 0
0 00
146
!'I WIS.
IA cross in the dreamer's horoscope is at hand,
let him take heed of fawning advisers.
IThis is a sign of strivings, labour, and sorrow.
IThe dream proceeds from a mind ill at ease,
and is vain.
IA magnanimous friend is allotted to the dreamer.
ILet the.dreamer beware of contracting a hasty
marnage.
00
co
00
00
0
IOne who is vain-glorious envies the dreamer.
o o o This is a full stable dream, and of a surety the
0 001
8 g 0 0 ° dreamer will be rich in old age.
00 0
00 0 I
0 00
o o o o The dreamer shall prevail against his enemies.
0
0 00
00
8 8 o0 o This denotes back-biters and false friends
0 001
00 0
0 00
~o~ g0 g The dreamer has enemies. subtle, malicious,
0 0 o and evil, but will prevail against them.
0 0 0·--~----------~~---------------------
0 -0--- C I
g 0 o0 Let not the dreamer hazard himselfon the water.
0 00
00 0
0 001
~o~ g This forebodes the coming of a funeral-bier,
0 00
0
146
I.
Sign.
'2.
o0 o
00
0
0 0
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 00
0 0
00 0
00 0
0 00
0 00
0 0
00 0
0 00
00 0
00 0
0 0
0 00
02 0
0 00
0 00
0 0
0 00
co 0
00 0
00 0
0 0
00 0
0 00
00 0
0 00
0 0
0 00
0 00
0 00
00 0
0 1 0
00 0
00 0
§§ 0
0
00
0 00
0 00
c 00
0 00
co oo
00 0
00 0
·oo 0
0 00
00 00
00 0
0 o:
0 00
88 0
00
0 00
00 0
ttfle Ho!!allloot of IJnamll.
I'IXIS.
IAn ungrateful friend will vex and cause thee
annoyance.
IThis vision is one of changes.
lit is _manifest that the dreamer has secret ene-
mJes.
IOn a Tuesday,the day of Mars, this dream fore-
shews victory over enemies, both public and
private; else it is ill.
IManifestly, this is an omen ofmany and divers
misfortunes to the dreamer.
IAlbeit they may not endure, yet perils are thy
lot.
IThis dream foretells the goods of fortune.
IThe dreamer, if one in single life,will ere long
have an offer of matrimony.
ITo a female, this ever forebodes some cross in
love.
ITurbulent are thy visions, but will not harm
thee.
ITrust not overmuch to friends.
IOn a Tuesday this signifies a quarrel; the same
on a Saturday; on a Friday, a courtship; on
other days, it is vain.
oigi:_edb,Google
Qt •••-tor•rm~~~. 14f
'D.orlJ ll»ron tn tte morllJ of ,ipirtts.
A VISION•
• • • • • • • • • •
• • • • • • • • • With what astonishment did I behold,
as the feeble rays of a small lamp fell in silence upon the broad
gloom; pannela of my apartment, that I was once more in the
ball o my ancestors. I could but dimly perceive the objects
that surrounded me, in the misty light which might be rather
said to bide than to display them ; but still their very shadows
were familiar to me. The bed on which I was reposing, the
old carved elbow-chair by its side, the antique wardrobe, and
the high narrow-framed glass, were my earliest acquaintances ;
and here they stood, as I had known them, and had left them,
in the days ofmy childhood. I was, indeed, once more in the
chamber of my birth. " Heavens I" said I, " what can this
mystery mean ~" By what enchantment have I been trans-
ported hither?" I attempted to rise, but felt I was too lan-
guid to do so-my pnbe, too, was high and feverish, my lips
parched, and my breathing thick and irregular. I was at a loss
to account for the strangeness of my situation-! had no recol-
lection but that I was in a distant land, but every thing around
me convinced me that I was in the very chamber in which I
first drew my existence.
There was something perplexingly marvellous in the a1fair,
and I continued to muse upon it, till, overcome by increasing
langour, I fell into a gentle sleep, from which I was at length
awoke by the 110ft pressure of lips to mine. As my eyes
opened, oh, Heaven, what did they behold ~ The angel features
of roy young and beautiful Ada, the beloved " daughter of my
house and heart."-She whose infant image, in my wanderings,
had been the one sole star that shed light and life across the
o2
... .............,......
cbeedela ncmty of my boeom-t. star that I doubly loved, for
its re~e~~~blaDc:e to the glories ofa Sun, that, to me, was set for
eYer, It was, ind~, my sweet, sweet Ada,-she, o( whom,
when the wide ocean M'pal'ated us, my spirit, between joy and
hopeJeuoea, had IUDg-
., 1 - thH Dot-1 hear thH DOt, but DOH
CUI be 10 wrapt in thee ; tho11 art the friend
To whom the abadowa of far years extend ;
.Albeit, my brow thou Dever ahOilldat behold,
My Yoice lhall with thy f11ture Yiaions blend,
ADd reach into thy heart, when mine is eold,-
.A token and a tone, nen from thy father'• mould."
I had left her in the innocence and loveliness o( infancy--
the tender glance of her young blue eyes, and the eager kiss I
~ve her at our parting, were the sacred interchanges o( our
iffi!ction; and now she seemed to have come in ripened beaut)',
to rati(y that holy contract. But yet there was a wildness 10
her look-it was that t'renzied gaze o( tenderness, which tells
the heart's secrets, when the fixed tongue refuses utterance-
her bot tears feU Cast upon my brow, but still s~e spoke not.
• • • • • • • • •
Oh, it was a (earful shriek !-its reverberation shook the
inmost rece&&el of my soul. I endeavoured to: Qlove, but, to
my astonishment, my limbs refused their offi~~~ey were as
cold and solid as marble. I attempted to look ~nd me, but
my eyes were closed and motionless-the pulses·,~f my heart
bad ceased, a chilliness was creepinf through its veins.
Though lost to every other sensation, dis~cUy heard the
loud sobbings of persons near me-it seemed SQ~pe heavy cala-
mity must have befallen them. I heard, too1 ~e half-!ltifled
tones of one that called upon her father, &Qd,.:oh, there was a
voice, mingling with her's, that once to me, was music. In
after years, there was, indeed, some jarring in its minstrelsy,
but it came upon me now in all its early sweetness, ani} it'said,
"My poor Harold, and art thou gone for everY' Ye eternal
destinies! bow did these words break ~n my ear-the terri-
ble truth burst at once upon my soul-1 W&t a tOqJte.
A few moments paged, and all was still around me. I had
now become a new being, or rather a new existence, for
nothing of a tangible quality seemed to belong to me. I felt,
however, a kind ofstillness, or, if I may so say, flexidity, from
which I conjectured, that my spirit was not yet freed from the
barriers of that body which had been its tenement. It may be
supposed, that in such a situation, my thoughts would have
partaken of the horrible-that I should have had some longing•·
after the past, or laboured under 110me dread of the future ; but
the past had been a past of bitterness-it was the source ofjoy
to me that I had fled from it, and I loved the future for its very
mysteries. It was a delightful reflection, that the external
world and I had closed account:~ for ever-the select few and
the mingled million were, u if by a lightning-stroke, alike
swept from my contemplation. 'Twas well :-
" I had not loved the world, nor the world me,-
1 llad not ll&ttend its raok breath, nor bowed
To its i4olatriea a patient knee.
Nor coined. my ~beek to llllilea, nor cried aloud,
In worabip of an echo-in the crowd
They could not deem me ODe of IUCh ; I atood
Among th-, but not of them-iD a abroud
Of thoughts, which were Dot their thoughts--."
And whe~re should the world be loved? What is it but
a vast assemblage of treacheries ? What are i\s brightest
things? EYen IIWl, forsooth, a flower, the ocean, and the sky.
But man hu smiles that like the serpent's scales, shine
brightest wbea the sting is deadliest; and the ocean has its
smooth, dishoaest face, to lure when its big heart is ripe for
desolation; eech rose has got its thorn ; the sky its lightning.
True it is, that I had worshipped one, a seemin& lovely one,
and bowed my heart to ber as krvidly as does the heathen to
his idol ; but the time bad come when my soul was liberated
from its gl'OIIS afl'ections. Deprived of those faculties which
enable man to hold connexion with the breathing clods around
kim, my spirit seemed to have passed the barrier~ wh~ch kept
it from mingling in that eternity of which it was a porbon. It
was now left to its own communing ; that delicious solitude.
for which it had ever pined.
o3
gi"ed ,Google
uo
'' For I could aee
Nothing to loathe in aature, eave to be
A liok reluctant in a 4eshl chain,
Classed among creatures.
I was about, indeed, torealize all that my hearthad ever siKbed
for-to mingle with the elements-to become a part of the
pervading spirit of nature. My soul, loathing the dark vil-
lanies of man, had even aspired to a higher and holier com-
panionship. The hum ofcities was a torture, but the deep yet
secret voice of nature was to me-
"A tone,
The soul and source of music, which makes known
Eternal harmony."
What to me was the sicklyglare of illuminated chambers, when
the pure blue arch of heaven was hung with a million stars ?
What the sot\ thrillings of the lute, or the vain swell of the
proud organ, when the breeze melted the heart with its gentle
sighiogs, or the storm poured forth its mighty melody. The
tempest and the ocean, the mountain and the sky, the silent
star and the still lake, were " deep in my soul with a pure
passion;' and it seemed to me as if the time was come when I
should be permitted to penetrate their mysteries.
I know not bow longI bad continued in this reverie, but I was
at length agitated by a slight motion, an appearance ofsinking.
After a few seconds, I became again stationary, and from the
hollow reverberations around m~ I found I bad just been de-
posited within the dark barriers of the tomb I
Ofall places in the creation, there is none so fit for sober
thought as the grave; and I was now in a situation to receive
its full benefit. Its dews come with a delicious influence,
" watering the heart whose early flowers have died." I had
here full leisure to look back upon my past existence; to sum
UI,> the good or evil I had done or suffered; to strike a balance
wtth the world, and determine who was the debtor ; but my
mind entered upon no such employment; probably from the
consideration of the numbers let\ behind, who would be
generous enough to do it for me. I might have dwelt upon
the pure pleasures of my boyhood, or the more intense, yet
destructive joys that succeeded them ; and I might, too, if my
151
soul had retained a portion of its former enthuaiasm. have felt
a pang at leaving the glorious cause for which its latest aspira-
tions have been raised, and a bitterness that the funeral knell
of its frail tenement bad not been the victorious shout of eman-
cipated millions. As it was, no such reflections occupied my
thoughts. I was, indeed, quite unincumbered-
" With airy imag.,, and thd.ea which dwell,
Still unimpaired, though ol , in the aoul'a haunted cell."
I wu in a very sedate state of existence-tile quiet of the
place was delicious to tne-it was the very perfection of soli·
tude. It was a solitude, however, of brief duration ; for l1100n
found I was in the neighbourhood of a noisyset of companions.
Their 'foices were of a small, shrill, inhnman character, and
seemed mingled in utter confusion. At length, something like
order being restored among them, one of the crew, who,
I found, were a set of Bacchanalians, ~n the following song
-the others, in a kind of impish glee, joming in the chorus:-
" Oho I brother wotmt, oho I
Who is eo happy as we?
Who lives like the worm below,
In hie halls of revelry f
No tweeter pleuore1 we crave,-
No, Do, brother-worm•, no, no,
Than thote which enli'l'flll the grt.n,-
Oho I brotlaer worme, olao I
Vilt Wormt the 10111 may eeek,
And rille its rich perfumes :
We delight in beauty's cheek,
Though its rose ao longer blow1.
No feast so pure can we have,-
No, no, brother-worms, ao, Do,
Aa that we find in the grt.ve,-
Oho I brother WO!'IDI, oho I
Though richly the grave Is etored,
Its treasurea foray shall be;
Each skull be a. banquet board,
Each coftia a place of glee.
No sweeter joys can we bave,-
No, Dl), brother-worms, no, no,
Than those which glow in the cra••·-
Oho ! brother worms, oho I
The fairest of things decay,
To the dust, from whence they came;
And the mightiest paaa away,
But the grave is still the same.
No dearer home can we have,-
No,no, brother-worms, no, no :
Care never enters the gr&Ye,-
Oho, brother wonns, oho I''
The sounds died away, and once more I was left to my own
ml.ISings. It is impossible to describe the nature of my reflec-
tions, if, indeed, it is right to designate with such a name, the
workings ofa spirit, unconscious of almost every thing, saving
its .own existence. It seemed rather remarkable, that I should
have lost every other sensation, whilst that of hearing still re-
mained to me; and the circumstance of my being deprived of
motion wllll equally perplexing. I began, too, to feel a sort of
shrinking within myself, and to have a let~s vivid perception of
identity of being. For the first time, I felt a kind of dread-a
fear of annihilation. I cannot picture the horror with which I
contemplated the possibility of my spiritual dissolution. My
soul seemed " as a ftame unfed, wh1ch runs to waste with its
own Bickering." And is this, thought I, the high purpose of
my being ? Is this the reward for years of life's endurance?
Is it for this that I have suffered its degraded thraldom ? Is
this the eDd ofall my hopes, the pitiful close of all my ~tlorious
visions ? Olt! for a vo1ce to tell thee, Nature, how I loathe
thy treachery I
" Could I embody and imboeom now
That which is moat within me,-could I wreak
My thoughts upon expreaaion, and thus throw
Soul, heart, mind, paaaion, feelings, strong or weak,
All that I would have sought, and all I seek,
Bear, know, feel, and vet breathe-into one word,
And that one word were lightning, I would apeak;
But as it is, I live and die unheard,
With a moat voiceless thought, sheathing it as a sword."
I was not, bowever, allowed to remain long absorbed in this
bitterness of spirit-a renewed glow pervaded my being, and,
to my delight and astonishment, I heard the souad of distant
10
YOices. As they approached, I could bear my name at times
repeated, and I at length caught the following words, pro-
DOUDced in a hollow aepulcbral tone:-
'' Up, up, from thy dismal sheli,-
Thua we break Cbilde Harold's spell!
Art thou fond of mystery 1
Come with us and thou shalt see
Thiags not made for mortal e'/es.
The spell is broke-ariee, ante!"
These worda were no sooner pronounced than, to my utter
amazement, the whole of my faculties were restored, and I
stood forth, once more, an animated being. I was considerably
astonished to find, that the companions which slOOd in my pre·
aence were all skeletons! A small dim lamp hung from the
roof of the vault, and afforded sufficient light to ahow me their
bony countenances; an involuntary shudder crept through my
veins. But I was soon relieved by the voice of some invisible
agent, which bade me follow the party, and, at the same time,
as if to conduct me, I felt my band pressed by fingers which,
though unseen, were cold and deathly. We soon quitted the
nult, and proceeded along a narrow dark passage. My
invisible conductor explaiaed to me, as we went on, that
I Waf tn ttl tenttodet Of Deatf) ; that the
inhabitants were all such as those which accompanied us ; and
that we were approaching the palace of their Omnipoteat
Monarch.-We bad not proceeded far, when a vivid light
burst upon my view, at the extremity ofthe passage ; on reach-
ing which, we entered a aplendid vestibule, every part of
which aeemed carved from the purest marble. At the extre-
mityof this vestibule were a pair of large folding-doors, formed
of ailver, through which we passed into a hall of indescribable
magniftcence, brilliantly illuminated. At the upper end, upon
an elented throne, sat Death, waving his arrowy sceptre, as if
to command order among the immense group of grisly subjects
that IUJTOUnded him. There was evidently ounaiderable in·
subordination among them, and the movements of their almost
shadowleas substances, and the waving in the air of their spiral
arms, u they seemed to testify their approbation or displea-
SUJe at those who harangued them, had an appearance, the
15i
terrific horrors of which I should want words to describe in
the language of mortals.
From this scene of confusion we passed on through several
other chambers, silent, brilliant, and beautiful. Nut a sound
disturbed the quiet of the place, save now and then the foot-
fall of some solitary skeleton. At length, we reached a kind
of outer hall, from which we again passed into a long dark
avenue; here I was loosed from the 1cy grasp of my compa-
nion. The word "§at:eU.ell " broke upon my ear, and,
in an instant, I was left in gloom and solitude.· I attempted to
return, but found my passage obstructed by a barrier ofearth ;
in this dilemma I had no altematiYe but to wander on, and in
a few minutes I reached the extremity of the passage, and
found myself upon the sea-shore. The heavens were black,
and the thunder raised its mighty voice, and the lightning
broke upon the ocean's bare and desolated bosom.-How un-
like was this to the soft music of the hour when last my eye
dwelt with intensity of passion upon the mellowed glories of
the parting day :- .
'' The sky is changed! and such a cb&nge! oh, night,
Aod storm, aod darkness, ye are wondrous strong,
Yet lovely iu your strength."
Overcome with the variety of conflicting feelings I had un-
dergone, I 1·eposed myself upon a rock, by the side of a ftaslt-
ing mass of falling waters. I continued in this situation, in
almost a state of insensibility, till the tempest bad subsided :
the winds slumbered, and the sea-bird raised his note ofjoy as
he hovered above the becalmed ocean. A gentle glow en-
lightened ~e horizon, from whose distant verge ascended
" a magnificent array of clouds.'' They were of the most
gorgeous description, and rose in one immense unbroken body.
Instead ofascending the heavens, their glorious volumes floated
across the rippling deep. As they approached me, they began
to separate, and discovered to me a scene of overpowering
splendour. In the centre there arose a temple, far surpassing
any thing my mind bad ever contemplated in the vastest stretch
ofits imaginings-its gorgeous and colossal columns and tow-
ering domes shone with an inteDiiity of light-a sound as of
many harps broke upon my ear-and from a splendid portico
101
of the temple there came forth a vast assemblage of persons,
clad in the garbs of various ages. The countenances of many
of them were familiar to me, and they were lit as if by the
mind's purest illuminations. They were indeed spirits of the
olden time-bards of every clime and age. They advanced to
the vf!ry verge ofthe glorious canopy which floated like beau-
tiful mystery around them :-in front, stood a lovely female,
the goddess of the temple ; in one hand she held a golden
wreath, in the other a trumpet, and in accents the sweetest I
had ever heard, thus she spoke-
. " Harold, thy dream is done,
The troubles ofthy wanderings are o'er!
No more shall passion prey upon thy heart,
And, like a serpent coiled around ita cor~>,
Sting thee into madness. Life's dream h past,
With all ita treacherous euchantmPnta ;-past
Are the high aspirings of thy lofty soul,
The hope and glory of thy earl,Y visions ;-
Past, too, is life's beart-withPnng hitterneaa ;
We comE" to bail thee to our holy fane;
A thousand kindred spirits welcome thee;-
Bright souls of other days, whose glowing lay
Severed the mind's inglorious chains, and roused
The world to liberty. Long we have watched
Thy noble spirit, and the general voice
Hath loug decreed to thee this glorious wreath,
Our temple'• richest gift,"
· As soon as she had thus spoken, she descended, with the
grace and lightness of an angel, to place the ever-living leaves
upon my brow ; and the assemblage, with one accord, ex.
claimed-" tn)t UJft4tfJ (f Jlt4f0flJ'f.'' (Botl~Spirlll•
166 «te iio»allloot of IJnamt.
THE
METHOD OF RESOLVING THE INTERPRETATIONS
IN TB&
BY
THE SCIENCE OF GEOMANCY.
As many of my readers may prefer this more scientific mode
of ancient divination, I subjoin the process of casting the
sephromantic signs by the geomanic art.
PROBLEM I.
tro C!!att a §igure of Oeomantp.
The method of casting a figure ofGeomancy has been already
~hown and explained in the seventh edition of" The Astrologer
ofthe Nineteenth Century;'' but, as that work is now "out of
print," • (as the booksellers term it) and consequently difficult
for many of my country correspondents to obtain, I shall go
over the whole process as it were de novo, and then draw IOrth
the signs therefrom.
In the first place, make 1i.rteen lines of points or straight
strokes, thinking seriously on the affair in hand while forming
them ; taking care not to move the hand off the slate or paper
whereon they are marked till the whole number of lines are
• An entirely mw urua o( the aforesaid popular book ia in a
course of preparation hy RAPHAEL; the publication of which will
he announced in due season, as soon as the completion of auch a
curious work can be accomplished.
tr:te lto1!41 Woolt Ot Jkend, 157
made, as in the following example ; and join the points toge-
ther as hereafter shown ; and, if the last of the points be even,
mark down two stars; but, if odd, only one, thus :-
·~~~-~
U-R
Pic••~ 1.
11-11 H-11 11-11 11-11 11-H u •
~~ H-H 11-11 .II-II H-11 o-u 11-11 II II ••
f~ 11-H H-H 11-11 IHI 11-11 11-11 11-11 H H • •
. ! n-o 0-11 11-11 11-11 11-11 11-11 H-11 II II • •
Picure t.
··r-· 11-11 11-U 11-11 11-11 11-8 11-11 11-11 u•
l( 11-D 11-:-0 U-0 H-11 11-11 U-11 0-11 8 •
~i' II-A n-n H-11 11-H 11-11 11-H H II ••
il" 11-11 11-11 H-H 11-11 11-11 0-11 11-H II •
11-11 11-11 n-11 11-11 11-11 n-n H
Plcure 3.
f;~511-H •
-:.a: 11-0 11-11 11-11 11-11 0-11 11-11 11-0 n •
if(ll-ll 11-H 11-11 11-11 11-11 11--11 II II • •
il H-H 11-0 11-11 D-11 11-11 11-11 11-1111 •
··r--
11-11 11-H H-11 11-H II
Pl&IIR 4.
11-11 11-11 •
b 11-11 11-11 H-11 11-11 11-11 11-U II II • •
1: 11-n 0-11 11-11 11-11 11-11 11-11 R II • •
~= u-n 11-11 H-11 HI 11-11 11-H II II ••
Place these four figures of Geomancy in order, from right to
left, placing No.4 to the left band, thus:- ·
4. s. !. 1.
• • • •
• • • • • •
• • • • • • • •
• • • • • •
Then take the four figures lengthways, and begin with the
four lines of the figures, counting the points for odd or even,
by which m~ns you will draw out four other figures, numbers
6, 6, 7, and 8:
p
168
Thus, in thefim lifte, the point oftbe fint figu.loe (the top point)
is odd,--therefore mark down one ltar ~ - - - • ) .,;
In the secOftd figure the first point is alto odd - - • ~ f
In the third figure the first point is also odd - • - • '.~
In the fourth figure the first point ia also odd ~ • • J 04
In the first figure (1econd line) are two points, which are even;
therefore mark down two stars - - - - • • • • }c
In the second figure (~econd lim) is one point - - • I!!
In the third figure ditto is one point - - • .~
In the fourth figure ditto are two points - • • o.
In the first figure (third line) are two .points - - - • • }..:
In the secondfigure dillo are two points - - • • f
In tlte third figure ditto are tl'I'O pointll - - • • • _;
In the fourth figure ditto are two points - - • • • ..,
In the first figure (fourth line) are two points
In the second figure ditto is one point
In the third figure ditto is one point
In the fourth figure ditto are two points
Place these Crom right to left, thus:-
8.
• •
•
•
• •
7, 6. 5. 4. s. t.
• •
••
• •
• •
• •
•
•
• •
•
•
•
•
•
• •
• •
• •
•
•
• •
•
•
•
• •
•
-.•}.;
. . ~
"
- . ..
... ~
1.
•
• •
• •
• •
Then take the figures by pairs alternately, and out of two
figures make one, by counting tbe f.oints of each as odd or
even, which will give figures 9, 10, 1 , and 12.
Thus, for example, of figures-
!. 1 •
•
•
• •
•
•
• •
••
• •
In the first line are two points, which are even •
In the aecood line are three points, which are odd - • f
... :.
In the third line are four points -
In the fourth line are three points
-..}..
-. . ~
;g; zed ,,Coogle
109
In like manner, numbers 3 and 4 make figure 10; figures
5 and 6"make figure 11 ; and figures 7 and 8 make figure 12.
See the example at Nil, u here delineated c-
8. 1. 6. 5. 4. 3. t. t .
•• • • • • •
• • • • •
• • • • •
• • • • • • •
tt. tt.
• • •
• • •
• • •
• • •
W.eft fl&tUtHt.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• • • •
• • • • • •
•• • • • • • •
•• • • ••
10. 9.
• • • •
• •
• • • •
• •
lltnt lllllu.tt.
• •
• •
• •
• •
The ltiGIJt fll!UtneH is drawo oat offigures 9 and 10;
:md the &eft ttmttnett out or figures 11 and 12. The
,IUlJgt is also drawn out of the right and left witnesses,
which completes what the seers of old were wont to call
P2
UIO
PROBLEM II.
Take the rigAt witness and write it down, and divide the
.ft«JBe into half; then, if the number of points in the first halfbe
even, mark down two ciphers, but, if odd, one, which will give
an additional line of pomts, and forms Sign 1in Sephromaocy.
Then take the left witness and the lower lw.lfof the judge, and,
if the points be in number odd, write down one cipher thereto,
but, if even, two; and that shall give Sign 2 in Sephromaocy,
whieh completes the process.
Example : the right witness is 8 8
8 8 This gives Sign J.
points, which are even; therefore, o o ~
In the first half of the judge are two J ~
mark down two ciphers - - - ~
The kfl witness is - - - 8 Th" · s· 2
8 IS g•ves 1gn •
And in the lower half of the judge l 8
are two points, which are even - ~0 0
0 80
They now stand thus:-
Slcn 1. Sign 2.
Indes.
Q§Q
The Hieroglyphical Emblem of which is § and the inter-
co
rretation at f.age 90, under these signs, is " Absentfriends are
an calamitiu.'
161
I will give one more example for practice, which will secure
the skill of my readers, should the first seem doubtful :-
8. r. ti. 5. 4. s. t. 1.
• • • • • • • • • • • •
• • • • ••
• • • • •
• • • • •
12. 11.
• • • •
• • • •
• • ..
• • •
Left Witness.
• •
• •
•
•
No.I.
Sephromantic sign~ ~ ~
m~de from right
w1tuess - - -
• •
•
•
• • • •
10.
• •
• •
••
...
•
•
•
•
9.
• •
••
• •
• •
Right Witness.
• •
••
Judge•
• •
• •
•
•
• •
• •
No. 2,
• •
•
•
8 g }Sephromantic sign
8 m~de from left
oo w1tness.
lrukz.
00
888
In conclusion, I may just observe that those of my readers
who may choose to cast the figure of Geomancy will find more
truth in the process than in the ancient method ofciphersalon.e;
although the former method has much ingenuity in the process,
and cannot fail to afford the inteUigent seeker much amuse-
ment. Finally, be it remembered, in regard to either method,
that if mere trifler. try these matters, they try only to be trifled
with.
THE END,
Note,-The Second nd ~ Part of tAl Curiow Manueript
jf'Om WnN IM " Book of DrNm~" _, ~' will "' publWI«l
urukr til. Tit/« of
TBB
AXOIBlft' BOOB 01' DBSftiiY,
"a Jtigtt ~urlout, ~ge, anb Entertaining Ulodt ;"
CONTAINING THE ORACLE OF PYTHAGORAS, " THE MOST
WISE PHILOSOPHER,"
Founded om th. Hidden Mynerit3 tf Numben, bt&t Mleler~d
Faeik and Ea•y to th. Neanen Capacity.
IT wzs.s. oo•T.a.l• •oo .a.••w•a• TO
'I'BB :I'OS.S.OW.I•O QV'B8'1'10.8o
1. If the aaker ahall be fortaaate or aafortaaate Ia thia world f
"- What acea of the uker'a life ehall be belt in fortuae f
C If the uker eball attain to hia heart'• deaire t
4. To dleeover the Initial leuen of any penoa'• aame RDkDowa f
0, If a elck penoa aball amead or relapae t
6. If tbe asker Ia born to loag or abort life t
7, To..uae not kaowiactbelr horoscope, whatlo their olga, alar, aa4 plaaet;
"'uud their coaoeqaeat deatlay t
8. If a promlae made to the uker ahall be kept t
9. W~:: t~...
";,~":e•:~.'::::. ~ala Ia the place where be dwelltth, or if
18. If the uker'• frltnd be trolly aad true f
11. If the uker'a preaeat Ill fortaae aball tarn to lood hereafter t
11. Wbat are the eig111 of the weather at aay dme t
13. If aay partlemlar day ehall pro-.e fortuaate t
14. What day lu tbe week or mouth ehall prove of the greakat odie to the
ukert
15. What aball be the aaker'a fortaae Ia murlace, If a male 1
18. What ahall be the reault of thiap loet or atolea t
17. If tbe asker aball caia or loae Ia a aait at law t ..
18. Wbat ebail be tlae uker'a fortune Ia IIW'I'Iqe, If a feaale t .
19, It the asker lhall be fortunate Ia bio family t
to. If a friend now abtent Ia fortunate or in trouble f ~
tl. Whether the atker bu mott frleDda or eaemiea t
t1. It a wacer or 1•••at play eball be woa f
ta. To what part of the world ebali tbe uker bead bia atept t
tt. It there any chaace In the uker'a borotcope tbla year t
to, II It cood to travel or 'royace t
16, Wbat bu fortune Ia store for tbe atker ill the aut IeVen yean t
tr. Shall tbe ablp at aea be aate or lost t
liS. Ia what maclttery, hatiDell, or c:allia&, aball the uker protper1
til. II an Intended adventure fortuaate t
ao. Of 1wo comhataall or adnnarlea, wblcb lhall cooqaer t
With a Curiou1 and Singular Hieroflyplticol Frontiapitu, ~c. ~c. ~c.
