{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1830__smith___the_book_of_mormon_palmyra.pdf","mytitle":"The Book Of Mormon Palmyra","mylang":"de"}
TH E
BOOK OF MORMON:
AN A C C O U N T W R IT T E N BY T H E HAND O F M O R­
M ON, UPON P L A T E S T A K E N FR O M
T H E P L A T E S O F NEPHI.
Wherefore ills an abridgment of the Record of the People of Nephi; and also of
the Larnamtes; written to the Lamanite«, which are a remnant of the House of
larael; and nko toJew and Gentile • written by way of commandment, and also
by the spirit of Prophesy and of Revelation* Written, and sealed up, and hid
up onto the Lor©, mat they might not be destroyed ; to come forth by the gift
and pewer of Go©, unto the interpretation thereof; sealed by the hand of Moro­
ni, and hid up unto the Lor©, tocome forth in due time by the way of Gentile;
the interpretation thereof by the gift of Go©; an abridgment taken from the
Book of Ether.
Also, which is a Record of the People of Jared, which were scattered at the time
the Lord cunfounded the language of the people when they were building a
tower to get ro Heaven: vvbkm is to shew unto the remnant of the House of
Israel how great tilings the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may-
know the covenants of the Lob©, that they are not cast ofTforever; and also to
the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that ia the Christ, the Eterhat,
Go©, manifesting Himself unto all nations. And now if there be fault, ii be the
mistake of men; wherefore condemn not the things of God, that ye may bo
found spotless at thejudgment seat of Christ.
B Y JOSEPH SM ITH, JUNIOR,
a l x h o r a n d p r o p r ie t o r *
P A L M Y R A ;
PRINTED B Ï E. B, GRANDIN, FOR THE AUTHOR,
1830.
PREFACE
T o th e R e a d e r —
A s many false reports have been circulated respec­
ting the following work, and also many unlawful mea­
sures taken by evil designing persons to destroy me,
and also the work, I would inform you that 1 translated,
by the gift and pow er o f G od, and caused to be written,
one hundred and sixteen pages, the which I took from
the B ook o f Lehi, which was an account abridged from
the plates o f Lehi, by the hand o f M orm on ; which said
account, som e person or persons have stolen and kept
from me, notwithstanding my utmost exertions to re co ­
ver it again— and being com m anded o f the Lord that
I should not translate the same over again, for Satan
had put it into their hearts to tempt the Lord their G od,
by altering the words, that they did read contrary from
that which I translated and caused to b e w ritten; and
if I should bring forth the same words again, or, in other
words, if I should translate the same over again, they
would publish that which they had stolen, and Satan
would stir up the hearts o f this generation, that they
might not receive this w ork : but behold, the Lord
said unto me, I will not suffer that Satan shall accom ­
plish his evil design in this th in g; therefore thou shah
translate from the plates o f Nephi, until ye com e to that
which ye have translated, which ye have retained; and
i*
THE FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
HIS REIGN AND MINISTRY.
C H A PT E R I.
„in account o f Leki and his wife Sariah, and Ms fou r Sons,
being called,(beginning at the eldest,) Laman,Lemuel,
Sam, and Nephi. The Lord teams Lehi to depart out o f
the land o f Jerusalem, because heprophesieth unto the peo­
ple concerning their iniquity; and, they seek to destroy his
life. He taketh three days' journey into the mldemess
with■hisfam ily. Xephi taketh his brethren and returns to
the land o f Jerusalem after the record o f the Jetes. The ac­
count o f their sufferings. They take the daughters o f Ish-
mael to wife. They take theirfam ilies and depart into the
wilderness. Their sufferings and afflictions in the wilder­
ness. The course o f their travels. They come to the targe
waters. Nephi’s brethren rebeBeth against him. He con-
foundeth them, and buildeth a Ship. They call the place
Bountiful. They cross the large waters into thepremised
land,Sfc. This is according to the account o f N ephi; or,
in other words, IN ephi wrote this record.
1, Nephi, having been bom of goodly parents, therefore I
was taught somewhat in all the learning o f my father; and
having seen many afflictions in the course o f my days— never­
theless, having been highly favored of the Lord in all my days;
yea, having had a great knowledge o f the goodness and the
mysteries o f God, therefore I make a record o f my procee­
dings in my days; yea, I make a record in tbelanguageof my
father, which consists o f the learning o f the Jews and the lan­
guage of the Egyptians. And I know that the record which I
make, to he true; and I make it with mine own hand; and I
make it according to my knowledge.
For it came to pass, in the commencement o f the first year
o f the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, (my father Lehi hav­
ing dwelt at Jerusalem in all his days;) and in that same year
there came many prophets, prophesying unto the people, that
they must repent, or the great city Jerusalem must be destroyed.
c FIRST BOOK OF NKPHI,
Wherefore it came to pass, that my father Leh't, as he went
forth, prayed unto the Lord, yea, even with all his heart, in
behalf o f his people.
And it came to pass, as he prayed unto the Lord, there
came a pillar o f fire and dwelt upon a rock before him ; and
he saw and heard m uch; Mid because o f the things which he
saw and heard, he did quake and tremble exceedingly.
And it came to pass that he returned to hie own house at
Jerusalem; and he cast himself upon his bed, being overcome
with the spirit and the things which he had seen; and being
thus overcome with the spirit, he was carried away in a vis­
ion, even that he saw the Heavens op en ; and he thought he
saw G od sitting upon bis throne, surrounded with numberless
concourses o f angeis in the attitude o f singing and praising
their God.
And it came to pass that he saw one descending out o f the
midst o f Heaven,and he beheld that his lustre was above that
o f the sun at noon-day; and he also saw twelve others follow­
ing him, and their brightness did exceed that o f the stars in
the firmament; and they came dorm and went forth upon the
face o f the earth ; and the first came and stood before my fa­
ther, and gave unto him a Book, and bade him that he should
read.
And it came to pass that as he read, he was filled with the
spirit erf the Lord, and he read, saying, W o, wo unto Jerusa­
lem ! for I have seen thine abominations; yea, and many
things did my father read concerning Jerusalem— that it should
be destroyed, and the inhabitants thereof, many should perish
by the sword, and many should be carried away captive into
Babylon.
And it came to pass that when my father had « a d and saw
many great and marvellous things, he did exclaim many things
unto the Lord ; such as, Great and marvellous are thy works,
O Lord God Almighty! T h y throne is high in the Heavens,
and thy power, and goodness, and mercy is over all the inhabi­
tants o f the earth; and because thou art merciful, thou wilt
not suffer those who com e unto thee that they shall perish!
And after this manner was the language o f my father in the
praising o f his G o d ; for his soul did rejoice, and his whole
heart was filled, because o f the things which he had seen; yea,
which the Lord had shewn unto him. And now I, Nephi, do
not make a full account o f the things which my father hath
written, for he hath written many tilings which he saw in vis-
FIRST BOOK OF NEFHI. 7
ions and in dreams; and he also hath written many things
which he prophesied and spake unto his children, of which l
shall not make a full account; hut I shall make an account o f
my proceedings in my days— Behold f make an abridgment o f
the record o f my father, upon plates which I have made with
mine own hands; wherefore, after that I have abridged the
record o f my father, then will J make an account o f mine own
life.
Therefore, I would that ye should know that aftcT the Lord
had shewn so many marvellous things unto my father Lehi,
yea, concerning the destruction o f Jerusalem, behold he went
forth among the people, and began to prophesy and to de­
clare unto them concerning the things which he had both seen
and heard.
And it came to pass that the Jews did mock him because
o f the things which be testified of them; for he truly testified
o f their wickedness and their abominations ; and he testified
that the things which he saw and heard, and also the things
which he read in the Book, manifested plainly o f the coming
of a Messiah, and also the redemption o f the world.
And when the Jews heard these things, they were angry
with him ; yea, even as with the prophets of old, whom they had
cast out and stoned and slain; and they also sought his life,
that they might take it away. But behold, I, Nephi, will shew
unto you that the tender mercies o f the Lord is over all them
whom he hath chosen, because o f their faith, to make them
mighty even unto the power o f deliverance.
For behold it came to pass that the Lord spake unto my fa­
ther, yea, even in a dream, and sayeth unto him, Blessed art
thou Lehi, because o f the things which tbou hast done; and be­
cause thou hast been faithful and declared unto this people the
things which I commanded thee, behold they seek to take
away thy life.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded my father,
even in a dream, that be should take his family and depart into
the wilderness. And it came to pass that he was obedient un­
to the word o f the Lord, wherefore he did as the Lord com­
manded him.
And it came to pass that he departed into the wilderness.—
And he left his house, and the land o f his inheritance, and his
gold, and his silver, and his precious things, and took nothing
with him save it were his family, and provisions, and tents, and
he departed into the wilderness; and he came down by the
8 FIRST BOOK OF NEFHI.
borders near the shore o f the Red S e a ; and he travelled in
the wilderness, in the borders, which was nearer the Red S ea;
and he did travel in the wilderness with his family, which con­
sisted o f my mother, Sariah, and my elder brothers, which
were Laman, Lemuel and Sam.
And it came to pass that when he had travelled three days
in the wilderness, he pitched his tent in a valley besidea river
o f water. And it came to pass that he built an altar o f stones,
and he made an offering unto the Lord, and gave thanks unto
the Lord our God. And it came to pass that he called the
name o f the river Laman, and it emptied into the Red S ea ;
and the valley was in the borders near the mouth thereof.
And when my father saw that the waters o f the river emp­
tied into the fountain o f the Red Sea, he spake unto Laman,
saying: O thatthou mightest he like unto this river, continually
running into the fountain o f all righteousness. And he also
spake unto Lemuel: O that thou mightest be like unto this val­
ley, firm, and steadfast, and immoveable in keeping the com­
mandments o f the Lord. Now this he spake because o f the
stiffneekedness of Laman and Lemuel ; .for behold, they did
murmur in many things against their father, because that he
was a visionary man, and that he had led them out o f the land
o f Jerusalem, to leave the land o f their inheritance, and their
gold, and their silver, and their precious things, and to perish
in the wilderness. And this they said lie had done because of
the foolish imaginations o f his heart. And thus Laman and
Lemuel, being the eldest, did murmur against their father.—
And they did murmur because they knew not the dealings o f
that God who had created them. Neither did they believe that
Jerusalem, that great city, could be destroyed according to the
words o f the prophets. And they were like unto the Jews,
which were at Jerusalem, which sought to take away the life of
my father.
And it came to pass that my father did speak unto them in
the valley o f Lemuel, with power, being filled with the spirit,
until their framesdid shakebefore him. And he did confound
them, that they durst not utter against him ; wherefore they
did do as he commanded them. And my father dwelt in a
tent.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, being exceeding young,
nevertheless being large in stature, and also having great de­
sires to know o f the mysteries o f God, wherefore i did cry
unto the Lord; and behold he did visit me, and did soften my
Piasi cook op nepih. 9
heart that I did believe all the words which had been spoken
by my father; wherefore I did not rebel against him like unto
my brothers. And I spake unto Sam, making known unto
him the things which the Lord had manifested unto me by his
H oly Spirit.
And it came to pass that he believed in my w ords; but be­
hold Laman and Lemuel would not hearken unto my w ords:
And being grieved because o f the hardness o f their hearts, I
cried unto the Lord for them.
And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying;
Blessed art thou, Neplii, because o f thy faith, for thou hast
sought me diligently, with lowliness o f heart. And inasmuch
as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper, and shall
be led to a land o f promise ; yea, even a land which 1 have
prepared for you ; yea, a land which is choice above all other
lands. And inasmuch as thy brethren shall rebel againt thee,
they shall be cut off from the presence o f the Lord. And inas­
much as thou shalt keep my commandments, thou shall be
made a ruler and a teacher over thy brethren. For behold, in
that day that they shall rebel against me, I will curse them
even with a sore curse; and they shall have no power over
thy seed, except they shall rebel against me also. Aud if it
so be that they rebel against me, they shall be a scourge unto
thy seed, to stir them up in the ways o f remembrance.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, returned from speaking
with the Lord, to the tent o f my father. And it came to pass
that he snake unto me, saying ¡ Behold I have dreamed a dream,
in the which the Lqrd hath commanded me that thou and thy
brethren shall return to Jerusalem. For behold, Laban hath
the record o f the Jews, and also a genealogy o f my forefathers,
and they are engraven upon plates o f brass. Wherefore tire
Lord hath commanded me that thou and thy brothers should
go unto the house o f Laban, and seek the records, and bring
them down hither into the wilderness. And now, behold, thy
brothers murmur, saying: It is a hard thing which 1 have re­
quired o f them; but behold 1 have not required it o f them, but
it is a commandment o f the Lord. Therefore go, my son, and
thou shalt be favored o f the Lord, because thou hast not mur­
mured.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, said unto my father, 1
will go and do the things winch the Lord hath commanded;
for I know that the Lord giveth no commandments unto the
10 FIRST BOOK OF IJEFKI.
children o f men, save he shall prepare a way for them that
they may accomplish the thing which he commandeth them.
And it came to pass that when my father had heard these
words, he was exceeding glad, for he knew that 1 had been
blessed o f the Lord. And 1, Nephi, and my brethren, took
our journey in the wilderness with our tents, to go up to the
land o f Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that when we had come up to the land
of Jerusalem, I and ray brethren did consult one with another;
and we cast lots which o f us should go in unto the house o f
Laban. And it came to pass that the lot fell upon Laman; and
Laman went in unto the house o f Laban, and he talked with
him as he sat in his house. And he desired o f Laban the rec­
ords which were engraven upon the plates o f brass, which con­
tained the genealogy o f my rather.
And behold, it came to pass that Laban was angry, and
thrust him out from his presence; and he would not that he
should have the records. Wherefore he said unto him, behold
thou art a robber, and I will slay thee. But Laman fled out o f
his presence, and told the things which Laban had done, unto
us. And w e began to be exceeding sorrowful, and my brethren
were about to return unto my father in the wilderness. But
behold Isaid unto them, that as the Lordliveth, and as we live,
we will not go down unto our father in the wilderness, until
we have accomplished the thing which the Lord hath comman­
ded us. Wherefore let us be faithful in keeping the command­
ments o f the L ord ; therefore let us go down to the land o f our
father’s inheritance, for behold he left gold and silver, and all
manner o f riches. And all this he hath done, because o f the
commandments o f the L ord: for he knowing that Jerusalem
must he destroyed, because o f the wickedness qf the people.
F or behold, they have rejected the words o f the prophets—
Wherefore if my father should dwell in the land after that he
hath been commanded to flee out o f the land, behold he would
also perish. Wherefore it must needs be that he flee out o f
the land. And behold, it is wisdom in God that w e should
obtain these records, that we might preserve unto our children
the language o f our fathers; and also that we may preserve
unto them the words which have been spoken by the mouth o f
all the holy prophets, which have been delivered unto them by
the spirit and power o f God, since the world began, even down
unto this present lime.
MUST BOOK OF NEPHI. U
And it came to pass that after this manner o f language did
I persuade my brethren, that they might be faithful in keeping
the commandments o f God. And it came to pass that we
went down to the land o f our inheritance, and we did gather to­
gether our gold, and our silver, and our precious things. And
after that we had gathered these things together, we went up
again unto the house o f Laban.
And it came to pass that we went in unto Laban, and desired
him that he would give unto us the records which were engra­
ven upon the plates o f brass, for which we would give unto
him our gold, and our silver, and all our precious things.
And it came to pass that when Laban saw our property, and
that it was exceeding great, he did lust after it, insomuch that
he thrust us out, and sent his servants to slay us, that he might
obtain our property. And it came to pass that we did ftee be­
fore the servants o f Laban, and we were obliged to leave behind
our property, and it fell into the hands o f Laban.
And it came to pass that we fled into the wilderness, and the
servants o f Laban did not overtake us, and we hid ourselves
in the cavity o f a rock. And it came to pass that Laman was
angry with me, and also withmy father; and also was Lem uel;
for he hearkened unto the words o f LamaD. Wherefore La-
man and Lemuel did speak many hard words unto us, their
younger brothers, and they did smite us even with arod.
And it came to pass as they smote us with a rod, behold an
angel o f the Lord came and stood before them, and he spake
unto them saying: W hy do ye smite your younger brother with
a rod ? Know' ye not that the Lord hath chosen him to be a
ruler over you, and this because o f your iniquities ? Behold
thou shall go up to Jerusalem again, and the Lord will deliver
Laban into your hands. And after that the angel had spoken
unto us, he departed. And after that the angel had departed,
Laman and Lemuel again began to murmur, saying, how is it
possible that the Lord will deliver Laban into our hands ? Be­
hold he is a mighty man, and he can command fifty, yea, even
he can slay fifty; then why not us ?
And it came to pass that I spake unto my brethren, saying:
X et us go up again unto Jerusalem, and let us be faithful in
keeping foe commandments o f the Lord; for behold be is
mightier than all the earth, then why not mightier than Laban
and his fifty, yea, or even than his tens o f thousands. There­
fore let us go up ; let us be strong like unto Moses : For be
truly spake unto the waters o f the Red Sea, and they divided
12 FIRST BOOK OF KEPHI
hither and thither, and our fathers came through out of cap­
tivity on dry ground, and the armies o f Pharaoh did follow and
were drowned in the waters o f the Red Sea. Now behold
ye know that this is true; and ye also know that an angel
hath spoken unto you, wherefore can ye doubt Let us go
up; the Lord is able to deliver us, even as our fathers, and to
destroy Laban, even as the Egyptians.
Now when I had spoken these words, they were yet wroth,
and did still continue to murmur; Nevertheless they did fol­
low me up until we came without the walls of Jerusalem. And
it was by night; and I caused that they should hide them­
selves without the walls. And after that they had hid them­
selves, 1, Nephi, crept into the city and went forth towards the
house o f Laban. And 1 was led by the spirit, not knowing
beforehand the things which 1 should do. Nevertheless I
went forth, and as 1 came near unto the house o f Laban, I be­
held a man, and he had fallen to the earth before me, for he
was drunken with wine. And when I came to him, I found
that it was Laban. And I beheld his sword, and 1 drew it
forth from the sheath thereof, and the hilt thereof was o f pure
gold, and the workmanship thereof was exceeding fine; and
! saw that the blade thereof was o f the most precious steel.
And it came to pass that I was constrained by the spirit
th a t! should kill Laban; but I said in my heart, never at any
time have I shed the blood o f man, and I shrunk and would
that I might not slay him. And the spirit saith unto me again,
behold the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands; yea, and'
I also knew that he had sought to take away mine own life;
yea, and he would not hearken unto the commandments of
the L ord; and he also had taken away our property.
And it came to pass that the spirit said unto me again, Blay
him, foi;the Lord hath delivered him into thy hands. Behold the
Lord slayeththe wicked to bring forth his righteous purposes:
It is better that one man should perish, than that a nation
should dwindle and perish in unbelief. .
And now, when I, Nephi, had heard these words, I remem­
bered the words o f the Lord which he spake unto me in the
wilderness, saying, that inasmuch as thy seed shall keep my
commandments, they shall prosper in the land of promise.—•
Yea, and I also thought that they could not keep the con>-
mandments o f the Lord according to the law o f Moses, save
they should have the law. And I also knew that the law was
engraven upon the plates of brass. And again— I knew that
IflHST BOOK OF NEPUI. 13
the Lord had delivered Laban into my hands, for this cause :
that 1 might obtain the records according to his commmand-
ments. Therefore I did obey the voice o f the spirit, and took
Laban by the hair o f the head, and 1 smote off his head with,
his own sword.
And after that 1had smitten off his head with his own swoTd,
t took the garments o f Laban and put them upon mine own
body; yea, even every whit; and I did gird on his armour
about my loins. And after that 1 had done this, 1 went forth
unto the treasury o f Laban. And as I went forth towards the
treasury o f Laban, behold i saw the servant o f Laban which had
the keys o f the treasury. And I commanded him in the voice
o f Laban, that he should go with me into the treasury; and he
supposed me to be his master, Laban, for he beheld the gar­
ments, and also the sword girted about my loins. And he
spake unto me concerning the elders o f the Jews, he know­
ing that his master Laban had been out by night among them.
And I spake unto him as if it had been Laban. And I also
spake unto him that I should carry the engravings which were
upon the plates o f brass, to my elder brethren, which were
without the walls. And I also bade him that he should fol­
low me. And he, supposing that 1 spake o f the brethren o f
the church, and that I was truly that Laban w hom l had slain,
wherefore he did follow me. And he spake unto me many
times concerning the elders o f the Jews, as 1 went forth unto
my brethren, which were without the walls.
And it came to pass that when Laman saw me, he was ex­
ceedingly frightened, and also Lemuel and Sam. And they
fled from before my presence; for they supposed it was La­
ban, and that he had slain me, and had sought to take away
their lives also.
And it came to pass that I called after them, and they did
hear m e; wherefore they did cease to flee from my presence.
And it came to pass that when the servant o f Laban beheld
my brethren, he began to tremble, and was about to flee from
before me and return to the city o f Jerusalem.
And now I, Nephi, being a man large in stature, and also
having received much strength of the Lord, therefore I did.
seize upon the servant o f Laban, and held him, that he should
not flee.
And It came to pass that I spake with him, that if he would
hearken unto my words, as the Lord liveth and as I live, even
so that if he would hearken unto our words, we would spare
14 rift ST BOOK OP KEFHI.
his life. And 1 spake unto him, even with an oath, that he
need not fear; that he should be a free man like tmto us, if
he would go down in the wilderness with us. Ami I also
spake unto him, saying, surely the Lord hath commanded us
to do this thing. And shall we not be diligent in keeping the
commandments o f the Lord? Therefore, if thou wilt go down
into the wilderness to my father, thou shall have place with us.
And it came to pass that Zoram did take courage at the
words which I spake. Now Zoram was the name o f the ser­
vant ; and he promised that he would go down into the wil­
derness unto our father. And he also made an oath unto us,
that he would tarry with us from that time forth. N ow we
were desirous that he should tarry with us for this cause: that
the Jews might not know concerning our flight into the wilder­
ness, lest they should pursue us and destroy us.
And it came to pass that when Zorasa had made an oath unto
us, our fears did cease concerning him. And it came to pass
that we took the plates o f brass and the servant o f Laban, and
departed into the wilderness, and joumied unto the tent of
our father.
And it came to pass that after we had came down into the
wilderness unto our father, behold he was filled with joy, and
also my mother, Sariah, »'as exceeding glad, for she truly had
mourned because o f u s; for she had supposed that we had per­
ished in the wilderness; and she also had complained against
my father, telling him that he was a visionary man ; saying,
behold thou hast led us forth from the lam) of our inheritance,
and my sons are no more, and we perish in the wilderness.
And after this manner o f language had my mother complained
against my father.
And it had came to pass that my father spake unto her say­
ing : I know that I am a visionary man; for if I had not seen
the things of God in a vision, I should not have known tbe
goodness o f God, but had tarried at Jerusalem and had per­
ished with my brethren. But behold, I have obtained a land
o f promise, in the which thing I do rejoice; yea, and 1 know
that the Lord will deliver my sons out o f the bands of Laban,
and bring them down again onto us in the wilderness. And
after this manner of language did my father Lehi comfort my
mother Sariah, concerning ue, while we joumied in the wil­
derness up to the land o f Jerusalem, to obtain the record o f
the Jews.
And when we had returned to the tent ©f my father, behold
FIItST BOOK OF NBFHI. 15
rtieir joy was full, and my mother was comforted; and she
spake, saying: Now I know o f a surety that the Lord hath com­
manded my husband to dee into the wilderness; yea, and I
also know o f a surety that the Lord hath protected my sons
and delivered them out o f the hands o f Laban, and gave them
power whereby they could accomplish the thing which the
Lord hath commanded them. And after this manner o f lan­
guage did she speak.
And it came to pass that they did rejoice exceedingly, and
did offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto the Lord; and they
gave thanks unto the God o f Israel. And after that they had
given thanks unto the God o f Israel, my father Lehi took the
records which were engraven upon die plates of brass, and he
did search them from the beginning. And he beheld that
they did contain the five Books o f Moses, which gave an ac­
count o f the creation o f the world, and also o f Adam and Eve,
which was our first parents; and also a record o f the Jews
from the beginning, even down to the commencement o f the
reign o f Zedekiah, King o f Judah; and also the prophecies o f
the Holy prophets, from the beginning, even down to the com­
mencement o f the reign of Zedekiah; and also many proph­
ecies which have been spoken by the mouth o f Jeremiah.
And it came to pass that my father Lehi also found upon the
plates o f brass, a genealogy o f his fathers; wherefore he knew
that he was a descendant o f Joseph; yea, even that Joseph
which Was the son o f Jacob, which was sold into Egypt, and
which was preserved by the hand o f the Lord, that he might
preserve his father Jacob and all his household from perishing
with famine. And they were also led Out o f captivity and
out o f the land o f Egypt, by that same God who had preserv­
ed them. And thus my father Lehi did discover the genealo­
gy o f his fathers. And Laban also was a descendant o f Jo­
seph, wherefore he and his fathers had kept the records.
And now when my father saw all these things, he was filled
with die spirit, and began to prophesy concerning bis seed;
that these plates o f brass should go forth unto all nations, kin­
dreds, tongues, and people which were o f his seed. Where­
fore he said that these plates o f brass should never perish;
neither should they be dimmed any more by time. And he proph­
esied many things concerning his seed.
And it came to pass that thus far I and my father had kept
the commandments wherewith the Lord had commanded us.
And we had obtained the record which the Lord had cormnan-
16 FIRST BOOK OH NBPHI.
«led us, and searched them and found that they were desirable,
yea, even o f great worth unto us, insomuch that we could
preserve the commandments o f the Lord unto our children.
Wherefore it was wisdom in the Lord that we should carry
them with us, as we journied in the wilderness towards the
land o f promise.
C H A P T E R 11.
And now 1, Nephi, do not give the genealogy o f my fathers in
this part o f my record; neither at any time shall 1 give it after
upon these plates which 1 am writing; for it is given in the
record which has been kept by my father; wherefore I do
sot write it in this work. F or it sufficeth me to say, that we
are a descendant o f Joseph. And it mattereth not to me that
I am particular to give a full account o f all the things o f my
father, for they cannot be written upon these plates, for 1 de­
sire the room, that 1 may write o f the things o f God. For the
fullness o f mine intent is that I may persuade men to come
unt,o the God o f Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God
o f Jacob, and be saved. Wherefore the things which are
pleasing unto the world, I do not write, but the things which
are pleasing unto God and unto them which are not o f the
world. W herefore 1 shall give commandment unto my seed,
that they shall not occupy these plates with things which are
not o f wortli unto the children o f men. And now I would
that ye might know, that after my father Lehi had made an end
of prophesying concerning his seed, it came to pass that the
Lord spake unto him again, saying, that it was not mete for
him, Lehi, that he should take his family into the wilderness
alone; but that his sons should take daughters to wife, that
they might raise up seed unto the Lord in the land o f promise.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him that I,
Nephi, and my brethren, should again return unto the land ol'
Jerusalem, and bring down Ishmael and his family into the
wilderness.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did again, with my breth­
ren, go forth into the wilderness to go up to Jerusalem. And
it came to pass that we went up unto the house o f Ishmael,
and we did gain favor in the sight o f Ishmael, insomuch that
we did speak unto him the words o f the Lord.
WEST BOOK OP NEPHI. IT
And it came to pass that the Lord did soften the heart of
Ishmael, and also his household, insomueh that they took their
journey with us down into the wilderness to the tent o f our fa­
ther. And it came to pass that as we joumied in the wilder­
ness, behold, Laman and Lemuel, and two o f the daughters o f
Ishmael, and the two sons o f Ishmael, and their families, did
rebel against u s ; yea, against I, Nephi, and Sam, and their
father, Ishmael, and his wife, and his three other daughters.
And it came to pass in the which rebellion, they were desi­
rous to return unto the land o f Jerusalem. And now I, Nephi,
being grieved for the hardness o f their hearts, therefore I spake
unto them, saying; yea, even unto Laman and unto Lemuel, be­
hold, thou art mine elder brethren; and how is it that ye are
so hard in your hearts, and so blind in your minds, that ye have
need that I, your younger brother, should speak unto you, yea,
and set an example for you I H ow is it that ye have not heark­
ened unto the word o f the Lord ? How is it that ye have for­
gotten that ye have seen an angel o f the Lord? Yea, and how
is it that ye have forgotten how great things the Lord hath done
for us, in delivering us out o f the bands o f Laban, and also
that we should obtain the record? Yea, and how is it that ye
have forgotten that the Lord is able to do all things, according
to his will, for the children o f men, if it so be that they exercise
faith in him ; wherefore, let us be faithful in him. And if it so
be that we are faithful in him, we shall obtain the land of prom­
ise ; and ye shall know at some future period, that the word o f
the Lord shall be fulfilled, concerning the destruction o f Jeru­
salem ; for all things which the Lord bath spoken concerning
the destruction o f Jerusalem, must be fulfilled. For, behold,
the spirit o f the Lord ceaseth soon to strive with them; for, be­
hold, they have rejected the prophets, and Jeremiah have they
cast into prison. And they have sought to take away the life o f
my father, insomuch that they have driven him out o f the land.
Now, behold, 1 say unto you, that if ye will return unto Je­
rusalem, ye shall also perish with them. And now', if ye have
choice, go up to the land, and remember the words which I
speak unto you, that if ye go, ye will also perish; for thus the
spirit o f the Lord eonstraineth me that I should speak.
And it came to pass that when I, Nephi, had spoken these
words unto my brethren, they were angry with me. And it
came to pass that they did lay their hands upon m e; for, behold,
they were exceeding wroth; and they did bind me with cords,
18 FIRST I'.OOK OF KEPHJ.
for they sought to take away my life, that they might leave me
in the wilderness, to be devoured by wild beasts.
But it came to pass that 1prayed unto the Lord, saying: O
Lord, according to ray faith which is in thee, wilt thou deliver
me from the hands o f my brethren; yea, even give me strength
that I may burst these bands with which 1am bound.
And it came to pass that when I had said these words, be­
hold, the bands were loosed from off my hands and feet, and I
stood before my brethren, and I spake unto them again. And
it came to pass that they were angry with me again, and sought
to lay hands upon m e; but, behold, one o f the daughters o f
Ishmael, yea, and also her mother, and one o f the sons o f Ish-
mael, did plead with my brethren, insomuch that they did soft­
en their hearts; and they did cease striving to take away my
life.
And it came to pass that they were sorrowful, because of
■their wickedness, insomuch that they did bow down before
me, and did plead with me, that I would forgive them o f the
thing that they had done against me.
And it came, to pass that 1 did frankly foTgive them all that
they had done, and 1 did exhort them that they would pray unto
the Lord their God, for forgiveness. And it came to pass that
they did so. And after that they had done praying unto the
Lord, we did again travel on our journey toward the tent o f
our father.
And it came to pass that we did come down unto the tent
o f our father. And after that 1 and my brethren, and all the
house of Ishmael, had come down unto the tent o f my father,
they did give thanks unto the Lord their G o d ; and they did
offer sacrifice and burnt offerings unto him.
And it came to pass that we had gathered together all man­
ner of seeds of every kind; both o f grain o f every kind, and
also of the seeds of fruits o f every kind. And it came to pass
that while my father tarried in the wilderness, he spake unto
us, saying: Behold, 1 have dreamed a dream; or, in other-
words, 1 have seen a vision. And behold, because o f the thing
which I have seen, 1 have reason to rejoice in the Lord, be­
cause o f Nephi, and also o f Sam ; for 1 have reason to sup­
pose that they, and also many of their seed, will be saved.—
But, behold, Laman and Lemuel, 1 fear exceedingly, because
o f you ; for, behold, me thought 1 saw a dark and dreary wil­
derness.
FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI, 19
Aad it came to pass that I saw a man, and he was dressed in
a white robe; and he came and stood before me. And it
came to pass that he spake unto me, and bade me follow him.
And it came to pass that as 1 followed him, and after 1 had
followed him, 1 beheld myself that 1was in a dark and dreary
waste. And after that I had travelled for the space of many
hours in darkness, 1 began to pray unto the Lord, that he
would have mercy on me, according to the multitude of his
tender mercies.
And it came to pass that after I had prayed unto the Lord,
I beheld a large and spacious field. And it came to pass that 1
beheld a tree, whose fruit was desirable, to make one happy.
And it came to pass that 1 did go forth, and partake o f the
fruit thereof; and 1 beheld that it was most sweet, above all
that I ever had before tasted. Yea, and 1 beheld that the fruit
(hereof was white, to exceed all the whiteness that I had ever
seen. And as I partook o f the fruit thereof, it filled my soul
with exceeding great jo y ; wherefore, I began to be desirous
that my family should partake of it also; for I knew that it
was desirous above ail other fruit. And as I cast my eyes
round about, that perhaps 1 might discover my family also,
I beheld a river o f water; and it ran along, and it was
near the tree o f which I was partaking the fruit. And I look­
ed to behold from whence it cam e; and 1 saw the head there­
of, a little way off; and at the head thereof, 1 beheld your
mother Sariah, and Sam, and Nephi; and they stood as if they
knew not whither they should go.
And it came to pass that 1 beckoned unto them; and I also
did say unto them, with a loud voice, that they should come
unto me, and partake o f the fruit, which was desirable above
all other fruit.
And it came to pass that they did come unto me, and par­
take o f the fruit also. And it came to pass that I was desi­
rous that Laman and Lemuel should come and partake o f the
fruit also; wherefore, 1 cast mine eyes towards the head o f
the river, that perhaps 1 might see them.
And it came to pass that 1 saw them, but they would not
come unto me. And 1 beheld a rod o f iron; and it extended
along the bank o f the river, and led to the tree by which I
stood. And I also beheld a straight and narrow path, which
came along by the rod of iron, even to the tree by which l
stood; and it also led by the head of the fountain, unto a large
and spacious field, as if it had been a world; and I saw num-
2*
80 FIBST BOOK OP NEPHI,
berless concourses o f people; many o f whom were pressing
forward, that they might obtain the path which led unto the
tree by which I stood.
And it came to pass that they did com e forth, and commence
in the path which led to the tree. And it came to pass that
there arose a mist of darkness ; yea, even an exceeding great,
mist o f darkness, insomuch that they which had commenced in
the path, did lose their way, that they wandered off, and were
lost.
And it came to pass that I beheld others pressing forward ;
and they came forth, and caught hold o f the end of the rod o f
iron ; and they did press forward through the mist of darkness,
clinging to the rod o f iron, even until they did come forth and
partake o f the fruit of the tree. And after that they had par­
taken o f the fruit o f the tree, they did cast their eyes about as if
they were ashamed. And I also cast my eyes round about, and
beheld, on the other side o f the river o f water, a great and spa­
cious building ; and it stood as it were in the air, high above
the earth ; and it was filled with people, both old and young,
both male and female ; and their manner o f dress was exceeding
fine; and they were in the attitude of mocking and pointing
their fingers towards those which had come at, and were parta­
king o f the fruit. And after that they had tasted o f thè fruit,
they were ashamed, because o f those that were scoffing at
them ; and they fell away into forbidden paths, and were lost.
And now I, Nephi, do not speak all the words o f my father.
But, to be short in writing : Behold, he saw other multitudes
pressing forward ; and they came and caught hold o f the end
o f the rod o f iron ; and they did press their way forward, con­
tinually holding fast to the rod of iron, until they came forth and
fell down, and partook o f the fruit o f the tree. And he also
sgw other multitudes, feeling their way towards that great and
spacious building.
And it came to pass that many were drowned in the depths
o f the fountain ; and many were lost from his view, wandering
in strange roads. And great was the multitude that did enter
into that strange building. And after that they did enter into
thatbuilding, they did point the fingero f scorn at me, and those
that were partaking o f the fruit also ; but we heeded them not.
These are the.words of my father : For as many as heeded them,
had fallen away. And Laman and Lemuel partook not o f the
fruit, saith my father.
And it came to pass that after my father had spoken all the
FIRST BOOK OF NEPHf. 21
words o f his dream or vision, which were many, he said unto
us, because o f these things which he saw in a vison, he excee­
dingly feared for Laman and Lemuel; yea, he feared lest they
should be cast off from the presence o f the Lord; and he did
exhort them then with all the feeling o f a tender parent, that
they would hearken to his words, in that, perhaps the Lord
would be merciful to them, and not cast them off; yea, my fa­
ther did preach unto them.
And after that he had preached unto them, and also prophe­
sied unto them o f many things, he hade them to keep the com­
mandments of the L ord; and he did cease speaking unto them.
And all these things did my father see, and hear, and speak, as
he dwelt in a tent, in the valley o f Lem uel; and also a great
many more things, which cannot he written upon these plates.
And now, as I have spoken concerning these plates, behold,
they are not the plates upon which I make a full account o f the
history o f my people; for the plates upon which 1 make a full
account o f my people, I have given the name o f N ephi; where­
fore, they are called the plates o f Nephi, after mine own name;
and these plates also, are called the plates o f Nephi.
Nevertheless, I have received a commandment o f the Lord,
that I should make these plates, for the special purpose that
there should he an account engraven o f the ministry o f my
people. Upon the other plates should be engraven an ac­
count o f the reign o f the Kings, and the wars, and contentions
o f my people; wherefore, these plates are, for the more part,
of the ministry; and the other plates are, for the more part, o f
the reign o f the Kings, and the wars, and contentions o f my
people. Wherefore, the Lord hath commanded me to make
these plates, for a wise purpose in him; which purpose, I
know not. But the Lord knoweth all things, from the begin­
ning ; wherefore, he prepareth a way to accomplish all hi3
works among the children o f m en; for behold, he hath all pow­
er unto the fulfilling of all his words. And thus it is. Amen,
CH APTER Ilf.
A nd now L, Nephi, proceed to give on account upon these
plates, o f my proceedings, and my reign and ministry; where­
fore, to proceed with mine account, I must speak somewhat
o f the things o f my father, and also o f my brethren.
22 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
For behold, it came to pass that after my father had made
an end o f speaking the words o f his dream, and also o f exhort­
ing them to all diligence, he spake unto them concerning the
J ew s: How that after they were destroyed, yea, even that
great city Jerusalem; and that many were carried away cap­
tive into Babylon; that according to the own due time o f the
Lord, they should return again; yea, even be brought back
out o f captivity; and after they are brought back out o f cap­
tivity, to possess again the land o f their inheritance.
Yea, even six hundred years from the time that my father
left Jerusalem, a Prophet would the Lord God raise up among
the Jews ; yea, even a Messiah; or, in other words, a Saviour
o f the world. And he also spake concerning the prophets :
H ow great a number had testified o f these things, concerning
this Messiah, o f which he had spoken, or this Redeemer o f the
world. Wherefore, all mankind was in a lost and in a fallen
state; and ever would be, save they should rely on this Re­
deemer.
And he spake also, concerning a prophet, which should come
before the Messiah, to prepare the way o f the L ord ; yea, even
he should go forth and cry in the wilderness, Prepare ye the
way o f the Lord, and make his paths straight; for there stand-
eth one among you whom ye know not; and he is mightier
than I, whose shoe’ s latchet I am not worthy to unloose. And
much spake my father concerning this thing.
And my father saith that he should baptise in Bethabara,
beyond Jordan ; and he also spake, that he should baptise with
w ater; yea, even that he should baptise the Messiah with wa­
ter. And after that he had baptised the Messiah with water,
he should behold and bear record, that he had baptised the
Lamb o f God, which should take away the sins o f the world.
And it came to pass that after my father had spoken these
words, he spake unto my brethren concerning the Gospel,
which should be preached among the Jew s; and also, concer­
ning the dwindling o f the Jews in unbelief. And after that
they had slain the Messiah which should come, and after
that he had been slain, he should rise from the dead, and should
make himself manifest, by the Holy Ghost, unto the Gentile*.
Yea, even my father spake much concerning the Gentiles,
and also concerning the House o f Israel: That they should be
compared like unto an olive tree, whose branches should be
broken off, and should be scattered upon all the face o f the
earth. Wherefore, he said, it must needs be that we should
FIRST BOOK OF NBMII. 23
beled with one accord, into the land o f promise, unto the fulfill­
ing o f the word o f the L ord : That we should be scattered up­
on all the face o f the earth- And after that the House o f
Israel should be scattered, they should be gathered together
again; or, in fine, that after the Gentiles had received the
fulness o f the Gospel, the natural branches erf the olive tree,
or the remnants o f the House o f Israel, should be grafted in, or
come to the knowledge o f the true Messiah, (heir Lord and
their Redeemer. And after this manner o f language did my
father prophesy and speak unto my brethren; and also, many
more things, which I do not write in this book: for I have
written as many o f them, as were expedient for me, in mine
other book: And all these things o f which I have spoken,
was done, as my father dwelt in a tent, in the valley o f Lem­
uel.
And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, having heard all
the words o f my father, concerning the things which he saw
in a vision; and also the things which he spake by the power
o f the Holy G host; which power, he received by faith on the
Son o f God. And the Son o f God was the Messiah, which
should come.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, was desirous also, that I
might see, and hear, and know o f these things, by the power
o f the Holy Ghost, which is the gift o f God unto all those
who diligently seek him, as well in times o f old as in the time
that he should manifest himself unto the children o f m en; for
he is the same yesterday, to-day, and forever; and the way
is prepared from the foundation o f the world, if it so be that
they repent and come unto him; for be that diligently seeketh,
shall find; and the mysteries o f God shall be unfolded unto
them, by the power o f the Holy Ghost, as well in these times,
as in times o f o ld ; and as well in times o f old, as in times to
com e; wherefore, the course o f the Lord is one eternal round.
Therefore, remember, O man. for all thy doings, thou shalt
be brought into judgment Wherefore, if ye have sought to do
wickedly in the days o f your probation, then ye are found un­
clean before the judgment seat o f G o d ; and no unclean thing
can dwell with G o d ; wherefore, ye must be cast off forever.
And the Holy Ghost giveth authority that I should speak these
things, and deny them not.
For it came to pass that after I had desired to know the
things that my father had seen, and believing that the Lord
was able to make them known unto m e; wherefore, as I sat
u FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
pondering in mine heart, I waa caught away in the spirit o f the
Lord, yea, into an exceeding high mountain, which I never
had before seen, and upon which I never had before sat my
foot. And the spirit saith unto me, Behold, what desirest thou?
And 1 saith, I desire to behold the things which my father saw.
And the spirit saith unto me, Believest thou that thy father
saw the tree o f which he hath spoken ? And I said yea ; thou
knowest that 1 believe all the words o f my father.
And when I had spoken these- words, the spirit cried with a
loud voice, saying: Hosanna to the Lord, the most high G o d ;
for he is God over all the earth, yea, even above a ll; and
blessed art thou, Nephi, because thou believest in the Son o f
the Moat High G od ; wherefore, thou shalt behold the tfringe
which thou hast desired. And behold, this thing shall be giv­
en unto thee for a sign.: that after thou hast beheld the tree
which bore the fruit which thy father tasted, thou shalt also
behold a man descending out o f Heaven, and him shall ye wit­
ness; and after that ye have witnessed him, ye shall bear* rec­
ord that it is the Son o f God.
And it came to pass that the spirit saith unto me, lo o k ! and
1 looked and beheld a tree; and it was like unto the tree which
my father had seen; and the beauty thereof was far beyond,
yea, exceeding o f all beauty; and the whiteness thereof, did
exceed the whiteness o f the driven snow.
And it came to pass that after that I had seen the tree, I said
unto the spirit, I behold thou hast shewn unto me the tree
which is precious above all. And he saith unto me, What de­
sirest thou 1 And 1 said unto him, to know the interpretation
thereof; for I spake unto him as a man speaketh; for I beheld
that he was in the form o f a m an; yet, nevertheless, I knew
that it was the spirit o f the L ord ; and he spake unto me as a
man speaketh with another.
And it came to pass that he said unto me, look : And ! look­
ed as if to look upon him, and 1 saw him not; for he had
gone from before my presence.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the great city
Jerusalem, and also other cities. And I beheld the city o f
Nazareth; and in the city o f Nazareth 1 beheld a virgin, and
she was exceeding fair and white.
And it came to pass that I saw the Heavens open ; and an
angel came down and stood before m e; and he saith unto me,
Nephi, what beholdest thoui And I saith unto him, a virgin,
most beautiful and fair above all other virgins. And he saith
F1B8T BOOK OF NEPHI. 25
onto me, Knowest thou the condescension o f G od? And I said
unto him, I know that he loveth his children; nevertheless, 1
do not know the meaning o f all things. And he said unto me,
Behold, the virgin which thou seest, is the mother o f God, after
the manner o f the flesh.
And it came to pass that I beheld that she was carried away
in the spirit; and after that she had been carried away in the
spirit for the space o f a time, the angel spake unto me, saying,
lo o k ! And H ooked and beheld the virgin again, bearing a chid
m her arras. And the angel said unto me, behold the Lamb
o f God, yea, even the Eternal Father! Knowest thou the mean­
ing o f the tree which thy father saw? And I answered him,
saying: Yea, it is th eloveof God, which sheddeth itself abroad
in the hearts o f the children o f m en; wherefore, it is the most
desirable above all things. And he spake unto me, saying,
Yea, and the most joyous to the soul. And after that he had
said these words, he said unto me, lo o k ! And 1looked, and !
beheld the Son o f G od going forth among the children o f men ;
and I saw many fall down at his feet and worship him.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the rod o f iron which
my father had seen, was the word o f God, which led to the
fountain o f living waters, or to the tree o f life; which waters
are a representation o f the love o f G od ; and I also beheld that
the tree o f life was a representation o f the love o f God. And
the angel said unto me again, Look and behold the condescen-
tion o f G o d ! And 1 looked and beheld the Redeemer o f the
world, o f which my father had spoken; and I also beheld the
prophet, which should prepare the way before him. And the
Lamb o f G od went forth, and was baptised o f him ; and after
that he was baptised, I beheld the Heavens open, and the Holy
Ghost come down out o f Heaven and abode upon him in the
form o f a dove. And I beheld that he went forth ministering
unto the people, in pow er and great glory; and the multitudes
were gathered together to hear him; and I beheld that they
cast him out from among them. And I also beheld twelve
others following him.
And it came to pass that they were carried away in the
spirit, from before my face, that I saw them not. And it came
to pass that the angel spake unto me again, saying, look ! And
1 looked, and I beheld the Heavens open again, and I saw an­
gels descending upon the children o f men; and they did minis-
terunto them. And he spake unto me again, saying, look!
And I looked; and I beheld the Lamb o f God going forth among
2G PIBST BOOK OP NEPHI.
the children o f men. And I beheld multitudes of people which
were sick, and which were afflicted o f all manner of diseases,
and with devils, and unclean spirits; and the angel spake, and
shewed all these things unto me. And they were healed by
the power o f the Lamb of G od ; and the devils and the un­
clean spirits were cast out.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me again,
saying, look ! And 1looked and beheld the Lamb o f God, that
he was taken by the people; yea, the Everlasting God, was
judged o f the w orld; and I saw and hear record. And 1, Ne-
phi, saw that he was lifted up upon the cross, and slain for
the sins o f the world. And after that he was slain, I saw the
multitudes o f the earth, that they were gathered together to
fight against the apostles o f the Lam b; for thus were the
twelve called by the angel o f the Lord. And the multitude of
the earth was gathered together; and I beheld that they were
in a large and spacious building, like unto the building which
my father saw. And the angel o f the Lord spake untom e
again, saying, Behold the world and the wisdom thereof; yea,
behold, the House o f Israel hath gathered together, to fight
against the twelve apostles o f the Lamb.
And it came to pass that I saw and bear record, that the
great and spacious building was the pride o f the w orld; and .
it fell; and the fall thereof was exceeding great. And the
angel o f the Lord spake unto me again, saying: Thus shall be
the destruction o f all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people,
that shall fight against the twelve apostles o f the Lamb.
And it came to pass that the angel said unto me, Look, and
behold thy seed, and also the seed o f thy brethren! And 1
looked and beheld the land o f promise; and I beheld multi­
tudes o f people, yea, even as it were in number, as many as
the sand o f the sea.
And it came to pass that 1 beheld multitudes gathered toge­
ther, to battle one against the other; and 1beheld wars, and ru­
mors o f wars, and great slaughters with the sword among my
people.
And it came to pass that I beheld many generations pass
away, after the manner o f ware and contentions in the land;
and I beheld many cities, yea, even that [ did not number
them.
And it came to pass that I saw a mist o f darkness on the
face o f the land of promise; and I saw lightnings, and 1 heard
thundering^ and earthquakes, and all manner o f tumultuous
PIR8T BOOK OP NEPHI. 27
noises; and I saw the earth and the rocks, that they rent;
and I saw mountains tumbling into pieces; and I saw the plains
o f the earth, that they were broken up; and I saw many cities,
that they were sunk; and 1 saw many, that they were burned
with fire; and 1saw many, that they did tumble to the earth,
because o f the quaking thereof.
And it came to pass that after I saw these things, 1 saw the
vapor o f darkness, that it passed from off the face o f the earth;
and behold, I saw multitudes which had fallen, because o f the
great and terrible judgments o f the Lord. And I saw the
Heavens open, and the Lamb o f God descending out o f Heav­
en ; and he came down and shewed himself unto them. And
I also saw and bear record, that the Holy Ghost fell upon twelve
Others; and they were ordained of God, and chosen.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the twelve
disciples o f the Lamb, which are chosen to minister unto thy
seed. And he saith unto me, Thou remembereth the twelve
apostles o f the Lamb ? Behold, they are they which shall judge
the twelve tribes o f Israel; wherefore, the twelve ministers o f
thy seed, shall be judged o f them; for ye are o f the house o f
Israel; and these twelve ministers which thou beholdest, shall
judge thy seed. And behold, they are righteous forever; for
because o f their faith in the Lamb o f God, their garments are
made white in his blood.
And the angel saith unto me, look ! And I looked and beheld
three generations did pass away in righteousness; and their
garments were white, even like unto the Lamb o f God. And
the angel said unto me, These are made white in the blood o f
the Lamb, because of their faith in him. And I, Nephi, also
saw many o f the fourth generation, which did pass away in
righteousness.
And it came to pass that I saw the multitudes o f the earth
gathered together. And the angel said unto me, Behold thy
seed, and also the seed o f thy brethren! And it came to pass
that Hooked, and beheld the people o f my seed gathered to­
gether in multitudes against the seed o f my brethren ; and they
were gathered together to battle.
And the angel spake unto me, saying: Behold the fountain
o f filthy water which thy father saw ; yea, even the river o f
which he spake; and the depths thereof, are the depths o f
hell; and the mists of darkness, are the temptations o f the
devil, which blindeth the eyes, and hardeneth the hearts o f the
children o f men, and leadeth them away into broad roads, that
38 BURST BOOK OP N'EPHI.
they may perish, and are lost; and the large and spacious
building which thy father saw, is vain imaginations, and the
pride o f the children o f men. And a great and a terrible gulf
divideth them; yea, even the word o f the justice of the Eter­
nal God, and Jesus Christ, which is the Lamb o f God, o f
whom the H oly Ghost beareth record, from the beginning o f
the world until this time, and from this time henceforth and
forever. And while the angel spoke these words, I beheld and
saw that the seed o f my brethren did contend against ray seed,
according to the word o f the angel; and hecause o f the pride
o f my seed, and the temptations o f the devil, I beheld that the
seed o f my brethren did overpower the people o f my seed.
And it came to pass that 1 beheld and saw the people o f the
seed o f my brethren, that they had overcome my seed; and
they went forth in multitudes upon the face o f the land. And
1 saw them gathered together in multitudes; and I saw wars,
and rumors o f wars among them ; and in wars, and rumors o f
wars, I saw many generations pass away. And the angel said
unto me, behold, these shall dwindle in unbelief.
And it came to pass that I beheld that after they had dwin­
dled in unbelief, they became a dark, and loathsome, and a
filthy people, full o f idleness and all manner o f abominations.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me saying,
lo o k ! And I looked and beheld many nations and kingdoms.
And the angel saith unto me, what beholdest thou? And Isaid
I behold many nations and kingdoms. And he saith unto me,
these are the nations and kingdoms o f the Gentiles.
And it came to pass that 1 saw among the nations o f the-
Gentiles, the foundation o f a great church. And the angel
said unto me, Behold the foundation o f a church, which is
most abominable above all other churches, which slayeth the
Saints o f God, yea, and tortureth them and bindeth them down,
and yoketh them with a yoke o f iron, and bringeth them down
into captivity.
And it came to pass that I beheld this great and abominable
church; and I saw the devil, that he was the founder o f if.
And I also saw gold, and silver, and silks, and scarlets, and
fine twined linen, and all manner o f precious clothing; and
I saw many harlots. And the angel spake unto me, saying-:
Behold the gold, and the silver, and the silks, and the scarlets,
and the fine twined linen, and the precious clothing, and the
harlots, are the desiree o f this great and abominable church:
Kiest book of nephi. as
and also for the praise of the world, do they destroy the Saints
o f God, and bring them down into captivity.
And it came to pass that i looked and beheld many waters;
and they divided the Gentiles from the seed o f my brethren.
And it came to pass that the angel said unto me, Behold, the
wrath o f God is upon the seed o f thy brethren! And 1looked
and beheld a man among the Gentiles, which was separated
from the seed o f my brethren by the many waters; and I be­
held the spirit o f God, that it came down and wrought upon the
man; and he went forth upon the many waters, even unto the
seed o f my brethren, which were in the promised land.
And it came to pass that 1 beheld the spirit o f God, that it
wrought upon other Gentiles; and they went forth out o f cap­
tivity, upon the many waters.
And it came to pass that I beheld many multitudes o f the
Gentiles, upon the land of prom ise; and i beheld the wrath o f
God, that it was upon the seed o f my brethren; and they were
scattered before the Gentiles, and they were smitten. And I
beheld the spirit o f the Lord, that it was upon the Gentiles;
that they did prosper, and obtain the land o f their inheritance;
and ( beheld that they were white, and exceeding fair and
beautiful, like unto my people, before that they were slain.
And it came to pass that 1, Nephi, beheld that the Gentiles
which had gone forth out of captivity, did humble themselves
before the L ord ; and the power o f the Lord was with them;
and I beheld that their mother Gentiles was gathered together
upon the waters, and upon the land also, to battle- against them;
and I beheld that the power o f God was with them; and also,
that the wrath o f God was upon them, that were gathered to­
gether against them to battle. And I, Nephi, beheld that the
Gentiles which had gone out o f captivity, were delivered by
(he. power o f God, out o f the hands o f all other nations.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld that they did pros­
per in the land ; and I beheld a B ook ; and it was carried forth
among them. And the angel saith unto me, Knowest thou the
meaning o f the B ook '! And I saith unto him, I know not. And
he saith, Behold, it proceedeth out o f the mouth o f a Jew,
and 1, Nephi, beheld it; and he saiib unto me, The Book which
thou beholdest, is a record of the Jews, which contains the
covenants o f the Lord which he hath made unto the House o f
Israel; and it also containeth many o f the prophecies o f the
H oly Prophets; and it is a record like unto the engravings
which are upon the plates o f brass, save there are not so many;
ao FIRST BOOK OF NEFEIi.
nevertheless, they contain the covenants o f the Lord, which
he. hath made unto the House o f Israel; wherefore, they are
o f great worth unto the Gentiles.
And the angel o f the Lord said unto me, Thou hast beheld
that the Book proceeded forth from the mouth o f a J ew ; and
when it proceeded forth from the mouth o f a Jew, it contained
the plainness o f the Gospel o f the Lord, o f whom the twelve
apostles bear record; and they bear record according to the
truth which is in the Lamb o f G od; wherefore, these things go
forth from the Jews in purity, unto the Gentiles, according to
the truth which is in G od; and after that they go forth by the
hand o f the twelve apostles o f the Lamb, from the Jews unto
the Gentiles; behold, after this, thou seest the foundation of
a great and abominable church, which is the most abominable
above all other churches; for behold, they have taken away
from the Gospel o f the Lamb, many parts which are plain and
most precious ; and also, many Covenants o f the Lord have
they taken away; and all this have they done, that they might
pervert the right ways of the Lord ; that they might blind the
eyes and harden the hearts o f the children o f men ; wherefore,
thou seest that after the Book hath gone forth through the
hands o f the great and abominable church, that there are many
plain and precious things taken away from the Book, which is
the Book o f the Lamb o f G od; and after that these plain and
precious things were taken away, it goeth forth unto all the
nations o f the Gentiles; and after it goeth forth unto all the na­
tions o f the Gentiles, yea, even across the many waters which
thou hast seen with the Gentiles which have gone forth out o f
captivity ; and thou seest because o f the many plain and pre­
cious things which have been taken out of the Book, which
were plain unto the understanding o f the children o f men, ac­
cording to the plainness which is in the Lamb o f G o d ; and
because o f these things which are taken away out o f the G os­
pel o f the Lamb, an exceeding great many do stumble, yea,
insomuch that Satan hath great power over them; nevertheless
thou beholdest that the Gentiles which have gone forth out o f
captivity, and have been lifted up by the power o f God above
all other nations upon the face o f the land, which is choice
above all other lands, which is the land which the Lord God
hath covenanted with thy father, that his seed should have, for
the land o f their inheritance; wherefore, thou seest that the
Lord G od will not suffer that the Gentiles will utterly destroy
the mixture o f thy seed, which is among thy brethren; neither
FIRST BOOK OF NBPHJ. 31
will he suffer that the Gentiles shall destroy the seed o f thy
brethren; neither will the Lord God suffer that the Gentiles
shall forever remain in that state o f awful woundedness which
thou beholdest that they are in, because of the plain and most
precious parts o f the Gospel o f the Lamb which hath been
kept back by that abominable church, whose formation thou
hast seen; wherefore, saith the Lamb o f God, I will be mer­
ciful unto the Gentiles, unto the visiting o f the remnant o f the
House o f Israel in great judgment.
And it came to pass that the angel of the Lord spake uhto
me, saying: Behold, saith the Lamb o f God, after that 1 have
visited the remnant o f the House o f Israel, and this remnant o f
which I speak, is the seed o f thy father ; wherefore, after that
I have visited them in judgment, and smitten them by the hand
o f the Gentiles; and after that the Gentiles do stumble ex­
ceedingly, because of the most plain and precious parts o f the
Gospel o f the Lamb which hath been kept back, by that abom­
inable church, which is the mother o f harlots, saith the Lam b;
wherefore, 1 will be merciful unto the Gentiles in that day,
saith the Lamb, insomuch that I will bring forth unto them in
mine own power, much o f my Gospel, which shall be plain and
precious, saith the Lamb ; for behold, saith the Lamb, 1 will
manifest myself unto thy seed, that they shall write many things
which I shall minister unto them, which shall be plain and pre­
cious ; and after that thy seed shall be destroyed and dwin­
dle in unbelief, and also, the seed o f thy brethren; behold,
these things shall be hid up, to come forth unto the Gentiles,
by the gift and power o f the Lamb; and in them shall be
written my Gospel, saith the Lamb, and my rock and my sal­
vation ; and blessed are they which shall seek to bring forth
my Zion at that day, for they shall have the gift and the pow­
er o f the H oly.G host; and if they endure unto the end, they
shall be lifted up at the last day, and shall be saved in the
Everlasting Kingdom o f the Lam b; yea, whoso shall publish
peace, that shall publish tidings o f great joy, how beautiful up­
on the mountains shall they be.
And it came to pass that 1beheld the remnant o f the seed o f
my brethren, and also the book o f the Lamb o f God, which
had proceeded forth from the mouth of the J e w ; and I beheld
that it came forth from the Gentiles, unto the remnant o f the
seed o f my brethren; and after it had come forth unto them,
1 beheld other Books, which came forth by the power o f the
Lamb, from the Gentiles, unto them, unto the convincing o f the
3* FIRST BOOK OF NEFH1.
Gentiles, and the remnant o f the seed o f my brethren, and al­
so to the Jews, which were scattered upon all the face o f the
earth, that the records o f the prophets and o f the twelve apos­
tles o f the Lamb, are true.
And the angel spake unto me, saying : These last records
which thou hast seen among the Gentiles, shall establish the
truth o f the first, which is o f the twelve apostles of the Lamb,
and shall make known the plain and precious things which
have been taken away from them ; and shall make known to
all kindreds, tongues, and people, that the Lamb o f God is the
Eternal Father and the Saviour o f the w orld; and that all men
must come unto Him, or they cannot be saved; and they must
come according to the words which shall be established by the
mouth of the Lamb; and the words o f the Lamb shall be made
known in the records o f thy seed, as well as in the records o f
the twelve apostles o f the Lam b; wherefore, they shall be es­
tablished in one, for there is one God and one Shepherd over
all the earth; and the time cometh that he shall manifest him­
self unto all nations, both unto the Jews, and also unto the
Gentiles; and after that he hath manifested himself unto the
Jews, and also unto the Gentiles, then he shall manifest him­
self unto the Gentiles, and also unto the Jews, and the last
shall be first, and the first shall be last.
And it shall come to pass, that if the Gentiles shall hearken
unto the Lamb o f God in that day that he shall manifest him­
selfunto them in word, and also in power, in very deed, unto
the taking away o f their stumbling blocks, if it so be that they
harden not their hearts against the Lamb; and if it so be that
they harden not their hearts against the Lamb o f God, they
shall he numbered among the seed o f thy father; yea, they
shall be numbered among the House o f Israel; and they shall
be a blest people upon the promised land forever; they shall
be no more brought down into captivity; and the House o f
Israel shall no more be confounded; and that great pit which
hath been digged for them, by that great and abominable
church, which was founded by tiie Devil and his children,
that he might lead away the souls o f men down to H ell; yea,
that great pit which hath been digged for the destruction o f
wien, shall be filled by those who digged it, unto their utter
destruction, saith the Lamb o f G o d ; not the destruction o f
the soul, save it be the casting o f it into that Hell which hath
no end; for behold, this is according to the captivity o f thE
KIHST BOOK OP KEPItr.
Devil, nnd also according to the justice o f God, upon all those
who will work wickedness and abomination before him.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, Ncphi,
saying : Thou hast beheld that if the Gentiles repent, it shall
be well with them; and thou also knowest concerning the
covenants of the Lord unto the House o f Israel ; and thou al­
so hast heard, that whoso repenteth not, must perish ; there­
fore, we be unto the Gentiles, if it so be that they harden their
hearts against the Lamb o f God : for the time comcth, saith
the Lamb o f God, that I will work a great and a marvellous
work among the children o f men ; a work which shall be ev­
erlasting, either on the one hand or on the other ; either to
the convincing o f them unto peace and life eternal, or unto the
deliverance o f them to the hardness o f their hearts and the
blindness o f their minds, unto their being brought down into
captivity, and also unto destruction, both temporally and spi­
ritually, according to the captivity o f the Devil, o f which I
have spoken.
And it came to pass that when the angel had spoken these
words, he saith unto me, Remember thou the covenants o f the
Father unto the House o f Israel ï 1 saith unto him, yea. And
it came to pass that he saith unto me, Look, and behold
that great and abominable church, which is the mother o f abo­
minations, whose foundation is the Devil. And lie saith unto
me, Behold, there is, save it be, two churches : the one is the
church o f the Lamb o f God, and the other is the church of
the Devil ; wherefore, whoso belongeth not to the church o f
the Lamb o f God, belongeth to that great church, which is the
mother o f abominations ; and she is the whore o f all the earth.
And it came to pass that I looked and beheld the whore of
all the earth, and she sat upon many waters ; and she had do­
minion over all the earth, among all nations, kindreds, tongues,
and people.
And it came to pass that I beheld the church o f the Lamb
of God, and its numbers were few, because o f the wickedness
and abominations o f the whore which sat upon many waters ;
nevertheless, 1 beheld that the church o f the Lamb, which
were the Saints o f God, were also upon all the face o f the
earth; and their dominion upon the face o f the earth was
small, because o f the wickedness o f the great whore which.
I saw.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the great mother o f
abominations did gather together multitudes upon the face of
S
u BIRST BOOK OF NEPBt,
the earth, among all the nations o f the Gentiles, to fight against
the Lamb o f God.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, beheld the power of the
Lamb of God, that it descended upon the saints o f the church
o f the Lamb, and upon the covenant people of the Lord,
which were scattered upon all the face of the earth; and
they were armed with righteousness and with the power o f
God in great glory.
And it came to pass that I beheld that the wrath o f God was
poured out upon the great and abominable church, insomuch
that there were wars and rumors o f wars among all the nations
and kindreds o f the earth; and as there began to he wars and
rumors o f wars among all the nations which belonged to the
mother o f abominations, the angel spake unto me, saying: Be*
hold, the wrath o f God is upon the mother o f harlots; and,
behold, thou seest all these things! And when the day cometb
that the wrath o f God is poured out upon the mother of har­
lots, which is the great and abominable church o f all the earth,
whose founder is the Devil, then, at that day, the work o f the
Father shall commence, in preparing the way for the fulfilling
o f his covenants, which he hath made to his people, which aip
of the House o f Israel.
And it came to pass that the angel spake unto me, saying.
L ook ! And I looked and beheld a man, and he was dressed
in a white robe; and the angel said unto me, Behold one o f
the twelve Apostles o f the Lamb! Behold, he shall see and
write the remainder o f these things; yea, and also many things
which have been; and he shall also write concerning the end
of the w orld; wherefore, the things which he shall write, are
ju9t and true; and, behold, they are written in the book which
thou beheld proceeding out o f the mouth o f the J ew ; and at
the time they proceeded out o f the mouth o f the Jew, or, at
the time the hook proceeded out o f the mouth o f the Jew, the
things which were written, were plain and pure, and most
precious, and easy to the understanding of all men. And, be*
bold, the things which this Apostle o f the Lamb shall write,
are many things which thou hast seen; and, behold, the re­
mainder shalt thou see; but the things which thou sbalt see
hereafter, thou shalt not write; for the Lord God hath ordain­
ed the Apostle of the Lamb of God, that he should write them.
And also, others which have been to them, hath he shown all
things, and they have written them; and they are sealed up,
to com e forth in their purity, according to the truth which is
FIRST BOOK OF NEPHT, 35
in the Lamb, in the own due time o f the Lord, unto the House
o f Israel.
And I, Nephi, heard and bear record, that the name o f the
Apostle o f the Lamb was John, according to the word o f the
angel. And, behold, I, Nephi, am forbidden that 1 should
write the remainder o f the things which 1 saw and heard;
wherefore, the things which 1 have written, sutficeth m e; and
I have not written but a small part o f the things which I saw.
And I bear record, that 1 saw the things which my father saw,
and the angel o f the Lord did make them known unto me.—
And now 1 make an end o f speaking concerning the things
which 1 saw, while 1 was carried away in the spin! ; and if all
the things which I saw are not written, the things which I
have written, are true. And thus it is. Amen.
C H A P T E R IV.
A m it came to pass that after I, Nephi, bad been carried
away in the spirit, and seen all these things, I returned to the
tent o f my father. And it came to pass that l beheld my breth­
ren, and they were disputing one with another, concerning the
things which my father had spoken unto them ; for he truly
spake many great things unto them, which was hard to be un­
derstood, save a man should inquire o f the L ord; and they
being hard in their hearts, therefore they did not look unto the
Lord as they had ought. And now I, Nephi, was grieved be­
cause o f the hardness o f their hearts, and also, because o f the
things which 1 had seen, and knew they must unavoidably
come to pass, because o f the great wickedness o f the children
o f men.
And it came to pass that I was overcome because o f my af­
flictions, for I considered that mine afflictions were great above
all, because of the destructions o f my people; for I had beheld
their fall.
And it came to pass that after I had received strength, l
spake unto my brethren, desiring to know o f them the cause
o f their disputations. And they said, Behold, we cannot un­
derstand the words which our father hath spoken concerning
the natural branches o f the olive tree, and also, concerning the
Gentiles. And I said unto them, Have ye inquired o f the Lord ?
And they said unto me, we have not; for the Lord maketh no
a*
FIRST BOOK OP NEPHf.
36
such thing known unto us. Behold, I said unto them, How is
it that ye do not keep the commandments o f the L ord! H ow
is it that ye will perish, because o f the hardness o f your hearts f
Do ye not remember the things which the Lord hath said : If
ye will not harden your hearts, and ask roe in faith, believing
that ye shall receive, with diligence in keeping my command­
ments, surely, these things shall be made known unto y o u !
Behold, I say unto you, that the House of Israel was com­
pared unto an olive tree, by the spirit o f the Lord which was
in our fathers; and, behold, are we not broken off from the
House o f Israel; and are we not a branch o f the House o f Is-
raell And now, tbe thing which our father meaneth concer­
ning the grafting in o f the natural branches through the fulness
o f the G entiles, is, that in the latter days, when our seed shall
have dwindled in unbelief, yea, for the space o f many years,
and many generations, after that the Messiah hath manifested
himself in body unto the children o f men, then shallthe fulness
o f the Gospel o f the Messiah come unto (he Gentiles, and from
the Gentiles unto the remnant o f our seed ; and at that day,
shall the remnant o f our seed knotv that they are o f the House
o f Israel, and that they are the covenant people o f the L ord ;
and then shall they know and come to the knowledge of their
forefathers, and also to the knowledge o f the Gospel o f their
Redeemer, which was ministered unto their fathers by him ;
wherefore, they shall come to the knowledge o f their Redee­
mer, and the very points o f his doctrine, that they may know
how to come unto him and be saved. And then at that day,
will they not rejoice and give praise unto their everlasting God,
their rock and their salvation ? Yea, at that day, will they not
receive the strength and nourishment from the true vine ? Yea,
Will they not come unto the true fold o f God ? Behold, I say
unto you, Y ea; they shall be remembered again among the
House o f Israel; they shall be grafted in, being a natural
branch o f the olive tree, into the true oliye tree; and this is
what our father meaneth; and he meaneth that it will not come
to pass, until after that they are scattered by the Gentiles;
and he meaneth that it shall come by way o f the Gentiles, that
the Lord may shew his power unto the Gentiles, for the very
cause that he shall he rejected o f the Jews, or o f the House
o f Israel; wherefore, our father hath not spoken o f our seed
alone, but also of all the House o f Israel, pointing to the cove­
nant which should he fulfilled in the latter days; which cove-
FIRST BOOK OP NEPHI. 31
nant the Lord made to our father Abraham, saying: In thy
seed shall all the kindreds o f the earth be blessed.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake much unto them
concerning these things; yea, 1 spake unto them concerning
the restoration o f the Jews, in the latter days; and I did re­
hearse unto them the words o f Isaiah, which spake concerning
the restoration o f the Jews, or o f the House of Israel; and
after that they were restored, they should no more be con­
founded, neither should they be scattered again. And it came
to pass that I did speak many words unto my brethren, that
they were pacified, and did humble themselves before the
Lord;
And it came to pass that they did speak unto me again,
saying: What meaneth the thing which our father saw in a
dream I What meaneth the tree which he saw 1 And I »aid
unto them, it was a representation o f the tree o f life. And
they said unto me, What meaneth the rod o f iron which our
father saw, that led to the tree ? And I said unto them, that it
was the word of G od ; and whoso would hearken unto the
word o f God, and would bold fast unto it, they would never
perish; neither could the temptations and the firy darts o f the
adversary, overpower them unto blindness, to lead them away
to destruction. Wherefore, I, Nephi, did exhort them to give
heed unto the word o f the L ord; yea, I did exhort them with
all the energies of my soul, and with all the faculty which I
possessed, that they would give heed to the word o f God, and.
remember to keep his commandments always, in all things.—
And they said unto me, What meaneth the river o f water which
our father saw ? And I said unto them, that the water which
my father saw, was filthiness; and so much was his mind
swallowed up in other things, that he beheld not the filthiness
o f the water; and I said unto them, that it was an awful gulf^
which separateth the wicked from the tree o f life, and also
from the Saints o f G od; and I said unto them, that it was a
representation o f that awful Hell, which the angel said unto
me was prepared for the wicked. And I said unto them, that
our father also saw, that the justice o f God did also divide the
wicked from the righteous; and the brightness thereof was like
unto the brightness o f a flaming fire, which ascendeth up unto
G od forever and ever, and hath no end.
And they said unto me, Doth this thing mean the torment o f
the body in the days o f probation, or doth it mean the final
state of the soul after the death o f the temporal body 1 or doth
38 FIRST BOOK OF KEPHI.
it speak o f the things which are temporal ? And it came to pass
that 1 said unto them, That it was a representation o f things
both temporal and spiritual; for the day should come that they
must be judged of their works, yea, even the works which were
done by the temporal body in their days o f probation; where­
fore, if they should die in their wickedness, they must be caBt
o ff; also as to the things which are spiritual, which are per­
taining to righteousness; wherefore, they must be brought to
stand before God, to be judged o f their w orks; and if their
works have been filthiness, they must needs be filthy; and if
they be filthy, it must needs be that they cannot dwell in the
kingdom o f God ; if so, The kingdom o f God must be filthy
also. But, behold, I say unto you, The kingdom o f God is not
filthy, and there cannot any unclean thing enter into the king­
dom o f G o d ; wherefore, there must needs be a place o f filthi­
ness prepared for that which is filthy. And there is a place
prepared, yea, even that awful Hell o f which I have spoken,
and the Devil is Ihe preparator o f it; wherefore, the final state
o f the souls o f men is to dwell in the kingdom o f God, or to be
cast out because o f that justice o f which 1 have spoken;
wherefore, the wicked are rejected from the righteous, and al­
so from that tree o f life, whose fruit is most precious and most
desirable above all other fruits; yea, and it is the greatest o f
all the gifts o f God. And thus 1 spake unto my brethren.—
Amen.
C H A PT E R V.
And now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had made an
end o f speaking to my brethren, behold, they said unto me,
Thou hast declared unto us hard things, more than that which
we are able to bear.
And it came to pass that 1 said unto them, That I knew that
I had spoken hard things against the wicked, according to the
truth; and the righteous have I justified, and testified that
they should be lifted up at the last day; wherefore, the guilty
taketh the truth to be hard, for it cutteth them to the very
centre. And now, my brethren, if ye were righteous, and were
willing to hearken to the truth, and give heed unto it, that ye
might walk uprightly before God, then ye would not murmur
because o f the truth, and say thou speakest hard things against
FIRST BOOK OF NF.Pm. 39
us. And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did exhort my breth­
ren, with all diligence, to keep the commandments of the Lord.
And it came to pass that they did humble themselves before
the Lord ; insomuch, that 1 had joy and great hopes o f them,
that they would walk in the paths o f righteousness. Now, all
these things were said and done, as my father dwelt in a tent is
the valley which he called Lemuel.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, took one o f the daugh­
ters o f Ishmael to wife ; and also, my brethren took of the
daughters o f Ishmael to wife ; and also, Zoram took the eldest
daghter o f Ishmael to wife. And thus my father had fulfilled
all the commandments o f the Lord, which had been given un­
to him. And also, 1, Nephi, had been blessed o f the Lord,
exceedingly.
And it came to pass that the voice o f the Lord spake unto
my father, by night, and commanded him, that on tbe morrow,
he should take his journey into the wilderness. And it came'
to pass that as my father arose in the morning, and went forth
to the tent door, to his great astonishment, he beheld up­
on the ground a round ball, of curious workmanship ; and it
was of fine brass. And within the ball were two spindles ;
and the one pointed the way whither we should go into thé
wilderness.
And it came to pass that we did gather together whatsoever
things we should carry into the wilderness, and all the remain­
der o f our provisions which the Lord had given unto us ; and
we did take seed o f every kind, that we might carry into the
wilderness.
And it came to pass that we did take our tents, and depart
into the wilderness, across the river Laman. And it came
to pass that we travelled for the space o f four days, nearly a
south, southeast direction, and we did pitch our tents again ;
and we did call the name o f the place Shazer.
And it came to pass that we did take our bows and our ar
rows, and go forth into the wilderness, to slay food for our
families ; and after that we had slain food for our families, we
did return again to our families in the wilderness, to the place
o f Shazer. And we did go forth again, in the wilderness, fol­
lowing the same direction, keeping in the most fertile parts o f
the wilderness, which was in the borders near the Red Sea,
And it came to pass that we did travel for the space o f many
days, slaying food by the way, with our bows and our arrows,
and eujr stones, and eur slings ; and we did follow the direc-
40 FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
lions o f the ball, which led us in the more fertile parts of the
wilderness. And after that we had travelled for the space o f
■many days, we did pitch our tents, for the space o f a time, that
we might again rest ourselves and obtain food for our families.
And it came to pass that as 1, Nephi, went forth to slay food,
behold, 1 did break my bow, which was made o f fine steel;
and after that 1 did break my bow, behold, my brethren were
angry with me, because o f the loss o f my bow, for w c did ob­
tain no food. And it came to pass that we did return without
food to our families. And being much fatigued, because o f
their journeying, they did suffer much for the want o f food.
And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel, and the sons
o f Ishmael, did begin to murmur exceedingly, because of their
sufferings and afflictions in the wilderness; and also, my father
began to murmur against the Lord his G od ; yea, and they were
all exceeding sorrowful, even that they did murmur against
the Lord.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, having been afflicted
with my brethren, because of the loss o f my how : and their
bows having lost their springs, it began to be exceeding diffi­
cult, yea, insomuch, that we could obtain no food. And it
came to pass that 1, Nephi, did speak much unto my brethren,
because that they had hardened their hearts again, even unto
complaining against the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that 1, Nephi, did make out o f wood a
bow, and out o f a straight stick, an arrow; wherefore, I did
arm myself with a bow and an arrow, with a sling, and with
stones. And 1 said unto my father. Whither shall I go, to ob­
tain food ? And it came to pass that he did inquire o f the Lord,
for they had humbled themselves because o f my w ord; for l
did say many things unto them in the energy of my soul.
And it came to pass that the voice o f the Lord came unto
my father; and he was truly chastened because o f his mur­
muring against the Lord, insomuch, that he was brought down
into the depths o f sorrow. And it came to pass that the voice
of the Lord said unto him, Look upon the ball, and behold the
things which are written! And it came to pass that when my
father beheld the things which were written upon the ball, he
did fear and tremble exceedingly; and also my brethren, and
the sons o f Ishmael, and our wives.
Audit came to pass that 1, Nephi, beheld the pointers
which were in the ball, that they did work according to the
fiitb, and diligence, and heed, which wc did give unto them.
FIRST BOOK OF SEPHf, 41
And there was also written upon them, a new writing, which
was plain to be read, which did give us understanding con­
cerning the ways o f the L ord ; and it was written and changed
from time to time, according to the faith and diligence which
we gave unto it: And thus wc see, that by small means, the
Lord can bring about great things.
And it came to pass that I, Ncphi, did go forth up into the
top o f the mountain, according to the directions which were
given upon the ball. And it came to pass that 1 did slay wild
beasts, insomuch, that I did obtain food for our families.—
And it came to pass that I did return to our tents, bearing the
beasts which I had slain; and now, when they beheld that I
had obtained food, how great was their joy. And it came to
pass that they did humhle themselves before the Lord, and did
give thanks unto him.
And it came to pass that we did again take our journey,
travelling nearly the same course as in the beginning; and
after that we had travelled for the space o f many days, we did
pitch our tents again, that we might tarry for the space o f a
time.
And it came to pass that ishmael died, and was buried in
the place which was called Nabom. And it cams to pass that
the daughters o f Ishmael did mourn exceedingly, because of
the loss o f their father, and because o f their afflictions in the
wilderness; and they did murmur against my father, because
that he had brought them out o f the land o f Jerusalem, saying:
Our father is dead ; yea, and we have wandered much in the
wilderness, and we have suffered much affliction, hunger,
thirst, and fatigue; and after all these sufferings, we must pe­
rish in the wilderness with hunger. And thus they did mur­
mur against my father, and also against m e; and they were
desirous to return again to Jerusalem. And Latnan saith unto
Lemuel, and also unto the sons o f Ishmael, Behold, let us slny
our father, and also our brother Nephi, who hath taken it upon
him to be our ruler and our teacher, who are his elder breth­
ren. Now, he saith that the Lord hath talked with him, and,
also, that angels hath ministered unto him! But behold, we
know thathe lieth unto us; and he telleth us these things, and
he worbeth many things by his cunning arts, that he may de­
ceive our eyes, thinking, perhaps, that he may lead us away
into some strange wilderness; and after that he hath led ua
•away, he hath thought to make himself a King and a ruler over
us, that he may do with us according to his will and pleasure-
13 FIRST BOOK OF NET HI.
And after this manner, did my brother Laman stir up their
hearts to anger.
And it came to pass that the Lord was with u s; yea, even
ihe voice o f the Lord came and did speak many words unto
them, and did chasten them exceedingly; and after that they
were chastened by the voice o f the Lord, they did turn away
their anger, and did repent o f their sins, insomuch, that the
Lord did bless us again with food, that we did not perish.
And it came to pass that we did again take our journey in
the wilderness; and we did travel nearly eastward, from that
time forth. And we did travel and wade through much afflic­
tion in the wilderness; and our women did bear children in the
wilderness. And so great were the blessings o f the Lord upon
us, that while we did live upon raw meat in the wilderness,
our women did give plenty o f suck for their children, and were
strong, yea, even like unto the m en; and they began to bear
their joumeyings without murmurings. And thus we see that
the commandments of God must be fulfilled. And if it so be
that the children o f men keep the commandments of God, he
doth nourish them, and strengthen them, and provide means
whereby they can accomplish the thing which he hath com­
manded them; wherefore, he did provide means for us while
we did sojourn in the wilderness. And we did sojourn for the
space of many years, yea, even eight years in the wilderness.
And we did come to the land which we called Bountiful, be­
cause o f its much fruit, and also, wild honey; and all these
things were prepared of the Lord, that we might not perish.—
And we beheld the Sea, which we called lrreantum, which be­
ing interpreted, is, many waters.
And it came to pass that we did pitch our tents by the sea­
shore ; and notwithstanding we had suffered many afflictions
and much difficulty, yea, even so much that we cannot write
them all, we were exceedingly rejoiced when we came to the
Seashore ; and we called the place Bountiful, because o f ite
much fruit.
And it came to pass that after I, Nephi, had been in the land o f
Bountiful for the space o f many days, the voice of the Lord
came unto me, saying: Arise, and get thee into the mountain.
And it came to pass that I arose and went up into the moun­
tain, and cried unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto me, saying;
Thou shall construct a ship, after the manner which 1 shall
shew thee, that i may carry thy people across these waters.
M R9T BOOK OF NEPHI, 4$
And I saith, Lord, whither shall 1 go, that I may find ore to
molten, that I may make tools to construct the ship, after the
manner which thou hast shewn unto me? And it came to pass
that the Lord told me whither I should go to find ore, that I
might make tools.
And it came to pass that l, Nephi, did make bellowses where­
with to blow the fire, o f the skins of beasts; and after that I
had made bellowses, that 1 might have wherewith to blow the
fire, i did smite two stones together, that 1might make fire; for­
the Lord had not hitherto suffered that we should make much
fire, as we journeyed in the wilderness; for he saith, 1 will
make that thy food shall become sweet, that ye cook it not;
and 1will also be your light in the wilderness; and I will prepare
the way before you, if it so be that ye shall keep my command­
ments ; wherefore, inasmuch as ye shall keep my command­
ments, ye shall be led towards the promised land; and ye shall
know that it is by me that ye are led. Yea, and the Lord said
also, that after ye have arrived to the promised land, ye shall
know that I, the Lord, am G od; and that 1, the Lord, did de­
liver you from destruction; yea, that I did bring you out o f the
land o f Jerusalem; wherefore, l, Nephi, did strive to keep
the commandments o f the Lord, and I did exhort my brethren
to faithfulness and diligence.
And it came to pass that i did make tools o f the ore which I
did molten out o f the rock. And when my brethren saw that
I was about to build a ship, they began to murmur against me,
saying: Our brother is a fool, for he thinketh that he ean build
a ship; yea, and he also thinketh that he can cross these great
waters. And thus my brethren did complain against me, and
were desirous that they might not labor, for they did not believe
that 1 could build a ship; neither would they believe that I
was instructed o f the Lord.
And now it came to pass that l, Nephi, was exceeding sor­
rowful, because o f the hardness of their hearts; and now when
they saw that 1 began to be sorrowful, they were glad in their
hearts, insomuch, that they did rejoice over me, saying: W e
knew that ye could not construct a ship, for we knew that ye
were lacking in judgment; wherefore, thou canst not accom­
plish so great a w ork; and thou art like unto our father, led
away by the foolish imaginations o f his heart; yea, he hath
led us out o f the land o f Jerusalem; and we have wandered
in the wilderness for these many years; and our women have
toiled, beingbig with ehild; and they bave borne ehil<lr«tia the
u B R S T BOOK OF KEPIIT.
wilderness, and suffered all tilings, save it were death; and it
would have been better that they had died, before they came
out o f Jerusalem, than to have suffered these afflictions. Be­
hold, these many years we have suffered in the wilderness,
which time we might have enjoyed our possessions, and the
land o f our inheritance; yea, and we might have been happy;
and we know that the people which were in the land o f Jerusa­
lem, were a righteous people; for they kept the statutes and the
judgments of the Lord, and ail his commandments, according to
■thelaw o f M oses; wherefore, we know that they are a righteous
people; and our father hath judged them, and hath led us away
because we would hearken unto his w ords; yea, and our
brother is like unto him. And after this manner o f language
did my brethren murmur and complain against us.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, spake unto them, saying :
D o ye believe that our fathers, which were the children o f Is­
rael, would have been led away out o f the hands o f the Egyp­
tians, if they had not hearkened unto the words o f the Lord ?
Yea, do ye suppose that they would have been led out of bon­
dage, if the Lord had not commanded Moses that he should
lead them out o f bondage'! Now ye know that the children of
Israel were in bondage; and ye know that they were laden
with tasks, which were grievous to be borne; wherefore, ye
know that it must needs be a good thing for them, that they
should be brought out o f bondage. Now ye know that Moses
was commanded o f the Lord to do that great w ork ; and ye
know that by his word, the waters o f the Red Sea were divi­
ded hither and thither, and they passed through on dry ground.
But ye know that the Egyptians were drowned in the Red Sea,
which were the armies o f Pharaoh; and ye also know that they
were fed with manna, in the wilderness; yea. and ye also
know that Moses, by his word, according to the power o f God
which was in him, smote the rock, and there came forth wa­
ter, that the children of Israel might quench their thirst ; and
notwithstanding they being led, the Lord their God, their Re­
deemer, going before them, leading them by day, and giving
light unto them by night, and doing all things for them which
was expedient for man to receive, they hardened their hearts,
and blinded their minds, and reviled against Moses and against
the true and living God.
And it came to pass that according to his word, he did des­
troy them; and according to his word, he did lead them; and
««cording to his word, he did do all things for them; and.
rmsr book op kephi. 45
there was not any thing done, save it were by Iris word. And
after they had crossed the river Jordan, he did make them
mighty, unto the driving out the children of the land, yea, un­
to the scattering them to destruction. And now do ye sup­
pose that the children o f this land, which were in the land o f
promise, which were driven out by our fathers, do ye suppose
that they were righteous ! Behold, 1 soy unto you, nay. Do
ye suppose that our fathers would have been more choice than
they, if they had been righteous ! 1 say unto you, nay, behold,
the Lord csteemelh all tiesh in one; He that is righteous, is
favored of God. But, behold, this people had rejected every
word of God, and they were ripe in iniquity; and the fulness
o f the wrath of God was upon them ; and the Lord did curse
the land against them, and bless it unto our fathers; yea, he
did curse it against them unto their destruction; and be did
hless it unto our fathers, unto their obtaining power over it.
Behold, the Lord bath created the earth, that it should be in­
habited ; and he hath created his chdilreii, that they should
possess it. And he raiselh up a righteous nation, and destroy-
eth the nations o f the wicked. And he leadelh away the
righteous into precious lands, and the wicked he destroyed),
arid curseth the land unto them for their sakes. He ruleth
high in the Heavens, for it is his throne, and this earth is his
footstool. And he loveth them which will have him to be.
their God. Behold, beloved our fathers ; and he covenanted
■with them, yea, even ALraJiam, Isaac, and Jacob; and he re­
membered the covenants which he had made ; wherefore, he
did bring them out o f the land of Egypt, and he did straighten
them in the wilderness with his rod, for they hardened their
hearts, even as ye have; and the Lord straightened them, be­
cause o f their iniquity. He sent dry-flying serpents among them;
and after they were bitten, he prepared a way, that they might
be healed ; and the labor which they had to perform, was to
lo o k ! and because o f the simpleness of the way, or the easiness
o f it, there were many which perished. And they did harden
tbeir hearts from time to time, and they did revile against Moses,
and also against G o d ; nevertheless, ye know that they were
led forth by his matchless power, into the land o f promise.—
And now, after all these things, the time has come that they
have become wicked, yea, nearly unto ripeness; and I know
not but they are at this day about to be destroyed, for I know
that the day must surely come, that they must he destroyed,
save a few only, which shall be led away into captivity.
+6 FIRST BOOK OP NEl'Ul.
wherefore, the Lord commanded my father that be should de­
part into the wilderness; and the Jews also sought to take
away his life ; yea, and ye also have sought to take away his
life; wherefore, ye are murderers in your hearts, and ye are
like unto they : Ye are swift to do iniquity, but slow to re­
member the Lord your God. Ye have seen an angel, and he
spake unto y o u ; yea, ye have heard his voice from time to
tim e; and he hath spoken unto you in a still, small voice, hut
ye were past feeling, that ye could not feel his words; where­
fore, he hath spoken unto you like unto the voice o f thunder,
which did cause the earth to shake as if if were to divide asun­
der. And ye also know, that by the power o f his Almighty
word, he can cause the earth that it shall pass away; yea, and
ye know that by his word, he can cause that rough places be
made smooth, and smooth places shall he broken up. 0 ,
then, why is it, that ye can be so hard in your hearts ! Be­
hold, my soul is rent with anguish because of you, and my
heart is pained : 1 fear lest ye shall be cast off forever. Be­
hold, 1 am full o f the spirit of God, insomuch as if my frame
had no strength.
And now it came to pass that when 1 had spoken these
words, they were angry with me, and were desirous to throw
me into the depths o f the S ea ; and as they came forth to lay
their hands upon me, 1 spake unto them, saying: In the name
o f the Almighty God, 1 command you that ye touch me not,
for 1 am filled with the power o f God, even unto the consu­
ming o f my flesh ; and whoso shall lay their hands upon me,
shall wither even as a dried reed; and he shall be as nought
before the power o f God, for God shall smite him.
And it came to pass that J, Nephi, saith unto them, That
they should murmur no more against their father; neither
should they withhold their labor from me, for God had com­
manded me that I should build a ship. And I saith unto
them, If God had commanded me to do all things, I could do
it. If he should command me that 1 should say unto this wa­
ter, Be thou earth, it should be earth ; and if I should say it,
it would be done. And now, if the Lord hath such great
power, and hath wrought so many miracles among the chil­
dren o f men, how is it that he cannot instruct me, that I should
build a ship'!
And it came to pass that 1, Nephi, said many things unto my
brethren, insomuch that they were confounded, and could not
contend against m e; neither durst they lay their hands upon
first book op menu. 47
me, nor touch me with their fingers, even for the space ofmany
days. Now they durst not do this, lest they should wither be­
fore me, so powerful was the spirit o f G od ; and thus it had
wrought upon them.
And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me, Stretch
forth thine hand again unto thy brethren, and they shall not
wither before thee, but I will shock them, saith the Lord ; and
this will I do, that they may know that I am the Lord their
God.
And it came to pass that 1stretched forth my hand unto my
brethren, and they did not wither before m e; but the Lord did
shake them, even according to the word which he had spoken.
And now, they said, W e know o f a surety, that the Lord is with
thee, for we know that it is the power of the Lord that hath
shaken us. And they fell down before me, and were about to
worship me, but 1 would not suffer them, saying: 1 am thy
brother, yea, even thy younger brother; wherefore, worship
the Lord thy God, and honor thy father and thy mother, that
thy days may be long in the land which the Lord thy God
shall give thee.
And it came to pass that they did worship the Lord, and did
go forth with m e; and we did work timbers of curious work­
manship. And the Lord did shew me from time to time, after
what manner 1should work the timbers of the ship. Now
1, Nephi, did not work the timbers after the manner which was
learned by men, neither did I build the ship after the manner of
men ; but I did build it after the manner which the Lord had
shewn unto me; wherefore, it was not after the manner o f
men.
And 1, Nephi, did go into the mount oft, and 1did pray oft
unto the Lord; wherefore, the Lord shewed unto me great
things.
And it came to pass that after 1 had finished the ship accor­
ding to the word o f the Lord, my brethren beheld that it was
good, and that the workmanship thereof was exceeding fine;
wherefore, they did humble themselves again before the Lord.
And it came to pass that the voice o f the Lord came unto
my father, that we should arise and go down into the ship.—
And it came to pass that on the morrow, after that we had
prepared all things, much fruits and meat from the wilder­
ness, and honey in abundance, and provisions, according to
that which the Lord had commanded us, we did go down into
the. ship with ail our loading and our seeds, and whatsoever
VIRST BOOK OF NKPHf.
48
thing we had brought with us, every one according to his age;
wherefore, we did all go down into the ship, with our wives
and our children.
And now, my father had begat two sons, in the wilderness:
The eldest was called Jacob, and the younger, Joseph. And
it came to pass that after we had all gone down into the ship,
and had taken with us our provisions and things which had
been commanded us, we did put forth into the sea, and were
driven forth before the wind, towards the promised land; and
after that we had been driven forth before the wind, for the
space o f many days, behold, my brethren, and the sons o f lsh*
mael, and also their wives, began to make themselves merry,
insomuch that they began to dance, and to sing, and to speak
with much rudeness, yea, even to that they did forget by what
power they had been brought thither; yea, they were lifted up
unto exceeding rudeness. And 1, Nephi, began to fear excee­
dingly, lest the Lord should be angry with us, and smite us,
because ot our iniquity, that we should be swallowed up in
the depths o f the S ea ; wherefore, I, Nephi, began to speak
to them with much soberness; but, behold, they were angry
with me, saying: W e will net that our younger brother shall
be a ruler over us.
And it came to pass that Laman and Lemuel did take me
and bind me with cords, and they did treat me with much
harshness; nevertheless, the Lord did suffer it, that he might
shew forth his power, unto the fulfilling o f his word which he
hath spoken, concerning the wicked.
And it came to pass that after they had bound me, insomuch
that 1 could not move, the compass, which had been prepared
o f the Lord, did cease to work; wherefore, they knew not
whither they should steer the phip, insomuch, that there arose
a great storm, yea, a great and terrible tempest; and we were
driven back upon the waters for the space o f three days; and
they began to be frightened exceedingly, lest they should be
drowned in the Sea; nevertheless, they did loo-e me not.—
And on the fourth day which we had been driven back, the
tempest began to be exceeding sore.
And it came to pass that we were about to be swallowed up
in the depths o f the Sea. And after that we had been driven
back upon the waters for the space o f four days, my brethren
began to see that the judgment o f God was upon them, and
that they must perish, save that they should repent o f their
iniquities; wherefore, they came unto me and loosed the bands
rmv BOOK OP NEPHI. 4»
which weis upon ray wrists, and behold, they had much swo-
len, exceedingly; and also, mine ancles were much swollen,
and great was the soreness thereof. Nevertheless, i did look
unto ray God, and t did praise him all the day long; and I did
not murmur against the ford , because o f mine- afflictions.
Now, my father* Lehi, had said many things unto them, and
also unto the sons of khm ael; but, behold, they did breathe
out much threatnings against any one that should speak lor
m e; and my parents being stricken in years, and having suf­
fered much grief because o f their children, they vvert brought
down, yea, even upon their sick beds. Because o f their grief,
and much sorrow, and the iniquity of my brethren, they were
brought near even to be carried out o f this iime, to meet their
G od ; yea, their gray hairs were about to be brought down to
lie low in the dust; yea, even they were near lo be cast into
a watery grave. And Jacob and Joseph also, being young,
having need of much nourishment, were grieved because o f the
afflictions o f their mother; and also my wife, with her tears
and prayers, and also my children, did not soften the hearts o f
my brethren, that they would loose m e; and there was noth­
ing, save it were the power o f God, which threatened them
with destruction, could soften their hearts; wherefore, when
they saw that they were about to be swallowed up in the depths
o f the sea, they repented o f the thing which they had done,
insomuch that they loosed me.
And it came to pass that after they had loosed me, behold, I
took the compass, and it did work whither I desired it. And
it came lo pass that I prayed unto the Lord; and after that I
had prayed, the winds did cease, and the storm did cease, and
there was a great calm.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did guide the ship, that
we sailed again towards the promised land. And it came to
pass that after we had sailed for the space o f many days, we
did arrive to the promised land; and we went forth upon the
land, and did pitch our tents; and we did call it the promised ¡and.
And it came to pass that we did begin to till the earth, and
we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our seeds into
the earth, which we had brought from the land o f Jerusalem.
And it came to pass that they did grow exceedingly; where­
fore, we were blessed in abundance.
And it came to pass that we did find upon the Land o f Pro­
mise, as we journied in the wilderness, that there were beast«
in the forests o f every kind, both the cow, and the ox, and tho
4
M R S * BOSK OP S E P H i
ass, and the horse, and the goat, and the wild goat, and ail
manner o f wild animals, which were for the use of men. And
we did find all manner o f ore, both of gold, and o f Bilver, and
o f copper.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded me, where­
fore 1did make plates of ore, that 1might engraven upon them
the record o f my people. And upon the plates which I matter
1 did engraven the record o f my father, and also our joumey-
ings in the wilderness, and the prophecies o f my father; and
also, many o f mine own prophecies have 1 engraven upon
them. And 1 knew not at that time when 1 made them, that
1 should be commanded o f the Lord to make these plates j
wherefore, the record o f my father, and the genealogy o f his
fathers, and the more part o f all our proceedings in the wilder­
ness, are engraven upon those plates of which 1 have spoken ;
wherefore, the things which transpired before that i made
these plates, are, o f a truth, more particularly made mention,
npon the first plates.
And after that 1 had made these plates by way o f com­
mandment, I, Nepbi, received a commandment, that the minis­
try, and the prophecies, the more plain and precious parts o f
them, should be written upon these plates; and that foe thing»
which were written, should be kept for the instruction of my
people, which should possess the land, and also for other
wise purposes, which purposes, are known unto the Lord;
wherefore, 1, Nephi, did make a record upon foe other plates,
which gives an account, or which gives a greater account, o f
the wars, and contentions, and destructions o f my people. And
this have I done, and commanded my people that they should
do, after that I was gone, and that these plates should be han­
ded down from one generation to another, or from one prophet
to another, until further commandments o f the Lord. And an
account o f my making these plates shall be given hereafter;
and then, behold, 1 proceed according to that which i have
spoken; and this I do, that foe more sacred things may be
kept for the knowledge o f my people. Nevertheless, 1 do not
write any thing upon plates, save it be that I think it be sa­
cred. And now, if 1 do err, even did they err o f old. Not
that I would excuse myself because o f other men, hut because
o f the weakness which is in me, according to the flesh, 1
would excuse myself. For the things which some men es­
teem to be o f great worth, both to the body and soul, others
set at »ought, and trample Under their feet. Yea, even foe
FIRST BOOK OF NEFBI. 51
Very God o f Israel, do men trample under their feet; I say,
trample under their feet; but I would speak in other w ords:
They do set him at nought, and hearken not to the voice o f bis
counsels; and behold, he eometh according to the words o f
the angel, in six hundred years from the time my father left
Jerusalem: And the world, because o f their iniquity, shall
judge him to be a thing o f nought; wherefore, they scourge him,
and he suffereth it; and they emits him, and he suffereth it.
Tea, they spit upon him, and he suffereth it, because o f his lo­
ving kindness and his long suffering towards the children o f
men. And the God o f our fathers, which were led out o f
Egypt, out o f bondage, and also were preserved in the wilder­
ness by him ; yea, the God o f Abraham, and o f Isaac, and the
God o f Jacob, yieldeth himself according to the words o f the
angel, as a man, into the hands o f wicked men, to be lifted up
according to the words o f Zenock, and to be crucified, accor­
ding to the words o f Neum, aud to he buried in a sepulchre,
and according to the words o f Zenos, which he spake, concer­
ning the three days o f darkness, which should be a sign given
o f his death, unto them who should inhabit the isles o f the sea;
more especially given unto them which are o f the House o f Is­
rael. For thus spake the Prophet: The Lord God surely
shall visit all the House o f Israel at that d a y: some with his
voice, because o f their righteousness, unto their great joy and
salvation; and others, with the thunderings and the lightnings
o f his power, by tempest, by fire, and by smoke, and vapour
o f darkness, and by the opening o f the earth, and by moun­
tains which shall be carried u p ; and all these things must
surely com e, saith the Prophet Zenos. And the rocks o f the
earth must rend ; and because o f the groaning« o f the earth,
many o f the Kings o f the isles o f the sea shall be wrought up­
on by the spirit o f God, to exclaim, The God o f nature suffers.
And as for they which are at Jerusalem, saith the prophet, shall
1» scourged by all people, saith the prophet, because they
crucify the God o f Israel, and turned their hearts aside, rejec­
ting signs, and wonders, and power and glory o f the God o f
Israel; and because they turned their hearts aside, saith the
prophet, and have despised the Holy one o f Israel, they shall
wander in the flesh, and perish, and become a hiss and a by­
word, and be hated among all nations; nevertheless, when
that day eometh, sailh the prophet, that they no more turn
aside their hearts against the Holy one o f Israel, then will he
remember the covenants which he made to their fathers; yea,
4*
FIBST BOOK OF NEFH1,
52
then will he remember the isles o f the sea ; yea, and all the
people which are o f the House o f Israel, will 1 gather in, saith
the Lord, according to the words o f the Prophet Zenos, from
the four quarters o f the earth; yea, and all the earth shall see
the salvation o f the Lord, saith the prophet; every nation, kin­
dred, tongue, and people, shall be blessed.
And I, iNephi, have written these things unto my people, that
perhaps 1 might persuade them that they would remember the
Lord their Redeem er; wherefore, I speak unto all the House
o f Israel, if it so be that they should obtain these things. 1 or
behold, I have workings in the spirit, which doth weary me,
even that all my joints are weak, for they which are ai Jeru­
salem ; for had not the Lord been merciful, to shew unto me
concerning them, even as he had prophets o f o ld ; for he sure­
ly did shew unto the prophets o f old, all things concerning
them ; and also, he did shew unto many, concerning u s:
wherefore, it must needs be, that we know concerning them,
fer they are written upon the plates o f brass.
C H A P T E R VI.
Now it came to pass that I, Nephi, did teach my brethren
these things. And it came to pass that I did read many things
to them, which were engraven upon the plates o f brass, (hat
they might know concerning the doings o f the Lord in other
lands, among people o f old. And I did read many things unto
them, which were written in the Book o f M oses; but that 1
might more fully persuade them to believe in the Lord their
Redeemer, wherefore I did read unto them that which was
written by (he Prophet Isaiah; for I did liken all scriptures
unto us, that it might be for our profit and learning. W here­
fore, I spake unto them, saying: Hear ye the words o f the
prophet, ye which are a remnant o f the House o f Israel, a
branch o f which have been broken o f f ; hear ye the words o f
the prophet, which was written unto all the House o f Israel,
and liken it unto yourselves, that ye may have hope as well
as your brethren, from whom ye have been broken off. Poe
after this manner hath the prophet written : Hearken and hear
this, O house o f Jacob, which are called by the name o f Is­
rael, and are come forth out o f the waters o f Judah, which
swear by the name o f the Lord, and make mention o f the God
FHt8r n«O K OP KEPHI. SB
o f Israel; yet they swear not in truth, nor in righteousness.—
Nevertheless, they call themselves o f the Holy city, but they
do not stay themselves upon the God o f Israel, which is the
Lord o f hosts; yea, the Lord o f hosts is his oitae. Behold,
1 have declared the former things from the beginning; and
they went forth out o f my mouth, and I shewed them; 1 did
shew them suddenly. And I did it because I knew that thou
art obstinate, and thy neck was an iron sinew, and thy brow
brass; and I have, even from the beginning, declared to thee;
before it came to pass I shewed them thee; and I shewed
them for fear lest thou shouldst say, Mine idol hath done
them; and my graven image, and my molten image, hath com­
manded them. Thou hast seen and heard all this; and will
ye not declare them? And that I have shewed thee new thing»
from this time, even hidden things, and thou didst not know
them. They are created now, and not from the beginning;
even before the day when thou heardest them not, they were
declared unto thee, lest thou shouldst say, Behold, I knew
them. Yea, and thou heardest n ot; yea, thou knewest not;
yea, from that time, thine ear was not opened: for I knew
that thou wouldest deal very treacherously, and wast called a
transgressor from the womb.
Nevertheless, for my name sake will I defer mine anger, and
for my praise will I refrain from thee, that I cut thee not off.
For, behold, I have refined thee; I have chosen thee in the
furnace o f affliction. For mine own sake, yea, for mine ow *
sake, will I do this; for I will not suffer my name to be pol­
luted, and I will not give my glory unto another.
Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; for I arr.
h e ; and I am the first, and I am also the last. Mine hand
hath also laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand
hath spanned the heavens: and I called unto them, and they
stand up together. All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear;
which among them hath declared these things unto them ? The
Lord hath loved him : yea, and he will fulfil his word which
he hath declared by them; and he will do his pleasure on
Babylon, and his arm shall come upon the Chaldeans. Also,
saith the Lord: I the Lord, yea, I have spoken, yea, ! have
called him, to declare I have brought him ; and he shall make
his way prosperous.
Come ye near unto m e: I have not spoken in secret from
the beginning; from the time that it was declared, have I spo­
ken ; and the Lord God, and bis spirit, hath sent me. And
54 PIKST BOOK o r NETHI.
thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, the H oly One of Israel
I have sent him, the Lord thy God, which leaeheth thee to
profit, which leaueth thee by the way thou shouldst go, hath
done it. O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments!
then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as
the waves of the sea: thy seed also had been as the sand ;
the offspring o f thy bowels like the gravel thereof; his name
should not have been cut off nor destroyed from before me.
Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a
v oii* o f singing declare ye, tell this, utter to the end o f the
earth ; say ye, The Lord hath redeemed his servant Jacob,—
And they thirsted not; he led them through the deserts: he
caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them : he clea­
ved the rock also, and the waters gushed out. And notwith­
standing he hath done all this, and greater also, There is no
peace, saith the Lord, unto the wicked.
And again : Hearken, 0 ye house o f Israel, all ye that are
broken off and are driven out, because of the wickedness o f
the pastors o f ray people ; yea, all ye that are broken off, that
are scattered abroad, which are o f my people, O house o f Is­
rael. Listen, O isles, unto m e; and hearken, ye people, from
fa r; the Lord hath called me from the w om b; from the bow­
els o f my mother hath he made mention o f my name. And he
hath made my mouth like a sharp sw ord; in the shadow o f
his hand hath he hid me, and mafie me a polished shaft; in his
quiver hath he hid m e; and said unto me, Thou art my ser­
vant, O Israel, in whom 1 will be glorified. Then 1 said, I
have labored in vain, I have spent my strength for nought, and
in vain; surely, my judgment is with the Lord, and my work
with my God.
And now, saith the Lord, that formed me from the womb
that I should be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him,
Though Israel be not gathered, yet shall I he glorious in the
eyes o f the Lord, and my God shall be my strength. And he
said, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my servant to
raise up the tribes o f Jacob, and to restore the preserved o f
Israel: I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that
thou mayest he my salvation unto the ends o f the earth.—
Thus saith the Lord, the Redeemer o f Israel, his Holy One,
to him whom man despiseth, to him whom the nations abhor-
reth, to servant o f rulers, Kings shall see and arise, princes
also shall worship, because o f the Lord that is faithful. Thus
■with the Lord, In an acceptable time have I heard thee, 0
MUST BOOK OP NEPHI. 65
isles o f the sea, and in a day o f savlation have I helped thee:
and I will preserve thee, and give thee my servant for a cove­
nant o f the people, to establish the earth, to cause to inherit
the desolate heritages : that thou mayest say to the prisoners,
G o forth; to them that sit in darkness, Shew yourselves.—
They shall feed in the ways, and their pastures shall be in all
high places. They shall not hunger nor thirst, neither shall
the heat nor the sun smite them: for he that hath mercy oo
them shall lead them, even by the springs o f water shall he
guide them. And I will make all my mountains away, and my
highways shall be exalted. And then, O house o f Israel, be­
hold, these shall come from far ; and lo, these from the north
and from the west; and these from the land o f Sinim.
Sing, O Heavens; and be joyful, O earth; for the feet of
them which are in the east shall be established; and break
forth into singing, O mountains: for they shall be smitten no
m ore: for the Lord hath comforted his people, and will have
mercy upon his afflicted. But, behold, Zion hath said, The
Lord hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten m e; but
he will shew that he hath not. F or can a woman forget her
sucking child, that she should not have compassion on the son
o f her w om b'! Yea, they may forget, yet will i not forget thee,
O house o f Israel Behold, I have graven thee upon the palm»
o f my hands; thy walls are continually before me. Thy
children shall make haste against thy destroyers; and they
that made thee waste, shall go forth o f thee.
Lift up thine eyes round about, and behold: all these gather
themselves together, and they shall come to thee. And as I
live, saith the Lord, thou shalt surely clothe thee with them
all, as with an ornament, and bind them on even as a bride.
F or thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land o f thy
destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason o f th*
inhabitants; and they that swallowed thee up, shall he far
away. The children which thou shalt have, after thou hast
lost the other, shall again in thine ears say, The place is too
/straight for m e: give place to me that I may dwell. Then
shalt thou say in thine heart, W ho hath begotten me these,
seeing I have lost my children, and am desolate, a captive, and
removing to and fro ? and who hath brought up these 1 Be­
hold, 1 was left alone; these, where have they been? Thus
saith the Lord God, Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the
Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people: and they
shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be-
36 BlRST BOOK OF NEPHI.
carried upon their shoulders. And kings shall be thy aurstig
lathers, and their queens thy nursing mothers: they shall bow-
down to thee with their face towards the earth, and lick up the
dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I am the Lord;
for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me. For shall the
prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captives delive­
red ? But thus saith the Lord, Even the captives of the mighty
shall be taken away, and the prey o f the terrible shall be de­
livered : for 1will contend with him that contendeth with thee,
and 1 will save thy children. And I will feed them that op­
press thee with their own flesh; they shall be drunken with
their own blood, as with sweet wine: and all flesh shall know
that I the Lord am thy Saviour and thy Redeemer, the mighty
one of Jacob.
CH APTER VII.
A nd now it came to pass that after I, Nephi, after that I
had read these things which were engraven upon the plates of
brass, my brethren came unto me and said unto me, What
meaneth these things which ye have read 1 Behold, are they
to be understood according to things which are spiritual, which
shall come to pass according to the spirit and not the flesh ?
And I, Nephi, sayeth unto them, Behold, they were made ma­
nifest unto the prophet, by the voice o f the spirit: for by the
spirit are all things made known unto the prophet, which shall
come upon the children o f men, according to the flesh. W here-
fore, the things o f which ! have read, are things pertaining to
things both temporal and spritual: for it appears that ihe
House o f Israel, sooner or later, will be scaftered upon all the
face o f the earth, and also among all nations, and before there
are many which are already lost from the knowledge o f they
which are at Jerusalem. Yen, the more part o f all the tribes
have been led away; and they are scattered to and fro up­
on the isles o f the sea: and whither they are, none o f us
knoweth, save that we know that they have been led away.—
And since that they have been led away, these things have been
prophesied concerning them, and also concerning all they which
shall hereafter be scattered and be confounded, because of the
Holy One o f Israel: for against him will they harden their
hearts; wherefore, they shall be scattered among all nations,
P1RST BOOK OP HBPai. 57
and shall be hated by all men. Nevertheless, after lhat they
have been nursed by the Gentiles, and the Lord hath lifted up
his hand upon the Gentile« and set them up for a standard, and
their children shall be carried in their arms, and their daugh­
ters shall be carried upon their shoulder«, behold, these things
o f which are spoken, are temporal: for thus is the covenants
o f the Lord with our fathers; and it meaneth us in the days to
come, and also all our brethren which are of the House of Is­
rael. And it meaneth that the time cometh that after all the
House of Israel have been scattered and confounded, that the
Lord God will raise up a mighty nation among the Gentiles, yea,
even upon the face of this land; and by them shall our seed be
scattered. And after thatour seed is scattered, the Lord God will
proceed to do a marvellous work among the Gentiles, which shall
be o f great worth unto our seed; wherefore, it is likened unto
the being nourished by the Gentiles, and being carried in their
arms, and upon their shoulders. And it shall also be o f worth
unto the Gentiles; and not only unto the Gentiles, but unto
all the House bf Israel, unto the making known o f the cove­
nants o f the Father of Heaven unto Abraham, saying, In thy
seed shall all the kindreds o f the earth be blessed. And I
would, my brethren, that ye should know that all the kindrads
o f the earth cannot be blessed, unless he shall make bare bis
arm in the eyes o f the nations. Wherefore, the Lord God will
proeeed to make bare his arm in the eyes o f all the nations, in
bringing about his covenants and his Gospel, unto they which
are of the House o f Irsael. Wherefore, he will bring them,
again out o f captivity, and they shall be gathered together to
the lands o f their inheritance; and they shall be brought not
of obscurity, and out o f darkness; and they shall know that
the Lord is their Saviour and their Redeemer, the mighty one
of Israel. And the blood of that great and abominable church,
which is the whore of all the earth, shall turn upon their own
heads; for they shall war among themselves, and the sword o f
their own hands shall fall upon their ow n heads, and they shall
be drunken with their own blood. And every nation which
shall war against thee, O house of Israel, shall be turned one
against another, and they shall fall into the pit which they dig­
ged to ensnare the people o f the Lord. And all that fight
against Zion, shall be destroyed. And that great whore, which
hath perverted the right ways of the. Lord ; yea, that great and
abominable church, shall tumble to the dust, and great shall
be the fall of it For behold, saith the prophet, that the time
58 FIRST BOOK OF NBFHt.
cometh speedily, that Satan shall have no more power over
the hearts o f the children o f men: for the day soon cometh,
that all the proud and they which do wickedly, shall be as
stubble; and the day cometh that they must be burned. For
the time soon cometh, that the fulness o f the wrath of God
«hall be poured out upon all the children o f men: for he will
not suffer that the wicked shall destroy the righteous. Where­
fore, he will preserve the righteous by his power, even if it so
he that the fulness o f his wrath must come, and the righteous
he preserved, even unto the destruction o f their enemies by fire.
Wherefore, the righteous need not fear: for thus saith the
frophet, They shall be saved, even if it so be as by fire. Be-
oid, my brethren, I say unto you, that these things must
shortly com e; yea, even blood, and fire, and vapor o f smoke
must come ; and it must needs be upon the face o f this earth;
and it cometh unto men according to the flesh, if it so be that
they will harden their hearts against the Holy One o f ierael:
for behold, the righteous shall not perish; for the time surely
must come, that all they which fight against Zion, shall be cut
off. And the Lord will surely prepare a way for his people,
unto the fulfilling o f the words o f Moses, which he spake, say­
ing : A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you,
like unto m e; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he
shall say unto you. And it shall come to pass that all they
which will not hear that prophet, shall be cut off from among
the people. And now I, Nephi, declare unto you, that this
prophet o f whom Moses spake, was the Holy One o f Israel;
wherefore, he shall execute judgment in righteousness; and
the righteous need not fear, for it is they which shall not be
confounded. But it is the kingdom o f the Devil, which shall
be built up among the children o f men, which kingdom is es-
tablised among them which are in the flesh: for the time spee­
dily shall come, that all churches which are built up to get
gam, and all they which are built up to get power over the
flesh, and they which are built up to become popular in the
eyes o f the world, and they which seek the lusts o f the flesh
and the things o f the world, and to do all manner o f iniquity;
yea, in fine, all they which belong to the kingdom o f the Devil,
it is they which need fear, and tremble, and quake; it is they
which must be brought low in the dust; it is they which must
be consumed as stubbie: and this is according to the words
o f the prophet. And the time cometh speedily, that the right­
eous must be Jed up as calves o f the stall, and the Holy One
FIRST BOOK OF NEPHI. 59
o f Israel must Teign in dominion, and might, and power, and
great glory. And he gathereth his children from the four quar­
ters of the earth; and he numbereth his sheep, and they know
him; and there shall be one fold and one shepherd; and
he shall feed his sheep, and in him they shall find pasture.—
And because of the righteousness o f his people, Satan hath no
pow er; wherefore, he cannot be loosed for the space o f many
years: for he hath no power over the hearts o f the people, for
they dwell in righteousness, and the Holy One o f Israel reign-
eth. And now behold, 1, Nephi, say unto you, that all these
things must come, according to the flesh. But, behold, all na­
tions, kindreds, tongues, and people, shall dwell safely in the
H oly One of Israel, if it so be that they will repent
And now I, Nephi, make an end; for 1 durst not speak fur­
ther as yet, concerning these things. Wherefore, my breth­
ren, I would that ye should «insider that the things which have
been written upon the plates of brass, are true ; and they tes­
tify that a man must be obedient to the commandments o f God.
Wherefore, ye need not suppose that I and my father are the
only ones that have testified, and also taught them. Where­
fore, if ye shall be obedient to the commandments, and endure
to the end, ye shall be saved at the last day. And thus it is.
Amen.
THE SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.
C H A PT E R I.
M
naccount of the death o f Lehi. NephPs brethren rebelletb
against him. The Lord warns Nephi to depart into the
wilderness,fyc. Hisjourneyings in the urildenms, life.
And now it came to pass after I, Nephi, had made an end
o f teaching my brethren, our father, Lehi, also spake many
things unto them: how great things the Lord had done for
them, in bringing them out of the land o f Jerusalem. And he
spake unto them concerning their rebellions upon the waters,
and the mercies o f God in sparing their lives, that they were
not swallowed up in the sea. And he also spake unto them
concerning the land o f promise, which they had obtained : how
merciful the Lord had been in warning as that we should flee
CO SECOND BOOS OP NEPHÏ.
out o f the land o f Jerusalem. For, Behold, saith he, I have
seen a vision, in the which I know that Jerusalem in destroy­
ed ; and had we remained in Jerusalem, vve should also have
perished. But, said he, notwithstanding our afflictions, we
have obtained a land o f promise, a land which is choice above
all other lands; a land which the Lord God hath covenanted
with me should be a land for the inheritance o f my seed. Yea*
the Lord hath covenanted this land unto me, and to my children
forever; and also all they which ehould be led out o f other
countries, by the hand o f the Lord. Wherefore, I, Lehi, prohe-
sy according to the workings o f the spirit which is in me, that
there shall be none come into this land, save they should be
brought by the hand o f the Lord. Wherefore, this "land is con­
secrated unto him whom he shall bring. And if it so be that
they shall serve him according to the commandments which
he hath given, it shall be a land o f liberty unto them; where­
fore, they shall never be brought down into captivity : if so, if
shall be because o f iniquity : for if iniquity shall abound, curs
Bed shall be the land for their sakes; but unto the righteous,
it shall be blessed forever. And behold, it is wisdom that this
land should be kept as yet from the knowledge o f other nations:
for behold, many nations would overrun the land, that there
would be no place for an inheritance. Wherefore, I, Lehi,
have obtained a promise, that inasmuch as they which the
Lord God shall bring out o f the land o f Jerusalem shall keep
his commandments, they shall prosper upon the face o f this
land ; and they shall be kept from all other nations, that they
may possess this land unto themselves. And if it so be that
they shall keep his commandments, they shall be blessed upon
the face o f this land, and there shall be none to molest them,
nor to take away the land o f their inheritance; and they shall
dwell safely forever. But behold, when the time cometh that
they shall dwindle in unbelief, after that they have received so
great blessings from the hand o f the L ord; having a knowl­
edge of the creation o f the earth, and all men knowing the
great and marvellous works o f the Lord from the creation o f
the world ; having power given them to do all things by faith ;
having all the commandments from the beginning, and having
been brought by his infinite goodness into this precious land
o f promise; behold, I say, if the day shall come that they will
reject the Holy One o f Israel, the true Messiah their Redeemer
and their Uod, behold, the judgments o f him that is just, shall
rest upon them; yea, he will bring other nations unto them.
SECOND BOOK OF NEFHI, til
and he will give unto them power, and he will take away from
them the lands of their possessions; and he will eause them to
be scattered and smitten. Ifea, aa one generation passeth to
another, there shall be bloodsheds and great visitations among
them; wherefore, my sons, 1 would that ye would remember;
yea, I would that ye would hearken unto my words. O that
ye would awake, awake from a deep sleep, yea, even from the
sleep o f hell, and shake off the awful chains by which ye are
hound, which are the chains which bind the children o f men,
that they are carried away captive down to the eternal gulf of
misery and w o! Awake! and arise from the dust, and hear
the words o f a trembling parent, whose limbs ye must soon
lay down in the cold and silent grave, from whence no travel­
ler can return: a few more days, and 1 go the way o f all the
earth. But behold, the Lord hath redeemed my soul from
hell: I have beheld his glory, and 1am encirled about eternally
la the arms of his love. And 1desire that yc should remem­
ber to observe the statutes and the judgments o f the Lord :
behold, this hath been the anxiety o f rny soul, from the begin­
ning. My heart hath been weighed down with sorrow from
time to tim e: for 1 have feared, lest for the hardness o f your
hearts, lest the Lord your God should come out in the fulness
of bis wrath, upon you, that ye be cut off and destroyed for­
ever ; or, that a cursing should come upon you, for the space
o f many generations; and ye are visited by sword, and by
famine, and are hated, and are led according to the will and
captivity o f the Devil. O my sons, that these things might
not come upon you, but that ye might be a choice and a fa­
vored people of the Lord. But, behold, his will be done; for
his ways are righteousness forever; and he hath said, that in­
asmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall prosper
in the land; but inasmuch as ye will not keep my command­
ment's, ye shall be cut off from my presence. And now that
my soul might have joy in you, and that my heart might leave
this world with gladness because o f you ; that 1 might not be
brought down with grief and sorrow to the grave, arise from
the dust, my sons, and be men, and be determined in one
mind, and iu one heart united in all things, that ye may not
come down into captivity ; that ye may not be cursed with a
sore cursing; and also, that ye may not incur the displeasure
o f a just God upon you, unto the destruction, yea, the eternal
destruction o f botli soul and body. Awake, rov sons; put on
the armor o f righteousness. Shake off the chains with which
SECOND BOOK OP H8PJU»
ye are bound, and come forth out o f obscurity, and arise from
the dust. Rebel nb more against your brother, whose views
have been glorious, and who hath kept the commandments
from the time that we left Jerusalem, and who hath been an
instrument in the hands o f God, in bringing us forth into the
land o f promise: for were it not for him, we must have per­
ished with hunger in the wilderness ; nevertheless, ye sought
to take away his life; yea, and he hath suffered much sorrow
because o f you. And I exceedingly fear and tremble because
o f you, lest he shall suffer again: for behold, ye have accused
him that he sought power and authority over y ou ; but i know
that he hath not sought for power nor authority over you ; but
he hath sought the glory oi God, and your own eternal wel­
fare. And ye have murmured because he hath been plain un­
to you. Ye say that he hath used sharpness ; ye say that he
hath been angry with you. But behold, his sharpness was the
eliarpness o f the power o f the word o f God, which was in him;
and that which ye call anger, was the truth, according to that
which is in God, which he could not constrain, manifesting
boldly concerning your iniquities. And it must uceds be that
the power o f God must be with hirn, even unto bis comman­
ding you, that ye must obey. But behold, it was not him, but
it was the spirit of the Lord which was in him, which opened
his mouih to utterance, that he could not shut it.
And now my son Laman, and also Lemuel and Sam, and al­
so my sons which are the sons of Ishmael, behold, if ye will
hearken unto the voice o f Nephi, ye shall not perish. And if
ye wdl hearken unto him, I leave unto you a blessing, yea, even
my first blessing. But if ye will not hearken unto him, I take
away my first blessing, yea, even my blessing, and it shall rest
upon him. And now, Zorani, 1speak unto you : Behold, thou
art the servant of Laban; nevertheless, thou hast been brought
out o f the land of Jerusalem, and I know that thou art a true
friend unto my son, Nephi, forever. Wherefore, because thou
hast been faithful, thy seed shall be blessed with his seed, that
they dwell in prosperity long upon the face o f this land; and
nothing, save it shall be iniquity among them, shall harm or
disturb their prosperity upon the face o f this land forever.— ■
Wherefore, if ye shall keep the commandments o f the Lord,
the Lord hath consecrated this land for the security of thy
seed with the seed o f my son. And now, Jacob, I speak unto
you : Thou art my first born in the days o f my tribulation in
the wilderness. And behold, in thy childhood, thou hast suf-
BECONB BOOK OP NF.PHI. 63
fered afflictions and much sorrow, because of the rudeness o f
thy brethren. Nevertheles, Jacob, my first bom in the wil­
derness, thou knowest the greatness o f G od; and he shall con­
secrate thine afflictions for thy gain. W herefore, thy soul shall
be. blessed, and thou shall dwell safely with thy brother, Ne-
ph i; and thy days shall be spent in the service o f thy God.—
Wherefore, I know that thou art reedeemed, because of the
righteousness of thy Redeemer: for thou hast beheld, that in
the fulness of time, he cometh to bring salvation unto men.
And thou hast beheld in thy youth, his glory ; wherefore, thou
art blessed even as they unto whom he shall minister in the
flesh : for the spirit is the same, yesterday, to-day, and for­
ever. And the way is prepared from the fall of man, and sal­
vation is free. And men are instructed sufficiently, that they
know good from evil. And the law is given unto men. And
by the law, no flesh is justified; or, by the law, men are cut
off. Yea, by the temporal law, they weTe cut o ff; and also,
by the spiritual law, they perish from that which m good, and
become miserable forever. Wherefore, redemption cometh in
and through the Holy Messiah: for he is full o f grace and truth.
Behold, he offereth himself a sacrifice for sin, to answer the
ends o f the law, unto all those which have a broken heart and
a contrite spirit; and unto none else can the ends o f the law be
answered. Wherefore, how great the importance to make
these things known unto the inhabitants of the earth, that they
may know that there is no flesh that can dwell in the pres­
ence o f God, save it be through the merits, and mercy, and
grace o f the Holy Messiah, which layeth down his life accor­
ding to the flesh, and taketh it again by the power of the spi­
rit, that he may bring to pass the resurrection o f the dead, be­
ing the first that should rise. Wherefore, he is the first fruits
unto God, inasmuch as he shall make intercession for all the
children of men; and they that believe in him, shall be saved.
And because o f the intercession for all, all men cometh unto
G od; wherefore, they stand in the presence o f Him, to be
judged of Him, according to the truth and holines which is
in Him. Wherefore, the ends o f Ihc law which the Holy One
hath given, unto the inflicting o f the punishment which is af­
fixed, which punishment that is affixed is in opposition to that
of the happiness which is affixed, to answer the ends o f tho
atonement; for it must needs be, that there is an opposition
in all things. If not so, my first bom in the wilderness, right­
eousness could not be brought to pass; neither wickedness;
64 SECOND BOOK OP NEMH.
neither holiness nor misery; neither good nor bad. Where­
fore, all things must needs be a compound in one; wherefore,
if it should be one body, it must neeeds remain as dead, haring
no life, neither death nor corruption, nor incorruption, happi­
ness nor misery, neither sense nor insensibility, W lierei’ore,
it must needs have been created for a thing of nought J where­
fore, there would have been no purpose in the end o f its crea­
tion, Wherefore, this thing must needs destroy the wisdom
o f God, and his eternal purposes; and also, the power, and
the mercy, and the justice o f God. And if ye shall say there
is no law, ye shall also say there is no sin. If ye shall say
there is no sin, ye shall also say there is no righteousness.—
And if there be no righteousness, there be no happiness. And
j f there be no righteousness nor happiness, there be no pun­
ishment nor misery. And if these things are not, there is no
God. And if there is no God, we are not, neither the earth:
for there could have been no creation o f things, neither to act
nor to be acted upon; wherefore, all things must have vanished
away.
And now, my sons, I speak unto you these things, for your
profit and learning: for there is a God, and he hath created
all things, both the heavens and the earth, and all things that in
them is; both things to act, and things to be acted upon; and
to bring about his eternal purposes in the end o f man, after
that he had created our first parents, and the beasts o f tbe
field, and the fowls o f the air, and in fine, all things which are
created, it must needs be that there was an opposition ; even
the forbidden fruit in opposition to the tree o f life; the one be­
ing sweet and the other bitter; wherefore, the Lord God gave
unto roan, that he should act for himself. Wherefore, man
could not act for himself, save it should be that he were enti­
ced by the one or the other.
And I, Lehi, according to the things which I have read, must
needs suppose, that an angel o f God, according to that which
is written, had fallen from Heaven; wherefore, he became a
Devil, having sought that which was evil before God. And
because that he had fallen from Heaven, and had become mis­
erable forever, he sought also the misery of all mankind.—
Wherefore, he sayeth unto Eve, yea, even that old serpent,
which is the Devil, which is the father o f all lie s; wherefore he
sayeth, Partake of the forbidden fruit, and ye shall not die, but
ye shall be as God, knowing good and evil. And after that
Adam and Eve had partaken o f the forbidden fruit, they were
SECOND BOOK OP N8PW. 65
driven out from the garden o f Eden, to till the earth. And
they have brought forth children; yea, even the family o f all
the earth. And the days o f the children o f men were pro­
longed, according to the will o f God, that they might repent
while in the flesh; wherefore, their state became a state o f
probation, and their time was lengthened, according to the
commandments which the Lord God gave unto the children of
men. For he gave commandment that all men must repent;
for he shewed unto all men that they were lost, because of the
transgression o f their parents. And“ now, behold, if Adam had
not transgressed, he would not have fallen; but he would have
remained in the garden o f Eden. And all things which were
created, must have remained in the same state which they
were, after that they were created; and they must have re­
mained forever, and had no end. And they would have had
no children; wherefore, they would have remained in a state
o f innocence, having no joy, for they knew no misery: doing
no good, for they knew no sin. But, behold, all things have
been done in the wisdom o f Him who knoweth all things. Ad­
am fell, that men might b e ; and men are, that they might have
joy. And the Messiah cometh in the fulness o f time, that he
might redeem the children of men from the fall. And because
that they are redeemed from the fall, they have become free
forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves, and
not to be acted upon, save it be by the punishment o f the law,
at the great and last day, according to the commandments
which God hath given. Wherefore, men are free according
to the flesh; and all things are given them which is expedient
unto man. And they are free to choose liberty and eternal
life, through the great mediation o f all men, or to choose cap­
tivity and death, according to the captivity and power o f the
D evil: for he sceketh that all men might be miserable like
unto himself.
And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great
mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be
faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to
the will of his Holy Spirit, and not choose eternal death, ac­
cording to the will o f the flesh and the evil which is therein,
which giveth the spirit o f the Devil power to captivate, to bring
you down to hell, that he may reign over you in his own king­
dom.
1 have spoken these few words unto you all, my sons, in the
last days o f my probation; and I have chosen the good part.
66 SECOND BOOK O
FNBP1
» .
according to the words o f the prophet. And I have none oth­
er object, save it be the everlasting welfare o f your souls.—
Amen.
CH A PTE R II.
And now I speak unto you, Joseph, my last bom. Thou
wast bom in the wilderness o f mine afflictions; yea, in the days
o f my greatest sorrow, did thy mother bear thee. And may
the Lord consecrate also unto thee this land, which is a most
precious land for thine inheritance and the inheritance o f thy
seed with thy brethren, for thy security forever, if it so be thatye
shall keep the commandments of the Holy One o f Israel. And
now, Joseph, my last bom, whom 1have brought out o f the wil­
derness o f mine afflictions, may the Lord bless thee forever, for
thy seed shall not utterly be destroyed. For behold, thou artthe
fruit of my loins; and I am a descendant of Joseph, which was
carried captive into Egypt. And great was the covenants o f the
Lord, which he made unto Joseph; wherefore, Joseph truly saw
our day. And he obtained a promise o f the Lord, that out o f
the fruit o f his loins, the Lord God would raise up a righteous
branch unto the House of Israel; not the Messiah, but a
branch which was to be broken off; nevertheless, to be re­
membered in the covenants of the Lord, that the Messiah
should be made manifest unto them in the latter days, in the
spirit o f power, unto the bringing o f them out o f darkness un­
to light; yea, out of hidden darkness and out of captivity unto
freedom. For Joseph truly testified, saying: A seer shall the
Lord my God raise up, which shall be a choice seer unto the
fruit o f my loins. Yea, Joseph truly said, thus saith the Lord
unto m e: A choice seer will I raise up out o f the fruit o f thy
loins; and he shall be esteemed highly among the fruit o f thy
loins. And unto him will 1 give commandment, that he shall
do a work for the fruit of thy loins, his brethren, which shall
be of great worth unto them, even to the bringing o f them to
the knowledge of the covenants which 1 have made with thy
fathers. And I will give unto him a commandment, that he
shall do none other work, save the work which I shall com­
mand him. And I will make him great in mine eyes: for he
shall do my work. And he shall be great like unto Moses,
whom 1 have said i would raise up unto you, to deliver my
SECOND BOOK OF NEPBI, 61
people, O bouse o f Israel. And Moses will I raise up, to de­
liver thy people out o f the land o f Egypt. But a seer will I
raise up out of the fruit of thy loins; and unto him will 1 give
power to bring forth my word unto the seed o f thy loins; and
not to the bringing forth my word only, saith the Lord, but to
the convincing them of my word, which shall have already
gone forth among them. Wherefore, the fruit o f my loins shall
write; and the fruit of the loins of Judah shall write; and
that which shall be written by the fruit o f thy loins, and also
that which shall be written by the fruit o f the loins o f Judab,
shall grow together, unto the confounding o f false doctrines,
and laying down of contentions, and establishing peace among
the fruit o f thy loins, and bringing them to the knowledge o f
their fathers in the latter days; and also to the knowledge o f
my covenants, saith the Lord. And out of weakness he shall
be made strong, in that day when my work shall commence
among ail my people, unto the restoring thee, O house of Isra­
el, saith the Lord. And thus prophesied Joseph, saying: Be­
hold, that seer will the Lord bless; and they that seek to de­
stroy him, shall be confounded: for this promise, o f which I
have obtained o f the Lord, o f the fruit o f thy loins, shall be ful­
filled. Behold, f am sure of the fulfilling o f this promise. And
his name shall be called after m e; and it shall be after the
name of his father. And he shall be like unto m e; for the
thing which the Lord shall bring forth by his hand, by the
power o f the Lord shall bring my people unto salvation; yea,
thus prophesied Joseph. I am sure o f this thing, even as I
am sure o f the promise of M oses: for the Lord hath said unto
me, 1 will preserve thy seed forever. And the Lord hath said,
I will raise up a M oses; and I will give power unto him in a
rod; and 1will give judgment unto him in writing. Yet I will
not loose his tongue, that he shall speak much : for I will not
make him mighty in speaking. But I will write unto him my
law, by the finger of mine own hand; and I will make a
spokesman for him. And the Lord said unto me also, I will
raise up unto the fruit of thy loins; and I will make for him a
spokesman. And I, behold, 1 will give unto him, that he shall
write the writing o f the fruit of thy loins, unto the fruit of thy
loins; and the spokesman o f thy loins shall declare it. And
the words which he shall write, shall be the words which is
expedient in my wisdom, should go forth unto the fruit of thy
loins, And it shall be as if the fruit o f thy loins had cried unto
them from the dust: for l know their faith. And they shall
5*
68 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.
cry from the dust; yea, even repentance unto their brethren,
even that after many generations have gone by them. And it
shall come to pass that their cry shall go, even according to the
simpleness o f their words. Because o f their faith, their words
shall proceed forth out of my mouth unto their brethren, which
are the fruit of thy loins; and the weakness o f their words
will I make strong in their faith, unto the remembering o f my
covenant which 1 made unto thy fathers.
And now, behold, my eon Joseph, after this manner did my
father o f old prophesy. Wherefore, because of this covenant,
thou art blessed: for thy seed shall not be destroyed, for they
shall hearken unto the words o f the Book. And there shall
raise up one, mighty among them, which shall do much good,
both in word and in deed, being an instrument in the hands o f
God, with exceeding faith, to work mighty wonders, and do
that thing which is great in the sight o f God, unto the bring­
ing to pass much restoration unto the House o f Israel, and unto
the seed o f thy brethren. And now, blessed art thou, Joseph.
Behold, thou art little; wherefore, hearken unto the words o f
thy brother Nephi, and it shall be done unto thee, even accor­
ding to the words which I have spoken. Remember the words
o f thy dying father. Amen.
C H A PT E R III.
And now, I, Nephi, speak concerning the prophecies o f
which my father hath spoken, concerning Joseph, who was
carried into E gypt: For behold, he truly prophesied concer­
ning all his seed. And the prophecies which he wrote, there
are not many greater. And he prophesied concerning us, and
our future generations; and they are written upon the plates
o f brass. Wherefore, after my father had made an end of
speaking concerning the prophecies o f Joseph, he called the
children o f Laman, his sons, and his daughters, and sayeth
unto them, Behold, my sons, and my daughters, which are the
sons and the daughters o f my first born, I would that ye should
give ear unto my w ords: for the Lord God bath said, Thai
inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments, ye shall pros­
per in the land; and inasmuch as ye will not keep my com­
mandments, ye shall he cut off from my presence. But be­
hold, my sons and my daughters, I cannot go down to my
SECOND BOOK OP NEFHI,
grave, save I should leave a blessing upon you : For behold,
l know that if ye are brought up in the right way that ye should
go, ye will not depart from it. Wherefore, if ye are cursed,
behold, I leave my blessing upon you, that the cursing may be
taken from you, and be answered upon the heads o f your pa­
rents. Wherefore, because o f my blessing, the Lord God will
not suffer that ye shall perish; wherefore, he will be merciful
unto you, and unto your seed, forever.
And it came to pass that after my father had made an end
o f speaking to Che sons and daughters o f Laman, he caused the
sons and daughters of Lemuel to be brought before him. And
he spake unto them, saying: Behold, my sons and my daugh­
ters, which are the sons and the daughters o f my second son ;
behold, 1 leave unto you the same blessing which 1 left unto
the sons and daughters of Laman; wherefore, thou shalt not
utterly be destroyed; but in the end, thy seed shall be blessed.
And it came to pass that »'hen my father had made an end
o f speaking unto them, behold, it came to pass that he spake
unto the sons of Ishmael, yea, and even all hie household. And
after that he had made an end o f speaking unto them, he spake
unto Sam, saying: Blessed art thou, and thy seed: for thou
shalt inherit the land, like unto thy brother, Nephi, And thy
seed shall be numbered with his seed; and thou shalt be even
like unto thy brother, and thy seed like unto bis seed; and
thou shalt be blessed in all thy days.
And it came to pass that after Lehi had spake unto all his
household, according to the feelings of his heart, and the spirit
o f the Lord which was in him, he waxed old. And it came to
pass that he died, and was buried.
And it came to pass that not many days after his death,
Laman and Lemuel, and the sons o f Ishmael, were angry with
me, because o f the admonitions of the L ord; for I, Nephi, was
constrained to speak unto them, according to the word. For
1 had spake many things unto them, and also my father, before
his death; many o f which sayings, are written upon mine
other plates: for a more history part are written upon mine
other plates. And upon these, I write the things o f my soul,
and many o f the Scriptures which are engraven upon the
plates of brass: For my soul deliteth in the Scriptures; and
my heart pondereth them, and writeth them for the learning
and the profit o f my children. Behold, my soul delighteih in
the things o f the L ord; and my heart pondereth continually
upon the things which I have seen and heard. Nevertheless,
70 SECOND BOOK OP NEPIU.
notwithstanding the great goodness of the Lord, in shewing
me his great and marvellous works, my heart exclaimeth, O
wretched man that I am ; yea, my heart sorroweth, because o f
my flesh. My soul grieveth, because o f mine iniquities. I
am encompassed about, because o f the temptations and the
sins which doth so easily beset me. And when I desire to
rejoice, my heart groaneth because o f my sins; nevertheless,
I know in whom I have trusted. My God hath been my sup­
port ; he hath led me through mine afflictions in the wilder­
ness ; and he hath preserved me upon the waters o f the great
deep. He hath tilled me with his love, even unto the consu­
ming o f my flesh. He hath confounded mine enemies, unto
the causing o f them to quake before me. Behoid, he hath
heard my cry by day, and he hath given me knowledge by
visions in the night time. And by day have I waxed bold in
mighty prayer before him; yea, my voice have I sent upon,
high; and angels came down and ministered unto me. And
upon the wings o f his spirit hath my body been carried away
upon exceeding high mountains. And mine eyes hath beheld
great things; yea, even too great for man; therefore 1 was
bidden that I should not write them. O then, if I have seen
so great things; if the Lord in his condescension unto the
children o f men, hath visited men in so much mercy, why
should my heart weep, and my soul linger in the valley o f sor­
row, and my flesh waste away, and my strength slacken, be­
cause o f mine afflictions ? And why should 1 yield to sin, be­
cause o f my flesh ? Yea, why should I give way to tempta­
tions, that the evil one have place in my heart, to destroy my
peace and afflict my soul'! W hy am I angry because o f mine
enemy 1 Awake, my soul! No longer droop in sin. Rejoice
O my heart, and give place no more for the enemy o f my soul.
D o not anger again, because o f mine enemies. D o not slacken
my strength, because o f mine afflictions. Rejoice, O my heart,
and cry unto the Lord, and say, O Lord, I will praise thee
forever; yea, my soul will rejoice in thee, my God, and the
rock o f my salvation. O Lord, wilt thou redeem my ¡«nil ?
Wilt thou deliver me out o f the hands o f mine enemies ? Wilt
thou make me that 1 may shake at the appearance o f sin ?
May the gates o f hell be shut continually before me, because
that my heart is broken and my spirit is contrite? 0 Lord,
wilt thou not shut the gates o f thy righteousness before me,
that 1 may walk in the path o f the low valley, that I may be
strict in the plain road ? O Lord, wilt thou encircle me around
SECOND BOOK OP SEPHt. n
in the robe o f thy righteousness 1 O Lord, wilt thou make a
way for mine escape before mine enemies ? W ilt thou make
my path straight before me? W ilt thou not place a stumbling
block in my way? But that thou wouldst clear my way before
me, and hedge not up my way, but the ways o f mine enemy.
O Lord, I hare trusted in thee, and I will trust in thee fore­
ver. 1 will not put my trust in the arm o f flesh ; for I know
that cursed is he that putteth his trust in the arm of flesh.—
Yea, cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh
his arm. Yea, I know that God will give liberally to him that
asketh. Yea, my God will give me, if I ask not am iss: there­
fore 1 will lift up my voice unto thee; yea, I will cry unto
thee, my God, the rpck o f my righteousness. Behold, my
voice shall forever ascend up unto thee, my rock and mine
everlasting God. Amen.
C H A P T E R IV.
Behold, it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cry much unto
the Lord my G od, because o f the. anger o f my brethren. But
behold, their anger did increase against me, insomuch that
they did seek to take away my life. Yea, they did murmur
against me, saying: Our younger brother thinketb to rule over
us ; and we have had much trial because o f him ; wherefore,
now let us slay him, that we may not be afflicted more because
o f his words. For behold, we will not that he shall be our
ruler : for it belongeth unto us, which are the elder brethren,
to rule over this people. Now I do not write upon these
plates, all the words which they murmured against me. But
it sufiiceth me to say, that they did seek to take away my life.
And it came to pass that the Lord did warn me, that 1, Ne­
phi, should depart from them, and flee into the wilderness,
and all they which would go with me. Wherefore, it came
to pass that I, Nephi, did take my family, and also Zoram and
his family, and Sam, mine elder brother, and his family, and
Jacob and Joseph, my younger brethren, and also my sisters,
and all they which would go with me. And ail they which
would go with me, were they which believed in the warnings
and the revelations of G o d ; wherefore, they did hearken unto
my words. And we did take our tents and whatsoever things
were possible for us, and did journey in the wilderness for the
SECOND DOOK OF NEPHI.
72
space o f many days. And after that we had joumied for the
space o f many days, we did pitch our tents. And my people
would that we should call the name o f the place Nephi; where­
fore, we did call it Nephi. And all they which were with me,
did take it upon them to call themselves the people o f Nephi.
And we did observe to keep the judgments, and the statutes,
and the commandments o f the Lord, in all things, according
to the law o f Moses. And the Lord was with u s; and we
did prosper exceedingly: for we did sow seed, and we did
reap again in abundance. And we began to raise flocks, and
herds, and animals o f every kind. And 1, Nephi, had also
brought the records which were engraven upon the plates o f
brass; and also the ball, or compass, which was prepared for
my father, by the hand o f the Lord, according to that which is
written.
And it came to pass that we began to prosper exceedingly,
and to multiply in the land. And I, Nephi, did take the sword
o f Laban, and after the manner of it did make many swords,
lest by any means the people which were now called Laman-
ites, should come upon us and destroy u s: for 1 knew their
hatred towards me and my children, and they which were
called my people. And 1 did teach my people, that they
should build buildings; and that they should work in all man­
ner o f wood, and o f iron, and o f copper, and o f brass, and o f
steel, and o f gold, and o f silver, and o f precious ores, which
were in great abundance. And I, Nephi, did build a temple;
and I did construct it after the manner o f the temple o f Solo­
mon, save it were not built o f so many precious things: for
they were not to be found upon the land; wherefore, it could
not be built like unto Solomon’s temple. But the manner o f
the construction was like unto the temple o f Solom on; and
the workmanship thereof was exceeding line.
And it came to pass that I, Nephi, did cause my people that
they should be industrious, and that they should labor with
their hands. And it came to pass that they would that 1should
be their King. But I, Nephi, was desirous that they should
have no King; nevertheless, I did do for them according to
that which was in my power. And behold, the words o f the
Lord had been fiulfilled unto my brethren, which he spake
concerning them, that I should be their ruler and their teacher;
wherefore, I had been their ruler and their teacher, according
to the commandments o f the Lord, until the time that they
sought to take away my life. Wherefore, the word o f the
SECOSD BOOK OP NEPHt. 73
Lord was fulfilled which he spake unto me, saying: That in­
asmuch as they will not hearken unto thy words, they shall
be cut off from the presence of the Lord. And behold, they
were cut off from his presence. And he had caused the cur­
sing to come upon them, yea, even a sore cursing, because of
their iniquity. For behold, they bad hardened their hearts
against him, that they had become like unto a hint; where­
fore, as they were white, and exceeding fair and delightsome,
that they might not be enticing unto my people, therefore the
Lord God did cause a skin o f blackness to come upon them.
And thus saith the Lord God, I will cause that they shall be
loathsome unto thy people, save they shall repent of their ini­
quities. And cursed shall he the seed o f him that rnixeth with
their seed: for they shall be cursed even with the same cur­
sing. And the Lord spake it, and it was done. And because
of their cursing which was upon them, they did become an idle
people, full of mischief and subtlety, and did seek in the wil­
derness for beasts o f prey. And the Lord God said unto me,
they shall be a scourge unto thy seed, to stir them up in re­
membrance o f m e; and inasmuch as they will not remember
me, and hearken unto my words, they shall scourge them even
unto destruction.
And it came to pass that 1, Nephi, did consecrate Jacob and
Joseph, that they should be priests and teachers over the land
of my people. And it came to pass that we lived after the
manner of happiness. And thirty years had passed away
from -the time we left Jerusalem. And 1, Nephi, had kept the
records upon my plates, which I had made o f my people thus
far.
And it came to pass that the Lord God said unto me, Make
other plates; and thou shalt engraven many things upon them
which are good in my sight, for the profit of thy people.—
Wherefore, I, Nephi, to be obedient to the commandments o f
the Lord, went and made these plates upon which l have en­
graven these things. And I engravened that which is pleasing
unto God. And if my people be pleased with the things o f
God, they be pleased with mine engravings which are upon
these plates. And if my people desire to know the more par­
ticular part of the history o f my people, they must search mine
other plates. And it sufficeth me to say, that forty years had
passed away, and we had already had wars and contentions
with our brethren.
74 SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI.
C H A P T E R V.
Tire words o f Jacob, the brother o f Nephi, which he spake
unto the people o f Nephi: Behold, my beloved brethren, that
I, Jacob, having been called o f G od, and ordained after the
manner o f his holy order, and having been consecrated by my
brother, Nephi, unto whom ye look as a king or a protector,
and on whom ye depend for safety, behold, ye know that I
have spoken unto you exceeding many things; nevertheless, I
apeak unto you again: for I am desirous for the welfare o f
your souls. Yea, mine anxiety is great for y o u ; and ye your­
selves know that it ever has been. For 1 have exhorted you
with all diligence; and J have taught you the words o f my fa­
ther ; and I have spoken unto you concerning all things which
are written from the creation o f the world.
And now, behold, 1 would speak unto you concerning things
which are, and which are to com e; wherefore, 1will read you
the words o f Isaiah. And they are the words which my broth­
er hath desired me that I should speak unto you. And l speak
them unto you for your sakes, that ye may learn and glorify
the name o f your God. And now, the words which I shall read,
are they which Isaiah spake concerning all the House o f Is­
rael ; wherefore, they may be likened unto you : for ye are o f
the House o f Israel. And there are many things which have
been spoken by Isaiah, which may be likened unto you, be­
cause that ye are o f the House o f Israel.
And now, these are the w ord s: Thus saith the Lord G od :
Behold, 1 will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my
standard to the people; and they shall bring thy sons in their
arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.
And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy
nursing mothers: they shall bow down to thee with their fa­
ces towards the earth, and lick up the dust o f thy feet; and
thou shall know that I am the L o rd : for they shall not be
ashamed that wait for me.
And now I, Jacob, would speak somewhat concerning these
w ords: F or behold, the Lord hath shewn me that they which
were at Jerusalem, from whence we came, have been slain
and carried away captive; nevertheless, the Lord hath shewn
unto me that they should return again. And he also hath
shewn unto roe, that the Lord God, the Holy One o f Israel,
should manifest himself unto them in the flesh ; and after that
b e should manifest himself, they should scourge him and era-
SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI. 75
cify him, according to the words of the angel, which spake it
unto me. And after that they have hardened their hearts and
stiffened their necks against the Holy One of Israel, behold,
the judgments o f the Holy One o f Israel shall come upon
them. And tire day cometh that they shall be smitten and af­
flicted. Wherefore, after they are driven to and fro, for thus
saith the angel, many shall be afflicted in the flesh and shall
not be suffered to perish, because o f the prayers of the faithful:
wherefore, they shall be scattered, and smitten, and hated;
nevertheless, the Lord will be merciful unto them, that when
they shall come to the knowledge o f their Redeemer, they
shall be gathered together again to the lands of their inheri­
tance.
And blessed are the Gentiles, they o f whom the prophet
hath written: for behold, if it so be that they shall repent and
fight not against Zion, and do not unite themselves to that great
and abominable church, they shall be saved: for the Lord
God will fulfil his covenants which he hath made unto his
children; and for this cause, the prophet hath written these
things. Wherefore, they that fight against Zion and the cove­
nant people o f the Lord, shall lick up the dust o f their feet;
and the people o f the Lord shall not be ashamed. For the
people o f the Lord are they which wait for him : for they still
wait for the coming o f the Messiah. And behold, according
to the words o f the prophet, the Messiah will set himself again
the second time, to recover them; wherefore, he will manifest
himself unto them in power and great glory, unto the destruc­
tion o f their enemies, when that day cometh when they shall
believe in him; and none will he destroy that believeth in him.
And they that believe not in him, shall be destroyed, both by
fire, and by tempest, and by earthquakes, and by bloodsheds,
and by pestilence, and by famine. And they shall know that
the Lord is God, the Holy One o f Israel: for shall the prey
be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive delivered ?
But thus saith the L ord: Even the captives o f the mighty shall
be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered:
for the Mighty God shall deliver his covenant people. For
thus saith the Lord : I will contend with them that contendetb
with thee, and 1 will feed them that oppress thee, with their
own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood,
as with sweet w ine; and all flesh shall know that I the Lord
am thy Saviour and thy Redeemer, the Mighty One o f Jacob.
Yea, for thus saith the Lord: Have I put thee away, or have I
76 SECOND BOOK OP NEPHS.
cast thee off forever ? For thus saith the L ord: Where is the
hill of your mother’s divorcement? T o whom have I put thee
away, or to vvhich o f my creditors have I sold you? Yea, to
whom have I sold you ? Behold, for your iniquities have ye
sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother
put away; wherefore, when 1 come, there was no man; when
I called, yea, there was none to answer.
O House o f Israel, is my hand shortened at all that it can­
not redeem, or have I no power to deliver? Behold, at my re­
buke, I dry up the sea, I make their rivers a wilderness and
their fish to stink, because the waters are dried u p ; and they
die because o f thirst. I clothe the heavens with blackness,
and 1 make sackcloth their covering. The Lord God hath
given me the tongue o f the learned, that I should know how to
speak a word in season unto thee, O House o f Israel. When
ye are weary, he waketh morning by morning. He waketh
mine ear to near as the learned. The Lord God hath appoint­
ed mine ear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned away
back. 1 gave my back to the smiter, and my cheeks to them
that plucked off the hair. I hid not my face from shame and
spitting, for the Lord God will help me : therefore shall I not
he confounded. Therefore have I set my face like a flint,
and I know that 1shall not he ashamed; and the Lord is near,
and he justifieth me. W ho will contend with me? let us stand
together. W ho is mine adversary ? let him come near me, and
I will smite him with the strength o f my mouth: for the Lord
God will help me. And all they which shall condemn me, be­
hold, all they shall wax old as a garment, and the moth shall
cat them up.
W ho is among you that feareth the L ord ; that obeyeth the
voice o f his servant; that walketh in darkness, and hath no
light ? Behold, all ye that kindleth fire, that compass your­
selves about with sparks: walk in the light o f your fire, and in
the sparks which ye have kindled. This shall ye have o f mine
hand: Ye shall lie down in sorrow. Hearken unto me, ye
that follow after righteousness: Look unto the rock from
whence ye are hewn, and to the hole o f the pit from whence
ye are digged. Look unto Abraham, your father; and unto
Sarah, she that bare you : for I called him alone, and blessed
him. For the Lord shall comfort Zion : he will comfort all
her waste plaees; and he will make her wildcmesss like Eden,
and her desert like the garden o f the Lord, Joy and gladness
shall be found therein, thanksgiving and the voice o f melody.
SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI. 77
Hearken unto me, my people; and give ear unto me, O my
nation : for a law shall proeeed from me, and I will make my
judgment to rest for a light thing o f the people. My right­
eousness is near; my salvation is gone forth, and mine arm
shall judge the people. The isles shall wait upon me, and
on mine arm shall they trust. Lift up your eyes to the heav­
ens, and look upon the earth beneath: for the heavens shall
vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a
garment; and they that dwell therein, phall die in like manner.
But my salvation shall be forever; and my righteousness
shall not be abolished.
Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the people
in whose heart I have written my law ; fear ye not the reproach
o f m en; neither be ye afraid o f their revilings : for the moth
shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall eat them
like wool. But my righteousness shall be forever; and my
salvation from generation to generation.
Awake, awake! Put on strength O arm o f the Lord : awake
as in the ancient days. Art thou not it that hath cut Rahab,
and wounded the dragon 1 Art thou not it which hath dried
the sea, the waters o f the great d eep ; that hath made the
depths o f the sea a way for the ransomed to pass over? There­
fore, the redeemed o f the Lord shall return, and com e with
singing unto Z io n ; and everlasting joy and holiness shall be
upon their heads ; and they shall obtain gladness and j o y : sor­
row and mourning shall flee away. I am h e ; yea, I atn he
that comforteth y o u : Behold, who art thou, that thou shouldsf
be afraid o f man, which shall die, and o f the Soh o f man,
which shall be made like unto grass; and forge-test the Lord
thy maker, that hath stretched forth the heavens, and laid the
foundations o f the earth; and hast feared continually every
day, because o f the fury o f the oppressor, as if h e were
ready to destroy? And where is the fury o f the oppressor?
The captive exile hasteneth, that he may be loosed, and that
lie should not die in the pit, nor that his bread should fail.—
But I am the Lord thy God, whose waves roared: the Lord
o f Hosts is my name. And I have put my words in thy mouth,
and hath covered thee in the shadow o f mine hand, that 1may
plant the heavens and lay the foundations o f the earth, and
say unto Zion, Behold, thou art my people. Awake, awake,
stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the hand o f the
Lord the cup o f his fury; thou hast drunken the dregs o f the
cup o f trembling rung ou t; and none to guide her among all the
78 SECOND BOOK OP NEPIU.
sons she hath brought forth ; neither that taketh her by the
hand, o f all the eons she hath brought up. These two sons
are come unto thee ; w ho shall be sorry for thee! thy deso­
lation and destruction, and the famine and the sword: And
by whom shall 1 comfort thee 1 Thy sons have fainted, save
these tw o : they lie at the head o f all the streets, as a wild
bull in a n et: they are full o f the fury o f the Lord, the re­
buke o f thy God.
Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, and
not with w in e: thus saith thy Lord, The Lord and thy God
pleadeth the cause o f his people, Behold, I have taken out o f
thine hand the cup o f trembling, the dregs o f the cup o f my
fury ; thou shalt no more drink it again. But I will put it in­
to the hand o f them that afflict th ee; which I said to thy
soul, Bow down, that we may go ov er: and thou hast laid thy
body as the ground, and as the street, to them that went over.
Awake, awake, put on thy strength, 0 Z io n ; put on thy
beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city : for hence­
forth there shall no more com e into thee, the uncircumcised
and the unclean. Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit
down, O Jerusalem: loose thyself from the bands of thy neck,
O captive daughter o f Zion.
C H A P T E R VI.
And now, my beloved brethren, I have read these things
that ye might know concerning the covenants o f the L o r d ;
that he hath covenanted with all the House o f Israel; that he
hath spoken unto the Jews, by the mouth o f his holy prophets,
even from the beginning down, from generation to generation,
until the time cometh that they shall be restored to the true
Church and fold o f G o d ; when they shall be gathered home
to the lands o f their inheritance, and shall he established in all
their lands o f promise.
Behold, toy beloved brethren, I speak unto you these things
that ye may rejoice, and lift up your heads forever, because
o f the blessings which the Lord God shall bestow upon your
children. F or I know that thou hast searched much, many
o f you, to know o f things to com e; wherefore I know that ye
know that our flesh must waste away and die ; nevertheless,
in our bodies, we shall see God. Yea, and I know that ye
SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI. 79
know, that in the body he shall shew himself unto they at Je-
resalem, from whence we ca m e; for it is expedient that it
should be among them ; for it behoveth the Great Creator that
he suffereth himself to become subject unto man, in the flesh,
and die for all men, that all men might become subject unto
him. F or as death bath passed upon all men, to fulfil the
merciful plan o f the Great Creator, there must needs be a
power o f resurrection, and the resurrection must needs com e
unto man by reason o f the fall; and the fall came by reason
o f transgression; and because man became fallen, they were
cut off from the presence o f the L ord; wherefore it must
needs be an infinite atonement; save it should be an infinite
atonement, this corruption could not put on incorruption.
Wherefore, the first judgment which came upon man, must
needs have remained to an endless duration. And if so, this
flesh must have laid down to rot and to crumble to its mother
earth, to rise no more,
O the wisdom o f G od! his mercy and grace! F or be­
hold, if the flesh should rise no more, our spirits must become
subject to that Angel which fell from before the presence o f
the Eternal God, and became, the Devil, to rise no more. And
our spirits must have become like unto him, and we become
Devils, Angels to a Devil, to be shut out from the pres­
ence o f our God, and to remain with the father o f lies, in mis­
ery, like unto himself; yea, to that being who beguiled our
first pareuts; who transformed) himself nigh unto an angel o f
light, and stirreth up the children o f men unto secret com­
binations o f murder, and all manner o f Becret works o f
darkness.
O how great the goodness o f our God, who prepared) a
way for our escape from the grasp o f this awful monster;
yea, that monster, death and hell, which 1 call the death o f the
body, and also the death o f the Bpirit And because o f the
way o f deliverance o f our God, the Holy One o f Israel, this
death, o f which 1 have spoken, which is the temporal, shall
deliver up its dead ; which death is the grave. And this death
o f which 1 have spoken, which is the spiritual death, shall de­
liver up its dead ; which spiritual death is h ell; wherefore,
death and hell must deliver up its dead, and hell must deliver
up its captive spirits, and the grave must deliver up its cap­
tive bodies, and the bodies and the spirits o f men will be re­
stored, one to the other: and it is by the pow er o f the resur­
rection o f the Holy One o f Israel.
80 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.
O how great the plan o f our G o d ! For on the other
hand, the paradise o f God must deliver up the spirits o f the
righteous, and the grave deliver up the body of the righteous;
and the spirit and the body is restored to itself again, and all
men become incorruptible, and immortal, and they are living
souls, having a perfect knowledge like unto us, in the flesh;
save it be that our knowledge shall be perfect; wherefore, we
shall have a perfect knowledge o f all our guilt, and our un­
cleanness, and our nakedness; and the righteous shall have a
perfect knowledge o f their enjoyment, and their righteousness,
being clothed with purity, yea, even with the robe o f right­
eousness.
And it shall com e to pass, that when all men shall have
passed from this first death unto life, insomuch as they have
become immortal, they must appear before the judgment seat
o f the Holy One o f Israel; and then cometh the judgment,
and then must they be judged according to the holy judgment
of God. And assuredly, as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God
hath spoken it, and it is his eternal word, which cannot pass
away, that they which are righteous, shall be righteous still,
and they which are filthy, shall be filthy still; wherefore,
they which are filthy, are the Devil and bis angels; and they
shall go away into everlasting fire, prepared for them ; and
their torment is a lake o f fire and brimstone, whose flames
ascendeth up forever and ever, and hath no end.
O the greatness and the justice o f our God ! For he exe-
cuteth all his words, and they have gone forth out o f his
mouth, and his law must be fulfilled. But, behold, the right­
eous, the saints o f the Holy One of Israel, they which have
believed in the Holy One o f Israel; they which have endured
the crosses o f the world, and despised the shame o f i t ; they
shall inherit the Kingdom o f God, which was prepared for
them from the foundation o f the world : and their jo y shall be
full forever.
O the greatness o f the mercy o f our God, the H oly
One o f Israel! F or he delivereth his saints from that awful
monster, the Devil, and death and hell, and that lake o f fire
and brimstone, which is endless torment.
O how great the holiness o f our God ! For he knoweth
all things, and there is not any thing, save he know it. And
he cometh into the world that he may save all men, if they
will hearken unto his voice: for behold, he suffereth the pains
o f all m en; yea, the pains o f every living creature, both men.
SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI. 81
■women and children, which belong to the family o f Adam.—
And lie suffereth this, that the resurrection might pass upon all
men, that all might stand before him, at the great and judg­
ment day. And he commandeth all men that they must re­
pent, and be baptised in his name, having perfect faith in the
Holy One o f Israel, or they cannot be saved in the Kingdom
o f God. And if they will not repent and believe in his name,
and be baptised in his name, and endure to the end, they must
be damned ; for the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, hath
spoken it ; wherefore he hath given a law ; and where there
is no law given, there is no punishment; and where there is
no punishment, there is no condemnation; and where there is
no condemnation, the mercies o f the Holy One o f Israel hath
claim upon them, because o f the atonement: for they are de­
livered by the power o f him : for the atonement satisfieth the
demands o f his justice upon all those who have not the law
given to them, that they are delivered from that awful mon­
ster, death and hell, and the Devil, and the lake o f fire and
brimstone, which is endless torment; and they are restored
to that God who gave them breath, which is the Holy one
o f Israel.
But wo unto him that hath the law given; yea, that hath all
the commandments of God, like unto us, and that transgress-
eth them, and that wasteth the days o f his probation: for aw­
ful is his state!
O that cunning plan o f the evil one! O the vainness, and
the frailties, and the foolishness o f m en! When they are
learned, they think they are wise, and they hearken not unto
the counsel o f God, for they set it aside, supposing they
know o f themselves. Wherefore, their wisdom is foolishness,
and it profitetb them not. Wherefore they shall perish.
But to be learned is good, if it so be that they hearken unto
the counsels o f God. But wo unto the rich, which are rich
as to the things o f the world. For because that they are rich,
they despise the poor, and they persecute the meek, and their
hearts are upon their treasures; wherefore their treasure is
their God. And behold, their treasure shall perish with them
also. And wo unto the deaf, that will not hear: for they shall
perish. W o unto the blind, that will not see : for they shall
perish also. W o unto the uncircumcised o f heart: for a
knowledge of their iniquities shall smite them at the last day.
W o unto the liar: for he shall be thrust down to hell. W o
unto the murderer, who deliberately killeth: for he shall die,
6
62 SECOND BOOK OF NEFMI.
W o unto them who commit whoredoms: for they shall be
thrust down to hell. Yea, wo unto they that worship Idols:
for the Devil o f all Devils delighteth in them. And, in fine, wo
unto all they that die in their sins: for they shall return to
G od, and behold his face, and remain in their sins.
0 , ray beloved brethren, remember the awfulness in trans­
gressing against that holy God, and also the awfulness o f yiel­
ding to the enticings o f that cunning one. Remember, to be
carnally minded, is death, and to be spiritually minded, is life
eternal.
O , my beloved brethren, give ear to my words. Remember
the greatness o f the Holy One o f Israel. Do not say that I
have spoken hard things against you : for if ye do, ye will re­
vile against the truth: for I have spoken the words o f your
Maker. 1 know that the words of truth are hard against all
uncleanness ; but the righteous fear it not, for they love the
truth, and are not shaken.
O then, my beloved brethren, come unto the Lord, the Holy
One. Remember that his paths are righteousness. Behold,
the way for man is narrow, but it lieth in a straight course be­
fore him, and the keeper o f the gate is the Holy One o f Israel:
and he employeth no servant there; and there is none other
way, save it be by the gate, for he cannot be deceived; for the
Lord God is his name. And whoso knocketh, to him will he
open, and the wise, and the learned, and they that are rich,
which are puffed up because o f their learning, and their wis­
dom, and their riches; yea, they are they, whom he despiseth;
and save they shall cast these things away, and consider them­
selves fools before God, and com e down in the depths o f hu­
mility, he will not open unto them. But the things o f the wise
and the prudent, shall be hid from them forever; yea, that hap­
piness which is prepared for the Saints. O my beloved breth­
ren, remember my w ords: Behold, 1 take off my garments,
and I shake them before y ou : I pray the God o f my salvation
that he view me with his AU-searching e y e ; wherefore, ye
shall know at the last day, when all men shall be judged o f
their works, that the God of Israel did witness that I shook
your iniquities from my sold, and that I stand with brightness
before him, and am rid o f your blood.
O my beloved brethren, tuns away from your sins; shake
off the chains o f him that would bind you fast; come unto
that God which is the rock o f your salvation. Prepare your
souls for that glorious day, when justice shall be administered
SECOND BOOK OF NEPH1. 83
unto the righteous; even the day o f judgment, that ye may not
shrink with awful fear; that ye may not remember your awful
guilt in perfectness, and be constrained to exclaim, Holy, ho­
ly are thy judgments, O Lord God Almighty. But I know my
guilt; I transgressed thy law, and my transgressions are mine;
and the Devil hath obtained me, that 1 am a prey to his aw­
ful misery. But behold, my brethren, is it expedient that I
should awake you to an awful reality o f these things! Would
I harrow up your souls, if your minds were pure 1 Would I
he plain unto you according to the plainness of the truth, if ye
were freed from sin 1 Behold, if ye were holy, 1 would speak
unto you of holiness; but as ye are not holy, and ye look upon
me as a teacher, it must needs be expedient that 1 teach you
the consequences o f sin. Behold, my soul abhorreth sin, and
my heart delighteth in righteousness; and I will praise the
holy name o f my God. Come, my brethren, every one that
thirsteth, come ye to the waters; and he that hath no money,
come buy and ea t; yea, come buy wine a n d milk without mo­
ney and without price. Wherefore, do not spend money for
that which is o f no worth, nor your labor for that which can­
not satisfy. Hearken diligently unto me, and remember the
words which 1 have spoken ; and come unto the Holy One o f
Israel, and feast upon that which perisheth not neither can be
corrupted, and let your soul delight in fatness. Behold, my
beloved brethren, remember the words o f your G od ; pray
unto him continually by day, and give thanks unto his holy
name by night. Let your heartB rejoice, and behold how great
the covenants o f the Lord, and how great his condeseentions
unto the children of men; and because of his greatness, and
his grace and mercy, he hath promised unto us that our seed
shall not utterly be destroyed, according to the flesh, but that
he would preserve them; and in future generations, they shall
become a righteous branch unto the House o f Israel.
And now, my brethren, I would speak unto you more ; but
on the morrow 1 will declare unto you the remainder o f my
words. Amen.
CH A PTE R \TI.
An» now I, Jacob, speak unto you again, my beloved breth­
ren, concerning this righteous branchof which I have spoken.
6*
84 9KC0NB BOOK OP NJBPHI,
F or behold, the promises which we hare obtained, are promi­
ses unto us according to the flesh ; wherefore, as it hath been
shown unto me that many o f our children shall perish in the
flesh, because o f unbelief, nevertheless, God will be merciful
unto many; and our children shall be restored, that they may
come to that which will give them the true knowledge o f their
Redeemer. Wherefore, as I said unto you, it must needs be
expedient that Christ, ( for in the last night the Angel spake
unto me that this should be his name,) should come among
the Jews, among they which are the more wicked part o f the
w orld; and they shall crucify him: For thus it behooveth
our G o d ; and there is none other nation on earth that would
crucify their God. For should the mighty miracles be «Taught
among other nations, they would repent, and know that he be
their G o d ; but because o f priest-crafts and iniquities, they at
Jerusalem will stiffen their necks against him, that he be cru­
cified. Wherefore, because o f their iniquities, destructions,
families, pestilences, and bloodsheds, shall come upon them;
and they which shall not he destroyed, shall be scattered
among all nations.
But behold, thus saith the Lord G od : When the day com-
eth that they shall believe in me, that 1 am Christ, then have
I covenanted with their fathers that they shall be restored in
the flesh, upon the earth, unto the lands o f their inheritance.
And it shall come to pass that they shall be gathered in from
their long dispersion, from the isles o f the sea, and from the
four parts o f the earth; and the nations o f the Gentiles shall
be great in the eyes o f me, saith God, in carrying them forth
to the lands o f their inheritance. Yea, the kings o f the Gen­
tiles shall be nursing fathers unto them, and their queens shall
become nursing mothers; wherefore, the promises o f the Lord
are great unto the Gentiles: for he hath spoken it, and who can
dispute. But behold, This land, saith God, shall be a land
o f thine inheritance; and the Gentiles shall be blessed upon
the land. And this land shall be a land of liberty unto the
Gentiles; and there shall be no kings upon the land, which
shall raise up unto the Gentiles. And I will fortify this land
against all other nations; and he that fighteth against .Zion,
shall perish, saith G o d : for he that raiseth up a king against
me, shall perish. For I the Lord, the King o f Heaven, will bo
their king; and I will be a light unto them forever, that hear
my words. Wherefore, for this cause, that my covenants may
be fulfilled, which I have made unto the children o f men. that
SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI. 85
I will do unto them while they are in the flesh, I must needs
destroy the secret works o f darkness, and o f murders, and of
abominations; wherefore, he that fighteth against Zion, both
Jew and Gentile, both bond and free, both male and female,
shall perish: for they are they which are the whore of all the
earth ; for they which are not for me, are against me, saith our
God. For I will fulfil my promises which I have made unto
the children of men, that i will do unto them while they are in
the flesh. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, thus saith our
G o d : 1 will afflict thy seed by the hand o f the Gentiles; ne­
vertheless, I will soften the hearts o f the Gentiles, that they
shall be like unto a father to them ; wherefore, the Gentiles
shall be blessed and numbered among the House o f Israel.'—
Wherefore, I will consecrate this land unto thy seed and they
which shall be numbered among thy seed, forever, for the
land o f their inheritance: For it is a choice land, saith God
unto me, above all other lands; wherefore, I will have all men
that dwell thereon, that they shall worship me, saith God.
And now, my beloved brethren, seeing that our merciful
God hath given us so great knowledge concerning these things,
let us remember him, and lay aside our sins, and not hang
down our heads, for we are not cast off; nevertlieless, w e
have been driven out o f the land o f our inheritance; but we
have been led to a better land: for the Lord hath made the
sea our path, and we are upon an isle o f the sea. But great is
the promises o f the Lord unto they which are upon the isles
o f the sea; wherefore, as it sayeth isles, there must needs be
more than this; and they are inhabited also by our brethren.
For behold, the Lord Cfod hath led away from time to time
from the House o f Israel, according to his will and pleasure.
And now, behold, the Lord remembereth all (hey which have
been broken o ff; wherefore, he remembereth us also. There­
fore cheer up your hearts, and remember that ye are free to
act for yourselves: to choose the way o f everlasting death,
or the way o f eternal life. Wherefore, my beloved brethren,
reconcile yourselves to the will o f God, and not to the will o f
the Devil and the flesh; and remember that after ye are re­
conciled unto God, that it is only in and through the grace o f
God that ye are saved. W herefore, may God raise you from
death, by the power o f the resurrection; and also from ever­
lasting death, by the power o f the atonement, that ye may be
received into the Eternal Kingdom o f God, that ye may praise
him through Grace Divine. Amen.
86 SECOND BOOK OB NBPHI.
C H A PT E R VIIL
And now Jacob spake many more things to my people at
that time ; nevertheless, only these things bare I caused to be
written : for the things which 1 hare written, sufficeth me.
And now I, Nephi, write more o f the words o f Isaiah: for
my soul delighteth in his words. F or 1 will liken his words
unto my people; and I will send them forth unto all my chil­
dren : for he verily saw my Redeemer, even as I have seen
him. And my brother Jacob also hath seen him as l have
seen him; wherefore, I will send their words forth unto my
children, to prove unto them that my words are true. W here­
fore, by the words o f three, God hath said, I will establish my
word. Nevertheless, God sendeth more witnesses; and he
proveth all his words. Behold, my soul delighteth in proving
unto my people the truth o f the coming o f Christ for, for this
end hath the law of M oses been given ; and all things which
have been given o f God from the beginning o f the world, unto
man, are the typifying o f him. And also, my soul delighteth
in the covenants o f the Lord which he hath made to our fa­
thers ; yea, my soul delighteth in his grace, and his justice,
and power, and mercy, in the great and eternal plan o f deli­
verance from death. And ray soul delighteth in proving unto
my people, that save Christ should come, all men must perish.
For if there be no Christ, there be no God ; and if there be
no God, we are not, for there could have been no creation.—
But there is a God, and he is Christ; and he cometh in the
fulness o f his own time.
And now, I write some o f the words o f Isaiah, that whoso
o f my people which shall see these words, may lift up their
hearts and rejoice for all men. Now, these are the w ord s;
and ye may liken them unto you, and unto all men.
The word that Isaiah, the son o f Amoz, saw, concerning
Judah and Jerusalem : And it shall come to pass in the last
days, when the mountain o f the Lord’s house shall be estab­
lished in the top o f the mountains, and shall be exalted above
the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it, and many people
shall go and say, Com e ye, and let us go up to the mountain
o f the Lord, to the house o f the G od o f Jacob ; and he will
teach us o f his ways, and we will walk in his paths : for out
o f Zion shall go forth the law, and the word o f the Lord from
Jerusalem. And he shall judge among the nations, and shall
rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords
SECOND BOOK OF NEPMI. 81
plough-shares, and their spears into pruning h ooks: nation
shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn
war any more. O house o f Jocob, com e ye and let us walk
in the light o f the L ord ; yea, com e, for ye have all gone
astray, every one to his wicked ways.
Therefore, O L ord, thou hast forsaken thy people, the house
o f Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, and
hearken unto soothsayers like the Philistines, and they please
themselves in the children o f strangers. Their land also is
full o f silver and gold, neither is there any end o f their trea­
sures ; their land is ¿ s o full o f horses, neither is there any
end o f their chariots: their land also is full o f id ols; they
worship the work o f their own hands,— that which their own
fingers have m ade: and the mean man boweth down, and the
great man humUeth himself n o t: therefore forgive him not.
O ye wicked ones, enter into the rock, and hide thee in the
dust, for the fear o f the Lord, and the glory o f his majesty
shall smite thee. And it shall come to pass that the lofty looks
o f man shall be humMed, and the haughtiness o f men shall
be bowed down, and the Lord alone shall be exalted in that
day. F or the day o f the Lord o f hosts soon cometh upon all
nations ; yea, upon every o n e ; yea, upon the proud and lofty,
and upon everyone which is lifted u p ; and he shall he brought
lo w : yea, and the day o f the Lord sbaB com e upon all the ce­
dars o f Lebanon, for they are high and lifted u p ; and upon
all the oaks o f BaBhan, and upon all the high mountains, and
upon all the hills, and upon all the nations which are lifted up,
and upon every people, and upon every high tower, and upon
every fenced wall, and upon all the ships o f the sea, and upon
all the ships o f Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures. And
the loftiness o f man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness
o f men shall be made lo w : and the Lord alone shall be exalted
in that day. And the idols he shall utterly abolish. And
they shall go into the holes o f the rocks, and into the caves o f
the earth, for the fear o f the Lord shall com e upon them ; and
the glory o f his majesty shall smite them, when he ariseth to
shake terribly the earth. In that day a man shall cast his
idols o f silver, and his idols o f gold, which he hath made for
himself to worship, to the moles and to the bats ; to go into
the clefts o f the rocks, and into the tops o f the ragged rocks,
for the fear o f the Lord shall com e upon them, and the majesty
o f his glory shall smite them when he ariseth to shake terribly
88 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI*
the earth. Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils :
for wherein is he to be accounted o ff
For behold, the Lord, the Lord of hosts, doth take away
from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and the staff, the
whole staff o f bread, and the whole stay of water, the mighty
man, and the man o f war, the judge, and the prophet, and the
prudent, and the ancient, the captain o f fifty, and the honora­
ble man, and the counsellor, and the cunning artificer, and the
eloquent orator. And I will give children unto them to be
their princes, and babes shall rule over them. And the people
shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by
his neighbor : the child shall behave brmseif proudly against
the ancient, and the base against the honorable. When a man
shall take hold o f his brother o f the houBe o f his father, and
shall say, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let not
this ruin com e under thy hand : in that day shall he swear,
saying, I will not be a healer ; for in my house there is neither
bread nor clothing : make me not a ruler o f the people. For
Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen 1 because their tongues
and their doings have been against the Lord, to provoke the
eyes o f his glory.
The shew o f their countenance doth witness against them,
and doth declare their sin to be even as Sodom, and they can­
not hide it. W o unto their souls! for they have rewarded
evil unto themselves. Say unto the righteous, that it is well
with them : for they shall eat the fruit o f their doings. W o
unto the wicked ! for they shall perish : for the reward o f their
hands shall be upon them.
And my people, children are their oppressore, and women
rule over them. O my people, they which lead thee cause
thee to err, and destroy the way o f thy paths. The Lord
standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge toe people. The
Lord will enter into judgment with the ancients o f his people,
and the princes thereof : for ye have eaten up the vineyard,
and the spoil o f the poor in your houses. WTiat mean ye ?
Ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces o f the poor,
saitli the Lord God o f hosts.
Moreover the Lord saith, Because the daughters o f Zion are
haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes,
walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with
their feet ; therefore the Lord wilt smite with a scab the crown
o f the head o f the daughters o f Zion, and the Lord will disco-
SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 8 »
ver their secret parts. In that day the Lord will take away
the bravery o f tinkling ornament«, and cauis, and round tires
like the moon, the chains, and the bracelets, and the mufflers,
the bonnets, and the ornaments o f the legs, and the head-bands,
and the tablets, ami the ear-rings, the rings, and nose-jewels,
the changeable suits o f apparel, and the mantles, and the wim­
ples, and the crisping-pins, the glasses, and the line linen, and
hoods, and the vails.
And it shall come to pass, instead o f sweet smell, there
shall be stink ; and instead o f a girdle, a rent; and instead o f
well set hair, baldness; and instead o f a stomacher, a girding
o f sackcloth : burning instead o f beauty. Thy men shall fall
by the sword, and thy mighty in the war. And her gates shall
lament and m ourn; and she shall be desolate, and shall sit
upon the ground.
And in that day, seven women shall take hold o f one man,
saying, W e will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel:
only let us be called by thy name, to take away our reproach.
In that day shall the branch o f the Lord be beautiful and glo­
rious ; the fruit o f the earth excellent and comely to them
that are escaped o f Israel.
And it shall com e to pass, them that are left in Zion, and
remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, every one that is
written among the living in Jerusalem: when the Lord shall
have washed away the filth o f the daughters o f Zion, and shall
have purged the blood o f Jerusalem from the midst thereof by
the spirit o f judgment, and by the spirit o f burning. And the
Lord will create upon every dwelling-place o f mount Zion, and
upon her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shi­
ning o f a flaming fire by night: for upon all the glory o f Zion
shall be b defence. And there «hall be a tabernacle for a
shadow in the day time from the heat, and for a place o f re­
fuge, and a covert from storm and from rain.
And then will I sing to my well beloved a song o f my belo­
ved touching his vineyard. M y Well-beloved hath a vineyard
in a very fruitful h ill: and he fenced it, and gathered out the
stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest vine, and built
a tower in the midst o f it, and also made a wine-press therein :
and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought
forth wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants o f Jerusalem, and
men o f Judah, judge, I pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.
What could have been done more to my vineyard, that 1 have
90 SECOND BOOK OF NEFHI.
not done in it ? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring
forth grapes, it brought forth wild grapes. And now go t o ;
I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away
the hedge thereof and it shall be eaten u p ; and 1 will break
down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden dow n : and I
will lay it waste: it shall not be pruned, nor digged; but there
shall come up briers and thorns: I will also command the
clouds that they rain no rain upon it F or the vineyard o f the
Lord o f hosts is the House o f Israel, and the men o f Judah his
pleasant plant: and he looked for judgment, and behold op­
pression ; for righteousness, but behold a cry.
W o unto them that join house to bouse, till there can be no
{ilace, that they may be placed alone in the midst o f the earth!
n mine ears, said the Lord o f hosts, O f a truth many houses
shall be desolate, and great and fair cities without inhabitant
Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed o f
a homer shall yield an ephah.
W o unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they
may follow strong drink; that continue until night, and wine
inflame them ! And the harp, and the viol the tabret, and pipe,
and wine, are in their feasts; but they regard not the work
o f the Lord, neither consider the operation o f his hands.
Therefore my people are gone into captivity, because they
have no knowledge: and their honorable men are famished,
and their multitude dried up with thirst Therefore hell hath
enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure: and
their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp, and he that
rejoiceth, shall descend into it And the mean man shall be
brought down, and the mighty man shall be humbled, and the
eyes o f the lofty shall be humbled: but the Lord o f hosts shall
he exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall be sancti­
fied in righteousness. Then shall the lambs feed after their
manner, and the waste places of the fat ones shall strangers
eat. W o unto them that draw iniquity with cords o f vanity,
and sin as it were with a cart-rope: that say, Let him make
spaed, hasten his work, that we may see it : and let the coun­
sel o f the Holy One o f Israel draw nigh and come, that we
may know it.
W o unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put
darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for
sweet, and sweet for bitter! W o unto the wise in their own
eyes, and prudent in their own sight! W o unto the mighty to
drink wine, and men o f strength to mingle strong drink: which
SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 91
justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteous­
ness of the righteous from him ! Therefore as the fire devour­
e d the stubbie, and the flame consum ed the chaff, their root
shall be rottenness, and their blossoms shall go up as dust:
because they have cast away the law of the Lord o f hosts, and
despised the word o f the Holy One o f Israel. Therefore is
the anger o f the Lord kindled ag&inst his people, and he hath
stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten them :
and the hills did tremble, and their carcases were torn in the
midst o f the streets. F or all this his anger is not turned
away, but his hand stretched out still.
And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and
will hiss unto them from the end o f the earth; and behold,
they shall come with speed swiftly: none shall be weary nor
stumble among them ; none shall slumber nor sleep; neither
shall the girdle o f their loins be loosed, nor the latchet o f their
shoes be broken ; whose arrows shall be sharp, and all their
bows bent, and their horses’ hoofs shall be counted like flint,
and their wheels like a whirlwind, their roaring like a lion.—
They shall roar like young lions: yea, they shall roar, and lay
hold of the prey, and shall carry away safe, and none shall
deliver. And in that day they shall roar against them like the
roaring o f the sea : and if they look unto the land, behold,
darkness and sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens
thereof
C H A P T E R IX.
In the year that king Uzziah died, I saw also the Lord sit­
ting upon &throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the
temple. Above it stood the seraphim»: each one had six
w ings; with twain he covered his face, and with twain he co­
vered his feet, and with twain he did fly. And one cried unto
another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the Lord o f hosts: the
whole earth is full o f his glory. And the posts o f the door
moved at the voice o f him that cried, and the house was filled
with smoke.
Then said I, W o m e! for I am undone; because 1 a man
o f unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst o f a people o f unclean
lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, the Lord o f hosts.—
Then flew cnee# the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in
n SECOND BOOK OP NEPH1.
his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar:
and he laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this has touched
thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.
Also 1 heard the voice o f the Lord, saying, Whom shall 1 send,
and who will go for us 1 Then I said, Here I ; send me.
And he said, G o, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but
they understand not; and see ye indeed, but they perceived
not. Make the heart o f this people fat, and make their ears
heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and
hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and
convert, and be healed. Then said 1, Lord, how long? And
he said, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the
houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate ; and the
Lord have removed men far away, for there shall be a great
forsaking in the midst of the land.
But yet in it there shall be a tenth, and they shall return,
and shall be eaten: as a teil-tree, and as an oak whose sub­
stance is in them, when they cast their leaves: so the holy
seed shall be the substance thereof.
And it came to pass in the days o f Ahaz the son o f Jotham,
the son o f Uzziah, king o f Judah, and Rezin, king o f Syria,
and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king o f Israel, went up towards
Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it.
And it was told the house o f David, saying, Syria is confede­
rate with Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart
o f his people, as the trees of the wood are moved with the
wind. Then said the Lord unto Isaiah, G o forth now to meet
Ahaz, thou, and Shearjashub thy son, at the end o f the con­
duit o f the upper pool in the highway o f the fuller’s field; and
say unto him, Take heed, and be quiet; fear not, neither be
famt-hearted for the two tails of these smoking fire-brands, for
the fierce anger o f Rezin with Syria, and o f the son of Rema-
liah. Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son o f Remaliah, have
taken evil counsel against thee, saying, Let us go up against
Judah, and vex it, and let us make a breach therein for us,
and set a king in the midst of it, yea the son o f Tabeal: thus
saith the Lord God, it shall not stand, neither shall it com e to
pass. For the head o f Syria is Damascus, and the head o f
Damascus, Rezin: and within threescore and five years shall
Ephraim be broken, that it be not a people. And the head
o f Ephraim is Samaria, and the head o f Samaria is Remaliah’s
son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established.
Moreover, the Lord spake again unto Ahaz, saying, Ask
SECOND BOOX OF NEPH1. 93
thee a sign o f the Lord thy G od; ask it either in the depths, or
in the heights above. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither
will I tempt the Lord. And he said, Hear ye now, U house
of David; Is it a small thing for you to weary men, but will
ye weary my God also 1 Therefore the Lord himself shall
give you a sign: Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and shall
hear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel, Butter and
honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil, and
to choose the good. For before the child shall know to refuse
the evil and choose the good, the land that thou abhorrest shall
be forsaken of both her kings.
The Lord shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and
upon thy lather’s house, days that have not come, from the
day that Ephraim departed from Judah, the king o f Assyria.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall hiss
for the fty that is in the uttermost part o f Egypt, and for the
bee that is in the land of Assyria. And they shall come, and
shall rest all o f them in the desolate valleys, and in the holes
o f the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upon all bushes, in
the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired,
by them beyond the river, by the king o f Assyria, the head,
and the hair o f the feet: and it shall also consume the beard.
And it shall come to pass in that day, a man shall nourish
a young cow, and two sheep; and it shall come to pass, for
the abundance o f milk they shall give, he shall eat butter: for
butter and honey shall every one eat that is left in the land.—
And it shall come to pass in that day, every place shall be,
where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings>
which shall be for briers and thorns. With arrows and with
bows shall men come thither; because all the land shall be­
come briers and thorns. And all hills that shall be digged
with the mattock, there shall not come thither the fear o f bri­
ers and thorns: but it shall be for the sending forth o f oxen,
and the treading o f lesser cattle.
Moreover, the word of the Lord said unto me, Take thee a
great roll, and write in it with a man’s pen concerning Mahcr-
shalal-hash-baz. And I took unto me faithful witnesses to re­
cord, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jebereehiab.
And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived and bear
a son. Then said the Lord to me, Call his name Maher-
shalal-hash-baz. For behold, the child shall not have knowl­
edge to cry, My father, and my mother, before the riches o f
94 SECOND BOOK OP NBPH1.
Damascus and the spoil o f Samaria shall he taken away be­
fore the king o f Assyria.
The Lord spake also unto me again, saying, Forasmuch as
this people refuseth the waters o f Shiloah that go softly, and
rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah’s son ; now therefore, behold,
the Lord bringeth up upon them the waters o f the river, strong
and many, even the king o f Assyria, and all his glory: and he
shall come up over all his channels, and go over all his banks:
and he shall pass through Judaic; he shall overflow and go
over, be shall reach even to the n eck ; and the stretching out
o f his wings shall (ill the breadth o f thy land, O Immanuel.
Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken
in pieces; a i l give ear all ye o f far countries: gird yourselves,
and ye shall be broken in p ieces; gird yourselves, and ye
shall be broken in pieces. Take counsel together and it shall
come to nought; speak the word, and it shall not stand: for
God is with us.
For the Lord spake thus to me with a strong hand, and in­
structed me that I should not walk in the way o f this people,
saying, Say ye not, A confederacy, to all to whom this people
shall say, A confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be
afraid. Sanctify the Lord o f hosts himself, and let him be
your fear, and let him be your dread. And he Bhall be for a
sanctuary; but for a stone o f stumbling and for a rock o f of­
fence to both the Houses o f Israel, for a gin and a snare to the
inhabitants o f Jerusalem. And many among them shall stum­
ble, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.—
Bind up the testimony, seal the law among ray disciples. And
1 will wait upon the Lord, that hideth his face from the house
o f Jacob, and 1 will look for him. Behold, 1 and the children
whom the Lord hath given me are for signs and for wonders
in Israel from the Lord o f hosts, which dwelleth in mount
Zion.
And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that
have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and m utter:
should not a people seek unto their God 1 for the living to beaT
from the dead1 to the law and to the testimony : and if they speak
not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.
And they shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hungry:
and it shall come to pass, that when they shall be hungry, they
shall fret themselves, and corse their king am) their God, and
look upward. And they shall look unto the earth; and be-
8BC0N » BOOK OP NEPBf. 95
hold trouble and darkness, dimness o f anguish, and shall be
driven to darkness.
Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her
vexation, when at the first he lightly afflicted the land o f Zebu-
lun, and the land o f Naphtali, and afterwards did more grie­
vously afflict by the way o f the Red Sea beyond Jordan, in
Galilee o f the nations. The people that walked in darkness
have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land o f the
shadow o f death, upon them hath the light shined Thou hast
multiplied the nation, and increased the jo y : they jo y before
thee according to the jo y in harvest, and as men rejoice when
they divide the spoil. F or thou hast broken the yoke o f hie
burden, and the staffo f his shoulder, the rod o f his oppressor.
F or every battle o f the warrior with confused noise, and gar­
ments rolled in b lood ; but this shall be with burning and fuel
o f fire. F or unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given:
and the government shall he upon his shoulder: and his name
shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The
everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace. O f the increase o f
government and peace there is no end, upon the throne o f
David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it
with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever.
The zeal o f the Lord o f hosts will perform this.
The Lord sent his word unto Jacob and it hath lighted upon
Israel. And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the
inhabitants o f Samaria, that say in the pride and the stoutness
o f heart, The bricks are fallal down, hut we will build with
hewn stones: the sycamore« are cut down, but we will change
them into cedars. Therefore the Lord shall set up the adver­
saries o f Rezin against him, and join hie enemies together;
the Syrians before, and the P
h
ilistin
esbehind: and they shall
devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his anger is not
turned away, but his hand stretched out still.
F or the people turaeth not unto Mm that smiteth them, neither
do they seek the Lord o f hosts. Therefore will the Lord cut
off from Israel head and tail, branch and rush in one day.—
The ancient, he is the h ead ; and the prophet that teacheth
ties, he is the taiL F or the leaders o f this people cause them
to e rr; and they that are led o f them are destroyed. Therefore
the Lord shall have no jo y in their young men, neither shall
have mercy on their fatherless and widows : for every one o f
them is a hypocrite and an evil-doer, and every mouth speaketh.
96 SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI.
folly. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his
hand stretched out still.
For wickedness burnetii as the fire; it shall devour (he
briers and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets o f the fo­
rests, and they shall mount up like the lifting up o f smoke.—
Through the wrath o f the Lord o f hosts is the land darkened,
and the people shall be as the fuel of the fire : no man shall
spare his brother. And he shall snatch on the right hand, and
be hungry; and he shall eat on the left hand, and they shall
not be satisfied: they shall eat every man the flesh o f his own
arm : Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh: they to­
gether shall be against Judah. F or all this his anger is not
turned away, but his hand stretched out still.
W o unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that
write grievousness which they have prescribed; to turn aside
the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the
poor o f my people, that widows may be their prey, and that
they may rob the fatherless! And what will ye do in the day
o f visitation, and in the desolation which shall come from far '.'
to whom will ye flee for help ? and where will ye leave your
glory? Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners,
and they shall fall under the slain. For all this his anger is
not turned away, but his hand stretched out si ill.
O Assyrian, the rod o f mine anger, and the staff in their
hand is their indignation. 1 will send him against a hypocri­
tical nation, and against the people o f my wrath will i give him
»charge, to take the spoil, and to take the prey, and to tread
them down like the mire o f tbestreets. Howbeit he meaneth
not so, neither doth his heart think so; but in his heart it is
to destroy and cut off nations not a few. For he saith, Are
not my princes altogether kings ? Is not Calno as Carche-
mish ? Is not Hamath as Arpad ? Is not Samaria as Damas­
cus ? As my hand hath founded the kingdoms o f the idols, and
whose graven images did escel them o f Jerusalem and o f Sa­
maria ; shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols,
so do to Jerusalem and to her idols ? Wherefore it shall corne
to pass, that when the Lord hath performed his whole work
upon mount Zion and upon Jerusalem, 1 will punish the fruit
o f the stout heart o f the king o f Assyria, and the glory o f his
high looks. For he saith, By the strength o f my hand and by
my wisdom I have done these things; for I am prudent: and
i hare moved the borders o f the people, and have robbed their
SECOND BOOK OP NKPHI. 91
treasures, and I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant
man; and my hand hath found as a nest the riches o f the peo­
ple : and as one gathereth eggs that are left, have I gathered
all the earth; and there was none that moved the wing, or
opened the mouth, or peeped. Shall the axe boast itself against
him that heweth therewith? Shall the saw magnify itself
against him that shaketh it? as if the rod should shake itself
against them that lift it up, or as if the staff should lift up it­
self, as if it were no wood. Therefore shall the Lord, the
Lord of hosts, send among his fat ones leanness; and un­
der his glory he shall kindle a burning like the burning of a
fire. And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his Holy
One for a flame, and shall burn and shall devour his thorns
and his briers in one day; and shall consume the glory o f his
forest, and o f his fruitful field, both soul and body ; and they
shall be as when a standard-bearer fainteth. And the rest of
the trees o f his forest shall be few, that a child may write
them.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remant o f Is­
rael, and such as are escaped of the house o f Jacob, shall no
more again stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay up­
on the Lord, the Holy One o f Israel, in truth. The remnant
shall return, yea, even the remnant of Jacob, unto the mighty
God. For though thy people Israel be as the sand o f the sea,
yet a remnant of them shall return: the consumption decreed
shall overflow with righteousness. For the Lord God o f hosts
shall make a consumption, even determined, in all the land.
Therefore thus saith the Lord God o f hosts, O my people
that dweliest in Zion, be not afraid o f the Assyrian: he shall
smite thee with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee,
after the manner o f Egypt. For yet a very little while, and
the indignation shall cease, and mine anger in their destruction.
And the Lord of hosts shall Stic up a scourge for him accor­
ding to the slaughter o f Midian at the rock o f O reb; and as his
Tod was upon the sea, so shall he lift it up after the manner of
Egypt. And it shall come to pass in that day, that his hurden
shall be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from
off thy neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the
anointing. He is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at
Michmash he hath laid up his carriages ; they are gone over
the passage; they have taken up their lodging at Geba; Ramath
is afraid ; Gibeah o f Saul is fled. Lift up the voice, O daugh­
ter o f Gallim ; cause it to be heard unto Laish, O poor Ana-
7
98 SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI.
thoth. Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants o f Gebim gather
themselves to flee. As yet shaE he remain at Nob that day;
he shall shake his hand against the mount o f the daughter o f
Zion, the hill o f Jerusalem. Behold, the Lord, the Lord o f
hosts shall lop the bough with terror; and the high ones o f
stature shall be hewn down, and the haughty shall be humbled.
And he shall cut down the thickets o f the forests with iron,
and Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one.
And there shall come forth a rod out o f the stem o f Jesse,
and a braneh shah grow out o f his roots ; and the spirit o f the
Lord shall rest upon him, the spirit o f wisdom and understan­
ding, the spirit o f counsel and might, the spirit o f knowledge
and o f the fear o f the Lord ; and shall make him o f quick under­
standing in the fear o f the Lord : and he shall not judge after
the sight o f his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing o f his
oa rs: but with righteousness shall he judge the poor, and re­
prove with equity for the meek o f the earth : and he shall smite
the earth with the rod o f his mouth, and with the breath o f his
lips shall he slay the wicked. And righteousness shall be the
girdle o f his loins, and faithfulness the girdle o f his reins. The
w olf also Bhall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie
down with the k id ; and the calf and the young lion and the
fading together; and a little child shall lead them. And the
cow and the bear shall feed ; their young ones shall lie down
together; and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And the
sucking child shall play on the hole o f the asp, and the wea­
ned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice’s den. They
shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain: for the
earth shall be full o f the knowledge o f the Lord, as the waters
cover the sea.
And in that day there shall be a root o f Jesse, which shall
stand for an ensign o f the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek :
and his rest shall be glorious. And it shall come to pass in
that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the second
time to recover the remnant o f his people, which shall be left
from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Patliros, and from
Cush, and from Elam, and from Sh'mar, and from Hamath,
and from the islands o f the sea. And he shall set up an en­
sign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts o f Israel,
and gather together the dispersed o f Judah from the four cor­
ners o f the earth. The envy o f Ephraim also shall depart, and
the adversaries o f Judah shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not
envy Judah, and Judah shall not vex Ephraim. But they
SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI. 99
shall fly upon the shoulders o f the Philistines toward the west;
they shall spoil them o f the east together; they shall lay their
hand upon Edom and M oab; and the children of Ammon
shall obey them. And the Lord shall utterly destroy the tongue
o f the Egyptian sea; and with his mighty wind he shall shake
his hand over the river, and shall smite it in the seven streams,
and make men go over dry shod. And there shall be a high­
way for the remnant o f his people, which shall be left, from
Assyria, like as it was to Israel in the day that he came up
out o f the land o f Egypt
And in that day thou shalt say, O Lord, I will praise thee:
though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is turned away,
and thou comfortedst me. Behold, God is my salvation; I
will trust, and not be afraid : for the Lord JEH O V AH is my
strength and my song; he also is become my salvation. There­
fore with joy shall ye draw water out o f the wells o f salvation.
And in that day shall ye say, Praise the Lord, call upon his
name, declare his doings among the people, make mention
that his name is exalted. Sing unto the L ord; for he hath
done excellent things: this is known in all the earth. Cry
out and shout, thou inhabitant o f Z io n ; for great is the Holy
One o f Israel in the midst o f thee.
C H A P T E R X.
The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son o f Amoz did
see. Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the
voice unto them, shake the hand, that they may go into the
gates of the nobles. I have commanded my sanctified ones,
I have also called my mighty ones, for mine anger is not upon
them that rejoice in my highness. The noise o f the multitude
in the mountains like as o f a great people; a tumultuous noise
o f the kingdoms o f nations gathered together: the Lord o f
hosts mustereth the hosts o f the battle. They come from a
far country, from the end o f heaven, yea, the Lord, and the
weapons o f his indignation, to destroy the whole land.
Howl ye ; for the day o f the Lord is at hand: it shall come
as a destruction from the Almighty. Therefore shall all hands
be faint, every man’ s heart, shall m elt; and they shall be
afraid ; pangs and sorrows shall take hold o f them ; they shall
be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as flames.—
7 *
100 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.
Behold, the day o f the Lord eometh, cruel both with wrath
and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate : and he shall destroy
the sinners thereof out o f it. F or the stars o f heaven and the
constellations thereof shall not give their light; the sun shall
he darkened in her going forth, and the moon shall not cause
her light to shine. And 1 will punish the world for evil, and
the wicked for their iniquity; 1 'will cause the arrogancy o f
the proud to cease, and will lay down the haughtiness o f the
terrible. I will make a man more precious than fine gold;
even a man than the golden wedge o f Ophir. Therefore I
will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove out o f her
place, in the wrath o f the Lord o f hosts, and in the day o f his
fierce anger. And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep
that no man taketh u p : they shall every man turn to his own
people, and flee every one into his own land. Every one that
is proud shall be tlmist through; yea, and every one that is
joined to the wicked, shall fall by the sword. Their children
also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes; their houses
shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished. Behold, I will stir
up the Medes against them, which shall not regard silver and
gold, nor they shall not delight in it Their bows shall also
dash the young men to pieces; and they shall have no pity on
the fruit o f the w om b; their eyes shall not spare children.
And Babylon, the glory o f kingdoms, the beauty o f the Chal­
dees’ excellency shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and
Gomorrah. It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be
dwelt in from generation to generation: neither shall the Ara­
bian pitch tent there: neither shall the shepherds make their
fold there: but wild beasts o f the desert shall lie there; and
their houses shall be full o f doleful creatures; and owls shall
dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there. And the wild beasts
o f the islands shall cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in
their pleasant palaces: and her time is near to come, and her
day shall not be prolonged. F or I will destroy her speedily;
yea, for I will be merciful unto my people: but the wicked
shall perish.
F or the Lord will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose
Israel, and set them in their own land : and the strangers shall
he joined with them, and they shall cleave to the house o f Ja­
cob. And the people shall take them, and bring them to their
place: yea, from far unto the ends o f -the earth; and they
shall return to their lands o f promise. And the house o f Is­
rael shall possess them, and the land o f the Lord shall be for
SECOND BOOB OF NEPHI. 101
servants and handmaids: and they shall take them captives,
unto whom they were captives; and they shall rule over their
oppressors. And it shall come to pass in that day that the
Lord shall give thee rest from thy sorrow, and from thy fear,
and from the hard bondage wherein thou wast made to serve.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that thou sbalt take
up this proverb against the king o f Babylon, and say, How
hath the oppressor ceased, the golden city ceased! The Lord
hath broken the staff o f the wicked, the Bceptres o f the rulers.
He who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke,
he that ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none
hindereth. The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they
break forth into singing. Yea, the fir-trees rejoice at thee,
and also the cedars o f Lebanon, saying, Since thou art laid
down, no feller is come up against us. Hell from beneath is
moved for thee to meet thee at thy com ing: it stirreth up the
dead for thee, even all the chief ones o f the earth: it hath
raised up from their thrones all the kings o f the nations. All
they shall speak and say unto thee, Art thou also become weak
as we 1 Art thou become like unto us ? Thy pomp is brought
down to the grave; the noise o f thy viols is not heard: the
worm is spread under thee, and the worms cover thee. H ow
art thou fallen from heaven, 0 Lucifer, son o f the morning!
Art thou cut down to the ground, which did weaken the na­
tions ! For thou hast said in thy heart, I will ascend into
heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars o f God : 1 will
sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides o f
the north; I will ascend above the heights o f the clouds; I
will be like the Most High. Yet thou shalt be brought down
to hell, to the sides o f the pit. They that see thee shall nar­
rowly look upon thee, and shall consider thee, and shall say, Is
this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake
kingdoms, and made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed
the cities thereof, and opened not the house o f his prisoners ?
All the kings o f the nations, yea, all o f them, lie in glory, eve­
ry one o f them in his own house. But thou art cast out o f
thy grave like an abominable branch, and the remnant o f those
that are slain, thrust through with a sword, that go down to
the stones o f the pit; as a carcass trodden under feet. Thou
shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hast de­
stroyed thy land, and slain thy people: the seed o f evil-doers
shall never be renowned. Prepare slaughter for his children
for the iniquities of their fathers; that they do not rise, nee
SECOND BOOK or NEPHI.
10«
possess the land, nor fill the face o f the world with cities.—
For I will rise up against them, saith the Lord o f hosts, and
cut off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and son, and
nephew, saith the Lord. I will also make it a possession for
the bittern, and pools o f w ater: and 1 will sweep it with the
besom o f destruction, saith the Lord o f hosts.
The Lord o f hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely as I have
thought, so shall it come to pass; and as i have purposed, so
shall it stand: that I will bring the Assyrian in my land, and
upon my mountains tread him under fo o t: then shall his yoke
depart from off them, and his burden depart from off their
shoulders. This is the purpose that is purposed upon the
whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon
all nations. For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who
shall disannul ? And his hand stretched out, and who shall
turn it back ? In the year that king Ahaz died was this burden.
Rejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod o f him
that smote thee is broken: for out o f the serpent’s root shall
come forth a cockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying
serpent. And the first-born o f the poor Bhall feed, and the
needy shall lie down in safety: and I will kill thy root with
famine, and he shall slay thy remnant. Howl, 0 gate; cry,
O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved: for there shall
come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone in his
appointed times. What shall then answer the messengers o f
die nations t That the Lord hath founded Zion, and the poor
o f his people shall trust in it.
C H A PT E R XL
N ow I, Nephi, do speak somewhat concerning the words
which 1 have written, which have been spoken by the mouth
o f Isaiah. For behold, Isaiah spake many things which were
hard for many o f my people to understand : for they know not
concerning the manner o f prophesying among the Jews. For
I, Nephi, have not taught them many things concerning the
manner o f the Jew s; for their works were works o f dark­
ness, and their doings were doings o f abominations. W here­
fore, I write unto my people, unto all they that shall re­
ceive hereafter these things which I write, that they may
know the judgments o f God, that they come upon all na-
SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI. 103
tions, according to the word which he hath spoken.—
Wherefore hearken, O my people, which are o f the House
o f Israel, and give ear unto my w ord s: for because that
the words o f Isaiah are not plain unto you, nevertheless
they are plain unto all they that are filled with the spirit o f
prophecy. But I give unto you a prophecy, according to the
spirit which is in m e ; wherefore I shall prophesy according
to the plainness which hath been with me from the time that
I came out from Jerusalem with my father: for behold, my
soul delighteth in plainness unto my people, that they may
learn ; yea, and my soul delighteth in the words o f Isaiah, for
I came out from Jerusalem, and mine eyes bath beheld the
things o f the Jews, and I know that the Jews do understand
the things o f the Prophets, and there is none other people
that understand the things which were spoken unto the Jews,
like unto them, save it be that they are taught after the man­
ner o f the things o f the Jews. But behold, I Nephi, have not
taught my children after the manner o f the J ew s; but behold,
1, o f myself, have dwelt at Jerusalem, wherefore I know
concerning the regions round about; and I have mode men­
tion unto my children concerning thejudgments o f God, which
hath come to pass among the Jews, unto my children, accor­
ding to all that which Isaiah hath spoken, and I do not write them.
But behold, I proceed with mine own prophecy, according to
my plainness; in the which, I know that no man can err;
nevertheless, in the days that the prophecies o f Isaiah shall be
fulfilled, men shall know o f a surety, at the times when they
shall com e to pass; wherefore, they are o f worth unto the
children o f men, and be that supposeth that they are not, unto
them will I speak particularly, and confine the words unto mine
own people: for 1 know that they shall be o f great worth unto
them in the last days; for in thatday shall they understand them;
wherefore, for their good have I written them. And as one
generation hath been destroyed among the Jews, because o f
iniquity, even so have they been destroyed, from generation to
generation, according to their iniquities; and never hath any
o f them been destroyed, save it were foretold them by the
Prophets o f the Lord. Wherefore, it hath been told them
concerning the destruction which should «w oe upon them, im­
mediately after my father left Jerusalem; nevertheless, they
hardened their hearts; and according to my prophecy, they
have been destroyed, save it be those which are carried away
captive into Babylon. And now this I speak because o f the
1 0 4 SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI.
spirit which is in me. And notwithstanding that they have
been carried away, they shall return again, and possess the
land o f Jerusalem; wherefore they shall be restored again to
the lands o f their inheritance. But, behold, they shall have
wars, and rumors o f wars; and when the day cometh that the
only begotten o f the Father, yea, even the Father o f heaven and
o f earth, shall manifest himself unto them in the flesh, behold,
they will reject him, because o f their iniquities, and the hard­
ness o f their hearts, and the stiffness o f their necks. Behold they
will crucify him, and after that he is laid in a Sepulcher for
the space o f three days, he shall rise from the dead, with heal­
ing in his wings, and all they that shall believe on his name,
shall be saved in the Kingdom o f G od ; wherefore, my soul de­
lighted to prophesy concerning him, for I have seen his day,
and my heart doth magnify his holy name.
And behold it shall come to pass, that after the Messiah hath
risen from the dead, and hath manifested himself unto his peo­
ple, unto as many as will believe on his name, behold, Jeru­
salem shall be destroyed again : for wo unto them that fight
against God and the people o f his church. Wherefore, the
Jews shall be scattered among all nations; yea, and also
Babylon shall be destroyed; wherefore, the Jews shall be
scattered by other nations; and after that they have been
scattered, and the Lord God hath scourged them by other
nations, for the space o f many generations, yea, even down
from generation to generation, until they shall be persuaded
to believe in Christ, the Son o f God, and the atonement, which
is infinite for all mankind; and when that day shall come, that
they shall believe in Christ, and worship the father in his
name, with pure hearts, and clean hands, and look not for­
ward any more for another Messiah, then, at that time, the
day will come that it must needs be expedient that they should
believe these things, and the Lord will set hie hand again the sec­
ond time to restore his people from their lost and fallen state.
Wherefore, he will proceed to do a marvelous work, and a
wonder among the children o f men.
Wherefore, he shall bring forth his words unto them, which
words shall judge them at the last day, for they shall be given
them for the purpose o f convincing them o f the true Messiah,
who was rejected by them ; and unto the convincing o f them
that they need not look forward any more for a Messiah to
come, for there should not any come, save it should be a false
Messiah, which should deceive tbe people : for there is save
SECOND BOOK OF NEFH1. 105
one Messiah spoken o f by the Prophets, and that Messiah is
he which should be rejected o f the Jews. For according to
the words o f the Prophets, the Messiah cometh in six hun­
dred years from the time that my father left Jerusalem; and ac­
cording to the words o f the Prophets, and also the word o f
the Angel o f God, bis name shall be Jesus C hrist the Son o f God.
And now my brethren, I have spoken plain, that ye cannot
err; and as the Lord God liveth, that brought Israel up out of the
land o f Egypt, and gave unto Moses power that he should heal
the nations, after that they had been bitten by the poisonous
serpents, if they would cast their eyes unto the serpent which
he did raise up before them, and also gave him power that he
should smite the rock, and the water should come forth ; yea,
behold I say unto you, that as these things are true, and as
the Lord God liveth, there is none other name given under
heaven, save it be this Jesus Christ o f which I have spoken,
whereby man can be saved.
Wherefore, for this cause hath the Lord God promised un­
to me that these things which I write, shall be kept and pre­
served, and handed down unto my seed, from generation to
generation, that the promise may be fulfilled unto Joseph, that
his seed should never perish as long as the earth should stand.
Wherefore, these things shall go from generation to generation,
as long as the earth shall stand ; and they shall go according
to the will and pleasure o f G o d ; and the nations which shall
possess them, shall be judged of them according to the words
which are written; for we labor diligently to write, to per­
suade our children, and also our brethren, to believe in Christ,
and to be reconciled to G od ; for we know that it is by grace
that we are saved, after all that we can do.
And notwithstanding we believe in Christ, we keep the law
o f Moses, and look forward with steadfastness unto Christ, un­
til the law shall be fulfilled; for, for this end was the law
given; wherefore, the law hath become dead unto us, and we
are made alive in Christ, because o f our faith ; yet we keep
the law because o f the commandments; and we talk o f Christ,
we rejoice in Christ, we preach o f Christ, we prophesy o f
Christ, and we write according to our prophecies, that our
children may know to what source they may look for a remis­
sion o f their sins. Wherefore, we speak concerning the law,
that our children may know the deadness o f the law ; and
they, by knowing the deadnes o f the law, may look forward un­
to that life which is in Christ, and know for what end the law
106 SECOND BOOK OF NEFHf.
was given. And after that, the law is fulfilled in Christ, that
they need not harden their hearts against him, when the law
had ought to be done away.
And now behold, my people, ye are a stiffnecked people ;
wherefore, I have spoken plain unto you, that ye cannot mis­
understand. And the words which I have spoken, shall stand
as a testimony against you : for they are sufficient to teach any
man the right way ; for the right way is to believe in Christ
and deny him not ; for by denying him, ye also deny the
Prophets and the law.
And now behold I say unto you, that the right way is to
believe in Christ, and deny him not ; and Christ is the Holy
One o f Israel : wherefore ye must bow down before him, and
worship him with all your might, mind, and strength, and your
whole soui ; and if ye do this, ye shall in nowise be cast out.
And inasmuch as it shall be expedient, ye must keep the per­
formances and ordinances o f God, until the law shall be ful­
filled which was given unto Moses.
And after that Christ shall have risen from the dead, he
shall shew himself unto you, my children, and my beloved
brethren ; and the words which he shall speak unto you, shall
be the law which ye shall do. F or behold, I say unto you, that
1 have beheld that many generations shall pass away, and there
shall be great wars and contentions among my people. And
after ¡hat the Messiah shall ccm e, there shall be signs given unto
my people o f his birth, and also ofhis death and resurrection;
and great and terrible shall that day be unto the wicked ; for
they shall perish ; and they perish because they cast out the
prophets, and the saints, and stone them, and slay them:
wherefore the cry o f the blood o f the saints shall ascend up to
God from the ground, againstt hem. Wherefore all they that are
proud, and that do wickedly, the day that cometh shall burn
them up saith the Lord o f Hasts, for they shall be as stubble;
and they that kill the prophets, and the saints, the depths o f
the earth shall swallow them up, saith the Lord o f Hosts ;
and mountains shall cover them, and whirlwinds shall carry
them away, and buildings shall foil upon them, and crush them
to pieces, and grind them to pow der; and they shall be visited
with thunderings, and lightnings, and earthquakes, and all
manner o f destructions, for the fire of the anger o f the Lord
shall be kindled against them, and they shall be as stubble,
and the day that cometh shall consume them, saith the Lord
o f Hosts.
SECOND BOOK OF NEFHf. 107
O the pain, and the anguish o f my soul for the loss o f the
slain o f my people! For I, Nephi, hath seen it, and it well
nigh consumeth me before the presence o f the L ord ; but i
must cry unto my God, thy ways are just. But behold, the
righteous, that hearken unto the words o f the prophets, and
destroy them not, but look forward unto Christ with steadfast­
ness for the signs which are given, notwithstanding all perse­
cutions ; behold they are they which shall not perish. But
the Son o f righteousness shall appear unto them ; and he
shall heal them, and they shall have peace with him, until
three generations shall have passed away, and many o f the
fourth generation shall have passed away in righteousness.—
And when these things shall have passed away, a speedy de­
struction cometh unto my people; for, notwithstanding the
pains o f my soul, 1have seen it ; wherefore, 1know that it shall
come to pass; and they sell themselves for noughty for, for
the reward o f their pride, and their foolishness, they shall
reap destruction; for because they yieldeth unto the Devil,
and choose works o f darkness rather than light; therefore
they must go down to hell, for the spirit o f the Lord will not
always strive with man. And when the spirit ceaseth to
strive with man, then cometh speedy destruction; and this
grieveth my soul.
And as I spake concerning the convincing o f the Jews, that
Jesus is the very Christ, it must needs be, that the Gentiles
be convinced also, that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God ;
and that he manifesteth himself unto all they that believe in him,
by the power o f the Holy G host; yea, unto every nation, kindred,
tongue, and people, working mighty miracles, signs and won­
ders, among the children o f men, according to their faith.
But behold 1 prophesy unto you concerning the last days ;
concerning the days when the Lord God snail bring these
things forth unto the children o f men. After that my seed and
the seed o f my brethren shall have dwindled in unbelief, and
shall have been smitten by the Gentiles; yea, after that the
Lord God shall have camped against them round about, and
shall have laid siege against them with a mount, and raised
forts against them; and after that they shall have been brought
down low into the dust, even that they are not, yet the words
o f the righteous shall be written, and the prayers o f the faith­
ful shall be heard, and all they which have dwindled in unbe­
lief, shall not be forgotten; for they which shall be destroyed
shall speak unto them out o f the ground, aud their speech shall
108 SECOND BOOK OP NBPHt.
be low out o f the dust, and their voice shall he as one that
hath a familiar spirit; for the Lord God will give unto him
power, that he may whisper concerning them, even as it were
out o f the ground; and their speech shall whisper out o f the
dust. For thus saith the Lord G o d : They shall write the things
which shall be done among them, and they shall be written and
sealed up in a book, and they that have dwindled in unbelief,
shall not have them, for they seek to destroy the things o f
G o d : wherefore, as they which have been destroyed, have
been destroyed speedily; and the multitude o f their terrible
ones, shall be as chaff that passeth away. Yea, thus saith
the Lord G o d : It shall be at an instant, suddenly.
And it shall come to pass, that they which have dwindled
in unbelief, shall be smitten by the hand o f the Gentiles. And
the Gentiles are lifted up in the pride o f their eyes, and have
stumbled, because o f the greatness o f their stumbling block,
that they have built up many Churches; nevertheless they put
down the power and the miracles o f God, and preach up un­
to themselves, their own wisdom, and their own learning, that
they may get gain, and grind upon the face o f the p o o r ; and
there are many churches built up which causeth envyings, and
strifes, and m alice; and there are also secret combinations,
even as in times o f old, according to the combinations o f the
Devil, for he is the founder o f all these things ; yea, the foun­
der o f murder, and works o f darkness; yea, and he leadeth
them by the neck with a flaxen cord, until he bindeth them
with his strong cords forever.
For behold, my beloved brethren, I say unto you, that the
Lord God worketh not in darkness. He doeth not any thing,
save it be for the benefit o f the world ; for he loveth the world,
even that he layeth down his own life, that he may draw all
men unto him. Wherefore, he commandeth none that they
shall not partake o f his salvation. Behold, doth he cry unto
any, saying, Depart from me 1 Behold, Isay unto'you, nay;
but he saith, Com e unto me all ye ends o f the earth, buy
milk and honey, without money, and without price. Behold,
hath he commanded any that they should depart out o f the
synagogues, or out o f the houses o f worship ? Behold, I say
unto you, nay. Hath he commanded any that they should not
partake o f his salvation t Behold, I say unto you, nay ; but
he hath given it free for all men ; and he hath commanded his
people that they should persuade all men unto repentance.
Behold, hath the Lord commanded any that they should not
veqi Sii j]B ‘ p jo q a q joj : n o i^ }u n o u i isu ib S b jq S y )B q ) a q s u o i)
- b u a q ) jib j o a p m ijjn u i a q i jjB qs o s u s a s ‘ s a i ! a y ia d d s tjje ij
jn o s s iq puB ‘iu ib j s i a q P io q a q puB ‘ qjajjB M B a q jn q ‘ q ia jju u p
a q p jo q a q puB ‘ q jau reaJp qaiqA i ‘ ubui X isa u j) b o ju n a ijij jo
ii)< H u a s i jnoH s iq puB qiasjBJAB a q jn q ‘ qja jB a a q p jo q a q puB *qja
-u iB a jp q o iq M ‘ u bu i Á jS u n q b o ju n s b u aA a ‘u ia q i o ju n a q jjB qs
) i ‘ s a i Í u o is ia jq S ju 8 j o n re a jp b s b a q JjBqs ‘j a q s s a jje ip js q j
puB ‘ u o ¡ 2 ) « uib3 b i q % r e q i su oip su a q i jjb puB ia jy S u u n o A a p
j o auiBjj a q ) qjtM puB ‘js a d iu a j p u a u u o js qjiM p u s ‘ a sio u jbbjS
b q ijM ptre ‘ ajjB nbqjJB a qiiA i puB ja p u n q j q jiM ‘ s js o q j o p i o 'j
a q ) j o p ajisiA aq |jBqs i a q ) ‘ a u io a jjB q s i n p )B q) uaqM puB
Isu o ijB u im o q B j o jauuB tu jjb p ú a ‘ X )in b iu ¡ qjiAA u a q u n jp aq jjim
i a q i ‘ p jo q a q iq jJ B a a q ) j o s p u B j a q ) jjb u o d n uaAa ‘ s a i is p m q
J ö q jo u o d n a q jjB q s qorqAi i a q j p u a ‘ jjubj s iq ) u o d n a u io a jju q s
qott[M i a q ) q )o q ‘ sM a p a q ; osjb puB ‘ s a p in s » ) a q ) j o s u o p e u a q )
J|B p jo q a q ‘ uàX Í s a p iu a y a q ) j o s i s p a q ) u i j o ‘s i s p )Sbj a q ;
u i ‘ P io q a q ‘ )n jj 'a p iu o g p u s A\ap q io q ‘ p o g o )u n aqijB 3jb
jjb p u s ! a a q )s a q a q ) q ia a a q u ia u ia i a q puB ; ajBUiaj puB ajBUi
‘ a a jj puB p u o q ‘ ajiquA p u s q o B jq ‘ u q q 0 )u n a u io a )B q ) a u o u
q ia iu a p a q p ú a Í s s a u p o o ® s iq j o a q siJ B d puB ‘ u iiq 0 )u n a u io a
O) jjb u ia q i qiaitA U i a q puB Í uau i j o u a jp p q a a q ) o )u n u m jd
a q )i 9A8S S u iq io u q )a o p a q puB Í u au i j o u a jp jtq o a q i S uouib
p o o S st q o iq M }B q i q ia o p a q joj Í p j o 'j a q ) j o a u io a s a lq n b u u
a s a q i j o a u o u jo j Í q s u a d jjbijs ‘ u ia q i q ia o p o s o ijm jo j is S u iq j
a s a q i j o a u o u o p p jn o q s i a q j )Bq> pire Í s u j o p a j o q « iju itu oa
)OU p jn o q s ¿ a q i )B q) Í ja q io ir e q )iM a u o p u a ju o a )Ou p jn o q s ia q )
j s q i Í aaijBut aABq )o u p jn o q s i a q i ]B q ) Í A.\ua jo u p jn o q s i a q i
)B q ) í tm u ui p o g JI3IJ1 pJOrj a q i j o aureu a q i aqB ) )o u p jn o q s
i a q ) )B q ) Í jB djs jo u p jn o q s i a q i )B qi J a q )o u p jn o q s i a q ) jB qi
)B q ) Í ja p jn u i )Ou p jn o q s mm j s q ) pap u B U iu ioo q is q p o g pJO’j
a q i ‘ u ib Sb ‘ p u y 'q s u a d jjB q s i a q i ‘ ia u o u i jo j JoqB j i a q ) j i joj
ÍUOJ2 JOJ JoqB j jjB qs ‘ u o j 2 u| JBJoqBj a q i ) n g 'q s u a d 01
U OI2 u i ja jo q n j a q ) Jajgns )Ou p jn o M i a q ) -a
^ u bijo aABq p jn o q s
i a q ) j i ‘ aJO ja jaq M : S u iq io u aJSAi i a q i ‘ XjiJBqa aABq p jn o q s
i a q ) i d a a i a p a y -bao j s i iip r e q a q a iq M ‘ .(ju u q o aABq p jn o q s
U aui jjb )8q) ‘ju a oa p u B u iu ioa b u oaiS qjB ij p o g p i o 'j a q i ‘ a jo j
-a ra q M Í § u tq i s iq ) u a p p iq jo j q iiu j j u o q a q ) ‘ p jo q a g -u o i^ j o
a jB jja jA a q ) )ou q a a s A a q ) jn q Í pjjoAV a q i j o a s n u d pun ‘ u;b8
ja ® ¿ b u i i a q ) )B q) ‘ pjJOAt a q i 0 )u n iq S q b jo j d n s a A ja so ia q i
la s p u s q a s a jd u au i is q ) aJB s y iu a -is a u d ‘ p jo q a q ‘ joj Í s y n ja
- is a u d o u a q jjB q s a ia q ) )B qi qiapu B U iu ioo a j j -u a p p iq jo j aJB
a u o u p u a ‘ .ta q io a q i o iu n a q rj a u o a q i p a S a jiA u d bjb u au i jjb
)n q í ÍB u ‘ n o i o iu n ì b s j ‘ p jo q a g ¿ss a u p o o S s iq j o aijB )JB d
6 0 1 THJ3N a o » o o a o i i o o a s
no SECOND BOOS OP NEPHI.
do iniquity, stay yourselves and wonder, for ye shall ery oat,
and cry; yea, ye shall be drunken, but not with wine ; ye shall
stagger, but not with strong drink : for behold, the Lord hath
poured out upon you, the spirit o f deep sleep. For behold, ye
have closed your eyes, and ye have rejected the Prophets, and
your rulers, and the s e e « hath he covered because o f your
iniquities.
And it shall come to pass, that the Lord God shall bring
forth unto you, the words o f a book, and they shall be the words
o f them which have slumbered. And behold, the book shall
he sealed; and in the book shall be a revelation from God, from
the beginning o f the world, to the ending thereof. Wherefore,
because o f the things which are sealed up, the things which
are sealed, shall not be delivered in the day o f the wickedness
and abominations o f the people. Wherefore the book shall
be kept from them. But the book shall be delivered unto a
Man, and he shall deliver the words o f the book, which are
the words o f they which have slumbered in the dust; and he
shall deliver these words unto another; but the words which
are sealed, he shall not deliver, neither shall he deliver the
Iwok. F or the book shall be sealed by the power o f God, and
the revelation which was sealed, shall be kept in the book
until the own dqe time o f the Lord, that they may come forth:
for, behold, they reveal all things from the foundation o f the
world, unto the end thereof. And the day cometh that the
words o f the book which were sealed, shall be read upon the
house-tops ; and they shall be read by the pow er o f Christ :
ond all things shall be revealed unto the children o f men whieh
ever hath been among the children o f men, and which ever
will be, even unto the end o f the earth. Wherefore, at that
day when the book shall be delivered unto the man o f whom I
have spoken, the book shall be hid from the eyes o f the world,
that the eyes o f none shall behold it, save it be that three wit­
nesses shall behold it, by the power o f God, besides him to
whom the book shall be delivered; and they shall testify to
the truth o f the book, and the things therein. And there is
none other whieh shall view it, save it be a few, according to
the will o f God, to bear testimony o f his word unto the chil­
dren o f m en: for the Lord God hath said, that the words o f
the faithful should speak as if it were from the dead. W'here-
fore, the Lord God will proceed to bring forth the words o f
the b ook ; and in the mouth o f as many witnesses as seemeth
SRSONB BOOK OF NEPHI. I l l
him good, will he establish his w ord : and wo be unto him
that rejecteth the word o f God,
But behold, it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall
say unto him to whom be shall deliver the book, Take these
words which are not sealed, and deliver them to another, that
he may shew them unto the learned, saying: Read this, 1 pray
thee. And the learned shall say, Bring hither the book, and I
will read them: and now, because o f the glory o f the world,
and to get gain, will they say this, and not for the glory o f God.
And the man shall say, I cannot bring the book, for it is sca­
led. Then shall the learned say, I cannot read it Where­
fore it shall come to pass, that the Lord God will deliver again
the book and the words thereof, to him that is not learned;
and the man that is not learned, shall say, 1 am not learned.
Then shall the Lord God say unto him, The learned shall not
read them, for they have rejected them, and 1 am able to do
mine own work ; wherefore, thou ehalt read the words which
I shall give unto thee. Touch not the things which are sea­
led, for I will bring them forth in mine own due tim e: for I
will shew unto the children o f men, that I am able to do mine
own work. Wherefore, when thou hast read the words which
I have commanded thee, and obtained the witnesses which I
have promised unto thee, then shah thou seal up the book
again, and hide it up unto me, that 1 may preserve the words
which thou hast not read, until I shall see fit in mine own wis­
dom, to reveal all things unto the children o f men. For be­
hold, I am God ; and I am a God o f miracles; and I will shew
unto the world that I am the same yesterday, to-day, and for­
ever ; and 1 work not among the children o f men, save it he
according to their faith.
And again it shall come to pass, that the Lord shall say unto
him that shall read the words that shall be delivered him, For
asmuch as this people draw near unto me with their mouth,
and with their lips do honor me, but have removed their hearts
far from me, and their fear towards me is taught by the pre­
cepts o f men, therefore, I will proceed to do a marvellous
work among this people; yea, a marvellous work, and a won­
der : for the wisdom o f their wise and learned shall perish,
and the understanding o f their prudent shall be hid. And wo
unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord.
And their works are in the dark; and they say, W ho seeth
u s; and who knowelh us'! And they also say, Surely, your
turning o f things upside down, shall be esteemed as the pot-
-p °r> j o ja * io d a q i íu a p i a q ) p u y -a o u s ja p n q ja A iS q oiq A t
‘ )¡>Gq*) Xjo jj y q ) X u ap p u e ‘Ü um jB 3[ j p q ) q jiM q u s a ) [ p q s
X a q ) pire ! jyqioire q p M a u o p u a )u o a p B q s e p a ta d J ta q ;
p u e í la q io n B qi|JA a u o p u a )u o a p B q s X aq) puB í p j o q a q ) o )u n
)0U puB ‘ s o q a jn q y d n q m q q jB q )»iqi ‘í b s a u o Í jo a o ][B qs s n q i
p u y •sqpJO'j a q i ure j ‘ j ‘ I br p u q s j a ip o a q ( puB í s j i JO '] a q )
u re | ‘| ‘ p jo q a g ‘J a q jo a q ) 0 )u n Ab r q n q s a u o a q ) uaqM ‘ p j o g a q )
0)u n )0U puB ‘ d n p m q 0.1B q a iq M s a q .u n q a a q i psqt ‘ ÍB p )>;qi ut
esB d o ) a u io a p tiq s p j o q qaB Jsj j o a s n o j j a q ) j o juB U uiai b
8jb q a iq M ‘ p a a s j n o o¡un X p e ia a d sa p u s ‘ uatn jo u a jp p q a a q )
0 )u n q |Jo m )B3j8 j o a q p ieqs qooq a q i j o p ío u a p u M a q p « q s
q a iq M sS u iq i a q g , 'gSBd o j arn oo X|aana )s n m í a q i i« q i M o u q
j ‘ a jojaJ iiq.iv i aui p a u re J jsu o o q p q ju id s a q ) sb Suipjooas
‘ n o l 0 )u n u a q o d s 3ABq j ‘ u a jq ja jq A
'tti ‘ p p q a q ‘ai011 aicy
1IX H SXdYH D
• o tp jp o p t u s a ) p n q s p a jn u u n u i ie q i X a q ) p u s ‘2 u ip
-u B ja ia p u n o ) a u io o p B q s p p d s u i p a .u a iB ip osjb X a q j, qaE Jsj
j o p o Q a q ) JBaj p B q s p u e ‘ q oD B f j o a u ( ) X [op i a q ) XjpauBS puu
‘ auiBu Aui Xjijoubs ¡[B qs ifa q ) ‘ u i¡q j o )s p iu i a q ; a i ‘a p u e q Xiu j o
p jO A l a q i ‘ u a jp p q a s iq q p a s a q uaqAA p i p -a p d x e m m ou aaB j
s iq pE tjs ja q p a u ‘ pau reqsB a q m o u 1011 p B q s q o o B f ‘ q o a E f
j o a s n o q a q j S u iu a oa u oa ‘ u r e q ü jq y p a u ia a p oa o q M ‘ p j o q a q i
q p B s s n q i a j o j a j a q x qqSsnou j o ¡su iq) b joj ) s n f a q ) apisB u jip
p u s ‘ojbS a q i ut qja A O jd cu p iq i u itq joj a jB u s b í b [ pire ‘ p jo M b
joj J a p u a p o ub ubui b aqB ut p iq t X aq) p u s : j o jn o ojb .fp n b iu r
joj qajE M )B qj p e puB ‘ p a m n s u o a si ja u J o a s a q i pim ‘ )q 2 n o u 01
p jS r io jq s i a u o a jq t.u a ) a q ) pp.q] aas p n q s ,ín q i ‘ tpaA q p j o q a q j sb
ílp a jn s s B j o q -p r u s ] j o n t ip X p f ¡ a q j u i a o io fo j [(B qs uau i
gu ou iB j o o d .iqi p u s í p j o rj a q í ui a q [;o q s X o f j p q j p u s ‘ asBaaa
-tu i p q s o s p q a a u i a q i p ile í sRSDUqjnp jo in o puB í p jn a s q o
jo jn o a a s p u q s p u q q o q i j o saA a a q ) puB í q o o q a q i j o s p jo M
a q ) JBaq jB a p a q ) p u q s Xb )i )B q ) ut p u y q s a jo j b s b p a u ia a isa
a q p B q s p p q p j u i u j a q ) pim í p ja g p ij) m jj b 0 )ui p a iu n ) a q
[ p q s u o u B q a q p u s ‘ a p q M a [))q AJaa fi )aX io u si )t )B q j ‘ uaui jo
u a a p p q a a q ) 0 )u n M a q s qtM j ‘ » ) s o f j j o p j o q a q ) q )i« s ‘ p (o q a q
)ng 1SutpuB)SJaptin ou pB q a j j ‘)i pauiB Jj )B q) uitq j o í b r p a u i
-bjj S u iq ) a q ) { p q s Ai<3 [ )Ou au i apBUi a j j b i a p s u i )B q) tuiq j o
Á
ü
sqjOMa q ) p s q s j o q •RqjoM Jiaq) [)BMouq [ W|) ‘ s )s o jq jo
pjoq aq) q)iss ‘ u ia q ) 0)un A iaqs pm [ ‘ p p q a q )np -¿Bp s q a j
■iHíaN do moob axoaas en
SECOND BOOS OF NEFHI. 11S
the Holy One o f Israel; and they say unto the people, Hear­
ken unto us, and hear ye our precept: for behold, there is no
God to-day, for the Lord and the Redeemer hath done his
work, and he hath given his power unto men. Behold, hear­
ken ye unto my precept: if they shall say there is a miracle
wrought, by the hand o f the Lord, believe it not; for this day
he is not a God of miracles: he hath done his work. Yea, and
there shall be many which shall say, eat, drink, and be merry,
for to-morrow we die; and it shall be well with us. And there
shall also be many which shall say, eat, drink, and be merry;
nevertheless, fear God, he willjustify in committing a little sin;
yea, lie a little, take the advantage o f one because o f his words,
dig a pit for thy neighbor; there is no harm in this. And do
all these tilings, for to-mrrow we d ie ; and if it so be that we
are guilty, God will beat us with a few stripes, and at last we
shall be saved in the Kingdom o f God. Yea, and there shall
be many which shall teach after this manner, false, and vain,
and foolish doctrines, and shall be puffed up in their hearts,
and shall seek deep to hide their counsels from the L ord;
and their works Bhall be in the dark; and the blood o f the
Saints shall cry from the ground against them. Yea, they
have all gone out o f the w ay; they haye become corrupted.
Because o f pride, and beeause of false teachers, and false doc­
trine, their churches have become corrupted; and their church­
es are lifted u p ; because o f pride, they are puffed up. They
rob the poor, because o f their fine sanctuaries; they rob the
poor, because o f their fine clothing; and they persecute the
meek, and the poor in heart; because in their pride, they are
puffed up. They wear stiff necks, and high heads; yea, and
because o f pride, and wickedness, and abominations, and
whoredoms, they have all gone astray, save it be a few, which
are the humble followers o f Christ; nevertheless, they are
led, that in many instances they do err, because they are taught
by the precepts o f men.
O the wise, and the learned, and the rich, that are puffed
up in the pride o f their hearts, and all they that preach false
doctrines, and all they that commit whoredoms, and pervert
the right way o f the L ord; wo, wo, wo be unto them, saith
the Lord God Almighty, for they shall be thrust down to hell.
W o unto them that turn aside the just for a thing o f nought,
and revile against that whicli is good, and say that it is o f no
worth: for the day shall come that the Lord God will spee­
dily visit the inhabitants o f the earth; and in that day that they
S
114 SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI.
are ftilly ripe in iniquity, they shall perish. But behold, i f the
inhabitants o f the earth shall repent o f their wickedness and
abominations, they shall not be destroyed, eaith the Lord o f
Hosts. But behold, that great and abominable church, the
whore o f all the earth, must tumble to the earth; and great
must be the fall thereof: for the kingdom o f the Devil must
shake, and they which belong to it must needs be stirred up
unto repentance, or the Devil will grasp them with his ever­
lasting chains, and they be stirred up to anger and perish:
for behold, at that day shall he rage in the hearts o f the chilr
dren o f men, and stir them up to anger against that which is
g o o d ; and others will he pacify, and lull them away into car­
nal security, that they will say, All is well in Z io n ; yea, Zion
prospereth, all is w ell; and thus the Devil cheateth tbeireouls,
and leadeth them away carefully down to hell. And behold,
others he flatlereth away, and telleth them there is no hell;
and he saith unto them, I am no Devil, for there is none ;
and thus he whispereth in their ears, until he grasps them with
his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance. Yea,
they are grasped with death, and h ell; and death, and hell,
and the Devil, and all that have been seized therewith, must
stand before the Throne o f God, and be judged according to
their works, from whence they must go into the place prepa­
red for them, even a lake o f fire and brimstone, which is end­
less torment. Therefore, wo be unto him that is at ease in
Zion. W o be unto him that crieth, All is w ell; yea, wo be
unto him that hearkeneth unto the precepts o f men, and de­
nied) the power o f God and the gift o f the H oly Ghost. Yea,
w o be unto him that saith, W e have received, and we need
no more. And in fine, wo unto all they that tremble, and are
angry because o f the truth o f God. For behold, he that is
built upon the rock, receiveth it with gladness ; and he that
is built upon a sandy foundation, trembieth, lest he shall fall.
W o be unto him that shall say, W e have received the word
o f God, and we need no more o f the word o f God. for we
have enough. F or behold, thus saith the Lord G o d : i will
give unto the children o f men line upon line, precept upon pre­
cept, here a little and there a little; and blessed are they
that hearken unto my precepts, and lend an ear unto my courp-
sel, for they shall learn w isdom : for unto him that receiveth,
1 will give m ore; and them that shall say, W e have enough,
from them shall be taken away even that which they have.—
Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh his
SECOND BOOK OF NEPHt. 115
arm, or shall hearken unto the precepts of men, save their pre­
cepts shall be given by the power o f the Holy Ghost.
W o be unto the Gentiles, saith the Lord God o f Hosts: for
notwithstanding I shall lengthen out mine arm unto them from
day to day, they will deny m e; nevertheless, ! will be merci­
ful unto them, saith the Lord God, if they will yepent and
come unto m e: for mine arm is lengthened out all the day
long, saith the Lord God o f Hosts.
But behold, there shall be many at that day, when 1 shall
proceed to do a marvellous work among them, that 1 may re­
member my covenants which I have made unto the children of
men, that 1 may set my hand again the second time to recover
iny people, which are of the House o f Israel; and also, that I
may remember the promises which I have made unto thee, Ne-
phi, and also unto thy father, That I would remember your
seed; and that the words o f your seed should proceed forth
out o f my mouth unto your seed. And my words shall hiss
forth unto the ends of the earth, for a standard unto my peo­
ple, which are of the House o f Israel. And because my words
shall hiss forth, many of the Gentiles shall say, A Bible, a Bi­
ble, we have got a Bible, and there cannot be any more Bi­
ble. But thus saith the Lord G od: O fools, they shall have
a Bible; and it shall proceed forth from the Jews, mine ancient
covenant people. And what thank they the Jews for the Bi­
ble which they receive from them ? Yea, what do the Gentiles
mean ? Do they remember the travels, and the labors, and the
pains o f the Jews, and their diligence unto me, in bringing
forth salvation unto the Gentiles ?
O ye Gentiles, have ye remembered the Jews, mine ancient
covenant people ? N ay; but ye have cursed them, and have
hated them, and have not sought to recover them. But be­
hold, 1 will return all these things upon your own heads: for
i the Lord, hath not forgotten my people. Thou fool, that shall
say, A Bible, we have got a Bible, and we need no more Bible.
Have ye obtained a Bible, save it were by the Jews t Know
ye not that there are more nations than one ? Know ye not
that 1 the Lord your God, have created all men, and that I
remember they which are upon the isles o f the sea; and that
I rule in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath; and I
bring forth my word unto the children of men, yea, even upon
all the nations o f the earth? Wherefore murmur ye, because
that ye shall receive more of my word ? Know ye not that the
testimony o f two nations is a witness unto vou that 1 am God,
3 *
116 SECOND BOOK OP NEPHJ.
that I remember one nation like unto another? wherefore, I
speak the same words unto one nation like unto another. And
when the two nations shall run together, the testimony o f the
two nations shall run together also. And I do this that I may
prove unto many, that 1 am the same yesterday, to-day, and
forever; and that I speak forth my words according to mine
own pleasure. And because that 1 have spoken one word, ye
need not suppose that I cannot speak another: for my work
is not yet finished; neither shall it be, until the end o f man ;
neither from that time henceforth and forever.
Wherefore, because that ye have a Bible, ye need not sup­
pose that it contains all my w ords; neither need ye suppose
that 1 have not caused more to be written : for i command all
men, both in the east, and in the west, and in the north, and in
the south, and in the islands o f the sea, that they shall write
the words which I speak unto them : for out o f the books
which shall be written, 1 will judge the world, every man ac­
cording to their works, according to that which is written.—
F or behold, I shall speak unto the Jews, and they shall write
it ; and I shall also speak unto the Nephites, and they shall
write it ; and 1 shall also speak unto the other tribes o f the
House o f Israel, which I have led away, and they shall write
it; and I shall also speak unto all the nations o f the earth, and
they shall write it.
And it shall come to pass that the Jews shall have the
words o f the Nephites, and the Nephites shall have the words
o f the Jew s; and the Nephites and the Jew’s shall have the
words o f the lost tribes o f Israel; and the lost tribes o f Israel
shall have the words o f the Nephites and the Jews.
And it shall come to pass that my people which are o f the
House o f Israel, shall be gathered home unto the lands o f their
possessions; and my word also shall be gathered in one. And
I will shew unto them that fight against my word and against
my people, which are o f the House o f Israel, that i am God,
and that I covenanted with Abraham that I would remember
his seed forever.
And now, behold, my beloved brethren, I would speak unto
y o u : for I, Nephi, would not suffer that ye should suppose
that ye are more righteous than the Gentiles shall be. For
behold, except ye shall keep the commandments o f God, ye
shall all likewise perish ; and because o f the words which have
been spoken, ye need not suppose that the Gentiles are utterly
destroyed. For behold, I say unto you, as many o f the Gen-
SECOND BOOK OP NEPHI. 117
tiles as will repent, are the covenant people o f the L ord; and
as many o f the Jews as will not repent, shall be cast o ff: for
the Lord covenanted) with none, save it be with them that re­
pent and believe in his Son, which is the Holy One o f Israel.
And now, I would prophesy somewhat more concerning the
Jews and the Gentiles. For after the book o f which 1 have
spoken shall come forth, and be written unto the Gentiles, and
sealed up again unto the Lord, there shall be many which shall
believd- the words which are written; and they shall carry
them forth unto the remnant o f our seed. And then shall the
remnant o f our seed know concerning us, how that we came
out from Jerusalem, and that they are a descendant o f the
Jews. And the Gospel o f Jesus Christ shall be declared among
them ; wherefore, they shall be restored unto the knowledge
o f their fathers, and also to the knowledge o f Jesus Christ,
whith was had among their fathers. And then shall they re­
joice :■ for they shall know that it is a blessing unto them from
the hand o f G o d ; and their scales o f darkness shall begin to
fall from their eyes; and many generations shall not pass away
among them, save they shall be a white and a delightsome
people.
And it shall come to pass that the Jews which are scattered,
also shall begin to believe in Christ; and they shall begin to
gather in upon the face o f the land; and as many as shall be­
lieve in Christ, shall also become a delightsome people.
And it shall come to pass that the Lord God shall commence
his work, among all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, to
bring about the restoration o f his people upon the earth. And
with righteousness shall the Lord God judge the poor, and re­
prove with equity, for the meek o f the earth. And he shall
smite the earth with the rod o f his mouth; and with the breath
o f his lips shall he slay the w icked: for the time speedily
eometh, that the Lord God shall cause a great division among
the people; and the wicked will he destroy; and he will spare
his people, yea, even if it so be that he must destroy the
wicked by fire. And righteousness shall be the girdle o f his
loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins. And then shall
the wolf dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down
with the k id ; and the calf, and the young lion, and the falling,
together; and a little child shall lead them. And the cow and
the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down together;
and the lion shall eat straw like the ox. And the sucking
child shall play on the hole o f the asp, and the weaned child
118 SECOND BOOK OP NEPU1.
shall put his hand on the cockatrice’ s den. They shall not
hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain : for the earth shall
be full o f the knowledge o f the Lord, as the waters cover
the sea. Wherefore, the things o f all nations shall be made
know n; yea, all things shall be made known unto the children
o f men. There is nothing which is secret, save it shall be
revealed; there is no works o f darkness, save It shall be made
manifest in the light; and there is nothing which is sealed
upon the earth, save it shall be loosed. Wherefore, all things
which have been revealed unto the children o f men, shall at
that day be revealed; and Satan shall have power over the
hearts o f the children o f men no more, for a long time. And
now, my beloved brethren, I must make an end o f my sayings.
C H A P T E R XIII.
And now I, Nephi, make an end o f my prophesying unto
you, my beloved brethren. And I cannot write but a few
things, which I know must surely come to pass; neither can
1 write but a few o f the words o f my brother Jacob. W here­
fore, the things which I have written, sufficeth me, save it be a
few words which I must speak, concerning the doctrine o f
C hrist; wherefore, I shall speak unto you plainly, according
to the plainness o f my prophesying. For my soul delighteth
in plainness: for after this manner doth the Lord God work
among the children o f men. F or the Lord God giveth light
unto the understanding : for he speaketh unto men according
to their language, unto their understanding. Wherefore, 1
would that ye should remember that I have spoken unto you,
concerning that Prophet which the Lord showed unto me, that
should baptize the Lamb o f God, which should take away the
sins o f the world.
And now, if the Lamb o f God, he being holy, should have
need to be baptized by water, to fulfil all righteousness, O then,
how much more need have we, being unholy, to be baptized,
yea, even by water. And now, I would ask o f you, my beloved
brethren, wherein the Lamb o f God did fulfil all righteousness
in being baptized by water! Know ye not that he was holy!
But notwithstanding he being holy, he showeth unto the chil­
dren o f men, that according to the flesh, he humbleth himself
before the Father, and witnesseth unto the Father that he
SECON» BOOK OP NEPHI. 119
would be obedient unto him in keeping his commandments;
wherefore, after that he was baptized with water, the Holy
Ghost descended upon him in the form o f a dove. And again:
It sheweth unto the children o f men the straightness o f the
path, and the narrowness o f the gate, by which they should
enter, he having set the example before them. And he saith
unto the children of men, Follow thou me. Wherefore, my
beloved brethren, can we follow Jesus, save we shall be wil­
ling to keep the commandments of the Father? And the Fa­
ther saith, Repent ye, repent ye, and be baptized in the name
o f my beloved Son. And also, the voice o f the Son came
unto me, saying, He that is baptized in my name, to him -will
the Father give the Holy Ghost, like unto m e; wherefore, fol­
low me, and do the things which ye have seen me do. Where­
fore, my beloved brethren, 1 know that if ye shall follow the
Son, with full purpose o f heart, acting no hypocrisy and no
deception before God, but with real intent, repenting o f your
sins, witnessing unto the Father that ye are willing to take up­
on you the name o f Christ, by baptism; yea, by following
your Lord and Saviour down into the water, according to his
word ; behold, then shall ye receive the Holy Ghost; yea, then
cometh the baptism o f fire and o f the Holy G host; and then
can ye speak with the tongue o f Angels, and shout praises un­
to the Holy One o f Israel.
But behold, my beloved brethren, thus came the voice o f
the Son unto me, saying, After that ye have repented of your
sins, and witnessed unto the Father that ye are willing to keep
my commandments, by the baptism of water, and have recei­
ved the baptism o f fire and o f the Holy Ghost, and can speak
with a new tongue, yea, even with the tongue o f Angels, and
after this, should deny me, it would have been better for you,
that ye had not known me.
And I heard a voice from the Father, saying, Yea, the words
of my beloved, are true and faithful. He that endureth to the
end, the same shall be saved. And now, my beloved brethr
ren, I know by this, that unless a man shall endure to the end,
in following the example of the Son of the firing God, he can­
not be saved; wherefore, do the things which I have told you
that I have seen, that your Lord and your Redeemer sould d o :
for, for this cause have they been shpwrt unto me, that ye
might know the gate by which ye should enter. For the gate
by which ye should enter, is repentance, and baptism by water;
and then cometh a remission o f your sins by fire, and by the
120 SECOND BOOK OF NEFHI.
Holy Ghost. And then are ye in this straight and narrow path
which leads to eternal life; yea, ye have entered in by the
gate: ye have done according to the commandments o f the
Father and the S on ; and ye have received the Holy Ghost,
•which witness o f the Father and the Son, unto the fulfilling o f
the promise which he hath made, That if ye entered in by the
way, ye should receive.
And now, my beloved brethren, after that ye have got into
this straight and narrow path, I would ask, If all is done ? Be­
hold, I say unto you, N ay; for ye have not come thus far, save
it were by the word o f Christ, with unshaken faith in him,
relying wholly upon the merits o f Him who is mighty to save;
wherefore, ye must press forward with a steadfastness in
Christ, having a perfect brightness o f hope, and a love o f God
and o f all men. Wherefore, if ye shall press forward, feast­
ing upon the word o f Christ, and endure to the end, behold,
thus saith the Father: Ye shall have eternal life.
And now, behold, my beloved brethren, this is the way; and
there is none other way nor name given under heaven, whereby
man can be saved in the Kingdom o f God. And now, behold,
this is the doctrine o f Christ, and the only and true doctrine
o f the Father, and o f the Son, and o f the Holy Ghost, which
is one God, without end. Amen.
CH A PTE R XIV.
An» now, behold, my beloved brethren, I suppose that ye
ponder somewhat in your hearts, concerning that which ye
should do, after that ye have entered in by the way. But be­
hold, why do ye ponder these things in your hearts? Do ye not
remember that I said unto you, that after ye had received the
Holy Ghost, ye could speak with the tongue o f Angels? And
now, how could ye speak with the tongue o f Angels, save if
were by the- Holy Ghost ? Angels speak by the power o f the
Holy G host; wherefore, they speak the words o f Christ.—-
Wherefore, I said unto you, feast upon the words o f Christ:
for behold, the words o f Christ will tell you all things what
ye should do. Wherefore, now after that I have spoken these
words, if ye cannot understand them, it will be because ye ask
not, neither do ye kn ock; wherefore, ye are not brought into
the light, but must perish in the dark. For behold, again I
SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI. 121
say unto you, that if ye will enter in by the way, and receive
the Holy Ghost, it will shew unto you all things what ye should
do. Behold, this is the doctrine o f Christ; and there will be
no more doctrine given, until after that he shall manifest him­
self unto you in the flesh. And when he shall manifest him­
self unto you in the flesh, the things which he shall say unto
you, shall ye observe to do.
And now 1, Nephi, cannot say m ore: the spirit stoppeth
mine utterance, and I am left to mourn because o f the unbelief,
and the wickedness, and the ignorance, and the stiff-necked­
ness o f m en : for they will not search knowledge, nor under­
stand great knowledge, when it is given unto them in plainness,
even as plain as word can be.
And now my beloved brethren, 1 perceive that ye ponder
still in your hearts; and it grieveth me that I must speak con­
cerning this thing. For if ye would hearken unto the spirit
which teacheth a man to pray, ye would know that ye must
pray: for the evil spirit teacheth not a man to pray, but teach­
eth him that he must not pray. But behold, I say unto you,
that ye must pray always, and not faint; that ye must not per­
form any thing unto the Lord, save in the first place ye shall,
pray unto the Father in the name o f Christ, that be will con­
secrate thy performance unto thee, that thy performance majr
be for the welfare o f thy soul.
CH A PTE R XV.
And now I, Nephi, camot write all the things which were
taught among my people; neither am I mighty in writing, like
unto speaking: for when a man speaketh by the power o f the
Holy Ghost, the power of the Holy Ghost carrieth it unto the
hearts o f the children o f men. But behold, there are many
that harden their hearts against the Holy Spirit, that it hath no
place in them ; wherefore, they cast many things away which
are written, and esteem them as things o f nought. But 1, Ne­
phi, have written what 1 have written; and I esteem it as o f
great worth, and especially unto my people. For 1 pray con­
tinually for them by day, and mine eyes water my pillow by
night, because o f them; and I cry unto my God in faith, and I
know that he will hear my c ry ; and i know that the Lord G od
will consecrate my prayers, for the gain o f my people. And
122 SECOND BOOK OF NEPHI.
the things which I have written in weakness, will he made
strong unto them: for it persuadeth them to do g o o d ; it ma-
keth known unto them o f their fathers; and it speaketh o f Je­
sus, and persuadeth men to believe in him, and to endure to
the end, which is life eternal. And it speaketh harsh against
sin, according to the plainness of'the truth; wherefore, no man
will be angry at the words which 1 have written, save he shall
be o f the spirit o f the Devil. I glory in plainness; I glory in
truth; I glory in my Jesus, for he hath redeemed my soul from
hell. I have charity for my people, and great faith in Christ,
that I shall meet many souls spotless at his judgment seat. 1
have charity for the J ew ; I say Jew, because I mean them
from whence 1 came. I also have charity for the Gentiles.—
But behold, for none o f these I cannot hope, except they shall
be reconciled unto Christ, and enter into the narrow gate, and
walk in the straight path, which leads to life, and continue in
the path until the end o f the day of probation.
And now, my beloved brethren, and also Jew, and all ye
ends o f the earth, hearken unto these words, and believe in
C hrist; and if ye believe not in these words, believe in Christ.
And if ye shall believe in Christ, ye will believe in these w ords:
for they are the words o f Christ, and he hath given them unto
me ; and they teach all men that they should do good. And
if they are not the words o f Christ, judge y e : for Christ will
shew unto you, with power and great glory, that they are his
words, at the last day; and you and 1 shall stand face to face
before his bar; and ye shall know that 1 have been comman­
ded o f him to write these things, notwithstanding my weak­
ness : and I pray the Father in the name o f Christ, that many
o f us, if not all, may be saved in his kingdom, at that great
and last day.
And now, my beloved brethren, all they which are o f the
House o f Israel, and all ye ends o f be earth, I speak unto you,
as the voice o f one crying from the dust: farewell until that
great day shall com e; and you that will not partake o f the
goodness o f God, and respect the words o f the Jews, and also
iny words, and the words which shall proceed forth out o f the
mouth o f the Lamb o f God, behold, i bid you an everlasthg
’farewell, for these words shall condemn you at the last day:
for wlmt I seal on earth, shall be brought against you at the
judgment bar; for thus hath the Lord commanded me, and I
must obey. Amen.
THE BOOK OF JACOB,
T H E B R O T H E R O P NEPHI,
C H A P T E R L
The words o f hispreaching unto his brethren. He confound*
eth a man who scekelh to overthrow the doctrine o f Christ.
Jifew words concerning the history o f thepeople o fNephi.
F or behold, it came to pass that fifty and five years had
passed away, from the time that Lehi left Jerusalem; where­
fore, Nephi gave me, Jacob, a commandment concerning the
small plates, upon which these things are engraven, And he
gave me, Jacob, a commandment that I should write upon
these plates, a few o f the things which I considered to be most
precious: that 1 should not touch, save it were lightly, con­
cerning the history o f this people which are called the people
o f Nephi. For he said that the history o f his people should
be engraven upon his other plates, and that 1should preserve
these plates, and hand them down unto my seed, from gene­
ration to generation. And if there were preaching which was
sacred, or revelation which was great, or prophesying, that 1
should engraven the heads o f them upon these plates, and
touch upon them as much as it were possible, for Christ’s
sake, and for the sake o f our people: for because o f faith and
great anxiety, it truly had been made manifest unto us concer­
ning our people, what things should happen unto them. And
we also had many revelations, and the spirit o f much proph­
ecy ; wherefore, we knew o f Christ and his Kingdom, which
should come. Wherefore, we laboured diligently among our
people, that we might persuade them to come unto Christ,
and partake o f the goodness o f God, that they might enter into
his rest, lest by any means he should swear in his wrath they
should not enter in, as in the provocation in the days o f tempt­
ation, while the children o f Israel were in the wilderness.—
Wherefore, we would to God that we could persuade all men
not to rebel against God, to provoke him to anger, but that all
men would believe in Christ, and view his death, and suffer
his cross, and bear the shame o f the w orld; wherefore, I, Ja­
cob, take it upon me to fulfil the commandment o f my brother
124 BOOK OF JACOB.
Now Nephi began to be old, and he saw that he must soon
d ie; wherefore, he anointed a man to be a king and a ruler
over his people now, according to the reigns of the kings,—
The people having loved Ncphi exceedingly, he having been a
great protector for them, having wielded the sword o f Laban
in their defence, and having laboured in all his days for theif
welfare; wherefore, the people were desirous to retain in re­
membrance his name. And whoso should reign in his stead,
were called by the people Second Nephi, Third Nepbi, &e.
according to the reigns of the kings; and thus they were call­
ed by the people, let them be o f whatever name they would.
And it came to pass that Nephi died. Now the people which
were not Lamanites, were Nephites; nevertheless, they were
called Nephites, Jacobites, Josephites, Zoramites, Lamanites,
Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites. But I, Jacob, shall not hereaf­
ter distinguish them by these names, but 1 shall call them La­
manites. They that seek to destroy the people o f Nephi, and
they which are friendly to Nephi, I shall call Nephites, or the
people o f Nephi, according to the reigns o f the kings.
And now it came to pass that the people of Nephi, under
the reign of the second king, began to grow hard in their
hearts, and indulge themselves somewhat in wicked practices,
such as like unto David o f Old, desiring many wives and don-
eubines, and also Solomon, his son ; yea, and they also began
to search much gold and silver, and began to be lifted up
somewhat in pride; wherefore, I, Jacob, gave unto them these
words as 1 taught them in the temple, having firstly obtained
mine errand from the Lord. For I, Jacob, and my brother
Joseph, had been consecrated priests, and teachers o f this
people, by the hand of Nephi. And we did magnify our office
unto the Lord, taking upon us the responsibility, answering
the sins of the people upon our own heads, if we did not
teach them the word of God with all diligence; wherefore, by
laboring with our mights, their blood might not come upon our
garments; otherwise, their blood would come upon our gar­
ments, and we would not be found spotless at the last day.
CH APTER II.
T hf, words which Jacob, the brother of Nephi, spake unto
the people o f Nephi, after the death of Nephi: Now, my be-
BOOK OP JACOB. 125
loved brethren, f, Jacob, according to the responsibility which
1 am under to God, to magnify mine office with soberness, and
that I might rid my garments o f your sins, 1 come up into the
temple this day, that 1might declare unto you the word of G od;
and ye yourselves know, that 1 have hitherto been diligent in
the office of my calling; but 1this day am weighed down with
much more desire and anxiety for the welfare of your souls,
than 1 have hitherto been. For behold, as yet, ye have been
obedient unto the word of the Loid, which 1 have given unto
you. But,behold, hearken ye unto me, and know that by the
help o f the All-powerful Creator of Heaven and Earth, 1 can
tell you concerning your thoughts, how that ye are beginning to
labor in sin, which sin appeared! very abominable unto me,
yea, and abominable unto God. Yea, it grievelh my soul and
causeth me to shrink with shame before the presence o f my
Maker, that 1 might testify unto you concerning the wicked­
ness of your hearts; and also, it grieveth me that l must use
so much boldness o f speech, concerning you, before your wives
and your children, many of whose feelings are exceeding ten­
der, arid chaste, and delicate before God, which thing is plea­
sing unto G od ; and it supposeth me that they have come up
hither to hear the pleasing word of God, yea, the word which
healeth the wounded soul.
Wherefore, it burdeneth my soul, that I should be constrained
because o f the strict commandment which I have received from
God, to admonish you, according to your crimes, to enlarge
the wounds o f those which are already wounded, instead of
consoling and healing their wounds; and those which have not
been wounded, instead o f feasting upon the pleasing word of
God, have daggers placed to pierce their souls, and wound their
delicate minds. But, notwithstanding the greatness o f the task,
I must do according to the strict commands o f God, and tell
you concerning your wickedness and abominations, in the pre­
sence o f the pure in heart, and the broken heart, and under the
glance o f the piercing eye o f the Almighty God.
Wherefore, I must tell you the truth, according to the plain­
ness o f the word of God. For behold, as I inquired o f the
Lord, thus came the word unto me, saying, Jacob, get thou
up into die temple on the morrow, and declare the word which
I shall give thee, unto fhis people.
And now behold, my brethren, this is the word which I de­
clare unto you, that many of you have began to search for
gold, and for silver, and all manner o f precious ores, in the
126 BOOK OF JACOB,
which this land, which is a land o f promise unto you, and to
your seed, doth abound most plentifully. And the hand o f
Providence hath smiled upon you roost pleasingly, that you
have obtained many riches; and because that some o f you have
obtained more abundantly than that o f your brethren, ye are
lifted up in the pride o f your hearts, ami wear stiff necks,
and high heads, because o f the costliness o f your apparel, and
persecute your brethren, because that y e suppose that y c are
better then they.
And now my brethren, do ye suppose that God justifieth
you in this thing ? Behold, 1 say unto you, Nay. But he con­
demned! you, and if ye persist in these things, his judgments
must speedily come unto you, O that he would shew you
that he can pierce you, and with one glance o f his eye, he can
smite you to the dust. O that he would rid you from this ini­
quity, and abomination. And, O that ye would listen unto
the word o f his commands, and let not this pride o f your
hearts destroy your souls. Think o f your brethren, like unto
yourselves, and be familiar with all, and free with your sub­
stance, that they may be rich like unto you. But before ye
seek for riches, seek ye for the Kingdom o f God. And after
that ye have obtained a hope in Christ, ye shall obtain riches,
if ye seek them ; and ye will seek them, for the intent to do
g o o d ; to clothe the naked, and to feed the hungry, and to
liberate the captive, and administer relief to the sick, and the
afflicted.
And now my brethren, 1 have spoken unto you concerning
pride; and those o f you which have afflicted your neighbor, and
persecuted him, because that ye were proud in your hearts,
o f the things which God hath given you, what say ye o f it i
D o ye not suppose that such things are abominable unto him,
who created all flesh ? And the one being is as precious in his
sight as the other. And ali flesh is o f the du st; and for the
self same end bath he created them, that they should keep his
commandments, and glorify him forever. And now i make
an end o f speaking unto you concerning this pride. And were it
not that I must speak unto you concerning a grosser crime,
my heart would rejoice excedingly, because o f you. But the
word o f God burthens me because o f your grosser crimes.
F or behold, thus saith the L o rd : This People begin to
wax in iniquity; they understand not the Scriptures: tor they
seek to excuse themselves in committing whoredoms, because
o f the things which were written concerning David, and Solo-
BOOK OF JACOB. 127
moo his Son. Behold, David and Solomon truly had many
wives and concubines, which thing was abominable before
me, saith the Lord. Wherefore, thus saith the L ord : 1have
led this people forth out ot the land o f Jerusalem, by the
power o f mine arm, that 1 might raise up unto me a righteous
branch, from the fruit o f the loins o f Joseph. Wherefore, I,
the Lord God, will not suffer that this people shall do like
unto them o f old. Wherefore, my brethren, hear me, and
hearken to the word o f the Lord: for there Bhall not any man
among you have save it be one w ife; and concubines he
shall have none: F or 1, the Lord God, delighteth in the
chastity o f women. And whoredoms is an abomination before
m e : thus saith the Lord o f Hosts Wherefore, this people
shall keep my commandments, wait] the Lord o f Hosts, or
cursed be the land for their sakes. For if 1 will, saith the
Lord o f Hosts, raise up seed unto me, I will command my
people: otherwise, they shall hearken unto these things. For
behold, I, the Lord, have seen the sorrow, and heard the
mourning o f the daughters o f my people, in (he land o f Jeru­
salem ; yea, and in all the lands of my people, because of the
wickedness and abominations o f their husbands. And 1 will
not suffer, saith the Lord o f Hosts, that the cries o f the fair
daughters o f this people, which I have led out o f the land of
Jerusalem, shall come up unto me, against the men o f my peo­
ple, saith the Lord o f Hosts; for they shall not lead away
captive, the daughters o f my people, because of their tender­
ness, save I shall visit them with a sore curse, even unto
destruction : for they shall not commit whoredoms, like unto
they o f old, saith the Lord o f Hosts.
And now behold, my brethren, ye know that these command­
ments were given to our father Lem ; wherefore, ye have known
them before; and ye have come unto great condemnation; for
ye have done these things, which ye ought not to have done
Behold, ye have done greater iniquities than the Lamam/es,
our brethren. Ye have broken the hearts o f your tender wives,
and lost the confidence o f your children, because o f your bad
examples before them; and the sobbings of their hearts ascen-
deth up to God against you. And because o f the strictness of
the word of God, which cometh down against you, many hearts
died, pierced with deep wounds.
But behold, I, Jacob, would speak unto you that are pure
in heart. Look unto God with firmness o f mind, and pray
unto him with exceeding faith, and be will console you
128 BOOK OF JACOB.
in your afflictions, and he will plead your cause, and send
down justice upon those who seek your destruction.
O all ye that are pure in heart, lift up your heads and receive
the pleasing word o f God, and feast upon his love; for ye
may, if your minds are firm, forever. But, wo, w o, unto
you that are not pure in heart; that are filthy this day before
God ; for except ye shall repent, the land is cursed for your
sakes, and the Lamanites, which are not filthy like unto you,
(nevertheless, they are cursed with a sore cursing) shall scourge
you even unto destruction. And the time speedily cometh,
that except ye repent, they shall possess the land o f your in­
heritance, and the Lord God will lead away the righteous out
from among you. Behold, the Lamanites your brethren,
whom ye hate, because o f their filthiness and the cursings
which hath come upon their skins, are more righteous than y ou ;
for they have not forgotten the commandment o f the Lord,
which was given unto our fathers, that they should have, save
it were one w ife; and concubines they should have n one; and
there should not be whoredoms committed among them.
And now this commandment they observe to keep ; wherefore,
because o f this observance in keeping this commandment, the
Lord God will not destroy them, but will be merciful unto
them ; and one day they shall become a blessed people.
Behold, their husbands love their wives, and their wives love
their husbands, and their husbands and their wives love their
children; and their unbelief and heir hatred towards you, is be­
cause o f the iniquity o f their fathers ; wherefore, how much
better are you than they, in the sight of your Great Creator?
O my brethren, 1 fear, that unless ye shall repent o f your
sins, that their skins will be whiter than yours, when ye shall
be brought with them before the throne o f God. Wherefore,
a commandment 1 give unto you, which is the word o f God,
that ye revile no more against them, because o f the darkness
o f their skins; neither shall ye revile against them because o f
their filthiness; but ye shall remember your own filthiness,
and remember that their filthiness came because o f their fa­
thers. Wherefore, ye shall remember your children, how
that ye have grieved their hearts, because o f the example that
ye have set before them ; and also, remember that ye may, be­
cause o f your filthiness, bring your children unto destruction,
and their sins be heaped upon your heads at the last day.
O my brethren, hearken unto my w ord; arouse the facul­
ties o f your sou l; shake yourselves, that ye may awake from
BOOK O F J A C O B . m
the slumber o f death; and loose yourselves from the pains o f
hell, that ye may not become Angels to the Devil, to be cast
into that lake o f fire and brimstone, which is the second death.
And now I, Jacob, spake many more things unto the people o f
Nephi, warning them against fornication, and lasciviousness,
and every kind o f sin, telling them the awful consequences o f
them; and a hundredth part o f the proceedings o f this people,
which now began to be numerous, cannot be written upon these
plates; but many o f their proceedings are written upon the
larger plates, and their wars, and their contentions, and the
reigns o f their kings. These plates are called the plates o f
Jacob; and they were made by the hand o f Nephi. And 1
make an end o f speaking these words.
C H A P T E R HI.
N ow heboid, it came to pass, that I, Jacob, having ministe­
red much unto my people, in word, (and 1 cannot write but a
little o f my words, because o f the difficulty o f engraving our
words upon plates,) and we know that the things which we
write upon plates, must remain; but whatsoever things we
write upon any thing save it be upon plates, must perish and
vanish away; but we can write a few words upon plates,
which will give our children, and also our beloved brethen, a
small degree o f knowledge concerning us, or concerning their
fathers. Now in this thing we do rejoice; and we labor dili­
gently to engraven these words upon plates, hoping that our
beloved brethren, and our children, will receive them with
thankful hearts, and look upon them, that they may learn with
joy, and not with sorrow, neither with contempt, concerning
their first parents: for, for this intent have we written these
things, that they may know that we knew o f Christ, and we
had a hope o f his glory, many hundred years before his com­
ing ; and not only we, ourselves, had a hope of his glory, but
also all the Holy Prophets which were before us.
Behold, they believed in Christ, and worshiped the Father in
his name; and also, vve worship the Father in his name. And
for this intent, we keep the law o f Moses, it pointing our souls
to him; and for this cause, it is sanctified unto us for righte­
ousness, even as it was accounted unto Abraham in the wil­
derness, to be obedient unto the commands of God, in offering
9
130 BOOK OF JACOB.
op bis son Isaac, which was a similitude o f God and his only
■begotten Son. Wherefore, we search the Prophets; and we
have many revelations, and the spirit o f prophecy; and hav­
ing all these witnesses, we obtain a hope, and our faith beco-
meth unshaken, insomuch that we truly can command in the
name o f Jesus, and the very trees obey us, or the mountains,
or the waves o f the, sea; nevertheless, the Lord God sheweth
us our weakness, that we may know that it is by his grace,
and his great condescentions unto the children o f men, that
■we have power to do these things.
Behold, great and marvellous are the works o f the Lord.—
H ow unsearchable are the depths o f the mysteries o f Him ;
and it is impossible that man should find out all his ways.—
And no man knoweth o f his ways, save it be revealed unto him;
wherefore, brethren, despise not the revelations o f God. For
behold, by the power o f his word, man came upon the face o f
the earth; which earth was created by the power o f his word.
Wherefore, if God, being able to speak, and the world was;
and to speak, and man was created, 0 then, why not able to
command the earth, or the workmanship o f his hands upon
the face o f it, according to his will and pleasure. Wherefore,
brethren, seek not to counsel the Lord, but to take counsel
from his hand. For behold, ye yourselves know, that he
counseleth in wisdom, and in justice, and in great mercy, oven-
all his w orks; wherefore, beloved brethren, be reconciled un­
to him, through the atonement o f Christ, bis only begotten Son,
that ye may obtain a resurrection, according to the power o f
the resurrection which is in Christ, and be presented as the
first fruits o f Christ, unto God, having faith, and obtained a
good hope o f glory in him, before he manifesteth himself in
the flesh.
And now, beloved, marvel not that I tell you these things;
for why not speak of the atonement o f Christ, and attain to a
perfect knowledge of him, as to attain to the knowledge of a
resurrection and the world to come t Behold, roy brethren, he
that prophesieth, let him prophesy to the understanding o f
m en ; for the spirit speaketh the truth, and lieth not. Where­
fore, it speaketh o f things as they really are, and of things as
they really will b e; wherefore, these things are manifested un­
to us plainly, for the salvation of our souls. But behold, we
are not witnesses alone in these thmgB; for God also spake
them unto Prophets of old.
But behold, the Jews were a stiflnecked people; and they
BOOK OP JACOB. 131
despised the words o f plainness, and killed the Prophets, and
sought for things that they could not understand. Wherefore,
because o f their blindness, which blindness came by looking
beyond the mark, they must needs fa ll: for God hath taken
away his plainness from them, and delivered unto them many
things which they cannot understand, because they desired it
And because they desired it, God hath done it, that they may
stumble.
And now I, Jacob, am led on by the spirit unto prophesying :
for I perceive by the workings o f the spirit which is in me,
that by the stumbling o f the Jews, they will reject the stone
upon which they might build, and have safe foundation. But
behold, according to the Scriptures, this stone shall become
the great, and the last, and the otdy sure foundation, upon
which the Jews can build. And now, my beloved, how is it
possible that these, after having rejected the sure foundation,
can ever build upon it, that it may become the head o f their
corner ? Behold, my beloved brethren, I will unfold this mys­
tery, unto you ; if I do not, by any means, get shaken from my
firmness in the spirit, and stumble because o f my over anxiety
for you.
Behold, my brethren, do ye not remember to have read the
words of the Prophet Zenos, which spake unto the House o f
Israel, saying: Hearken O ye House o f Israel, and hear the
words o f me, a Prophet o f the Lord: for behold, thus saith
the Lord, I will liken thee, O House of Israel, like unto a tame
olive tree, which a man took and nourished in his vineyard; and
it grew, and waxed old, and began to decay. And it came to
pass that the master o f the vineyard went forth, and he saw
that his olive tree began to decay; and he sayeth, I will prune
it, and dig about it, and nourish it, that perhaps it may shoot
forth young and tender branches, and it perish not. And it
came to pass that he pruned it, and digged about it, and nour­
ished it, according to his word. And it calne to pass that after
many days, it began to put forth somewhat a little, young and
tender branches; but behold, the main top thereof began to
perish. And it came to pass that the master o f the vineyard
saw it, and he sayeth unto his servant, It grieveth me that I
should lose this tree; wherefore, go and pluck the branches
from a wild olive tree, and bring them hither unto m e; and we
will pluck off those main branches which are beginning to
wither away, and we will cast them into the fire, that they may
be burned. And behold, saith the Lord o f the vineyard, I
9*
I3S BOOK OF JACOB.
take away many o f these young and tender branches, and 1
will graft them whithersoever 1 w ill; and it jnattereth not that
if it so be, that the root o f this tree will perish, I may preserve
the fruit thereof unto myself; wherefore, 1 will take these
young and tender branches, and 1 will graft them whithersoe­
ver I will. Take thou the branches o f the wild olive tree, and
graft them in, in the stead thereof; and these which 1 have
plucked off, I will cast into the fire, and burn them, that they
may not cumber the ground o f my vineyard.
And it came to pass that the servant o f the Lord o f the vine­
yard, done according to the word o f the Lord o f the vineyard,
and grafted in the branches o f the wild olive tree. And the
Lord o f the vineyard caused that it should be digged about,
and pruned, and nourished; saying unto his servant, It grieveth
me that I should lose this tree; wherefore, that perhaps I
might preserve the roots thereof that they perish not, that I
might preserve them unto myself, I have done this thing.—
Wherefore, go thy w ay; watch the tree, and nourish it, accor­
ding to my words. And these will I place in the nethermost
part of my vineyard, whithersoever l will, it mattereth not unto
thee; and 1do it, that I may preserve unto myself the natural
branches o f the tree; and also, that I may lay op fruit thereof,
against the season, unto myself: for it grieveth me that I
should lose this tree, and the fruit thereof.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard went his
way, and hid the natural branches o f the tame olive tree in the
nethermost parts o f the vineyard; some in one, and some in
another, according to his will and pleasure. And it came to
pass that a long time passed away, and the Lord o f the vine­
yard sayeth unto his servant, Come, let us go down into the
vineyard, that we may labor in the vineyard.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard, and also
the servant, went down into the vineyard to labor. And it
came to pass that the servant sayeth unto his master, Behold,
look here; behold the tree. And it came to pass that the
Lord o f the vineyard looked and beheld the tree, in the which
the wild olive branches had been grafted; and it had sprang
forth, and began to bear fruit. And he beheld that it was
good; and the fruit thereof was like unto the natural fruit.—-
And he sayeth unto the servant, Behold, the branches o f the
wild tree hath taken hold o f the moisture o f the root thereof,
that the root thereof hath brought forth much strength; and
because o f the much strength o f the root thereof, the wild
BOOK OP JACOB. 133
branches hath brought forth tame fruit: now, if we had not
grafted in these branches, the tree thereof would have per­
ished. And now, behold, I shall layup much fruit, which the
tree thereof hath brought forth; and the fruit thereof 1 shall
lay up, against the season, unto mine own self.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard sayeth
unto the servant, Come, let us go to the nethermost part o f
the vineyard, and behold if the natural branches o f the tree
hath not brought forth much fruit also, that I may lay up o f the
fruit thereof, against the season, unto mine own self. And it
oame to pass that they went forth whither the master o f the
vineyard had hid the natural branches o f the tree, and he say­
eth unto the servant, Behold these: and he beheld the first,
that it had brought forth much fruit; and he beheld also, that
it was good. And he sayeth unto the servant, Take o f the
fruit thereof, and lay it up, against the season, that I may pre­
serve it unto mine own self: for behold, sayeth he, This long
time have 1 nourished it, and it hath brought forth much fruit
And it came to pass that the servant sayeth unto his master,
H ow eomest thou hither to plant this tree, or this branch o f
the tree 1 for behold, it was the poorest spot in all the land
o f thy vineyard. And the Lord o f the vineyard sayeth unto
him, Counsel me n ot: I knew that it was a poor spot o f ground;
wherefore, I said unto thee, I have nourished it this long time;
and thou beholdest that it hath brought forth much fruit.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard sayeth
unto his servant, Look hither: behold, I have planted another
branch o f the tree also; and thou knowest that this spot o f
ground was poorer than the first. But, behold the tree: I
have nourished it this long time, and it hath brought forth
much fruit; therefore, gather it, and lay it up, against the sea­
son, that I may preserve it unto mine own self.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard sayeth
again unto his servant, Look hither, and behold another branch
also, which 1 have planted: behold that I hare nourished it
also, and it hath brought forth fruit. And he sayeth unto the
servant, Look hither, and behold the last: behold, this have
I planted in a good spot o f ground; and 1 have nourished it
this long time, and only a part o f the tree hath brought forth
tame fruit; and the other part of the tree hath brought forth
wild fruit: behold, I have nourished this tree like unto the
others.
And it came to pass that the Lord of the vineyard sayeth
134 BOOK OF JACOB,
unto the servant, Pluck off the branches that have not brought
forth good fruit, and cast them into the fire. But behold, the
servant sayeth unto him, ILet ns prune it, and dig about it, and
nourish it a little longer, that perhaps it may bring forth good
fruit unto thee, that thou canst lay it up against the season.—
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard, and the
servant o f the Lord o f the vineyard, did nourish all the fruit
o f the vineyard.
And it came to pass that a long time had passed away, and
the Lord o f the vineyard sayeth unto his servant, Come, let us
go down into the vineyard, that we may labor again in the,
vineyard. For behold, the time draweth near, and the end
soon com eth: wherefore, 1 must lay up fruit, against the sea­
son, unto mine own self.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard, and the
servant, went down into the vineyard; and they came to the
tree whose natural branches had been broken off, and the wild
branches had been grafted in ; and behold, all sorts o f fruit
did cumber the tree.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard did taste
o f the fruit, every sort according to its number. And the
Lord o f the vineyard saith, Behold, this long time have we
nourished this tree, and I have laid up unto myself against the
season, much fruit But behold, this time it hath brought
forth much fruit, and there is none o f it which is good. And
behold, there are all kinds o f bad fruit; and it profiteth me
nothing, notwithstanding all our labor; and now, it grieveth
me that I should lose this tree. And the Lord o f the vineyard
sayeth unto the servant, What shall we do unto the tree, that
I may preserve again good fruit thereof unto mine own self?
And the servant sayeth unto his master, Behold, because thou
didst graft in the branches o f the wild olive tree, they have
nourished the roots, that they are alive, and they have not pe­
rished ; wherefore, thou beboldest that they are yet good.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard sayeth
unto his servant, The tree profiteth me nothing; and the roots
thereof profiteth me nothing, so long as it shall bring forth
evil fruit. Nevertheless, 1 know that the roots are good; and
for mine own purpose 1 have preserved them; and because o f
their much strength, they have hitherto brought forth from
the wild branches, good fruit. But behold, the wild branches
have grown, and have overran the roots thereof; and because
tbat the wild branches have overcome the roots thereof, it
BOOK OF JACOS. 135
hath brought forth much evil fruit; and because that it hath
brought forth so much evil fruit, thou bchoidest that it begin-
eth to perish: and it will soon become ripened, that it may be
cast into the fire, except we should do something for it to pre­
serve it.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard eayeth
unto his servant, Let us go down into the nethermost parts of
the vineyard, and behold if the natural branches have also
brought forth evil fruit. And it came to pass that they went
down into the nethermost parts o f the vineyard. And it came
to pass that they beheld that the fruit o f the natural branches
had become corrupt also; yea, the first, and the second, and
also the last; and they had all become corrupt. And the wild
fruit o f the last, had overcome that Part o f the tree which
brought forth good fruit, even that the branch had withered
away and died.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard wept, and
sayeth unto the servant, What could 1 have done more for my
vineyard? Behold, I knew that all the fruit erf the vineyard,
save it were these, had become corrupted. And now, these
which have once brought forth good fruit, have also become
corrupted. And now, all the trees o f my vineyard are good
for nothing, save it be to be hewn down and cast into the fire.
And behold, this last, whose branch hath withered away, 1 did
plant in a good spot o f ground; yea, even that winch was
choice unto me, above all other parts o f the land o f my vine­
yard. And thou beheldest that 1 also cut down that which
cumbered this spot o f ground, that I might plant this tree in
the stead thereof. And thou beheldest that a part thereof,
brought forth good fruit; and a part thereof; brought forth
wild fruit. And because that 1 plucked not the branches
thereof, and cast them into the fire, behold, they have over­
come the good branch, that it hath withered away. And now
behold, notwithstanding all the care which we have taken o f
my vineyard, the trees thereof hath become corrupted, that
they bring forth no good fruit; and these I had hope to pre­
serve, to have laid up fruit thereof, against the season, unto
mine own self. But behold, they have become like unto the
wild olive tree; and they are o f no worth, but to be hewn
down and cast into the fire: and it grieveth me that I should
lose them. But what could I have done more in my vine­
yard? Have 1 slackened mine hand, that 1 have not nourished
it ? Nay; I have nourished it, and I have digged it, and I have
J 3 6 BOOK OP JACOB,
pruned it, and I have dunged it; and I have stretched forth
mine hand almost all the day long; and the end draweth nigh.
And it grieveth me that 1 should hew down all the trees o f my
vineyard, and cast them into the fire, that they should be bur­
ned. Who is it that hath corrupted my vineyard ?
And it came to pass that the servant, sayeth unto his mas­
ter, Is it not the loftiness o f thy vineyard ! Hath not the
branches thereof overcame the roots, which are good ? And
because that the branches have overcame the roots thereof?
For behold, they grew faster than the strength o f the roots
thereof, taking strength unto themselves. Behold, I say, Is
not this the cause that the trees o f thy vineyard hath become
corrupted ?
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard sayeth
unto the servant, Let us go to, and hew down the trees o f the
vineyard, and cast them into the fire, that they shall not cum­
ber the ground o f my vineyard; for 1 have dona a ll: what
could I have done more for roy vineyard? But behold, the
servant saith unto the Lord o f the vineyard, Spare it a little
longer. And the Lord saith, Yea, I will spare it a little longer:
for it grieveth me that 1 should lose the trees o f my vineyard.
Wherefore, let us take o f the branches o f these which I have
planted in the nethermost parts o f my vineyard, and let us graft
them into the tree from whence they cam e; and let us pluck
from the tree, those branches whose fruit is most bitter, and
graft in the natural branches of the tree, in the stead thereof.
And this will I do, that the tree may not perish, that perhaps I
may preserve unto myself the roots thereof, for mine own pur­
pose. And behold, the roots o f the natural branches o f the
tree which I planted whithersoever I would, are yet alive;
wherefore, that I may preserve them also, for mine own pur­
pose, I will take o f the branches o f this tree, and I will graft
them in unto them. Yea, 1 will graft in unto them the branch­
es o f their mother tree, that I may preserve the roots also unto
mine own self, that when they shall be sufficiently strong, that
perhaps they may bring forth good fruit unto me, aiid I may
yet have glory in the fruit o f my vineyard.
And it came to pass that they took from the natural tree
which had become wild, and grafted in unto tbe natural trees,
which also had become w ild; and they also took o f the natu­
ral trees which had become wild, and grafted into their mother
tree. And the Lord o f the vineyard sayeth unto the servant,
Pluck not the wild branches from the trees, save it be those
BOOK OF JACOB. 131
which ure moat bitter; and in them ye shall graft, according
to that which I have said. And we will nourish again the
trees o f the vineyard, and we will trim up the branches there­
o f ; and we will pluck from the trees those branches which
are ripened, that must perish, and cast them into the fire.—
And this I do, that perhaps the roots thereof may take strength,
because o f their goodness; and because o f the change o f the
branches, that the good may overcome the evil; and because
that 1 have preserved the natural branches, and the roots
thereof; and that 1 have grafted in the natural branches again,
into their mother tree; and have preserved the roots o f their
■mother tree, that perhaps the trees o f my vineyard may bring
forth again good fruit; aad that I may have joy again in the
fruit o f my vineyard; and perhaps that I may rejoice excee­
dingly, that 1 have preserved the roots and the branches o f the
first fruit; wherefore, go to, and call servants, that we may
labor diligently with our mights in the vineyard, that we may
prepare the way, that 1 may bring forth again the natural fruit,
which natural fruit is good, and the most precious above all
other fruit. Wherefore, let us go to, and labor with our
mights, this last tim e: for behold, the end draweth nigh; and
this is for the last time that I shall prune my vineyard. Graft
in the branches: begin at the last, that they may be first, and
that the first may be last, and dig about the trees, both old and
young, the first and the last, and the last and the first, that all
may be nourished once again for the last time. Wherefore,
dig about them, and prune them, and dung them once more,
for the last tim e: for the end draweth nigh. And if it so be
that these last grafts shall grow, and bring forth the natural
fruit, then shall ye prepare the way for them, that they may
grow ; and as they begin to grow, ye shall clear away the
branches which bring forth bitter fruit, according to the strength
o f the good and the size thereof; and ye shall not clear away
the bad thereof, all at once, lest the roots thereof should be too
strong for the graft, and the graft thereof shall perish, and I
lose the trees o f my vineyard. For it grieveth me that 1 should
lose the trees o f my vineyard; wherefore, ye shall clear away
the bad, according as the good shall grow, that the root and
the top may he equal in strength, until the good shall overcome
the bad, and the bad be hewn down and cast into the fire, that
they cumber not the ground o f my vineyard; and thus will I
sweep away the bad out o f my vineyard. And the branches
o f the natural tree, will I graft in again, into the natural tree;
138 b o o s ojf Ja c o b .
and the branches o f the natural tree, will I graft into ihe natu­
ral branches o f the tree; and thus will I bring them together
again, that they shall bring forth the natural fruit: and they
shall be one. And the bad shall be cast aw ay; yea, even out
o f all the land o f my vineyard: for behold, only this once will
I prune my vineyard.
And it came to pass that the Lord o f the vineyard sent his
servant; and the servant went and did as the Lord had com ­
manded him, and brought other servants; and they were few-
And the Lord o f the vineyard saith unto them, Go to, and la­
bor in the vineyard, with your raigfits. F or behold, this is
the last time that I shall nourish my vineyard: for the end is
nigh at hand, and the season speedily com eth; and if ye labor
with your mights with me, ye shall have joy in tbe fruit which
I shall lay up unto m yself against the time which will soon
come.
And it came to pass that the servants did go to it, and la­
bor with their mights; and the Lord o f the vineyard labored
also with them : and they did obey the commandments o f the
Lord o f tbe vineyard, in all things. And there began to be the
natural fruit again in the vineyard; and the natural branches
began to grow and thrive exceedingly ; and the wild branches
began to be plucked off, and to be cast aw ay; and they did
keep the root and the top thereof, equal, according to the
strength thereof. And thus they labored, with all diligence,
according to tbe commandments o f die Lord o f the vineyard,
even until the bad had been cast away out o f the vineyard, and
the Lord had preserved unto himself, that the trees had become
again the natural fruit; and they became like unto one body ;
and the fruit were equal; and the Lord o f the vineyard had
preserved unto himself the natural fruit, which was most pre­
cious unto him from the beginning.
And it came to pass that when the Lord o f the vineyard saw
that his fruit was good, and that his vineyard was no more
corrupt, be calletli up his servants and sayeth unto them, Be­
hold, for this last time have we nourished my vineyard; and
thou beholdest that I have done according to my w ill; and I
have preserved the natural fruit, that it is good, even like as it
was in the beginning; and blessed art thou. F or because
that ye have been diligent in laboring with me in my vineyard,
and have kept my commandments, and hath brought unto me
again the natural fruit, that my vineyard is no more corrupted,
and the bad is cast away, behold, ye shall have joy with me,
BOOK OF JACOB. 1 3 9
because o f the fruit o f my vineyard. F or behold, for a long
time will I lay up o f the fruit o f my vineyard unto mine own
self, against the season, which speedily com eth; and for the
last time have I nourished my vineyard, and pruned it, and dug
about it, and dunged it; wherefore i will lay up unto mine own
self o f the fruit, for a long time, according to that which I have
spoken. And when the time cometh that evil fruit shall again
com e into my vineyard, then will I cause the good and the
bad to be gathered; and the good will I preserve unto m yself;
and the bad will I cast away into its own place. And then
cometh the season and the en d; and my vineyard will I cause
to be burned with fire.
C H A P T E R IV.
And now, behold, my brethren, as I said unto you that I
would prophesy, behold, this is my prophesy: That the things
which this prophet Zenos spake, concerning the House o f Is­
rael, in the which he likened them unto a tame olive tree, must
surely com e to pass. And in the day that he shall set his hand
again the second time to recover his people, is the day, yea,
even the last time, that the servants o f the Lord shall go forth
in hts power, to nourish and prune his vineyard; and after
that, the end soon cometh. And how blessed are they who
have labored diligently in his vineyard; and how cursed are
they which shall he cast out into their own place! And the
world shall be burned with fire. And how merciful is our
God unto u s : for he remembereth the House o f Israel, both
roots and branches; and he stretches forth his hands unto
them, all the day lon g: and they are a stiffnecked, and a gain­
saying people; but as many as will not harden their hearts,
shall be saved in the Kingdom o f God. Wherefore, my belo­
ved brethren, I beseech o f you in words o f soberness, that ye
would repent, and com e with full purpose o f heart, and cleave
unto God as he cleaveth unto you. And while his arm o f
mercy is extended towards you in the light o f the day, harden
not your hearts. Yea, to-day if ye will hear his voice, harden
not your hearts: for why will ye die 1 For behold, after that
ye have been nourished by the good word o f God all the day
long, will ye bring forth evil fruit, that ye must be hewn down
and cast into the fire i Behold, will ye reject these words?
140 BOOK OF JACOB.
W ill ye reject the words o f the Prophets'! and will ye reject
all the words which have been spoken concerning Christ, af­
ter that so many have spoken concerning him ? and deny the
good word o f Christ, and the power o f God, and the gift of
the H oly Ghost, and quench the Holy Spirit ? and make a
m ock o f the great plan o f redemption, which hath been laid
for you? Know ye not that if ye will do these things, that
the power o f the redemption and the resurrection which is in
Christ, will bring you to stand with shame and awful guilt be­
fore the bar o f God, and according to the power o f justice?
forjustice cannot be denied. That ye must go away into that
lake o f fire and brimstone, whose flames are unquenchable,
and whose smoke ascendeth up forever and ever? which lake
o f fire and brimstone, is endless torment. O then, my beloved
brethren, repent ye, and enter in at the straight gate, and con­
tinue in the way which is narrow, until ye shall obtain eternal
life. O be w ise: what can 1 say more ? Finally, I bid you
farewell, until 1 shall meet you before the pleasing bar o f God,
which bar striketh the wicked with awful dread and fear.—
Amen.
C H A P T E R V.
And now it came to pass that after some years had passed
away, there came a man among the people o f Nephi, whose
name was Sherem. And it came to pass that he began to
preach among the people, and to declare unto them that there
should be no Christ. And he preached many things which
were flattering unto the people; and this he done, that he might
overthrow the doctrine o f Christ And he labored diligently
that he might lead away the hearts o f the people, insomuch
that he did lead away many hearts \ and he knowing that 1,
Jacob, had faith in Christ which should come, wherefore, he
sought much opportunity that he might come unto me. And
lie was learned, that he had a perfect knowledge o f the lan­
guage o f the people; wherefore, he could use much flattery,
and much power o f speech, according to the power o f the
Devil. And he had hope to shake me from the faith, notwith­
standing the many revelations, and the many things which I
had seen concerning these things: for I truly had seen Angels,
and they had ministered unto me. And also, 1had heard the
BOOK OF JACOB. 141
voice o f the Lord speaking unto roe in very word, from time
to time; wherefore, 1 could not be shaken.
And it came to pass that he came unto m e; and on this
wise did he speak unto me, saying: Brother Jacob, 1 lave
sought much opportunity that 1 might speak unto y o u : for I
have heard and also know, that thou goest about much, preach­
ing that which ye call the Gospel, or the doctrine o f Christ;
and ye have led away much o f this people, that they pervert
the right way o f God, and keep not the law of Moses, which
is the right w ay; and convert the law o f Moses into the wor­
ship o f a being, which ye say shall come many hundred years
hence. And now behold, 1, Sherem, declare unto you, that
this is blasphemy; for no man knoweth o f sueh things: for
he cannot tell of things to come. And after this manner did
Sherem contend against me. But behold, the Lord God pour­
ed in his spirit into my soul, insomuch that I did confound him
in all his words. And I sayeth unto him, Deniest thou the
Christ which should come 1 And he sayeth, If there should be
a Christ, I would not deny him ; but ] know that there is no
Christ, neither hath been, nor never will be. And I sareth
unto him, Beiievest thou the Scriptures? And he sayeth, iea.
And 1sayeth unto him, Then ye do not understand them; for
they truly testify o f Christ. Behold, I say unto you, That
none o f the prophets have written, nor prophesied, save they
have spoken concerning this Christ. And this is not a ll: it
hath been made manifest unto me, for I have heard and seen;
and it also hath been made manifest unto me by the power o f
the Holy G host; wherefore, I know if there should be no
atonement made, all mankind must be lost.
And it came to pass that he sayeth unto me, Shew me a
sign by this power o f the Holy Ghost, in the which ye know
so much. And I said unto him, What am 1, that I should
tempt God to shew unto thee a sign, in the thing which thou
knowest to be true? Yet thou wilt deny it, because thou art
o f the Devil. Nevertheless, not my will be done; but if God
shall smite thee, let that be a sign unto thee that he hath pow­
er, both in Heaven and in Earth; and also, that Christ shall
come. And thy will, O Lord, be done, and not mine.
And it came to pass that when I, Jacob, had spoken these
words, the power o f the Lord came upon him, insomuch that
he fell to the earth. And it came to pass that he was nour­
ished for the space o f many days. And it came to pass that
he sayeth unto the people, Gather together on the morrow, far
143 BOOK OP JACOB.
I «hall d ie ; wherefore, 1 desire to speak unto the people be­
fore that I shall die.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, that the multitude
were gathered together; and he spake plainly unto them, and
denied the things which he had taught them; and confessed
the Christ, and the power o f the Holy Ghost, and the minis­
tering o f Angels. And he spake plainly unto them, that he
had been deceived by the power o f the Devil. And he spake
o f hell, and o f eternity, and o f eternal punishment. And he
sayeth, 1 fear lest I have committed the unpardonable sin, for
I have lied unto G od: for I denied the Christ, and said that
I believed the Scriptures; and they truly testify of him. And
because that I have thus lied unto God, 1greatly fear lest my
case shall be awful; but 1 confess unto God.
And it came to pass that when he had said these words, he
could say no more; and he gave up the ghost. And when the
multitude had witnessed that he spake these things as he was
about to give up the ghost, they were astonished exceedingly;
insomuch, that the power o f God came down upon them, and
they were overcome, that they fell to the earth. Now, this
thing was pleasing unto me, Jacob; for 1 had requested it o f
m y Father which was in H eaven: for he had heard my cry, and
answered my prayer.
And it came to pass that peace, and the love o f God, was
restored again among the people; and they searched the Scrip­
tures, and hearkened no more to the words o f this wicked man.
And it came to pass that many means were devised, to reclaim
and restore the Lamanites, to the knowledge o f the truth; but
it all were vain : for they delighted in wars and bloodsheds ;
ard they had an eternal hatred against us, their brethren. And
they sough by the power o f their arms to destroy us conti­
nually ; wherefore, the people o f Nephi did fortify against them
with their armies, and with all their might, trusting in the God
and the rock o f their salvation; wherefore, they became as yet,
conquerors o f their enemies.
And it came to pass that I, Jacob, began to be o ld ; and the
record o f this people being kept on the other plates o f Nephi,
wherefore, I conclude this record, declaring that 1 have writ­
ten according to the best o f my knowledge, by saying, That
the time passed away with us, and also-our lives passed away,
like as it were unto us a dream, we being a lonesome and a
solemn people, wanderers cast out from Jerusalem; boro in
tribulation, in a wilderness, and hated o f our brethren, which
BOOK OP JACOB. 143
caused wars and contentions; wherefore, w e did mourn out
our days.
And l, Jacob, saw that I must soon go down to my grave;
wherefore, I said unto my son Enos, Take these plates. And
I told him the things which my brother Nephi had commanded
m e ; and he promised obedience unto the commands. And I
make an end o f my writing upon these plates, which writing
hath been small; and tc the reader I bid farewell, hoping that
many o f ray brethren may read my words. Brethren, adieu.
THE BOOK OF ENOS.
C H A P T E R I.
Behold, it came to pass that I, Enos, knowing my father,
that he was a just man : for he taught me in his language, and
also in the nur.ure and admonition o f the Lord. And blessed
be the name of my God for it. And ] will tell you o f the
wrestle w hich! had before God, before that 1 received a re­
mission o f my sins; behold, 1 went to hunt beasts in the fo­
rest ; and thewords which 1 had often heard my father speak,
concerning eternal life, and the joy o f the saints, and the words
o f my father, sunk deep into my heart And my soul hun­
gered ; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and I cried un­
to him in mighty prayer and supplication, for mine own soul;
and oil the day long did I cry unto him ; yea, and when the
night came, I dd still raise my voice high, that it reached the
heavens. And there came a yoke untom e saying, Enos, thy
sins are forgiven thee, and Ibou shah be blessed. And 1,
Enos, knew that God could not h e; wherefore, my guilt was
swept away. And l sayeth, Lord, how is it done i And he
sayeth unto me, Because o f thy faith in Christ, whom thou hast
not heard nor seen. And many years passeth away, before
that he shall manifest himself in the fiesh; wherefore, go to it,
thy faith hath made thee whole.
Now, it cane to pass that when 1 had heard these words, I
began to feel a desire for the welfare of my brethren, the Ne-
Sites; wherefore, I did pour out my whole soul unto God
•them. And while I was thus struggling in the spirit, behold,
the voice o f the Lord came into my mind again, saying, 1 will
visit tby brethren, according to their diligence in keeping roy
144 BOOK OB ENOS.
commandments. 1 have given unto them this land ; and it is
a holy land; and I curse it not, save it be for the cause o f ini­
quity ; wherefore, 1will visit thy brethren, according as I have
said; and their transgressions will 1 bring down with sorrow
upon their own heads. And after that 1. Enos, had heard these
words, my faith began to be unshaken in the L ord ; and I
prayed unto him with many long stragglings for my brethren,
the Lamanites.
And it came to pass, that after 1 had prayed, and labored
with all dilgence, the Lord said unto me, I will grant unto thee
according to thy desires, because o f thy faith. And now be­
hold, this was the desire which I desired o f him: That if it
should so be, that my people, the Nephites, should fall into
transgression, and by any means be destroyed, and the La-
manites should not be destroyed, that the Lord God would
preserve a record of my people, the Nephites; even if it so
be, by the power o f his holy arm, that it might be brought
forth, at some future day, unto the Lamanites, that perhaps
they might be brought unto salvation: for at the present, our
struggles were vain, in restoring them to the true faith. And
they swore in their wrath, that if it were possille, they would
destroy our records and u s; and, also, all the traditions o f our
fathers.
Wherefore, I knowing that the Lord God was able to pre­
serve our records, 1cried unto him continually; for he had said
unto me, Whatsoever thing ye shall ask in faith, believing
that ye shall recieve in the name o f Christ, ye shall receive it.
And i had faith, and I did cry unto God, that he would pre­
serve the records; and he covenated with me that he would
bring them forth unto the Lamanites, in his own due time.—
And I, Enos, knew it would be according to the covenant which
he had made; wherefore, my soul did rest. And the Lord
said unto me, Thy fathers have also required of me this thing;
and it shall be done unto them according to their faith, for then-
faith was like unto thine.
And now it came to pass, that I, Enos, went about among
the people o f Nephi, prophesying o f things to eome, and tes­
tifying o f the things which I had heard and seen. And I bare re­
record that the people o f Nephi did seek diligently to restore thr.
Lamanites unto the true faith in God. But our labors were vain;
their hatred was fixed, and they were led by their evil nature,
that they became wild, and ferocious, and a blood-thirsty peo­
ple j full of idolatry, and filthiness; feading upon beasts of prey.
BOOK OP ENOS. 145
dwelling in tents, and wandering about in the wilderness, with
a short skin girded about tbeir loins, and their heads shaven;
and their skill was in the bow, and the cimeter, and the axe.—
And many o f them did eat nothing save it was raw meat; and
they were continually seeking to destroy us.
And it came to pass that the people o f Nepbi did till the
land, and raise all manner o f grain, and o f fruit, and flocks o f
herds, and flocks o f all manner o f cattle, of every kind, ajid
goats, and wild goats, and also much horses. And there were
exceeding many prophets among us. And the people were a
stiff-necked people, hard to understand. And there was noth­
ing save it was exceeding harshness, preaching, and prophe­
sying o f wars, and contentions, and destructions, and continu­
ally reminding them o f death, and the duration o f eternity, and
the judgments and the power o f God ; and all these things stir­
ring them up continually, to keep them in the fear o f the Lord.
I say there was nothing short o f these things, and exceeding
great plainness o f speech, would keep them from going down
speedily to destruction. And after this manner do 1 write
concerning them. And I saw wars between the Nephites and
Lamanites, in the course of my days.
And it came to pass that I began to be old, and an hundred
and seventy and nine years had passed away from the time
that our father Lebi left Jerusalem. And as 1 saw that i
must soon go down to my grave, having been wrought upon by
the power o f God, that I must preach and prophesy unto
this people, and declare the word according to the truth, which
is in Christ And I have declared it, in all my days, and
have rejoiced in it, above that o f the world. And I soon go
to the place o f my rest, which is with my redeemer; for I
know that in him l shall rest: and I rejoice in the day when
my mortal shall put on immortality, and shall stand before
him : then shall 1 see his face with pleasure, and he will say
unto me, Come unto me ye blessed, there is a place prepared
for you in the mansions o f my Father. Amen.
10
THE BOOK OF JAROM.
C H A P T E R L
Now behold, 1, Jarom , write a few word?, according to the
commandment of my father Enos, that our genealogy may be
kept. And as these plates are small, and as these things are
written for the intent of the benefit of our brethren, the Laman-
ites, wherefore, it must needs be that I write a little ; but I
shall not write the tilings of my prophesying, nor of my reve­
lations. For what could 1 write more than my fathers have
written i For have not they revealed the plan of salvation '! 1
say unto you, Yea; and this sufficeth me.
Behold, it is expedient that much should be done among
this people, because of the hardness of their hearts, and the
deafness of their ears, and the blindness of their minds, and
the stiffness of their necks; nevertheless, God is exceeding
m erciful unto them, and hath not as yet swept them off from
the face of the land. And there are many among us which
have many revelations: for they are not all stiffnecked. And
as many as are not stiffnecked, and have faith, have commun­
ion with the Holy Spirit, which inaketh manifest unto the chil­
dren of men, according to their faith.
And now, behold, two hundred years had passed away, and
the people of Nephi had waxed strong in the land. They ob­
served to keep the law of Moses, and the Sabbath day Holy
unto the Lord. And they profaned not; neither did they blas­
pheme. And the laws of the land were exceeding strict. And
they were scattered upon much of the face of the land; and
the Lamanites also. And they were exceeding more nume­
rous than were they of the Nephites; and they loved murder,
and would drink the blood of beasts.
And it came to pass that they came many times against us,
the Nephites, to battle. But our kings and our leaders were
mighty men in the faith of the Lord; and they taught the peo-
BOOK OP JAROM, 141
pie the ways o f the L ord ; wherefore, we withstood the La-
manites, and swept them away out o f our lands, and began to
fortify our cities, or whatsoever place o f our inheritance. And
we multiplied exceedingly, and spread upon the face o f the
land, and became exceeding rich in gold, and in silver, and in
precious things, and in fine workmanship o f wood, in build­
ings, and in machinery, and also in iron, and copper, and brass,
and steel, making all manner o f tools o f every kind to till the
ground, and weapons o f w ar; yea, the sharp pointed arrow,
and the quiver, and the dart, and the javelin, and all prepara­
tions for w a r; and thus being prepared to meet the Lamanites,
they did not prosper against us. But the word o f the Lord
was verified, which he spake unto our fathers, saying, That
inasmuch as ye will keep my commandments, ye shall prosper
in the land.
And it came to pass that the prophets o f the Lord did
threaten the people o f Nephi, according to the word o f God,
that if they did not keep the commandments, but should fall
into transgression, they should be destroyed from off the face
o f the land; wherefore, the prophets, and the priests, and the
teachers, did labor diligently, exhorting, with all long suffering,
the people to diligence; teaching the law of Moses, and the in­
tent for which it was given; persuading them to look forward
unto the Messiah, and believe in him to come, as though he
already was. And after this manner did they teach them. And
it came to pass that by so doing, they kept (hem from being
destroyed upon the face o f the land : for they did prick their
hearts with the word, continually stirring them up unto repen­
tance.
And it came to pass that two hundred and thirty and eight
years had passed away, after the manner o f wars, and con­
tentions, and dissentions, for the space o f much o f the time.
And 1, Jarom, do not write more, for the plates are small.—
But behold, my brethren, ye can go to the other plates o f Ne­
phi : for behold, upon them the record o f our wars are ongra-
ven, according to the writings o f the kings, or that which they
caused to be written. And I deliver these plates into tbc hands
o f my son Omni, that they may be kept according to the com­
mandments o f my fathers.
10*
THE BOOK OF OMNI.
C H A P T E R L
Behold, it cameto pass that I. Omni, beingcommanded by my
father Jarorn, that I should write somewhat upon these plates,
to preserve our genealogy; wherefore, in my days, I would
that ye should know that I fought much with the sword, to
preserve my people, the Nephites, from falling into the hands
of their enemies, the Lamamtes. But behold, I, of myself, am
a wicked man; and ihave not kept the statutes and the com­
mandments of the Lord, as I ought to have done.
And it came to pass that two hundred and seventy and six
years had passed away, and we had many seasons of peace;
and we had many seasons of serious war and bloodshed.—
Yea, and in fine, two hundred and eighty and two years had
passed away, and I had kept these plates according to the
commandments of my fathers; and 1 conferred them upon my
son Amaron. And I make an end.
And now I, Amaron, write the things whatsoever I write,
which are few, in the book of my father. Behold, it came to
pass that three hundred and twenty years had passed away,
and the more wicked part of the Nephites were destroyed: for
the Lord would not suffer, after he bad led them out of the
land of Jerusalem, and kept and preserved them from falling
into the bands of their enemies; yea, he would not suffer that
the words should not be verified, which he spake unto our
fathers, saying, That inasmuch as ye w ill not keep my com­
mandments, ye shall not prosper in the land. Wherefore, the
Lord did visit them in great judgment; nevertheless, he did
spare the righteous, that they should not perish, but did deli­
ver them out of the hands of their enemies. And it came to
pass that 1 did deliver the plates unto my brother Chemish.
Now 1, Chemish, write what few things I write, in the same
book with my brother: for behold, I saw the last which he
BOOK OF OMNI. 149
wrote, that he wrote it with hie own hand; and he wrote it
in the day that he delivered them unto me. And after this
manner we keep the records: for it is according to the com­
mandments o f our fathers. And I make an efld.
Behold, 1, Abinadom, 1 am the son o f Chemish. Behold, it
came to pass that I saw much war and contention between my
people, the Nephites, and the Lamanites; and 1, with mine
own sword, have taken the lives o f many o f the Lamanites, in
the defence o f my brethren. And behold, the record o f this
people is engraven upon plates which is had by the kings, ac­
cording to the generations; and I know o f no revelation, save
that which has been written, neither prophecy; wherefore,
that which is sufficient, is written. And I make an end.
Behold, 1 am Amakki, the son o f Abinadom. Behold, l
will speak unto you somewhat concerning Mosiah, which was
made king over the land o f Zarahemla: for behold, he being
warned o f the Lord that he should flee out o f the land o f Ne-
phi, and as many as would hearken unto the voice o f the Lord,
should also depart out o f the land with him, into the wilder­
ness. And it came to pass that he did according as the Lord
had commanded him. And they departed out o f the land into
the wilderness, as many as would hearken unto the voice o f
the L ord ; and they were led by many preachings and proph-
esyings. And they were admonished continually by the word
o f G od; and they were led by the power o f his arm, through
the wilderness, until they came down into the land which is
called the land o f Zarahemla. And they discovered a people,
which was called the people o f Zarahemla. Now, there was
great rejoicing among the people o f Zarahemla; and also, Za­
rahemla did rejoice exceedingly, because that the Lord had
sent the people o f Mosiah with the plates o f brass which con­
tained the record o f the Jews.
Behold, it came to pass that Mosiah discovered that the
people o f Zarahemla, came out from Jerusalem, at the time
that Zedekiah, king o f Judah, was carried away captive into
Babylom And they joumied in the wilderness, and was brought
by the hand of the Lord, across the great waters, into the
land where Mosiah discovered them ; and they had dwelt there
from that time forth. And at the time that Mosiah discovered
them, they had become exceeding numerous. Nevertheless,
they had had many wars and serious contentions, and had
fallen by the sword from time to tim e; and their language had
become corrupted; and they had brought no records with them;
1 5 0 BOOK OF OMXt.
and they denied the being o f their Creator; and Mosiah, nor
the people o f Mosiah, could not understand them.
But it came to pass that Mosiah caused that they should be
taught in bis language. And it came to pass that after they
were taught in the language o f Mosiah, Zarahemla gave a gen­
ealogy o f his fathers, according to hi* memory : and they are
written, but not in these plates.
And it came to pass that the people o f Zarahemla, and of
Mosiah, did unite together; and Mosiah was appointed to be
their king. And it came to pass in the days of Mosiah, there was
a large stone brought unto him, with engravings on it; and he
did interpret the engravings, by the gift and power o f God,
And they gave an account o f one Coriantumr, and the slain
o f his people. And Coriantumr was discovered by the people
o f Zarahemla; and he dwelt with them for the space o f nine
Moons. It also spake a few words concerning his fathers.
And his first parents came out from the Tower, at the time
the Lord confounded the language o f the people; and the se*
verity o f the Lord fell upon them, according to his judgments,
which is ju st; and their bones lay scattered in the land north­
ward.
Behold, I, Amaleki, was bom in the days erf Mosiah; and I
have lived to see his death; and Benjamin, his son, reigneth
in his stead. And behold, I have seen in the days o f king
Benjamin, a serious war, and much Woodshed, between the
Nephites and the Lamamtes. But behold, the Nephites did
obtain much advantage over them ; yea, insomuch that king
Benjamin did drive them out o f the land o f Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that I began to be o ld ; and, having no
seed, and knowing king Benjamin to be a just man before the
Lord, wherefore, 1shall deliver up these plates unto him, ex­
horting all men to come unto God, the Holy One o f Israel, and
believe in prophesying, and in revelations, and in the minister­
ing o f Angels, and in the gift o f speaking with tongues, and in
the gift o f interpreting languages in all things which is good :
for there is nothing which is good, save it comes from the
L ord ; and that which is evil, cometh from the D evil
And now, my beloved brethren, I would that ye should come
unto Christ, which is the Holy One o f Israel, and partake o f
Iris salvation, and the power o f his redemption. Yea, come
unto him, and offer your whole souls as an offering unto
him, and continue in fasting and praying, and endure to the
end; and as the Lord liveth, ye will be saved.
WORBS OP MORMON. 151
And now, 1 would speak somewhat concerning a certain
number which went up into the wilderness, to return to the
land o f Nephi: for there was a large number which were de­
sirous to possess the land o f their inheritance; wherefore,
they went up into the wilderness. And their leader being a
strong and a mighty man, and a stiffnecked man, wherefore,
he caused a contention among them; and they were all slain,
save fifty, in the wilderness, and they returned again to the
land o f Zarahemia.
And it came to pass that they also took others, to a conside­
rable number, and took their journey again into the wilderness.
And I, Araalcki, iiad a brother, which also went with them;
and I have not since known concerning them. And I am about
to lay down in my grave; and these plates are full. And 1
make an end o f my speaking.
THE WORDS OF MORMON.
C H A P T E R I.
And now 1, Mormon, being about to deliver up the record
which I have been making, into the hands o f my son Moroni,
behold, I have witnessed almost all the destruction o f my peo­
ple, the Nephites. And it is many hundred years after the
coming o f Christ, that I deliver these records into the hands
o f my son ; and it supposeth me that he m il witness the en­
tire destruction o f my people. But may God grant that he
may survive them, that he may write somewhat concerning
them, and somewhat concerning Christ, that perhaps some
day it may profit them.
And now, I speak somewhat concerning that which I have
written: for after that-1 had made an abridgment from the
plates o f Nephi, down to the reign o f this king Benjamin, o f
which Amaleki spake, 1 searched among the records which
had been delivered into my hands, and 1 found these plates,
which contained this small account o f the Prophets, from Ja­
cob, down to the reign o f this king Benjamin; and also, many
o f the words o f Nephi. And the things which are upon these
plates pleasing me, because o f the prophecies o f the coming
o f Christ; and my fathers knowing that many o f them have
152 W0HD8 or MORMON.
been fulfilled; yea, and I also know that aa many things as
have been prophesied concerning us down to this day, has
been fulfilled; and as many as go beyond this day, must surely
come to pass; wherefore, I chose these things, to finish my
record upon them, which remainder of my record 1 shall lake
from the plates o f Nephi; and I cannot write a hundredth part
o f the things o f my people.
But behold, I shall take these plates, which contain these
propheeyings and revelations, and put them with the remain­
der o f my record, for they are choice unto m e; and 1 know
they will be choice unto my brethren. And l do this for a
wise purpose; for thus it whispereth me, according to the
workings o f the spirit o f the Lord which is in me. And now,
I do not know all things; but the Lord knoweth all things
which is to com e; wherefore, he worketh in me to do accor­
ding to his will. And my prayer to God, is concerning my
brethren, that they may once again come to the know ledge
o f G od ; yea, the redemption of Christ; that they may once
again be a delightsome people.
And now 1, Mormon, proceed to finish out my record, which
1 take from the plates of Nephi; and I make it according to
the knowledge and the understanding which God hath given
me. Wherefore, it came to pass that after Amaleki had deli­
vered up these plates into the hands o f king Benjamin, he took
them and put them with the other plates, which contained re­
cords which had been handed down by the kings, from gene­
ration to generation, until the days o f king Benjamin; and
they were handed down from king Benjamin, from generation
to generation, until they have fallen into my hands. And I,
Mormon, pray to God that they may be preserved, from this
time hence forth. And i know that they will be preserved :
for there are great things written upon them, out ot which my
people and their brethren, shall be judged at the great and last
day, according to the word of God which is written.
And now, concerning this king Benjamin: He had some­
what contentions among his own people. And it came to pass
also, that the armies o f the Lamanites came down out o f the
land o f Nephi, to battle against his people. But behold, king
Benjamin gathered together his armies, and he did stand against
them; and he did fight with the strength of his own arm, with
the sword of Laban ; and in the strength of the Lord they did
contend against their enemies, until they had slain many thou­
sands of the Lamanites. And it came to pass that they did
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 153
contend against the Lamanites, until they had driven them out
of all the lands of their inheritance.
And it came to pass that after there had been false Christs,
and their mouths had been shut, and they punished according
to their crim es; and after there had been false prophets, and
false preachers and teachers among the people, and all these
having been punished according to their crimes; and after
there having been much contentions and many dissentions,
away unto the Lamanites, behold, it came to pass that king
Benjamin, with the assistance o f the Holy Prophets which
were among his people: for behold, king Benjamin was a holy
man, and he did reign over his people in righteousness. And
there were many holy men in the land; and they did speak the
word o f God, tvith power and with authority; and they did
use much sharpness, because o f the stiffneckedness o f the
people; wherefore, with the help o f these, king Benjamin, by
laboring with all the might o f his body and the faculty of his
whole soul and also the prophets, wherefore, they did once
more establish peace in the land.
THE BOOK OF MOSIAH.
C H A PT E R I.
And now there was no more contention in all the land o f
Zarahemla, among all the people which belonged to king Ben­
jamin, so that king Benjamin had continual peace all the re­
mainder of his days. And it came to pass that he had three
sons; and he called their names Mosiah, and Helorum, and
Helaman. And lie caused that they should be taught in all the
language o f his fathers, that thereby they might become men
of undeTS anding; and that they might know concerning the
prophecies, which had been spoken by the mouths o f their fa­
thers, which was delivered them by the band o f the Lord.—
And he also taught them concerning the records which were
engraven on the plates o f brass, saying, My sons, 1 would
that ye should remember, that were it not for these plates,
which contain these records and these commandments, we
must have suffered in ignorance, even at this present time, not
knowing the mysteries of God : for it were not possible that
our father Lehi could have remembered all these things, to
154 BOOK OF M03IAM.
have taught them to his children, except it were for the help
o f these plates: for he having been taught in the language o f
the Egyptians, therefore he could read_these engravings, and
teach them to his children, that thereby they could teach them
to their children, and so fulfilling the commandments o f God,
even down to this present time. 1 say unto you, my sons, were
it not for these things, which have been kept and preserved
by the hand o f God, that we might read and understand o f his
mysteries, and have his commandments always before our
eyes, that even our fathers would have dwindled in unbelief,
and we should have been like unto our brethren, the Laman-
ites, which know nothing concerning these things, or even do
not believe them when they are taught them, because of the
traditions o f their fathers, which are not correct. O my sons,
I would that ye should remember that these sayings are true;
and also, that these records are true. And behold, also the
plates o f Nephi, which contain the records and the sayings o f
our fathers, from the time they left Jerusalem, until n ow ; and
they are true; and w c can know o f their surety, because we
have them before our eyes. And now. my sons, I would that
yc should remember to search them diligently, that ye may
profit thereby; and I would that ye should keep the com­
mandments o f God, that ye may prosper in the land, according
to the promises which the Lord made unto our fathers. And
many more things did king Benjamin teach his sons, which are
not written in this book.
And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made an
end o f teaching his sons, that he waxed o ld ; and he saw that
he must very soon go the way o f all the earth; therefore, he
thought it expedient that he should confer the kingdom upon
one o f his sons. Therefore, he had Mosiah brought before
him ; and these are the words which he spake unto him, say­
ing: My son, I would that ye should make a proclamation
throughout all this land, among all this people, or the people
o f Zarahemla, and the people o f Mosiah, which dwell in the
land, that thereby they may be gathered together: for on the
morrow, I shall proclaim unto this my people, out o f mine own
mouth, that thou art a king, and a ruler over this people, which
the Lord our God hath given us. And moreover, i shall give
this people a name, that thereby they may be distinguised
above all the people which the Lord God hath brought out o f
the land o f Jerusalem; and this I do, because they have been
a diligent people in keeping the commandments o f the Lord.—
BOOK OP MOSIAU. 155
And I give unto them a name, that never shall be blotted out,
except it be through transgression. Yea, and moreover 1 say
unto you, That if this highly favored people o f the Lord should
fall into transgression, and become a wicked and an adulte­
rous people, that the Lord will deliver them up, that thereby
they become weak, like unto their brethren; and he will no
more preserve them, by his matchless and marvellous power,
as he hath hitherto preserved our fathers. For 1say unto you,
that if he had not extended his arm in the preservation o f our
fathers, they must have fallen into the hands o f the Lamanites,
and become victims to their hatred.
And it came to pass that after king Benjamin had made an
end o f these sayings to his son, that he gave him charge con­
cerning all the affairs o f the kingdom. And moreover, he also
gave him charge concerning the records which were engraven
on the plates o f brass ; and also, the plates o f N ephi; and al­
so, the sword o f Laban, and the ball or director, which led our
fathers through the wilderness, which was prepared by the
hand o f the Lord, that thereby they might be led, every one
according to the heed and diligence which (hey gave unto him.
Therefore, as they were unfaithful, they did not prosper nor
progress in their journey, but were driven back, and incurred
the displeasure o f God upon them ; and therefore, they were
smitten with famine and sore afflictions, to stir them up in re­
membrance o f their duty.
And now, it came to pass that MosiaU went and did as his
father had commanded him, and proclaimed unto all the people
which were in the land o f Zarahemla, that thereby they might
gather themselves together, to go up to the temple, to hear
the words which his father should speak unto them.
And it came to pass that after Mosiah had done as his father
had commanded him, and had made a proclamation throughout
all the land, that the people gathered themselves together
throughout all the land, that they might go up to the temple to
hear the words which king Benjamin should speak unto them.
And there were a great number, even so many that they did
not number them ; for they had multiplied exceedingly, and
waxed great in the land. And they also took o f the firstlings
o f their flocks, that they might oiler sacrifice and burnt offer­
ings, according to the law o f M oses; and also, that they might
give thanks to the Lord their God, who had brought them out
o f (he land o f Jerusalem, and who had delivered them out of
the hands o f their enemies, and had appointed just men to be
136 BOOK OP MOSIAH.
their teachers; and also, ajust man to he their king, who had
established peace in the land o f Zarahemla, and who had
taught them to keep the commandments o f God, that they
might rejoice, and be filled with love towards God, and all
men.
And it came to pass that when they came up to the temple,
they pitched their tents round about, every man according to
his family, consisting o f his wife, and his sons, and his daugh­
ters, and their sons, and their daughters, from the eldest down
to the youngest, every family being separate, one from another;
and they pitched their tents round about the temple, every
map having his tent with the door thereof towards the temple,
that thereby they might remain in their tents, and hear the
words which king Benjamin should speak unto them; for the
multitude being so great, that king Benjamin could not teach
them all within the walls o f the tem ple; therefore, he caused
a tower to be erected, that thereby Ms people might hear the
words which he should speak unto them.
And it came to pass that he began to speak to his people
from the tow er; and they could not all hear his words, be­
cause o f the greatness of the multitude; therefore, he caused
that the words which he spake, should be written and sent
forth among those that were not under the sound o f his voice,
that they might also receive his words. And these are the
words which he spake and caused to be written, saying; My
brethren, all ye that have assembled yourselves together, you
that can hear my words which 1 shall speak unto you this day:
for 1 have not commanded you to come up hither, to trifle with
the words which I shall speak, but that you should hearken
unto me, and open your ears that ye may hear, and your hearts
that ye may understand, and your minds that the mysteries o f
God may be unfolded to your -view. I have not commanded
you to come up hither, that ye should fear me, or that ye
should think that I, o f myself, am more than a mortal man;
but 1 am like as yourselves, subject to all manner o f infirmi­
ties in body and m ind; yet, as 1 have been chosen by this
people, and was consecrated by my father, and was suffered
by the hand o f the Lord that I should be a ruler, and a king
over this people; and have been kept and preserved by his
matchless power, to serve thee with all the might, mind, and
strength which the Lord hath granted unto me ; 1 say unto
you, that as 1 have been suffered to spend my days in your
service, even up to this time, and have not sought gold nor
BOOK OP MOSIAH. 157
silver, nor no manner o f riches o f you ; neither have I suffered
that ye should be confined in dungeons, nor that ye should
make slaves one of another, or that ye should murder, or plun­
der, or steal, or commit adultery, or even I have not suffered
that ye should commit any maimer o f wickedness, and have
taught you that ye should keep the commandments of the
Lord, in all things which he hath commanded you ; and even
I, myself, have labored with mine own hands, that I might
serve you, and that ye should not be laden with taxes, and
that there should nothing come upon you which was grievous
to be borne; and of all these things which 1 have spoken, ye
yourselves are witnesses this day. Yet, my brethren, I have
not done these things that 1 might boast, neither do I tell these
things that thereby 1 might accuse you ; but I tell you these
things, that ye may know that l can answer a clear conscience
before God this day. Behold, I say unto you, that because I
said unto you that I had spent my days in your service, 1 do
not desire to boast, for 1 have only been in the service o f God.
Ami behold, 1 tell you these things, that ye may learn wisdom;
that ye may learn that when ye are in the service o f your fel­
low beings, ye are only in the service o f your God. Behold,
ye have called me your king; and if I, whom ye call your king,
do labor to serve you, then had not ye ought to labor to serve
one another ! And behold, also, if I, who ye call your king,
who has spent his days in your service, and yet hath been in
the service of God, doth merit any thanks from you, 0 how-
had you ought to thank your heavenly King! I say unto you,
my brethren, that if you should render all the thanks and
praise which your whole souls hath power to possess, to that
God who hath created you, and hath kept and preserved you,
and bath caused that ye should rejoice, and hath granted that
ye should live in peace one with another; I say unto you, that
if ye should serve him who hath created you from the begin­
ning, and art preserving you from day to day, by lending you
breath, thatye may live and move, and do according to yourown
will, and even supporting you from one moment to another; l
say, if ye should serve him with all your whole soul, and yet
ye would be unprofitable servants. And behold, all that he
requires of you, is to keep his commandments; and he hath
promised you that if ye would keep his commandments, ye
should prosper in the land; and he never doth vary from that
which he hath said ; therefore, if ye do keep his command­
ments, he doth bless you, and prosper you.
158 BOOK'OF MOSUH.
And now, in the first place, he hath created you, and granted
unto you your lives, (or whieh ye are indebted unto him, And
secondly : He doth require that ye should do as he hath com­
manded you, for which if ye do, he doth immediately bless
you ; and therefore, he hath paid you. And ye are still in­
debted unto him ; and are, and will be, forever and ever; there­
fore, o f what have je to boast ? And now 1 ask, Can ye say
aught o f yourselves ? I answer you, Nay. Ye cannot say that
thou art even as much as the dust o f the earth; yet thou vvast
created o f the dust o f the earth: but behold, it belongeth to him
who created you. And I, even I, whom ye call your king, am
no better than ye yourselves are; for 1 am also o f the dust.
And thou beholdest that I am old, and am about to yield up
this mortal frame to its mother earth; therefore, as 1said unto
you that I had served you, walking with a clear conscience
before God, even so 1 at this time have caused that ye should
assemble yourselves together, that 1 might be found blameless,
and that your blood should not come upon me, when 1 shall
stand to be judged o f God o f the things whereof he hath com­
manded me concerning you. 1 say unto you, that I have caused
that ye should assemble yourselves together, that I might rid
my garments o f your blood, at this period o f time when I am
about to go down to my grave, that 1 might go down in peace,
and my immortal spirit may join the choirs above in singing the
praises o f a just God. And moreover, 1 say unto you, that I
have caused that ye should assemble yourselves together, that
I might declare unto you that I can no longer be your teacher,
nor your king; for even at this time, my whole frame doth
tremble exceedingly, while attempting to speak unto you ; but
the Lord God doth support me, and hath suffered me that I
should speak unto you, and hath commanded me that I should
declare unto you this day, that my son Mosiah, is a king and
a ruler over you.
And now, my brethren, I would that ye should do as ye hath
hitherto done. As ye have kept my commandments, and also
the commandments o f my father, and have prospered, and
have been kept from tailing into the hands o f your enemies,
even so if ye shall keep the commandments o f my son, or the
commandments o f God, which shall be delivered unto you by
him, ye shall prosper in the land, and your enemies shall have
no power over you. But O my people, beware lest there shall
arise contentions among you, and ye list to obey the evil spi­
rit, which was spoken o f by my father Mosiah. For behold.
BOOK OF M OSUB. i59
there is a wo pronounced upon him who listeth to obey that
spirit; for if he listeth to obey him, and remaineth and dieth
in his sins, the same drinketh damnation to his own sou l; for
he- receiveth for his wages an everlasting punishment, having
transgressed the law o f God, contrary to his own knowledge.
1say unto you, that there are not one among you, except it be
your little children, that have not been taught concerning these
things; but what knmveth that ye are eternally indebted to
your Heavenly Father, to render to him all that you have, and
are, and also have been taught, concerning the records which
contain the prophecies which hath been spoken by the Holy
Prophets, even down to the time our father Lehi left Jerusa­
lem ; and also, all that hath been spoken by our fathers, until
now. And behold, also, they spake that which was comman­
ded them o f the Lord; therefore, they are just and true.
And now, I say unto you, my brethren, that after ye have
known and have been taught all these things, if ye should
transgress, and go contrary to that which hath been spoken,
that ye do withdraw yourselves from the Spirit o f the Lord,
that it may have no place in you to guide you in wisdom’s
paths, that ye may be blessed, prospered, and preserved. I
say unto you, that the man that doeth this, the same cometh
out in open rebellion against G od; therefore, he listeth to obey
the evil spirit, and becometh an enemy to all righteousness ;
therefore, the Lord hath no place in him, for he dwellelh not
in unholy temples. Therefore, if that man repenteth not, and
remaineth and dieth an enemy to God, the demands of Divine
Justice doth awaken his immortal soul to a lively sense of his
own guilt, which doth cause him to shrink from the presence
o f the Lord, and doth fill his breast with guilt, and pain, and
anguish, which is like an unquenchable fire, whose flames as-
cendeth up forever and ever. And now 1 say unto you, that
mercy hath no claim on that man; therefore, bis final doom is
to endure a never ending torment.
O all ye old men, and also ye young men, and you little
children, which can understand my words, (for 1 have spoken
plain unto you, that ye might understand,} 1 pray that ye should
awake to a remembrance o f the awful situation o f those that
have fallen into transgression; and moreover, 1 would desire
that ye should consider on the blessed and happy slate o f
those that keep the commandments o f God. For behold,
they are blessed in all things, both temporal and spiritual; and
if they hold out faithful to the end, they are received into Hea-
160 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
?en, that thereby they may dwell with God, in a state o f never
ending happiness. O remember, remember that these things
are true; for the Lord God hath spoken it.
And again my brethren, 1 would call your attention, for 1
have somewhat more to speak unto y o u : for behold, I have
things to tell you, concerning that which is to com e; and the
things which 1 shall tell you, are made known unto me, by an
Angel from Goo. And he said unto me, Awake; and I awoke,
and behold, he stood before me. And he said unto me,
Awake, and hear the words which i shall tell thee: for behold,
I am come to declare unto you the glad tidings o f great joy.
For the Lord hath heard thy prayers, and hath judged o f thy
righteousness, and hath sent me to declare unto thee that thou
mayest rejoice; and that thou mayest declare unto thy people,
that they may also be tilled with joy. For behold, the time
cometh, and is not far distant, that with power, the Lord Om­
nipotent who reigneth, which was, and is from all eternity to
all eternity, shall come down from Heaven, among the chil­
dren o f men, and shall dwell in a tabernacle o f clay, and shall
go forth amongst men, working mighty miracles, such as hea­
ling the sick, raising the dead, causing the lame to walk, the
blind to receive tbeir sight, and the deaf to hear, and curing
all manner o f diseases; and he shall cast out Devils, or the
evil spirits which dwelleth in the hearts o f the children of men.
And lo, he shall suffer temptations, and pain o f body, hunger,
thirst, and fatigue, even more than man can suffer, except it
be unto death : for behold, blood cometh from every pore, so
great shall be his anguish for the wickedness and the abomi­
nations o f his people. And he shall be called Jesus Christ,
the Son o f God, the Father o f Heaven and Earth, the creator
o f all things, from the beginning; and his mother shall be called
Mary. And lo, he cometh unto his own, that salvation might
come unto the children of men, even through faith on his name;
and even after all this, they shall consider him a man, and say
that he hath a Devil, and shall scourge him, and shall crucify
him. And he shall rise the third day from the dead; and
behold, he standeth to judge the world. And behold, all these
things are done, that a righteous judgment might come upon
the children o f men. For behold, and also his blood atoneth
for the sins o f those who have fallen by the transgression o f
Adam, who hath died, not knowing the will o f God concerning
them, or who have ignorantly sinned. But wo, wo unto him
who knoweth that he rebelleth against G od: for salvation
BOOK OF MO0JAH. 161
cometb to none such, except it be through repentance and fait
on the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Lord God hath sent his
Holy Prophets among all the children o f men, to declare these
things to every kindred, nation, and tongue, that thereby who­
soever should believe that Christ should come, the same might
receive remission o f their sins, and rejoice with exceeding
great joy, even as though he had already come among them.
Yet the Lord God saw that his people were a stiiihecked peo­
ple, and he appointed unto them a law, even the law of Moses.
And many signs, Mid wonders, and types, and shadows shew­
ed he unto them, concerning his coming; and also H oly Proph­
ets spake unto them concerning his coming; and yet they har­
dened their hearts, and understood not that the law o f Moses
availeth nothing, except it were through the atonement o f his
blood; and even if it were possible that little children could
sin, they could not be saved; but I say unto you, they are
blessed: for behold, as in Adam, or by nature they fall, even
so the blood o f Christ atoneth for their sins. And moreover, I
say unto you, that there shall be no other name given, nor no
other way nor means whereby salvation can come unto the
children o f men, only in and through the name o f Christ, the
Lord Omnipotent. For behold, he judgeth, and his judgment
is just, and the infant perisheth not, that dietli in his infancy;
but men drinketh damnation to their own souls, except they
humble themselves, and become as little children, and beJieveth
that salvation was, and is, and is to coine, in and through the
atoning blood o f Christ, the Lord Omnipotent: for the natural
man is an enemy to God, and has been, from the fall o f Adam,
and will be, forever and ever; but if he yieldeth to the enticings
o f the Holy Spirit, and putteth off the natural man, and beeom-
cth a saint, through the atonement o f Christ, the Lord, and be-
cometh as a child, submissive, meek, humble, patient, full o f
lore willing to submit to all things which the Lord seeth fit to
inflict upon him, even as a child doth submit to his father, And
moreover, I say unto you, that the time shall come, when the
knowledge o f a Saviour shall spread throughout every nation,
kindred, tongue, and people. And behold, when that time
cometb, none shall be found blameless before God, except it
he little children, only through repentance and faith on the
name o f the Lord God Omnipotent; and even at this time,
when thou shalt have taught thy people the things which the
Lord thy God hath commanded thee, even then are theyfound
11
162 BOOK OP M08IAH.
do more blameless in the sight o f God, only according to the
words which 1 have spoken unto thee.
And now, I have spoken the words which the Lord God
hath commanded me. And thus aaith the L ord: They shall
stand as a bright testimony against this people, at the judg­
ment d a y; whereof, they shall be judged, every man, accor­
ding to hia works, whether they be good, or whether they be
evil; and if they be evil, they are consigned to an awful view
o f their own guilt and abominations, which doth cause them
to shrink from the presence o f the Lord, into a state o f misery
and endless torment, from whence they can no more return;
therefore, they have drunk damnation to their own souls.—
Therefore, they have drunk out o f the cup o f the wrath o f God,
which justice could no more deny unto them, than it could de­
ny that Adam should fall, because o f his partaking o f the for­
bidden fruit; therefore, mercy could have claim on them no
more forever. And their torment is as a lake o f fire and brim­
stone, whose flames axe unquenchable, and whose smoke as-
cendeth up forever arid ever. Thus hath the Lord comman­
ded me. Amen.
C H A P T E R II.
An» now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had
made an end o f speaking the words which had been delivered
unto him by the Angel o f the Lord, that he cast his eyes round
about on the multitude, and behold, they had fell to the earth,
for the fear o f the Lord had come upon them; and they had
viewed themselves in their own carnal state, even less than
the dust o f the earth, And they all cried aloud with one
voice, saying, O have mercy, and apply the atoning blood o f
Christ, that we may receive forgiveness o f our sins, and our
hearts may be purified: for we believe in Jesus Christ, the
Son o f God, who created Heaven and earth, and all things
who shall come down among the children o f men.
And it came to pass that after they had spoken these words,
the spirit o f the Lord came upon them, and they were filled
with joy, having received a remission o f their sins, and having
peace o f conscience, because o f the exceeding faith which they
had in Jesus Christ which should come, according to the
Words which king Benjamin had spoken unto them. And
BOOK OF HOSJAH. 163
Icing Benjamin again opened his mouth, and began to speak
unto them, saying, My triends and my brethren, my kindred
and my people, I would again cal! your attention, that ye may
hear and understand the remainder o f mv words which I shall
speak unto y o u : for behold, that if the knowledge o f the
goodness o f God at this time, hath awakened you to a sense
o f your nothingness, and your worthless and fallen state; l
say unto you, that if ye have come to a knowledge o f the
goodness o f God, and his matchless power, and his wisdom,
and his patience, and his long suffering towards the children
o f men, and also, the atonement which hath been prepared
from the foundation o f the world, that thereby salvation might
come to him that should put his trust in the Lord, and should
be diligent in keeping his commandments, and continue in the
faith even unto the end o f his life; i mean the life o f the mor­
tal body ; I say, that this is the man that recciveth salvation,
through the atonement which was prepared from the founda­
tion o f the world, for all mankind, which ever was ever since
the fall o f Adam, or which is or which ever shall be, even un­
to the end o f the w orld; and this is the means whereby sal­
vation cometh. And there is none other salvation, save this
which hath been spoken o f; neither is there any conditions
whereby man can be saved, except the conditions which I
have told you. Believe in G o d ; believe that he is, and that
he created all things, both in Heaven and in Earth; believe
that he hath all wisdom, and all power, both in Heaven and
in Earth; believe that man doth not comprehend all the things
which the Lord can comprehend. And again: Believe that ye
must repent o f your sins and forsake them, and humble your­
selves before G oo, and ask in sincerity o f heart that he would
forgive you : and now, if you believe all these things, see that
ye do them. And again 1 say unto you, as 1 have said before,
that as ye have come to the knowledge o f the glory o f God,
or if ye have known o f his goodness, and have tasted o f his
love, and have received a remission o f your sins, which cau-
seth such exceeding great joy in your souls, even so I would
that ye should remember, and always retain in remebranee,
the greatness o f God, and your own nothingness, and his good­
ness and long suffering towards you unworthy creatures, and
humble yourselves even in the depths o f humility, calling on
the name o f the Lord daily, and standing steadfastly in the faith
o f that which is to come, which was spoken by the mouth o f
the Angel; and behold, 1say unto you that if ve do this, ye shall
11*
164 BOOK OF MOS1AH.
always rejoice, and be filled with the love o f God, and always
retain a remissiou o f your sins; and ye shall grow in the knowl­
edge o f the glory o f Him that created you, or in the knowledge
o f that which is just and true. And ye will not have a mind
to injure one another, but to live peaceably, and to render to
every man according to that which is his due. And ye wiD not
suffer your children, that they go hungry, or naked; neither
will ye suffer that they transgress the laws o f God, and fight
and quarrel one with another, and serve the Devil, which is the
master o f sin, or which is the evil spirit which hath been spoken
o f by our fathers; he being an enemy to all righteousness; but
ye will teach them to walk in the ways o f truth and soberness;
ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one anoth­
er ; and also, ye yourselves will succor those that stand in need
o f your succor; ye will adminster o f your substance unto him
that standeth in need; and ye will not suffer that the beggar
putteth up his petition to you in vain, and turn him out to per­
ish. Perhaps thou shall say, The man hath brought upon, him­
self his misery, therefore 1 will stay my hand, and will not give
unto him o f my food, nor impart unto him o f my substance,
that he may not suffer, for his punishments are just. But I say
unto you, O man, whosoever doeth this, the same hath great
cause to repent; and except he repenteth o f that which lie hath
done, he perisheth forever, and hath no interest in the kingdom
o f God. For behold, are we not all beggars? Do we not ull
depend upon the same, being, even God, for all the substance
which we have; for both food, and raiment, and for gold, and
for silver, and for all the riches which we have o f every kind?
And behold, even at this time, ye have been calling on his name,
and begging for a remission o f your sins. And hath he suffer­
ed that ye have begged in vain? N ay; he hath poured out his
spirit upon you, and hath caused that your hearts should be
filled with joy, and hath caused that your mouths should he
stopped, that ye could not find utterance, so exceeding great
was your joy. And now, if God, who hath created you, on
whom you are dependant for your lives, and for all that ye
have and are, doth grant unto you whatsoever ye ask that is
right, in faith, believing that ye shall receive, 0 then, how
had ye ought to impart o f the substance that ye have, one to
another ? And if ye judge the man who putteth up his petition
to you for your substance, that he perish not, and condemn
him, how much more just will be your condemnation, for with­
holding your substance, which doth not belong to you, but to
BOOK OF M081AK, 165
uod, to whom also, your life belonged); and yet yc pot up no
r
,-tition, or repented) not of the thing which thou hast done,—
say unto you, Wo be unto that man, for hi» substance shall
perish with him ; and now, 1 say these things unto those which
are rich, as pertaining to the things of this world. And again,
I say unto the poor, yc that have not and yet hath sufficient,
that ye remain from day to day; I mean all you that deny the
beggar, because ye have not; 1 would that ye say in your
hearts, that 1give not because 1 have not; but if 1 had, I would
give. And now, if ye say this in your hearts, ye remain guilt­
less, otherwise ye are condemned, and your condemnation is
ju st: for ye covet that which ye have not»received.
And now, for the sake of these things which Í have spoken
unto you; that is, for the sake of retaining a remission of your
sins from day to day, that ye may walk guiltless before God, 1
would that ye should impart of your substance 1o the poor,
every man according to that whicli he hath, such as feeding
the hungry, clothing the naked, visiting the sick, and adminis­
tering to their relief, both spiritually and temporally, according
to their wants, and see that all these things arc done in wis­
dom and order: for it is not requisite that a man should run
faster than what he hath strength. And again: it is expedi­
ent that he should be diligent, that thereby he might win the
prize; therefore, all things must be done in order. And 1
would that ye should remember, that whosoever among you
that borroweth of his neighbor, should return the thing that he
borrowed), according as he doth agree, or else thou shalt com­
mit sin, and perhaps thou shalt cause thy neighbor to commit
sin also. And finally, I cannot tell you all the things whereby
ye may commit sin : for there are divers ways and means,
even so many, that I cannot,number them. But this much I
can tel! you, that if ye do not watch yourselves, and your
thoughts, and your words, and your deeds, and observe to keep
the commandments of God, and continuo in the faith of what
ye have heard concerning the coming of our Lord, even unto
the end of your lives, ye must perish. And now, 0 man, re­
member, and perish not.
BOOK OF M OSUH .
166
C H A P T E R III.
And now, it came to pass that when king Benjamin had thus
spoken to his people, he sent among them, desiring to know
o f his people, tIf they believed the words which he had spoken
unto them. And they all cried with one voice, saying, Y ea,
we believe all the words which thou hast spoken unto u s; and
also, we know o f their surety and truth, because o f the Spirit
o f the Lord Omnipotent, which hath wrought a mighty change
in us, or in our hearts, that w e have no more disposition to do
evil, hut to do good continually. And we, ourselves, also,
through the infinite goodness o f God, and the manifestations
o f his Spirit, have great views o f that which is to com e; and
were it expedient, we could prophesy o f all things. And it is
the faith which we have had on the things which our king hath
spoken unto us, and hath brought us to this great knowledge,
whereby we do rejoice with such exceeding great joy ; and we
are willing to enter into a covenant with our God, to do his will,
and to be obedient to his commandments in all things that he
shall command us, all the remainder o f our day9, that we may
not bring upon ourselves a never ending torment, as has been
spoken by the Angel, that we may not drink out o f the cup
o f the wrath o f God.
And now, these are the words which king Benjamin desired
o f them ; and therefore he said unto them, Ye have spoken the
words that I desired ; and the covenant which ye have made,
is a righteous covenant. And now, because o f the covenant
which ye have made, ye shall be called the children of Christ,
his sons, and his daughters: for behold, this day he hath spi­
ritually begotten you ; for ye say that your hearts are changed,
through faith on his name ; therefore, ye are born o f him, and
have become bis sons, and his daughters. And under this head,
ye are made free; and there is no other head whereby ye can
be made free. There is no other name given, whereby salvation
com eth; therefore, I would that ye should take upon you the
name o f Christ, all you that have entered into the covenant
with God, that ye should be obedient unto the end o f your
lives. And it shall come to pass that whosoever doeth this,
shall be found at the right hand o f God, for he shall know the
name by which he is called: for he shall be called by the name
o f Christ,
And now, it shall come to pass that whosoever shall not
take upon them the name o f Christ, must be called by some
BOOK OP M03TAH. 161
other name; therefore, he findeth himself on the left hand of
God. And I would that ye should remember also, that this
is the name that I said 1 should give unto you, that never
should he blotted out, except it be through transgression;
therefore, take heed that ye do not transgress, that the name
be not blotted out o f jou r hearts. I say unto you, I would that
ye should remember to retain the name written always in your
hearts, that ye are not found on. the left hand o f God, but that
ye hear and know the voice by which ye shall be called, and
also, the name by which he shall call you : for, how knoweth
a man the master which he hath not served, and which is a
stranger unto him, and is far from the thoughts and intents o f
his heart ? And again: Doth a man take an ass which be-
longeth to his neighbor, and keep him ? I say unto you, Nay;
he will not even suffer that he shall feed among his flocks, but
will drive him away, and cast him out. I say unto you, that
even so shall it be among you, if ye know not the name by
which ye are called. Therefore, 1 would that ye should be
steadfast and immovable, always abounding in good works,
that Christ, the Lord God Omnipotent, may seal you his, that
you may be brought to Heaven, that ye may have everlasting
salvation and eternal life, through the wisdom, and power, and
justice, and mercy o f Him, who created all things, in Heaven
and in Earth, who is God above all. Amen,
C H A PT E R IV.
And now, king Benjamin thought it was expedient, after
having finished speaking to the people, that he should take the
names o f all those who had entered into a covenant with God,
to keep iris commandments. And it came to pass that there
was not one soul, except it were little children, but what had
entered into the covenant, and had taken upon them the name
o f Christ. And again: It came to pass that when king Ben­
jamin had made an end o f all these things, and had consecra­
ted his son Mosiah, to be a ruler and a king over his people,
and had given him all the charges concerning the kingdom, and
also had appointed priests to teach the people, that thereby
they might hear and know the commandments o f God, and to
stir them up in remembrance o f the oath which they had made,
168 BOOK OP MOSIAH.
he dismissed the multitude, and they returned, every one ac­
cording to their families, to their own houses.
And Mosiah began to reign in his father’s stead. And he
began to reign in the thirtieth year o f his age, making in the
whole, about four hundred and seventy-six years from the time
that Lehi left Jerusalem. And king Benjamin lived three years,
and he died. And it came to pass that king Mosiah did walk
in the ways o f the Lord, and did observe his judgment*, and
his statutes, and did keep his commandments in all thing»
whatsoever he commanded him.
And king Mosiah did cause his people that they should till
the earth. And he also, himself did till the earth, that thereby
he might not become burthensome to his people, that he might
do according to that which his father had done, in all things.
And there was no contention among all his people, for the
space o f three years.
C H A P T E R V.
And b o w , it came to pass that after king Mosiah had had
continual peace, for the space o f three years, he was desirous
to know concerning the people which went up to dwell in the
land o f Lehi-Nephi, or in the city o f Lehi-Nephi: for his peo­
ple had heard nothing from them, from the time they left the
land o f Zarahemla; therefore, they wearied him with their
teasings.
And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted that sixteen
o f their strong men might go up to the land o f Lehi-Nephi,
to inquire concerning their brethren. And it came to pass
that on the morrow, they started to go up, haring with them
one Ammon, be being a strong and mighty man, and a de­
scendant o f Zarahemla; and he was also their leader. And
now, they knew not the course they should travel in the wil­
derness, to go up to the land o f Lehi-Nephi; therefore, they
wandered many days in the wilderness, even forty days did
they wander. And when they had wandered forty days, they
came to a hill, which is north o f the land o f Shilom, and there
they pitched their tents. And Ammon took three o f his breth­
ren, and their names were Amaleki, Helena, and Hem, and they
went down into the land o f N ephi; and behold, they met the
BOOS OP MOS1AH. 169
king o f the people, which was in the land o f Nephi, and in the
land Oi' Shilom ; and they were surrounded by the king’s guard,
and was taken, and was bound, and was committed to prison.
And it came to pass when they had been in prison two days,
they were again brought before the king, and their bands were
loosed; and they stood before the king, and was permitted, or
rather commanded that they should answer the questions which
he should ask them. And he saith unto them, Behold, 1
am Limhi, the son o f Noah, which was the son o f Zeniff, which
came up out o f the land o f Zarahemla to inherit this land,
which was the land o f their fathers, which was made a king
by the voice o f the people. And now, I desire, to know the
cause whereby ye were so hold as to come near the walls o f
the city, when I, myself, was with my guards, without the
gate ? And now, for this cause have I sutfered that ye should
be preserved, that 1 might inquire o f you, o r else I should
have caused that my guards should have put you to death.—
Ye are permitted to speak.
And now, when Ammon saw that he was permitted to speak,
he went forth and bowed himself before the king; and rising
again, he said, O king, I am very thankful before,God this
day, that 1 am yet alive, and am permitted to speak; and I
W ill endeavor to speak with boldness: for 1 am assured that if
ye had known me, ye would not have suffered that I should
have wore these bands. For 1 am Ammon, and am a de­
scendant o f Zarahemla, and have come up out o f the land of
Zarahemla, to inquire concerning our brethren, which Zeniff
brought up out o f that land,
And now, it came to pass that after Limhi had heard the
words o f Ammon, he was exceeding glad, and said, Notv, 1
know o f a surety that my brethren which was in the land o f
Zarahemla, are yet alive. And now, 1 will rejoice; and on the
morrow, 1 will cause that my people shall rejoice also. For
behold, we are in bondage to the Lamanites, and are taxed
with a tax which is grievous to be borne. And now, behold,
our brethren will deliver us out o f our bondage, or out o f the
hands o f the Lamanites, and we will be their slaves: for it is
better that we be slaves to the Nephites, than to pay tribute to
the king o f the Lamanites.
And now, king Limhi commanded his guards that they
should no more bind Ammon, nor his brethren, but caused that
they should go to the hill which was north o f Shilom, and
bring their brethren into the city, that thereby they might cat,
170 BOOK OP MOSIAH.
and drink, and rest themselves from the labors o f their jour­
ney ; for they had suffered many things: they had suffered
hunger, thirst, and fatigue.
And now, it came to pass on the morrow, that king Limhi
sent a proclamation among all his people, that thereby they
might gather themselves together to the temple, to hear the
words which he should speak unto them. And it came to
pass that when they had gathered themselves together, that
he spake unto them in this wise, sating, O ye, my people,
lift up your heads and be com forted: for behold, the time is
at hand, or is not far distant, when we shall no longer be in
subjection to our enemies, notwithstanding our many strag­
glings, which have been in vain; yet I trust there remaineth
an effectual struggle to be made. Therefore, lift up your
heads, and rejoice, and put your trust in God, in that God who
was the God o f Abraham, and Isaac, and J a cob ; and also,
that God who brought the Children o f Israel out o f the land
o f Egypt, and caused that they should walk through the Red
Sea on dry ground, and fed them with manna, that they might
not perish in the wilderness; and many more things did he do
for them. And again: That same God hath brought our fathers
out o f the land o f Jerusalem, and hath kept and preserved his
people, even until now. And behold, it is because o f our ini­
quities and abominations, that has brought us into bondage.—
And ye all are witnesses this day, that Zeniff, who was made
king over this people, he being over zealous to inherit the land
o f his fathers, therefore being deceived by the cunning and
craftiness o f king Laman, who having entered into a treaty with
king Zeniff, and having yielded up into his hands the posses­
sions o f a part o f the tend, or even the city of Lebi-Nephi, and
the city o f Shilom, and the land round about; and all this he
done, for the sole purpose o f bringing this people into subjec­
tion, or into bondage. And behold, we at this time do pay tri­
bute to the king o f the Lamanites, to the amount o f one half o f
our com, and our barley, and even all our grain o f every kind,
and one half o f the increase o f our flocks, and our herds; and
even one half o f all we have or possess, the king o f the Laman­
ites doth exact of us, or our lives. And now, is not this griev­
ous to be borne ? And is not this, our afflictions, great ? Now
behold, how great reason have we to mourn. Yea, 1say unto you,
great are the reasons which we have to mourn: for behold,
bow many o f our brethren have been slain, and their blood hath
been spilt in vain, and all because o f iniquity. F or if this people
BOOK OP MOS1AH. 171
had not fallen into transgression, the Lord would not have suf­
fered that this great evil should come upon them. But
behold, they would not hearken unto his w ords; but there
arose contentions among them, even so much that they did
shed blood among themselves. And a Prophet o f the Lord
have they slain; yea, a chosen man o f God, who told them o f
their wickedness and abominations, and prophesied o f many
things which is to come, yea, even the coming o f Christ. And
because he saith unto them, That Christ was the God, the
Father o f all things, and saith that he should take upon him
the image o f man, and it should be the image after which maa
was created in the beginning; or in other words, he said that
man was created after the image o f God, and that God should
come down among the children o f men, and take upon him
flesh and blood, and go forth upon the face o f the earth; and
now, because he said this, they did put him to death; and ma­
ny more things did they do, which brought down the wrath o f
God upon them. Therefore, who wondereth that they are in
bondage, and that they are smitten with sore afflictions'? F or
behold, the Lord hath said, I will not succor my people in the
day o f their transgression; but I will hedge up their ways,
that they prosper not; and their doings shall be as a stumbling
block before them. And again: He saith, If my people shall
sow filthiness, they shall reap the chaff thereof, in the whirl­
wind; and the effects thereof, is poison. And again: He saith,
If my people shall sow filthiness, they shall reap the east
wind, which bringeth immediate destruction. And now, be­
hold, the promise o f the Lord is fulfilled; and ye are smitten,
and afflicted. But if ye will turn to the Lord with full pur­
pose o f heart, and put your trust in him, and serve him with
all diligence o f m ind; and if ye do this, he will, according to
his own will and pleasure, deliver you out of bondage.
And it came to pass that after king Limhi had made an end
o f speaking to his people, for he spake many things unto
them, and only a few o f them have I written in this book, he
told liis people all the things concerning their brethren which
were in the land o f Zarabemln; and he caused that Ammon
should stand up before the multitude, and rehearse unto them
all that had happened unto their brethren, from the time that
Zeniff went up out o f the land, even until the time that he,
himself came up out o f the land. And he also rehearsed unto
them the last words which king Benjamin hed taught them,
and explained them to the people o f king Limhi, so that they
m BOOK OF MOSJAH.
might understand all the words which he spake. And it came
to pass that after he had done all this, that king Limhi dismis­
sed the multitude, and caused that they should return, every
one unto his own house.
And it came to pass that he caused that the plates which
contained the record o f his people, from the time that they
left the land o f Zarahemla, should be brought before Ammon,
that he might read them. Now, as soon as Ammon had read
the record, the king inquired o f him to know if he could in­
terpret languages. And Ammon told him that he could not,
And the k V saith unto him, 1 being grieved for the afflic­
tions o f my people, I caused that forty and three o f my peo­
ple should take a journey into the wilderness, that thereby
they might find the land o f Zarahemla; that we might appeal
unto our brethren to deliver U9 out o f bondage; and they
were lost in the wilderness, for the space o f many days, yet
they were diligent, and found not the land o f Zarahemla, but
returned to this land, having travelled in a land among many
waters; having discovered a land which was covered with
bones o f men, and of beasts, &c,, and was also covered with
ruins o f buildings o f every kind; having discovered a land
which had been peopled with a people, which were as nume­
rous as the hosts of Israel. And for a testimony that the
things that they have said is true, they have brought twenty-
four plates, which are filled with engravings; and they are of
pure gold. And behold, also, they have brought breast-plates,
which are large; and they are o f brass, and o f copper, and
are perfectly sound. And again: They have brought swords,
the hilts thereof hath perished, and the blades thereof were
cankered with rust; and there is no one in the land that is
able to interpret the language or the engravings that are on the
plates. Therefore, i said unto thee, Canst thou translate? And
I say unto thee again, Knowest thou o f any one that can trans­
late? for 1 am desirous that these records should be translated
into out language. For, perhaps they will give us a knowl­
edge o f a remnant o f the people which have been destroyed,
from whence these records cam e; or, perhaps they will give
us a knowledge of this very people which hath been deslroy-
e d ; and l am desirous to know the cause o f their destruction.
Now Ammon saith unto him, I can assuredly tell thee, O
king, o f a man that can translate the records: for he hath
wherewith that he can look, and translate all records that are
of aneient date; and it is a gift from God. And the things are
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 173
called interpreters; and no man can look in them, except he
be commanded, lest he should look for that he had not ought,
and he should perish. And whosoever is commanded to look
in them, the same is called seer. And behold, the king o f the
people which is in the land of Zarahcmla, is the man that is
commanded to do these things, and which hath this high gift
from God. And the king saith, That a seer is greater than a
prophet. And Ammon saith, That a seer is a revelator, and a
prophet also; and a gift which is greater, can no man have,
except he should possess the power o f God, which no man can;
yet a man may have great power given him from God. But a
seer can know o f things which has past, and also o f things
which is to com e; and by them shall all things be revealed,
or rather, shall secret things be made manifest, and hidden
things shall come to light, and things which is not known, shall
be made known by them; and also, things shall be made known
by them, which otherwise could not be known. Thus God hath
provided a means that man, through faith, might work mighty
miracles; therefore, he becometh a great benefit to his fellow
beings.
And now, when Ammon had made an end o f speaking these
words, the king rejoiced exceedingly, and gave thanks to God,
saying, Doubtless, a great mystery is contained within these
plates; and these interpreters was doubtless prepared for the
purpose o f unfolding all such mysteries to the children o f
men. O how marvellous are the works o f the Lord, and how
long doth he suffer with his people; yea, and how blind and
impenetrable are the understandings o f the children o f men:
for they will not seek wisdom, neither do they desire that she
should rule over them. Yea, they are as a wild flock, which
fleeth from the shepherd; and scattered), and are driven, and
are devoured by the beasts o f the forest.
CH APTER VI.
T H E R E CO RD O F ZENIFF.
An account o f bis people,from the lime they left the land o f
Zarahemia, until the time that they were delivered out o f
the hands o f the Lamanites.
1, Z entff, having been taught in all the language o f the
Nephites, and having had a knowledge o f the land o f Nephi,
174 BOOK o r MOSIAH.
or o f the land o f our fathers’ first inheritance, and I having
been sent as a spy among the Lamanites, that 1 might spy out
their forces, that our army might come upon them and destroy
them ; but when 1 saw that which was good among them, I
was desirous that they should not be destroyed; therefore, I
contended with my brethren in the wilderness: for I would
that our ruler should make a treaty with them. But he being an
austere and a blood-thirsty man, commanded that I should be
slain; but I was reseued, by the shedding o f much b lood: for
father lbught against father, and brother against brother, until
the greatest number o f our army was destroyed in the wilder­
ness ; and we returned, those o f us that were spared, to the
land o f Zarahemla, to relate that tale to their wives, and their
children. And yet, I being over zealous to inherit the land
o f our fathers, collected as many as were desirous to go up to
possess the land, and started again on our journey into the wil­
derness, to go up to the land; but we were smitten with fam­
ine and sore afflictions: for we were slow to remember the
Lord our God. Nevertheless, after many days’ wandering in
the wilderness, we pitched our tents in the place where our
brethren were slain, which was near to the land o f our fathers.
And it came to pass that I went again with four o f my men.
into the city, in unto the king, that 1 might know o f the dispo­
sition o f the king, and that I might know' if 1 might go in with
my people, and possess the land in peace. And 1 went in
unto the king, ana he covenanted with me, that I might pos­
sess the land o f Lehi-Nephi, and the land o f Shilom. And he
also commanded that his people should depart out o f the land,
and 1 and my people went into the land, that we might pos­
sess it. And we began to build buildings, and to repair the
walls o f the city, yea, even the walls o f the city o f Lehi-Ne­
phi, and the city o f Shilom. And we began to till the ground,
yea, even with all manner o f seeds, with seeds o f com , and o f
wheat, and o f barley, and with neas, and with sheum, and
with seeds o f all manner o f fruits: and we did begin to mul­
tiply and prosper in the land. Now, it was the cunning and
the craftiness o f king Laman, to bring my people into bon­
dage, that he yielded up the land, that we might possess it
Therefore, it came to pass that after we had dwelt in the
land for the space o f twelve years, that king Laman began to
grow uneasy, lest by any means my people should wax strong
in the land, and that they could not overpower them and
bring them into bondage. Now, they were a lazy, and an
BOOK OF MOSIAM. 175
idolatrous people; therefore, they were desirous to bring us
into bondage, that they might glut themselves with the labors
of our hands j yea, that they might feast themselves upon the
flocks of our fields.
Therefore, it came to pass that king Laman began to stir
up his people, that they should contend with my people;
therefore, there began to be wars and contentions in the land.
For, in the thirteenth year o f my reign ui the land of Nephi,
away on the south of the land o f Shilom, when my people
were watering and feeding their flocks, and tilling their lands,
a numerous host o f Lamanites came upon them, and began to
slay them, and to take of their flocks, and the com o f their
fields. Yea, and it came to pass that they fled, all that were
not overtaken, even into the city of Nephi, and did call upon
me for protection.
And it came to pass that I did arm them with bows, and
with arrows, with swords, and with cimeters, and with clubs,
and with slings, and with all manner o f weapons which w e
could invent, and I and my people did go forth against the La-
manites, to battle; yea, in the strength o f the Lord did we go
forth to battle against the Lamanites: for I and my people
did cry mightily to the Lord, that he would deliver us out of
the hands of our enemies, for we were awakened to a re­
membrance of the deliverance o f our fathers. And God did
hear our cries, and did answer our prayers; and we did go
forth in his might Yea, we did go forth against the Lamanites;
and in one day and a night, we did slay three thousand and
forty-three; we did slay them, even until wr
e had driven them
out o f our land. And I, myself, with mine own hands, did
help to bury their dead. And behold, to our great sorrow and
lamentation, two hundred and seventy-nine o f our brethren
were slain.
And it came to pass that we again began to establish the
kingdom; and we again began to possess the land in peace.
And I caused that there should be weapons of war made, of
every kind, that thereby I might have weapons for my people,
against the time the Lamanites should come up again to war
against my people. And 1 set guards round about the land,
that the Lamanites might not come upon us again unawares,
and destroy u s; and thus 1 did guard my people, and my
flocks, and keep them from falling into the hands o f our ene­
mies.
And it came to pass that we did inherit the land of our fa­
BOOK OF MOSUH.
ns
there, for many years; yea, for the space o f twenty and two
years. And I did cause that the men should till the ground,
and raise all manner o f grain, and all manner o f fruit, o f every
kind. And I did cause tha( the women should spin, and toil,
and work, and work all manner o f fine linen; yea, and cloth
o f every kind, that we might clothe our nakedness; and thus
we did prosper in the land; thus we did have continual peace
in the land, for the space or twenty and two years.
And it came to pass that king Laman died, and his son be­
gan to reign in his stead. And he began to stir his people up
in rebellion against my people; therefore, they began to pre­
pare for war, and to come up to battle against my people.—
But 1 having sent my spies out round about the land o f Shem-
lon, that I might discover their preparations, thatl might guard
against them, that they might not come upon my people and
destroy them.
And it came to pass that they came up upon the north o f
the land o f Shilom, with their numerous hosts, men armed
with bows, and with arrows, and with swords, and with dime­
ters, and with stones, and with slings; and they had their
heads shaved, that they were naked; and they were girded
about with a leathern girdle about their loins.
And it came to pass that I caused that the women and
children o f my people should be hid in the wilderness; and I
also caused that all my old men that could bear arms, and al­
so all my young men that were able to bear arms, should
gather themselves together, to go to battle against the Laman­
ites; and l did place them in their ranks, every man accor­
ding to his age.
And it came to pass that we did go up to battle against the
Lamanites. And I, even I, in my old age, did go up to battle
against the Lamanites. And it came to pass that we did go
up in the strength o f the Lord, to battle.
Now, the Lamanites knew nothing concerning the Lord, nor
the strength o f the L ord ; therefore, they depended upon their
own strength. Yet they were a strong people, as to the strength
o f men: they were a wild, and ferocious, and a blood-thirsty
people, believing in the tradition o f their fathers, which is this:
Believing that they were driven out o f the land o f Jerusalem,
because o f the iniquities o f their fathers, and that they were
wronged in the wilderness by their brethren; and they were
also wronged, while crossing the sea. And again: That they
were wronged while in the land o f their first inheritance, after
BOOK OF MOSIAK. 177
they had crossed the sea; and all this, because that Nephi
was more faithful in keeping the commandments o f the L ord;
therefore he was favored of the Lord, for the Lord heard his
prayers and answered them, and he took the lead o f their
journey in the wilderness. And his brethren were wroth with
him, because they understood not the dealings o f the Lord;
they were also wroth with him upon the waters, because they
hardened their hearts against the Lord. And again: They were
wroth with him, when they had arriven to the promised land,
because they said that he had taken the ruling o f the people
out of their hands; and they sought to kill him. And again:
They were wroth with him, because he departed into the wil­
derness as the Lord had commanded him, and took the rec­
ords which were engraven on the plates of brass; for they
said that he robbed them. And thus they have taught their
children, that they should hate them, and that they should
murder them, and that they should rob and plunder them, and
do all they could to destroy them; therefore, they have an
eternal hatred towards the children o f Nephi. For this very
cause hath king Laman, by his cunning and lying craftiness,
and his fair promises, hath deceived me, that 1 have brought
this, my people, up into this land, that they may destroy them;
yea, and we have suffered this many years in the land.
And now 1, Zeniff, after having told all these things unto my
people concerning the Lamanites, I did stimulate them to go
to battle with their might, putting their trust in the L ord;
therefore, we did contend with them, face to face. And it
came to pass that we did drive them again out of our land;
and we slew them, with a great slaughter, even so many that
we did not number them.
And it came to pass that we returned again to our own land,
and my people again began to tend their flocks, and to till their
ground. And now, I being old, did confer the kingdom upon
one o f my sons; therefore, I say no more. And may the Lord
bless my people. Amen.
CH APTER VII.
And now it came to pass that Zeniff conferred the kingdom
upon Noah, one o f his sons; therefore Noah began to reign
in bis stead; and he did not walk in the ways of his father.
12
178 BOOK OF M03IAH.
For behold, he did not keep the commandments o f God, but
be did walk after the desires o f his own heart And he had
many wives and concubines. And he did cause his people to
commit sin, and do that which was abominable in the sight o f
the Lord. Yea, and they did commit whoredoms, and all man­
ner o f wickedness. And he laid a tax o f one fifth part o f all
they possessed; a fifth part o f their gold and o f their silver,
and a fifth part o f their ziff, and o f their copper, and o f their
brass and their iron ; and a fifth part o f their fatlings; and al­
so, a fifth part o f all their grain. And all this did he take, to
support himself, and his wives, and his concubines, and also,
bis priests, and their wives, and their concubines; thus he had
changed the affairs o f the kingdom. F or he put down all the
priests that had been consecrated by his father, and consecra­
ted new ones in their stead, such as were lifted up in the pride
o f their hearts. Yea, and thus were they supported in their
laziness, and in their idolatry, and in their whoredoms, by the
taxes which king Noah had put upon his people; thus did the
people labor exceedingly, to support iniquity. Yea, and they
also became idolatrous, because they were deceived by the
vain and flattering words o f the king and priests; for they did
speak flattering things unto them.
And it came to pass that king Noah built many elegant and
spacious buildings; and he ornamented them with fine work
o f wood, and o f all manner o f precious things, o f gold, and o f
silver, and o f iron, and o f brass, and o f ziff, and o f copper;
and he also built him a spacious palace, and a throne in the
midst thereof, all o f which was o f fine wood, and was orna­
mented with gold, and silver, and with precious things. And
he also caused that his workmen should work all manner o f
fine work within the walls o f the temple, o f fine wood, and o f
copper, and o f brass; and the seats which was set apart for
the high priests, which was above all the other seats, he did
ornament with pure gold; and he caused a breastwork to be
built before them, that they might rest their bodies and their
arms upon, while they should speak lying and vain words to
his people.
And it came to pass that he built a tower near the tem ple;
yea, a very high tower, even so high that he could stand upon
the top thereof and overlook the land o f Shilom, and also the
land o f Shemlon, which was possessed by the Lamanites; and
he could even look over all the land round about.
And it came to pass that be caused many buildings to be
BOOK OP MOSIAH. 179
built in the land Shilom; and he caused a great tower to be
built on the hill north o f the land Shilom, which had been a
resort for the children o f Nephi, at the time they fled out of
the land; and thus he did do with the riches which he ob­
tained by the taxation of his people.
And it came to pass that he placed his heart upon his riches,
and he spent his time in riotous living with his wives and his
concubines; and so did also his priests spend their time with
harlots. And it came to pass that he planted vineyards round
about in the land; and he built wine presses, and made wine
in abundance; and therefore he became a wine bibber, and
also his people.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites began to come in
upon his people, upon small numbers, and to slay them in
their fields, and while they were tending their flocks. And
king Noah sent guards round about the land to keep them off;
but he did not send a sufficient number, and the Lamanites
came upon them and killed them, and drove many of their
flocks out o f the land : thus the Lamanites began to destroy
them, and to exercise their hatred upon them.
And it came to pass that king Noah sent his armies against
them, and they were driven back, or they drove them back for
a time; therefore, they returned rejoicing in their spoil. And
now, because of this great victory, they were lifted up in
the pride of their hearts; they did boast in their own strength,
saying, That their fifty could stand against thousands o f the
Lamanites; and thus they did boast, and did delight in blood,
and the shedding of the blood of their brethren, and this be­
cause o f the wickedness o f their king and priests.
And it came to pass that there was a man among them,
whose name was Abinadi; and he went forth among them,
and began to prophesy, saying, Behold, thus saith the Lord,
and thus hath he commanded me, saying, Go forth and say
unto this people, thus saith the L ord: W o be unto this people,
for 1 have seen their abominations, and their wickedness, and
their whoredoms; and except they repent, I will visit them in
mine anger. And except they repent, and turn to the Lord
their God, behold, I will deliver them into the hands o f their
enemies; yea, and they shall be brought into bondage; and
they shall be afflicted by the hand of their enemies. And it
shall come to pass that they shall know that I am the Lord
their God, and am a jealous God, visiting the iniquities of my
people. And it shall come to pass that except this people re-
12*
180 BOOK OF M0S1AH.
pent, and turn unto the Lord their God, they shall be brought in­
to bondage; and none shall deliver them, except it be the Lord
the Almighty God. Yea, and it shall eome to pass that when
they shall cry unto me, I will be slow to hear their cries; yea,
and 1 will suffer them that they be smitten by their enemies.
And except they repent in sackcloth and ashes, and cry migh­
tily to the Lord their God, I will not hear their prayers, nei­
ther will I deliver them out of their afflictions; and thus saith
the Lord, and thus hath he commanded me.
Now it came to pass that when Abinadi had spoken these
words unto them, they were wroth with him, and sought to
take away his life; but the Lord delivered him out o f their
hands. Now when king Noah had heard o f the words which
Abinadi had spake unto the people, he was also wroth; and
he saith, W ho is Abinadi, that 1 and my people should be
judged o f him t or who is the Lord, that shall bring upon my
people such great affliction ? I command you to bring Abinadi
hither, that 1 may slay him : for he hath said these things, that
he might stir up my people to anger, one with another, and to
raise contentions among my people; therefore, 1will slay him.
Now the eyes o f the people were blinded; therefore, they
hardened their hearts against the words of Abinadi, and they
sought from that time forward to take him. And king Noah
hardened his heart against the word o f the Lord; and he did
not repent o f his evil doings.
And it came to pass that after the space o f two years, that
Abinadi came among them in disguise, that they knew him not,
and began again to prophesy among them, saying, Thus hath
the Lord commanded me, saying: Abinadi, go and prophesy
unto this my people, for they have hardened their hearts
against my w ords; they have repented not o f their evil doings;
therefore, I will visit them in roy anger, yea, in my fierce an­
ger will I visit them in their iniquities and abominations; yea,
w o be unto this generation. And the Lord said unto me,
Stretch forth thy hand, and prophesying, saying, Thus saith
the L ord: It shall come to pass that this generation, because
o f their iniquities, shall be brought into bondage, and shall be
smitten on the cheek; yea, and shall be driven by men, and
shall be slain; and the vultures o f the air, and the dogs, yea,
and the wild beasts, shall devour their flesh.
And it shall come to pass that the life o f king Noah shall
be valued even as a garment in a hot furnace; for he shall
know that I am the Lord. And it shall come to pass that I
BOOK O F MOSiAH. 181
will smite this my people, with sore afflictions; yea, with fam­
ine and with pestilence: and I will cause that they shall howl
all the day long. Yea, and 1 will cause that they shall have
burdens lashed upon their backs; and they shall be driven
before, like a dumb ass.
And it shall com e to pass that I will send forth hail among
them, and it shall smite them ; and they shall also be smitten
with the east w in d; and insects shall pester their land also,
and devour their grain. And they shall be smitten with a
great pestilence; and all this will 1 do, because o f their ini­
quities and abominations.
And it shall com e to pass that except they repent, 1 will
utterly destroy them from off the face o f the earth; yet they
shall leave a record behind them, and I will preserve them for
other nations which shall possess the land ; yea, even this will
1 do, that I may discover the abominations o f this people to
other nations. And many things did Abinadi prophesy against
this people.
And it came to pass that they were angry with h im ; and
they took him and carried him bound before the king, and saith
unto the king, Behold, we have brought a man before thee
which has prophesied evil concerning thy people, and saith
that God will destroy them ; and he also prophesieth evil con­
cerning thy life, and saith that thy life shall be as a garment
in a furnace o f fire. And again: H e saith that thou shalt be
as a stalk, even as a dry stalk o f the field, which is ran over
by the beasts and trodden under foot. And again: H e saith
thou shalt be as the blossoms o f a thistle, which when it is
fully ripe, if the wind blowetli, it is driven forth upon the face
o f the land; and he pretendeth the Lord hath spoken it. And
he saith all this shall com e upon thee, except thou repent;
and this because o f thine iniquities.
And now, O king, what great evil hast thou done, or what
great sins has thy people committed, that w e should be con­
demned o f God, or judged o f this man ? And now , O king,
behold, we are guiltless, and thou, O king, hast not sinned ;
therefore, this man hast lied concerning you, and he hath
prophesied in vain. And behold, we are strong, we shall not
com e into bondage, or be taken captive by our enemies ; yea,
and thou hast prospered in the land, and thou shalt also pros­
per. Behold, here is the man, we deliver him into thy hands;
thou mayest do with him as seemeth thee good.
And it cam e to pass that king Noah caused, that Abinadi
182 BOOK OF MOStAH.
should be cast into prison; and he commanded that the priests
should gather themselves together, that he might hold a coun­
cil with them what he should do with him. And it came to
pass that they saith unto the king, Bring him hither, that we
may question him. And the king commanded that he should
be brought before them. And they began to question him,
that they might cross him, that thereby they might have where­
with to accuse him; but he answered them boldly, and with­
stood all their questions, yea, to their astonishment: for he
did withstand them in all their questions, and did confound
them in all their words.
And it came to pass that one o f them saith unto him, What
meaneth the words which are written, and which have been
taught by our fathers, saying: How beautiful upon the moun­
tains are the feet o f Him that bringeth good tidings; that pub­
lished peace; that bringeth good tidings o f good that pub­
lished salvation; that sayeth unto Zion, Thy God reigned;
thy watchmen shall lift up the voice with the voice; together
shall they sing, for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord
shall bring again Zion. Break forth into jo y ; sing together ye
waste places o f Jerusalem: for the Lord hath comforted his
people; he hath redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord h ad made
bare his holy arm in the eyes o f all the nations ; and all the
ends o f the earth shall see the salvation o f our God. And
now Abinadi saith unto them, Are you priests, and pretend
to teach this people, and to understand the spirit o f prophesy­
ing, and yet desired to know o f me what these things mean !
1 say unto, W o be unto you for perverting the ways o f the
Lord. For if ye understand these things, ye have not taught
them; therefore, ye have perverted the ways o f the Lord.—
Ye have not applied your hearts to understanding; therefore,
ye have not been wise. Therefore, what teachest thou this
people? And d ey said, W e teach the law o f Moses. And
again: He saith unto them, If ye teach the law o f Moses, why
do ye not keep it ? Why do ye set your hearts upon riches?
W hy do ye commit whoredoms, and spend your strength with
harlots, yea, and cause this people to commit sin, that the
Lord had cause to send me to prophesy against this people,
yea, even a great evil against this people ? Knowest thou not
that I speak d e truth? Yea, thou knowest that I speak the
truth; and you had ought to tremble before God.
And it shall come to pass that ye shall be smitten for thine
iniquities: for ye have said that ye teach the law of Moses,
BOOK OP MOSIAH. 183
And what knowest thou concerning the law o f M oses? Doth
salvation come by the law o f Moses ? What sayest thou ? And
they answered and said, that salvation did come by the law
o f Moses. But now Abinadi saith unto them, I know if ye
keep the commandments o f God, ye shall be saved; yea, if
ye keep the commandments which the Lord delivered unto
Moses in the mount o f Sinai, saying: 1 am the Lord thy God,
which have brought thee out of the land o f Egypt, out o f the
house o f bondage. Thou shalt have no other God before me.
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any like­
ness o f any thing in the heaven above, or things which is in
the earth beneath. Now Abinadi saith unto them, Have
ye done all this ? I say unto you, Nay, ye have not. And
have ye taught this people that they should do allthese things?
I say unto you, Nay, ye have n ot
And now when the king had heard these words, he said
unto his priests, Away with this fellow, and slay him : for what
have we to do with him, for he is mad. And they stood forth
and attempted to lay their hands on him ; but he withstood
them, and said unto them, Touch me not, for God shall smite
you if ye lay your hands upon me, for 1 have not delivered
the message which the Lord sent me to deliver; neither have
I told you that which ye requested that I should tell; there­
fore, God will not suffer that I shall be destroyed at this time.
But I must fulfil the commandments wherewith God hath com­
manded m e ; and because I have told you the truth, ye are
angry with me. And again: Because 1have spoken the word
o f God, ye have judged me that I am mad.
Now it came to pass after Abinadi had spoken these words,
that the people o f king Noah durst not lay their hands on him;
for the Spirit o f the Lord was upon him ; and his face shone
with exceeding lustre, even as Moses did while in the mount
o f Sinai, while speaking with the Lord, And he spake with
power and authority from G od ; and he continued his words,
saying, Ye see that ye have not power to slay me, therefore I
finish my message. Yea, and I perceive that it cuts you to
your hearts, because i tell you the truth concerning your ini­
quities; yea, and my words fill you with wonder and amaze­
ment, and with anger. But I finish my message; and then it
matters not whither 1 go, if it so be that I am saved. But
this much 1 tell y o u : What you do with me after this, shall be
as a type and a shadow o f things which is to come. And now
I read unto you the remainder o f the commandments o f God,
184 BOOK OF MOSIAK.
for I percieve that they are not written in your hearts; 1 per­
ceive that ye have studied and taught iniquity the most part o f
your lives.
And now, ye remember that I said unto you, Thou shalt
not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness o f things
which is in heaven above, or which is in the earth beneath, or
which is in the water under the earth. And again: Thou
shalt not bow down thyself unto them, nor serve them : for I
the Lord thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquities o f
the fathers upon the children, unto the third and fourth genera­
tions o f them that hate m e; and shewing mercy unto thou­
sands o f them that love me, and keep my commandments.—
Thou shalt not take the name o f the Lord thy God in vain: for
the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in
vain. Remember the sabbath-day, to keep it holy. Si* days
shalt thou labor, and do all thy w ork : but the seventh day,
the sabbath o f the Lord thy God, thou shalt not do any work,
thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy man-servant, nor thy
maid-servant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy
gates : for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, and
the sea, and all that in them is ; wherefore the Lord blessed the
sabbath-day, and hallowed it. Honor thy father and thy
mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the
Lord thy God giveth thee. Thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt
not commit adultery. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not
bear false witness against thy neighbor. Thou shall not covet
thy neighbor’s house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbor’s wife,
nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ox, nor his
ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbor’s.
C H A P T E R VIII.
A nu it came to pass that after Abinadi had made an end o f
these sayings, that he said unto them, Have ye taught this
people that they should observe to do all these things'! F or
to keep these commandments? 1 say unto you, N a y ; for if
ye had, the Lord would not have caused me to come forth and
to prophesy evil concerning this people. And now ye have
said that salvation cometh by the law o f Moses. 1 say unto
you that it is expedient that ye should keep the law o f Moses
as yet; but I say uuto you, that the time shall com e when it
BOOK OF MOSIAH. »85
shall no more be expedient to keep the law o f Moses. And
moreover, l say unto you, that salvation doth not come by the
law alone; and were it not for the atonement which God him­
self shall make for the sins and iniquities o f his people, that
they must unavoidably perish, notwithstanding the law of Mo­
ses. And now I say unto you, that it was expedient that there
should be a law given to the children o f Israel, yea, even a
very strict law ; for they were a stiffnecked people, quick to
do iniquity, and slow to remember the Lord their G od ; there­
fore there was a law given them, yea, a law o f performances
and o f ordinances, a law which they were to observe strictly,
from day to day, to keep them in remembrance o f God, and
their duty towards him. But behold, i say unto you, that all
these things were types of things to come. And now, did they
understand the law '! I say unto you, Nay, they did not all un­
derstand the la w ; and this because of the hardness o f their
hearts; for they understood not that there could not any man
be saved, except it were through the redemption o f God. For
behold, did not Moses prophesy unto them concerning the
coming o f the Messiah, and that God should redeem his peo­
ple, yea, and even all the prophets which have prophesied
ever since the world began ? Have they not spoken more or
less concerning these things ? Have they not said that God
himself should come down among the children o f men, and
take upon him the form o f man, and go forth in mighty power
upon the face o f the earth 1 Yea, and have they not said also,
that he should bring to pass the resurrection o f the dead, and
that he, himself, should be oppressed and afflicted! Yea, even
doth not Isaiah say, W ho hath believed our report, and to
whom is the arm o f the Lord revealed'! for he shall grow up
before him as a tender plant, and as a root out o f dry ground:
he hath no form nor com eliness; and when we shall see him,
there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised
and rejected o f men; a man o f sorrows, and acquainted with
grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him ; he was des­
pised, and we esteemed him not.
Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrow s:
yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten o f God, and afflicted.
But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised
for our iniquities; the chastisement of our peace was upon
him ; and with his stripes we are healed. All we, like sheep,
have gone astray ; we have turned every one to his own way ;
and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquities o f us all. He
186 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his
mouth : he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep
before her shearers is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. H e
was taken from prison and from judgm ent: and who shall de­
clare his generation ? for he was cut off out o f the land o f the
living: for the transgressions o f my people was he stricken.
And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in
his death ; because he had done no evil, neither was any de­
ceit in his mouth.
Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him ; he hath put him to
grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he
shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure
o f the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see o f the
travail o f his soul, and shall be satisfied: by bis knowledge
shall my righteous servant justify m any; for he shall bear
their iniquities. Therefore will I divide him a portion with
the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; be­
cause he hath poured out his soul unto death .* and he was
numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sins o f ma­
ny, and made intercession for the transgressors.
And now Abinadi saith unto them, 1 would that ye should
understand that God himself shall come down among the chil­
dren o f men, and shall redeem his people; and because he
dwelleth in flesh, he shall be called the Son o f G o d : and
having subjected the flesh to the will o f the Father, being the
Father and the S on ; the Father, because he was conceived
by the power o f G od ; and the Son, because o f the flesh;
thus becoming the Father and S on : and they are one God,
yea, the very Eternal Father o f Heaven and o f Earth; and
thus the flesh becoming subject to the Spirit, or the Son to
the Father, being one God, suffereth temptation, and yieldeth
not to the temptation, but suffereth himself to be mocked, and
scourged, and cast out, and disowned by his people. And
after all this, and after working many mighty miracles among
the children o f men, he shall be led, yea, even as Isaiah said,
As a sheep before the shearer is dumb, so he opened not his
mouth ; yea, even so he shall be led, crucified, and slain, the
flesh becoming subject even unto death, the will o f the Son
being swallowed up in the will o f the Father; and thus God
breaketh the bands o f death ; having gained the victory over
death; giving the Son power to make intercession for the
children o f men ; having ascended into heaven; having the
bowels o f m ercy; being filled with compassion toward the
BOOK OP MOSIAU. 187
children o f men ; standing betwixt them and justice; having
broken the bands o f death, taken upon himself their iniquity
and their transgressions; having redeemed them, and satisfied
the demands o f justice. And now I say unto you, W ho shall
declare his generation i Behold, 1 say unto you, that when
his soul has been made an offering for sin, he shall see his
seed. And now what say ye ? And who shall be his seed?
Behold I say unto you, that whosoever hath heard the words
o f the prophets, yea, all the Holy Prophets which have proph­
esied concerning the coining o f the L ord ; I say unto, that all
those who hath hearkened unto their words, and believed that
the Lord would redeem his people, and have looked forward
to that day for a remission o f their sins; 1 say unto you, that
these are his seed, or they are heirs o f the Kingdom o f G od :
for these are they whose sins he hath borne; these are they
for whom he hath died, to redeem them from their transgres­
sions. And now, are they not his seed ? Yea, and are not the
prophets, every one that has opened his mouth to prophesy,
that has not fallen into transgression; 1 mean all the Holy
Prophets ever since the world began; 1 say unto you that they
are his seed; and these are they which hath published peace,
that hath brought good tidings o f good, that hath published
salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! And O
how beautiful upon the mountains were their feet! And again:
H ow beautiful upon the mountains are the feet o f those that
are still publishing peace! And again : How beautiful upon
the mountains are the feet o f those who shall hereafter publish
peace, yea, from this time henceforth and forever! And be­
hold, I say unto you, this is not all: For O how beautiful up­
on the mountains are the feet o f him that bringetb good tidings,
that is the founder o f peace; yea, even the Lord, who hath
redeemed his people; yea, him who hath granted salvation
unto his people: for were it not for the redemption which he
hath made for his people, which was prepared from the
foundation o f the w orld; I say unto you, were it not for this,
that all mankind must have perished. But behold, the bands
o f death shall be broken, and the Son reigneth, and hath power
over the dead; therefore, he bringeth to pass the resurrection
o f the dead. And there cometh a resurrection, even a first
resurrection; yea, even a resurrection o f those that have been,
and whieh are, and which shall be, even until the resurrection
o f Christ: for so shall he be called. And now, the resurrec­
tion o f all the prophets, and all those that have believed in
188 BOOK OF MOS1
AH.
their words, or all those that hare kept the commandments o f
God, these shall come forth in the first resurrection; there­
fore, they are the first resurrection. They are raised to dwell
with God, who hath redeemed them: thus they have eternal
life through Christ, who hath broken the bands of death. And
there are those who have part in the first resurrection; and
these are they that have died before Christ came, in their ig­
norance, not having salvation declared unto them. And thus
the Lord bringeth about the restoration o f these; and they
have a part in the first resurrection, or hath eternal life, being
redeemed by the Lord. And little children also, hath eternal
life. But behold, and fear, and tremble before G o d ; for ye
had ought to tremble: for the Lord redeemeth none such that
rebelleth against him, and dieth in their sins; yea, even all
those that have perished in their sins ever since the world be­
gan, that have wilfully rebelled against God, that have known
the commandments o f God, and would not keep them; these
are they that have no part in the first resurrection. There­
fore, had ye not ought to tremble i For salvation cometh to
none such; for the Lord hath redeemed none su ch ; yea, nei­
ther can the Lord redeem su ch : for he cannot deny himself;
for he cannot deny justice when it hath its claim.
And now 1 say unto you, that the time shall come that the
salvation o f the Lord shall be declared to every nation, kindred,
tongue, and people. Yea, Lord, thy watchmen shall lift up
their voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they
shall see eye to eye, when the Lord shall bring again Zion.
Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places o f Jerusa­
lem : for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath redeem­
ed Jerusalem. The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the
eyes o f all the nations: and all the ends o f the earth shall see
the salvation o f our God.
And now it came to pass that after Abinadi had spoken these
words, he stretched forth his hand and said, The time shall
come when all shall see the salvation o f the L ord ; when
every nation, kindred, tongue and people, shall see eye to eye,
and shall confess before God that his judgments are ju st; and
then shall the wicked be cast out, and they shall have cause to
howl, and weep, and wail, and gnash their teeth ; and this be­
cause they would not hearken unto the voice o f the L ord ;
therefore the Lord redeemeth them not, for they are carnal
and devlish, and the devil hath power over them ; yea, even
that old serpent that did beguile our first parents, which was
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 189
the cause o f their fall; which was the cause o f all mankind
becoming carnal, sensual, devlish, knowing evil from good,
subjecting themselves to the devil. Thus all mankind were
lo s t; and behold, they would have been endlessly lost, were
it not that God redeemed his people from their lost and fallen
state. But remember, that he that persists in his own carnal
nature, and goes on in the ways o f sin and rebellion against
God, he remaineth in his fallen state, and the devil hath all
power over him. Therefore he is as though there was no
redemption made; being an enemy to G od ; and also is the devil
an enemy to God. And now if Christ had not come into the
world, speaking o f things to come, as though they had already
come, there could have been no redemption. And if Christ
had not risen from the dead, or have broken the bands o f death,
that the grave should have no victory, and that death should
have no sting, there could have been no resurrection. But
there is a resurrection, therefore the grave hath no victory,
and the sting o f death is swallowed up in Christ: He is the
light and the life o f the w orld; yea, a light that is endless,
that can never be darkened; yea, and also a life which is end­
less, that there can be no more death. Even this mortal shall
put on immortality, and this corruption shall put on incoirup-
tion, and shall be brought to stand before the bar o f God, to
be judged o f him according to their works, whether they be
good or whether they be evil. If they be good, to the resur­
rection o f endless life and happiness, and if they be evil, to
the resurrection o f endless damnation ; being delivered up to
the devil, who hath subjected them, which is damnation ; hav­
ing gone according to their own carnal wills and desires;
having never called upon the Lord while the arms o f mercy
was extended towards them ; for the arms o f mercy was ex­
tended towards them, and they would not; they being war­
ned o f their iniquities, and yet they would not depart from
them; and they were commanded to repent, and yet they
would not repent. And now had ye not ought to tremble and
repent o f your sins, and remember only in and through Christ
ye can be saved ? Therefore, if ye teach the law of Moses,
also teach that it is a shadow o f those things which are to
com e; teach them that redemption cometh through Christ
the Lord, which is the very Eternal Father. Amen.
190 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
C H A P T E R IX.
A n d now it came to pass that when Abinadi had finished
these sayings, that the king commanded that the priests should
take him and cause that he should be put to death. But there
was one among them, whose name was Alma, he also being a
descendant o f Nephi. And he was a young man, and he be­
lieved the words which Abinadi had spoken, for he knew con­
cerning the iniquity which Abinadi had testified against them :
Therefore he began to plead with the king that he would not
be angry with Abinadi, but suffer that he might depart in
peace. But the king was more wroth, and caused that Alma
should be cast out from among them, and sent his servants
after him, that they might slay him. But he fled from before
them, and hid himself that they found him not. And he, being
concealed for many days, did write all the words which Abin­
adi had spoken.
And it came to pass that the king caused that his guards
should surround Abinadi, and take him ; and they bound him
and cast him into prison. And after three days, having coun­
selled with his priests, he caused that he should again be
brought before him. And he said unto him, Abinadi, we have
found an accusation against thee, and thou art worthy o f
death. For thou hast said that God himself should come
down among the children o f m en; and now for this cause
thou shalt be put to death, unless thou wilt recall all the
words which thou hast spoken evil concerning me and my
people.
Now Abinadi saith unto him : I say unto you, I will not
recall the words which I have spoken unto you concerning
this people, for they are true; and that ye may know o f their
surety, I have suffered myself that I have fallen into your
hands. Yea, and I will suffer even until death, and I will not
recall my words, and they shall stand as a testimony against
you. And if ye slay me, ye will shed innocent blood, and this
shall also stand as a testimony against you at the last day.
And now king Noah was about to release him, for he feared
his w ord; for be feared that the judgments o f God would
come upon him. But the priests lifted up their voices against
him, and began to accuse him, saying: He hath reviled the
king. Therefore the king was stirred up in anger against him,
and he delivered him up, that he might be slain.
And it came to pass that they took him, and bound him, and
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 191
scourged his skin with faggots, yea, even unto death. And
now when the (lames began to scorch him, he cried unto them
saying ; Behold, even as ye have done unto me, so shall it
come to pass that thy seed shall cause that many shall suffer
the pains that I do suffer, even the pains o f death, by fire;
and this because they believe in the salvation o f the Lord
their God. And it will come to pass that ye shall be afflicted
with all manner o f diseases, because o f your iniquities. Yea,
and ye shall be smitten on every hand, and shall be driven and
scattered to and fro, even as a wild flock is driven by wild and
ferocious beasts. And in that day ye shall be hunted, and ye
shall be taken by the hand o f your enemies, and then ye shall
suffer, as I suffer, the pains o f death, by fire. Thus God ex-
ecuteth vengeance upon those that destroy his people. j
O
God, receive my soul. And now when Abinadi had said these
words, he fell, having suffered death by fire; yea, having been
put to death because he would not deny the commandments
o f God : having sealed the truth o f his words by his death.
And now it came to pass that Alma, who had fled from the
servants o f king Noah, repented o f his sins and iniquities, and
went about privately among the people, and began to teach
the words o f Abinadi; yea, concerning that which was to
come, and also concerning the resurrection o f the dead, and
the redemption o f the people, which was to be brought to
pass through the power, and sufferings, and death o f Christ,
and his resurrection and ascension into Heaven. And as ma­
ny as would hear his won! be did teach. And he taught them
privately, that it might not come to the knowledge o f the king.
And many did believe his words. And it came to pass that
as many as did believe him, did go forth to a place which was
called Mormon, having received its name from the king, being
in the borders o f the land having been infested, by times, or
at seasons, by wild beasts. Now there was in Mormon a
fountain o f pure water, and Alma resorted thither, there being
near the water a thicket o f small trees, where he did hide
himself in the day-time, from the searches o f the king. And
it came to pass that as many as believed him, went thither to
hear his words. And it came to pass after many days, there
were a goodly number gathered together to the place o f Mor­
mon, to hear the words o f Alma. Yea, all were gathered to­
gether that believed on his word, to hear him. And he did
teach them, and did preach unto them repentance, and re­
demption, and faith on the Lord.
1 9 2 BOOK OP MOSIAH.
And it came to pass that he said unto them, Behold, here
is the waters o f Mormon; for thus were they called. And
now, as ye are desirous to come into the fold o f God, and to
be called his people, and are willing to bear one another’s bur­
dens, that they may be light; yea, and are willing to mourn
with those that mourn; vea, and comfort those that stand in
need o f comfort, and to stand as witnesses o f God at all times,
and in all things, and in all places that ye may be in, even un­
til death, that ye may be redeemed o f God, and be numbered
with those o f the first resurrection, that ye may have eternal
life : Now I say unto you, if this be the desires of your hearts,
what have you against being baptized in the name o f the Lord,
as a witness before him that ye have entered into a covenant
with him that ye will serve him and keep his commandments,
that he may pour out his spirit more abundant y upon you.—
And now when the people had heard these words, they clap­
ped their hands for joy, and exclaimed, This is the desires o f
our hearts.
And now it came to pass that Alma took Helam, he being
one of the first, and went and stood forth in the water, and
cried, saying, O Lord, pour out thy spirit upon thy servant,
that he may do this work with holiness o f heart And when
he had said these words, the spirit of the Lord was upon him,
and he said, Helam, 1 baptize thee, having authority from
the Almighty God, as a testimony that ye have entered into a
covenant to serve him until you are dead, as to the mortal
b ody; and may the spirit of the Lord be poured out upon
you ; and may he grant unto you eternal life, through the re­
demption of Christ, which he hath prepared from the founda­
tion o f the world. And after Alma had said these words, both
Alma and Helam was buried in the water; and they arose and
came forth out of the water rejoicing, being filled with the
spirit And again, Alma took another, and went forth a se­
cond time into the water, and baptized him according to the
first, only he did not bury himself again in the water. And
after this manner he did baptize every one that went forth to
the place of Mormon; and they were in number about two
hundred and four souls; yea, and they were baptized in the
waters of Mormon, and were filled with the grace o f G od: and
they were called the Church of God, or the. Church of Christ,
from that time forward.
And it came to pass that whosoever was baptized by the
power and authority of God, they was added to his church-
BOOK OF MOSIAH. 193
And it came to pass that Alma, having authority from God,
ordained priests; even one priest to every fifty o f their number
did he ordain to preach unto them, and to teach them con­
cerning the things pertaining to the kingdom o f God. And he
commanded them that they should teach nothing save it were
the things which he had taught, and which had been spoken
by the mouth o f the holy prophets. Yea, even be commanded
them that they should preach nothing save it were repentance
and faith on the Lord, who hath redeemed his people. And he
commanded them that there should be no contention one with
another, but that they should look forward with one eye, hav­
ing one faith and one baptism; having their hearts knit together
in unity and in love, one towards another. And thus he com­
manded them to preach. And thus they became the children
o f God. And he commanded them that they should observe
the sabbath day, and keep it holy, and also every day they
should give thanks to the Lord their God. And he also com­
manded them that the priests which he had ordained should
labor with their own hands for their support; and there was
one day in every week that was set apart that they should
gather themselves together to teach the people, and to worship
the Lord their God, and also as often as it was in their power
to assemble themselves together. And the priests was not to
depend upon the people for their support; but for their labor
they were to receive the grace o f God, that they might wax
strong in the spirit, having the knowledge o f God, that they
might teach with power and authority from God. And again
Alma commanded that the people o f the Church should impart
o f their substance, every one according to that which he hath;
if he have more abundantly, he should impart more abundantly;
and he that hath but little, but little should be required; and
to him that hath not should be given. And thus they should
impart o f their substance, o f their own free will and good de­
sires towards God, and to those priests that stood in need, yea,
and to every needy, naked soul. And this he said unto them,
having been commanded o f G od ; and they did walk uprightly
before God, imparting to one another, both temporally and
spiritually, according to their needs and their wants.
And now it came to pass that all this was done in Mormon;
yea, by the waters o f Mormon, in the forest that was near the
waters o f Mormon; yea, the place o f Mormon, the waters of
Mormon, the. forest o f Mormon, how beautiful are they to the
eves o f them who there came to the knowledge o f their re-
13
1 9 4 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
deemer; yea, and how blessed are they, for they shall sing to
his praise forever. And these things were done in the borders
o f the land, that they might not oome to the knowledge o f the
king. But behold, it came to pass that the king, having dis­
covered a movement among the people, sent his servants to
watch them. Therefore on the day that they were assem­
bling themselves together to hear the word o f the Lord, they
were discovered unto the king. And now the king saith that
Alma was stirring up the people to a rebellion against him;
therefore he sent his army to destroy them. And it came to
pass that Alma, and the people o f the Lord were apprised o f
the coming o f the king’s army; therefore they took their tents
and their families, and departed into the wilderness. And
they were in number about four hundred and fifty souls.
And it came to pass that the army o f the king returned, hav­
ing searched in vain for the people o f the Lord. And now be­
hold, the forces o f the king were small, having been reduced,
and there began to be a division among the remainder of the
people. And the lesser part began to breathe out threatnings
against the king, and there began to be a great contention
among them. And now there was a man among them whose
name was Gideon, and he being a strong man, and an enemy
to the king, therefore he drew his sword and swore in his
wrath, that he would slay the king. And it came to pass that
he fought with the king; and when the king saw that he was
about to overpower him, he fled and ran and got upon the
tower, which was near the temple. And Gideon pursued after
him and was about to get upon the tower to slay the king, and
the king cast his eyes round about towards the land o f Shera­
ton, and behold, the army o f the Lamanites were within the
borders o f the land. And now the king cried out in the an­
guish o f his soul, saying, Gideon, spare me, for the Lamanites
are upon us, and they will destroy them; yea, they will de­
stroy my people. And now the king was not so much con­
cerned about his people, as he was about his own life; never­
theless, Gideon did spare his life. And the king commanded
the people that they should flee before the Lamanites, and he
himself did go before them, and they did flee into the wilder­
ness with their women and their children. And it came to
pass that the Lamanites did pursue them, and did overtake
them, and began to slay them.
Now it came to pass that the king commanded them that
all the men should leave their wives and their children, and
BOOK OP MOStAH, 195
flee before the Lamanites. Now there were many that would
not leave them, but had rather stay and perish with them.
And the rest left their wives and their children and fled.
And it came to pass that those that tarried with their wives
and their children, caused that their fair daughters should stand
forth and plead with the Lamanites, that they would not slay
them. And it came to pass that the Lamanites had compas­
sion on them, for they were charmed with the beauty of their
w om en; therefore the Lamanites did spare their lives, and took
them captives, and carried them back to the land o f Nephi,
and granted unto them that they might possess the land, under
the conditions that they would deliver up the king Noah into
the hands o f the Lamanites, and deliver up their property, even
one half o f all they possessed; one half o f their gold, and their
silver, and all their precious things; and thus they should pay
tribute to the king o f the Lamanites, from year to year. And
now there was one o f the sons o f the king among those that
was taken captive, whose name was Limhi. And now Limhi
was desirous that his father should not be destroyed; never­
theless, Limhi was not ignorant o f the iniquities o f his father,
he himself, being a just man.
And it came to pass that Gideon sent men into the wilder­
ness secretly, to search for the king, and those that was with
him. And it came to pass that they met the people in the wilder­
ness, all save the king and his priests. Now they had sworn
in their hearts that they would return to the land o f Nephi, and
if their wives and their children were slain, and also those that
had tarried with them, that they would seek revenge, and also
perish with them. And the king commanded them that they
should not return; and they were angry with the king, and
caused that he should suffer, even unto death by fire. And
they were about to take the priests also and put them to death,
and they fled before them.
And it came to pass that they were about to return to the
land o f Nephi, and they met the men o f Gideon. And the
men o f Gideon told them o f all that had happened to their
wives and their children; and that the Lamanites had granted
unto them that they might possess the land, by paying a tri­
bute to the Lamanites o f one half of all they possessed. And
the people told the men of Gideon that they had slain the king,
and his priests had fled from them farther into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that after they had ended the ceremony,
that they returned to the land o f Nephi. rejoicing, because their
1 9 6 BOOK OF StOSIAH.
wives and their children were not slain; and they told Gideon
what they had done to the king.
And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites made
an oath unto them, that his people should not slay them. And
also liimhi, being the son o f the king, having the kingdom con­
ferred upon him by the people, made oath unto the king o f the
Lamanites, that his people should pay tribute unto him, even
one half of all they possessed.
And it came to pass that Limbi began to establish the king­
dom, and to establish peace among bis people. And the king
o f the Lamanites set guards round about the land, that he might
keep the people of Limhi in the land, that they might not de­
part into the wilderness; and he did support his guards out o f
the tribute whieh he did receive from the Nephites. And now
king Limhi did have continual peace in his kingdom, for the
the space of two years, that the Lamanites did not molest them
nor seek to destroy them.
Now there was a place in Shemlon, where the daughters o f
the Lamanites did gather themselves together for to sing, and
to dance, and to make themselves merry. And it came to pass
that there was one day a small number o f them gathered to­
gether to sing and to dance. And now the priests of king
Noah, being ashamed to return to the city o f Nephi, yea, and
also fearing that the people would slay then», therefore they
durst not return to their wives and their children. And hav­
ing tarried in the wilderness, and having discovered the daugh­
ters o f the Lamanites, they laid and watched them; and when
there were but few of them gathered together to dance, they
came forth out o f their secret places, and took them and carried
them into the wilderness; yea, twenty and four o f the daugh­
ters o f the Lamanites they carried into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites found that
their daughters had been missing, they were angry with the
people o f Limhi; for they thought it was the people of Limhi.
Therefore they sent their armies forth ; yea, even the king him­
self went before his people; and they went up to the land o f
Nephi, to destroy the people o f Limhi. And now Limhi had
discovered them from the tower; even all their preparations
for war did he discover; therefore he gathered his people to­
gether, and laid wait for them in the fields, and in the forests.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had come up,
that the people of Limhi began to fell upon them from their
waiting places, and began to slay them.
BOOK OF SJOSIAH. 191
And it came to pass that the battle became exceeding sore,
for they fought like lions for their prey. And it came to pass
that the people of Limbi began to drive the Lamanites before
them, yet they were not half so numerous as the Lamanites.
But they fought for their lives, and for their wives, and for their
children; therefore they exerted themselves, and like dragons
did they fight.
And it came to pass that they found the king o f the Laman-
ites among the number of their dead; yet he was not dead,
having been wounded and left upon the ground, so speedy was
the flight o f his people. And they took him and bound up his
wounds, and brought him before Limhi, and said, Behold, here
is the king o f the Lamanites; he having received a wound,
hath fallen among their dead, and they have left him; and be­
hold, we have brought him before you ; and now let us slay
him. But Limhi saith unto them, Ye shall not slay him, but
bring him hither, that I may see him. And they brought him.
And Limhi saith unto him, What cause have ye to come up
to war against my people 1 Behold, my people have not
broken the oath that I made unto you ; therefore, why should
ye break the oath which ye made unto my people ? And now
the king said, I have broken the oath, because thy people did
carry away the daughters o f my people; therefore in my anger
I did cause my people to come up to war against thy people.
Now Limhi had heard nothing concerning this matter; there­
fore he saith, 1 will search among my people, and whosoever
hath done this thing shall perish. Therefore he caused a search
to be made among his people. Now when Gideon had heard
these things, he being the king’s captain, he went forth and
said unto the king, I pray thee forbear, and do not search this
people, and lay not this tiring to their charge. For do ye not
remember the priests o f thy father, which this people sought to
destroy'! And are they not in the wilderness? And is it not
they which have stolen the daughters o f the Lamanites ? And
now behold, and tell the king o f these things, that he may tell
his people, that they may be pacified towards u s : for behold,
they are already preparing to come against u s; and behold al­
so, there are but few o f us. And behold, they come with their
numerous hosts; and except the king doth pacify them towards
us, we must perish. For are not the words o f Abinadi fulfilled,
which he prophesied against us ? and all this because we w'ould
not hearken unto the word o f the Lord, and turn from our
iniquities ? And now let us pacify the king, and we fulfil the
198 BOOK OF MOSIAK.
oath which we have made unto him : for it is better that we
should be in bondage, than that we should lose our lives;
therefore, let us put a stop to the shedding of so much blood.
And now Limhi told the king all the things concerning his fa­
ther, and the priests that had fled into the wilderness, and at­
tributed the carrying away o f their daughters to them.
And it came to pass that the king was pacified towards his
people; and he said unto them, Let us go forth to meet my
people, without arms; and I swear unto you with an oath, that
ray people shall not slay thy people. And it came to pass
that they followed the king, and went forth without arms to
meet the Lamaaites. And it came to pass that they did meet
the Lamanites; and the king of the Lamanites did bow him­
self down before them, and did plead in behalf o f the people
o f Limhi. And when the Lamanites saw the people o f Limhi,
that they were without arms, they had compassion on them,
and were pacified towards them, and returned with their king
in peace to their own land.
And it came to pass that Limhi and his people returned to
the city o f Nephi, and began to dwell in the land again in peace.
And it came to pass that after many days, the Lamanites be­
gan again to be stirred up in anger against the Nephites; and
they began to come into the borders o f the land round about.
N ow they durst not slay them, because o f the oath which their
king had made unto Lim hi; but they would smite them on
their cheeks, and exercise authority over them; and began to
put heavy burdens upon their backs, and drive them as they
would a dumb ass: yea, all this was done, that the word o f
the Lord might be fulfilled. And now the afflictions o f the
Nephites was great; and there was no way that they could de­
liver themselves out o f their hands, for the Lamanites had
surrounded them on every side.
And it came to pass that the people began to murmur with
the king, because o f their afflictions; and they began to be de­
sirous to go against them to battle. And they did afflict the
king sorely with their complaints; therefore he granted unto
them that they should do according to their desires. And they
gathered themselves together again, and put on their armour,
and went forth against the Lamanite , to drive them out o f
their land. And it came to pass that the Lamanites did beat
them, and drove them back, and slew many o f them. And
now there was a great mourning and lamentation among the
people o f Lim hi; the widow mourning for her husband; the
BOOK OF MOSiAH. 199
son and the daughter mourning for their father; and the
brothers for their brethren. Now there were a great many
widows in the land; and they did cry mightily from day to day,
for a great fear of the Lamanites had come upon them. And
it came to pass that their continual cries did stir up the re­
mainder o f the people o f Limhi to anger, against the Laman-
battle; but they were driven
the third time, and suffered in the like manner; and those that
were not slain, returned again to the city o f Nephi. And they
did humble themselves even to the dust, subjecting themselves
to the yoke o f bondage, submitting themselves to be smitten,
and to be driven to and fro, and burdened, according to the
desires o f their enemies. And they did humble themselves
even in the depths o f humility; and they did cry mightily to
G od; yea, even all the day long did they cry unto their God,
that he would deliver them out o f their afflictions. And now
the Lord was slow to hear their cry, because o f their iniqui­
ties ; nevertheless the Lord did hear their cries, and began to
soften the hearts o f the Lamanites, that they began to ease
their burdens: yet the Lord did not see fit to deliver them out
o f bondage.
And it came to pass that they began to prosper by degrees
in the land, and began to raise grain more abundantly, and
flocks, and herds, that they did not suffer with hunger. Now
there was a great number of women more than there was o f
men; therefore king Limhi commanded that every man should
impart to the support of the widows and their children, that
they might not perish with hunger *
. and this they did, because
o f the greatness o f their number that had been slain. Now
the people o f Limhi kept together in a body as much as it was
posable, and secure their grain, and their flocks; and the king
himself did not trust his person without the walls o f the city,
unless he took his guards with him, fearing that he might by
some means fall into the hands o f the Lamanites. And he
caused that his people should watch the land round about,
that by some means thev might take those priests that fled in­
to the wilderness, which had stolen the daughters o f the La­
manites, and that had caused such a great destruction to come
upon them; for they were desirous to take them, that they
might punish them: for they had come into the land of Nephi
by night, and carried off o f their grain, and many o f their pre­
cious things; therefore they laid wait for them.
Yea, they went again, even
200 BOOK OP MOSIAH.
And it came to pass that there was no more disturbance be­
tween the Lamanites and the people o f Limhi, even until the
time that Ammon and his brethren came into the land. And
the king having been without the gates o f the city with his
guard, he discovered Ammon and his brethren; and supposing
them to be priests o f Noah, therefore he caused that they
should be taken, and bound, and cast into prison. Ajnd Had
they been the priests of Noah, he would have caused that they
should be put to death; but when he found that they were
not, but that they were his brethren, and had come from the
land o f Zarahemla, he was filled with exceeding great joy.—1
N ow king Limhi had sent, previous to the coming o f Ammon,
a small number o f men to search for the land o f Zarahemla;
but they could not find it : and they were lost in the wilder­
ness. Nevertheless they did find a land which had been peo­
pled; yea, a land which was covered with dry bones; yea, a
land which had been peopled, and which had been destroyed;
and they having supposed it to be the land o f Zarahemla, re­
turned to the land o f Nephi, having arrived in the borders of
the land not many days before the coming o f Ammon. And
they brought a record with them, even a record o f the people
whose bones they had found; and they were engraven on plates
o f ore. And now Limhi was again filled with joy, on learning
from the mouth o f Ammon that king Benjamin had a gift from
God, whereby he could interpret such engravings; yea, and
Ammon also did rejoice. Yet Ammon and his brethren were
filled with sorrow, because so many o f his brethren had been
slain; and also that king Noah and his priests had caused
the people to commit so many sins and iniquities against G od ;
and they also did mourn for the death o f Abinndi; and also for
the departure o f Alma, and the people that went with him,
who had formed a church o f God through the strength and
pow er o f God, and faith on the words which had been spoken
by Abinadi; yea, they did mourn for their departure, for they
knew not whither they had fled. N ow they would have gladly
joined with them, for they themselves liad entered into a
covenant with God, to serve him, and keep his commandments.
And now since the coming o f Ammon, king Limhi had also
entered into a covenant with God, and also many o f his peo­
ple, to serve him, and keep his commandments.
And it came to pass that king Limhi and many o f his peo­
ple was desirous to be baptized; but there was none in the
land that had authority from God. And Ammon declined do-
BOOK OF M05IAH. 201
ing this thing, considering himself an unworthy servant; there­
fore they did not at that time form themselves into a church,
waiting upon the spirit o f the Lord. Now they were desirous
to become even as Alma and his brethren, which had fled into
the wilderness. They were desirous to be baptized, as a wit­
ness and a testimony that they were willing to serve God with
all their hearts; nevertheless they did prolong the time: and
an account o f their baptism shall he given hereafter. And
now all the study o f Ammon and his people, and king Limhi
and his people, was to deliver themselves out o f the hands of
the Lamanites, and from bondage.
C H A PT E R X.
Andnow it came to pass that Ammon and king Limhi began
to consult with the people bow they should deliver themselves
out of bondage; and even they did cause that all the people
should gather themselves together: and this they did that they
might have the voice o f the people concerning the matter. And
it came to pass that they could find no way to deliver them­
selves out o f bondage, except it were to take their women and
children, and their flocks, and their herds, and their tents, and
depart into the wilderness; for the Lamanites being so nume­
rous that it was impossible for the people o f Limhi to contend
with them, thinking to deliver themselves out o f bondage by
the sword.
Now it came to pass that Gideon went forth and stood be­
fore the king, and said unto him, Now O king, thou hast hith­
erto hearkened unto my words many times when we have been
contending with our brethren, the Lamanites. And now O
king, if thou hast not found me to be an unprofitable servant,
or if thou hast hitherto listened to my words in any degree,
and they have been o f service to thee, even so I desire that
thou wouldst listen to my words at this time, and I will be thy
servant, and deliver this people out o f bondage. And the king
granted unto him that he might speak. And Gideon saith un­
to him, Behold the back pass through the back wall, on the
back side o f the city. The Lamanites, or the guards o f the
Lamanites, by night, are drunken; therefore let us send a proc­
lamation among all this people, that they gather together their
flocks and herds, that they may drive them into the wilderness
202 BOOK OP MOSIAH.
by night. And I will go according to thy command, and pay
the last tribute o f wine to the Lamanites, and they will be
drunken; and we will pass through the secret pass on the left
o f the camp, when they are drunken and asleep: thus we will
depart with our women and our children, our flocks and our
herds, into the wilderness; and we will travel around the land
o f Shilom. And it came to pass that the king hearkened unto
the words o f Gideon. And it came to pass thatking Limhi cau­
sed that his people should gather their flocks together; and
he sent the tribute o f wine to the Lamanites; and he also sent
more wine, as a present unto them: and they did drink freely
o f the wine which king Limhi did send unto them.
And it came to pass that the people o f king Limbi did depart
by night into the wilderness with their flocks and their herds;
and they went round about the land o f Shilom in the wilderness,
and bent their course towards the land o f Zarahemla, being led
by Ammon and his brethren. And they had taken all their gold,
and silver, and their precious things, which they could carry;
and also their provisions with them, into the wilderness; and
they pursued their journey. And after being many days in the
wilderness, they arrived in the land o f Zarahemla, and joined
his people, and became his subjects. And it came to pass that
Mosiah received them with jo y ; and he also received their rec­
ords, and also the records which had been found by the people
o f Limhi. And now it came to pass when the Lamanites had
found that the people o f Limhi had departed out o f the land
by night, that they sent an army into the wilderness to pursue
them; and after they had pursued them two days, they could
no longer follow their tracks; therefore they were lost in the
wilderness.
C H A P T E R XI.
An account o f Alma and the people o f the Lord, which was
driven into the wilderness bp the people o f king Noah.
N ow Alma, having been warned o f the Lord that the armies
o f king Noah would come upon them, and had made it known
to his people, therefore they gathered together their flocks, and
took of their grain, and departed into the wilderness before the
armies o f king Noah. And the Lord did strengthen them, that
BOOK OF MOSTAH. 203
the people o f king Noah could not overtake them, to destroy
them. And it came to pass that they fled eight days’ journey
into the wilderness. And they came to a land, yea, even a very
beautiful and pleasant land; a land o f pure water. And it
came to pass that they pitched their tents, and began to till the
ground, and began to build buildings, & c.; yea, they were
industrious, and did labor exceedingly. And it came to pass
that the people were desirous that Alma should be their king,
for he was beloved by his people. But he saith unto them,
Behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; for thus
saith the L ord: Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another,
or one man shall not think himself above another; therefore I
say unto you, it is not expedient that ye should have a king.
Nevertheless, if it were possible that ye could always have just
men to be your kings, it would be well for you to have a king.
But remember the iniquity o f king Noah and his priests: and I
myself was caught in a snare, and did many things which was
abominable in the sight o f the Lord, which caused me sore re­
pentance ; nevertheless, after much tribulation, the Lord did
hear my cries, and did answer my prayers, and hath made me
an instrument in his hands, in bringing so many o f you to a
knowledge o f his truth. Nevertheless, in this I do not glory,
for 1am unworthy to glory o f myself. And now I say unto you.
As ye have been oppressed by king Noah, and have been in
bondage to him and his priests, and have been brought into in­
iquity by them; therefore ye were bound with the bands of
iniquity. And now as ye have been delivered, by the power o f
God, out o f these bonds; yea, even out o f the hands o f king
Noah and his people, and also from the bonds o f iniquity, even
so I desire that ye should stand fast in this liberty wherewith
ye have been made free, and that ye trust no man to be a king
over you; and also trusting no one to be your teachers nor your
ministers, except he be a man o f God, walking in his ways and
keeping his commandments. Thus did Alma teach his people,
that every matt should love his neighbor as himself; that there
should be no contention among them. And now Alma was
their high priest, be being the founder o f their Church. And
it came to pass that none received authority to preach or to
teach, except it were by him from God. Therefore he conse­
crated all their priests, and all their teachers, and none were
consecrated except it were just men. Therefore they did watch
over their people, and did nourish them with things pertaining
to righteousness. And it came to pass that they began to pros-
204 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
per exceedingly in the land; and they called the land Helam.
And it came to pass that they did multiply and prosper exceed­
ingly in the land o f Helam; and they built a city, which they
called Helam. Nevertheless the Lord seeth fit to chasten his
people; yea, he trieth their patience and their faith. Never­
theless, whosoever puteth his trust in him, the same shall be
lifted up at the last day. Yea, and thus it was with this people.
F or behold, I will shew unto you that they were brought into
bondage, and none could deliver them but the Lord their G od;
yea, even the God o f Abraham, and of Isaac, and o fJacob. And it
came to pass that he did deliver them, and he did shew forth
his mighty power unto them, and great was their rejoicings.
For behold, it came to pass that while they were in the land o f
Helam, yea, in the city o f Helam, while tilling the land round
about, behold an army o f the Lamanites were in the borders of
the land. Now it came to pass that the brethren o f Alma fled
from their fields, and gathered themselves together into the city
o f Helam; and they were much frightened because o f the appear­
ance of the Lamanites. But Alma went forth and stood among
them, and exhorted them that they should not be frightened,
but that they should remember the Lord their God, and he
would deliver them; therefore they hushed their fears, and be­
gan to cry unto the Lord, that he would soften the hearts o f the
Lamanites, that they would spare them, and their wives, and
their children. And it came to pass that the Lord did soften
the hearts o f the Lamanites. And Alma and his brethren went
forth and delivered themselves up into their hands; and the La­
manites took possession o f the land o f Helam. Now the ar­
mies o f the Lamanites which had followed after the people o f
king Limhi, had heen lost in the wilderness for many days.
And behold, they had found those priests o f king Noah, in a
place which they called Amulon; and they had began to pos­
sess the land o f Amulon, and had began .to till the ground.
Now the name o f the leader o f those priests was Amulon. And
it came to pass that Amulon did plead with the Lamanites; and
be also sent forth their wives, which was the daughters o f the
Lamanites, to plead with their brethren, that they should not
destroy their husbands. And it came to pass that the Laman­
ites had compassion on Amulon and his brethren, and did not
destroy them, because o f their wives. And Amulon and his
brethren did join the Lamanites, and they were travelling in the
wilderness in search o f the land o f Nephi, when they discovered
the land o f Helam, which was possessed by Alma and his breth-
BOOK OP M08IAH. 205
ten. And it came to pass that the Lamanites promised unto
Alma and his brethren, that if they would shew them the way
which led to the land o f Neph, that they would grant unto them
their lives and their liberty. But it came to pass that after Al­
ma had shewn them the way that led to the land o f Nephi, the
Lamanites would not keep their promise; but they set guards
round about the land o f Helam, over Alma and his brethren.
And the remainder o f them went to the land o f Nephi; and a
part o f them returned to the land o f Helam, and also brought
with them the wives and the children o f the guards which had
been left in the land. And the king o f the Lamanites had
granted unto Aroulon that he should be a king and a ruler over
his people, which was in the land o f Helam ; nevertheless he
should have no power to do any thing contrary to the will o f
the king o f the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Amulon did gain favor in the eyes
o f the king o f the Lamanites; therefore the king o f the Laman­
ites granted unto him and his brethren, that they should be ap­
pointed teachers over his people; yea, even over the people
which was in the land o f Shemlon, and in the land o f Shilom,
and in the land o f Amulon: for the Lamanites had taken pos­
session o f all these lands; therefore the king o f the Lamanites
had appointed kings over all these lands. And now the name
o f the king o f the Lamanites was Laman, being called after the
name of his father; and therefore he was called king Laman.
And he was king over a numerous people; and he appointed
teachers o f the brethren of Amulon, in every land which was
possessed by his people: and thus the language o f Nephi be­
gan to be taught among all the people of the Lamanites. And
they were a people friendly one with another; nevertheless
they knew not G od; neither did the brethren o f Amulon teach
them any thing concerning the Lord their God, neither the law
o f Moses; nor did they teach them the words o f Abinadi; but
they taught them that they should keep their record, and that
they might write one to another. And thus the Lamanites be­
gan to increase in riches, and began to trade one with another,
and wax great, and began to be a cunning and a wise people,
as to the wisdom o f the world; yea, a very cunning people;
delighting in all manner o f wickedness and plunder, except it
were among their own brethren.
And now it came to pass that Amulon hegan to exercise au­
thority over Alma and his brethren, and began to persecute
him, and cause that his children should persecute their children:
206 BOOK OF MOI91AK.
for Amulon knew Alma, that he had been one o f the king's
priests, and that it was he that believed the words of Abinadi,
and was driven out before the king; and therefore he was
wroth with him, for he was subject to king Lanian; yet he ex­
ercised authority over them, and pul tasks upon them, and put
task-masters over them. And it came to pass that so great was
their afflictions, that they began to cry mightily to God, And
it came to pass that Amulon commanded them that they should
stop their cries; and he put guards over them to watch them,
that whosoever should be found calling upon God, should be put
to death. And it came to paw that Alma and his people did
not raise their voices to the Lord their God, but did pour out
their hearts to him; and he did know the thoughts o f their
hearts.
And it came to pass that the voice o f the Lord came to them
in their afflictions, saying, Lift up your heads and be o f good
comfort, for 1 know o f the covenant which ye have made unto
m e; and I will covenant with my people, and deliver them out
o f bondage. And 1 will also ease the burdens which is put up­
on your shoulders, that even you cannot feel them upon your
backs, even while you are in bondage; and this will i do, that
ye may stand as witnesses for me hereafter, and that ye may
know o f a surety that I, the Lord God, do visit my people in
their afflictions. And now it came to pass that the burdens
which was laid upon Alma and his brethren, were made light;
yea, the Lord did strengthen them that they could bear up their
burdens with case, and they did submit cheerfully and with pa­
tience to all the will o f the Lord.
And it came to pass that so great was their faith and their pa­
tience, that the voice o f the Lord came unto them again, saying;
Be o f good comfort, for on the morrow I will deliver thee out of
bondage. And he eaiih unto Alma, Thou shalt go before this
people, and I will go with thee, and deliver this people out o f
bondage.
Now it came to pass that Alma and his people, in the night
time, gathered their flocks together, and also o f their grain; yea,
even all the night time were they gathering their flocks together,
And in the morning the Lord caused a deep sleep to corae upon
the Lamanites, yea, and all their task-masters were in a pro­
found sleep. And it came to pass that Alma and his people
departed into the wilderness; and when they had travelled all
day, they pitched their tents in a valley, and they called the valley
Alm% because he led their way in the wilderness; yea, and is
BOOK OF MOSUH, 207
the valley o f Alma they poured out their thanks to God because
he had been merciful unto them, and eased their burdens, and
lwd delivered them out of bondage; for they were in bondage;
and none could deliver them, except it were the Lord their God.
And they gave thanks to God, yea, all their men, and all their
women, and all their children, that could speak, lifted their
voices in the praises of their God.
And now the Lord gaid unto Alma, Haste thee and get thou
and this people out of this land, for the Lamanites have awoke
and doth pursue thee; therefore get thee out o f this land, and I
will stop the Lamanites in this valley, that they oome no further
in pursuit o f this people. And it came to pass that they de*
parted out of the valley, and took their journey into the wilder­
ness. And it came to pass that after they had been in the wil­
derness twelve days, they arrived to the land of Zarahemla;
and king Mosiah did rIso receive them with joy. And now king
Mosiah caused that all the people should be gathered together.
Now there were not so many of the children of Nephi, or so
many o f those which were descendants o f Nephi, as mere were
of the people of Zarahemla, which was a descendant of Mnlok.
and those which came with him into the wilderness; and there
were not so many o f the people o f Nephi and of the people of
Zarahemla as there was of the Lamanites; yea, they were not half
so numerous. And now all the people of Nephi was assembled
together, and also all the people o f Zaraliemla, and they were
gathered together in two bodies.
And it came to pass that Mosiah did read, and caused to be
read, the records of Zeniff to his people; yea, he read the rec­
ords of the people o f Zeniff, from the time"they left the knd o f
Zarahemla until the time they returned again. And lie also read
the account of Alma and his brethren, and all their afflictions;
from the time they left the tax' of Zarahemla, until the time
they returned again. And now when Mosiah had made an end
of reading the records, his people which tarried in the land was
struck with wonder and amazement, for they knew not what to
think; for when they beheld those that had been delivered out
when they'thought of their brethren which had* been slam*by
the Lamanites; they were filled with sorrow, and even shed ma­
ny tears o f sorrow. And again, when they thought of the im­
mediate goodness of God, and his power in delivering Alma and
his brethren out of the hands o f die Lamanites, and o f bondage,
they did raise their voices, arid gave thanks io God, And again
208 BOOK OP MOSIAH,
when they thought upon the Lamanites, which was their breth­
ren, o f their sinful and polluted state, they were filled with pain
and anguish, for the welfare o f their souls.
And it came to pass that when those which were the children
o f Amulon and his brethren, which had taken to wife the daugh­
ters of the Lamanites, they were displeased with the conduct
o f their fathers, and they would no longer be called by the
names o f their fathers; therefore they took upon themselves
the name o f Nephi, that they might be called the children o f
Nephi, and be numbered among tliose which were called Ne-
phites. And now all the people o f Zarahemla were numbered
with the Nephites, and this because the kingdom had been con­
ferred upon none but those which were descendants o f Nephi.
And now it came to pass that when Mosiah had made an
end o f speaking and reading to the people, he desired that Al­
ma should also speak to the people. And it came to pass that
Alma did speak unto them, when they were assembled together
in large bodies, and he went from one body to another, preach­
ing unto the people repentance and faith on the Lord. And
he did exhort the people o f Limhi and his brethren, all those
that had been delivered out o f bondage, that they should remem­
ber that it was the Lord that did deliver them. And it came
to pass that after Alma had taught the people many things, and
had made an end o f speaking to them, that king Limhi was
desirous that he might be baptized; and all his people were
desirous that they might be baptized also. Therefore Alma
did go forth into the water, and did baptize them; yea, he did
baptize them after the manner he did his brethren in the waters
o f M ormon; yea, and as many as he did baptize did belong to
the Church o f G od; and this because o f their belief on the
words o f Alma.
And it came to pass that king Mosiah granted unto Alma,
that he might establish Churches throughout all the land o f
Zarahemla; and gave him power to ordain priests and teachers
over every Church. Now this was done because there was
so many people that they could not all be governed by one
teacher; neither could they all hear the word o f God in one
assembly ; therefore they did assemble themselves together in
different bodies, being called Churches; every Church having
their priests and their teachers, and every priest preaching
the word according as it was delivered to him by the mouth
o f Alma; and thus, notwithstanding there beingmany Churches,
they were all one Church; yea, even the Church o f G od: for
BOOK OP MOSUH. m
there was nothing preached in all the Churches except it
were repentance and faith in God. And now there was seven
Churches in the land of 2arahemla. And it came to pass that
whosoever was desirous to take upon them the name o f Christ,
or o f God, they did join the churches o f God ; and they were
called the people o f God. And the Lord did pour out his
spirit upon them, and they were blest, and prospered in the
land.
Now it came to pass that there was many o f the rising ge­
neration that could not understand the words o f king Benja­
min, being little children at the lime he spake unto his people;
and they dtd not believe the tradition o f their fathers. They
did not believe what had been said concerning the resurrec­
tion o f the dead; neither did they believe concerning the com­
ing of Christ. And now because o f their unbelief, they could
not understand the word o f G od; arid their hearts were har­
dened. And they would not be baptized; neither would they
join the church. And they were a separate people as to their
faith, and remained so ever after, even in their carnal and sin­
ful state: for they would not call upon the Lord their God.—
And now in the reign o f Mosiah, they were not half so nume­
rous as the people o f God but because o f the dissentions
among the brethren, they became more numerous. For it
came to pass that they did deceive many with their flattering
words, which were in the church, and did cause them to com­
mit many sins; therefore it became expedient that those who
committed sin that was in the church, should be admonished
by the church.
And it came to pass that they were brought before the priests,
and delivered up unto the priests by the teachers; and the
priests brought them before Alma, which was the high priest
Now king Mosiah had given Alma the authority over the
church. And it came to pass that Alma did not know con­
cerning them, for there were many witnesses against them;
yea, the people stood and testified of their iniquity in abun­
dance. Now there had not any such thing happened before,
in the church; therefore Alma was troubled in his spirit, and
he caused that they should be brought before the king. And
he saith unto the king, Behold, here are many which we have
brought before thee, which-are accused o f their brethren; yea,
ami they have been taken in divers iniquities. And they do
not repent of their iniquities; therefore we have brought them
before thee, that thou may judge them according to their
14
210 BOOS OF MOSIAH.
crimes. But king Mosiah saith unto Alma, Behold, l judge
them not; therefore 1 deliver them into thy hands to be judged.
And now the spirit o f Alma was again troubled ; and he went
and inquired o f the Lord what he should do concerning this
matter, for he feared that he should do wrong in the sight o f
God.
And it came to pass that after he bad poured out his whole
soul to God, the voice o f the Lord came to him, saying,
Blessed art thou, Alm a; and blessed are they Which were
baptized in the waters o f Mormon. Thou art blessed because
o f thy exceeding faith in the words alone o f my servant Abi-
nadi. And blessed are they, because o f their exceeding faith
in tire words alone which thou bast spoken unto them. And
blessed art thou because thou hast established a church among
this people; and they shall be established, and they shall be
my people. Yea, blessed is this people, which is willing to
bear my name: for in my name shall they be called; and they
are mine. And because tbou hast inquired o f me concerning
the transgressor, thou art blessed. Thou art my servant;
and I covenant with thee, that thon shalt have eternal life; and
thou shalt serve me, and go forth in my name, and shall gather
together my sheep. And he that will hear my voice, shall be
my sheep; and him shall ye receive into the church ; and him
will I also receive. For behold, this is my church ; whoso­
ever that is baptized, shall be baptized unto repentance. And
whosoever ye receive, shall believe in my name; and him will
T freely forgive: for it is l that taketh upon roe the sins o f the
world ; for it is I that hath created them ; and it is I that grant-
eth unto him that believeth in the end, a place at ray right
hand. For behold, in my name are they called; and if they
know me, they shall come forth, and shall have a place eter­
nally at my right hand. And it shall come to pass that when
the second trump shall sound, then shall they that never knew
me come forth, and shall stand before m e; and then shall
they know that I am the Lord their God, that I am their Re­
deemer ; but they would not be redeemed. And then will f
confess unto them, that 1 never knew them ; and they shall de­
part into everlasting fire, prepared for the Devil and his an­
gels. Therefore l say unto you. That he that will not hear
mv voice, the same shall ye not receive into my church, foi
him 1 will not receive at the last day; therefore I say unto
you, G o ; and whosoever transgresseth against me, him shall
ye judge according to the sins which he hath committed; and
BOOK OF MOSIAK. 211
if lie confess his sins before thee and me, and repenteth in the
sincerity of his heart, him shall ye forgive, and 1 will forgive
him also; yea, and as often as my people repent, will 1 for­
give them their trespasses against me. And ye shall also for­
give one another your trespasses: for verily 1 say unto you,
He that forgiveth not his neighbor’s trespasses, when he saith
that he repenteth, the same hath brought himself under con­
demnation. Now I say unto you, G o; and whosoever will
not repent of his sins, the same shall not be numbered among
my people; and this shall be observed from this time forward.
And it came to pass when Alma had heard these words, he
wrote them down, that he might have them, and that he might
judge the people of that church, according to the command­
ments o f God.
And it came to pass that Alma went and judged those that
had been taken in iniquity, according to the word o f the Lord.
And whosoever repented o f their sins and did confess them,
them he did number among the people o f the church; and
them that would not confess their sins and repent o f their ini­
quity, the same were not numbered among the people o f the
church, and their names were blotted out. And it came to
pass that Alma did regulate all the affairs o f the church; and
they began again to have peace, and to prosper exceedingly in
the affairs of the church; walking circumspectly before G od ;
receiving many, and baptizing many. And now all these things
did Alma and hie fellow-laborers do, which were over the
church; walking in all diligence; teaching the word of God
in all things; suffering all manner o f afflictions; being perser
cuted by all those who did not belong to the church o f God.
And they did admonish their brethren; and they were also ad­
monished, every one, by the word o f God, according to his sins,
or to the sins which he had committed; being commanded of
God to pray without ceasing, and to give thanks in all things.
And now it came to pass that the persecutions which was in­
flicted on the church by the unbelievers, became so great, that
the church began to murmur, and complain to their leaders
concerning the matter; and they did complain to Alma. And
Alma laid the case before their king, Moriah. And Moriah
consulted with his priests.
And it came to pass that king Moriah sent a proclamation
throughout the land round about, that there should not any
unbeliever persecute any o f those which belonged to the church
o f G od; and there was a strict command throughout all the
14*
(Note: Page 212 in the 1830 Book o f Mormon was misnumbered as 122.)
1 22 BOOK OP MOSIAH.
churches, that there should be no persecutions among them;
that there should be an equality among all m en; that they
should let no pride nor haughtiness disturb their peace; that
erery man should esteem his neighbor as himself, laboring with
their own hands for their support; yea, and all their priests
and teachers should labor with their own hands for tbeir sup­
port, in all cases save it were in sickness, or in much w ant:
and doing these things, they did abound in the grace o f God.
And there began to be much peace again in the land; and the
people began to be very numerous, and began to scatter abroad
upon the face o f the earth ; yea, on the north and on the south,
on the east and on the west, building large cities and villages
in all quarters o f the land. And the Lord did visit them and
prosper them, and they became a large and a wealthy people.
Now the sons o f Mosiah was numbered among the unbe­
lievers ; and also one o f the sons o f Alma was numbered
among them, he being called Alma, after his father; neverthe­
less he became a very wicked and an idolatrous man. And
he was a man o f many words, and did speak much flattery to
the people; therefore he led many o f the people to do after
the manner o f his iniquities. And he became a great hinder-
ment to the prosperity o f the church o f God ; stealing away the
hearts o f the people; causing much dissention among the peo­
ple ; giviDg a chance for the enemy o f God to exercise his
power over them.
And now it came to pass that while he was going about to
destroy the church o f God : for he did go about secretly with
the eons o f Mosiah, seeking to destroy the church, and to lead
astray the people o f the Lord, contrary to the commandments
o f God, or even the king; and as I said unto you, as they
were going about rebelling against God, behold, the angel o f
the Lord appeared unto them ; and he descended as it were
in a clou d; and he spake as it were with a voice o f thunder,
which caused the earth to shake upon which they stood; and
so great wag their astonishment, that they fell to the earth, and
understood not the. words which he spake unto them. Never­
theless he cried again, saying, Alma, arise, and stand forth, for
why persecuteth thou the church o f God '! For the Lord hath
said, This is my church, and I will establish it ; and nothing
shall overthrow it, save it is the transgression o f my people.
And again : The angel saith, Behold, the Lord hath heard the
prayers o f his people, and also the prayers o f his seivant Al-
m a wVtinK io fkt? fnikpi** fn v V
ia Hath n m vA fl tvtik tniw.k fa ith
BOOK OF M09UH. 213
concerning thee, that thou mightest be brought to the knowl­
edge o f the truth; therefore for this purpose have 1 com e to
convince thee o f the power and authority o f God, that the
prayers o f his servants might be answered according to their
faith. And now behold, can ye dispute the power o f God ?
For behold, doth not my voice shake the earth'! And can ye
not also behold me before you i And 1 am sent from God.—
Now I say unto thee, Go, and remember the captivity o f thy
fathers in the land o f Ilelam, and in the land o f Nephi; and
remember how great things he hath done for them : for they
were in bondage, and he hath delivered them. And now I say
unto thee, Alma, Go thy way, and seek to destroy the church
no more, that their prayers may be answered, and this even if
thou wilt o f thyself be cast off.
And now it came to pass that these were the last words
which the angel spake unto Alma, and he departed. And now
Alma, and those that were with him, fell again to the earth,
for great was their astonishment: for with their own eyes they
had beheld an angel o f the Lord ; and his voice was as thun­
der, which shook the earth; and they knew that there was
nothing save the power o f God, that could shake the earth
and cause it to tremble, as though it would part asunder. And
now the astonishment o f Alma was so great, that he became
dumb, that he could not open his mouth ; yea, and he became
weak, even that he could not move his hands; therefore he
was taken by those that were with him, and carried helpless,
even until he was laid before his father. And they rehearsed
unto his father all that had happened unto them; and his fa­
ther rejoiced, for he knew that it was the power o f God. And
he caiised that a multitude should be gathered together, that
they might witness what the Lord had done for his son, and
also for those that were with him. And he caused that the
priests should assemble themselves together; and they began
to fast, and to pray to the Lord their God, that he would open
the mouth o f Alma, that he might speak; and also that his
limbs might receive their strength, that the eyes o f the people
might be opened to see and know o f the goodness and glory of
God.
And it came to pass after they had fasted and prayed for
the space o f two days and two nights, the limbs o f Alma re­
ceived their strength, and he stood up and began to speak un­
to them, bidding them to be o f good com fort: for, said he, I
hare repented o f my sins, and have been redeemed o f the
BOOK OF MOSIAH.
214
L ord ; behold, 1 am born o f the spirit And the Lord said
unto me, Marvel not that all mankind, yea, men, and women,
all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, must be born again;
yea, bom o f God, changed from their carnal and fallen state,
to a state of righteousness, being redeemed o f God, becoming
his sons and daughters; and thus they become new creatures;
and unless they do this, they can in no wise inherit the king­
dom o f God. I say unto you, unless this be the case, they
must be cast off: and this I know, because l was like to be
cast off. Nevertheless, after wandering through much tribu­
lation, repenting nigh unto death, the Lord in mercy hath seen
fit to snatch me out o f an everlasting burning, and 1 am born
o f G od ; my soul hath been redeemed from the gall o f bitter­
ness and bonds o f iniquity. 1 was- in the darkest abyss; but
now I behold the marvellous light o f God. My soul was wreck­
ed with eternal torment; but i am snatched, and my soul is
jpained no more. 1 rejected my Redeemer, and denied that
which had been spoken df by our fathers ; but now that they
may foresee that he will come, and that he remembereth every
creature o f bis creating, and be will make himself manifest
unto all; yea, every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess
before him. Yea, even at the last day, when all men shall
Bland to be judged o f him, then shall they confess that he is
G o d ; then shall they confess, who live without God in the
world, that the judgment o f an everlasting punishment is just
upon them ; and they shall quake, and tremble, and shrink
beneath the glance of his all-searching eye.
And now it came to pass that Alma began from this time
forwaid, to teach the people, and those which were with Al­
ma at the time the angel appeared unto them; travelling round
about through all the land, publishing to all the people the
things which they had heard and seen, and preaching the
Word o f God in much tribulation, being greatly persecuted by
those which were unbelievers, being smitten by many of them;
but notwithstanding all this, tbey did impart much consolation
to the church, confirming their faith, and exhorting them with
lohg suffering and much travail, to keep the commandments o f
God. And four o f them were the sons o f Mosiah; and their
names were Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni: these
were the names of the sons o f Mosiah. And after tbey had
travelled throughout all the land o f Zarabemla, and among all
the people which was under the reign o f king Mosiah, zeal­
ously striving to repair all the injuries which tbey had done
BOOK OF JHOSIAK. 215
to the church ; confess! ng all their sins, and publishing all the
things which they had s een, and explaining the prophecies and
the scriptures to all who desired to hear them : and thus they
were instruments in the hands of God, in bringing many to.the
knowledge o f the truth, yea, to the knowledge of their Re­
deemer. And how blessed are they 1 For- they did publish
peace ; they did publish good tidings of good ; and they aid
declare unto the people that the Lord reigneth.
C H A PT E R XII.
"Now it came to pass that after the sons o f Mosiah had done
all these things, they took a small number with them, and re­
turned to their father, the king, and desired o f him that he
would grant unto theta, that they might, with these whom they
had selected, go up to the land of Nephi, that they might
preach the things which they had heard, and that they might
impart the word o f God to their brethren, the Lamanites, that
perfiaps they might bring them to the knowledge of the Lord
their God, and convince them o f the iniquity o f their fathers;
and that perhaps they might cure them o f their hatred towards
the Nepbites, that they might also be brought to rejoice in the
Lord their God, that they might become friendly to one anoth­
er, and that there should be no more contentions in all the
land which the Lord their God hath given them. Now they
were desirous that salvation should be declared to every crea­
ture, for they could not bear that any human soul should per­
ish ; yea, even the very thoughts that any soul should endure
endless torment, did cause them to quake and tremble. And
thus did the spirit o f the Lord work upon them, for they were
the very vilest of sinners. And the Lord saw fit in his infinite
mercy to spare them; nevertheless they suffered much anguish
o f soul, because o f their iniquities; and suffering much, fear­
ing that they should be cast off forever.
And it came to pass that they did plead with their father
many days, that they might go up to the land o f Nephi. And
it came to pass that king Mosiah went and inquired o f the
Lord, if he should let his sons go up among the Lamanites to
preach the word. And the Lord said unto Mosiah, Let them
go up, for many shall believe on their words, and they shall
216 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
have eternal life; and I will deliver thy sons out o f the hands
o f the Lamamtes.
And it came to pass that Mosiah granted that they might
go, and do according to their request; and they took their
journey into the wilderness, to go up to preach the word
among the Lamanites: and I shall give an account o f their
proceedings hereafter. Now king Mosiah had no one to con­
fer the kingdom upon, for there was not any o f his sons which
would accept o f the kingdom; therefore he took the records
which were engraven upon the plates o f brass, and also the
plates o f Nephi, and all the things which he had kept and pre­
served, according to the commandments o f God, and after
having translated and caused to be written the records which
were on the plates o f gold, which had been found by the peo­
ple o f Limbi, which was delivered to him by the hand o f Liin-
in : and this he done, because o f the great anxiety o f his peo­
ple, for they were desirous beyond measure, to know concer­
ning those people which had been destroyed. And now he
translated them by the means o f those two stones which was
fastened into the two rims o f a bow. Now these things was
prepared from the beginning, and was handed down from gen­
eration to generation, for the purpose o f interpreting langua­
ges ; and they have been kept and preserved by the hand o f
the Lord, that he should discover to every creature which
should possess the land, the iniquities and abominations o f
his people: and whosoever has these things, is called seer,
after the manner o f old times.
Now after Mosiah had finished translating these records,
behold, it gave an account o f the people which was destroyed,
from the time that they were destroyed, back to the building
o f the great tower, at the time the Lord confounded the lan-
gauge o f the people; and they were scattered abroad upon
the face of all the earth, yea, and even from that time until
the creation o f Adam. Now this account did cause the peo­
ple o f Mosiah to mourn exceedingly; yea, they were filled
with sorrow ; nevertheless it gave them much knowledge, in
the which they did rejoice. And this account shall be written
hereafter: for behold, it is expedient that all people should
know the things which are written in this account.
BOOK" OF MOSUH. 217
CH A PTE R XIII.
And now, as I said unto you, that after king Mosiah had
done these things, he took the plates o f brass, mid all the things
which he had kept, and conferred them upon Alma, which was
the son o f A lm a; yea, all the records, and also the interpre­
ters, and conferred them upon him, and commanding him that
he should keep and preserve them, and also keep a record o f
the people, handing them down from one generation to another,
even as they had been handed down from the time that Lehi
left Jerusalem. Now when Mosiah had done this, he sent out
throughout all the land, among all the people, desiring to know
their will eon erning who should be their king. And it came
to pass that the voice of the people came, saying: W e are de­
sirous that Aaron, thy son, should be our king, and our ruler.
Now Aaron had gone up to ihe land o f Nephi, therefore the
king could not confer the kingdom upon him; neither would
Aaron take upon him the kingdom; neither was any o f the
sons o f Mosiah willing to take upon them the kingdom; there­
fore king Mosiah sent again among the people, yea, even a
written word sent he among the people. And these were the
words that were written, saying: Behold, O ye my people, or
my brethren, for I esteem you as such ; for I desire that ye
should consider the cause which ye. are called to consider; for
ye are desirous to have a king. Now I declare unto you, that
he to whom the kingdom doth rightly belong, hath declined,
and will not take upon him the kingdom. And now' if (here
should be another appointed in his stead, behold 1 fear there
would rise contentions among y o u ; and who knoweth but
what my son, to whom the kingdom doth belong, should turn
to be angry, and draw away a part o f this people after him,
which would cause wars and contentions among you; which
would be the cause o f shedding much blood, and perverting
the way o f the Lord ; yea, and destroy the souls o f much peo­
ple. Now I say unto you, let us be wise and consider these
things, for we have no right to destroy my son, neither should
we have any right to destroy another, ii he should be appointed
in his stead. And if my son should turn again to his pride and
vain things, he would recall the things which he had said, and
claim his right to the kingdom, which would cause him and
also this people to commit much sin. And now let us be wise,
and look forward to these things, and do that which will make
for the peace o f this people. Therefore I will be your king
218 HOOK OP MOSIAJL
the remainder o f my days ; nevertheless, let us appoint judges
to judge this people according to our law, and we will newly
arrange the affairs o f this people; for we will appoint wise
men to be judges, that will judge this people according to the
commandments o f God. Now it is better that a man should
be judged of God than o f man, for the judgments of God are
always just, but the judgments o f man are not always ju st;
therefore, if it were possible that ye could have just men to be
your kings, which would establish the laws o f God, and judge
tliis people according to his commandments; yea, if ye could
have men for your kings, which would do even as my father
Benjamin did for this people; I say unto you, if this could al­
ways be the case, then it would be expedient that ye should
always have kings to rule over you. And even I, myself have
labored with all the power and faculties which 1 have pos­
sessed, to teach, you the commandments of God, and to estab­
lish peace throughout the land, that there should be no wars
nor contentions, no stealing, nor plundering, nor murdering,
nor no maimer o f iniquity; and whosoever hath committed
iniquity, him have 1 punished according to the crime which
he hath committed, according to the law which hath been giv­
en to us by our fathers.
Now 1say unto you, that because all men are not just, it is
not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over
you. For behold, bow much iniquity doth one wicked king
cause to be committed! yea, and what great destruction!—
Yea; remember king Noah, his wickedness and his abomina­
tions ; and also the wickedness and abominations o f his people.
Behold what great destruction did come upon them; and also
because o f their iniquities, they were brought into bondage.
And were it not for the interposition o f their all-wise Creator,
and this because of their sincere repentance, they must una­
voidably remained in bondage until now. But behold, he did
deliver them because they did humble themselves before him ;
and because they cried mightily unto him, he did deliver them
out o f bondage: and thus doth the Lord work with his power
in all cases among the children of men, extending the arm o f
mercy towards them that piit their trust in him. And behold,
now I say unto you, Ye cannot dethrone an iniquitous king,
save it be through much contention, and the shedding o f much
blood. For behold, he hath his friends in iniquity, and he
keepetb his guards about him; and he teareth up the laws o f
these which have reigned in righteousness before him ; and
BOOK OP MOSIAK. 219
he trafnpleth under his feet the commandments o f G od; and
he enacteth laws, and sendeth them forth among his people;
yea, laws after the manner o f his own wickedness; and who­
soever doth not obey his laws, he eauseth to be destroyed;
and whosoever doth rebel against him, he will send his armies
against them to war, and if he can, he will destroy them; and
thus an unrighteous king doth pervert the ways o f all right­
eousness. And now behold I say unto you, It is not expedi­
ent that such abominations should come upon you ; therefore
choose you by the voice o f this people, judges, that ye may
be judged according to the laws which hath been given you
by our fathers, which are correct, and which was given them,
by the hand of the Lord. Now it is not common that the
voice o f the people desireih any thing contrary to that which
is right; but it is common for the lesser part o f the people to
desire that which is not right; therefore this shall ye observe,
and make it your law to do your business by tire voice o f the
people. And if the time eometh that the voice o f the people
doth choose iniquity, then is the time that the judgments o f
God will come upon you; yea, then is the time he will visit
you with great destruction, eyen as he hath hitherto visited
this land. And now if ye have judges, and they do not judge
you according to the law which has been given, ye can cause
that they may be judged o f a higher judge; if your higher
judges doth not judge righteous judgments, ye shall cause that
a small number o f your lower judges should be gathered to­
gether, and they shall judge your higher judges, according to
the voice o f the people. And F command you to do these
things in the fear o f the L ord; and 1 command you to do these
things, and that ye have no king: that if these people commit
sins and iniquities, they shall be answered upon their own
heads. For behold 1 say unto you, The sins of many people
have been caused by the iniquities o f their kings; therefore
their iniquities are answered upon the heads o f their kings.
And now I desire that this inequality should be no more in
this land, especially among this my people; but I desire that
this land be a land o f liberty, and every man may enjoy his
rights and privileges alike, so long as the Lord seeth fit, that
we may live and inherit the land; yea, even as long as any o f
our posterity remaineth upon the face of the land. And many
more things did king Mosiah write unto them, unfolding unto
them all tie trials and troubles o f a righteous king; yea, all the
travails o f soul For their people, and also all the murmuring®
228 BOOK OF MOSIAH.
o f the people to their king; and he explained it all unto them.
And he told them that these things had not ought to b e ; but
that the burdens should come upon all the people, that every
man might bear his part. And he also unfolded unto them all
the disadvantages they labored under, by having an unright­
eous king to rule over them; yea, all his iniquities and abom­
inations, and all the wars, and contentions, and bloodshed, and
the stealing, and the plundering, and the committing o f whore­
doms, and all manner o f iniquities, which cannot be enume­
rated ; telling them that these things ought not to be; that they
was expressly repugnant to the commandments o f God,
And now it came to pass, after king Mosiah had sent these
things forth among the people, they were convinced o f the
truth o f his w ords; therefore they relinquished their desires
for a king, and became exceedingly anxious that every man
should have an equal chance throughout all the land; yea,
and every man expressed a willingness to answer for his own
sins. Therefore it came to pass that they assembled them­
selves together in bodies throughout the land, to cast in their
voices concerning who should be their judges, to judge them
according to the law which had been given them; and they
were exceedingly rejoiced, because o f the liberty which had
been granted unto them. And they did wax strong in love
towards M osiah; yea, they did esteem him more than any
other man : for they did not look upon him as a tyrant, who
■was seeking for gain, yea, for that lucre which doth corrupt
the soul, for he had not exacted riches o f them, neither had
he delighted in the shedding o f blood; but he had established
peace in the land, and he had granted unto his people that
they should be delivered from alt manner o f bondage; there­
fore they did esteem him, yea, exceedingly, beyond measure.
And it came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over
them, or to judge them according to the law ; and this they
done throughout all the land.
And it came to pass that Alma was appointed to be the chief
judge ; he being also the high priest; his father having confer­
red the office upon him, and had given him the charge concer­
ning all the affairs o f the church. And now it came to pass
that Alma did walk in the ways o f the Lord, and he did keep
his commandments, and he did judge righteous judgments;
and there was continual peace through the land; and thus
commenced the reign o f the judges throughout all the land o f
Zarahemla, among all the people which was called the Ne-
BOOK OF ALMA. 221
phites: and Alma was the first and chief judge. And now it
came to pass that his father died, being eighty and two years
old, having lived to fulfil the commandments o f God.
And it came to pass that Mosiah died also, in the thirty and
third year of his reign, being sixty and three years old ; making
in the whole, five hundred and nine years from the time Lehi
left Jerusalem ; and thus ended the reign o f the kings over
the people o f N ephi; and thus ended the days o f Alma, who
was the founder o f their church.
THE BOOK OF ALMA,
T H E SO N O F ALMA.
C H A P T E R I.
The account o fAlma, who was the son o fAlma the First, and
Chief Judge over the people o f Nephi, and also the High
Priest over the Church. An account o f the reign o f the
Judges,ami the wars and contentions among the people.
And also an acemnt o f a tmr between, the Nephiles amI the
Lamanites, according to the record o f Alma the First, and
Chief Judge.
N ow it came to pass that in the first year o f the reign o f the
Judges over the people o f Nephi, from this time forward, king
Mosiah having gone the way o f all the earth, having warred a
good warfare, walking uprightly before. God, leaving none to
reign in his stead ; nevertheless he established laws, and they
were acknowledged by the people; therefore they were obli­
ged to abide by the laws which he had made.
And it came to pass that in the first year o f the reign o f Alma,
in the judgment seat, there was a man brought before him to
be judged ; a man which was large, and was noted for his much
strength ; and he had gone about among the people, preaching
to them that which he termed to be the word o f God, bearing
down against the church ; declaring unto the people that every
priest and teacher had ought to become popular; and they
ought not to labor with their ow n hands, but that they had
ought to be supported by the people; and he also testified un­
to the people that all mankind should be saved at the last day,
222 BOOS OP ALMS.
and that they need not fear nor tremble, but that they might
lift up their heads and rejoice :*for the Lord had created ail
men, and had also redeemed all men ; and in the end, all men
should hare eternal life. And it came to pass that he did
teach these things so much, that many did believe on his
words, even so many that they began to support him and give
him money; and he began to be lifted up in the pride o f his
heart, and to wear very costly apparel; yea, and even began
to establish a church, after the manner o f his preaching.
And it came to pass as he was going to preach to those who
believed on iiis word, he met a man which belonged to the
church of God, yea, even one o f their teachers; and he began
to contend with him sharply, that he might lead away the peo­
ple o f the church; but the man withstood him, admonishing
him with the word- o f God. Now the name o f the roan was
G ideon; and it was him that was an instrument in the hands
o f God, in delivering the people o f Limhi out o f bondage.—
Now because Gideon withstood him with the words of God,
be was wroth with Gideon, and drew his sword and began to
smite him. Now Gideon being stricken with many years,
therefore he was not able to withstand his blows, therefore he
was slain by the sw ord; and ihe man who slew him was ta­
ken by the people o f the church, and was brought before Al­
ma, to be judged according to the crime which he had com­
mitted. And it came to pass that he stood before Alma, and
plead for himself with much boldness. But Alma said unto
him, Behold, this is the first time that priestcraft has been in­
troduced among this people. And behold, thou art not only
gu;lty o f priestcraft, but hast endeavored to enforce it by the
sw ord; and were priestcraft to be enforced among this peo­
ple, it would prove their entire destruction. And thou hast
shed the blood o f a righteous man, yea, a man which has done
much good among this people; and were we to spare thee,
his blood would come upon us for vengeance; therefore thou
art condemned to die, according to the law which has been
given us by Mosiah, our last king; and they have been ac­
knowledged by this people; therefore this people must abide
by the law.
And it came to pass that they took him; and his name was
Nehor; and they carried him upon the top o f the hill Manti,
and there he was caused, or rather did acknowledge, between
the heavens and the earth, that what he had taught to the peo­
ple was contrary to the word o f G od ; and there he suffered
BOOK OF ALMA. 223
Ml ignominious death. Nevertheless this did not put an end
to the spreading o f priestcraft through the land: for there was
many which loved the vain things of the world, and they
went forth preaching false doctrines; and this they did for the
sake of riches and honor. Nevertheless they durst not lie, if
it were known, for fear o f the law, for liars were punished;
therefore they pretended to preach according to their belief:
and now the law could have no power on any man for their
belief. And they durst not steal, for fear o f the law ; for such
were punished; neither durst they rob, nor murder; for he
that murdered was punished unto death
But it came to pass that whosoever did not belong to the
Church o f God, began to persecute those that did belong to
the Church o f God, ahd had taken upon them the name o f
Christ; yea, they did persecute them; and afflict them with
all manner o f words, and this because of their humility; be­
cause they were not proud in their own eyes, and because they
did impart the word of God, one with another, without money
and without price. Now there was a strict law among the people
o f the Church, that there should not any man, belonging to the
Church, arise and persecute those that did not belong to the
Church, and that there should be no persecution among them­
selves. Nevertheless, there were many among them who be­
gan to be proud, and began to contend warmly with their ad­
versaries, even unto blows;, yea, they would smite one anoth­
er with their fists. Now this was in the second year of the
reign o f Alma, and it was a cause o f much affliction to the
Church ; yea, it was the cause o f much trial with the Church;
for the hearts o f many were hardened, and their names were
blotted out, that they were remembered no more among the
people o f God. And also many withdrew themselves from
among them. Now this was a great trial to those that did
stand fast in the faith; nevertheless, they were steadfast and
immoveable in keeping the commandments of God, and they
bore with patience the persecution which was heaped upon
them. And now when the priests left their labor, to impart
the word of God unto the people, the people also left their la­
bors to hear the word o f God. And when the priest had im­
parted unto them the word of God, they all returned again
diligently unto their labors; and the priest, not esteeming him­
self above bis hearers; for the preacher was no better than
the hearer, neither was the teacher any better than the learner:
and thus they were all equal, and they did all labor, every man
m BOOK OF A L M A ,
according to his strength ; and the)' did impart of their sub­
stance every man according to that which he had, to the poor,
and the needy, and the sick, and the afflicted; and they did
not wear costly apparel, yet they were neat and com ely: and
thus they did establish the affairs o f the Church: and thus
they began to have continual peace again, notwithstanding all
their persecutions. And now because of the steadiness o f the
Church, they began to be exceeding rich; having abundance
o f all things whatsoever they stood in need; an abundance o f
flocks, anti herds, and fatlings o f every kind, and also abun­
dance o f grain, and of gold, and of silver, and of precious
things; and abundance of silk and fine twined linen, and all
maimer o f good homely cloth. And thus in their prosperous
circumstances they did not send away any which was naked,
or that was hungry, or that was athirst, or that was sick, or
that had not been nourished; and they did not set their hearts
upon riches; therefore they were liberal to all, both old and
young, both bond and free, both male and female, whether out
o f the Church or in the Church, having no respects to persons
as to those who stood in need; and thus they did prosper and
become far more wealthy, than those who did not belong to
their Church. For those who did not belong to their Church,
did indulge themselves in sorceries, and in idolatry or idleness,
and in bablings, and in envyings and strife; wearing costly ap­
parel; being lifted up in the pride of their own eyes; lying,
thieving, robbing, commiting whoredoms, and murdering, and
all manner o f wickedness; nevertheless, the law was put in
force upon all those who did transgress it, inasmuch as it
were possible.
And it came to pass that by thus exercising the law upon
them, every man suffering according to that which he had
done, they became more still, and durst not commit any wick­
edness, if it were known; therefore, there was much peace
among the people o f Nephi, until the fifth year of the reign o f
the judges. And it came to pass in the commencement o f the
fifth year o f their reign, there began to be a contention among
the people, for a certain man, being called Amlici; he being a
very cunning man, yea, a wise man, as to the wisdom of the
world; he being after the order of the man that slew Gideon
by the sword, who was executed according to the law. Now
this Amlici had, by his cunning, drawn away much people af­
ter him; even so much that ihev oegan to be very powerful;
and they began to endeavor to establish Amlici to be a king
BOOK OP AtWA. 225
over the people. Now this was alarming to the people o f the
Church, and also to all those who had not been drawn away
after the persuasions of Am lici: for they knew that according
to their law that such things must be established by the voice
o f the people; therefore, if it were possible that Amlici Should
gain the voice of the people, he being a wicked man, would
deprive them o f their rights and privileges o f the Church, & c :
for it was his intent to destroy the Church of God,
And it came to pass that the people assembled themselves
together throughout all the land, every rtian according to his
mind, whether it were for or against Amlici, in separate bod­
ies, having much dispute and wonderful contentions one with
another; and thus they did assemble themselves together, to
cast in their voices concerning the matter: and they were laid
before the judges. And it came to pass that the voice o f the
people came against Amlici, that he was not made king over
the people. Now this did cause much joy in the hearts o f
those which were against him; but Amlici did stir up those
which were in his favor, to anger against those which were not
in his favor.
And it came to pass that they gathered themselves together,
and did consecrate Amlici to be their king. Now when Amli­
ci was made king over them, he commanded them that they
should take up arms against their brethren ; and this he done,
that he might subject them to him. Now the people o f Amlici
were distinguished by the name o f Amlici, being called Amli-
cites; and the remainder were called Nephites, or the people
o f God ; therefore the people o f the Nephites was aware o f
the intent o f the Amlicites, and therefore they did prepare for
to meet them ; yea, they did arm themselves with swords, and
with cimeters, and with bows, and with arrows, and with
stones, and with slings, and with all manner o f weapons of
war, o f every kind; and thus they were prepared to meet the
Amlicites at the time o f their commg. And there was appoint­
ed captains, and higher captains, and chief captains, according
to their numbers.
And it came to pass that Amlici did arm his men with all
manner of weapons o f war, o f every kind; and he also ap­
pointed rulers and leaders over his people, to lead them to
war against their brethren. And it came to pass that the Am­
licites came up upon the hill Amnihu, which was east o f the
river Sidon. which ran by the land o f Zarahemla, and there
they began to make war with the Nephites. Now Alma, he
15
226 BOOK OF ALMA.
being the chiefjudge, and the governor of the people o f Nephi
therefore he went up with his people, yea, with his captains,
and chief captains, yea, at the head o f his armies, against the
Analicites to battle; and they began to slay the Amlicites upon
the hill east o f Sidom. And the Amlicites did contend with the
Nephites with great strength, insomuch that many o f the Ne-
phites did fall before the Am licites; nevertheless the Lord
did strengthen the hand o f the Nephites, that they slew the
Amlicites with a great slaughter, that they began to flee before
them, And it came to pass that the Nephites did pursue the
Amlicites all that day, and did slay them with much slaughter,
insomuch that there was slain o f the Amlicites twelve thousand
live hundred thirty and two sou ls; and there was slain o f the
Nephites, six thousand five hundred sixty and two souls.
And it came to pass that when Alma could pursue the Am­
licites no longer, he caused that his people should pitch their
tents in the valley o f Gideon, the valley being called after that
Gideon which was slain by the hand o f Nehor with the sword ;
and in this valley the Nephites did pitch their tents for the
night. And Alma sent spies to follow the remnant o f the Am­
licites, that he might know o f their plans and their plots, where­
by he might guard himself against them, that he might pre­
serve his people from being destroyed. Now those which he
had sent out to watch the camp o f the Amlicites, were called
Zeram, and Amnor, and Manti, and Lim her; these ^vere they
which went out with their men to watch the camp o f the Am­
licites.
And it came to pass that on the morrow they returned into
the camp o f the Nephites, in great haste, being greatly aston­
ished, and struck with much fear, saying, Behold, we followed
the camp of the Amlicites, and to our great astonishment, in
the land o f Minon, above the land o f Zarahemla, in the course
o f the land o f Nephi, we saw a numerous host of the Laman-
ites; and behold, the Amlicites have joined them, and they are
upon our brethren in that land ; and they are fleeing before
them with their flocks, and their wives, and their children,
towards our city ; and except we make haste, they obtain pos­
session o f our city ; and our fathers, and our wives, and our
children be slain.
And it came to pass that the people o f Nephi took their
tents, and departed out o f the valley o f Gideon towards their
city, which was the city o f Zarahemla, And behold, as they
were crossing the river Sidon, the Lamanites and the Amlicites
BOOK OK ALMA. 227
being as numerous almost, as it were, as the sands o f the sea,
came upon them to destroy them ; nevertheless the Nephites,
being strengthened by the hand of the Lord, having prayed
mightily to him that he would deliver them out o f the hands o f
their enemies; therefore the Lord did hear their cries, and
did strengthen them, and the Lamanites and the Amlicites did
fall before them. And it came to pías that Alma fought with
Amlici with the sword, face to la ce; and they did contend
mightily, one with another.
And it came to pass that Alma, he being a man o f God, be­
ing exercised with much faith, and he cried, saying, O Lord,
have mercy and spare my life, that I may be an instrument in
thy hands, to save and preserve this people. Now when Al­
ma had said these words, he contended again with Am lici; and
he was strengthened, insomuch that he slew Amlici with the
sword. And he also contended with the king o f the Laman­
ites ; but the king of the Lamanites fled back from before Al­
ma, and sent his guards to contend with Alma. But Alma,
with his guards, contended with the guards of the king o f the
Lamanites, until he slew and drove them back ; and thus he
cleared the ground, or rather the bank, which was on the west
o f the river Sidon, throwing the bodies o f the Lamanites which
had been slain, into the waters o f Sidon, that thereby his peo­
ple might have room to cross and contend with the Lamanites
and the Amlicites, on the west side o f the river Sidon.
And it came to pass that when they had all crossed the river
Sidon, that the Lamanites and the Amlicites began to flee be­
fore them, notwithstanding they were so numerous that they
could not be numbered ; and they fled before the Nephites,
towards the wilderness which was west and north, away be­
yond the borders o f the land; and the Nephites did pursue
them with their might, and did slay them; yea, they were met
on every hand, and slain, and driven, until they were scattered
on the west, and on the north, until they had reached the wil­
derness, which was called Hermounts; and it was that part
o f the wilderness which was infested by wild and ravenous
beasts. And it came to pass that many died in the wilderness
©f their wounds, and were devoured by those beasts, and also
the vultures o f the air; and their bones have been found, and
have been heaped up on the earth.
And it came to pass that the Nephites, which were not slain-
by the weapons o f war, after having buried those which had
been slain: now the number o f the slain were not numbered
15*
BOOS OP ALMA.
because o f the greatness o f their number; and after they had
finished burying their dead, they all returned to their lands,
and to their houses, and their wives, and their children. Mow
many women and children had been slain with the sword, and
also many o f their flocks and their herds; and also many o f
their fields o f grain were destroyed, for they were trodden
down by the hosts of men. And now as many o f the Larnan-
ites and the Amlicites which had been slain upon the bank o f
the river Sidon, were cast into the waters o f Sidon; and behold,
their bones are in the depths o f the sea, and they are many.
And the Amlicites were distinguished from the Nephites, for
they had marked themselves with red in their foreheads, after
the manner o f the Lamanites; nevertheless they had not shorn
their heads like unto the Lamanites. Now the heads o f the
Lamanites were shorn; and they were naked, save it were
akin, which was girded about their loins, and also their ar­
mour, which was girded about them, and their bows, and their
arrows, and their stones, and their slings, &c. And the skins
o f the Lamanites were dark, according to the mark which was
set upon their fathers, which was a curse upon them because
o f their transgression and their rebellion against their brethren,
which consisted o f Nephi, Jacob, and Joseph, and Sam, which
were just and holy men. And their brethren sought to des­
troy them; therefore they were cursed; and the Lord God set
a mark upon them, yea, upon Laman and Lemuel, and also
the sons o f Ishmael, and the Ismaelitish women: and this was
done, that their seed might be distinguished from the seed o f
their brethren, that thereby the Lord God might preserve his
people, that they might not mix and believe in incorrect tradi­
tions, which would prove their destruction.
And it came to pass that whosoever did mingle his seed with
that o f the Lamanites, did bring the same curse upon his seed;
therefore whomsoever suffered himself to be led away by the
Lamanites, were called under that bead, and there was a mark
set upon him. And it came to pass that whosoever would not
believe in the tradition o f the Lamanites, but believed those
records which were brought out o f the land o f Jerusalem, and
also in the tradition o f their fathers, which were correct, which
believed in the commandments of God, and kept them, were
called the Nephites, or the people o f Nephi, from that time
forth; and it is they which have kept the records which are
true o f their people, and also o f the people o f the Lamanites.
Now we will return again to the Amlicites, for they also had a
BOOK OF ALMA. 229
mark set upon them; yea, they set the mark upon themselves,
yea, even a mark o f red upon their foreheads. Thus the word
o f God is fulfilled, for these are the words which he saith to
Nephi: Behold, the Lamanites have I cursed; and 1 will set
a mark upon them, that they and their seed may be separated
from thee and thy seed, from this time henceforth and forever,
except they repent of their wickedness and turn to me, that I
may have mercy upon them. And again : I will set a mark
upon him that mingleth his seed with thy brethren, that they
may be cursed also. And again: I will set a mark upon him
that fighteth against thee and thy seed. And again I say, H e
that departeth from thee, shall no more be called thy seed;
and 1 will bless thee, &c. and whomsoever shall be called thy
seed, henceforth and forever: and theBe were the promises o f
the Lord unto Nephi, and to his seed. Now the Amliftites
knew not that they were fulfilling the words o f God, when
they began to mark themselves in their foreheads; neverthe­
less they had come out in open rebellion against G od ; there­
fore it was expedient that the curse should fall upon them.—
Now I would that ye should see that they brought Upon them­
selves the curse; and even so doth every man that is cursed,
bring upon himself his own condemnation.
Now it came to pass that not many days after the battle
which was fought in the land o f Zaraherala, by the Lamanites
and the Amlicites, that there was another army o f the Laman­
ites came in upon the people o f Nephi, in the same place
where the first army met the Amlicites. And it came to pass
that there was an army sent to drive them out o f their land.—
Now Alma himself being afflicted with a wound, did not go up
to battle at this time against the Lamanites; but he sent up a
numerous army pgainst them; and they went up and slew ma­
ny o f the Lamanites. and drove the remainder o f them out o f
the borders o f their land; and then they returned again, and
began to establish peace in the land, being troubled no more
for a time with their enemies. Now all thesfe things were
done, yea, all these wars and contentions was commenced and
ended, in the fifth year o f the reign o f the Judges; and in one
year was thousands and tens o f thousands o f souls sent
to the eternal world, that they might reap their rewards ac­
cording to their works, whether they w'ere good or whether
they were bad, to reap eternal happiness or eternal misery, ac­
cording to the spirit which he listed to obey, whether it be a
good spirit or a had one; for every man receiveth wages o f
330 BOOK OP ALMA.
him who he listeth to obey, and this according to the words
o f the spirit o f prophecy ; therefore let it be according to the
truth. And thus endetli the fifth year o f the reign o f the Judges.
C H A PT E R II.
N ow it came to pass in the sixth year o f the reign o f the
Judges over the people o f Nephi, there was no contentions
nor wars in the land o f Zarahemla; and the people being afflic­
ted, yea, greatly afflicted for the loss o f their brethren, and al­
so for the loss o f their flocks and herds, and also for the loss
o f their fields o f grain, which was trodden under foot and des­
troyed by the Lamanites, and so great was their afflictions,
that every soul had cause to mourn; and they believed that
it was the judgments o f God sent upon them, because of their
wickedness and their abominations ; therefore they were awa­
kened to a remembrance o f their duty. And they began to
establish the church more fully; yea, and many were baptized
in the waters o f Sidon, and were joined to the church o f G od;
yea, they were baptized by the hand of Alma, who had been
consecrated the high priest over the people o f the church, by
the hand o f his father Alma.
And it came to pass in the seventh year o f the reign o f the
Judges, there was about three thousand five hundred souls
that united themselves to the church o f God, and were bapti­
zed. And thus ended the seventh year o f the reign o f the
Judges over the people o f Nephi; and there was continual
peace in all that time.
And it came to pass in the eighth year o f the reign o f the
Judges, that the people of the church began to wax proud, be­
cause o f their exceeding riches, and their fine silks, and their
fine twined linen, and because o f their many flocks and herds,
and their gold, and their silver, and all manner o f precious
things, which they had obtained by their industry; and in all
these things were they lifted up in the pride o f their eyes, for
they began to wear very costly apparel. Now this was the
cause o f much affliction to Alma, yea. and to many o f the peo­
ple which Alma had consecrated to be teachers, and priests,
and elders, over the church ; yea, many o f them were sorely
grieved for the wickedness which they saw had begun to be
among their people. For they saw and beheld with great sor
BOOK OP ALMA. 231
row, that the people o f the church began to be lifed up in the
pride o f their eyes, and to set their hearts upon riches and up­
on the vain things of the world; that they began to be scornful,
one towards another, and they began to persecute those that
did not believe according to their own will and pleasure. And
thus in this eighth year o f the reign o f the Judges, there began
to be great contentions among the people o f the church; yea,
there was envyings, and strife, and malice, and persecutions,
and pride, even to exceed the pride of those who did not be­
long to the church o f God. And thus ended the eighth year
of the reign o f the Judges; and the wickedness o f the church
was a great stumbling block to those who did not belong to
the church ; and thus the church began to fail in its progress.
And it came to pass in the commencement o f the ninth year,
Alma seeing the wickedness of the church, and seeing also
that the example o f the church began to lead those who were
unbelievers, on from one piece o f iniquity to another, thus
bringing on the destruction o f the people ; yea, seeing great
inequality among the people, some lifting themselves up with
their pride, despising others, turning their backs upon the
needy, and the naked, and those which were hungry, and those
which were athirst, and those which were sick and afflicted.
Now this was a great cause for lamentations among the peo­
ple, while others were abasing themselves, succoring those
who stood in need o f their succor, such as imparting their sub­
stance to the poor and the needy; feeding the hungry; and
suifering all manner of afflictions, for Christ’s sake, which
should come according to the spirit o f prophecy, looking for­
ward to that day, thus retaining a remission o f their sins; be­
ing filled with great joy, because o f the resurrection o f the dead,
according to the will, and power, and deliverance o f Jesus
Christ from the bands o f death.
And now it came to pass that Alma, having seen the afflic­
tions o f the humble followers o f God, and the persecutions
which was heapd upon them by the remainder o f his people,
and seeing all their inequality, he began to be very sorrowful;
nevertheless the spirit o f the Lord did not fail him. And he
selected a wise man which was among the elders o f the church,
and gave him power according to the voice of the people, that
he might have power to enact laws according to the laws which,
had been given, and to put them in force, according to the
wickedness and the crimes o f the people. Now this man’s
name was Nephihah, and he was appointed Chief Judge; and
232 BOOK OP ALMA.
he sat in the judgment seat, to judge and to govern the people.
Now Alroa did not grant unto him the office o f being High
Priest over the church, but he retained the office of High
Priest unto himself; but he delivered the judgment seat unto
Nephihah: and this he did, that he himself might go forth
among his people, or among the people o f Nepiii, that he might
preach the word o f God unto them, to stir them up in remem­
brance o f their duty, and that he might pull down, by the word
o f God, all the pride and craftiness, and all the contentions
which was among his people, ¡seeing no way that he might re­
claim them, save it were in bearing down in pure testimony
against them. And thus in the commencement o f the ninth
year of the reign o f the Judges over the people o f Nephi, Alma
delivered up the judgment seat to Nephihah, and confined
himself wholly to the high priesthood o f the holy order of God,
to the testimony o f the word, according to the spirit of revela­
tion and prophecy.
CH A PTE R III.
The words whichMmar, the High Priest, according to the holy
order o f God, delivered to the people in their cities and vil­
lages throughmt the land.
Now if came to pass that Alma began to deliver the word
o f God unto the people, first in the land o f Zarahemla, and
from thence throughout all the land. And these are the words
which lie spake to the people in the Church which was estab­
lished in the city o f Zarahemla, according to his own record,
saying: I, Alma, having been consecrated by my father Alma,
to be a High Priest over the Church o f God, he having power
and authority from God to do these things, behold, I say unto
you, that he began to establish a Church in the land which
was in the borders o f N epbi; yea, the land which was called
the land o f Mormon; yea, and he did baptize his brethren in
the waters o f Mormon. And behold, I say unto you, they
were delivered out o f the hands o f the people o f king Noah,
by the mercy and power o f God. And behold, after that, they
were brought into bondage by the hands o f the Lamanites, in
the wilderness; yea, I say unto von, they were in captivity,
and again the Lord did deliver them out o f bondage by the
BOOK OP ALMA. 833
power o f hie w ord; and we were brought into this land and
here we began to establish the Church o f God throughout this
land, also. And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, you
that belong to tins Church, hare you sufficiently retained in
remembrance the captivity o f your fathers! Yea, and have you
sufficiently retained in remembrance his mercy and long-sutfer-
ing towards them! And moreover, have ye sufficiently retain­
ed in remembrance that he hath delivered their souls from
h ell! Behold, he changed their hearts; yea, he awaked them
out o f a deep sleep, and they awoke unto God. Behold, they
were in the midst o f darkness; nevertheless, their souls were
illuminated by the light o f the everlasting word; yea, they
Were encircled about by the bands o f death, and the chains of
hell, and an everlasting destruciion did await them. And now
I ask o f you my brethren,, were they destroyed ? Behold, 1say
unto you, nay, they were not. And again 1 ask, was the bands
o f death broken, and the chains o f hell which encircled them
about, were they loosed ! I say unto you, yea, they were
loosed, and their souls did expand, and they did sing redeem­
ing love. And 1 say unto you, that they are saved. And now
I ask o f you on what conditions are they saved ? Yea, what
grounds had they to hope for salvation ? What is the euuse
o f their being loosed from the bands o f death 1 Yea, and also,
the chains o f belli Behold, I can tell you: did not my futher
Alma believe in the words which was delivered by the mouth
o f Abinadi? And was he not a holy prophet ? Did he not
speak the word o f God, and my father Alma believe them 1
And according to his faith there was a mighty change wrought
in his heart. Behold J say unto you, that this is all true.—
And behold, he preached the word unto your fathers, and a
mighty change was also wrought in their hearts; and they
humbled themselves, and put their trust in the true and living
God. And behold, they were faithful until the end; therefore
they were saved. And now behold, 1 ask o f you, my brethren
o f the Church, have ye spiritualty been born o f God ? Have
ye received his image in your countenances? Have ye expe­
rienced this mighty change in your hearts ? D o ye exercise
faith in the redemption o f him who Created you ? Do you
look forward with an eye o f faith, and view this mortal body
raised in immortality, and this corruption raised in incorrup­
tion, to stand before God, to be judged according to the deeds
which hath been done in the mortal body ? I say unto you,
can you imagine to yourselves that ye hear the voice o f the-
234 BOOK OF ALMA.
Lord, saying unto you, in that day, Come unto me ye blessed,
for behold, your works have been the works o f righteousness
upon the face o f the earth ? Or do ye imagine to yourselves
that ye can lie unto the Lord in that day, and say, Lord, Our
works have been righteous works upon the face o f the earth,
and that he will save you? Or otherwise, can ye imagine
yourselves brought before the tribunal o f God, with your souls
filled with guilt and remorse; having a remembrance o f all
your guilt; yea, a perfect remembrance o f all your wickedness;
yea, a remembrance that ye have set at defiance the command­
ments o f G od? I say unto you, can ye look up to God at
that day with a pure heart and clean hands ? 1 say unto you,
can you look up, having the image o f God engraven upon your
countenances? I say unto you, can ye think o f being saved
when you have yielded yourselves to become subjects to the
Devil ? I say unto you, ye will know at that day, that ye can­
not be saved : for there can no man be saved except his gar­
ments are washed white; yea, his garments must be purified
until they are cleansed from all stain, through the blood o f him
o f whom it hath been spoken by our fathers which should
come to redeem his people from tbeir sins. And now I ask
o f you, my brethren, how will any o f you feel, if ye shall stand
before the bar o f God, having your garments stained with
blood, and all manner o f filthiness ? Behold, what will these
things testify against you? Behold, will they not testify that
ye are murderers, yea, and also that ye are guilty o f all man­
ner o f wickedness? Behold, my brethren, do ye suppose that
such an one can have a place to sit down in the Kingdom o f
God, with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob, and also all
the holy prophets, whose garments are cleansed, and are spot­
less, pure and white? I say unto you, nay, except ye make
our creator a liar from the beginning, or suppose that he is a
liar from the beginning; or also, ye cannot suppose that such
an one can have place in the kingdom o f heaven, but they shall
be cast out, for they are the children o f the kingdom o f the
Devil. And now behold, I say unto you, my brethren, if ye
have experienced a change o f heart, and if ye have felt to sing
the song o f redeeming love, 1 would ask, can ye feel so now ?
Have ye walked, keeping yourselves blameless before God ?
Gould ye say, if ye were called to die at this time, within your­
selves, that ye have been sufficiently humble ? That your gar­
ments have been cleansed and made white, through the blood
o f Christ, which will come to redeem his people from iheit
BOOK OP ALMA. 235
sins? Behold, are ye stripped of pride 1 I say unto you, if ye
are not, ye are not prepared to meet God. Behold, ye must
prepare quickly, for the kingdom o f Heaven is soon at hand,
and such an one hath not eternal life. Behold, 1say, is there
one among you who is not stripped o f envy? I say unto you,
that such an one is not prepared, and 1 would that he should
prepare quickly, for the hour is close at hand, and he knoweth
not when the time shall com e: for such an one is not found
guiltless. And again 1 say unto you, is there one among you
that doth make a mock o f his brother, or that heapeth upon
him persecutions? W o unto such an one, for he is not pre­
pared, and the time is at hand that he must repent, or he can­
not be saved; yea, even wo unto all ye workers o f iniquity;
repent, repent, for the Lord God hath spoken it. Behold, he
scndeth an invitation unto all men; for the arms o f mercy is
extended towards them, and he saith, Repent, and 1 will re­
ceive you ; yea, he saith, Come unto me and ye shall partake
o f the fruit o f the tree o f life; yea, ye shall eat and drink o f
the bread and the waters of life freely; yea, come unto me
and bring forth works o f righteousness, and ye shall not be
hewn down and cast into tbe fire: for behold, the time is at
hand that whosoever bringeth forth not good fruit, or whoso­
ever doeth not the works o f righteousness, the same hath cause
to wail and mourn. O ye workers o f iniquity ; ye that are
puffed up in the vain things o f the w orld; ye that have pro­
fessed to have known the ways o f righteousness; nevertheless
ye have gone astray, as sheep having no shepherd, notwith­
standing a shepherd hath called after you, and art still calling
after you, but ye will not hearken unto his voice. Behold, 1
say unto you, that the good shepherd doth call you ; yea, and
in his own name he doth call you, which is the name of Christ;
and if ye will not hearken unto the voice of the good shepherd,
to the name by which ye are called, behold, ye are not the
sheep o f the good shepherd. And now if ye are not the sheep
o f the good shepherd, of what fold are ye ? Behold, I say
unto you, that the Devil is your shepherd, and ye are o f his
fold ; and now who can deny this ? Behold, ! say unto you,
whosoever denieth this, is a liar and a child o f the D evil; for
1 say unto you, that whatsoever is good, cometh from God,
and whatsoever is evil, cometh from the Devil; therefore, if a
man bringeth forth good works, he hearkeneth unto the voice
o f the good shepherd, and he doth follow him; but whosoever
bringeth forth evil works, the same becomath a child of the
2 3 6 BOOK OP ALMA.
D evil: for he hearkeneth unto his voice, and doth follow him.
And whosoever doeth this must receive his wages o f him;
therefore, for his wages he receiveth death, as to things per­
taining unto righteousness, being dead unto all good works.—
And now my brethren, 1 would that ye should near me, for I
speak in the energy o f my soul; for behold, 1have spoken un­
to you plain, that ye cannot err, or have spoken according to
the commandments o f God. For I am called to speak after
this manner, according to the holy order o f God, which is in
Christ Jesus; yea, I am commanded to stand and testify un­
to this people the things which have been spoken by our fa­
thers, concerning the things which is to come. And this is
not all. D o ye suppose that I know not o f these things my­
self! Behold, 1 testify unto you, that 1 do know that these
things whereof 1 have spoken, are true. And how do ye sup­
pose that 1 know o f their surety? Behold, I say unto you,
they are made known unto me by the holy spirit o f God. Be­
hold, I have lasted and prayed many days, that I might know
these things o f myself. And now I do know o f myself that
they are true; for the Lord God bath made them manifest unto
me by his holy spirit; and this is the spirit of revelation which
is in me. And moreover, I say unto you, that as it has thus
been revealed unto me, that the words which have been spo­
ken by our fathers, are true, even so according to the spirit o f
propneey, which is in me, which is also by the manifestation
o f the spirit o f God, 1 say unto you, that I know o f myself
that whatsoever I shall say unto you concerning that which is
to come, is true; and 1 say unto you, that I khow that Jesus
Christ shall com e; yea, the Son o f the only begotten o f the
Father, full o f grace, and mercy, and truth. And behold, it is
he that coineth to take away the sins o f the w orld; yea, the
sins of every man which steadfastly believeth on his name.
And now 1 say unto you, that this is the order after which
I am called ; yen, to preach unto my beloved brethren; yea,
and every one that dwelleth in the land; yea, to preach unto
all, both old and young, both bond and free; yea, 1 say unto
you, the aged, and also the middle aged, and the rising gener­
ation ; yea, to cry unto them that they must repent and he
born again; yea, thus sgith the spirit, Repent all ye ends o f
the earth, for the Kingdom o f Heaven is soon at hand; yea,
the Son o f God cometh in his glory, in his might, majesty,
power and dominion. Yea, my beloved brethren. I say unto
you, that the spirit saiih, Behold the glory o f the King o f all
HOOK OP AfcMA. 237
the earth; and also the King o f Heaven shall very soon shine
forth among all the children o f men ; and also the spirit saith
unto me, yea, crieth unto me with a mighty voice, saying, Go
forth and say unto this people, repent, for except ye repent ye
can in no wise inherit the Kingdom o f Heaven. And again I
say unto you, the spirit saith, Behold, the axe is laid at the
root o f the tree; therefore every tree that bringeth not forth
good fruit, shall be hewn down and cast into the fire; yea, a
fire which cannot be consumed; even an unquenchable fire.
Behold, and remember, the holy one hath spoken it And
notv my beloved brethren, I say unto you, can ye withstand
these sayings; yea, can ye lay aside these things, and trample
the holy one under your feet; yea, can ye be puffed up in the
pride o f your hearts; yea, will ye still persist in the wearing
o f costly apparel, and setting your hearts upon the vain things
o f the world, upon your riches; yea, will ye persist in sup­
posing that ye are better one than another; yea, will ye per­
sist in the persecutions o f your brethren, who humble them­
selves, and do walk after the holv order o f God, wherewith
they have been brought into this Church, having been sancti­
fied by the holy spirit; and they do bring forth works which
is meet for repentance; yea, and will you persist in turning
your backs upon the'poor, and the needy, and in withholding
your substance from them * And finally, all ye that will per­
sist in your wickedness, I say unto you, that these are they
which shall be hewn down and cast into the fire, except they
speedily repent
And now 1 say unto you, all you that are desirous to follow
the voice of the good shepherd, come ye out from the wicked,
and be ye separate, and touch not their unclean things; and
behold, their mopes shall be blotted out, that the names o f the
wicked shall not be numbered among the names of the right­
eous, that the word o f God may be fulfilled, which saith, The
names o f the wicked shall not be mingled with the names o f
my people. For the names o f the righteous shall be written
in the Book o f L ife; and unto them will I grant an inheritance
at my right hand. And now my brethren, what have ye to
say against this? I say unto you, if ye speak against it, it mat­
ters not, for the word o f God must be fulfilled. For what
shepherd is there among you having many sheep, doth not
watch over them, that the wolves enter not and devour his
flock ? And behold, if a w olf enter his flock, doth he not
drive him out i Yea, and at the last, if he can he will destroy
238 BOOK OF ALMA.
him. And now I say unto you, that the good shepherd doth
call after you ; and if you will hearken unto his voice, he will
bring you into his fold, and ye are his sheep; and he comman-
deth you that ye suffer no ravenous w olf to enter among you,
that ye may not be destroyed.
And now 1, Alma, do command you in the language o f him
who hath commanded me, that ye observe to do the words
which I have spoken unto you. I speak by way of command
unto you that belong to the church; and unto those yvhich do
not belong to the church, I speak by way o f invitation, saying,
Come and be baptized unto repentance, that ye also may be
partakers o f the fruit o f the tree o f life.
CH APTER 1Y.
And now it came to pass that after Alma had made an end
of speaking unto the people o f the church, which was estab­
lished in the city o f Zarahemla, he ordained priests and elders,
by laying on his hands according to the order o f God, to pre­
side and watch over the church. And it came tc pass that
whomsoever did not belong to the church who repented of
their sins, was baptized unto repentance, and was received
into the church. And it also came to pass that whomsoever
did belong to the church, that did not repent o f their wicked­
ness, and humble themselves before G od; I mean those which
were lifted up in the pride o f their hearts; the same were re­
jected. and their names were blotted out, that their names
were not numbered among those o f the righteous; and thus
they began to establish the order o f the church in the city o f
Zarahemla. Now I would that ye should understand that the
word o f God was liberal unto all; that no one was deprived
o f the privilege o f assembling themselves together to hear the
word of G od ; nevertheless the children o f God were com­
manded that they should gather themselves together oft, and
join in fasting and mighty prayer, in behalf o f the welfare of
the souls o f those who knew not God.
And now it came to pass that when Alma had made these
regulations, he departed from them, yea, from the church which
was in the city o f Zarahemla, and went over upon the east o f
the river Sidon, into the valley o f Gideon, there having been a
city built which was called the city o f Gideon, which was in
BOOK OP ALIKA,
the valley that was called Gideon, being called after the man
vrhich was slain by the hand o f Nehor with the sword. And
Alma went and began to declare the word o f God unto the
church which was established in the valley o f Gideon, accor­
ding to the revelation o f the truth o f the word which had been
spoken by his fathers, and according to the spirit of prophecy
which was in him, according to the testimony of Jesus Christ,
the Son o f God, which should come for to redeem his people
from their sins, and the holy order by which he was called.
And thus it is written. Amen.
CH A PTE R V.
The words o f Alma which he delivered to the people in Gide­
on, according to his own record.
Behold my beloved brethren, seeing that I have been per­
mitted to come unto you, therefore I attempt to address you
in my language; yea, by my own mouth, seeing that it is the
first time that I have spoken unto you b) the words o f my
mouth, I having been wholly confined to the judgment seat,
having had much business that 1 could not come unto you ;
and even 1 could not have come now at this time, were it not
that the judgment seat hath been given to another, to reign in
my stead; and the Lord in much mercy hath granted that I
should come unto you. And behold, 1have come, having great
hopes and much desire that I should find that ye had hum­
bled yourselves before God, and that ye had continued in the
supplicating o f his grace, that 1should find that ye were blame­
less before him; that 1should find that ye were not in the aw­
ful dilemma that our brethren were in at Zaruhemla; but
blessed be the name of God that he hath given me to know,
yea, hath given unto me the exceeding great joy o f knowing
that they are established again in the way o f his righteousness.
And 1 trust, according to the spirit o f God which is in me, that
1 shall also have joy over you ; nevertheless I do not desire
that my joy over you, should come by the cause o f so much
afflictions and sorrow which I have had for the brethren at
Zarahemla: for behold, my joy eometh over them after wading
through much afflictions and sorrow. But behold, I trust that
ye are not in a state o f so much unbelief as were your breth-
2 4 0 BOOK O » ALNA.
ren; 1 trust that ye are not lifted up in the pride o f your hearts;
yea, I trust that ye have not set your hearts upon riches, and
the vain things o f the world; yea, 1 trust that you do not wor­
ship idols, but that ye do worship the true and the living God,
and that ye look forward for the remission o f your sins with
an everlasting faith which is to come. For behold, I say unto
you, there be many things to com e; and behold, there is one
thing which is o f more importance than they all: for behold,
the time is not far distant, that the Redeemer liveth and com-
eth among his people. Behold, I do not say that he will come
among us at the time o f his dwelling in his mortal tabernacle;
for behold, the spirit hath not said unto me that this should be
the case. Now as to this thing I do not know ; but this much
1 do know, that the Lord God hath power to do all things
which is according to his word. But behold, the spirit hath
said this much untome, saying: Cry unto this people, saying,
Repent ye, and prepare the way o f the Lord, and walk in his
paths, which are straight: for behold, the Kingdom o f Heaven
is at band, and the Son o f God comelh upon the face of the
earth. And behold, he shall be bom o f Mary, at Jerusalem,
which is the land of our forefathers, she being a Virgin, a pre­
cious and chosen vessel, who shall be overshadowed, and con­
ceive by the power o f the Holy Ghost, and bring forth a son,
yea, even the Son o f God ; and he shall go forth, suffering
pains, and afflictions, and temptations o f every kind ; and this
that the word might be fulfilled which saith, He will take upon
him the pains and the sicknesses o f his people; and he will
take upon him death that he may loose the bands o f death
which binds his people; and he will take upon him their in­
firmities, that his bowels may be filled with mercy, according
to the flesh, that he may know according to the flesh how to
suffer his people acccording to their infirmities. Now the
spirit knoweth all things; nevertheless the Son o f God suffer-
eth according to the flesh, that he might take upon him the
sins o f his people, that he might blot out their transgressions,
according to the power o f his deliverance ; and now behold,
this is the testimony which is in me. Now 1 say unto you,
that ye must repent, and be born again: for (be spirit saith,
If ye are not born again, ye canr.ot inherit the Kingdom o f
Heaven; therefore come and he baptized unto repentance,
that ye may be washed from your sins, that ye may have faith
on the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins o f the world,
which is mighty to save and to cleanse from all unrighteous-
BOOK OP ALMA. 241
ness; yea, I say unto you, Come and fear not, and lay aside
every sin, which easily doth beset you, which doth bind you
down to destruction; yea, come and go forth, and shew unto
your God that ye are willing to repent o f your sine, and enter
into a covenant with him to keep his commandments, and wit­
ness it unto him this day, by going into the waters o f baptism;
and whosoever doeth this, and keepeth the commandments o f
God from thenceforth, the same will remember that I say unto
him, yea, he will remember that I have said unto him, be shall
have eternal life, according to the testimony o f the Holy Spirit,
which testifieth in me. And now my beloved brethren, do you
believe these things ? Behold, 1 say unto you, yea, 1 know
that you believe (hem ; and the way that 1 know that ye be­
lieve them, is by the manifestation o f the spirit which is in me.
And now because your faith is strong concerning that, yea,
concerning the things which 1 have spoken, gTeat is my joy.
For as 1 said unto you from the beginning, that I had much
desire that ye was not in the state o f dilemma like your breth­
ren, even so 1 have found that my desires have been gratified.
For 1 perceive that ye are in the paths o f righteousness; I
perceive that ye are in the path which leads to the kingdom of
God ; yea, I perceive that ye are making his paths straight; I
perceive that it hath been made known unto you by the testi­
mony o f his word, that he cannot walk in crooked paths;
neither doth he vary from that which he hath said; neither
hath he a shadow o f turning from the right to the left, or from
that which is right to that which is wrong; therefore, his
course is one eternal round. And he doth not dwell in unholy
temples; neither can filthiness, or any thing which is unclean
be received into the kingdom o f G od ; therefore 1 say unto
you, the time shall come, yea, and it shall be at the last day,
that he which is filthy, shall remain in his filthiness.
And now my beloved brethren, I have said these things an­
te you, that I might awaken you to a sense of your duty to
God, that ye may walk blameless before him ; that ye may
walk after the holy order o f God, after which ye have been
received. And now I would that ye should be humble, and
be submissive, and gentle; easy to be entreated; full o f patience
and long suffering; being temperate in all things; being dili­
gent in keeping the commandments o f God at all times; asking
for whatsoever things ye stand in need, both spiritual and
temporal; always returning thanks unto God for whatsoever
things ye do receive, and see that ye have faith, hope, and
16
242 BOOK OP ALMA.
charily, and then ye will always abound in good w orks; and
inay the Lord bless you, and keep your garments spotless,
that ye may at last be brought to sit down with Abraham,
Isaac and Jacob, and the H oly Prophets, which have been
ever since the world began, having your garments spotless,
even as their garments are spotless in the kingdom o f Heaven,
to go no more out.
And now my beloved brethren, I have spoken these words
unto you, according to the spirit which testified! in m e; and
my soul doth exceedingly rejoice, because o f the exceeding
diligence and heed which ye have given unto my word. And
now, may the peace o f God rest upon you, and upon your
houses and lands, and upon your flocks and herds, and all
that you possess; your women and your children, according to
your faith and good works, from this lime forth and forever.
And thus I have spoken. Amen.
C H A P T E R VI.
Akb now it came to pass that Alma returned from the land
o f Gideon, after having taught the people o f Gideon many
things which cannot be written, having established the order
o f the church, according as lie had before done in the land o f
Zarahemla; yea, he returned to his own house at Zarahemla,
to rest himself from the labors which he bad performed. And
thus ended the ninth year o f the reign o f the Judges over the
people o f Nepbi.
And it came to pass in the commencement o f the tenth year
o f the reign o f the Judges over the people o f Nephi, that Alma
departed from thence, and took his journey over into the land
o f Melek, on the west o f the river Sidon, on the west, by the
borders o f the wilderness; and he began to teach the people
in the land o f Melek, according to the holy order o f God by
which he had been called; and he began to teach the people
throughout all the land o f Melek.
And it came to pass that the people came to him throughout
all the borders o f the land which was by the wilderness side.
And it came to pass that they were baptized throughout all
the land, so that when he had finished his work at Melek, he
departed thence, and travelled three days’ journey on the
north o f the land o f M elek; and he came to a city which was
BOOK OP ALMA. 243
called Ammonihah. Now it was the custom of the people of
Nephi, to call their lands, and their cities, and their villages,
yea, even all their small villages, after the name o f him who
first possessed them; and thus it was with the land of Ammo-
nihab.
And it came to pass that when Alma had came to the city
o f Ammonihah, he began to preach the word o f God unto them.
Now satan had got great hold upon the hearts o f the people o f
the city o f Ammonihah; therefore they would not hearken
unto the words o f Alma. Nevertheless Alma labored much in
the spirit, wrestling with God in mighty prayer, that he would
pour out his spirit upon the people which was in the city; that
he would also grant_ that be might baptize them, unto repent­
ance ; nevertheless, they hardened their hearts, saying unto
him, Behold, we know that thou art Alm a; and we know that
thou art High Priest over the church which thou hast estab­
lished in many parts o f the land, according to your tradition;
and we are not of thy church, and we do not belieye in such
foolish traditions. And now we know that because we are
not of thy church, we know that thou hast no power over u s;
and thou hast delivered up the judgment seat unto Nephihah;
therefore thou art not the Chief Judge over us. Now when the
people had said this, and had withstood all his words, and re­
viled him, and spit upon him, and caused that he should be
last out o f their city, he departed thence and took his jour­
ney towards the city which was called Aaron.
And it came to pass that while he was journeying fhither,
being weighed down with sorrow, wading through much tribu­
lation and anguish o f soul, because o f the wickedness of the
people which was in the city o f Ammonihah. And it came to
pass that while Alma was thus weighed down with sorrow,
behold, an angel o f the Lord appeared unto him, saying, Bles­
sed art thou, Alma; therefore lift up thy head and rejoice, for
thou hast great cause to rejoice: for thou hast been faithful
in keeping the commandments of God from the time which
thou received thy first message from him. Behold, I am he
that delivered it unto you ; and behold, i am sent to command
thee that thou return to the city o f Ammonihah, and preach
again unto the people o f the city; yea, preach unto them.—
Yea, say unto them, except they repent, the Lord God will
destroy them. For behold, they do study at this time that
they may destroy the liberty of thy people, (for thas saith the
16*
244 BOOK OF ALMA.
Lord,) which is contrary to the statutes, and judgments, and
commandments which he hath given unto his people.
Now it came to pass that after Alma had received his mes­
sage from the angel o f the Lord, he returned speedily to the
land o f Ammonihah. And it came to pass that he entered the
city by another way, yea, by the way which was on the south
o f the city Ammonihah. And it came to pass that as he enter­
ed the city, he was an hungered, and he saith to a man, W ill
ye give to an humble servant o f God something to cat! And
the man saith unto him, 1 am a Nephite, and I know that thou
art a Holy Prophet o f God, for thou art the man which an an­
gel saith in a vision, Thou shalt receive; therefore go with me
into my house, and 1will impart unto thee o f my food ; and I
know that thou will be a blessing unto me and my house. And
it came to pass that the man received him into his house j and
the man was called Amulek; and he brought forth bread and
meat, and sat before Alma.
And it came to pass that Alma ate bread and was filled; and
he blessed Amulek and his house, and he gave thanks unto
God. And after he had eat and was filled, he saith unto Am­
ulek, I am Alma, and am the High Priest over the church o f
God throughout the land. And behold, I have been called to
preach the word of God among all this people, according to
the spirit o f revelation and prophecy; and 1 was in this land,
and they would not receive me, but they cast me out, and 1
was about to set my back towards this land forever. But be­
hold, I have been commanded that I should turn again and
prophesy unto this people, yea, and to testify against them
concerning their iniquities. And now Amulek, because thou
hast fed me and took me in, thou art blessed : for I was an
hungered, for 1 had fasted many days. And it came to pass
that Alma tarried many days with Amulek, before hebgan to
preach unto the people.
And it came to pass that the people did wax more gross in
their iniquities. And the word came to Alma, saying, Go ;
and also say unto my servant Amulek, Go forth and prophesy
unto this people, saying: Repent ye, for thus saith the L ord:
Except ye repent, 1 will visit this people in mine anger; yea,
and 1 will not turn my fierce anger away. And it came to
pass that Alma went forth, and also Amulek, among the peo-
people, to declare the words o f God unto them; and they
were filled with the Holy Ghost; and they had power given
BOOK OP A1.MA. 245
unto them, insomuch that they could not be confined iu dun­
geons ; neither were it possible that any man could slay them ;
nevertheless they did not exercise their power until they were
bound in bands and cast into prison. Now this was done that
the Lord might show forth his power in them.
And it came to pass that they went forth and began to preach
and to prophesy unto the people, according to the spirit and
power which the Lord had given them.
C H A P T E R VII.
'The words o f Alma, and also the words o f Amulek, which was
declared unto the people which was in the land ofAmmoni-
huh. And also they are cast into prison, and delivered by
the miraculous power o f God which teas in them, according
to the record o f Alma.
A.\n again : I Alma, having been commanded o f God that
! should take Amulek and go forth and preach again unto this
people, or the people which was in the city o f Ammonihah.—
And it came to pass as I began to preach unto them, they be­
gan to contend with me, saying: W ho art thou? Suppose ye
that we shall believe the testimony o f one man, although he
should preach unto us that the earth should pass away ? Now
they understood not the words which they spake, for they
knew not that the earth should pass away. And they sayeth
also, W e will not believe thy words, if thou shouldst prophesy
that this great city should be destroyed in one day. Now they
knew not that God could do such marvellous works, for they
were a hard hearted and a stiffnecked people. And they say­
eth, W ho is God, that sendeth no more authority than one
man among this people, to declare unto them the truth o f such
great and marvellous things? And they stood forth to lay
their hands on me; hut behold, they did not. And I stood
with boldness to declare unto them, yea, I did boldly testify
unto them, saying: Behold, O ye wicked and perverse genera­
tion, how have ye forgotten the tradition o f your fathers; yea,
how soon ye have forgotten the commandments o f God. D o
ye not remember that our father Lebi was brought out o f Je­
rusalem by the hand o f God ? Do ye not remember that they
were all led by him through the wilderness? And have ye for-
2 4 6 BOOK OF ALMA.
gotten so soon how many times he delivered our fathers out o f
the hands o f their enemies, and preserved them from being des­
troyed, even by the hands of their own brethren ? ¥ea, and if
it had not been for his matchless power, and his mercy, and
his long suffering towards us, we should unavoidably have
been cut off from the face of the earth, long before this period
o f time, and perhaps been consigned to a state of endless mis­
ery and wo. Behold, now 1 say unto you, that be eommand-
eth you to repent; and except ye repent, ye can in no wise
inherit the kingdom o f God. But behold, this is not a ll: he
hath commanded you to repent, or he will utterly destroy you
from off the face o f the earth; yea, he will visit you in his an­
ger, and in his fierce anger he will not turn away. Behold,
do ye not remember the words which he spake unto Lebi,
saying, That inasmuch as ye shall keep my commandments,
ye shall prosper in the land ? And again it is said, That inas­
much as ye will not keep my commandments, ye shall he cut
off from the presence o f the Lord. Now 1 would that ye
should remember, that inasmuch as the Lamanites have not
kept the commandments of God, they have been cut off from
the presence o f the Lord. Now we see that the word o f the
Lord hath been verified in this thing, and the Lamanites have,
been cut off from his presence, from the beginning of their
transgressions in the land. Nevertheless I say unto you, that
it shall be more tolerable for them in tire day of judgment,
than for you, if ye remain in your sins; yea, and even more
tolerable for them in this life, than for you, except ye repent,
for there are many promises which is extended to the Laman­
ites : for it is because o f the traditions o f their fathers that
causeth them to remain in their state o f ignorance; therefore
the Lord will be merciful unto them, and prolong their exis-
tetice in the land. And at some period of time they will be
brought to believe in his word, and to know o f the incorrect­
ness of the traditions o f their fathers; and many o f them wilt
be saved, for the Lord will be merciful unto all who call on
his name. But behold, 1 say unto you, that if ye persist in your
wickedness, that your days shall not be prolonged in the land,
for the Lamanites shall be sent upon you ; and if ye repent
not, they shall come in a time when you know not, and ye
shall be visited with utter destruction; and it shall be accor­
ding to the fierce anger of the Lord; for he will not suffer you
that ye shall live in your iniquities, to destroy his people. I
say unto you, Nay ; he would rather suffer that the Lamanites
BOOR OF ALMA. 241
might destroy all this people which is-called the people o f Ne-
phij if it were possible that they could fall into sins and trans-
gransgressions, after having had so much light and so much
knowledge given unto them o f the Lord their God ; yea, after
having been such a highly favored people o f the L ord; yea,
after having been favored above every other nation, kindred,
tongue, or people; after having had all things made known
unto them, according to their desires, and their faith, and
prayers, o f that which has been, and which is, and which is to
co m e ; having been visited by the spirit o f G od ; having con­
versed with angels, and having been spoken unto by the voice
o f the Lord ; and having the spirit o f prophecy, and the spirit
o f revelation, and also many gifts: the gift of speaking with
tongues, and the gift o f preaching, and the gift o f the Holy
Ghost, and the gift of translation; yea, and after having been
delivered o f God out o f the land o f Jerusalem, by the hand o f
the L ord ; having been saved from famine, and from sickness,
and all manner o f diseases o f every k in d; and they having
been waxed strong in battle, that they might not be destroyed;
having been brought out o f bondage lime after time, and having
been kept and preserved until now ; and they have been pros­
pered until they are rich in all manner o f things. And now
behold I say unto you, that if this people, who have received
so many blessings from the hand o f the Lord, should trans­
gress, contrary to (lie light and knowledge which they do have;
1 say unto you, that if this be the case; that if they should fall
into transgression, that it would be far more tolerable for the
Lamanites than for them. F or behold, the promises o f the
Lord are extended to the Lamanites, but they are not unto
you, if ye transgress : for hath not the Lord expressly promi­
sed and firmly decreed, that if ye will rebel aginst him, that ye
shall utterly be destroyed from offthe face o f the earth ? And
now for this cause, that ye may not be destroyed, the Lord
hath sent his angel to visit many o f his people, declaring unto
them that they must go forth and cry mightily unto this people,
saying, Repent ye, for the kingdom o f Heaven is nigh at hand;
and not many days hence, the Son o f God shall come in his
glory; and his glory shall he the glory o f the only begotten of
the Father, full o f grace, equity and truth, full o f patience, mer­
cy, and long suffering, quick to heaT the cries o f his people, and
to answer their prayers. And behold, he cometh to redeem
those who will be baptized unto repentance, through faith on
his natne; therefore prepare ye the way o f the Lord, for the
248 BOOK OF ALMA.
time is it hand that every man shall reap a reward o f their
works, according to that which they have been : if they have
been righteous, they shall Teap the salvation o f their souls, ac­
cording to the power and deliverance of Jesus Christ; and if
they have been evil, they shall reap the damnation o f their
souls, according to the power and captivation o f the Devil.—
Now behold, this is the voice o f the angel, crying unto the
people. And now my beloved brethren, for ye are my breth­
ren, and ye had ought to be beloved, and ye had ought to
bring forth works which is mete for repentance, seeing that
your hearts have been grossly hardened against the word of
God, and seeing that ye are a lost and a fallen people.
Now it came to pass that when I, Alma, had spoken these
words, behold, the people were wroth with me, because I said
unto them that they was a hardhearted and a stiffnecked peo­
ple ; and also because 1 said unto them that they were a lost
and a fallen people, they was angry with me, and sought to lay
their hands upon me, that they might cast me into prison; but
it came to pass that the Lord did not suffer them that they
should take me at that time and cast roe into prison.
And it came to pass that Amulek went and stood forth, and
began to preach unto them also. And now the words o f Am­
ulek are not all written; nevertheless a part o f his words are
written in this book.
C H A P T E R VIII.
Now these are the words which Amulek preached unto the
people which was in the land o f Ammonihah, saying : 1 am
Amulek ; I am the son o f Giddonah, who was the son o f Ish-
mael, who was a descendant o f Aminadi : and it was that same
Aminadi which interpreted the writing which was upon the
wall o f the temple, which was written by the finger o f G od.-
And Aminadi was a descendant o f Nephi, who was the son of
Lehi, who came out o f the land o f Jerusalem, who was a de­
scendant o f Manasseh, who was the son o f Joseph, which was
sold into Egypt by the hands o f his brethren. And behold, I
am also a man o f no small reputation among all those who know
me ; yea, and behold, I have many kindreds and friends, and
I have also acquired much riches by the hand o f my industry ;
nevertheless, after all this, I never have known much o f the
BOOK OF ALMA. 249
ways of the Lord, and his mysteries and marvellous power. I
said I never had known much of these things; but behold, I
mistake, for 1 have seen much of his mysteries and his mar­
vellous power; yea, even in the preservation of the lives o f
this people; nevertheless, I did harden my heart, for I was
called many times, and 1 would not hear; therefore I knew
concerning these things, yet I would not know ; therefore I
went on rebelling against God, in the wickedness of my heart,
even until the fourth day of this seventh month, which is in
the tenth year of the reign of our Judges. As I was a jour­
neying to see a very near kindred, behold an angel of the Lord
appeared unto me, and said, Amulek, return to thine own
house, for thou shah feed a prophet of the Lord; yea, a holy
man, which art a chosen man of God ; for he hath fasted ma­
ny days because o f the sins of this people, and he is an hun­
gered, and thou shall receive him into thy house and feed him,
and he shall bless thee and thy house; and the blessing of the
Lord shall rest upon thee and thy house.
And it came to pass that I obeyed the voice of the angel,
and returned towards ray house. And as I was a going thith­
er, 1 found the man which the angel said unto me, Thou shalt
receive into thy house; and behold it was this same man which
hath been speaking unto you concerning the things of God.—
And the angel said unto me, He is a holy man; wherefore I
know he is a holy man, because it was said by an angel of
God. And again: I know that the things whereof he hath
testified are true ; for behold, 1 say unto you, that as the Lord
liveth, even so he hath sent his angel to make these things
manifest unto m e; and this he hath done while this Alma
hath dwelt at my house; for behold, he hath blessed mine
house, he hath blessed me, and my women, and my children,
and my father, and my kinsfolks; yea, even all my kindred
hath he blessed, and the blessing of the Lord hath rested up­
on us according to the words which he spake.
And now when Amulek had spoken these words, the peo­
ple began to be astonished, seeing there was more than one
witness which testified of the things whereof they were accu­
sed, and also of the things which wr
as to come, according to
the spirit of prophecy which was in them; nevertheless, there
were some among them which thought to question them, that
by their cunning devices they might catch them in their words,
that they might find witness against them, that they might de­
liver them to the Judges, that they might be judged according
250 BOOK O P ALMA.
to the law, and that they mi^ht be slain or cast into prison, ac­
cording to the crime which they could make appear, or wit­
ness against them. Now it was those men which sought to
destroy them, which were Lawyers, which were hired or ap­
pointed by the people to administer the law at their times o f
trials, or at the trials o f the crimes o f the people, before the
Judges. Now these Lawyers were Seamed in all the arts and
cunning of the people ; and this was to enable them that they
might be skilful in their profession. And it came to pass
that they began to question Amulek, that thereby they might
make him cross his words, or contradict the words which he
should speak. Now they knew not that Amulek could know
o f their designs. But it came to pass as they began to ques­
tion him, he percieved their thoughts, and he saith unto them,
0 ye wicked and perverse generation ; ye Lawyers and hyp­
ocrites ; for ye are laying the foundations o f the Devil ; for ye
are laying traps and snares to catch the holy ones o f God ; ye
are laying plans to pervert the ways o f the righteous, and to
bring down tbs wroth o f God upon your heads, even to the
utter destruction of this people ; yea, well did Mosiah say,
who was our last king, when he was about to deliver up the
kingdom, having no one to confer it upon, causing that this
people should be governed by their own voices ; yea, well did
he say, that if the time should come that the voice o f this peo­
ple should choose iniquity ; that is, if the time should come
that this people should fall into transgression, they would be
ripe for destruction. And now I say unto you, that well doth
the Lord judge of your iniquities; well doth he cry unto this
people, by the voice of his angels, Repent ye, repent, for the
Kingdom of Heaven is at band. Yea, well doth he cry, by the
voice o f his angels, that I will come down among my people,
with equity and justice in my hands. Yea, and 1 say unto you,
that if it were not for the prayers o f the righteous, which are
now in the land, that ye would even now be visited with utter
destruction ; yet it would not be by flood, as were the people
in the days o f Noah, but it would be by famine, and by pesti­
lence, and the sword. But it is by the prayers o f the right­
eous that ye are spared ; now therefore if ye will cast out the
righteous from among you, then will not the Lord stay his
hand, but in his fierce anger he will come out against you ;
then ye shall be smitten by famine, and by pestilence, and by
the sword ; and the time is soon at hand, except ye repent.
And now it came to pass that the people were more angry
BOOK OF AtXA. 251
with Amulek, and they cried out saying: This roan doth revile
against ou t laws, which are just, and our wise Lawyers, which
we have selected. But Amulek stretched forth his hand, and
cried the mightier unto them, saying : O ye wicked and per­
verse generation; why hath Satan got such great hold upon
your hearts ? Why will ye yield yourselves unto him, that he
may have power over you, to blind your eyes, that ye will not
understand the words which are spoten, according to their
truth? For behold, have 1 testified against your law ? Ye
do not understand ; ye say that I have spoken against your
law ; but Ï have not ; but I have spoken in favor o f your law,
to your condemnation. And now behold, 1 say unto you, that
the foundation o f the destruction o f this people is a beginning to
be laid by the unrighteousness o f your lawyers and yourJ udges.
And now it came to pass that when Amulek had spoken
these words, the people cried out against him, saying, Now
we know that this man is a child o f the Devil, for he hath lied
unto us ; for he hath spoken against our law. And now he
saith that he hath not spoken against it. And again : he hath
reviled against our Lawyers, and our Judges, &c. And it
came to pass that the Lawyers put it into their hearts that
they should remember thèse things against him. And it came
to pass that there was one among them whose name was Ze-
ezroin. Now he being the foremost to accuse Amulek and
Alma, he being one o f the most expert among them, having
much .business to do among the people. N ow the object o f
these Lawyers were to get gain ; and they got gain according
to their employ.
Now it was in the law of Mosiah that every mao which
was a Judge of the law, or which was appointed to be Judges,
should receive wages according to the time which they labored
to judge those which were brought before them to be judged.
Now if a man owetb another, and he would not pay that
which he did owe, he was complained o f to the Judge; and
the Judge executed authority, and sent forth officers that the
man should be brought before him ; and he judgeth the man
according to the law and the evidences which are brought a-
gainst him; and thus the man was compelled to pay that which
he oweth, or be striped, or be cast out from among the people,
as a thief and a robber. And the Judge recieveth for his wa­
ges according to his time : a senine o f gold for a day, or a se-
num o f silver, which is equal to a senine o f gold ; and this is
according to the law which was given. Now these are the
252 BOOK OP ALMA.
names o f the different pieces o f their gold, and o f their silver,
according to their value. And the names are given by the
Nephites; for they did not reckon after the manner o f the Jews
which were at Jerusalem ; neither did they measure after the
manner o f the Jews, hut they altered their reckoning and their
measure, according to the minds and the circumstances o f the
people, in every generation, until the reign o f the Judges; they
having been established by king Mosiah. Now the reckoning
is thus: A senine of gold, a seon o f gold, a shum of gold, and
a limnah o f gold. A senum o f silver, an amnor o f silver, an
ezrom o f silver, and an onti o f silver. A senum o f silver was
equal to a senine o f gold; and either for a measure o f barley,
and also for a measure o f every kind of grain. Now the a-
mount o f a seon o f gold, was twice the value o f a senine; and
a shum o f gold was twice the value o f a seon ; and a limnah
o f gold was the value o f them all; and an amnor o f silver was
as great as two senums; and an ezrom o f silver was as great
as four senums; and an onti was as great as them all. Now
this is the value o f the lesser numbers o f their reckoning: A
shiblon is half o f a senum: therefore a shiblon for half a meas­
ure o f barley; and a shiblum is a half of a shiblon; and a le-
ab is the half o f a shiblum. Now this is their number, accor­
ding to their reckoning. Now an antion o f gold is equal to
three shublons.
Now it was for the sole purpose for to get gain, because
they recieved wages according to their em ploy; therefore they
did stir up the people to riotings, and all manner o f disturban­
ces and wickedness, that they might have more em ploy; that
they might get money according to the suits which wms brought
before them; therefore they did stir up the people against Al­
ma and Amulek. And this Zeezrom began to question Amu­
lek, saying: W ill ye answer me a few questions which 1 shall
ask you ? Now Zeezrom was a man which was expert in the
devises o f the Devil, that he might destroy that which was
good ; therefore he sailh unto Amulek, W ill ye aaswer the
questions which I shall put unto you 1 And Amulek saith un­
to him, Yea, if it be according to the spirit o f the Lord, which
is in me ; for I shall say nothing which is contrary to the spirit
o f the Lord. And Zeezrom saith unto him, Behold, here is
six onties o f silver, and all these will I give thee if thou wilt
deny the existence of a Supreme Being. Now Amulek saith,
O thou child of Hell, why tempt ye me 1 Lowest thou that
the righteous vieldeth to no such temptations ? Believestthou
BOOK OF ALMA. 253
that there is no Got} ? I say unto you, nay : thou knowest
that there is a God, but thou lovest that lucre more than him.
And now thou hast lied before God unto me. Thou saidst unto
rae, Behold these six onties, which are o f great worth, 1 will
give unto thee, when thou had it in thy heart to retain them
from m e; and it was only thy desire that 1 should deny the
true and living God, that thou mightest have cause to destroy
me. And now behold, for this great evil thou shall have thy
reward. And Zeezrom saith unto him, Thou sayest there is
a true and a living God 1 And Amulek: saith, Yea, there is a
true and a living God. Now Zeezrom saith, Is there more
than one God 1 And he answereth No. Now Zeezrom saith
unto him again : How knowest thou these things? And he
saith An angel hath made them known unto me. And Z eez­
rom saith again : W ho is he that shall come ? Is it the Son
o f God ? And he said unto him, Yea. And Zeezrom saith a-
gain: Shall he save his people in their sins? And Amulek
answered and said ufito him, 1say unto you he shall not, for it
is impossible for him to deny his word.
N ow Zeezrom saith unto the people, See that ye remember
these things ; for he saith there is but one G od ; yet he saith
that the Son o f God shall come, but he shall not save his peo­
ple, as though he had authority to command God. Now Am­
ulek saith again unto him, Behold thou hast lied, for thou say­
est that I spake as though I had authority to command God,
because I said he shall not sate his people in their sins. And
1 say unto you again, that he cannot save them in their sins;
for I cannot deny his word, and he hath said that no unclean
thing can inherit the Kingdom of Heaven ; therefore how can
ye be saved, except ye inherit the Kingdom o f Heaven?—
Therefore ye cannot be saved in your sins. Now Zeezrom |
saith again unto him : Is the Son of God the very Eternal Fa­
ther? And Amulek saith unto him, Yea, he is the very Eter­
nal Father o f Heaven and o f Earth, and all things which in
them is ; he is the beginning and the end, the first and the
last; and he shall com e into the world to redeem his people;
and he shall take upon him the transgressions o f those who be­
lieve on his nam e; and these are they that shall have eternal
life, and salvation cometh to none else; therefore the wicked
remain as though there had been no redemption made, except
it be the loosing o f the bands o f death; for behold, the day
cometh that all shall rise from the dead and stand before God,
and be judged according to tbeir works. Now there is a death
BOOK OF ALMA.
254
which is called a temporal death; and the death o f Christ
shall loose the bands o f this temporal death, that all shall be
raised from this temporal death; the spirit and the body shall
be re-united again, in its perfect form ; both limb and joint
shall be restored to its proper frame, even as wc now are at
this time; and we shall be brought to stand before Cod, know­
ing even as we know now, and have a bright recollection of
all our guilt. Now this restoration shall come to all, both old
and young, both bond and free, both male and female, both
the wicked and the righteous; and even there shall not so
much as a hair o f their heads be lost; but all things shall be
restored to its perfect frame, as it is now, or in the body, and
shall be brought and be arraigned before the bar o f Christ
the Son, and God the Father, and the Holy Spirit, which is
one Eternal God, to be judged according to their works,
whether they be good or whether they be evil.
Now behold I have spoken unto you concerning the death
o f the mortal body, and also concerning the resurrection o f
the mortal body. 1 say unto you, that this mortal body is
raised to an immortal body; that is from death; even from the
first death, unto life, that they can die no m ore; their spirits
uniting with their bodies, never to be divided; thus the whole
becoming spiritual and immortal, that they can no more see
corruption.
Now when Amulek had finished these words, the people be­
gan again to be astonished, and also Zeezrom began to tremble.
And thuB ended the words of Amulek, or this is all that I
have written.
CH APTER IX.
N ow Alma, seeing that the words o f Amulek had silenced
Zeezrom, for he beheld that Amulek had caught him in his
lying and deceiving, to destroy him, and seeing that he began
to tremble under a consciousness o f his guilt, he opened his
mouth and began to speak unto him, and to establish the words
o f Amulek, and to explain things beyond, or to unfoid the
Scriptures beyond that which Amulek had done. Now the
words that Alma spake unto Zeezrom, was heard by the peo­
ple round about: for the multitude was great, and he spake
on this w ise; Now Zeezrom, seeing that thou bast been taken
BOOK OF ALMA. 255
in thy lying and craftiness, for thou hast not lied unto men
only, but thou hast lied unto God. For behold, he knows ail
thy thoughts; and thou seest that thy thoughts are made
known unto us by his spirit; and thou seest that we know
that thy plun ivas a very subtle plan, as to the subtlety of the
Devi), for to lie and to deceive this people, that thou mightest
set them against us, to revile us and to cast ua out. Now
this was a filan o f thine adversary, and he hath exercised his
power in thee. Now I would that ye should remember that
what I say unto thee, I say unto all. And behold, I say unto
you all, that this was a snare o f the adversary, which he hath
laid to catch this people, that he might bring you into subjec­
tion unto him, that he might encircle you about with his chains,
that he might chain you down to everlasting destruction, ac­
cording to the power o f his captivity.
Now when Alma had spoken these words, Zeezrom began
to tremble more exceedingly, for he was convinced more and
more o f the power o f G od ; and lie was also convinced that
Alma and Amulek had a knowledge o f him, for he was con­
vinced that they knew the thoughts and intents of his heart 1
for power was given unto them that they might know o f these
things, according to the spirit o f prophecy. And Zeczrom
began to inquire of them diligently, that he might know more
concerning the kingdom of God. And he saith unto Alma,
What docs this mean which Amulek hath spoken concerning
the resurrection o f the dead, that all shall rise from the dead,
both the just and the unjust, and are brought to stand before
God, to be judged according to their works ? And now Alma
began to expound these things unto him, saying, It is given
unto many to know the mysteries of G od; nevertheless they
are laid under a strict command, that they shall not impart
only according to the portion o f his word, which he doth grant
unto the children of men, according to the heed and diligence
which they give unto him; and therefore he that will harden
his,heart, the same receiveth the lesser portion of the word;
and he that will not harden his heart, to him is given the greater
portion of the word, until it is given unto him to know the
mysteries of God, until they know them in full; and he that
will harden his heart, to him is given the lesser portion of the
word, until they know nothing concerning his mysteries; and
then they are taken captive by the Devi), and led by his will
down to destruction. Now this is what is meant by the chains
o f Hell; and Amulek hath spoken plainly concerning death, and
256 BOOK OP Al.MA.
being raised from this mortality to a state o f immortality, and
being brought before the bar o f God, to be judged according
to our works. Then if our hearts have been hardened, yea,
if we have hardened our hearts against the word, insomuch
that it hath not been found in us, then will our state be awful,
for then we shall be condemned; for our words will condemn
us, yea, all our work will condemn u s; we shall not be found
spotless; and our thoughts will also condemn ua; and in this
awful state, we shall not durst look up to our G od; and we
would fain be glad if we could command the rocks and the
mountains to fall upon us, to hide us from his presence. But
this cannot b e ; we must come forth and stand before him in
his glory, and in his power, and in his might, majesty, and do­
minion, and acknowledge to their everlasting shame, that all
his judgments are just; that he is just in all his works, and
that he is merciful unto the children of men, and that he hath
all power to save every man that believeth on his name, and
bringeth forth fruit mete for repentance.
And now behold I say unto you, then cometh a death, even
a second death, which is a spiritual death; then is a time that
whosoever dieth in his sins, as to the temporal death, shall al­
so die a spiritual death; yea, he shall die as to things pertain­
ing unto righteousness; then is the time when their torments
shall be as a lake o f fire and brimstone, whose flames ascend-
eth up forever and ever; and then is the time that they shall
be chained down to an everlasting destruction, according to
the power and captivity of Satan; he having subjected them
according to his will. Then I say unto you, they shall he as
though there had been no redemption made; for they cannot be
redeemed according to God’s justice; and they cannot die,
seeing there is no more corruption.
Now it came to pass that when Alina had made an end of
speaking these words, the people began to be more astonished;
but there was one Antionah, who was a chief ruler among
them, come forth and said unto him, What is this that thou
hast said, that man should rise from the dead and be changed
from this mortal to an immortal state, that the soul can never
die"? What does this Scripture mean, which saith that God
placed Cherubinis and a flaming sword on the east of the gar­
den of Eden, lest our first parents should enter and partake of
the fruit of the tree of life, and live forever? And thus we
see that there was no possible chance that they should live for­
ever. Now Alma saith unto him, This is the thing which J
BOOK OP ALUA. 257
was about to explain. N ow we see that Adam did fall by
partaking o f the forbidden fruit, according to the word o f G od ;
and thus we see, that by his fall, that all mankind became a
lost and a fallen people. And now behold, I say unto you,
that if it had been possible for Adam for to have partaken o f
the fruit o f the tree o f life at that time, that there would have
been no death, and the word would have been void, making
God a liar: for he said, If thou eat, thou shalt surely die.—
And we see that death comes upon mankind, yea, the death
which has been spoken o f by Amulek, which is the temporal
death; nevertheless there was a space granted unto man, in
which he might repent ; therefore this life became a proba­
tionary state ; a time to prepare to meet G o d ; a time to pre­
pare for that endless state, which has been spoken o f by us,
which is after the resurrection o f the dead. Now if it had not
been for the plan o f redemption, which was laid from the
foundation o f the world, there could have been no resurrection
o f the dead; but there was a plan o f redemption laid, which
shall bring to pass the resurrection o f the dead, o f which has
been spoken. And now behold, if it were possible that our
first parents could have went forth and partaken o f the tree o f
life, they would have been forever miserable, having no pre­
paratory state; and thus the plan o f redemption would have
been frustrated, and the word o f God would have been void,
taking none effect. But behold, it was not s o ; but it was ap­
pointed unto man that they must d ie; and after death, they
must come to judgment; even that same judgment o f which we
have spoken, which is the end. And after God had appointed
that these things should come unto man, behold, then he saw
that it was expedient that man should know concerning the
things whereof he had appointed unto them ; therefore he sent
angels to converse with them, which caused men to behold o f
his glory. And they began from that time forth to cal! on his
nam e; therefore God conversed with men, and made known
unto them the plan o f redemption, which had been prepared
from the foundation o f the w orld; and this he made known
unto them, according to their faith and repentance, and then-
holy w orks; wherefore he gave commandments unto men,
they having first transgressed the first commandments as to
things which were temporal, and becoming as Gods, knowing
good from evil, placing themselves in a state to act, or being
placed in a state to act, according to their wills and pleasures,
whether to do evil or to do tcood; therefore God gave unto
17
BOOK OP ALMA,
258
them commandments, after having made known unto them the
plan o f redemption, that they should not do evil, the penalty
thereof being a second death, which was an everlasting death
as to things pertaining unto righteousness; for on such the
plan o f redemption could have no power, for the works o f jus­
tice could not he destroyed, according to the Supreme good­
ness o f God. But God did call on men, in the name o f his
Son, (this being the plan o f redemption which was laid,) sav­
ing : If ye will repent, and harden not your hearts, then will l
have mercy upon you, through mine only begotten S on ; there­
fore, whosoever repenteth, and hardeneth not his heart, he
shall have claim on mercy through mine only begotten Son,
unto a remission o f their sins; and these shall enter into my
rest. And whosoever will harden his heart, and will do ini­
quity, behold, I swear in my wrath that they shall not enter
into my rest And now my brethren, behold 1 say unto you,
That if ye will harden your hearts, ye shall not enter into the
rest o f the Lord; therefore your iniquity provoketh him, that
he sendeth down his wrath upon you as in the first provocation,
yea, according to his word in the last provocation, as well as
in the first, to the everlasting destruction o f your souls; there­
fore, according to his word, unto the last death, as well as the
first.
And now my brethren, seeing we know these things, and
they are true, let us repent, and harden not our hearts, that
we provoke not the Lord our God to pull down his wrath up­
on us in these his second commandments which he hath given
unto us; but let us enter into the rest o f God, which is pre­
pared according to his word. And again: My brethren, 1 would
cite your minds forward to the time which the Lord God gave
these commandments unto his children; and I would that ye
should remember that the Lord God ordained Priests, after his
holy order, which was after the order o f his Son, to teach
these things unto the people; and those Priests were ordained
after the order of his Son, in a manner that thereby the peo­
ple might know in what manner to look forward to his Son for
redemption. And this is the manner after which they were
ordained, being called and prepared from the foundation o f the
world, according to the foreknowledge o f God, on account o f
their exceeding faith and good works ; in the first place being
left to choose good or evil; therefore they having chosen good,
and exercising exceeding great faith, are called with a holy
calling, yea, with that holy calling which was prepared with,
BOOK OF ALKA. 259
and according to, a preparatory redemption for such; and thus
they having been called to this holy calling on account o f their
faith, while others would reject the spirit o f God on account
o f the hardness o f their hearts and blindness o f their minds,
while, if it had not been for this, they might had as great privi­
lege as their brethren. Or in fine: In the first place they
were on the same standing with their brethren; thus this holy
calling being prepared from the foundation o f the world for
such as would not harden their hearts, being in and through
the atonement o f the only begotten Son, which was prepared;
and thus being called by this holy calling, and ordained unto
the High Priesthood o f the holy order o f God, to teach his
commandments unto the children o f men, that they also might
enter into his rest, this High Priesthood being after the order
o f his Son, which order was from the foundation o f the w orld;
or in other words, being without beginning o f days or end o f
years, being prepared from eternity to all eternity, according
to his foreknowledge o f all things. Now they were ordained
after this manner: Being called with a holy calling, and or­
dained with a holy Ordinance, and taking upon them the High
Priesthood o f the holy order, which calling, and ordinance, and
High Priesthood, is without beginning or en d; thus they be­
come High Priests forever, after the order o f the Son o f the
only begotten o f the Father, which is without beginning o f days
or end o f years, which is full o f grace, equity and truth. And
thus it is. Amen.
C H A P T E R X.
N ow as I said concerning the holy order o f this High
Priesthood: There were many which were ordained and be­
came High Priests of God ; and it was on account o f the ex­
ceeding faith and repentance, and their righteousness before
God, they choosing to repent and work righteousness, rather
than to perish; therefore they were called after this holy order,
and were sanctified, and their garments were washed white,
through the blood o f the Lamb. Now they, after being sanc­
tified by the Holy Ghost, having their garments made white,
being pure and spotless before God, could not look upon sin,
save it were with abhorrence; and there were many, exceed­
ing great many, which were made pure, and entered into the
260 BOOK OP ALMA.
rest o f the Lord their God. And now, my brethren, I would
that ye should humble yourselves before God, and bring forth
fruit mete for repentance, that ye may also enter into that rest;
yea, humble yourselves even as the people in the days o f Mel-
chizedek, who was also a High Priest after this same order
which I have spoken, who also took upon him the High Priest­
hood forever. And it was this same Melchizedek to whom
Abraham paid tithes; yea, even our father Abraham paid tithes
o f one tenth part o f all he possessed. Now these ordinances
were given after this manner, that thereby the people might
look forward on the Son o f God, it being a type o f his order,
or it being bis order; and this, that they might look forward
to him for a remission o f their sins, that they might enter into
the rest o f the Lord.
Now this Melchizedek was a king over the land o f Salem;
and bis people had waxed strong in iniquity and abominations;
yea, they had all gone astray: they were full o f all manner o f
wickedness; but Melchizedek having exercised mighty faith,
and received the office o f the High Priesthood, according to the
holy order o f God, did preach repentance unto his people.—
And behold, they did repent; and Melchizedek did establish
peace in the land in his days; therefore he was called the
Prince of Peace, for he was the king o f Salem; and he did
reign under his father. Now there were many before him,
and also there were many afterwards, but none were greater;
therefore o f him they have more particularly made mention.
Now I need not rehearse the matter; what 1 have said, may
suffice. Behold, the Scriptures are before you j if ye will ar­
rest them, it shall be to your own destruction.
And now it came to pass that when Alma had said these
words unto them, he stretched fortli his hand unto them and
cried with a mighty voice, saying, Now is the time to repent,
for the day o f salvation draweth nigh; yea, and the voice o f
the Lord, by the mouth o f angels, doth declare it unto all na­
tions ; yea, doth declare it, that they may have glad tidings
o f great jo y ; yea, and he doth sound these glad tidings among
all his people, yea, even to them thatare scattered abroad upon
the face of the earth ; wherefore they have come unto us.—
And they are made known unto us in plain terras, that we may
understand, that we cannot err; and thisbecause o f our being
wanderers in a strange land; therefore we are thus highly fa­
vored, for we have these glad tidings declared unto us in all
parts of our vineyard. For behold, angels are declaring it un-
BOOH OP ALIKA. 261
to mahy at this time in our land; and this is for the purpose
o f preparing the hearts of the children o f men for to receive
his word, at the time o f his coming in his glory. And now we
only wait to hear the joyful news declared unto us by the
mouth o f angels, of his com ing: for the time cometh, we know
not how soon. Would to God that it mightbe in my day; but
let it be sooner or later, in it I will rejoice. And it shall be
made knwon unto just and holy men, by the mouth of angels,
at the time of his coming, that the words o f our fathers might
be fulfilled, according to that which they have spoken concer­
ning him, which was according to the spirit of prophecy which
was in them.
And how my brethren, I wish from the inmost part o f my
heart, yea, with great anxiety, even unto pain, that ye would
hearken unto my words, and cast off your sins, and not pro­
crastinate the day o f your repentance; but that ye would hum­
ble yourselves before the Lord, and call on his holy name, and
watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above
that which ye can bear, and thus be led by the holy spirit, be­
coming humble, meek, submissive, patient, full of love and all
long suffering; having faith on the Lord ; having a hope that
ye shall receive eternal life; having the love o f God always
in your hearts, that ye may be lifted up at the last day, and
enter into his rest; and may the Lord grant unto you repent­
ance, that ye may not bring down his wrath upon you, that ye
may not be bound down by the chains o f hell, that ye may not
suffer the second death. And it came to pass that Alma spake
many more words unto the people, which are not written in
this book.
And it came to pass that after he had made an end o f speak­
ing unto the people, many o f them did believe on his words,
and began to repent, and to search the Scriptures; but the
more part o f them were desirous that they might destroy Alma
and Amulek: for they were angry with Alma, because o f the
plainness of his words unto Zeezrom ; and they also said that
Amulek had lied unto them, and had reviled against their law,
and also against their Lawyers and Judges. And they were
also angry with Alma and Amulek; and because they had tes­
tified so plainly against their wickedness, they sought to put
them away privily. But it came to pass that they did n ot;
but they took them and bound them with strong cords, and
took them before the Chief Judge o f the land. And the peo­
ple went forth and witnessed against them, testifying that they
262 BOOK OF ALMA.
had reviled against the law, and their Lawyers and Judges of
the land, and also all the people that were in the land; and also
testified that there was but one God, and that he should send
his Son among the people, but he should not save them; and
many such things did the people testify against Alma and Am­
úlele. And it came to pass that it was done before the Chief
Judge o f the land. And it also came to pass that Zeezrom
was astonished at the words which had been spoken; and he
also knew concerning the blindness o f the minds which he had
caused among the people, by his lying words; and his soul
began to be harrowed up, under a consciousness o f his own
guilt; yea, he began to be encircled about by the pains o f
hell.
And it came to pass that he began to cry unto the people,
saying: Behold, I am guilty, and these men are spotless before
God. And it came to pass that he began to plead for them,
from that time forth; but they reviled him, saying: Art thou
also possessed with the Devil? And it came to pass that they
spit upon him, and cast him out from among them, and also
all those which believed in the words which had been spoken
by Alma and Amulek ; and they cast them out, and sent men
to cast stones at them. And they brought their wives and
children together, and whosoever believed or had been taught
to believe in the word of God, they caused that they should
be cast into the fire; and they also brought forth their records
which contained the Holy Scriptures, and cast them into the
fire also, that they might be burned and destroyed by fire.
And it came to pass that they took Alma and Amulek, and
carried them forth to the place o f martyrdom, that they might
witness the destruction o f those which were consumed by fire.
And it came to pass that when Amulek saw the pains o f the
women and children which were consuming in the fire, he was
also pained; and he saith unto Alma, How can we witness
this awful scene? Therefore let us stretch forth our hands,
and exercise the power o f God which is in us, and save them
from the flames. But Alma saith unto him, The spirit con-
straineth me that I must not stretch forth mine hand; for be­
hold, the Lord receiveth them up unto himself, in glory ; and
he doth suffer that they may do this thing, or that the people
may do this thing unto them, according to the hardness o f
their hearts, that the judgments which he shall exercise upon
them in his wrath, may be ju st; and the blood o f the innocent
shall stand as a witness against them, yea, and cry mightily
BOOK OP ALMA. 263
»gainst them at the last day. Now Amulek saith unto Alma,
Behold, perhaps they will bum us also. And Alma saith, Be
it according to the will o f the Lord, But behold, our work is
not finished; therefore they bum us not.
Now it came to pass that when the bodies o f those which
had been cast into the fire, were consumed, and also the rec­
ords which were cast in with them, the Chief Judge of the
land came and stood before Alma and Amulek, as they were
bound ; and he smote them with his hand upon their cheeks,
and saith unto them, After what ye have seen, will ye preach
again unto this people, that they shall be cast into a lake o f
fire and brimstone 1 Behold, ye see that ye had not power to
save these which had been cast into the fire; neither hath God
saved them because they were o f thy faith. And the Judge
smote them again upon their cheeks, and asked, What say ye
for yourselves? Now this Judge was after the order and faith
of Nehor, which slew Gideon. And it came to pass that Alma
and Amulek answered him nothing; and he smote them again,
and delivered them to the officers to he cast into prison. And
it came to pass that when they had been cast into prison three
days, there came many Lawyers, and Judges, and Priests, and
teachers, which were o f the profession o f N ehor; and they
came in unto the prison to see them, and they questioned them
about many w ords; but they answered them nothing. And it
came to pass that the Judge stood before them, and saith,
W hy do ye not answer the words o f this people? Know ye
not that 1 have power to deliver ye up unto the flames ? And
he commanded them to speak; but they answered nothing.
And it came to pass that they departed and went their waya,
but came again on the morrow; and the Judge also smote
them again on their cheeks. And many came forth also, and
smote them, saying: Will ye stand again and Judge this peo­
ple, and condemn our law ? If ye have such great power, why
do ye not deliver yourselves ? And many such things did they
say unto them, gnashing their teeth upon them, and spitting
upon them, and saying, H ow shall we look when we are dam­
ned ? And many such things, yea, all manner o f such things did
they say unto them ; and thus they did mock them, for many
days. And they did withhold food from them, that they might
hunger, and water, that they might thirst; and they also did
take from them their clothes, that they were naked; and thus
they were bound with strong cords, and confined in prison.
And it came to pass after they had thus suffered for many
2 6 4 BOOK OF ALMA.
day«, (and it was on the twelfth day, in the tenth month, in the
tenth year o f the reign o f the Judgesover the people of Nephi,)
that the Chief Judge over the land o f Ammonihah, and many
o f their teachers and their Lawyers, went in unto the prison
where Alma and Amulek was bound with cords. And the
Chief Judge stood before them, and smote them again, and
saith unto them, If ye have the power of God, deliver your­
selves from these bands, and then we will believe that the
Lord will destroy this people according to your words. And
it came to pass that they all went forth and smote them, say­
ing the same words, even until the last; and when the last
had spoken unto them, the power o f God was upon Alma and
Amulek, and they arose ana stood upon their feet; and Alma
cried, saying, How long shall we suffer these great afflictions,
O Lord ? O Lord, give us strength according to our faith
which is in Christ, even unto deliverance; and they break the
cords with which they were bound; and when the people saw
this, they began to flee, for the fear o f destruction had come
upon them.
And it came to pass that so great was their fear, that they
fell to the earth, and did not obtain the outer door o f the pris­
on ; and the earth shook mightily, and the walls o f the prison
were wrent in twain, so that they fell to the earth ; and the
Chief Judge, and the Lawyers, and Priests, and teachers which
smote upon Alma and Amulek, were slain by the fall thereof.
And Alma and Amulek came forth out of the prison, and they were
not hurt; for the Lord had granted unto them power, accor­
ding to their faith which was in Christ. And they straight­
way came forth out o f the prison ; and they were loosed from
their bands; and the prison had fallen to the earth, and every
soul which was within the walls thereof, save it Were Alma and
Amulek, were slain; and they straightway came forth into the
city. Now the people having heard a great noise, came run­
ning together by multitudes, to know the cause o f it; and
when they saw Alma and Amulek coming forth out o f the pris­
on, and the walls thereof had fallen to the earth, they were
struck with great fear, and fled from the presence of Alma and
Amulek, even as a goat fleeth with her young from two lions;
and thus they did flee from the presence o f Alma and Amulek.
And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek were comman­
ded to depart out .of that city ; and they departed, and came
out even into the land o f Sidom ; and behold, there they found
all the people which had departed out o f the land o f Ammo-
BOOK OF ALHA. 265
nihah, who had been cast out and stoned, because they belie­
ved in the words o f Alma. And they related unto them ail
that had happened unto their wives and children, and also con­
cerning themselves, and o f their power o f deliverance. And
also Zeezrom lay sick at Sidom, with a burning fever, which
was caused by the great tribulations o f his mind, on account
o f his wickedness, for he supposed that Alma and Amulek was
no more; and he supposed that they had been slain, by the
cause o f his iniquity. And this great sin, and his many other
sins, did harrow up his mind until it did become exceeding
sore, having no deliverance; therefore he began to be scorch­
ed with a burning heat Now when he heard that Alma and
Amulek was in the land o f Sidom, his heart began to take
courage; and he sent a message immediately unto them, de­
siring them to come unto him.
And it came to pass that they went immediately, obeying
the message which be had sent unto them; and they went in
unto the house unto Zeezrom ; and they found him upon his
bed sick, being very low with a burning fever; and his mind
also was exceeding sore, because o f his iniquities; and when
he saw them, he stretched forth his hand, and besought them
that they would heal him.
And it came to pass that Alma said unto him, taking him by
the hand, Believest thou in the power o f Christ unto salvation?
And he answered and said, Yea, I belive all the words that
thou hast taught. And Alma saith, If thou believest in the re­
demption o f Christ, thou canst be healed. And he saith, Yea,
1 believe according to thy words. And then Alma cried unto
the Lord, saying, O Lord our God, have mercy on this man,
and heal him according to his faith which is in Christ. And
it came to pass that when Alma had said these words, that
Zeezrom leaped upon his feet, and began to walk; and this
was done to the great astonishment o f all the people; and the
knowledge o f this went forth throughout all the land o f Sidom.
And Alma baptized Zeezrom unto the L ord; and he began
from that time forth to preach unto the people. And Alma
established a Church in the land o f Sidom, and consecrated
Priests and teachers in the land, to baptize unto the Lord
whosoever were desirous to be baptized.
And it came to pass that they were many; for they did
flock in from all the region round about Sidom, and were bap­
tized ; hut as to the people that were in the land o f Ammoni-
hah, they yet remained a hardhearted and a stiffnecked peo*
266 BOOK OP ALMA,
p ie; and they repented not o f their sms, ascribing all the
power o f Alma and Arnulek to the D evil: for they were o f the
profession o f Nehor, and did not believe in the repentance o f
their sins.
And it came to pass that Alma and Amulek, Amulek having
forsaken all his gold, and his silver, and his precious things,
which was in the land o f Ammonihah, for the word o f God, he
being rejected by those whieh were once bis friends, and also
by his father and his kindred; therefore, after Alma having
established the Church at Sidom, seeing a great check, yea,
seeing that the people were checked as to the pride o f their
hearts, and began to humble themselves before God, and began
to assemble themselves together at their sanctuaries to wor­
ship God before the altar, watching and praying continually,
that they might be delivered from Satan, and from death, and
from destruction; Now as I said, Alma having seen all these
things, therefore he took Amulek and came over to the land
o f Zarahemla, and took him to his own house, and did admin­
ister unto him in his tribulations, and strengthened him in the
Lord, And thus ended the tenth year o f the reign o f the Judg­
es over the people o f Nephi,
C H A P T E R XL
And it came to pass in the eleventh year of the reign o f the
Judges over the people o f Nephi, on the fifth day o f the sec­
ond month, there having been much peace in the land o f Zara­
hemla ; there having been no wars nor contentions for a cer­
tain number o f years; even until the fifth day o f the second
month, in the eleventh year, there was a cry o f war heard
throughout the land ; for behold, the armies o f the Lamanites
had come in on the wilderness side, into the borders o f the
land, even into the city o f Ammonihah, and began to slay the
people, and to destroy the city.
And now it came to pass before the Nepbites could raise a
sufficient army to drive them out o f the land, they had destroy­
ed the people which were in the city o f Ammonihah, and also
some around the borders o f Noah, and taking others captive
into the wilderness.
N ow it came to pass that the Nephites were desirous to ob­
tain those which had been carried away captive into the wil-
BOOK OP ALMA. 267
dernese; therefore he that had been appointed Chief Captain
over the armies o f the Nephites, (and his name was Zoram,
and he had two sons, Lehi and Aha:) Now Zoram and his
two sons, knowing that Alma was High Priest over the Church,
and having heard that he had the spirit o f prophecy, therefore
they went unto him and desired o f him to know whether the
Lord would that they should go into the wilderness in search
o f their brethren, who had been taken captive by the Laman-
ites.
And it came to pass that Alma inquired o f the Lord concern­
ing the matter. And Alma returned and said unto them, Be­
hold the Lamanites will cross the river Sidon in the south wil­
derness, away up beyond the borders o f the land o f Manti-—
And behold there shall ye meet them, on the east o f the river
Sidon, and there the Lord will deliver unto thee thy brethren
which have been taken captive by the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Zoram and his sons crossed over
the river Sidon, with their armies, and marched away beyond
the borders o f Manti, into the south wilderness, which was on
the east side o f the river Sidon. And they came upon the ar­
mies o f the Lamanites, and the Lamanites were scattered and
driven into the wilderness; and they took their brethren which
had been taken captive by the Lamanites, and there was not
one soul o f them which had been lost, that were taken captive.
And they were brought by their brethren to possess their own
lands. And thus ended the eleventh year o f the Judges, the
Lamanites having been driven out o f the land, and the people
o f Ammonihah were destroyed; yea, every living soul o f the
Ammonihahites were destroyed, and also their great city, which
they said God could not destroy, because o f its greatness.—
But behold, in one day it was left desolate; and their carca­
ses were mangled by dogs and wild beasts o f the wilderness;
nevertheless, after many days, their dead bodies were heaped
up upon the face o f the earth, and they were covered with a
shallow covering. And now so great was the scent thereof,
that the people did not go in to possess the land o f Ammoni­
hah for many years. And it was called desolation o f Nehors;
for they were o f the profession o f Nehor, which were slain ;
and their lands remained desolate. And it came to pass that
the Lamanites did not come again to war against the Nephites
until the fourteenth year o f the reign o f the Judges over the
people o f Nephi. And thus for three years did the people of
Nephi have continual peace in all the land.
268 BOOK OF ALMA,
And Alma and Amulek went forth preaching repentance un­
to the people in their terapels, and in their sanctuaries, and al­
so in their synagogues, which was built after the manner of
the Jews, And as many as would hear their words, unto them
they did impart the word of God, without any respects of per­
sons continually. And thus did Alma and Amulek go forth,
and also many more which had been chosen for the work, to
preach the word throughout all the land. And the establish­
ment of the Church became general throughout the land, in all
the region round about, among all the people of the Nephites.
And there was no inequality among them, for the Lord did
pour out his spirit on all the face of the land, for to prepare
the minds ofthe children of men, or to prepare their hearts to
recieve the word which should be taught among them at the
time of his coming, that they might not be hardened against
the word, that they might not be unbelieving, and go on to de­
struction, but that they might recieve the word with joy, and
as a branch be grafted into the true vine, that they might enter
into the rest of the Lord their God,
Now those priests which did go forth among the people, did
preach against all lyings, and deceivings, and envyings, and
strifes, and malice, and reviling», and stealing, robbing, plun­
dering, murdering, committing adultry, and ail manner of la­
sciviousness, crying that these things ought not so to be ; hold­
ing forth things which must shortly come ; yea, holding forth
the coming of the Son of God, his sufferings and death, and
also the resurrection of the dead. And many of the people
did inquire concerning the place where the Son of God should
come ; and they were taught that he would appear unto them
after his resurrection ; and this the people did hear with great
joy and gladness. And now after the Church having been es­
tablished throughout all the land, having got the victory over
the Devil, and the word of God being preached in its purity in
all the land ; and the Lord pouring out his blessings upon the
people ; and thus ended the fourteenth year of the reign of the
Judges, over the people of Nephi.
BOOS OP ALMA. 263
C H A PT E R XII.
An account o f the sons o f Mosiah, which rejected their rights
to the kingdom, for the word o f God, and went up to the
land o f Nephi, to preach to the Lamaniies.— Their suffer­
ings and deliverance, according to the record o f Alma.
And now it came to pass that as Alma was journeying from
the land o f Gideon, southward, away to the land o f Manti, be­
hold, to his astonishment, he met with the sons o f Mosiah, a
journeying towards the land o f Zarahemla. Now these sons of
Mosiah were with Alma at the time the angel first appeared
unto him ; therefore Alma did rejoice exceedingly, to see his
brethren; and what added more to his joy, they were still his
brethren in the L ord; yea, and they had waxed strong in the
knowledge of the truth; for they were men o f a sound under­
standing, and they had searched the Scriptures diligently, that
they might know the word o f God. But this is not a ll: they
had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting, therefore
they had the spirit o f prophecy, and the spirit of revelation,
and when they taught, they taught with power and authority,
even as with the power and authority o f God. And they had
been teaching the word o f God for the space o f fourteen years,
among the Lamanites, having had much success in bringing
many to the knowledge o f the truth ; yea, by the power of their
words, many were brought before the altar of God, to call on
his name, and confess their sins before him. Now these are
the circumstances which attended them in their joumeyings,
for they had many afflictions; they did suffer much, both in
body and in mind ; such as hunger, thirst and fatigue, and al­
so much labor in tbe spirit. Now these were their joumey­
ings, having taken leave o f their father Mosiah, in the first year
o f the reign o f the Judges; having refused the kingdom which
their father was desirous to confer upon them ; and also this
was the minds o f the people; nevertheless they departed out
o f the land o f Zarahemla, and took their swords, and their
spears, and their bows, and their arrows, and their slings; and
this they done that they might provide food for themselves
while in the wilderness: and thus they departed into the wil­
derness, with their numbers which they had selected, to go up
to the land of Nephi, to preach the word of God unto the La­
manites.
And it came to pass that they journeyed many days in the
270 BOOK OF ALUA.
wilderness, and they fasted much, and prayed much, that the
Lord would grant unto them a portion o f his spirit to go with
them, and abide with them, that they might he an instrument in
the hands o f God, to bring, if it were possible, their brethren,
the Lamanites, to the knowledge o f the truth; to the knowl­
edge o f the baseness o f the traditions o f their fathers, which
were not correct.
And it came to pass that the Lord did visit them with his
spirit, and said unto them, Be com forted; and they were com­
forted. And the Lord said unto them also, G o forth among
the Lamanites, thy brethren, and establish my w ord ; yet ye
shall be patient in long suffering and afflictions, that ye may
shew forth good examples unto them in me, and I will make
an instrument o f thee in my hands, unto the salvation o f many
souls.
And it came to pass that the hearts o f the sons o f Mosiab,
and also those which were with them, took courage to go forth
unto the Lamanites, to declare unto them the word o f God.
And it came to pass when they had arriven in the borders
o f the land o f the Lamanites, that they separated themselves,
and departed one from another, trusting in the Lord, that they
should meet again at the close o f their harvest: for they sup­
posed that great was the work which they had undertaken.—
And assuredly it was great, for they had undertaken to preach
the word o f God to a wild, and a hardened, and a ferocious
people; a people which delighted in the murdering the Ne-
phites, and robbing, and plundering them; and their hearts
were set upon riches, o r upon gold, and silver, and precious
stones ; yet they sought to obtain these things by murdering
and plundering, that they might not lahor for them with their
own hands: thus they were a very indolent people, many o f
whom did worship idols, and the curse o f God had fell upon
them because o f the traditions o f their fathers ; notwithstand­
ing, the promises o f the Lord were extended unto them, on the
conditions o f repentance; therefore this was the cause for
which the sons of Mosiah had undertaken the work, that per­
haps they might bring them unto repentance; that perhaps
they might bring them to know o f the plan o f redemption ;
therefore they separated themselves one from another, and
went forth among them every man alone, according to the word
and power o f God, which was given unto him.
Now Ammon being the chief among them, or rather he did
administer unto them; and he departed from them, after hav-
BOOK OP ALMA. 271
gn blessed them according to their several stations, having im­
parted the word o f God -unto them, or administered unto them
before his departure; and thus they took their several journeys
throughout the land. And Ammon went to the land o f Ishmael,
the land being called after the sons o f Ishmael, which also be­
came Lamanites. And as Ammon entered the land o f Ishmael,
the Lamanites took him and bound him, as was their custom,
to bind all the Nephites which fell into their hands, and carry
them before the king; and thus it was left to the pleasure o f
the king to slay them, or to retain them in captivity, or to cast
them into prison, or to cast them out o f bis land, according to
his will and pleasure; and thus Ammon was carried before
the king which was over the land of Ishmael; and his name was
Lamoni; and he was a descendant o f Ishmael. And the king
inquired o f Ammon if it were his desires to dwell in the land
among the Lamanites, or among his people? And Amnion
said unto him, Yea, I desire to dwell among this people for a
tim e; yea, and perhaps until the day I die.
And it came to pass that king Lamoni was much pleased
with Ammon, and caused that his bands should be loosed; and
he would that Ammon should take one of his daughters to wife.
But Ammon saith unto him, Nay, but I will be thy servant;
therfore Ammon became a servant to king Lamoni. And it
came to pass that he was set, among other servants, to watch
the docks of Lamoni, according to the custom of the Laman­
ites. And it came to pass that after he had been in the ser­
vice o f the king three days, that as he was, with the Laman-
itish servants, a going forth with their flocks, to the place of
water, which was called the water o f Sebus; (and all the
Lamanites drive their flocks hither, that they might have wa­
ter ;) therefore as Ammon and the servants o f the king were
driving forth their flocks to this place o f water, behold, a cer­
tain number o f the Lamanites who had been with their flocks
to water, stood and scattered the flocks o f Ammon, and the
servants o f the king, and they scattered them insomuch that
they fled many ways.
Now the servants oftheking began to murmur, saying: Now
the king will slay us, as he has our brethren, because their
flocks were scattered by the wickedness o f these men. And
they began to weep exceedingly, saying, Behold our flocks are
scattered already. Now they wept because o f the fear of be­
ing slain. Now when Ammon saw this, his heart was swollen
within him, with jo y ; for, said he, I will shew forth my pow-
272 BOOK OP ALMA.
er unto these my fellow servants, or the power which is in me,
in restoring these flocks unto the king, that I may win the
hearts o f these my fellow servants, that I may lead them to
believe in ray words. Now these were the thoughts o f Am­
mon, when he saw the afflictions o f those which he termed to
be his brethren.
And it came to pass that he flattered them by his words,
saying: My brethren^ be o f good cheer and let us go in search
o f the flocks, and we will gather them together, and bring them
back unto the place o f water; and thus we will reserve the
flocks unto the king, and he will not slay us.
And it came to pass that they went in search of the flocks,
and they did follow Ammon, and they rushed forth with much
swiftness, and did head the flocks o f the king, and did gather
them together again, to the place o f water. And those men
again stood to scatter their flocks; but Ammon sailh unto his
brethren, Encircle the flocks round about, that they flee n ot;
and 1 go and contend with these men which do scatter our
flocks. Therefore they did as Ammon commanded them, and
he went forth and stood to contend with those which stood by
the waters o f Sebus; and they were not in number a very
fe w ; therefore they did not fear Ammon, for they supposed
that one o f their men could slay him, according to their pleas­
ure, for they knew not that the Lord had promised Mosiah
that he would deliver his sons out o f their hands; neither did
they know any thing concerning the Lord; therefore they de­
lighted in the destruction o f their brethren; and for this cause
they stood to scatter the flocks o f the king.
But Ammon stood forth and began to cast stones at them
with his sling; yea, with mighty power he did sling stones a-
mongst them; and thus he slew a certain number o f them, in­
somuch that they began to be astonished at his pow er; never­
theless they were angry because o f the slain of their brethren,
and they were determined that he should fall; therefore, see­
ing that they could not hit him with their stones, they came
forth with clubs to slay him. But behold, every man that lift­
ed his club to smite Ammop, he smote off their arms with his
sword ; for he did withstand their blows by smiting their arms
with the edge o f his sword, insomuch that they began to be
astonished, and began to flee before him ; yea, and they were
not few in number; and he caused them to flee by the strength
o f his arm. Now six o f them had fallen by the sling, but he
slew none save it were their leader; and he smote off as many
BOOK OF ALMA. 273
o f their arms as was lifted against him, and they were not a
few. And when he had driven them afar otf, he returned,
and they watered their flocks and returned them to the pas­
ture o f the king, and then went in unto the king, hearing the
arms which had been smote off by the sword o f Ammon, o f
those who sought to slay him ; and they were carried in unto
the king, for a testimony o f the things which they had done.
And it came to pass that king Lamoni caused that his ser­
vants should stand forth and testify to all the things which
they had seen concerning the matter. And when they had all
testified to the things which they had seen, and he had learned
o f the faithfulness o f Ammon in preserving his flocks, and also
o f his great power in contending against those who sought to
slay him, he was astonished exceedingly, and saiih, Surely,
this is more than a man. Behold, is not this the Great Spirit
which doth send such great punishments upon this people,
because o f their murders'? And they answered the king, and
said, Whether he be the Great Sprit or a man, we know not;
but this much we do know, that he cannot be slain by the
enemies o f the king; neither can they scatter the king’s flocks
when be is with us, because o f his expertness and great
strength ; therefore, we know that he is a friend to the king.
And now, O king, we do not believe that a man hath such
great power, for we know that he cannot be slain. And now
when the king heard these words, he said unto them, Now I
know that it is the Great Spirit ; and he hath corne down at
this time to preserve your lives, that 1might not slay you as I
did your brethren. Now this is the Great Spirit o f which our
fathers have spoken. Now this was the tradition o f Lamoni,
which he had received from his father, that there was a Great
Spirit. Notwithstanding they believed in a Great Spirit, they
supposed that whatsoever they did, was right; nevertheless,
Lamoni began to fear exceedingly, with fear lest lie had done
wrong in slaying his servants : "for he had slew many of them,
because their brethren had scattered their (locks at the piece
of water; and thus because they had had their flocks scattered,
they were slain. Now it was the practice o f the Lamanites,
to stand by the waters o f Sebus, to scatter the flocks o f the
people, that thereby they might drive away many that were
scattered, unto their own land, it being a practice o f plunder
among them.
And it came to pass that king Lamoni inquired o f his ser­
vants, saying; Where is this man that hath such great power?
18
274 BOOK OF ALMA,
And they saith unto him, Behold, he is feeding thy horses.—
N ow the king had commanded his servants previous to the
time o f the watering o f their flocks, that they should prepare
his horses and chariots, and conduct him forth to the land o f
N eph i: for there had been a great feast appointed at the land
o f Nephi, by the father o f Lamoni, who was king over all the
land. Now when king Lamoni heard that Ammon was pre­
paring bis horses and his chariots, he was more astonished,
because o f the faithfulness o f Ammon, saying: Surely, there
has not been any servant among all my servants, that has been
so faithful as this m an; for even he doth remember all my
commandments to execute them. Now I surely know that
this is the Great Spirit; and I would desire him that he come
in unto me, but 1 durst not.
And it came to pass that when Ammon had made ready the
horses and the chariots for the king and his servants, he went
in unto the king, and he saw that the countenance o f the king
was changed; therefore he was about to return out o f his pres­
ence ; and one o f the king’s servants said unto him, Rabbanah,
which is, being interpreted, powerful, or great king, consider­
ing their kings to be pow erful; and thus he said unto him,
Rabbanah, the king desirelh thee to stay ; therefore Ammon
turned himself unto the king, and saith unto him, What wilt
thou that I should do for thee, O king? And the king answer­
ed him not for the space o f an hour, according to their time,
for he knew not what he should say unto him. And it came
to pass that Ammon said unto him again, What desirest thou
o f m e? But the king answered him not.
And it came to pass that Ammon, being filled with the spirit
o f God, therefore he perceived the thoughts o f the king. And
he saith unto him, Is it because that thou hast heard that I
defended thy servants and thy flocks, and slew seven o f their
brethren with the sling, and with the sword, and smote off the
arms o f others, in order to defend thy flocks and thy servants;
behold, is it this that causeth thy marvellings ? I say unto you,
What is it, that thy marvellings are so great ? Behold, I am a
man, and am thy servant; therefore, whatsoever thou desirest
which is right, that will I do. . Now when the king had heard
these words, he marvelled again, for he beheld that Ammon
could discern his thoughts; but notwithstanding this, king
Lamoni did open his mouth, and said unto him, W ho art thou ?
Art thou that Great Spirit, which knows all things? Ammon
answered and said unto him, I am not. And the king saith,
BOOK OP ALMA. 375
How knowest thou the thoughts of my heart ? Thou mayest
speak boldly, and tell me concerning these thingB; and also
tell me by what power ye slew and smote off the arms of my
brethren, that scattered my flocks. And now if thou wilt tell
me concerning these things, whatsoever thou desirest, 1 will
give unto thee ; and if it were needed, 1 would guard thee with
my armies ; but 1 know that thou art more powerful than all
they; nevertheless, whatsoever thou desirest o f rae, I will
grant it unto thee. Now Ammon being wise, yet harmless, he
saith unto Lamoni, Wilt thou hearken unto my words, if I tell
thee by what power I do these things'? and this is the thing
that 1 desire of thee. And the king answered him, and said,
Yea, I will believe all thy words; and thus he was caught
with guile. And Ammon began to speak unto him with bold­
ness, and said unto him, Believest thou that there is a God ?
And he answered, and said unto him, 1do not know what that
meaneth. And then Ammon saith, Believest thou that there
is a Great Spirit? And he saith, Yea. And Ammon saith,
This is God. And Ammon saith unto him again, Believest
thou that this Great Spirit, which is God, created all things,
which is in Heaven and in the Earth ? And he saith, Yea, I
believe that he created all things which is in the earth; but 1
do not know the Heavens. And Ammon saith unto him, The
Heavens is a place where God dwells, and all his holy angels.
And king Lamoni saith, Is it above the earth ? And Ammon
saith, Yea, and he looketh down upon all the children of men;
and he knows all the thoughts and intents of the heart: for by
his hand were they all created, from the beginning. And king
Lamoni saith, I believe all these things which thou hast spo­
ken. Art thou sent from God ? Ammon taith unto him, I am
a man ; and man in the beginning, was created after the image
of G od; and 1 am called by his Holy Spirit to teach these
things unto this people, that they may be brought to a knowl­
edge o f that which is just and true; and a portion o f that Spir­
it dwelleth in me, which giveth me knowledge, and also pow­
er, according to my faith and desires which is in God. Now
when Ammon had said these words, he began to the creation
of the world, and also to the creation o f Adam, and told him
all the things concerning the fall of man, and rehearsed and
laid before him the records and the Holy Scriptures of the
people, and which had been spoken by the prophets, even
down to the time that their father Lehi left Jerusalem; and
he also rehearsed unto them (for it was unto the king and to
18*
BOOK OF ALMA.
2T6
his servants,) all the journeyings o f their fathers in the wilder­
ness, and all their sufferings with hunger and thirst, and their
travel, &c. ; and he also rehearsed unto them concerning the
rebellions o f Laman and Lemuel, and the sons o f lshmael,
yea, all their rebellions did he relate unto them; and he ex­
pounded unto them all the records and Scriptures, from the
time that Lehi left Jerusalem, down to the present time ; but
this is not all, for he expounded unto them the plan o f re­
demption, which was prepared from the foundation o f the
world; and he also made known unto them concerning the
coming of Christ; and all the works o f the Lord did he make
know unto them.
And it came to pass that after he had said all these things,
and expounded them to the king, that the king believed all
i i s words. And he began to cry unto the Lord, saying: O
Xord, have mercy", according to thy abundant mercy which
thou hast had upon the people o f Nephi, have upon me and
my people. And now when he had said this, he fell unto the
earth, as if he were dead. And it came to pass that his ser­
vants took him and carried him in unto his wife, and laid him
upon a b ed; and he lay as if he were dead, for the space of
two days and two nights; and his wife, and his sons, and his
daughters mourned over him, after the manner o f the Laman-
ites, greatly lamenting his loss.
And it came to pass that after two days and two nights, they
were about to take his body and lay it in a sepulchre which
they had made forthe purpose o f burying their dead. Now the
queen having heard o f the fame of Ammon, therefore she sent
and desired that he should come in unto her. And it came
to pass that Ammon did as he was commanded, and went in
unto the queen, and desired to know what she would that he
should do. And she saith unto him, The servants of my hus­
band have made it known unto me, that thou art a prophet o f
a Holy God, and that thou hast power to do many mighty
works in his name; therefore, if this is the case, I would that
ye should go in and see my husband, for lie has been laid upon
his bed for the space o f two days and two nights; and some
say that he is not dead, but others say that he is dead, and
that he stinketh, and that he ought to be placed in the sepul­
chre ; but as for myself, to me he doth not stink. Now this
was wbat Ammon desired, for he knew that king Lamoni was
under the power o f G od; he knew that the dark veil o f unbe­
lief being cast away from his mind, and the light which did
BOOK OF ALMA. sm
light up his mind, which was the light o f the glory o f God,
which was a marvellous light o f his goodness; yea, this light
had infused such joy into his soul, the cloud o f darkness having
been dispelled, and the light o f everlasting light was lit up
in his sou l; yea, he knew that this had overcame his natural
frame, and he was carried away in G o d ; therefore, what the
queen desired o f him, was his only desire. Therefore he
went in to see the king, according as the queen had desired
him ; and he saw the king, and he knew that he was not dead.
And he saith unto the queen, He is not dead, but he sleepethin
God, apd on the morrow he shall rise again; therefore bury
him not. And Ammon saith unto her, Believest thou this?
And she said unto him, I have had no witness, save thy word,
and the word o f our servants; nevertheless, I believe that it
shall be according as thou hast said. And Ammon said unto
her, Blessed art thou, because o f thy exceeding faith; I say
unto thee, woman, there has not been such great faith among
all the people o f the Nepbites.
And it came to pass that she watched over the bed o f her
husband, from that time, even until that time on the morrow
which Ammon had appointed that he should rise. And it
came to pass that he arose, according to the words o f Am m on;
and as he arose, he stretched forth his hand unto the woman,
and said, Blessed be the name o f God, and blessed art thou:
for as sure as thou livest, behold, I have seen my Redeem er;
and he shall come forth, and be bom o f a woman, and he shall
redeem all mankind who believe on his name. Now when he
had said these words, his heart was swollen within him, and
he sunk again with jo y ; and the queen also sunk down, being
overpowered by the spirit Now Ammon seeing the spirit o f
the Lord poured out according to his prayers upon the Laman
ites, his brethren, which had been the cause o f so much
mourning among the Nephites, or among all the people o f God,
because o f their iniquities and their traditions; and Ammon
fell upon his knees, and began to pour out his soul in prayer
and thanksgiving to God, for what he had done for his breth­
ren ; and he was also overpowered with jo y ; and thus they
all three had sunk to the earth. Now when the servants o f
the king had seen that they had fallen, they also began to cry
unto God, for the fear o f the Lord had come upon them also:
for it was they which had stood before the king, and testified
unto him concerning the great power o f Ammon.
And it came to pass that they did call on the name o f the
278 BOOK o r ALMA.
Lord in their might, even until they had all fallen to the earth,
save it were one o f the Lamanitish women, whose name was
Abish, she having been converted unto the Lord for many
yars, on account o f a remarkable vision o f her father; thus
having been converted to the Lord, never had made it known;
therefore when she saw that all the servants o f Lamoni had
fallen fo the earth, and also her mistress, the queen, and the
king, and Ammon lay prostrate upon the earth, she knew that
it was the power of G od; and supposing that this opportunity,
by making known unto the people what bad happened among
them, that by beholding this scene, it would cause them to be­
lieve in the power o f God, therefore she ran forth from house
to house, making it known unto the people; and they began
to assemble themselves together unto the house of tne king.
And there came a multitude, and to their astonishment, they
beheld the king, and the queen, and their servants, prostrate
upon the earth, and they all lay there as though they were
dead; and they also saw Ammon, and behold, he was a Ne-
phite. And now the people began to murmur among them­
selves ; some saying, That it was a great evil that had come
upon them, or upon the king and his house, because he had
suffered that the Nephite should remain in the land. But others
rebuked them, saying, The king hath brought this evil upon
his house, because he slew his servants who had had their
flocks scattered at the waters o f Sebus; and they were also
rebuked by tbose men which had stood at the waters o f Se­
bus, and scattered the flocks which belonged to the king, for
they were angry with Ammon because o f the number which
he had slain o f their brethren at the waters o f Sebus, while
defending the flocks o f the king. Now one o f them, whose
brother had been slain with the sword o f Ammon, being ex­
ceeding angry with Ammon, drew his sword and went forth
that he might let it fall upon Ammon, to slay him; and as he
lifted the sword to smite him, behold, he fell dead. Now we
see that Ammon could not be slain, for the Lord had said unto
Mosiah, his father, 1 will spare him, and it shall he unto him
according to thy faith; therefore Mosiah trusted him unto the
Lord.
And it came to pass that when the multitude beheld that
the man had fell dead, who lifted the sword to slay Ammon,
fear came upon them all, and they durst not put forth their
hands to touch him, or any o f those which had fallen; and
they began to marvel again among themselves, what could be
BOOK OF ALMA* 2 7 9
the cause of this great power, or what all these things could
mean.
And it came to pass that there was many among them, who
said that Ammon was the Great Spirit, and others said he was
sent by the Great Spirit; but others rebuked them all, say­
ing, That he was a monster, which hath been sent from the
JVephites to torment u s ; and there were some which said that
Ammon was sent by the Great Spirit to afflict them, because
o f their iniquities, and that it was the Great Spirit that had
always attended the Nephites, which had ever delivered them
out of their hands; and they said that it was this Great Spirit
which had destroyed so many o f their brethren, the Larnan-
jtes; and thus the contention began to be exceeding sharp
among them. And while they were thus contending, the wo­
man servant which had caused the multitude to be gathered
together, came; and when she saw the contention which was
among the multitude, she was exceeding sorrowful, even unto
tears.
And it came to pass that she went and took the queen by
the hand, that perhaps she might raise her from the ground;
and as soon as she touched her hand, she arose and stood up­
on her feet, and cried with a loud voice, saying: O blessed
Jesus, who has saved me from an awful hell! O blessed God,
have mercy on this people. And when she had said this, she
clasped her hands, being filled with joy, speaking many words
which were not understood ; and when she had done this, she
took the king, Lamoni, by the hand, and behold, he arose and
stood upon his feet; and he immediately, seeing the contention
among his people, went forth and began to rebuke them, and
to teach them the words which he had heard from the mouth
o f Ammon; and as many as heard his words, believed, and
were converted unto the Lord. But there were many among
them which would not hear his w ords; therefore they went
their way.
And it came to pass that when Ammon arose, he also ad­
ministered unto them, and also did all the servants of Lamoni;
and they did all declare unto the people the self-same thing:
that their hearts had been changed; that they had no more de­
sire to do evil. And behold, many did declare unto the people
that they had seen angels, and had conversed with them; and
thus they had told them things of God, and o f his righteousness.
And it came to pass that there was many that did believe in
their words ; and as many as did believe, were baptized; and
280 BOOK O r ALMA.
they became a righteous people, and they did establish a church
among them : and thus the work o f the Lord did commenoe
among the Lamanites; thus the Lord did begin to pour out
hi* spirit upon them ; and we see that his arm is extended to
all people who will repent and believe on his name.
And it came to pass that when they had established a
church in that land, that king Lamoni desired that Ammon
should go with him to the land o f Nephi, that he might show
him unto his father. And it came to pass that the voice o f the
Lord came to Ammon, saying: Thou shah not go up to the
land o f Nephi, for behold, the king will seek thy life; but thou
shall go to the land o f M iddoni; for behold, thy brother Aa-
?on, and also Muloki and Ammah are in prison.
Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he
saith unto Lamoni, Behold, my brother and brethren are in
prison at Middoni, and I go that I may deliver them. Now La-
inoni saith unto Ammon, I know, in the strength o f the Lord,
thou canst do all things. But behold, I will go with thee to
the land o f M iddoni; for the king o f the land o f Middoni,
whose name is Antiomno, is a friend unto me ; therefore 1goto
the land of Middoni, that I may flatter the king o f the land;
and he will cast thy brethren out o f prison. Now Lamoni
saith unto him, W ho told thee that my brethren were in prison 1
And Ammon saith unto him, No one hath told me, save it be
G od : and he said unto me, Go add deliver tby brethren, for
they are in prison in the land o f Middoni. Now when Lamo-
ni had heard this, he caused that his servants should make
ready his horses, and his chariots. And he saith unto Am­
mon, Come, I will go with thee down to the land o f Mid-
doni, and there 1 will plead with the king, that he will cast tby
brethren out o f prison.
And it came to pass that as Ammon and Lamoni was a
journeying thither, that they met the father o f Lamoni, who
was king over all the land. And behold, the father o f Lamoni
saith unto him, W hy did ye not oome to the feast, on that
great day when 1 made a feast unto my sons, and unto my
people 1 And he also saith, Whither art thou going with this
Nephite, which is one o f the children o f a liar 1 And it came
to pass that Lamoni rehearst unto him whither he was going,
for be feared to offend him. And he also told him all the
cause of his tarrying in his own kingdom, that he did not go
unto his father, to the feast which he had prepared. And
now when Lamoni had rehearsed unto him all these things,
BOOK OP ALMA. 281
lsehold, to his astonishment, his father was angry with him,
and saith, Lamoni. thou art going to deliver these Nephites,
which are sons o f a liar. Behold, he robbed our fathers;
and now his children are also come amongst us, that they
may, by their cunning and their lyings, deceive us, that they
again may rob us o f our property. Now the father o f Latno-
ni com inarmlied him that he should slay Ammon, with the
sword. And he also commanded him that he should not
go to the land o f Middoni, but that he should return with
him, to the land of IshmaeL But Lamoni saith unto him, I
will not slay Ammon, neither will I return to the land o f Ish-
mael, but I go to the land o f Middoni, that I may release the
brethren o f Ammon, for 1 know that they are just men, and
holy prophets of the true God. Now when his father heard
these words, he was angry with him, and he drew his sword
that he might smite him to the earth. But Ammon stood forth
and saith unto him, Behold, thou »halt not slay thy son ; nev­
ertheless, it were better that he should fall than thee: for be­
hold, he hath repented o f his sins; but if thou shouldst fall at
this time, in thine anger, thy soul could not be saved. And
again : It is expedient that thou shouldst forbear; for if thou
shouldst slay thy scut, (he being and innocent man,) his blood
would cry from the ground, to the Lord his God, for vengeance
to come upon thee ; and perhaps thou wouldst lose thy soul.
N ow when Ammon had said these words unto him, he an­
swered him, saying: 1 know that if I should slay my son, that
I should shed innocent blood ; for it is thou that hast sought
to destroy him : and he stretched forth his hand to slay Am­
mon. But Ammon withstood his blows, and also smote his
arm that he could not use it. Now when the king saw that
Ammon could slay him, he began to plead with Ammon, that
he would spare his life. But Ammon raised his sword, and
said unto him, Behold, I will smite thee, except thou wilt grant
unto me that my brethren may be cast out o f prison. Now the
king, fearing that he should lose his life, said, If thou wilt spare
me, I will grant unto thee whatsoever thou wilt ask, even to
the half o f the kingdom.
Now when Ammon saw that he had wrought upon the old
king according to his desire, he saith unto him, If thou wilt
grant that my brethren may be cast out o f prison, and also
that Lamoni may retain his kingdom, and that ye he not dis­
pleased with him, but grant that he may do according to his
own desires, in whatsoever thing he thinketh, and then will I
282 BOOK OF ALMA.
spare thee; otherwise I will smite thee to the earth. Now
when Ammon had said these words, the king began to rejoice
because o f his life. And when he saw that Ammon had no
desires to destoy him, and when he also saw the great love he
had for his son Lamoni, he was astonished exceedingly, and
saith, Because this is all that thou hast desired, that 1 w'ould
release thy brethren, and suffer that my son Lamoni should
retain his kingdom, behold, I will grant unto you that my son
may retain bis kingdom from this time and forever; and I will
govern him no more. And I will also grant unto thee that
thy brethren may be cast out o f prison, and thou and thy
brethren may come unto me, in my kingdom; for I shall
greatly desire to see thee; for the king rvas greatly astonished
at the words which he had spoken, and also at the words
which had been spoken by his son Lam oni; therefore he was
desirous to learn them.
And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni proceeded on
their journey towards the land o f Middoni. And it came to
pass that Lamoni found favor in the eyes o f the king of the
land ; therefore the brethren o f Ammon was brought forth out
o f prison. And when Ammon did meet them, he was exceed­
ing sorrowful, for behold, they were naked, and their skins
were worn exceedingly, because o f being bound with strong
cords. And they also had suffered hunger, thirst, and all kind
o f afflictions; nevertheless they were patient in all their suf­
ferings. And as it happened, it was their lot to have fallen
into the hands o f a more hardened and a more stiffnecked peo­
ple ; therefore they would not hearken unto their words, and
they had cast them out, and had smote them, and had driven
them from house to house, and from place to place, even un­
til they had arriven to the land o f M iddoni; and there they
were taken and cast into prison, and bound with strong cords,
and kept in prison for many days ; and were delivered by La-
moni and Ammon.
CH APTER XIII.
An account o f the preaching a f Aaron and Muloki, and
thdr brethren, to the Lamanites.
N ow when Ammon and bis brethren separated themselves
BOOK OF ALMA, 283
in the borders o f the land o f the Lamanites, behold, Aaron
took bis journey towards the land which was called by the
Lamanites, Jerusalem; calling it after the land of their fathers’
nativity; and it was away joining the borders o f Mormon.—
Now the Lamanites, and the Amalekites, and the people of
Amulon, had built a great city, which was called Jerusalem.
Now the Lamanites, of themselves, were sufficiently hardened,
but the Amalekites, and the Amuktnites, were still harder;
therefore they did cause the Lamanites that they should harden
their hearts, that they should wax stronger in wickedness, and
their abominations.
And it came to pass that Aaron came to the city of Jerusa­
lem, and firstly began to preach to the Amalekites. And he
began to preach to them in their synagogues, for they had built
synagogues, after the order o f the Nehors; for many o f the
Amalekites and the Amulonites were after the order of the Ne­
hors. Therefore, as Aaron entered into one o f their syna­
gogues to preach unto the people, and as he was speaking un­
to them, behold there arose an Amalekite, and began to con­
tend with him, saying: What is that that thou hast testified?
Hast thou seen an angel ? W hy do not angels appear unto
us ? Behold, are not this people as good as thy people ?—
Thou also sayest, Except we repent, we shall perish. How
knowest thou the thought and intent o f our heart? How
knowest thou that we have cause to repent ? How knowest
thou that we are not a righteous people ? Behold, we have
built sanctuaries, and we do assemble ourselves together to
worship God. W e do believe that God will save all men.
Now Aaron said unto him, Believest thou that the Son o f
God shall come to redeem mankind from their sins ? And the
man saith unto him, W e do not believe that thou knowest
any such thing. W e do not believe in these foolish traditons.
W e do not believe that thou knowest o f things to come, nei­
ther do we believe that thy fathers, and also that our fathers
did know concerning the things which they spake, o f that
which is to come.
Now Aaron began to open the Scriptures unto them, con­
cerning the coming o f Christ, and also concerning the resur­
rection o f the dead, and that there could be no redemption
for mankind, save it were through the death and sufferings o f
Christ, and the atonement of his blood. And it came to pass
that as he began to expound these things unto them, they were
angry with him, and began to mock him ; and they would not
284 BOOK OP ALMA.
hear the words which he spake; therefore, when he saw that
they would not hear his words, he departed out o f the syna­
gogue, and came over to a village which was called Ani-anti,
and there he found Muloki a preaching the word unto them;
and also Ammab, and his brethren. And they contended with
many about the word. And it came to pass that they saw
that the people would harden their hearts; therefere they de­
parted, and came over into the land o f Middoni. And they did
preach the word unto many, and few believed on the words
which they taught. Nevertheless, Aaron, and a certain num­
ber o f his brethren, were taken and cast into prison, and the
remainder o f them fled out o f the land o f Middoni, unto the re­
gions round about. And those which were cast into prison
suffered many things, and they were delivered by the hand o f
Lamoni and Am mon; and they were fed and clothed And
they went forth again to declare the w ord; and thus they were
delivered for the first time out o f prison; and thus they had
Buffered. And they went forth whithersoever they were led
by the spirit o f the Lord, preaching the word o f God in every
synagogue o f the Amalebites, or in every assembly o f the La-
manites, where they could be admitted.
And it came to pass that the Lord began to bless them, in­
somuch that they brought many to the knowledge o f the truth;
yea, they did convince many o f their sins, and o f the tradition
o f their fathers, which were not correct.
And it came to pass that Ammon and Lamoni returned from
the land o f Middoni, to the land o f Ishmael, which was the
land o f their inheritance. And king Lamani would not suffer
that Ammon should serve him, or be his servant; but he caus­
ed that there should be synagogues built in the land oflshm a-
e l; and he caused that his people, or the people which was
under bis reign, should assemble themselves together. And
he did rejoice over them, and he did teach them many things.
And he did also declare unto them that they were a people
which was under him, and that they were a free people; that
they were free from the oppressions o f the king, his father; for
that his father had granted unto him that he might reign over
the people which were in the land o f Ishmael, and in all the
land round about. And he also declared unto them that they
might have the liberty o f worshiping the Lord their God, ac­
cording to their desires, in whatsoever place they were in, if it
were in the land which was under the reign o f king Lamoni.
And Ammon did preach unto the people o f king Lamoni.—
BOOK OP ALMA. 285
And it came to pass that he did teach them all things concern­
ing things pertaining to righteousness. And he did exhort
them daily, with all diligence; and they gave heed unto his
word, and they were zealous for keeping the commandments
o f God. Now as Ammon was thus teaching the people o f
Lamoni continually, we will return to the account o f Aaron
and his brethren ; for after he departed from the land o f Mid-
doni, he was led by the spirit to the land o f N epbi; even to
the house o f the king which was over all the land, save it
were the land o f Ishmael; and he was the father of Lamoni,
And it came to pass that he went in unto him into the king’s
palace, with his brethren, and bowed himself before the king,
and said unto him, Behold, 0 king, we are the brethren o f
Ammon, whom thou hast delivered out o f prison. And now,
O king, if thou wilt spare our lives, we will be thy servants.
And the king saith unto them, Arise, for 1 will grant unto you
your lives, and 1 will not suffer that ye shall be my servants;
but 1 will insist that ye shall administer unto m e ; for I have
been somewhat troubled in mind, because o f the generosity,
and the greatness o f the words o f thy brother Ammon ; and I
desire to know the cause why he has not come up out o f Mid-
doni, with thee. And Aaron saith unto the king, Behold, the
spirit o f the Lord hath called him another way : he hath gone
to the land o f Ishmael, to teach the people o f Lamoni. Now
the king saith unto them, What is this that ye have said con­
cerning the spirit o f the Lord ? Behold, this is the thing which
doth trouble me. And also, what is this that Ammon stud— if
ye will repent ye shall be saved, and if ye will not repent, ye
shall be cast off at the last day ! And Aaron answered him
and said unto him, Believest thou that there is a God ? And
the king saith, I know that the Amalekites say that there is a
God, and I have granted unto them that they should build sanc­
tuaries, that they might assemble themselves together, to wor­
ship him. And if now thou sayest there is a God, behold, I
will believe.
And now when Aaron heard this, his heart began to rejoice,
and he saith, Behold, assuredly, as thou livest, 0 king, there
is a God. And the king saith, Is God that Great Spirit that
brought our fathers out of the land o f Jerusalem ? And Aaron
said unto him, Yea, he is that Great Spirit, and he created all
things, both in Heaven and in earth : believest thou this f—
And he saith Yea, I believe that the Great Spirit created all
286 BOOK OF ALMA.
things, and I desire that ye should tell me concerning all these
things, and 1 will believe thy words.
And it came to pass that when Aaron saw that the king
would believe his words, he began from the creation of Adam,
reading the Scriptures unto the king; how God created man
after his own image, and that God gave him commandments,
and that because o f transgression, man had fallen. And Aaron
did expound unto him the Scriptures, from the creation of Ad­
am, laying the fall o f roan before him, and their carnal state,
and also the plan o f redemption, which was prepared from the
foundation o f the world, through Christ, for all whosoever
would believe on his name. And since man had fallen, he
could not merit any thing o f himself; but the sufferings and
death o f Christ atoneth for their sins, through faith and re­
pentance, & c.; and that he breaketh the bands o f death,
that the grave shall have no victory, and that the Bting o f death
should be swallowed up in the hopes o f glory : and Aaron did
expound all these things unto the king. And it came to pass
that after Aaron had expounded these things unto him, the
king saith, What shall I do, that 1 may have this eternal life
o f which thou hast spoken'! Yea, what shall 1 do, that 1 may
be born o f God, havmg this wicked spirit rooted out o f my
breast, and receive his spirit, that I may be filled with joy , that
I may not be cast off at the last day ? Behold, saith he, I will
give up all that I possess; yea, 1 will forsake my kingdom, that
1 may receive this great joy. But Aaron saith unto him, If
thou desirest this thing, if thou wilt bow down before God, yea,
if thou repent o f all thy sins, and will bow down before God,
and call on his name in faith, believing that ye shall receive,
then shalt thou receive the hope which thou desiresi.
And it came to pass that when Aaron had said these words,
the king did bow down before the Lord, upon his knees ; yea,
even he did prostrate himself upon the earth, and cried migh­
tily, saying, O God, Aaron hath told me that there is a G od ;
and if there is a God, and if thou art God, wilt thou make
thyself known unto me, and I will give away all my sins to
know thee, and that I may be raised from the dead, and be
saved at the last day. And now when the king had said these
words, he was struck as if he were dead.
And it came to pass that his servants ran and told the
queen all that had happened unto the king. And she came in
unto the king; and when she saw him lay as if he were dead,
BOOK OF ALMA. 287
and also Aaron and his brethren standing as though they had
been the cause o f his fall, she was angry with them, and com­
manded that her servants, or the servants o f the king, should
take them and slay them. Now the servants had seen the
cause o f the king’s fall, therefore they durst not lay their hands
on Aaron and his brethren; and they plead with the queen, say­
ing, Why commandest thou that we should slay these men,
when behold, one o f them is mightier than us all ? Therefore
we shall fall before them. Now when the queen saw the fear
o f the servants, she also began to fear exceedingly, lest there
should some evil come upon her. And she commanded her
servants that they should go and call the people, that they
might slay Aaron and his brethren. Now when Aaron saw
the determination o f the queen, and he also knowing the hard­
ness o f the hearts o f the people, feared lest that a multitude
should assemble themselves together, and there should be a
great contention, and a disturbance among them ; therefore he
put forth his hand and raised the king from the earth, anil said
unto him, Stand: and he stood upon his feet, receiving his
strength. Now this was done in the presence o f the queen,
and many o f the servants. And when they saw it, they greatly
marvelled, and began to fear. And the king stood forth and
began to minister unto them. And he did minister unto them
insomuch that his whole household were converted unto the
Lord. Now there was a multitude gathered together because
o f the commandment o f the queen, and there began to be great
murmurings among them, because o f Aaron and his brethren.
But the king stood forth among them, and administered unto
them. And it came to pass that they were pacified towards
Aaron, and those which were with him.
And it came to pass that when the king saw that the people
were pacified, he caused that Aaron and his brethren should
stand forth in the midst o f the multitude, and that they should
preach the word unto them. And it came to pass that the
king sent a proclamation throughout all the land, amongst all
his people which was in all his land, which was in all the re­
gions round about, which was bordering even to the sea, on
the east, and on the west, and which was divided from the
land o f Zarahemla by a narrow strip o f wilderness, which ran
from the sea, east, even to the sea west, and round about on
the borders o f the sea shore, and the borders o f the wilderness
which was on the north, by the land o f Zarahemla, through
the borders o f Manti, by the head o f the river Sidon, running
268 BOOK OF ALMA.
from the east towards the w est; and thus were the Lamanites
and the Nephites divided. Now the more idle part of the La-
manites lived in the wilderness, and dwelt in tents ; and they
were spread through the wilderness, on the west, in the land
o f Nephi; yea, and also on the west o f the laud of Zarahemla,
in the borders, by the seashore, and on the west, in the land
o f Nephi, in the place o f their fathers’ first inheritance ; and
thus bordering along by the seashore. And also there was
many Lamanites on the east by the seashore, whither the Ne­
phites had driven them. And thus the Nephites were nearly
Surrounded by the Lamanites; nevertheless the Nephites had
taken possession o f all the northern parts of the land, bordering
bn the wilderness, at the head of the river Sidon, front the
east to the west, round about on the wilderness side; on the
north, even until they came to the land which they called
Bountiful. And it bordered upon the land which they called
Desolation ; it being so far northward that it came into the
land which had been peopled, and had been destroyed, o f
whose bones we have spoken, which was discovered by the
people o f Zarahemla; it being the place of their first landing.
And they catne from there up into the south wilderness. Thus
the land on the northward was called Desolation, and the land
on the southward was called Bountiful; it being the wilderness
which was filled with all manner o f wild animals of every
kind ; a part o f which had come from the land northward, for
food. And now it was only the distance o f a day and a half’s
journey for a Nephite, on the line Bountiful, and the land Des­
olation, from the East to the West sea; awl thus the land of
Nephi, and the land of Zarahemla, was nearly surrounded by
water; there being a small neck o f land between the land
northward, and the land southward.
And it came to pass that the Nephites had inhabited the
land Bountiful, even from the East unto the West sea, and
thus the Nephites in their wisdom, with their guards and their
armies, hod hemmed in the Lamanites on the south, that there­
by they should have no more possession on the north, that
they might not overrun the land northward ; therefore the La­
manites could have no more possessions only in the land of
Nephi, and the wilderness round about. Now this was wis­
dom in the Nephites'; as the Lamanites were an enemy to
them, they would not suffer their afflictions on every hand, and
also that they might have a country whither they might flee,
according to their desires. And now I, after haring said this,
BOOK OF ALMA. 289
return again to the account o f Ammon, and Aaron, Omner and
Hixnni, and their brethren.
C H A PT E R XIV.
B e h o l d , now it came to pass that the king o f the Lamanites
sent a proclamation among all his people, that they should not
lay their hands on Ammon, or Aaron, or Omner, or Himni,
nor neither o f their brethren which should go forth preaching
the word o f God, in whatsoever place they should be, in any
part o f their land; yea, he sent a decree among them, that they
should not lay their hands on them to bind them, or to cast
them into prison ; neither should they spit upon them, nor smite
them, nor cast them out o f their synagogues, nor scourge them;
neither should they cast stones at them, but that they should
have free access to their houses, and also their temples, and
their sanctuaries; and thus they might go forth and preach the
word according to their desires, for the king had been convert­
ed unto the Lord, and all his household; therefore he sent
this proclamation throughout the land unto his people, that the
word o f God might have no obstruction, but that it might go
forth throughout all the land, that his people might be convin­
ced concerning the wicked traditions o f their fathers, and that
they might be convinced that they were all brethren, and that
they had not ought to murder, nor to plunder, nor to steal, nor
to commit adultery, nor to commit any manner o f wickedness.
And now it came to pass that when the king had sent forth
this proclamation, that Aaron and his brethren went forth from
city to city, and from one house o f worship to another, estab­
lishing churches, and consecrating priests and teachers through­
out the land among the Lamanites, to preach and to teach the
word o f God among them ; and thus they began to have great
success. And thousands were brought to the knowledge o f
the Lord, yea, thousands were brought to believe in the tradi­
tions o f the Nephites; and they were taught the records and
the prophecies which were handed down, even to the present
tim e; and as sure as the Lord liveth, so sure as many as be­
lieved, or as many as were brought to the knowledge o f the
truth, through the preaching o f Ammon and his brethren, ac­
cording to the spirit o f revelation and o f prophecy, and the
power o f God, working miracles in them; yea, 1say unto you,
290 BOOK OP ALMA.
as the Lord liveth, as many o f the Lamaniles as believed in
their preaching, and were converted unto the Lord, never did
fall away, for they became a righteous people; they did lay
down the weapons o f their rebellion, that they did not fight
against God no more, neither against any of their brethren.—
Now these are they which were converted unto the L ord: The
people o f the Lamanites which were in the land o f Ishmael,
and also of the people of the Lamanites which were in the land
o f Middoni, and also o f the people o f the Lamanites which
were in the city o f Nephi, and also o f the people o f the Laman-
ites which were in the land o f Shilom, and which were in the
land of Shemlon, and in the city o f Lemuel, and in the city o f
Shimnilom; and these are the names o f the cities o f the La­
manites which were converted unto the L ord ; and these are
they that laid down the weapons o f their rebellion, yea, all
their weapons o f w ar; and they were all Lamanites. And
the Amalekites were not converted, save only on e; neither
was any o f the Amulonites; but they did harden their hearts,
and also the hearts o f the Lamanites in that part o f the land
whithersoever they dwelt; yea, and all their villages and all their
cities; therefore we have named all the cities o f the Laman­
ites in which they did repent and come to the knowledge of
the truth, and were converted.
And now it came to pass that the king and those people
which were convened, were desirous that they might have a
name, that thereby they might be distinguished from their
brethren; therefore the king consulted with Aaron and many
o f their priests, concerning the name that they should take up­
on them, that they might be distinguished. And it came to
pass that they called their name Anti-Nephi-Lehies; and they
were called by this name, and were no more called Laman­
ites. And they began to be a very industrious people; yea,
and they were friendly with the Ncphites; therefore they did
open a correspondence with them, and the curse o f God did
no more follow them.
And it came to pass that the Amalekites, and the Amulon­
ites, and the Lamanites which were in the land o f Amulon,
and also in the land o f Helatn, and which was in the land o f
Jerusalem, and in fine, in all the land round about, which had
not been converted, and had not taken upon them tiie name o f
Anti-Nephi-Lehi, were stirred up by the Amalekites, and by
the Amulonites, to anger against their brethren ; and their ha­
tred became exceeding sore against them, even insomuch that
BOOS OP AL IM . 291
(hey began to rebel against their king, insomuch that they
would not that he should be their king; therefore they took
up arms against the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi.
Now the king conferred the kingdom upon his son ; and he
called his name Anti-Nephi-Lebi. And the king died in that
self-same year that the Lamanites began to make preparation
for war against the people of God. Now when Ammon and
his brethren, and all those which had come up with him, saw
the preparations o f the Lamanites to destroy their brethren
they came forth to the land of Midian, and there Ammon met
all his brethren; and from thence they came to the land o f
Ishmael, that they might hold a council with Lamoni, and also
with his brother Anti-Nephi-Lehi, what they should do to de­
fend themselves against the Lamanites. Now there was not
one soul among all the people which had been converted unto
the Lord, that would take up arms against their brethren ; nay,
they would not even make any preparations for war; yea, and
also their king commanded them that they should not. Now
these are the words which he said unto the people concerning
the matter: I thank my God, my beloved people, that our
great God has in goodness sent these our brethren, the Ne-
pbites, unto us to preach unto us, and to convince us o f the
traditions of our wicked fathers. And behold, I thank my
great God that he has given us a portion of his spirit to soften
our hearts, that we have opened a correspondence with these
brethren, the Nephites; and behold, I also thank my God that
by opening this correspondence, we have been convinced o f
our sins, and o f the many murders which we have committed;
and 1 also thank my God, yea, my great God, that he hath
granted unto us that we might repent of these things, and also
that he hath forgiven us o f those our many sins and murders
which we have committed, and took away the guilt from our
hearts, through the merits o f his Son. And now behold, my
brethren, since it has been all that we could do, (as we were
the most lost o f all mankind,) to repent o f all our sins and the
many murders which we have committed, and to get God to
take them away from our hearts, for it was all we could do
to repent sufficiently before God, that he would take away our
stain. Now my best beloved brethren, since God hath taken
away our stains, and our swords have become bright, then let
us stain our swords no more with the blood of our brethren.
Behold, 1 say unto you, Nay, let us retain our swords, that
they be not stained with the blood o f our brethren: for per-
19*
2 9 2 BOOK OB ALMA.
haps, if we should stain our swords again, they can no more be
washed bright through the blood o f the Son o f our great God,
which shall be shed for the atonement o f our sins. And the
great God has had mercy on us, and made these things known
unto us, that we might not perish; yea, and he hath made
these things known unto us beforehand, because he lovetb our
souls as well as he loveth our children; therefore in his mer­
cy he doth visit us by his angels, that the plan of salvation
might be made known unto us as well as unto future genera­
tions. O how merciful is our G o d ! And now behold, since
it has been as much as we could do to get our stains taken
away from us, and our swords are made bright, let us hide
them away that they may be kept bright, as a testimony to our
G od at the last day, or at the day that we shall be brought to
stand before him to be judged, that we have not stained our
swords in the blood o f our brethren since he imparted his
word unto us, and has made us clean thereby. And now my
brethren, if our brethren seek to destroy us, behold, we will
hide away our swords, yea, even we will bury them deep in
the earth, that they may be kept bright, as a testimony that
we have never used them, at the last day; and if our brethren
destroy us, behold, we shall go to our God, and shall be
saved.
And new it came to pass that when the king had made an
end o f these sayings, and all the people were assembled to­
gether, they took their swords, and all the weapons which
were used for the shedding o f man’s blood, and they did bury
them up deep in the earth; and this they did, it being in their
view a testimony to God, and also to men, that they never use
weapons again for the shedding o f man’s b lood ; and this they
did, vouching and covenanting with God, that rather than to
shed the blood o f their brethren, they would give up their own
lives; and rather than to take away from a brother, they would
give unto him ; and rather than to spend their days in idle­
ness, they would labor abundantly with theit hands; and thus
we see that when these Lamanites were brought to believe
and to know the truth, that they were firm, and would suffer
even unto death, rather than to commit sin; and thus we see,
that they buried the weapons of peace, or they buried the
weapons o f war, for peace.
And it came to pass that their brethren, the Lamanites,
made preparations for war, and came up to the land o f Nephi,
for the purpose o f destroying the king, and to place another
BOOK OP A t m . 293
in bis stead, and also o f destroying the people o f Anti-Nephi-
Lehi out o f the land. And it came to pass that when the peo­
ple saw tiiat they were coming against them, they went out to
meet them, and prostrated themselves before them to the
earth, and began to cal! on the name o f the Lord; and thus
they were in this attitude, when the Lamanites began to fall
upon them, and began to slay them with the sw ord; and thus,
without meeting any resistance, they did slay a thousand and
five of them; and we know that they are blessed, for they
have gone to dwell with their God. Now when the Laman­
ites saw that their brethren would not flee from the sword
neither would they turn aside to the right hand or to the left,
but that they would lay down and perish, and praised God
even in the very act o f perishing under the sword; now when
the Lamanites saw this, they did forbear from slaying them;
and there were many whose hearts had swellen in them for
those o f their brethren who had fallen under the sword, for
they repented o f the things which they had done.
And it came to pass that they threw down their weapons o f
war, and they would not take them again, for they were stung
for the murders which they had committed; and they came
down even as their brethren, relying upon the mercies o f those
whose arms were lifted to slay them.
And it came to pass that the people o f God were joined
that day by more than the number which had been slain; and
those which had been slain, were righteous people; there­
fore we have no reason to doubt but what they are saved.
And there was not a wicked man slain among them ; but there
were more than a thousand brought to the knowledge o f the
truth; thus we see that the Lord worketh in many ways to
the salvation o f his people. Now the greatest number o f those
o f the Lamanites which slew so many o f their brethren, were
Amalekites and Amulonites, the greatest number o f whom
were after the order o f the Nehors. Now among those which
joined the people o f the Lord, there were none which were
Amalekites or Amulonites, or which were of the order of Ne-
hor, but they were actual descendants o f Laman and Lemuel;
and thus we can plainly discern, that after a people has been
once enlightened by the spirit o f God, and hath bad great
knowledge o f things pertaining to righteousness, and then have
fallen awa^ into sin and transgression, they become more har­
dened, and thus their estate becometh worse than as though
they had never known these things.
294 BOOK OF ALMA.
And bebold, now it came to pass that those Lamaniteswere
more angry, because they had slain their brethren ; therefore
they swore vengeance upon the Nephites; and they did no
more attempt to slay the people o f Anti-Nephi-Lehi at that
time ; but they took their armies and went over into the bor­
ders of the land of Zarahemla, and fell upon the people which
were in the land o f Ammonihah, and destroyed them. And
after that, they had many battles with the Nephites, in the
which they were driven and slain ; and among the Lamanites
which were slain, were almost all the seed of Amulon and his
brethren, which were the priests of Noah, and they were slain
by the hands o f the Nephites; and the remainder having fled
into the east wilderness, and having usurped the power and
authority over the Lamanites, caused that many o f the Laman­
ites should perish by fire, because o f their belief: for many of
them, after having suffered much loss and so many afflictions,
they began to be stirred up in remembrance of the words
which Aaron and his brethren had preached to them in their
land ; therefore they began to disbelieve the traditions o f their
fathers, and to believe in the Lord, and that he gave great
power unto the Nephites ; and thus there were many o f them
converted in the wilderness.
And it came to pass that those rulers which were the rem­
nant o f the children o f Amulon, caused that they should be
put to death, yea, all those that believed in these things. Now
this martyrdom caused that many of their brethren should be
stirred up to anger ; and there began to be contentioy in the
wilderness ; and the Lamanites began to hunt the seed o f Am­
ulon and his brethren, and began to slay them, and they fled
into the east wilderness. And behold, they are hunted at this
day, by the Lamanites : thus the w ordsof Abinadi was brought
to pass, which he said concerning the seed of tiie priests which
caused that he rthould suffer death by fire. For he said unto
them, What ye shall do unto me, shall be a type of things to
come. And now Abinadi was the first that suffered death by
lire, because o f his belief in God : now this is what he meant,
that many should suffer death by fire, according as he bad
suffered. And he said unto the priests o f Noah, That their
seed should cause many to be put to death, in the like manner
as he was, and that they should be scattered abroad and slain,
even as a sheep having no shepherd is driven and slain by wild
beasts : and now behold, these words were verified, for they
BOOK OP ALMA. 295
were driven by the Lamanites, and they were hunted, and they
were smitten.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that they
could not overpower the Nephitee, they returned again to their
own land; and many of them came over to dwell in the land
o f Ishmael and the land o f Nephi, and did join themselves to
the people o f God, which was the people of Anti-Nephi-Lehi;
and they did also bury their weapons o f war, according as
their brethren had, and they began to be a righteous people;
and they did walk in the ways of the Lord, and did observe
to keep his commandments, and his statutes, yea, and they
did keep the law of M oses: for it was expedient that they
should keep the law of Moses as yet, for it was not all fulfilled.
But notwithstanding the taw o f Moses, they did look forward
to the coming of Christ, considering that the law o f Moses was
a type o f his coining, and believing that they must keep those
outward performances, until the time that he should be re­
vealed unto them. Now they did not suppose that salva­
tion came by the law of M oses; but the law of Moses did
serve to strengthen their faith in Christ; and thus they did
retain a hope through faith, unto eternal salvation, relying up­
on the spirit o f prophecy, which spake o f those things to come.
And now behold, Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and Himni,
and their brethren, did rejoice exceedingly, for the success
which they had had among the Lamanites, seeing that the
Lord had granted unto them according to their prayers, and
that he had also verified his word unto them in every particu­
lar. And now, these are the words o f Ammon to his breth­
ren, which sayeth thus: My brothers and my brethren, be­
hold I say unto you, how great reason have we to rejoice; for
could we have supposed, when we started from the land of
Zarahemla, that God would have granted unto us such great
blessingsi And now I ask, What great blessings hath he bes­
towed upon us ! Can ye tell} Behold, I answer for you, for
our brethren, the Lamanites, were in darkness, yea, even in
the darkest abyss; but behold, how many o f them are brought
to behold the marvellous light o f G od! And this is the bles­
sing which hath been bestowed upon us, that we have been
made instruments in the hands of God, to bring about this
great work. Behold, thousands o f them do rejoice, and have
been brought into the fold o f God. Behold, the field was ripe,
and blessed are ye, for ye did thrust in the sickle, and did reap
vrith your mights, yea, all the day long did ye labor; and be-
296 BOOK o r ALMA.
hold the number o f your sheaves, and they shall be gathered
into the garners, that they are not wasted; yea, they shall not
be beaten down by the storm, at the last day; yea, neither
ahall they be harrowed up by the whirlwinds; but when the
storm cometb, they shall be gathered together in their place,
that the storm cannot penetrate to them -, yea, neither shall
they be driven with fierce winds, whithersoever the enemy
listeth to carry them. But behold, they are in the hands of
the Lord o f the harvest, and they are his; and he will raise
them up at the last day. Blessed be the name o f our God ;
let us sing to his praise, yea, let us give thanks to his holy
name, for he doth work righteousness forever. For if we had
not come up out of the land of Zarahemla, these our dearly
beloved brethren, which have so dearly beloved us, would
still have heen racked with hatred against us, yea, and they
would also have been strangers to God.
And it came to pass that when Ammon had said these words,
his brother Aaron rebuked him, saying: Ammon, I fear that
thy joy doth carry thee away untoboasting. But Ammon saith
unto him, I do not boast in my own strength, or in my own
w isdom ; but behold, my joy is full, yea, my heart is brim
with joy, and I will rejoice in my G od ; yea, I know that I am
nothing ; as to my strength, 1 am w eak; therefore I will not
boast of myself, but I will boast o f my G od; for in his strength.
I can do all things; yea, behold, many mighty miracles we
have wrought in this land, for which we will praise his name
forever. Behold, how many thousands o f our brethren hath
he loosed from the pains o f hell; and they are brought to sing
redeeming love ; and this because o f the power o f his word
which is in u s; therefore have we not great reason to rejoice !
Yea, we have reason to praise him forever, for he is the Most
High God, and has loosed our brethren from the chains o f
hell. Yea, they were encircled about with everlasting dark­
ness and destruction; but behold, he hath brought them into
his everlasting light, yea, into everlasting salvation; and they
are encircled about with the matchless bounty of his love;
yea, and we have been instruments in his hands, o f doing this
great and marvellous w ork; therefore let us glory, yea, we
will glory in the L ord; yea, we will rejoice, for our joy is
full; yea, we will praise our God forever. Behold, who can
glory too much in the Lord? Yea, who can say too much o f
his great power, and o f his mercy, and o f his long suffering to­
wards the children o f men? Behold 1 say unto you, I cannot
B O O K OF ALMA. 297
*ay the smallest part which I feel. W ho could have supposed
that our God would have been so merciful as to have snatched
us from our awful, sinful, and polluted state? Behold, we went
forth even in wrath, with mighty threatnings to destroy his
church. O then, why did he not consign us to an awful des­
truction ; yea, why did he not let the sword o f his justice fall
upon us, and doom us to eternal despair? O my sou l almost
as it were, fleeth at the thought. Behold, he did not exercise
his justice upon us, but in his great mercy hath brought us
over that everlasting gulf o f death and misery, even to the sal­
vation o f our souls. And now behold, my brethren, what nat­
ural man is there, that knoweth these things ? I say unto you,
There is none that knoweth these things, save it be the peni­
tent ; yea, he that repenteth and exerciseth faith, and bringeth
forth good works, and prayeth continually without ceasing:
unio such it is given to know the mysteries o f God ; yea, unto
such it shall be given to reveal things which never have been
revealed; yea, and it shall be given unto such, to bring thou­
sands o f souls to repentance, even as it hath been given unto
us to bring these our brethren to repentance. Now do ye re­
member, my brethren, that we said unto our brethren in the
land o f Zarahemla, W e go up to the land o f Nephi, to preach
unto our brethren, the Lamanites, and they laughed us to scorn ?
F or they said unto us, D o ye suppose that ye can bring the
Lamanites to the knowledge o f the truth ? Do ye suppose
that ye can convince the Lamanites o f the incorrectness
o f the traditions o f their fathers, as stiffnecked a people as
they are; whose hearts delighteth in the shedding o f blood;
whose days have been spent in the grossest iniquity; whose»
ways have been the ways o f a transgressor, from the beginning?
Now my brethren, ye remember that this was their language-
And moreover, they did say, Let us take up arms against them,
that we destroy them and their iniquity out o f the land, lest
they overrun us and destroy us. But behold, my beloved
brethren, we came into the. wilderness not with the intent to
destroy our brethren but with the intent that perhaps we might
save some few o f their souls. Now when our hearts were
depressed, and we were about to turn back, behold, the Lord
comforted us, and said, G o amongst thy brethren, the Laman-
ites, and bear with patience thine afflictions, and I will give
unto the success. And now behold, we have come, and been
forth amongst them; and we have been patient in our suffer­
ings and we have suffered every privation; yea, we have trav-
298 BOOK OP ALMA.
elled from house to house, relying upon the mercies o f the
w orld; not upon the mercies of the wdrld alone, but upon the
mercies o f G od ; and we have entered into their houses and
taught them, and we have taught them in their streets; yea,
and we have taught them upon their hills; and w e have also
entered into their temples and their synagogues and taught
them ; and we have been cast out, and mocked, and spit upon,
and smote upon our cheeks ; and we have been stoned, and
taken and bound with strong cords, and cast into prison; and
through the power and wisdom o f God, we have been deliver­
ed again; and we have suffered all manner o f afflictions, and
all this, that perhaps we might be the means ot saving some
soul j and we supposed that our joy would be full, if perhaps
we could be the means o f saving some. Now behold, we can
look forth and see the fruits o f our labors; and are they few?
I say unto you, Nay, they are many; yea, and we can witness
o f their sincerity, because o f their love towards their brethren,
and also towards us. For behold, they bad rather sacrifice
their lives, than even to take the life o f their enem y; and they
have buried their weapons o f war deep in the earth, because
o f their love towards their brethren. And now behold I say
unto you, Has there been so great love in all the land ? Be­
hold, I say unto you, Nay, there has not even among the Ne-
phites. For behold, they would take up arms against their
brethren; they would not suffer themselves to be slain. But
behold, how many of these have laid down their liie s ; and
we know that they have gone to their God, because o f their
love, and of their hatred to sin. Now have we not reason to
rejoice? Yea, I say unto you, There never was men that had
so great reason to rejoice as we, Rince the world began; yea,
and my joy is carried away, even unto boasting in my G od ;
for he has all power, all wisdom, and all understanding; he
comprehendeth all things, and he is a merciful Being, even un­
to salvation, to those who will repent and believe on his name.
Now if this is boasting, even so will 1 boast; for this is ray
life and my light, my joy and my salvation, and my redemption
from everlasting wo. Yea, blessed is the name of' my God,
who hath been mindful of this people, which are a branch o f
the tree o f Israel, and hath been lost from its body, in a strange
land; yea, I say, blessed be the name o f my God, who hath
been mindful o f uh wanderers in a strange land. Now my
brethren, we see that God is mindful o f every people, in what­
soever land they may be in ; yea, he numbereth his people,
BOOK OF ALMA. 299
and his bowels o f mercy is over all the earth. Now this is my
joy, and my great thanksgiving; yea, and 1 will give thanks
onto my God forever. Amen.
C H A PT E R XV.
N ow it came to pass that when those Lamanites which had
gone to war against the Nephites, had found, after their many
struggles for to destroy them, that it was in vain to seek their
destruction, they returned again to the land of Nephi. And it
came to pass that the Amalekites, because o f their loss, were
exceeding angry. And when they saw that they could not
seek revenge from the NephiteR, they began to stir up the peo­
ple in anger against their brethren, the people of Anti-Nephi-
Lehi ; therefore they began again to destroy them. Now this
people again rufused to take their arms, and they suffered
themselves to be skin according to the desires of their ene­
mies. Now when Ammon and his brethren saw this work o f
destruction among those who they so dearly beloved, and
among those who had so dearly beloved them ; for they were
treated as though they were angels sent from God to save them
from everlasting destruction; therefore, when Ammon and his
brethren saw this great work o f destruction, they were moved
with compassion, and they said unto the king, Let us gather
together this people o f the Lord, and let us go down to the land
o f Zaruhemia, to our brethren, the Nephites, and flee out o f the
hands of our enemies, that we be not destroyed. But the king
saith unto them. Behold, the Nephites will destroy us, because
o f the many murders and sins we have committed against them.
And Ammon saith, I will go and inquire o f the Lord, and if he
saith unto us, Go down unto our brethren, will ye go? And
the king saith unto him Yea; if the Lord saith unto us Go, we
will go down unto our brethren, and we will be their slaves
until we repair unto them the many murders and sins which
we have committed against them. But Ammon saith unto him,
It is against the law o f our brethren, which was established
by my father, that there should be any slaves among them;
therefore let us go down and rely upon the mercies o f our
brethren. But the king saith unto him, Inquire o f the Lord,
and if he saith unto us Go, we will g o ; otherwise we will per­
ish in the land.
300 BO O I OP ALMA.
And it came to pass that Ammon went and inquired o f the
Lord, and the Lord said unto him, Get this people out o f this
land, that they perish not, for Satan hath great hold on the
hearts o f the Amalekites, which do stir up the Lamanites to
anger against their brethren, to slay them ; therefore get thee
out o f this land; and blessed art this people in this generation;
for I will preserve them.
And now it came to pass that Ammon went and told the
king all the words which the Lord had said unto him. And it
came to pass that they gathered together all their people; yea,
all the people o f the Lord, and did gather together all their
flocks and herds, and departed out o f the land, and came into
the wilderness which divided the land o f Nephi from the land
o f Zarahemla, and came over near the borders o f the land.
And it came to pass that Ammon saith unto them, Behold,
I and my brethren will go forth into the land o f Zarahemla,
and ye shall remain here until we return; and we will try the
hearts o f our brethren, whether they will that ye shall come
into their land.
And it came to pass that as Ammon was going forth into the
land, that he and his brethren met Alma, over in the place o f
which has been spoken; and behold, this was a joyful meet­
ing. Now the joy o f Ammon was so great, even that he was
full; yea, he was swallowed up in the joy o f his God, even to
the exhausting o f his strength; and he fell again to the earth.
Now was not this exceeding joy 1 Behold, this is jo y which
none receiveth save it be the truly penitent and humble seeker
o f happiness. Now the joy of Alma in meeting his brethren
was truly great, and also the joy o f Aaron, o f Omner, and
Himni; but behold, their ioy was not that to exceed their
strength.
And now it came to pass that Alma conducted his brethren
back to the land o f Zarahemla, even to his own house. And
it came to pass that they went and told the Chief Judge all the
things that had happened unto them in the land o f Nephi among
their brethren, the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the Chief Judge sent a proclama­
tion throughout all the land, desiring the voice o f the people
concerning the admitting their brethren, which were the people
of Anti-Nephi-Lehi. And it came to pass that the voice o f the
people came, saying, Behold, we will give up the land o f Jer-
shon, which is on the east by the sea, which joins the land
Bountiful, which is on the south o f the land Bountiful; and
BOOK O V A L M A . 301
this land Jershon is the land which we will give unto our breth­
ren, for an inheritance. And behold, we will set our armies
between the land Jershon and the land Nephi, that we may
protect our brethren in the land Jershon; and this we do for
our brethren, on account o f their fear to take up arms against
their brethren, lest they should commit sin; and this their great
fear came, because o f their sore repentance which they had,
on account o f their many murders, and their awful wickedness.
And now behold, this will we do unto our brethren, that they
may inherit the land Jershon; and we will guard them from
their enemies with our armies, on conditions that they will give
us a portion o f their substance to assist us, that we may main­
tain our armies.
Now it came to pass that when Ammon had heard this, he
returned to the people o f Anti-Nephi-Lehi, and also Alma with
him, into the wilderness, where they had pitched their tents,
and made known unto them all these things. And Alma also
Telated unto them his conversion with Ammon, and Aaron, and
his brethren. And it came to pass that it did cause great joy
among them. And it came to pass that they went down into
the land o f Jershon, and took possession o f the land o f Jer­
shon ; and they were called by the Nephites the people o f Am­
m on; therefore they were distinguished by that name ever
after; and they were among the people o f Nephi, and also
numbered among the people which were o f the Church o f God.
And they were ¿ s o distinguished for their zeal towards God,
and also towards men; for they were perfectly honest and
upright in all things; and they were firm in the faith o f Christ,
even unto the end. And they did look upon shedding the blood
o f their brethren with the greatest abhorrence; and they never
could be prevailed upon to take up arms against their brethren;
and they never did look upon death with any degree o f terror
for their hope and views o f Christ and the resurrection; there­
fore death was swallowed up to them by the victory o f Christ
over it; therefore they would suffer death in the most aggra­
vating and distressing manner which could be inflicted by their
brethren, before they would take the sword or the cimeter to
smite them. And thus they were a zealous and beloved peo­
ple, a highly favored people o f the Lord.
And now it came to pass that after the people of Amtuon
were established in the land o f Jershon, and a church also
established in the land o f Jershon; and the armies o f the Ne­
phites were set round about the land o f Jershon; yea, in all
302 BOOK OF AI.MA.
the borders round about the land o f Zarahemh; behold the ar­
mies of the Lamanites had followed their brethren into the wil­
derness. And thus a tremendous battle; yea, even such an
one as never had been known among all the people in the land
from the time Lehi left Jerusalem; yea, and tens o f thousands
o f the Lamanites were slain and scattered abroad. Yea, and
also there was a tremendous slaughter among the people o f
Nephi; nevertheless, the Lamanites were driven and scatter­
ed, and the people o f Ncplii returned again to their land.—
And now this was a time that there was a great mounting and
lamentation heard throughout all the land, among all the peo­
ple o f Nephi; yea, the cry o f widows mourning for their hus­
bands, and also o f fathers mourning for their sons, and the
daughter for the brother; yea, the brother for the father: and
thus the cry o f mourning was heard among every one o f them;
mourning for their kindred which had been slain. And now
surely this was a sorrowful day; yea, a lime o f solemnity, and
a time o f much fasting and prayer: and thus ended the fif­
teenth year o f the reign o f the Judges over the people o f Ne-
p h i; and this is the account o f Ammon and his brethren, their
journeying» in the land o f Nephi, their sufferings in the land,
their sorrows, and their afflictions, and their incomprehensible
joy, and the reception and safety o f the hrethren in the land
o f Jershon. And now may the Lord, the Redeemer o f all men,
bless their souls forever. And this is the account o f the wars
and contentions among the Nephites, and also the ware be­
tween the Nephites ami the Lamanites; and the fifteenth year
o f the reign o f the Judges is ended; and from the first year to
the fifteenth, has brought to pass the destruction o f many thou­
sand lives; yea, it has brought to pass an awful scene o f blood­
shed ; and the bodies o f many thousands are laid low in the
earth, while the bodies o f many thousands are mouldering in
heaps upon the faoe o f the earth; yea, and many thousands
are mourning for the loss o f their kindred, because they have
reason to fear, according to the promises o f the Lord, that they
are consigned to a state o f endless w o ; while many thousands
o f others truly mourn for the loss o f their kindred, yet they
rejoice and exult in the hope, and even know, according to the
promises o f the Lord, that they are raised to dwell at the right
hand o f God, in a state o f never ending happiness: and thus
we see how great the inequality o f man is because o f sin and
transgression, and the power o f the Devil, which comes by the
cunning plans which he hath devised to ensnare the hearts o f
BOOK OP ALMA. 303
men ; and thus we see the great call o f diligence o f men to
labor in the vineyards o f the L ord; aDd thus we see the great
reason o f sorrow, and also o f rejoicing: sorrow because o f
death ami destruction among men, and joy because o f the light
o f Christ unto life. O that 1 were an angel, and could have
the wish o f mine heart, that 1 might go forth and speak with
the trump o f God, with a voice to shake the earth, arid cry re­
pentance unto every people; yea, I would declare unto every
soul, as with the voice o f thunder, Repentance, and the plan
o f redemption, that they should repent aud come unto our God,
that there might not be no more sorrow upon all the lace of
the earth. But behold, I am a man, and do sin in my w ish;
for I had ought to be content with the things which the Lord
hath allotted unto me. I had not ought to harrow up in my
desires, the firm decree o f a just God, for 1know that he grant-
eth unto men according to their desires, whether it be unto
death or unto life ; yea, I know that he allotteth unto men, yea,
decreeth unto them decrees which are unalterable, according
to their w ills; whether it be unto salvation or unto destruc­
tion ; yea, and I know that good and evil bath come before all
m en; or he that knoweth not good from evil, is blameless;
but he that knoweth good and evil, to him it is given according
to his desires; whether he desireth good or evil, life or death,
joy or remorse o f conscience. Now seeing that I know these
things, why should I desire more than to perform the work to
which I have been called ! W hy should 1 desire that 1 was
an angel, that I could speak unto all the ends o f the earth ! —
For behold, the Lord doth grant unto all nations, o f their own
nation and tongue, to teach his w ord; yea, in wisdom, all that
he seeth fit that they should have; therefore we see that the
Lord doth counsel in wisdom, according to that which is just
and true. I know that which the Lord hath commanded me,
and I glory in it ; I do not glory o f myself but 1 glory in that
which the Lord hath commanded m e; yea, and this is my glory,
that perhaps 1 may be an instrument in the hands o f God, to
bring some soul to repentance; and this is my joy. And be­
hold, when I see many o f my brethren truly penitent, and com­
ing to the Lord their God, then is my soul filled with jo y ; then
do 1 remember what the Lord has done form e; yea, even that
he hath heard my prayer; yea, then do I remember his mer­
ciful arm which he extended towards m e; yea, and I also re­
member the captivity o f my fathers; for I surely do know that
the Lord did deliver them out o f bondage, and by this did es-
304 BOOK O P ALMA.
tablish his church; yea, the Lord God, the God o f Abraham,
the God o f Isaac, and the God o f Jacob, did deliver them out
o f bondage; yea, I have always remembered the captivity of
my fathers; and that same God who delivered them out o f the
hands o f the Egyptians, did deliver them out o f bondage; yea,
and that same God did establish his church among them; yea,
and that same God hath called me by a holy calling, to preach
the word unto this people, and hath given me much success,
in the which my jo y is full; but I do not joy in my own suc­
cess alone, but my joy is more full because o f the success o f
my brethren, which have been up to the land o f Nephi, Be­
hold, they have labored exceedingly, and have brought forth
much fruit; and how great shall be their reward. Now when
I think o f the success o f these my brethren, my soul is car­
ried away, even to the separation o f it from the body, as it
were, so great is myjoy .
And now may God grant unto these my brethren, that they
may sit down in the Kingdom o f God ; yea, and also all those
which are the fruit o f their labors, that they may go no more
out, but that they may praise him forever. And may God
grant that it may be done according to my words, even as I
have spoken. Amen.
C H A PT E R XVI.
B e h o l d , nowit came to pass that after the people o f Ammon
were established in the land o f Jersiion, yea, and also after
the Lamanites were driven out ol' the land, and their dead were
buried by the people o f the land. Now their dead were not
numbered, because of the greatness o f their numbers; neither
were the dead o f the Nsphites numbered. But it came to pass
that after they had buried their dead, and also after the days
o f fasting, and mourning, and prayer, (and it was in the six­
teenth year o f the reign o f the Judges over the people o f Ne-
phi,) there began to be continual peace throughout all the land;
yea, and the people did observe to keep the commandments
o f the Lord ; and they were strict in observing the ordinances
o f God, according to the law o f Moses; for they were taught
to keep the law o f Moses, until it should be fulfilled; and thus
the people did have no disturbance in all the sixteenth year o f
the reign o f the Judges over the people o f Nephi.
BOOK OP ALMA, 305
And it came to pass in the seventeenth year o f the reign o f
the Judges, there was continual peace. But it came to pass
in the latter end o f the seventeenth year, there came a man
into the land o f Zaraherala; and he was Anti-Christ, for he
began to preacn unto the people against the prophecies which
had been spoken by the prophets concerning the. coming of
Christ. Now there was no law against a man’s belief; for it
was strictly contrary to the commands o f God, that there
should be a law which should bring men on to unequal grounds.
For thus saith the Scripture: Choose ye this day, whom ye
will serve. Now if a man desired to serve God, it was his
privilege, or rather if he believed in God, it was his privilege
to serve him; but if he did not believe in him, there was no
law to punish him. But if he murdered, he was punished unto
death; and if he robbed, be was also punished; and if he
stole, he was also punished; and if he committed adultery, he
was also punished; yea, for all this wickedness, they were
punished: for there was a law, that men should be judged
according to their crimes. Nevertheless, there was no law
against a man’s belief; therefore, a man was punished only
for 'he crimes which he had done; therefore all men were on
equal grounds. And this Anti-Christ, whose name was Kori-
hor, and the law could have no hold upon him. And he be­
gan to preach unto the people, that there should be no Christ.
And after this manner did he preach, saying: O ye that are
bound down under a foolish and a vain hope, why do ye yoke
yourselves with such foolish things ? Why do ye look for a
Christ? For no man can know o f any thing which is to come.
Behold, these things which ye call prophecies, which ye say
are handed down by holy prophets, be hold, they are foolish
traditions o f your fathers. How do ye know o f their surety?
Behold, ye cannot know of things which ye do not see; there­
fore ye cannot know that there shall be a Christ. Ye look
forward and say, that ye see a remission o f your sins. But
behold, it is the effects of a phreneind mind ; and this derange­
ment of your minds comes because o f the tradition of your
fathers, which lead you away into a belief of things which are
not so. And many more such things did he say unto them,
telling them that there could be no atonement made for the
siris of men, but every man fared in Shis life, according to the
management of the creature; therefore every man prospered
according to his genius, and that every man conquered accor­
ding to his strength; and whatsoever a man did, was no crime.
308 BOOK OP ALMA,
And thus he did preach unto them, leading away the hearts o f
many, causing them to lift up their heads in their wickedness;
yea, leading away many women, and also men, toxommit
whoredoms; telling them that when a man was dead, that
was the end thereof.
Now this man went over to the land of Jershon also, to
preach these things among the people o f Ammon, which were
once the people of the Lamamtes. But behold, they were
more wise than many o f the Nephites; for they took him, and
bound him, and carried him before Ammon, which was a High
Priest over that people.
And it came to pass that he caused that he should he carried
out of the land. And it came to pass that he came over into
the land of Gideon, and began to preach unto them also; and
here he did not have much success, for he was taken and
bound, and carried before the High Priest, and also the Chief
Judge over the land.
And it came to pass that the High Priest saith unto him.
Why do ye go about perverting the ways of the Lord ? Why
do ye teach this people that there shall be no Christ, to inter­
rupt their rejoicings ? Why do ye speak against all the proph­
ecies o f the holy prophets 1 Now the High Priest’s name was
Giddonah. And Korihor saith unto him, Because I do not
teach the foolish traditions o f your fathers, and because 1 do
not teach this people to bind themselves down under the fool­
ish ordinances and performances which are laid down by an­
cient priests, to usurp power and authority over them, to keep
them in ignorance, that they may not lift up their heads, but
be brought down according to thy words. Ye say that this
people is a free people. Behold, I say they are in bondage.
Ye say that those ancient prophecies are true. Behold, 1 say
that ye do not know that they are true. Ye say that this peo­
ple is a guilty and a fallen people, because o f the transgres­
sion o f a parent. Behold, 1 say that a child is not guilty be­
cause of its parents. And ye also say that Christ shall come.
But behold, I say that ye do not know that there shall be a
Christ. And ye say also, that he shall be slain for the sins of
the world; and thus ye lead away this people after the foolish
traditions o f your fathers, and according to your own desires;
and ye keep them down, even as it were, in bondage, that yc
may glut yourselves with the labors o f their hands, that they
durst not look up with boldness, and that they durst not enjoy
their rights and privileges; yea, they durst not make use o f
BOOK OP ALMA. 307
that which is their own, lest they should offend their priests,
which do yoke them according to their desires, and hath brought
them to believe by their traditions, and their dreams, and their
whims, and their visions, and their pretended mysteries, that
they should, if they did not do according to their words, of­
fend some unknown being, which they say is G od; a being
which never hath been seen nor known, which never was nor
never will be. Now when the High Priest and the Chief Judge
saw the hardness o f his heart; yea, when they saw that he
would revile even against God, they would not make any reply
to his words ; but they caused that he should be bound; and
they delivered him up into the hands o f the officers, and sent
him to the land o f Zarahemla, that he mighthe brought before
Alma, and the Chief Judge, which was governor over all the
land.
And it came to pass that when he was brought before Alma
and the Chief Judge, that he did go on in the same manner as
he did in the land o f Gideon ; yea, he went on to blaspheme.
And he did rise up in great swelling words before Alma, and
did revile against the priests and teachers, accusing them o f
leading away the people after the silly traditions o f their fa­
thers, for the sake o f glutting in the labors o f the people.—
Now Alma saith unto him, Thou knowest that we do not glut
ourselves upon the labors of this people ; for behold, 1 have
labored even from the commencement of the reign o f the Judg­
es, until now, with mine own hands, for my support, notwith­
standing my many travels round about the land, to declare tlie
word o f God unto my people. And notwithstanding the many
labors which I have performed in the church, I have never
received so much as even one senine for my labor; neither
hath any o f my brethren, save it were in the judgment seat;
and then we have received only according to law, for our time.
And now if we do not receive any thing for our labors in the
church, what doth it profit us to labor in the church, save it
were to declare the truth, that we may have rejoicings in the
joy of our brethren ? Then why sayest thou that we preach
unto this people to get gain, when thou o f thyself knowest
that we receive no gain 1 And now, believest thou that we
deceive this people, that ciuseth such joy in their hearts ?—
And Korihor answered him, Yea. And then Alma saith unto
him, Believest thou that there is a God? And he answered,
Nay. Now Alma saith unto him, If ye deny again that there
Is a God, and also deny the Christ: for behold, 1 say unto
20*
306 BOOK OP ALMA.
you, I know there is a God, and also that Christ shall come.
And now, what evidence have ye that there is no God, or that
Christ conaeth not 1 I say unto you that ye have none, save
it be your word only. But behold, I have all things as a tes­
timony that these things are true; and ye also have all things
as a testimony unto you that they are true; and will ye deny
them ? Believest thou that these things are true ? Behold, I
know that thou believest, but thou art possessed with a lying
spirit, and ye have put off the spirit o f God, that it may have
no place in y ou ; but the Devil hath power over you, and he
doth carry you about, working devices, that he may destroy
the children o f God. And now Konhor saith unto Alma, If
thou wilt shew me a sign, that 1 may be convinced that there
is a God, yea, shew unto me that he hath power, and then
will I be convinced o f the truth o f thy words. But Aimasaith
unto him, Thou hast had signs enough ; will ye tempt youv
God ? Will ye say, Shew unto me a sign, when ye have the
testimony o f all these thy brethren, and also all the holy proph­
ets? The Scriptures are laid before thee, yea, and all things
denote there is a G od ; yea, even the earth, and all things
that is upon the face of it, yea, and its m otion; yea, and also
all the planets which move in their regular form, doth witness
that there is a Supreme Creator; and yet do ye go about,
leading away the hearts o f this people, testifying unto them
there is no God. And yet will ye deny against all these wit­
nesses? And he said, Yea, I will deny, except ye shall shew
me a sign.
And now it came to pass that Alma said unto him, Behold,
I am grieved because o f the hardness o f your heart; yea, that
ye will still resist the spirit o f the truth, that thy soul may be
destroyed. But behold, it is better that thy soul should be
lost, than that thou shouldst be. the means o f bringing many
souls down to destruction, by thy lying and by thy flattering
w ords; therefore if thou shalt deny again, behold, God shall
smite thee, that thou shalt become dumb, that thou sbalt ne­
ver open thy mouth any more, that thou shalt not deceive
this people any more. Now Korihor saith unto him, 1 do not
deny the existence o f a God, but I do not believe that there is
a G od ; and I say also, that ye do not know that there is a
God ; and except ye snew me a sign, I will not believe. Now
Alma saith unto him, This will I give unto thee for a sign,
that thou shalt be struck dumb, according to my words ; and
I say, that in the name o f God, that ye shall be struck dumb,
BOOK OP ALMA. 303
that ye shall no more hare utterance. Now when Alma had
said these words, Korihor was struck dumb, that he could not
have utterance, according to the words o f Alma. And now
«'hen the Chief Judge saw this, he put forth his hand and
wrote unto Korihor, saying: Art thou convinced o f the power
o f a God 2 In whom did ye desire that Alma should shew forth
his sign ! Would ye that he should afflict others, to shew urn
to thee a sign? Behold, he hath showed unto you a sign; and
now, will ye dispute more ? And Korihor put forth his hand,
and wrote, saying: I know that Iam dumb, for I cannot speak;
and I know that nothing, save it were the power of God, could
bring this upon m e; yea, and I also knew that there was a
God. But behold, the Devil hath deceived m e; for be ap­
peared unto me in the form o f an angel, and said unto me, Go
and reclaim this people, for they have all gone astray after an
unknown God. And he saitb unto me, There is no G od ;
yea, and he taught me that which I should say. And I have
taught his words; and I taught them, because they were pleas­
ing unto the carnal m ind; and I taught them, even until I had
much success, insomuch that I verily believed that they were
true; and for this cause, I withstood the truth, even until I
have brought this great curse upon me. Now when he had
said this, he besought that Alma should pray unto God, that
the curse might be taken from him. But Alma said unto him,
If this curse should be taken from thee, thou wouldst again
lead away the hearts o f this people; therefore, it shall be un­
to thee, even as the Lord will.
And it came to pass that the curse was not taken off o f Ko­
rihor ; but he was cast out, and went about from house to
house, a begging for his food. Now the knowledge o f what
had happened unto Korihor, was immediately published
throughout all the land; yea, the proclamation was sent forth
by the Chief Judge, to all the people in the land, declaring un­
to those who had believed in the words o f Korihor, that they
must speedily repent, lest the same judgments would come
unto them.
And it came to pass that they were all convinced of the
wickedness o f K orihor; therefore they Were all converted
again unto the Lord; and this put an end to the iniquity after
the manner of Korihor. And Korihor did go about from house
to house, a begging food for his support.
And it came to pass that as he went forth among the people,
yea, among a people which had separated themselves from the
310 BOOK OF AI.MA.
Nephites, and called themselves Zoramites, being led by a
man whose name was Zoram ; and as he went forth amongst
them, behold, he was run upon, and trodden down, even until
he was dead; and thus we see the end o f him who perverteth
the ways of the L ord; and thus we see that the Devil will not
Support his children at the last day, but doth speedily drag
them down to hell.
Now it came to pass that after the end o f Korihor, Alma
having received tidings that the Zoramites were perverting the
ways o f the Lord, and that Zoram, which was their leader,
was leading the hearts o f the people to bow down to dumb
idols, &c,, his heart again began to sicken, because of the ini­
quity o f the people; for it was the cause o f great sorrow to
Alma, to know o f iniquity among his people; therefore his
heart was exceeding sorrowful, because o f the separation o f
the Zoramites from the Nephites. Now the Zoramites had
gathered themselves together in a land which they called An-
tionum, which was east o f the land o f Zarahemla, which lay
nearly bordering upon the seashore, which was south o f the
land o f Jershon, which also bordered upon the wilderness
south, which wilderness was full o f the Lamanites. Now the
Nephites greatly feared that the Zoramites would enter into a
correspondence with the Lamanites, and that it would be the
means o f great loss on the part of the Nephites. And now,
as the preaching o f the word had a great tendency to lead the
people to do that which was ju st; yea, it had had more pow-
ful effect upon the minds o f the people than the sword, or any
thing else, which had happened unto them; therefore Alma
thought it was expedient that they should try the virtue o f the
word o f God. Therefore he took Ammon, and Aaron, and
Omner; and Himni he did leave in the church in Zarahemla;
but the former three he took with him, and also Amulek and
Zeezrom, which were at M elek; and he also took two o f his
sons. Now the eldest o f his sons he took not with him; and
his name was Helaman; but the names o f those which he
took with him, were Shiblori and Corianton: and these are
the names of those which went with him among the Zoramites,
to preach unto them the word.
Now the Zoramites were dissenters from the Nephites;
therefore they had the word o f God preached unto them. But
they had fell into great errors, for they would not observe to
keep the commandments o f God, and his statutes, according
to the law o f M oses; neither would they observe the perform-
BOOK OF ALMA. 311
ances o f the church, to continue in prayer and supplication to
God daily, that they might not enter into temptation ; yea, in
fine, they did pervert the ways o f the Lord in very many in­
stances; therefore, for this cause, Alma and his brethren went
into the land, to preach the word unto them.
Now when they had come into the land, behold, to their as­
tonishment, they found that the Zoramites had built syna­
gogues, and that they did gather themselves together on one
day o f the week, which day they did call the day o f the L ord;
and they did worship after a manner which Alma and his breth­
ren had never beheld; for they had a place built up in the cen­
tre o f their synagogue, a place o f standing, which was high
above the head; and the top thereof would only admit one
person. Therefore, whosoever desired to worship, must go
forth and stand upon the top thereof, and stretch forth his
hands towards heaven, and cry with a loud voice, saying: H o­
ly, holy God ; we believe that thou art God, and we believe
that thou art holy, and that thou wast a spirit, and that thou
art a spirit, and that thou wilt be a spirit forever. Holy God,
we believe that thou hast separated us from our brethren; and
we do not believe in the tradition o f our brethren, which was
handed down to them by the childishness o f their fathers;
but we believe that thou hast elected us to be thy holy chil­
dren ; and also thou hast made it known unto us that there
shall be no Christ; but thou art the same, yesterday, to-day,
and forever; and thou hast elected us, that we shall be saved,
whilst all around us are elected to be cast by thy wrath down
to hell; for the which holiness, O God, we thank thee; and
we also thank thee that thou hast elected us, that we may not
be led away after the foolish traditions o f our brethren, which
doth bind them down to a belief o f Christ, which doth lead
their hearts to wander far from thee, our God. And again :
We thank thee, O God, that we are a chosen and a holy peo­
ple. Amen.
Now it came to pass that after Alma and his brethren, and
his sons, had heard these prayers, they were astonished be­
yond all measure. For behold, every man did go forth and
offer up the same prayers. Now the place was called by them
Rameumptom, which being interpreted, is the Holy Stand.—
Now from tbis stand, they did offer up, every man, the self­
same prayer unto God, thanking their God that they were
chosen o f him, and that he did not lead them away after the
tradition o f their brethren; and that their hearts were not
312 BOOK OP ALMA.
stolen away to believe in things to come, which they knew
nothing about.
Now after the people had all offered up thanks after this
manner, they returned to their homes, never speaking o f their
God again, until they had assembled themselves together again,
to the holy stand, to offer up thanks after their manner. Now
when Alma saw this, his heart was grieved : for he saw that
they were a wicked and a perverse people; yea, he. saw that
their hearts were set upon gold, and upon silver, and upon all
manner o f fine goods. Yea, and he also saw that their hearts
were lifted up unto great boasting, in their pride. And he
lifted up his voice to Heaven, and cried, saying: O how long,
O Lord, wilt thou suffer that thy servants shall dwell here
below in the flesh, to behold such gross wickedness among
the children o f men. Behold, O God, they cry unto thee, and
yet their hearts are swallowed up in their pride. Behold, O
God, they cry unto thee with their mouths, while they are
puffed up, even to greatness, with the vain things o f the world.
Behold, O my God, their costly apparel, and their ringlets,
and their bracelets, and their ornaments o f gold, and all their
precious things which they are ornamented with ; and behold,
their hearts are set upon them, and yet they cry unto thee and
say, W e thank thee, O God, for we are a chosen people unto
thee, while others shall perish. Yea, and they say that thou
hast made it known unto them, that there shall be no Christ.
0 Lord God, how long wilt thou suffer that such wickedness
and iniquity shall be among this people ? O Lord, wilt thou
give me strength, that I may hear with mine infirmities ? for I
am infirm, and such wickedness among this people doth pain
my soul. O Lord, my heart is exceeding sorrowful; wilt
thou comfort my soul in Christ i O Lord, wilt thou grant
unto me that l may have strength, that 1 may suffer with pa­
tience these afflictions which shall come upon me, because o f
the iniquity o f this people'! O Lord, wilt thou comfort my
soul, and give unto me success, and also my fellow-laborers
which are with m e; yea, Ammon, and Aaron, and Omner, and
also Amulek, and Zeeworn, and also my two sons; yea, even
all these wilt thou comfort, O Lord ! Yea, wilt thou comfort
their souls in Christ1
? Wilt thou grant unto them that they
may have strength, that they may bear their afflictions which
shall come upon them, because o f the iniquities o f this people?
O Lord, wilt thou grant unto us that we may have success in
bringing them again unto thee, in Christ? Rehold, O Lord,
BOOK OP ALSU, 313
their souls are precious, and many o f them are our near breth­
ren, therefore, give unto us O Lord, power and wisdom, that
we may bring these, our brethren, again unio thee.
Now it came to pass, that when Alma had said these words,
that he clapped his hands upon all they which were with him.
And behold, as he clapped his hands upon them, they were
filled with the holy Spirit. And after that, they did separate
themselves one from another, taking rio thought for themselves
what they should eat, or what they should drink, or what they
should put on. And the Lord provided for them that they
should hunger not, neither should they thirst; yea, and he
also gave them strength, that they should suffer no manner o f
afflictions, save it were swallowed up in the joy o f C hrist—
Now this was according to the prayer o f Alraa; and this, be­
cause he prayed in faith.
And it came to pass that they did go forth, and began to
preach the word o f God unto the people, entering into their
synagogues, and into their houses; yea, and even they did
preach the word in their streets. And it came to pass that
after much labor among them, they began to have success
among the poor class o f people; for behold, they were cast
out o f the synagogues, because o f the coarseness o f their ap­
parel ; therefore they were not permitted to enter into their
synagogues to worship God, being esteemed as filthiness;
therefore they were poor ; yea, they were esteemed by their
brethren as dross; therefore they were poor as to things o f
the world; and also they were poor in heart.
Now as Alma was teaching and speaking unto the people
upon the hill Onidah, there came a great multitude unto him,
whicli were those o f which we have been speaking, o f which
were poor in heart, because o f their poverty as to the things o f
the world. And they came unto Alma; and the one which
was the most foremost among them, saith unto him, Behold,
what shall these my brethren do, for they are despised o f all
men, because o f their poverty; yea, and more especially by
our priests; for they have cast us out o f our synagogues,
which we have labored abundantly to build, with our own
hands ; and they have cast us out because o f this our exceed­
ing poverty, that we have no place to worship our G od; and
behold, what shall we do 1 And now when Alma heard this,
he turned him about, his face immediately towards him, and
he beheld, with great jo y ; for he beheld that their afflictions
had truly humbled them, and that they were in a preparation
314 BOOK OP AiiMA.
to hear the w ord; therefore he did say no more to the other
multitude, but he stretched forth his hand, and cried unto
those which he beheld, which were truly penitent, and saith
unto (hem, I behold that ye are lowly in heart; and if so,
blessed are ye. Behold, thy brother hath said, What shall
we do ■ for we are cast out o f our synagogues, that we can­
not worship our God. Behold I say unto you, Do ye suppose
that ye cannot worship God, save it be in your synagogues only ?
And moreover, I would ask, Do ye suppose that ye must not
worship God only once in a week ? I say unto you, It is well
that ye are cast out of your synagogues, that ye may be hum­
ble, and that ye may learn wisdom; for it is necessary that
ye should learn wisdom; for it is because that ye are cast out,
that ye are despised of your brethren; because o f your ex­
ceeding poverty, that ye are brought to a lowliness o f heart;
for ye are necessarily brought to be humble. And now be­
cause ye are compelled to be humble, blessed are y e ; for a
man sometimes, if he is compelled to be humble, seeketh re­
pentance ; and now surely, whosoever repenteth, shall find
m ercy; and he that findeth mercy and endureth to the end,
the same shall be saved. And now as I said unto you, That
because ye were compelled to be humble, ye were blessed,
do ye not suppose that they are more blessed who truly hum­
ble themselves because o f the word '! Yea, he that truly hum-
bleth himself, and repenteth o f his sins, and endureth to the
end, the same shall be blessed; yea, much more blessed than
they who art compelled to be humble, because o f their exceed­
ing poverty ; therefore blessed are they who humbieth them­
selves without being compelled to be humble; or rather, in
other words, blessed is be that believe! b in the word o f God,
and is baptized without stubborness o f heart; yea, without
being brought to know the word, or even compelled to know,
before they will believe. Yea, there are many which do say,
If thou wilt show unto us a sign from Heaven, then we shall
know o f a surety; then we shall believe, Now I ask, Is this
faith i Behold, I say unto you, N ay; for if a man knoweth a
thing, he hath no cause to believe, for he knoweth it. And now,
how much more cursed is he that knoweth the will of God and
doeth it not, than he that only believetb, or only hath cause to
believe, and falleth into transgression ? Now o f this thing, ye
must judge. Behold, I say unto you, That it is on the one
hand, even as it is on the other; and it shall be unto every
man according to his work.
BOOK OF ALMA. 315
Ami now as I said concerning faith: Faith, is not to have a
perfect knowledge o f things; therefore if ye have faith, ye
hope for things which is not seen, which are true. And now,
behold, 1 say unto you : and 1 would that ye should remem­
ber that God is merciful unto all who believe on his name;
therefore he desireth, in the first place, that ye should believe,
yea, even on his word. And now, he imparteth his word by
angels, unto m en; yea, not only men, but women also. Now
this is not all: little children doth have words given unto them
many times, which doth confound the wise and the learned.
And now, my beloved brethren, as ye have desired to know
o f me what ye shall do because ye are afflicted and cast ou t:
now 1 do not desire that ye should suppose that I mean to
judge you only aecording to that which is true; for I do not
mean that ye all o f you have been compelled to humble your­
selves ; for I verily believe there are some among you which
would humble themselves, let them be in whatsoever circum­
stances they might. Now as I said concerning faith— that it was
not a perfect knowledge, even so it is withmy words. Ye cannot
know o f their surety at first, unto perfection, any more than
faith is a perfect knowledge. But behold, if ye will awake
and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my
words, and exercise a particle o f faith; yea, even if ye can no
more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even
until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a por­
tion o f my words. Now we will compare the word unto a
seed. Now if ye give place, that a seed may be planted in
your heart, behold, if it he a true seed, or a good seed, if ye
do not cast it out by your unbelief, that ye will resist the spirit
o f the Lord, behold, it will begin to swell within your breasts;
and when you feel tliese swelling motions, ye will begin to say
within yourselves, It must needs be that this is a good seed,
or that the word is good, for it beginneth to enlarge my soul;
yea, it beginneth to enlighten my understanding; yea, and it
beginneth to be delicious to me. Now behold, would not this
increase your faith? 1 say unto you, yea; nevertheless it hath
not grown up to a perfect knowledge. But behold, as the
seed swelleth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow, and then
ye must needs say, That the seed is good; for behold it swell­
eth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow. And now behold,
are ye sure that this is a good seed? I say unto you, Y ea;
for every seed bringeth forth unto its own likeness; there­
fore, if a seed growelb, it is good, but if it groweth not, be-
3 1 6 HOOK OP ALMA.
field, it is not good; therefore it is cast away. And now be­
hold, because ye have tried the experiment, and planted the
seed, and it swelleth, and sprouteth, and beginneth to grow,
ye must needs know that the seed is good. And now behold,
is your knowledge perfect? Yea, your knowledge is perfect
in that thing, and your faith is dormant; and this because you
know ; for ye know' that the word hath swelled your souls ;
and ye also know that it hath sprouted up, that your under­
standing doth begin to be enlightened, and your mind doth be­
gin to expand. 0 then, is not this real ? 1 say unto you,
y ea ; because it is light; and whatsoever is light, is good, be­
cause it is discernible; therefore ye must know that it is good.
And now behold, after ye have tasted this light, is your knowl­
edge perfect ? Behold, I say unto you, Nay ; neither must ye
lay aside your faith, for ye have only exercised your faith to
plant the seed, that ye might try the experiment, to know if
the seed was good. And behold, as the tree beginnetb to grow,
ye will say, Let us nourish it with great care, that it may get
root, that it may grow up and bring forth fruit unto us. And
now behold, if ye nourish it with much care, it will get root,
and grow up, and bring forth fruit. But if ye neglect the tree,
and take no thought for its nourishment, behold, it will not
get any root; and when the heat o f the sun cometh and seorch-
eth it, and because it hath no root, it withereth away, and ye
pluck it up and cast it out. Now this is not because the seed
was not good; neither is it because the fruit thereof would
not he desirable. But it is because your ground is barren, and
ye will not nourish the tree; therefore ye cannot have the fruit
thereof. And thus if ye will not nourish the word, looking
forward with an eye of faith to the fruit thereof, ye can never
pluck of the fruit of the tree o f life. But if ye will nourish
the word, yea, nourish the tree as it beginneth to grow, by
your faith, with great diligence, and with patience, looking
forward to the fruit thereof, and it shall take root; and behold,
it shall be a tree springing up unto everlasting life ; and be­
cause o f your diligence, and your faith, and your patience with
the word, in nourishing it, that it may take root in you, behold,
by and by, ye shall pluck the fruit thereof, which is most pre­
cious, which is sweet above all that is sweet, and which is
white above all that is white; yea, and pure above all that is
pure; and ye shall feast upon this fruit, even until ye are fill­
ed, that ye hunger not, neither shall ye thirst. Then my breth­
ren ye shall reap the rewards o f your faith, and your diligence,
BOOK OF ALMA. 317
and patience, and long suffering, waiting for the tree to bring
forth fruit unto you.
Now after AUua had spoken these words, they sent forth
unto him desiring to know whether they should believe in one
God, that they might obtain this fruit o f which he had spoken,
or how they should plant the seed, or the word, o f which he
had spoken, which he said must be planted in their hearts;
or in what manner they should begin to exercise their faith.
And Alma saith unto them, Behold, ye have said that ye could
not worship your God, because ye are cast out of your syna,-
gogues. But behold, 1 say unto you, If ye suppose that ye
cannot worship God, ye do greatly ere, and ye had ought to
searcli the Scriptures; for if ye suppose that they have taught
,vou this, ye do not understand them. Do ye remember to
have read what Zenos, the prophet o f old, hath said concern­
ing prayer or w orship! for he saith, Thou art merciful O
God, for thou hast heard my prayer, even when 1 was in the
wilderness; yea, thou wast merciful when I prayed concern­
ing those which were mine enemies, and thou didst turn them
to m e; yea, 0 God, and thou wast merciful unto me when 1
did cry unto thee in my field ; when 1 did cry umo thee in my
prayer, and thou didst hear me. And again, 0 God, when I
did turn to my house thou didst hear ine in my prayer. And
when I did turn unto my closet, 0 Lord, and prayed unto thee,
thou didst hear m e; yea, thou art merciful unto thy children,
when they cry unto thee to be heard of thee, and not o f m en;
and thou wilt hear them; yea, 0 God, thou hast been merci­
ful unto me, and heard my cries in the midst of thy congrega­
tions; yea, and thou hast also heard me when 1 have been cast
out, and have been despised by mine enemies; yea, thou didst
hear my cries, and wast angry with mine enemies, and thou
didst visit them in thine anger, with speedy destruction; and
thou didst hear me because o f mine afflictions and my sincer­
ity ; and it is because of thy Son that thou hast been thus mer­
ciful unto m e; therefore 1 will cry unto thee in all mine afflic­
tions ; for in thee is my jo y ; for thou hast turned thy judg­
ments away from me, because of thy Son.
And now Alma saith unto them, Do ye believe those Scrip­
tures which have been written by them o f old ? Behold, if ye
do, ye must believe what Zenos saith; for behold, he saith,
Thou hast turned away thy judgments, because o f thy Son.—
Now behold, my brethren, 1 would ask, if ye have read the
Scriptures ? If ye have, how can ye disbelieve on the Son
318 BOOK OF ALMA.
o f God 1 F or it is not written that Zenos alone spake o f these
things, but Zenock also spake o f these things; for behold, he
saith, Thou art angry, O Lord, with this people, because they
will not understand o f thy mercies which thou hast bestowed
upon them, because o f thy Son. And now my brethren, ye
see that a seeond prophet o f old has testified o f the Son o f
G o d ; and because the people would not understand his words,
they stoned him to death. But behold, this is not all; these
are not the only ones which have spoken coneerniog the Son
o f God. Behold, he was spoken o f by M oses; yea, and be­
hold, a type was raised up in the wilderness, that whosoever
would look upon it might live. And many did look and live.
But few understood the meaning o f those things, and this be­
cause o f the hardness o f their hearts. But there were many
which were so hardened that they would not lo o k ; therefore
they perished. Now the reason that they would not look, is
because they did not believe that it would heal them. O my
brethren, if ye could be healed by merely casting about your
eyes, that ye might be healed, would ye not behold quickly,
or would ye rather harden your hearts in unbelief, and be sloth­
ful, that ye would not cast about your eyes, that ye might per­
ish 1 If so, wo shall come upon you ; but if not so, then cast
about your eyes, and begin to believe in the Son o f God, that
he will come to redeem his people, and that he shall suffer and
die to atone for their sins; and that lie shall rise again from
the dead, which shall bring to pass the resurrection, that all
men shall stand before him, to be judged, at the last and judg­
ment day, according to their works. And now my brethren, 1
desire that ye Should plant this word in your hearts, and as it
beginneth to swell, even so nourish it by your faith. And be­
hold, it will become a tree, springing up in you unto everlast­
ing life. And then may God grant unto you that your burdens
may be light, through the joy o f his Son. And even all this
can ye do, if ye will. Amen.
And now it came to pass that after Alma had spoken these
words unto them, he sat down upon the ground, and Atnulek
arose and began to teach them, saying: My brethren, 1 think
that it is impossible that ye should be ignorant o f the things
which have been spoken concerning the coming o f Christ, who
is taught by us to be the Son o f G o d ; yea, I know that these
things were taught unto you, bountifully, before your dissen*
tion from among us. And as ye have desired o f my beloved
brother, that be should make known unto you what ye should
BOOK OF ALMA. 319
do, because o f your afflictions ; and he hath spoken somewhat
unto you to prepare your minds ; yea, and be hath exhorted
you unto faith, and to patience ; yea, even that ye would have
so much faith as even to plant the word in your hearts, that
ye may try the experiment o f ils goodness; and we have be­
held that the great question which is in your minds, is wheth­
er the word be in the Son of God, or whether there shall be
no Christ And ye also beheld that my brother hath proven
unto you, in many instances, that the word is in Christ, unto
salvation. My brother hath called upon the words o f Zenos,
that redemption cometh through the Son o f God, and also up­
on the words o f Z en ock ; and also he hath appealed unto M o­
ses, to prove that these things are true. And now behold, I
will testify unto you o f myself, that these things are true.—
Behold, 1 say unto you, that l do know that Christ shall come
among the children o f men, to take upon him the transgress­
ions o f his people, and that he shall atone for the sins o f the
world ; for the Lord God hath spoken it; for it is expedient
that an atonement should be made ; for according to the great
plan o f the Eternal God, there must be an atonement made, or
else all mankind must unavoidably perish ; yea, all are hard­
ened; yea, all are fallen, and are lost, and must perish, except
it be through the atonement which it is expedient should be
m ade; for it is expedient that there should be a great and last
sacrifice; yea, not a sacrifice o f man, neither o f beast, neither
o f any manner o f fow l; for it shall not be a human sacrifice :
but it must be an Infinite and an Eternal sacrifice. Now there
is not any man that can sacrifice his own blood, which will
atone for the sins o f another. Now if a man murdereth, be­
hold, will our law, which is just, take the life o f his brother 1
I say unto you Nay. But the law requireth the life o f him who
hath murdered; therefore there can nothing, which is short o f
an Infinite atonement, which will suffice for the sins o f the
world; therefore it is expedient that there should be a great
and last sacrifice; and then shall there be, or it is expedient
there should be, a stop to the shedding o f blood ; then shall
the law o f Moses be fulfilled; yea, it shall all be fulfilled; ev­
ery jot and tittle, and none shall have passed away. And be­
hold, this is the whole meaning of the la w ; every whit a point­
ing to that great and last sacrifice; and that great and last sac­
rifice will be the Son o f God ; yea, Infinite and Eternal; and
thus he shall bring salvation to all those who shall believe on
his name; this being the intent ol this last sacrifice, to bring
320 BOOK OF ALMA.
about the bowels o f mercy, which overpowereth justice and
bnngeth about means unto men that they may have faith unto
repentance. And thus mercy can satisfy the demands o f jus­
tice, and encircles them in the arms o f safety, while he that ex-
erciseth no faith unto repentance, is exposed to the whole law
of the demands of justice; therefore, only unto him that hath
faith unto repentance, is brought about the great and Eternal
plan o f redemption; therefore may God grant unto you, my
brethren, that ye might begin to exercise your faith unto re­
pentance, that ye begin to call upon his holy name, that he
would have mercy upon you ; yea, cry unto him for mercy;
for he is mighty to save; yea, humble yourselves, and continue
in prayer unto him ; cry unto him when ye are in your fields;
yea, over all your flocks; cry unto him in your houses, yea,
over all your household, both morning, mid-day, and evening;
yea, cry unto him against the power of your enemies; yea, cry
unto him against the Devil, which is an enemy to all righteous­
ness. Cry unto him over the crops of your fields, that ye may
prosper in them ; cry over the flocks of your fields, that they
may increase. But this is not all: ye must pour out your
souls in your closets, and your secret places, and in your wil­
derness ; yea, and When you do not cry unto the Lord, let
your hearts be full, drawn out in prayer unto him continually
for your welfare, and also for the welfare o f those which are
around you.
And now behold, my beloved brethren, 1 say unto you, Do
not suppose that this is all; for after ye have done all these
things, if ye turn away the needy, and the naked, and visit not
the sick and afflicted, and impart of your substance, if ye have,
to those which stand in need; 1 say unto you, if ye do not any
o f these things, behold, ypur prayer is vain, and avgileth you
nothing, and ye are as hypocrites which do deny the faith;
therefore, if ye do not remember to be charitable, ye are as
dross, which the refiners do cast out, (it being of no worth,)
and is trodden under foot of men.
And now, my brethren, I would that after ye have received
so many witnesses, seeing that the Holy Scriptures testify of
these things, come forth and bring fruit unto repentance; yea,
I would that ye would come forth and harden not your hearts
any longer; for behold, now is the time, and the day o f your
salvation ; and therefore, if ye will repent and harden not
your hearts, immediately shall the great plan of redemption be
brought about unto you. For behold, this life is the time for
BOOK OF ALMA. 321
men to prepare to meet G od ; yea, behold, the day of this life
is the day for men to perform their labors. And now as I said
unto you before, as ye have had so many witnesses, therefore
I beseech of you, that ye do not procrastinate the day o f your
repentance until the end; for after this day o f life, which is
given us to prepare for eternity, behold, if we do not improve
our time while in this life, then cometh the night o f darkness,
wherein there can be no labor performed. Ye cannot say,
when ye are brought to that awful crisis, that I will repent,
that I will return to my God. Nay, ye cannot say this; for
that same spirit which doth possess your bodies at the time
that ye go out of this life, that same spirit will have power to
possess your body in that eternal world. Por behold, if ye
have procrastinated the day o f your repentance, even until
death, behold, ye have become subjected to the spirit o f the
Devil, and he doth seal you his; therefore the spirit o f the
Lord hath withdrawn from you, and hath no place in you, and
the Devil hath all power over you : and this is the final state
o f the wicked. And this I know, because the Lord hath said,
he dwelleth not in unholy temples, but in the hearts o f the
righteous doth he dw ell; yea, and he hath also said, that the
righteous should sit down in his kingdom, to go no more out;
but their garments should be made white, through the blood
o f the Lamb.
And now my beloved brethren, I desire that ye should re­
member these things, and that ye should work out your salva­
tion with fear before God, and that ye should no more deny
the coming o f Christ; that ye contend no more against the
Holy Ghost, but that ye receive it, and take upon you the
name of Christ; that ye humble yourselves even to the dust,
and worship God in whatsoever place ye may be in, in spirit
and in truth ; and that ye live in thanksgiving daily, for the
many mercies and blessings which he doth bestow upon you ;
yea, and I also exhort you, my brethren, that ye be watchful
unto prayer continually, that ye may not he led away by the
temptation o f the Devil, that he may not overpower you, that
ye may not become his subjects at the last day: for behold, he
rewardeth you no good thing. And now my beloved breth­
ren, I would exhort you to have patience, and that ye hear
with all manner o f afflictions; that ye do not revile against
those who do cast you out because o f your exceeding poverty,
lest ye become sinners like unto them; hut that ye have pa-
21
322 BOOK OF ALMA.
tience, and bear with those afflictions, with a firm hope that
ye shall one day rest from all your afflictions.
Now it came to pass that after Amulek had made an end o f
these words, they withdrew themselves from the multitude,
and came over into the land o f Jershon; yea, and the rest o f
the brethren, after they had preached the word unto the Z o­
ramites, also came over into the land o f Jershon.
And it came to pass that after the more popular part o f the
Zoramites had consulted together, concerning the words which
had been preached unto them, they were angry because o f the
word, for it did destroy their craft; therefore they would not
hearken unto the words. And they sent and gathered togeth­
er throughout all the land, all the people, and consulted "with
them concerning the words which had been spoken. Now
their rulers, and their priests, and their teachers, did not let
the people know concerning their desires; therefore they
found out privily the minds o f all the people.
And it came to pass that after they had found out the minds
o f all the people, those which were in favor o f the words which
had been spoken by Alma and his brethren, were cast out o f
the land; and they were many; and they came over also into
the land o f Jershon.
And it came to pass that Alma and his brethren did minis­
ter unto them. Now the people o f the Zoramites were angry
with the people o f Ammon which were in Jershon, and the
chief ruler o f the Zoramites being a very wicked man, sent
Over unto the people o f Ammon desiring them that they should
cast out o f their land all those which came over from them into
their land. And he breathed out many threatnings against
them. And now the people o f Ammon did not fear their
words, therefore they did not cast them out, but they did re­
ceive all the poor o f the Zoramites that came over unto them;
and they did nourish them, and did clothe them, and did give
unto them lands for their inheritance; and they did administer
unto them according to their wants. N ow this did stir up the
Zoramites to anger against the people o f Ammon, and they
began to mix with the Lamanites, and to stir them up also to
anger against them: and thus the Zoramites and the Laman­
ites began to make preparations for war against the people o f
Ammon, and also against the Nephites. And thus ended the
seventeenth year o f the reign of the Judges, over the people,
o f Nephi.
BOOK OP ALMA. 3 2 3
And the people o f Ammon departed out o f the land of Jer-
shon, and came over into the land o f Melek, and gave place in
the land of Jershon for the armies o f the Nephites, that they
might contend with the armies o f the Lamanites, and the ar­
mies of the Zoramites ; and thus commenced a war betwixt
the Lamanites and the Nephites, in the eighteenth year o f the
reign of the Judges ; and an account shall he given o f their
wars hereafter. And Alma, and Ammon, and their brethren,
and also the two sons o f Alma, returned to the land o f Zara-
hemla, after having been instruments in the hands of God of
bringing many o f the Zoramites to repentance; and as many
as were brought to repentance, were driven out o f their land;
but they have lands for their inheritance in the land o f Jershon,
and they have taken up arms to defend themselves, and their
wives, and their children, and their lands. Now AJma, being
grieved for the iniquity o f his people, yea for the wars, and
the bloodsheds, and the contentions Which were amog them;
and having been to declare the word, or sent to declare the
word, among all the people in every city; and seeing that the
hearts o f the people began to wax hard, and that they began
to be offended because of the strictness o f the word, his heart
was exceeding sorrowful; therefore, he caused that his sons
should be gathered together, that he might give unto them ev­
ery one his charge, separately, concerning the things pertain­
ing unto righteousness. And we have an account o f his com­
mandments, which he gave unto them according to his own
record.
CH A PTE R XVII.
The Commandments o f Mma, to his son Helaman.
My son, give ear to my w ords; for I swear unto you, that
inasmuch as ye shall keep the commandments o f God, ye shall
prosper in the land. I would that ye should do as I have
done, in remembering the captivity o f our fathers; for they
were in bondage, and none could deliver them, except it was
the God o f Abraham, and the God o f Isaac, and the God o f
Jacob; and he surely did deliver them in their afflictions.—
And now, O my son Helaman, behold, thou art in thy youth,
and therefore I beseech o f thee that thou wilt hear my words.
21*
324 BOOK OP ALMA.
and learn o f m e; for I do know that whomsoever shall put his
trust in God, shall be supported in their trials, and their troub­
les, and their afflictions, and shall be lifted up at the last day;
and I would not that ye think that I know o f myself, not o f
the temporal, but o f the spiritual; not o f the carnal mind, but
o f God. Now behold I say unto you, If I had not been born
o f God, I should not have known these things; but God hath,
by the mouth o f his holy angel, made these things known un­
to me, not o f any worthiness o f myself for 1 went about with
the sons o f Mosiah, seeking to destroy the church o f G o d ;
but behold, God sent his holy angel to stop us by the way.—
And behold, he spake unto us, as it were the voice o f thun­
der, and the whole earth did tremble beneath our feet, and
we all fell to the earth, for the fear o f the Lord came upon us.
But behold, the voice said unto me, Arise. And I arose and
stood up, and beheld the angel. And he said unto me, If thou
wilt o f thyself be destroyed, seek no more to destroy the
church o f God.
And it came to pass that I fell to the earth ; and it was for
the space o f three days and three nights, that I could not open
my mouth; neither had 1 the use o f my limbs. And the angel
spake more things unto me, which were heard by my brethren,
but I did not hear them ; for when I heard the words, If thou
wilt be destroyed o f thyself, seek no more to destroy the
church o f God, I was struck with such great fear and amaze­
ment, lest perhaps that 1 should be destroyed, that I fell to the
earth, and I did hear no m ore; but I was racked with eternal
torment, for my soul was harrowed up to the greatest degree,
and racked with all my sins. Yea, I did remember all my
sins and iniquities, for which I was tormented with the pains
o f h ell; yea, 1 saw that I had rebelled against my God, and
that 1 had not kept his holy commandments; yea, and I had
murdered many o f his children, or rather led them away unto
destruction; yea, and in fine, so great had been my iniquities,
that the very thoughts o f coming into the presence o f my God,
did rack my soul with inexpressible horror. O , thought I, that
I could be banished and become extinct both soul and body,
that I might not be brought to stand in the presence of my God,
to be judged o f my deeds. And now, for three days and for
three nights was I racked, even with the pains o f a damned
soul.
And it came to pass that as I was thus racked with torment,
while I was harrowed up by the memory o f my many sins
BOOK OF ALNU. 325
behold, I remembered also to have heard my father prophecy
unto the people, concerning the coming o f one Jesus Christ,
a Son o f God, to atone for the sins o f the world. Now as my
mind caught hold upon this thought, I cried within my heart,
0 Jesus, thou Son o f God, have mercy on me, who art in the
gall o f bitterness, and art encircled about by the everlasting
chains o f death. And now behold, when I thought this, I
could remember my pains no m ore; yea, l was harrowed up
by the memory o f my sins no more. And O, what joy, and
what marvellous light I did behold ; yea, my soul was filled
with joy as exceeding as was my pain; yea, I sayunto you, my
son, that there could be nothing so exquisite and so bitter, as
was my pains. Yea, and again I say unto you, my son, that
on the other hand, there can be nothing so exquisite and sweet
as was my jo y ; yea, and methought 1 saw even as our father
Lehi saw, God sitting upon his throne, surrounded with num­
berless concourses o f angels, in the attitude o f singing and
praising their G od; yea, and my soul did long to be there.
But behold, my limbs did receive their strength again, and I
stood upon my feet, and did manifest unto the people that I
had been bom o f G od; yea, and from that time, even until
now, I have labored without ceasing, that I might bring souls
unto repentance; that 1 might bring them to taste o f the ex­
ceedingjoy o f which I did taste; that they might also be bom
o f God, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. Yea, and now be­
hold, O my son, the Lord doth give me exceeding great joy in
the fruit o f my labors; for because o f the word which he hath
imparted unto me, behold, many hath been bom o f God, and
hath tasted as I have tasted, and hath seen eye to eye, as I
have seen; therefore they do know o f these things of which
1 have spoken, as I do «mow; and the knowledge which I
have is o f God. And I have been supported under trials and
troubles o f every kind yea, and in all manner o f afflictions;
yea, God hath delivered me from prison, and from bonds, and
from death; yea, and 1 do put my trust in him, and he will
still deliver m e; and I know that he will raise me up at the
last day, to dwell with him in glory; yea, and I will praise
him forever, for he hath brought our fathers out o f Egypt, and
he hath swallowed up the Egyptians in the red sea; and he
led them by his power into the promised land ; yea, and he
hath delivered them out o f bondage and captivity, from time to
time; yea, and he hath also brought our fathers out o f the
land o f Jerusalem; and he hath also, by his everlasting power,
326 BOOK OF ALMA.
delivered them out o f bondage and captivity, from time to time,
even down to the present day; and I have always retained in
remembrance their captivity; yea, and ye also had ought
to retain in remembrance, as 1 have done, their captivity.—
But behold, my son, this is not all: for ye had ought to know,
as I do know, that inasmuch as ye shall keep the command­
ments o f God, ye shall prosper in the land; and ye had ought
to know also, that inasmuch as ye will not keep the command­
ments of God, ye shall be cut off from his presence. Now
this is according to his word.
And now my son Helaman, I command you that ye take the
records which have been entrusted with m e; and 1 also com­
mand you that ye shall keep a record of this people, according
as 1 have done, upon the plates of Nephi, and keep all these
things sacred which I have kept, even as I have kept them:
for it is for a wise purpose that they are kept; and these
plates o f brass which contain these engravings, which have
the records o f the Holy Scriptures upon them, which have the
genealogy o f our forefathers, even from the beginning. And
behold, it hath been prophesied by our fathers, that they should
be kept and handed down from one generation to another, and
be kept and preserved by the hand of the Lord, until they
should go forth unto every nation, kindred, tongue and peo­
ple, that they shall know o f the mysteries contained thereon.
And now behold, if they are kept, they must retain their
brightness; yea, and they will retain their brightness; yea, and
also shall all the plates which do contain thatwhich is Holy Writ.
Now ye may suppose that this is foolishness in m e; but behold
I say unto you, That by small and simple things, are great things
brought to pass; and small means, in many instances, doth con­
found the wise. And the Lord God doth work by means to bring
about his great and eternal purposes; and by very small means
the Lord doth confound the wise, and bringeth about the salva­
tion o f many souls. And now, it hath hitherto been wisdom in
God, that these things should he preserved: for behold, they
have enlarged the memory o f this people, yea, and convinced ma­
ny o f the errorof their ways, and brought them to the knowledge
o f their God, unto the salvation o f their souls. Yea, 1say unto
you, were it not for these things that these records do contain,
which are on these plates, Ammon and his brethren could not
have convinced so many thousand o f the Lamamtes, o f the
incorrect tradition of their fathers; yea, these records and
their words, brought them unto repentance; that is, they
BOOK OP ALMA. 327
brought them to the knowledge o f the Lord their God, and to
rejoice in Jesus Christ, their Redeemer. And who bnoweth
but what they will be the means o f bringing many thousands
o f them, yea, and also many thousands o f our stiffnecked
brethren, the Nephites, which are now hardening their hearts
in sin and iniquities, to the knowledge o f their Redeemer 1—
Now these mysteries are not yet fully made known unto m e;
therefore I shall forbear. And it may suffice, if I only say,
they are preserved for a wise purpose, which purpose is known
unto G od : for he doth counsel in wisdom over all his works,
and his paths are straight, and his course is one eternal round.
O remember, remember, my son Helaman, how strict are the
commandments o f God. And he saith, If ye will keep my
commandments, ye shall prosper in the land; but if ye keep
not his commandments, ye shall be cut off from his presence.
And now remember, my son, that God hath entrusted you
with these things, which are sacred, which he hath kept sa­
cred, and also which he will keep and preserve for a wise
purpose in him, that he may shew forth his power unto future
generations.
And now behold, I tell you by the spirit o f prophecy, that
if ye transgress the commandments o f God, behold, these
things which are sacred, shall be taken away from you by the
power o f God, and ye shall be delivered up unto satan, that he
may sift you as chaff before the w ind; but if ye keep the com­
mandments of God, and do with these things which are sacred,
according to that which the Lord doth command you, (for you
must appeal unto the Lord for all things whatsoever ye must
do with them,) behold, no power o f earth or hell can take
them from you, for God is powerful to the fulfilling o f all his
•words: for he will fulfil all bis promises which he shall make
unto you, for he hath fulfilled his promise which he hath made
unto our fathers. For he promised unto them that he would
reserve these things for a wise purpose in him, that he might
shew forth his power unto future generations.
And now behold, one purpose hath he fulfilled, even to the
restoration o f many thousands o f the Lamanites to the knowl­
edge o f the truth; and he hath shewn forth his power in them,
and he will also still shew forth his power in them, unto futute
generations; therefore they shall be preserved; therefore I
command you, my son Helaman, that ye be diligent in fulfil­
ling all my words, and that ye be diligent in keeping the com­
mandments of God, as they are written.
328 BOOK OF ALMA.
And now, I will speak unto you concerning those twenty-
four plates, that ye keep them, that the mysteries and the
works of darkness, and their secret works, or the secret works
o f those people, which have been destroyed, may be made
manifest unto this people ; yea, all their murders, and robbings,
and their plunderings, and all their wickedness, and abomina­
tions, may be made manifest unto this people ; yea, and that
ye preserve these directors. For behold, the Lord saw that
his people began to work in darkness, yea, work secret mur­
ders and abominations; therefore the Lord said, If they did
not repent, they should be destroyed from off the face o f the
earth. And the Lord said, I will prepare unto my servant
Gazclem, a stone, which shall shine forth in darkness unto
light, that I may discover unto my people which serve me,
that I may discover unto them the works o f their brethren ;
yea, their secret works, their works o f darkness, and their
wickedness and abominations. And now my son, these direc­
tors were prepared, that the word o f God might be fulfilled,
which he spake, saying: 1 will bring forth out o f darkness
unto light, ¿ 1 their secret works and their abominations ; and
except they repent, I will destroy them from off the face o f the
earth; and 1 will bring to light all their secrets and abomina­
tions, unto every nation that shall hereafter possess the land.
And now my son, we see that they did not repent ; therefore
they have been destroyed, and thus far the word of God hath
been fulfilled ; yea, their secret abominations have been brought
out o f darkness, and made known unto us.
And now my son, I command you that ye retain all their
oaths, and their covenants, and their agreements in their secret
abominations ; yea, and all their signs and their wonders ye
shall retain from this people, that they know them not, lest
peradventure they should fall into darkness also, and be des­
troyed. For behold, there is a curse upon all this land, that
destruction shall come upon all those workers o f darkness,
according to the power o f God, when they are fully ripe ;
therefore I desire that this people might not be destroyed.—
Therefore, ye shall keep these secret plans o f their oaths and
their covenants from this people, and only their wickedness,
and their murders, and their abominations, shall ye make known
unto them ; and ye shall teach them to abhor such wicked­
ness, and abominations, and murders; and ye shall also teach
them, that these people were destroyed on account o f their
wickedness, and abominations, and their murders. For behold,
BOOK OP ALMA. 3 2 9
they murdered all the prophets of the Lord which came among
them, to declare unto them concerning their iniquities; and
the blood o f those which they murdered, did cry unto the
Lord their God, for vengeance upon those which were their
murderers; and thus the judgments of God did come upon
these workers of darkness and secret combinations; yea, and
cursed be the land forever and ever unto those workers of
darkness and secret combinations, even unto destruction, ex­
cept they repent before they are fully ripe.
And now my son, remember the words which 1 have spo­
ken unto you •
•trust not those secret plans unto this people,
but teach them an everlasting hatred against sin and iniquity;
preach unto them repentance, and faith on the Lord Jesus
Christ; teach them to humble themselves, and to be meek and
lowly in heart; teach them to withstand every temptation of
the Devil, with their faith on the Lofd Jesus Christ; teach
them to never be weary o f good works, hut to be meek and
lowly in heart: for such shall find rest to their souls. 0 re­
member my son, and learn wisdom in thy youth; yea, leam
in tby youth to keep the commandments of God ; yea, and cry
unto God for all thy support; yea, let all thy doings he unto
the Lord, and whithersoever thou goest, let it be in the Lord;
yea, let thy thoughts be directed unto the Lord ; yea, let the
affections of thy heart be placed upon the Lord forever; coun­
sel the Lord in all thy doings, and he will direct thee for good;
yea, when thou liest down at night, lie down unto the Lord,
that he may watch over you in your sleep ; and when thou ri-
sest in the morning, let thy heart be full of thanks unto God ;
and if ye do these things, ye shall be lifted up at the last day.
And now my son, 1 have somewhat to say concerning the thing
which our fathers call a ball, or director; or our fathers called
it liahona, which is, being interpreted, a compass; and the
Lord prepared it. And behold, there cannot any man work
after the manner o f so curious a workmanship. And behold,
it was prepared to shew unto our fathers the course which
they should travel in the wilderness; and it did work for
them according to their faith in G od ; therefore if they had
faith to believe that God could cause that those spindles should
point the way they should go, behold, it was done; therefore
they had this miracle, and also many other miracles wrought
by the power of God, day by day; nevertheless, because those
miracles were worked by small means, nevertheless it did
shew unto them marvellous Works. They were slothful, and
330 BOOK OP ALMA»
forgot to exercise their faith and diligence, and then those mar
vellous works ceased, and they did not progress in their jour­
ney ; therefore they tarried in the wilderness, or did not travel
a direct course, and were afflicted with hunger and thirst, be­
cause o f their transgressions.
And now my son, I would that ye should understand that
these things are not without a shadow ; for as our fathers
were slothftil to give heed to this compass, (now these things
were temporal,) they did not prosper; even so it is with things
which are spiritual. For behold, it is as easy to give heed
to the word o f Christ, which will point to you a straight course
to eternal bliss, as it was for our fathers to give heed to this
compass, which would point unto them a straight course to
the promised land. And now 1 say, Is there not a type in this
thing t For just as suredly as this director did bring our fa­
thers, by following its course, to the promised land, shall the
words o f Christ, if we follow its course, carry us beyond this
vale o f sorrow, into a far better land o f promise.
O my son, do not let us be slothful, because o f the easiness
o f the way ; for so was it with our fathers ; for so was it pre­
pared for them, that if they would look, they might live ; even
so it is with us. The way is prepared, and if we will look,
we may live forever. And now my son, see that ye take care
o f these sacred things; yea, see that ye look to God and live.
G o unto this people, and declare the word, and be sober.—
My son, farewell.
C H A PT E R XVIII.
The Commandment$ o f Alma, to his son Shiblon.
My son, give ear to my w ords: for I say unto you, even as
I said unto Helaman, That inasmuch as ye shall keep the
commandments o f God, ye shall prosper in the land ; and in­
asmuch as ye will not keep the commandments o f God, ye
shall be cast off from his presence. And now my son, I trust
that I shall have great joy in you, because o f your steadiness
and your faithfulness unto G o d ; for as you have commenced
in your youth, to look to the Lord your God, even so I hope
that you will continue in keeping his commandments: for
blessed is he that endureth to the end. I say unto you my
BOOK OP ALMA, 331
son, that 1 hare had great joy in thee already, because o f thy
faithfulness, and thy diligence, and thy patience, and thy long
suffering among the people o f the Zoramites. For 1 knew
that thou wast in bonds ; yea, and I also knew that thou wast
stoned for the word’s sake; and thou didst bear all these
things with patience, because the Lord was with thee: and
now thou knowest that the Lord did deliver thee.
And now my son Shiblon, 1 would that ye should remem­
ber that as much as ye shall put your trust in God, even so
much ye shall be delivered out o f your trials, and your troub­
les, and your afflictions; and ye shall be lifted up at the last
day. Now my son, I would not that ye should think that I
know these things o f myself, but it is the spirit o f God which
is in me, which maketh these things known unto m e: for if 1
had not been born o f God, I should not have known these
things. But behold, the Lord in his great mercy sent bis an­
gel to declare unto me, that I must stop the work o f destruc­
tion among his people; yea, and I have seen an angel face to
face; and he spake with me, and his voice was as thunder,
and it shook the whole earth.
And it came to pass that I was three days and three nights
in the most bitter pain and anguish o f soul; and never, until I
did cry out unto the Lord Jesus Christ for mercy, did I re­
ceive a remission o f my sins. But behold, I did cry unto him,
and I did find peace to my soul. And now my son, 1 have
told you this, that ye may learn wisdom, that ye may learn o f
me that there is no other way nor means whereby man can be
saved, only in and through Christ. Behold, he is the life and
the light o f the world. Behold, he is the word o f truth and
righteousness. And now, as ye have begun to teach the
word, even so I would that ye should continue to teach; and
J would that ye would be diligent and temperate in all things.
See that ye are not lifted up unto pride; yea, see that ye do
not boast in your own wisdom, nor o f your much strength;
use boldness, but not overbeurance; and also see that ye bri­
dle all your passions, that ye may be filled with lov e; see that
ye refrain from idleness; do not pray as the Zoramites do, for
ye have seen that they pray to be heard o f men, and to be
praised for their wisdom. Do not say, O God, I thank thee
that we are better than our brethren; but rather say, O Lord,
forgive my unworthiness, and remember my brethren in mercy;
yea, acknowledge your unworthiness before God at all times.
And may the Lord bless your soul, and receive you at the last
332 BOOK OK AtKA.
day into his kingdom, to sit down in peace. Now go, my son,
and teach the word unto this people. Be sober. My son,
farewell.
The Commandments o f Alma, to his son Cariantón.
And now my son, I have somewhat more to say unto thee
than what I said unto thy brother: for behold, have ye not
observed the steadiness o f thy brother, his faithfulness, and
his diligence in keeping the commandments o f God ? Behold,
has he not set a good example for thee ? Por thou didst not
give so much heed unto my words as did thy brother, among
the people o f the Zoramites. Now this is what I have against
thee : Thou didst go on unto boasting in thy strength, and
thy wisdom. And this is not all, my son. Thou didst do
that which was grievous unto m e; for thou didst forsake the
■ministry, and did go over into the land o f Siron, among the
borders o f the Lamanites, after the harlot Isabel; yea, she did
steal away the hearts o f many; but this was no excuse for
thee, my son. Thou shouldst have tended to the ministry,
wherewith thou wast entrusted. Know ye not, my son, that
these things are an abomination in the sight o f the Lord ; yea,
most abominable above all sins, save it be the shedding o f
innocent blood, or denying the Holy Ghost I for behold, if ye
deny the Holy Ghost when it once hath had place in you, and
ye know that ye deny it ; behold, this is a sin which is unpar­
donable ; yea, and whosoever murdereth against the light and
knowledge o f God, it is not easy for him to obtain forgiveness;
yea, I say unto you,
had not been guilty o f so great a crime. I would not dwell
upon your crimes, to harrow up your soul, if it were not for
your good. But behold, ye cannot hide your crimes from
G od; and except ye repent, they will stand as a testimony
against you at the last aay. Now my son, I would that ye
should repent, and forsake your sins, and go no more after
the lusts o f your eyes, but cross yourself in all these things;
for except ye do this, ye can in no wise inherit the Kingdom
o f God. O remember, and take it upon you, and cross your-
C IIA P TE R XIX,
tain a forgiveness.
BOOK OF ALMA» 338
self in these things. And I command you to take it upon you
to counsel your elder brothers in your undertakings; for be­
hold, thou art in thy youth, and je stand in need to be nour­
ished oy your brothers. And give heed to their counsel;
suffer not yourself to be led away by any vain or foolish
thing; suffer not that the Devil lead away your heart again,
after those wicked harlots. Behold, O my son, how great in­
iquity ye brought upon the Zoramites: for when they saw
your conduct, they would not believe in my words. And now
the spirit of the Lord doth say unto me, Command thy chil­
dren to do good, lest they lead away the hearts o f many peo­
ple to destruction: therefore i command you, my son, in the
fear of God, that ye refrain from your iniquities ; that ye turn
to the Lord with all your mind, might and strength; that ye lead
away the hearts of no more, to do wickedly; but rather re­
turn unto them, and acknowledge your faults, and retain that
wrong which ye have done; seek not after riches, nor the
vain things o f this w orld; for behold, you cannot carry them
with you.
And now, my son, I would say somewhat unto you concern­
ing the coming of Christ. Behold, I say unto you, that it is
him that surely shall come, to take away the sins o f the
world; yea, he cometh to declare glad tidings of salvation
unto his people. And now my son, this was the ministry unto
which ye were called, to declare these glad tidings unto this
people, to prepare their minds; or rather that salvation might
come unto them, that they may prepare the minds of their
children to hear the word at the time o f his coming. And
now I will ease your mind somewhat on this subject. Behold,
you marvel why these things should be known so long before­
hand. Behold, 1 say unto you, Is not a soul at this time as
precious unto God, as a soul will be at the time of his coining 1
Is it not as necessary that the plan of redemption should he
made known unto this people, as well as unto their children 1
Is it not as easy at this time, for the Lord to send his angel to
declare these glad tidings unto us, as unto our children; or
as after the time o f his coming ? Now my son, here is some­
what more I would say unto thee; for 1 perceive that thy
mind is worried concerning the resurrection o f the dead.—
Behold, I say unto you, that there is no resurrection; or I
would say, in other words, that this mortal does not put on
immortality; this corruption does not put on incomiption, un­
til after the coming o f Christ Behold, he bringetb to pass
334 BOOK OF A
L
M
A
.
the resurrection o f the dead. But behold, my son, the res­
urrection is not yet. Now 1unfold unto you a mystery; nev­
ertheless, there are many mysteries, which are kept, that no
one knoweth them, save God himself. But I shew unto you
one thing, which I have inquired diligently o f God, that 1 might
kn ow ; that is, concerning the resurrection. Behold, there is
a time appointed that all shall come forth from the dead.—
Now when this time cometh, no one know s; but God know­
eth the time which is appointed. Now whether there shall
be one time, or a seeond time, or a third time, that men shall
come forth from the dead, it mattereth not; for Qod knoweth
all these things; and it sufficeth me to know that this is the
ca se ; that there is a time appointed that all shall rise from
the dead. Now there must needs be a space betwixt the
time o f death, and the time o f the resurrection. And now I
would inquire what becometh o f the souls o f men, from this
time o f death, to the time appointed for the resurrection 1 —
Now whether there is more than one time appointed for men
to rise, it mattereth n ot; for all do not die at on ce; and this
mattereth n o t; all is as one day, with God ; and time only is
measured unto men ; therefore there is a time appointed unto
men, that they shall rise from the dead; -and there is a space
between the time o f death and the resurrection. And now
concerning this space o f time. What becometh o f the souls
o f men, is the tiling which 1 have inquired diligently o f the
Lord to know ; and this is the thing o f which t do know.—
And when the time cometh when all shall rise, then shall they
know that God knoweth all the times which are appointed
unto man. Now concerning the state o f the soul between
death and the resurrection. Behold, it hath been made known
unto me, by an angel, that the spirits o f all men, as soon as
they are departed from this mortal body; yea, the spirits o f
all men, whether they be good or evil, are taken home to that
God who gave them life. And then shall it come to pass that
the spirits o f those which are righteous, are received into a
state o f happiness, which is called paradise; a state o f rest;
a state o f peace, where they shall rest from all their troubles,
and from all care, and sorrow, &o. And then shall it come
to pass, that the spirits o f the wicked, yea, which are evil; for
behold, they have no part nor portion o f the spirit o f the
L ord; for behold, they chose evil works, rather than good ;
therefore the spirit o f the Devil did enter into them, and take
possession o f their house; and these shall be cast out into
BOOK OP ALMA. 335
outer darkness; there shall he weeping, and wailing, and
gnashing o f teeth; and this because o f their own iniquity;
being led captive by the will of the Devil. Now this is the
state o f the souls o f the w icked; yea, in darkness, and a
state o f awful, fearful looking for o f the fiery indignation o f the
wrath o f God upon them; thus they remain in this state, as
well as the righteous in paradise, until the time o f their resur­
rection. Now there are some that have understood that this
state o f happiness, and this state o f misery o f the soul, before
the resurrection, was a first resurrection. Yea, I admit it may
be termed a resurrection; the raising o f the spirit or the soul,
and their consignation to happiness or misery, according to
the words which have been spoken. And behold, again it
hath been spoken, that there is a first resurrection ; a resur­
rection o f all those which have been, or which are, or which
shall be, down to the resurrection of Christ from the dead.—
Now we do not suppose that this first resurrection which is
spoken o f in this manner, can be the resurrection o f the souls,
and their consignation to happiness or misery. Ye cannot
suppose that this is what it meaneth. Behold, 1say unto you
N ay; but it meaneth the re-uniting o f the soul with the body
o f those from the days o f Adam, down to the resurrection o f
Christ. Now whether the souls and the bodies o f those o f
which have been spoken, shall all be re-united at once, the
wicked as well as the righteous, I do not say; let it suffice,
that 1 say that they all come forth ; or in other words, their
resurrection cometh to pass before the resurrection o f those
which die after the resurrection o f Christ. Now my son, I do
not say that their resurreotion cometh at the resurrection o f
Christ; but behold, I give it as my opinion, that the souls
and the bodies are re-united, o f the righteous, at the resurrec­
tion o f Christ, and his ascension into Heaven. But whether
it be at his resurrection, or after, I do not say; but this much
I say : That there is a space between death and the resurrec­
tion o f the body, and a state o f the soul in happiness or in
misery, until the time which is appointed o f God that the
dead shall come forth, and be re-united, both soul and body,
and be brought to stand before God, and be judged according
to their works; yea, this bringeth about the restoration o f
those things o f which have been spoken by the mouths o f the
prophets. The soul shall be restored to the body, and the
body to the soul; yea, and every limb and joint shall be re­
stored to its body; yea, even a hair o f the head shall not be
BOOK OP ALMA.
33*
>
lost, but all things shall be restored to its proper and perfect
frame. And now my son, this is the restoration o f which has
been spoken by the mouths of the prophets: And then shall
the righteous shine forth in the Kingdom o f God. But behold,
an awful death cometh upon the wicked 5 for they die as to
things pertaining to things o f righteousness; for they are un­
clean, and no unclean thing can inherit the Kingdom o f G o d ;
but they are cast out, and consigned to partake o f the fruits
o f their labors or their works, which have been evil; and they
drink the dregs o f a bitter cup.
And now my son, 1 have somewhat to say concerning the
restoration o f which has been spoken ; for behold, some have
arrested the Scriptures, and have gone far astray, because o f
this thing. And I perceive that thy mind hath been worried
also, concerning this thing. But behold, J will explain it unto
thee. I say unto thee, my son, that the plan of restotation is
requisite with the justice o f God ; for it is requisite that all
things should be restored to their proper order. Behold, it is
requisite and just, according to the power and resurrection o f
Christ, that the soul o f man should be restored to its body, and
that every part of the body should be restored to itself.—
And it is requisite with the justice o f God, that men should
be judged according to their works ; and if their works were
good in this life, and the desires o f their hearts were good,
that they should also, at the last day, be restored unto that
which is good ; and if their works are evil, they shall b e re­
stored unto him for evil; therefore, all things shall be restored
to their proper order; everything to its natural frame ; mor­
tality raised to immortality ; corruption to incorruption; rai­
sed to endless happiness, to inherit the Kingdom o f God, or to
endless misery, to inherit the kingdom o f the D evil; the one
on one hand, the other on the other; the one raised to happi­
ness, according to his desires o f happiness; or good, according
to his desires o f good ; and the other to evil, according to Ins
desires of ev il; for as he has desired to do evil all the day
long, even so shall he have his reward o f evil, when the night
cometh. And so it is on the other hand. If he hath repented
o f his sins, and desired righteousness until the end o f his
days, even so he shall be rewarded unto righteousness.—
These are they that are redeemed of the Lord ; yea, these arc
they that are taken out, that are delivered from that endless
night o f darkness; and thus they stand or fall; for behold,
they are their own judges, whether to do good or do evil.—
BOOK OP Jil.U k. 337
Now the decrees o f God are unalterable; therefore the way is
prepared, that whosoever will, may walk therein and be saved.
And now behold, my son, do not risk one more oifence against
your God upon those points o f doctrine* which ye hath hith­
erto risked to commit sin. D o not suppose, because it hath
been spoken concerning restoration, that ye shall be restored
from sin to happiness. Behold 1 say unto you, Wickedness
never was happiness. And now, my son, all men that are in
a state of nature, or I would say, in a carnal state, are in the
gall o f bitterness, and in the bonds o f iniquity ; they are with­
out God in the world, and they have gone contrary to the na­
ture of G od; therefore they are in a state contrary to the nature
o f happiness. And now behold, is the meaning o f the word
restoration, to take a thing o f a natural state, and place it in
an unnatural state, or to place it in a state opposite to its na­
ture 1 O, my son, this is not the case; but the meaning o f
the word restoration, is to bring back again evil for evil, or
carnal for carnal, or devilish for devilish ; good for that which
is good; righteous for that which is righteous; just for that
which is ju st; merciful for that which is merciful; therefore,
my son, see that ye are merciful unto your brethren; deal
justly, judge righteously, and do good continually; and if ye
do all these things, then shall ye receive your reward; yea, ye
shall liavo mercy restored unto you again; ye shall have jus­
tice restored unto you again; ye shall have a righteous judgment
restored unto you again; and ye shall have good rewarded
unto you again: for that which ye doth send out, shall return
unto you again, and be restored; therefore the word restora­
tion, more fully condemneth the sinner, and jusliiieth him not
at all.
And now, my son, I perceive there is somewhat more which
doth worry your mind, which ye cannot understand, which is
concerning the justice o f God, in the punishment o f the sinner:
for ye do try to suppose that it is injustice that the sinner
should be consigned to a state of misery. Now behold, my
son, 1 will explain this thing unto thee: for behold, after the
Lord God sent our first parents forth from the garden o f Eden
to till the ground, from whence he was taken ; yea, he drew
out the man, and he placed at the east end o f the garden o f
Eden, Cherubinis, and a flaming sword which turned every
way, to keep the tree o f life. Now we see that the man had
became as God, knowing good and evil; and lest he should
put forth his hand, and take also o f the tree o f life, and eat,
22
338 BOOK OF ALMA.
and live forever, that the Lord God placed Cherubims and the
flaming sword, that he should not partake o f the fruit; and
thus we see, that there was a time granted unto man, to re­
pent, yea, a probationary time, a time to repent and serve God.
For behold, if Adam had put forth his hand immediately, and
partook o f the tree of life, he would have lived forever, accor­
ding to the word of God, having no space for repentance; yea,
and also the word o f God would have been void, and the great
plan o f salvation would have been frustrated. But behold, it
was appointed unto man to die; therefore as they were cut
oft from the tree o f life, therefore they should be cut off from
the face o f the earth; and man became lost forever; yea,
they became fallen man. And now we see by this, that our first
parents were cut off, both temporally and spiritually, from the
presence o f the L ord; and thus we see they became subjects
to follow after their own will. Now behold, it was not expe­
dient that man should be reclaimed from this temporal death,
for that would destroy the great plan o f happiness; therefore,
as the soul could never die, and the fall had brought upon all
mankind a spiritual death as well as a temporal; that is, they
were cut off from the presence o f the Lord ; therefore it was
expedient that mankind should be reclaimed from this spiritu­
al death ; therefore as they had become carnal, sensual and
devilish, by nature, this probationary state became a state for
them to prepare: it became a preparatory state. And now
remember, my son, if it were not for the plan o f redemption,
(laying it aside,) as soon as they were dead, their souls were
miserable, being cut off from the presence o f the Lord. And
now there was no means to reclaim men from this fallen slate
which man had brought upon himself, because o f his own diso­
bedience ; therefore, according to justice, the plan o f redemp­
tion could not be brought about, only, on conditions o f repen­
tance o f men in this probationary state; yea, this preparatory
state; for except it were for these conditions, mercy could
not take effect except it should destroy the work o f jus­
tice. Now the work o f justice could not be destroyed: if so,
God would cease to be God. And thus we see that all man­
kind were fallen, and they were in the grasp ofjustice; yea,
the justice o f God, which consigned them forever to be cut
off from his presence. And now the plan o f mercy could not
be brought about, except an atonement should be made;
therefore God himself atoneth for the sins o f the world, to
bring about the plan of mercy, to appease the demands ofjus-
BOOK OF ALMA. SS9
ttce, that God might be a perfect, just God, and a merciful
God. Also, now repentance could not come unto men, ex­
cept there were a punishment, which also was as eternal as the
life of the soul should be, affixed opposite to the plan of hap­
piness, which was as eternal also as the life o f the soul.—
Now, how could a man repent, except he should sin * How
could he sin, if there was no law 1 How could there be a
law, save there was a punishment ? Now there was a punish-
roeat affixed, and a just law given, which brought remorse of
conscience unto man. Now if there was no law given, if a
man murdered he should die, would he be afraid he should
die if he should murder ? And also, if there was no law given
against sin, men would not be afraid to sin. And if there
was no law given if men sinned, what could justice do, or
mercy either, for they would have no claim upon the crea­
ture ? But there is a law given, and a punishment affixed, and
repentance granted; which repentance, mercy claimeth ; oth­
erwise, justice claimeth the creature, and executeth the law,
and the law inflicteth the punishment; if not so, the works o f
justice would be destroyed, and God would cease to be God.
But God ceaseth not to be God, and mercy claimeth the peni­
tent, and mercy cometh because o f the atonement; and the
atonement bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead; and the
resurrection of the dead bringeth back men into the presence
o f God ; and thus they are restored into his presence, to be
judged according to their w orks; according to the law and
justice; for behold, justice exerciseth all his demands, and
also mercy claimeth all which is her own ; and thus, none
but the truly penitent are saved. What, do ye suppose
that mercy can rob justice ? I say unto you, N ay; not one
whit. If so, God would cease to be God. And thus God
bringeth about his great and eternal purposes, which was pre­
pared from the foundation of the world. And thus cometh
about the salvation and the redemption of men, and also their
destruction and misery; therefore, O my son, whosoever will
come, may come, and partake o f the waters o f life freely; and
whosoever will not come, the same is (lot compelled to com e;
but in the last day, it shall be restored unto him, according to
his deeds. If he hath desired to do evil, and hath not repent­
ed in his days, behold, evil shall be done unto him, according
to the restoration of God. And now my son, I desire that ye
should let these things trouble you no more, and only let your
sins trouble you, with that trouble which shall bring you down
22*
340 BOOK OF ALMA.
uoto repentance. O my son, I desire that ye should deny the
justice o f God no more. D o not endeavor to excuse yourself
in the least point, because o f your sins, by denying the juitice
o f God, but do you let the justice o f God, and his mercy, and
his long suffering, have full sway in your heart; but let it
bring you down to the dust, in humility. And now, 0 my
son, ye are called o f God to preach the word unto this people.
And now, my son, go thy way, declare the word with truth
and soberness, that thou mayest bring souls unt6 repentance,
that the great plan o f mercy may have claim upon them.—
And may God grant unto you even according to my words.—
Amen.
C H A PT E R XX.
An» now it came to pass, that the sons o f Alma did go forth
among the people, to declare the word unto them. And Al­
ma also, himself, could not rest, and he also went forth.—
Now we shall say no mere concerning their preaching, except
that they preached the word, and the truth, according to
the spirit of prophecy and revelation ; and they preached after
the holy order o f God, by which they were called.
And now 1 return to an account o f the wars between the
Nephites and the Lamanites, in the eighteenth year o f the
reign o f the Judges. For behold, it came to pass that the
Zoramites became Lamanites ; therefore, in the commence­
ment o f the eighteenth year, the people o f the Nephites saw
that the Lamanites were coming upon them ; therefore they
made preparations for war ; yea, they gathered together their
armies in the land of Jershon. And it came to pass that
the Lamanites came with their thousands ; and they came in­
to the land o f Antionam, which was the land o f the Zoram­
ites ; and a man by the name o f Zerahemnah was their leader.
And now as the Amalekites were of a more wicked and a mur­
derous disposition than the Lamanites were, in and of them­
selves, therefore Zerahemnah appointed Chief Captains over
the Lamanites, and they were all the Amalekites and the Zo-
ramitea. Now this he done, that he might preserve their ha­
tred towards the Nephites ; that he might bring them into
subjection, to the accomplishment o f his designs; for hehold,
his designs were to stir up the Lamanites to anger against
BOOK OF ALMA. 341
the Nephites; this he done that he might usurp great power
over them; and also that he might gain power over the Ne­
phites, by bringing them into bondage, &c. And now the de­
sign o f the Nephites were to support their lands, and their
houses, and their wives, and their children, that they might
preserve them from the hands o f their enemies, and also, that
they might preserve their rights and their privileges ; yea, and
also their liberty, that they might worship God according to
their desires; for they knew that if they should fall into the
hands o f the Lamanites, that whosoever should worship God,
in spirit and in truth, the true and the living God, the La-
manites would destroy; yea, and they also knew the extreme
hatred o f the Lamanites towards their brethren, which were
the people o f Anti-Nep'ai-Lehi; which were called the people
o f Ammon ; and they would not take up arms; yea, they had
entered into' a covenant, and they would not break it; there­
fore, if they should fall into the hands o f the Lamanites, they
would he destroyed. And the Nephites would not suffer that
they should be destroyed ; therefore they gave them lands for
their inheritance. And the people o f Ammon did give unto
the Nephites a large portion o f their substance, to support
their armies; and thus the Nephites were compelled, alone,
to withstand against the Lamanites, which were a compound
o f Laman and Lemuel, and the sons o f Ishmael, and all those
which had dissented from the Nephites, which were Amalek-
ites, and Zoramites, and the descendants o f the priests o f
Noah. Now those descendants were as numerous, nearly,
as were the Nephites; and thus the Nephites were obliged to
contend with their brethren, even unto bloodshed.
And it came to pass, as the armies o f the Lamanites had
gathered together in the land o f Antionum, behold, the armies
o f the Nephites were prepared to meet them in the land o f Jer-
shon. Now the leader o f the Nephites, or the man which had
been appointed to he the Chief Captain over the Nephites:
Now the Chief Captain took the command o f all the armies
o f the Nephites; and his name was M oroni; and Moroni
took all the command, and the governments o f their wars.—
And he was only twenty and five years old when he was ap­
pointed Chief Commander over the armies o f the Nephites.
And it came to pass that he met the Lamanites in the bor­
ders o f Jershon, and his people were armed wdth swords, and
with cimeters, and all manner o f weapons of war. And it
came to pass, that when the armies o f the Lamanites saw that
3i2 BOOK OF ALMA.
the people o f Nephi, or that Moroni had prepared his people
with breast-plates, and with arm-shields; yea, and also shields
to defend their heads; and also they were dressed with thick
clothing. Now the army o f Zerahemnah was not prepared
with any such thing. They had only their swords, and their
cimeters, their bows and their arrows, their stones and their
slings; but they were naked, save it were a skin which was
girded about their loins ; yea, all were naked, save it were
the Zoramites and the Amalekiles. But they were not armed
with breast-plates, nor shields; therefore they were exceed­
ing afraid o f the armies o f the Nephites, because o f their ar­
mour, notwithstanding their number being so much greater
than the Nephites.
Behold, now it came to pass, that they durst not come
against the Nephites in the borders o f Jershon; therefore
they departed out o f (he land o f Antionum, into the wilderness,
and took their journey round about in the wilderness, away
by the head o f the river Sidon, that they might come into the
land of Manti, and take possession o f the land; for they did
not suppose that the armies of Moroni would know whither
they had gone. But it came to pass, as soon as they had de­
parted into the wilderness, Moroni sent spies into the wilder­
ness, to watch their camp; and Moroni, also, knowing of the
prophecies o f Alma, sent certain men unto him, desiring him
that he should inquire o f the Lord whither the armies o f the Ne­
phites should go, to defend themselves against the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that the word o f the Lord came unto Alma;
and Alma informed the messengers o f Moroni that the armies o f
the Lamanites were marching round about in the wilderness,
that they might come over into the land o f Manti, that they might
commence an attack upon the more weak part o f the people.
And those messengers went and delivered the message unto
Moroni.
Now Moroni, leaving a part o f his army in the land o f Jer-
shon, lest by any means, a part o f the Lamanites should come
into that land and take possession o f the city; and Moroni took
the remainder part of his army and marched over into the
land o f Manti. And he caused that all the people in that
quarter o f the land, should gather themselves together to battle,
against the Lamanites, to defend their lands and their country,
their rights and their liberties; therefore (hey were prepared
against the time o f the coming o f the Lamanites. And it came
to pass, that Moroni caused that his army should be secreted
BOOK OP ALMA* 343
in the valley which was near the hank o f the river Sidon,
which was on the west o f the river Sidon, in the wilderness.
And Moroni placed spies round about, that he might know
when the camp o f the Lam&nites should come.
And now as Moroni knew the intention o f the Lamanites,
that it was their intention to destroy their brethren, or to sub­
ject them and bring them into bondage, that they might es­
tablish a kingdom unto themselves, over all the land; and
he also knowing that it was the only desire o f the Nephites to
preserve their lands and their liberty, and their church, therefore
he thought it no sin that he should defend them by stratagem;
therefore he found, by his spies, which course the Lamanites
were to take. Therefore he divided his army, and brought a
part over into the valley, and concealed them on the east, and
on the south o f the hill Riplah; and the remainder he con­
cealed in the west valley, on the west o f the river Sidon, and
so down into the borders o f the land Manti. And thus having
placed his army according to his desire, he was prepared to
meet them.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites came up on the
north o f the hill where a part o f the army o f Moroni was con­
cealed. And it same to pass that as the Lamanites had pass­
ed the hill Riplah, and came into the valley, and began to
cross the river Sidon, the army which was concealed on the
south o f the hill, who was led by a man whose name was Le-
h i; and he led his army forth and encircled the Lamanites
about, on the east, in their rear.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites, when they saw the
Nephites coining upon them in their rear, turned them about,
and began to contend with the army o f L eh i; and the work o f
death commenced, on both sides; but it was more dreadful
on the part o f the Lamanites; for their nakedness was expo­
sed to the heavy blows o f the Nephites, with their swords
and their cimeters, which brought death almost at every
stroke ; while on the other hand, there was now and then a
man fell among the Nephites, by their swords, and the loss of
blood ; they being shielded from the more vital parts of the
body, or the more vital parts o f the body being shielded from
the strokes o f the Lamanites, by their breast-plates, and their
arm-shields, and their head-plates; and thus the Nephites
did carry on the work o f death among the Lamanites. And
it came to pass that the Lamanites became frightened, because
o f the great destruction among them, even until they began to
844 BOOK OF ALSU.
flee towards the river Sidon. And they were pursued by Le-
hi and his men, and they were driven by Lehi into the waters
o f Sidon; and they crossed the waters o f Sidon. And Lehi
retained his armies upon the bank o f the river Sidon, that
they should not cross.
And it came to pass that Moroni and his army met the La-
manites in the valley, on the other side o f the river Sidon.—
And it came to pass that Moroni and his army began to fall
upon them, and to slay them. And it came to pass that the
Lamanites did flee again before them, towards the land o f
M anli; and they were met again by the armies o f Moroni.—
Now in this case, the Lamanites did fight exceedingly; yea,
never had the Lamanites been known to have fought with such
exceeding great strength and courage ; no, not even from the
beginning; and they were inspired by the Zoramites, and the
Amalekites, which were their Chief Captains and leaders,
and by Zerabemnah, who was their Chief Captain, or their
chief leader and commander; yea, they did fight like dragons;
and many o f the Nephites were slain by their hands; yea, for
they did smite in two many o f their head-plates; and they did
pierce many o f their breast-plates; and they did smite off
many o f their arm s; and thus the Lamanites did smite in
ibeir fierce anger. Nevertheless, the Nephites were inspired
by a better cau se; for they were not fighting for monarchy
nor pow er; but they were fighting for their homes, and their
liberties, their wives, and their children, and their a ll; yea,
for their rites o f worship, and their church; and they were
doing that which they felt it was the duty which they owed to
their G o d ; for the Lord had said unto them, and also unto
their fathers, That inasmuch as ye are not guilty o f the first
offence, neither the second, ye shall not suffer yourselves to
be slain by the hands o f your enemies. And again: The
Lord hath said That ye shall defend your families, even unto
bloodshed; therefore, for this cause were the Nephites con­
tending with the Lamanites, to defend themselves, and their
families, and their lands, their country, and their rights, and
their religion.
And it came to pass that when the men o f Moroni saw
the fierceness and the anger o f the Lamanites, they were about
to shrink and flee from them. And Moroni, perceiving their
intent, sent forth and inspired their hearts with these thoughts;
yea, the thoughts o f their lands, their liberty, yea, their free­
dom from bondage. And it came to pass that they turned.
BOOK OF ALMA. 345
upon the Lamanites, and they cried with one voice unto the
Lord their God, for their liberty, and their freedom from bon­
dage. And they began to stand against the Lamanites with
pow er; and in that self-same hour that they cried unto the
Lord for their freedom, the Lamanites began to flee before
them; and they fled even to the waters ofSSidon. Now the
Lamanites were more numerous; yea, by more than double
the number o f the Nepliites ; nevertheless, they were driven
insomuch that they were gathered together in one body, in
the valley, upon the bank, by the river Sidon; therefore the
armies of Moroni encircled them about; yea, even on both
sides o f the river; for behold, on the east, were the men o f
L eh i; therefore when Zerahemnah saw the men o f Lehi on
the east of the river Sidon, and the armies o f Moroni on the
west of the river Sidon, that they were encircled about by the
Nephites, they were struck with terror. Now Moroni, when
he saw their terror, he commanded his men that they should
stop shedding their blood.
And it came to pass that they did stop, and withdrew a
pace from them. And Morom said unto Zerahemnah, Be­
hold, Zerahemnah, that we do not desire to be men o f blood.
Ye know that ye are in our hands, yet we do not desire to
slay you. Behold, we have not come out to battle against
you, that we might shed your blood, for pow er; neither do
we desire to bring any one to the yoke o f bondage. But this
is the very cause for which ye have come against us; yea,
and ye are angry with us because o f our religion. But now
ye behold that the Lord is with u s; and ye behold that he
hath delivered you into our hands. And now I would that yc
should understand that this is done unto us because o f our
religion and our faith in Christ. And now ye see that ye
cannot destroy this our faith. Now ye see that this is the
true faith o f God ; yea, ye see that God will support, and
keep, and preserve us, so long as we are faithful unto him,
and unto our faith, and our religion; and never will the Lord
suffer that we shall be destroyed, except we should fall into
transgression, and deny our faith. And now, Zerahemnah, f
command you, in the name o f that all-powerful God, who hath
strengthened our arms, that we have gained power over you
by oui' faith, by our religion, and by our rites o f worship, and
by our church, and by the sacred support which we owe to
our wives and our children, by that liberty which binds us to
our lands and our country; yea, and also by the maintenance
346 BOOK OP ALMA.
o f the sacred word o f God, to which we owe all our happi­
ness ; and by all that is most dear unto u s; yea, and this
is not all; I command you by all the desires which ye have
for life, that ye deliver up your weapons o f war unto us, and
we will seek not your blood, but we will spare your lives, if
ye will go your way, and come not again to war against us.—
And now if ye do not this, behold, ye are in our hands, and 1
will command my men that they shall fall upon you, and in­
flict the wounds o f death in your bodies, that ye may become
extinct; and then we will see who shall have power over this
people; yea, we will see who shall be brought into bondage.
And now it came to pass that when Zerabemnah had heard
these sayings, he came forth and delivered up his sword and
his cimeter, and his bow, into the hands o f Moroni, and saith
unto him, Behold, here is our weapons o f war; we will deliver
them up unto you, and we will not suffer ourselves to take an
oath unto you, which we know that we shall break, and also
our children; but take our weapons o f war, and suffer that we
may depart into the wilderness; otherwise we will retain our
swords, and we will perish or conquer. Behold, we are not o f
your faith; we do not believe that it is God that hath delivered
us into your hands; but we believe that it is your cunning that
hath preserved you from our swords. Behold, it is your breast­
plates, and your shields that hath preserved you. And now
when Zerahemnah had made an end o f speaking these words,
Moroni returned the sword, and the weapons o f war which he
had received, unto Zerahemnah, saying, Behold, we will end
the conflict. Mow 1 cannot retain the words which I have
spoken; therefore, as the Lord liveth, ye shall not depart,
except ye depart with an oath, that ye will not return again
against us to war. Now as ye are in our hands, we will spill
your blood upon the ground, or ye shall submit to the condi­
tions to which ] have proposed. And now when Moroni had
said these words, Zerahemnah retained his sword, and he was
angry with Moroni, and he rushed forward that he might slay
Moroni; but as he raised his sword, behold, one o f Moroni’s
soldiers smote it even to the earth ; and it broke by the hilt; and
he also smote Zerahemnah, that he took off his scalp, and it
fell to the earth. And Zerahemnah withdrew from before
them, info the midst o f his soldiers.
And it came to pass that the soldier which stood by, which
smote oil' the scalp of Zerahemnah, took up the scalp from oft
the ground, by the hair, and laid it upon the point o f his sword.
BOOK OP ALMA» 347
and siretched it forth unto them, saying unto them with a loud
voice, saying: Even as this scalp hath fallen to the earth,
which is the scalp o f your Chief, so shall ye fall to the earth,
except ye will deliver up your weapons of war, and depart,
with a covenant o f peace.
Now there were many, when they heard these words, and
saw the scalp which was upon the sword, they were struck
with fear, and many came forth and threw down their weap­
ons o f war, at the feet o f Moroni, and entered into a covenant
o f peace. And as many as entered into a covenant, they suf­
fered to depart into the wilderness.
Now it came to pass that Zerahemnah was exceeding wroth,
and he did stir up the remainder o f his soldiers tQ anger, to
contend more powerfully against the Nephites. And now
Moroni was angry, because of the stubbornness o f the La-
manites; therefore he commanded his people that they should
fall upon them and slay them. And it came to pass that they
began to slay them ; yea, and the Lamanites did contend with
their swords and their mights. But behold, their naked skins,
and their bare heads, were exposed to the sharp swords o f
the Nephites; yea, behold, they were pierced and smitten;
yea, and did fall exceeding fast before the swords o f the Ne­
phites ; and they began to be swept down, even as the sol­
dier of Moroni had prophesied. Now Zerahemnah, when
he saw that they were all about to be destroyed, he cried
mightily unto Moroni, promising that he would covenant, and
also his people, with them, if they would spare the remainder
o f their lives, that theynever would come to war again against
them. And it came to pass that Moroni caused that the work
o f death should cease again among the people. And it came
to pass, that he took the weapons o f war from the Lamanites;
and after they had entered into a covenant with him o f peace,
they were suffered to depart into the wilderness. Now the
number of their dead were not numbered, because of the great­
ness o f the number; yea, the number of their dead were ex­
ceeding great, both on the Nephites, and on the Lamanites.—
And it came to pass that they did cast their dead into the wa­
ters o f Sidon; and they have gone forth, and are buried in
the depths of the sea. And the armies of the Nephites, or of
Moroni, returned, and came to their houses, and their lands.
And thus ended the eighteenth year o f the reign of the Judges
over the people o f Nephi, And thus ended the record of Al­
ma, which was wrote upon the plates o f Nephi.
343 BOOK OF ALMA.
CHAPTER XXI.
The account of the people o f Nephi, and their wars and dis-
sentious, in the days o f Helaman, according to the record
o f Helaman, which he kept in his days.
Brholu, now it came to pass that the people o f Nephi were
exceedingly rejoiced, because the Lord had again delivered
them out of the hands of their enemies; therefore they gave
thank« unto the Lord their God ; yea, and they did fast much
and pray much, and they did worship God with exceeding
great joy.
And it came to pass in the nineteenth year o f the reign of
the Judges over the people of Nephi, that Alma came unto his
son Helaman, and saith unto him, Believest thou the words
which I spake unto thee concerning those records which have
been kept ! And Helaman saith unto him, Yea, I believe.—
And Alma saith again, Believest thou in Jesus Christ, which
shall come? And he saith, Yea, I believe all the words which
thou hast spoken. And Alma saith unto him again, Will ye
keep my commandments 1 And he said, Yea, I will keep
thy commandments with all my heart. Then Alma saith
unto him, Blessed art thou; and the Lord shall prosper thee
in this land. But behold, I have somewhat to prohesy unto
thee; but what I prophesy unto thee, ye shall not make known;
yea, what I prophesy unto thee shall not be made known,
even until the prophecy is fulfdled; therefore write the words
which I shall say. And these are the words; Behold, I per­
ceive that this very people, the Nephites, according to the
spirit of revelation which is in me, in four hundred years from
the time that Jesus Christ shall manifest himself unto them,
shall dwindle in unbelief; yea, and then shall they see wars
and pestilences, yea, famines and bloodshed, even until the
people of Nephi shall become extinct; yea, and this because
they shall dwindle in unbelief, and fall into the works o f dark­
ness and lasciviousness, end all manner of iniquities; yea, I
say unto you, that because they shall sin against so great
light and knowledge; yea, I say unto you, that from that day,
even the fourth generation shall not all pass away, before this
great iniquity shall com e; and when that great day cometh,
behold, the time very soon cometh that those which are now,
or the seed of those which are now numbered among the
people o f Nephi, shall no more be numbered among the
BOOK OF ALMA. 349
people of Nephi; but whosoever remained), and is not des­
troyed in that great and dreadful day, shall be numbered among
the Lamanites, and shall become like unto them all, save it
be a few, which shall be called the disciples of the Lord; and
them shall the Lamanites pursue, even until they shall become
extinct. And notv, because o f iniquity, this prophecy shall
be fulfilled.
And now it came to pass that after Alma had said these
things to Helama, he blessed him, and also his other sons;
and he also blessed the earth, for the righteous’ sake. And he
said, Thus saiththe Lord God : Cursed shall be the land, yea,
this land, unto every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, unto
destruction, which do wickedly, when they are fully ripe; and
as I have said, so shall it b e : for this is the cursing and the
blessing of God upon the land, for the Lord cannot look upon
sin with the least degree of allowance. And now, when Al­
ma had said these words, he blessed the church, yea, all
those which should stand fast in the faith, from that time
henceforth; and when Alma had done this, he departed out
o f the land o f Zaraheinla, as if to go into the land of Melek.—
And it came to pass that he was never heard of more; as to
his death or his burial, we know not of. Behold, this we
know, that he was a righteous man; and the saying went
abroad in the church, that he was taken up by the spirit, or
buried by the hand of the Lord, even as Moses. But behold,
the Scripture saith the Lord took Moses unto himself; and
we suppose that he hath also received Alma in the spirit, unto
himself; therefore, for this cause, we know nothing concer­
ning his death and burial.
And now it came to pass in the commencement o f the nine­
teenth year o f the reign of the Judges over the people o f Ne­
phi, that Helaman went forth among the people to declare the
word unto them: for behold, because of their wars with the
Lamanites, and the many little dissentions and disturbances
which had been among the people, it became expedient that
the word of God should be declared among them; yea, and
that a regulation should be made throughout the church;
therefore Helaman and his brethren went forth to establish the
church again in all the land, yea, in every city throughout all
the land which was possessed by the people of Nephi. And
it came to pass that they did appoint priests and teacher*
throughout all the land, over all the churches.
Arid now it came to pass that after Helaman and his breth-
BOOS OP ALMA.
350
renhad appointed priests and teachers over the churches, that
there arose a dissention among them, and they would not give
heed to the words o f Helaman and his brethren; but they grew
proud, being lifted up in their hearts, because of their exceed­
ing great riches; therefore they p ew rich in their own eyes,
and would not give heed to their words, to walk uprightly be­
fore God.
And it came to pass that as many as would not hearken to
the words of Helaman and his brethren, were gathered togeth­
er against their brethren. And now behold, they were exceed­
ing wroth, insomuch that they were determined to slay them.
Now the leader of those which were wroth against their breth­
ren, was a large and a strong man; and his name was Ama-
lickiah. And Amalickiah was desirous to be a king; and
those people which were wroth, were also desirous that be
should be their king; and they were the greater part o f them
the lower Judges o f the land; and they were seeking for pow­
er. And they had been led by the flatteries of Amalickiah,
that if they would support him, and establish him to be their
king, that he would make them rulers over the people. Thus
they were led away by Amalickiah, to dissentions, notwith­
standing the preaching of Helaman and his brethren; yea,
notwithstanding their exceeding great care over the church,
for they were High Priests over the church. And there were
many in the church which believed in the flattering words of
Amalickiah ; therefore they dissented even from the church ;
and thus were the affairs o f the people o f Nephi exceeding
precarious and dangerous, notwithstanding their great victory
which they had had over the Lamanites, and their great rejoi­
cings which they had had, because of their deliverance by the
hands of the Lord. Thus we see how quick the children o f
men doth forget the Lord their G od; yea, how quick to do
iniquity, and to be led away by the evil one; yea, and we also
see the great wickedness one very wicked man can cause to
take place among the children of men; yea, we see thatAma­
lickiah, because he was a man o f cunning devices, and a man
o f many flattering words, that he led away the hearts o f many
people to do wickedly; yea, and to seek to destroy the church
o f God, and to destroy the foundation o f liberty which God
had granted unto them, or which blessing God bad sent upon
the face of the land, for the righteous’ sake.
And noiv it came to pass that when Moroni, which was the
chief commander of the armies of the Nephites, had heard
BOOK OP ALMA. 351
of these dissentions, he was angry with Amalickiah. And it
came to pass that he rent his coat; and he took a piece there-
of, and wrote upon it, In memory o f our God, our religion, and
freedom, and our peace, our wives, and our children; and he
fastened it upon the end of a pole thereof. And he fastened
or his head-plate, and his breast-plate, and his shields, and
girded on his armour about his loins ; and he took the pole,
which had on the end thereof his rent coat, (and he called it
the title of liberty,) and he bowed himself to the earth, and
he prayed mightily unto his God for the blessings o f liberty
to rest upon his brethren so long as there should a band of
Christians remain to possess the land : for thus were all the
true believers o f Christ, which belonged to the church o f God,
called by those which did not belong to the church; and
those who did belong to the church, were faithful; yea, all
those who were true believers in Christ, took upon them,
gladly, the name o f Christ, or Christians, as they were called,
because o f their belief in Christ, which should com e; and
therefore, at this time, Moroni prayed that the cause o f the
Christians, and the freedom o f the land, might he favored.—
And it came to pass that when he had poured out his soul
to God, he gave all the land which was south o f the land
Desolation; yea, and in fine, all the land, both on the north
and on the south, a chosen land, and the land of liberty.—
And he saith, Surely God shall not suffer that we, who are
despised because we take upon us the name o f Christ, shall
be trodden down and destroyed, until we bring it upon us, by
our own transgressions. And when Moroni had said these
words, he went forth among the people, waving the rent o f his
garment in the air, that all might see the writing which he had
wrote upon the rent, and crying with a loud voice, saying:
Behold, whosoever will maintain this title upon the land, let
them come forth in the strength o f the Lord, and enter into a
covenant that they will maintain their rights, and their reli­
gion, that the Lord God may bless them.
And it came to pass that when Moroni had proclaimed
these words, behold, the people came running together, with
their armours girded about their loins, rending their garments
in token, or as a covenant, that they would not forsake the
Lord their G od; or, in other words, if they should transgress
the commandments o f God, or fall into transgression, and be
ashamed to take upon them the name o f Christ, the Lord
should rend them even as they had rent theirgarments. Now
352 BOOK OF ALMA.
this was the covenant which they m ade; and they cast their
garments at the feet o f Moroni, saying: W e covenant with
our God, that we shall be destroyed, even as our brethren in
the land northward, if we shall fall into transgression ; yea,
he may cast us at the feet o f our enemies, even as we hare
cast our garments at thy feet, to be trodden under foot, if ve
shall fall into transgression. Moroni saith unto them, Behold,
we are a remnant o f the seed o f Jacob; yea, we are a rem­
nant o f the seed o f Joseph, whose coat was rent by his breth­
ren, into many pieces; yea, and now behold, let us re­
member to keep the commandments o f God, or our garments
shall be rent by our brethren, and we be cast into prison or be
sold, or be slain; yea, let us preserve our liberty, as a remnant
o f Joseph; yea, let us remember the words o f Jacob, before
his death; for behold, he saw that a part o f the remnant of
the coat o f Joseph was preserved, and had not decayed And
he saith, Even as this remnant o f garment o f my sons hath been
preserved, so shall a remnant o f the seed o f my son be preser­
ved by the hand o f God, and be taken unto himself, while the
remainder o f the seed of Joseph shall perish, even as the rem­
nant o f his garment. Now behold, this giveth my soul sorrow ;
nevertheless, my soul hath joy in my son, because that part o f
his seed which shall be taken unto God. Now behold, this
was the language o f Jacob. And now who knoweth hut what
the remnant o f the seed o f Joseph, which shall perish as his
garment, are those which have dissented from u s; yea, and
even it shall be us, if we do not stand fast in the faith o f Christ.
And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these
words, he went forth, and also sent forth in all the parts o f the
land where there weredissentions, and gathered together all the
people which were desirous to maintain their liberty, to stand
against Amalickiah, and those which had dissented, which
were called Amalickiahites.
And it came to pass that when Amalickiah saw that the peo­
ple o f Moroni were more numerous than the Amalickiahites;
and he also saw that his people were doubtful concerning the jus­
tice o f the cause in which they had undertaken; therefore,
fearing that he should not gain the point, he took those o f his
people which would, and departed into the land of Nepbi.
Now Moroni thought it was not expedient that the Laman-
ites should have any more strength ; therefore he thought to
cut oil'the people o f Amalickiah, or to take them and bring
them hack, and put Amalickiah to death ; yea, for he knew that
BOOK OF ALMA. 353
they would stir up the Lamanites to anger against them, and
cause them to come to battle against them ; and this he knew
that Amalickiah would do, that he might obtain his purposes;
tiierefore Moroni thought it was expedient that he should take
his armies, which had gathered themselves together, and armed
themselves, and entered into a covenant to keep the peace:—
And it came to pass that he took his army, and marched out
into the wilderness, to cut off the course o f Amalickiah in the
wilderness.
And it came to pass that he did according to his desires, and
marched forth into the wilderness, and headed the armies o f
Amalickiah. And it came to pass that Amalickiah fled with a
small number of his men, and the remainder were delivered up
into the hands o f Moroni, and were taken back into the land
of Zarahemla. Now Moroni being a man which was appoint­
ed by the Chief Judges and the voice o f the people, therefore
he had power according to his will, with the armies o f the
Nephites, to establish and to exercise authority over them.
And it came to pass that whomsoever o f the Amalickiahites
that would not enter into a covenant to support the cause o f
freedom, that they might maintain a free government, he caused
to be put to death ; and there was but few which denied the
covenant o f freedom.
And it came to pass also, that he caused the title o f liberty
to be hoisted upon every tower which was in all the land,
which was possessed by the Nephites; and thus Moroni plant­
ed the standard of liberty among the Nephites. And they be­
gan to have peace again in the land; and thus they did main­
tain peace in the land, until nearly the end o f the nineteenth
year o f the reign o f the Judges. And Helaman and the High
Priests did also maintain order in the church ; yea, even for
the space o f four years, did they have much peace and rejoi­
cing in the church.
And it came to pass that there were many who died, firmly
believing that their souls were redeemed by the Lord Jesus
Christ; thus they went out of the world rejoicing. And there
were some who died with fevers, which at some seasons of
the year, was very frequent in the land; but not so much so
with fevers, because of the excellent qualities o f the many
plants and roots which God had prepared, to remove the
cause of diseases which was subsequent to man, by the nature
o f the climate. But there were many who died with old age;
and those who died in the faith of Christ, are happy in him,
23
354 BOOK OP ALMA.
as we must needs suppose. Now we will return in our rec­
ord, to Amalickiah, and those which had fled with him into
the wilderness: for behold, he had taken those which went
with him, and went up into the land of Nephi, among the La-
manites, and did stir up the Lamanites to anger, against the
people o f Nephi, insomuch that the king of the Lamanites sent
a proclamation throughout all his land, among all his people,
that they should gather themselves together again, to go to
battle against the Nephites.
And it came to pass that when the proclamation had gone
forth among them, they were exceeding fraid; yea, they feared
to displease the king, and they also feared to go to battle
against the Nephites, lest they should lose their lives. And it
came to pass that they would not, or the more part o f them
would not obey the commandments o f the king.
And now it came to pass that the king was wroth, because
o f their disobedience; therefore he gave Amalickiah the com­
mand of that part of his army which was obedient unto his
commands, and commanded him that he should go forth and
compel them to arms. Now behold, this was the desire of
Amalickiah: for he being a very subtle man to do evil, there­
fore he laid the plan in his heart to dethrone the king of the
Lamanites. And now he had got the command of those parts
of the Lamanites which were in favor of the king; and he
sought to gain favor o f those which were not obedient; there­
fore he went forward to the place which was called Onidah,
for (hither had all the Lamanites fled; for they discovered the
army coming, and supposing that they were coming to destroy
them, therefore they fled to Onidah, to the place of arms.—
And they had appointed a man to be a king and a leader over
them, being fixed in their minds with a determined resolution
that they would not be subjected to go against the Nephites.
And it came to pass that they had gathered themselves to­
gether upon the top o f the mount which was called Antipas, in
preparation to battle. Now it was not Amalickiah’s intention
to give them battle, according to the commandments o f the
king; but behold, it was his intention to gain favor with the
armies of the Lamanites, that he might place himself at their
head, and dethrone the king, and take possession of the king­
dom. And behold, it came to pass that he caused his army to
pitch their tents in the valley which was near the mount Anti­
pas. And it eame to pass that when it was night, he sent a
secret embassy into the mount Antipas, desiring that the lea-
BOOS OF ALMA. 355
der of those which were upon the mount, whose name was
Lehonti, that he should come down to the foot o f the mount,
for he desired to speak with him.
And it came to pass that when Lehonti received the mes­
sage, he durst not go down to the foot o f the mount And it
came to pass that Amalickiah sent again the second time, de­
siring him to come down. And it came to pass that Lehonti
would not; and he sent again the third time. And it came to
pass that when Amalickiah found that he could not get Lehonti
to come down oft’ from the mount, he went up into the mount,
nearly to Lehonti’s camp; and he sent again the fourth time,
his message unto Lehonti, desiring that he would come down,
and that he would bring his guards with him.
And it came to pass that when Lehonti had come down
with his guards to Amalickiah, that Amalickiah desired him
to come down with his army in the night time, and surround
those men in their camps, over whom the king had gave him
command, and that he would deliver them up into Lehonti’s
hands, if he would make him, (Amalickiah,) a second leader
over the whole army.
And it came to pass that Lehonti came down with his men,
and surrounded the men of Amalickiah, so that before they
awoke at the dawn o f the day, they were surrounded by the
armies of Lehonti. And it came to pass that when they saw
that they were surrounded, they plead with Amalickiah that he
would suffer them to fall in with their brethren, that they might
not be destroyed. Now this was the very thing which Ama­
lickiah desired.
And it came to pass that he delivered his men, contrary to
the commands of the king. Now this was the thing that Am-
alickiah desired, that he might accomplish his designs in de­
throning the king. Now it was the custom among the Laman-
ltes, if their chief leader was killed, to appoint the second
leader to be their chief leader.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah caused that one o f his
servants should administer poison, by degrees, to Lehonti, that
he died. Now when Lehonti was dead, the Lamanites ap­
pointed Amalickiah to be their leader and their chief comman­
der. • And it came to pass that Amalickiah inarched with his
armies (for he had gained his desires) to the land of Nephi, to
the city of Nephi, which was the chief city. And the king
came out to meet him, with his guards: for he supposed that
Amalickiah had fulfilled his commands, and that Amalickiah
33*
3 5 6 BOOK OP ALMA.
had gathered together so great an army for to go against the
Nephites to battle. But behold, as the king came out to meet
him, Amalickiah caused that his servants should go forth to
meet the king. And they went and bowed themselves before
the king, as if to reverence him, because o f his greatness.
And it came to pass that the king put forth his hand to raise
them, as was the custom with the Lamanites, and a token o f
peace, which custom they had taken from the Nephites. And
it came to pass that when he had raised the first from the
ground, behold, he stabbed the king to the heart; and he fell
to the earth. Now the servants o f the king fled; and the ser­
vants o f Amalickiah raised a cry, saying: Behold, the servants
o f the king have stabbed him to the heart, and he has fell, and
they have fled ; behold, come and see.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah commanded that Ms
armies should march forth, and see what had happened to the
king; and when they had come to the spot, and found the king
lying in his gore, Amalickiah pretended to be wroth, and said,
Whosoever loved the king, let him go forth and pursue his
servants, that they may be slain.
And it came to pass that when all they who loved the king,
when they heard these words, came forth and pursued after
the servants o f the king. Now when the servants o f the king
saw an army pursuing after them, they were frightened again,
and fled into the wilderness, and came over into the land o f
Zarahemla, and joined the people o f Ammon ; and the army
which pursued after them, returned, having pursued after them
in vain: and thus Amalickiah, by his fraud, gained the hearts
o f the people.
And it came to pass on the morrow, he entered the city
Nephi, with his armies, and took possession o f the city. And
now it came to pass that the queen, when she had heard that
the king was slain: for Amalickiah had sent an embassy to
the queen, informing her that the king had been slain by his
servants; that he had pursued them with his army, but it was
in vain, and they had made their escape: Therefore when the
queen had received this message, she sent unto Amalickiah,
desiring him that he would spare the people o f the city ; and
she also desired him that he should come in unto her; and
she also desired him that he should bring witnesses with Mm,
to testify concerning the death o f the king.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah took the same servant
that slew the king, and also they which were with him, and
BOOK OP ALMA, 357
went in unto the queen, unto the place where she sat ; and
they all testified unto her that the king was slain by his own
servants ; and they said, also, They have tied : Does not this
testify against them! And thus they satisfied the queen con­
cerning the death o f the king.
And it came to pass that Amalickiah sought the favor of the
queen, and took her unto him to wife ; and thus by his fraud,
and by the assistance o f his cunning servants, he obtained the
kingdom ; yea, he was acknowledged king throughout all the
land, among all the people o f the Lamanites, which was com­
posed of the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and the Ishmael-
ites, and all the dissenters of the Nephites, from the reign of
Nephi down to the present time. Now these dissenters, hav­
ing the same instruction and the same information of the Ne­
phites ; yea, having been instructed in the same knowledge of
the Lord ; nevertheless, it is strange to relate, not long after their
dissentions, they became more hardened and impenitent, and
more wild, wicked and ferocious, than the Lamanites ; drink­
ing in with the tradition* o f the Lamanites ; giving way to in­
dolence, and all manner o f lasciviousness ; yea, entirely for-
the Lord their God.
now it came to pass that as soon as Amalickiah had
obtained the kingdom, he began to inspire the hearts o f the
Lamanites against the people of Nephi; yea, he did appoint
men to speak unto the Lamanites from their towers, against
the Nephites; and thus he did inspire their hearts against the
Nephites, insomuch, that in the latter end of the nineteenth
year of the reign of the Judges, he having accomplished his
designs thus far; yea, having been made king over the Laman­
ites, he sought also to reign over all the land ; yea, and all
the people which were in the land; the Nephites as well as
the Lamanites; therefore he had accomplished his design : for
he had hardened the hearts of the Lamanites, and blinded
their minds, and stirred them up to anger, insomuch that he
had gathered together a numerous host, to go to battle against
the Nephites. For he was determined, because of the great­
ness o f the number of his people, to overpower the Nephites,
and to bring them into bondage; and thus he did appoint
Chief Captains of the Zoramites, they being the most acquaint­
ed with the strength o f the Nephites, and their places o f resort,
and the weakest parts of their cities; therefore he appointed
them to be Chief Captains over his armies.
And it came to pass that they took their camp, and moved
358 BOOK o r ALMA.
forth towards tbe land o f Zarahemla, in the wilderness. Now
it came to pasg that while Amalickiah had thus been obtain­
ing power by fraud and deceit, Moroni, on the other hand, had
been a preparing the minds o f the people to be faithful unto
the Lord their God ; yea, he had been strengthening the ar­
mies o f the Nephites, and erecting small forts, or places of re­
sort ; throwing up banks o f earth round about, to enclose his
armies, and also building walls of stone to encircle them about,
round about their cities, and the borders o f their lands; yea,
all round about the land; and in their weakest fortifications, he
did place the greater number o f men; and thus he did fortify
and strengthen the land which was possessed by the Nephites.
And thus he was preparing tosupport their liberty, their lands,
their wives, and their children, and their peace, and that they
might live unto the Lord their God, and that they might main­
tain that which was called by their enemies the cause of Chris­
tians. And Moroni was a strong and a mighty man ; he was
a man o f a perfect understanding; yea, a man that did not de­
light in bloodshed; a man whose soul did joy in the liberty
and the freedom o f his country, and his brethren from bondage
and slavery; yea, a man whose heart did swell with thanks­
giving to his God, for the many privileges and blessings which
he bestowed upon his people; a man who did labor exceed­
ingly for the welfare and safety o f his people; yea, and he
was a man who was firm in the faith o f Christ, and he had
sworn with an oath, to defend his people, his rights, and his
country, and his religion, even to the loss o f his blood. Now
tbe Nephites were taught to defend themselves against their
enemies, even to the shedding o f blood, if it were necessary;
yea, and they were also taught never to give an offence ; yea,
and never to raise the sword, except it were against an enemy,
except it were to preserve their lives : and this was their faith,
that by so doing, God would prosper them in tbe land ; or in
other words, if they were faithful in keeping the command­
ments o f God, that he would prosper them in the land; yea,
warn them to flee, or to prepare for war, according to their
danger; and also, that God would make it known unto them,
whither they should go to defend themselves against their ene­
mies ; and by so doing, the Lord would deliver them: and this
was the faith o f Moroni; and his heart did glory in it ; not in
the shedding o f blood, but in doing good, in preserving his
people; yea, in keeping the commandments of G od ; yea, and
resisting iniquity. Yea, verily, verily I say unto you, If all men
BOOK OF ALMA. 359
bad been, and were, and ever would be, like unto Moroni, be­
hold, the very powers o f hell would have been shaken forever;
yea, the Devil would never have no power over trie hearts o f
the children o f men. Behold, he was a man like unto Ammon,
the son o f Mosiah, yea, and even the other sons of Mosiah ;
yea, and also Alma and his sons: for they were all men o f
God. Now behold, Helaman and his brethren were no less
serviceable unto the people, than was M oroni; for they did
preach the word o f God, and they did baptize unto repentance,
all men whosoever would hearken unto their words. And
thus they went forth, and the people did humble themselves
because o f their words, insomuch that they were highly favor­
ed of the Lord ; and thus they were free from wars and con­
tentions among themselves; yea, even for the space o f four
years. But as I have said in the latter end o f the nineteenth;
yea, notwithstanding their peace amongst themselves, they
were compelled reluctantly to contend with their brethren, the
Lamanites; yea, and in fine, their wars never did cease for
the space o f many years with the Lamanites, notwithstanding
their much reluctance. Now they were sorry to take up arms
against the Lamanites, because they did not delight in the
shedding o f blood; yea, and this was not all; they were sorry
to be the means of sending so many o f their brethren out of
this world into an eternal world, unprepared to meet their G od;
nevertheless, they could not suffer to lay down their lives, that
their wives and their children should be massacred by the bar­
barous cruelty o f those who was once their brethren, yea, and
had dissented from their church, and had left them, and had
gone to destroy them, by joining the Lamanites; yea, they
could not bear that their brethren should rejoice over the blood
o f the Nephites, so long as there were any who should keep
the commandments o f G od : for the promise o f the Lord were,
If they should keep his commandments, they should prosper
in the land.
And now it came to pass, in the eleventh month of the nine­
teenth year, on the tenth day o f the month, the armies o f the
Lamanites were seen approaching towards the land ofAmmo-
nibah. And behold, the city had been re-built, and Moroni
had stationed an army by the borders o f the city, and they
had cast up dirt round about, to shield them from the arrows
and the stones o f the Lamanites; for behold, they fought
with stones, and with arrows. Behold, I said that the city o f
Ammonihah had been re-built. I say unto you, yea, that it
360 BOOK OF ALMA.
was in part re-built, and because the Lamanites had destroyed
it once because o f the iniquity o f the people, they supposed
that it would again become an easy prey for them. But be­
hold, how great was their disappointment; for behold the
Nepliites had dug up a ridge o f earth round about them,
which was so high that the Lamanites could not cast their
stones and their arrows at them, that they might take effect;
neither could they come upon them, save it was by their place
o f entrance. Now at this time, the Chief Captains o f the La­
manites were astonished exceedingly, because o f the wisdom
o f the Nephites in preparing their places o f security. Now
the leaders o f the Lamanites had supposed, because o f the
greatness o f their numbers; yea, they supposed that they
should be privileged to come upon them as they had hitherto
done; yea, and they had also prepared themselves with shields,
and with breast-plates ; and they had also prepared themselves
with garments o f skins ; yea, very thick garments, to cover
their nakedness. And being thus prepared, they supposed
that they should easily overpower and subject their brethren
to the yoke o f bondage, or slay and massacre them according
to their pleasure. But behold, to their uttermost astonish­
ment, they were prepared for them, in a manner which never
had been known among all the children o f Lehi. Novi' they
were prepared for the Lamanites, to battle, after the manner
o f the instructions o f Moroni. And it came to pass that the
Lamanites, or the Amalickiahites, were exceedingly astonished
at their manner o f preparation for war. Now if king Amalick-
iah had come down out o f the land o f Nephi, at the head o f
his army, perhaps he would have caused the Lamanites to have
attacked the Nephites at the city o f Ammonihah; for behold,
he did care not for the blood of his people. But behold, Ama-
lickiah did not come down himself to battle. And behold, his
Chief Captains durst not attack the Nephites at the city o f
Ammonihah, for Moroni had altered the management o f affairs
among the Nephites, insomuch that the Lamanites were dis­
appointed in their places o f retreat, and they could not come
upon them; therefore they retreated into the wilderness, and
took their camp, and marched towards the land o f Noah,
supposing that to be the next best place for them to come
against the Nephites; for they knew not that Moroni had for­
tified or had built forts o f security for every city in all the land
round about; therefore they marched forward to the land o f
Noah, with a firm determination; yea, their Chief Captains
BOOK OF ALMA. 361
came forward, and took an oath that they would destroy the
people o f that city. But behold, to their astonishment, the city
o f Noah, which had hitherto been a weak place, had now, by
the means of Moroni, become strong; yea, even to exceed the
strength o f the city Ammonibah. And now behold, this was
wisdom in M oroni; for he had supposed that they would be
frightened at the city Ammonihah; and as the city o f Noah
had hitherto been the weakest part o f the land, therefore they
would march thither to battle; and thus it was, according to
his desires. And behold, Moroni had appointed Lehi to be
Chief Captain over the men o f that city ; and it was that same
Lehi which fought with the Lamanites in the valley, on the
east o f the river Sidon.
And now behold, it came to pass, that when the Lamanites
had found that Lehi commanded the city, they were again
disappointed, for they feared Lehi exceedingly ; nevertheless,
their Chief Captains had sworn with an oath, to attack the
city; therefore they brought up their armies. Now behold,
the Lamanites could not get into their forts o f security, by any
other way save by the entrance, because o f the highness o f
the bank which had been thrown up, and the depth o f the
ditch which had been dug round about, save it were by the
entrance. And thus were the Nephites prepared to destroy all
such as should attempt to climb up to enter the fort, by any
other way, by casting over stones and arrows at them. Thus
they were prepared; yea, a body o f their most strong men,
with their swords and their slings, to smite down all who
should attempt to come into their place o f security, by the
place o f entrance; and thus were they prepared to defend
themselves against the Lamanites. And it came to pass that
the Captains o f the Lamanites brought up their armies before
the place o f entrance, and began to contend with the Nephites,
to get into their place o f security; but behold, they were dri­
ven back from time to time, insomuch that they were slain,
with an immense slaughter. Now when they found that they
could not obtain power over the Nephites by the pass, they
began to dig down tbeir hanks o f earth, that they might obtain
a pass to their armies, that they might have an equal chance
to fight; but behold, in these attempts, they were swept off
by the stones and the arrows which were thrown at them;
and instead o f filling up their ditches by pulling down the
banks o f earth, they were filled up in a measure, with their
dead and wounded bodies. Thus the Nephites had all pow-
362 BOOK OF ALMA.
er over their enemies; and thus the Lamanites did attempt to
destroy the Nephites, until their Chief Captains were all
slain; yea, and more than a thousand o f the Lamanites were
slain ; while on the other hand, there was not a single soul o f
the Nephites which were slain. There were about fifty which
were wounded, which had been exposed to the arrows o f the
Lamanites through the pass ; but they were shielded by their
shields, and their breast-plates, and their head-plates, insomuch
that their wounds were upon their legs; many o f which were
very severe.
And it came to pass, that when the Lamanites saw that
their Chief Captains were all slain, they fled into the wilder­
ness. And it came to pass that they returned to the land of
Nephi, to inform their King, Aroalickiah, who was a Nephite
by birth, concerning their great loss. And it came to pass
that he was exceeding angry with his people, because he had
not obtained his desire over the Nephites; he had not subjec­
ted them to the yoke o f bondage; yea, he was exceeding
wroth, and be did curse God, and also Moroni, and swearing
with an oath that he would drink his blood ; and this because
Moroni had kept the commandments o f God in preparing for
the safety o f his people. And it came to pass, that on the
other hand, the people o f Nephi did thank the Lord their God,
because o f his matchless power in delivering them from the
hands o f their enemies. And thus ended the nineteenth year
o f the reign o f the Judges over the people o f Nephi; yea, and
there was continual peace among them, and exceeding great
prosperity in the church, because of their heed and diligence
which they gave unto the word o f God, which was declared
unto them by Helaman, and Shiblon, and Corianton, and Am­
mon, and his brethren, & c.; yea, and by all those which had
been ordained by the holy order o f God, being baptised unto
repentance, and sent forth to preach among the people, &c.
CH APTER XXII.
Anb now it came to pass that Moroni did not stop making
preparations for war, or to defend themselves against the La­
manites; for he caused that his armies should commence in
the commencement of the twentieth year o f the reign of the
Judges, that they should commence in digging up heaps of
BOOK OF ALSU. 363
earth round about all the cities, throughout all the land which
was possessed bj the Nephites; and upon the top o f these
ridges o f earth, he caused that there should be timbers; yea,
works o f timbers built up to the height o f a man, round about
the cities. And he caused that upon those works o f timbers,
that there should be a frame o f pickets built upon the timbers,
round about; and they were strong and high; and he caused
towers to be erected that overlooked those works o f pickets;
and he caused places o f security to be built upon those towers,
that the stones and the arrows o f the Lamanites could not
hurt them. And they were prepared, that they could cast
stones from the top thereof, according to their pleasure and
their strength, and slay him which should attempt to approach
near the walls o f the city. Thus Moroni did prepare strong
holds against the coming o f their enemies, round about every
city in all the land.
And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his armies
should go forth into the east wilderness; yea, and they went
forth, and drove all the Lamanites which were in the east wil­
derness into their own lands, which were south o f the land of
Zarahemla; and the land o f Nephi did run in a straight course
from the East Sea to the West. And it came to pass that
when Moroni had driven all the Lamanites out o f the east
wilderness, which was north o f the lands o f their own pos­
sessions, he caused that the inhabitants which were in the
land of Zarahemla, and in the land round about, should go
forth into the east wilderness, even to the borders, by the sea
shore, and possess the land. And he also placed annies on
the south, in the borders o f their possessions, and caused
them to erect fortifications, that they might secure their ar­
mies and their people from the hands o f their enemies. And
thus he cut off all the strong holds o f the Lamanites, in the
east wilderness; yea, and also on the west, fortifying the line
between the Nephites and the Lamanites, between the land o f
Zarahemla and the land o f Nephi; from the West Sea, running
by the head o f the river Sidon ; the Nephites possessing all
the land northward; yea, even all the land which was north­
ward o f the land Bountiful, according to their pleasure. Thus
Moroni, with his armies, which did increase daily, because o f
the assurance o f protection which his works did bring forth
unto them; therefore they did seek to cut off the strength and
the power o f the Lamanites, from off the lands of their pos-
364 BOOK OF ALKA.
sessions, that they should have no power upon the lands o f
their possession.
And it came to pass that the Nephites began the foundation
o f a city ; and they called the name of the city Moroni ; and
it was by the East Sea ; and it was on the south by the line of
the possessions o f the Lamanites. And they also began a
foundation for a city, between the city of Moroni and the city
o f Aaron, joining the borders o f Aaron and Moroni ; and they
called the name o f the city, or the land, Nephihah. And they
also began, in that same year, to build many cities on the
north ; one in a particular manner, which they called Lehi,
which was in the north, by the borders o f the seashore. And
thus ended the twentieth year. And in these prosperous
circumstances were the people o f Nephi, in the commence­
ment o f the twenty and first year of the reign o f the Judges, over
the people o f Nephi. And they did prosper exceedingly, and
they became exceeding rich ; yea, and they did multiply, and
were strong in the land. And thus we see how merciful and
just are all the dealings o f the Lord, to the fulfilling o f all his
words unto the children o f men ; yea, we can behold that his
words are verified, even at this time, which he spake unto Le­
hi, saying : Blessed art thou, and thy children ; and they
shall be blessed, inasmuch as they shall keep my command­
ments ; they shall prosper in the land. But remembeF, inas­
much as they will not keep my commandments, they shall be
cut off from the presence o f the Lord. And we see that these
promises have been verified to the people o f Nephi ; for it has
been their quarrellings, and their contentions ; yea, their mur­
dering?, and their plunderings, their idolatry, their whoredoms,
and their abominations, which were among themselves, which
brought upon them their wars and their destructions. And
those who were faithful in keeping the commandments of the
Lord, were delivered at all times, whilst thousands o f their
wicked brethren have been consigned to bondage, or to per­
ish by the sword, or to dwindle in unbelief, and mingle with
the lamanites. But behold, there never was a happier time
among the people o f Nephi, since the days o f Nephi, than in
the days o f Moroni ; yea, even at this time, in the twenty and
first year o f the reign o f the Judges. And it came to pass that
the twenty and second year o f the reign o f the Judges, also
ended in peace; yea, and also the twenty and third year.
And it came to pass that in the commencement o f the twen-
BOOK OP ALMA* 365
ty and fourth year o f the reign o f the Judges, there would also
have been peace among the people o f Nephi, had it not been
for a contention which took place among them concerning the
land ofLehi, and the land o f Morianton, which joined upon
the borders of Lehi; both o f which were on the borders, by
the sea shore. For behold, the people which possessed the
land o f Morianton, did claim a part o f the land o f Lehi; there­
fore there began to be a warm contention between them, in­
somuch that the people o f Morianton took up armss against
their brethren, and they were determined, by the swerd to
slay them. But behold, the people which possessed the land
o f Lehi, tied to the camp o f Moroni, and appealed unto him
for assistance; for behold, they were not in the wrong.
And it came to pass that when the people o f Morianton,
which were led by a man whose name was Morianton, found
that the people o f Lehi had fled to the camp o f Moroni, they
were exceeding fearful, lest the army o f Moroni should come
upon them, and destroy them ; therefore, Morianton put it in­
to their hearts that they should flee to the land which was
northward, which was covered with large bodies o f water, and
take possession of the land which was northward. And be­
hold, they would have carried this plan into an effect, (which
would have been a cause to have been lamented,) but behold,
Morianton, being a man o f much passion, therefore he was an­
gry with one o f his maidservants, and he fell upon her, and
beat her much. And it came to pass that she fled, and came
over to the camp o f Moroni, and told Moroni all things con­
cerning the matter; and also concerning their intentions to
flee into the land northward. Now behold, the people which
were in the land Bountiful, or rather Moroni, feared that they
would hearken to the words of Morianton, and unite with his
people, and thus he would obtain possession of those parts
of the land, which would lay a foundation for serious conse­
quences among the people of Nephi; yea, which consequen­
ces would lead to the overthrow of their liberty ; therefore
Moroni sent an army, with their camp, to head the people of
Morianton, to stop their flight into the land northward. And
it eame to pass that they did not head them, until they had
come to the borders o f the land Desolation; and there they
did head them, by the narrow pass which led by the sea into
the land northward; yea, by the sea, on the west, and on the
east.
And it came to pass that the army which was sent by Mo-
366 BOOS OF ALMA.
roni, which was led by a man whose name was Teancum, did
meet the people o f Morianton ; and so stubborn were the peo­
ple o f Morianton, (being inspired by his wickedness and his
nattering words,) that a battle commenced between them, in
the which Teancum did slay Morianton, and defeat his army,
and took them prisoners, and returned to the camp o f Moroni.
And thus ended the twenty and fourth year o f the reign o f the
Judges over the people o f Nephi. And thus was the people of
Morianton brought back. And upon their covenanting to keep
the peace, they were restored to the land o f Morianton, and a
union took place between them and the people o f L eh i; and
they were also restored to their lands.
And it came to pass that in the same year that the people
o f Nephi bad peace restored unto them, that Nephihah, the
second Chief Judge, died, having filled the judgement seat
with perfect uprightness before God nevertheless, he had
refused Alma to take possession o f those records and those
things which were esteemed by Alma and his fathers to he
most sacred ; therefore Alma had conferred them upon his
son Helaman.
Behold, it came to pass that the son o f Nephihah was ap­
pointed to fill the judgement seat, in the stead o f his father ;
yea, he was appointed Chief Judge, and Governor over the
people, with an oath, and sacred ordinance to judge righteous­
ly, and to keep the peace, and the freedom o f the people, and
to grant unto them their sacred privileges to worship the Lord
their G od ; yea, to support and maintain the cause o f God all
his days, and to bring the wicked to justice, according to their
crime. Now behold, his name was Pahoran. And Pahoran
did fill the seat o f his father, and did commence his reign
in the end o f the twenty and fourth year, over the people o f
Nephi.
C H A P T E R XXIII.
And now it came to pass, in the commencement o f the twen­
ty and fifth year o f the reign o f the Judges over the people o f
Nephi, they having established peace between the people o f
Lehi and the people o f Morianton concerning their lands, and
having commenced the twenty and fifth year in peace; never­
theless, they did not long maintain an entire peace in the land
BOOK OP ALMA. 367
lor there began to be a contention among the people concern­
ing the Chief Judge, Pahoran; for behold, there were a part
o f the people which desired that a few particular points of the
law should be altered. But behold, Pahoran would not alter,
nor suffer the law to be altered ; therefore he did not hearken
to those who had sent in their voices with their petitions, con­
cerning the altering of the law ; therefore those which were
desirous that the law should be altered, were angry with him,
and desired that he should no longer he ChiefJudge over the
land; therefore there arose a warm dispute concerning the
matter; but not unto bloodshed.
And it came to pass that those who were desirous that Paho­
ran should be dethroned from thejudgement seat, were called
king-men, for they were desirous that the law should be al­
tered in a manner to overthrow the free government, and to
establish a king over the land. And those who were desirous
that Pahoran should remain Chief Judge over the land, took
upon them the name o f freemen; and thus was the division
among them: for the freemen had sworn or covenanted to
maintain their rights, and the privileges o f their religion, by a
free government.
And it came to pass that this matter o f their contention was
settled, by the voice o f the people. And it came to pass that
the voice o f the people came in the favor o f the freemen, and
Pahoran retained the judgement seat, which caused much re­
joicing among the brethren o f Pahoran, and also many of the
people o f liberty; which also put the king-men to silence, that
they durst not oppose, but were obliged to maintain the cause
o f freedom. Now those which were in favor o f kings, were
those of high birth; and they sought to be kings; and they
were supported by those which sought power and authority
over the people. But behold, this was a critical time for such
contentions to be among the people ofN ephi; for behold,
Amalickiah had again stirred up the hearts of the people o f the
Lamanites, against the people o f the Nephites, and he was gath­
ering together soldiers, from all parts o f his land, and arming
them, and preparing for war, with all diligence; for he had
sworn to drink the blood of Moroni. But behold, we shall
see that his promise which he made, was rash; nevertheless,
he did prepare himself and bis armies, to come to battle
against the Nephites. Now his armies were not so great as
they bad hitherto been, because of the many thousands which
had been slain by the hand of the Nephites; but notwithstand-
368 BOOK OP ALMA.
ing their great loss, Amalickiah had gathered together a won
derfui great arm}-, insomuch that lie feared not to come down
to the land o f Zarahemla, Yea, even Amalickiah did himself
come down, at the head o f the Lamanites. And it was in the
twenty and fifth year o f the reign o f the Judges; and it was
at the same time that they had began to settle the affairs o f
their contentions concerning the Chief Judge, Pahoran.
And it came to pass that when the men which were called
king-men, had heard that the Lamanites were coming down to
battle against them, they were glad in their hearts, and they
refused to take up arms; for they were so wroth with the
Chief Judge, and also with the people o f liberty, that they
would not take up arms to defend their country. And it came
to pass that when Moroni saw this, and also saw that the La-
manites were coming into the borders o f the land, he was ex­
ceeding wroth, because o f the stubbornness o f those people,
o f whom he had labored with so much diligence to preserve;
yea, he was exceeding wroth; his soul was filled with anger
against them. And it came to pass that he sent a petition,
with the voice o f the people, unto the Governor o f the land,
desiring that he should read it, and give him, (Moroni,) pow ­
er to compel those dissenters to defend their country, or to
put them to death ; for it was his first care to put an end to
such contentions, and dissections among the people; for be­
hold, this had been hitherto a cause o f all their destruction.—
And it came to pass that it was granted, according to the
voice o f the people.
And it came to pass that Moroni commanded that his army
should go against those king-men, to pull down their pride and
their nobility, and level them with the earth, or they should
take up arms and support the cause o f liberty. And it came
to passthatthe armies did march forth against them; and they
did pull down their pride and their nobility, insomuch, that as
they did lift their weapons o f war to fight against the men o f
Moroni, they were hewn down, and levelled to the earth. And
it came to pass that there were four thousand o f those dissen­
ters, which were hewn down by the sw ord; and those o f their
leaders which were not slain in battle, were taken and cast into
prison, for there was no time for theirtrials at this period ; and
the remainderof those dissenters, rather than to be smote down
to the earth by the sword, yieided to the standard o f liberty,
and were compelled to hoist the title o f liberty upon their tow­
ers, and in their cities, and to take up arms in defence o f their
BOOK OP ALMA. 3 6 9
country. And thus Moroni put an end to those king-men, that
there were not any known by the appellation of king-men;
and thus he put an end to the stubbornness, and the pride of
those people which professed the blood of nobility; but they
were brought down to humble themselves like unto their breth­
ren, and to fight valiantly for their freedom from bondage.
Behold, it came to pass that while Moroni was thus break­
ing down the wars and contentions among his own people, and
subjecting them to peace and civilization, and making regula­
tions to prepare for war against the Lamanites, behold, the
Lamanites had come into the land of Moroni, which was in
the borders by the seashore.
And it came to pass that the Nephites were not sufficiently
strong in the city of Moroni; therefore Amalickiah did drive
them, slaying many. And it came to pass that Amalickiah
took possession of the city; yea, possession of all their fortifi­
cations. And those which fled out of the city of Moroni,
came to the city of Nephihah ; and also the people of the city
o f Lehi gathered themselves together, and made preparations,
and were ready to receive the Lamanites to battle.
But it came to pass that Amalickiah would not suffer the
Lamanites to go against the city of Nephihah to battle, but
kept them down by the seashore, leaving men in every city
to maintain and defend it; and thus he went on, taking pos­
session of many cities: the city of Nephihah, and the city o f
Lehi, and the city o f Morianton, and the city of Omner, and
the city o f Gid, and the city o f Mulek, all o f which were on
the east borders, by the seashore. And thus had the Laman­
ites obtained, by the cunning of Amalickiah, so many cities, by
their numberless hosts, all of which were strongly fortified,
after the manner o f the fortifications of Moroni; all o f which
afforded strong holds for the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they marched to the borders o f the
land Bountiful, driving the Nephites before them, and slaying
many. But it came to pass that they were met by Teancum,
who had slain Morianton, and had headed his people in his
flight. And it came to pass that he headed Amalickiah also,
as he was marching forth with his numerous army, that he
might take possession of the Sand Bountiful, and also the land
northward, But behold, he met with a disappointment, by
being repulsed by Teancum and his men, for they were great
warriors: for every man of Teancum did exceed the Laman-
24
3TÛ BOOK OF ALMA.
ites in their strength, and in their skill o f war, insomuch that
they did gain advantage over the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they did harrass them, insomuch
that they did slay them even until it was dark. And it came
to pass that Teancum and his men did pitch their tents in the
borders o f the land Bountiful; and Amalickiah did pitch his
tents in the borders on the beach by the seashore: and after
this manner were they driven.
And it came to pass that when the night had come, Tean-
cum and his servant stole forth and went out by night, and
went into the camp o f Amalickiah; and behold, sleep had over­
powered them, because o f their much fatigue, which was cau­
sed by the labors and heat o f the day.
And it came to pass that Teancum stole privily into the
tent o f the king, and put a javelin to his heart; and he did
cause the death of the king immediately, that he did not awake
his servants. And he returned again privily to his own camp,
and behold, his men were asleep; and he awoke them, and
told them all the things that he had done. And he caused that
his armies should stand in readiness, lest tl>e Lamanites had
awoke, and should come upon them. And thus ended the
twenty and fifth year o f the reign o f the Judges over the people
o f N ephi; and thus ended the days o f Amalickiah.
C H A P T E R XXIV.
And non' it came to pass in the twenty and sixth year o f the
reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi, behold, udien
the Lamanites awoke on the first morning of the first month,
behold, they found Amalickiah was dead, in his own tent ; and
they also saw that Teancum was ready to give them battle on
that day. Aud now when the Lamanites saw this, they were
affrighted ; and they abandoned their design in marching into
the land northward, and retreated with all their army into the
city o f Mulek, and sought protection in their fortifications.—
And it came to pass that the brother o f Amalickiah was ap­
pointed king over the people ; and his name was Ammoron :
thus king Armnoron, the brother o f king Amalickiah, was ap­
pointed to reign in his stead.
And it came to pass that he did command that his people
BOOK OP ALMA. 371
should maintain those cities which they had taken by the shed­
ding of blood; for they had not taken any cities, save they had
lost much blood. And now Teancura saw that the Lamanites
were determined to maintain those cities which they had taken,
and those parts of the land which they had obtained possession
o f ; and also seeing the enormity o f their number, Teancum
thought it was not expedient that he should attempt to attack
them in their forts; but he kept his men round about, as if
making preparations for war; yea, and truly he was preparing
to defend himself against them, by casting up walls round
about, and preparing places of resort.
And it came to pass that he kept thus preparing for war,
until Moroni had sent a large number o f men to strengthen his
army ; and Moroni also sent orders unto him, that he should
retain all the prisoners which fell into his hands ; for as the
Lamanites had taken many prisoners, that he should retaiD all
the prisoners o f the Lamanites. as a ransom for those which
the Lamanites had taken. And he also sent orders unto him,
that he should fortify the land Bountiful, and secure the nar­
row pass which led into the land northward, lest the Laman­
ites should obtain that point, and should have power to harrass
them on every side. And Moroni also sent unto him, desir­
ing him that he would be faithful in maintaining that quarter of
the land, and that he would seek every opportunity to scourge
the Lamanites in that quarter, as much as was in his power,
that perhaps he might take again, by stratagem or some other
way, those cities which had been taken out o f their hands;
and that he also would fortify and strengthen the cities round
about, which had not fallen into the hands of the Lamanites.
And he also said unto him, I would come unto you, but behold,
the Lamanites are upon us in the borders of the land by the
West Sea; and behold, I go against them, therefore 1 cannot
come unto you.
Now the king (Ammoron,) had departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, and had made known unto the queen concerning
the death of his brother, and bad gathered together a large
number of men, and had marched forth against the Nephites,
on the borders by the West Sea; and thus he was endeavoring
to harrass the Nephites, and to draw away a part of their for­
ces to that part of the land, while he had commanded those
which he had left to possess the cities which he had taken,
that they should also harrass the Nephites on the. borders by
the East Sea; and should take possession of their lands as
24*
372 BOOK OF ALMA.
much as it were in their power, according to the power of
their armies. And thus were the Nephites in those dangerous
circumstances, in the ending o f the twenty and sixth year of
the reign o f the Judges over the people of Nephi.
But behold, it came to pass in the twenty and seventh year
of the reign of the Judges, that Teancum, by the command o f
Moroni, who had established armies to protect the south and
the west borders of the land, had began his march towards
the land Bountiful, that he might assist Teancum with his
men, in retaking the cities which they had lost. And it came
to pass that Teancum had received orders to make an attack
upon the city of Mulek, and retake it if it were possible.
And it came to pass that Teancum made preparations to
make an attack upon the city o f Mulek, and march forth with
his army against the Lamanites; but he saw that it was im­
possible that be could overpower them while they were in
their fortifications; therefore he abandoned his designs, and
returned again to the city Bountiful, to wait for the coming o f
Moroni, that he might receive strength to his army.
And it came to pass that Moroni did arrive with his army
to the land o f Bountiful, in the latter end o f the twenty and
seventh year o f the reign of the Judges over the people of
Nephi. And in the commencement of the twenty and eighth
year, Moroni and Teancum, and many of the Chief Captains,
held a council o f war, what they should do to cause the La-
manites to come out against them to battle; or thatthey might
by some means, flatter them out of their strong holds, that
they might gain advantage over them, and take again the city
o f Mulek,
And it came to pass that they sent embassies to the army of
the Lamanites, which protected the city of Mulek, to their
leader, whose name was Jacob, desiring him that he would
come out with his armies to meet them upon the plains, be­
tween the two cities. But behold, Jacob, which was a Zo-
ramite, would not come out with his army to meet them upon
the plains.
And it came to pass that Moroni, having no hopes of meet­
ing them upon fair grounds, therefore he resolved upon a plan
that he might decoy the Lamanites out o f their strong holds.
Therefore he caused that Teancum should take a small number
of men, and march down near the seashore; and Moroni and
his army, by night, marched into the wilderness, on the west
of the city Mulek; and thus, on the morrow, when the guards
BOOK OP a l m a . 373
o f the Lamanites had discovered Teancum, they ran and told
it unto Jacob, their leader.
And it came to pass that the armies o f the Lamanites did
march forth against Teancum, supposing by their numbers to
overpower Teancum, because of the smallness o f his numbers.
And as Teancum saw the armies of the Lamanites coming out
against him, he began to retreat down by the seashore, north­
ward.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that he
began to dee, they took courage and pursued them with vigor.
And while Teancum was thus leading away the Lamanites
which were pursuing them in vain, behold, Moroni comman­
ded that a part of his army which were with him, should march
forth into the city, and take possession o f it. And thus they
did, and slew all those who had been left to protect the city;
yea, all those who would not yield up their weapons of war.
And thus Moroni had obtained a possession of the city Mulek,
with a part of his army, while he marched with the remainder
to meet the Lamanites, when they should return from the pur­
suit o f Teancum.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did pursue Teancum
until they came near the city Bountiful, and then they were met
by Lehi, and a small many, which had been left to protect the
city Bountiful. And now behold, when the Chief Captains o f
the Lamanites had beheld Lehi, with his army, coming against
them, they fled in much confusion, lest perhaps they should
not obtain the city Mulek, before Lehi should overtake them;
for they were wearied because o f their march; and the men
o f Lehi were fresh. Now the Lamanites did not know that
Moroni had been in their rear with his army; and all they
feared, was Lehi and his men. Now Lehi was not desirous
to overtake them, till they should meet Moroni and his army.
And it came to pass that before the Lamanites had retreated
far, they were surrounded by the Nephites; by the men of Mo­
roni on one hand, and the men o f Lehi on the other, all of
whom were fresh and full o f strength; but the Lamanites
were wearied, because of their long march. And Moroni com­
manded his men mat they should fall upon them, until they
had given up their weapons o f war.
And it came to pass that Jacob, being their leader, being
also a Zoramite, and having an unconquerable spirit, he led
the Lamanites forth to battle, with exceeding fury against Mo­
roni. Moroni being in their course o f march, therefore Jacob
374 BOOK OF ALMA.
was determined to slay them, and cut his way through to the
city of Mulek. But behold, Moroni and his men were more
powerful; therefore they did not give way before the La-
manites.
And it came to pass that they fought on both hands with
exceeding fury; and there were many slain on both sides;
yea, and Moroni was wounded, and Jacob was killed. And
Lehi pressed upon their rear with such fury, with his strong
men, that the Lamanites in the rear delivered up their weap­
ons o f war; and the remainder of them, being much confused,
knew not whether to go or to strike. Now Moroni seeing
their confusion, he said unto them, If ye will bring forth your
weapons of war, and deliver them up, behold we will forbear
shedding your blood. And it came to pass that when the La­
manites had heard these words, their Chief Captains, all those
which were not slain, came forth and threw down their weap­
ons o f war at the feet o f Moroni, and also commanded their
men that they should do the same; but behold, there were
many that would not; and those who would not deliver up
their swords, were taken and hound, and their weapons of
war were taken from them, and they were compelled to march
with their brethren forth into the land Bountiful. And now
the number o f prisoners which were taken, exceeded more
than the number of those which had been slain; yea, more
than those which had been slain on both sides.
And it came to pass that they did set guards over the pri­
soners of the Lamanites, and did compel them to go forth and
bury their dead; yea, and also the dead ofthe Nephites which
were slain; and Moroni placed men over them to guard them
while they should perform their labors. And Moroni went to
the city of Mulek with Lehi, and took command of the city,
and gave it unto Lehi. Now behold this Lebi was a man who
had been with Moroni in the more part of ail his battles; and
he was a man like unto Moroni; and they rejoiced in each oth­
er’s safety ; yea, they were beloved by each other, and also
beloved by all the people of Nephi.
And it came to to pass that after the Lamanites had finished
burying their dead, and also the dead o f the Nephites, they
were marched back into the land Bountiful; and Teancum,
by the orders of Moroni, caused that they should commence
in laboring in digging a ditch round about the land, or the city
Bountiful; and he caused that they should build a breastwork
of timbers upon the inner hank o f the ditch; and they cast up
BOOK OF ALMA. 375
dirt out of the ditch against the breastwork of timbers; and
thus they did cause the Lamanites to labor, until they bad en­
circled the city of Bountiful round about with a strong wall of
timbers and earth, to an exceeding height. And this city be­
came. an exceeding strong hold ever after; and in this city
they did guard the prisoners of the Lamanites; yea, even with­
in a wall, which they had caused them to build with their own
hands. Now Moroni vvas compelled to cause the Lamanites
to labor, because it were easy to guard them while at their la­
bor ; and he desired all his forces, when he should make an.
attack upon the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Moroni had thus gained a victory
over one of the greatest of the armies o f the Lamanites, and
had obtained possession o f the city Mulek, which was one of
the strongest holds of the Lamanites in the land of Nephi;
and thus he had also built a strong hold to retain his prisoners.
And it came to pass that he did no more attempt a battle with
the Lamanites in that year, but he did employ his men in pre­
paring for war; yea, and in making fortifications to guard
against the Lamanites; yea, and also delivering their women
and their children from famine and affliction, and providing
food for their armies.
And now it came to pass that the armies of the Lamanites,
on the West Sea, south, while in the absence of Moroni, on
account of some intrigue amongst the Nephites, which caused
dissensions amongst them, had gained some ground over the
Nephites, yea, insomuch that they had obtained possession of
a number of their cities in that part of the land ; and thus be­
cause of iniquity amongst themselves, yea, because o f dissen­
sions and intrigue among themselves, they were placed in
the most dangerous circumstances.
And now behold, I have somewhat to say concerning the
people of Ammon, which, in the beginning, were Lamanites;
but by Ammon and his brethren, or rathe 1
they had been brought down into the land of Zarahemla, and
had ever since been protected by the Nephites; and because
o f their oath, they had been kept from taking up arms against
their brethren: for they had taken an oath, that they never
would shed blood more; and according to their oath, they
would have perished; yea, they would have suffered them­
selves to have fallen into the hands of their brethren, had it
word of God, they had been converted
376 BOOK OF ALMA.
not been for the pity and the exceeding love which Ammon
and his brethren had had for them; and for this cause, they
were brought down into the land of Zarahemla; and they ever
had been protected by the Nephites.
But it came to pass that when they saw the danger, and the
many afflictions and tribulations which the Nephites bore for
them, they were moved with compassion, and were desirous
to take up arms in the defence o f their country. But behold,
as they were about to take their weapons o f war, they were
overpowered by the persuasions of Helaman and his brethren,
for they were about to break the oath which they had made;
and Helaman feared lest by so doing, they should lose their
souls; therefore all those which had entered into this cove­
nant, were compelled to behold their brethren wade through
their afflictions, in their dangerous circumstances, at this time.
But behold, it came to pass they had many sons, which had
not entered into a covenant that they would not take their
weapons of war to defend themselves against their enemies;
therefore they did assemble themselves together at this time,
as many as were able to take up arms; and they called them­
selves Nephites; and they entered into a covenant, to tight
for the liberty o f the Nephites ; yea, to protect the land unto
the laying down of their lives; yea, even they covenanted
that they never would give up their liberty, but they would
fight in all cases to protect the Nephites and themselves from
bondage.
Now behold, there were two thousand of those young men
which entered into this covenant, and took their weapons o f
war to defend their country. And now behold, as they never
had hitherto been a disadvantage to the Nephites, they became
now at this period o f time also a great support; for they took
their weapons of war, and they would that Helaman should be
their leader. And they were all young men, and they were
exceeding valiant for courage, and also for strength and acti­
vity ; but behold, this was not a ll: they were men which were
true at all times in whatsoever thing they were entrusted;
yea, they were men o f truth and soberness, for they had been
taught to keep the commandments o f God, and to walk upright­
ly before him.
And now it came to pass that Helaman did march at the
head o f his two thousand stripling soldiers, to the support of
the people in the borders o f the land on the south, by the
BOOK 0 / ALMA. 377
West Sea. And thus ended the twenty and eigth year o f the
reign of the Judges over the people o f Nephi, &e.
CH APTER XXV.
And now it came to pass in the twenty and ninth year of
the Judges, that Ammoron sent unto Moroni, desiring that he
would exchange prisoners. And it came to pass that Moroni
felt to rejoice exceedingly at this request, for he desired the
provisions which was imparted for the support o f the Latnan-
ite prisoners, for the support o f his own people; and he also
desired his own people for the strengthening o f his army.—
Now the Lamanites had taken many women and children ; and
there was not a woman nor a child among all the prisoners o f
Moroni, or the prisoners which Moroni had taken; therefore
Moroni resolved upon a stratagem, to obtain as many prison­
ers o f the Nephites from the Lamanites, as it were possible;
therefore he wrote an epistle, and sent it by the servant o f
Ammoron, the same who had brought an epistle to Moroni.
Now these are the words which he wrote unto Ammoron, say­
ing: Behold, Ammoron, 1 have wrote unto you somewhat con­
cerning this war which ye have waged against my people, or
rather which thy brother hath waged against them, and which
ye are still determined to carry on after his death. Behold, I
would tell you something concerning the justice of God, and
the sword o f his Almighty wrath, which doth hang over you:
Except ye repent and withdraw your armies into your own
lands, or the lands of your possessions, which is the land of
Nephi; yea, I would tell you these things, if ye were capable
o f hearkening unto them; yea, 1 would tell you concerning
that awful hell that awaits to receive such murderers as thou
and thy brother hath been, except ye repent and withdraw
your murderous purposes, and return with your armies to your
own lands; but as ye have rejected these things, and have
fought against the people of the Lord, even so I may expect
you will do it again.
And now behold, we are prepared to receive you ; yea, and
except you withdraw your purposes, behold, ye will pull down
the wrath o f that God whom you have rejected, upon you,
even to your utter destruction; but as the Lord liveth, our ar­
mies shall come upon you, except ye withdraw, and ye shall
378 BOOK OF ALMA.
soon be visited with death, for we will retain our cities and
our lands; yea, and we will maintain our religion and the
cause o f our God. But behold, it supposeth me that I talk to
you concerning these things in vain ; or it supposeth me that
thou art a child o f hell; therefore 1 will close my epistle, by
telling you that I will not exchange prisoners, save it be on
conditions that ye will deliver up a man, and his wife, and his
children, for one prisoner; if this be the case that ye will do
it, I will exchange. And behold, if ye do not this, 1 will come
against you with my armies ; yea, even I will arm my women
and my children, and I will come against you, and 1 will fol­
low you even into your own land, which is the land o f our
first inheritance; yea, and it shall be blood for blood; yea,
life for life; and I will give you battle, even until you are des­
troyed from oil'the face o f the earth. Behold, 1 am in my an­
ger, and also my people; ye have sought to murder us, and
w e have only sought to defend ourselves. But behold, if ye
seek to destroy us more, we will seek to destroy you ; yea,
and we will seek our land, the lands of our first inheritance.
Now I close my epistle. 1 am Moroni; la m a leader o f the
people o f the Nephites.
N ow it came to pass that Ammoron, when he had received
this epistle, he was angry, and he wrote another epistle unto
Moroni; and these are the words which he wrote, saying : I
am Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites ; 1am the brother o f
Amalickiah, whom ye have murdered. Behold, I will ayenge
his blood upon y ou ; yea, and I will come upon you with my
armies, for I fear not your threatnings. For bcbold, your fa­
thers did wrong their brethren, insomuch that they did rob
them o f their right to the government, when it rightly belonged
unto them. And now behold, if ye will lay down your arms,
and subject yourselves to be governed by those to whom the
government doth rightly belong, then will I cause that my peo­
ple shall lay down their weapons, and shall be at war no more.
Behold, ye have breathed out many threatnings against me and
my people; but behold, we fear not your threatnings; never­
theless, I will grant to exchange prisoners according to your
request, gladly, that I may preserve my food for my men of
w ar; and we will wage a war which shall he eternal, either to
the subjecting the Nephites to our authority, or to their eter­
nal extinction. And as concerning that God whom ye say we
have rejected, behold, we know not such a being; neither do
y e ; but if it so be that there is such a being, we know not but
BOOK OP ALMA. 319
that he hath made us as well as you ; and if it so be that there
is a Devil and a hell, behold, will he not send you there, to
dwell with my brother, which ye have murdered, which ye
have hinted that he hath gone to such a place 1 But behold,
these things mattereth n ot I am Ammoron, and a descendant
o f Zoran), whom your fathers pressed and brought out o f Je­
rusalem. And behold, now, I am a bold Lamanite, Behold,
this war hath been waged, to avenge their wrongs, and to main­
tain, and to obtain their rights to the government; and 1 close
my epistle to Moroni.
Now it eame to pass that when Moroni had received this
epistle, he was more angry, because he knew that Ammoron
had a perfect knowledge of his fraud ; yea, he knew that Am­
moron knew that it was not a just cause that had caused him
to wage a war against the people o f Nephi. And he said, Be­
hold, I will not exchange prisoners with Ammoron, save he.
will withdraw' his purpose, as 1 have stated in my epistle; for
I will not grant unto him that he shall have any more power
than what he hath got. Behold, I know the place where the
Lamanites doth guard my people, which they have taken pris­
oners ; and as Ammoron would not grant unto me mine epis­
tle, behold, I will give unto him according to my words ; yea,
I will seek death among them, until they shall sue for peace.
And now it came to pass that when Moroni had said these
words, he caused that a search should be made among his
men, that perhaps he might find a man which was a descend­
ant o f Laman among them.
And it came to pass that they found one, whose name was
Laman ; and he was one of the servants of the king which was
murdered by Amalickiah. Now' Moroni caused that Laman
and a small number of his men, should go forth unto the guards
which were over the Nephites. Now the Nephites were guar­
ded in the city o f Gid ; therefore Moroni caused that Laman
and a small number o f men which was appointed to go with
him.
And it came to pass that when it was evening, Laman went
to the guards which were over the Nephites, and behold, they
saw him coming, and they hailed him. But he saith unto
them, Fear not. Behold, I am a Lamanite. Behold, we have
escaped from the Nephites, and they sleepeth; and behold, we
have took o f their wine, and brought with us. Now when the
Lamanites heard these words, they received him with joy.—
And they said unto him, Give us o f your wine, that we may
380 BOOK OP ALMA.
drink; we are glad that ye have thus taken wine with you,
for we are weary. But Laman saith unto them, Let us keep
o f our wine till we go against the Nepbiies to battle. But this
saying only made them more desirous to drink o f the wine.—
For, said they, W e are w eary; therefore let us take o f the
wine, and by and by we shall receive wine for our rations,
which will strengthen us to go against theNephites. And La-
man saith unto them, You may do according to your desires.
And it came to pass that they did take o f the wine freely, and
it was pleasant to their taste; therefore they took o f it more
freely; and it was strong, having been prepared in its strength.
And it came to pass they did drink and were merry, and by
and by they were all drunken. And now when Laman and his
men saw that they were all drunken, and were in a deep sleep,
they returned to Moroni, and told him all the things that had
happened. And now this was according to the design o f Mo­
roni. And Moroni had prepared his men with weapons o f
w ar; and he went to the city Oid, while the Lamanites were
in a deep sleep, and drunken, and cast in the weapons o f war
in unto the prisoners, insomuch that they were all armed;
yea, even to their women, and all those o f their children, as
many as were able to use a weapon o f w ar; when Moroni
had armed all those prisoners. And all those things were done
in a profound silence. But had they awoke the Lamanites,
behold they were drunken, and the Nephites could have slain
them. But behold this was not the desire o f Moroni. He did
not delight in murder or bloodshed; but he delighted in the
saving o f his people from destruction; and for this cause he
might not bring upon him injustice, he would not fall upon the
Lamanites and destroy them in their drunkennes. But he had
obtained his desires; for he had armed those prisoners o f the
Nephites which were within the wall o f the city, and had gave,
the.m power to gain possession o f those part« which were
within the w alls; and then he caused the men which were with
him, to withdraw a pace from them, and surround the armies
o f the Lamanites. Now behold, this was done in the night
time, so that when the Lamanites awoke in the morning, they
beheld that they were surronded by the Nephites without,
and that their prisoners were armed within. And thus they
saw that the Nephites had power over them; and in these cir­
cumstances they found that it was not expedient that they
should fight with the Nephites; therefore their Chief Captains
demanded their weapons o f war, and they brought them forth,
BOOK OP ALMA. 381
and cast them at the feet of the Nephites, pleading for mer­
cy. Now behold, this was the desire of Moroni. He took
them prisoners of war, and took possesion of the city, and
caused that all the prisoners should be liberated, which were
Nephites; and they did join the army of Moroni, and were
a great strength to his army.
And it came to pass that he did cause the Lamanites which
he had taken prisoners, that they should commence a labor in
strengthening the fortifications roundabout the city Gid. And
it came to pass that when he had fortified the city Gid, accor­
ding to his desires, he caused that his prisoners should be ta­
ken to the city Bountiful. And be also guarded that city with
an exceeding strong force. And it came to pass thatthey did,
notwithstanding all the intrigues of the Lamanites, keep and
protect all the prisoners which they bad taken, and also main­
tain all the ground mid the advantage which they had retaken.
And it came to pass that the Nephites began again to be victo­
rious, and to reclaim their rights and their privileges. Many
times did the Lamanites attempt to encircle them about by-
night, but in these attempts they did lose many prisoners.—
And many times did they atempl to administer of their wine
to the Nephites, that they might destroy them with poison or
with drunkenness. But behold, the Nephites were not slow to
remember the Lord their God, in this their times of affliction.
They could not be taken in their snares; yea, they would not
partake of their wine; yea, they would not take of wine, save
they had firstly given to some of the Lamanite prisoners. And
they were thus cautious, that no poison should be administer­
ed among them; for if their wine wrould poison a Lamanite, it
would also poison a Nephite; and thus they did try all their
liquors. And now it came to pass that it was expedient for
Moroni to make preparations to attack the city Morianton.—
For behold, the Lamanites had, by their labors, fortified the
city Morionton until it had become an exceeding strong hold;
and they were continually bringing new forces into that city,
and also new supplies of provisions. And thus ended the
twenty and ninth year of the reign of the Judges over the people
of Nephi.
382 BOOK OF ALMA.
CH APTER XXVI.
And now it came to pass in the commencement of the thir­
tieth year o f the reign of the Judges, in the second day, on the
first month, Moroni received an epistle from Helaman, stating
the affairs o f the people in that quarter of the land. And
these, are the words which he wrote, saying: My dearly be­
loved brother, Moroni, as well in the Lord as in the tribula­
tions of our warfare; behold, my beloved brother, I have
somewhat to tell you concerning our warfare in this partof the
land. Behold, two thousand o f the sons o f those men
which Ammon brought down out of the land o f Nephi: Now
ye have known that these were a descendant of Laman, which
was the eldest son of our father Lehi. Now l need not re­
hearse unto you concerning their traditions or their unbelief,
for thou knowest concerning all these things; therefore it sup­
posed» me that I tell you that two thousand of these young
men hath taken their weapons o f war, and would that I should
be their leader; and we have come forth to defend our coun­
try.’ And now ye also know concerning the covenant which
their fathers made, that they would not take up their weapons
o f wav against their brethren, to shed blood. But in the t»ven-
ty and sixth year, when they saw our afflictions and our tribu­
lations for them, they were about to break the covenant which
they had made, and take up their weapons of war in our de­
fence. But I would not suffer them that they should break this
covenant which they had made, supposing that God would
strengthen us, insomuch tiiat we should not suffer move be­
cause o f the fulfilling the oath which they had taken. But be­
hold, here is one thing in which we may have great joy. For
behold, in the twenty and sixth year, I Helaman, did march at
the head of these two thousand young men, to the city o f Ju­
dea, to assist Antipus, whom ye had appointed a leader over
the people of that part o f the land. And I did join my two thou­
sand sons, (for they are worthy to be called sons,) to the ar­
my of Antipus; in the which strength Antipus did rejoice ex­
ceedingly ; for behold, his army had been reduced by the La-
manites "because of the numerority o f their forces having slain
a vast number of our men ; for which cause we have to mourn.
Nevertheless, we may console ourselves in this point: that
they have died in the cause o f their country and o f their G od;
yea, and they are happy. And the Lamanitcs had also retain­
ed many prisoners, all of whom are Chief Captains; for none
BOOS OP ALMA. 383
other have they spared alive. And we suppose that they are
now at this time in the land o f Nephi; it is so if they are not
slain. And now these are the cities which the Lamanites have
obtained possession, by the shedding o f the blood o f so many
o f our valiant m en: The land of Manti, or the city o f Manti,
and the city o f Zeezrom, and the city o f Cumeni, and the city
o f Antiparah. And these are the cities which they possessed
when 1 arrived at the city o f Judea; and 1 found Antipus and
his men toiling with their mights to fortify the city ; yea, and
they were depressed in body as well as in spirit; for they
had fought valiantly by day, and toiled by night, to maintain
their cities; and thus they had suffered great afflictions o f eve­
ry kind. And now they were determined to conquer in this
place, or die ; therefore you may well suppose that this little
force which I brought with m e; yea, those sons o f mine, gave
them great hopes and much joy.
And now it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that
Antipus had received a greater strength to his army, they were
compelled, by the orders o f Ammoron, to not come against the
city o f Judea, or against us, to battle. And thus were we fa­
vored o f the L ord : for had they come upon us in this our
weakness, they might have perhaps destroyed our little army;
but thus were we preserved. They were commanded by Am-
moron to maintain those cities which they had taken. And thus
ended the twenty and sixth year. And in the commencement
o f the twenty and seventh year, we had prepared our city and
ourselves for defence. Now we were desirous that the La-
manites should come upon u s; for we were not desirous to
make an attack upon them in their strong holds. And it came
to pass that we kept spies out round about, to watch the move­
ments o f the Lamanites, that they might not pass us by night,
nor by day, to make an attack upon our other cities, which
were on the northward ; for we knew in those cities they were
not sufficiently strong to meet them ; therefore we were desi­
rous, if they should pass by us, to fall upon them in their rear,
and thus bring them up in the rear, at the same time they
were met in the front. W e supposed that we could overpower
them ; but behold, we were disappointed in this our desire.
They durst not pass by us with their whole arm y; neither
durst they with a part, lest they should not be sufficiently
strong, and they should fall. Neither durst they march down
against the city o f Zarahemla; neither durst they cross the
head o f Sidon, over to the city o f Nephihah,, And thus, with
384 BOOK OP ALMA.
their forces, they were determined to maintain those cities
which they had taken.
And now it came to pass, in the second month o f this year,
there was brought unto us many provisions, from the fathers
o f those my two thousand sons. And also there was sent
two thousand men unto us, from the land o f Zarahcmla. And
thus we were prepared with ten thousand men, and provisions
for them, and also for their wives, and their children. And the
Lamanites, thus seeing our forces increase daily, and provis­
ions arrive for our support, they began to be fearful, and be­
gan to sally forth, if it were possible, to put an end to our re­
ceiving provisions and strength. Now when we saw that the
Lamanites began to grow uneasy on this wise, we were desi­
rous to bring a stratagem into an effect upon them ; therefore
Antipus ordered that 1 should march forth with my little sons,
to a neighboring city, as if we were carrying provisions to a
neighboring city. And we were to march" near the city Anti-
parab, as if we were going to the city beyond, in the borders,
by the seashore. And it came to pass that we did march
forth, as if with our provisions, to go to that city. And it
came to pass that Antipus did march forth, with a part of his
army, leaving the remainder to maintain the city. But he did
not march forth, until 1 had gone forth with my little army,
and came near the city Antiparah. And now in the city Anti-
parah, were stationed the strongest army o f the Lamanites;
yea, the most numerous. And it came to pass that when they
had been informed by their spies, they came forth with their
army, and marched against us.
And it came to pass that we did flee before them, northward.
And thus we did lead away the most powerful army of the
Lamanites; yea, even to a considerable distance, insomuch
that when they saw the army of Antipus pursuing them, with
their mights, they did not turn to the right nor to the left, but
pursued their march in a straight course after u s; and, as
we supposed, it was their intent to slay us before. Antipus
should overtake them, and this that they might not be sur­
rounded by our people. And now Antipus, beholding our
danger, did speed the march of his army. But behold, it was
night; therefore they did not overtake us, neither did Anti­
pus overtake them; therefore we did camp for the night.
And it came to pass that before the dawn of the morning
belioid, the Lamanites were pursuing »«. Now we were not
sufficiently strong to contend with them; yea, 1 would not
BOOK OF A U U . 385
suffer that my little sons should fall into their hands ; there­
fore we did continue our march; and we took our march into
the wilderness. Now they durst not turn to the right nor to the
left, lest they should be surrounded; neither would I turn to
the right or to the left, lest they should overtake me, and we
could not stand against them, but be slain, and they would
make their escape; and thus we did flee all that day into the
wilderness, even until it was dark.
And it came to pass that again when the light o f the morning
came, we saw the Lamanites upon us, and we did flee before
them. But it came to pass that they did not pursue us for,
before they halted; and it was in the morning of the third day,
on the seventh month. And now whether they were overta­
ken by Antipus, we knew not; but 1 said unto my men, Be­
hold, we know not but they have halted for the purpose that
we should come against them, that they might catch us in their
snare; therefore, what say ye, my sons, will ye go against
them to battle? And now I say unto you, my beloved brother
Moroni, That never had 1 seen so great courage, nay, not
amongst all the Nephitee. For as I had ever called them my
sons, (for they were all o f them very young,) even so they said
unto me, Father, behold, our God is with us. and he will not
suffer that we shall fall; then let us go forth ; we would not
slay our brethren, if they would let us alone; therefore let us
go, lest they should overpower the army o f Antipus. Now
they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they
did think more upon the liberty o f their fathers, than they did
upon their lives; yea, they had been taught by their mothers,
that if they did not doubt, that God would deliver them. And
they rehearsed unto me the words of their mothers, saying:
We do not doubt our mothers knew it.
And it came to pass that I did return with my two thousand,
against these Lamanites which had pursued us. And now be­
hold, the armies o f Antipus had overtaken them, and a terrible
battle had commenced. The army o f Antipus being weary,
because of their long march in so short a space o f time, were
about to fall Into the hands o f the Lamanites; and had I not
returned with my two thousand, they would have obtained
their purpose: for Antipus had fallen by the sword, and many
of hist leaders, because of their weariness, which was occa­
sioned by the speed of their march ; therefore the men o f An­
tipus being confused, because o f the fall of their leaders be ­
gan to give way before the Lamanites.
25
38G BOOK OF ALMA.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites took courage, and
began to pursue them; and thus were the Lamanites pursuing
them with great vigor, when Helaman came upon their rear
with his two thousand, and began to slay them exceedingly,
insomuch that the whole army o f the Lamanites halted, and
turned upon Helaman. Now when the people of Antipus
saw that the Lamanites had turned them about, they gathered
together their men, and came again upon the rear o f the La­
manites.
And now it came to pass that we, the people o f Nephi, the
people o f Antipus, and I with my two thousand, did surround
the Lamanites, and did slay them ; yea, insomuch that they
were compelled to deliver up their weapons o f war, and also
themselves as prisoners o f war.
And now it came to pass that when they had surrendered
themselves up unto us, behold, I numbered those young men
which had fought with me, fearing lest there were many of
them slain. But behold, to my great joy, there had not one
soul of them fallen to the earth ; yea, and they had fought as
if with the strength o f G od ; yea, never was men known to
have fought with such miraculous strength; and with such
mighty power did they fall upon the Lamanites, that they did
frighten them; and for this cause did the Lamanites deliver
themselves up as prisoners of war. And as we had no place
for our prisoners, that we could guard them to keep them
from the armies o f the Lamanites, therefore we sent them to
the land o f Zarahemla, and a part o f those men which were
not slain o f Antipus, with them; and the remainder I took and
joined them to my stripling Ammonites, and took our march
back to the city o f Judea.
And now it came to pass that I received an epistle from
Ammoron, the king, stating that if I would deliver up those
prisoners o f war which we had taken, that he would deliver
up the city o f Antiparah unto us. But I sent an epistle unto
the king, That we were sure our forces were sufficient to take
the city o f Antiparah by our force; and by delivering up the
prisoners for that city, we should suppose ourselves unwise,
and that we would only deliver up our prisoners on exchange.
And Ammoron refused mine epistle, for he would not exchange
prisoners; therefore we began to make preparations to go
against the city o f Antiparah. But the people o f Antiparah
did leave the city, and fled to their other cities which they
had possession of, to fortify them; and thus the city o f Anti-
BOOK OP AUttA. 387
parah fell into our hands. And thus ended the twenty and
eighth year o f the reign o f the Judges.
And it came to pass that in the commencement o f the twenty
and ninth year, we received a supply o f provisions, and also
an addition to our army, from the land o f Zarahemla, and from
the land round about, to the number o f sis thousand men,
besides sixty o f the sons o f the Ammonites, which had come
to join their brethren, my little band o f two thousand. And
now behold, we were strong; yea, and we had also a plenty
o f provisions brought unto us.
And it came to pass that it was our desire to wage a battle
with the army which was placed to protect the city Cumeni.
And now behold, 1 will shew unto you that we soon accom­
plished our desire ; yea, with our strong force, or with a part
o f our strong force, we did surround, by night, the city Cume­
ni, a little before they were to receive a supply o f provisons.
And it came to pass that we did camp round about the city
for many nights; but we did sleep upon our swords, and keep
guards, that the Lamanites could not come upon us by night,
and slay us, which they attempted many times ; but as many
times as they attempted this, their blood was spilt. At length
their provisions did arrive, and they were about to enter the
city by night. And we, instead o f being Lamanites, were Ne-
phites; therefore, we did take them and their provisions.—
And notwithstanding the Lamanites being cut off from their
support after this manner, they were still determined to main­
tain the city; therefore it became expedient that we should
take those provisions and send them to Judea and our pris­
oners to the land o f Zarahemla.
And it came to pass that not many days had passed away,
before the Lamanites began to lose all hopes o f succdr; there­
fore they yielded up the city into our hands; and thus we had
accomplished our designs, in obtaining the city Cumeni. But
it came to pass that our prisoners were so numerous, that not-
withstanding the enormity o f our numbers, we were obliged to
employ all our force to keep them, or to put them to death.
For behold, they would break out in great numbers, and
would fight with stones, and with clubs, or whatsoever things
they could get into their hands, insomuch that we did slay up­
wards o f two thousand o f them, after they had surrendered
themselves prisoners o f w ar: therefore it became expedient
for us, that we should put an end to their lives, or guard them,
sword in hand, down to the land o f Zarahemla; and also our
25*
388 BOOK OF ALMA.
provisions were not any more than sufficient for our own peo­
ple, notwithstanding that which we had taken from the La-
manites. And now, in those critical circumstances, it became
a very serious matter to determine concerning these prisoners
o f w ar; nevertheless, we did resolve to send them down to
the land o f Zarahemla; therefore we selected a part o f our
men, and gave them charge over our prisoners, to go down to
the land of Zarahemla.
But it came to pass that on the morrow, they did return.—•
And now behold, we did not inquire o f them concerning the
prisoners; for behold, the Lamanites were upon us, and they
relumed in season to save us from falling into their hands.—
For behold, Ammon had sent to their support a new supply o f
provisions, and also a numerous army o f men.
And it came to pass that those men which we sent with the
prisoners, did arrive in season to check them, as they were
about to overpower us. But behold, my little band of tw'O
thousand and sixty, fought most desperately ; yea, they were
firm before the Lamanites, and did administer death unto all
those who opposed them ; and as the remainder o f our army
were about to give way before the Lamanites, behold, those
two thousand and sixty were firm and undaunted; yea, and
they did obey and observe to perform every word o f command
with exactness; yea, and even according to their faith, it was
done unto them ; and I did remember the words which they
said unto me that their mothers had taught them. And now
behold, it was these, my sons, and those men which had been
selected to convey the prisoners, to whom we owe this great
victory ; for it was they who did beat the Lamanites ; there­
fore they were driven back to the city of Monti. And we re­
tained our city Cumeni, and were not all destroyed by the
sw ord; nevertheless, we had suffered great loss.
And it came to pass that after the Lamanites had fled, I im­
mediately gave orders that my men which had been wounded,
should he taken from among the dead, and caused that their
wounds should be dressed. And it came to pass that there
were two hundred, out o f my two thousand and sixty, which
had fainted because of the loss o f blood ; nevertheless, accor­
ding to the goodness o f God, and to our great astonishment,
and also the foes o f our whole army, there was not one soul
o f them which did perish; yea, and neither was there one
soul among them which had not received many wounds. And
now, their preservation was astonishing to our whole arm y;
BOOK OP ALMA. 389
yea, that they should be spared, while there was a thousand
o f our brethren which were slain. And we do justly ascribe
it to the miraculous power o f God, because o f their exceeding
faith in that which they had been taught to believe, that there
was a just G od; and whosoever did not doubt, that they
should be preserved by his marvellous power. Now this was
the faith o f these o f which I have spoken ; they are young,
and their minds are firm; and they do put their trust in God
continually.
And now it came to pass that after we had thus taken care
o f our wounded men, and had buried our dead, and also the
dead o f the Lamanites, which were many, behold, we did in­
quire o f Gid concerning the prisoners which they had started
to go down to the land o f Zarahemla with. Now Gid was the
Chief Captain over the band which was appointed to guard
them down to the land. And now, these are the words which
Gid said unto me : Behold, we did start to go down to the land
o f Zarahemla, with our prisoners. And it came to pass that
we did meet the spies o f our armies, which had been sent out
to watch the camp o f the Lamanites. And they cried unto us,
saying: Behold, the armies o f the Lamanites are a marching
towards the city o f Cum eni; and behold, they will fall upon
them, yea, and will destroy our people.
And it came to pass that our prisoners did hear their cries,
which caused (hem to take courage; and they did rise up in
rebellion against us. And it came to pass because o f their
rebellion, we did cause that our swords should come upon
them. And it came to pass that they did, in a body, run upon
our swords, in the which, the greater number o f them were
slain; and the remainder o f them broke through and fled from
us. And behold, when they had fled, and we could not over­
take them, we took our march with speed towards the city
Cumeni; and behold, we did arrive in time that we might
assist our brethren in preserving the city. And behold, we
are again delivered out o f the hands o f our enemies. And bles­
sed is the name o f our G od : for behold, it is he that hath de­
livered u s; yea, that hath done this great thing for us.
Now it came to pass that when I, Helaman, had heard these
words o f Gid, I was filled with exceeding joy, because o f the
goodness of God in preserving us, that we might not all per­
ish ; yea, and I trust that the souls o f them which has been
slain, have entered into the rest o f their God.
And behold, now it came to pass that our next object was
390 BOOK OF ALMA.
to obtain the city o f M onti; but behold, there was no way that
we could lead them out o f the city, by our small bands. For
behold, they remembered that which we had hitherto done;
therefore we could not decoy them away from their strong
holds ; and they were so exceeding more numerous than was
our army, that we durst not go forth and attack them in their
strong holds. Yea, and it became expdient that we should
employ our men, to the maintaining those parts o f the land,
o f the which we had retained o f our possessions; therefore it
became expedient that we should wait, that we might receive
more strength from the land o f Zarahemla, and also a new
supply o f provisions.
And it came to pass that I thus did send an embassy to the
governor o f our land, to acquaint him concerning the affairs o f
our people. And it came to pass that we did wait to receive
provisions and strength, from the land of Zarahemla. But be­
hold, this did not profit us but little : for the Lamanites were
also receiving great strength, from day to day, and also many
provisions; and thus were our circumstances at this period
o f time. And the Lamanitas were sallying forth against us,
from time to time, resolving by stratagem, to destroy us; nev­
ertheless, we could not come to battle with them, because of
their retreats and their strong holds.
And it came to pass that we did wait in these difficult cir­
cumstances, for the space o f many months, even until we were
about to perish for the want o f food. But it came to pass that
we did receive food, which was guarded to us by an army o f
two thousand men, to our assistance; and this is all the assis­
tance which we did receive, to defend ourselves and our coun­
try from falling into the hands o f our enemies ; yea, to con­
tend with an enemy which was innumerable. And now the
cause o f these our embarrassments, or the cause why they did
not send more strength unto us, we knew not; therefore we
were grieved, and also filled with fear, lest by any means the
judgements o f God should come upon our land, to our over­
throw and utter destruction; therefore we did pour out our
souls in prayer to God, that he would strengthen us and deli­
ver us out o f the hands o f our enemies; yea, and also give us
strength, that we might retain our cities, and our lands, and
our possessions, for the support of our people. Yea, and it
came to pass that the Lord our God did visit us with assur­
ances, that he would deliver u s; yea, insomuch that he did
speak peace to our souls, and did grant unto us as great faith,
BOOK OF ALMA. 391
and did cause us that we should hope for our deliverance in
him; and we did take courage with our smalt force which we
had received, and were fixed with a determination to conquer
our enemies, and to maintain our lands, and our possessions,
and our wives, and our children, and the cause o f our liberty.
And thus we did go forth with all our might against the La-
manites, which were in the city o f Manti; and we did pitch
our tents by the wilderness side, which was near to the city.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, that when the La-
manites saw that we were in the borders by the wilderness
which was near the city, that they sent out their spies
round about us, that they might discover the number and the
strength o f our army.
And it came to pass that when they saw that we were not
strong, according to our numhers, and fearing that we should
cut them off from their support, except they should come out
to battle against us, and kill us, and also supposing that they
could easily destroy us with their numerous hosts, therefore
they began to make preparations to come out against us to
battle. And when we saw that they were making prepara­
tions to come out against us, behold, I caused that Gid, with a
small number o f men, should secrete himself in the wilderness,
and also that Teomner should, with a small number o f men,
secrete themselves also in the wilderness. Now Gid and his
men was on the right, and the others on the left; and when
they had thus secreted themselves, behold, I remained with
the remainder o f my army, in that same place where we had
first pitched our tents, against the time that the Lamanites
should come out to battle.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come out with
their numerous army against us. And when they had come,
and were about to fall upon us with the sword, I caused that
my men, those which were with me, should retreat into the
wilderness.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did follow after us
with great speed, for they were exceedingly desirous to over­
take us, that they might slay u s; therefore they did follow us
into the wilderness; and we did pass by in the midst o f Gid
and Teomner, insomuch that they were not discovered by the
Lamanites.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites had passed
by, or when the army had passed by, Gid and Teomner did
rise up from their secret places, and did cut off the spies of
392 BOOK O r ALMA.
the Lamanites, that they should not return to the city. And it
came to pass that when they had cut them of£ they ran to the
city; and fell upon the guards which were left to guard the city,
insomuch that they did destroy them, and did take possession
o f the city. Now this was done, because the Lamanites did
suffer their whole army, save a few guards only, to be led away
into the wilderness.
And it came to pass that Gid and Teomner, by this means,
had obtained possession o f their strong holds. And it came to
pass that we took our course, after having travelled much in
the wilderness, towards the land of Zarahemla. And when
the Lamanites saw that they were marching towards the land
o f Zarahemla, they were exceeding (raid, lest there was a plan
laid to lead them on to destruction ; therefore they began to
retreat into the wilderness again, yea, even back by the same
way which they had came. And behold, it was night, and
they did pitch their tents; for the Chief Captains o f the La­
manites had supposed that the Nephites were weary, because
o f their march; and supposing that they had driven their
whole army, therefore they took no thought concerning the
city o f Manti.
Now it came to pass that when it was night, that I caused
that my men should not sleep, but that they should march
forward, by another way, towards the land of Manti. And be­
cause of this our march in the night time, behold, on the mor­
row, we were beyond the Lamanites, insomuch that we did
arrive before them to the city o f Manti. And thus it came to
pass, that by this stratagem, we did take possession o f the city
o f Manti, without the shedding o f blood.
And it came to pass that when the armies o f the Lamanites
did arrive near the city, and saw that we were prepared to
meet them, they were astonished exceedingly, and struck with
great fear, insomuch that they did flee into the wilderness.—
Yea, and it came to pass that the armies o f the Lamanites did
flee out o f all this quarter o f the land. But behold, they have
carried with them many women and children out o f the land.
And those cities which had been taken by the Lamanites, all
o f them are at this period of time, in our possession; and our
fathers, and our women, and our children, are returning to
their homes, all save it be those which have been taken pris­
oners and carried off by the Lamanites. But behold, our ar­
mies are small, to maintain so great a number o f cities, and so
great possessions. But behold, we trust that our God, who
BOOK OF A IM A . 393
hath given us victory over those lands, insomuch that we
have obtained those cities and those lands, which were our
own. Now we do not know the cause that the government
does not grant us more strength; neither do those men
which came up unto us, know why we have not received
greater strength. Behold, we do not know but what ye are
unsuccessful, and ye have drawn away the forces into that
quarter o f the land; if so, we do not desire to murmur. And
if it is not so, behold, we fear that there is some faction in the
government, that they do not send more men to our assistance;
for we know that they are more numerous than that which
they have sent. But behold, it mattereth not; we trust
God will deliver us, notwithstanding the weakness o f our ar­
mies, yea, and deliver us out o f the hands of our enemies.—
Behold, this is the twenty and ninth year, in the latter end,
and we are in the possessson of our lands ; and the Lamanites
have fled to the land o f Nephi. And those sons o f the people
o f Ammon, o f which I have so highly spoken, are with me in
the city o f Manti; and the Lord hath supported them, yea, and
kept them from falling by the sword, insomuch that even one
soul hath not been slain. But behold, they have received ma­
ny wounds; nevertheless they stand fast in that liberty where­
with God hath made them free; and they are strict to remem­
ber the Lord their God, from day to day; yea, they do ob­
serve to keep his statutes, and his judgements, and his com­
mandments continually; and their faith is strong in the proph­
ecies concerning that which is to come. And now my beloved
brother Moroni, that the Lord our God who hath redeemed
us and made us free, may keep you continually in his pres­
ence ; yea, and that he may favor this people, even that ye
may have success in obtaining the possession o f all that which
the Lamanites hath taken from us, which was for our support.
And now behold, I close mine epistle. I am Helaman, the
son of Alma.
CH A PTE R XXVII.
N ow it came to pass in the thirtieth year of the reign o f the
Judges over the people o f Nephi, after Moroni had received
and had read Helaman’s epistle, he was exceedingly rejoiced
because o f the welfare, yea, the exceeding success which He-
394 BOOK OF A M IA.
lanaan had had, in obtaining those lands which were lost; yea,
and he did make it known unto all his people in all the land
round about in that part where he was, that they might rejoice
also.
And it came to pass that he immediately sent an epistle to
Pahoran, desiring that he should cause men to be gathered to­
gether, to strengthen Helaman, or the armies o f Helaman, in­
somuch that he might with ease maintain that part o f the land
which he had been so miraculously prospered in retaining.—
And it came to pass when Moroni had sent this epistle to the
land o f Zarahemla, he began again to lay a plan, that he might
obtain the remainder o f those possessions and cities which the
Lamanites had taken from them.
And it came to pass that while Moroni was thus making
preparations to go against the Lamanites to battle, behoid, the
people o f Nephihali which were gathered together from the city
o f Moroni, and the city o f Lehi, and the city o f Moriantoo,
were attacked by the Lamanites ; yea, even those which had
been compelled to flee from the land o f Manti, and from the
land round about, had come over and joined the Lamanites in
this part o f the land; and thus being exceeding numerous, yea,
and receiving strength from day to day, by the command of
Ammoron, they came forth against the people o f Nephihali,
and they did begin to slay them with an exceeding great
slaughter. And their armies were so numerous, that the re­
mainder o f the people o f Nephihah were obliged to flee before
them ; and they came even and joined the army o f Moroni.—
And now as Moroni had supposed that there should be men
sent to the city o f Nephihah, to the assistance o f the people
to maintain that city, and knowing that it was easier to keep
the city from falling into the hands o f the Lamanites, than to
retake it from them, he supposed that they would easily
maintain that city; therefore he retained all his force to main­
tain those places whieh he had recovered.
And now when Moroni saw that the city o f Nephihah was
lost, he was exceeding sorrowful, and began to doubt, because
o f the wickedness o f the people, whether they should not fall
into the hands o f their brethren. Now this was the case with
all his Chief Captains. They doubted and marvelled also,
because o f the wickedness o f the people; and this because of
the success o f the Lamanites over them. And it came to pass
that Moroni was angry with the government, because o f their
indifference concerning the freedom o f their country.
BOOK OP ALMA. 395
And it came to pass that he wrote again to the governor o f
the land, which was Pahoran, and these are the words which
he wrote, saying, Behold, 1 direct mine epistle to Pahoran, in
the city of Zarahemla, which is the Chief Judge and the gov­
ernor over the land, and also to all those who hath been cho­
sen by this people to govern and manage the affairs o f this
w ar; for behold, I have somewhat to say unto them by the
way o f condemnation; for behold, ye yourselves know that
ye have been appointed to gather together men, and arm them
with swords, and with cimeters, and all manner o f weapons of
war, o f every kind, and send forth against the Lamanites, in
whatsoever parts they should come into our land. And now
behold, I say unto you, That myself, and also my men, and
also Helaman and his men, have suffered exceeding great suf­
ferings ; yea, even hungeT, thirst, and fatigue, and all manner
o f afflictions of every kind. But behold, were this all we had
suffered, we would not murmur nor complain; but behold,
great has been the slaughter among our people; yea, thou­
sands have fallen by the sword, while it might have otherwise
been, if ye had rendered unto our armies sufficient strength
and succor for them. Yea, great has been your neglect to­
wards us. And now behold, we desire to know the cause o f
this exceeding great neglect; yea, we desire to know the
cause of your thoughtless state. Can you think to sit upon
your thrones, in a state o f thoughtless stupor, while your en­
emies are spreading the work o f death around you ? Yea,
while they are murdering thousands o f your brethren ; yea,
even they which have looked up to you for protection, yea,
have placed you in a situation that ye might have succored
them; yea, ye might have sent armies unto them, to have
strengthened them, and have saved thousands of them from
falling by the sword ? But behold, this is not all: Ye have
withheld your provisions from them, insomuch that many have
fought and bled out their lives because o f their great desires
which they had for the welfare of this people; yea, and this they
have done, when they were about to perish with hunger, be­
cause o f your exceeding great nesrlect towards them. And
now, my beloved brethren; for ye had ought to be beloved ;
yea, and ye had ought to have stirred yourselves more diligently
for the welfare and the freedom of this people: but behold,
ye have neglected them, insomuch that the blood o f thousands
shall come upon your heads for vengeance; yea, for known
unto God were all their cries, and all their sufferings. Behold,
396 BOOK OP ALMA.
could ye suppose that ye could sit upon your thrones, and
because o f the exceeding goodness o f God, ye could do no­
thing, and he would deliver you ? Behold, if ye have sup­
posed this, ye have supposed in vain. Do ye suppose that,
because so many o f your brethren have been killed, because
o f their wickedness 1 Isa y unto you, if ye have supposed
this, ye have supposed in vain : for I say unto you, there are
many which have fallen by the sw ord; and behold, it is to
your condemnation ; for the Lord suffereth the righteous to be
slain, that his justice and judgement may come upon the wick­
ed ; therefore ye need not suppose that the righteous are lost
because they are slain ; but behold, they do enter into the rest
o f the Lord their God. And now behold, I say unto you, I
fear exceedingly that the judgements o f (Sod will come upon
this people, because o f their exceeding elothfulness; yea,
even the slothfulness o f our government, and their exceeding
great neglect towards their brethren, yea towards those which
have been slain: For were it not for the wickedness which
first commenced at our head, we could have withstood our
enemies, that they could have gained no power over us ; yea,
had it not been for the war which broke out among ourselves;
yea, were it not for these king-men, which caused so much
bloodshed among ourselves; yea, at the time we were conten­
ding among ourselves, if we had united our strength, as we
hitherto have done; yea, had it not been for the desire o f
power and authority which those king-men had over u s ; had
they been true to the cause o f our freedom, and united with us,
and gone forth against our enemies, instead o f taking up their
swords against us, which was the cause o f so much blood­
shed among ourselves; yea if we had gone forth against them, in
the strength o f the Lord, we should have dispersed our ene­
mies ; for it would have been done according to the fulfilling
o f his word. But behold, now the Lamanites are coming upon
us, and they are murdering our people with the sword ; yea,
our women and our children ; taking possession o f our lands,
and also carrying them away captive ; causing them that they
should suffer all manner o f afflictions ; and this because o f the
great wickedness o f those who are seeking for power and au­
thority ; yea, even those king-men. But why should I say
much concerning this matter, for we know not but what ye
yourselves are seeking for authority 1 W e know not but
what ye are also traitors to your country t Or is it that ye
have neglected us because ye are in the heart o f our country,
BOOK OP ALMA. 397
and ye are surrounded by security, that ye do not cause food
to be sent unto us, and also men to strengthen our armies f
Have ye forgot the commandments o f the Lord your God ?
Yea, have ye forgot the captivity o f our fathers ? Have ye
forgot the many times we have been delivered out o f the
hands of our enemies? Or do ye suppose that the Lord will
still deliver us, while we sir upon our thrones, and do not make
use o f the means which the Lord hath provided for us ! Yea,
will ye sit in idleness, while ye are surrounded with thousands
of those, yea, and tens o f thousands, which do also sit in idle­
ness, while there are thousands round about in the borders of
the land, which are falling by the sword, yea, wounded and
bleeding 1 D o ye suppose that God will look upon you as
guiltless, while ye sit still and behold these things ! Behold
I say unto you, Nay. Now I would that ye should remember
that God hath said that The inward vessel shall be cleansed
first, and then shall the outer vessel be cleansed also. And
now' except ye do repent o f that which ye have done, and begin
to be up and doing, and send forth food and men unto us, and
also unto Heiaman, that he may support those parts o f our
country which he hath retained, and that we may also recover
the remainder of our possessions in these parts, behold it will
be expedient that we contend no more with the Lamanites
until we have first cleansed our inward vessel; yea, even the
great head o f our government; and except ye grant mine
epistle, and come out and shew unto me a true spirit o f free­
dom, and strive to strengthen and fortify our armies, and grant
unto them food for their support, behold I will leave a part of
my freemen to maintain this part of our land, and I will leave
the strength and the blessings o f God upon them, that none
other power can operate against them; and this because of
their exceeding faith and their patience in their tribulations;
and I will come unto you, and if there be any among you that
hath a desire for freedom, yea, if there be even a spark o f free­
dom remaining, behold I will stir up insurrections among you,
even until those who hath desires to usurp power and author­
ity, shall become extinct; yea, behold I do not fear your pow­
er nor your authority, but it is my God whom I fear, and it is
according to his commandments that I do take my sword to
defend the cause o f my country, and it is because of your in­
iquity that we have suffered so much loss. Behold it is time,
yea, the time is now at hand, that except ye do bestir your­
selves in the defence of your country and your little ones, the
398 BOOS OP ALMA,
sword o f justice doth hang over y ou ; yea, and it shall fall upon
you and visit you even to your utter destruction. Behold, I
wait for assistance from you, and except ye do administer unto
our relief, behold 1 come unto you even into the land o f Za-
rahemla, and smite you with the sword, insomuch that ye can
have no more power to impede the progress o f this people in
the cause o f our freedom; for behold the Lord will not suffer
that ye shall live and wax strong in your iniquities, to destroy
his righteous people, Behold, can you suppose that the Lord
will spare you and come out in judgement against the Laman-
ites, when it is the tradition o f their fathers that hath caused
their haired ; yea, and it hath been redoubled by those which
have dissented from us, while your iniquity is. for the cause o f
your love o f glory, and the vain things o f the world ? Ye know
that ye do transgress the laws o f God, and ye do know that
ye do trample them under your feet. Behold, the Lord saith
unto me, If those whom ye have appointed your governors,
do not repent o f their sins and iniquities, ye shall go up to bat­
tle against them. And now behold, I Moroni am constrained,
according to the covenant which I have made to keep the
commandments o f my God ; therefore 1 would that ye should
adhear to the word o f God, and send speedily unto me of your
provisions and o f your men, and also to Helamen. And be­
hold if ye will not do this, I come unto you speedily; for be­
hold, God will not suffer that we should perish with hunger;
therefore he will give unto us o f your food, even if it must be
by the sword. Now see that ye fulfil the word o f God. Be­
hold, 1 am Moroni, your Chief Captain. 1 seek not for power
but to pull it down. 1 seek not for honor of the world, but
for the glory of my God, and the freedom and welfare of my
country. And thus l close mine epistle.
CH A PTE R XXVIII.
Behold, now it came to pass that soon after Moroni had
sent his epistle unto the Chief Governor, he received an epis­
tle from Pahoran, the Chief Governor. And these are the
words which he received: I, Pahoran, which art the Chief
Governor of this land, do send these words unto Moroni, the
Chief Captain over the army: Behold ! say unto you, Moroni,
That 1 do not joy in your great afflictions; yea, it grieves my
BOOK OP ALMA. 399
soul. But behold, there are those who do joy in your afflic­
tions ; yea, insomuch that they have risen up in rebellion
against me, and also those o f my people which are free men ;
yea, and those which have risen up, are exceeding numerous.
And it is those who have sought to lake away the judgement
seat from me, that have been the cause o f this great iniquity;
for they have used great flattery; and they have led away the
hearts o f many' people, which « d ll be the cause o f sore afflic­
tion among u s; they have withheld our provisions, and have
daunted our freemen, that they have not come unto you. And
behold, they have driven me out before them, and I have fled
to the land o f Gideon, with as many men as it were possible
that I could get. And behold, 1 have sent a proclamation
throughout this part o f the land; and behold, they are flocking
to us daily, to their arms, in the defence of their country, and
their freedom, and to avenge our wrongs. And they have
come unto us, insomuch that those which have rose up in re­
bellion against us, are set at defiance; yea,insomuch that they
do fear us, and durst not come out against us to battle. They
have got possession o f the land, or the city of Zarahemla;
they have appointed a king over them, and he hath written
unto the king o f the Lamanites, in the which he hath joined an
alliance with him; in the which alliance, he hath agreed to
maintain the city o f Zarahemla, in (he which maintenance, he
supposeth will enable the Lamanites to conquer the remainder
o f the land, and he shall be placed king over this people, when
they shall be conquered under the Lamanites. And now, in
your epistle, ye hath censured me; but it mattereth not, I am
not angry, but do rejoice in the greatness o f your heart. I,
Pahoran, do not seek for power, save only to retain my judge­
ment seat, that 1 may preserve the rights and the liberty o f my
people. My soul standeth fast in that liberty, in the which
God hath made us free.
And now behold we will resist wickedness even unto blood­
shed. W e would not shed the blood of the Lamanites, if
they would stay in their own land. W e would not shed the
blood o f our brethren, if they would not rise up in rebellion
and take the sword against us. W e would subject ourselves
to the yoke of bondage, if it were requisite with the justice of
God, or if he should command us so to do. But behold he
doth not command us that we shall subject ourselves to our
enemies, but that we should put our trust in him, and lie will
deliver us. Therefore my beloved brother Moroni, let us re-
400 BOOK OF ALU A.
sist evil; and whatsoever evil we cannot resist with our words,
yea, such as rebellions and dissensions, let us resist them with
our swords, that we may retain our freedom, that we may re­
joice in the great privilege o f our church and in the Cause of
our Redeemer and our God. Therefore come unto me spee­
dily, with a few o f your men, and leave the remainder in the
charge o f Lehi and Teaneum; give unto them power to con­
duct the war in that part o f the land, according to the spirit
o f God, which is also the spirit o f freedom which is in them.
Behold 1 have sent a few provisions unto them, that they may
not perish until ye can come unto me. Gather together what­
soever force ye can upon your march hither, and we will go
speedily against those dissenters, in the strength o f our God,
according to the faith which is in us. And we will take pos­
session o f the city o f Zarabemla, that we may obtain more
food to send forth unto Lehi and Teaneum ; yea, we will go
forth against them in the strength o f the Lord, and we will put
an end to this great iniquity.
And now Moroni, I do joy in receiving your epiBtle ; for I
was somewhat worried concerning what we should do, wheth­
er it should be just in us to go against our brethren. But ye
have said, Except they repent, the Lord hath commanded you
that ye should go against them. See that ye strengthen Lehi
and Teaneum in the L ord; tell them to fear not, for God will
deliver them; yea, and also all those who stand fast in that
liberty wherewith God hath made them free. And now I
close mine epistle to my beloved brother Moroni.
C H A PT E R XXIX.
And now it came to pass that when Moroni had received
this epistle, his heart did take courage, and was filled with
exceeding great joy, because o f the faithfulness o f Pahoran,
that he was not also a traitor to the freedom and cause o f his
country. But he did also mourn exceedingly, because o f the
iniquity o f those who had driven Pahoran from the judgement
seat; yea, in fine, because o f those who had rebelled against
their country and also their God.
And it came to pass that Moroni took a small number o f
men, according to the desire o f Pahoran, and gave Lehi and
Teaneum command over the remainder o f his army, and took
BOOK OP ALMA. 401
his march towards the land o f Gideon. And he did reuse the
standard o f liberty in whatsoever place he did enter, and gain­
ed whatsoever force he could in all bis march towards the land
o f Gideon.
And it came to pass that thousands did flock unto his stan­
dard, and did take up their swords in the defence of their free­
dom, that they might not come into bondage. And thus when
Moroni had gathered together whatsoever men he could in all
his march, he came to the land o f Gideon; and uniting his
forces with that o f Pahoran, they became exceeding strong,
even stronger than the men of Pachus, which was the king o f
those dissenters which had driven out the freemen out o f the
land of Zarahemla, and had taken possession o f the land.
And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran went down
with their armies into the land o f Zarahemla, and went forth
against the city, and did meet the men o f Pachus, insomuch
that they did come to battle. And behold, Pachus was slain,
and his men were taken prisoners; and Pahoran was restored
to his judgement seat. And the men o f Pachus received their
trial, according to the law, and also those king-men which had
been taken and cast into prison; and they were executed ac­
cording to the law ; yea, those men o f Pachus, and those king-
men, whosoever would not take up arms in the defence o f
their country, but would fight against it, were put to death.—
And thus it became expedient that this law should be strictly
observed, for the safety of their country; yea, and whosoever
was found denying their freedom, was speedily executed ac­
cording to the law. And thus ended the thirtieth year o f the
reign o f the Judges over the people of Nephi: Moroni and Pa­
horan having restored peace to the land of Zarahemla, among
their own people,,having inflicted death upon all those who
were not true to the cause of freedom.
And it came to pass in the commencement o f the thirty and
first year o f the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi,
Moroni immediately caused that provisions should be sent, and
also an army of six thousand men, should be sent unto Hela-
man, to assist him in preserving that part o f She land; and he
also caused that an army of six thousand men, with a sufficient
quantity o f food, should be sent to ihe armies o f Lehi and Te-
ancura. And it came to pass that this was done, to fortify the
land against the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that Moroni and Pahoran, leaving a
large body of men in the land of Zarahemia, took their march
26
402 BOOK OF ALVA.
with a large body o f men towards the land of Nephihah, being
determined to overthrow the Lamanites in that city.
And it came to pass that as they were marching towards
the land, they took a large body of men of the Lamanites, and
slew many o f them, and took their provisions, and their weap­
ons o f war. And it came to pass after they had took them,
they caused them to enter into a covenant, that they would no
more take up their weapons o f war against the Nephitee. And
when they bad entered into this covenant, they sent them to
dwell with the people o f Ammon ; and they were in number
about four thousand, which had not been slain.
And it came to pass that when they had sent them away,
they pursued their march towards the land o f Nephihah. And
it came to pass that when they had come to the city Nephihah,
they did pitch their tents in the plains o f Nephihah, which is
near the city Nephihah. Now Moroni was desirous that tlm
Lamanites should come out to battle against them, upon the
plains; but the Lamanites knowing o f their exceeding great
courage, and beholding the greatness o f their numbers, there­
fore they durst not come out against them; therefore they did
not come to battle in that day. And when the night came,
Moroni went forth in the darkness o f the night, and came upon
the top of the wall to spy out in what part o f the city the La-
manites did camp with their army.
And it came to pass that they were on the east, by the en­
trance ; and they were all asleep. And now Moroni returned
to his army, and caused that they should prepare in haste
strong cords and ladders, to be let down from the top o f the
wall into the inner part o f the wall.
And it came to pass that Moroni caused that his men should
march forth and come upon the top o f the wall, and let them­
selves down into that part of the city, yea, even on the west,
where the Lamanites did not camp with their armies.
And it came to pass that they were all let down into the city
by night, by the means o f their strong cords and their ladders;
thus when the morning came, they were all within the walls
o f the city. And now when the Lamanites asvoke, and saw
that the armies o f Moroni were within the walls, they were
affrighted exceedingly, insomuch that they did flee out by the
pass. And now when Moroni saw that they were fleeing be­
fore him, he did cause that his men should march forth against
them, and slew many, and surrounded many others and took
them prisoners; and" the remainder of them fled into the land
BOOK OP ALMA. 403
o f Moroni, which was in the borders by the seashore. Thus
had Moroni and Pahoran obtained the possession o f the city o f
Nephihah, without the loss of one soul; and there were many
o f the Lamanites which were slain.
Now it came to pass that many of the Lamanites that
were prisoners, were desirous to join the people o f Ammon,
and become a free people. And it came to pass that as many
as were desirous, unto them it was granted, according to their
desires; therefore all the prisoners o f the Lamanites did join
the people of Ammon, and did begin to labor exceedingly, til­
ling the ground, raising all manner of grain, and flocks, and
herds of every kind; and thus were the Nephites relieved from
a great burthen; yea, insomuch that they were relieved from
all the prisoners of the Lamanites.
Now it came to pass that Moroni, after he had obtained pos­
session o f the city o f Nephihah, having taken many prisoners,
which did reduce the armies of the Lamanites exceedingly,
and having retained many of the Nephites which had been ta­
ken prisones, which did strengthen the army of Moroni excee­
dingly ; therefore Moroni went forth from the land o f Nephi­
hah to the land of Lehi.
And it came to pass that when the Lamanites saw that Mo­
roni was a coming against them, they were again frightened,
and fled before the army of Moroni. And it came to pass
that Moroni and his army did pursue them from city to city,
until they were met by Lehi and Teancum; and the Lamanites
fled from Lehi and Teancum, even down upon the borders by
the seashore, until they came to the land of Moroni. And the
armies o f the Lamanites were all gathered together, insomuch
that they were all in one body, in the land of Moroni. Now
Ammoron, the king of the Lamanites, was also with them.
And it came to pass that Moroni, and Lehi, and Teancum,
did encamp with their armies round about in the borders o f
the land of Moroni, insomuch that the Lamanites were en­
circled about in the borders by the wilderness, on the south,
and in the borders by the wilderness, on the east; and
thus they did encamp for the night. For behold, the Nephites
and the Lamanites also, were weary because o f the greatness
o f the march ; therefore they did not resolve upon any strata­
gem in the night time, save it were Teancum : for he was ex­
ceeding angry with Ammoron, insomuch that he considered
that Ammoron, and Amalickiah his brother, had been the cause
of this great and lasting war between them and the Lamanites,
26*
404 BOOK OP ALMA.
which had been the cause o f so much war and bloodshed, yea,
and so much famine.
And it came to pass that Teancum, in his anger, did go forth
into the camp o f the Lamanites, and did let himself down over
the walls o f the city. And he went forth with a cord, from
place to place, insomuch that he did find the king; and he did
cast a javelin at him, which did pierce him near the heart—
But behold, the king did awake his servant before he died,
insomuch that they did pursue Teancum, and slew him.
Now it came to pass that when Lehi and Moroni knew that
Teancum was dead, they were exceeding sorrowful: for be­
hold, he had been a man which had fought valiantly for his
country, yea, a true friend to liberty; and he bad suffered very
many exceeding sore afflictions. But behold, he was dead,
and had gone the way o f all the earth.
Now it came to pass that Moroni marched forth on the mor­
row, and came upon the Lamanites, insomuch that they did
slay them with a great slaughter; and they did drive them out
o f the land; and they did flee, even that they did not return
at that time against the Nephites. And thus ended the thirty
and first year of the reign o f the Judges over the people o f Ne­
phi ; and thus, they had had wars, and bloodsheds, and fam­
ine, and affliction, for the space of many years. And there
had been murders, and contentions, and dissensions, and all
manner of iniquity among the people of Nephi; nevertheless,
for the righteous’ sake, yea, because of the prayers of the
righteous, they were spared. But behold, because o f the ex­
ceeding great length of the war between the Nephites and the
Lamanites, many had become hardened, because of the excee­
ding great length of the war; and many were softened, because
o f their afflictions, insomuch that they did humble themselves
before God, even in the depth of humility.
And it came to pass that after Moroni had fortified those
parts o f the land which were most exposed to the Lamanites,
until they were sufficiently strong, he returned to the city of
Zarahemla, and also Helaman returned to the place of his
inheritance; and there was once more peace established among
the people of Nephi. And Moroni yielded up the command
o f bis armies into the hands of his son, whose name was Mo-
ronihah; and he retired to his own house, that he might spend
the remainder of his days in peace. And Pahoran did return
to his judgement seat; and Helaman did take upon him again
to preach unto the people the word of G od: for because of
BOOK OF ALMA. 405
so many wars and contentions, it had become expedient that
a regulation should be made again in the church; therefore
Helaman and his brethren went forth, and did declare the
word of Gid with much power, unto the convincing of many
people of their wickedness, which did cause them to repent of
their sins, and to be baptized unto the Lord their God.
And it came to pass that they did establish again the church
of God, throughout all the land; yea, and regulations were
made concerning the law. And their Judges, and their Chief
Judges were chosen. And the people o f Nephi began to pros­
per again in the land, and began to multiply and to wax excee­
ding strong again in the land. And they began to grow excee­
ding rich; but notwithstanding their riches, or their strength,
or their prosperity, they were not lifted up in the pride o f their
eyes; neither were they slow to remember the Lord their
God ; but they did humble themselves exceedingly before him;
yea, they did remember how great thingB the Lord had done
for them, that he had delivered them from death, and from
bonds, and from prisons, and from all manner o f afflictions;
and he had delivered them out o f the hands of their enemies.
And they did pray unto the Lord their God continually, inso­
much that the Lord did bless them, according to his word, so
that they did wax strong, and prosper in the land. And it
came to pass that ail these things were done. And Helaman
died, in the thirty and fifth year o f the reign o f the Judges
over the people o f Nephi.
CH APTER XXX.
And it came to pass in the commencement o f the thirty and
sixth year of the reign of the Judges over the people of Nephi,
that Shiblon took possession of those sacred things which had
been delivered unto Helaman by Alma ; and be was a just
man, and he did walk uprightly before God ; and he did ob­
serve to do good continually, to keep the commandments o f
the Lord his God ; and also did his brother.
And it came to pass that Moroni died also. And thus en­
ded the thirty and sixth year o f the reign of the Judges. And
it came to pass that in the thirty and seventh year o f the reign
o f the Judges, there was a large company of men, even to the
amount o f five thousand and four hundred men, with their
406 BOOK OF ALMA.
wives and (heir children, departed out o f the land of Zara-
hernia, into the land which was northward.
And it came to pass that Ilagoth, he being an exceeding cu­
rious man, therefore he went forth and built him an exceeding
large ship, on the borders o f the land Bountiful, by the land
Desolation, and launched it forth into the West Sea, by the
narrow neck which led into the land northward. And behold,
there were many o f the Nephites which did enter therein, and
did sail forth with much provisions, and also many women
and children; and they took their course northward. And
thus ended the thirty and seventh year. And in the thirty and
eighth year, this man built other ships. And the first ship did
also return, and many more people did enter into it; and they
also took much provisions, and set out again to the land
northward.
And it came to pass that they were never heard of more.—
And we suppose that they were drowned up in the depths of
the sea. And it came to pass that one other ship also did sail
forth; and whither she did go, we know not. And it came
to pass that in this year, there were many people which went
forth into the land northward. And thus ended the thirty and
eighth year.
And it came to pass in the thirty and ninth year o f the reign
o f the Judges, Shiblon died also, and Corianton had gone
forth to the land northward, in a ship, to carry forth- provis­
ions unto the people which had gone forth into that land;
therefore it became expedient for Shiblon to confer those sa­
cred things, before his death, upon the son of Helaman, who
was called Helaman, being called after the name o f his father.
Now behold, all those engravings which were in the possession
o f Helaman, were written and sent forth among the children
o f men throughout all the land, save it were those parts which
had been commanded by Alma should not go forth. Never­
theless these things were to be kept sacred, and handed down
from one generation to another; therefore, in this year, they
had been conferred upon Helaman, before the death of Shib­
lon. And it came to pass also in this year, that there were
some dissenters which had gone forth unto the Lamanites; and
they were stirred up again to angeT against the Nephites. And
also in this same year, they came down with a numerous army
to war against the people of Moronihah, or against the army
o f Moronihah, in the which they were beaten, and driven back
again to their own lands, suffering great loss. And thus ended
BOOK OF MELAMAN. 4O
T
the thirty and ninth year o f the reign o f the Judges over the
people of Nephi. And thus ended the account o f Alma, and
Helaman his son, and also Shiblon, which was his son.
THE BOOK OF HELAMAN.
CH APTER I.
An account o f the Nephites. Their tears and contentions,
and their dissension. And also the prophecies o f many
Holy Prophets, before the coming o f Christ, according to
ike record o f Helaman, which was the son o f Helaman, and
also according to the records o f his sons, even down to the
coming o f Christ. And also many o f the Lamanttes are
converted. An account o f their conversion. An account
o f the righteousness o f the Lamanites, and the wickedness
and abominations o f the Nephites, according to the record
o f Helaman and his sons, even doicn to the coming o f
Christ, which is called the Book o f Helaman, Sfc.
And now behold, it came to pass in the commencement of
the fortieth year of the reign of the Judges over the people of
Nephi, there began to be a serious difficulty among the people
of the Nephites. For behold, Pahoran had died, and gone the
way o f all the earth; therefore there began to be a serious
contention concerning who should have the judgement seat
among the brethren, which were the sons o f Pahoran. Now
these are their names which did contend for the judgement
seat, which did also cause the people to contend: Pahoran,
Paanchi, and Pacumeni. Now these are not all the sons o f
Pahoran, (for he had many,) but these are they which did con­
tend for the judgement seat; therefore they did cause three
divisions among the people. Nevertheless, it came to pass
that Pahoran was appointed by the voice of the people to be
a Chief Judge and a governor over the people o f Nephi.
And it came to pass that Pacumeni, when he saw that he
could not obtain the judgement seat, he did unite with the
voice of the people. But behold, Paanchi, and that part o f
the people that were desirous that he should be their governor,
was exceeding wroth; therefore he was about to flatter away
those people to rise up in rebellion against their brethren.
408 BOOK OP HF.LAMAN.
And it came to pass as he was about to do this, behold, he
was taken, and was tried according to the voice of the people,
and condemned unto death ; for he had raised up in rebellion,
and sought to destroy the liberty of the people. Now when
those people which were desirous that he should be their gov­
ernor, saw that he was condemned unto death, therefore they
were angry; and behold, they sent forth one Kishkumen, even
to the judgement seat o f Pahoran, and murdered Pahoran as he
sat upon the judgement seat. And he was pursued by the
servants o f Pahoran; but behold, so speedy was the flight o f
Kishkumen, that no man could overtake him. And he went
unto those that sent him, and they all entered into a covenant,
yea, swearing by their everlasting Maker, that they would tell
no man that Kishkumen had murdered Pahoran; therefore
Kishkumen was not known among the people o f Nephi, for he
was in disguise at the time that he murdered Pahoran. And
Kishkumen, and his band which had covenanted with him, did
mingle themselves among the people, in a manner that they
all could not be found; but as many as were found, were con­
demned unto death. And now behold, Pacumeni was appoint­
ed, according to the voice of the people, to be a Chief Judge
and a govereor over the people, to reign in the stead o f his
brother Pahoran; and it was according to his right. And all
this was done, in the fortieth year o f the reign of the Judges ;
and it had an end.
And it came to pass in the forty and first year o f the reign
o f the Judges, that the Lamanites had gathered together an
innumerable army o f men, and armed them with swords, and
with cimeters, and with bows, and with arrows, and with head-
plates, and with breast-plates, and with all manner of shields
o f every kind; and they came down again, that they might pitch
battle against the Nephites. And they were led by a man
whose name was Coriantumr; and he was a descendant o f
Zarahemla; and he was a dissenter from among the Nephites ;
and he was a large and a mighty man; therefore the king o f
the Lamanites, whose name was Tubaloth, who was the son
o f Ammoron. Now Tubaloth supposing that Coriantumr, he
being a mighty man, could stand against the Nephites, inso­
much with his strength, and also with his great wisdom, that
by sending him forth, he should gain power over the Ne­
phites ; therefore he did stir them up to anger, and he did
gather together his armies, and he did appoint Coriantumr to
BOOK OF HELAMAN. 409
be their leader, and did cause that they should march down
to the land of Zarahemla, to battle against the Nephites.
And it came to pass that because o f so much contention
and so much difficulty in the government, that they had not
kept sufficient guards in the land of Zarahemla; for they had
supposed that the Lamanites durst not come into the heart o f
their lands to attack that great city Zarahemla. But it came
to pass that Coriantumr did march forth at the head o f his
numerous host, and came upon the inhabitants of the city, and
their march was with such exceeding great speed, that there
was no time for the Nephites to gather together their armies;
therefore Coriantumr did cut down the watch by the entrance
o f the city, and did march forth with his whole army into the
city, and they did slay every one who did oppose them, inso­
much that they did take possession of the whole city. And it
came to pass that Pacumeni, which was the Chief Judge, did
flee before Coriantumr, even to the walls of the city. And it
came to pass that Coriantumr did smite him against the wall,
insomuch that he died. And thus ended the days o f Pacume-
ni. And now when Coriantumr saw that he was in possess­
ion of the city o f Zarahemla, and saw that the Nephites had
fled before them, and were slain, and were taken, and were
cast into prison, and that he had obtained the possession o f
the strongest hold in all the land, his heart took courage, inso­
much that he was about to go forth against all the land. And
now he did not tarry in the land o f Zarahemla, but he did
march forth with a large army, even towards the city o f Boun­
tiful ; for it was his determination to go forth and cut his way
through with the sword, that he might obtain the north parts
o f the land; and supposing that their greatest strength was in
the centre o f the land, therefore he did march forth, giving
them no time to assemble themselves together, save it were
in small bodies; and in this manner they did fall upon them
and cut them down to the earth. But behold, this march o f
Coriantumr through the centre of the land, gave Moronibah
great advantage over them, notwithstanding the greatness o f
the number of the Nephites which were slain; for behold,
Moronihah had supposed that the Lamanites durst no* come
into the centre of the land, but that they would attack the ci­
ties round about in the borders, as they had hitherto done;
therefore Moronihah had caused that their strong armies
should maintain those parts round about by the borders. But
behold, the Lamanites were not frightened according to his de-
•410 BOOK OF HELAMAN.
sire, but they had come into the centre of the land, and had
taken the capital city, which was the city o f Zarahemla, and
were marching through the most capital parts o f the land, slay­
ing the people with a great slaughter, botli men, women and
children, taking possession o f many cities and o f many strong
holds. But when Moronihah had discovered this, he immedi­
ately sent forth Lehi with an army round about to head them,
before they should come to the land Bountiful: And thus he
d id ; and he did head them, before they came to the land
Bountiful, and gave unto them battle, insomuch that they
began to retreat back towards the land o f Zarahemla. And
it came to pass that Moronihah did head them in their retreat,
and did give unto them battle insomuch that it became an ex­
ceeding bloody battle; yea, many were slain; and among the
number which were slain, Coriantumr was also found. And
now behold the Lamanites could not retreat neither way ;
neither on the north, nor on the south, nor on the east, nor on
the west, for they were surrounded on every hand by the Ne-
phites: And thus had Coriantumr plunged the Lamanites in­
to the midst o f the Nephites, insomuch that they were in the
power o f the Nephites, and he himself was slain, and the
Lamanites did yield themselves into the hands o f the Ne­
phites.
And it came to pass that Moronihah took possession o f the
city of Zarahemla again, and caused that the Lamanites which
had been taken prisoners should depart out o f the land in
peace. And thus ended the forty and first year of the reign
of the Judges,
And it came to pass in the forty and second year o f the
reign o f the Judges, after Moronihah had established again the
peace betweem the Nephites and the Lamanites, behold there
was no one to fill the judgement seat; therefore there began
to be a contention again among the people concerning who
should fill the judgement seat. And it came to pass that He-
iaman, which was the son o f Helaman, was appointed to fill
the judegment seat, by the voice o f the people; but behold, Kish-
kumen, who had murdered Pahoran, did lay wait to destroy
Helaman also; and he was upheld by his band, which had en­
tered into a covenant that no one should know his wickedness;
for there was one Gadianton, who was exceeding expert in
many words, and also in his craft, to carry on the secret work
o f murder and o f robbery; therefore he became the leader o f
the band o f Kishkumen ; therefore he did flatter them, and
BOOK OP HELAMAN, 411
also Kishkumen, that if they would place him in the judge­
ment seat, he would grant unto those which belonged to his
band that they should be placed in power and authority among
the people; therefore Kishkumen sought to destroy Hela-
man.
And it came to pass as he went forth towards the judge­
ment seat, to destroy Helaman, behold one o f the servants of
Helaman, having been out by night, and having obtained,
through disguise, a knowledge of those plans which had been
laid by this band to destroy Helaman. And it came to pass
that he met Kishkumen, and he gave unto him a sign ; there­
fore Kishkumen made known unto him the object o f his desire,
desiring that he would conduct him to the judgement seat,
that he might murder Helaman: And it came to pass that
when the servant o f Helaman had known all the heart o f
Kishkumen, and how that it was his object to murder, and al­
so that it was the object of all those which belonged to his band,
to murder, and to rob, and to gain power, (and this was their
secret plan, and their combination,) the servant o f Helaman
saith unto Kishkumen, Let us go forth unto thejudgement seat.
Now this did please Kishkumen exceedingly, for he did sup­
pose that he should accomplish his design ; but behold, the
servant o f Helaman, as they were going forth unto the judge­
ment seat, did stab Kishkumen, even to the heart, that be fell
dead without a groan. And be ran and told Helaman all the
things which he had seen, and heard, and done.
And it came to pass that Helaman did send forth to take this
band o f robbers and secret murderers, that they might be
executed according to the law. But behold, when Gadianton
had found that Kishkumen did not return, he feared lest that
he should be destroyed; therefore he caused that his band
should follow him. And they took their flight out o f the land,
by a secret way, into the wilderness; and thus when Hela­
man sent forth to take them, they could no where be found.—
And more o f this Gadianton shall be spoken hereafter. And
thus ended the forty and second year o f the reign o f the judg­
es over the people o f Nephi. And behold, in the end o f this
book, ye shall see that this Gadianton did prove the overthrow,
yea, almost the entire destruction of the people of Nephi.—
Behold I do not mean the end of the Book o f Helaman, but 1
mean the end of the Book o f Nephi, from which I have taken
all the account which I have written.
412 BOOK OF HELAMAN.
CH APTER II.
A nd now it came to pass in the forty and third year of the
reign o f the Judges, there was no contention among the people
o f Nephi, save it were a little pride which was in the church,
which did cause some little dissensions among the people,
which affairs were settled in the ending o f the forty and third
year. And there was no contention among the people in the
forty and fourth year; neither was there much contention in
the forty and fifth year. And it came to pass in the forty and
sixth, yea, there were much contentions and many dissensions;
in the which there were an exceeding great many which de­
parted out of the land o f Zarahemla, and went forth unto the
land northward, to inherit the land; and they did travel to an
exceeding great distance, insomuch that they came to large
bodies of water, and many rivers; yea, and even they did
spread forth into all parts o f the land, into whatever parts it
had not been rendered desolate, and without timber, because
o f the many inhabitants which had before inherited the land.
And now no part o f the land was desolate, save it were for
timber, & c.; but because o f the greatness o f the destruction
o f the people which had before inhabited the land, it was
called desolate. And there being but little timber upon the
face of the land, nevertheless the people which went forth, be­
came exceeding expert in the working o f cement; therefore
they did build houses of cement, in the which they did dwell.
And it came to pass that they did multiply and spread, and
did go forth from the land southward, to the land northward,
and did spread insomuch that they began to cover the face o f
the whole earth, from the sea south, to the sea north, from the
sea west, to the sea east. And the people which were in the
land northward, did dwell in tents, and in houses o f cement,
and they did suffer whatsoever tree should spring up upon the
face o f the land, that it should grow up, that in time they
might have timber to build their houses, yea, their cities, and
their temples, and their synagogues, and their sanctuaries,
and all manner of their buildings.
And it came to pass as timber was exceeding scarce in the
land northward, they did send forth much by the way of ship­
ping ; and thus they did enable the people in the land north­
ward, that they might build many cities, both of wood and of
cement. And it came to pass that there were many o f the
BOOK OF liF.LAMAN. 413
people o f Ammon, which were Lamanites by birth, did also
go forth into this land.
And now there are many records kept o f the proceedings
o f this people, by many o f this people, which are particular
and very large, concerning them ; but behold a hundredth part
o f the proceedings of this people, yea, the account of the La­
manites, and of the Nephites, and their wars, and contentions,
and dissensions, and their preaching, and their prophecies,
and their shipping, and their building of ships, and their build­
ing of temples, and o f synagogues, and their sanctuaries, and
their righteousness, and their wickedness, and their murders,
and their robbings, and their plundering, and all manner of
abominations and whoredoms, cannot be contained in this
w ork; but behold, there are many books and many records o f
every kind, and they have been kept chiefly by the Nephites;
and they have been handed down from one generation to an­
other, by the Nephites, even until they have fallen into trans­
gression, and have been murdered, plundered, and hunted, and
driven forth, and slain, and scattered upon the face of the
earth, and mixed with the Lamanites until they are no more
called the Nephites, becoming wicked, and wild, and ferocious,
yea, even becoming Lamanites.
And now I return again to mine account; therefore what I
have spoken had passed after there had been great conten­
tions, and disturbances, and wars, and dissensions among the
people o f Nephi. The forty and sixth year of the reign o f the
Judges ended. And it came to pass that there was still great
contentions in the land, yea, even in the forty and seventh
year, and also in the forty and eighth year; nevertheless, He-
laman did fill the judgement seat with justice and equity; yea,
he did observe to keep the statutes, and the judgements, and
the commandments o f G o d ; and he did do that which was
right in the sight o f God, continually; and be did walk after
the ways o f his father, insomuch that he did prosper in the
land. And it came to pass that he had two sons. He gave
unto the eldest the name o f Nephi, and unto the youngest the
name of Lehi. And they began to grow up unto the Lord.—
And it came to pass that the wars and contentions began to
cease, in a small degree, among the people of the Nephites,
in the latter end o f the forty and eighth year of the reign o f
the Judges over the people o f Nephi. And it came to pass
in the forty and ninth year of the reign of the Judges, there
was continual peace established in the land, all save it were
4 1 4 BOOK OF HELAMAN.
the secret combinations which Gadianton the nobler had es­
tablished, in the more settled parts o f the land, which at that
time were not known unto those which were at the head of
government; therefore they were not destroyed out o f the land.
And it came to pass that in this same year, there was ex­
ceeding gTeat prosperity in the church, insomuch that there
were thousands who did join themselves unto the church, and
were baptized unto repentance; and so great was the pros­
perity o f the church, and so many the blessings which were
poured out upon the people, that even the High Priests and
the teachers were themselves astonished beyond measure.—
And it came to pass that the work o f the Lord did prosper,
unto the baptizing and uniting to the church o f God many
souls; yea, even tens o f thousands. Thus we may see that
the Lord is merciful unto all who will, in the sincerity of their
hearts, call upon his holy name; yea, thus we see that the
gate of Heaven is open unto all, even to those who will believe
on the name o f Jesus Christ, which is the Son o f God ; yea,
we see that whosoever will lay hold upon the word o f God,
which is quick and powerful, which shall divide asunder all
the cunning, and the snares, and the wiles of the Devil, and
lead the man o f Christ in a straight and narrow course across
that everlasting gulf o f misery which is prepared to engulf the
wicked, and land their souls, yea, their immortal souls, at the
right hand o f God, in the kingdom o f Heaven, to sit down
with Abraham, and Isaac, and with Jacob, and with all our
holy fathers, to go no more out. And in this year there were
continual rejoicing in the land o f Zarahemla, and in all the re­
gions round about, even in all the land which was possessed
by the Nephites. And it came to pass that there was peace,
and exceeding great joy in the remainder o f the forty and
ninth year; yea, and also there was continual peace and great
joy in the fiftiet year o f the reign o f the Judges. And in the
fifty and first year of the reign o f the Judges, there was peace
also, save it were the pride which began to enter into the
church; not into the church o f God, but into the hearts of
the people who professed to belong to the church o f G o d ;
and they were lifted up in pride, even to the persecution of
many o f their brethren. Now this was a great evil, which did
cause the more humble part o f the people to suffer great per­
secutions, and to wade through much affliction; nevertheless,
they did fast and pray oft, and did wax stronger and stronger
in their humility, and firmer and firmer in the faith o f Christ,
BOOK OF HBLAMAN. 415
unto the filling their souls with joy and consolation, yea, even
to the purifying and the sanctification o f their hearts, which
sanctification cometh because of their yielding their hearts unto
God. And it came to pass that the fifty and second year
ended in peace also, save it were the exceeding great pride
which had got into the hearts of the people; and it was be­
cause of their exceeding great riches, and their prosperity in
the land; and it did grow upon them from day to day.
And it came to pas.-, in the fifty and third year o f the reign
o f the Judges, Helaman died, and his eldest son Nephi began
to reign in his stead. And it came to pass that he did fill the
judgement seat with justice and equity ; yea, he did keep the
commandments o f God, and did walk in the ways o f his fa­
ther. And it came to pass in the fifty and fourth year, there
were many dissensions in the church, and there was also a
contention among the people, Insomuch that there was much
bloodshed; and the rebellious part were slain and driven out
of the land, and they did go unto the king of the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they did endeavor to stir up the
Lamanites to war against the Nephites ; but behold, the La­
manites were exceeding fraul, insomuch that they would not
hearken to the words o f those dissenters. But it came to pass
in the fifty and sixth year o f the reign o f the Judges, there
were dissenters which went up from the Nephites unto the
Lamanites ; and they succeeded with those others in stirring
them up to anger against the Nephites ; and they were all that
year preparing for war. And in the fifty and seventh year,
they did come down against the Nephites to battle, and they
did commence the work o f death ; yea, insomuch, that in the
fifty and eighth year o f the reign o f the Judges, they succeed­
ed in obtaining possession o f the land of Zarahemla; yea, and
also all the lands, even unto the land which was near the kind
Bountiful; and the Nephites, and the armies o f Moronihab,
were driven even into the laud of Bountiful; and there they
did fortify against the Lamanites, from the West Sea, even
unto the East; it being a day’s journey for a Naphite, on the
line which they had fortified and stationed their armies to de­
fend their north country. And thus those dissenters o f the
Nephites, with the help o f a numerous army of the Lamanites,
had obtained ail the possession o f the Nephites which was in
the land southward. And all this was done in the fifty and
eighth and ninth years of the reign o f the Judges.
And it came to pass in the sixtieth year o f the reign o f the
416 BOOK OF HELAMAN.
Judges, Moronihah did succeed with his armies, in obtaining
many parts o f the land; yea, they retained many cities which
had fallen into the hands o f the Lamanites,
And it came to pass in the sixty and first year o f the reign
o f the Judges, they succeeded in retaining even the half o f all
their possessions. Now this great loss o f the Nephites, and
the great slaughter which was among them, would not have
happened, had it not been for their wickedness and their abo­
mination which was among them ; yea, and it was among those
also which professed to belong to the church of G od ; and it
was because o f the pride o f their hearts, because o f their ex­
ceeding riches, yea, it was because of their oppression to the
poor, withholding tbeir food from the hungry, withholding
their clothing from the naked, and smiting their humble breth­
ren upon the cheek, making a mock o f that which was sacred,
denying the spirit of prophecy and o f revelation, murdering,
plundering, lying, steeling, committing adultery, raising up in
great contentions, and deserting away into the land o f Nephi,
among the Lamanites ; and because o f this their great wick­
edness, and their boastings in their own strength, they were
left in their own strength ; therefore they did not prosper, but
were afflicted, and Bmitten, and driven before the Lamanites,
until they had lost possession o f almost all their lands. But
behold, Moronihah did preach many things unto the people,
because o f their iniquity, and also Nephi and Lehi, which
were the sons o f Helwnan, did preach many things unto the
people; yea, and did prophesy many things unto them con­
cerning their iniquities, and what should come unto them if
they did not repent of their sins. And it came to pass that
they did repent, and inasmuch as they did repent, they did be­
gin to prosper; for when Moronihah saw that they did re­
pent, he did venture to lead them forth from place to place,
and from city to city, even until they had retained the one half
o f their property, and the one half o f all their lands. And thus
ended the sixty and first year o f the reign of the Judges.
And it came to pass in the sixty and second year of the
reign o f the Judges, that Moromhah could obtain no more pos­
sessions over the Lamanites ; therefore they did abandon their
design to obtain the remainder o f their lands, for so numerous
was the Lamanites that it became impossible for the Nephites
to obtain more power over them; therefore Moronihah did
employ all his armies in maintaining those parts which he had
taken.
BOOK OF HELAMAN'. 411
And it came to pass because o f the greatness o f the number
of the Lamanites, the Nephites were in great fear, lest they
should be overpowered, and trodden down, and slain, and de­
stroyed ; yea, they began to remember the prophecies of Alma,
and also the words o f Mosiah; and they saw that they had
been a stiffnecked people, and that they had set at nought the
commandments o f God ; and that they had altered and tram­
pled under their feet the laws o f Mosiah, or that which the
Lord commanded him to give unto the people; and thus see­
ing that their laws had become corrupted, and that they had
become a wicked people, insomuch that they were wicked
even like unto the Lamanites. And because o f their iniquity,
the church had began to dwindle; and they began to disbelieve
in the spirit o f prophecy, and in the spirit o f revelation; and
the judgements o f God did stare them in the face. And they
saw that they had become weak, like unto their brethren, the
Lamanites, and that the spirit o f the Lord did no more pre­
serve them; yea, it had withdrawn from them, because the
spirit o f the Lord doth not dwell in unholy temples; there­
fore the Lord did cease to preserve them by his miraculous
and matchless power, for they had fallen into a state o f unbe­
lief and awful wickedness; and they saw that the Lamanites
were more exceeding numerous than they, and except they
should cleave unto the Lord their God, they must unavoidably
perish. For behold, they saw that the strength of the Laman­
ites was as great as their strength, even man for man. And
thus had they fallen into this great transgression; yea, thus
had they become weak, because o f their transgression, in the
space o f not many years.
And it came to pass that in this same year, behold, Nephi
delivered up the judgement seat, to a man whose name was
Cezoram. For as their laws and their governments were es­
tablished by the voice o f the people, and they which chose
evil were more numerous than they which chose good, there­
fore they were ripening for destruction, for the laws had be­
come corrupted; yea, and this was not a ll; they were a stiff­
necked people, insomuch that they could not be governed by
the law nor justice, save it were to their destruction.
And it came to pass that Nephi had become weary, because,
o f their iniquity; and he yielded up the judgement seat, and
took it upon him to preach the word of God all the remainder
o f his days, and his brother Lehi also, all the remainder o f his
days: for they remembered the words which their father He-
27
418 BOOK OP HELAMAN,
laman spake unto them. And these are the words which he
spake: Behold, my sons, I desire that ye should remember to
keep the commandments of G od; and I would that ye Bhould
declare unto the people these words: Behold, I have given un­
to you the names o f our first parents, which came out of the
land o f Jerusalem; and this 1 have done, that when you re­
member your names, that ye may remember them; and when
ye remember them, ye may remember their w orks; and when
ye remember their works, ye may know how that it is said,
and also written, that they were good; therefore, my sons, 1
would that ye should do that which is good, that it may be
said o f you, and also written, even as it has been said and
written of them. And now my sons, behold, I have somewhat
more to desire of you, which desire is, that ye may not do
these things that ye may boast, but that ye may do these things
to lay up for yourselves a treasure in Heaven, yea, which is
eternal, and which fadeth not away; yea, that ye may have
that precious gift of eternal life, which we have reason to sup­
pose hath been given to our fathers.
O remember, remember, my sons, the words which king
Benjamin spake, unto his people; yea, remember that there is
no other way nor means whereby man can be saved, only
through the atoning blood o f Jesus Christ, which shall come;
yea, remember that he cometh to redeem the world. And re­
member also, the words which Amulek spake unto Zeezrom,
in the city o f Ammonihah: for he said unto him, That the
Lord surely should come to redeem his people; but that he
should not come to redeem them in their sins, but to redeem
them from their sins. And he hath power given unto him
from the Father, to redeem them from their sins, because of
repentance ; therefore he hath sent his angels to declare the
tidings o f the conditions o f repentance, which bringeth unto
the power of the Redemer, unto the salvation of their souls.—
And now, my sons, remember, remember that it is upon the
rock of our Redeemer, which is Christ, 1he Son of God, that
ye must build your foundation, that when the Devil shall send
forth his mighty winds; yea, his shafts in the whirlwind ; yea,
when all his hail and his mighty storm shall beat upon you, it
shall have no power over you, to drag you down to the gulf of
misery and endless wo, because of the rock upon which ye are
built, which is a sure foundation, a foundation whereon if men
huildeth, they cannot fall.
And it came to pass that these were the words whieli Hela-
BOOS OF HF.LAMAN. 419
man taught to his sons; yea, he did teach them many things
which are not written, and also many things which are written.
And they did remember his words; and therefore they went
forth, keeping the commandments o f Gad, to teach the word
o f God among all the people o f Nephi, beginning at the city
Bountiful; and from thence forth to the city o f G id; and from
the city o f Gid to the city of Mulek; and even from one city
to another, until they had gone forth among all the people o f
Nephi, which were in the land southward ; and from thence
into the land o f Zaraheinla, among the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that they did preach with great power,
insomuch that they did confound many o f those dissenters
which had gone over from the Nephites, insomuch that they
came forth and did confess their sins, and were baptized unto
repentance, and immediately returned to the Nephites, to en­
deavor to repair unto them the wrongs which they had done.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did preach unto the
Lamanites with such great power and authority: for they had
power and authority given unto them that they might speak;
and they also had what they should speak, given unto them;
therefore they did speak unto the great astonishment o f the
Lamanites, to the convincing them, insomuch that there were
eight thousand o f the Lamanites which were in the land o f
Zarahemla and round about, baptized unto repentance, and
were convinced o f the wickedness of the traditions of then*
fathers.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did proceed from
thence to go to the land o f Nephi. And it came to pass that
they were taken by an army o f the Lamanites, and cast into
prison; yea, even in that same prison in which Ammon and
his brethren were cast by the servants o f Limbi. And after
they had been cast into prison many days without food, behold,
they went forth into the prison to take them, that they might
slay them. And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi were
encircled about as if by fire, even insomuch that they durst not
lay their hands upon them for fear, lest they should be burned.
Nevertheless, Nephi and Lehi were not burned; and they were
as standing in the midst o f fire, and were not burned. And
when they saw that they were encircled about with a pillar o f
fire, and that it burned them not, their hearts did take courage.
For they saw that the Lamanites durst not lay their hands up­
on them; neither durst they come near unto them, but stood
as if thev were struck dumb with amazement.
87*
420 BOOK OF HELAMAN.
And it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi did stand forth,
and began to speak unto them, saying: Fear not, for behold,
it is God that hath shewn unto you this marvellous thing, in
the which is shewn unto you, that ye cannot lay your hands
on us to slay us. And behold, when they had said these words,
the earth shook exceedingly, and the walls o f the prison did
shake, as if they were about to tumble to the earth; but be­
hold, they did not fall. And behold, they that were in the
prison, were Lamanites, and Nephites which were dissenters.
And it came to pass that they were overshadowed with a
cloud o f darkness, and an awful, solemn fear came upon them.
And it came to pass that there came a voice, as if it were
above the cloud o f darkness, saying, Repent ye, repent ye, and
seek no more to destroy my servants which I have sent unto
you to declare good tidings.
And it came to pass when they heard this voice, and beheld
that it was not a voice o f thunder; neither was it a voice of
a great tumultuous noise ; but behold, it was a still voice, of
perfect mildness, as if it had been a whisper, and it did pierce
even to the very soul. And notwithstanding the mildness of
the voice, behold, the earth shook exceedingly, and the walls
o f the prison trembled again, as if it were about to tumble to
the earth; and behold, the cloud o f darkness which had over­
shadowed them, did not disperse. And behold, the voice came
again, saying: Repent ye, repent ye, for the kingdom o f Heaven
is at hand; and seek no more to destroy my servants. And
it came to pass that the earth shook again, and the walls trem­
bled; and also again the third time the voice came, and did
speak unto thepi marvellous words, which cannot be uttered
by man; and the walls did tremble again, and the earth shook
as if it were about to divide asunder.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites could not flee, be­
cause o f the cloud o f darkness which did overshadow them;
yea, and also they were immovable, because of the fear which
did come upon them. Now there was one among them who
was a Nephite by birth, who had once belonged to the church
o f God, but had dissented from them. And it came to pass
that he turned him about, and behold, he saw through the
cloud o f darkness the faces o f Nephi and Lehi; and behold,
they did shine exceedingly, even as the face o f angels. And
he beheld that they did lift their eyes to Heaven; and they
were in the attitude as if talking or lifting their voices to some
being which they beheld.
BOOS OF HELAMAN. 421
And it came to pass that this man did ery unto the multi­
tude, that they might turn and look. And behold, there was
power given unto them, that they did turn and look ; and they
did behold the faces o f Nephi and Lehi. And they said unto
the man, Behold, what doth all these things mean 1 and who is
it with whom these men do converse! Now thé man’s name
was Aminadab. And Aminadab saith unto them, They do
converse with the angels of God. And it came to pasB that
the Lamanites said unto him, What shall we do, that this
cloud of darkness may be removed from overshadowing us ?
And Aminadab saith unto them, You must repent, and cry unto
the voice, even until ye shall have faith in Christ, which was
taught unto you by Alma, and Amulek, and by Zeezrom ; and
when ye shall do this, the cloud of darkness shall be removed
from overshadowing you.
And it came to pass that they all did begin to cry unto the
voice o f him which had shook the earth ; yea, they did cry
even until the cloud o f darkness was dispersed. And it came
to pass that when they cast their eyes about, and saw that the
cloud of darkness was dispersed from overshadowing them,
and behold, they saw that they were encircled about, yea, eve­
ry soul, by a pillar of fire. And Nephi and Lehi was in the
midst o f them; yea, they were encircled about; yea, they were
as if in the midst of a flaming fire, yet it did harm thçm not,
neither did it take hold upon the walls o f the prison ; and they
were filled with that joy which is unspeakable and full of
glory. And behold, the Holy Spirit o f God did come down
from Heaven, and did enter- into their hearts, and they were
filled as if with fire ; and they could speak forth marvellous
words.
And it came to pass that there came a voice unto them, yea,
a pleasant voice, as if it were a whisper, saying, Peace, peace
be unto you, because o f your faith in my well beloved, which
was from the foundation of the world. And now when they
heard this, they cast up their eyes as if to behold from whence
the voice came ; and behold, they saw the heavens open; and
angels came down out of heaven, and ministered unto them.—
And there were about three hundred souls which saw and
heard these things ; and they were bid to go forth and marvel
not, neither should they doubt And it came to pass that they
did go forth, and did minister unto the people, declaring
throughout all the regions round about all the things which
they had heard and seen, insomuch that the more part o f the
422 BOOK OP HELAMAN,
Lamanites were convinced of them, because o f the greatness
o f the evidences« which they had received; and as many as
were convinced, did lay down their weapons of war, and also
their hatred, and the tradition of their fathers. And it came
to pass that they did yield up unto the Nephites, the lands of
their possession.
And it came to pass that when the sixty and second year of
the reign of the Judges had ended, all these things had hap­
pened, and the Lamanites had become, the more part of them,
a righteous people, insomuch that their righteousness did ex­
ceed that of the Nephites, because of their firmness, and their
steadiness in the faith. For behold, (here were many o f the
Nephites which had become hardened, and impenitent, and
grossly wicked, insomuch that they did reject the word of
God, and all the preaching and prophecying which did come
among them. Nevertheless, the people of the church did have
great joy, because of the conversion of the Lamanites; yea,
because o f the church of God, which had been established
among (hem. And they did fellowship one with another, and
did rejoice one with another, and did have great joy. And it
came to pass that many of the Lamanites did come down into
the land o f Zarahemla, and did declare unto the people o f the
Nephites the manner of their conversion, and did exhort them
to faith and repentance; yea, and many did preach with ex­
ceeding great power and authority, unto the bringing down
many o f them into the depths o f humility, to he the humble
followers o f God and the Lamb.
And it came to pass that many of the Lamanites did go into
the land northward; and also Nephi and Lehi went into the
land northward, to preach unto the people. And thus ended
the sixty and third year. And behold, there was peace in all
the land, insomuch that the Nephites did go into whatsoever
part of the land they would, whether among the Nephites or
the Lamanites. And it came to pass that the Lamanites did
also go whithersoever they would, whether it were among the
Lamanites or among the Nephites; and thus they did have
free intercourse one with another, for to buy and to sell, and
to get gain, according to their desire.
And it came to pass that they became exceeding rich, both
the Lamanites and the Nephites; and they did have an excee­
ding plenty of gold, and of silver, and of all manner of precious
metals, both in the land south, and in the land north. Now
the land south, was ealled Lehi, and the land north was called
BOOK o r HELAMAN. 423
Mulek, which was after the sons o f Zedekiah ; for the Lord
did bring Mulek into the land north, and Lehi into the land
south. And behold, there was all manner o f gold in both these
lands, and o f silver, and o f precious ore of every kind ; and
there was also curious workmen, which did work all kinds of
ore, and did refine it; and thus they did become rich. They
did raise grain in abundance, both in the north and in the south;
and they did flourish exceedingly, both in the north and in the
south. And they did multiply and wax exceeding strong in
the land. And they did raise many flocks and herds, yea,
many fadings. Behold, their women did toil and spin, and did
make all manner of cloth, o f fine twined linen, and cloth o f
every kind, to clothe their nakedness. And thus the sixty and
fourth year did pass away in peace. And in the sixty and
fifth year, they did also have great joy and peace; yea, much
preaching, and many prophecies concerning that which was to
come. And thus passed away the sixty and fifth year.
And it came to pass that in the sixty and sixth year o f the
reign of the Judges, behold, Cezoram was murdered by an
unknown hand, as he sat upon the, judgement seat. And it
came to pass that in the same year, that his son, which had
been appointed by the people in his stead, was also murdered.
And thus ended the sixty and sixth year. And in the com­
mencement o f the sixty and seventh year, the people began to
grow exceeding wicked again. For behold, the Lord had
blessed them so long with the riches o f the world, that they
had not been stirred up to anger, to wars, nor to bloodsheds;
therefore they began to set their hearts upon their riches; yea,
they began to seek to get gain, that they might be lifted up one
above another; therefore they began to commit secret mur­
ders, and to rob, and to plunder, that they might get gain.—
And now behold, those murderers and plunderers were a band
which had been formed by Kishkumen and Gadianton, And
now it had come to pass that there were many, even among
the Nephites, of Gadianton’s band. But behold, they were
more numerous among the more wicked part o f the Laman-
ites. And they were called Gadianton’s robbers and murder­
ers ; and it was they which did murder the Chief Judge Cezo­
ram, and hie son, while in the judgement seat; and behold,
they were not found.
And now it came to pass that when the Lamanites found
that there were Tobbers among them, they were exceeding sor­
rowful ; and they did use every means whatsoever was in
BOOK OF HELAMAN.
4 2 4
their power, to destroy them off the face o f the earth. But
behold, satan did stir up the hearts o f the more parts o f the
Nephites, insomuch that they did unite with those bands o f
robbers, and did enter into their covenants, and their oaths,
that they would protect and preserve one another, in whatso­
ever difficult circumstances they should be placed in, that they
should not suffer for their murders, and their plunderings, and
their stealings.
And it came to pass that they did have their signs, yea,
their secret signs, and their secret words; and this that they
might distinguish a brother who had entered into the covenant,
that whatsoever wickedness his brother should do, be should
not be injured by his brother, nor by those who did belong to
his band, who had taken this covenant; and thus they might
murder, and plunder, and steal, and commit whoredoms, and
all manner o f wickedness, contrary to the laws o f their coun­
try, and also the law’s o f their G od ; and whosoever o f those
which belonged to their band, should reveal unto the world of
their wickedness and their abominations, should be tried, not
according to the laws o f their country, but according to the
laws of their wickedness, which had been given by Gadianton
and Kishkumen, Now behold, it is these secret oaths and
covenants, which Alma commanded his son should not go forth
unto the world, lest they should be a means o f bringing down
the people unto destruction. Now behold, those secret oaths
and covenants did not come forth unto Gadianton from the
records which were delivered unto Helaman; but behold, they
w'ere put into the heart o f Gadianton, by that same being who
did entice our first parents to partake o f the forbidden fruit;
yea, that same being who did plot with Cain, that if he would
murder his brother Abel, it should not be known unto the
world. And he did plot with Cain and his followers, from
that time forth. And also it is that same being who put it into
the hearts o f the people, to build a tower sufficiently high that
they might get to Heaven. And it was that same being which
led on the people which came from that tower, into this land;
which spread the works o f darkness and abominations over
all the face o f the land, until he dragged the people down to
an entire destruction, and to an everlasting hell; yea, it is that
same being who put it into the heart o f Gadianton, to still car­
ry on the work of darkness, and o f secret murder; and he
hath brought it forth from the beginning o f man, even down to
this time. And behold, it is he which is the author o f all sin.
BOOK OP HELAMAM. 425
And behold, he doth carry on his works o f darkness and se­
cret murder, and doth hand down their plots, and their oaths,
and their covenants, and their plans o f aw ful wickedness, from
generation to generation, according as he can get hold upon
the hearts o f the children o f men. And now behold, he had
got great hold upon the hearts o f the Nephites ; yea, insomuch
that they had become exceeding wicked ; yea, the more part
of them had turned out o f the way o f righteousness, and did
trample under their feet the commandments o f God, and did
turn unto their own ways, and did build up unto themselves
idols o f their gold and their silver.
And it came to pass that all these iniquities did come unto
them, in the space o f not many years, insomuch that a more
part of it had come unto them in the sixty and seventh year o f
the reign o f the Judges over the people o f Nephi. And they
did grow in their iniquities, in the sixty and eighth year also,
to the great sorrow and lamentation o f the righteous. And
thus we see that the Nephites did begin to dwindle in unbelief,
and grow in wickedness and abominations, while the Laman-
ites began to grow exceedingly in the knowledge o f their G od;
yea, they did begin to keep his statutes and commandments,
and to walk in truth and uprightness before him. And thus
we see that the spirit o f the Lord began to withdraw from the
Nephites, because o f the wickedness and the hardnes o f their
hearts. And thus we see that the Lord began to pour out his
spirit upon the Lamanites, because o f their easiness and wil­
lingness to believe in his word.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did hunt the band
o f robbers o f Gadianton ; and they did preach the word o f
God among the more wicked part o f them, insomuch that this
band o f robbers was utterly destroyed from among the Laman­
ites. And it came to pass on the other hand, that the Nephites
did build them up and support them, beginning at the more
wicked part o f them, until they had overspread all the land o f
the Nephites, and had seduced the more part o f the righteous,
until they had come down to believe in their works, and par­
take o f their spoils, and to join with them in their secret mur­
ders and combinations. And thus they did obtain the sole
management o f the government, insomuch that they did tram­
ple under their feet, and smite, and rend, and turn their backs
upon the poor, and the meek, and humble followers o f God.
And thus we see that they were in an awful state, and ripen-
426 BOOK OF HELAMAN,
ing for an everlasting destruction. And it came to pass that
thus ended the sixty and eighth yearof the reign of the Judges
over the people o f Neplii.
CH APTER III.
THE PROPHECY OF NEPHI,
TH E SO N O F HELAMAN.
God threatens the people o f Neplti, that he will visit them in
his anger, to their utter destruction, except they repent o f
their wickedness. God smitelh the people o f Nephi wiih
pestilence; they repent and turn unto him. Samnel, a
Lamantie, prophesies unto the Nephites.
B eh old, now it came to pass in the sixty and ninth year o f
the reign of the Judges over the people of the Nephites, that
Nephi, the son o f Helaman, returned to the land of Zarahemla,
from the land northward: for he had been forth among the
people which was in the land northward, and did preach the
word of God unto them, and did prophesy many things unto
them; and they did reject all his words, insomuch that he
could not stay among them, but returned again unto the land
o f his nativity; and seeing the people in a state o f such awful
wickedness, and those Gadianton robbers filling the judgement
seats ; having usurped the power and authority o f the land;
laying aside the commandments o f God, and not in the least
aright before him; doing no justice unto the children o f men ;
condemning the righteous because o f their righteousness ; let-
ling the guilty and the wicked go unpunished, because o f their
money; and moreover, to be held in office at the head of gov­
ernment, to rule and do according to their wills, that they
might get gain and glory o f the world ; and moreover that they
might the more easy commit adultery, and steal, and kill, and
do according to their own wills. Now this great iniquity had
come upon the Nephites, in the space o f not many years; and
when Nephi saw it, his heart was swollen with sorrow within
his breast; and he did exclaim in the agony of his soul, O
that I couid have had my days, in the days when my father
Nephi first came out of the land of Jerusalem, that I could
BOOK OF BEbAMAN. 427
have joyed with him in the promised land; then were his
people easy to be entreated, firm to keep the commandments
o f God, and slow to be led to do iniquity; and they were
quick to hearken unto the words o f the Lord; yea, if my days
could have been in them days, then would my soul have had
joy in the righteousness of my brethren. But behold, I am
consigned that these are my days, and that my soul shall be
filled with sorrow, because o f this the wickedness o f my breth­
ren. And behold, now it came to pass that it was upon a
tower, which was in the garden o f Nephi, which was by the
highway which led to the chief market, which was in the city
of Zarahemla; therefore, Nephi had bowed himself upon
the tower which was in his garden, which tower was also near
unto the garden gate which led by the higway.
And it came to pass that there was certain men passing by,
and saw Nephi as he was pouring out his soul unto God up­
on the tower, and they ran and told the people what they bad
seen; and tbe people came together in multitudes that they
might know the cause of so great mourning for the wicked­
ness o f the people. And now when Nephi arose he beheld
the multitudes of people which had gathered together. And
it came to pass that he opened his mouth and said unto them,
Behold, why have ye gathered yourselves together 1 That I
may tell you of your iniquities 7 Yea, because I have got up­
on my tower, that i might pour out my soul unto my God, be­
cause o f the exceeding sorrow o f my heart, which is because
o f your iniquities 1 And because o f my mourning and lamen­
tation, ye have gathered yourselves together, and do marvel;
yea, and ye have great need to marvel; yea, ye had ought to
marvel, because ye are given away, that the Devil hath got so
great hold upon your hearts; yea, how could ye have given
away to the enticing of him who art seeking to hurl away
your souls down to everlasting misery and endless wo 7 O
repent ye, repent y e ! why will ye die 7 Turn ye, turn ye, un­
to the Lord your God. Why hath he forsaken you 7 It is
because you have hardened your hearts; yea, ye will not
hearken unto the voice o f the good shepherd ; yea, ye have
provoked him to anger against you. And behold, instead o f
gathering you, except ye will repent, behold he shall scatter
you forth that ye shall become meat for dogs and wild beasts.
O how could you have forgotten your God in the very day
that he hath delivered you 7 But behold, it is to get gain, to
be praised of men; yea, and that ye might get gold and silver.
428 BOOK OP RELAMAN.
And ye have set your hearts upon the riches and the vain
things o f this world, for the which ye do murder, and plunder,
and steal, and bear false witness against your neighbor, and
do all manner o f iniquity ; and for this cause wo shall coroe
unto you except ye shall repent. For if ye will not repent,
behold this great city, and also all those great citties which
are round about, which are in the land o f our possession, shall
be taken away, that ye shall bave no place in them : For
behold, the Lord will not grant unto you strength, as he hath
hitherto done, to withstand against your enemies. For be­
hold, thus saith the Lord : I will not shew unto the wicked
o f my strength, to one more than the other, save it be unto
those who repenteth o f their sins, and hearken unto my words;
now therefore 1 would that ye should behold, ray brethren,
that it shall be better for the Lamanites than for you, except
ye shall repent ; for behold they are more righteous than you ;
for they have not sinned against that great knowledge which
ye have received ; therefore the Lord will be merciful unto
them ; yea, he will lengthen out their days and increase their
seed, even when thou shalt be utterly destroyed, except thou
shalt repent; yea, wo be unto you because o f that great abo­
mination which hath come among you; and ye have united
yourselves unto it, yea, to that secret band which was estab­
lished by Gadianton; yea, wo shall come unto you because of
that pride which ye have suffered to enter your hearts, which
hath lifted you up beyond that which is good because o f your
exceeding great riches ; yea, wo be unto you because o f your
wickedness and abominations. And except ye repent, ye shall
perish ; yea, even your lands shall be taken from you, and ye
shall be destroyed from off the face o f the earth. Behold now
I do not say that these things shall be, o f myself, because it is
not o f myself that 1 know these things ; but behold, I know
that these things are true, because the Lord God hath
made them known unto me ; therefore I testify that they
shall be.
And now it came to pass that when Nephi had said these
words, behold there were men which were Judges, which also
belonged to the secret band o f Gadianton, and they were angry,
and they cried out against him, saying unto the people,
why do ye not seize upon this man and bring him forth, that
he may be condemned according to the crime which he hath
done? W hy seest thou this man, and hearest him revile
against this people, and against our law ? For behold, Nephi
BOOK OF HELAJIAN. 429
had spoken unto them concerning the corruptness o f their
law; yea, many things did Nephi speak which cannot be writ­
ten ; and nothing did he speak which were contrary to the
commandments of God. And those Judges were angry with
him because he spake plain unto them concerning their secret
works o f darkness; nevertheless they durst not lay their own
hands upon him; for they feared the people, lest they should
cry out against them; therefore they did cry unto the people,
saying, Why do ye suffer this man to revile against u s ! For
behold, he doth condemn all this people, even unto destruc­
tion ; yea, and also that these our great cities shall he taken
from us, that we shall have no place in them. And now we
know that this is impossible; for behold we are powerful, and
our cities great; therefore our enemies can have no power
over us. And it came to pass that thus they did stir up the
people to anger against Nephi, and raised contentions among
them ; for there were some which did cry out, Let this man
alone, for he is a good man, and those things which he saith
will surely come to pass except we repent; yea, behold all the
judgements will come upon us which he hath testified unto u s;
for we know that he hatli testified aright unto us concerning
our iniquities. And behold they are many; and he knoweth
as well all things which shall befal ua as he knoweth o f our
¡niqities; yea, and behold if he had not been a prophet he
could not have testified concerning those things. And it came
to pass that those people which sought to destroy Nephi, were
compelled because o f their fear, that they did not lay their
hands on him. Therefore he began again to speak unto them,
seeing that he had gained favor in the eyes o f some, insomuch
that the remainder o f them did fear. Therefore he was con­
strained to speak more unto them, saying: Behold my breth­
ren, have ye not read that God gave power unto one man, even
Moses, to smite upon the waters of the Red Sea, and they
parted hither and thither, insomuch that the Israelites, which
were our fathers, came through upon dry ground, and the
waters closed upon the armies of the Egyptians, and swallow­
ed them up?
And now behold, if God gave unto this man such power,
then why should ye dispute among yourselves, and say that he
hath given unto me no power whereby I may know concern­
ing the judgements that shall come upon you except ye re­
pent? But behold, ye not only deny my words, but ye also
deny all the words which hath been spoken by our fathers, and
430 BOOK OP HELAMAK.
also the words which was spoken by this man, Moses, which
had such great power given unto him ; yea, the words which
he hath spoken concerning the coming o f the Messiah. Yea,
did he not bear record, that the Son o f God should come?—
And as he lifted up the brazen serpent in the wilderness, even
so shall he be lifted up which should come. And as many as
should look upon that serpent should live, even so as many as
should look upon the Son o f God, with faith, having a con­
trite spirit, might live, even unto that life which is etemaL—
And now behold, Moses did not only testify o f these things,
but also all the holy prophets, from his day even to the days
o f Abraham. Yea, and behold, Abraham saw of his coming,
and was filled with gladness, and did rejoice. Yea, and be­
hold I say unto you, That Abraham not only knew of these
things, but there were many before the days o f Abraham
which were called by the order o f G od; yea, even after the
order o f his S on ; and this that it should be shewn unto the
people a great many thousand years before his coming, that
even redemption should come unto them. And now 1 would
that ye should know, that even since the days o f Abraham,
there hath been many prophets that hath testified these things;
yea, behold, the prophet Zenas did testify boldly ; for the
which he was slain. And behold, also Zenoch, and also
Ezias, and also Isaiah, and Jeremiah, (Jeremiah being that
same prophet which testified o f the destruction o f Jerusalem.)
And now we know that Jerusalem was destroyed, according
to the words o f Jeremiah. O then why not the Son o f God
come, according to his prophecy ? And now will ye dispute
that Jerusalem was destroyed ? Will ye say that the sons o f
Zedekiah were not slain, all except it were Mulek? Yea,
and do ye not behold that the seed o f Zedekiah are with us,
and they were driven out o f the land o f Jerusalem 1 But be­
hold, this is not all. Our father Lehi was driven out of Jeru­
salem. because he testified o f these things. Nephi also testi­
fied o f these things, and also almost all o f our fathers, even
down to this time; yea, they have testified o f the coming of
Christ, and have looked forward, and have rejoiced in bis
day which is to come. And behold, lie is God, and he is
with them, and he did manifest himself unto them, that they
were redeemed by him; and they gave unto him glory, because
o f that which is to come. And now seeing ye know these
things, and cannot deny them, except yc shall lie, therefore
in this ye have sinned, for ye have rejected all these things,
BOOK or HELAMAN. 431
notwithstanding so many evidences which ye have received ;
yea, even ye have received all things, both things in Heaven,
and all things which are in the earth, as a witness that they
are true. But behold, ye have rejected the truth, and rebelled
against your holy G od; and even at this time, instead o f lay­
ing up for yourselves treusures in Heaven, where nothing doth
corrupt, and where nothing can come which is unclean, ye
are heaping up for yourselves wrath against the day of judge­
ment ; yea, even at this time ye are ripening, because of your
murders, and your fornication and wickedness, for everlast­
ing destruction ; yea, and except ye repent, it will come unto
you soon ; yea, behold it is now even at your doors ; yea, go
ye in unto the judgement seat, and search; and behold, your
Judge is murdered, and he lieth in his blood; and he hath
been murdered by his brother, who seeketh to sit in the judge­
ment seat. And behold, they both belong to your secret
band, whose author is Gadianton, and the evil one which seek­
eth to destroy the souls of men.
Behold now it came to pass that when Nephi had spoken
these words, certain men which were among them ran to the
judgement seat; yea, even there were five which went; and
they said among themselves, as they went, Behold, now we
will know of a surety, whether this man be a prophet, and
God hath commanded him to prophesy such marvellous
things unto us. Behold we do not believe that he hath; yea,
we do not believe that he is a prophet; nevertheless, if this
thing which he hath said concerning the Chief Judge be true,
that he be dead, then will we believe that the other words
which he hath spoken is true. And it came to pass that they
ran in their might, and came in unto the judgement seat; and
behold the Chief Judge had fallen to the earth, and did lie in
his blood. And now behold, when they saw this, they were
astonished exceedingly, insomuch that they fell to the earth ;
for they had not believed the words which Nephi had spoken
concerning the Chief Judge; but now when they saw they
believed, and fear came upon them, lest all the judgements
which Nephi had spoken should conic upon the people; there­
fore they did quake, and had fallen to the earth. Now im­
mediately when the Judge had been murdered : he being slab­
bed by his brother, by a garb o f secrecy ; and he fled, and the
servants ran and told the people, raising the cry of murder
among them. And behold the people did gather themselves
together unto the place of the judgement seat; and behold,
432 BOOK OB HELAMAN.
to their astonishment, they saw those five men which had fall­
en to the earth. And now behold, the people knew nothing
concerning the multitude which had gathered together at the
garden of Nephi; therefore they said among themselves,
These men are they which have murdered the Judge, and
God hath smitten them that they could not flee from us.
And it came to pass that they laid hold on them, and bound
them, and cast them into prison. And there was a proclama­
tion sent abroad that the Judge was slain, and that the mur­
derers had been taken, and was cast into prison. And it
came to pass that on the morrow, the people did assemble
themselves together to mourn and to fast, at the burial o f the
great and Chief Judge, which had been slain. And thus were
also those Judges which were at the garden o f Nephi, and
heard his words, were also gathered together at the burial.
And it came to pass that they inquired among the people,
saying, Where are the five which was sent to inquire concern­
ing the Chief Judge whether he was dead ? And they answer­
ed and said, Concerning this five which ye say ye have sent, we
know not; but there are five, which are the murderers, whom we
have cast into prison, And it came to pass that the Judges desi­
red that they should be brought; and they were brought, and be­
hold they were the five which were sent; and behold the Judges
inquired of them to know' concerning the matter, and they told
them all that they had done, saying, W e ran and came to the
place o f the judgement, and when we saw all things, even as
Nephi had testified, we were astonished, insomuch that we fell
to the earth; and when we were recovered from our astonish­
ment, behold they cast us into prison. Now as for the mur­
der o f this man, we know not who hath done it, and only this
much we know, we ran and came according as ye desired,
and behold he was dead according to the words o f Nephi.
And now it came to pass, that the Judges did expound the
matter unto the people, and did cry out against Nephi, saying,
Behold we know that this Nephi must have agreed with some
one to slay the Judge, and then he might declare it unto us,
that he might convert us unto his faith, that he might raise
himself to be a great roan, chosen of God, and a prophet; and
now behold we will detect this man, and he shall confess his
fault and make known unto us the true murderer o f this Judge.
And it came to pass that the five were liberated on the day of
the burial. Nevertheless, they did rebuke the Judges in the
words which they had spoken against Nephi, and did contend
BOOK OP MELAKAN. 435
with them one by one, insomuch that they did confound them.
Nevertheless, they caused that Nephi should be taken and
bound and brought before the multitude, and they began to
question him in divers ways, that they might cross him, that
they might accuse him to death; saying unto him, Thou art
confederate; who is this man that hath done this murder 1
Now tell us, and acknowledge thy fault, saying, Behold here is
m oney; and also we will grant unto thee thy life if thou wilt
tell us and acknowledge the agreement which thou hast made
with him. But Nephi saith unto them, O ye fools, ye uncii*-
cumsised o f heart, ye blind, and ye stiff-necked people, do ye
know how long the Lord your God will suffer you that ye
shall go on in this your ways o f sin ? O ye had ought to he-
gin to howl and mourn, because o f the great destruction at this
time which doth await you, except ye shall repent. Behold,
ye say that I have agreed with a man, that he should murder
Seezoram, our Chief Judge. But behold, I say unto you,
that this is because 1 have testified unto you, that ye might
know concerning this thing; yea, even for a witness unto you,
that I did know o f the wickedness and abominations which is
among you. And because I have done this, ye say that I have
agreed wilh a man that he should do this thing; yea, because
1 shewed unto you this sign, ye are angry with roe, and seek
to destroy my life. And now behold, 1 Will shew unto you
another sign, and see if ye will in this thing seek to destroy
me. Behold 1 say unto you, G o to the house o f Seantum,
which is the brother o f Seezoram, and say unto him, Hath
Nephi, the pretended prophet, which doth prophesy so much
evil concerning this people, agreed with tliee, in the which ye
have murdered Seezoram, which is your brother? And be­
hold, he shall say unto you, Nay. And ye shall say unto him,
Have ye murdered your brother? And he shall stand with
fear, and wist not what to say. And behold, he shall deny
unto you ; and he shall make as if he were astonished ; never­
theless, he shall declare unto you that he is innocent. But
behold, ye shall examine him, and ye shall find blood upon the
skirts o f his cloak. And when ye have seen this, ye shall say,
From whence cometh this blood? Do we not know that it is
the blood o f your brother? And then shall he tremble, and
shall look pale, even as if death had come upon him. And
then shall ye say, Because o f this fear and this paleness which
hath come upon your face, behold, we know that thou art
guilty. And then shall greater fear come upon him ; and then
28
484 BOOK OF BELAMAN.
shall he confess unto you, and deny no more that he hath done
this murder. And then shall he say unto you, That 1, Nephi,
know nothing concerning the matter, save it were given unto
me by the power o f God. And then shall ye know that 1 am
an honest man, and that I am sent unto you from God.
And it came to pass that they went and did, even according
as Nephi had said unto them. And behold, the words which
he had said, were true: for according to the words, he did
deny; and also according to the words, he did confess. And
he was brought to prove that he himself was the very murder­
er, insomuch that the five were set at liberty; and also was
Nephi. And there were some of the Nephites which believed
on the words of Nephi; and there were some also, which be­
lieved, because o f the testimony o f the five, for they had been
converted while they were in prison. And nowr there were
some among the people, which said that Nephi was a prophet;
and there were others which said, Behold, he is a god, for ex­
cept he was a god, he could not know o f all things. For be­
hold, he hath told us the thoughts of our hearts, and also hath
told us things; and even he hath brought unto o u t knowledge
the true murderer of our Chief Judge.
And it came to pass that there arose a division among the
people, insomuch that they divided hither and thither, and
went their ways, leaving Nephi alone, as he was standing in
the midst o f them. And it came to pass that Nephi went his
way towards his own house, pondering upon the things which
the Lord had shewn unto him. And it came to pass as he
was thus pondering,— being mueh cast down because o f the
wickedness o f the people o f the Nephites, their secret works
o f darkness, and their murderings, and their plunderings, and
all manner o f iniquities— and it came to pass as he was thus
pondering in his heart, behold, a voice came unto him, saying :
Blessed art thou, Nephi, for those things which thou hast done ;
for I have beheld how thou hast with unwearyingness declared
the word which I have given unto thee, unto this people. And
thou hast not feared them, and hast not sought thine own life, but
hath sought my will, and to keep my commandments. And now
because thou hast done this with such umvearyingness. behold,
I will bless thee forever; and I will make thee mighty in word
and in deed, in faith and in works; yea, even that all things shall
be done unto thee according to thy word, for thou shalt not
ask that which is contrary to my will. Behold, thou art Ne-
BOOK OP HELAMAN. 435
phi, and I am God. Behold, I declare it unto thee in the pres­
ence of mine angles, that ye shall have power over this peo­
ple, and shall smite the earth with famine, and with pestilence,
and destruction, according to the wickedness o f this people.
Behold, 1 give unto you power, that whatsoever ye shall seal
on earth, shall be sealed in heaven; and whatsoever ye shall
loose on earth, shall be loosed in heaven; and thus shall ye have
power among this people. And thus, if ye shall say unto this
temple, It shall be rent in twain, and it shall be done. And if
ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou cast down and be­
come smooth, and it shall be done. And behold, if ye shall
say. That God shall smite this people, it shall come to pass.—
And now behold, 1 command you that ye shall go and declare
unto this people, that thus saith the Lord God, who is the Al­
mighty : Except ye repent, ye shall be smitten, even unto des­
truction.
And behold, now it came to pass that when the Lord had
spoken these words unto Nephi, he did stop, and did not go
unto his own bouse, but did return unto the multitudes which
were scattered about upon the face o f the land, and began to
declare unto them the word o f the Lord, which had been spo­
ken unto him concerning their destruction, if they did not re­
pent. Now behold, notwithstanding that great miracle which
Nephi had done in telling them concerning the death o f the
Chief Judge, they did harden their hearts, and did not hearken
unto the words o f the L ord; therefore Nephi did declare unto
them the word o f the Lord, saying: Except ye repent, thus
saith the Lord : Ye shall be smitten even unto destruction.—
And it came to pass that when Nephi had declared unto them
the word, behold, they did still harden their hearts, and would
not hearken unto his words; therefore they did revile against
him, and did seek to lay their hands upon him, that they might
cast him into prison. But behoid, the power o f God was with
him, and they could not take him to cast him into prison: for
he was taken by the spirit, and conveyed away out o f the
midst o f them.
And it came to pass that thus he did go forth in the spirit,
from multitude to multitude, declaring the word o f God, even
until he had declared it unto them all, or sent it forth among
all the people. And it came to pass that they would not
hearken unto his words; and there began to be contentions,
insomuch that they were diyided against themselves, and be-
28*
436 BOOK OP HEEAMAN.
gan to slay one another with the sword. And thus ended the
seventy and first year o f the reign of the Judges over the peo­
ple of Nephi.
CH APTER IV.
And now it came to pass in the seventy and second year of
the reign o f the Judges, that the contentions did increase, inso­
much that there were wars throughout all the land, among all
the people o f Nephi. And it was this secret band of robbers
which did carry on this work of destruction and wickedness.
And this war did last all that year. And in the seventy and
third year it did also last
And it came to pass that in this year, Nephi did cry unto
the Lord, saying: O Lord, do not suft’er that this people shall
be destroyed by the sword ; but O Lord, rather let there be
a famine in the land, to stir them up in remembrance of the
Lord their God, and perhaps they will repent and turn unto
thee; and so it was done, according to the words o f Nephi.—
And there was a great famine upon the land, among all the
people o f Nephi. And thus, in the seventy and fourth year,
the famine did continue, and the work o f destruction did cease
by the sword, but became sore by famine. And this work of
destruction did also continue in the seventy and fifth year. For
the earth was smitten, that it was dry, and did not yield forth
grain in the Beason o f grain; and the whole earth was smitten,
even among the Lamanites as well as among the Nephites, so
that they were smitten that they did perish by thousands, in
the more wicked parts of the land.
And it came to pass that the people saw that they were
about to perish by famine, and they began to remember the
Lord their G od; and they began to remember the words of
Nephi. And the people began to plead with their Chief Judges
and their leaders, that they would say unto Nephi, Behold, we
know that thou art a man of God, and therefore cry unto the
Lord our God, that he turn away from us this famine, lest all
the words which thou hast spoken concerning our destruction,
he fulfilled. And it came to pass that the Judges did say un­
to Nephi, according to the words which had been desired.—
And it came to pass that when Nephi saw that the people had
BOOK OF HELAMAN. 43T
repented, and did humble themselves in sackcloth, he cried
again unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, behold this people re-
penteth; and they have swept away the band o f Gadianton
from amongst them, insomuch that they have become extinct,
and they have concealed their secret plans in the earth. Now,
O Lord, because of this their humility, wilt thou turn away
thine anger, and let thine anger be appeased in the destruction
o f those wicked men whom thou hast already destroyed 1 O
Lord, wilt thou turn away thine anger, yea, thy fierce anger,
and cause that this famine may cease in this land 1 O Lord,
wilt thou hearken unto me, and cause that it may be done ac­
cording to my words, and send forth rain upon the face o f the
earth, that she may bring forth her fruit and her grain, in the
season o f grain? O Lord, thou didst hearken unto my words
when I said, Let there be a famine, that the pestilence o f the
sword might cease; and 1 know that thou wilt, even at this
time, hearken unto my w ords: for thou saidst, That if this
people repent, I will spare them ; yea, O Lord, and thou
seest that they have repented, because of the famine, and the
pestilence and destruction which has come unto them. And
now, O Lord, wilt thou turn away thine anger, and try again
if they will serve thee ? And if so, O Lord, thou canst bless
them according to thy words which thou hast said.
And it came to pass that in the seventy and sixth year, the
Lord did turn away bis anger from the people, and caused that
rain should fall upon the earth, insomuch that it did bring forth
her fruit in the season o f her fruit. And it came to pass that
it did bring forth her grain, in the season of her grain. And
behold, the people did rejoice, and glorify G o d ; and the whole
face o f the land was filled with rejoicing; and they did no more
seek to destroy Nephi, but they did esteem him as a great
prophet, and a man o f God, having great power and authority
given unto him from God. And behold, Lehi, his brother, was
not a whit behind him as to things pertaining to righteousness.
And thus it did come to pass that the people o f Nephi began
to prosper again in the land, and began to build up their waste
places, and began to multiply and spread, even until they did
cover the whole face of the land, both on the northward and
on the southward, from the sea west, to the sea east. And it
came to pass that the seventy and sixth year did end in peace.
And the seventy and seventh year began in peace; and the
church did spread throughout the face o f all the land ; and the
more part o f the people, both theNephites and the Lamanites,
438 BOOK OF HEILMAN.
did belong to the church ; and they did have exceeding great
peace in the land. And thus ended the seventy and seventh
year. And also they had peace in the seventy and eighth year,
save it were a few contentions concerning the points of doc­
trine which had been laid down by the prophets. And in the
seventy and ninth year, there began to be much strife. But
it came to pass that Nephi and Lehi, and many o f their breth­
ren, which knew concerning the true points o f doctrine, having
many revelations daily, therefore they did preach unto the
people, insomuch that they did put an end to their strife in
that same year.
And it came to pass that in the eightieth year o f the reign o f
the Judges over the people o f Nephi, there were a certain num­
ber o f the dissenters from the people o f Nephi, which had
some years before gone over unto the Lamanites, and took
upon themselves the name o f Lamanites; and also, a certain
number which were real descendants o f the Lamanites, being
stirred up to anger by them, or by those dissenters, therefore
they commenced a war with their brethren. And they did
commit murder and plunder; and then they would retreat
back into the mountains, and into the wilderness and secret
places, hiding themselves that they could not be discovered,
receiving daily an addition to their numbers, inasmuch as there
were dissenters that went forth unto them; and thus in time,
yea, even in the space o f not many years, they became an ex­
ceeding great band o f robbers; and they did search out all the
secret plans o f Gadianton; and thus they became robbers o f
Gadianton. Now behold, these robbers did make great havoc,
yea, even great destruction among the people o f Nephi, and
also amoDg the people of the Lamanites.
And it came to pass that it was expedient that there should
be a stop put to this work o f destruction; therefore they sent
an army o f strong men into the wilderness, and upon the moun­
tains, to search out this band o f robbers, and to destroy them.
But behold, it came to pass that in that same year, they were
driven back even into their own lands. And thus ended the
eightieth year o f the reign o f the Judges over the people o f
Nephi.
And it came to pass in. the commencement o f the eighty and
first year, they did go forth again against this band o f robbers,
and did destroy many; and they were also visited with much
destruction; and they were again obliged to return out o f the
wilderness, and out o f the mountains, unto their own lands,
BOOK OF HELAMAN. 439
because o f the exceeding greatness o f the numbers o f those
robbers which infested the mountains and the wilderness.-—
And it came to pass that thus ended this year. And the rob­
bers did still increase and wax strong, insomuch that they did
defy the whole armies o f the Nephites, and also o f the Laman-
ites; and they did cause great fear to come unto the people,
upon all the face o f the land ; yea, for they did visit many parts
o f the land, and did do great destruction unto them; yea, did
kill many, and did carry away others captive into the wilder­
ness ; yea, and more especially their women and their children.
Now this great evil, which came unto the people because of
their iniquity, did stir them up again in remembrance o f the
Lord their God, And thus ended the eighty and first year of
the reign o f the Judges. And in the eighty and second year,
they began again to forget the Lord their God. And in the
eighty and third year, they began to wax strong in iniquity.—
And in the eighty and fourth year, they did not mend their
ways. And it came to pass in the eighty and fifth year, they
did wax stronger and stronger in their pride, and in their
wickedness; and thus they were ripening again for destruc­
tion. And thus ended the eighty and fifth year. And thus
we can behold how false, and also the unsteadiness o f the
hearts o f the children o f men; yea, we can see that the Lord
in his great infinite goodness, doth bless and prosper those
who put their trust in him; yea, and we may see at the very
time when he doth prosper his people; yea, in the increase of
their fields, their flocks, and their herds, and in gold, and in
silver, and in all manner of precious things o f every kind and
art; sparing their lives, and delivering them out o f the hands
o f their enemies; softening the hearts o f their enemies, that
they should not declare wars against them; yea, and in fine,
doing all things for the welfare and happiness o f his people;
yea, then is the time that they do harden their hearts, and do
forget the Lord their God, and do trample under their feet the
Holy O n e; yea, and this because o f their ease, and their ex­
ceeding great prosperity. And thus we see, that except the
Lord doth chasten his people with many afflictions, yea, ex­
cept he doth visit them with death, and with terror, and with
famine, and with all manner o f pestilences, they will not re­
member him. O how foolish, and how vain, and how evil,
and devilish, and how quick to do iniquity, and how slow to do
good, are the. children o f men; yea, how quick to hearken un­
to the words of the evil one, and to set their hearts upon the
4 4 0 BOOK OF HELARIAN.
vain things o f the w orld; yea, how quick to be lifted up in
pride; yea, bow quick to boast, and do all manner o f that
which is iniquity ; and how slow are they to remember the
Lord their God, and to give ear unto his counsels; yea, how
slow to walk in wisdom’ s paths I Behold, they do not desire
that the Lord their God, who hath created them, should rule
and reign over Ihem, notwithstanding his great goodness and
his mercy towards them; they do set at nought his counsels,
and they will not that he should be their guide. O how great
is the nothingness o f the children o f men ; yea, even they are
less than the dust o f the earth. For behold, the dust o f the
earth moveth hither and thither, to the dividing asunder, at
the command of our great and everlasting God ; yea, behold,
at his voice doth the hills and the mountains tremble and
quake; and by the power o f his voice, they are broken up
and become smooth, yea, even like unto a valley; yea, by the
power o f his voice, doth the whole earth shake; yea, by the
power o f his voice, doth the foundations rock, even to the
very centre; yea, and if he saith unto the earth, Move, and it
is moved; yea, if he saith unto the earth, Thou shelt go back,
that it lengthen out the day for many hours, and it is done;
and thus according to his word, the earth goeth back, and it
appearelh unto man that the sun standeth still; yea, and be­
hold, this is s o : for sure it is the earth that moveth, and not
the sun. And behold, also, if he saith unto the waters o f the
great deep, Be thou dried up, and it is done. Behold, if he
saith unto this mountain, Be thou raised up, and come over
and fall upon that city, that it be buried up, and behold it is
done. And behold, if a man hideth up a treasure in the earth,
and the Lord shall say, Let it be accursed, because of the im-
quity o f him that hath hid it up, behold, it shall be accursed;
and if the Lord shall say, Be thou accursed, that no man shall
find thee from this time henceforth and forever, and behold,
no man gettcth it henceforth and forever. And behold, if the
Lord shall say unto a man, Because of thine iniquities thou
shall be accursed forever, and it shall be done. And if the
Lord shall say, Because o f thine iniquities, thou shalt be cut
off from my presence, and he will cause that it shall be so.—
And wo unto whom he shall say this, for it shall be unto him
that will do iniquity, and he cannot he saved; therefore, for
this cause, that men might be saved, hath repentance been de­
clared. Therefore, blessed are they who will repent, and
hearkeu unto the voice o f the Lord their G od ; for these are
BOOK OF HELAJiAN. 441
they that shall be saved. And may God grant, in his great
fulness, that men might be brought unto repentance and good
works, that they might be restored unto grace, for grace ac­
cording to their works. And I would that all men might be
saved. But we read that in that great and last day, there are
some which shall be cast out; yea, which shall be cast off
from the presence of the L ord; yea, which shall be consigned
to a state o f endless misery, fulfilling the words which saith,
They that have done good, shall have everlasting life; and
they that have done evil, shall have everlasting damnation.—
And thus it is. Amen.
CH APTER V.
TH E PRO PH EC Y O F SAMUEL, TH E LAMANITE,
T O TH E NEPH ITES.
An» now it came to pass in the eighty and sixth year, the
Nephites did still remain in wickedness, yea, in great wicked­
ness, while the Lamanites did observe strictly to keep the
commandments of God, according to the law o f Moses. And
it came to pass that in this year, there was one Samuel, a La-
manite, came into the land o f Zarahemla, and began to preach
unto the people. And it came to pass that he did preach
many-day repentance unto the people, and they did cast him
out, and he was about to return to his own land. But behold,
the voice o f the Lord came unto him, that he should return
again, and prophesy unto the people whatsoever things should
come in his heart.
And it came to pass that they would not sufferthat he should
enter into the city; therefore he went and got upon the wall
thereof, and stretched forth his hand and cried with a loud
voice, and prophesied unto the people whatsoever things the
Lord put into his heart; and he said unto them, Behold, I,
Samuel, a Lamanite, do speak the words o f the Lord, which
he 'doth put into my heart; and behold he hath put it into my
heart to say unto this people, (hat the sword of justice hang-
eth over this people; and four hundred years passeth not away
save the sword o f justice falleth upon this people; yea, heavy
442 BOOK OP HELAMAN.
destruction awaiteth this people, and it surely cometh unto this
people, and nothing can save this people, save it be repent­
ance and faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, which surely shall
come into the world, and shall suffer many things, and shall
be slain for his people. And behold, an angel o f the Lord
hath declared it unto me, and he did bring glad tidings to my
soul. And behold, I was sent unto you to declare it unto you
also, that ye might have glad tidings; but behold ye would not
receive me, therefore thus saith the Lord, Because o f the hard­
ness of the hearts o f the people o f the Nephites, except they
repent Iwill take away my word from them, and l will with­
draw my spirit from them, and I will suffer them no longer,
and I will turn the hearts o f their brethren against them ; and
four hundred years shall not pass away, before I will cause
that they shall be smitten; yea, I will visit them with the
sword, and with famine, and with pestilence; yea, l will visit
them in my fierce anger, and there shall be those o f the fourth
generation, which shall live, o f your enemies, to behold your
utter destruction; and this shall surely come, except ye re­
pent, saith the Lord ; and those o f the fourth generation shall
visit your destruction. But if ye will repent and return unto
the Lord your God, I will turn away mine anger saith the
L ord; yea, thus saith the Lord, Blessed are they who will
repent and turn unto me, but wo unto him that repenfeth n ot;
yea, wo unto this great city o f Zarahemla; for behold it is
because of they which are righteous, that it is saved ; yea, wo
unto this great city, For I perceive, saith the Lord, that there
are many, yea, even the more part o f this great city, that will
harden their hearts against me, saith the Lord. But blessed
are they who will repent, for them will l spare. But behold
if it were not for the righteous which are in this great city,
behold l would cause that fire should come down out o f hea­
ven, and destroy it. But behold, it is for the righteous’ sake,
that it is spared. But behold, the time cometh, saith the
Lord, that when ye shall cast out the righteous from among
you, then shall ye be ripe for destruction; yea, wo be unto
this great city, because o f the wickedness and abominations
which is in her; yea, and wo be unto the city o f Gideon, for
the wickedness and abominations which is in her; yea, and
wo be unto all the cities which are in the land round about,
which is possessed by the Nephites, because o f the wicked­
ness and abominations which is in them; and behold, a curse
BOOK OF HELAMAN. 4 4 3
shall coroe upon the land, saith the Lord o f Hosts, because o f
the people’s sake which is upon the land; yea, because o f
their wickedness and their abominations.
And it shall come to pass, saith the Lord o f Hosts, yea, our
great and true God, that whoso shall hide up treasures in the
earth, shall find them again no more, because of the great
curse of the land, save he be a righteous man, and shall hide
it up unto the Lord : For I will, saith the Lord, that they
shall bide up their treasures unto m e ; and cursed be
they who hideth not up their treasures unto m e; for none
hideth up their treasures unto me save it be the righteous ;
and he that hideth not up his treasure unto me, cursed is he,
and also the treasure, and none shall redeem it because o f the
curse o f the land. And the day shall come that they shall
hide up their treasures, because they have set their hearts up­
on riches; and because they have set their hearts upon their
riches, I will hide up their treasures when they shall flee be­
fore their enemies, because they will not hide them up unto
m e; cursed be they, and also their treasures ; and in that day
shall they be smitten, saith the Lord. Behold ye, the people
o f this great city, and hearken unto my w ords; yea, hearken
unto the words which the Lord saith ; for behold, he saith
that ye are cursed because o f your riches, and also are your
riches cursed because ye have set your hearts upon them, and
hath not hearkened unto the words o f him who gave them un­
to you. Ye do not remember the Lord your God in the things
which he hath blessed you, but ye do always remember your
riches, not to thank the Lord your God for them ; yea, your
heart is not drawn out unto the Lord, but they do swell with
great pride, unto boasting, and unto great swelling, envyings,
strifes, malice, persecutions, and murders, and all manner o f
iniquities : For this cause hath the Lord God caused that a
curse should come upon the land, and also upon your riches;
and this because o f your iniquities; yea, wo unto this people,
because o f this time which has arrriven, that ye do cast out
the prophets, and do mock them, and cast stones at them,
and do slay them, and do do all manner o f iniquity unto them,
even as they did o f old time. And now when ye talk, ye say,
If our days had been in the days o f our fathers of old, ye would
not have slain the prophets ; ye would not have stoned them,
and cast them out. Behold ye are worse than they; for as
the Lord liveth, if a prophet come among you, and declaretb
unto you the word o f the Lord, which testified» o f your sins
444 BOOK OF HELAMAN.
and iniquities, ye are angry with him, and cast him out,
seek ail manner o f ways to destroy him ; yea, you will say
he is a false prophet, and that he is a sinner, and of the Di
because he testifieth that your deeds are evil. But behol
a man shall come among you, and shall say, Do this, and the'
no iniquity; do that, and ye shall not suffer ; yea, he will
walk after the pride o f your own hearts ; yea, walk after
pride o f your eyes, and do whatsoever your heart desirt
and if a man shall come among you and say this, ye will rec
him, and ye will say that he is a prophet; yea, ye will lift
up, and ye will give unto him of your substance; ye will
unto him o f your gold, and o f your silver, and ye will cl<
him with costly apparel; and because he speaketh flatte
words unto you, and he saith that all is well, and then ye
not find fault with him. O ye wicked and ye perverse
neration ; ye hardened and ye stiffnecked people, how
will ye suppose that the Lord will suffer you ; yea, how
will ye suffer yourselves to be lead by foolish and blind guit
yea, how long will ye choose darkness rather than light;
behold the anger o f the Lord is already kindled against 5
behold, he hath cursed the land, because o f your iniqu
and behold, the time cometh that he curseth your riches,
it becometh slippery, that ye cannot hold them ; and ir
days o f your poverty ye cannot retain them; and in the {
o f your poverty, ye shall cry unto the Lord ; and in vain s
ye cry, for your desolation is already coftte upon you,
your destruction is made sure ; and then shall ye weep
howl in that day, saith the Lord o f Hosts. And then shal
lament, and say, O that I had repented, and had not killed
prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out; yea, in
day shall ye say, 0 that we had remembered the Lord
God, in the day that he gave us our riches, and then they w
<
not have become slippery, that we should lose them; foi
hold, our riches aTe gone from us. Behold, we layeth a
here, and on the morrow it is gone; and behold, our swi
are taken from us in the day we have sought them for ba
Yea, we have hid up our treasures, and they have slif
away from us, because o f the curse o f the land. O that
had repented in the day that the word o f the Lord came t
u s ; for behold the land is cursed, and all things are bee
slippery, and we cannot hold them. Behold we are surroi
ed by demons, yea, we are encircled about by the angel
him who hath sought to destroy our souls. Behold, our
BOOK OP h e la m a n . 445
quities are great. O Lord, canst thou not turn away thine an­
ger from us i And this shall be your language in them days.
But behold, your days o f probation is past; ye have procras­
tinated the day o f your salvation, until it is everlastingly too
late, and your destruction is made sure; yea, for ye have
sought all the days of your lives for that which ye could not
obtain; and ye have sought for happiness in doing iniquity,
which thing is contrary to the nature o f that righteousness
which is in our great and Eternal Head. O ye people of the
land, that ye would hear my words. And 1 pray that the an­
ger of the Lord be turned away from you, and that ye would
repent and be saved.
And now it came to pass that Samuel, the Lamanite, did
prophesy a great many more things which cannot be written.
Aha behold, he saith unto them, Behold, I give unto you a
sign: for five years more cometh, and behold, then cotneth
the son o f God to redeem all those who shall believe on his
name. And behold, this will I give unto you for a sign at the
time o f his coming; for behold, there shall be great lights in
Heaven, insomuch that in the night before he cometh, there
shall be no darkness, insomuch that it shall appear unto man
as if it was day; therefore there shall be one day and a night,
and a day, as if it were one day, and there were no night; and
this shall be unto you for a sign; for ye shall know o f the ri­
sing o f the sun, and also o f its setting; therefore they shall
know of a surety that there shall be two days and a night;
nevertheless the night shall not be darkened ; and it shall be
the night before he is born. And behold there shall a new
star arise, such an one as ye never have beheld ; and this al­
so shall be a sign unto you. And behold this is not all: there
shall be many signs and wonders in Heaven. And it shall
come to pass that ye shall all be amazed, and wonder, inso­
much that ye shall fall to the earth. And it shall come to pass
that whosoever shall believe on the Son o f God, the same
shall have everlasting life. And behold, thus hath the Lord
commanded me, by his angel, that 1 should come and tell this
thing unto you ; yea, he hath commanded that 1 should prophe­
sy these things unto you ; yea, he hath said unto me, Cry unto
this people, repent and prepare the way of the Lord. And
now because 1am a Lamanite, and hath spoken unto you the
words which the Lord hath commanded me, and because it
was hard against you, ye are angry with me, and do seek to
destroy me, and have cast rue out from among you. And ye
446 BOOK OF HELAMAN.
shall hear my words, for, for this intent 1 have come up upon the
walls o f this city, that ye might hear arid know of the judge­
ments o f God which doth await you because o f your iniquities,
and also that ye might know the conditions of repentance;
and also that ye might know o f the coming of Jesus Christ,
the Son o f God, the Father o f Heaven and o f earth, the Crea­
tor o f all things, from the beginnning; and that ye might know
o f the signs o f his coming, to the intent that ye might believe
on his name. And if ye believe on his name, ye will repent o f
all your sins, that thereby ye may have a remission o f them
through his merits. And behold, again another sign 1 give
unto you ; yea, a sign o f his death ; for behold, he surely
must die, that salvation may com e; yea, it behoovetli him, and
becometh expedient that he dieth, to bring to pass the resur­
rection o f the dead, that thereby men may be brought into the
presence of the Lord ; yea, behold this death bringeth to pass
the resurrection, and redeemeth all mankind from the first
death; that spiritual death for all mankind, by the fall o f Ad­
am, being cut off from the presence o f the Lord, are consid­
ered as dead, both as to things temporal and to things spiritu­
al. But behold, the resurrection o f Christ redeemeth man­
kind, yea, even all mankind, and bringeth them back into the
presence o f the L ord; yea, and it bringeth to pass the condi­
tion o f repentance, that whosoever repenteth, the same is not
hewn down and cast into the fire; but whosoever repenteth
not, is hewn down and cast into the fire, and there cometh
upon them again a spiritual death, yea, a second death, for
they are cut oft' again as to things pertaining to righteousness;
therefore repent ye, repent ye, lest by knowing these things
and not doing them, ye shall suffer yourselves to come under
condemnation, and ye are brought down unto this second
death. But behold, as I said unto you concerning another sign,
a sign o f his death: behold, in that day that he shall suffer death,
the sun shall be darkened and refuse to give his light unto y o u ;
and also the moon, and the stars; and there shall be no light upon
the face of this land, even from the time that he shall suffer
death, for the space of three days, to the time that he shall
rise again from the dead; yea, at the time that he shall yield
up the ghost, there shall be thunderings and lightnings for the
space o f many hours, and the earth shall shake and tremble,
and the rocks which is upon the face of this earth, which is
both above the earth and beneath, which ye know at this time
is solid, or the more part of it is one solid mass, shall be bro-
BOOK OP HF.LAMAN. 447
ken u p ; yea, they shall be rent in twain, and shall ever after
be found in seams, and in cracks, and in broken fragments
upon the face of the whole earth ; yea, both above the earth
and both beneath. And behold there shall be great tempests,
and there shall be many mountains laid low, like unto a val­
ley, and there shall be many places, which are now called val­
leys, which shall become mountains, whose height thereof is
great. And many highways shall be broken up, and many ci­
ties shall become desolate, and many graves shall be opened,
and shall yield up many of their dead; and many saints shall
appear unto many. And behold thus hath the angel spoken
unto m e; for he said unto me, That there should be thunder­
ing« and lightnings for the space o f many hour«; and he said
unto me that while the thunder and the lightning lasted, and
the tempest, that these things should be, and that darkness
should cover the face of the whole earth, for the space of
three days. And the angel said unto me that many shall see
greater things than these, to the intent that they might believe
that these signs and these wonders should come to pass, upon
all the face o f this land; to the intent that there should be no
cause for unbelief among the children of men ; and this to the
intent that whosoever will believe, might be saved, and that
whosoever will not believe, a righteous judgement might come
upon them ; and also if they are condemned, they bring upon
themselves their own condemnation. And now remember,
remember, my brethren, that whosoever perishetb, perisheth
unto himself; and whosoever doeth iniquity, doeth it unlo
himself; for behold ye are free; ye are permitted to act for
yourselves; for behold, God hath given unto you a knowledge,
and he hath made you free ; he hath given unto you that ye
might know good from evil, and he hath given unto you that
ye might choose life or death, and ye can do good and be resto­
red unto that which is good, or have that which is good re­
stored unto you ; or ye can do evil, and have that which is
evil restored unto you. And now my beloved brethren, be­
hold, 1 declare unto you that except ye shall repent, your hou­
ses shall be left unto you desolate; yea, except ye repent,
your Women shall have great cause to mourn in the day that
they shall give suck; for ye shall attempt to flee, and there
shall be no place for refuge; yea, and wo unto them which
are with child, for they shall be heavy, and cannot flee; there­
fore they shall bt> trodden down, and shall be left to pe­
rish ; yea, Wo unto this people which are called the people of
m BOOK O f BELASUN.
Nephi, except they shall repent when they shall see all those
signs and wonders which shall be showed unto them; for be­
hold, they have been a chosen people o f the L ord ; yea, the
people o f Nephi hath he loved, and also hath he chastened
them; yea, in the days o f their iniquities hath he chastened
them, because he loveth them. But behold my brethren, the
Lamanites hath he hated, because their deeds have been evil
continually; and this because o f the iniquity o f the tradition o f
their fathers. But behold, salvation hath come unto them,
through the preaching o f the Nephites; and for this intent
hath the Lord prolonged their days. And I would that ye
should behold that the more part o f them are in, the path o f
their duty, and they do walk circumspectly before God, and
they do observe to keep bis commandments, and his statutes,
and his judgements, according to the law o f Moses. Yea, I
say unto you, that the more part o f them are doing this, and
they are striving, with unwearied diligence, that they may
bring the remainder o f their brethren to the knowledge o f the
truth; therefore there are many which do add to their num­
bers daily. And behold ye do know o f yourselves, for ye
have witnessed it, that as many o f them as are brought to the
knowledge o f the truth, and to know o f the wicked and abo­
minable traditions o f their lathers, and are lead to believe the
Holy Scriptures, yea, the prophecies o f the holy prophets,
which are written, which leadeth them to faith on the Lord,
and unto repentance, which faith and repentance bringelh a
change o f heart unto them therefore as many as have come
to this, ye know o f yourselve, are firm and steadfast in the
faith, and in the thing wherewith they have been made free —
And ye know also that they have buried their weapons o f
war, and they fear to take them up, lest by any means they
shall sin; yea, ye can see that they fear to sin; for behold,
they will suffer themselves that they he trodden down and
slain by their enemies, and will not lift their swords against
them; and this because o f their faith in Christ. And now
because o f their steadfastness when they do believe in that
thing which they do believe; for because o f their firmness
when they are once enlightened, behold the Lord shall bless
them and prolong their days, notwithstanding their iniquity;
yea, even if they should dwindle in unbelief, the Lord shall
prolong their days until the time shall come which hath been
spoken of by our fathers, and also by the prophet Zenos, and
many other prophets, concerning the. restoration o f our brelh-
BOOS OP HELAMAK. 4 4 9
ren, the Lamanites again, to the knowledge o f the truth ; yea,
i say unto you, That in the latter tiroes, the promises of the
Lord hath been extended to our brethren, the Lamanites; and
notwithstanding the many afflictions which they shall have,
and notwithstanding they shall be driven to and fro upon the
face of the earth, and be hunted, and shall be smitten and
scattered abroad, having no place for refuge, the Lord shall be
merciful unto them; and this is according to the propheey,
that they shall again be brought to the true knowledge, which
is the knowledge o f their Redeemer, and their great and their
true Shepherd, and be numbered among his sheep. Therefore
1say unto you, It shall be better for them than for you, except
ye repent. For behold, had the mighty works been shewn
unto them which have been shewn unto you ; yea, unto them
which have dwindled in unbelief because o f the traditions of
their fathers, ye can see o f yourselves, that they never would
again have dwindled in unbelief ; therefore, saith the Lord, I
will not utterly destroy them, but 1 will cause that in the day
o f my wisdom, they shall return again unto me, saith the Lord.
And now behold, saith the Lord, concerning the people o f the
Nephites, if they will not repent, and observe to do my will, I
will utterly destroy them, saith the Lord, because o f their un­
belief, notwithstanding the many mighty works which I have
done among them ; and as surely as the Lord liveth, shall these
things be, Baith the Lord.
And now it came to pass that there were many which heard
the words o f Samuel, the Laraanitc, which he spake upon the
walls o f the city. And as many as believed on his words,
went forth and sought for Nephi; and when they had came
forth and found him, they confessed unto him their sins and
denied not, desiring that they might be baptized unto the Lord.
But as many as there were which did not believe in the words
of Samuel, were angry with him ; and they cast stones at him
upon the wall, and also many shot arrows at him, as he stood
upon the wall ; but the spirit o f the Lord was with him, inso­
much that they could not hit him with their stones, neither
with their arrows. Now when they saw this, that they could
not hit him, there were many more which did believe on his
words, insomuch that they went away unto Nephi to be baptized.
For behold, Nephi was baptizing, and prophesying, and
preaching, crying repentance (into the people ; shewing signs
and wonders; working miracles among the people, that they
might know that the Christ must shortly come ; telling them
2 9
450 BOOK OF MELAKAN.
o f things which must shortly come, that they might know and
remember at the time o f their coming, that they had been made
known unto them beforehand, to the intent that they might
believe; therefore as many as believed on the words o f Sam­
uel, went forth unto him to be baptized, for they came repent­
ing and confessing their sins. But the more part of them did
not believe in the words o f Samuel; therefore when they saw
that they could not hit him with their stones and their arrows,
they cried out unto their captains, saying, Take this fellow and
bind him, for behold, he hath a Devil; and because of the
power o f the Devil which is in him, we cannot hit him with
our stones and our arrows; therefore take him and bind him,
and away with him. And as they went forth to lay their hands
on him, behold, he did cast himself down from the wall, and
did flee out o f their lands, yea, even unto bis own country,
and began to preach and to prophesy among his own peo­
ple. And behold, he was never heard o f more among the Ne-
phites; and thus were the affairs of the people. And thus
ended the eighty and sixth year o f the reign o f die Judges over
the people o f Nephi. And thus ended, also, the eighty and
seventh year of the reign of the Judges, the more part of the
people remaining in their pride and wickedness, and the lesser
part walking more circumspectly before God. And these were
the conditions also, in the eighty and eighth year of the reign
o f the Judges. And there were but little alteration in the af­
fairs of the people, save it were the people began to be more
hardened in iniquity, and do more and more of that which was
conttary to the commandments of God, in the eighty and ninth
year o f the reign o f the Judges.
But it came to pass in the ninetieth year o f the reign of the
Judges, there were great signs given unto the people, and won­
ders ; and the words o f the prophets began to be fulfilled ; and
angels did appear unto men, wise men, and did declare unto
them glad tidings of great jo y ; thus in this year the Scriptures
began to be fulfilled. Nevertheless, the people began to har­
den their hearts, all save it were the most believing part o f
them, both of the Nephites, and also o f the Lamanites, and
began to depend upon their own strength, and upon their own
wisdom, saying: Some things they may have guessed right,
among so many; but behold, we know that all these great and
marvellous works cannot come to pass, o f which hath been
spoken. And they began to reason and to contend among
themselves, saying, That it is not reasonable that such a being
BOOK O P HECAJfAN. 451
as a Christ shall com e; i f so, and he be the Son o f God, the
Father o f Heaven and o f earth, as it hath been spoken, why
will he not shew himself unto us, as well as unto they which
shall be at Jerusalem? Yea, why will he not shew himself in
this land, as well as in the land o f Jerusalem ? But behold,
we know that this is a w icked tradition, which has been han­
ded down unto us by our fathers, to cause us that we should
believe in some great and marvellous thing which should come
to pass, but not among us, but in a land which is far distant,
a land which w e know n ot; therefore they can keep us in ig­
norance, for we cannot witness with our own eyes that they
are true. And they will, by the cunning and the mysterious
arts o f the evil one, work some great mystery, which we cannot
understand, which will keep us down to he servants to their
words, and also servants unto them, for we depend upon them
for to teach us the w ord ; and thus will they keep us in igno­
rance, if w e will yield ourselves unto them all the days o f our
lives. And many more things did the people imagine up in
their hearts, which were foolish and vain; and they were much
disturbed, for satan did stir them up to do iniquity continually;
yea, he did go about, spreading rumors and contentions upon
all the face o f the land, that he might harden the hearts o f
the people against that which was good, and against that which
should cam e; and notwithstanding the signs and the wonders
which was wrought among the people o f the Lord, and the
many miracles which they did, satan did get great hold upon
the hearts o f the people, upon all the face o f the land. And
thus ended the ninetieth year o f the reign o f the Judges over
the people o f Nephi. And thus ended the hook o f H daman,
according t o the record o f Heiaman and his s o b s .
29*
THE BOOK OF NEPHI,
TH E SON O F NEPHI, W H ICH W AS T H E SON OF
HELAM AN.
CH A PTER I.
And Helaman was the son o f Helaman,which was the son o f
Jtima, which was the son o f M m , being a descendant o f
Nephi, which was the son o f Lehi, which cam outo f Jeru­
salem in the first year o f the reign o f Ztdekiah,the king
o f Judah
Now it came to pass that the ninety and first year had pas­
sed away; and it was six hundred years from the time that
Lehi left Jerusalem; and it was in the year that Lachoneus
was the Chief Judge and the governor over the land. And
Nephi, the son of Helaman, had departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, giving charge unto his son Nephi, which was his
eldest son, concerning the plates of brass, and all the records
which had been kept, and all those things which had been kept
sacred, from the departure of Lehi out of Jerusalem: then he
departed out of the land, and whither he went, no man know-
eth; and his son Nephi did keep the records in his stead, yea,
the record of this people.
And it came to pass that in the commencement of the ninety
and second year, behold, the prophecies of the prophets be­
gan to be fulfilled more fully; for there began to be greater
signs and greater miracles wrought among the people. But
there were some which began to say, That the lime was past
for the words to be fulfilled, which was spoken by Samuel, the
Lamanite. And they began to rejoice over their brethren, say­
ing, Behold, the time is past, and the words of Samuel are not
fulfilled; therefore, your joy and your faith concerning this
thing, hath been vain. And it came to pass that they did
BOOK OF NEFHI, 453
make a great uproar throughout the land; and the people
which believed, began to be very sorrowful, lest by any means
those things which had been spoken, might not come to pass.
But behold, they did watch steadfastly for that day, and that
night, and that day, which shall be as one day, as if there were
no night, that they might know that their faith had not been
vain.
Now it came to pass that there was a day set apart by the
unbelievers, that all those who believed in those traditions,
should be put to death, except the sign should come to pass,
which had been given by Samuel the prophet. Now it came
to pass that when Nephi, the son o f Nephi, saw this wicked­
ness o f his people, his heart was exceeding sorrowful. And
it came to pass that he went out and bowed himself down up­
on the earth, and cried mightily to his God, in behalf o f his
people; yea, those which were about to be destroyed because
o f their faith in the tradition o f their fathers. And it came to
pass that he cried mightily unto the Lord, all the day; and
behold, the voice o f the Lord came unto him, saying: Lift up
your head and be of good cheer: for behold, the time is at
hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the mor­
row come I into the world, to shew unto the world that I will
fulfil all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth
o f my Holy Prophets. Behold, I come unto my own, tb fulfil
all things which I have made known unto the children o f men,
from the foundation o f the world, and to do the will, both of
the Father, and o f the Son o f the Father, because o f me, and
o f the Son, because o f my flesh. And behold, the time is at
hand, and this night shall the sign be given.
And it came to pass that the words which came unto Nephi,
was fulfilled, according as they had been spoken: for behold,
at the going down o f the sun, there was no darkness; and the
people began to be astonished, because there was no darkness
when the night came. And there were many which had not
believed the words o f the prophets, fell to the earth, and be­
came as if they were dead, for they knew that the great plan
o f destruction which they had laid for those who believed in
the word o f the prophets, had been frustrated; for the sign
which had been given was already at hand; and they began
to know that the Son o f God must shoitly appear; yea, in
fine, all the people upon the face o f the whole earth, from the
west to the east, both in the land north and in the land south,
were so exceedingly astonished, that they fell to the earth; for
494 BOO* OP NEPHt.
they knew that the prophets had testified o f these things for
many years, and that the sign which had been given, was al­
ready at hand; and they began to fear because o f their ini­
quity and their unbelief.
And it came to pass that there was no darkness in all that
night, but it was as light as though it was mid-day. And it
came to pass that the sun did rise in the morning again, ac­
cording to its proper order; and they knew that it was the
day that the Lord should be boro, because o f the sign which
had been given. And it had come to pass, yea, all things,
every whit, according to the words o f the prophets. And it
came to pass also, that a new star did appear, according to
the word. And it came to pass that from this time forth,
there began to be lyings sent forth among the people, by sa-
tan, to harden their hearts, to the intent that they might not
believe in those signs and wonders which they had seen; but
notwithstanding these lyings and deceiving*, the more part o f
the people did believe, arid were converted unto the Lord.—
And it came to pass that Nephi went forth among the people,
and also many others, baptizing unto repentance, in the which,
there were a great remission of sins. And thus the people
began again to have peace in the land; and there were no
contentions, save it were a few that began to preach, endeav­
oring to prove by the Scriptures, that it was no more expedi­
ent to observe the law o f Moses. Now in this thing they did
err, having not understood the Scriptures. But it came to
pass that they soon became converted, and were convinced o f
the error which they were in : for it was made known unto
them that the law was not yet fulfilled, and that it must be
fulfilled in every whit; yea, the word came unto them that it
must be fulfilled; yea, that one jo t nor tittle should not pass
away, till it should all be fulfilled; therefore in this same year,
were they brought to a knowledge o f their error, and did con­
fess their faults. And thus the ninety and second year did
pass away, bringing glad tidings unto the people because o f
the signs which did come to pass, according to the words o f
the prophecy o f all the Holy Prophets.
And it came to pass that the ninety and third year did also
pass away in peace, save it were for the Gadianton robbers;
which dwelt upon the mountains, which did infest the land ;
for so strong were their holds and their secret places, that the
people could not overpower them; therefore they did commit
many murders; and did do much slaughter among the people.
BOOK OF NEPHI. 455
And it came to pass that in the ninety and fourth year, they
began to increase in a great degree, because there were many
dissenters o f the Nephites which did flee unto them, which
did cause much sorrow unto those Nephites which did remain
in the land; and there was also a cause o f much sorrow among
the Lamanites: for behold, they had many children which did
grow up and began to wax strong in years, that they became
for themselves, and were led away by some which were Zo-
ramites, by tbeir lyings and their flattering words, to join those
Gadianton robbers; and thus were the Lamanites afflicted al­
so, and began to decrease as to their faith and righteousness,
because o f the wickedness o f the rising generation.
And it came to pass that thus passed away the ninety and
fifth year also, and the people began to forget those signs and
wonders which they bad heard, and began to be less and lesa
astonished at a sign or a wonder from Heaven, insomuch that
they began to be hard in their hearts, and blind in their minds,
and began to disbelieve all which they had heard and seen, ima­
gining up some vain thing in their hearts, that it was wrought
by men, and by the power o f the Devil, to lead away and de­
ceive the hearts o f the people; and thus did salan get posses­
sion o f the hearts o f the people again, insomuch that he did
blind their eyes, and lead them away to believe that the doc­
trine o f Christ was a foolish and a vain thing.
And it came to pass that the people began to wax strong in
wickedness and abominations; and they did not believe that
there should be any more signs or wonders given; and satan
did go about, leading away the hearts o f the people, tempting
them and causing them that they should do great wickedness
in the land. And thus did pass away the ninety and sixth year;
and also the ninety and seventh year; and also the ninety and
eighth year; and also the ninety and ninth year; and also an
hundred years had passed away, since the days o f Mosiah,
which was king over the people o f the Nephites. And six
hundred and nine years had passed away, since Lehi left Je­
rusalem; and nine years had passed away, from the time
which the sign was given, which was spoken o f by the proph­
et«, that Christ should come into the world. Now the Ne­
phites began to reckon their time from this period which the
sign was given, or from the coming o f Christ; therefore, nine
years had passed away, and Nephi, which was the father o f
Nephi, which had the charge o f the reeords, did not return to
456 BOOK OF NRPH1.
the land o f Zaraherala, and could no where be found in all
the land.
And it came to pass that the people did still remain in wick­
edness, notwithstanding the much preaching and prophesying
which was sent among them; and thus passed away the tenth
year also ; and the eleventh year also passed away in iniquity.
And it came to pass in the thirteenth year, there began to be
wars and contentions throughout all the land: for the Gadian-
ton robbers had become so numerous, and did slay so many o f
the people, and did lay waste so many cities, and did spread
so much death and carnage throughout the land, that it became
expedient that all the people, both the Nephites and the La-
manites, should take up arms against them ; therefore all the
Lamanites which had become converted unto the Lord, did
unite with their brethren, the Nephites, and were compelled,
for the safety o f their lives, and their women and their chil­
dren, to take up arms against those Gadianton robbers; yea,
and also to maintain their rights, and their privileges o f their
church, and o f their worship, and their freedom, and their lib­
erty. And it came to pass that before this thirteenth year had
passed away, the Nephites were threatened with utter des­
truction, because o f this war, which had become exceeding
sore. And it came to pass that those Lamanites which had
united with the Nephites, were numbered among the Nephites;
and their curse was taken from them, and their skin became
white like unto the Nephites; and their young men and their
daughters became exceeding fair, and they were numbered
among the Nephites, and were called Nephites. And thus en­
ded the thirteenth year.
And it came to pass in the commencement o f the fourteenth
year, the war between the robbers and the people o f Nephi
did continue, and did become exceeding sore; nevertheless,
the people o f Nephi did gain some advantage o f the robbers,
insomuch that they did drivethem back out o f their lands into
the mountains, and into their secret places. And thus ended
the fourteenth year. And in the fifteenth year they did come
forth again against the people o f N ephi; and because o f the
wickedness o f the people o f Nephi, and their many contentions
and dissensions, the Gadianton robbers did gain many advan­
tages over them. And thus ended the fifteenth year; and thus
were the people in a state o f many afflictions ; and the sword
o f destruction did hang over them, insomuch that they were
about to be smitten down by it, and this because o f their iniquity.
BOOS OF NEPMI. 45-7
C H A P T E R II.
And now it came to pass that in the sixteenth year from the
coming o f Christ, Lachoneus, the Governor o f the land, recei­
ved an epistle from the leaders and the Governor o f this band
o f robbers; and these were the words which were written,
saying: Lachoneus, roost noble and Chief Governor o f the
land : behold I write this epistle unto you, and do give unto
you exceeding great praise because o f your firmness, and also
the firmness o f your people, in maintaining that which ye sup­
pose to be your right and liberty ; yea, ye do stand well, as if
ye were supported by the hand o f a God, in the defence of
your liberty, and your property, and your country, or that
which ye do call so. And it seemeth a pity unto me, most
noble Lachoneus, that ye should be so foolish and vain as to
suppose that ye can stand against so many brave men, which
are at my command, which do now at this time stand in their
arms, and do await, with great anxiety, for the word, Go down
upon the Nephites and destroy them. And I knowing o f their
unconquerable spirit, having proved them in the field o f bat­
tle, and knowing o f their everlasting hatred towards you, be­
cause o f the many wrongs which ye have done unto them,
therefore if they should come down against you, they would
visit you with utter destruction; therefore 1 have wrote this
epistle, sealing it with mine own hand, feeling for your wel­
fare, because o f your firmness in that which ye believe to be
right, and your noble spirit in the field o f battle; therefore l
write unto you desiring that ye would yield up unto this my
people, your cities, vour lands, and your possessions, rather
than that they should visit you with the sword, and that de­
struction should come upon y o u ; or in other words, yield
yourselves up unto us, and unite with us, and become acquain­
ted with our secret works, and become our brethren, that ye
may be like unto u s ; not oar slaves, but our brethren, and
partners o f all our substance. And behold, I swear unto you,
if ye will do this, with an oath, ye shall not be destroyed; but
if ye will not do this, I swear unto you, with an oath, that on
the morrow month, I will command that my armies shall come
down against you, and they shall not stay their hand, and shall
spare not, but shall slay you, and shall let fall the sword up­
on you, even until ye shall become extinct. And behold, I
am Giddianhi, and I am the Governor o f this the secret society
o f Gadianton; which society, and the works thereof, I know
458 BOOK OP NEMtl.
to be good ; and they are o f ancient date, and they have been
handed down unto us. And I write this epistle unto you, La­
choneus, and 1 hope that ye will deliver up your lands, and
your possessions, without the shedding o f blood, that this my
people may recover their rights and government which have
dissented away from you, because o f your wickedness in re­
taining from them their rights o f government; and except ye
do this, I will avenge their wrongs. I am Giddianhi.
And now it came to pass when Lachoneus received this
epistle, he was exceedingly astonished, because o f the bold­
ness o f Giddianhi, demanding the possession o f the land o f
the Nephites, and also o f threatening the people, and avenging
the wrongs o f those that had received no wrong, save it were
they had wronged themselves, by dissenting away unto those
wicked and abominable robbers. Now behold, this Lachone­
us, the Governor, was a just man, and could not be frightened
by the demands and the threatenings o f a robber; therefore he
did not hearken to the epistle o f Giddianhi, the Governor o f
the robbers, but he did cause that his people should cry unto
the Lord for strength against the time that the robbers should
come down against them; yea, he sent a proclamation among
all the people, that they should gather together their women,
and their children, their flocks and their herds, and all their
substance, save it were their land, unto one place. And he
caused that fortifications should be built round about them,
and the strength thereof should be exceeding great. And he
caused that there should be armies, both o f the Nephites and
o f the Lamanites, or o f all them which were numbered among
the Nephites, should be placed as guards round about, to watch
them, and to guard them from the robbers, day and night;
yea, he said unto them, As the Lord liveth, except ye repent
o f all your iniquities, and cry unto the Lord, that they would
in no wise be delivered out o f the hands o f those Gadianton
robbers. And so great and marvellous were the words and
prophecies o f Lachoneus, that they did cause fear to come
upon all the people, and they did exert themselves in their
might, to do according to the words o f Lachoneus.
And it came to pass that Lachoneus did appoint Chief Cap­
tains over all the armies o f the Nephites, to command them at
the time that the robbers should come down out o f the wil­
derness against them. Now the chiefest among all the Cap­
tains, and the great Commander o f all the armies o f the Ne­
phites, was appointed, and his name was Gidgiddom. Now
BOOK OP NEPHI. 459
it was the custom among all the Nephites, to appoint for their
Chief Captains, save it were in their times of wickedness,
some one that had the spirit o f revelation, and also o f prophe­
cy ; therefore this Gidgiddoni was a great prophet among
them, and also was the Chief Judge, Now the people said
unto Gidgiddoni, Pray unto the Lord, and let us go up upon the
mountains, and into the wilderness, that we may fall upon the
robbers and destroy them, in their own lands. But Gidgiddo­
ni saith unto them, the Lord forbid; for if we should go up
against them, the Lord would deliver us into their hands;
therefore we will prepare ourselves in the centre o f our lands,
and we will gather all our armies together, and we will not go
against them, but we will wait till they shall come against u s;
therefore, as the Lord liveth, if we do this, he will deliver
them into our hands. And it came to pass in the seventeenth
year, in the latter end of the year, the proclamation o f Lacho-
neus had gone forth throughout all the face o f the land, and
they had taken their horses, and their chariots, and theircattle,
and all their flocks, and their herds, and their grain, and all
their substance, and did march forth by thousands, and by
tens o f thousands, until they had all gone forth to the place
which had been appointed, that they should gather themselves
together, to defend themselves against their enemies. And the
land which was appointed was the land of Zarahemla, and the
land which was between the land o f Zarahemla and the land
Bountiful; yea, to the line which was between the land Boun­
tiful and the land Desolation; and there were a great many
thousand people, which were called Nephites, which did gath­
er themselves together in this land. Now Lachoneus did
cause that they should gather themselves together in the land
southward, because o f the great curse which was upon the
land northward ; and they did fortify themselves against their
enemies, and they did dwell in one land, and in one body, and
they did fear the words which had been spoken by Lachone­
us, insomuch that they did repent o f all their sins; and they
did put up their prayers unto the Lord their God, that he
would deliver them in the time that their enemies should come
down against them to battle. And they were exceeding sor­
rowful because o f their enemy. And Gidgiddoni did cause
that they should make weapons o f war, o f every kind, that
they should be strong with armor, and with shields, and with
bucklers, after the manner o f his instruction.
And it came to pass that in the latter end o f the eighteenth
4 6 0 BOOK OP NEPHI.
year, those armies o f robbers had prepared for battle, and be­
gan to come down, and to sally forth from the hills, and out of
the mountains, and the wilderness, and their strong holds,
and their secret places, and began to take possession o f the
lands, both which was in the land south, and which was in the
land north, and began to take possession o f all the lands which
had been deserted by the Nephites, and the cities which had
been left desolate. But behold there was no wild beasts nor
game in those lands which had been deserted by the Nephites,
and there was no game for the robbers save it were in the
wilderness. And the robbers could not exist save‘it were in
the wilderness, for the want of fo o d ; for the Nephites had
left their lands desolate, and had gathered their flocks, and
their herds, and all their substance, and they were in one bo­
dy ; therefore there were no chance for the robbers to plunder
and to obtain food, save it were to come up in open battle
against the Nephites; and the Nephites being in one body, and
having so great a number, and having reserved for themselves
provisions, and horses, and cattle, and flocks o f every kind,
that they might subsist for the space o f seven years, in the
which time they did hope to destroy the robbers from off the
face o f the land. And thus the eighteenth year did pass
away.
And it came to pass that in the nineteenth year, Giddianhi
found that it was expedient that he should go up to battle
against the Nephites, for there was no way that they could
subsist, save it were to plunder, and rob, and murder. And
they durst not spread themselves upon the face o f the land,
insomuch that they could raise grain, lest the Nephites should
come upon them and slay them; therefore Giddianhi gave
commandment unto his armies, that in this year they should
go up to battle against the Nephites.
And it came to pass that they did come up to battle; and
it was in the sixth month; and behold, great and terrible was
the day that they did come up to battle; and they were
girded about after the manner o f robbers; and they had a
lamb-skin about their loins, and they were dyed in blood; and
their heads were shorn; and they had head-plates upon them ;
and great and terrible was the appearance o f the armies o f
Giddianhi, because o f their armour, and because o f their being
dyed in blood. And it came to pass that the armies o f the
Nephites, when they saw the appearance o f the army o f Gid­
dianhi, had all fallen to the earth, and did lift their cries to
BOOK OP NEFHl. 461
the Lord their God, that he would spare them, and deliver
them out o f the hands o f their enemies. And it came to pass
that when the armies o f Gaddianhi saw this, they began to
shout with a loud voice, because o f their jo y ; for they had
supposed that the Nephites had fallen with fear, because of
the terror o f their armies; but in this thing they were disap­
pointed, for the Nephites did not fear them, hut they did fear
their God, and did supplicate him for protection ; therefore
when the armies o f Giddianhi did rush upon them, they were
prepared to meet them ; yea, in the strength o f the Lord they
did receive them ; and the battle commenced in this the sixth
month ; and great and terrible was the battle thereof; yea,
great and terrible was the slaughter thereof, insomuch that
there never was known so great a slaughter among all the
people o f Lehi since he left Jerusalem. And notwithstand­
ing the threatening« and the oaths which Giddianhi had made,
behold, the Nephites did beat them, insomuch that they did
fall back from before them.
And it came to pass that Gidgiddoni commanded that his ar­
mies should pursue them as far as to the borders o f the wil­
derness, and that they should not spare any that should fall
into their hands by the way ; and thus they did pursue them,
and did slay them, to the borders o f the wilderness, even until
they had fulfilled the commandment o f Gidgiddoni.
And it came to pass that Giddianhi, who had Stood and
fought with boldness, was pursued as he fled ; and being
weary because o f his much fighting, he was overtaken and
slain. And thus was the end of Giddianhi, the robber.
And it came to pass that the armies o f the Nephites did re­
turn again to their place o f security. And it came to pass
that this nineteenth year did pass away, and the robbers did
not come again to battle; neither did they come again in the
twentieth year; and in the twenty and first year they did not
come up to battle, but they came up on all sides to lay siege
round about the people o f Nephi; for they did suppose that if
they should cut off the people o f Nephi from their lands, and
should hem them in on every side, and if they should cut them
off from all their outward privileges, that they could cause
them to yield themselves up according to their wishes. Now
they had appointed unto themselves another leader, whose
name was Zemnarihah ; therefore it was Zemnarihah that did
cause that this siege should take place. But behold this was
an advantage unto the Nephites; for it was impossible for the
462 BOOS o r NEPHl,
robbers to lay siege sufficiently long to have any effect upon
the Nephites, because o f their much provision which they had
laid up in store because o f the scantiness o f provisions among
the robbers; for behold they had nothing save it were meat
for their subsistence, which meat they did obtain in the wil­
derness. And it came to pass that the wild game became
scarce in the wilderness, insomuch that the robbers were about
to perish with hunger. And the Nephites were continually
marching out by day and by night, and falling upon their ar­
mies, and cutting them off by thousands and by tens o f thou­
sands. And thus it became the desire o f the people o f Zem-
narihah, to withdraw from their design, because o f the great
destruction which come upon them by night and by day.
And it came to pass that Zemnarihah did give command
unto his people, that they should withdraw themselves from
the siege, and march into the farthermost parts o f the land,
northward. And now Gidgiddoni, being aware o f their de­
sign, and knowing o f their weakness because o f the want of
food, and the great slaughter which had been made among
them, therefore he did send out his armies in the night-time,
and did cut off the way o f their retreat, and did place hie ar­
mies in the way o f their retreat; and this did they do in the
night-time, and got on their march beyond the robbers, ro
that on the morrow, when the robbers began their march, they
were met by the armies o f the Nephites, both in their front
and in their rear. And the robbers which were on the south,
were also cut off in tbeir places o f retreat And all these
things were done by command o f Gidgiddoni. And there
were many thousands which did yield themselves up prison­
ers unto tne Nephites; and the remainder o f them were slain ;
and their leader, Zemnarihah, was taken, and hanged upon a
tree, yea, even upon the top thereof, until he was dead. And
when they had hanged him until he was dead, they did fall
the tree to the earth, and did cry with a loud voice, saying,
May the Lord preserve his people in righteousness and in ho­
liness o f heart, that they may cause to be fell to the earth all
who shall seek to slay them because o f power and secret com­
binations, even as this man hath been fell to the earth. And
they did rejoice and cry again with one voice, saying, May
the God o f Abraham, and the God o f Isaac, and the God of
Jacob, protect this people in righteonsness, so long as they
shall call on the name o f their God for protection. And it
came to pass that'they did break forth, all as one, in singing
BOOK OP NEPH1. 463
and praising their God, for the great thing which he had done
for them, in preserving them from falling into the hands o f
their enemies; yea, they did cry, Hosanna to the Most High
G o d ; and they did cry, Blessed be the name o f the Lord
God Almighty, the Most High God. And their hearts were
swollen with joy, unto the gushing out o f many tears, because
o f the great goodness o f God in delivering them out o f the
hands o f their enemies; and they knew it was because o f
their repentance and their humility that they had been deliv­
ered from an everlasting destruction. And now behold there
was not a living soul among all the people o f the Nephites,
which did doubt in the least thing in the words o f all the holy
prophets which had spoken; for they knew that it must
needs be that they must be fulfilled; and they knew that it
must be expedient that Christ had come, because o f the many
signs which had been giren, according to the words o f the pro­
phets ; and because o f the things which had come to pass al­
ready, they knew it must needs be that all things should
come to pass according to that which had been spoken ; there-
foie they did forsake all their sins, and their abominations,
and their whoredoms, and did serve God with all diligence,
day and night.
And now it came to pass that when they had taken all the
robbers prisoners, insomuch that none did escape which were
not slain, they did cast their prisoners into prison, and did
cause the word o f God to be preached unto them ; and as
many as would repent o f their sins and enter into a covenant
that they would murder no more, were set at liberty; but as
many as there were who did not enter into a covenant, and
who did still continue to have those secret murders in their
hearts; yea, as many as were found breathing out threatening®
against their brethren, were condemned and punished accor­
ding to the law. And thus they did put an end to all those
wicked, and secret, and abominable combinations, in the
which there were so much wickedness, and so many murders
committed. And thus had the twenty and second year passed
away, and the twenty and third year also, and the twenty and
fourth, and the twenty and fifth; and thus had twenty and
five years passed away, and there had many things transpired
which, in the eyes o f some, would be great and marvellous;
nevertheless, they cannot all be written in this b o o k ; yea,
this book cannot contain even a hundredth part o f what was
done among so many people in the space o f twenty and five
464 BOOK OB MEBHI.
years; but behold there are records which do contain all the
proceedings o f this people; and a more short but a true ac­
count was given by N ephi; therefore 1 have made my Tecord
o f these things according to the record o f Nephi, which were
engraven on the plates which were called the plates o f Nephi.
And behold I do make the record on plates which I have made
with mine own bands. And behold, I am called Mormon,
being called after the land o f Mormon, the land in the which
Alma did establish the church among the people; yea, the
first church which was established among them after their
transgression. Behold I am a disciple o f Jesus Christ, the
Son o f God. I have been called o f him to declare his word
among his people, that they might hare everlasting life. And
it hath become expedient that I, according to the will o f God,
that the prayers o f those which have gone hence, which were
the holy ones, should be fulfilled according to their faith,
should make a record o f these things which have been done;
yea, a small record o f that which hath taken place from the
time that Lehi left Jerusalem, even down until the present
tim e; therefore 1 do make my record from the accounts
which hath been given by those which were before me, until
the commencement o f my d a y; and then 1 do make a record
of the things which I have seen with mine own eyes. And I
know the record which I make to be a just and a true record;
neverthelers there are many things which, according to our
language, we are not able to write. And now I make an end
of my saying which is o f myself, and proceed to give my ac­
count o f the things which hath been before me. I am Mor­
mon, and a pure descendant o f Lehi. I have reason to bless
my God and my Saviour Jesus Christ, that he brought our fa­
thers out o f the land O f Jerusalem, (and no one knew it save
it were himself and those which he brought out o f that land,)
and that he hath given roe and my people so much knowledge
unto the salvation o f our souls. Surely he hath biassed the
house o f Jacob, and hath been merciful unto the seed o f Jo­
seph, And insomuch as the children o f Lehi hath kept his
commandments, he hath blessed them and prospered them
according to his w ord; yea, and surely shall he again bring
a remnant o f the seed o f Joseph to the knowledge o f the Lord
their G o d ; and as surely as the Lord liveth will he gather in
from the four quarters o f the earth, all the remnant o f the seed
o f Jacob, which are scattered abroad upon all the face o f the
earth; and as he hath covenanted with all the house o f Jacob,
BOOK OF N E W ». 4 6 5
even so shall the covenant wherewith he hath covenanted
with the house o f Jacob, be fulfilled in his own due time, unto
the restoring all the house o f Jacob unto the Knowledge o f the
covenant that he hath covenanted with them; and then shall
they know their Redeemer, which is Jesus Christ, the Son o f
G od; and then shall they be gathered in from the four quar­
ters o f the earth, unto their own lands, from whence they have
been dispersed; yea, as the Lord liveth, so shall it be. Amen.
C H A P T E R III.
A n d now it came to pass that the people o f the Nephites
did all return to. their own lands, in the twenty and sixth year,
every man, with his family, his flocks and his herds, his horses
and his cattle, and all things whatsoever did belong unto, them.
And it came to pass that they had net eaten up ail their pro­
visions ; therefore they did take with them all that they had
not devoured, o f all their grain o f every kind, and their gold,
and their silver, and all their precious things, and they did re­
turn to their own lands and their possessions, both on the
north and on the south, both on the land northward and on the
land southward. And they granted unto those robbers which
had entered into a covenant to keep the peace, o f the band
which were desirous to remain Lamanites, lands, according to
their numbers, that they might have, with their labors, where­
with to subsist upon; and thus they did establish peace in all
the land. And they began again to prosper and to wax great;
and the twenty and sixth and seventh years passed away, and
there was great order in the land ; and they had formed their
laws according to equity and justice. And now there was
nothing in all the land, to hinder the people from prospering
continually, except they should fall into transgression. And
now it was Gidgiddoai, and the Judge Laehoneus, and those
which had been appointed leaders, which had established this
great peace in the land.
And it came to pass that there were many cities built anew,
and there were many old cities repaired; and there were many
highways cast up, and many roads made, which led from city
to city, and from land to land, and from place to place. And
thus passed away the twenty and eighth year, and the people
had continual peace. But it came to pass in the twenty and
30
466 BOOK OF NTEPH3,
ninth year, there began to be some disputing? among the peo­
ple ; and some were lifted up unto pride and boastings, be­
cause of their exceeding great riches, yea, even unto great
persecutions: for there were many merchants in the land, and
also many lawyers, and many officers. And the people began
to be distinguished by ranks, according to their riches, and
their chances for learning; yea, some were ignorant because o f
their poverty, and others did receive great learning because o f
their riches; some were lifted up in pride, and others were
exceeding humble; some did return railing for railing, while
others would receive railing, and persecution, and ail manner
o f afflictions, and would not turn and revile again, but were
humble and penitent before G od ; and thus there became a
great inequality in all the land, insomuch that the church be­
gan to be broken u p; yea, insomuch that in the thirtieth year
the church was broken up in all the land, save it were among
a few o f the Lamanites, which were converted unto the true
faith; and they would not depart from it, for they were firm,
and steadfast, and immoveable, willing with all diligence to
keep the commandments o f the Lord. Now the cause of this
iniquity o f the people, was this: Satan had great power, unto
the stirring up o f the people to do all manner of iniquity, and
to the puffing them tip with pride, tempting them to seek for
power, and authority, and riches, and the vain things of the
world. And thus satan did lead away the hearts o f the peo­
ple, to do all manner of iniquity; therefore they bad not en­
joyed peace but a few years. And thus in the commencement
of the thirtieth year, the people having been delivered up for
the space o f a long time, to be carried about by the temptations
o f the Devil whithersoever he desired to carry them, and to do
whatsoever iniquity he desired they should; and thus in the
commencement o f this, the thirtieth year, they were in a state
of awful wickedness. Now they did not sin ignorantly, for
they knew the will o f God concerning them, for it had been
taught unto them; therefore they did wilfully rebel against
God. And now it was in the days o f I.achoneus, the son of
Lachoneus: for Lachoneus did fill the seat o f his father, and
did govern the people that year. And there began to be men
inspired from heaven, and sent forth, standing among the peo­
ple in all the land, preaching and testifying boldly o f the sins
and iniquities o f the people, and testifying unto them concer­
ning the redemption which the Lord would make for his peo­
ple ; or in other words, the resurrection o f Christ; and they
BOOK OF NEPBI. 467
did testify boldly o f his death and sufferings. Now there were
many of the people which were exceeding angry, because o f
those which testitied o f these things; and those which were
angry, were chiefly the Chief Judges, and they which had been
High Priests, and lawyers; yea, all they which were lawyers,
were angry with those which testified o f these things. Now
there was no lawyer, nor Judge, nor High Priest, that could
have power to condemn any one to death, save their condem­
nation was signed by the governor o f the land. Now there
were many o f those which testified o f the things pertaining to
Christ, which testified boldly, which were taken and put to
death secretly, by the Judges, that the knowledge o f their
death came not unto the governor o f the land, until after their
death. Now behold, this was contrary to the laws o f the land,
that any man should be put to death, except they had power
from the governor of the land; therefore a complaint came up
unto the land o f Zarahemla, to the governor o f the land, against
these Judges which had condemned the prophets o f the land
unto death, not according to the law.
Now it came to pass ¿hat they were taken and brought up
before the Judge, to be judged o f the crime which they bad
done, according to the law which had been given by the peo­
ple. Now it came to pass that those Judges had many friends
and kindreds; and the remainder, yea, even almost all the
lawyers and the High Priests, did gather themselves together,
and unite with the kindreds o f those Judges which were to be
tried according to the law; and they did enter into a covenant
one with another, yea, even into that covenant which was given
by them o f old, which covenant was given and administered
by the Devil, to combine against all righteousness; therefore
they did combine against the people o f the Lord, and enter in­
to a covenant to destroy them, and to deliver those which were
guilty o f murder from the grasp o f justice, which was about to
be administered according to the law. And they did set at
defiance the law and the rights o f their country; and they did
covenant, one with another, to destroy the governor, and to es­
tablish a king over the land, that the land should no more be
at liberty, but should be subject unto kings. Now behold, 1
will shew unto you that they did not establish a king over the
land; but in this same year, yea, the thirtieth year, they did
destroy upon the judgement seat, yja, did murder the Chief
Judge o f the land. And the people were divided one against
another; and they did separate one from another, into tribes,
468 BOOK OP NEPH1.
every men according to his family, and hie kindred and friends;
and thus they did destroy the government! o f the land. And
every tribe did appoint a Chief, or a leader over them; and
thus they became tribes, and leaders of tribes. Now behold*
there was no man among them, save he bad mucb family and
many kindreds and friends ; therefore their tribes became ex­
ceeding great. Now all this was done, and there was no wars
as yet among them; and all this iniquity had come upon the
people, because they did yield themselves unto the power of
satan; and the regulations of the government was destroyed,
because o f the secret combination o f the friends and kindreds
o f them which murdered the prophets. And they did cause
a great contention in the land, insomuch that the more right­
eous part o f the people, although they were nearly all become
w icked; yea, there were but few righteous men among them.
And thus six years had not passed away, since the more pari
o f the people had turned from their righteousness, like the dog
to his vomit, or like the sow to her wallowing in the mire.-—
Now this secret combination which had brought so great ini­
quity upon the people, did gather themselves together, aud did
place at their head a man whom they did call Jacob; and they
did call him their king; therefore he became a king over this
wicked band ; and he was one o f the chiefeat which had given
his voice against the prophets which testified o f Jesus.—
And it came to pass that they were not so strong in number
as the tribes of the people which were united together, save it
were their leaders did establish their laws, every one accor­
ding to his tribe; nevertheless they were enemies, notwith­
standing they were not a righteous people; yet they were uni­
ted in the hatred o f those who had entered into a covenant to
destroy the government; therefore Jacob seeing that their ene­
mies were more numerous than they, he being the king o f the
band, therefore he commanded his people that they should
take their flight into the northernmost part o f the land, and
there build up unto themselves a kingdom, until they were
joined by dissenters, (for he flattered them that there would
be many dissenters,) and they become sufficiently strong to
contend with the tribes o f the people. And they did s o ; and
so speedy was their march, that it could not be impeded, un­
til they had gone forth out of the reach of the people. And
thus ended the thirtieth year; and thus were the affairs o f the
people o f Nephi.
And it came to pass in the thirty and first year, that they
BOOK OP NEPHt. m
were divided into tribes', every man according to his family,
kindred and friends; nevertheless, they had come to an agree­
ment that taey would not go to war one with another; hut
they were not united as to their laws, and their manner o f
government, for they were established according to the mind»
o f them which was their chiefs and their leaders. But they
did establish very strict laws that one tribe should not trespass
against another, insomuch that in some degree they had peace
in the land; nevertheless, their hearts were turned from the
Lord their God, and they did stone the prophets, and did cast
them out from among them.
And it came to pass that Nephi, having been visited by an­
gels, and also by the voice o f the Lord, therefore having seen
angels, and being eyewitness, and having had power given un­
to him that he might know concerning the ministry o f Christ,
and also being eyewitness to their quick return from right­
eousness unto their wickedness and abominations; therefore,
being grieved for the hardness o f their hearts, and the blind­
ness o f their minds, went forth among them in that same year,
and began to testify boldly, repentance and remission o f sins
through faith on the Lord Jesus Christ. And he did minister
many things unto them; and all o f them cannot be written, and
a part o f them would not suffice; therefore they are not writ­
ten in this book. And Nephi did minister with power and
with great authority.
And it came to pass that they were angry with him, even
because he had greater power than they, for it were not pos­
sible that they could disbelieve his w ords: for so great was
his faith on the Lord Jesus Christ, that angels did minister
unto him daily; and in the name o f Jesus did he cast out
devils and unclean spirits; and even his brother did he raise
from the dead, after be had been stoned and suffered death by
the people; and the people saw it, and did witness o f it, and
were angry with him, because o f his pow er; and he did also
do many more miracles, in the sight of the people, in the name
o f Jesus.
And it came to pass that the thirty and first year did pass
away, and there were but few which were converted unto the
L ord; but as many as were converted, did truly signify unto
the people that they had been visited by the power and spirit
o f God, which was in Jesus Christ, in whom they believed.—
And as many as had devils cast out from them, and were Seal­
ed o f their sicknesses and their infirmities, did truly manifest
470 BOOK OF NEPHI.
unto die people that they had been wrought upon by the spirit
o f God, and had been healed ; and they did shew forth signs
also, and did do some miracles among the people.
And it came to pass that thus passed away the thirty and
second year also. And Nepbi did cry unto the people in the
commencement o f the thirty and third year; and he did preach
unto them repentance and remission o f sins. Now I would
hare you to remember also, that there were none which were
brought unto repentance, who were not baptized with water;
therefore there were ordained o f Nephi, men unto this ministry,
that all such as should come unto them, should be baptized with
water, and this as a witness and a testimony before God, and
unto the people, that they had repented and received a remis­
sion o f their sins. And there were many in the commence­
ment o f this year, that were baptized unto repentance; and
thus the more part o f the year did pass away.
C H A PT E R IV.
Ann nowit came to pass that according to our record, and
we know our record to be true ; for behold, it was a just man
which did keep the record ; for he truly did many miracles in
the name o f Jesus; and there was not any man which could
do a miracle in the name o f Jesus, save he were cleansed eve­
ry whit from his iniquity. And now it came to pass, if there
was no mistake made by this man in the reckoning o f our
time, the thirty and third year had passed away, and the peo­
ple began to look with great earnestness for the sign which had
been given by the prophet Samuel, the Lamanite; yea, for the
time that there should be darkness for the space o f three days,
over the face o f the land. And there began to be great doubl­
ings and disputations among the people, notwithstanding so
many signs had been given.
And it came to pass in the thirty and fourth year, in the first
month, in the fourth day o f the month, there arose a great
storm, such an one as never had been known in all the land ;
and there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there
was terrible thunder, insomuch that it did shake the whole
earth as if it was about to divide asunder; and there was ex­
ceeding sharp lightnings, such as never had been known in all
the land. And the city o f Zarahemla did take fire; and the
BOOK OF NEFHI. 471
city o f Moroni did sink into the depths o f the sea, and the in­
habitants thereof were drowned; and the earth was carried up
upon the city o f Moronihah, that in the place o f the city there­
of, there became a great mountain; and there was a great and
terrible destruction in the land southward. But behold, there
was a more great and terrible destruction in the land north­
ward : for bebold, the whole face o f the land was changed,
because o f the tempest, and the whirlwinds, and the thunder­
ing«, and the lightnings, and the exceeding great quaking of
the whole earth ; and the highways were broken up, and the
level roads were spoiled, and many smooth places became
rough, and many great and notable cities were sunk, and many
were burned, and many were shook till the buildings thereof
had fallen to the earth, and the inhabitants thereof were slain,
and the places were left desolate; and there were some cities
which remained; but the damage thereof was exceeding great,
and there were many in them which were slain; and there
were some which were carried away in the whirlwind; and
whither they went, no man knoweth, save they know that they
were carried away, and thus the face o f the whole earth be­
came deformed, because o f the tempests, and the thunderings,
and the lightnings, and the quaking o f the earth. And behold,
the rocks were rent in twain; yea, they were broken up upon
the face o f the whole earth, insomuch that they were found in
broken fragments, and in seams, and in cracks, upon all the
face o f the land.
And it came to pass that when the thunderings, and the
lightnings, and the storm, and the tempest, and the quakings
o f the earth did cease— for behold, they did last for about the
space o f three hours; and it was said by some that the time
was greater; nevertheless, all these great and terrible things
were done in about the space o f three hours; and then behold,
there was darkness upon the face o f the land.
And it came to pass that there was thick darkness upon the
face o f all the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereofwhich
had not fallen, could feel the vapour o f darkness; and there
could be no light, because o f the darkness, neither candles,
neither torches; neither could there be fire kindled with their
fine and exceeding dry wood, so that there could not be any
light at a ll; and there was not any light seen, neither fire, nor
glimmer, neither the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, for so
great were the mists o f darkness which were upon the face o f
the land.
472 BOOK OP NEPHI.
And it came to pass that it did last for the space of three
days, that there was rio light seen ; and there was great mourn­
ing, and howling, and weeping among all the people continu­
ally ; yea, great were the groanings o f the people, because o f
the darkness and the great destruction which had come upon
them. And in one place they were heard to cry, saying : O
that we had repented before this great and terrible day, and
then would our brethren have been spared, and they would
not have been burned in that great city Zarahemla. And in an­
other place they were heard to cry and mourn, saying : O that
we had repented before this great and terrible day, and had
not killed and stoned the prophets, and cast them out ; then
would our mothers, and our fair daughters, and our children
have been spared, and not have been buried up in that great
city Moronihah ; and thus were the howlings of the people
great and terrible.
And it came to pass that there was a voice heard among all
the inhabitants of the earth upon all the face o f this land, cry­
ing, Wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the inhabitants o f
the whole earth, except they shall repent, for the Devil laugh-
eth, and his angels rejoice, because o f the slain of the fair
sons and daughters o f my people ; and it is because of their
iniquity and abominations that they are fallen. Behold, that
great city Zarahemla have I burned with fire, and the inhabit­
ants thereof. And behold, that great city Moroni have I caus­
ed to be sunk in the depths o f the sea, and the inhabitants
thereof to be drowned. And behold, that great city Moroni­
hah have I covered with earth, and the inhabitants thereof, to
hide their iniquities and their abominations from before my
face, that the blood o f the prophets and the saints shall not
come up any more unto me against them. And behold, the
city of Gilgal have I caused to be sunk, and the inhabitants
thereof to be buried up in the depths o f the earth ; yea, and
the city Onihah, and the inhabitants thereof, and the city o f
Moeum, and the inhabitants thereof, and the city o f Jerusalem,
and the inhabitants thereof, and waters have I caused to come
up in the stead thereof, to hide their wickedness and abomin­
ations from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and
the saints shall not come up any more unto me against them.
And behold, the city o f Gadiandi, and the city of Gadiomnah,
and the city of Jacob, and the city o f Gimgimno, all these have
I caused to be sunk, and made hills and valleys in the places
thereof, and the inhabitants thereof have I buried up in the
BOOK OF NEPHI» 473
depths o f the earth, to hide their wickedness and abominations
from before my face, that the blood o f the prophets and the
saints should not come up any more unto me against them,—
And behold, that great city Jacobupth, which was inhabited
by the people o f the king of Jacob, have I caused to be burned
with fire, because o f their sins and their wickedness, which
was above all the wickedness o f the whole earth, because o f
their secret murders and combinations : for it was they that
did destroy the peace o f my people and the government o f the
land; therefore 1 did cause them to be burned, to destroy
them from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and
the saints should not come up unto me any more apinst them.
And behold, the city o f Laman, and the city o f Josh, and the
city o f Gad, and the city o f Kishkumen, have I caused to be
burned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof, because o f their
wickedness in casting out the prophets, and stoning them
which I did send to declare unto them concerning their wick­
edness and their abominations; and because they did cast
them all out, that there were none righteous among them, I did
send down fire and destroy them, that their wickedness and
abominations might be hid from before my face, that the blood
o f the prophets and the saints which I sent among them, might
not cry unto me from the ground apinst them ; and many
peat destructions have I caused to come upon this land, and
upon this people, because o f their wickedness and their abom­
inations.
O all ye that are spared, because ye were more righteous
than they ! will ye not now return unto me, and repent o f your
sins, and be converted, that I may heal you ? Yea, verily I
say unto you, if ye will come unto me, ye shall have eternal
life. Behold, mine arm o f mercy is extended towards you, and
whosoever will come, him will I receive ; and blessed are
they which cometh unto me. Behold I am Jesus Christ, the
Son o f God. I created the Heavens and the earth, and all
thinp that in them is. I was with the Father from the be­
ginning. I am in the Father, and the Father in me ; and in
me hath the Father glorified his name. I came unto my own,
and my own received me not. And the scriptures, concern­
ing my coming, are fulfilled. And as many as have received
me, to them have I given to become the Sons o f God ; and
even so will I to as many as shall believe on my name : for
behold, by me redemption cometh, and in me is the law o f
Moses fulfilled. 1 am the light and the life o f the world. 1
4 7 4 BOOK OF N E M t
am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. And ye
shall offer up unto me no more the shedding o f blood ; yea,
your sacrifice» and your burnt offerings shall be done away,
lor 1 will accept none o f your sacrifices and your burnt offer*
ingsj and ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart
and a contrite spirit And whoso cometh unto me with a
broken heart and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire
and with the Holy Ghost, even as the Lamanites, because of
their faith in me, at the time o f their conversion, were bapti­
zed with fire and with the Holy Ghost, and they knew it not.
Behold, 1 have eome unto the world to faring redemption unto
the world, to save the world from sin; therefore whoso re-
penteth and cometh unto me as a little child, him will 1 re­
ceive ; for o f such is the kingdom o f God. Behold, for such
1 have laid down my life, and have taken it up again; therefore
repent, and come unto me ye ends o f the earth, and be saved.
And now behold it came to pass that all the people o f theland
did hear these sayings, and did witness o f it. And after these
sayings there was silence in the land for the space o f many
hours; for so great was the astonishment o f the people that
they did cease lamenting and howling for the loss o f their kin­
dred which had been slain; therefore there was silence in
all the land for the space o f many hours.
And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto the
people, and all the people did hear, and did witness o f it, say­
ing : O ye people o f these great cities which have fallen,
which are a descendant o f J acob; yea, which are o f the house
o f Israel; O ye people o f the house o f Israel, how oft have I
gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings,
and have nourished you. And again, how oft would 1 have
gathered you, as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings;
yea. O yc people o f the bouse o f Israel, which have fallen;
yea, O ye people o f the house o f Israel; ye that dwell at Je­
rusalem, as ye that have fallen; yea. how oft would 1 have
gathered you as a ben gathereth her chickens, and ye would
not. O ye house o f Israel, whom I have spared, how oft will
1 gather you as a ben gathereth her chickens under her wings,
if ye will repent and return unto me with full purpose o f heart
But if not, O house o f Israel, the places o f your dwellings
shall become desolate, until the time o f the fulfilling o f the
covenant to your fathers.
And now it came to pass that after the people had heard
these words, behold they began to weep and howl again, be-
BOOK OP NEPHI. 475
cause o f the loss o f their kindred and friends. And it came
to pass that thus did the three days pass away. And it was
in the morning, and the darkness dispersed from off the face
o f the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the rocks
did cease to rend, and the dreadful groaning« did cease, and
all the tumultuous noises did pass away, and the earth did
cleave together again, that it stood, and the mourning, and the.
weeping, and the wailing o f the people whigh were spared
alive, did cease; and their mourning was turned into joy, and
their lamentations into the praise and thanksgiving unto the
Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer: And thus far were the
scriptures fulfilled, which had been spoken by the prophets.—
And it was the more righteous part o f the people which were
saved, and it was they which received the prophets, and sto­
ned them n ot; and ifw as they which had not shed the blood
o f (he saints, which were spared ; and they were spared, and
were not sunk and buried up in the earth ; and they were not
drowned in the depths o f the sea ; and they were not burned
by fire, neither were they fallen upon and crushed to death ;
and they were not carried away in the whirl-wind; neither
were they overpowered by the vapor o f smoke and o f dark­
ness. And now whoso readeth, let him understand; he that
hath the scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold
if all these deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke, and
by tempests, and by whirlwinds, and by the opening o f the
earth to receive them, and all these things, is not unto the ful­
filling o f the prophecies o f many o f the holy prophets. Be­
hold I say unto you yea, many have testified o f these things at
the coming o f Christ, and were slain because they testified of
these things; yea, the prophet Zenos did testify o f these
things, and also Zenock spake concerning these things,
because they testified particular concerning us, whicli is the
remnant o f their seed. Behold our father Jacob also testified
concerning a remnant o f the seed o f Joseph. And behold,
are not we a remnant o f the seed o f Joseph t And those
things which testifies of us, are they not written upon the
plates o f brass which our father Lehi brought out o f Jerusa­
lem ? And it came to pass that in the ending o f the thirty and
fourth year, behold 1 will shew unto you that the people o f
Nephi which were spared, and also they which had been call­
ed Lamanites, which had been spared, did have great favors
shewn unto them, and great blessings poured out upon their
heads, insomuch that soon after the ascension o f Christ into
476 BOOK OP NEFHI,
Heaven, he did truly manifest himself unto them, shewing his
body unto them, and ministering unto them; and an account
o f his ministry shall be given hereafter. Therefore for this
time I make an end o f my sayings.
C H A P T E R V.
Jesus Christ shewetk himselfunto the people o f Nepki, as the
multitudewere gathered together in the land Bountiful, and
did minister unto them; and on this tcise did he shew him­
selfunto them.
And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude
gathered together, o f the people o f Nephi, round about the
temple which was in the land Bountiful; and they were mar­
velling and wondering one with another, and were shewing
one to another the great and marvellous change which had ta­
ken pla ce; and they were also conversing about this Je­
sus Christ, o f which the sign had been given, concerning his
death.
And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing
one with another, they heard a voice, as if it came out o f Hea­
ven ; and they cast their eyes round about, for they under­
stood not the voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh
voice, neither was it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwith­
standing it being a small voice, it did pierce them that
did hear, to the centre, insomuch that there were no part o f
their frame that it did not cause to quake; yea, it did pierce
them to the very soul, and did cause their hearts to burn.—
And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they
understood it not; and again the third time they did hear the
voice, and did open their ears to hear it; and their eyes were
towards the sound thereof; and they did look steadfastly to­
wards Heaven, from whence the sound cam e; and behold, the
third time they did understand the voice which they heard;
and it saith unto them, Behold, my beloved Son, in whom 1
am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name, hear ye
him.
And it came to pass as they understood, they cast their eyes
up again towards Heaven, and behold, they saw a man descend­
ing out o f Heaven: and he was clothed in a white robe, and
BOOK OF NBFKI. 477
he came down and stood in the midst o f them, and the eyes o f
the whole multitude was turned upon him, and they durst not
open their mouths, even one to another, and wist not what i{
m eant: for they thought it was an angel that had appeared
unto them.
And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand, and
spake unto tbe people, saying: Behold I am Jesus Christ, o f
which the prophets testified that should come into the world ;
and behold 1 am the light and the life o f the world, and I have
drank out o f that bittereup which the Father hath given me,
and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins o f
the world, in the which I nave suffered the will o f the Father
in all things, from the beginning.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had spake these
words, the whole multitude fell to the earth, for they remem­
bered that it had been prophesied among them that Christ
should shew himself unto them after his ascension into
Heaven.
And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying :
Arise and con e forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands
into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints o f the nails
in my hands, and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the
God o f Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been
slain for the sins o f the world.
And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and
thrust their hands into his side, and did feel the prints o f the
■nails in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going
forth one by one, until they had all gone forth, and did see
with their eyes, and did feel with tbeir hands, and did know o f
a surety, and did bear record, that it was he, o f whom it was
written by the prophets that should come.
And it came to pass that when they had all gone forth, and
had witnessed for themselves, they did cry out with one ac­
cord, saying: Hosanna! Blessed he the name o f the Most
High God ! And they did fall down at the feet o f Jesus, and
did worship him.
And it came to pass that he spake unto Nephi, (for Nephi
Was among the. multitude,) and he commanded him that he
should come forth. And Nephi arose and went forth, and
bowed himself before the Lord, and he did kiss his feel.—
And the Lord commanded him that he should arise. And he
arose and stood before him. And the Lord said unto him, I
give unto you power that ye shall baptize this people, when I
478 BOOK OF fv'EPHt.
am again ascended into heaven. And again the Lord called
others, and said unto them likewise; and he gave unto them
power to baptize. And he sailh unto them, On this wise
shall ye baptize; and there shall be no disputations among
you. Verily 1say unto you, that whoso repenteth o f his sins
through your words, and desireth to be baptized in my name,
on this wise shall ye baptize them: Behold, ye shall go down
and stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them.
And now behold, these are the words which ye shall say,
calling them, by name, saying: Having authority given me o f
Jesus Christ, 1 baptize you in the name o f the Father, and o f
the Son, and o f the Holy Ghost. Amen. And then shall y#
immerse them in the water, and come forth again out o f the
water. And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name,
for behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, tutd the
Son, and the Holy Ghost are on e; and 1am in the Father, and
the Father in me, and the Father and 1 are one. And accor­
ding as I have commanded you, thus shall ye baptize. And
there shall be no disputations among you, as there hath hith­
erto been ; neither shall there be disputations among you con­
cerning the points o f my doctrine, as there hath hitherto been;
for verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit o f con­
tention. is not o f toe, but is o f the Devil, which is the father
o f contention, and he stirroth up the hearts o f men to contend
with anger, one with another. Behold, this is not my doc­
trine, to stir up the hearts o f men with anger, one against
another; but this is my doctrine, that such things should
be done away. Behold, verily, verily I say unto you, I will
declare unto you my doctrine, And this is my doctrine, and
it is the doctrine which the Father bath given unto me ; and
I bear record o f the Father, and the Father beareth record
o f me, and the Holy Ghost beareth record o f the Father and
me, and ] bear record that the father commandeth all men,
every where, to repent and believe in m e; and whoso believ­
ed» in me, and is baptized, the same eliall be saved ; and they are
they which shall inherit the kingdom o f God. And whoso
believeth not in me, and is not baptized, shall be damned.—
Verily, verily I say unto you, that this is my doctrine; and i
bear record of it from the Father; and whoso believeth in me,
believeth in the Father also; and unto him will the Father
bear record o f m e; for he will visit Mm with fire, and with
the Holy G host; and thus will the Father bear record o f m e ;
and the Holy Ghost will boor record unto him o f the Father
BOOK OP NEPH!. 479
and m e: for the Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost, are one.
And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and become as a
little child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in nowise
receive these things. And again 1 say unto you, Ye must re­
pent, and be baptized in my name, and become as a little
child, or ye can in nowise inherit the kingdom o f God. Ve­
rily, verily I say unto you, that this is my doctrine ; and whoso
buildeth upon this, buildeth upon my rock ; and the gates o f
hell shall not prevail against them. And whoso shall declare
more or less than this, and establish it for my doctrine, the
same cometh o f evil, and is not built upon my rock, but be
buildeth upon a sandy foundation, and the gates o f hell stand-
eth open to receive such, when the floods come, and the
winds beat upon them. Therefore go forth unto this people,
and declare the words which 1 have spoken, unto the ends of
the earth. And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken
these words unto Nephi, and to those which had been called,
(now the number o f them which had been called, and received
power and authority to baptize, were twelve,) and behold he
stretched forth his hand unto the multitude, and cried unto
them saying, Blessed are ye, if ye shall give heed unto the
words o f these twelve which I have chosen from among you
to minister unto you, and to be your servants; and unto them I
have given power, that they may baptize you with w ater; and
after that ye are baptized with water, behold I will baptize
you with fire and with the Holy G host; therefore blessed are
ye, if ye shall believe in me, and be baptized, after that ye
have seen me, and know that 1 am. And again, more bles­
sed are they which shall believe in your words, because
that ye shall testify that ye have seen ine, and that ye
know that I am. Yea, blessed are they which shall believe in
your words, and come down into the depth? o f humility, and
be baptized ; for they shall be visited with fire and with the
H oly Ghost, and shall receive a remission o f their sins. Yea,
blessed are the poor in spirit, which cometh unto me, for theirs
is the kingdom o f Heaven. And again, blessed are all they
that mourn, for they shall be comforted ; and blessed are the
meek, for they shall inherit the earth. And blessed are all
they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they
shall be filled with the Holy Ghost. And blessed are the mer­
ciful, for they shall obtain merev. And blessed are all the
pure in heart, for they shall see God, And blessed are all
the peace-makers, for they shall he called the children of
480 BOOK OF NEPHI.
God. And blessed are all they which are persecuted, for my
namesake, for their» is the kingdom o f Heaven. And bles­
sed are ye when men shall revile you, and persecute, and
shall say all manner o f evil against you falsely, for my sake,
for ye shall have great joy and be exceeding glad, for great
shall be your reward in H eaven: for so persecuted they
the prophets which were before you. Verily, verily I say unto
you, I give unto you to be the salt o f the earth; but if the salt
shall lose its savor, wherewith shall the earth be salted ? The
salt shall be thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out,
and to be trodden under foot o f men. Verily, verily 1 say unto
you, I give unto you to be the light o f this people. A city
that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Behold, do men light a
candle and put it under a bushel ? Nay, but on a candle­
stick, and it giveth light to all that are in the house; therefore
let your light so shine before this people, that they may see
your good works, and glorify your Father which is in Heaven.
Think not that 1 am come to destroy the law or the prophets,
I am not com e to destroy but to fulfil: for verily i say unto
you, one jot nor one tittle hath not passed away from the law,
but in me it hath all been fulfilled.
And behold I have given unto you the law and the command­
ments o f my Father, that ye shall believe in me, and that ye
shall repent o f your sins, and come unto me with a broken
heart and a contrite spirit. Behold, ye have the command­
ments before you, and the law is fulfilled; therefore come
unto me and be ye saved ; for verily I say unto you, that ex­
cept ye shall keep my commandments, which I have command­
ed you at this time, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom o f
heaven. Ye have heard that it hath been said by them o f old
time, and it is also written before you, that thou shalt not
k ill; and whosoever shall kill, shall be in danger o f the judge­
ment o f God. But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry
with his brother, shall be in danger o f his judgement. And
whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger
o f the cou ncil; and whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be
in danger o f hell-fire; therefore, if ye shall come unto me, or
shall desire to come unto me, and rememberest that thy bro­
ther hath aught against thee, go thy way unto thy brother, and
first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come unto me with
full purpose o f heart, and I will receive you. Agree with
thine adversary quickly, while thou art in the way with him,
lest at any time he shall get thee, and thou shalt be cast into
BOOT OP NEPH1. m
prison. Verily, verily I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means
come out thence, until thou hast paid the uttermost senine.—
And while ye are in prison, can ye pay even one senine I Ver­
ily, verily I say unto you, Nay. Behold, it is written by them
o f old time, that thou shalt not commit adultery; but I say un­
to you, That whosoever looketh on a woman, to lust after her,
hath committed adultery already in his heart. Behold, 1 give
unto you a commandment, that ye suffer none o f these things
to enter into your heart: for it is better that ye should deny
yourselves o f these things, wherein ye will take up your cross,
than that ye should be cast into hell. It hath been written,
That whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a
writing o f divorcement. Verily, verily I say unto you, That
whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause o f
fornication, eauseth her to commit adultery; and whoso shall
marry her who is divorced, committeth adultery. And again
it is written, Thou «halt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform
unto the Lord thine oaths. But verily, verily I say unto you,
Swear not at all; neither by Heaven, for it is God’s throne;
nor by the earth, for it his footstool; neither shalt thou swear
by the head, because thou canst not make one hair black or
white; but let your communication be Yea, y ea ; Nay, n ay: for
whatsoever cometh o f more than these are evil. And behold,
it is written, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I
say unto you, That ye shall not resist evil: but whosoever
shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.
And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy
coat, let him have thy cloak also. And whosoever shall com­
pel thee to go a mile, go with him twain. Give to him that
asketh thee, and to him that would borrow o f thee, turn the«
not away. And behold, it is written also, That thou shalt love
thy neighbor, and hate thine enem y: but behold Teay unto you,
Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, doeood to them
that hate you, and pray for them which despitefollv use you
and persecute you, that ye may b e the children o f your Fa­
ther which is in heaven : for he maketh his sun to rise on the
evil and on the good; therefore those things which were o f
old time, which were under the law in me, are all flilfilled.—
Old things are done away, and aH things have become new ;
therefore 1 would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your
Father which is in Heaven is perfect. Verity, verily, I say
that I would that ye should do alms unto the poor; but take
heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen o f them:
31
m BOOK OP NEPRT.
otherwise ye have no reward o f your Father which is in heaven.
Therefore, when ye shall do your alms, do not sound a trumpet
before you, as will hypocrites do in the synagogues, and in the
streets, that they may have glory o f men. Verily, I say unto
you, They have their reward. But when thou doest alms,
let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth; that
thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in
secret, himself shall reward thee openly.
And when thou prayest, thou shaft not do as the hypocrites:
for they love to pray standing in the synagogues, and in the
corners o f the streets, that they may be seen o f men. Verily,
I say unto you, They have their reward. But thou, when thou
prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy
door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father,
which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. But when
ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen: for they
think that they shall be beard for their much speaking. Be
not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth
what things ye have need o f before ye ask him. After this
manner therefore pray y e : Our Father which art in heaven,
Hallowed be thy name. Thy will be done in earth as it is in
heaveB. And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For
thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever.
Amen. For, if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly
Father will also forgive you : but if ye forgive not men their
trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.
Moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites, o f a sad
countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may ap­
pear unto men to fast. Verily, 1 say unto you, They have
their reward. But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thy head,
and wash thy face; that thou appear not unto men, to fast,
but unto thy Father, which is in secret: and thy Father, which
seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth
and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal:
but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither
moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break
through nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your
heart be also. The light o f the body is the eye: if therefore
thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full o f light. But
if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full o f darkness.
If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is
BOOK OF NEPK. 188
that darkness! No man can serve two masters: for either he
will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold te
the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and
mammon.
CH APTER V t
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he looked upon the twelve whom he had chosen, and
saith unto them, Remember the words which I have spoken.
For behold, ye are they which I have chosen to minister unto
this people. Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for
your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet
for your body, whai ye shall put on. Is not the life more than
meat, and the body than raiment? Behold the fowls o f the
air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into
barns; yet your heavenly Father fcedeth them. Are ye not
much better than they ? Which o f you by taking thought can
add one cubit unto his stature? And why take ye thought for
raiment ? Consider the lilies o f the field how they grow ; they
toil not, neither do they spin ; and yet I say unto you, That
even Solomon, in all his glory, was not arrayed like one o f
these. Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass o f the field,
which to-day is, and to-morrow is cast into the oven, even so
will he clothe you, if ye are not of little faith. Therefore take
no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, what shall we
drink ? or, wherewithal shall we be clothed ? For your heav­
enly Father knoweth that ye have need o f all these things.—
But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness,
and all these filings shall be added unto you. Take therefore
no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought
for the things o f itself. Sufficient is the day unto the evil
thereof.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he turned again to the multitude, and did open his
mouth unto them again, saying, Verily, verily, I say unto you,
Judge not, that ye be not judged. For with what judgement
ye judge, ye shall he judged: and with what measure ye mete,
it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou
the mote that is hr thy brother’s eye, but considerest not the
beam that is in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy
3 1 *
484 BOOK OP NEPHI.
brother, Let me poll out the mote out o f thine eye; and behold,
a beam is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, first cast out
the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly
to cast out the mote out o f thy brother’s eye. Give not that
which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before
swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again
and rend you.
Ask, and it shall be given unto you j seek, and ye shall find;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you: for every one that
asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh, findeth; and to him
that knocketh, it shall be opened. Or what man is there of
you, whom, if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone ? Or
if he ask a fish, will be give him a serpent? If ye then being
evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much
more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to
them that ask him? Therefore all things whatsoever ye would
that inen should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is
the law and the prophets.
Enter ye in at the straight gate ; for wide is the gate, and
broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there
be which go in thereat: because, straight is the gate, and nar­
row is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that
find i t Beware o f false prophets, which come to you in
sheep’s clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye
shall know them by their fruits : D o men gather grapes o f
thorns, or figs of thistles ? Even so every good tree bringeth
forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit—
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither a corrupt tree
bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good
fruit, is hewn down, and cast into the fire. Wherefore, by
their fruits ye shall know them.
Mot every one that saith uuto me Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the kingdom o f heaven; hut he that doeth the will of my
Father which is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day,
Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name ? and in thy
name have cast out devils ? and in tbv name done many won­
derful works ? And then will I profess unto them, 1 never
knew you : depart from me, ye that work iniquity.
Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth
them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house
upon a rock : and the rain descended, and the floods came,
and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not:
for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth
BOOK o r NBfHI. 485
these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened
unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand: and
the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew,
and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall
o f it
CH A PTE R VII.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these
sayings, he cast his eyes round about on the multitude, and
saith unto them, Behold, ye have heard the things which I
have taught before I ascended to my Father; therefore whoso
rememberelh these sayings of mine, and doeth them, him will
I raise up at the last day. And it came to pass that when Je­
sus had said these words, he perceived that there were some
among them which marvelled, and wondered wat he would
concerning the law o f Moses: for they understood not the
saying, That old things had passed away, and that all things
had become new. And he saith unto them, Marvel not that
I said unto you, that old things had passed away, and that all
things had become new. Behold I say unto you, That the law
is fulfilled that was given unto Moses. Behold, I am he that
gave the law, and I am he which covenanted with my people
Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled: for I have come
to fulfil the law ; therefore, it hath an end. Behold, I do not
destroy the prophets: for as many as have not been fulfilled
in me, verily, I say unto you, shall all be fulfilled. And be
cause I said unto you, That old things hath passed away, I do
not destroy that which hath been spoken concerning things
which is to come. For behold, the covenant which I have
made with my people, is not all fulfilled > hat the law which
was given unto Moses, hath an end in me. Behold, I 4m the
law, and the light: Look unto me, and endure to the end, and
ye shall live: for unto him that endureth to the end, will 1
give eternal life. Behold, I have given unto you the com­
mandments; therefore keep my commandments. And this is
the law and the prophets: for they truly testified o f me.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he said unto those twelve whom he had chosen, Ye are
my disciples; and ye are a light unto this people, which are a
remnant o f the house o f Joseph. And behold, this is the land
436 BOOK OF NEPHI.
o f your inheritance; and the Father hath given it Unto you.—
And not at any time hath the Father given me commandment
that I should tell it unto your brethren at Jerusalem; neither
at any time hath the Father given me commandment, that I
should tell unto them concerning the other tribes o f the house
o f Israel, which the Father hath led away out o f the land..—
This much did the Father command me, That I should tell
unto them, that other sheep I have, which are not of this fold;
them also I must bring, and they shall hear my v oice; and
there shall be one fold, and one shepherd. And now because
o f stiflfneckedness and unbelief, they understood not my word ;
therefore I was commanded to say no more o f the Father con­
cerning this thing unto them. But, verily, I say unto you, that
the Father hath commanded me, and I tell it unto you, that
ye were separated from among them because o f their iniquity;
therefore it is because o f their iniquity, that they know not o f
you. And verily, I say unto you again, That the other tribes
hath the father separated from them ; and it is because o f their
iniquity, that they know not o f them. And verily, 1 say unto
you, That ye are they o f which I said, other sheep I have,
which are not o f this fold; them also I must bring, and they
shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one
shepherd. And they understood me not, for they supposed
it had been the Gentiles: for they understood not that the
Gentiles should be converted through their preaching; and
they understood me not that I said they shall hear my voice;
and they understood me not that the Gentiles should not at
any time hear my voice; that I should not manifest myself
unto them, save it were by the Holy Ghost. But behold, ye
have both heard my voice, and seen me ; and ye are my sheep,
and ye are numbered among them which the Father hath giv­
en me. And verily, verily, I say unto you, That I have other
sheep, which are not o f this land; neither o f the land o f Jeru­
salem ; neither in any parts o f that land round about, whither
I have been to minister. For they o f which I speak, are they
which have not as yet heard my vqice; neither have I at any
time manifested myself unto them. But I have received a
commandment o f the Father, That I shall go unto them, and
that they shall hear my voice, and shall be numbered among
my sheep, that there may be one fold, and one shepherd;
therefore 1 go to shew myself unto them. And I command
you that ye shall write these sayings, after that I am gone, that
if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they which have seen
BOOK OP NEPHI. 487
w e, and been with me in my ministry, do not ask the Father
in my name, that they may receive a knowledge of you by the
Holy Ghost, and also o f the other tribes which they know not
of, that these sayings which ye shall write, shall be kept, and
shall be manifested unto the Gentiles, that through the fulness
of the Gentiles, the remnant o f their seed which shall be scat­
tered forth upon the face o f the earth, because of their unbe­
lief, may be brought in, or may be brought to a knowledge o f
me, their Redeemer. And then will I gather them in from the
four quarters o f the earth; and then will 1 fulfil the covenant
which the Father hath made unto all the people o f the house
o f Israel. And Messed are the Gentiles, because o f their be­
lief in me, in and o f the Holy Ghost, which witness unto them
o f me and o f the Father. Behold, because o f their belief in
me, saith the Father, and because o f the unbelief o f you, O
house o f Israel, in the latter day shall the truth come unto the
Gentiles, that the fulness o f these things shall be made known
unto them. But W o, saith the Father, unto the unbelieving of
the Gentiles: for notwithstanding that they have come forth
upon the face o f this land, and have scattered my people, which
are o f the house of Israel; and my people which are o f the
house o f Israel, have been cast out from among them, and
have been trodden under feet by them; and because o f the
mercies o f the Father unto the Gentiles, and also the judge­
ments o f the Father upon my people, which are o f the house
o f Israel, verily, verily, I say unto you, That after all this, and
1 have caused my people which are o f the house o f Israel,
to be smitten, and to be afflicted, and to be slain, and to be cast
out from among them, and to become hated by them, and to
become a hiss and a by-word among them. And thus com-
mandeth the Father that I should say unto you at that day,
When the Gentiles shall sin against my Gospel, and shall re­
ject the fulness of my Gospel, and shall be lifted up in the
pride of their hearts above all nations, and above all the peo­
ple of the whole earth, and shall be filled with all manner o f
lyings, and o f deceits, and o f mischiefs, and all manner o f hy­
pocrisy, and murders, and priestcrafts, and whoredoms, and
o f secret abominations; and if they shall do all these things,
and shall reject the fulness o f my Gospel, behold, saith the
Father, I will bring the fulness o f my Gospel from among
them; and then will I remember my covenant which I have
made unto my people, O house o f Israel, and I will bring my
Gospel unto them; and I will shew unto thee, O house of Is-
488 BOOK OF NEPI1I.
rael, that the Gentiles shall not have power over you, but I
will remember my covenant unto you, O house o f Israel, and
ye shall come unto the knowledge o f the fulness of my Gospel,
But if the Gentiles will repent, and return unto me, saith the
Father, behold, they shall be numbered among my people, O
house o f Israel; and I will not suffer my people, which are of
the house o f Israel, to go through amoDg them, and tread them
down, saith the Father. But if they will not turn unto me,
and hearken unto my voice, I will suffer them, yea, I will suf­
fer my people, O house o f Israel, that they shall go through
among them, and shall tread them down, and they shall be as
salt that hath lost his savour, which is thenceforth good for
nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of
my people, O house o f Israel. Verily, verily, I say unto you,
Thus has the Father commanded me, that 1 should give unto
this people this land for their inheritance. And when the
words o f the prophet Isaiah shall be fulfilled, which saith,
Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together
shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the Lord
shall bring again Zion. Break forth into joy, sing together,
ye waste places o f Jerusalem: for the Lord hath comforted
his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord hath
made bare his holy arm in the eyes o f all the nations: and all
the ends o f the earth shall see the salvation o f God.
CH APTER VIII.
Behold, now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken
these words, he looked round about again on the multitude,
and he saith unto them, Behold, my time is at band. I per­
ceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot understand all my words
which I am commanded o f the Father to speak unto you at
this time; therefore, go ye unto your homes, and ponder upon
the things which I have said, and ask o f the Father, in my
name, that ye may understand; and prepare your minds for
the morrow, and I come unto you again. But now I go unto
flie Father, and also to shew myself unto the lost tribes o f Is­
rael : for they are not lost unto the Father, for he knoweth
whither he hath taken them.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus spoken, he
cast his eyes round about again on the multitude, and beheld
BOOK OF KEPHI. 489
they were in tears, and did look steadfastly upon him, as if
they would ask him to tarry a little longer with them. And
he saith unto them, Behold, my bowels is filled with compas­
sion towards y ou : Have ye any that are sick among you, bring
them hither. Have ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or
maimed, or leprous, or that are withered, or that are deaf, or
that are afflicted in any manner, bring them hither, and i will
heal them: for 1 have compassion upon you ; my bowels is
filled with m ercy: for I perceive that ye desire that I should
shew unto you what I have done unto your brethren at Jeru­
salem : for I see that your faith is sufficient, that I should heal
you.
And it came to pass that when be had thus spoken, all the
multitude, with one accord, did go forth, with their sick, and
their afflicted, and their lame, and with their blind, and with
their dumb, and with all they that were afflicted in any man­
ner ; and he did heal them every one as they were brought
forth unto him ; and they did all, both they which had been
healed, and they which were whole, bow down at his feet,
and did worship him ; and as many as could come for the
multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his
feet with their tears.
And it came to pass that he commanded that their little
children should be brought. So they brought their little chil­
dren and sat them down upon the ground round about him,
and Jesus stood in the m idst; and the multitude gave way
till they had all been brought unto him. And it came to pass
that when they had all been brought, and Jesus stood in the
midst, he commanded the multitude that they should kneel
down upon the ground. And it came to pass that when they
had knelt upon the ground, Jesus groaned within himself, and
saith, Father, I am troubled because o f the wickedness o f the
people o f the house o f Israel. And when he had said these
words, he himself also knelt upon the earth; and behold he
prayed unto the Father; and the things which he prayed,
cannot he written, and the multitude did bear record which
heard him. And after this manner do they bear record ; the
eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so
great and marvellous things as we saw and heard Jesus
speak unto the Father; and no tongue can speak, neither can
there be written by any man, neither can the hearts o f men
conceive so great and marvellous things as we both saw and
heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive o f thejoy which
490 BOOK OP NEPH!.
filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the
Father,
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end o f
praying unto the Father, he arose; but so great was the joy
o f the multitude, that they were overcome. And it came to
pass that Jesus spake unto them, and bade them arise. And
they arose from the earth, and he saith unto them, Blessed
are ye because o f your faith. And now behold, my joy is full.
And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multi­
tude bear record of it, and he took their little children, one by
one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them.
And when he had done this he wept again, and he spake unto
the multitude and saith unto them, Behold your little ones.
And as they looked to behold, they cast their eyes towards
Heaven, and they saw the Heavens open, and they saw angels
descending out o f Heaven as it were, in the midst o f fire; and
they came down and encircled those little ones about; and
they were encircled about with fire; and the angels did mi­
nister unto them, and the multitude did see and hear, and
bear record; and they know that their record is true, for
they all o f them did see and hear, every man for himself;
and they were in number about two thousand and five hun­
dred souls; and they did consist o f men, women and chil­
dren.
And it came to pass that Jesus commanded his disciples
that they should bring forth some bread and wine unto him.
And while they were gone for bread and wine, he command­
ed the multitude that they should sit themselves down upon
the earth. And when the disciples had come with bread and
wine, he took o f the bread, and berak, and blessed it; and he
gave unto the disciples, and commanded that they should eat.
And when they had eat, and were filled, he commanded that
they should give unto the multitude. And when the multitude
had eaten and were filled, he saith unto the disciples, Behold,
there shall one be ordained among you, and to him will I give
power that he shall break bread, and bless it, and give it unto
the people o f my church, unto all they which shall believe
and be baptized in my name. And this shall ye always ob­
serve to do, even as I have done, even as 1 have broken bread,
and blessed it, and gave it unto you. And this shall ye do in
remembrance o f my body, which I have shewn unto you.—
And it shall he a testimony unto the Father, that ye do al-
BOOK OP NEFHI. 491
ways remember me. And if ye do always remember me, ye
shall have my spirit to be with you.
And it came to pass that when he had said these words, he
commanded his disciples that they should take o f the wine o f
the cup, and drink o f it, and that they should also give unto
the multitude, that they might drink o f it And it came to
pass that they did so, and did drink o f it, and were filled;
and they gave unto the multitude, and they did drink, and they
were tilled. And when the disciples had done this, Jesus saith
unto them, Blessed are ye for this thing which ye have done,
for this is fulfilling my commandments, and this doth witness
unto the Father that ye are willing to do that which 1 have
commanded you. And this shall ye always do unto those
who repent and are baptized in my name; and ye shall do it
in remembrance o f my blood, which 1 have shed for you, that
ye may witness unto the Father that ye do always remember
me. And if ye do always remember me, ye shall have my
spirit to be with you. And I give unto you a commandment
that ye shall dothess things. And if ye shall alwaysdo these
things, blessed are ye, for ye are built upon my rock. But
whoso among you shall do more or less than these, are not
built upon my rock, but are built upon a sandy foundation;
and when the rain descends, and the floods come, and the
winds blow, and beat upon them, they shall fall, and the gates
o f hell is already open to receive them ; therefore blessed are
ye if ye shall keep my commandments, which the Father hath
commanded me that I should give unto you. Verily, verily I
stay unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempt­
ed by the devil, and ye are led away captive by him. And
as I have prayed among you, even so shall ye pray in my
church, among my people which do repent and are baptized
in my name. Behold I am the light; 1 have set an example
for you.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had spake these words
unto his disciples, he turned again unto the mnltitude, and
saith unto them, Behold, verily, verily 1 say unto you, ye must
watch and pray always, lest ye enter into temptation; for sa-
tan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat; there­
fore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name; and
whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is
right, believing that ye shall receive, and behold it shall be
given unto you. Pray in your families unto the Father, always
in my name, that your wives and your children may be bless-
492 BOOK OP NEPSU.
ed. And behold, ye shall meet together oft, and ye shall not
forbid any man from coming unto you when ye shall meet to-
fether, but suffer them that they may come unto you, and flor­
id them n ot; but ye shall pray for them, and shall not cast
them ou t; and if it so be that they come unto you oft, ye
shall pray for them unto the Father, in my name; therefore
hold up your light, that it may shine unto the world. Behold
I am the light which ye shall hold up— that which ye hare seen
me do. Behold ye see that I hate prayed unto the Father,
and ye all hate witnessed; and ye see that 1 have command­
ed that none o f you should go away, but rather have command­
ed that ye should come unto me, that ye might feel and see;
even so shall ye do unto the w orld; and whosoever breaketh
this commandment, suffereth himself to be lead into tempta­
tion.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he turned his eyes again upon the disciples whom he
had chosen, and saith unto them, behold, verily, verily I say
unto you, I give unto you another commandment, and then I
must go unto my Father, that I may fulfil other command­
ments which he hath given me. And now behold, this is the
commandment which I give unto you, that ye shall not suffer
any one, knowingly, to partake o f my flesh, and blood unwor­
thily, when ye shall minister i t : For whoso eateth and drink-
eth my flesh and blood unworthily, eateth and drinkelh dam­
nation to his soul; therefore if ye know that a man is unwor­
thy to eat and drink o f my flesh and blood, ye shall forbid him ;
nevertheless ye shall not cast him out from among you, but yc
shall minister unto him. and shall pray for him unto the Fa­
ther, in my name, and if it so be that he repenteth, and is
babtized in my name, then shall ye receive him, and shall
minister unto him o f my flesh and b lood; but if he repenteth
not, he shall not be numbered among my people, that he may
not destroy my people: For behold I know my sheep, and
they are numbered; nevertheless ye shall not cast him out o f
your synagogues, or your places o f worship, for unto such
shall ye continue to minister ; for ye know not but what they
will return and repent, and come unto me with full purpose o f
heart, and I shall heal them, and ye shall be the means o f
bringing salvation unto them. Therefore keep these sayings
which I have commanded you, that ye come not under con-
dertmation: For wo unto him whom the Father condemn­
ed!. And I give you these commandments, because o f the
BOOK OP NEPHl. 493
disputations which hath been among you beforetime. And
blessed are ye if ye have no disputations among you. And
now I go unto the Father, because it is expedient that I should
go unto the Father, for your sakes.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end o f
these sayings, he touched with his hand the disciples whom
he had chosen, one by one, even until he had touched them all,
and spake unto them as he touched them ; and the multitude
heard not the words which he spake, therefore they did not
bear record ; but the disciples bear record that he gave them
power to give the Holy G host And I will shew unto you
hereafter that this record is true.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had touched them all,
there came a cloud and overshadowed the multitude, that
they could not see Jesus. And while they were oversha­
dowed, he departed from them, and ascended into Heaven.—
And the disciples saw and did bear record that he ascended
again into Heaven.
C H A PT E R IX.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ascended
into Heaven, the multitude did disperse, and every man did
take his wife and his children, and did return to his own
home. And it was noised abroad among the people immedi­
ately, before it was yet dark, that the multitude had seen Je­
sus, and that he had ministered unto them, and that he would
also show himself on the morrow unto the multitude; yea, and
even all the night it was noised abroad concerning Jesus; and
insomuch did they send forth unto the people, that there were
many, yea, an exceeding great number did labor exceedingly
all that night, that they might be on the morrow in the place
where Jesus should shew himself unto the multitude.
And it came to pass that on the morrow, when the multi­
tude was gathered together, behold Nephi and his brother,
whom he had raised from the dead, whose name was Timo­
thy, and also his son, whose name was Jonas, and also Ma-
thoni, and Mathonihah, his brother, and Kumen, and Kume-
nonhi, and Jeremiah, and Shemnon, and Jonas, and Zedekiah,
and Isaiah : Now these were the names o f the disciples whom
Jesus had chosen. And it came to pass that they went forth
494 BOOK OF NEPHI.
and stood in the midst o f the multitude. And behold, the
multitude was so great, that they did cause that they should
be separated into twelve bodies. And the twelve did teach
the multitude; and behold, they did cause that the multitude
should kneel down upon the face of the earth, and should pray
unto the Father, in the name o f Jesus, And the disciples did
pray unto the Father also, in the name of Jesus. And it came
to pass that they arose and ministered unto the people. And
when they had ministered those same words which Jesus had
spoken— nothing varying from the words which Jesus had
spoken— behold, they knelt again, and prayed to the Father in
the name o f Jesus; and they did pray for that which they
most desired; and they desired that the Holy Ghost should
be given unto them. And when they had thus prayed, they
went down unto the water’s edge, and the multitude followed
them. And it came to pass that Nephi went down into the
water, and was baptized. And he came up out o f the water,
and began to baptize. And he baptized all they whom Jesus
had chosen. And it came to pass when they were all bapti­
zed, and had come up out o f the water, the Holy Ghost did
fall upon them, and they were filled with the Holy Ghost, and
with fire. And behold, they were encircled about as if it were
fire; and it came down from heaven, and the multitude did
witness it, and do bear record; and angels did come down
out o f heaven, and did minister unto them. And it came to
pass that while the angels were ministering unto the disciples,
behold, Jesus came and stood in the midst, and ministered
unto them. And it came to pass that he spake unto the mul­
titude, and commanded them that they should kneel down
again upon the earth, and also that his disciples should kneel
down upon the earth. And it came to pass that when they had
all knelt down upon the earth, he commanded his disciples that
they should pray. And behold, they began to pray ; and they
did pray unto Jesus, calling him their Lord and their God.
And it came to pass that Jesus departed out o f the midst of
them, and went a little way off from them and bowed himself
to the earth, and he saith, Father, I thank thee that thou hast
given the Holy Ghost unto these whom I have chosen ; and it is
because o f their belief in me, that I have chosen them out o f
the world. Father, I pray thee that thou wilt give the Holy
Ghost unto all them that shall believe in their words. Father,
thou hast given them the Holy Ghost, because they believe in
me, and thou seest that they believe in me, because thou hear-
BOOK OF NEPHI. 495
est them, and they pray unto m e ; and they pray unto me be­
cause I am with them. And now Father, I pray unto thee for
them, and also for all they which shall believe on their words,
that they may believe in me, that I may be in them as thou,
Father, art in me, that we may be one.
And it came to pass, that when Jesus had thus prayed unto
the Father, he came unto his disciples, and behold they did
still continue, without ceasing, to pray unto him ; and they did
not multiply many words, for it was given unto them what
they should pray, and they were filled with desire. And it
came to pass that Jesus blessed them, as they did pray unto
him, and his countenance did smile upon them, and the light
o f his countenance did shine upon them, and behold they were
as white as the countenance, and also the garments o f Jesus ;
and behold the whiteness thereof did exceed all the whiteness,
yea, even there could be nothing upon earth so white as the
whiteness thereof. And Jesus saith unto them, Pray on, nev­
ertheless they did not cease to pray. And he turned from
them again, and went a little way off, and bowed himself to
the earth; and he prayed again unto the Father, saying:
Father, I thank thee that thou hast purified those which I
have chosen, because o f their faith, and I pray for them, and
also for them which shall believe on their words, that they
may be purified in me, through faith on their words, even as
they are purified in me. Father, I pray not for the world,
but for them which thou hast given unto me out o f the world,
because o f their faith, that they may be purified in me, that i
may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be
one, that I may be glorified in them.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had spake these
words, he came again unto his disciples, and behold they did
pray steadfastly, without ceasing, unto him ; and he did smile
upon then again ; and behold they were white, even as Jesus.
And it came to pass that he went again a little way off, and
prayed unto the Father; and tongue cannot speak the words
which he prayed, neither can be written by man the words
which he prayed. And the multitude did hear, and do bear
record, and their hearts were open, and they did understand
in their hearts the words which he prayed. Nevertheless, so
great and marvellous were the words which he prayed, that
they cannot be written, neither can they be utttered by man.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end o f
praying, he came again to the disciples, and saith unto
4 9 6 BOOK OP NEFH1.
them, So great faith have I never seen among all the Jews ,
wherefore I could not shew unto them so great miracles, be­
cause o f their unbelief. Verily 1 say unto you, there are none
o f them that have seen so great things as ye have seen ; nei­
ther have they heard so great things as ye have heard.
And it came to pass that he commanded the multitude that
they should cease to pray, and also his disciples. And he
commanded them that they should not cease to pray in their
hearts. And he commanded them that they should arise and
stand up upon their feet. And they arose up and stood upon
their feet. And it came to pass that he break bread again,
and blessed it, and gave to the disciples to eat. And when
they bad eat, he commanded them that they should break
bread, and give unto the multitude. And when they had giv­
en unto the multitude, he also gave them wine to drink, and
commanded them that they should give unto the multitude.
Now there had been no bread, neither wine, brought by the
disciples, neither by the multitude ; but he truly gave unto
them bread to eat, and also wine to drink ; and he saith unto
them, He that eatheth this bread, eatheth o f my body to their
soul, and he that drinketh o f this wine, drinketh o f my blood
to their soul, and their soul shall never hunger nor thirst, hut
shall be filled. Now when the multitude had all eat and
drank, behold they were filled with the spirit, and they did
cry out with one voice, and gave glory to Jesus, whom they
both saw and heard. And it came to pass that when they
had all given glory unto Jesus, he saith unto them, Behold
now 1 finish the commandment which the Father hath com­
manded me concerning this people, which are a remnant o f
the house oflsrael. Ye remember that I spake unto you, and
said that when the words of Isaiah should be fulfilled : Be­
hold they are written, y e have them before you ; therefore
search them. And verily, verily I say unto you, that when
they shall be fulfilled, then is the fulfilling o f the covenant
which the Father hath made unto his people. O house of Is­
rael, and then shall the remnants which shall be scattered
abroad upon the face of the earth, he gathered in from the east,
and from the west, and from the south, and from the north;
and they shall be brought to the knowledge of the Lord their
God, who hath redeemed them. And the Father hath com­
manded me that 1 should give unto you this land, for your
inheritance. And I say unto you, that if the Gentiles do not
repent after the blessing which they shall receive, after that
BOOS OP NEPXI. m
they hare scattered my people, then shall ye which are a rem­
nant o f the house o f Jacob,go forth among them; and ye shall
be in the midst o f them, which shall be many; and ye shall be
among them, as a lion among the beasts o f the forest, and as
a young lion among the flocks o f sheep, who, if he goeth
through, both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and none
can deliver. Thy hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversa­
ries, and all thine enemies shall be cut off. And 1 will gather
my people together, as a man gathereth his sheaves into the
floor: for I will make my people with whom the Father hath
covenanted, yea, I will make thy horn iron, and I will make
thy hoops brass. And thou shalt beat in pieces many people;
and 1will consecrate their gain unto the Lord, and their sub­
stance unto the Lord o f the whole earth. And behold, I am
he which doeth it. And it shall come to pass, saith the Fa­
ther, That the sword o f my justice shalt hang over them at
that day; and except they repent, it shall fall upon them, saith
the Father, yea, even upon all the nations o f the Gentiles.—
And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O
house o f Israel. And behold, this people will 1 establish in
this land, unto the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with
your Father Jacob ; and it shall be a new Jerusalem. And
the powers o f heaven shall be in the midst o f this people; yea,
even I will be in the midst o f you. Behold, I am he o f whom
Moses spake, saying: A prophet shall the Lord your God
raise up unto you o f your brethren, like unto me: him shall ye
hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you. And it
shall come to pass that every soul which will not hear that
prophet, shall be cut off from among the people. Verily, I
say unto you, Yea; and all the prophets from Samuel, and
those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have testified
of me. And behold, ye are the children of the prophets; and
ye are o f the house o f Israel; and ye are o f the covenant which
the Father made with your fathers, saying: Unto Abraham,
and in thy seed, shall all the kindreds o f the earth be blessed:
the Father having raised me up unto you first, and sent me to
bless you, in turning away every one of you from his iniqui­
ties ; and this because ye are the children o f the covenant.—
And after that ye were blessed, then fulfilleth the Father the
covenant which he made with Abraham, saying: In thy seed
shall all the kindreds o f the earth be blessed, unto the pouring
out o f the Holy Ghost through me upon the Gentiles, which
blessing upon the Gentiles, shall make them mighty above all,
32
498 BOOK OF NEPHI.
unto the scattering o f my people, O house o f Israel; and they
shall be a scourge unto the people o f this land. Nevertheless,
when they shall have received the fulness o f my Gospel, then
if they shall harden their hearts against me, I will return their
iniquities upon their own heads, saith the Father. And I will
remember the covenant which 1 have made with my people:
and I have covenanted with them, that I would gather them
together in mine own due time; that I would give unto them
again the land o f their fathers, for their inheritance, which is
the land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them
forever, saith the Father.
And it shall come to pass that the time cometh, when the
fulness o f my gospel shall be preached unto them, and they
shall believe in me, that 1 am Jesus Christ, the Son o f God,
and shall pray unto the Father in my name. Then shall their
watchmen lift up their voice; and with the voice together shall
they sing: for they shall see eye to eye. Then will the Fa­
ther gather them together again, and give unto them Jerusa­
lem for the land o f their inheritance. Then shall they break
forth intojo y — sing together, ye waste places o f Jerusalem:
for the Father hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed
Jerusalem. The Father hath made bare his holy arm in the
eyes o f all the nations: and all the ends o f the earth shall see
the salvation of the Father; and the Father and I are one.—
And then shall be brought to pass that which is writen: Awake,
awake again, and put on thy strength, O Z ion ; put on thy
beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth
there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the
unclean. Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O
Jerusalem: loose thyself from the bands o f thy neck, O cap­
tive daughter of Zion. For thus saith the Lord, Ye have sold
yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed without
money. Verily, verily, I say unto you, That my people shall
know my name; yea, in that day they shall know that I am
he that doth speak. And then shall they say, How beautiful
upon the mountains are the feet o f him that bringeth good ti­
dings unto them, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good ti­
dings unto them o f good, that publisheth salvation; that saith
unto Zion, Thy God reigneth! And then shall a cry go forth,
Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touch not that
which is unclean; go ye out o f the midst o f her; be ye clean,
that bear the vessels o f the Lord. For ye shall not go out
with haste, nor go by flight: for the Lord will go before y o u ;
BOOK OF NEPHI. 499
and the God o f Israel shall be your rereward. Behold, my
servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted and extolled,
and be very high. As many were astonished at thee; (his
visage was so marred more than any man, and bis form more
than the sonB of men:) so shall he sprinkle many nations;
the kings shall shut their mouths at him: for that which had
been told them shall they see; and that which they had not
heard shall they consider. Verily, verily, I say unto you, All
these things shall surely come, even as the Father hath com­
manded me. Then shall this covenant which the Father hath
covenanted with his people, he fulfilled; and then shall Jeru­
salem he inhabited again with my people i and it shall be the
land o f their inheritance. And verily, I say unto you, 1 give
unto you a sign, that ye may know the time when these things
shall he about to take place, that I shall gather in from their
long dispersion, my people, O house o f Israel, and shall estab­
lish again among them my Zion. And behold, this is the thing
which I will give unto you for a sign; for verily, I say unto
you, That when these things which I declare unto you, and
which I shall declare unto you hereafter of myself, and by the
power of the Holy Ghost, which shall be given unto you of the
Father, shall be made known unto the Gentiles, that they may
know concerning this peoplewhich area remnant of the house
o f Jacob, and concerning this my people which shall be scat­
tered by them; verily, verily, 1 say unto you, When these
things shall be made known unto them of the Father, and shall
come forth of the Father from them unto you : for it is wis­
dom in the Father that they should be established in this land,
and he set up as a free people by the power o f the Father,
that these things might come forth from them unto a remnant
o f your seed, that the covenant o f the Father may be fulfilled
which he hath covenanted with his people, O house of Israel;
therefore, when these works, and the works which shall be
wrought among you hereafter, shall come forth from the Gen­
tiles unto your seed, which shall dwindle in unbelief because
o f iniquity: for thus it behooveth the Father that it should
come forth from the Gentiles, that he may shew forth his pow
er unto the Gentiles, for this cause, that the Gentiles, if they
will not harden their hearts, that they may repent and come
unto me, and be baptized in my name, and know of the true
points of my doctrine, that they may be numbered among my
people, O house of Israel; and when these things come to
pass, that thy seed shall begin to know these things, it shall
500 BOOS OF NEFHi.
be a sign unto them, that they may know that the work o f the
Father hath already commenced unto the fulfilling o f the cove­
nant which he hath made unto the people which are o f the
house o f Israel. And when that day shall come, it shall come
to pass that kings shall shut their mouths: for that which had
not been told them shall they see; and that which they had
not heard shall they conside . For in that day, for my sake
shall the Father work a work, which shall be a great and a
marvellous work among them; and there shall be among them
which will not believe it, although a man shall declare it unto
them. But behold, the life o f my servant shall be in my hand;
therefore they shall not hurt him, although he shall be marred
because of them. Yet I will heal him, for I will shew unto
them that my wisdom is greater than the cunning o f the Devil.
Therefore it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not be­
lieve in my words, which am Jesus Christ, which the Father
shall cause him to bring forth unto the Gentiles, and shall
give unto him power that he shall bring them forth unto the
Gentiles, (it shall be done even as Moses said,) they shall be
cut off from among my people which are o f the covenant; and
my people which are a remnant o f Jacob, shall be among the
Gentiles, yea, in the midst o f them, as a lion among the beasts
o f the forest, as a young lion among the flocks o f sheep, who,
if he go through, both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and
none can deliver. Their hand shall he lifted up upon their ad­
versaries, and all their enemies shall he cut off. Yea, wo be
unto the Gentiles, except they repent: for it shall come to pass
in that day, saith the Father, that I will cut off thy horses out
o f the midst o f thee, and I will destroy thy chariots, and I will
cut off the cities o f thy land, and throw down all thy strong
holds; and I will cut off witchcrafts out o f thy hand, and thou
shall have no more soothsayers: thy graven images 1 will also
cut off, and thy standing images out o f the midst o f thee; and
thou shalt no more worship the works o f thy hands; and I will
pluck up thy groves out o f the midst o f thee; so will 1 destroy
thy cities. And it shall come to pass that all lyings, and de­
ceiving*, and envyings, and strifes, and priestcrafts, and whore­
doms, shall be done away. For it shall come to pass, saith
the Father, that at that day, whosoever will not repent and
come unto my beloved Son, them will I cut off from among
my people, O house of Israel; and I will execute vengeance
and fury upon them, even as upon the heathen, such as they
have not heard.
BOOK OF NEPMI. 501
C H A PT E R X.
But if they will repent, and hearken unto my words, and
harden not their hearts, I will establish my church among
them, and they shall come in unto the covenant, and be num­
bered among this the remnant o f Jacob, unto whom 1 have
given this land for their inheritance, and they shall assist my
people, the remant o f Jacob; and also, as many o f the house
o f Israel as shall come, that they may build a city, which shall
be called the New Jerusalem; and then shall they assist my
people that they may be gathered in, which are scattered upon
all the face o f the land, in unto the New Jerusalem, And then
shall the power o f heaven come down among them; and I
also will be in the midst; and then shall the work of the Fa­
ther commence, at that day even when this Gospel shall be
preached among the remnant o f this people. Verily, I say
unto you, At that day shall the work o f the Father commence
among all the dispersed o f my people; yea, even the tribes
which have been lost, which the Father hath led away out o f
Jerusalem, Yea, the. work shall commence among all the dis­
persed o f my people, with the Father, to prepare the way
whereby they may come unto me, that they may call on the
father in my name; yea, and then shall the work commence,
with the Father, among all nations, in preparing the way
whereby his people may be gathered home to the land o f their
inheritance. And they shall go out from all nations ; and they
shall not go out in haste, nor go by flight: for I will go before
them, saith the Father, and I will be their rereward. And then
shall that which is written come to pass. Sing, O barren,
thou that didst not bear; break forth into singing, and cry
aloud, thou that didst not travail with child: for more are the
children o f the desolate than the children o f the married wife,
saith the Lord. Enlarge the place o f thy tent, and let them
stretch forth the curtains of thy habitations; spare not, length­
en thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes ; for thou shalt break
forth on the right band and on the left; and thy seed shall in­
herit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be inhabited.
Fear not; for thou shalt not be ashamed : neither be thou con­
founded : for thou shalt not be put to shame: for thou shalt
forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the re­
proach of tby widowhood any more. For thy Maker, thy
husband, The Lord o f hosts is his name; and thy Redeemer,
the Holy One o f Israel; The God of the whole earth shall he
502 BOOK OF NEPHI.
be called. For the Lord hath called thee as a woman forsa­
ken and grieved in spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast
refused, eaith thy God. For a small moment have 1 forsaken
thee; but with great mercies will I gather thee. In a little
wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment; but with ever­
lasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the Lord thy
Redeemer. For this, the waters of Noah unto m e: for as I have
sworn that the waters of Noah should no more go over the
earth, so have I sworn that 1 would not be wroth with thee.
For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but
roy kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the cove­
nant o f iny people be removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy
on thee.
O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted!
behold, 1 will lay tby stones with fair colors, and lay ihy foun­
dations with sapphires. And 1will make thy windows oi agates,
and thy gates o f carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant
stones. And all thy children shall be taught of the Lord ; and
great shall be the peace of thy children. In righteousness
shSlt thou be established: thou shall be far from oppression;
for thou shalt not fear: and from terror; for it shall not come
near thee. Behold, they shall surely gather together against
thee, not by m e: whosoever shall gather together against thee
shall fall for thy sake. Behold, I have created the smith that
bloweth the coals in the fire, and that bringeth forth an instru­
ment for his w ork; and I have created the waster to destroy.
No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and ev­
ery tongue that shall rise against thee in judgement thou shalt
condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord,
and their righteousness is o f me, saith the Lord. And now
behold f say unto you, That ye had ought to search these
things. Yea, a commandment I give unto you, that ye search
these things diligently: for great is the words of Isaiah. For
surely he spake as touching all things concerning my people
which are o f the house of Israel; therefore it must needs be
that he must speak also to the Gentiles. And all things that
he spake, hath been, and shall be, even according to the words
which he spake. Therefore give heed to my words: write
the things which I have told you ; and according to the time
and the will o f the Father, they shall go forth unto the Gen­
tiles. And whosoever will hearken unto my words, and re-
penteth, and is baptized, the same shall he saved. Search the
prophets: for many there be that testify o f these things.
B
O
O
K
- or NEFBi S03
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had said these
words, he eaith unto them again, after he had expounded all
the Scriptures unto them which they had received, he saith
unto them, Behold, other Scriptures I would that ye should
write, that ye have not. And it came to pass that he saith
unto Nephi, Bring forth the record which ye have kept. And
when Nephi had brought forth the records, and laid them be­
fore him, he cast his eyes upon them, and saith, Verily, I
say unto you, I commanded my servant Samuel, the Laman-
ite, that he should testify unto this people, that at the day that
the Father should glorify his name in me, that there were
many saints which should arise from the dead, and should ap­
pear unto many, and should minister unto them. And he
saith unto them, Were it not so ? And his disciples answered
him and said, Yea, Lord, Samuel did prophesy according to
thy words, and they were all fulfilled. And Jesus saith unto
them, How be it that ye have not written this thing, that many
saints did arise §nd appear Unto many, and did minister unto
them 1 And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this
thing had not been written. And it came to pass that Jesus
commanded that it should be written; therefore it was written
according as he commanded.
C H A PT E R XI.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus hau expounded
all the Scriptures in one, which they had written, he comman­
ded them that they should teach the things which he had ex­
pounded unto them. And it came to pass that he commanded
them that they should write the words which the Father had
given unto Malachi, which he should tell unto them. And it
came to pass that after they were written, he expounded them.
And these are the words which he did tell unto them, saying:
Thus said the Father unto Malachi: Behold, I will send my
messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me : and the
Lord, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even
the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in : behold,
he shall come, saith the Lord o f hosts. But who may abide
the day of his coming ? and who shall stand when he appear­
e d ? for he is like a refiner’s fire, and like fullers’ soap. And
he shall sit as a refiner and purifyer o f silver: and he shall pu
504 BOOS OF NEPHI.
rify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that
they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness.—
Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant
unto the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in former years.
And I will come near to you to judgement: and I will be a
swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers,
and against false swearers, and against those that oppress the
hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that
turn aside the stranger, and fear not me, saith the Lord of hosts.
For I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons o f Jacob
are not consumed.
Even from the days o f your fathers ye are gone away from
mine ordinances, and have not kept them. Return unto me,
and I will return unto you, saith the Lord of hosts. But ye
said, Wherein shall we return ?
Will a man rob God ? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say,
Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye
are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this
whole nation. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that
there may be meat in my house, and prove me now herewith,
saith the Lord o f hosts, if I will not open you the windows o f
heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be
room enough to receive it. And I will rebuke the devourer
for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits o f your
ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time
in the field, saith the Lord o f hosts. And all nations shall call
you blessed: for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord
o f hosts.
Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord.—
Yet ye say, What have we spoken against thee? Ye have said,
It is vain to serve G od: and what doth it profit that we have
kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before
the Lord o f hosts? And now we call the proud happy; yea,
they that work wickedness are set u p ; yea, them that tempt
God are even delivered.
Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another:
and the Lord hearkened, and heard: and a book o f remem­
brance was written before him for them that feared the Lord,
and that thought upon his name. And they shall be mine,
saith the Lord o f hosts, in that day when I make up my jew­
els ; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that
serveth him. Then shall ye return and discern between the
righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and
BOOK OF NEPHI. 505
him that servelh him not. For behold, the day cometh, that
shall bum as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do
wickedly, shall be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn
them up, saith the Lord of hosts, that it shall leave them nei­
ther root nor branch.
But unto you that fear my name, shall the Son of righteous­
ness arise with healings in his wings; and ye shall go forth,
and grow up as calves in the stall. And ye shall tread down
the wicked; for they shall be ashes under the soles of your
feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the Lord of hosts.
Remember ye the law of Moses my servant, which I command­
ed unto him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judge­
ments. Behold, I w ill send you Elijah the prophet before the
coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lo rd : and he shall
turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of
the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth
with a curse.
And now it came to pass that when Jesus had told these
things, he expounded them unto the multitude: and he did ex­
pound all things unto them, both great and small. And he
saith, These Scriptures which ye had not with you, the Father
commanded that I should give unto you: for it was wisdom in
him that they should he given unto future generations. And
he did expound all things, even from the beginning until the
time that he should come in his glory; yea, even all things
which should come upon the face of the earth, even until the
elements should melt with fervent heat, and the earth should
be wrapt together as a scroll, and the heavens and the
earth should pass aw ay; and even unto the great and last day,
when all people, and all kindreds, and all nations and tongues
shall stand before God, to be judged of their works, whether
they be good or whether they be e v il: if they be good, to the
resurrection of everlasting life ; and if they be evil, to the res­
urrection of damnation, being on a parallel, the one on the one
hand, and the other on the other band, according to the mercy,
and the justice, and the holiness which is in Christ, which was
before the worid began.
BOOK OP NBPHI.
506
CH A PTE R XII.
And now there cannot be written in this book, even a hun­
dredth part of the things which Jesus did truly teach unto the
people; but behold the plates o f Nephi do contain the more
part o f the things which he taught the people; and these
things have I written, which are a lesser part o f the things
which he taught the people ; and I have wrote them to the in­
tent that they may be brought again unto this people, from the
Gentiles, according to the words which Jesus hath spoken.—
And when they shall have received this, which is expedient
that they should have first, to try their faith : And if it shall
so be that they shall believe these things, then shall the greater
things be made manifest unto them. And if it so be that they
will not believe these things, then shall the greater things be
withheld from them, unto their condemnation. Behold I
were about to write them all which were engraven upon the
plates o f Nephi, but the Lord forbid it, saying, I will try the
faith o f my people; therefore I, Mormon, do write the things
which have been commanded me o f the Lord. And now I,
Mormon, make an end o f my sayings, and proceed to write
the things which have been commanded m e ; therefore I
Would that ye should behold that the Lord truly did teach the
people, for the space of three days; and after that, he did
shew himself unto them oft, and did break bread oft, and
bless it, and give it unto them.
And it came to pass that he did teach and minister unto the
children o f the multitude of whom hath been spoken, and he
did loose their tongues, and they did speak unto their fathers
great and marvellous things, even greater than he had reveal­
ed unto the people, and loosed their tongues that they could
utter. And it came to pass that after he had ascended into
Heaven the second time that he shewed himself unto them,
and gone unto the Father, after having healed all their sick,
and their lame, and opened the eyes o f their blind, and un­
stopped the ears o f the deaf, and even had done all manner o f
cures among them, and raised a man from the dead, and had
shewn forth his power unto them, and had ascended unto the
Father, behold, it came to pass on the morrow, that the multi­
tude gathered themselves together, and they both saw and
heard these children; yea, even babes did open their mouths,
and utter marvellous things: and the things which they did
utter were forbidden, that there should not any man write
BOOK OF N1PHI, 507
them. And it came to pass that the disciples whom Jesus
had chosen, began from that time forth to baptize and to teach
as many as did come unto them; and as many as were baptiz­
ed in the name o f Jesus, were filled with the Holy Ghost. And
many o f them saw and heard unspeakable things, which are
not lawful to be written ; and they taught, and did minister
one to another; and they had all things common among them,
every man dealing justly, one with another. And it came to
pass that they did do all things, even as Jesus had command­
ed them. And they which were baptized in the name o f Je­
sus, were called the church o f Christ.
And it came to pass that as the disciples o f Jesus were
journeying, and were preaching the things which they had both
heard and seen, and were baptizing in the name o f Jesus, it
came to pass that the disciples were gathered together, and
were united in mighty prayer and fasting. And Jesus again
shewed himself unto them: for they were praying unto the
Father, in bis nam e; and Jesus came and stood in the midst
o f them, and saith unto them, What will ye that I shall give
unto you 1 And they saith unto him, Lord, we will that thou
wouldst tell us the name whereby we shall call this church ;
for there are disputations among the people concerning this
matter. And the Lord said unto them, Verily, verity 1say unto
you, why is it that the people should murmur and dispute be­
cause o f this thing? have they not read the scriptures, which
saith ye must take upon you the name o f Christ, which is in
my name ? for by this name shall ye he called at the last day;
and whoso taketh upon him my name, and endureth to the
end, the same shall be saved at the last day; therefore, what­
soever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name; therefore ye
shall call the church in my name; and ye shall call upon the Fa­
ther in my name, that he will bless the church for my sake;
and how be it my church, save it be called in my name? for
if a church be called in Moses’ name, then it he Moses’ church :
or if it be called in the name o f a man, then it be the church
o f a man , but if it be called in my name, then it is my chur.ch,
if it so be that they are built upon my Gospel. Verily 1 say
unto you, that ye are built upon my Gospel; therefore ye shall
call whatsoever things ye do call in my name; therefore if ye
call upon the Father, for the church, if it be in my name, the
Father will hear you ; and if it so be that the church is built
upon my Gospel, then will the Father shew forth his own
works in it ; hut if it be not built upon my Gospel, and is built
508 BOOK OF NEPHJ-
upon the works of men, or upon the works of the Devil, veri­
ly I say unto you, they have joy in their works for a season,
and by and by the end cometb, and they are hewn down and
cast into the fire, from whence there is no return; for their
works do follow them: for it is because of their works that
they are hewn down; therefore remember the things that 1
have told you. Behold l have given unto you my Gospel, and
this is the Gospel which 1 have given unto you: That I came
into the world to do the w ill of my Father, because my Father
sent me; and my Father sent me that I might be lifted up upon
the cross; and after that I had been lifted up upon the cross, I
might draw all men unto m e; that as I have been lifted up by
men, even so should men be lifted up by the Father, to stand
before me, to be judged of their works, whether they be good
or whether they be evil; and for this cause have I been lifted
u p ; therefore, according to the power of the Father, I w ill
draw all men unto me, that they may be judged according to
their works. And it shall come to pass, that whoso repenteth
and is baptized in my name, shall be filled; and if he endu-
reth to the end, behold, him w ill 1 hold guiltless before my
Father, at that day when 1shall stand tojudge the world. And
he that endureth not unto the end, the same is he that is also
hewn down and cast into (he fire, from whence they can no
more return, because of the justice of the Father; and this is
the word which he hath given unto the children of men. And
for this cause he fultilleth the words which he hath given, and
he lieth not, but fulfilleth all his words; and no unclean thing
can enter into his kingdom; therefore nothing entereth into
his rest, save it he those who have washed their garments in
my blood, because of theirfaith, and the repentance of all their
sins, and their faithfulness unto the end. Now this is thecom­
mandment : Repent, all ye ends of the earth, and come unto
me and be baptized in my name, that ye may be sanctified by
the reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye may stand spotless
before me at the last day. Verily, verily 1 say unto you, this
is my Gospel; and ye know the things that ye must do in my
church; for the works which ye have seen me do, that shall
ye also do; for that which ye have seen medo, even that shall
ye d o; therefore if ye do these things, blessed are ye, for ye
shall be lifted up at the last day.
BOOS OF NEPHI. 509
C H A P T E R XIII.
W rite the things which ye have seen and heard, save it be
those which are forbidden; write the works o f this people,
which shall be even as hath been written o f that which hath
been ; for behold, out o f the books which have been written,
and which shall be written, shall this people be judged: for
by them shall their works be known unto men. And behold,
all things are written by the Father; therefore out o f the
books which shall be written, shall the world be judged. And
know ye that ye shall be judges o f this people, according to
the judgement which I shall give unto you, which shall be
ju s t; therefore what manner o f men had ye ought to be?—
Verily I say unto you, Even as I am. And now I go unto the
Father. And verily 1 say unto you, whatsoever things ye shall
ask the Father, in my name, it shall be given unto you ; there­
fore ask, and ye shall receive ; knock, and it shall be opened
unto y o u : for be that asketh, reeeiveth, and unto him that
knocketh, it shall be opened. And now behold, my joy is
great, even unto fulness, because o f you, and also this gene­
ration ; yea, and even the Father rejoiceth, and also all the
holy angels, because o f you and this generation : for none o f
them are lost Behold, I would that ye should understand ;
for I mean them which are now alive, o f this generation; and
none o f them are lo s t; and in them I have fulness o f joy.—
But behold, it sorroweth me because o f the fourth generation
from this generation, for they are led away captive by him,
even as was the son o f perdition ; for they will sell me for
silver, and for gold, and for that which moth doth corrupt, and
which thieves can break through and steal. And in that day
will I visit them, even in turning their works upon their own
heads.
And it came to pass that when Jegus had ended these say­
ings, he eaitn unto his disciples, Enter ye in at the straight gate:
for straight is the gate, and narrow is the way that leads to
life, and few there be that find it : But wide is the gate, and
broad the way which leads to death, and many there be that
traveleth therein, until the night cometh, wherein no man can
work.
And it came to pass when Jesus had said these words, he
spake unto his disciples, one by one, saying unto them, What
is it that ye desire o f me, after that I am gone to the Father 1
And they all spake, save it were three, saying, W e desire that
510 BOOK OP KEPH1.
after we have lived unto the age o f man, that our ministry,
wherein thou hast called us, may have an end, that we may
speedily come unto thee, m thy kingdom. And he saith unto
them, Blessed are ye, because ye desired this thing o f m e;
therefore after that ye are seventy and two years old, ye shall
come unto me in my kingdom, and with me ye shall find rest.
And when he had spake unto them, he turned himself unto
the three, and said unto them, What will ye that I should do
unto you, when I am gone unto the Father 1 And they sor­
rowed in their hearts, for they durst not speak unto him the
thing which they desired. And he saith unto them, Behold,
I know your thoughts, and ye have desired the thing which
John, my beloved, which was with me in my ministry, before
that I was lifted up by the Jews, desired o f m e ; therefore
more blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste o f death, but ye
shall live to behold all the doings o f the Father, unto the chil­
dren o f men, even until all things shall be fulfilled, according
to the will o f the Father, when 1 shall come in my glory, with
the powers o f heaven; and ye shall never endure the pains
o f death ; but when 1 shall come in my glory, ye shall be chan­
ged in the twinkling o f an eye, from mortality to immortality;
and then shall ye be blessed in the kingdom o f my Father.—
And again, ye shall not have pain while ye shall dwell in the
flesh, neither sorrow, save it be for the sins o f the world ; and
all this will I do because o f the thing which ye have desired
o f m e : for ye have desired that ye might bring the souls o f
men unto me, while the world shall stand ; and for this cause
ye shall have fulness o f jo y ; and yo shall sit down in the
kingdom o f my Father; yea, your joy shall be full, even as
the Father hath given me fulness o f joy ; and ye shall be even
as 1 am ; and 1 am even as the Father; and the Father and
I are one ; and the Holy Ghost beareth record o f the Father
and me ; and the Father giveth the Holy Ghost unto the chil­
dren o f men, because o f me.
And it came to pass that when Jesus had spake these words,
he touched every one o f them with his finger, save it were the
three which were to tarry, and then he departed. And be­
hold, the heavens were opened, and they were caught up into
heaven, and saw and heard unspeakable things. And it was
forbidden them that they should utter; neither was it given
unto them power that they could utter the things which they
saw and heard ; and whether they were in the body or out of
the body, they could not tell: for it did seem unto them like
BOOK OP NEFHJ. 511
a transfiguration of them, that they were changed from this
body of flesh, into an immortal state, that they could behold
the things o f God, But it came to pass that they did again
minister upon the face of the earth; nevertheless they did not
minister of the things which they had heard and seen, because
o f the commandment which was given them in heaven. And
now whether they were mortal or immortal, from the day of
their transfiguration, I know n ot; but this much 1 know :
According to the record which hath been given, they did go
forth upon the face of the land, and did minister unto all the
people, uniting as many to the church as would believe in
their preaching; baptizing them ; and as many as were bap­
tized, did receive the Holy Ghost; and they were cast into
prison by them who did not belong to the church. And the
prisons could not hold them, for they were rent in twain, and
they were cast down into the earth. But they did smite the
earth with the word of God, insomuch that by his power they
were delivered out o f the depths of the earth; and therefore
they could not dig pits sufficiently to hold them. And thrice
they were cast into a furnace, and received no barm. And
twice were they cast into a den o f wild beasts; and behold
they did play with the beasts, as a child with a suckling lamb,
and received no harm. And it came to pass that thus they
did go forth among all the people of Nephi, and did preach the
gospel o f Christ unto all people upon the face of the land:
And they were converted unto the Lord, and were united unto
the church o f Christ: And thus the people of that generation
were blessed, according to the word of Jesus. And now I,
Mormon, make an end o f speaking concerning these things,
for a time. Behold, I were about to write the names o f those
who were never to taste o f death ; but the Lord forbade, there­
fore I write them not, for they are hid from the world. But
behold 1 have seen them, and they have ministered unto m e;
and behold they will be among the Gentiles, and the Gentiles
knoweth them not. They will also be among the Jews, and
the Jews shall know them not.
And it shall come to pass, when the Lord seeth fit in his
wisdom, that they shall minister unto all the scattered tribes
of Israel, and unto all nations, kindred, tongues and people, and
shall bring out of them unto Jesus many souls, that their de­
sire may be fulfilled, and also because of the convincing power
o f God which is in them; and they are as the angels of God
and if they shall pray unto the Father in the name of Jesus
512 BOOK OP NEPHI.
they can shew themselves unto whatsoever man it seemeih
them good; therefore great and marvellous works shall be
wrought by them, before the great and coming day, when all
people must surely stand before the judgement seat o f Christ;
yea, even among the Gentiles shall there be a great and mar­
vellous work wrought by them, before that judgement day.—
And if ye had all the scriptures which gives an account o f all
the marvellous works o f Christ, ye would, according to the
words o f Christ, know that these things must surely come.—
And wo be unto him that will not hearken unto the words o f
Jesus, and also to them which he hath chosen and sent among
them: for whoso receiveth not the words o f Jesus, and the
words o f them which he hath sent, receiveth not him ; and
therefore he will not receive them at the last day; and it
would be better for them if they bad not been born. For do
ye suppose that ye can get rid o f the justice of an offended
God, who hath been trampled under feet o f men, that thereby
salvation might com e? And now behold, as 1 spake concer­
ning them whom the Lord had chosen, yea, even (hree
which were caught up into the Heavens, that 1 knew not
whether they were cleansed from mortality to immortality :—
But behold, since I wrote, I have inquired o f the Lord, and he
hath made it manifest unto me, that there must needs be a
change wrought upon their bodies, or else it needs be that
they must taste of death; therefore that they might not taste o f
death, there was a change wrought upon their bodies, that
they might not suffer pain nor sorrow, save it were for the
sins o f the world. Now this change was not equal to that
which should take place at the last day, but there was a change
wrought upon them, insomuch that satan could have no power
over them, that he could not tempt them, and they were sanc­
tified in the flesh, that they were holy, and that the powers o f
the earth could not hold them; and in this state they were to
remain until the judgement day o f Christ; and at that day
they were to receive a greater change, and to be received into
the kingdom o f the Father, to go no more out, hut to dwell
with God eternally in the Heavens. And now behold, I say
unto you, that when the Lord shall see fit, in his wisdom, that
these sayings shall come unto the Gentiles, according to his
word, then ye may know that the covenant which the Father
hath made with the children o f Israel, concerning their restora­
tion to the lands o f their inheritance, is already beginning to be
fulfilled; and ye may know that the words o f the Lord, which
BOOS OS NEPHI. 513
have bceB spoken by the holy prophets, shall all be fulfilled; and
ye need not say that the Lord delays his coming unto the chil­
dren o f Israel; and ye need not imagine in your hearts, that
the words which have been spoken are vain, for behold, the
Lord will remember his covenant which he hath made unto
his people o f the house o f Israel. And when ye shall see
these sayings coming forth among you, then ye meed not any
longer spurn at the doings o f the Lord, for the sword o f his
justice is in his right hand, and behold at that day, if ye shall
spurn at his doings, he will cause it that it shall soon overtake
you. W o unto him that spurneth at the doings o f the Lord;
yea wo unto him that shall deny the Christ and his w orks;
yea, wo unto him that shall deny the revelations o f the Lord,
and that shall say, the Lord no longer worketh by revelation,
or by prophecy, or by gifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or
by the power o f the Holy Ghost; yea, and wo unto him that
shall say at that day, that there can be no miracle wrought by
Jesus Christ, for to get gain; for he that doeth this, shall be­
come like unto the son o f perdition, for whom there was no
mercy, according to the word of Christ. Yea, and ye need
not any longer hiss, nor spurn, nor make game o f the Jews,
nor o f any o f the remnant o f the house o f Israel, for behold the
Lord rememberethhis covenant unto them, and he will do unto
them according to that which he hath sworn; therefore ye
need not suppose that ye can turn the right hand o f the Lord
unto the left, that he may not execute judgement unto the ful­
filling o f the covenant which he hath made unto the house o f
Israel.
CH APTER XIY.
H e a r k e n , O ye Gentiles, and hear the words of Jesus
Christ, the Son o f the living God, which he hath commanded
me that I should speak concerning you : for behold he com-
mandeth me that 1 should write, saying, Turn all ye Gen­
tiles from your wicked ways, and repent o f your evil doings,
o f your lyings and deceivings, and o f your whoredoms, and of
your secret abominations and your idolatries, and o f your mur­
ders, and your priestcrafts, and your envyings, and your strifes,
and from all your wickedness and abominations, and come un­
to me, and be baptized in my name, that ye may receive a re-
514 BOOK OB NEPHI.
mission of your sins, and be filled with the H oly Ghost, that ye
may be numbered with my people, which are o f the house o f
Israel.
TH E BOOK OF NEPHI,
W H IC H IS T H E SO N O F NEPHI, O N E O F TH E
D ISC IP LE S O F JE SU S C H R IST.
C H A P T E R L
Jin account o f tie people o f Neplii, according to his Record.
And it came to pass that the thirty and fourth year passed
away, and also the thirty and fifth, and behold the disciples of
Jesus had formed a church o f Christ in all the lands round
about. And as many as did come unto them, and did truly
Tepentof their sins, were baptized in the name o f Jesus; and
they did also receive the Holy Ghost.
And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people
were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face o f the land,
both Nephites and Lamanites, and there wa9 no contentions
and disputations among them, and every man did deal justly
one with another; and they had all things common among
them, therefore there were not rich and poor, bond and free,
but they were all made free, and partakers o f the Heavenly
gift.
And it came to pass that the thirty and seventh year pass­
ed away also, and there still continued to be peace in the land.
And there were great and marvellous works wrought by the dis­
ciples o f Jesus, insomuch that they did heal the sick, and raise
the dead, and cause the lame to walk, and the blind to receive
their sight, and the deaf to hear; and all manner o f miracles did
they work among thechildren o f m en; and in nothing did they
work miracles save it were in the name o f Jesus. And thus
did the thirty and eighth year pass away, and also the thirty
and ninth, and the forty and first, and the forty and second;
yea, even until forty and nine years had passed away, and also
the fifty and first, and the fifty and second; yea, and even until
fifty and nine years had passed aw ay; and the Lord did
BOOK OP NEPHt. 515
prosper them exceedingly, in the land; yea, insomuch that
they did fill cities again where there had been cities burned;
yea, even that great city Zarahemla did they cause to be built
again. But there were many cities which had been sunk, and
waters came up in the stead thereof; therefore these cities
could not be renewed.
And now behold it came to pass that the people o f Nephi
did wax strong, and did multiply exceeding fast, and became
an exceeding fair and delightsome people. And they were
married, and given in marriage, and were blessed according to
the multitude o f the promises which the Lord had made Unto
them. And they did not walk any more after the performan­
ces and ordinances o f the law of Moses, but they did walk
after the commandments which they bad received from their
Lord and their God, continuing in fasting and prayer, and in
meeting together oft, both to pray and to hear the word o f the
Lord. And it came to pass that there was no contention
among all the people, in all the land, but there were mighty
miracles wrought among the disciples of Jesus.
And it came to pass that the seventy and first year passed
away, and also the seventy and second year; yea, and in fine
till the seventy and ninth year had passed away; yea, even
an hundred yeans had passed away, and the disciples of Jesus,
whom he had chosen, had all gonoto the paradise o f God, save
it were the three which should tarry: And there were other
disciples ordained in their stead ; and also many o f that gene­
ration which had passed away. And it came to pass that
there was no contention in the land, because o f the love of
God which did dwell in the hearts o f the people. And there
were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor whoredoms,
nor lyings, nor murders, nor no manner oflasciviousness : and
surely there could not be a happier people among all the peo­
ple which had been created by the hand o f G od : There were
no robbers, nor no murderers, neither were there LamanUes,
nor no manner o f Ites; but they were in one, the children o f
Christ, and heirs to the kingdom o f G od: And how blessed
were they, for the Lord did bless them in alt their doings;
yea, even they were blessed and prospered, until an hundred
and ten years had passed aw ay: And the first generation
from Christ had passed away, and there was no contention in
all the land.
And it came to pass that Nephi, he that kept this last fecord,
(and he kept it upon the plates o f Nephi,) died, and his son
33*
516 BOOK OF NEPH1.
Amos kept it in his stead; and he kept it upon the plates of
Nephi also; and he kept it eighty and four years, and there
was still peace in the land, save it were a small part of the
people, which had revolted from the church, and took upon
them the name o f Lammutes; therefore there began to be La-
manites again in the land.
And it came to pass that Amos died also, (and it was an
hundred and ninety and four years from the coming o f Christ,)
and his son Amos kept the record in his stead; and he also
kept it upon the plates o f Nephi; and it was also written in
the book of Nephi, which is this book. And it came to pass
that two hundred years had passed away: And the second
generation had all passed away save it were a few. And now
f, Mormon, would that ye should know that the people had
multiplied, insomuch that they were spread upon all the face
o f the land, and that they had become exceeding rich, because
o f their prosperity in Christ. And now in this two hundred
and first year, there began to be among them those which
were lifted up in pride, such as the wearing of costly apparel,
and all manner of fine pearls, and of the fine things of the
world. And from that time forth they did have their goods
and their substance no more common among them, and they
began to be divided into classes, and they began to build up
churches unto themselves, to get gain, and began to deny the
true church of Christ.
And it came to pass that when two hundred and ten years
had passed away there were many churches in the land; yea,
there were churches which professed to know the Christ, and
yet they did deny the more parts of his gospel, insomuch that
they did receive all manner of wickedness, and did administer
that which was sacred unto him to whom it had been forbid­
den, because o f unworthiness. And this church did multiply
exceedingly, because of iniquity, and because o f the power of
Batan which did get hold upon their hearts. And again, there
Was another church which denied the Christ; and they did
persecute the true church o f Christ, because o f their humility,
and their belief in Christ; and they did despise them, because
o f the many miracles which were wrought among them ; there­
fore they did exercise power and authority over the disciples
o f Jesus which did tarry with them, and they did cast them
into prison; but by the power o f the word of God, which was
in them, the prisons were rent in twain, and they went forth
doing mighty miracles among them. Nevertheless, and not-
BOOK OP NEPHI, 51T
withstanding all these miracles the people did harden their
hearts, and did seek to kill them, even as the Jews at Jerusa­
lem sought to kill Jesus, according to his word, and they did
cast them into furnaces o f fire, and they came forth receiving
no harm ; and they also cast them into dens o f wild beasts,
and they did play with the wild beasts even as a child with a
lam b; and they did come forth from among them, receiving
no harm. Nevertheless, the people did harden their hearts,
for they were led by many priests and false prophets to build
up many churches, and to do all manner o f iniquity. And
they did smite upon the people o f Jesus; but the people of
Jesus did not smite again. And thus they did dwindle in un­
belief and wickedness, from year to year, even until two hun­
dred and thirty years had passed away. And now it came to
pass in this year, yea, in the two hundred and thirty and first
year there were a great division among the people. And it
came to pass that in this year there arose a people which was
called the Nephites, and they were true believers in Christ-,
and among them there were they which was called by the La-
manites, Jacobites, and Josephites, and Zoramites; therefore
the true believers in Christ, and the true worshippers of Christ,
(amongwhom were the three disciples o f Jesus which should
tarry,) were called Nephites and Jacobites, and Josephites,
and Zoramites. And it came to pass that they which reject­
ed the gospel, were called Lamanites, and Lemuelites, and
Ishmaelites; and they did not dwindle in unbelief) but they
did wilfully rebel against the gospel o f Christ; and they did
teach their children that they should not believe, even as their
fathers, from the beginning, did dwindle. And it was be­
cause o f the wickedness and abominations o f their fathers,
even as it was in the beginning. And they were taught to
hate the children o f God, even as the Lamanites were taught
to hate the children of Nephi, from the beginning.
And it came to pass that two hundred and forty and four
years had passed away, and thus were the affairs o f the peo­
ple. And the more wicked part o f the people did wax strong,
and became exceeding more numerous than were the people
o f God, And they did still continue to build up churches unto
themselves, and adorn them with all manner of precious
things. And thus did two hundred and fifty years pass away,
and also two hundred and sixty years. And it came to pass
that the wicked part o f the people began again to build up the
secret oaths and combinations o f Gaddianton. And also the
518 BOOK OP MORMON.
people which were called the people o f Nephi, began to be
proud in their hearts, because o f their exceeding riches, and
Become vain, like unto their brethren, the Lamanites. And
from this time, the disciples began to sorrow for the sins o f
the world.
And it came to pass thatwhen three hundred years had passed
away, both the people o f Nephi and the Lamanites had be­
come exceeding wicked, one like unto another. And it came
to pass that the robbers o f Gaddianton did spread over all the
face o f the land; and there were none that were righteous,
save it were the disciples o f Jesus. And gold and silver did
they lay up in store in abundance, and did traffic in all manner
o f traffic.
And it came to pass that after three hundred and five years
had passed away, (and the people did still remain in wicked­
ness,) Amos died, and his brother, Ammaron, did keep the
record, in his stead. And it came to pass that when three
hundred and twenty years had passed away, Ammaron, being
constrained by the Holy Ghost, did bide up the records which
were sacred; yea, even all the sacred records which had
been banded down from generation to generation, which were
sacred, even until the three hundred and twentieth year from
the coming of Christ. And he did bide them up unto the Lord,
that they might come again unto the remnant o f the house o f
Jacob, according to the prophecies and the promises of the
Lord. And thus is the end o f the record o f Ammaron.
BOOK OF MORMON.
CH APTER L
And now I, Mormon, make a record of the things which 1
have both seen and heard, and call it the Book o f Mormon.—
And about the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto
the Lord, he came unto me, (1 being about ten years o f age;
and I began to be learned somewhat after the manner o f the
learning o f my people,) and Ammaron saith unto me, I per­
ceive that thou art a sober child, and art quick to observe;
therefore when ye are about twenty and four years old, I
would that ye should remember the things that ye have ob­
served concerning this people; and when ye are of that age,
518 BOOK OF MORMON.
people which were called the people o f Nephi, began to be
proud in their hearts, because o f their exceeding riches, and
become vain, like unto their brethren, the Lamanites. And
from this time, the disciples began to sorrow for the sins o f
the world.
And it came to pass thatwhen three hundred years had passed
away, both the people o f Nephi and the Lamanites had be­
come exceeding wicked, one like unto another. And it came
to pass that the robbers o f Gaddianton did spread over all the
face o f the land; and there were none that were righteous,
save it were the disciples o f Jesus. And gold and silver did
they lav up in store in abundance, and did traffic in all manner
o f traffic.
And it came to pass that after three hundred and five years
had passed away, (and the people did still remain in wicked­
ness,) Amos died, and his brother, Ammaron, did keep the
record, in his stead. And it came to pass that when three
hundred and twenty years had passed away, Ammaron, being
constrained by the Holy Ghost, did bide up the records which
were sacred; yea, even all the sacred records which had
been handed down from generation to generation, which were
sacred, even until the three hundred and twentieth year from
the coming of Christ. And he did hide them up unto the Lord,
that they might come again unto the remnant o f the house of
Jacob, according to the prophecies and the promises o f the
Lord. And thus is the end o f the record o f Ammaron.
BOOK OF MORMON.
CH A PTE R 1.
And now I, Mormon, make a record of the things which 1
have both seen and heard, and call it the Book o f Mormon.—
And about the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto
the Lord, he came unto me, (I being about ten years o f a ge;
and I began to be learned somewhat after the manner o f the
learning o f my people,) and Ammaron saith unto me, I per­
ceive that thou art a sober child, and art quick to observe;
therefore when ye are about twenty and four years old, I
would that ye should remember the things that ye have ob­
served concerning this people; and when ye are o f that age,
BOOK OF MORBfOST. 519
go to the land o f Antum, unto a hill, which shall be called
Shim ; and there have 1 deposited unto the Lord, all the
sacred engravings concerning this people. And behold, ye
shall take the plates of Nephi unto yourself, and the re­
mainder shall ye leave in the place where they are; and ye
shall engrave upon the plates o f Nephi, all the things that ye
have observed concerning this people. And I, Mormon, be­
ing a descendant o f Nephi, (and my father’ s name was Mor­
mon,) 1 remembered the things which Ammaron commanded
me. And it came to pass that 1, being eleven years old, was
carried by my father into the land southward, even to the land
o f Zarahemla : the whole face o f the land having become cov­
ered with buildings, and the people were as numerous almost,
as it were the sand o f the sea. And it came to pas* in this
year there began to be a war between the Nephites, which
consisted o f the Nephites, and the Jacobites, and the Joseph-
ites, and the Zoramites: and this war was between the Ne­
phites, and the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and the lsh-
maelites. Now the Lamanites, and the Lemuelites, and the
Ishmaelites, were called Lamanites, and the two parties were
Nephites and Lamanites. And it came to pass that the war
began to be among them, in the borders o f Zarahemla, by the
waters o f Sidon. And it came to pass that the Nephites had
gathered together a great number o f men, even to exceed the
number o f thirty thousand. And it came to pass that they did
have in this same year a number o f battles, in the which the
Nephites did beat the Lamanites, and did slay many of them.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites withdrew their design,
and there was peace settled in the land, and peace did remain
for the space o f about four years, that there were no blood
shed. But wickedness did prevail upon the face o f the whole
land, insomuch that the Lord did take away his beloved dis­
ciples, and the work of miracles and o f healing did cease,
because of the iniquity o f the people. And there were no
gifts from the Lord, and the Holy Ghost did not come upon
any, because of their wickedness and unbelief. And 1, being
fifteen years of age, and being somewhat of a sober mind,
therfore 1 was visited o f the Lord, and tasted, and knew o f
the goodness o f Jesus. And I did endeavor to preach unto
this people, but my mouth was shut, and I were forbidden that
I should preach unto them: for behold they had wilfully re­
belled against their God, and the beloved disciples were taken
away out o f the land, because o f their iniquity. But I did
520 BOOK OB MORMON.
remain among them, but I were forbidden that I should
preach unto them, because of the hardness of their hearts;
and because o f the hardness o f their hearts, the land was
cursed for their sake. And these Gaddianton robbers, which
were among the Lamanites, did infest the land, insomuch that
the inhabitants thereof began to hide up their treasures in the
earth ; and they became slippery, because the Lord bad cursed
the land, that they could not hold them, nor retain them again.
And it came to pass that there were sorceries, and witch­
crafts, and magics: and the power o f the evil one was
Wrought upon all the face of the land, even unto the fulfilling
o f all the words of Abinadi, and also Samuel the Lamanite,—
And it came to pass that in that same year, there began to be
a war again between the Nephites and the Lamanites. And
notwithstanding 1 being young, was large in stature, therefore
the people of Nephi appointed me that 1 should be their leader,
or the leader o f their armies. Therefore it came to pass that
in my sixteenth year, 1 did go forth at the head of an army of
the Nephites, against the Lamanites ; therefore three hundred
and twenty and six years had passed away. And it came to
pass that in the three hundred and twenty and seventh year,
the Lamanites did come upon us with exceeding great power,
insomuch that they did frighten my armies; therefore they
would not fight, and they began to retreat towards the north
countries. And it came to pass that we did come to the city
of Angelah, and we did take possession of the city, and make
preparations to defend ourselves against the Lamanites. And
it came to pass that we did fortify the city with our mights;
but notwithstanding all our fortifications, the Lamanites did
come upon us, and did drive us out o f the city. And they did
also drive us forth out of the land of David. And we marched
forth, and came to the land o f Joshua, which was in the bor­
ders west, by the seashore. And it came to pass that we did
gather in our people as fast as it were possible, that we might
get them together in one body. But behold, the land was filled
with robbers and with Lamanites; and notwithstanding the
great destruction which hung over my people, they did not
repent o f their evil doings; therefore there was blood and
carnage spread throughout all the face of the land, both on the
part o f the Nephites, and also on the part of the Lamanites;
and it was one complete revolution throughout all the face of
the land. And now the Lamanites had a king, and his name
was Aaron; and he came against us with an army o f forty and
BOOK OP MORMON. 521
lour thousand. And behold, I withstood him, with forty and
two thousand. And it came to pass that I beat him with my
army, that he fled before me. And behold, all this was done,
and three hundred and thirty years had passed away. And
it came to pass that the Nephites began to repent o f tneir ini­
quity, and began to cry even as had been prophesied by Sam­
uel the prophet. for behold no man could keep that which
was his own, for the thieves, and the robbers, and the mur­
derers, and the magic art, and the witchcraft which was in the
land. Thus there began to be a mourning and a lamentation
in all the land, because of these things; and more especially
among the people of Nephi. And it came to pass that when
I, Mormon, saw their lamentation, and (heir mourning, and
their sorrowing before the Lord, my heart did begin to rejoice
within me : knowing the mercies and the long suffering o f the
Lord, therefore supppsing that he would be merciful unto
them, that they would again become a righteous people. But
behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowing was not unto
repentance, because of the goodness o f God, but it was rather
the sorrowing o f the damned, because the Lord would not al­
ways suffer them to take happiness in sin. And they did not
come unto Jesus with broken hearts and contrite spirits, but
they did curse God, and wish to die. Nevertheless they
would struggle with the sword for their lives. And it came to
pass that my sorrow did return unto me again, and 1 saw that
the day o f grace was past with them, both temporally and
spiritually: for I saw thousands o f them hewn down in open
rebellion against their God, and heaped up as dung upon the
face o f the land. And thus three hundred and forty and four
years had passed away.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and forty and
fifth year, the Nephites did begin to flee before the Lamanites,
and they were pursued until they came even to the land o f
Jashon, before it were possible to stop them in their retreat.
And now the city o f Jashon was near the land where Amma-
ron had deposited the records unto the Lord, that they might
not be destroyed. And behold 1 had gone according to the
word o f Ammaron, and taken the plates o f Nephi, and did
make a record according to the words o f Ammaron. And
upon the plates o f Nephi 1 did make a full account o f all the
wickedness and abominations; hut upon these plates I did
forbear to make a full account o f their wickedness and abom­
inations : for behold, a continual scene o f vriekedness and
BOOK OP MORMON,
522
abominations has been before mine eyes ever since I have been
sufficient to behoid the ways o f man. And wo is me, because
o f their wickedness: for my heart has been filled with sorrow
because of their wickedness, all my days; nevertheless, I
know that I shall be lifted up at the last day.
And it came to pass that in this year the people o f Nephi
again were hunted and driven. And it came to pass that we
were driven forth until we had come northward to the land
which was called Shem. And it came to pass that we did
fortify the city of Shem, and we did gather in our people as
much as it were possible, that perhaps we might save them
from destruction. And it came to pass in the three hundred
and forty and sixth year, they began to come upon us again.
And it came to pass that 1 did speak unto my people, and did
urge them with great energy, that they would stand boldly be­
fore the Lamanites, and fight for their wives, and their chil­
dren, and their houses, and their homes. And my words did
arouse them somewhat to vigor, insomuch that they did not
flee from before the Lamanites, but did stand with boldness
against them. And it came to pass that we did contend with
an army o f thirty thousand, against an army of fifty thousand.
And it came to pass that wr
e did stand before them with such
firmness, that they did flee from before us. And it came to pass
that witen they had fled, we did pursue them with our armies,
and did meet them again, and did beat them; nevertheless the
strength o f the Lord was not with u s: yea, we were left to
ourselves, that the spirit of the Lord did not abide in u s;
therefore we had become weak, like unto our brethren. And
my heart did sorrow because of this the great calamity o f my
people ; because of their wickedness and their abominations.
But behold we did go forth against the Lamanites, and the
robbers o f Gaddianton, until we had again taken possession
o f the lands o f our inheritance. And the three hundred and
forty and ninth year had passed away. And in the three hun­
dred and fiftieth year, we made a treaty with the Lamanites
and the robbers o f Gaddianton, in the which we did get the
lands of our inheritance divided. And the Lamanites did
give unto us the land northward; yea, even to the narrow
passage which led into the land southward. And we did give
unto the Lamanites all the land southward.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did not come to bat­
tle again until ten years more had passed away. And behold,
1 had employed my people, the Nephites, in preparing their
BOOK OP MORMON, 523
lands and their arms against the time o f battle. And it came
to pass that the Lord did say unto me, Cry unto this people
repent ye, and come unto me and be ye baptized, and build up
again my church, and ye shall be spared. And i did cry unto
this people, but it was in vain, and they did not realise that it
was the Lord that had spared them, and granted unto them a
chance for repentance. And behold they did harden their
hearts against the Lord their God. And it came to pass that
after this tenth year had passed away, making, in the whole,
three hundred and sixty years from the coming o f Christ, the
king o f the Lamanites sent an epistle unto me, which gave
unto me to know that they were preparing to come again to
battle against us. And it came to pass that 1 did cause my
people that they should gather themselves together at the land
Desolation, to a city which was in the borders, by the narrow
pass which lead into the land southward. And there we did
place our armies, that we might stop the armies o f the Laman­
ites, that they might not get possession o f any o f our lands;
therefore we did fortify against them with all our force.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and
first year, the Lamanites did come down to the city o f Deso­
lation to battle, against us. And it came to pass that in that
year, we did beat them, insomuch that they did return to their
own lands again. And in the three hundred and sixty and
second year, they did come down again to battle. And we
did beat them again, and did slay a great number o f them, and
their dead was cast into the sea. And now because o f this
great thing which ray people, the Nephites, had done, they
began to boast in their own strength, and began to swear be­
fore the heavens that they would avenge themselves o f the
blood o f tbeir brethren which had been slain by their enemies.
And they did swear by the heavens, and also by the throne o f
God, that they would go up to battle against their enemies
and would cut them off from the face o f the land.
And it came to pass that I, Mormon, did utterly refuse from
this time forth, to be a commander and a leader o f this people,
because of their wickedness and abomination. Behold, I had
led them, notwithstanding their wickedness, I had lead them
many times to battle, and had loved them, according to the
love o f God which was in me, with all my heart; and my
soul had been poured out in prayer unto my God all the day
long, for them; nevertheless, it was without faith, because o f
the hardness o f their hearts. And thrice have I delivered
524 BOOK OF MORMON.
them out o f the hands o f their enemies, and they have repen­
ted not of their sins. And when they had sworn by all that
had been forbidden them, by our Lord and Saviour Jesus
Christ, that they would go up unto their enemies to battle, and
avenge themselves o f the blood of their brethren, behold, the
voice o f the Lord came unto me, saying: Vengeance is mine,
and I will repay; and because this people repented not after
that l had delivered them, behold, they shall be cut off from
the face o f the earth. And it came to pass that I utterly refu­
sed to go up against mine enemies; and I did even as the Lord
had commanded m e; and 1 did stand as an idle witness to
manifest unto the world the things which 1 saw and heard, ac­
cording to the manifestations o f the spirit which had testified
o f things to come. Therefore I write unto you, Gentiles, and
also unto you, house of Israel, when the work shall commence
that ye shall be about to prepare to return to the land o f your
inheritance; yea, behold, I write unto all the ends o f the
earth; yea, unto you, twelve tribes o f Israel, which shall be
judged according to your works, by ihe twelve whom Jesus
chose to be his disciples in the land o f Jerusalem. And I
write also unto the remnant o f this people, which shall also be
judged by the twelve whom Jesus chose in this land; and
they shall be judged by the other twelve whom Jesus chose in
the land o f Jerusalem. And these things do the spirit mani­
fest unto m e; therefore 1 write unto you all. And for this
cause I write unto you, that ye may know that ye must all
stand before the judgement seat o f Christ, yea, every soul
which belong to the whole human family of Adam; and ye
must stand to be judged o f your works, whether they be good
or evil; and also that ye may believe the Gospel o f Jesus
Christ, which ye shall have among you; and also that the
Jews, the covenant people o f the Lord, shall have other wit­
ness besides that which they saw and heard, that Jesus, whom
they slew, was the very Christ, and the very G od ; and I would
that 1 could persuade all ye ends o f the earth to repent and
prepare to stand before the judgement seat o f Christ.
CH APTER II.
A n d now it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty
and third year, the Nephites did go up with their armies to
BOOK OF MORMON, 525
battle against the Lamanites, out o f the land Desolation. And
it came to pass that the armies o f the Nephites were driven
back again to the land o f Desolation. And while they were
yet weary, a fresh army o f the Lamanites did come upon them;
and they had a sore battle, insomuch that the Lamanites did
take possession o f the city Desolation, and did slay many of
the jNephites, and did take many prisoners; and the remainder
did flee and join the inhabitants o f the city Teancum. JNow
the city Teancum lay in the borders by the seashore; and it
was also near the city Desolation. And it was because that
the armies o f the Nephites went up unto the Lamanites, that
they began to be smitten: for were it not for that, the Laman­
ites could have had no power over them. But behold, the
judgements o f God will overtake the w icked; and it is by the
wicked, that the wicked are punished: for it is the wicked that
stireth up tire hearts o f the children of men unto bloodshed.—
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did make preparations
to come against the city Teancum.
And it came to pass in the three hundred and sixty and
fourth year, the Lamanites did come against the city Teancum,
that they might take possession o f Ihe city Teancum also. And it
came to pass that they were repulsed and driven back by the
Nephites. And when the Nephites saw that they had driven
the Lamanites, they did again boast o f their strength; and they
went forth in their own might, and took possession again o f
the city Desolation. And now all these things had been done,
and there had been thousands slain on both sides, both the
Nephites and the Lamanites. And it came to pass that the
three hundred and sixty and sixth year had passed away, and
the Lamanites came again upon the Nephites to battle; and
yet the Nephites repented not o f the evil which they had done,
but persisted in their wickedness continually. And it is im­
possible for the tongue to describe, or for man to write a per­
fect description o f the horrible scence o f the blood and car­
nage which was among the people, both o f the Nephites and
o f the Lamanites; and every heart was hardened, so that they
delighted in the shedding of blood continually. And there
never had been so great wickedness among all the children of
Lehi, nor even among all the house o f Israel, according to the
words o f the Lord, as were among this people.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did take possession
o f the city desolation, and this because their number did ex­
ceed the number o f the Nephites. And they did also march
536 b o o k OF Mo r m o n .
forward against the city Teancum, and did drive the inhabit­
ants forth out o f her, "and did take many prisoners o f women
and o f children, and did offer them up as sacrifices unto their
idol gods. And it came to pass that in the three hundred and
sixty and seventh year, the Nephites being angry because the
Lamanites had sacrificed their women and their children, that
they did go against the Lamanites with exceeding great anger,
insomuch that they did beat again the Lamanites, and drive
them out o f their lands; and the Lamanites did not come again
against the Nephites, until the three hundred and seventy and
fifth year. And in this year they did come down against the
Nephites with all their pow ers; and they were not numbered,
because of the greatness of their number. And from this time
forth did the Nephites gain no power over the Lamanites, but
began to be swept off by them even as a dew before the sun.
And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come down against
the city Desolation; and there was an exceeding sore battle
fought in the land Desolation, in the which they did beat the
Nephites. And they fled again from before them, and they
came to the city Beaz; and there they did stand against the
Lamanites with exceeding boldness, insomuch that the Laman­
ites did not beat them until they had come again the second
time. And when they had come the second time, the Nephites
were driven and slaughtered with an exceeding great slaugh­
ter ; their women and their children were again sacrificed unto
idols. And it came to pass that the Nephites did again flee
from before them, taking all the inhabitants with them, both in
towns and villages. And now I, Mormon, seeing that the La­
manites were about to overthrow the land, therefore I did go
to the hill Shim, and did take up all the records which Amuta-
ron had hid up unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that 1 did go forth among the Nephites,
and did repent o f the oath which 1 had made, That 1 would no
more assist them; and they gave me command again of their
armies: for they looked upon me as though I could deliver
them from their afflictions. But behold, 1 was without hopes,
for I knew the judgement? o f the Lord which should come
upon them : for they repented not o f their iniquities, but did
struggle for their lives, without calling upon that Being who
had created them. And it came to pass that the Lamanites
did come against us as we had fled to the city o f Jordan; but
behold, they were driven back that they did not take the, city
at that time. And it came to pass that they came against us
BOOK OF MORMON. 527
again, and we did maintain the city. And there were also
other cities which were maintained by the Nephites, which
strong holds did cut them off that they could not get into the
country which lay before us to destroy the inhabitants o f our
land. But it came to pass that whatsoever lands we had pas­
sed by, and the inhabitants thereof were not gathered in, were
destroyed by the Lamanites, and their towns, and villages, and
cities were burned with tire; and thus the three hundred and
seventy and nine years passed away.
And it came to pass that in the three hundred and eightieth
year, the Lamanites did come again against us to battle, and
we did stand against them boldly ; but it was all in vain, for
so great were their numbers that they did tread the people o f
the Nephites under their feet. And it came to pass that we
did again take to flight, and they whose flight were swifter than
the Lamanites did escape, and they whose flight did not ex­
ceed the Lamanites, were swept down and destroyed. And
now behold, I, Mormon, do not desire to harrow up the souls
o f men in casting before them such an awful scene o f blood
and carnage as was laid before mine eyes, but I, knowing that
these things must surely be made known, and that all things
which are hid must be revealed upon the house tops, and al­
so that a knowledge of these things must come unto the rem­
nant o f these people, and also unto the Gentiles, which the
Lord hath said should scatter this people, and this people
should be counted as nought among them, therefore I write a
small abridgement, daring not to give a full account o f the
things which I have seen, because of the commandment which
I have received, and also that ye might not have too great sor­
row because o f the wickedness o f this people. And now be­
hold, this I speak unto their seed, and also to the Gentiles,
which hath care for the house o f Israel, that realize and know
from whence their blessings com e: For 1 know that such
will sorrow for the calamity o f the house o f Israel; yea, they
will sorrow lor the destruction o f this people; they will sor­
row that this people had not repented, that they might have
been clasped in the arms o f Jesus. Now these things are
written unto the remnant o f the house of Jacob; and they arc
written after this manner, because it is known o f God that
wickedness will not bring them forth unto them ; and they
are to be hid up unto the Lord, that they may come forth in
his own dge time. And this is the commandment which I
have received; and behold they shall come forth according to
528 BOOK OF MORMON.
me commandment o f the Lord, when he shall see fit, in his
wisdom. And behold they shall go unto the unbelieving of
the Jew s; and for this intent shall they g o : that they may be
persuaded that Jesus is the Christ, the Son o f the living God ;
that the Father may bring about, through his most beloved, his
great and eternal purpose, in the restoring the Jews, or all the
house o f Israel, to the land o f their inheritance, which the
Lord their God hath given them, unto the fulfilling o f his cove­
nant, and also that the seed o f this people may more fully be­
lieve his gospel, which shall go forth unto them from the Gen­
tiles ; for this people shall he scattered, and shall become a
dark, a filthy, and a loathsome people, beyond the description
o f that which ever hath been amongst u s; yea, even that
which hath been among the Lamanites; and this because o f
their unbelief and idolatry: For behold, the spirit of the
Lord hath already ceased to strive with their fathers,
and they are without Christ and God in the world, and they
are driven about as chaff before the wind. They were once a
delightsome people, and they had Christ for their Shepherd;
yea, they were led even by God, the Father. But now, be­
hold they are led about by satan, even as chaff is driven be­
fore the wind, or as a vessel is tossed about upon the waves,
without sail or anchor, or without any thing wherewith to steer
h er; and even as she is, so are they. And behold, the Lord
hath reserved their blessing, which they might have received
in the land, for the Gentiles, which shall possess the land.—
But behold, it shall come to pass that they shall be driven and
scattered by the Gentiles; and after that they have been driv­
en and scattered by the Gentiles, behold, then will the Lord
remember the covenant which he made unto Abraham, and
unto all the house of Israel. And also the Lord will remem­
ber the prayers o f the righteous, which hath been put up unto
him for them. And then, 0 ye Gentiles, how can ye stand
before the power of God, except ye shall repent and turn from
your evil ways ? Know ye not that ye are in the hands of
God ? Know ye not that he hath all power, and at his great
command the earth shall be rolled together as a scroll? There­
fore repent ye, and humble yourselves before him, lest he shall
come out in justice against you ; lest a remnant o f the seed of
Jacob shall go forth among you as a lion, and tear you in pie­
ces, and there is none to deliver.
B Q O t OF MORMON. 529
C H A P T E R III,
And now I finish my record concerning the destruction o f
my people, the Nephites. And it came to pass that we did
march forth before the Lamanites. And I, Mormon, wrote an
epistle unto the king of the Lamanites, and desired o f him that
he would grant unto us that we might gather together our peo­
ple unto the land o f Camorah, by a hill which was called Ca-
morah, and there we would give them battle. And it came to
pass that the king o f the Lamanites did grant unto me the thing
which I desired. And it came to pass that we did march forth
to the land o f Camorah, and we did pitch our tents round about
the hill Camorah ; and it was in a land o f many waters, rivers
and fountains ; and here we had hope to gain advantage over
thè Lamanites. And when three hundred and eighty and four
years had passed away, we had gathered in all the remainder
o f our people unto the land Camorah.
And it came to pass that when we bad gathered in all our
people in one to the land o f Camorah, behold I, Mormon, be­
gan to be old ; and knowing it to be the last struggle o f my
people, and having been commanded o f the Lord that 1should
not suffer that the records which had been handed down by
our fathers, which were sacred, to fall into the hands o f the
Lamanites, (for the Lamanites would destroy them,) therefore
I made this record out o f the plates o f Nephi, and hid up in
the hill Camorah, all the records which had been entrusted to
me by the hand o f the Lord, save it were these few plates
which 1 gave unto my son Moroni. And it came to pass that
my people, with their wives and their children, did now be­
hold the armies o f the Lamanites a marching towards them ;
and with that awful fear o f death which fills the breasts o f all
the wicked, did they await to receive them. And it came to
pass that they came to battle against us, and every soul was
filled with terror, because of the greatness o f their numbers.
And it came to pass that they did fall upon my people with
the sword, and with the bow, and with the arrow, and with
the axe, and with all manner o f weapons o f war. And it came
to pass that my men were hewn down, yea, even my ten thou­
sand which were with me, and I fell wounded in the midst ;
and they passed by me that they did not put an eBd to my
life. And when they had gone through and hewn down aft
my people save it were twenty and four o f us, (among whom
was my son Moroni,) and we having survived the dead o f our
3 4
530 BOOK OF HORMON.
people, did behold on the morrow, when the Lamanitcs had
returned unto their camps, from the top o f the hill Camorab,
the ten thousand o f my people which were hewn down, being
led in the front by m e, and we also beheld the ten thousand
o f my people which were led by my eon Moroni. And behold,
the ten thousand o f Gidgiddonah had fallen, and he also in the
midst; and Lamah had fallen with his ten thousaud; and Gil-
gal had fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had fallen
with his ten thousand; and Joneam had fallen with his ten
thousand; and Camenihab, and Moronihah, and Antionum,
and Shiblom, and Shern, and Josh, had fallen with their ten
thousand each.
And it came to pass that there were ten more which did fall
by the sword, with their ten thousand each ; yea, even all my
people, save it were those twenty and four which were with
me, and also a few which had escaped into the south coun­
tries, and a few which had dissented over unto the Laman-
ites, had fallen, and their flesh, and bones, and blood lay upon
the face o f the earth, being left by the hands o f those who
slew them, to moulder upon the land, and to crumble and to
return to their mother earth. And my soul was rent with an­
guish, because o f the slain o f my people: And I cried, O ye
fair ones, how could ye have departed from the ways o f the
L ord ! O ye fair ones, how could ye have rejected that Jesus,
w ho stood with open arms to receive you 1 Behold, if ye had
not done this, ye would not have fallen. But behold, ye are
fallen, and I mourn your loss. O ye fair sons and daughters,
ye fathers and mothers, ye husbands and wives, ye fair ones,
how is it that ye cotdd have fallen! But behold, ye are gone,
and my sorrows cannot bring your return; and the day soon
cometh that your mortal must put on immortality, and these
bodies which are now mouldering in corruption, must soon be­
come incorruptible bodies; and men ye must stand before the
judgement seat o f Christ, to be judged according to your w orks:
and if it so be that ye are righteous, then are ye blessed with
your fathers which have gone before you. O that ye had re­
pented before that this great destruction had come upon you.
But behold, ye are gone, and the Father, yea, the eternal Fa­
ther o f heaven, knoweth your state; mid he doeth with you
according to his justice and mercy.
And now behold, I would speak somewhat unto the rem-
Bant o f this people which are spared, if it so be that God may
give unto them my words, that they may know o f the things o f
BOOK OP MORMON. 5 3 1
their fathers ; yea, I speak unto you, ye remnant o f the house
o f Israel; and this is the words which I speak: Know ye that
ye are o f the house o f Israel. Know ye that ye must come
unto repentance, or ye cannot be saved. Know ye that ye
must lay down your weapons o f war, and delight no more in
the shedding o f blood, and take them not again, save it be that
God snail command you. Know ye that ye must come to
the knowledge o f your fathers, and repent o f all your sins and
iniquities, and believe in Jesus Christ, that he is the Son o f
God, and that he was slain by the Jews, and by the power of
the Father he hath risen again, whereby he hath gained the
victory over the grave; and also in him is the sting o f death
swallowed up. And he bringeth to pass the resurrection o f
the dead, whereby man must be raised to stand before his
judgement seat. And he hath brought to pass the redemption
o f the world, whereby he that is found guiltless before him at
the judgement day, hath it given unto them to dwell in the
presence o f God in his kingdom, to sing ceaseless praises with
the choirs above, unto the Father, and unto the Son, and un­
to the Holy Ghost, which is one God, in a state o f happiness
which hath no end. Therefore repent, and be baptized in the
name o f Jesus, and lay hold upon the Gospel o f Christ, which
shall be set before you, not only in this record, but also in the
record which shall come unto the Gentiles from the Jews,
which record shall come from the Gentiles unto you. For
behold, this is written for the intent that ye may believe that;
and if ye believe that, ye will believe this also; and if ye be­
lieve this, ye will know concerning your fathers, and also the
marvellous works which were wrought by tbe power o f God
among them; and ye will also know that ye are a remnant o f
the seed o f Jacob; therefore ye are numbered among the peo­
ple of the first covenant; and if it so be that ye believe in
Christ, and are baptized, first with water, then with fire and
with the Holy Ghost, following the example of our Saviour
according to that which he hath commanded us, it shall be
well with you in the day o f judgement. Amen.
C H A PT E R IV.
B e h o l d I, Moroni, do finish the record o f my father Mor­
mon. Behold, I have but few things to write, which things I
34*
532 BOOK OF MORMON.
hare been commanded o f my father. And now it came to
pass that after the great and tremendous battle at Camorah,
behold, the Nephites which had escaped into the country
southward, were hunted by the Lamanites, until they were all
destroyed; and my father also was killed by them ; and I,
even I remained) alone to write the sad tale o f the destruction
o f my people. But behold, they are gone, and I fulfil the
commandment o f my father. And whether they will slay me,
I know not; therefore I will write and hide up the records in
the earth: and whither I go it mattered) not. Behold, my fa­
ther hath made this record, and he hath written the intent
thereof. And behold, 1 would write it also, if I had room up­
on the plates; but 1 have n ot; and ore I have none, for 1 am
alone: my father hath been slain in battle, and all my kins­
folks, and I have not friends nor whither to g o ; and how long
that the Lord will suffer that I may live, 1know not. Behold,
four hundred years have passed away since the coming o f our
Lord and Saviour. And behold, the Lamanitea have hunted
my people, the Nephites, down from city to city, and from
place to place, even until they are no m ore; and great has
been their fall; yea, great and marvellous is the destruction
o f my people, the Nephites. And behold, it is the hand o f
the Lord which hath done it. And behold also, the Laman-
ites are at war one with another; and the whole face o f this
land is one continual round o f murder and bloodshed; and no
one knoweth the end o f the war. And now behold, I say no
more concerning them, for there are none, save it be Laman-
ites and robbers, that do exist upon the face o f the land; and
there are none that do know the true God, save it be the dis­
ciples o f Jesus, which did tarry in the land until the wicked­
ness o f the people were so great, that the Lord would not
suffer them to remain with the people; and whether they he
upon the face o f the land, no man knoweth. But behold, my
father and I have seen them, and they have ministered unto
us. And whoso receiveth this record, and shall not condemn
it because o f the imperfections which are in it, the same shall
know o f greater thiugs than these. Behold, I am M oroni;
and were it possible, I would make all things known unto you.
Behold, I make an end o f speaking concerning this people. I
am the son o f Mormon, and my father was a descendant o f
N ephi; and I am the same which hideth up this record unto
the L ord ; the plates thereof are o f no worth, because o f the
commandment o f the Lord. F or he truly saith, That no one
BOOK OF MORMON. 5 3 3
shall have them to get gain; but the record thereof is o f great
worth; and whoso shall bring it to light, him will the Lord
bless. For none can have power to bring it to light, save it
be given him o f God : for God will that it shall be done with
an eye singled to his glory, or the welfare o f the ancient and
long dispersed covenant people o f the Lord. And blessed be
him that shall bring this thing to light: for it shall be brought
out o f darkness unto light, according to the word o f G o d ; yea,
it shall be brought out o f the earth, and it shall shine forth out
o f darkness, and come unto the knowledge o f the people ; and
it shall be done by the power o f God : ar.d if there be faults,
they be the faults o f a man. But behold, we know no fault.
Nevertheless, God knoweth all things; therefore he that con­
demned), let him be aware lest he shall be in danger o f hell
fire. And he that sayetb, Shew unto me, or ye shall be smit­
ten, let him beware lest he commanded) that which is forbid­
den o f the Lord. For behold, the same that judgeth rashly,
shall be judged rashly again: for according to his works shall
his wages b e ; therefore, he that smiteth, shall be smitten again
o f ihe Lord. Behold what the Scripture saith: Man shall
not smite, neither shall he judge : for judgement is mine, saith
the L ord ; and vengeance is mine also, and I will repay. And
he that shall breathe out wrath and strifes against the work o f
the Lord, and against the covenant people o f the Lord, which
is the house o f Israel, and shall say, W e will destroy the
work o f the Lord, and the Lord will not remember his cove­
nant which he hath made unto the house o f Israel, the same
is in danger to be hewn down and cast into the fire: for the
eternal purposes o f the Lord shall roll on, until all his promi­
ses shall be fulfilled. Search the prophecies o f Isaiah. Be­
hold, I cannot write them. Yea, behold I say unto you, That
those saints which have gone before me, which have possessed
this land, shall cry ; yea, even from the dust will they cry un­
to the L ord ; and as the Lord liveth, he will remember the,
covenant which he hath made with them. And he knoweth
their prayers, that they were in the behalf o f their brethren.
And he knoweth their faith: for in his name could they re­
move mountains ; and in his name could they cause the earth
to shake; and by the power o f his word did they cause pris­
ons to fumble to the earth; yea, even the fiery furnace could
not harm them ; neither wild beasts, nor poisonous serpents,
because o f the power o f his word. And behold, their prayers
were also in behalf o f him that the Lord should suffer to
534 BOOK OF MORMON.
bring these things forth. And no one need not say, They shall
not come, for they surely shall, for the Lord hath spoken it:
for out o f the earth shall they come, by the hand o f the Lord,
and none can stay it; and it shall come in a day when it shall
he said that miracles are done away ; and it shall come even
as if one should speak from the dead. And it shall come in
a day when the blood o f saints shall cry unto the Lord, be­
cause o f secret combinations and the works o f darkness; yea,
it shall come in a day when the power o f God shall be denied,
and churches become defiled, and shall be lifted up in the
pride o f their hearts; yea, even in a day when leaders o f
churches, and teachers, in the pride of their hearts, even to
the envying o f them who belong to their churches; yea, it
shall come in a day when there shall be heard o f fires, and
tempests, and vapors o f smoke in foreign lands; and there
shall also be heard o f wars, and rumors o f wars, and earth­
quakes in diverse places; yea, it shall come in a day when
there shall be great pollutions upon the face o f the earth:
there shall be murders, and robbing, and lying, and deceivings,
and wboredomg, and all manner o f abominations; when there
shall be many which will say, Do this, or do that, and it mat-
teretb not, for the Lord will uphold such at the last day. But
w o unto such, for they are in the gall of bitterness, and in the
bonds o f iniquity. Yea, it shall come in a day when there
shall be churches built up that shall say, Come unto me, and
for your money you shall be forgiven o f your sins. O ye
wicked, and perverse, and stiffnecked people, why have ye
built up churches unto yourselves to get gain 1 Why have ye
transfigured the holy word o f God, that ye might bring dam­
nation upon your souls 1 Behold, look ye unto the revelations
o f God. For behold, the time cometh at that day when all
these things must be fulfilled. Behold, the Lord hath shewn
Unto me great and marvellous things concerning that which
must shortly come at that day when these things shall come
forth among you. Behold, 1 speak unto you as if ye were
present, and yet ye are not. But behold, Jesus Christ hath
shewn you unto me, and I know your doing; and I know
that ye do walk in the pride o f your hearts; and there are
none, save a few only, which do not lift themselves up in the
pride o f their hearts, unto the wearing o f very fine apparel,
unto envying, and strifes, and malice, and persecutions, and
all manner o f iniquities; and your churches, yea, even every
one, have become polluted because o f the pride o f your hearts.
BOOK OP MOBM0N. 535
For behold, ye do love money, and your substances, and your
fine apparel, and the adorningof your churches, more than ye
love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted. O ye
pollutions, ye hypocrites, ye teachers, which sell yourselves
tor that which will canker, why have ye polluted the holy
church o f G od? Why are ye ashamed to take upon you the
name o f Christ? W hy do ye not think that greater is the val­
ue o f an endless happiness, than that misery which never dies,
because o f the praise o f the world ? W hy do ye adorn your­
selves with that which hath no life, and yet suffer the hungry,
and the needy, and the naked, and the sick, and the afflicted
to pass by you, and notice them not? Yea, why do ye build
up your secret abominations to get gain, and cause that wid­
ows should mourn before the Lewd, and also orphans to mourn
before the L ord; and also the blood of their fathers and their
husbands to cry unto the Lord from the ground, for vengeance
upon your heads! Behold, the sword o f vengeance hangeth
over y ou ; and the time soon cometh that he avengeth the
blood o f the saints upon you, for he will not suffer their cries
arty longer. And now, I speak also concerning those who do
not believe in Christ. Behold, will ye believe in the day o f
your visitation, behold, when the Lord shall com e; yea, even
that great day when the earth shall be rolled together as a
scroll, and the elements shall melt with tervent heat; yea, in
that great day when ye shall be brought to stand before the
Lamb o f God, then will ye say that there is no God ? Then
will ye longer deny the Christ, or can ye behold the Lamb
o f God ? D o ye suppose that ye shall dwell with him under
a consciousness o f your guilt ? D o ye suppose that ye could
be happy to dwell with that holy Being, when your souls are
racked with a consciousness o f your guilt that ye have ever
abused his laws ? Behold 1 say unto you, that ye would he
more miserable to dwell with a holy and just God, under a
consciousness o f your filthiness before him, than ye would to
dwell with the damned souls in hell ? For behold, when ye
shall be brought to see your nakedness before God, and also
the glory o f God, and the holiness o f Jesus Christ, it will kin­
dle a flame o f unquenchable fire upon you. O then ye unbe­
lieving, turn ye unto the L ord ; cry mightily unto the Father
in the name o f Jesus, that perhaps ye may be found spotless,
pure, fair, and white, having been cleansed by the blood o f the
Lamb, at that great and last day. And again I speak unto
you. who deny the revelations o f God, and say that they are
536 BOOK OF MOItMGH.
done away, that there is no revelations, nor prophecies, nor
gifts, nor healing, nor speaking with tongues, and the interpre­
tation of tongues. Behold I say unto you, He that denieth
these things, knoweth not the Gospel o f Christ; yea, they
have not read the Scriptures ; if so, they do not understand
them. For do we not read that God is the same yesterday,
to-day, and forever: and in him there is no variableness, nei­
ther shadow o f changing. And now, if ye have imagined up
unto yourselves a god which doth vary, and in him there is
shadow of changing, then have ye imagined up unto yourselves
a god which is not a God o f miracles. But behold, I will
shew unto you a God o f miracles, even the God of Abraham,
and the God o f Isaac, and the God of Jacob; and it is that
same God which created the heavens and the earth, and all
things that in them is. Behold, he crated Adam ; and by Ad­
am came the fall o f man. And because o f the fall o f man,
came Jesus Christ, even the Father and the S on ; and because
of Jesus Christ, came the redemption o f man. And because
o f the redemption o f man, which -came by Jesus Christ, they
are brought back into the presence o f the Lord ; yea, this is
wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ
bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pass a
redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all men
shall be awoke by the power o f God, when the trump shall
sound; and they shall come forth, both small and great, and
all shall stand before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from
this eternal band o f death, which death is a temporal death ;
and then cometh the judgement o f the Holy One upon them;
and then cometh the time that he that is filthy, shall be filthy
still; and he that is righteous, shall be righteous still: he that
is happy, shall be happy still; and he that is unhappy, shall
be unhappy still. And now, O all ye that have imagined up
unto yourselves a god which can do no miracles, I would ask
o f you, have all these things past, o f which I have spoken?
Ha$ the end come yet ? Behold I say unto you, N ay; and God
has not ceased to be a God o f miracles. Behold, are not the
things that God hath wrought, marvellous in our eyes? Yea.
and who can comprehend the marvellous works o f God ? W ho
shall gay that it was not a miracle, that by his word the heav­
en and the earth should b e ; and by the power o f his word,
man was created o f the dust o f the earth ; and by the power
o f his word, hath miracles been wrought? And who shall
say that Jesus Christ did not do many mighty miracles? And
BOOK OF MORMON. S3?
-there was many mighty miracles wrought by the hands o f the
apostles. And if there was miracles wrought, then why has
God ceased to be a God o f miracles, and yet be an unchangea­
ble being. And behold I say unto you, He cbarigeth not; if
so, he would cease to be God; and he ceasetb not to be God,
and is a God o f miracles. And the reason why he ceaseth to
do miracles among the children of men, is because that they
dwindle in unbelief, and depart from the right way, and kn#w
not the God in whom they should trust Behold I say unw>
you, That whoso believeth in Christ, doubting nothing, what­
soever he shall ask the Father in the name o f Christ, it shall
be granted them: and this promise is unto all, even unto the
ends o f the earth. For behold, thus saith Jesus Christ, the
Son o f God, unto his disciples which should tarry; yea, and
also to all his disciples, in the hearing of the multitude, Go ye
into all the world, and preach the Gospel to every creature;
and he that believeth and is baptized, shall be saved, but he
that believeth not, shall be damned. And these signs shall
follow them that believe: In my name shall they cast out Dev­
ils ; they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up
serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt
them ; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall reco­
ver; and whosoever shall believe in my name, doubting noth­
ing, unto him will I confirm all my words, even unto the ends
o f the earth. And now behold, who can stand against the
works o f the Lord? W ho can deny his sayings? W ho will
rise up against the almighty power o f the Lord ? W ho will
despise the works o f the Lord ? W ho will despise the children
o f Christ ? Behold, all ye that are despisers o f the works of
the Lord, for ye shall wonder and perish. O then despise
not, and wonder not, but hearken unto the words o f the Lord,
and ask the Father in the name o f Jesus for what things soever
ye shall stand in need. Doubt not, but be be eving, and be­
gin as in times o f old, and come unto the Lord with all your
heart, and work out your own salvation with fear and trem­
bling before him. Be wise in the days o f your probation ;
strip yourselves o f all uncleanness; ask not, that ye may con­
sume it on your lusts, but ask with a firmness unshaken, that
ye will yield to no temptation, but that ye will serve the true
and living God. See that ye are not baptized unworthily; see
that ye partake not o f the sacrament o f Christ unworthily;
but see that ye do all things in worthiness, and do it in the
name o f Jesus Christ, the Son ef the living G od; and if ye do
538 BOOK OP ETHER.
this, aKd endure to the end, ye will in no wise be cast out—•
Behold, I speak unto you as though I spake from the dead:
for I know that ye shall hear my words. Condemn me not
because o f mine imperfection ; neither my father, because o f
bis imperfection ; neither them which have written before him,
but rather give thanks unto God that he hath made manifest
unto you our imperfections, that ye may learn to be more wise
than that which we have been.
And now behold, we have written this record according to
our knowledge in the characters, which are called among us
the reformed Egyptian, being handed down and altered by us,
according to our manner o f speech. And if our plates had
been sufficiently large, we should have written in the Hebrew ;
but the Hebrew hath been altered by us also; and if we could
have written in the Hebrew, behold, ye would have had none
imperfection in our record. But the Lord knoweth the things
which we have written, and also that none other people know­
eth our language; and because that none other people know­
eth our language, therefore he hath prepared means for the in­
terpretation thereof. And these things are written, that we
may rid our garments o f the blood o f our brethren which have
dwindled in unbelief. And behold, these things which we
have desired concerning our brethren, yea, even their restora­
tion to the knowledge o f Christ, is according to the prayers o f
all the saints which have dwelt in the land. And may the
Lord Jesus Christ grant that their prayers may be answered
according to their faith; and may God the Father remember
the covenant which he hath made with the house o f Israel;
and may he bless them forever, through faith on the name o f
Jesus Christ. Amen.
BOOK OF ETHER.
C H A P T E R l
A nd now I, Moroni, proceed to give an account o f those
ancient inhabitants which were destroyed by the hand o f the
Lord upon the face o f this north country. And I take mine
account from the twenty and four plates which were found by
the people o f Limhi, which is called the Book o f Ether. And
as I suppose that the first part o f this record, which speaketh
BOOK OF ETHER, 539
concerning the creation o f the world, and also o f Adam, and
nn account from that time even to the great tower, and whatso­
ever things transpired among the children o f men until that
time, is had among the Jews, therefore I do not write those
things which transpired from the days o f Adam until that
tim e; but they are had upon the plates; and whoso findeth
them, the same will have power that he may get the full ac­
count. But behold, I give not the full account, but a part o f
the account I give, from the tower down until they were de­
stroyed. And on this wise do 1 give the account. He that
wrote this record was Ether, and he was a descendant o f
Coriantor; Coriantor was the son o f Moron; and Moron was
the son o f Ethem; and Etliem was the son of Ahah; and
Ahah was the son o f Seth ; and Seth was the son o f Shiblon;
and Shiblon was the son o f Com ; and Com was the eon o f
Coriantum; and Coriantum was the son o f Amnigaddah; and
Amnigaddab was the son o f Aaron; and Aaron was a de­
scendant o f Hetli, who was the son o f Hearlhom; and
Hearthom was the son o f L ib; and Lib was the son o f K ish;
and Kish was the son o f Corom ; and Corom was the son o f
L ev i; and Levi was the son of Kim ; and Kim was the son
o f Morianton; and Morianton was a descendant o f Riplakish;
and Riplakish was the son o f S h ez; and Shez was the son o f
H eth; and Heth was the son o f C om ; and Com was the
son o f Coriantum; and Coriantum was the son o f Em er;
and Emer was the son o f O m er; and Omer was the son of
Shule ; and Shule was the son o f K ib; and Kib was the son
o f Orihah, which was the son o f Jared; which Jared came
forth with his brother and their families, with some others
and their families, from the great tower, at the time the Lord
confounded the language o f the people, and swear in his wrath
that they should be scattered upon all the face o f the earth;
and according to the word o f the Lord the people were scat­
tered. And the brother o f Jared, being a large and a mighty
man, and being a man highly favored o f the Lord ; for Jared
his brother said unto him, Cry unto the Lord, that he will not
confound us that we may not understand our %vords. And it
came to pass that the brother o f Jared did cry unto the Lord,
and the Lord had compassion upon Jared; therefore he did
not confound the language o f Jared; and Jared and his brother
were not confounded. Then Jared said unto his brother, Cry
again unto the Lord, and it may be that he will turn away his
anger from them which are our friends, that he confound not
5 4 0 BOOK OP ETHER.
their language. And it came to pass that the brother of Jared
did cry unto the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon
their friends, and their families also, that they were not con­
founded. And it came to pass that Jared spake again unto his
brother, saying, Go and inquire of the Lord whether he will
drive us out o f the land; and if he will drive us out o f the
land, cry unto him whither we shall go. And who knoweth but
the Lord will carry us forth into a land which is choice above
all the earth. And if it so be, let us be faithful unto the Lord,
that we may receive it for our inheritance.
And it came to pass that the brother o f Jared did cry unto
the Lord according to that which had been spoken by the
mouth o f Jared. And it came to pass that the Lord did hear
the brother o f Jared, and had compassion upon him, and said
unto him, Go to and gather together thy flocks, both male and
female, o f every kind; and also o f the seed o f the earth of
every kind, and thy families ; and also Jared thy brother and
his family; and also thy friends and their families, and the
friends o f Jared and their families. And when thou hast done
this, thou shalt go at the head o f them down into the valley,
which is northward. And there will I meet thee, and I will
go before thee into a land which is choice above all the land o f
the earth. And there will I bless thee and thy seed, and
raise up unto me o f thy seed, and o f the seed o f thy brother,
and they which shall go with thee, a great nation. . And there
shall he none greater than the nation which I will raise up unto
me o f thy seed, upon all the face o f the earth. And thus I
will do unto thee because o f this long time which ye have cried
unto me.
And it came to pass that Jared, and his brother, and their
families, and also the friends o f Jared and his brother, and
their families, went down into the valley which was northward,
(and the name o f the valley was Nimrod, being called after
the mighty hunter,) with their flocks which they had gathered
together, male and female, o f every kind. And they did also
lay snares and catch fowls o f the a ir; and they did also prepare
a vessel, in the which they did carry with them the fish o f
the waters ; and they did also carry with them deseret, which,
by interpretation, is a honey b ee; and thus they did carry with
them swarms o f bees, and all manner o f that which was upon
the face o f the land, seeds o f every kind. And it came to pass
that when they had come down into the valley o f Nimrod, the
Lord came down and talked with the brother o f Jared ; and
BOOK OP ETHER. 541
he was in a clowd, and the brother o f Jared saw him not.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded them that they
should go forth into the wilderness, yea, into that quarter where
there never had man been. And it came to pass that the
Lord did go before them, and did talk with them as he stood
in a cloud, and gave directions whither they should travel.—
And it came to pass that they did travel in the wilderness, and
did build barges, in the which they did cross many waters,
being directed continually by the hand o f the Lord. And the
Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyond the sea in
the wilderness, buthe would that they should come forth even
unto the land o f promise, which was choice above all other
lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous
people ; and he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of
Jared, that whoso should possess this land of promise, from
that time henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and
only God, or they should be swept otf when the fulness o f his
wrath should come upon them. And now we can behold the
decrees o f God concerning this land, that it is a land o f pro­
mise, and whatsoever nation shall possess it, shall serve God,
or they shall be swept off when the fulness o f his wrath shall
come upon them. And the fulness of his wrath cometh upon
them when they are ripened in iniquity: for behold, this is a
land which is choice above all other lands; wherefore he that
doth possess it shall serve God, or shall be swept o ff; for it is
the everlasting decrees o f God. And it is not until the ful­
ness o f iniquity among the children o f the land, that they are
swept off. And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye
may know the decrees o f God, that ye may repent, and not
continue in your iniquities until the fulness be come, that ye
may not bring down the fulness o f the wrath o f God upon
you, as the inhabitants o f the land hath hitherto done. Behold,
this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it,
shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all
other nations under Heaven, if they will but serve the God of
the land, which is Jesus Christ, which hath been manifested
by the things which we have written. And now I proceed
with my record : for behold it came to pass that the Lord did
bring Jared and his brethem forth even to that great sea which
divideth the lands. And as they came to the sea, they pitched
their tents; and they called the name o f the place Morian-
eumer; and they dwelt in tents; and dwelt in tents upon the
seashore for the space o f four years. And it came to pass
542 BOOK OF ETHER.
at the end o f the four years, that the Lord came again unto
the brother o f Jared, and stood in a cloud and talked with him.
And for the space o f three hours did the Lord talk with the
brother o f Jared, and chastened him because he remembered
not to call upon the name o f the Lord. And the brother
o f Jared repented him of the evil which he had done, and did
call upon the name o f the Lord for his brethern which were
with him. And the Lord said unto him, 1 will forgive thee
and thy brethren o f their sins; but thou shalt not sin any more,
for ye shall remember that my spirit will not always strive
with man; wherefore if ye will sin until ye are fully ripe, ye
shall be cut off from the presence o f the Lord. And this is
my thoughts upon the land which I shall give you for your in­
heritance ; for it shall be a land choice above all other lands.
And the Lord said, G o to work and build, after the manner
o f barges which ye have hitherto built. And it came to pass
that the brother o f Jared did go to work, and also his breth­
ren, and built barges after the matter which they had built,
according to the instructions o f the Lord. And they were
small, and they were light upon the water, even like unto the
lightness o f a fowl upon the water; and they were built after
a manner that they were exceeding tight, even that they would
hold water like unto a dish ; and the bottom thereof was tight
like unto a dish; and the sides thereof was tight like unto a
dish; and the ends thereof were peaked ; and the top thereof
was tight like unto a dish; and the length thereof was the
length o f a tree; and the door thereof, when it was shut, was
tight like unto a dish. And it came to pass that the brother o f
Jared cried unto the Lord, saying: O Lord, I have performed
the work which thou hast commanded me, and 1 have made
the barges according as thou hast directed me. And behold,
O Lord, in them there is no light, whither shall we steer.—
And also we shall perish, for in them we cannot breathe, save
it is the air which is in them ; therefore we shall perish. And
the Lord said unto the brother of Jared, Behold, thou shalt
make a hole in the top thereof, and also in the bottom thereof;
and when thou shalt suffer for air, thou shalt unstop the hole
thereof, and receive air. And if it so be that the water come
in upon thee, behold, ye shall stop the hole thereof, that ye
may not perish in the flood. Anu it came to pass that the
brother o f Jared did so, according as the Lord had commanded.
And He cried again unto the Lord, saying, O Lord, behold I
have done even as thou hast commanded m e; and I have pre-
BOOK OP ETHER. 543
pared the vessels for my people, and behold, there is no light
in them. Behold, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that we shall cross
this great water in darkness? And the Lord said unto the
brother o f Jared, What will ye that I should do that ye may
have light in your vessels ? For behold, ye cannot have win­
dows, for they will be dashed in pieces ; neither shall ye take
fire with you, for ye shall not go by the light o f fire : for be­
hold, ye shall be as a whale in the midst o f the sea ; for the
mountain waves shall dash upon you. Nevertheless, I will
bring you up again out o f the depths o f the sea: for the winds
have gone forth out o f my mouth, and also the rains and the
floods have I sent forth. And behold, 1 prepare you against
these things: for howbeit, ye cannot cross this great deep,
save I prepare you against the waves o f the sea, and the winds
which have gone forth, and the floods which shall come.—
Therefore what will ye that 1 should prepare for you, that ye
may have light when ye are swallowed up in the depths o f the
sea?
And it came to pass that the brother o f Jared, (now the
number o f the vessels which had been prepared, was eight,)
went forth unto the mount, which they called the mount She-
lem, because o f its exceeding height, and did moulten out o f a
rock sixteen small stones; and they were white and clear,
even as transparent glass; and he did carry them in his hands
upon the top o f the mount, and cried again unto the Lord,
saying, O Lord, thou hast said that we must be encompassed
about by the floods. Now behold, O Lord, and do not be
angry with thy servant because o f his weakness before thee :
for we know that thou art holy, and dwellest in the heavens,
and that we are unworthy before thee: because o f the fall,
our natures have become evil continually; nevertheless, O
Lord, thou hast given us a commandment that we must call
upon thee, that from thee we may receive according to our
desires. Behold, O Lord, thou hast smitten us because of
our iniquity, and hath driven us forth, and for this many years
we have been in the wilderness; nevertheless, thou hast been
merciful unto us. O Lord, look upon me in pity, and turn
away thine anger from this thy people, and suffer not that
they shall go forth across this raging deep in darkness, but
behold these things which I have moulten out o f the rock.—
And I know, O Lord, that thou hast all power, and can do
whatsoever thou wilt for the benefit o f man ; therefore touch
these stones, O Lord, with A y finger, and prepare them that
544 BOOK OP ETHER,
they may shine forth in darkness; and they shall shine forth
unto us in the vessels which we have prepared, that we may
have light while we shall cross the sea. Behold, O Lord,
thou canst do this. W e know that thou art able to shew forth
great power, which looks small unto the understanding of
men. And it came to pass that when the brother o f Jared
had said these words, behold, the Lord stretched forth his
hand and touched the stones, one by one, with his finger; and
the veil was taken from off the eyes of the brother of Jared,
and he saw the finger of the Lord: and it was as the finger o f
a man, like unto flesh and blood ; and the brother of Jared
fell down before the Lord, for he was struck with fear. And
the Lord saw that the brother of Jared had fallen to the earth;
and the Lord said unto him, Arise, why hast thou fallen 1 And
he saith unto the Lord, 1 saw the finger o f the Lord, and 1
feared lest he should smite m e: for I knew not that the Lord
had flesh and blood. And the Lord said unto him, Because o f
thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon, me flesh and
blood ; and never has man coroe before me with such exceed­
ing faith as thou hast: for were it so, ye could not have seen
my finger. Saivest thou more than this ? And be answered,
Nay, Lord, shew thyself unto me. And the Lord said unto
him, Believest thou the words which I shall speak'! And he
answered, Yea, Lord, 1 know that thou speakest the truth,
for thou art a God of truth, and canst not lie. And when he
had said these words, behold, the Lord shewed himself unto
him, and said, Because thou knowest these things, ye are re­
deemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought back into my
presence ; therefore I shew myself unto you. Behold, 1 am
he which was prepared from the foundation o f the world, to
redeem my people. Behold, 1 am Jesus Christ. I am the
Father and the Son. In me shall all mankind have light, and
that eternally, even they which shall believe on my name;
and they shall become my sons and my daughters. And ne­
ver hath 1 shewed myself unto man whom 1 have created, for
never hath man believed in me as thou hast. Seest thou that
ye are created after mine own image ? Yea, even all men were
created, in the beginning, after mine own image. Behold, this
body, which ye now heboid, is the body of my spirit; and
man have I ereated after the body of my spirit; and even as I
appear unto thee to be in the spirit, will I appear unto my
people in the flesh.
And now, as 1 Moroni, said 1 could not make a full account
BOOK O F ETHKK. 545
o f these things which are written, therefore it sufficeth me to
say, That Jesus shewed himself unto this man in the spirit,
even after the manner and in the likeness o f the same body,
even as he shewed himself unto the Nephites; and he minis­
tered unto him, even as he ministered unto the Nephites: and
all this, that this man knew that he was God, because o f the
many great works which the Lord had shewed unto him. And
because o f the knowledge o f this man, he could not be kept
from beholding within the veil: and he saw the finger o f Jesus,
which, when he saw, he fell with fear: for he knew that it was
the finger o f the L ord; and he had faith no longer, for he knew,
nothing doubting; wherefore, having this perfect knowledge
o f God, he could not be kept from within the veil; therefore
he saw Jesus, and he did minister unto him.
And it came to pass that the Lord said unto the brother o f
Jared, Behold, thou shalt not suffer these things which ye have
seen and heard, to go forth unto the world, until the time
cometh that I shall glorify my name in the flesh; wherefore,
ye shall treasure up the things which ye have seen and heard,
and shew it to no man. And behold, when ye shall come un­
to me, ye shall write them and shall seal them up, that no one
can interpret them: for ye shall Write them in a language that
they cannot be read. And behold, these two stones will I
give unto thee, and ye shall seal them up also, with the things
which ye shall write. For behold, the language which ye shall
write, 1 have confounded; wherefore I will cause in mine own
due time *that these stones shall magnify to the eyes o f men,
these things which ye shall write. And when the Lord had
said these words, the Lord shewed unto the brother o f Jared
all the inhabitants of the earth which had been, and also all
that would be ; and the Lord withheld them not from his sight,
even unto the ends o f the earth : for the Lord had said unto
him in times before, that if he would believe in him, that he
could shew unto him all things— it should be shewn unto him;
therefore the Lord could not withhold any thing from him: for
he knew that the Lord could shew him all things. And the
Lord said unto him, Write these things and seal them up, and
I will shew them in mine own due time unto the children o f
men.
And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him that he
should seal up the two stones which he had received, and
shew them not, until the Lord should shew them unto the
children o f men. And the Lord commanded the brother o f
35
546 BOOK OP ETHER.
Jared to go down out o f the mount from the presence o f the
Lord, and write the things whicli he had seen: and the} were
forbidden to come unto the children o f men, until after that
he should be lifted up upon the cross: and for this cause did
king Benjamin keep them, that they should not come unto the
world until after Christ should shew himself unto his people.
And after that Christ truly had shewed himself unto his peo­
ple, he commanded that they should be made manifest. And
now, after that, they have all dwindled in unbelief, and there is
none, save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected the
Gospel o f Christ; therefore I am commanded that I should
bide them up again in tbe earth. Behold, I have written upon
these plates the very things which the brother o f Jared saw;
and there never was greater things made manifest, than that
which was made manifest unto the brother o f Jared ; where­
fore, the Lord hath commanded me to write them; and I have
wrote them. And he commanded me that 1 should seal them
u p ; and he also hath commanded that I should seal up the in­
terpretation thereof; wherefore 1 have sealed up the interpre­
ters, according to the commandment o f the Lord. For the
Lord saith unto me, They shall not go forth unto the Gentiles
until the day that they shall repent o f their iniqutity, and be­
come clean before the L ord ; and in that day that they shall
exercise faith in me, saith the Lord, even as the brother o f Ja­
red did, that they may become sanctified in me, then will I
manifest unto them the things which the brother o f Jai-ed saw,
even to the unfolding unto them all my revelations, saith Je­
sus Christ, the Son o f God, the Father o f the heavens and o f
the earth, and all things that in them is. And he that will
contend against the word o f the Lord, let him be accursed;
and be thut shall deny these things, let him be accursed : for
unto them will I shew no greater things, saith Jesus Christ, for
I am he which speaketh; and at my command the heavens
are opened and are shut; and at my word, the earth shall
shake; and at my command, the inhabitants thereof shall pass
away, even so as by fire; and he that believeth not my words,
believeth not my disciples; and if it so be that I do not speak,
judge y e ; for ye shall know that it is 1 that speaketh, at the
last day. But he that believeth these things which i have
spoken, him will I visit with the manifestations o f my spirit;
and he shall know and bear record. For because o f my spir­
it, he shall know that these things ape true: for it persuadeth
men to do good; and whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do
BOOK OF ETHEE. 647
good, is o f me : for good cometh o f none, save it be o f me. I
am the same that leadeth men to all good : he that will not be­
lieve my words, will not believe me, that I am; and he that
will not believe me, will not believe the Father which sent me.
For behold, I am the Father, I am the light, and the life, and
the truth of the world. Come unto me, O ye Gentiles, and I
will shew unto you the greater things, the knowledge which is
hid up because o f unbelief. Come unto me, Q ye house o f
Israel, and it shall be made manifest unto you how great
things the Father hath laid up for you, from the foundation of
the world ; and it hath not come unto you, because o f unbelief
Behold, when ye shall rend that veil o f unbelief which doth
cause you to remain in your awful state o f wickedness, and
hardness o f heart, and blindness o f mind, then shall the great
and marvellous things which have been hid up from the found­
ation of the world from you; yea, when ye shall call upon the
Father in my name, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit,
then shall ye know that the Father hath remembered the cove­
nant which he made unto your fathers, O house o f Israel; and
then shall my revelations which I have caused to be written
by my servant John, be unfolded in the eyes o f all the people.
Remember, when ye see these things, ye shall know that the
time is at hand that they shall be made manifest in very deed;
therefore, when ye shall receive this record, ye may know
that the work o f the Father has commenced upon all the face
o f the land. Therefore, repent all ye ends o f the earth, and
come unto me, and believe in my Gospel, and be baptized in
my name: for he that believeth, and is baptized, shall be sa­
ved ; but he that believeth not, shall be damned: and signs
shall follow them that believe in my name. And blessed is
he that is found faithful unto my name, at the last day: for
they shall be lifted up to dwell in the kingdom prepared for
them from the foundation o f the world. And behold, it is I
that hath spoken it Amen..
CH A PTE R II.
And now I, Moroni, have written the words which was
commanded me, according to my memory; and I have told you
the things which I have sealed up; therefore touch them not,
in order that ye may translate : for that thing is forbidden you,
85*
548 BOOK OF ETHER.
except by and by it shall be wisdom in God. And behold, ye
may be privileged that ye may shew the plates unto those who
shall assist to bring forth this w ork; and unto three shall they
be shewn by the power o f God ; wherefore, they shall know
o f a surety that these things are true. And in the mouth of
three witnesses shall these things be established; and the
testimony o f three, and this work, in the which shall be shewn
forth the power o f God, and also his word, o f which the Fa­
ther, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost beareth record; and
all this shall stand as a testimony against the world, at the last
day. And if it bo be that they repent and come unto the Fa­
ther in the name o f Jesus, they shall he received into the king­
dom o f God. And now, if I have no authority for these things,
judge ye, for ye shall know that I have authority when ye shall
see me, and we shall stand before God at the last day. Amen.
C H A P T E R III.
And now I, Moroni, proceed to give the record o f Jared and
his brother. F or it came to pass after that the Lord had pre­
pared the stones which the brother o f Jared had carried up
into the mount, the brother o f Jared came down out o f the
mount, and he did put forth the stones into the vessels which
were prepared, one in each end thereof; and behold, they did
give light unto the vessels thereof. And thus the Lord cau­
sed stones to shine in darkness, to give light unto men, wo­
men and children, that they might not cross the great waters in
darkness.
And it came to pass that when they had prepared all man­
ner o f food, that thereby they might subsist upon the water,
and also food for their,flocks and herds, and whatsoever beast,
or animal, or fowl that they should carry with them : And it
came to pass that when they had done all these things, they
got aboard o f their vessels or barges, and set forth into the
sea, commending themselves unto the Lord their God. And
it came to pass that the Lord God caused that there should a
furious wind blow upon the face of the waters, towards the
promised land ; and thus they were tossed upon the waves of
the sea before the wind. And it came to pass that they were
many times buried in the depths o f the sea, because o f the
mountain waves which broke upon then), and also the great
BOOK OF ETHEB. 549
and terrible tempests which were caused by the fierceness of
the wind.
And it came to pass that when they were buried in the deep,
there was no water that could hurt them, their vessels being
tight like unto a dish, and also they were tight like unto the
ark o f Noah ; therefore when they were encompassed about
by many waters, they did cry unto the Lord, and he did bring
them forth again upon the top o f the waters. And it came to
pass that the wind did never cease to blow towards the prom­
ised land, while they were upon the waters; and thus they
were driven forth before the w ind; and they did sing praises
unto the L ord; yea, the brother o f Jared did sing praises un­
to the Lord, and he did thank and praise the Lord all the day
long; and when the night came, they did not cease to praise
the Lord. And thus they were driven forth ; and no monster
of the sea could break them, neither whale that could mar
them: and they did have light continually, whether it was
above the water or under the water. And thus they were
driven forth, three hundred and forty and four days upon the
w ater; and they did land upon the shore o f the promised land.
And when they had set their feet upon the shores o f the prom­
ised land, they bowed themselves down upon the face o f the
land, and did humble themselves before the Lord, and did
shed tears of joy before the Lord, because o f the multitude of
his tender mercies over them.
And it came to pass that they Went forth upon the face o f
the land, and began to till the earth. And Jared had four
sons; and they were called Jacom, and Gilgah, and Mahab,
and Orihah. And the brother o f Jared also begat sons and
daughters. And the friends o f Jared and his brother, were in
number about twenty and two souls; and they also begat sons
and daughters, before they came to the promised land; and
therefore they began to be many. And they were taught to
walk humbly before the L ord; and they were also taught
from on high.
And it came to pass that they began to spread upon the
face o f the land, and to multiply and to till the earth; and they
did wax strong in the land. And the brother o f Jared began
to be old, and saw that he must soon go down to the grave;
wherefore he saith unto Jared, Let us gather together our
people, that we may number them, that we may know o f them
what they will desire o f us before we go down to our graves.
And accordingly the people were gathered together. Now the
550 BOOK OF ETHEB.
number o f (he sons and the daughters of the brother o f Jared
were twenty and two souls; and the number of the sons and
daughters o f Jared were twelve, he having four sons. And it
came to pass that they did number their people; and after that
they had numbered them, they did desire o f them the things
which they would that they should do before they went down
to their graves. And it came to pass that the people desired
o f them that they should anoint one o f their sons to be a king
over them. And now behold, this was grievous unto them.—
But the brother o f Jared said unto them, Surely, this thing
leadeth into captivity. But Jared said unto his brother, Suf­
fer them that they may have a king; and therefore he said
unto them, Choose ye out from among our sons a king, even
whom ye will.
And it came to pass that they chose even the first bom o f
the brother o f Jared; and his name was Pagag. And it came
to pass that he refused and would not be their king. And the
people would that his father should constrain him; but his fa­
ther would not; and he commanded them that they should
constrain no man to be their king. And it came to pass that
they chose all the brothers o f Pagag, and they would not.—
And it came to pass that neither would the sons o f Jared, even
all, save it were on e; and Oribah, he was anointed to be king
over the people. And he began to reign, and the people be­
gan to prosper; and they became exceeding rich. And it
came to pass that Jared died, and his brother also. And it
came to pass that Orihah did walk humbly before the Lord,
and did remember how great things the Lord had done for his
father, and also taught his people how great things the Lord
had done for their fathers.
And it came to pass that Orihah did execute judgement up­
on the land in righteousness all his days, whose days were ex­
ceeding many. And he begat sons and daughters; yea, he be­
gat thirty and one, among whom were twenty and three sons.
And it came to pass that he also begat Kib in his old age. And
it came to pass that Kib reigned in his stead; and Kib begat
Corihor. And when Corihor was thirty and two years old, he
rebelled against his father, and went over and dwelt in the
land o f Nehor; and he begat sons and daughters; and they
became exceeding fair; wherefore Corihor drew away many
people after him. And when he had gathered together an
army, he came up unto the land o f Moron where the king
dwelt, and took him captive, which brought to pass the say-
BOOK OP ETHER. 551
ing o f the brother o f Jared, That they would be brought into
captivity. N ow the land o f Moron where the king dwelt, was
near the land which is called Desolation by the Nephites.—
And it came to pass that Kib dwelt in captivity, and his peo­
ple, under Corihor his son, until he became exceeding o ld ;
nevertheless Kib begat Shule in his old age, while he was yet
in captivity.
And it came to pass that Shule was angry with bis brother;
and Shule waxed strong, and became mighty, as to the strength
o f a man; and he was also mighty in judgement. W herefore
he came to the hill Ephraim, and he did moulten out o f the
hill, and made swords out o f steel for those which he had
drew away with h im ; and after that he had armed them with
swords, he returned to the city Nehor and gave battle unto his
brother Corihor, by which means he obtained the kingdom,
and restored it unto his father Kih. And now because o f the
thing which Shule had done, his father bestowed upon him the
kingdom ; therefore he began to reign in the stead o f his father.
And it came to pass that he did execute judgement in right­
eousness ; and he did spread his kingdom upon all the face of
the land, for the people had become exceeding numerous.—
And it came to pass that Shule also begat many sons and daugh­
ters. And Corihor repented o f the many evils which he had
d on e; wherefore Shule gave him power in his kingdom. And
it came to pass that Corihor had many sons and daughters.—
And among the sons o f Corihor, there was one w hose name
was Noah.
And it came to pass that Noah rebelled against Shule, the
king, and also his father Corihor, and drew away Cohor his
brother, and also all his brethren and many o f the people.—
And he gave battle unto Shule, the king, in the which he did
obtain the land o f their first inheritance; and he became a
king over that part o f the land. And it came to pass that he
gave battle again unto Shule the king; and he took Shule the
king, and carried him away captive into Moron. And it came
to pass as he was about to put him to death, the sons o f Shule
crept into the house o f Noah by night and slew him, and broke
down the door o f the prison and brought out their father, and
placed him upon his throne in his own kingdom ; wherefore
the son o f Noah did build up his kingdom in his stead; nev­
ertheless they did not gain power any more over Shule the
k in g; and the people which were under the reign o f Shule
the king, did prosper exceedingly and wax great. And the
552 BOOK OF ETHER.
country was divided; and there was two kingdoms, the king
dom o f Shule, and the kingdom o f Cohor, the son o f Noah
And Cohor, the son of Noah, caused that his people should
give "battle unto Shule, in the which Shule did beat them, and
did slay Cohor. And now Cohor had a eon which was called
Nimrod; and Nimrod gave up the kingdom o f Cohor unto
Shule, and he did gain favor in the eyes o f Shule; wherefore
Shule did bestow great favors upon him, in the which he did
do in the kingdom of Shule according to his desires; and also
in the reign o f Shule there came prophets among the people,
which were sent from the Lord, prophesying that the wicked­
ness and idolatry o f the people was bringing a curse upon the
land, in the which they should be destroyed, if they did not
repent.
And it came to pass that the people did revile against the
prophets, and did mock them. And it came to pass that king
Shule did execute judgement against all those who did revile
against the prophets; and he did execute a law throughout all
the land, which gave power unto the prophets that they should
go whithersoever they w ould; and by this cause the people
were brought unto repentance. And because the people did
repent o f their iniquities and idolatries, the Lord did spare
them, and they began to prosper again in the land. And it
came to pass that Shule begat sons and daughters in his old
age. And there was no more wars in the days o f Shule ; and
he remembered the great things that the Lord had done for his
fathers in bringing them across the great deep into the prom­
ised land; wherefore he did execute judgement in righteous­
ness all his days.
And it came to pass that he begat Omer, and Omer reigned
in his stead. And Omer begat Jared; and Jared begat sons
and daughters. And Jared rebelled against his father, and
came and dwelt in the land o f Heth. And it came to pass
that he did flatter much people, because o f his cunning words
until he had gained the half o f the kingdom. And when he
had gained the half o f the kingdom, he gave battle unto his
father, and he did carry away his father into captivity, and did
make them serve in captivity. And now in the days o f the
reign o f Omer, he was in captivity the half o f his days. And
it came to pass that he begat sons and daughters, among whom
were Esrom and Coriantumr; and they were exceeding angry
because o f the doings o f Jared their brother, insomuch that
they did raise an army, and gave battle unto Jared. And it
BOOK OF ETHEK. 553
came to pass that they did give battle unto him by night.—
And it came to pass that when they had slew the army o f Ja­
red. they were about to slay him also ; and he plead with them
that they would not slay him, and he would give up the king­
dom unto his father. And it came to pass that they did grant
unto him his life. And now Jared became exceeding sorrow­
ful because o f the loss o f the kingdom, for he had set his heart
upon the kingdom, and upon the glory o f the world. Now
the daughter o f Jared being exceeding expert, and seeing the
sorrows o f her father, thought to devise a plan whereby she
could redeem the kingdom unto her father. Now the daugh­
ter o f Jared was exceeding fair. And it came to pass that
she did talk with herfether, and saith unto him, Whereby hath
my father so much sorrow ? Hath he not read the record which
our fathers brought across the great deep ? Behold, is there
not an account concerning them o f old, that they by their se­
cret plans did obtain kingdoms and great glory 1 And now
therefore, let my father send for Akish, the son o f Kim nor;
and behold, I am fair, and I will dance before him, and I will
please him, that he will desire me to w ife; wherefore if he
shall desire o f thee that ye shall give unto him me to wife,
then shall ye say, I will give her if ye will bring unto me the
head o f my father, the king. And now Omer was a friend to
Akish, wherefore when Jared had sent for Akish, the daugh­
ter o f Jared danced before him, that she pleased him, inso­
much that he desired her to wife. And it came to pass that
he said unto Jared, Give her unto me to wife. And Jared
said unto him, I will give her unto you, if ye will bring unto
me the head o f my father, the king. And it came to pass that
Akish gathered in unto the house o f Jared all his kinsfolks,
and saith unto them, Will ye swear unto me that ye will be
faithful unto me in the thing which I shall desire of you 1 And
it came to pass that they all sware unto him, by the God o f
Heaven, and also by the Heavens, and also by the earth, and
by their heads, that whoso should vary from the assistance
which Akish desired, should lose his head ; and whoso should
divulge whatsoever thing Akish made known unto them, the
same should lose his life. And it came to pass that thus they
did agree with Akish. And Akish did administer unto them
the oaths which was given by them o f old, who also sought
power, which had been handed down even from Cain, who
was a murderer from the beginning. And they were kept up
by the power o f the devil to administer these oaths unto the
554 BOOK OP ETHER.
people, lo keep them in darkness, to help such as sought pow
er, to gain power, and to murder, and to plunder, and to lie,
and to commit all manner of wickedness and whoredoms.—
And it was the daughter o f Jared which put it into his heart
to search up these things o f old ; and Jared put it into the
heart of Akish; wherefore Akish administered it unto his kin­
dreds and friends, leading them away by fair promises to do
whatsoever thing he desired. And it came to pass that they
formed a secret combination, even as they of old ; which com­
bination is a most abominable and wicked above all, in the
sight o f G od : for the Lord worketh not in secret combina­
tions, neither doth he will that man should shed blood, but in
all things hath forbidden it, from the beginning of man. And
now I, Moroni, do not write the manner o f their oaths and
combinations, for it hath been made known unto me that they
are had among all people, and they are had among the Laman-
ites, and they have caused the destruction o f this people of
which I am now speaking, and also the destruction o f the peo­
ple o f Nephi; and whatsoever nation shall uphold such secret
combinations, to get power and gain, until they shall spread
over the nation, behold, they shall be destroyed, for the Lord
will not suffer that the blood o f his saints, which shall be shed
by them, shall always cry unto him from the ground for ven­
geance upon them, and yet he avengeth them n o t; wherefore,
O ye Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that these things should
be shewn unto you, that thereby ye may repent of your sins,
and suffer not that these murderous combinations shall get
above you, which are built up fo get power and gain, and the
work, yea, even the work o f destruction come upon y o u ; yea,
even the sword o f the justice o f the eternal God, shall fall up­
on you, to your overthrow and destruction, if ye shall suffer
these things to b e; wherefore the Lord commandelh you,
when ye shall see these things come among you, that ye shall
awake to a sense o f your awful situation, because o f this se­
cret combination which shall be among you, or wo be unto it,
because o f the blood o f them which have been slain : for they
cry from the dust for vengeance upon it. and also upon those
who build it up. For it cometh to pass that whoso buildetb it
up, seeketh to overthrow the freedom o f all lands, nations and
countries; and it brmgeth to pass the destruction o f all peo­
ple : for it is built up by the devil, which is the father o f all
lies; even that same liar which beguiled our first parents; yea,
even that same liar which hath caused man to commit murder
BOOK OP ETHER. 55S
from the beginning; which hath hardened the hearts of men.
that they have murdered the prophets, and stoned them, and
oast them out from the beginning. Wherefore I, Moroni, am
commanded to write these things, that evil may bedone away,
and that the time may come that satan may have no power
upon the heaitsof the children o f men, but that they may be
persuaded to do good continually, that they may come unto the
fountain o f all righteousness and be saved.
C H A PT E R IV.
And now I, Moroni, proceed with my record. Therefore be­
hold, it came to pass that because o f the secret combinations o f
Akish and his friends, behold they did overthrow the kingdom
o f Omer; nevertheless, the Lord was merciful unto Omer, and
also to his sons and to his daughters, which were not, or which
did not seek his destruction. And the Lord warned Omer in
a dream, that he should depart out of the land; wherefore
Omer departed out o f the land with his family, and travelled
many days, and came over and passed hy the hill o f Shim,
and came over by the place where the Nephites were destroy­
ed, and from thence eastward, and came to a place which was
called Ablom, by the seashore, and there he pitched his tent,
and also his sons and his daughters, and all his household,
save it were Jared and his family.
And it came to pass that Jared was anointed king over the
people, by the hand o f wickedness; and he gave unto Akish
his daughter to wife. And it came to pass that Akish sought
the life o f his father-in-law; and he applied unto those whom
he had sworn by the oath o f the ancients, and they obtained
the head of his father-in-law, as he sat upon his throne, giving
audience to his people: for so great had been the spreading o f
this wicked and secret society, that it had corrupted the hearts
o f all the people; therefore Jared was murdered upon his
throne, and Akish reigned in his stead. And it came to pass
that Akish began to be jealous o f his son, therefore he shut
him up in prison, and kept him upon a little or no food, until
he had suffered death. And now the brother of him that suf­
fered death, (and his name was Nimrah,) was angry with his
father, because o f that which his father had done unto his bro­
ther. And it came to pass that Nimrah gathered together a
5 5 6 BOOK OF ETHER.
small number of men, and fled out o f the land, and came over
and dwelt with Omer. And it came to pass that Akish begat
other sons, and they won the hearts o f the people, notwith­
standing they had sworn unto him to do all manner of iniquity,
according to that which he desired. Now the people of Akish
were desirous for gain, even as Akish was desirous for pow­
er; wherefore the sons o f Akish did offer them money, by the
which means they drew away the more part o f the people af­
ter them ; and there began to be a war between the sons o f
Akish and Akish, which lasted for the apace o f many years ;
yea, unto the destruction o f nearly all the people o f the king­
dom ; yea, even all, save it were thirty souls, and they which
fled with the house of O m er; wherefore Omer was restored
again to the land o f his inheritance. And it came to pass that
Omer began to be o ld ; nevertheless, in his old age he begat
Em er; and he anointed Emer to be king to reign in his stead.
And after that he had anointed Emer to be king, he saw peace
in the land for the space o f two years, and he died, having seen
exceeding many days, which were full o f sorrow. And it
came to pass that Emer did reign in his stead, and did fill the
steps o f his father. And the Lord began again to take the
curse from off the land, and the house o f Emer did prosper
exceedingly under the reign o f Em er; and in the space o f six­
ty and two years, they had become exceeding strong, inso­
much that they became exceeding rich, having all manner of
fruit, and o f grain, and of silks, and o f fine linen, and o f gold,
and o f silver, and of precious things, and also all manner o f
cattle, of oxen, and cows, and o f sheep, and o f swine, and o f
goats, and also many other kind o f animals, which were use­
ful for the food of man; and they also had horses, and asses,
and there were elephants, and cureloms, and cumoms; all o f
which were useful unto man, and more especially the ele­
phants, and cureloms, and cumoms. And thus the Lord did
pour out his blessings opon this land, which was choice above
all other lands; and he commanded that whoso should possess
the land, should possess it unto the Lord, or they should be
destroyed when they were ripened in iniquity : for upon such,
saith the Lord, I will pour out the fulness o f my wrath. And
Emer did execute judgement in righteousness, all his days;
and he begat many sons and daughters; and he begat Corian-
tum ; and he anointed Coriantum to reign in his stead. And
after that he had anointed Coriantum to reign in his stead, he
lived four years, and he saw pease in the land; yea, and he
BOOS OF ETHER. 557
even saw the son o f righteousness, and did rejoice and glory in
hi* day; and he died in peace. And it came to pass that Co-
riantum did walk in the steps o f his father, and did build ma­
ny mighty cities, and did administer that which was good un­
to his people, in all his days. And it came to pass that he had
no children, even until be was exceeding old. And it came
to pass that his wife died, being an hundred and two years old.
And it came to pass that Coriantum took to wife, in his old
age, a young maid, and begat sons and daughters; wherefore
he lived until he was an hundred and forty and two years old.
And it came to pass that he begat Com, and Com reigned in
his stead; and he reigned forty and nine years, and he begat
H eth, and he also begat other sons and daughters. And the
people had Bpread again over all the face o f the land, and there
began again to be an exceeding great wickedness upon the
face o f the land, and Heth began to embrace the secret plans
again o f old, to destroy his father. And it came to pass that
he did dethrone his father: for he slew him with his own
sw ord; and he did reign in his stead. And there came pro­
phets in the land again, crying repentance unto them ; that
they must prepare the way o f the Lord, or there should come
a curse upon the face o f the land; yea, even there should be
a great famine, in the which they should be destroyed, if they
did not repent. But the people believed not the words of the
prophets, but they cast them ou t; and some o f them they cast
into pits, and left them to perish. And it came to pass that
they done all these things according to the commandment of
the king Heth. And it came to pass that there began to be a
great dearth upon the land, and the inhabitants began to be de­
stroyed exceeding fast, because o f the dearth: for there was
no rain upon the face of the earth; and there came forth poi­
sonous serpents also upon the face o f the land, and did poison
many people. And it came to pass that their flocks began to
flee before the poisonous serpents, towards the land south­
ward, which was called by the Nephites, Zarahemla. And it
came to pass that there were many o f them which did perish
by the way; nevertheless, there were some which fled into
the land southward. And it came to pass that the Lord did
cause the serpents that they should pursue them no more,
but that they should hedge up the way, that the people could
not pass; that whoso should attempt to pass, might fall by
the poisonous serpents. And it came to pass that the people
did follow the course o f the beasts, and did devour the car-
558 BOOK OF ETHER.
casscs o f them which fell by the way, until they had devoured
them all. Now when the people saw that they must perish,
they began to repent o f their iniquities, and cry unto the Lord.
And it came to pass that when they had humbled themselves
sufficiently before the Lord, the Lord did send rain upon the
face o f the earth, and the people began to revive again, and
there began to be fruit in the north countries, and in all the
countries round about. And the Lord did shetv forth his
power unto them, in preserving them from famine. And it
came to pass that Shez, which was a descendant o f Heth, for
Heth had perished by the famine, and all his household, save it
were Shez; wherefore Shez began to buihl up again a broken
people. And it came to pass that Shez did remember the de­
struction o f his fathers, and he did build up a righteous king­
dom, for he remembered what the Lord had done in bringing
Jared and his brother across the deep; and he did walk in
the ways o f the Lord, and he begat sons and daughters. And
his eldest son, whose name was Shez, did rebel against him ;
nevertheless, Shez was smitten by the hand o f a robber, be­
cause o f his exceeding riches, which brought peace again
unto his father. And it came to pass that his father did build
up many cities upon the face o f the land, and the people began
again to spread over all the face o f the land. Anti Shez did
live to an exceeding old a ge; and he begat Riplakish, and he
died. And Riplakish reigned in his stead. And it came to
pass that Riplakish did not do that which was right in the
sight o f the Lord, for he did have many wives and concubines,
and did lay that upon men’s shoulders which was grievous to
be borne; yea, he did tax them with heavy taxes; and with
the taxes he did build many spacious buildings. And he did
erect him an exceeding beautiful throne, and he did build ma­
ny prisons, and whoso would not be subject unto taxes, he did
cast into prison; and whoso were not able to pay taxes, he
did cast into prison ; and he did cause that they should labor
continually for their support; and whoso refused to labor, he
did cause to be put to death; wherefore he did obtain all his
fine work ; yea, even his fine gold he did cause to be refined
in prison, and all manner o f fine workmanship he did cause to
be wrought in prison. And it came to pass that he did afflict
the people with his whoredoms and abominations; and when
he had reigned for the apace o f forty and two years, the peo­
ple did raise up in rebellion against him, and there began to be
BOOK OP ETHER. 559
war again in the land, insomuch that Riplakish was killed,
and his descendants were driven out o f the land.
And it came to pass after the space o f many years, Morian-
ton, (he being a descendant o f Riplakish,) gathered together
an army o f outcasts, and went forth and gave battle unto the
people ; and he gained power over many cities ; and the war
became exceeding sore, and did last for the space o f many
years, and he did gain power over all the land, and did estab­
lish himself king over all the land. And after that he had es­
tablished himself king, he did ease the burden o f the people,
in the which he did gain favor in the eyes o f the people, and
they did anoint him to be their king. And he did do justice
unto the people, but not unto himself, because o f his many
whoredoms ; wherefore he was cut off from the presence of
the Lord. And it came to pass that Morianton built up many
cities, and the people became exceeding rich under his reign,
both in buildings, and in gold, and in silver, and in raising
grain, and in flocks, and herds, and such things which had
been restored unto them. And Morianton did live to an ex­
ceeding great age, and then he begat Kim ; and Kim did reign
in the stead o f his father; and he did reign eight years, and
his father died. And it came to pass that Kim did not reign
in righteousness, wherefore he was not favored o f the Lord.
And his brother did raise up in rebellion against him, ir the
which he did bring hum into captivity ; and he did remain in
captivity all his days; and he begat sons and daughters in
captivity ; and in his old age he begat Levi, and he died.
And it came to pass that Levi did serve in captivity after
the death o f his father, for the space o f forty and two years.
And he did make tvar against the king o f the land, in the
which he did obtain unto himself the kingdom. And after
that he had obtained unto himself the kingdom, he did that
which was right in the sight o f the Lord ; and the peo­
ple did prosper in the land, and he did live to a good
old age, and begat sons and daughters; and he also begat
Corom, whom he anointed king in his stead. And it came to
pass that Corom did that which was good in the sight o f the
Lord, all his days; and he begat many sons and daughters;
and after that he had seen many days, he did pass away, even
like unto the rest o f the earth ; and Kish reigned in his stead.
And it came to pass that Kish passed away also, and Lib
reigned in his stead. And it came to pass that Lib also did
that which was good in the sight o f the Lord. And in the
560 BOOK OP ETHEB.
days o f Lib the poisonous serpents were destroyed; where­
fore they did go into the land southward, to hunt food for the
people o f the land ; for the land was covered with animals of
the forest. And Lib also himself became a great hunter.—
And they built a great city by the narrow neck o f land, by the
place where the sea divides the land. And they did preserve
the land southward for a wilderness, to get game. And the
whole face of the land northward was covered with inhabi­
tants ; and they were exceeding industrious, and they did buy
and sell, and traffic one with another, that they might get gain.
And they did work in all manner o f ore, and they did make
gold, and silver, and iron, and brass, and all manner o f met­
als ; and they did dig it out o f the earth; wherefore they did
cast up mighty heaps o f earth for to get ore, o f gold, and of
silver, and o f iron, and of copper. And they did work all
manner of fine work. And they did have silks, and fine twi­
ned linen ; and they did work all manner o f cloth, that they
might clothe themselves from their nakedness. And they did
make all manner o f tools to till the earth, both to plough and
to sow, to reap and to hoe, and also to thrash. And they did
make all manner o f tools in the which they did work their
beasts. And they did make all manner o f weapons o f war.
And they did work all manner o f work o f exceeding curious
workmanship. And never could he a people more blessed
than were they, and more prospered by the hand o f the Lord.
And they were in a land that was choice above all lands, for
the Lord had spoken it. And it came to pass that Lib did
live many years, and begat sons and daughters; and he also
begat Hearthom. And it came to pass that Hearlbom reigned
in the stead o f his father. And when Hearthom had reigned
twenty and four years, behold the kingdom was taken away
from him. And he served many years in captivity; yea, even
all the remainder of his days. And he begat Heth, and Heth
lived in captivity all his days. And Heth begat Aaron, and
Aaron dwelt in captivity all his days and he begat Amnigad-
dah, and Amnigaddah also dwelt in captivity all his days;
and he begat Coriantum, and Coriantum dwelt in captivity all
his days; and he begat Com. And it came to pass that Com
drew away the half of the kingdom. And he reigned over the
half of the kingdom forty and two years; and he went to bat­
tle against the king Amgid, and they fought for the space o f
many years, in the which Com gained power over Amgid, and
obtained power over the remainder o f Ihe kingdom. And in
BOOK OP ETHER. 561
the days o f Cora there began to be robbers in the land ; and
they adopted the old plans, and administered oaths after the
manner o f the ancients, and sought again to destroy the king­
dom. Now Com did fight against them m uch; nevertheless,
he did not prevail against them. And there came also in the
days o f Com many prophets, and prophesied o f the destruc­
tion o f that great people, except they should repent and turn
unto the Lord, and forsake their murders and wickedness.
And it came to pass that the prophets were rejected by the
people, and they fled unto Com for protection, for the people
sought to destroy them; and they prophesied unto Com many
things: and he was blessed in all the remainder o f his days.
And he lived to a good old age, and begat Shiblom; and Shib-
lom reigned in his stead. And the brother o f Shiblom rebel­
led against him; and there began to be an exceeding great war
in all the land.
And it came to pass that the brother o f Shiblom did cause
that all the prophets which prophesied o f the destruction o f the
people, should be put to death; and there was great calamity
in all the land: for they had testified that a great curse should
come upon the land, and also upon the people, and that there
should be a great destruction among them, such an one as ne­
ver had been upon the face o f the earth; and their bones
should become as heaps o f earth upon the face o f the land,
exeept they should repent o f their wickedness. And they
hearkened not unto the voice o f the Lord, because o f their
wicked combinations; wherefore there began to be wars and
contentions in all the land, and also many famines and pesti­
lences, insomuch that there was a great destruction, such an
one as never had been known upon the face o f the earth: and
all this came to pass in the days o f Shiblom. And the peo­
ple began to repent of their iniquity; and inasmuch as they
did, the Lord did have mercy on them.
And it came to pass that Shiblom was slain, and Seth was
brought into captivity; and he did dwell in captivity all his
days. And it came to pass that Ahah, his son, did obtain the
kingdom; and he did reign over the people all his days. And
he did do all manner o f iniquity in his days, in the which he
did cause the shedding o f much blood; and few were his days.
And Ethem, being a descendant of Ahah, did obtain the king­
dom ; and he also did do that which was wicked in his days.
And it came to pass in the days o f Ethem, there came many
prophets and prophesied again unto tne people; yea, they did
562 BOOK OP ETHER,
prophesy that the Lord would utterly destroy them from off
the face o f the earth, except they repented of their iniquities.
And it came to pass that the people hardened their hearts, and
would not hearken unto their w ords; and the prophets mourn­
ed and withdrew from among the people.
And it came to pass that Ethem did execute judgement in
wickedness all his days; and he begat Moron. And it came
to pass that Moron did reign in his stead; and Moron did do
that which was wicked before the Lord. And it came to pass
that there arose a rebellion among the people, because o f that
secret combination which was built up to get power and gain;
and there arose a mighty man among them in iniquity, and
gare battle unto Moron, in the which he did overthrow the
half o f the kingdom ; and he did maintain the half of the king­
dom for many years. And it came to pass that Moron did
overthrow him, and did obtain the kingdom again. And it
came to pass that there arose another mighty man; and he
was a descendant o f the brother o f Jared. And it came to
pass that he did overthrow Moron and obtain the kingdom ;
wherefore Moron dwelt in captivity all the remainder of his
days; and he begat Coriantor.
And it came to pass that Coriantor dwelt in captivity all his
days. And in the days o f Coriantor there also came many
prophets, and prophesied o f great and marvellous things, and
cried repentance unto the people, and except they should re­
pent, the Lord God would execute judgement against them to
their utter destruction; and that the Lord God would send
or bring forth another people to possess the land, by his pow­
er, after the manner which he brought their fathers. And they
did reject all the words o f the prophets, because o f their se­
cret society and wicked abominations. And it came to pass
that Coriantor begat Ether, and he died, having dwelt in cap­
tivity all his days.
C H A PT E R V.
Akd it came to pass that the days o f Ether was in the days
o f Coriantumr; and Coriantumr was king over all the land.—
And Ether was a prophet of the L ord; wherefore Ether came
forth in the days o f Coriantumr, and began to prophesy unto
the people, for he could not be constrained because o f the
BOOK OP ETHER. 563
spirit o f the Lord which was in him : for he did cry from the
morning, even until the going down o f the sun, exhorting the
people to believe in God unto repentance, lest they should be
destroyed, saying unto them, That by faith all things are ful­
filled; wherefore, whoso believeth in God, might with surety
hope for a better world, yea, even a place at the right hand o f
God, which hope eometh o f faith, maketh an anchor to the
souls o f men; which would make them sure and steadfast, al­
ways abounding in good works, being led to glorify God. And
it came to pass that Ether did prophesy great and marvellous
things unto the people, which they did not believe, because
they saw them not. And now 1, Moroni, would speak some­
what concerning these things : I would shew unto the world
that faith is things which are hoped for and not seen; where­
fore, dispute not because ye see not, for ye receive no wit­
ness until after the trial o f your faith: for it was by faith
that Christ shewed himself unto our fathers, after that he had
risen from the dead; and he shewed not himself unto them,
until after they had faith in him ; wherefore it must needs be
that some had faith in him, for he shewed himself not unto
the world. But because o f the faith o f men, he has shewn
himself unto the world, and glorified the name o f the Father,
and prepared a way that thereby others might be partakers o f
the heavenly gift, that they might hope for those things which
they have not seen; wherefore ye may also have hope, and be
partakers o f the gift, if ye will but have faith. Behold, it was
by faith that they o f old were called after the holy order o f
G o d ; wherefore, by faith, was the law o f Moses given. But
in the gift o f his Son, hath God prepared a more excellent
w ay; and it is by faith that it hath been fulfilled : for if there
be no faith among the children o f men, God can do no mira­
cle among them ; wherefore he shewed not himself until after
their faith. Behold, it was the faith o f Alma and Amulek that
caused the prison to tumble to the earth. Behold, it was the
faith o f Nephi and Lehi, that wrought the change upon the
Lamanites, thatthey were baptized with fire and with the H oly
G host Behold, it was the faith o f Ammoii and his brethren,
which wrought so great a miracle among the Lamanites; yea,
and even all they which wrought miracles, wrought them by
faith, even those which were before Christ, and also them
which were after. And it was by faith that the three disci­
ples obtained a promise that they should not taste o f death;
and they obtained not the promise until after their faith. And
564 BOOK OF ETHER.
neither at any time hath any wrought miracles until after their
faith ; wherefore they first believed in the Son o f God. And
there were many whose faith was so exceeding strong even
before Christ came, which could not be kept from wjthm the
veil, but truly saw with their eyes the things which they had
beheld with an eye o f faith, and they were glad. And behold,
we have seen in this record, that one o f these was the brother
o f Jared: for so great was his faith in God, that when God
put forth his finger, he could not hide it from the sight o f the
brother o f Jared, because o f his word which he had spoken
unto him, which word he had obtained by faith. And after
that the brother o f Jared had beheld the finger o f the Lord,
because o f the promise which the brother o f Jared had obtain­
ed by faith, the Lord could not withhold any thing from his
sight; wherefore he shewed him all things, for he could no
longer be kept without, the veil. And it is by faith that my
fathers have obtained the promise that these things should
com e unto their brethren through the Gentiles; therefore the
Lord hath commanded me, yea, even Jesus Christ. And I
said unto him, Lord, the Gentiles will mock at these things,
because o f our weakness in writing: for Lord, thou hast made
us mighty in word by faith, whereunto thou hast not made us
mighty in writing: for thou hast made all this people that they
could speak much, because o f the Holy Ghost which thou
hast given them; and thou hast made us that we could write
but little, because o f the awkwardness o f our hands. Behold,
thou hast not made us mighty m writing like unto the brother
o f Jared, for thou madest him that the things which he wrote,
were mighty even as thou art, unto the overpowering o f man
to read them. Thou hast also made our words powerful and
great, even that we cannot write them ; wherefore, when we
write, we behold our weakness, and stumble because o f the
placing o f our w ords; and 1 fear lest the Gentiles shall mock
at our words. And when 1had said this, the Lord spake un­
to me, saying, Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my
grace is sufficient for the meek, that they shall take no advan­
tage o f your weakness: and if men come unto me, 1 will shew
unto them their weakness. 1 give unto men weakness, that
they may be humble; and my grace is sufficient for all men
that humble themselves before m e: for if they humble them­
selves before me, and have faith in me, then will I make weak
things become strong unto them. Behold, 1 will shew unto
the Gentiles their weakness, and 1 will shew unto them that
BOOK OF ETHER, 565
faith, hope, and charity, bringeth unto me the fountain o f all
righteousness. And I, Moroni, having heard these words, was
comforted, and said, O Lord, thy righteous will be done, for
I know that thou worbest unto the children o f men according
to their faith: for the brother o f Jared said unto the mountain
Zerin, Remove, and it was removed. And if he had not had
faith, it would not have m oved; wherefore thou workest after
that men have faith : for thus did thou manifest thyself unto
thy disciples. For after that they had faith, and did speak in
thy name, thou didst shew thyself unto them in great pow er;
and 1 also rememberest that thou hast said that thou hast
prepared a house for man; yea, even among the mansions o f
thy Father, in the which man might have a more excellent
h ope; wherefore man must hope, or he cannot receive an in­
heritance in the place which thou hast prepared. And again 1
remember that thou hast said that thou hast loved the world,
even unto the laying down o f thy life for the world, that thou
slightest take it again to prepare a place for the children o f
men. And now I know that this love which thou hast had
for the children o f men, is charity; wherefore, except men
shall have charity, they cannot inherit that place which thou
hast prepared in the mansions o f thy Father. Wherefore, I
know by this thing which thou bast said, that if the Gentiles
have not charity, because of our weakness, that thou wilt prove
them, and take away their talent, yea, even that which they
have received, and give unto them which shall have more
abundantly.
And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he
would give unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have char­
ity. And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me, If they
have not charity, it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been
faithful; wherefore thy garments shall be made clean. And
because thou hast seen thy weakness, thou shalt be made
strong, even unto the sitting down in the place which I have
prepared in the mansions o f my Father. And now I, Moroni,
bid farewell unto the Gentiles, yea, and also unto my brethren
whom I love, until we shall meet before the judgement seat o f
Christ, where all men shall know that my garments are not
spotted with your blood; and then shall ye know that I have
seen Jesus, and that he hath talked with me face to face, and
that he told me in plain humility, even as a man telleth
another in mine own language, concerning these things; and
only a few have I written, because o f my weakness in writing.
566 BOOK OF ETHBR.
And now I would commend you to seek this Jesus o f whom
the prophets and apostles have written, that the Grace o f God
the Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy
Ghost, which beareth record o f them, may be, mid abide in
you forever. Amen.
C H A P T E R VI.
And now I, Moroni, proceed to finish my record concerning
the destruction o f the people o f which I have been writing.—
F or behold, they rejected all the words o f Ether: for he truly
told them o f all things, from the beginning o f m an; and how
that after the waters had receded from off the face o f this land,
it became a choice land above all other lands, a chosen land
o f the L ord; wherefore the Lord would have that all men
should serve him, which dwelleth upon the face thereof; and
that it was the place o f the New Jerusalem, which should
come down out o f Heaven, and the Holy Sanctuary o f the
Lord. Behold, Ether saw the days o f Christ, and he spake
concerning a New Jerusalem upon this land; and he spake
also concerning the house o f Israel, and the Jerusalem from
whence Lebi should com e; after that it should he destroyed,
it should be built up again a holy city unto the Lord ; where­
fore it could not be a New Jerusalem, for it had been in a time
o f old, but it should be built up again, and become a holy city
o f the L ord; and it should be built up unto the house o f Is­
rael ; and that a New Jerusalem should be built up upon this
land, unto the remnant o f the seed o f Joseph, for the which
things there has been a type: for as Joseph brought his father
down into the land o f Egypt, even so he died there; wherefore
the Lord brought a remnant o f the seed o f Joseph out o f the
land of Jerusalem, that he might be merciful unto the seed o f
Joseph, that they should perish not, even as he was merciful
unto the father o f Joseph, that he should perish n ot; where­
fore the remnant o f the house o f Joseph shall be built upon
this land; and it shall be a land of their inheritance; and they
shall build up a holy city unto the Lord, like unto the Jeru­
salem of o ld ; and they shall no more be confounded, until the
end come, when the earth shall pass away. And there shall
be a new heaven and a new earth ; and they shall be like unto
the old, save the old have passed away, and all things have
BOOK OF ETHER. 567
become new. And then cometh the New Jerusalem; and
blessed are they which dwell therein, for it is they whose gar­
ment are white through the blood of the Lamb; and they are
they which are numbered among the remnant of the seed o f
Joseph, which were o f the house o f Israel. And then also
cometh the Jerusalem o f old; and the inhabitants thereof,
blessed are they, for they have been washed in the blood of
the Lam b; and they are they which were scattered and gath­
ered in from the four quarters of the earth, and from the north
countries, and are partakers of the fulfilling of the covenant
which God made with their father Abraham. And when these
things come, bringeth to pass the Scripture which saith,
There are they Which were first, which shall be last; and
there are they which were last, which shall be first.
And I was about to write more, but I am forbidden; but
great and marvellous were the prophecies o f Ether, but they
esteemed him as nought, and cast him out, and he hid himself
in the cavity of a rock by day, and by night he went forth
viewing the things which should come upon the people. And
as he dwelt in the cavity o f a rock, he made the remainder of
this record, viewing the destructions which came upon the peo­
ple by night And it came to pass that in that same year
which he was cast out from among the people, there began to
be a great war among the people, for there were many which
rose up who were mighty men, and sought to destroy Corian-
tumr by their secret plans of wickedness, of which hath been
spoken. And now Coriantumr, having studied himself in all
the arts of war, and all the cunning o f the world, wherefore he
gave battle unto them which sought to destroy him; but he
repented not, neither his fair sons nor daughters; neither the
fair sons and daughters o f Cohor; neither the fair sons and
daughters of Corihor; and in fine, there was none o f the fair
sons and daughters upon the face o f the whole earth, which
repented of their sins; wherfore it came to pass that in the
first year that Ether dwelt in the cavity of a rock, there was
many people which was slain by the sword of those secret
combinations fighting against Coriantumr, that they might ob­
tain the kingdom. And it came to pass that the sons o f Corian­
tumr fought much, and bled much. And in the second year,
the word of the Lord came to Ether, that he should go and
prophesy unto Coriantumr, that if he would repent, and all
his household, the Lord would give unto him his kingdom, and
spare the people, otherwise they should be destroyed, and all
568 BOOK OF ETHER.
liis household, save it were himself, and he should only live
to see the fulfilling o f the prophecies which had been spoken
concerning another people receiving the land for their inheri­
tance ; and Coriantumr should receive a burial by them ; and
every soul should be destroyed save it were Coriantumr. And
it came to pass that Coriantumr repented not, neither his
household, neither the people; and the wars did cease not;
and they sought to kill Ether, hut he fled from before them,
and hid again in the cavity o f the rock. And it came to pass
•that there arose up Shared, and he also gave battle unto Cori-
anturnr; and he did beat him, insomuch that in the third year
he did bring him into captivity. And the sons o f Coriantumr,
in the fourth year, did beat Shared, and did obtain the king­
dom again unto their father. Now there began to be a war
upon all the face o f the land, every man with his band, fight­
ing for that which he desired. And there was robbers, and
in fine, all manner o f wickedness upon all the face o f the land.
And it came to pass that Coriantumr was exceeding angry
with Shared, and he went against him with his armies, to bat­
tle ; and they did meet in great anger; and they did meet in
the valley o f G ilgal; and the battle became exceeding sore.—
that Shared fought against him for the
heat him, and did pursue him until he came to the plains o f
•Heshlon. And it came to pass that Shared gave him battle
again upon the plains ; and behold, he did beat Coriantumr,
and drove him back again to the valley o f Gilgal. And Cori­
antumr gave Shared battle again in the valley o f Gilgal, in the
which he beat Shared, and slew him. And Shared wounded
Coriantumr, in his thigh, that he did not go to battle again for
the space o f two years, in the which time all the people upon
all the face o f the land were a shedding blood, and there was
none to constrain them. And now there began to be a great
curse upon the land, because o f the iniqiuty o f the people, in
the which, if a man should lay his tool or his sword upon the
shelf, or upon the place whither he would keep it, and behold,
upon the morrow, he could not find it, so great was the curse
upon the land. Wherefore every man did cleave unto that
which was bis own, with his hands, and would not borrow,
neither would he lend; and every man kept the hilt o f his
sword thereof, in his right hand, in the defence o f his proper­
ty and his own life, and they o f his wives and children. And
now after the space o f two years, and after the death o f Sha-
And it came to pass that Coriantumr
BOOK OP ETHER. 569
red, behold, there arose the brother o f Shared, and he gave
battle unto Coriantumr, in the which Coriantumr did beat
him, and did pursue him to the wilderness o f Akish. And it
came to pass that the brother o f Shared did give battle unto
him in the wilderness o f Akish; and the battle became excee­
ding sore, and many thousands fell by the sword. And it
came to pass that Coriantumr did lay siege to the wilderness,
and the brother o f Shared did march forth out of the wilder­
ness by night, and slew a part of the army o f Coriantumr, as
they were drunken. And he came forth to the land o f Moron,
and placed himself upon the throne o f Coriantumr. And it
came to pass that Coriantumr dwelt with his army in the wil­
derness, for the space o f two years, in the which he did re­
ceive great strength to his army. Now the brother o f Shared,
whose name was Gilead, also received great strength to his
army, because o f secret combinations. And it came to pass
that his High Priest murdered him as he sat upon bis throne.
And it came to pass that one o f the secret combinations mur­
dered him in a secret pass, and obtained unto himself the
kingdom; and his name was L ib ; and Lib was a roan of great
stature, more than any other man among all the people. And
it came to pass that in the first year o f Lib, Coriantumr came
up unto the land of Moron, and gave battle unto Lib. And it
came to pass that he fought with Lib, in the which Lib did
smite upon his arm, that he was wounded ; nevertheless, the
army o f Coriantumr did press forward upon Lib, that he fled
to the borders upon the seashore. And it came to pass that
Coriantumr pursued him ; and Lib gave battle unto him upon
the seashore. And it came to pass that Lib did smite the
army of Coriantumr, that they fled again to the wildernsss o f
Akish. And it came to pass that Lib did pursue him until he
came to the plains o f Agosh. And Coriantumr had taken all
the people with him, as he fled before Lib, in that quarter o f
the land whither he fled. And when he had come to the
plains o f Agosh, he gave battle unto Lib, and he smote upon
him until he died ; nevertheless, the brother o f Lib did come
against Coriantumr in the stead thereof, and the battle became
exceeding sore, in the which Coriantumr fled again before the
army o f the brother o f Lib. Now the name of the brother o f
Lib was called Shiz. And it came to pass that Shiz pursued
after Coriantumr, and he did overthrow many cities, and
lie did slay both women and children, and he did bum the ci­
ties thereof; and there went a fear o f Shiz throughout all the
BOOK OP ETHER.
570
land ; yea, a cry went forth throughout the land : W ho can
stand before the array o f Shiz i Behold, he sweepeth the
earth before him ! And it came to pass that the people began
to flock together in armies, throughout all the face o f the land.
And they were divided, and a part o f them fled to the army o f
Shiz, and a part o f them fled to the army o f Coriantumr.—
And so great and lasting had been the war, and so long had
been the scene o f bloodshed and carnage, that the whole face
o f the land was covered with the bodies o f the dead; and so
swift and speedy was the war, that there was none left to bury
the dead, but they did march forth from the shedding of blood,
to the shedding of blood, leaving the bodies o f both men, wo­
men and children, strewed upon the face o f the land, to be­
come a prey to the worms of the flesh ; and the scent thereof
went forth upon the face o f the land, even upon all the face o f
the land; wherefore the people became troubled by day and
by night, because o f the scent thereof; nevertheless, Shiz did
not cease to pursue Coriantumr, for he had sworn to avenge
himself upon Coriantumr o f the blood o f his brother, which
had been slain, and the word o f the Lord which came to
Ether, that Coriantumr should not fall by the sword. And
thus we see that the Lord did visit them in the fulness o f his
wrath, and their wickedness and abominations had prepared a
way for their everlasting destruction. And it came to pass
that Shiz did pursue Coriantumr eastward, even to the bor­
ders by the seashore, and there he gave battle unto Shiz for
the space o f three days; and so terrible was the destruction
among the armies o f Shiz, that the people began to be fright­
ened, and began to flee before the armies o f Coriantumr; and
they fled to the land o f Corihor, and swept off the inhabitants
before them, all they that would not join them ; and they pitch­
ed their tents in the valley o f Corihor. And Coriantumr
pitched his tents in the valley o f Shurr. Now the valley o f
Shtirr was near the hill Comnor; wherefore Coriantumr did
gather his armies together, upon the hill Comnor, and did
sound a trumpet unto the armies o f Shiz, to invite them forth
to battle. And it came to pass that they came forth, but were
driven again; and they came the second time; and they were
driven again the second time. And it came to pass that they
came again the third time, and the battle became exceeding
3ore. And it came to pass that Shiz smote upon Coriantumr,
that he gave him many deep wounds. And Coriantumr hav­
ing lost his blood, fainted, and was carried away as though he
DOOR OF ETHER. 571
were dead. Now the loss o f men, women and children, on
both sides, were so great that Shiz commanded his people
that they should not pursue the armies o f Coriantumr; where­
fore they returned to their camp.
And it came to pass that when Coriantumr had recovered
o f his wounds, he began to remember the words which Ether
had spoken unto him : He saw that there had been 9lain by
the sword already nearly two millions o f his people, and he
began to sorrow in his heart; yea, there had been slain two
millions o f mighty men, and also their wives and their chil­
dren. He began to repent o f the evil which he had don e; he
began to remember the words which had been spoken by the
mouth o f all the prophets, and he saw them that they were
fulfilled, thus far, every w hit; and his soul mourned, and re­
fused to be comforted. And it came to pass that he wrote an
epistle unto Shiz, desiring him that he would spare the peo­
ple, and he would give up the kingdom for the sake o f the
lives o f the people. And it came to pass that when Shiz had
received his epistle, he wrote an epistle unto Coriantumr, that
if he would give himself up, that he might slay him with his
own sword, that he would spare the lives o f the people. And
it came to pass that the people repented not o f their iniquity ;
and the people o f Coriantumr were stirred up to anger against
the people o f Shiz ; and the people o f Shiz were stirred up to
anger against the people o f Coriantumr; wherefore the peo­
ple o f Shiz did give battle unto the people o f Coriantumr.—
And when Coriantumr saw that be was about to fall, he fled
again before the peoole o f Shiz. And it came to pass that he
came to the waters o f Ripliancum, which, by interpretation,
is large, or to exceed a ll; wherefore, when they came to these,
waters, they pitched their tents; and Shiz also pitched his
tents, near unto them ; and therefore, on the morrow, they did
come to battle. And it came to pass that they fought an ex­
ceeding sore battle, in the whieh Coriantumr was wounded
again, and he fainted with the loss o f blood. And it came to
pass that the armies o f Coriantumr did pres# upon the armies
of Shiz, that they beat them, that they caused them to flee be­
fore them; and tbey did flee southward, and did pitch their
tents in a place which wascalled Ogath. And it came to pass
that the army o f Coriantumr did pitch their tents by the bill
Ramah; and it was that same hill where my father Mormon
did hide up the records unto the Lord, which were sacred,—
And it came to pass that they did gather together all the peo-
572 BOOS OF ETHER.
pie, upon all the face o f the land, which had not been slain,
save it were Ether. And it came to pass that Ether did be­
hold all the doings o f the people ; and he beheld that the peo­
ple which were for Coriantumr, were gathered together to the
army o f Coriantumr; and the people which were for Shiz,
were gathered together to the army o f S h iz; wherefore they
were for the space o f four years, gathering together the peo­
ple, that they might get all which were upon the face o f the
land, and that they might receive all the strength which it were
possible that they could receive. And it came to pass that
when they were all gathered together, every one to the army
which he would, with their wives, and their children; both
men, women and children being armed with weapons o f war,
having shields, and breast-plates, and head-plates, and being
clothed after the manner o f war, they did march forth one
against another, to battle ; and they fought all that day, and
conquered not And it came to pass that when it was night
they were weary, and retired to their camps; and after that
they had retired to their camps, they took up a howling and a
lamentation for the loss o f the slain o f their people; and so
great were their cries, their howlings and lamentations, that
it did rend the air exceedingly. And it came to pass that on
the morrow they did go again to battle, and great and terrible
was that day; nevertheless they conquered not, and when the
night came again, they did rend the air with their cries, and
their howlings, and their mournings, for the loss o f the slain
o f their people,
And it came to pass that Coriantumr wrote again an epistle
unto Shiz, desiring that he would not come again to battle
but that he would take the kingdom, and spare the lives o f the
people. But behold, the spirit o f the Lord had ceased stri­
ving with them, and satan had full power over the hearts o f
the people, for they were given up unto the hardness o f their
hearts, and the blindness o f their minds, that they might be
destroyed; wherefore they went again to battle. And it came
to pass that they fought all that day, and when the night came
they slept upon their sw ords; and on the morrow they fought
even until the night cam e; and when the night came they
were drunken with anger, even as a man which is drunken
with wine ; and they slept again upon their sw ords; and on
the morrow they fought again; and when the night came
they had all fallen by the sword, save it were fifty and two o f
the people o f Coriantumr, and sixty and nine of the people of
BOOK OF ETHER, 573
Shiz. And it came to pass that they slept upon their swords
that night, and on the morrow they fought again, and they
contended in their mights with their swords, and with their
shields, all that day; and when the night came there was thir­
ty and two of the people of Shiz, and twenty and seven ofthe
people of Corianturar. And it came to pass that they ate and
slept, and prepared for death on the morrow. And they were
large and mighty men, as to the strength of men. And it came
to pass that they fought lor the space of three hours, and
they fainted with the loss of blood. And it came to pass that
when the men of Coriantumr had received sufficient strength,
that they could walk, they were about to flee for their lives,
but behold, Shiz arose, and also nis men, and he swore in his
wrath that he would slay Coriantumr, or he would perish by
thp sw ord; wherefore he did pursue them, and on the mor­
row he did overtake them; and they fought again with the
sword. And it came to pass that wi.en ¡hey had all fallen
by the sword, save it were Coriantumr and Shiz, behold,
Shiz had fainted with loss of blood. And it came to pass
that when Coriantumr had leaned upon his sword, that he
rested a little, he smote off the head of Shiz. And it
came to pass that after he had smote off the head of Shiz,
that Shiz raised upon his hands and fe ll; and after that he
had struggled for breath, he died. And it came to pass that
Coriantumr fell to the earth, and became as if he had no life.
And the Lord spalfe unto Ether, and said unto him, Go forth.
And he went forth, and beheld that the words of the Lord had
all been fulfilled; and he finished his record; (and the hun­
dredth part 1 have not written,) and he hid them in a manner
that the people of Lim hi did find them. Now the last words
which are written by Ether, are these: Whether the Lord
w ill that I be translated, or that I suffer the w ill of the Lord in
the flesh: It mattereth not, if it so be that 1 am saved in the
kingdom of God. Amen.
THE BOOK OF MORONI.
CHAPTER I.
Now 1, Moroni, after having made an end of abridging the
account of the people of Jared, I had supposed not to have
written more, but 1have not as vet perished; and 1make not
myselfknown to the Lamanites, lest they should destroy me.
For behold, theirwars areexceedingfierceamongthemselves;
and because of their hatred, they putto death every Nephite
thatwill not deny the Christ. And I, Moroni, will not deny
the Christ; wherefore, I wander whithersoever 1can, for the
safetyofmineownlife. Wherefore, Iwritea fewmorethings,
contrary to that which 1 had supposed: for I had supposed
not tohave written any more; but 1write a few more things,
thatperhaps they may be ofworth unto my brethren, the La-
manites, in some future day, according tothe will ofthe Lord.
CHAPTER 1L
T he words of Christ, which he spake unto his disciples,
the twelve whom he had chosen, as he laid his hands upon
them. And he called themby name, saying, Ye shall call on
the Father inmyname, in mighty prayer; and after that ye
have done this, ye shall have power that on himwhom ye
shall lay your hands, ye shall give the Holy Ghost; and in
my name shall ye give it: for thus do mine apostles. Now
Christ spake these words unto them at the time of his first
appearing; and the multitude heard it not, but the disciples
heard it; and on as many as they laid their hands, fell the
Holy Ghost
BOOK OF MORONI. 575
C H A PT E R III.
The manner which the disciples, which were called the El­
ders o f the church, ordained priests and teachers. After they
had prayed unto the Father in the name o f Christ, they laid
their hands upon them, and said, In the name o f Jesus Christ
I ordain you to be a priest; (or if he be a teacher,) I ordain
you to be a teacher, to preach repentance and remission o f
sins through Jesus Christ, by the endurance o f faith on his
name to the end. Amen. And after this manner did they
ordain priests and teachers, according to the gifts and callings
o f God unto m en; and they ordained them by the power o f
the H oly Ghost, which was in them.
C H A P T E R IV.
T he manner o f their elders and priests administering the
flesh and blood o f Christ unto the church. And they admin­
istered it according to the commandments o f C hrist; where­
fore we know that the manner to be true : and the elder or priest
did minister it. And they did kneel down with the church,
and pray to the Father in the name o f Christ, saying, O God,
the Eternal Father, we ask thee in the name o f thy Son Jesus
Christ, to bless and sanctify this bread to the souls o f all those
who partake o f it, that they may eat in remembrance o f the
body o f thy Son, and witness unto thee, 0 God the Eternal
Father, that they are willing to take upon them the name o f thy
Son, and always remember him, and keep his commandments
which he hath given them, that they may always have his spirit
to be with them. Amen.
C H A P T E R V.
The manner o f administering the wine. Behold, they took
the cup, and said, O God, the Eternal Father, we ask thee, in
the name o f thy Son Jesus Christ, to bless and sanctify this
wine to the souls o f all those who drink o f it, that they may
do it in remembrance o f the blood o f thy Son, which was shed
57G BOOK OF MORONI.
for them, that they may witness unto thee, 0 God the Eternal
Father, that they do always remember him, that they may hare
his spirit to be with them. Amen.
CH A PTER VI.
And now I speak concerning baptism. Behold, elders,
priests, and teachers were baptized; and they were not bapti­
zed, save they brought forth fruit meet that they were worthy
o f it; neither did they receive any unto baptism, save they
came forth with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, and wit­
nessed unto the church that they truly repented of all their
sins, And none were received unto baptism, save they took
upon them the name of Christ, having a determination to serve
him unto the end. And after that they had been received un­
to baptism, and were wrought upon and cleansed by the
power of the Holy Ghost, they were numbered among the
people of the church o f Christ, and their names were taken,
that they might be remembered and nourished by the good
word o f God, to keep them in the right way, to keep them
continually watchful unto prayer, Telying alone upon the mer­
its of Christ, who was the author and the finisher of their
faith. And the church did meet together oft, to fast and to
pray, and to speak one with another concerning the welfare of
their souls; and they did meet together oft to partake of
bread and wine, in remembrance of the Lord Jesus; and they
were strict to observe that there should be no iniquity among
them; and whoso was found to commit iniquity, and three
witnesses of the church did condemn them before the elders;
and if they repented not, and confessed not, their names were
blotted out, and they were not numbered among the people of
Christ; but as oft as they repented, and sought forgiveness,
with real intent, they were forgiven. And their meetings
were conducted by the church, after the manner o f the work­
ings of the spirit, and by the power o f the Holy Ghost: for as
the power o f the Holy Ghost led them whether to preach, or
exhort, or to pray, or to supplicate, or to sing, even so it was
done.
B O O K O F MORONI. 577
C H A P T E R VII.
A n d now I, Moroni, write a few o f the words o f my fa­
ther Mormon, which he spake concerning faith, hope and cha­
rity : for after this manner did he speak unto the people as
he taught them in the synagogue winch they had built for the
place o f worship. And now I, Mormon, speak unto you, my
beloved brethren *
, and it is by the grace o f God, the Father,
and our Lord Jesus Christ, and his holy will, because o f the
gift o f his calling unto me, that I am permitted to speak unto
you at this time ; wherefore I would speak unto you that are
o f the church, that are the peaceable followers o f Christ,
and that have obtained a sufficient hope, by which ye can enter
into the rest o f the Lord, from this time hence forth, until ye
shall rest with him in Heaven. And now my brethren, I
judge these things of you because o f your peaceable walk with
the children o f men : for I remember the word o f God, which
saitb, By their works ye shall know them: for if their works
be good, then they are good also. For behold, God hath said,
A man being evil, cannot do that which is g ood : for if he of-
fereth a gift, or prayeth unto God, except he shall do it with
real intent, it profiteth him nothing. For behold, it is not
counted unto him for righteousness. For behold, if a man
being evil, giveth a gift, he doeth it grudgingly; wherefore it
is counted unto him the same as if he had retained the gift;
wherefore he is counted evil before God. And likewise also
is it counted evil unto a man, if he shall pray, and not with
real intent o f heart; yea, and it profiteth him nothing: for God
receiveth none such; wherefore, a man being evil, cannot do
that which is good ; neither will he give a good gift For be­
hold, a bitter fountain cannot bring forth good w ater; neither
can a good fountain bring forth bitter water; wherefore a man
being the servant o f the Devil, cannot follow Christ; and if he
follow Christ, he cannot be a servant o f the D evil Where­
fore, all things which are good, cometh o f G od ; arid that which
is evil, cometh of the D evil: for the Devil is an enemy unto
God, and fighteth against him continually, and invitetb and en-
ticeth to sin, and to do that which is evil continually. But
behold, that which is o f God, inviteth and enticeth to do good
continually; wherefore, every thing which inviteth and enti­
ceth to do good, and to love God, and to serve him, is inspired
o f God. Wherefore take heed, my beloved brethren, that ye
do not judge that which is evil to be o f God, or that which is
37
578 BOOK OF MORONI.
good and o f God, to be o f the Devil. F or behold, my breth­
ren, it is given unto you to judge, that ye may know good from
evil; and the way to judge is as plain, that ye may know with
a perfect knowledge, as the daylight is from the dark night.—
F or behold, the spirit o f Christ is giveh to every man, that
they may know good from evil; wherefore I shew unto you
the way to judge : for every thing which inviteth to do good,
and to persuade to believe in Christ, is sent forth by the pow­
er and gift o f C hrist; wherefore ye may know with a perfect
knowledge, it is o f G o d ; but whatsoever thing persuadeth
men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and
serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge
it is o f the Devil, for after this manner doth the Devil work :
for he persuadeth no man to do good, no not on e; neither doth
his angels; neither doth they which subject themselves unto
him.
And now my brethren, seeing that ye know the light by
which ye may judge, which light ¡6 the light o f Christ, see that
ye do not judge wrongfully: for with that same judgement
which ye judge, ye shall also be judged. W hereforel beseech
o f you, brethren, that ye should search diligently in the light
o f Christ, that ye may know good from evil; and if ye will lay
hold upon every good thing, and condemn it not, ye certainly
will be a child o f Christ. And now, my brethren, how is it
possible that ye can lay hold upon every good thing? And
now I com e to that faith, o f which I said 1 would speak; and
I will tell you the way whereby ye may lay hold on every good
thing. For behold, God knowing all things, being from ever­
lasting to everlasting, behold, he sent angels to minister unto
the children o f men, to make manifest concerning the coming
o f Christ; and in Christ there should come every good thing.
And God also declared unto prophets, by his own mouth, that
Christ should come. And behold, there were diverse ways
that he did manifest things unto the children o f men, which
were good ; and all things which are good, cometh o f Christ,
otherwise men were fallen, and there could no good thing come
unto them. Wherefore, by the ministering o f angels, and by
every word which proceeded forth out o f the mouth o f God,
men began to exercise faith in Christ; and thus by faith, they
did lay hold upon every good thing: and thus it was until the
coming o f Christ. And after that he came, men also were
saved by faith in his name; and by faith, they become the
sons o f God. And as suredly as Christ liveth, he spake these
BOOK OF MORONI* 579
words unto our fathers, saying, Whatsoever thing ye shall ask
the Father in ray name, which is good, in faith believing that
ye shall receive, behold, it shall be done unto you. Where­
fore, my beloved brethren, hath miracles ceased, because that
Christ hath ascended into heaven, and hath set down on the
right hand o f God, to claim o f the Father his rights o f mercy
which he hath upon the children o f men : {or he hath answer­
ed the ends o f the law, and he claimeth all those that hath
faith in him ; and they that have faith in him, will cleave unto
every good thing; wherefore he advocateth the cause o f the
children of men; and he dwelleth eternally in the heavens.
And because that lie hath done this, my beloved brethren, hath
miracles ceased! Behold i say unto you, Nay; neither hath
angels ceased to minister unto the children of men. For
behold, they are subject unto him, to minister according to the
word o f his eommand, shewing themselves unto them of
strong faith and a firm mind, in every form o f godliness. And
the office o f their ministry is, to call men unto repentance, and
to fulfil and to da the work of the covenants of the Father
which he hath made unto the children o f men, to prepare the
way among the children of men, by declaring the word of
Christ unto the chosen vessels o f the Lord, that they may
bear testimony of him ; and by so doing, the Lord God prepar-
cth the way that the residue of men may have faith in Christ,
that the Holy Ghost may have place in their hearts, according
to the power thereof: and after this manner bringeth to pass
the Father the covenants which he hath made unto the chil­
dren o f men. And Christ hath said, If ye will have faith in
me, ye shall have power to do whatsoever thing is expedient
in me. And he hath said, Repent all ye ends o f the earth,
and come unto me and be baptized in my name, and have
faith in me, that ye may be saved.
And now my beloved brethren, if this be the case that these
things are true which 1 have spoken unto you, and God will
shew unto you with power and great glory at the last day, that
they are true; and if they are true, hath the day of miracles
ceased ? or hath angels ceased to appear unto the children of
men ? or hath he withheld the power of the Holy Ghost from
them ? or will he, so long as time shall last, or the earth shall
stand, or there shall be one man upon the face thereof to be
saved ? Behold 1 say unto you Nay, for it is by faith that mir­
acles are wrought; and it is by faith that angels appear and
minister unto men; wherefore if these things have ceased, wo
580 BOOK OP MORONI*
be unto the children o f men, for it is because o f unbelief, and
all is vain: for no man can be saved, according to the words
o f Christ, save they shall have faith in his name; wherefore,
if these things have ceased, then has faith ceased also; and
awful is the state o f man: for they are as though there had
been no redemption made. But behold, my beloved brethren,
I judge better things o f you, for I judge that ye have faith in
Christ, because o f your meekness: for if ye have not faith in
him, then ye are not fit to be numbered among the people o f
his church. And again my beloved brethren, I would speak
unto you concerning hope. How is it that ye can attain unto
faith, save ye shall have hope? And what is it that ye shall
hope for 1 Behold I say unto you, That ye shall have hope
through the atonement o f Christ and the power o f his resur­
rection, to be raised unto life eternal; and this because o f your
faith in him according to the prom ise; wherefore, if a man
have faith, he must needs have hope: for without faith there
cannot be any hope. And again: Behold I say unto you, That
he cannot have faith and hope, save he shall be meek, and
lowly o f heart: if so, his faith and hope is vain, for none is
acceptable before God, save the meek and lowly o f heart; and
if a man be meek and lowly in heart, and confesses by the
power o f the Holy Ghost, that Jesus is the Christ, he must
needs have charity: for if he have not charity, he is nothing;
wherefore he must needs have charity. And charity suffereth
long, and is kind, and envieth not, and is not puffed up, seek-
eth not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, and
rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all
things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all
things; wherefore, my beloved brethren, if ye have not charity,
ye are nothing, for charity never faileth. Wherefore, cleave
unto charity, which is the greatest o f all, for all things must
fail; but charity is the pure love o f Christ, and it endureth
forever; and whoso is found possessed o f it, at the last day it
shall be well with them. Wherefore, my beloved brethren,
pray unto the Father with all the energy o f heart, that ye may
be filled with this love which he hath bestowed upon all who
are true followers o f his Son Jesus Christ, that ye may be­
come the sons of God, that when he shall appear, we shall be
like him : for we shall see him as he is, that we may have
this hope, that we may be purified even as he is pure. Amen.
BOOK OP MORONI. 681
C H A PT E R VIII.
An epistle o f my father Mormon, written to me, M oroni;
and it was written unto me soon after my calling to the min­
istry. And on this wise did he write unto me, saying: My
beloved son Moroni, I rejoice exceedingly that your Lord Jesus
Christ hath been mindful o f you, and hath called you to his
ministry, and to his holy work. I am mindful o f you always
in my prayers, continually praying unto God the Father, in
the name o f his holy child, Jesus, that he, through his
infinite goodness and grace, will keep you through the endu­
rance o f faith on his name to the end.
And now iny son, I speak unto you concerning that which
grieveth me exceedingly: for it grieveth me that there should
disputations rise among you. For if I have learned the truth,
there has been disputations among you concerning the baptism
o f your little children. And now my son, I desire that ye
should labor diligently, that this gross error should be remo­
ved from among y o u : for, for this intent I have written this
epistle. For immediately after I had learned these things of
you, I inquired o f the Lord concerning the matter. And the
word o f the Lord came to me by the power o f the Holy Ghost,
saying, Listen to the words o f Christ, your Redeemer, your
Lord and your God. Behold, I came into the world not to
call the righteous, but sinners to repentance; the whole need
no physician, but they that are sick ; wherefore little children
are whole, for they are not capable o f committing sin; where­
fore the curse o f Adam is taken from them in me, that it hath
no power over them : and the law o f circumcision is done
away in me. And after this manner did the Holy Ghost mani­
fest the word o f God unto me ; wherefore my beloved son, I
know that it is solemn mockery before God, that ye should
baptize little children. Behold I say unto you, that this thing
shall ye teach, repentance and baptism unto they which are
accountable and capable o f committing sin; yea, teach parents
that they must repent and be baptized, and humble themselves
as their little children, and they shall all be saved with their little
children; and their little children need no repentance, neither
baptism. Behold, baptism is unto repentance to the fulfilling
the commandments unto the remission o f sins. But little
children are alive in Christ, even from the foundation o f the
w orld: if not so, God is a partial God, and also a changeble
God, and a respecter to persons: for how many little children
582 BOOS OF BORON1.
have died without baptism. Wherefore, if little children
could not be saved without baptism, these must have gone, to
an endless hell. Behold I say unto you, That he that suppo-
seth that little children needeth baptism, is in the gall o f bit­
terness, and in the bonds iniquity: for he hath neither faith,
hope, nor charity; wherefore, should he be cut off while in
the thought, he must go down to hell. For awful is the wick­
edness to suppose that God saveth one child because o f bap­
tism, and the other must perish because he hath no baptism.
W o be unto him that shall pervert the ways o f the Lord after
this manner, for they shall perish, except they repent. Be­
hold, I speak with boldness, having authority from G o d ; and
I fear not what man can d o : for perfect love casteth out all
fear; and I ara filled with charity, which is everlasting love;
wherefore all children are alike unto m e; wherefore 1 love lit­
tle children with a perfect love; and they are all alike, and
partakers o f salvation. For I know that God is not a partial
God, neither a changeable being; hut he is unchangeable from
all eternity to all eternity. Little children cannot repent;
wherefore it is awful wickedness to deny the pure mercies of
God unto them, for they are all alive in him because o f his
mercy. And he that saith that little children needeth baptism,
denieth the mercies o f Christ, and setteth at nought the atone­
ment o f him and the power o f his redemption. W o unto
such, for they are in danger o f death, hell, and an endless
torment, I speak it boldly, God hath commanded me. List­
en unto them and give heed, or they stand against you at the
judgement seat of Christ. For behold that all little children
are -alive in Christ, and also all they that are without the law.
For the power o f redemption cometh on all they that have no
law ; wherefore, he that is not condemned, or he that is under
no condemnation, cannot repent; and unto such baptism avail-
eth nothing. But it is mockery before God denying the mer­
cies o f Christ, and the power of his holy spirit, and putting
trust in dead works. Behold, my son, this thing had not
ought to b e : for repentance is unto them that are under con­
demnation, and under the curse o f a broken law. And the
first fruits o f repentance is baptism; and baptism cometh by
faith, unto the fulfilVmg the commandments; and the fulfilling
the commandments bringeth remission o f sins; and the remis­
sion o f sins bringeth mekness, and lowliness o f heart; and
because o f meekness and lowliness o f heart, cometh the visit­
ation o f the Holy Ghost, which comforter filleth with hope
BOOK O r MORONI. 583
and perfect love, which love endureth by diligence unto prayer,
until the end shall come, when all the saints shall dwell with
God. Behold, my son, I will write unto you again, if I go not
out soon against the Lamanites. Behold, the pride o f this
nation, or the people o f the Nephrtes, hath proved their des­
truction, except they should repent. Pray for them, my son,
that repentance may come onto them. But behold, I fear lest
the spirit hath ceased striving with them ; and in this part of
the land they are also seeking to put down all power and au­
thority, which cometh from G od ; and they are denying tb«
H oly Ghost. And after rejecting b o great * knowledge, my
son, they must perish soon, unto the fulfilling o f the prophe­
cies which was spoken by the prophets, as well as the words
o f our Saviour himself. Farewell, my son, until I shall write
unto you, or shall meet you again. Amen.
C H A P T E R IX.
The second epistle o f Mormon to his son M onm i.
My beloved son, 1write Unto you again, that ye may know
that I am yet alive; but 1 write somewhat that which is griev­
ous. For behold, I have had a sore battle with the Laman-
ites, in the which we did not conquer; and Archeantus has
fallen by the sword, and also Luram and Em ron; yes, and we
have lost a great number o f our choice men. And now be­
hold, my son, I fear lest the Lamanites shall destroy this peo­
ple, for they do not repent, and Satan stireth them up control
ually to anger, one with another. Behold, I am laboring with
them continually; and when 1 speak the word o f God with
sharpness, they tremble and anger against m e; and when I
use no sharpness, they harden their hearts against it; where­
fore I fear lest the spirit o f the Lord hath ceased striving with
them. For so exceedingly do they anger, that it seeraeth me
that they have no fear o f death; and they have lost their love,
one towards another; and they thirst after blood and revenge
continually. And now my beloved son, notwithstanding their
hardness, let us labor diligently: for if we should cease to la­
bor, we should be brought under condemnation: for we have
a labor to perform whilst in this tabernacle o f clay, that w e
584 BOOK OF MORONI.
may conquer the enemy of all righteousness, and rest our
souls in the kingdom o f God.
And now 1 write somewhat concerning the sufferings o f this
people. For according to the knowledge which 1 have re­
ceived from Amoron, behold, the Lamanites have many pris­
oners, which they took from the tower o f Sherrizah ; and
there were men, women and children. And the husbands and
fathers o f those women and children they have slain ; and
they feed the women upon the flesh o f their husbands, and
the children upon the flesh o f their fathers; and no water,
save a little do they give unto them. And notwithstanding
this great abomination o f the Lamanites, it doth not exceed
that o f our people in Moriantum. For behold, many o f the
daughters o f the Lamanites have they taken prisoners ; and
after depriving them o f that which was most dear and pre­
cious above all things, which is chastity and virtue ; and after
that they had done this thing, they did murder them in a most
cruel manner, torturing their bodies even unto death ; and af­
ter that they have done this, they devour their flesh like unto
wild beasts, because o f the hardness o f their hearts ; and they
do it for a token of bravery. O my beloved son, how can a
people like this, that are without civilization ; (and only a few
years have passed away, and they were a civil and a delight­
some people ;) but 0 my son, how can a people like this,
whose delight is in so much abomination, how can we expect
that God will stay his hand in judgement against us ? Behold,
my heart cries wo unto this people. Come out in judgement,
O God, and hide their sins, and wickedness, and abominations
from before thy face. And again, my son, there are many
widows and their daughters, which remain in Sherrizah ; and
that part of the provisions which the Lamanites did not carry
away, behold, the army o f Zenephi has carried away, and left
them to wander withersoever they can for food ; and many
old women do faint by the way and die. And the army which
is with me, is weak ; and the armies o f the Lamanites are
betwixt Sherrizah and me ; and as many as have fled to the
army o f Aaron, have fallen victims to their awful brutality. O
the depravity o f my people ! they are without order and with­
out mercy. Behold, I am but a man, and Ihave but the strength
o f a man, and 1 cannot any longer enforce my commands ; and
they have become strong in their perversion ; and they are
alike brutal, sparing none, neither old nor young ; and they de
BOOK OF MORONI. 585
light in every thing save that which is good; and the suffer
inge o f our women and Our children upon all the face o f this
land, doth exceed every thing; yea, tongue cannot tell, neither
can it he written. And now my son, 1 dwell no longer upon
this horrible scene. Behold, thou knowest the wickedness
o f this people; thou knowest that they are without principle,
and past feeling; and their wickedness doth exceed that o f
the Lamanites. Behold, my son, I cannot recommend them
unto God, lest he should smite me. But beold, my son, I reo-
ommend thee unto God, and I trust in Christ that thou wilt
he saved ; and I pray unto God that he would spare thy life,
to witness the return o f his people unto him, or their utter
destruction: for I know that they must perish, except they re­
pent and return unto him; and if they perish, it will be like
unto the Jaredites, because o f the wilfulness o f their hearts,
seeking for blood and revenge. And if it so be that they per­
ish, we know that many o f our brethrenh ave dissented over
unto the Lamanites, and many more will also dissent over unto
them; wherefore, write somewhat a few things, if thou art
spared ; and I shall perish and not see thee; but 1 trust that
I may see thee soon : for I have sacred records that I would
deliver up unto thee. My son, be faithful in Christ; andnr.ay
not the things which I have written, grieve thee to weigh thee
down unto death, but may Christ lift thee up, and may his
sufferings and death, and the shewing his body unto our fa­
thers, and his mercy and long suffering, and the hope o f his
glory and o f eternal life, rest in your mind forever. And may
the grace o f God the Father, whose throne is high in the
heavens, and our Lord Jesus Christ, who sitteth on the right
hand o f his power, until all things shall become subject unto
him, be, and abide with you forever. Amen.
C H A PT E R X.
N ow I, Moroni, write somewhat as seemetb me good ; and
1 write unto my brethren, the Lamanites; and I would that
they should know that more than four hundred and twenty
years has passed away, since the sign was given o f the coming
o f Christ. And 1 seal up these records after that I have spo­
ken a few words by way o f exhortation unto you. Behold, 1
would exhort you that when ye shall read these things, if it be
586 book op koroni.
wisdom in God that ye should read them, that ye would re­
member how merciful the Lord hath been unto the children o f
men, from the creation o f Adam, even down until the time
that ye shall receive these things, and ponder it in your hearts.
And when ye shall receive these things, I would exhort you
that ye would ask God, the Eternal Father, in the name o f
Christ, if these things are not true; and if ye shall ask with a
sincere heart, with real intent, having faith in Christ, and he
will manifest the truth o f it unto you, by the power o f the H o­
ly Ghost; and by the power o f the Holy Ghost, ye may know
the truth o f all things. And whatsoever thing is good, is just
and true; wherefore, nothing that is good denieth the Christ,
but acknowledgeth that he is. And ye may know that he is,
by the power o f the Holy G host; wherefore 1 would exhort
you, that ye deny not the power o f God : for he worketh by
power, according to the faith o f the children o f men, the same
to-day, and to-morrow, and forever. And again I exhort you,
my brethren, that ye deny not the gifts o f God, for they are
many; and they come from the same God. And there are
different ways that these gifts are administered ; but it is the
same G od which worketh all in all and they are given by the
manifestations o f the spirit o f God unto men, to profit them.
For behold, to one is given by the spirit o f God, that he may
teach the word o f w isdom ; and to another, that he may teach
the word o f knowledge by the same spirit; and to another,
exceeding great faith ; and to another, the gifts o f healing by
the same spirit. And again, to another, that he may work
mighty miracles ; and again, to another, that he may prophesy
concerning all things; and again, to another, the beholding o f
angels and ministering spirits; and again, to another, all kinds
o f tongues ; and again, to another, the interpretation o f lan­
guages and o f diverse kinds o f tongues. And all these gifts
comes by the spirit o f Christ; and they come unto every man
severally, according as he will. And 1 would exhort you, my
beloved brethren, that ye remember that every good gift eom-
eth o f Christ. And 1 would exhort you, my beloved brethren,
that ye remember that he is the same yesterday, to-day, and
forever, and that all these gifts o f which I have spoken, which
are spiritual, never will be done away, even as long as the
world shall stand, only according to the unbelief o f the chil­
dren o f men. Wherefore, there must be faith ; and if there
must be faith, there must also be h op e; and if there must be
hope, there must also be charity; and except ye have charity.
BOOK OF MORONI. 587
ye can in no wise be saved in the kingdom o f G o d ; neither
can ye be saved in the kingdom o f God, if ye have not faith;
neither can ye, if ye have no hope; and if ye have no hope,
ye must needs be in despair; and despair cometb because o f
iniquity. And Christ truly said unto our fathers, If ye have
faith, ye can do all things which is expedient unto me. And
now I speak unto all the ends o f the earth, that if the day
comelh that the power and gifts o f God shall be done away
among you, it shall be because of unbelief. And wo be unto
the children o f men, if this be the case: for there shall be
none that doeth good among you, no not one. For if there be
one among you that doeth good, he shall work by the power
and gifts o f God. And w o unto them which shall do these
things away and die, for they die in their sins, and they cannot
be saved in the kingdom o f G o d ; and I speak it according to
the words o f Christ, and I lie not. And I exhort you to re­
member these things : for the time speedily cometh that ye
shall know that I lie not, for ye shall see me at the bar of G od :
and the Lord God will say unto you, Did I not declare my
words unto you, which was written by this man, like as one
crying from the dead ? yea, even as one speaking out o f the
dust, I declare these things unto the fulfilling o f the proph­
ecies. And behold, they shall proceed forth out o f the mouth
o f the everlasting G o d ; and his word shall hiss forth from
generation to generation. And God shall shew unto you, that
that which I have written, is true. And again I would exhort
you, that ye would come unto Christ, and lay hold upon every
good gift, and touch not the evil gift, nor the unclean thing.—
And awake, and arise from the dust, O Jerusalem; yea, and
put on thy beautiful garments, O daughter o f Zion, and strength­
en thy stakes, and enlarge thy borders forever, that thou may*
est no more be confounded, that the covenants o f the Eternal
Father, which he hath made unto thee, O house o f Israel, may
be fulfilled. Yea, come unto Christ, and be perfected in him,
and deny yourselves o f all ungodliness ; and if ye shall deny
yourselves o f all ungodliness, and love God with all your
might, mind and strength, then is his grace sufficient for you,
that by his grace ye may be perfect in Christ; and if by the
grace o f God ye are perfect in Christ, ye can in no wise deny
the power o f God. And again, if ye, by the grace o f God are
perfect in Christ, and deny not his power, then are ye sancti­
fied in Christ by the grace o f God, through the shedding of
the blood o f Christ, which is in the covenant o f the Father,
588 BOOK OF MORONI.
unto the remission of your sins, that ye become holy without
spot And now I bid unto all, farewell, f soon go to rest
in the paradise of God, until my spirit and body shall again
reunite, and I am brought forth triumphant through the air, to
meet you before the pleasing bar of the great Jehovah, the
Eternal Judge of both quick and dead. Amen,
T H E END.
TH E TESTIM ONY O F TH R E E W ITN ESSES.
Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and peo­
ple, unto whom this work shall come, that we, through the
grace of God the Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, have seen
the plates which contain this record, which is a record o f the
people of Nephi, and also o f the Lamanites, his brethren, and
also o f the people o f Jared, which came from the tower, of
which hath been spoken; and we also know that they have
been translated by the gift and power of God, for his voice
hath declared it unto u s; wherefore we know o f a surety, that
the work is true. And we also testify that we have seeen the
engravings which are upon the plates; and they have been
shewn unto us by the power of God, and not of man. And
we declare with words o f soberness, thatan Angel of God came
down from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes,
that we beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings there­
on ; and we know that it is by the grace o f God the Father,
and our Lord Jesus Christ, that we beheld and hear record
that these things are true ; and it is marvellous in our eyes:
Nevertheless, the voice o f the Lord commanded us that we
should bear record o f it; wherefore, to be obedient unto the
commandments o f God, we bear testimony of these things.—
And we know that if we are faithful in Christ, we shall rid
our garments of the blood of all men, and be found Bpotless
before the judgement seat of Christ, and shall dwell with him
eternally in the heavens. And the honor be to the Father, and
to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, which is one God. Amen.
OLIVER CO W D ERY,
DAVID W HITM ER,
MARTIN HARRIS.
AND ALSO T H E TE STIM O N Y O F EIG H T
W IT N E SSE S.
Be it known unto all nations kindreds, tongues, and peo­
ple, unto whom this work shall come, that Joseph Smith, Jr.
the Author ahd Proprietor o f this work, has shewn unto us the
plates o f which hath been spoken, which hare the appearance
o f gold; and as many o f the leaves as the said Smith has
translated, we did handle with our hands; and we also saw
the engravings thereon, all o f which has the appearance o f
ancient work, and o f curious workmanship. And this we bear
record, with words o f soberness, that the said Smith has
shewn unto us, for we have seen and hefted, and know o f a
surety, that the said Smith has got the plates of which we
have spoken. And we give our names unto the world, to
witness unto the world that which we have seen : and we lie
not, God bearing witness o f it,
CH RISTIAN W II1TM ER,
JACO B W H 1TM ER,
PE T E R W H ITM ER, Jr
JO H N W H ITM E R,
HIRAM PAGE,
JO SE PH SM ITH, Sex.
HYRUM SM ITH,
SAM U EL H. SM ITH.
