{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1831__cruikshank___the_gentleman_in_black.pdf","mytitle":"The Gentleman In Black","mylang":"de"}
w I "
MAJV %
<?£>Z
— >
&
■
ai/ivv.
(>
ffîUtth Hlturtrattong
A
r
<
^ ° * g e
* V
KXORAVED BT J. THOMPSON AND R- T.AICTWT-TJ».
Jbrronir «Edition.
LONDON:
WILLIAM KIDD, 6, OLD BOND STREET.
M.DCCC.XXXI.
ir £
iy
Google
Elegant Companion to the Drawing room Table.
Just published,
In two handsome volumes, with gilt edges,
F A C E T I Æ;
BBING ▲
GENERAL COLLECTION OF THE JEUX D*ESPRIT
ILLUSTRATED BY ROBERT CRUIKSHANK.
“ These elegant little volumes, which are got up in a very tasty manner,
are well adapted for the drawing-room table, and will be eagerly sought
for to beguile a weary hour. Under the title of *Facbtia ,’they comprise
all the witty sallies and effusions of mirth that have appeared, from
*Monsieur Tonson’ to *Margate'—a humorous poem, which, though late
in the field, is by no means inferior in merit to any of its predecessors.
* * * The illustrations alone are worth considerably more than the price
charged for the whole work."—Morning Chronicle.
“ The admirers of Mr. Cruikshank’s inimitable productions may now
enjoy themselves to their heart’s content. * * * These miniature volumes
comprise the whole of the jeu* d'esprit which have lately become so po­
pular, and contain upwards of one hundred and twenty engravings."—
Globe.
A D V E R T ISE M E N T .
It w ill, doubtless, be in the recollection of
many o f the readers o f “ The Gentleman in
B lack,” that a portion of the work appeared
some years ago, in a periodical entitled
“ T h e L i t e r a r y M a g n e t .” That publi­
cation, however, having long since been
discontinued, the greater part o f this volume
has never yet appeared in print. A t the
request o f the Subscribers, who were anxious
that the tale should be completed, it was the
iy
Google
IV ADVERTISEMENT.
* author’s intention to have had it immediately
re-published in an entire form, but on ap­
plying for the remainder o f the manuscript,
he was informed that it was mislaid. H e
has, therefore, been under the necessity o f
entirely re-writing it, and now,— having re­
ceived his latest corrections— aided by the
powerful talent of Mr. George Cruikshank,—
it is presented to the public.
Old Bond Street,
Nov. 25,1830.
iy
Google
€i)t in 36Iark
CHAPTER I.
“ W hat the devil shall I d o ? ” exclaimed
Louis Desonges: “ not a sous have I in the world
besides that solitary five franc piece! and where
the next is to come from I cannot divine. What
the devil must I do ?”
“ Did you call, Monsieur! ” asked a gentle
voice, which seemed to proceed from the more
dusky comer of the apartment, in which Louis
was sitting in his old arm-chair, before a worm-
eaten table covered with books and papers.
B
iy
Google
2 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Who, in the name of fate, are you?” res­
ponded the unhappy youth, looking round in
search of the individual from whom the inquiry
had proceeded.
“ Precisely so,” replied a stout, short, middle-
aged gentleman, of a somewhat saturnine com­
plexion, as he advanced from—we can't say
exactly where—into the middle of the room.
He was clad in black, according to the fashion
of the day; had a loose Geneva cloak, as an
upper garment, of the same colour; and carried
a large bundle of black-edged papers, tied with
black tape, under his arm. Without the smallest
ceremony, he placed a chair opposite our hero,
bowed, seated himself, smiled, laid his papers
on the table, rubbed his hands, and appeared
altogether prepared for business. Louis felt
somewhat embarrassed, but returned the stran­
ger’s bow with all due civility; and, after a
brief, awkward pause, ventured to inquire the
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 3
name of the gentleman whom he had the honour
of addressing.
“ It is of little moment/’ replied his extraor­
dinary visitor: “ you are in difficulties, and it
is in my power to assist y o u a n d so saying, he
began, in due form, to untie, and “ sort out” his
papers upon the table. Poor Louis looked on
in silence, and sighing, bethought himself that if
he had been as constant in his attendance at
lectures, and in the courts, as at the billiard-tables
and gaming houses of the Palais Royal, he might
have picked up law enough to have enabled him
to involve a case, in which so many documents
were necessary, in a yet deeper state of mystifi­
cation. “ As it is,” thought he, “ the man will
soon discover my ignorance—so, as I have not
yet practised, I’ll be honest, and tell him the
truth at once.”
“ You need not trouble yourself to do ttyat,
Sir,” said the stranger.
iy
Google
4 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ To do what, Sir ?” interrogated Louis, “ I did
not say anything.”
“ I know that, my dear Sir,” observed
the gentleman in the cloak, still busying him­
self with his papers, “ but it is just the same
thing.”
“ What is just the same thing ? I don’t at all
comprehend you!” exclaimed the youth.
“ Precisely so,” continued the stranger, “ there,
they are all correct, I believe—so, my dear Sir,
as you were saying ”------
“ Excuse me, Sir,” said Louis, “ I was not
saying anything.”
“ Pardon me, my dear young friend,” quoth
the gentleman with the black-edged papers, “ you
talked of telling me the truth at once.”
“ Not I, Sir, I only thought of doing so.”
“ O h! that's all the same with us.”
“ Then you’re no lawyer, I'm sure,” replied the
youth.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 5
“ Not I, my friend, but, really— I should be
sorry to appear unpolite to a gentleman of your
birth and talents; the fact, however, is, that my
engagements are, just now, exceedingly numerous
and pressing; therefore, allow me, just to ex­
plain. This paper”-------
“ Confound this head-ache, ” thought poor
Louis to himself, “ If I had gone to bed last
night, instead of watching over the rouge et noir
table, and losing my ”------
“ Pshaw ! pshaw ! smell this bottle,” said the
stranger, politely handing a small exquisitely cut
black glass bottle, which he took out of a black
ebony case.
The young gentleman did so, and felt, “ pow­
erfully refreshed;” his head instantly appeared
clearer, and his whole frame exhilarated.
“ Mon Dieu !” he exclaimed, “ Monsieur,
where did you buy that wonderful specific V9
“ H ist! 9
9 ejaculated the stranger, “ Don’t
b 2
iy
Google
6 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
swear, I entreat you. It is extremely disagree­
able to me.’*
“ Well, then, I will not,” said Louis; “ but
— pray inform m e! Poor little Louise ! and
Adele! and the Comtesse ! They'd adore me, if I
could but procure for them such a specific. Pray,
Monsieur, I conjure you, in the name o f”-------
“ Stop! ” cried the other, starting from his
chair, “ not a word more! There, there, I make
you a present of the bottle, case and all. I
manufactured it myself for the use of particular
friends only.”
“ I’ll give you a thousand francs for the
recipe,” exclaimed Louis.
“ Where will you find the money?” asked
the stranger, coolly settling himself back in
his chair, like a man who has found his ’vantage
ground., ‘
“ Where, indeed!” groaned poor Louis.' Then,
having rested his head awhile upon his empty
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 7
palm, he bethought him that something might be
made of the stranger’s papers, and, therefore,
addressed himself to business.
“ I should ask your pardon, Sir,” said he, “ for
talking of perfumes; I accept this bottle as a
token of amity between us, and now if you
please**-------
“ Good!” observed the gentleman in black,
“ that is what I wish. I am a plain man’— (some­
what plain, I must confess, thought Louis)—
“ well—that’s nothing. I wish to act handsomely
by you; I have taken a great fancy to you, and
you are over head-and-ears in debt—have a hope­
less love affair—have neglected your studies—
offended your unde— shatetred your constitu­
tion”—
“ Mon D ieu !” exclaimed the youth.
“ If you say that again, Sir,” said the gentle­
man in black, “ I shall take my departure. I
told you before that I objected to swearing ”
iy
Google
8 TUE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Diable, then !” cried Louis.
“ That’s better/’ quoth his companion, smiling,
and taking a pinch of blackguard, (which an
Irish gentleman, in a passion, had given him),
out of a black tortoise-shell box, handed it politely
to our hero.
“ No, Sir,” said the latter, sternly, “ you and
your snuff may go to h— together.”
“ Precisely so,” calmly observed the stranger,
returning the box to his pocket, but not offering
to move from his chair.
“ This is a little too much,” cried the enraged
young Frenchman, starting upon his legs, “ tell
me, Sir, what you mean by intruding upon my
privacy, and insulting me with the repetition of
all my misfortunes ? Who, and what the devil
are you ?”
“ Precisely so, as I told you before,” replied
the unruffled stranger.
“ Precisely what ? I don’t understand you!
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
9
You may be the devil himself, for aught I
know.”
“ Precisely so,” was the reply.
“ You don’t mean to say you really are
the”-------
“ Precisely so. We have an objection to plain
yes and no.” .
“ Then you are a lawyer after all.”
“ Not I, though I confess I have practised
occasionally :—but, pshaw! this is a waste of
time. I know your troubles and difficulties; and
would help you through them, if you will allow
me. I have money to any amount at my disposal
and immediate command, as you may satisfy
y o u r s e lfa n d he threw a large black morocco
leather pocket book upon the table, where it
instantly burst open from the extension of (to
poor Louis’s eyes) an innumerable quantity of
billets de banque, for 500 francs each. “ And
as for gold,”— and he began to draw from his
iy
Google
10 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
breeches’ pocket a black satin purse, to which
Louis thought there would be no end, so singu­
larly did it appear to elongate itself, as the stran­
ger continued to tug it from its dark abode, till
it had attained the full extent of a Flemish ell.
Yet, in his hands, it appeared light as the eider­
down, till haying placed it carefully on the table,
the weight of the gold within rent asunder its
silken prison, and a large quantity of louis d’ors
rolled out upon the table.
Louis looked first at the immense wealth before
him, then at Lis visitor; again at the gold and
notes; and so on, alternately, about half a dozen
times, ere he found himself capable of uttering
even an exclamation of surprise. And each time
his eyes rested upon the stranger’s countenance,
he discerned some new charm of feature and ex­
pression ; and he at length decided that he had
never before seen so perfectly elegant, agreeable,
interesting, well-bred, and accomplished a gentle­
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 11
man; and wondered how he could for an instant
have considered him a plain man.
“ It's always the way," observed the gen­
tleman in black, “ strangers think me anything
but handsome: yet, as we get more inti­
mate, my society becomes more and more
agreeable, so that at last my friends are ever
endeavouring to imitate me in all their actions
and pursuits: but you’ll know more about that
bye and bye."
Poor Louis had by this time made up his mind
that his visitor was no other than his Infernal
Majesty, and would instantly have made applica­
tion to his patron saint, and as many more as he
could recollect the titles of, without looking into
his calendar, upon the subject, had it not been
for the dazzling gold, which he somehow in­
stinctively apprehended would vanish from his
sight at the sound of their names. If he had
said his pater noster that morning, what now lay
iy
Google
12 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
before him was not, most assuredly, the sort of
temptation from which he would have dreamed of
imploring deliverance. The dark, middle-aged
gentleman saw the gold “ enter into his soul,*’
and let it work its way in silence for a short
time, watching his victim’s countenance, and
ever and anon looking disconcerted, as the
youth’s guardian angel seemed to be whispering
in his ear.
“ Well, Monsieur le Baron! ” ejaculated he at
length, “ perhaps the trifle you see on the table
may be of some little service to you ? ”
“ I am no Baron,” observed Louis.
“ So much the worse.”
“ 1 know that well enough,” rejoined Louis,
testily, and heaved a sigh as he thought of the
fair Emilie, and her most perpendicular father,
the Comte de Tien a la Cour.
“ It's your own fault,” continued the gentleman
in black, bustling up to the table, and opening a
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 13
paper; “ you have but to sign this document, and
what you see on the table is but a trifle when
compared with the riches you may command;
besides uninterrupted health, and, indeed, what­
ever you wish for; since money you know, my
dear friend, carries all before it.*'
“ And pray, Sir,” asked Louis, influenced, as
he afterwards declared, merely by curiosity, but
determined not to sign the paper upon any
terms, “ what may be the contents of that docu­
ment ?”
“ A mere bagatelle; look it over yourself.
Only to sin for a single second this year, two
seconds the n ext; to double it the third, and so
on with each succeeding year. I say the penalty
amounts, in fact, to nothing; for the truth is,
you will sin for a much longer period annually
if you do not sign it, to say nothing of the crimes
which poverty and desperation may drive you to
commit.” So saying, he threw the paper care-
c
iy
Google
14 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. %
lessly towards poor Louis, and betook himself to
his blackguard, with due gentlemanly noncha­
lance.
The youth read—u Sin for a second in the
first year, two seconds the second,” then looked
at the gold. “ Let me see,” said he, calculating,
“ that will be four seconds the third year—eight
seconds the fourth—sixteen seconds the fifth—
thirty-two seconds the sixth, and ”-------
“ Exactly so,” said the gentleman in black,
interrupting him, “ that is about a minute in the
course of the whole six years. And, beside,
you’ll observe a clause, by which all the sins
you have committed before, and all that you may
in future commit, over and above the stipulated
agreement, will be taken into account. So that
you see not even a hermit need live more imma­
culately.”
u I must confess you are very liberal,” observed
young Desonges, doubtingly.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 15
“ You’ll always find me liberal,” said the
other, handing a pen across the table.
“ Stop! stop! Let me read the whole paper
first.”
“ Oh, by all means! You’ll find all correctly
expressed.”
Louis ascertained the manner in which he was
to obtain daily supplies of money, so long as the
stipulations in the contract were fulfilled;— “ any
amount ” was specified—he had committed sins
enough already, he well knew, to wipe off the
score for many years to come, to say nothing
of those which, in the common course of events,
must of necessity ensue. The dream of unlimited
riches, and unchecked and unbounded pleasure,
was intoxicating; but yet a something he knew
not how to define, prompted him to hesitate. At
this critical juncture, a noise arose in the anti­
room. There was a war of words, amid which
was heard the voice of a marckand tailleur,
iy
Google
16 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
(from whose “ magasin” poor Louis had been
supplied with divers “ habits, redingottes, gilets,”
&c., &c., for which payment had been oft and
again demanded, and ever in vain,) loudly pre­
eminent. Threat had succeeded threat, and
matters were now approaching to a crisis.
“ How much does the fellow want?” asked
the gentleman in black.
“ Three thousand Imres,” replied Louis.
“ Pshaw! an insignificant trifle; call him in
and pay him—merely to get rid of his imperti­
nence.— There—throw your capote over the rest
of the money— there are five thousand.”
“ Your generosity overpowers me,” exclaimed
the astonished Louis, taking up the pen, “ There,
Sir, I have signed the paper.”
“ Good! (reading) *Louis Desonges,’ per­
fectly correct; and there, my good friend, is the
counterpart, signed by myself: it’s a singular
hand, perhaps you may not be able to decipher
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 17
it; indeed my signature is frequently, I have
been told, taken for that of some of your great
men. But no matter; if it answers their pur­
pose I believe they don’t care much for that, nor
I either, to tell you the truth. However 1 must
be off, having a little business just now to transact
in London.”
“ Stop, my dear Sir,” exclaimed Louis, whose
fancy being now relieved from the terrors of a
jail, was once more on the qui vive. “ You
promised me the recipe for that perfume. We
must not forget the ladies. There’s poor Adele
suffers sadly from the head-ache;—and the lovely
Comtesse— and ”------
“ Ah— I know what you would say,” replied
the gentleman in black, interrupting him, and
taking a black-edged paper from the bundle,
which he had again tied up with black tape;
“ they are almost all fond of such things.—
There—you will find what they will think inesti­
c 2
iy
Google
18 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK«
mable recipes for perfumes, patches, rouge, dis­
tilled waters, and all that sort of thing. I am
the original inventor of them all.”
“ The devil you are!” exclaimed Louis.
“ Precisely so. And let me tell you Pve de­
rived no little advantage therefrom. Not that I
began to introduce them with that intent; for, to
say the truth, I had not then become so well
acquainted with the follies and infatuation of
mankind: but, the fact is, I hate to see a lovely
woman in her own undisguised charms and
beauty. She always reminds me of angels
whose existence I am anxious to forget. Some
among you, who have not yet adopted the use of
my nostrums, still preserve the form of beings
whom I once saw in the presence of o n e whom
I dare not name.”
This allusion .recalled poor Louis to his senses.
He shuddered at the bare recollection of what he
had done; and, clasping his hands together,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 19
lifted up his eyes toward heaven, and fervently
ejaculated, “ Oh ! Mon Dieu !9
9
When he turned to look for his sable com­
panion, he was gone. If he had been allowed
time for reflection, his thoughts would have been
most painful ; but a violent knocking at the door
helped to awaken him from his dream. The
door burst open, and in stalked the identical
tailor, whose entrée had been announced with so
much clamour. Louis had, almost unconsciously,
pocketed the five thousand livres, and his capote
concealing the rest of his riches, the scene ap­
peared, to the tailor’s eye, as denuded and
poverty-stricken as usual. A young Frenchman
(particularly if in Paris) flies from grave to gay,
with more volatility than any other mortal ; and
Louis, having no fear of the law now before his
eyes, threw himself back in his chair, and, with
an air of gay defiance, demanded the intruder’s
business.
iy
Google
20 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK*
“ Look ye. Monsieur/’ replied the man of
“ shreds and patches,” “ my mind is made u p ; I
have two officers in the next room. I know
where you were last night, throwing away my
money at rouge et noir, among a parcel of demi-
soldes and pauvre diables.”
" Never mind, Snip,” said Louis, laughing;
“ good luck must come at last, if we do but per­
severe.”
“ W hat! and you dare to insult me, to o !”
ejaculated the enraged tailor. “ Come in, my
friends, and do your duty. There is your
prisoner.”
The officers advanced, like automata, mechani­
cally bowing to our hero, ere they made him
captive. The tailor at this moment took hold of
the capote, and was in the act of lifting it up,
and exclaiming how much it had cost him, when
his attention was arrested by the sight of a small
portion only of Louis’s wealth; but sufficient to
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 21
change entirely the character of his countenance
and tone. He let the capote drop, and fell back
against the wall, with looks of almost reveren­
tial awe and dismay, stammering a thousand
apologies.
“ If you've made out your bill, Sir,” said
Louis, in a most dignified style, “ write a re­
ceipt.” Then throwing a Louis to each of the
officers, he continued,— “ Pray, gentlemen, ac­
cept that trifle for the trouble this fool of a bour­
geois has occasioned you. I wished only to
make him wait a little while for his money, as
a punishment for his impertinence, and the in­
famous manner in which he has frequently made
my clothes, and kept me waiting till the last
moment, when I was going to a party.” They
bowed—looked at each other—bowed again ;—
and, bowing, retreated backward, as though from
the presence of Majesty, till the door was safely
gained. The tailor advanced, in the same lowly
iy
Google
22 THE GENTLEMAN IN SLACK.
attitude wrote the “ acquit,” as well as he was
able; made another humble apology; received
his money, and bowed himself backward, after
his quondam associates.
Left to himself, Louis hummed a tune from
the last new opera; reflected that what was done
could not be undone; and concluded it was,
therefore, not worth while to reflect at all. To
keep all clear for next year, he resolved to go
and commit his moment of sin immediately.
Where he went, or what he did, has not been
recorded, but it is most certain that there was no
complaint of his not having duly fulfilled his
contract for many years afterward.
About the same time that this adventure oc­
curred to Louis Desonges, at Paris, there was
a young gentleman in the city of London, whose
father, dying, left behind him a considerable sum
of ready money, beside a flourishing West India
trade, by strict attention to which his fortune
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 23
had been amassed. Charles Maxwell was just
of age. He had received a good education, in
the first place, from his father, and afterwards a
very handsome allowance, by which he was en­
abled to keep what is called good society, whilst
the old gentleman stuck close to the counting-
house and the Exchange, and kept “ all right.”
But when he died, his son, taking a wider
range, neglected the business, and left the
whole of his mercantile affairs to his clerks;
and the consequence was, that in less than two
years he was on the eve of figuring in the
Gazette.
At this critical juncture, too, he had fallen
in love; a contingency which, if it had occurred
somewhat earlier, might possibly have made him
more careful of his own concerns, and saved
him from the temptation which awaited him. In
sad and sober mood, he sat occupied in a man­
ner to which he had been but little accustomed,
iy
Google
24 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
namely, in melancholy contemplation, in his own
private counting-house, when the gentleman of
whom we have already spoken, suddenly made
his appearance, with his black coat, waistcoat,
inexpressibles, and stockings, black cloak, black
bag, black-edged papers, tied with black tape,
black smelling-bottle, snuff-box and blackguard,
in the same style as when he visited thé poor law
student at Paris, not forgetting the needful
black pocket-book, and long elastic black silk
purse. A similar scene took place to that which
befel the young Frenchman, excepting that
Charles Maxwell’s decision was accelerated by
the arrival of a lot of “ returned acceptances,”
in lieu of one long tailor’s bill. It were hard
to say whether the English or the French gen­
tleman was most elated by his sudden accumu­
lation of wealth, and unexpected escape from
disgrace.
One dreamed of horses, dogs, wines, houses,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 25
&c., & c.; the other, of operas, dancers, rouge
et noir, titles, &c., &c. One resolved to forsake
the counting-house; the other resolved to for­
sake the law ; thereby clearly evincing that the
heart of neither was engaged in the pursuit for
which he had been destined,— a fact which per­
haps it would have been better if their parents
could have ascertained, ere they had
“ Bound them to that oar,
Which thousands, once lashed fast to, quit no more.”|
When the bargain was concluded between
young Charles and his new ally, he politely
asked him to stay and dine with him. “ Ex­
cuse the liberty I take,"— and he rang the bell,
which was immediately answered by a footman.
Dinner was ordered, and a wondering clerk
dispatched to his no less wondering^ bankers,
with the sum of one hundred thousand pounds,
and a verbal message, that he had received their
D
iy
Google
26 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
note, and should not trouble them for the “ dis­
counts ” mentioned yesterday. A dinner, tête-à
tête, passed off delightfully between the new
acquaintances. The gentleman in black drank
his wine freely, and bottle after bottle of the
old supernaculum appeared and disappeared
with marvellous celerity. Charles talked of
what he would do, and where he would go;
and how he would astonish the natives, and
purchase an estate in the country, and buy
himself into parliament ; whereat the dark
gentleman gave a singular proof of his satis­
faction, which, had it not been that “ wine
worketh wonders,*’ would probably have broken
up their party. .
“ What is that moving and rustling about
behind you, under your cloak?" exclaimed
Charles, j^afcing stupidly, as a drunken man
often does when staring at something going on
before him which he cannot exactly understand.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 27
u Oh f it's only my tail, which I’m wagging,”
replied his guest, “ it’s a way we have whenever
we are very much pleased.”
“ Oho! old gentleman !” observed Charles,
“ then you enjoy yourself, eh ? you take my
jokes, eh ? you’re a bit of a wag, eh ? ”
“ Yes,” drily replied his companion, “ I wag
my tail.”
“ It’s monstrously droll,” added Charles, hic­
cupping; “ but the fact is, my comical, old Mr.
What-d’ye-call-em, we have many ways, almost
as whimsical, among ourselves.”
“ If you object to my custom------ ?” said the
gentleman of the black, rustling cloak, bowing
politely—
“ Oh, by no means,” replied Charles, “ sport
your opossum as you please; only, none of your
long t-a-l-e-s. H a ! h a ! A devilish pleasant
conceit! is’nt, old boy; come fill your glass, I
always hated long stories; don’t you ?”
iy
Google
28 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Why, not precisely so,” answered the other,
filling his glass; “ for the fact is, that I invented
them.”
About this time it was, that Charles’s speech
began to announce that he was “ overtaken; ”
and he never could remember how or when he
and his sable ally parted. Something there was
floating in his recollection next morning about
having been in the streets, and of a row ; and
a sort of a m ill;—but the particulars he could
not recal. The black smelling-bottle, in the
black ebony case, instantly dispersed the un­
pleasant effects of his late debauch; but it was
not intended to enable him to reflect clearly on
the past.
The next morning he paced his room, after
breakfast, endeavouring to settle within his own
mind, some plan of operation, by which he
might reap the most perfect enjoyment from
the golden harvest before him. From this
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 29
reverie he was aroused by the entrance of his
late father’s confidential clerk, with an arm-full
and a bag-full of papers. Charles noticed the
honest anxiety expressed in his countenance,
and at once resolved to make him happy.
“ Take a seat, Mr. Ledger,” said he, “ 1
wished to see you on business.”
“ Indeed, Sir,” ejaculated the astonished clerk.
“ Yes, indeed !” repeated Charles, seating
himself at the table, “ for I’m off to Melton
in an hour.”
4
4 My dear Sir,” said Mr. Ledger, imploringly,
“ let me intreat you. The supply you obtained
yesterday was most providential. I am delighted
that you have yet such friends left: but it must
be repaid, and the concerns of the house are, I
am sorry to say------ ”
“ Confound the concerns of the house !" ex­
claimed Charles.
4
4 What do I hear ! ” ejaculated Ledger ;
d 2
iy
Google
30 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ alas! alas! my dear Sir, they are already
confounded. And yet, if we could but obtain
assistance for a few months only, and you
would leave off drawing such heavy bills on
your private account------ ”
“ What, then,” asked Charles, “ do you really
think such a beggarly concern worth carrying
on.”
“ Beggarly, S ir! ” said Ledger, rising from
his seat, and all the blood in his body apparently
rushing to his face; “ S ir! if any other person
had dared— - ; but you are his son------ O h!
that I should live to see the day! My poor dear
master! no man named him but with respect."
Here the poor fellow was utterly overpowered,
and sinking, exhausted, on the chair, sobbed
like a child. Charles caught the infection, and
looked at his father's humble friend, with feelings
far different from those which the money now at
his command was intended by the donor to pro­
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 31
duce. He certainly was not, at that moment,
committing his stipulated quantum of sin.
“ Mr. Ledger,*’ said he, at length, “ I most
earnestly entreat your pardon for having trifled
with your feelings; but the fact is, 1 have made
up my mind ”-------
“ Oh, don’t say so, my dear Sir,” said the
clerk, interrupting him, from dread of the termi­
nation of his sentence, “ just look over these
papers—and, if the loan you obtained so mira­
culously can be continued but for a few months
and you will only—in moderation— Sir— pray
don't take my freedom amiss— we may still go
on— and the profits are—have been—will be, I
pledge my word— ample— more than sufficient
for all that any gentleman could— that is, ought
— don’t be offended, I entreat you, Sir.”
“ Not I,” replied Charles, “ I’m glad to hear
you give so good an account of the concern, as
you call it. For my own part, it is no concern
iy
Google
32 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
of mine now, If you think it worth your accep­
tance, take it and welcome. As for me, thank
God— no— I don't exactly mean that—but the
fact is, I can do very well without it.*’
Poor Ledger's eyes and mouth were wide
open, though he doubted much if that could be
the case with his ears: but the reader shall not
be troubled with an attempt to describe his
feelings. Suffice it to say, that he would not
accept more than a small share of the profits,
the remainder to be duly carried to the credit
side of his young master’s account in the “ pri­
vate ledger.” As a matter of course, he was to
manage the whole affair as he thought fit;, and,
as a matter of course with Charles Maxwell, he
troubled him not with any more large drafts, nor
asked for a farthing of the profits; all which
surprised and perplexed Mr. Ledger, who en­
deavoured to account for the circumstance, by
supposing that the young man had discovered
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 33
some stock which his late father had privately
invested, or that some mining shares, which had
been put by as worthless, had turned up trumps;
or that he had got a prize in the lottery, or—in
short he could not exactly make it out. So he
dipped his pen in the inkstand, and stuck to his
desk; consoling himself with the reflection, that
he was preparing a haven in which his young
master and benefactor might find shelter, when­
ever he should be driven in by the storm.
It has been already stated that Charles Max­
well was in love, and stated too upon his own
authority. He said so, he thought so— and yet
when riches poured in upon him as a flood, he
went to Melton first—then came to London, and
Ran each extreme of folly through,
And lived with half the town,
yet never allowed his mind to dwell upon the
charms of Clara Haultaught, the old Admiral’s
iy
Google
34 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
daughter, with whom he had danced and fallen
in love, all in the regular way, at a Leicester
“ county” ball. The fact is, he had no time,
for men of pleasure never have, “ provided al­
ways,” as the lawyers have it, that they are
provided always with money and health. When
either of these fall short, your mere men of
pleasure are sad twaddlers, and have time
enough to weary themselves and their friends by
all manner of wearisome ways, and ill-supported
pretensions. Which position should any reader
doubt, let him go to Bath and learn wisdom.
To travel abroad gives a man an air, say
some folks, and Charles Maxwell went off,
therefore, to breathe and bring home some
foreign air. Here it may be as well to ob­
serve, by way of avoiding difficulties hereafter,
that the time of which we write was some year
or two before the Revolution, so called, as the
French say, “ par excellence,” because it was
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 35
the vilest, the most sanguinary, and the most
fearful and extensive in its consequences, of
any on the records of either ancient or modem
history. The reader need scarcely be told it is
the French revolution of 1790 to which we
allude.
Charles, of course, went first to Paris, and
there, almost of course, became acquainted with
Louis Desonges; for it was barely possible that
two young men, possessing the unlimited com­
mand of money, however different might be
their habits, should not come into contact when
pursuing some of the' innumerable follies and
pleasures of that most foolish and pleasurable
metropolis.
When an Englishman is in Paris, whatever
may be his natural taste or propensity, he must
see every thing; and, with this laudable spirit
of inquiry, Charles Maxwell betook himself to a
notorious gambling-house, though he had not
iy
Google
36 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
the smallest taste for such amusements. Louis
Desonges happened to be there at the time, and
was interesting himself as much in the game as
a man could possibly do to whom it was per­
fectly immaterial whether he lost or won. The
air of gaiety and nonchalance with which he
paid several heavy losses attracted the English­
man's attention, and after a few minutes they
betted together, woo, lost, paid and received
immense sums, with such utter carelessness and
good humour, as astonished each other, and
made the bystanders imagine that their bets
were fictitious, and made for some sinister,
though (strange to say among Parisian adepts)
undiscemible purpose. Under this impression all
play was at a stand; and Charles, after exchang­
ing cards with his new friend, walked off with
bills to the amount of about two million and a
half of livres, that is, in English money, about a
hundred thousand pounds, leaving his antagonist
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 37
without the smallest symptom of u desespoir” so
common to all, but more particularly to French
gamesters. The next morning Charles felt, that,
notwithstanding the young Frenchman's gaiety
and admirable presence of mind the preceding
night, the loss of such a sum must be his utter
ruin ; and, therefore, with the most philanthropic
intention of restoring his winnings by making
some foolish bet, he ordered his coachman to
drive to the Rue de l’Université, where he found
the young gambler at home, in his own most
splendid hotel. The whole affair— lamps—silken
curtains, sofas, and chairs—the silken silence of
the servants—statues—paintings—books in the
most splendid bindings ranged in battalia, while
some half dozen were thrown carelessly on the
floor, like the most exquisitely dressed among
the brave after an engagement,— all— all—
breathed of wealth. “ Good Heavens !” ex­
claimed Charles, “ and /, for the gratification
E
iy
Google
38 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK,
of a mere whim, for I have not the excuse of
other men, have perhaps destroyed this young
man’s happiness for ever—his father’s grey
hairs—his poor portionless sisters— thrown, like
young unfledged birds, from the genial warmth
of their parent’s downy nest, upon the sharp
rocks of this world, while the bleak winds of
adversity ”-------
The entrance of Louis Desonges here saved
him the trouble of completing his picture. Not
a vestige of nocturnal, involuntary vigilance,
shaded his handsome and intelligent counte­
nance. His eye sparkled with pleasure at the
sight of his new acquaintance, but it was un­
clouded by the unsteady brow that rises and
falls, and will tell, as if in spite of its owner,
how the gamester’s heart throbs, and warms,
and grows cold. The fact was, Louis saw
before him a rich young Englishman, a cha­
racter with which he had long wished to be
iy
Google
THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 39
acquainted; but from their habitual reserve,
(such, be it remembered, was then our national
character), had ever been foiled in the attempt.
He rushed across the room, and warmly shook
Charles by the hand.
“ He estimates my motive for coming,”
thought the latter; “ T is well !”
“ Have you breakfasted, so early V* asked
Louis, gaily.
“ No, my good Sir,” was the reply; the fact
is, that my mind was somewhat uneasy about
the affair of last night. You excuse my blunts
ness, I trust, but we English”-------
“ Are strange fellows; I've always understood
so. I want to see more of you ;—allons k
dejeuner!— H o! Auguste! Roderique!— Who
waits there ?— Is breakfast ready ?”
Our heroes were ushered, by a petit-maitre
out of livery, through a suite of rooms, adorned
with an inattention to expence truly wonderful,
iy
Google
40 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
until they arrived at a saloon, opening into
a garden, from whence the perfumed air, and
the light of heaven, were scientifically allowed
admittance through verandas, Venetian blinds,
lace and muslin curtains, &c. &c. In brief, all
was “ superbe et magnifique.”
“ Are you yet Frenchman enough to take our
light wines at breakfast ?” asked Louis, as soon
as they were seated.
“ When we are at Rome-------” replied Charles.
“ Precisely so,” said Louis, “ It’s my way.”
“ He has not lost his appetite,” thought
Charles.
“ You don’t eat, my dear Sir,” observed
Louis;—“ allow me------ my cook is generally
thought to excel.— Are these kidnies in Cham­
pagne, Pierre ?
“ Oui, Monsieur!” replied a powdered lacquey,
making a low obeisance. Louis recommended,
and Charles ate; and Charles recommended,
iy
Goo -
THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 41
and Louis drank: neither caring about their
health, which was secured to them by their
mutual friend; and each possessing, unknown
to the other, a wonderful black cut-glass bottle,
in a black ebony case. Charles’s motive was
to make the young Frenchman drunk; and then
to return him his money, and make him believe
he had won i t : while Louis, having now caught
a rich young Englishman in his own house, was
determined to understand the real character of
the nation to which he belonged ; and, imprimis,
to ascertain how much one of them could eat
and drink at a “ dejeun£ k la fourchette.”
The champagne sparkled and disappeared,
and Charles found courage to allude to the
affair of the preceding evening. Louis smiled
and said it was nothing.
“ Pardon me, my dear Sir,” observed Charles,
drawing his chair closer; “ such a sum must
be something to any body.” .
e 3
iy
Google
42 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Don’t mention it,” said Louis; “ I shall
never miss i t ; and am glad it has fallen into
such hands as your’s.”
“ I’ll bet you double the sum it’s more than
you are now worth in the world,” said Charles
bluntly, after swallowing a half-pint bumper.
“ Done!” exclaimed Louis.
“ Done !” replied Charles. The servants were
ordered out of the room; and Louis, going to
a secretaire, which stood in a recess, returned
immediately, and threw more than the needful
amount upon the table. Charles was astonished, .
and was about to pay, when a sudden thought
struck him, and he hesitated.
“ Never mind,” said Louis, “ pay me when
you like; or never: it is of no consequence.”
“ On honour, let me ask,” said Charles, “ is
that pile of gold your own ?”
“ It is,” replied Louis, “ I have made it a
rule never to feel offended at any remarks
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 43
a loser may make. There's my hand, and my
honour pledged. Few can bear to lose so well
as I can. Indeed it would be strange if they
could."
“ Then it only remains for me to pay," ob­
served Charles, calmly $ and he took out his
black morocco leather pocket-book for that
purpose, while Louis replaced the money which
he had taken from the secretaire, and brought
from thence a certain specific for the dizziness
which he found collecting in his head.
“ I believe you’ll find all right,” said Charles.
“ No doubt,” replied the other, carelessly;
but I’d rather you should have won, by Saint
Louis! ” he then thought within himself,— “ I’ve
heard much of English riches and prodigality,
but this surpasses all I could have imagined;”
and he applied the nostrum to his nose.
“ What do I see?” cried Charles, feeling
that his own lay safely at the bottom of his
pocket. “ Where did you get that bottle ?”
iy
Google
44 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
" It was given me by a------ a------ friend; I’ll
bet you double that sum upon the table, that
there is not it’s fellow in France.” “ Done,”
and “ done,” said each; and Charles produced
his black bottle. They were examined, com­
pared, and smelt to.
“ I have lost,” said Louis ; “ It’s very odd
and went again to the inexhaustible escrutoire
for payment. Charles rolled the mass of papers
together, and squeezed them into the black
morocco pocket-book, aforesaid, which caught
the eye of Louis, and caused him in his turn,
to exclaim, “ where did you get that black
morocco book ?”
" Where I got this black elastic silk purse,”
replied Charles; beginning to haul out his
riches, as sailors do a cable. The secret was
out. The two unfortunate young men snuffed
up the contents of their two black cut-glass
bottles, in two black ebony cases, till their
heads were cleared from the effects of the
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 45
w ine; and then sat themselves down to com­
pare notes, and swear an everlasting friendship.
“ Do you know what to do with that money
on the table ? ” asked Louis, as they were going
o u t; “ you know that was no part of your
compact, and, consequently, will not vanish at
night, as that which is left out of what we
demand during the day always does. That
sum you won from me, and when it changes
hands, you know------ ”
“ A good idea!” exclaimed Charles, “ It’s
the only money I ever won at play, and I did’nt
consider the difference. I see no reason why
we should spare our dark acquaintance. Let
me see ?— Oh ! I have it. Excuse me, I'll only
write a few lines, and send off the pacquet
directly.” Accordingly he indited the first
letter of business with which he had ever
troubled Mr. Ledger, and enclosed therein
nearly five hundred thousand pounds sterling.
iy
Google
46 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
CHAPTER II.
At the moment when Charles had folded up
the letter to Mr. Ledger, a servant in livery
opened the door, and stood respectfully bowing, as
though waiting his master’s commands. “ What
the devil brings you here ?” asked Lonis.
“ I beg your pardon, Sir,” said the man bend­
ing almost to the ground, “ I thought you rang.”
“ Not I,” replied Louis, “ so take yourself off.’*
“ Perhaps,” observed the party-coloured gen­
tleman, as he sidled obsequiously toward Charles,
“ Monsieur might have”-------
u Oh, ah ! very true,” Charles observed, care-
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 47
lessly, “ with your leave, my dear Sir, I’ll get
your man to take this letter to the post.”
The footman bowed, and was in the act of re­
ceiving the letter from Charles, when Louis sud­
denly started up, and knocked it out of his hand,
exclaiming, “ You abominable old rascal! Take
up the letter, Maxwell, and put it into your
pocket. And now, look at this long-tailed, peri­
wigged, powdered fellow, and say if you have
ever seen him before.”
Charles instantly recognized his friend “ autre­
fois,” in black, and joined Louis in violent invec­
tives against such sneaking, unhandsome, ungen­
tleman-like conduct; whereat the aforesaid gen­
tleman declared that he considered himself ex­
tremely ill-used by the appropriation of such a
sum to the service of Mr. Ledger, a person with
whom he had no sort of acquaintance or concern.
The young friends were, however, too much
elated at the idea of having outwitted the old
iy
Google
-1
48 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
fellow, to give way an inch; and he, unwilling
to quarrel with two such promising youths, for­
bore to press the matter. They, therefore, sat
down together in friendly chat, and he expressed
a hope that their wishes had been complied with,
and that all had gone on pleasantly and accord­
ing to the strict letter of the compact. “ If not/’
he continued, “ let me know, now I am here, and
I will see to it— as my servants do not always
act precisely as I could wish, during my ab­
sence.”
“ Then they are somewhat like ours,” said
L o u i s “ there's always something left undone
about my place, though I keep so many that I
don't know the faces of half of them. It's the
greatest wonder in the world that 1 looked at
yours.”
“ You cannot keep too many,” replied the
middle-aged gentleman ; “ I like people to keep
plenty of livery servants; let them live well, have
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 49
high wages, and but little to do. That’s the
proper style, Sir, for me ; I------ ”
“ By the way,” said Louis, “ talking of livery
servants— let me tell you that I do not think it
is altogether decorous for you to he sitting here,
talking to two gentlemen, in such a dress as you
now wear.”
“ Precisely so,” replied the old gentleman, “ as
you justly observe, it is hardly correct, and
so-------,” and, rising up, he stood awhile upon
one leg, and began to move round thereon, in a
sort of pirouette, first slowly, and then gradually
increasing in velocity, until no part of the man
was completely visible: then, the spinning as gra­
dually subsided, till, by degrees, there appeared
to the wondering friends, the identical black
Geneva cloak, black bag, coat, waistcoat, &c.,
&c., which had formerly rivetted their attention:
and forthwith their sable friend sprang over
the back of a chair, and seated himself there-
F
iy
Google
50 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
in, with the most perfect and gentlemanly non­
chalance.
“ Bravo! bravo ! well done, old boy! ” ex­
claimed Louis. “ I wish you’d give some of our
opera dancers a lesson.”
“ I have,” replied the gentleman in black.
“ Good,” said Charles, u I believe you. But
you must be fatigued after your exertion; won’t
you take some refreshment.”
“ With much pleasure,” answered he of the
sables. Come,” and he helped himself to a half­
pint bumper of champagne, €
<let us take a friendly
glass together. This buries all animosities; I
couldn’t help feeling a little sore at the idea of a
man of business— a plodding, humdrum sort of
fellow, having that money— I like your idle, care­
less, negligent, or dashing sort of fellows best.
But never mind, perhaps it may lead him to
speculate. Allow me—you don’t help your­
self—there— I like your English fashion o f
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 51
drinking best. Come, Sir, the bottle stands
with you."
“ What in the world are you thinking about ?”
said Charles, “ It is scarcely one o'clock! Nobody
thinks of drinking at such an hour.”
“ What signifies what other people think ?”
replied the gentleman of the black bottle; “ I am
particularly partial to the custom of drinking early
in the day. Nothing can be more ridiculous than
the present fashion of fasting all day, and then
dining at what used to be the cheerful supper
hour. Pshaw! You take about half a dozen
glasses of wine; and then, just at the instant you
begin to enjoy yourself, coffee is announced, and
you creep off to bed. Now, my dear Sir,—but
come, fill your glasses, my dear fellows! Just,
* for once, oblige me. I am really excessively
thirsty ; and, on honour, M. Le Baron, consider­
ing that I am now your guest, and that your
country fashions are not decidedly against the
iy
Google
52 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
custom; and, moreover, as French politesse is
proverbial among all the nations of the earth, I
trust you will not object.”
“ Excellently urged,” observed Charles Max­
well, who began somewhat to enjoy the whim of
the thing; “ allons, my dear friend, allow the
old fellow to indulge his odd humours for once.
It can't be of much consequence. What need we
to care for appearauces and what other people
think.”
“ Truly,” replied Louis, “ I know not why
indeed,”
“ Then, Sir,” said the gentleman in black, who
now assumed a generalship over a range of black
bottles which he had summoned into the room,
“ we will begin our sitting. In the first place, I
beg to observe that, as wine makes a man happy,
the earlier he begins to drink after he rises,
the more happiness falls to his lot, as he has
then all the day before him, to be enjoyed in
iy
Google
Digitized by Google
p. 53.
iy
Google
TUB GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 63
high spirits and an utter emancipation from care,
and that abominable nuisance called thought.
So here goes! my dear boys. Excuse me—
empty your glass— Fm a great stickler for forms
in drinking. No day-light in the first instance,
and no heel-taps in the second. Thats my
way. H em ! Perhaps I may have seemed some­
what prolix on this occasion: but, the fact is,
1 cannot endure to see a man pass the bottle.
It is, in my opinion, the acme, or rather, per­
haps, the bathos of low and ill breeding. If
there be anything more ungentlemanlike, it is
the conduct of a president who suffers anything
of the sort, without inflicting bumper fines."
“ Upon my word, Sir,” said Charles, “ You
are become very arbitrary.”
“ Perhaps it may appear so,” replied the
gentleman in black, “ at all events I have talked
more than is my wont. But I hope never to
see the day when it shall be considered rude to
f 2
iy
Google
54 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
press a gentleman to take his wine. Monsieur
Desonges, the bottle stands with you, and you
are wanted. What in the world are you thinking
about ?”
“ I beg your pardon, gentlemen!” exclaimed
Louis, “ I was up late last night, and really------ ”
“ Pshaw! ” said the gentleman in black, " You
are half asleep—here—take a pinch of my
genuine— it will rouse you,” then, handing his
blackguard to the Frenchman, he whispered in
Charles’s ear, “ These Monsieurs are poor crea­
tures when compared with you English. And
then their wines— What are they ? The flavour
is very well, to be sure: but, by all that’s dusky!
one might drink a hogshead for any effect it
would have on such heads as vour’s and mine.
No, my dear Sir, there’s nothing like your
English port, black and strong— Eh ?”
“ I don’t like that snuff,” said Louis, returning
the box, “ blackguard does not exactly suit me.”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 55
“ Then try this,” quoth he of the black
Geneva cloak, taking from his pocket a curiously
carved u sneezer,” made from Vesuvian lava. “ It
is a mixture which I have lately introduced, and
which appears likely to become a favourite among
your rising men, though the old courtiers think
it somewhat too strong.”
Louis, after a violent fit of sneezing, exclaimed,
“ strong indeed !”
“ It seems well calculated,” observed Charles,
“ to prevent a man from going to sleep.”
“ Precisely so,” replied the gentleman in black,
“ It is a mixture of Paris black rappee and
hellebore, and just now in great request among
the deputies here.”
The trio now “ set in ” for a regular drinking
bout, in which it is almost unnecessary to say
the gentleman in black was too much for the
two young men. As usual on such occasions,
they came to high words, and Charles flatly
iy
Google à
56 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACE.
accused the president of a breach of pro­
mise.
“ It is of no use to contradict m e/' said he,
“ I remember your words as plainly as possible—
as though it were but yesterday. We were
taking our wine after dinner, when you dined
with me in the City, and you appeared highly
pleased with the flavour of a bin which I called
my supernaculum: and you promised, I’ll take
my oath of it !”
“ I beg you will do nothing of the sort,"
ejaculated the gentleman in black, “ I particu­
larly object to such customs—besides, among
gentlemen, they cannot be necessary. And,
now I think of it, I seem to have some faint
recollection— but, you know, we took a great
deal of wine that day, and, perhaps------ but, I
beg your pardon, the bottle stands with you/'
“ 1 see your drift,” said Charles, filling his
glass boldly, <
%but allow me to tell you, old
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 57
boy, that, if we were to sit here from this time
till to-morrow, Til not be driven from the point.
You did, then and there, faithfully promise me,
that one bin in my cellar should always be filled
with that identical sort of wine.”
“ Sir,” replied the gentleman in black, “ I
now perfectly recollect the circumstance, and
feel perfectly astonished at your having any
cause of complaint, as I gave the necessary
orders to a, London wine-merchant, with whom I
have long been on terms of intimacy. Our
transactions together have been numerous, and
generally conducted in a manner perfectly satis­
factory to both parties.”
u My dear Sir,” said Charles, “ the wine was
no more like my old supernaculum, than you
are like my grandmother."
“ B ah!" replied the gentleman in black,
“ Was your wine old ? "
“ Certainly it was," Charles answered, “ very
iy
Google
58 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
old ; I know not how old ; and, yet, full of
body and flavour.— You mutt remember it.'*
“ Then, Sir,” calmly observed the gentleman
in black/’ the case is completely altered, and
you have no right to complain. The bin, it
seems, has been filled according to agreement.
But you, my dear Sir, as an Englishman and a
wine drinker— the bottle stands with you— you
must be perfectly aware that it is utterly out of
even my power, to make^ew wine taste like old/*
Somewhat of the same sort was ungallantly
. said by the gentleman in black, respecting the
knowledge of ladies’ minds and tastes, when
defending himself against a charge made by
Louis, concerning the non-fulfilment of some
promises, made to him, of success in certain
adventures of the heart. Our two heroes, in­
deed, could not fail to observe, that there was
a peculiar acerbity and testiness about their
elderly friend, whenever ladies were the topic of
iy
Google
THB GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. .09
conversation. They, therefore, purposely intro­
duced the subject of matrimony, whereupon his
saturnine complexion assumed a hue many de­
grees dingier than usual. He uttered a violent
philippic against the married life in general,
and then went into a lamentation concerning
the extreme folly of certain of his own friends
in particular, who, instead of enjoying themselves
and the various pleasures which had previously
been at their disposal, had foolishly become
heads of families; “ and now,** he continued,
“ they live in the most miserable hum-drum way
you can conceive, canting about virtue, and
domestic duties, and such nonsense. I assure
you the circumstance gives me an infinite deal
of uneasiness. I have represented the thing to
your Chambers here, and have some hopes—but,
I beg your pardon, the bottle stands with you—
I have some hopes that the detestable rite will be
abolished in this country. Nothing can be more
iy
Google
60 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
ridiculous and tyrannical than that, because two
people happen to like each other at any particu­
lar period, they should, therefore, be compelled
to spend all their lives together. It is really the
height of absurdity.”
“ Let us talk of something else,” said Charles,
whose thoughts were wandering into Leicester­
shire.
“ Pray, old Monsieur Vaubrien,” hiccuped
Louis, “ were you ever in love ?”
“ B ah ! Mexclaimed the gentleman in black,
“ What does that signify ! I was never married,
I can tell you that. H em ! The bottle stands
with you.”
“ And the question stands with you,” observed
Charles, “ What objection can you possibly have
to answering it ? Do you think it probable that
either my friend or I should attempt to rival you,
or fall in love with any ‘ chere amie* of yours?”
“ Nothing more likely,” replied the dark gen-
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 61
tleman; and withal a sardonic grin and a certain
twinkling about the eyes, gave a peculiar ex­
pression of vivacity to the speaker’s countenance,
as he continued, ever and anon helping himself
to a pinch of blackguard, “ Nothing is more
probable. But, my dear fellows, don’t imagine
that I can possibly be jealous. I have not the
smallest objection, I assure you— nay, on the
contrary, it would afford me the greatest imagin­
able delight; if it were only to see what sort
of figure you would make.— I jealous, indeed!
Ha ! h a ! h a ! I like the idea exceedingly! I
jealous! H a ! h a ! h a ! ” and the dingy old beau
looked round him with a most superb expression
of self-conceit.
“ Why you abominable old hoary compound
of vanity !” exclaimed Louis, “ you don’t mean
to insinuate that any lady, to whom it is likely
that either of us should pay our devoirs, can
possibly have admitted you as a suitor!”
G
iy
Google
62 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ But indeed, I do,’* replied the gentleman in
black, firmly. “ Aye, arid in this ‘ our good city
of Paris *too: and let me tell you, that at this
very moment, there are more than one or two
to whom my society and conversation are more
than commonly agreeable.”
“ Name them !” cried Charles.
“ Aye, name, name! Let us come to the
point! ” ejaculated Louis.
“ With all my heart,” replied the black boaster,
rapping his black rappee and hellebore, “ I have
fio nonsensical squeamish objections on that
head. I hate a fellow that hesitates about in­
troducing a lady’s name over a glass of wine
among friends. Come ! Fill your glasses !
Here’s a bumper to the lovely, accomplished
and adorable * * * * ”
“ You infernal old coxcomb ! ” exclaimed
Louis.
“ Precisely so,” replied the gentleman in black.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 63
“ A lady of her rank and beauty! ” cried
Charles.
“ Precisely so,” was again the reply. " And
now,” continued the dark old reprobate, V as
my presence is particularly necessary just now
in the Palais Royal, and we have taken precisely
wine enough, it may be as well to save tim e;
and s o ------ ”
“ Here he stooped down and fumbled awhile
in his black bag, which stood, as usual, between
his knees.
“ Ah—hem—yes—there they are,” and he
threw a score cards upon the table, which were
immediately seized by the two young men, who
forthwith became excessively indignant at the
appearance of certain names thereon. But all
the reply they could obtain from the gentleman
in black was, “ Precisely s o a f t e r repeating
which some half dozen times, he politely took
leave, kicked his black bag through the window,
and jumped after it into the garden.
iy
Google
64 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
Now, as to the names of the ladies in question,
we can scarcely venture to give an opinion,
because the transaction occurred about the time
of the Revolution, when divers, even of the fair
sex, did enact certain parts which might lead
one to suspect that they really had permitted
the occasional visits of the gentleman in black.
Otherwise we should say that the whole were
grossly slandered, inasmuch as it hath come to
our knowledge, that the aforesaid personage and
his friends do not scruple to traduce and speak
familiarly of ladies, of whom they know little or
nothing.
Our own rule, and that which we should re­
commend to all our readers, is never to give
the smallest degree of credit to the inuendoes
of such fellows. We utterly disbelieve and
despise all their assertions, in consequence of
our conviction that the degraded being, who
could be guilty of the meanness of boasting
df a lady’s favour, would not hesitate at invent-
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 65
ing lies. Assuredly such men have been too
much in company with the gentleman in black ;
and we would rather believe them capable of the
most abominable falsehoods, than be induced,
by their asseverations, to doubt even for a mo­
ment, the propriety of any lady’s conduct.
We are sorry to say that our two heroes had
not yet attained the same way of thinking.
They read and re-read the cards which the dark
old rake had left upon the table; and the con­
sequence was, that, for some months they re­
mained in Paris, and sought for, and found but
too easily, introductions to his particular friends,
then residing in that city.
Their first exploits on the day in question
were performed, under the influence of wine,
at the Palais Royal, where they, apparently by
accident, again encountered the gentleman in
black, who politely invited them to attend the
meeting of a political club, at which he was to
o 2
iy
Google
66 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
preside that evening: but he did not press them,
being well aware how extremely improbable it
was that men who were in pursuit of pleasure,
and who had unbounded wealth at their com­
mand, would be induced to enter into any en­
gagements likely to expose them to imprisonment
and more fatal consequences. He left them,
therefore, to their own desires, and was, by no
means, displeased with the result. But it is
no part of our intended plan to enter into a
minute detail of scenes particularly agreeable
to him : and, indeed, if we were disposed so to
employ our pen, it would be a work of super­
erogation, seeing that they are already much
too well known.
When our heroes left Louis's hotel in the Rue
de L'Université, the room in which they had
held their symposium with their sable acquaint­
ance was immediately filled by divers well-
dressed lacqueys, who expressed no small sur­
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 67
prise at the number of empty bottles which were
scattered, in all directions, about the floor. ,
They had not seen the third, and probably the
greatest drinker of the party; and Louis’s
personal valet declared that his master could
not possibly take more than one bottle* They,
of course, came to a conclusion that the remain­
ing three dozen and upward must have been
consumed by the Englishman. All were struck
with astonishment except an old gascon, who
coolly took up a snuff-box (left, as if by accident,
by the gentleman in black) and remarked, as he
gave it the preparatory tap, “ Oh ! Three dozen
is nothing for an Englishman! He will take
about the same quantity again after dinner!
and then begin drinking brandy and water.” He
might have said more, but was interrupted by a
violent fit of sneezing, at the end of which he
felt an irresistible propensity to see if there was
any wine left upon the table. The Vesuvian
iy
Google
68 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
snuff-box was handed round, and produced pre­
cisely the same effects on all the party; and
in less time than the circumstance takes in re­
lating, they were seated round the table, with
a determination of not being outdone by an
Englishman. The result was precisely as the
gentleman in black intended, when he thought
proper to leave his black Paris rappee and
hellebore. They settled the affairs of the nation
most luxuriously among themselves that evening,
and were all turned adrift next morning, by their
master, in a very fit state to form members of
the political club before mentioned, at which
the gentleman of the black-edged papers fre­
quently presided.
We have related this trivial occurrence, be­
cause it may, probably, in some degree, account
for the general mistake into which the French
formerly fell, relative to the immense capacity
of our wine-bibbing countrymen. We have
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 69
little doubt that, in most cases, wherein enor­
mous quantities appeared to have been con­
sumed by one or two individuals, the gentleman
in black was at their elbow, with his black
rappee and hellebore, and probably some of his
long tales and abominable misrepresentations of
the fair sex.
iy
Google
70 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
CHAPTER III.
H ad it been our lot to have related the
adventures of our heroes about the time of
their occurrence, we should willingly have traced
their progress, step by step, among the lions
of Paris, and throughout their subsequent
continental tour : but now, the Louvre, the Jura,
the Alps, Venice, the Vatican, and all the long
list of et ceteras, are “ familiar in our ears as
household w o r d s a n d the reader would “ skip"
through the pages containing descriptions
thereof, as rapidly as the modern traveller
whirls past, in, or over the realities.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 71
It was with some difficulty that Charles
succeeded in persuading Louis to accompany
him: for the Frenchman is not, like the Eng­
lishman, naturally, a travelling animal. Though
he has too much politeness to make the affirma­
tion, he is, generally, much of .the same way
of thinking as the old Greeks and Romans, who
considered all nations but their own to be
barbarians.
Louis’s consent was faintly given to the plan
of migration ; and some weeks had been spent
in delay, after their route was arranged, when
the two fjriends were sitting together one morn­
ing at Charley’s Hotel, and a servant entered
to announce a Mons. Bourreau, who imme­
diately and without ceremony, Entered the
room.
There was a coarseness and abrupt familiarity
about this person, which, added to his vulgar
appearance, excessively annoyed the two young
iy
Google
72 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
men of pleasure. Charles politely inquired to
what cause he might attribute the honour of
such a visit.
“ It is no honour,” replied Bourreau; and
Charles bowed in acquiescence. “ My visit/*
continued tho other “ is, perhaps, correctly
speaking, to Mons. Desonges.”
“ To m e!” exclaimed Louis, “ what the devil
can you want with me ? some unpaid bill, I
suppose; you should have applied to my cook,
or butler, or coachman, or whoever ordered
the things of you. I always give them money
for such purposes at discretion.”
“ S ir! ” replied the advocate of liberty and
equality, for such he was, notwithstanding his
indignant feeling at being mistaken for a trades­
man, “ I beg you to understand, Sir, that I did
not come here to be insulted.”
“ Pshaw!** said Louis, testily, “ your business?”
The advocate of liberty and equality here-
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 73
upon began a speech, which had evidently
been composed for the occasion, and was much
too prolix for repetition here. He spake of
the heavy burdens borne by the people, the
luxury and dissipation of the court and the
aristocracy, of the unjust abuse of the rights
of man, which were natural, physical and
unalienable ; “ the law’s delay, the insolence of
office,” and “ all the various ills that flesh is heir
t o ;9
9 the whole of which he attributed to im­
proper measures of government; and, at length
concluded with a piece of information, which
effectually roused Louis from the ennui into
which he was, in spite of his natural politesse,
gradually sinking.
“ Your very extraordinary expenditure, Mon­
sieur,” said Bourreau, “ has attracted notice.
This, Sir, is the age of reason— the people
see with the eyes of reason; we judge and
pronounce sentence on rational principles. Your
H
iy
Google
74 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
footsteps have been traced latterly. You inva­
riably lose at the gambling houses; you are
extravagant everywhere, and in debt nowhere;
you have no landed estates, nor can we learn
that you have any monies at interest. What
remains then but to come to the conclusion
that you are one of the pensioners, which,
like locusts, are feeding upon the vitals of
the public ?” *
“ Capital!” exclaimed Charles Maxwell, “ cer­
tainly ! he is a sinecurist. Excellent! and me,
Monsieur? what do you think of me? I con­
clude that, having been so much with my
friend, I must likewise have subjected myself
to your surveillance Tf
“ Excuse me, Monsieur Anglais,” replied
Bourreau, “ we see only with the eye of
reason; and your conduct, as well as that of
many of your countrymen, cannot be accounted
for upon any rational principles whatever.”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 75
During the last two minutes Louis had
thought more, than at any one period since
we had the pleasure of introducing him to the
reader, when he was sitting, in his solitary,
ill-furnished room, in bodily fear of a tailor.
He now reflected on the immense sums which
he had expended, and in how unworthy a
manner; and something like repentance crossed
his mind at the miserable and contemptible
result. He had attracted the notice of such
wretches as Bourreau and his associates! with
such resources what might he not have achieved?
His country; the royal family; the government;
all— all were in difficulties, perhaps in a peril­
ous situation! Thus thought Louis: and im­
mediately there opened to his mind, a brilliant
glimpse of what he might yet perform; and
good resolutions for the future, poured in upon
him in a manner which must have been ex­
ceedingly unpleasant to the gentleman in black;
iy
Google
76 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
for, on the instant, he opened the door and
made his appearance with black cloak, coat,
waistcoat, bag, &c., &c., as heretofore.
After bowing politely to our heroes, he
addressed himself to the advocate of liberty
and equality.
“ Ah ! mon cher Bourreau ! This is an agree*
able surprise! by all that is fuliginous, I am
delighted to meet you this morning! Always
upon the alert in the good cause! eh ? stirring
betimes, notwithstanding the fatigues of last
night! eh ? An exquisitely flaming speech that of
yours! a most glorious mystification! “ Thoughts
that breathe and words that burn!” I could
not have done the thing better myself. But,
entre nous, it was excessively hot, so many
people crowded together in that small room;
absolutely sulphureous— it was really almost too
much fofr me. But, “ 9a ira!” we shall have
little occasion to hide our heads much longer.”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 77
“ Mats doucement! Monsieur Le President!”
exclaimed Bourreau, and he whispered that our
heroes were not among the initiated.
“ Excuse me,” replied the gentleman in black,
speaking out, “ these two gentlemen are my
particular friends,”
“ Diable !” exclaimed Bourreau.
“ Precisely so,” said his associate, tapping his
snufF box, and regaling himself from its black­
guard contents with peculiar zest.
“ Est it possible!9
9 continued Bourreau, with
unfeigned astonishm en tan d yet you were one
of the first to recommend”------
“ That Monsieur’s hotel should be ransacked,”
said the gentleman in black. “ Precisely so;
what have we to do with private friendships?
You know we have solemnly sworn that they
shall not interfere with the public good ; and I,
as president, am willing to convince you that I’ll
not stick at trifles for the furtherance of our great
h 2
iy
Google
78 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK,
cause. Monsieur Desonges,” he continued, ad­
dressing himself to Louis, “ I have the pleasure
to inform you that a few of my particular friends
are now at your hotel.”
“ I am concerned to think that I was not at
home to receive them /’ replied Louis.
“ It is impossible that they can be there yet/*
said Bourreau, looking at his watch, “ it wants a
full hour to the preparatory meeting.”
“ Excuse me, my dear friend,” observed the
black president, “ for differing from you in
opinion ; but, the fact is, that I accompanied
them myself as far as the door. I seldom go
farther on such occasions. When they have
once crossed the threshold I can trust them to
act for themselves.”
Monsieur Bourreau instantly seized his hat,
pleaded a most important engagement, which
he had almost forgotten, and took leave, with
the same abruptness with which he had made
his entré.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 79
Immediately his back was turned, the gentle­
man in black coolly observed, “ That fellow came
with the intention of frightening you out of some
money. However, he’ll be in time for the
scramble/*
u What scramble ?” inquired Louis.
“ At your hotel,** was the reply. “ Those
fellows, of whom I was speaking, are now hard
at work, drinking, and breaking up your furniture
most charmingly, and ransacking every corner,
in hopes to find the proofs of your connection
with the court. Bah ! what makes you seem so
much alarmed ? The loss of a house can be of
no consequence to you/’
“ The devil take the house,” exclaimed Louis.
“ Precisely so,” observed the gentleman in
black ; “ that would be quite correct/’
“ I must go there instantly,” said the young
Frenchman, “ or those friends of yours will get
possession of some— some documents, which I
iy
Google
80 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
would not, for the world,— Maxwell, my dear
fellow! order out one of your carriages directly ! ”
“ As you please,” quoth the dark elderly gen­
tleman ; “ however, if you have not an absolute
desire to figure away d la lanteme, I should
recommend you to drive in a contrary direc­
tion.” ~
“ Your advice may be very prudent,” replied
Louis, “ but as a man of honour, I cannot suffer
those—certain letters, from individuals of the
highest respectability, to fall into the hands of
.the canaille.”
“ Pshaw!9
9 observed the gentleman with the
black bag, wherein he immediately began rum­
maging ; “ pshaw! phoo! bagatelles! billet-doux!
mere circulars ! I know what you mean. Hem !
ha— ” and he untied the black tape which bound
a pretty considerable number of notes and letters
together; “ ah—there—just like these.” He then
opened about half a score, and threw them across
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 81
the table. “ I mean to give them all to a book- .
seller whom I have in my eye, and have them
published;— I'm sure they’ll sell.”
“ Why this,” cried Louis, “ is one of the notes
which I locked up this morning in my escrutoire,
from the Comtesse-------! ”
“ And you must have stolen this from my
desk ! ” exclaimed Charles; “ it is impossible
that I should be mistaken in that beautiful hand­
writing. I’ll take my oath”-------
“ Don’t do that,” said the dark antique lover,
“ look at the directions.”
“ What is this?” asked Charles, reading,
“ M. le Due d e -------, M. le Comte?” “ M.
le Marquis;” read Louis, “ M. le Baron, Son
Altesse; what does all this mean? Have you
been housebreaking round Paris to collect all
these, or are you really capable of personating so
many different characters, and making women
believe— ? ”
iy
Google
82 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Precisely so,” replied the gentleman in black,
“ I hold that stratagems are fair both in love and
war. Indeed, with me, the two sciences are the
same, since I always consider women, on whom
1 cannot make an impression, as the worst and
most powerful of my enemies.”
“ And those with whom you do succeed, seem,
methinks, to be treated in a strange manner,”
said Charles, indignantly. “ I really know not
in what terms to express my opinion of your
conduct, it is so mean, paltry, cowardly, ungen­
tlemanly, unfeeling, dishonourable, cruel------ ”
“ Precisely so,” replied the gentleman in black,
with perfect sang froid; “ I do not deny it. But
after all, I believe that, in similar cases, my plan •
is followed by the generality of mankind. As I
said before, love is like war. Does a general,
merely because he has taken a town, sit himself
down and reside there ? Bah! but you've already
had my opinion of matrimony; and, as for any
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 83
other ties—bah ! they are preciously ridiculous !
Love, you know, *
“ At sight of human ties,
Flutters his wings, and, in a moment, flies.”
It is a fact, upon my honour!” and here, as
though well pleased with the manner in which he
had acquitted himself, he had recourse to his
Vesuvian repository of black Paris rappee and
hellebore.
He was not, however, even by his favourite
topic of speaking against the fair sex, to be
diverted from the main purport of his visit,
which was to drive the two young men from
Paris. He was determined on this point, because
•he perceived, in Louis, a lurking disposition to
apply the means, placed at his disposal, in a way
which would be excessively unpleasant to his
feelings. He therefore recited a few anecdotes
and resolutions of the then embryo revolutionists,
deputies, triumviri, directeurs, republicans, friends
of liberty, &c. &c., which were well calculated to
iy
Google
84 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
shake stronger nerves than were possessed by
either of his hearers. The estimation in which
Louis had held his billet-doux was much dimi­
nished, by the discovery that they were not so
unique as he had imagined; and he, as usual in
such cases, began to conceive himself excessively
ill-used by the inditers. There was, however, a
lingering inclination within him, a something
which whispered him, not to leave Paris. He
could not exactly account for i t ; for he had not
seen the fair Emilie, nor her most perpendicular
father, the Comte de Tien a la Cour, for some
months.
But the gentleman in black had a certain
misgiving, relative to the exact state of his
mind; and, therefore, left him not until he had
completely bewildered his brain in the mazes and
mysteries of politics, and opened to his view a
state of things amply sufficient to make any man,
of a quiet and pleasure-loving disposition, desire
to be “ upon the move” from the scene of action.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 85
We have been told that this was the only in­
stance in which the gentleman in black was ever
known to take an active part in persuading a
young man of fashion and fortune to quit Paris.
To men provided with such black morocco
pocket books, such long black elastic silk purses,
such black snuff-boxes, and such black cut glass
bottles in such black ebony cases, little prepara­
tion was necessary for a journey; therefore, our
heroes made up their minds to dine quietly at
home, at Charley’s Hotel; then to take a fare­
well lounge round the Palais Royal, and to de­
part on the following morning.
In the meanwhile, the gentleman in black, ever
upon the alert to carry his schemes into effect,
had propagated a report among the aristocracy
that Monsieur Desonges, whose house had been
attacked by the mob that morning, had previously
been handsomely remunerated. That he was, in
fact, one of the secret abettors of the disaffected ;
i
iy
Google
86 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
that his house was purposely furnished in a most
extravagant manner; that his cellars were stocked
with an immense quantity of the most expensive
wines, and, in short, that the whole affair was
“ got up" for the purpose of inflaming the minds
of the canaille by a taste of plunder, and leading
them to imagine that the whole of the aristocracy
were living in a state of similar luxury and ex­
travagance, while they themselves were suffering
under the pressure of poverty and want.
Some indeed have avowed that this report was
not merely a feint, to answer the purposes of the
hour; but that the president in black, did really
excite the populace to attack Louis’s hotel, with
the intention of producing such an impression
on their minds. Be that as it may, Louis had
scarcely entered the cafe, which he was wont to
patronize, than he was immediately the object
of general attention. Expressions of condolence,
upon the horrible transaction of the morning,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 87
poured in, from various quarters; and, it must
be confessed that the light manner in which the
owner of so splendid an hotel treated his loss,,
tended, not a little, to confirm the suspicion that
he had been indemnified.
Little knots of politicians were, consequently,
gathered together at all the tables: there was
much whispering and shrugging of shoulders;
and the subject was discussed with occasional
solemnity, and a vehemence certainly quite ade­
quate to its importance*
In the meanwhile, the two friends moved on,
nothing doubting,— looked in at the theatres—
nodded to some half dozen friends, and displayed
a perfect ease in their manners, which, under
existing circumstances, appeared quite marvellous.
It was noticed, however, that they did not enter
certain privileged boxes, occupied by well known
leaders of fashion and rank, with whom, particu­
larly some of the ladies therein, they were under­
yGoogle
88 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
stood to be on good terms. This circumstance
was afterwards spoken of as a proof of Louis’s
defection from the aristocratics, by one party;
and, by those on the other side of the question,
it was cited as a flagrant instance of aristocratic
pride and ingratitude, that, on the very day that
a young man was deprived of the means o f con­
tinuing a monstrous expenditure for their grati­
fication, he was “ cut” by the people about the
court. The Englishman was, of course, looked
upon with an eye of jealousy by politicians of
all descriptions.
Though perfectly unconscious of the great
sensation which they created, the two friends
could not but perceive that, occasionally, an evil
eye was upon them ; and they were about to go
home, to prepare, by rest, for the fatigues of the
morrow, when Louis was accosted by a friend of
his former humbler fortunes, whom he had not
seen for many months. On his lips was con-
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 89
dolence for the morning's disaster; and there
seemed, to Louis, a much deeper feeling in his
tone than in any other of the numerous regrets
which had met his ear.
“Poor fellow!" said he, whispering to Cha rles.
“ It is impossible to tell when we may meet
again. I know he is badly off; but I cannot
offend him by offering him money; so, I'll just
go and lose a few louis with him." When a man
has a desire to throw away a little money, he
can generally effect the purpose without much
difficulty ; and therefore the business was soon
settled: but, unfortunately, the transaction took
place in the Palais Royal, and was witnessed by
divers persons, whose business it was, or who
had made it their business, to watch Louis's
conduct; and the style in which he played, and
the glee with which he lost, were conclusive
evidences of the report in circulation against him.
The room in which they sat was, by this time,
much thinned of company—there were but one
i 2
90 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
or two stragglers, at odd corners. Charles threw
a louis to the ancient “ garcon,’’ and the friends
were about to depart, when an herculean member
of the gen-d’armerie entered the room and for­
mally arrested Louis Desonges in the name of
the king.
“ On what charge ?” exclaimed the prisoner.
“ That is no affair of mine,” said the soldier,
“ I am only performing my duty.”
“ I'll be his bail,” said the gentleman in black,
whom nobody had seen before, but who now
stepped forward as to the rescue.
“ Monsieur is a state prisoner,” observed the
gen-d’arme, with a supercilious air.
“ Never mind him,” said the gentleman in
black, to Louis: and he forthwith threw off
his black Geneva cloak and black coat, and
displayed, to the wondering optics of the party,
a curiously worked black cambric shirt which
he wore beneath. Then placing himself in an
attitude, which would have done honour to a
iy
Google
Digitized by Google
p. 91.
I
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 91
first rate English bruiser, he calmly told the
soldier to “ come on.”
“ Who the devil are you, old boy ?” asked the
gen-d’arme, somewhat diverted at the drollery of
his antagonist’s appearance, and mistaking him
for a drunken bourgeois.
“ Precisely so,” replied the gentleman in
cambric.
“ You had better go home and look after your
family,” added the soldier.
Precisely so,” was the answer, “ that is
precisely what I mean to do.”
“ Guillaume!” said the man in office to one
of his comrades who stood at the door, “ turn
out this old drunkard.”
“ Oui, mon corporal/’ replied Guillaume,
advancing solemnly and lowering his musket,
as if to sweep away the aforesaid black-shirted
gentleman, as a fly may be brushed from the
table: but, to Guillaume’s utter dismay, the
iy
Google
92 THB GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
said dark gentleman gave the said musket a
kick, which sent it up to the ceiling, where
it hung suspended by the bayonet.
“ Di&ble!” exclaimed poor Guillaume.
“ Precisely so,” repeated the gentleman of
the black cambric, rubbing his hands, and then
resuming his attitude of defence, “ Why don’t
you come on, you cowards ?”
“ Cowards!” exclaimed the corporal, “ I’ll
soon teach you, you old coquin!” and he
rushed forward to the attack.
“ One, two,” said the gentleman in black,
as he planted two blows, well known among
men of “ science” by those names, and down
fell the corporal. “ One, two, again,” added
the black bruiser, and poor Guillaume measured
his length upon the floor. “ I’m the boy for
darkening their daylights,” cried the dingy elderly
gentleman, in high glee.
“ Au secours !” roared the two prostrate men
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 93
of war; and instantly a great noise of trampling
was heard upon the staircase, immediately after
which a dozen of gen-d*armerie made their ap­
pearance. The sight of “ a m ill/’ and the
admirable science displayed by his dingy friend,
recalled old times to Charles's remembrance,
and he had, as if by instinct, thrown off his
coat. Louis followed his example, though he
knew not exactly for what purpose : but he was
one of the million who think it right to imitate
those around them.
The soldiers drew up like brave men prepared
to encounter an enemy; but there was no enemy
to fight. It was, to them, a scene most strange
and unaccountable, for they could perceive
nothing formidable in the appearance of two
young men unarmed and without coats, And
a short elderly gentleman, in a black shirt,
whom they, for soldiers are woefully ignorant
in such matters, mistook for a clergyman. Their
iy
Google
94 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
comrades had by this time got up, and were
rubbing their eyes, which were, however, very
effectually obscured. More soldiers were now
heard on the ascent, for the alarm had gone
round with true military rapidity.
“ Milling won’t do now,” whispered the gen­
tleman in black to Charles, “ there are too
many of them; leave all to me and tell Desonges
to hold his tongue.”
An officer now stepped forward, and asked
the two eye-rubbers what was the meaning of
the uproar.
“ It is that infernal old rascal in black,”
replied the corporal.
“ Precisely so,” said the gentleman of the
cambric.
“ That’s him !” cried Guillaume, “ that’s him
that kicked my musket up into the ceiling.”
And immediately he recommenced rubbing and
exclaiming “ oh ! my eyes!”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 95
The officer looked up, and seeing the musket
suspended by the bayonet from the roof, into
'which, it seems to have penetrated to some
depth, turned to the gentleman in black for
an explanation.
“ Precisely so,” was the reply, I confess it.
I was wrong: but I deliver myself up to answer
for my improper conduct.**
“ That’s not him !” roared the blind corporal.
“ What do you mean?** asked the officer,
“ you said this moment it was him.*’
. “ No, no, not the prisoner! the prisoner is
him in the pompadour coat,” cried the corporal.
“ They have none of them any coats,” said
the officer.
“ Sir,*’ resumed the gentleman in black muslin,
with an ease and elegance of manner, which
failed not in its effect upon the young military
Parisian, and at the same time, imitating so
closely the tone of Louis, as to startle the real
iy
Google
96 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
owner of the voice, “ Sir, the poor corporal seems
to have been labouring for some time under a
defect of vision, and the crisis has come sud­
denly upon him. In the matter of the coat,
however, I must say—”
“ That's him !” shouted the corporal, “ I’ll
swear to him.”
“ Let me beg, Mons. le capitaine,” continued
the gentleman in the black sleeves, “ that you
will not suffer any swearing in my presence!
but, as I was observing, here is my coat,” and
he took it from a chair, and held it up toward
the chandelier, “ you may perceive it is a sort
of a— pompadour—or a what d’ye call it de la
reine—or— a something else from the Dauphin.
Bah! I am no tailor, I don’t understand such
matters.”
“ By all that’s courtly,” said the officer, “ it is
a most exquisite cloth, and made in a style of
infinite and inimitable workmanship. Will you
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 97
favour me with your artist’s address? really, upon
my honour ! I never !—but, as to the colour—I
really cannot say exactly that I know what
term to give it; it is a kind of a sort of a—no
— not exactly that—but, Apropos, I believe you
are my prisoner, now I think of it V*
“ Precisely so,” replied the gentleman usually
in black; u it is not worth while to keep these
men waiting. As for the charge against me—let
it come—but gentlemen of your honourable pro­
fession must, I know, do their duty. We may
as well, therefore, adjourn.”
“ Apropos, corporal, you have the letter about
you V* asked the officer. The poor fellow fum­
bled and found it, and respectfully presented it
to his superior, who glanced over it, and then
continued speaking. “ Your name is-------”
“ Louis Desonges,” said the gentleman of the
curiously cut coat.
“ Let me see,” resumed the officer; and then.
K
iy
Google
98 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
he read to himself a description of Louis’s person
and stature, which, although they accorded as
little as might be, appeared perfectly correct in his
eye, as indicating the very gentlemanly, though
somewhat dark, personage before him.
When the scrutiny was over, the gentleman
in the questionable pompadour coat took the
officer’s arm with the most perfect coolness,
and remarked, “ You’ll find my tailor a devilish
good fellow—never in a hurry for his money.”
“ Capital!” exclaimed the young officer, “ my
dear Sir, I’m greatly obliged—but—just turn
round, now it’s on—by St. Louis! it fits like
a glove ! What do you call long credit? But,
I beg your pardon, I keep you waiting—it is
my duty now to wait upon you.”
“ Pardon me,my dear Sir,” said the gentleman
of the black cambric and pompadour, “ it is my
duty to wait upon you—I intreat you indeed
you give me pain— consider, I am your prisoner.”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 99
“ Well, then, I am your guardian,” was the
reply; “ ha ! ha! well, and so he— seijeant! set
us a going, will you !—so he gives devilish long
credit, does he ? ”
“ You may say that!” answered the gentleman
of the black bag: and, with such sort of conver­
sation, the military and the prisoner left our
heroes, as though they were persons utterly
beneath their attention.
“ It is, by no means, an unpleasant thing to
be taken to the Bastile by proxy,” observed
Louis.
“ He's a capital old fellow!” said Charles,
“ with his ‘one, two'—did you observe his
guard ? ”
“ It was a blackguard style of doing the
thing, after all,” added Louis; “ I prefer the
rapier:” and then they, in their way home,
entered upon a discussion relative to national
habits and prejudices, respecting which they
iy
Google
100 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
argued long, and with the usual result, namely,
that each became more firmly established in his
own opinion.
In the morning an officer of the Bastile, who
knew Louis's person well, and whose duty it was
to wait upon him in his confinement, was much
astonished to find his place occupied by the gen­
tleman in black, who seemed in high glee, and
gaily addressed his visitor, with whom it seemed
he had formerly been intimate. The jailor, how­
ever, did not now feel at all disposed to acknow­
ledge the acquaintance ; and the dark gentleman
was immediately brought forth from his dark
cell, and confronted with the corporal and Guil­
laume, who had, by this time, recovered the use of
their eyes. An éclaircissement consequently took
place, and the young officer made ten thousand
apologies for the error into which he had been
led by the folly of his men.
The gentleman in black vehemently entreated
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 101
him not to give himself a moment’s uneasiness;
and assured him that he could not but deem the
occurrence most fortunate, which had introduced
him to a young officer of such bravery, such
courtly manners, and such exquisite taste. A
few compliments were then exchanged between
the two new acquaintances, and (after the gentle­
man in black had given a handful of Louis to the
corporal and Guillaume, to purchase ointment for
their black eyes) they drove off together to the
tailor’s, where the hopeful young military exquisite
“ opened an account” 4
in a manner extremely
gratifying to his companion.
“ The fellow gives long credit, you say ? 9
9
observed the officer carelessly, as he buttoned
his coat, and they were leaving the artist’s
“ magasin/’
“ Devilish long,” replied the other.
“ Capital! I hate to be pestered for payment
by these vulgar fellows. It’s excessively annoy­
ing.” k 2
iy
Google
102 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Precisely so,” replied his dark acquaintance ;
“ but set your heart at ease. HI mystify the
fellow. HI tell him that your custom will make
his fortune, for that nothing can prevent your
rapid rise in the service, and that you must, in a
very few years, be a general officer, at least.
And, indeed, my dear friend, there is no impro­
priety in my making such a representation: for,
really, with your appearance, your figure, man­
ners, taste, and abilities”------
“ Nay, nay, my dear Monsieur! ” exclaimed
the young Parisian, i( you are too partial! ”
“ Not a whit,” said the insinuating flatterer.
“ I could tell you what a certain beautiful young
Comtesse— but, mum—apropos, have you break­
fasted ?”
“ Not yet,” was the reply.
“ Allons done, exclaimed the other, “ k la
fourchette, toujours, that’s my.way;” and they
went into a restaurateur together.
iy
Google
From thence, after a couple of hours, the gen -
tleman in black came forth alone, muttering to
himself, “ Hem ! at billiards with a chevalier
d’Industrie—believes himself the handsomest fel­
low in Paris—fancies all the ladies in love with
him—long tailor's bill— good—exquisitely dingy!”
and, snuffing up a huge pinch of black Paris
rappee and hellebore, he walked away.
In the meanwhile our two heroes were “ en
route,” and had left Paris many leagues in the
rear.
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 1 0 #
iy
Google
104 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
CHAPTER IV.
W e are now about to ask the reader to repeat
an action which, in all probability, he will have
committed several times, without any hint from
us. We earnestly request him, after reading
a few more lines, to throw aside our pages,
and to employ himself awhile in fancying him­
self possessed of such a black morocco pocket
book, long black elastic steel purse and et­
ceteras, as appertained to each of our two
heroes. Imagination, we opine, if its wings be
allowed full play, will lead him a strange dance.
Such a dance, indeed, if the truth were to be
confessed, as would be scarcely seemly if taken
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN'BLACK. 105
in reality. Should the eye of beauty be cast
on this page, we beg it to be understood that
the last sentence is not intended to apply to the
fair.
We now suppose this task to be executed:
and, if it be done fairly, and honestly, and
without any mental reservation, the reader will
not be surprised to hear that Charles Maxwell
and Louis Desonges committed many egregious
acts during their ramblings, for three years,
upon the continent. The gentleman in black
appears to have been perfectly satisfied with their
proceedings: at all events he deemed his per­
sonal appearance before them unnecessary ; and,
it is said, that, having much business in hand
at that period in Paris, he established his head­
quarters in the Palais Royal, and was to be seen,
every hour of the day and night, at some one of
the various cafes therein, or in the neighbour­
hood. His society seems likewise to have been
iy
Google
106 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
much sought after; and the dark old gentleman
appeared in high glee, and entered into the spirit
of all that was going on around him.
The young men had, in the meanwhile, seen
all that was worth seeing, and many things
which were not worth seeing, and many more
which it might have been better if they had not
seen. Exhaustless purses bring endless wants;
and they became patrons of the arts, and
amateurs, cognoscenti, &c. &c. in music, paint­
ing, sculpture, engraving, &c. & c.: were, con­
sequently, initiated into, and made fellows and
members of various societies, instituted for
various purposes, but, all professing the most
disinterested motives, and aiming only at the
public good. They sojourned awhile m Switzer­
land, talking and dreaming of Jean Jaques
Rousseau. Then they passed into Italy, and
saw Rome and the Pope, and talked of antiques
and virtu, and picked up divers set terms rela-
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 107
tive to painting, of the meaning of which they
had some indistinct conception. Sicily and
Greece were visited because it was pleasaut to
be able to be able to say that they had been to
' those countries—and then they bent their way
homeward through the Austrian territories, and
tarried awhile at the sundry mighty little courts
which were afterwards conglomerated by Napo­
leon into “ The Confederation of the Rhine.”
Among these, each of our heroes lived “ en
prince,” and by their profuse expenditure, ex­
cited a “ great sensation ! ” At length they
parted, in the Netherlands, with mutual pro­
fessions of interminable friendship, and a fixed
resolution of keeping up a regular correspon­
dence.
The French Revolution, however, which com­
menced almost immediately afterwards, revolved
the whole machine of European politics with so
rapid a whirl as to throw England and France,
iy
Google
1
like two balls impelled by centrifugal power, at
the utmost possible distance from the central
point of amity at which they had lain sometime
quietly together;—the consequence of this con­
vulsion was, that although Charles and Louis
had correspondent and corresponding inclina­
tions, they found it extremely difficult, and at
length dangerous, to attempt to correspond; and
so gradually lost sight of each other.
Charles returned to London, where some tons
of statues, coins, vases, paintings, bronzes, and
bonzes, “ bas and haut relievos,”*mummies and
mummeries, had arrived before him. Conse­
quently, he walked amid a crowd of envious
or admiring worshippers— a complete lion, like
Juno amid the lesser goddesses;—“ incedit leo,”
as Doctor Panglos would say. The shipment he
had made was a most lucky hit, inasmuch as it
introduced him to the best society of the day,
and obtained for him almost as many letters at
]0 8 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
iy
Google
l
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 109
the end of his name, as there are papers on the
tail of a kite; so away he went shining among
the “ lesser stars” like a comet, for several years;
and then------ No, fair reader, it was not then—
but long before, that he had discovered that,
with all the excitement of unchecked pleasure,
inexhaustible riches, und uninterrupted health,
there was still a “ something” wanting. And
what? It was no less than the society, the
friendship, the love of one (if there be such
another on the earth) as good, as fair, and as
virtuous as thou art. He saw the half forgotten,
or if not, only-remembered-in-dreams, form of
Clara Haultaught, and he felt that he had done
both her and himself an injustice by supposing
that it was the extent of her father’s fortune
which led him to fancy her so exceedingly
beautiful, when he (then on the eve of bank­
ruptcy) had danced with her at Leicester. He
knew the old admiral’s failing, (alas! that such
L
iy
Google
110 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
an anomaly should exist as a brave but avaricious
m an!) and one day, after dinner, told him that
whenever he married, observing by the way that
he had no such intention, he was resolved never
to accept a penny of his wife’s fortune, but to
settle the whole upon her and her heirs, and
even to double the amount, if her parents
thought fit.
“ Ah ! my dear sir,” said the admiral, “ if all
young men had your consideration—hem—let
me see, there’s poor Board’em of the Scourer;
two years ago he got posted, and married Com­
missioner Green’s daughter, who had her poor
aunt Bet's savings all in her own hands, twenty
thousand and more, got foul of the Lord knows
how many d—d five-farthing, twopenny-half­
penny French merchant-men. You know what
followed; I say nothing— the prize-court, and
all that sort of thing—teazed, bothered, taken
aback, kept ashore, chaise-and-four, d------ n.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. Ill
You know the rest. Got to Boodle’s, half mad.
Not a shilling left.*,
An invitation was a matter of course, and one
succeeded another as waves upon the beach.
“ I never knew happiness before,” said Charles
to Clara.
Clara seemed as if she had uttered the words,
and blushed (how Gothic !) and looked she
“ knew not where,” she told Charles some weeks
afterwards, “ for there was a swimming mistiness
before her eyes.”
The old admiral happened at the time to be
*
*missing,” and so was every earthly object for
the space of three hours, to the eyes and re­
collection of the two lovers. All they beheld
was each other, until— ding dong went the dis­
cordant first dinner bell.
“ A moment—one moment longer, my dear
Clara!” said Charles.
The moment seemed scarcely past when the
second larum awoke Clara from her dream, and
iy
Google
112 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
mechanically recollecting her fathers extreme
precision, she rushed from the presence of her
lover. Absorbed in his dreams of future bliss,
he was leaning his head upon his hand, when in
stalked the old admiral.
“ Ah, Charles !” said he, panting, u How are
you, my lad. Devilish hot weather. One would
think the good ship Britannia was afloat, and
we were all crossing the line together. Ha !
ha! eh ? ”
“ True enough,” observed Charles.
“ Eh? What’s that? What’s true enough?”
asked the admiral.
“ I have crossed the line,” said young Max­
well.
“ The devil you have! When, where, how ?”
ejaculated the astonished seaman.
“ Just now,” replied Charles.
“ Now! why, zounds, boy, you are mad or
dreaming.”
“ Both,” replied Charles, “ but it is a dream
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
113
and delirium that will I hope last all my
life.”
Then followed an explanation, told in as
coherent a manner as could possibly be “ expected
under existing circumstances.” The old gentle­
man affected gravity, although he experienced a
sensation of extreme pleasure: but at length the
generous feelings which, in spite of individual
imperfections, seem ever to pervade the breast
of a British seaman, rose triumphant above all
disguise.
“ Give me your hand ! ” exclaimed the admi­
ral, and he clasped it with as much firmness and
strength as though he was grasping his sword on
the quarter-deck in the day of battle. “ But
hold, young gentleman,” he continued, recollect­
ing himself, “ We’re running before the wind
into a strange port, without taking soundings.
You have exchanged broadsides with Clara, I
see plain enough. I expected it. 1 must con-
l 2
iy
Google
114 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
fess; so d—n all hypocrisy; there’s an end of
that. Her colours, my brave fellow, where are
they? Lowered, eh?”
At this moment Clara entered the drawing­
room.
“ H ist! she comes,” whispered Charles, anx­
ious to save his beloved from the pain her father
might at random inflict on her sensibility.
u L a! How delicate,” exclaims some lady’s
maid. Well, Miss, we can’t help it ; we tell the
tale as ’twas told to u s; but what a lady's sen­
sibility is, exactly and precisely, we cannot
satisfactorily define.
The admiral knew nothing of, or else had
forgotten, for “ old men will forget,” all about
such matters, and therefore repeated after Charles.
“ Aye, here she comes, sure enough 1 and seems
taken a little aback. Come, Clary, my dear, the
secret’s all out. Its no use ‘ shamming Abraham’
now, so what say you, my own dear little------
God bless you!” Here the old veteran’s utter-
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 115
ance was stopt by the close embrace of his
daughter, who threw herself upon his neck and
kissed him with a most vehement alacrity, yet,
strange to say, all the while sobbing “ to match.”
“ Come, come, my dear girl, Clary,” gasped
the admiral, “ my love—nay, nay, dearest, don’t
cry. Have it all your own way; I won’t, no,
not to be made commander-in-chief in the East.
No, no—
-come, come, d—n it, girl, you’ll choke
me !— So, then, you won’t strike your colours
mayhap? eh?”
“ Down, down to the ground, my beloved
father,” said Clara, and sinking on her knees,
she grasped those of her parent, whose eyes
were suffused with tears, while his face exhibited
a strange warfare. It seemed to have been
“ boarded” by “ sensibility,” striving hard to
overcome its opponent, who had “ assumed”
the command, and every muscle was briskly
engaged, fighting inch by inch. At last down
fell the streamers; it was all over.
iy
Google
116 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ What a d— d old fool I am,'’ sobbed the
admiral, sinking upon a sofa. Then up rose
Clara, and down fell Charles upon one knee;
and both of them hung over the old gentleman,
and applied, or rather endeavoured to apply,
smelling bottles, &c.
“ I’m a d— d stupid, lubberly, snivelling old
fellow. I never did so but once before, and
that was when the lilies came tumbling down
first after I was posted—sinking, by G—d ! not
a shot left; sea running; cou’dn’t board ’em ;
not a sail in sight; d—n it------ see the Gazette.
Why do you both make such a fool of me?
Clary, Charles, give me your hands ; there,
there; d—n these stinking bottles! I’m qual­
mish only, that’s all. Go, Clary, go, there’s a
good girl, and—hem ! ahem!—bring me a glass
of brandy.” Clara, like a dutiful child, did as
she was bid. The patient swallowed the medicine
as a patient ought, and the medicine did as all
medicine ought; it cured the patient, who im­
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 117
mediately walked briskly three times up and
down the room, and then— they went to dinner.
In the evening of that day, the admiral was
closeted with old Bagsby, his lean legal adviser.
“ The young fellow’s fortune equal to yours !”
exclaimed the man of law. It can’t be, admiral.
4
< Why not, Sir V* asked the veteran. His
father, you know, was a West India merchant;
and a British merchant, let me tell you------
“ Pshaw V* said the other; “ but here’s a
young fellow who is any thing but a merchant—
living like a lord. I don’t suppose he has been
to the counting-house half a dozen times since
his father’s death.”
“ H em ! perhaps not,” replied the admiral;
however, the simple state of the case stands thus :
He is not to receive a penny with Clary—but
whatever I chose to settle upon her and her
heirs, he offers to double.”
“ The devil!” exclaimed old Bagsby.
iy
Google
118 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ And that's not all,” continued the admiral,
“ we talked of sums—plain, point-blank sums.
Clary’s my only child, said I—and, for myself—
with my habits—If I shouldn’t get afloat again,
and I don’t see why not—my pay’s enough. One
hundred thousand, said I— make it two, says he,
if you like, admiral. Suppose, says I—it will
save the legacy duty, when the old hulk goes to
pieces— Suppose we say three—done, says he,
I’ll make it six."
“ The Lord have mercy upon u s!'* exclaimed
Bagsby. .
“ What's the matter ?" asked the admiral.
Matter !” muttered the lawyer, “ Hem, matter?
why here have I, for more than half a century,
been rising early and sitting up late, making the
most of every thing that came in the w ay;
spending nothing— saving—scraping together, in
hopes that in my old age-------.''
“ Pshaw!” said the admiral, “ you’ve feathered
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 119
your nest well enough, 1 know—so, no grumbling
— but, to business. How long will it take to
prepare the deed ?”
“ Ah, ah ! ahem! Let me see. In a case of
such moment, my dear Sir, every thing should,
you know, be arranged with extreme caution.
The amount is immense—it depends much upon
the nature of the property—most likely some of
the young gentleman’s is in the West Indies—
and— ahem! you know, my good Sir, how pre­
carious such soft of possessions are; particularly
in time of war, when the enemy’s fleets are
wandering upon the sea, the Lord knows
where------ .”
“ The Lord knows where, indeed !” exclaimed
the veteran, “ I only wish we could catch’em at
it— ‘ wandering,’ as you call it— that’s all, but,
pshaw! d—n your six-and-eight-penny opinions
about the war. See the lad yourself on the busi­
ness—my money’s all in the bank of England,
iy
Google
1 2 0 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
and the papers are in my strong box at Ham-
sley’s.”
The next morning, Charles Maxwell, having
supplied himself with the amount specified, from
the usual source, called upon the admiral, and
they had scarcely exchanged salutations, when
Bagsby was announced.
“ By the by,” asked the veteran, “ Has the old
fellow called upon you this morning, with his bag,
and papers, and tape, and the devil knows what V9
“ Who? Sir!’' Charles inquired, in a tone of
alarm, which raised a momentary suspicion in
the mind of his father-in-law elect.
“ My lawyer, Sir, Mr. Bagsby,” was the grave
reply. u He was to call on you respecting the
subject of our conversation yesterday, and is now
here in the room below by my appointment, in
order to arrange the business.”
“ Oh! is that all?” said Charles, smiling,
“ Let us have him up, by all means.”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 121
Accordingly, the man of parchment (to which
epithet the texture of his skin alone might have
afforded him a fair claim) was shewn into the
presence of his two most wealthy, and of course,
most worshipful clients ; towards whom he came
bowing, and bending, and grinning, and wor­
shipping, in their persons, his idol M ammon, in
a manner sufficiently ludicrous. After a thou­
sand apologies, and such sort of tom-foolery,
they proceeded to business, and the man of
law inquired the name of young Maxwell’s pro­
fessional adviser, with whom he felt, no doubt,
he should be happy to act, on the present
occasion.
“ Aye, aye! like a pair of shears,” quoth the
admiral, “ Ha, ah! eh ! Bagsby—cut what comes
between, eh ? not each other, ah ?”
“ I never employed a lawyer since I was of
age,” said Charles.
“ W hat!” exclaimed old Bagsby, as his rigid
M
iy
Google
122 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
frame started into a perpendicular. (“ A sensible
young fellow!** thought the veteran.) “ Hem,
ahem! ahem !*’ repeatedly repeated poor Bagsby,
ere he could proceed to state a few of the various
reasons why it was “ advisable to be advised,
prudent and circumspect, needful and absolutely
necessary, &c., &c., in all such and the like
and similar sorts and kinds of cases, where and
wherein, and in and concerning which property,
&c., &c., &c., and all such sort of thing, was
various and of numerous descriptions and kinds,
both as it regarded and concerned estimated
value of estates, &c.-------
Here Charles, having been too much accus­
tomed of late to have his own way, became
weary of listening, and interrupted the speaker
with a most ungracious yawn, followed by a
“ Pish!*
* Having thus “ caught the speaker’s
eye,’* as well as stopt his tongue, he proceeded.
“ There can be no difficulty in the present
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 123
case. I believe, admiral, we understand each
other. I agree to settle on your daughter the
same amount as you think fit to do yourself.”
“ Exactly,” replied the veteran, and I, to
save legacy duty, mean to settle all I have,
excepting this house and grounds, which are at
an easy distance from the admiralty.”
“ Nothing can be clearer,” said Charles.
“ The sum is, I think, three hundred thousand.”
“ Exactly so,” said old Haultaught, “ and”—•
coolly continued Charles, taking out his black
morocco leather pocket book, “ there—there is
the money.”
“ By the trident of Neptune, and the old
girl that holds it!” shouted the admiral. Your’re
a noble fellow. If you hadn’t a brass farthing,
Clary should never— But, I’m afraid, my dear
boy, you have been too hasty. Have you made
your calculations about housekeeping, and so
on ? I should not like you and Clary to shorten
iy
Google
124 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
sail, and if we lock up such a sum as this, per­
haps ------ ”
“ It will make no sort of difference, I assure
you. I shall never miss it/’
’ “ Wonderful! ” thought old Bagsby, “ 1*11 try
and get a share in some West India concern
myself/*
The “ instrument *
’ was immediately drawn
up, “ signed, sealed, and delivered,*’ by the
admiral and Charles, as their own “ act and
deed; ” and the next act was marriage.
Then away flew time. Year rolled away after
year. The old admiral went to sea again, and
had a glorious brush or two, “ short and sweet
and gave Monsieur a smack in “ the chops of
the channel/* Then he went to bask himself,
like a dry old fish as he was, on India*s sunny
shore; from whence, after the benefit of a
seven years’ fry, he returned, considerably in­
creased in wealth. It was a proud day for the
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 125
whole party when the veteran landed at Ports­
mouth, and Charles and Clara presented to him
their first-born, a fine boy, then eight years of
age, in a middy’s uniform; and his sister Clara,
a beautiful little wax doll, as her mother had
been before her. So at least thought Admiral
Haultaught, and declaring that she was too
beautiful and delicate as yet to be played with
by a rough sailor, he seized upon the sturdy boy
as his lawful prize; and many a ride, and walk,
and gambol, and frolic, and quarrel, and recon­
ciliation, had they together, both in town and
country, till the youth was old enough to serve
his King. Then,— it was a hard task, but it
must be the case with us all,— they parted for
the last time.
“ Charles Haultaught Maxwell,” said the old
admiral, “ Remember that’s your name, my dear
boy. Fear God and honour your King. Look
at the British flag; let it be your business to
m 2
iy
Google
126 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
see that respected wherever it floats, either in a
cock-boat or a first-rate ; mind that, and d— n
all politics. Leave them to the lubbers ashore.
Remember poor Nelson’s last signals------ Well,
well, I know you will. But mind— if ever you
disgrace your name, d—n me if I leave you a
copper bolt.”
“ With this and the like advice the poor old
gentleman blessed his beloved grandson, till he
delivered him into the hands of an old mess­
mate, and saw his young hero borne away upon
the green billows from Yarmouth jetty, in the
jolly boat of H.M.S. the D------ . With his
glass he stood watching her progress till all
hands were safely on board. “ He walks the
quarter-deck now for the first time/’ thought
the veteran, and a thousand images, created by
memory and fancy alternately, kept him com­
pany all the way to London, as he sat reclined
back in his travelling carriage. A few months
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 127
terminated the old gentleman’s mortal career.
His effigies graced Westminster Abbey, and his
Eastern wealth formed another immense accumu­
lating fund, which his son-in-law, for reasons we
wot of, felt not so delighted with as is usual in
such cases. The domestic felicity of Charles
and Clara was perfect
The termination of our late long-protracted
war brought our happy couple to the afternoon
of life. Young Charles was a fine young lieu­
tenant, just of age, and with property and in­
terest amply sufficient (to say nothing of certain
musty Gazettes) to expect “ to be posted,” &c.
&c. as soon as " propriety would allow.” Clara
a was all that the fondest, aye, or the wisest (and
the terms are not always synonimous, we fear)
of mothers could desire. Had the old admiral
lived, he might have altered his opinion— or,
perhaps he might not. The fortune which he
left her failed not, however, to throw around
iy
Google
128 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
her every charm and grace, a dazzling halo, in
which, like insects round a flame, a thousand gay,
thoughtless, and fluttering ephemera sported, and
were blinded, scorched, and “ damaged ” for
their temerity.
But another year passed, and Charles Max­
well, that is, the “ old original” Charles Maxwell
of our tale, underwent a sad and melancholy
alteration. Long fits of mental absence occupied
him when in society. No more the well turned
repartee or mirthful jest issued from his now
pale lips.
Seldom he smiled—and then in such a sort,
As though he smiled in scorn, to think that he
Could e'en be moved to smile at anything.
“ Neque vigiliis neque quietibus sedari pot-
erat,*' as Sallust says of Cataline. In plain
English, he was never easy, sleeping or waking.
“ The consequence ” was, that in a very short
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 129
space of time (“ colos ei exsanguis, foedi oculi,
citus modo, modo tardus ; prorsus in facie,
vultuque vecordia inerat ”), he got horribly pale,
ghastly about the eyes, and became a disagree­
able, shuffling, unsociable, uncertain sort of a
fellow; more like a poor lunatic, who fancied
himself hunted by devils, than a well-bred, easy­
going country gentleman.
The reason for this change was, that he had
been calculating, and had discovered that, by
the tenor of his engagement with the Gentleman
in Black, whom, by the way, we hope our
readers will take especial care not to forget,
during the silent and almost imperceptible lapse
of nearly eight-and-twenty years, his tribute had
increased from the minute matter of a moment,
to an annual demand of two thousand three
hundred and thirty days and a fraction, calcu­
lating each day at sixteen hours in length, and
all to be spent in sin. Such was the “ demand ”
iy
Google
130 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
for sin in the then current year. It was true
that there had been no grumbling on the part
of his ally or adversary; and supplies of money,
when required, which had however rarely been
called for of late, were never refused. There
were, doubtless, past sins sufficient to keep all
square, “ as per agreement,” hitherto ; but
Charles could not flatter himself that he had
sufficient “ on hand ” to make up an amount
of four thousand six hundred and six days for
the next year, and for that which was to follow,
nine thousand !-—all was utter darkness and
desperation. Yet all this arose from agreeing
to sin for one single moment “ per annum.*’
Reader, take care you never make such a
compact.
Charles had been to Paris the year before,
hoping' to discover the fate of his fellow-victim^
Louis Desonges. The usual mode of finding
rich individuals, through their bankers, was, of
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 131
course, in the present instance unserviceable,
and the police knew no such person. As the
crisis of his fate, however, was equally near
with that of Charles Maxwell, it is fit we
should run over the principal events of his life,
from the commencement of the Revolution to
the end of the war, or rather wars issuing there­
from, like snakes from a Medusa’s head.
During the reign of terror, his riches gained
him both friends and enemies; conducted him
into prison, and purchased him out; he found
that reformers from the crowd, or “ canaille,”
are ever vain and venal. The ignorant make
sad use of power, the proper extent of which
they cannot comprehend; so they stretch it, as
children will a piece of Indian rubber, till it
snaps back upon them and hurts their fingers,
and then they are glad to let it fall out of their
hands. Those among the French evanescent
gorvenors who had any nous, made their obser­
yGoogle
132 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
vations, and most attentively marked out those
whose plethoric purses seemed to expose them to
the danger of temptation, and falling off from
their new (not as we have it, true) allegiance.
Louis wept over the misfortunes of his country,
and, be it said to his honour, the riches of which
he had in so strange a manner acquired the
command, were frequently devoted to the relief
of those whose property had been swept away
- in the tumult. Among others, the Comte de
Tien &la Cour, and his lovely daughter, Emilie,
were indebted to him for their safety, and for his
company in their flight into Switzerland, where
he settled them in a beautiful and retired situa­
tion near Vevay, and on the borders of the blue
lake Leman. With certain resolutions in his
head, away then posted Louis towards the Rhine,
and on the banks thereof discovered and pur­
chased an ancient baronial chateau and estate,
together with its title.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 133
“ How wretched a thing it is to have to do
with lawyers !” exclaimed Louis to the ci-devant
baron, whose honours he was purchasing, and
who might literally have been said (according to
the French term “ manger ses biens”) to have
“ eaten up ” his estate. “ They are dreadfully
slow.”
“ Humph! ” said the Baron de Braanksdor-
fischen, “ I’ve sometimes found them too quick.”
“ When you were not in a hurry, then, Pll be
bound to say,” observed Louis.
“ Aye,” was the reply. “ Do you purpose
living here, Monsieur ?”
Louis replied in the negative.
“ Then, perhaps, you’ll allow me to shoot,
and hunt, and fish on the estate?” asked the
baron.
“ With all my heart,” replied Louis.
“ Then I’m a happy man again!” observed
the baron, “ and so d— n the old rook’s nest,
N
iy
Google
134 t h e g e n t l e m a n in b l a c k .
and the stones thereof, and the owls, and the
ivy, and the— ”
“ Doucement! Monsieur le Baron,” said Louis,
fearing that a sort of Ernulphian curse, in which
the purchaser might be included, was commenc­
ing ; “ It's hardly fair to wish them any ill now
“ If I had never seen them, it would have
been all the better,1
” replied the other, “ but I
must needs be like other fools; and so I “ kept
up 9
9my title by knocking it down. Well, never
mind now—you say I may sport here ?9
9
“ Aye, and live here, too, as before,” said
Louis, “ as long as you think fit.” *
“ The devil I shall! v exclaimed the other.
“ Then I don’t care a straw for what’s past.”
And on that day it was the Baron of Braanks-
dorfischen’s good will and pleasure to get drunk,
from which it will be an easy matter for the
reader to guess what sort of a man he was.
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 135
with his new title to Switzerland, where he was
most gracefully and most graciously received by
Emilie and her parent. And there—the very
recollection of the place makes one poetical—
Upon the margin of that azure lake,
Whose limpid waves come rippling to the shore,
He vowed he loved her for her own dear sake,
And she believed—what could a lady more !
They talked and sauntered by that water's edge ;
They talked and sauntered on the mountain’s side ;
’Mid foliage, whispering, took and gave a pledge,
We say not what, for love was aye their guide.
And he, as usual, led them Lord knows where.
* * * * *
Notwithstanding divers exquisitely polished ex­
pressions of gratitude and friendship, which M.
le Comte de Tien à la Cour had, from time to
time, addressed to M. Louis Desonges, there was
ever a most superb stiffness added to his usual
perpendicularity whenever the said Desonges ven­
yGoogle
136 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
tured upon anything like familiarity with Emilie
in his presence. Like Juliet’s father, he thought
there was something in a name; and so, when
Louis assumed unto himself the title of Baron
de Braanksdorfischen, he was pleased to be ex­
tremely gracious. As for the matter of pedigree,
Louis was of a very respectable family, and felt
no sort of compunction at the ingenuity or re­
search of a certain tracer of genealogies, who had
undertaken, in consequence of weighty consi­
derations propounded unto him, to delineate a
tree of consanguinity. The new Baron was some­
what startled to find that his great grandfathers
and great grandmothers were related to, and con­
nected with, several of the most ancient houses in
France; but, he was determined to believe if
possible, and that is a great matter in such cases.
The document had its expected influence upon
the Comte, for it was drawn out and blazoned
in due heraldric terms and forms; and, perhaps,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN SLACK. 137
he likewise was resolved to believe. As for
Emilie, like most of her sex, when once fairly
in love, it would have been much the same thing
to her had her lover changed his name to Bour­
reau, for she was much of Juliet’s way of think­
ing, that “ a rose with any other name would
smell as sweet.”
My dear M. le Baron,’* said M. le Comte,
“ you must be well aware of the sincerity, I might
almost say, the devotion of my attachment and
friendship. You are the only man upon the face
of the earth, his Catholic Majesty alone ex­
cepted, from whom I would have deigned to
accept any sort of assistance in the present
state of things; but, my daughter is now, alas!
the sole hope, the only remaining branch of an
ancient and most illustrious house; and, indeed,
I am glad to find, what, however, I never
doubted, that you really are so closely allied to
the Montmorencies, the Grammonts, and the
n 2
iy
Google
138 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
Choiseuls. When we return to France, I have
no doubt that I can, from my connections at
Versailles, have the affair of snccession arranged;
and that my title will descend when I am gone,
which, in the common course of things, can­
not”—
“ I beseech you, my dear M. le Comte,” ex­
claimed the Baron of Braanksdorfischen, “ to
spare my feelings. I trust you will long live
to enjoy your title and estates. I see no reason
why you should not marry again, and that they
should descend in regular succession to your
heirs male.”
“ Nor I neither, M. le Baron,” said the Comte,
“ It is a good idea. We will see about i t a n d
forthwith he advanced to a large mirror, and paid
his respects to his own respectable figure reflected
therein.
The marriage took place immediately, and was,
like most other marriages wherein money is abun-
Digitized byGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK 139
dant, conducted in such a manner as to give an
extravagant idea of the happiness of the “ happy
pair.” The most delightful part of the affair,
however, was, that Louis and Emilie, now
the Baron and Baroness of Braanksdorfischen
were really happy, and continued so for a con­
siderable period of tim e: they say for nearly a
month. After that, when the dream of rapture
and perfect bliss had vanished, they lived much
like other people, and each marvelled occa­
sionally that they should have been so silly as
to expect absolute perfection in any human being.
They passed, however, many pleasant months in
Switzerland: but the leaven of the revolution
spread, and Italy was their next refuge—then
Malta—then to France— La belle, la glorieuse.
All was right again, for Paris was as gay or
gayer than ever; so they fell down and wor­
shipped the images which faction, or war, or
fashion happened to set up, and thereby proved
iy
Google
140 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
they were— born in France, the land of liberty
and equality. In the profession of the latter
“ egalitt” they have been most singularly con­
sistent ; for, whether he has had a triumvirate,
a consular, a regal, or an imperial government,
Monsieur has always been equally faithful.
u C’est egal,” quoth he, on all occasions.
When Napoleon was very short of money once,
the Baron de Braanksdorfischen was said to have
waited upon Talleyrand; and it was hinted that
the elevation of the Baron de Braanksdorfischen
to the peerage of France, under the title of Le
Comte D ’Ormalle, was closely connected with
that visit. Be that as it may, from that period
our French hero attained a degree of popularity
which he kept as long as he thought proper.
His family affairs went on comfortably enough,
since Emilie never had occasion to ask him twice
for money, and he never grumbled at her ex­
penditure. Like his quondam friend, Charles,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 141
he had two children, a boy and girl, who grew
up most promisingly; being allowed to do all
that seemed good in their own eyes, and to draw
money “ at discretion.” Whether they spent it
discreetly, is another affair, and one of which
their parents took no cognizance.
The glory of the great empire—the emperor and
king—the young King of Rome—the march of
mind, and the march of armies— the invasion of
that accursed Angleterre—the merits of D&vid—
the occupation of Spain—the Talma— the “ Arcs
des Triomphes”— les grande battailes— Venus
de Medicis—the coronation— bridges over the
Seine—charters—oaths of allegiance—operas—
calembourgs— Apollo Belvidere— the overthrow
of kingdoms, and the summersets of Monsieur
Martin, the bear in the botanic gardens, and of
M. M. Pieddouble at the Port St. Martin—and
such sort of important matters, equally and
alternately occupied Monsieur le Comte de
Tien-a-la-Cour, the old grey-headed perpendi-
yGoogle
142 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
cular grandfather of the family, Monsieur le
Comte D ’Ormalle, the Comtesse, and the two
young sprigs of rising nobility.
Then away flew time, and with it away flew
many of the above, and other, and such like
matters— the emperor was off, that is, not
on, his throne; though he kept his title with
a tenacity which must have been truly grati­
fying to his veteran military associates, who
could not but have felt convinced, that when
he by nominal honours rewarded their ser­
vices, he bestowed what he conceived to be
for himself most desirable. Away flew the
Apollo and Venus, and the king of Rome,
for the march of mind and of armies had
taken a new direction; the invasion of England
was postponed sine die; D&vid brushed with his
brushes to Brussels, for fear of a brush from
the sweeping broom of the law ; and the glory,
the imperishable glory of the empire—-its mi­
litary glory—that might have remained to have
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 143
embalmed the names of “ les braves,” who
fought and bled, and devoted themselves for
their country, though a tyrant were their leader:
but oaths of allegiance, sworn and forgotten,
reiterated and broken, tarnished their hard-
earned laurels; and------ it is a pity that filles
de ckambre and coffee-house politicians should
have cackled so much about the matter, and
that obscure demi-soldes should claim for all,
what some might yet demand, and will doubtless
receive from posterity.
The Comte D’Ormalle had shared those
honours which riches may ever command among
the sons of men, whether under kingly, im­
perial, or republican governments. He hailed
the return of Louis le Desir£; yet some thought
his coffers were opened during the hundred days
— the gentleman in black would scarcely have
made any objection; but it is a point upon
which we dare not speak positively.
iy
Google
144 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
When Napoleon “ caught a Tartar” at Mont St.
Jean, and all was settled, the Comte D’Ormalle
settled likewise at his Chateau D’Ormalle, on
the banks of the Loire, where a settled me­
lancholy appeared to prey upon him, and he
betook himself to wandering to and fro, like
an unquiet spirit; for he, like Charles Maxwell,
had taken his calculations, and was ever ba­
lancing, and thinking of a monastery, and—
• the gentleman with the black coat, Geneva
cloak, &c. &c. To these meditations the Com­
tesse left him undisturbed, and pursued the
now indispensable frivolities of the metropolis,
where she became the nucleus of a most ancient
coterie of the most ancient names and dignified
personages; who, utterly despising the mush­
room race of nick-named nobility, congregated
where they could safely vent the spleen which
they had for so many years been bottling up,
while in a state of expatriation.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 145
Having thus seen that the Comte D’Ormalle
was not in better plight than Charles Maxwell,
it becomes our duty to state their ulterior pro*
ceedings under such appalling prospects.
o
iy
Google
146 TH* GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
CHAPTER V.
In the long hours which poor Charles Maxwell
now habitually spent in solitude, he indulged
himself yet, occasionally, in the dreams and
visions of hope; and, in one of these reveries, he
luckily recollected old Bagsby, the late admiral’s
lean legal adviser, of whose shrewd exploits he
had heard many a singular tale.
“ If the old fellow is yet living,” thought h e;
“ and has been going on steadily in the same
way ever since I saw him last, he must, by this
time, be a match even for the gentleman in
black himself.”
With such reflections he lost no time, but
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 147
posted to the old fellow’s chambers in Lyon’s
Inn, where he sat, half buried among piles of
dusty books and papers, like a lion ant at the
bottom of his inverted cone of crumbling sand,
ready to seize on any poor animal unconsciously
approaching its verge.
Bagsby was delighted to see our hero; for he
had not forgotten the three hundred thousand
pounds. So he shook him cordially by the
hand, entreated him to be seated, adjusted his
own wig, stirred up the four square inches of
smoking cinders huddled together in one corner
of the grate, bowed and grinned, rubbed his
hands and his spectacles, bowed and grinned,
and bowed and grinned again.
At length Mr. Maxwell did “ a tale unfold,”
which had an effect almost as tremendous as that
described by Shakspeare in the well-known
passage, the commencement of which we have
just quoted. But old Bagsby had been so long
iy
Google
148 TH E GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
accustomed to intricate cases, that, let him be
thrown where he might, he always contrived,
as it were, like a cat, to fall upon his legs, and
find some place to cling to. So, after a long
pause, he thus addressed his client.
“ Hem ! my dear Sir, this is an ugly piece of
business. Hem— I have certainly heard of this
gentleman in black—hem— 1 remember once
fancying that I saw him: but we have many
strange characters to deal with in the way of our
profession—perhaps I was mistaken. H em !
But, however, to the point— 1 think I under­
stood that you could yet obtain supplies, money
I mean, to any amount ?”
“ I can demand any amount,’* replied Mr.
Maxwell, “ and were it not immediately forth­
coming, the contract would then be broken on
his part: an event of which I have very little
expectation.*’
4
4Hem !—hem— hem,** resumed Bagsby, “ In
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 149
all such and the like cases, my dear Sir, money
has a great effect—it is, in short, one of those
things without which even the law of the land
itself, beautiful and simple as it is, cannot always
take its course. But— really— ahem—this is a
very ugly piece of business! very ugly.— How­
ever, we must not despair. It is astonishing
what a free and judicious application of money
will sometimes effect: and, as you don’t mind
expence, I really think we may perhaps contrive
to pull you through.”
“ Is it possible ?” exclaimed poor Mr. Maxwell,
“ my dear S ir! I cannot express my gratitude.
But, I remember you were the admiral’s friend—
Oh, why did I not come to you before ?”
“ Never mind,” rejoined Bagsby, “ better late
than never. Eh?— Hem. But—to business­
no— no, I haven’t lived all these years to be
frightened at a little intricacy. Many a tangled
case have I unravelled. So, hem—in* the first
o 2
iy
Google
150 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
place, allow me to enquire if there were any
witnesses to this singular contract?”
“ None,” ejaculated Mr. Maxwell, gasping the
first breath of hope; “ No, my dear friend, there
was nobody but myself and—you know who.”
“ Excuse me for interrupting you,” said the
dark gentleman, stepping forward from a gloomy
corner of the room, with his black coat, black
waistcoat, black Geneva cloak, black bag, black-
edged papers tied with black tape, and all the
rest of his black paraphernalia; “ It may, per­
haps, save you much trouble if, in this early
stage of business— ”
“ Early, indeed! ” exclaimed Bagsby, some­
what irritated at the idea of so good a thing
being snatched out of his hands; “ Why, we
have not yet commenced proceedings:—but, I
beg your pardon, Sir, pray take a seat.”
The gentleman in black sat himself down at
the' table, and drew forth from his black bag a
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. ldl
bundle of black-edged papers, tied with black
tape, which, in a most business-like way, he
proceeded to untie and lay before him.
“ You know, Sir,” said Mr. Maxwell, “ there
were no witnesses to the transaction.’*
“ / know there were, Sir,” replied he of the
Geneva cloak, with a malicious smile; “ see”
he continued, shewing a paper to the lawyer,
who immediately discerned two signatures as of
witnesses, which, however, he could not exactly
decipher.
“ Hem!” said Bagsby, adjusting his spec«
tacles, and giving his wrinkled old mouth a
peculiar twist, which, as it had no particular
meaning in itself, might be intended to conceal
any outward indication of what was passing
within. “ Ahem ! allow me, Sir, just to run my
eye over the paper a moment- Aye, aye—l
see—Charles Maxwell— ah— hem— em—bless
me, what a cold morning it is. Pull the bell,
iy
Google
152 THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
Mr. Maxwell! Here, Jerry, my boy,” he con­
tinued, addressing a lean, spider-like, daddy«
long-legs sort of an old man, who answered the
summons; “ Bring some coals, Jerry—Ahem !
Let me see, where did I leave off?”
“ You may as well leave off where you are,”
observed the owner of the black-edged papers;
“ Keep your coals to warm your chilly old
drum-sticks after I'm gone— I’m not so green
as to suffer you to keep that writing in your own
hands after the fire is lighted.”
“ What do you mean to insinuate, Sir?” asked
old Bagsby, waxing wroth; “ A man of my
standing and respectability, Sir! Do you dare to
say that I would be guilty of so— ”
“ Precisely so,” answered the other, coolly.
“ Sir, Sir,” stammered the lawyer, “ Pd have
you to know there is such a thing as law.”
“ Precisely so,” observed he of the black bag,
“ I do know it.” .
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 153
“ And justice/* continued Bagsby.
“ That’s more than you know,” retorted the
other.
“ And damages/’ roared the incensed lawyer.
“ Your clients have long been convinced of
the truth of that position/’ drily observed the
dark gentleman, taking a pinch of blackguard.
Old Bagsby’s rage was at its acme, and he
swore by all the furies and devils in the infernal
regions, that he would commence an action for
defamation forthwith. But his antagonist took it
into his head to relate a certain fable concerning
a smoky kettle and its black neighbour, a boil­
ing p ot; whereat the lawyer, like a snail, drew
in his horns, being assisted in the retiring move­
ment by Mr. Maxwell, who requested that his
business might not be neglected.
“ In mercantile matters, I remember,” said
our hero, “ that, when any difficulty occurred,
we used to refer it to arbitration.”
iy
Google
154 THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Good/’ observed the gentleman in black;
“ chuse your own men, and I’ll meet them/’
“ That’s fair, however,” observed Charles
MaxwelL
“ Humph! ” said Bagsby, “ we must first find
fit men for the p u rp ose-b u t, ten to one they’ll
make a bungling affair of it. There’s nothing
like regular legal proceedings, straight forward»
as a body may say.”
“ Precisely so,” observed the dark gentleman,
“ may say:— but what you call straight is as
crooked as my tail.”
To a reference, however, they at length agreed.
Mr. Ledger was appointed as the umpire; and,
on that day week, the gentleman in black was to
give them the “ first meeting ” at old Bagsby’s
chambers. When this matter was settled, the
lawyer ventured to hint that he should find it
necessary, or rather think it most consistent with
the interest of his client, to take the opinion of
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 155
counsel on two or three points which had already
occurred to him ; and as money was no object—
“ Very true,” observed Charles, feeling in his
pocket, and finding he had omitted to bring
the needful with him, “ How very thoughtless!
However, Sir, directly I get home, HI send a
hundred pound note or two— ”
“ Pooh!" said the gentleman in black, taking
put his black morocco pocket-book, “ How many
will you have— only sa y ; just to save trouble,
you know—its all the same between us.” So he
gave Charles Maxwell five notes of one hundred
pounds each, which he immediately paid to the
lawyer, who immediately marked them with his
own mark, and then the meeting broke up.
On the appointed day, Mr. Ledger, our hero,
and the gentleman in black, were all punctual
to a minute in their attendance at old Bagsby’s
chambers. The wary lawyer having taken hi3
seat, and opened the business of the day, the
iy
Google
156 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
gentleman of the black Geneva cloak presented
his account, with a sardonic grin, to the indivi­
dual who had expressed his inclination to settle
it. Ledger cast his eye, in a hurried and agitated
manner, at the amount, and, addressing himself
to Maxwell, enquired if it could possibly be
correct.
The poor gentleman cast his dim and floating
eyes up and down two or three sides of the
tremendous paper, which was carried over and
over and over, with dismal tautology; he could
deny nothing; and many of the items he but
too well remembered. His heart sank within
him.
“ Give me leave/* said Bagsby, stretching forth
his lean arm.
“ By all means/* replied the gentleman in
black.
“ Don't be alarmed, Mr. MaxVell,” continued
old Bagsby. “ I have no doubt we shall pull
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 157
you through,” and he prosed a few minutes over
the account, whilst his opponent sat smiling
most contemptuously.
“ You don’t specify here,” said old Bagsby,
“ in what manner these various sums were paid ;
whether in specie, or bills, or notes.”
“ Pshaw!” replied the gentleman in black,
“ that's perfectly immaterial; the amount is stated
explicitly enough.”
“ I beg your pardon, Sir,” rejoined the lawyer,
“ it makes all the difference in the world.”
“ Bank notes are a legal tender,” quoth he of
the black Geneva cloak.
“ No doubt; but we are not met here to
discuss rigmarole theories about the paper cur­
rency, which neither you nor I can make head
or tail of.”
“ Precisely s o ; I confess myself bothered on
that point. It is most delightfully mystical.”
“ Well, well, to business,” said the man of
p
iy
Google
158 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
law, somewhat testily. “ Do you mean to give
us a clear, specific account, or not, with the
dates of payment, number of the notes paid,
and every particular ? If not, let me tell you”—
“ Pooh—pooh!” replied the other, “ it is not
worth while for you and I to quarrel about a
few sheets of paper.” So saying, he dipped his
hand into the huge black bag, which he had
placed on the ground, between his legs, and
drew from thence an immense bundle of black-
edged papers, tied with black tape, which he
then threw across the table, exclaiming, “ There,
there it is—made up to yesterday. I hope that
will satisfy you.”
The veteran of the law conned over some of
the items, hemming and coughing as he went
along; and then, without uttering a word, arose
and placed the bundle in his iron chest which
he carefully locked; then put the key in his
pocket, and resumed his seat at the table.
yGc •gle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 159
“ Well, Sir,”* said the gentleman in black,
who had been attentively watching him, “ what
are we to do next?”
“ We must proceed to business,” replied old
Bagsby, and ringing a little silver bell, that
stood beside him, in came old Jerry
“ Jerry, my boy/* said his master, shew in
that gentleman from the city.9
’
“ From the city!” exclaimed Ledger, “ who
is he? Remember, Mr. Bagsby, I should not
like to be seen” ------
“ Never fear,” said the lawyer; “ shew him
up, Jerry." Accordingly a well dressed young
man was ushered into the room.
“ Well, Mr. Crabseye,” said old Bagsby, “ are
you as confident as ever ?”
“ It is impossible we should be mistaken,”
was the reply.
“ This gentleman,” continued the lawyer,
laying his spectacles on the table, and looking
yGc . e
160 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
triumphantly around him, “ this gentleman comes
from the Bank of England, and has examined
the five one-hundred pound notes which you,
Sir/9 looking at the gentleman in black, “ paid
to my client here, this day week; which he
immediately paid to me, and which I imme­
diately marked. This gentleman pronounces
them to be forgeries/*
“ There is not a shadow of a doubt thereof,**
observed Mr. Crabseye.
“ Shew me the difference between one of
them/ and one of your own issuing/* said he
of the black Geneva cloak, which moved not
a wrinkle on the present occasion.
“ Pardon me, Sir/* replied Mr. Crabseye,
“ it is well we have some private mark that
such gentlemen as you are not exactly aware
o f:— for upon my word, as it is, it would some­
times puzzle the devil himself to tell the dif­
ference/*
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 161
“ Precisely so,'* observed the gentleman in
black. “ Well, Sir,” inquired the lawyer, “ you
don’t mean to deny paying those five notes to
Mr. Maxwell ?”
“ Not I,” was the reply.
“ Then, Mr. Crabseye, you know I have your
affidavit, aye—-here it is—i I, Micros Crabseye*—
aye— and the more needful papers too”—and
again the old lawyer tingled his ancient bell;
and again popped in the head of his ancient
Jerry, who exchanged a significant nod with
his master, and drew himself back again. Then,
anon, came stalking in, a pordy-looking man,
followed by two athletic figures, who looked
most marvellously as though they could not
understand a joke.
“ There, gentlemen, is your prisoner,” moved
Mr. Crabseye, and old Bagsby seconded the
motion, both pointing to the gentleman with
the black coat, waistcoat, Geneva cloak, bag,
p 2
iy
Google
If32 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
and various other black appendages, who sat
wonderfully composed, after his first fidget.
The officers of justice proceeded to handcuff
their prisoner, who smiled thereat with a most
supercilious sm ile; and, when they had com­
pleted their operations, begged that they would
do the same kind office for his friend Mr. Max­
well, who for a series of years, as he could
prove by creditable witnesses, and even by Mr.
Crabseye himself, had been in the habit of
passing forged notes. His poor victim felt as
though his death warrant was signed, for he
knew that at his own house many would be
found, and that all his tradespeople must, with
one accord, bring forth witnesses against him,
if they produced any of the notes he had paid.
Even old Bagsby twisted about his lower lip and
jaw, most portentously, for many seconds; but
recovering his composure, exclaimed, “ Don’t be
alarmed, my dear Mr. Maxwell; I told you we
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 163
should be able to pull you through this busi­
ness,* ugly as it is.” Then, turning to the
pinioned gentleman, he continued, “ what you
say, Sir, may be very true, for aught I know;
but we have forms, Sir, forms of law, which
must be attended to.”
" Precisely so ; I perceive it,” and he glanced
at his bolted arms.
“ In the first place, you must take your oath.”
“ I—what ?” exclaimed he of the black bag.
“ Your oath, Sir,” resumed the lawyer, “ and
here is a Testament.”
The gentleman in black, hereat, drew his
hands from their cuffs as easily as from a pair
of gloves, took a pinch of blackguard, and said
that if that were the case, he must, from a
scruple of conscience respecting swearing, de­
cline to proceed any further in the affair. He
then burst into what seemed to Mr. Crabseye
and his satellites to be, under existing circum­
yGoogle
164 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK*
stances, a most unseemly fit of merriment and
laughter, swearing (notwithstanding his recent
scruples), that old Bagsby was a boy after his
own heart, and wishing he might live to be Lord
Chancellor!
“ Gentlemen! ” said the man of sables, after
his unseasonable mirth had exhausted itself, “ 1
am sorry that this meeting has been so unplea*
sandy broken up. 1 must, of course, attend
these good people (pointing to the officers) for
the p r e s e n tb u t, make your own appointment
for the final arrangement of what we first met
to discuss. You will manage it, Bagsby. Cras
aut cum vellet—zed ut redirem Me node fieri non
potest” Which, fair reader, simply means, that
though he could not return that evening, he
would attend old Bagsby on the morrow, or at
any other tim e; and having thus spoken, he was
led out of the room by his attendant genii.
No sooner was the door closed upon them,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 165
than Bagsby congratulated his client on their
success so far; “ Never fear, Sir,” said he,
“ we shall pull you through this business, ugly
as it is. I’ve another poser or two for old
Sootikins. But first, my dear Sir, these notes,
you see, are worth nothing, and those you have
at home ”—
“ Shall be destroyed this instant,*’ cried our
hero, snatching his hat.
“ Stop— stop a moment, my dear Sir. If you
do, how are we to proceed ? For money, you
know, constitutes, as one may say, the sinews of
the law.”
“ Never fear,” observed Mr. Ledger, “ I’ve
brought my cheque-book with me.”
“ What’s that?” inquired Mr. Maxwell.
“ Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us
from evil! ’* exclaimed Mr. Ledger. “ To see
how the enemy may ‘ pack up,’ as it were, a
man’s mind in darkness and ignorance! That
iy
Google
166 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
a British merchant should not know what a
cheque-book is! ”
“ O h ! aye! I remember now/* said Mr. Max­
well, “ it s one of the books we used to hire the
clerks to write in.” .
Mr. Ledger sighed, but was too much a man
of business to leave old Bagsby without pre­
senting him with one of the magic leaves from
his book, which was received most graciously.
He then accompanied his unfortunate friend
and partner to his elegant mansion in Portland
Place, the furniture and entire arrangement of
which paralysed him with astonishment.
They destroyed the forged notes, and Mr.
Maxwell was furnished with a cheque-book, and
instructed in the use thereof; which appeared
so easy, that he wondered why he should ever
have preferred any other way of raising money,
to the real value of which his unlimited supplies
for so many years had utterly blinded him.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 167
He once more repaired to old Bagsby’s cham­
bers.— That worthy practitioner spake at great
length about a great variety of papers, parch­
ments, and deeds, with a greater variety of hard
names than it would be worth while to enumerate
on the present occasion; but they were all neces­
sary,— at least so old Bagsby said.
Another meeting was appointed, and as before,
the high contracting parties met at old Bagsby’s
office.
After the usual salutations, the gentleman in
black begged to thank the lawyer for having
given him a view of the inside of Newgate, “ at
the doors Of which,” he remarked, “ we are
generally much incommoded by the ejaculation
of certain words and Supplications excessively
unpleasant to our ears— many of my oldest
friends among you, whom I should never have
suspected of praying, Jiave there been visited
with such a paroxysm of religious feeling, that
iy
Google
168 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
one would imagine they had served a regular
apprenticeship to craw-thumping and psalm­
singing. We ntcfc-name them the doors of
repentance.— But I beg your pardon, let us lose
no time, for I have some particular business on
the Stock-Exchange to-day—we have a new
company or two starting, and have a scheme
for a train-road and cast-iron pavement, and
loco-motive engines of fifty legion power, tra­
versing between us and------ allow me to present
you with a *prospectus,* Mr. Bagsby.”
“ I beg your pardon, Sir,” replied the lawyer,
I don’t admire such presents—hem ! I’d much
rather not have any share in your concern—
ahem ! I beg leave respectfully to decline.”
“ Well, well— of that hereafter,” said he of
the black Geneva cloak, “ so, to the matter in
question. Have you any thing to propose ?”
“ Why, my good Sir,” replied Old Bagsby,
“ we have been examining your account against
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 169
my worthy client here, and, really—upon my
"honour—I must confess it all appears perfectly
clear—ahem ! It is an ugly piece of business."
“ It is quite correct, Sir, I’ll warrant," said
the other, rubbing his hands, and then applying
himself to his black snuff-box.
** Ahem !" continued Bagsby, “ Ahem! Ia
the first place, Sir, we take exception to every
item paid by you in forged notes, which form,
with some trivial exceptions, the whole of what
my client has received in England."
“ Do you call this fa irV ’ asked the other,
“ he might have had gold if he had chosen."
“ It is legal— sound law," replied Bagsby,
firmly, “ not a penny of that will we pay.—
Bring your action, we are ready."
The gentleman in black employed himself for
a minute in looking over his own copy of our
hero’s account, where he beheld sums amply
sufficient, he doubted not, for his purpose, which
Q
iy
Google
170 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
had been advanced to the unfortunate man in
Louis, Napoleons, florins, crowns, ducats, &c.,
&c., among which those paid for antique statues,
paintings, vases, medals, &c., &c., were delight­
fully prominent.
“ We will,” said he, at length, “ leave the
legality of my paper money to be discussed
hereafter—or even, for the sake of argument,
allow your position; what have you to say to
the rest, advanced in hard cash, to the tune of
some million or so of your pounds, in France,
Switzerland, Holland, Germany, and Italy ?”
“ This comes, as I said before,” ejaculated
Mr. Ledger, “ of visiting Popish countries.’*
“ Let me tell you, Sir,” replied Bagsby, “ l
have strong reason to suspect that the whole
were of base coinage.”
“ Prove it,” quoth the gentleman in black, in
a tone of calm defiance.
The lawyer sat humming over the lots of
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 171
parchments before him, like a bee buzzing over
and bussing a cluster of flowers, dipping his
proboscis alternately into each, but settling on
none. This disagreeable silence was broken by
Mr. Ledger, who addressed the' gentleman in
black in a manner which somewhat startled his
dipginess. “ Sir,” said he, “ you may consider
the matter as settled. I hold myself responsible
to you for the amount; and my word, Sir,, is
sufficient. I am willing now to give you a
cheque for half the sum, and the remainder
shall be paid as soon as my clerks, with Mr.
Maxwell, and our mutual friend Mr. Bagsby,
shall be satisfied of the accuracy of your ac­
count."
“ Upon my word, Sir,** replied the gentleman
in black, while his countenance assumed a de­
cidedly blueish tint, and for the first time he had
recourse to his black cut-glass smelling bottle
in a black ebony case. “ Upon my word, Mr.
iy
Google
172 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
Ledger—really. Ahem ! Your way of doing
business is so different from what I am accus­
tomed to, that, really, upon my darkness, I
don’t exactly understand it.” And again he
put his smelling bottle to his nose.
“ We’ll pay you off and close the account—
draw a line under your name, and so cut the
connection for ever,” said Ledger.
“ My dearest Sir, my much honoured and highly
respected friend! ” whispered old Bagsby, “ are
you serious? can you positively raise the wind
to such a tune? almost a million and a half?”
“ I have said the word,” replied Mr. Ledger,
“ write out a receipt in full of all demands.”
The gentleman in black hereat waxed ex­
tremely fidgetty, and felt somewhat like a huge
conger eel which the tide has left in shallow
water, among rocks, ahd which is attempting to
wriggle itself out. Mr. Maxwell’s heart was
full, and so hfc spake next, addressing his good
iy
Google
THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 173
friend and partner Mr. Ledger, thanking him
most sincerely for the extraordinary offer that
he had made; but declining altogether to accept
thereof, as, let the consequence be to him what
it might, he was determined not to involve his
friend in utter ruin.
“ Pshaw! ” replied Mr. Ledger, “ If you had
attended the counting-house but once a year, just
to look at ‘ the balance sheet/ you would know
better; but this comes of going abroad, and
travelling in Popish countries. What do you
suppose I’ve been about with your share of the
concern all this while ? Make yourself easy, my
dear Sir, for after this is all settled, we shall
still be found, like the beginning of our old
friend's parchment clauses, ‘ always provided,
nevertheless •/ ” and the worthy old merchant, in
the pride and joy of his*heart, laughed at his
own joke, and gave a careless glance towards
the gentleman in black, who had been employed
Q 2
iy
Google
174 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
with his blackguard and his black smelling bottle,
snuffing and smelling, to hide his disappointed
malignity. But, like the conger eel aforesaid,
he soon shifted his position, and addressing the
lawyer, said, “ You’ll please to observe, Sir, that
1 have not given up my claim to the bank notes;
I merely waived the discussion.”
“ Remember Newgate,” replied old Bagsby.
“ 1 do,” said the other, recovering himself;
u and have no sort of objection to pass another
night there, I felt myself quite at home, I assure
you. But,” he continued, turning to Mr. Led­
ger, “ do you mean to pay me for the notes ? ”
The old merchant now, in his turn, looked
somewhat confused; but old Bagsby took up the
cudgels, and replied, “ We will do nothing of
the kind.”
“ I make my demand,” continued the other,
“ and if it be not complied with, you must abide
the consequences/1
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 175
“ And so must you/* rejoined Bagsby ; “ let
me recommend you to accept, my good friend,
the worthy Mr. Ledger’s offer.”
“ I want none of your advice,” said he of
the sables.
“ Once more, as the mutual friend of both
parties,” continued the lawyer, “ I request you
to accede to so fair and honourable a propo­
sition.”
“ It is neither the one nor the other,” said the
gentleman in black, “ I will never agree to it ; ”
and he looked round with an assumed air of
carelessness in his turn. The discussion was
like the game of see-saw, one up and the other
down—but old Bagsby had yet, as he whispered
Mr. Ledger, his “ great gun” to fire. Wherefore,
“ attention” being called, he pulled off his spec­
tacles, hemmed three particularly loud hems, stif­
fened himself as near to a perpendicular as might
be, screwed up his courage to the “ sticking-
yGoogle
176 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
place/’ and, in a voice as stentorian as bis shri­
velled, whistling old pipe could compass, (sic ore
locutus est) thus spake he to the opposite party.
“ Then, Sir, you must abide the consequences.”
“ With all my heart,” replied the other, with
a sneer; “ do your worst.”
“ Very well, Sir,” said old Bagsby; €i then
listen! 1 shall immediately throw the whole
business into Ch a n cer y .”
“ Into where! ” cried the gentleman in black,
starting upon his legs, upsetting his black snuff*
box and black-guard, letting fall his black smell­
ing-bottle, oversetting his btyck bag and dis­
arranging his black-edged papers, while his
black hair stood erect upon his head, and his
black Geneva cloak swelled out rigidly behind, as
though thrust forth and supported by a mop-stick.
“ Into Chancery, ” repeated old Bagsby,
gravely; “ Mr. Ledger will pay the money into
Court.” .
iy
Google
Digitized by Google
iy
Google
K j ‘i».wi n--- V
»-- \
Digitized by Google
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 177
%
<From whence it will never come out in my
time,” roared the gentleman in black, like a
lion taken in the toils. “ No, no— I accept the
merchant’s offer.”
“ It’s too late now,” observed old Bagsby.
sorting out some papers; “ I expect a Chancery
barrister here immediately.”
“ Then Vm off,” said the other, “ but re­
member, Sir,” he continued, turning to Mr.
Ledger, “ Your word is past.”
“ Aye, aye,” replied the wary old merchant,
u and you shall be paid too—that’s my way—
always better pay money than go to law about
it. Know the worst of it then. But, remember,
a receipt in full of all demands.”
“ Aye, aye,” said the other, whose nervous
system was dismally affected, “ Fll sign any­
thing.”
Accordingly, much to the surprise and gratifi­
cation of our hero, Mr. Maxwell; the venerable
iy
Google
178 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
old merchant produced liis cheque-book, and
wrote a cheque for half the amount ; and then
with exchequer bills, bonds, and a tolerable
variety of shares in mines, railways, gas-lights,
steam-washing, shaving, shearing, carding, and
shuffling companies, (in most of which the gentle­
man who was so partial to a pinch of the black­
guard, had already a share) he made up the
other moiety. A regularly verbose receipt in
full of all demands, was drawn up by old
Bagsby, and signed by the gentleman in black.
The bonds of sinning were then rent asunder,
and committed to the flames, and, once more,
Mr« Maxwell breathed freely, as a free Christian
ought, and walked arm-and-arm with his partner
into the city. The gentleman in hlack pocketed
his recovered treasure, (minus about five hundred
pounds, which Bagsby deducted for stamps, &c.,
due from the receiver, and with which his con­
science would not allow him to charge his
)
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 179
clients), and with it went upon his favourite
haunt, the Stock Exchange, where, report says,
he laid it out well, by enriching some “ Sir
Balaams ” of the present day, and giving others
the furor for becoming suddenly opulent.
iy
Google
180 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
CHAPTER VI.
W hi le the transactions related in the last
chapter were in progress in London, the Comte
D ’Ormalle, better known perhaps to the reader
as Louis Desonges, was rusticating at his chateau
on the banks of the Loire ; and had become as
dull and melancholy as it was possible for a
Frenchman to be.
One evening, being reduced absolutely “ au
désespoir,” he was leaning upon the battlement
of an ancient terrace which overlooked the adja­
cent country for many a league ; and his eye
rested upon a fresh object at the entrance of
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 181
the neighbouring town. “ What can it b e?”
thought he. In his frame of mind any sort of
excitement was a momentary relief : so he went
for his telescope; and it exhibited to him a
cross of the mission, recently erected in the
place of one which had been destroyed at the
revolution. He gazed for awhile thereon, and
then threw himself upon a seat, and became
absorbed in thought for the space of at least
five minutes. “ I have it,” he cried at length,
“ I will send for him immediately and, starting
from his reverie, he walked towards the chateau,
for the purpose of writing a note to request a
visit from the abbé of the adjacent monastery.
“ It would be a useless exposure of yourself,”
observed the gentleman in black, advancing
from a recess wherein the statue of some sylvan
deity was placed, “ It could not possibly have
any other effect than frightening the old bigot .
out of his senses.”
K
iy
Google
182 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Monsieur! " said Comte Louis, somewhat
sternly, “ I am unused to interruptions of this
kind. Had I wished for your advice, I probably
might have requested the honour.”
“ Monsieur Le Comte,” replied the gentleman
in black, “ I perceive my error, and beg to
apologise; but the fact is, I have lately been in
England; and really one’s manners are apt to
be influenced by the sort of society with which
one mixes. No one can dislike their, what they
call, “ straight forward” manner more than my­
self. I beg ten thousand pardons. I hope I
have the honour to see your Excellency in good
health, and that the amiable Comtesse and your
dear young people are well.”
Although there was little in all this, yet there
was something so graceful in the manner of the
dark elderly gentleman, who, by the by, ap­
peared not a day older than when they first
became acquainted, that the Comte changed his
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 183
tone, and politely requested him to walk into the
chateau. Indeed there arose a vague hope
within him, that he might be able to make
some sort of fresh agreement, and mystify his
dark ally; for he had, at one period, dipped a
little into the arts of Gallic diplomacy. But it
seems that he was not an adept, or else that
the gentleman in black was more deeply versed
in the science; for, after half an hour's conver­
sation, he still, like Shylock, seemed averse to
speaking of any terms not specified in the
bond.
“ Then,” said Comte Louis, “ I shall instantly
apply to the church, for there is no time to
spare.”
The gentleman in black shrugged up his shoul­
ders and took snuff, and politely handed his
black box to the Comte, who had no sooner
partaken of its contents, than he remembered
some very fine old hock which was in his cellar:
iy
Google
184 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
and forthwith the two allies began a sort of
carouse, and the Comte’s spirits became un­
usually elevated.
u You may rely upon it,” said the dark gen­
tleman,. “ that good old wine is the most certain
cure for lowness of spirits. I really feel myself
much better already. Don’t you ?9
9
“ Why,” replied the Comte, <
#I cannot say
but what I feel a sort of a kind of a-----
“ Precisely so,” added the gentleman in black,
“ and so, as you were saying about the Com­
tesse------ ”
“ Excuse me,” said Louis, “ I did not mention
her name.”
“ It’s all the same thing,” observed the
other, “ you were thinking of her. The bottle
stands with you! The fact is, that she has all
the benefit of the contract. You really don’t
spend anything yourself: and it would save a
vast deal of trouble if she were able to make
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 185
use of the black morocco pocket-book herself.
If you will obtain her signature to this” (here
he produced a small black-edged scroll, tied
with black tape) “ it might be a great accom­
modation to all parties. But the bottle stands
with you! It’s a mere matter of form, but
really it would oblige m e: and to convince you
of my friendship, I pledge myself to require not
a single moment of sin from you for the next
seven years, if you will merely do me the faVour
to tell her to sign her name just here. No­
thing can be more liberal! ”
“ Seven years !” repeated the Comte, “ hem—
seven years— there’s something in th a t!” and
he filled his glass and tossed it off. “ Seven
years— eh—w ell! Let me see, what is it that I
am to do ?”
“ Nothing more,” replied the gentleman in
black, “ than, as she is your wife, to tell her to
put her name to this paper.”
r 2
iy
Google
186 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ You may as well put it in your pocket
again/’ said the Comte, sighing, “ she has not
done anything that 1 have told her to do for
these ten years.” .
“ B ah! ” ejaculated the gentleman in black,
“ that comes of your never refusing to pay her
bills. Break down her carriages, and get some­
body to burn her lace; and then stop the sup­
plies, and I will engage—The bottle stands with
you! I’ll engage that she’ll sign anything
rather than be without those indispensable ar­
ticles.”
“ Hem,” said the Comte, “ there may be
something in that—(Hiccup)— You are a devil­
ish, knowing, extraordinary, dark, old, elderly,
gentleman, and I protest that the idea of the
lace is excellent! I'll burn it all myself.”
“ And I’ll engage to find plenty more," ob­
served the gentleman of the black silk purse,
“ for, to tell you the truth, I was the original
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 187
inventor.. She'll not be the first woman whom
I have caught in that sort of a net* Ha, h a !
You'll excuse the pun!”
The Comte’s recollection was not now per­
fectly clear: but it seems that he took the black-
edged paper, and put it into his black morocco
pocket book, and, shortly after, fell asleep.
The next day he departed for Paris; mid on
his arrival, was informed that the Comtesse had
joined a party of her father’s friends in an ex­
cursion to Fontainebleau. Thus compelled to
remain in inaction, he began to feel doubtful
whether his once mild and gentle Emilie might
be persuaded to favour him with her signature.
He felt that she was an altered being, and little
like the lovely partner of his walks by Lake
Leman's side: but there arose within him a
painful conviction, that he had not been alto­
gether without change himself; and then he
began to indulge in reminiscences, which ended
iy
Google
1 8 8 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
in the ejaculation, “ Poor Emilie ! ” aiid he
resolved, at all events, to delay his intended
solicitations for her signature, and see, in the
meanwhile, if anything could be accomplished,
in his favour, by the church.
The summons of M. Le Comte D ’Ormalle had
not long left his hotel, ere there appeared before
him, in consequence thereof, “ a little, round,
fat, oily man of God,” Dodun by name, a zea­
lous ecclesiastic, who was always happy to wait
upon both poor and rich, particularly the latter.
He entered Comte Louis's apartment with a
most benignant and refreshing smile, and bowed
as gracefully as it was possible for such a
droll little body to bow; and then, obeying the
waving of the Comte's hand, deposited himself
upon a chair. But he had not sat long thereon,
listening to Louis's account of the past, ere his
“ too solid flesh ” began, as it were, to “ melt
and dissolve itself into a d e w a n d , withal, he
yGc ^ e
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 189
trembled exceedingly, for he, like old Bagsby,
considered the thing to be “ an ugly piece of
business.” .
He, however, had been brought up in a very
different school from that in which the crafty old
lawyer had acquired his resources, and was
utterly unable to divine how the Comte might
be “ pulled through.” So he sat, gasping for
awhile, looking unutterable things, and then rose
up, or rather slid down, from his chair, and
commenced a retreat by no means so graceful
as his entrance.
“ The old fellow was right,” sighed Comte
Louis to himself, “ I have merely frightened the
bigot out of his senses, and rendered myself no
sort of service—but, Apropos—” and he recol­
lected that, in all former difficulties, gold had
effected his desired purpose. So he forthwith
apologized to the poor ecclesiastic for having
introduced the subject without a proper prelude;
iy
Google
190 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
and told him that he could not, of course, ex­
pect the interference of the church, before he
should prove himself a dutiful son ; and, more­
over, that, as he had immense sums at his com­
mand, he thought that the erection of a church,
or an abbey, or the redemption of some of the
church lands, might be acceptable as a token
of his sincerity.
At these words the retrograde movements of
the worthy priest were suspended, and he seemed
much impressed by such evidences of sincere
contrition : and, anon, he ventured to resume
his seat, and the Comte prevailed upon him to
eat a biscuit, and take a glass of champagne,
and to become the bearer of a few rouleaux
“ pour les pauvres.”
Poor Dodun was unused to champagne; he
had never before been the bearer of so much
money, nor ever before sat tête à tête with a
peer of France, or any man capable of building
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 191
abbies and cathedrals at bis own expence ; and,
certainly, he had never before heard such a tale
about the gentleman in black. Each of these
causes might have wrought somewhat upon him ;
but their united effects produced a singular confu­
sion of intellect, insomuch that he took leave of
the Comte with many expressions of respect, and
a series of rolling bows, during the enactment of
which he averred that the power of the church
was immense; that he was an unworthy and
humble son thereof: but, yet, M. le Comte
might rely upon him ; and that, in short, he
would repeat his visit on the morrow.
The bewildered priest told, that night, to his
superior, a most wondrous tale, concerning the
probable erection of a new abbey, and the visible
bodily appearance of the gentleman in black,
at which the said superior shook his head, and
seemed greatly scandalized, and commanded
brother Dodun to retire incontinently to his
iy
Google
192 THE GENTLEMAN TN BLACK.
cell: and brother Dodun retired accordingly,
and was greviously troubled in his dreams until
the morning, when he endeavoured to persuade
himself that the whole affair was a dream alto­
gether ; and probably might have succeeded, but
for the presence of the rouleaux, which bore too
weighty an evidence to the contrary. So he
took them to his superior, who, notwithstanding
the irregular proceedings of the last evening,
received them and their bearer with great benig­
nity ; for brother Dodun was, as his inclination
to obesity indicated, a pleasant and harmless
sort of fellow, and, withal, an agreeable com­
panion when the brotherhood met in the refec­
tory, and one who understood the meaning of
€t desipere in loco/'
When, however, the poor fellow repeated his
tale, the dignitary’s countenance underwent a
considerable change; and he called for holy
water and a pair of scales, wherewith the pieces
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 193
of gold were scrutinized, and each found <to be
perfectly “ comme il faut.”
“ We have no right to refuge that which is
given “ pour les pauvres,” said the abbé, “ let
it come from where it may.”
Dodun bowed assent.
“ As for this Comte D ’Ormalle,” continued
the other, “ I feel it to be my duty to wait upon
him myself. It appears to me that he is much
to be pitied ; and, I have no doubt, is a very
amiable man.”
The abbé, consequently, paid his respects to
our hero, and told him that it was an ugly piece
of business; but that the church was very pow­
erful, and that he was a humble son thereof ;
yet that, nevertheless, he should not despair,
but immediately proceed to consider the case.
“ In the meanwhile I should advise,” said he,
“ that M. le Comte would take into considera­
tion the state of the chapel of Notre Dame de
s
iy
Google
194 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
* * * which is really in such a state of dilapida­
tion, that the faithful are in a perilous situation.”
“ Might I ask the favour of your becoming my
almoner in such a case?” asked the Comte,
taking sundry billets de Banque from his black
morocco book; “ I request it as a favour; for
upon my honour, I understand nothing of archi­
tecture.”
The abbé condescended to grant the boon,
and notwithstanding his numerous engagements,
promised to see that the money was properly
laid ou t: and then he went his way, well pleased
with the result of his morning visit.
But the business in hand was of too great im­
portance to be settled by an abbé; therefore the
abbé went to his bishop, and communicated the
interesting particulars of the case; whereupon
the bishop, who was somewhat advanced in
years, and moreover of “ la vielle cour,” crossed
himself in divers directions, and shook his head,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 195
while his whole body vibrated m unison there­
unto. When he was somewhat recovered, he gave
it as his opinion that such transactions had been
but too common during the revolution, and in
the absence of the Bourbons.
, “ We must take time to consider and examine
into the case/’ said he, “ it will probably throw
some new light upon many of the affairs of that
dark period of our national history, when reli­
gion existed scarcely even in name. As for the
Comte D ’Ormalle, I have no doubt, from what
you state, that he b a very good subject, and
a very amiable man. Indeed I feel much in­
terested in hb situation, and shall make a point
of calling upon him; therefore, Monsieur L’Abbé,
you need not give yourself any further uneasi­
ness or trouble in the affair. What you have
done is exceedingly proper and judicious—you
may now leave the case with me.”
The bishop forthwith ordered his carriage,
iy
Google
196 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
and paid a visit to our hero, who, malgré the
honour thus bestowed upon him, felt a little
annoyed at the transfer, from hand to hand,
of his somewhat urgent business. The bishop,
however, conducted himself with the most courtly
politeness, and assured him, upon his honour,
that it was a very ugly piece of business ; but
that the power of the church was immense, .and
that, though he himself was only a humble
individual son thereof, he would nevertheless,
take upon himself to counsel the Comte not
to despair, particularly as he was possessed of
the means of doing good.
“ There never, my dear Mens. Le Comte/*
continued he, “ was a time when so many oppor­
tunities of evincing sincere contrition presented
themselves. The sacrilegious estrangement of
the church lands from their original pious and
charitable owners, is a crying national evil. I
think thereof frequently with alarm. There is
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 197
an abbey now, which I have the best means
of knowing the value of. It is on the blinks
of the Loire, and formerly its revenues amounted
to more than one hundred thousand livres;
but now they are merely nominal, some few
hundreds, perhaps, as the best and largest por­
tion of the land has been sold and re-sold half
a dozen times, and changed its name as often;
and now, I am told, it belongs to some upstart
parvenu of the revolution, who bought himself
a chateau and title somewhere in Germany, I
forget the name, Braanks-something, but that's
of little consequence. We have made some
overtures to his agent, because it seems that
the fellow himself never troubles his head about
business. However, I won’t trespass on your
time, Mons. Le Comte. I merely throw out
a hint: nothing can render the church more
essential service than the redemption of her
lands. It is far better than wasting money on
s 2
iy
Google
198 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
buildings which must come to decay, whereas
land will always, if well managed, produce the
means of supporting the establishment respect­
ably in all its departments. I merely offer
the suggestion; you will reflect upon it. A s
for the estate I mentioned,—really 1 am getting
old— I have forgotten the name; but, if you
can devise how anything can be effected; it
matters little to me individually. A t my time of
life, and with the acccumulated and important
duties of my arduous office, one has other matters
to think of; but my secretary can furnish you with
particulars. I will have the honour of waiting
upon you again in a few days; and, in the
meanwhile, will take your singular case into
consideration.”
Had the bishop mentioned any other estate in
France, probably the Comte would have imme­
diately advanced the money for the purchase
thereof: but his chateau on the banks of the
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 199
Loire, with all the improvements and plantations
thereon and thereabout, which were the work of
his own head and hands ; the “ Babylon which
he had built;” the place where, he trusted, that
his sons and his sons’ sons, for many gene­
rations would dwell long and respected, in happy
ignorance of the manner in which the family
estate was acquired; that, and the thousand
dreams thereon dependent, were too dear to
be parted from in a moment.
u Beside,” thought the Comte to himself, “ I
know not if the sacrifice would benefit me in
the least. In all probability the old bishop
would act like the abbé and the monk; and,
having effected his own immediate purpose, hand
me over to some archbishop or cardinal, who,
in his turn, might transfer me to the inquisition
or the Pope.”
Possibly the Comte's 4‘ amour propre” might
have been somewhat wounded by the epithets
iy
Google
200 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
used by the bishop. No man likes to be called a
parvenu: and few dislike the term more than the
man who has lately mounted a coronet. When
left to himself, he again began to reflect. The
idea of going to. England had frequently oc­
curred to him before; for, to do him justice,
he had not entirely forgotten his former youthful
friend, Charles Maxwell; he had, however, gene­
rally given up the scheme as hopeless, from a
notion of the impossibility of finding an indi­
vidual in a country where there are no passports,
even if his friend were in England; but it had
been represented to him, that all our.country­
men, who were possessed of adequate means,
or who were not engaged in some office, were
travelling and scattered abroad in all quarters
of the globe.
“ No doubt,” said he to himself, “ Maxwell,
if yet living, has bought some unpronounceable
title, and is now roaming through Mesopotamia,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 201
or Siberia, or China, or Timbuctoo, or Terra
del Fuego, or to the North Pole. One might
as well think of finding the wandering Jew as
a wandering Englishman. But “ c’est egal!”
I may as well go to London as remain here
while the bishop is taking “ my singular case
into consideration.” . However, I will first see
Emilie and the children.”
Accordingly he went to see his children that
day; and, if we wrote for the purpose of exciting
the compassionate feelings of our readers, we
should describe the particulars of his interview
with each. As it is, suffice it to say, that, ere
they parted, he pressed them to his bosom, bent
over them and sighed; and, as his sumptuous
equipage rolled back with him into Paris, he
hid his face in his hands, groaned in spirit and
wept bitterly.
Yet when his carriage was stopped, for a
few moments, in the Boulevards, by a crowd
iy
Google
202 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
collected round a bear and three well dressed
monkies, the Comte D ’Ormalle’s head issued
therefrom, and he applauded their ape-ish tricks
in great apparent glee, and threw a louis to the
savoyard, and was, in return, applauded by the
populace, who made way for his carriage, and
shouted “ Vive Monsieur Le Duc !”
Next day the Comtesse came back from
Fontainebleau, accompanied by her most per­
pendicular father, the Comte de Tien à la Cour,
the abbé Beueton, his now constant companion,
and some half dozen of that highly favoured
class which most do congregate about the pre­
cincts of a court, pluming and glorifying them­
selves in the name of ancestors, who would
most assuredly, if allowed to revisit “ the
precincts of the cheerful day,” be specially
ashamed of their posterity. It seems that
the whole party were particularly fond of
“ news,” or, as we familiarly say, “ gossip­
yGoogle
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 203
ing ;” a science which, with the usual adjuncts
of “ envy, hatred, malice, and all uncharitable­
ness,” flourisheth greatly among those who are
somewhat curtailed in their means, but who
have, or fancy they have, great claims and
pretensions to respect and consideration.
The Abbé Beueton was an excellent jackall
for these soi-disant lions ; and he had scarcely
been an hour in Paris, ere he picked up some
shreds and patches of the Comte D ’Ormalle’s
“ singular case ” from the brethren of brother
Dodun, who was reported to have seen divers
strange visions, and to have uttered sundry mar­
vellous and portentous outcries during his fe­
verish slumbers.
These “ odds and ends,” the Abbé Beueton,
as in duty bound, related, in confidence, to his
patron, the Comte de Tien à la Cour, who saw
fit to extend that confidence to his valet, charg­
ing him to examine more particularly into the
iy
Google
204 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
business, and to report progress at the next
sitting. The valet whispered thereof into the
ear of the Comtesse’s waiting woman, who was
quite shocked at the idea of something dreadful,
she knew not what; and her imagination and
fear were extremely active during the brief
interval, which expired between the communi­
cation of the valet, and her being summoned
to attend the Comtesse.
“ What’s the matter with you, Lisette ? ”
asked her mistress, “ you look as if you had
been overturned. Did the carriage break down ?
where was it ? Has Blousseau brought home
that dress yet? There— that silk, you see, is
all manner of colours. They have lost the art
of dyeing, I think, or the sun is getting nearer
the earth. Ah ! that’s it. I remember Mon­
sieur Salamander’s lecture—we shall all be
broiled. Don’t you think so ? Why don’t
you speak ? M
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 205
“ I’m afraid we shall,” said Lisette, “ but
it’s a good thing to have a clear conscience.
Indeed I should be very sorry to leave so
good a mistress, but—here he comes ! ” and
she began muttering a prayer and handling
a crucifix, as she saw her master cross the
court.
“ What can ail the silly girl?” exclaimed
the Comtesse, “ tell me, Lisette, speak out! you
terrify m e !”
“ I am terrified myself,” sobbed Lisette, “ oh,
the virgin! who would have thought it ? So
nice a gentleman ! '*
“ Who? what—what are you talking about?
I insist on knowing,” said the Comtesse.
Lisette forthwith revealed all she had heard,
and a little more; whereby it appeared that the
Comte was haunted by some evil spirit, and the
Comtesse averred that she felt no doubt the
report was perfectly true, for she had written
T
iy
Google
206 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
to him twice for money, and he had taken no
notice of her letters.
“ I am glad you bear it so well,” observed
Lisette; “ for my own part, if the devil was my
husband, I should go mad.”
“ You are mad already, I think,” replied the
Comtesse.
“ Oh no, indeed,''* said Lisette, tc I wish I
w as; but it's all true. For you know, my
lady, where an evil spirit has got into a man,
they are all one, and therefore ”------
“ Nonsense. Then all men are devils,” added
the Comtesse.
“ Very likely,” observed Lisette, looking de­
mure, “ I am not married, however, to one, that’s
some comfort.,’
“ Nay then,” said the Comtesse, “ if you are
thankful because you are not married, something
very strange indeed must have happened to you ;
so, sit down like a good girl, and tell me all
you have heard.”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 207
Lisette had no more to tell; but thus com­
manded, she repeated what she had said before,
with certain alterations and additions tending to
support her theory, that when a devil had pos­
session of a man, the said man was thereby
transformed into a devil. The Comtesse, who
had never before known the want of money
since her marriage, had been not a little nettled
at her lord’s neglect, and felt previously disposed
to confer upon him the benefit of conjugal dis­
cipline; so being a good Catholic, she now
resolved to commence with the new and extraor­
dinary accusation against him, which had just
met her ear.
When she entered the apartment in which the
Comte was sitting, although they had not been
separated for more than three months, he arose
and hastened towards her with almost lover-like
alacrity, and was much surprised at her recoiling
from his embrace.
iy
Google
208 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ My dear Emilie,” said he, “ what ails
you r
“ Oh, Louis! Louis!” exclaimed she, raising
her handkerchief to her eyes, “ how dreadfully
you have deceived me! Are you not ashamed
to look me in the face ?”
“ Ashamed, Madam! ” exclaimed the Comte,
“ may I be permitted to have the honour o f
inquiring what you can possibly mean ?”
“ May I,” asked the Comtesse, drawing her­
self up into as commanding an attitude as
might be, “ may I be permitted to have the
honour of inquiring who you are?”
“ Who I a m !’' ejaculated the Comte, and
glancing aside at a mirror, as though, for the
moment, dubious of his own identity.
“ Yes,” said the Comtesse, “ who you are.
Tell me, who are you ?” and she held her
handkerchief and fan with as much formality
as, in ancient paintings, kings and queens up­
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 209
hold the insignia of royalty, for she had resolved
to get up a scene.
“ Really, Madam,” replied the Com te,“ there
is something utterly incomprehensible, I had
almost said ridiculous, in all this. Will you
do me the favour to explain ?9
9
“ No, Sir,” was the reply, “ the explanation
must come from you. Once more I ask you,
who are you ? what do you call yourself? ”
“ I beg to be excused from making any reply,”
said he, somewhat haughtily, for a sudden
thought struck him. He had heard of ladies
who, when enervated by the fatigues of dissipa­
tion, were in the habit of reviving their drooping
spirits by Eau de Cologne, Rosolio, &c., &c.,
and sometimes, by accident, mistaking the pro­
per quantity. It was a painful and degrading
reflection, but he could not tell otherwise how
to account for a lady’s not knowing her own
husband. Therefore he likewise drew himself
t 2
iy
Google
à
210 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
up into an erect position, and added in a cold
and constrained manner, “ it is quite useless,
Emilie—Madame, to continue this conversation
now. To-morrow, perhaps, you will be more
yourself; at present, you are evidently under
the influence of—o f”- -
“ Of—of what?” exclaimed the Comtesse,
reddening with anger*
“ O h ! nothing—nothing,” replied the Comte,
cavalierly; “ 1 suppose it is the fashion, Madame
—only of—of—evil spirits.”
“ I possessed by evil spirits! ” ejaculated the
Comtesse. “ You are pleased to be facetious,
Monsieur! But, n o! 1 will not be turned from
my purpose* Listen! (here the lady assumed
what was intended to be an awe-imposing atti­
tude) listen and know, wretched man 1 that thy
secret is discovered.”
“ What do you mean ?” exclaimed the Comte,
and a sudden qualm rushed across his mind,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 211
as he thought that between the monk, and the
. abbé, and the bishop, and the bishop’s secretary,
and all their official and confidential friends, it
was barely possible. The consequence was a
visible agitation, and an involuntary ejaculation
of “ Le D iâble!”
“ Precisely so,” said the Comtesse ; and the
Comte was convinced, by that phrase, that the
gentleman in black had betrayed him. •“ Yes,”
continued the Comtesse, “ Le Diâble, indeed!
That is the very thing. I know all about it.”
“ Then, Madame,” said the Comte, after some
hesitation, “ you cannot but pity me. You
must be aware that I have, hitherto, concealed
the truth from you, merely to save your feelings,
and that I have made use of my wealth and
consequent power to promote your happiness.”
Here the lady was quite overwhelmed by the
violence of contending emotions; for she had
only pretended to believe Lisette’s tale for the
iy
Google
212 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
purpose of producing effect. Now, however, her
husband had, as it seemed, confessed his devil- •
hood; and, therefore, on that hint she spake,
and called him by a great variety of names, and
vowed that she had been entrapped, and deceived,
and most exceedingly ill-used, and withal that
she had always suspected that there was some­
thing very mysterious about him.
It would seem that the habit of having her
own way for so many years had changed the
Comtesse when delivering her sentiments; and
her spouse could not help comparing the cutting
vituperations, to which it was his fate to be now
exposed, with the silvery tones of his beloved
Emilie before marriage; and he rashly ventured
to say something thereupon. The consequence
was a repetition of the epithets before mentioned,
with the addition of a few more which happened
to occur to the Comtesse’s recollection; and the
whole was terminated by something very like
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 213
hysterics, (but not precisely so, for the Comtesse
was not much given to nervous affections), and
the angry avowal, that had she known or sus­
pected the truth, notwithstanding his riches,
rather than have married him, she would have
seen him in the very worst and deepest part of
a very bad place, that shall be nameless here.
“ I don’t believe a word of it,” said the Comte,
who felt somewhat exasperated in his turn.
“ Don’t you, Monsieur Diable ? ” exclaimed
the incensed Comtesse; “ but you slTall see that
I have a spirit; for I vow that you shall never
see my face a g a i n a n d , with these words, she
rushed out of the room.
Whether the lady meant this as somewhat
more than a mere lover’s vow, or whether the
Comte really believed she would keep it, can
scarcely be ascertained ; for she instantly began
to collect some unpaid bills, respecting which
she had been lately annoyed; and he, imme-
yGoogle
214 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
diately on being left alone, took a pinch of
snuff, shrugged up his shoulders, and observed
that “ something worse might have happened
and then summoned his valet, and ordered him
to prepare for a journey to England, which he
had resolved to commence immediately.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 215
CHAPTER VII.
W hen the Comte arrived in London, he found
no difficulty m obtaining the address of hi9
quondam youthful friend, Mr. Maxwell; and
their meeting was such as might be expected
between two persons who have frequently, dur­
ing a protracted separation, thought upon the
days of “ auld lang syne.**
Comte Louis listened to the particulars of his
brother bondsman's escape, with a degree of
patience which is seldom bestowed upon long
stories: and was not the less anxious for an
introduction to old Bagsby, because he could
not exactly comprehend the nature of the threat­
yGoogle
216 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
ened Chancery suit, with which that ancient
limb of the law had so effectually alarmed the
gentleman in black.
The two friends accordingly repaired forth­
with to Lyon’s Inn, where they found the lean
veteran at his post, and received that sort of
welcome which rich clients usually experience
from experienced legal advisers.
Mr. Maxwell introduced the Comte and his
business: and the Comte himself endeavoured
to elucidate the subject; but he spoke such an
odd sort of English, as might have tended to
perplex any one, except an old lawyer, who had
lived more than half a century in the midst of
botheration and intricate investigation.
“ Humph !” said the man of parchment, after
patiently listening to his client’s statement,
“ Humph! This is an ugly piece of busi­
ness!” and he pulled off his spectacles, and
laid them on the table, and threw himself back
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 217
in his chair, and projected his under lip, and
began to pull it with the forefinger and thumb
of his left hand, while the two friends, but
more particularly the Comte, watched his mo­
tions with no small degreee of anxiety, and a
most profound and respectful silence.
After a brief pause, there appeared a gleam
of cunning exultation lighted up in the old
fellow's eye; and his wrinkled mouth, in spite
of the hold upon the under lip, pursed itself
into somewhat like a corresponding smile.
Divers other contortions followed, such as one
might suppose to have been in fashion among
the Sybils; and, at length, he spoke oracularly.
“ Humph! This is an ugly piece of business!
But, however, Sir, if you will put yourself en­
tirely in my hands, and follow my directions
implicitly, I think we need not despair. Indeed
I have no doubt we shall be able to pull you
through.’*
u
iy
Google
218 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Est il possible! ” exclaimed the Comte,
u my dear Sir! What a fool I have been to
waste my time in parleying with ignorant monks
and priests, instead of coming to you! I am
perfectly enchanted and astonished at your
abilities! It is a disgrace to your highly
polished and polite nation that you are not
Lord Chancellor!
We have here given the substance, rather than
the words of Monsieur Le Comte D ’Ormalle,
and mean, during the recital of what happened
to him in England, to adopt the same plan,
inasmuch as, if we were to repeat his Gallicisms,
the effect produced might be somewhat too
light and ludicrous for the serious nature of
our tale. It is not to be expected in any case
that foreigners can speak like natives. Indeed,
the gentleman in black had told our heroes
many years before, when they were commencing
their travels, that, notwithstanding his friendship
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 219
and wish to oblige them, he could not assist
them in that particular.
“ For,” said he, “ in spite of the constant
intercourse which I have with various nations,
the continual alterations in idioms and phrase­
ology, and the coining and changing of words
are such, that I am frequently puzzled my­
self.”
In the present case, however, the Comte’s bad
English was of little importance, since most
persons can understand flattering speeches, how­
ever indifferently they may be expressed.
Bagsby, therefore, bowed his acknowledg­
ments, and muttered somewhat about its being
a man’s duty to be satisfied, if “ in these times
he could get bread and cheese, and make both
ends meet.”
Mr. Maxwell, who had now, under the in­
struction of his father’s old friend and servant,
Mr. Ledger, become somewhat like a man of
iy
Google
220 TUS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
business, requested Bagsby to communicate his
plan for the discomfiture of the gentleman in
black: and the Comte, having declared, upon
his honour, that he would act, in every respect,
as he should be directed, the man of law made
him produce Us black morocco book, and com­
pare some of the notes therein with others which
were in the office, and which had been brought
directly from the bank*
Spectacles and magnifying glasses were used,
but the trio were unable to discover the smallest
difference; and Bagsby could not refrain from
heaving a sigh at the recollection of the toil
and difficulty which he had experienced in
amassing the few he was able to call his own;
while the Comte had only to open his book and
take out any number he thought fit. He knew
that there was not a word about interest men­
tioned in the bond, and strange visions came
over his mind, of the immense profits which,
k
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 221
with his knowledge of things in general, he
could make of an unlimited capital under such
circumstances. “ I’d be bound very shortly to
pay the dingy gentleman his principal,” thought
he, “ and realize a handsome fortune.” And
again he sighed and appeared, for a few
seconds, lost in a reverie, from which he
was aroused by Mr. Maxwell, who said that
he had business in the city, and must be
moving.
The lean limb of the law forthwith began to
unfold part of his plan, and instructed the
Comte to purchase bullion and foreign specie
with the notes aforesaid. “ We will never,”
said he, “ allow any of the forgeries to be
carried to account against you by the gentleman
in question; and you may very shortly, in this
way, realize a sufficient sum to set all straight
with the old fellow.”
The Comte was highly delighted with the
u 2
iy
Google
222 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
scheme, and immediately commenced operation»,
by going into the city and buying, at a some­
what apparently dear rate, divers weighty pack­
ages of Napoleons, louis d’ors, &c., &c. : and,
when the market was somewhat thinned of gold,
he began to speculate in silver.
These transactions, which we here briefly re­
late, occupied many days, and caused a rise of
no small magnitude in the prices of gold and
silver bullion. Indeed the subsequent scarcity
of the precious metals throughout the British
empire, and the depreciation of paper money,
respecting which so many opaque pamphlets
were written, have been supposed by some to
date their origin from these and similar trans­
actions. That is to say, from endeavours to pay
the gentleman in black, what appeared to be
his due.
In the mean while he did not remain idle.
The demands of the Comte D ’Ormalle upon the
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 223
black morocco leather pocket-book, were too
frequent to escape the notice of so nice a cal­
culator; and, after some inquiry, finding how
matters were going on, he called upon Bagsby,
and had a long private interview with him,
during which it is said that high words past
between them : but the exact particulars never
transpired. :
The immediate result, however, was, that old
Jerry was despatched with a letter to the
Comte, desiring him instantly to change his
quarters, and take lodgings in some retired
part of the town, and, on no account whatsoever,
to shew himself in public.
With the former part of this advice his client
instantly complied, being assisted in his research
for a snug retreat by Mr. Maxwell: but, alas !
all men have their weak sides; and there are
certain pleasures so bewitching and fascinating
to us all, in our turn, that even the dread of
the gentleman in black himself, is not suffi­
yGoogle
224 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
ciently powerful to deter us from the enjoyment
thereof.
The Comte found it utterly impossible to
absent himself from the opera: and, having
made up his mind to go, he found little diffi­
culty in persuading himself that he should be
as completely concealed in the midst of a
crowded audience, as in his own lodgings.
Therefore he went to see his countryman,
Monsieur Piaffeur, achieve a complicated dance
with the two Mademoiselles Rebatins; and
was so delighted with the performance of the
trio, that he could not avoid exclaiming, “ Su~
perbe et magnifique! Bravo! etencore! ”
Some half score pair of eyes were immediately
turned toward the enthusiastic applauder, who,
with a chilly and uncomfortable feeling, recog*
nised among them those of an old acquaintance,
who had formerly sported a pompadour coat
in the Palais Royal.
The Comte, who was considered somewhat of
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 225
a proficient in the art, resolved to “ cut” him,
and accordingly armed himself with his snuff­
box and eye glass, and acted his part “ á mer­
veille,” gazing as unconsciously as possible at the
individual in question, and then turned away
to look at something else, with an expressive
shrug of the shoulders, which said, as plainly
as shrug could speak, “ No, Sir, I certainly
have never had the honour of being introduced
to you.’*
But the gentleman in black, instead of being
put out of countenance, seemed much diverted
by this display of sang froid, and forthwith re­
peated the poor Comte’s exclamation, “ Superbe
et magnifique! Bravo ! encore ! ”
Whereupon the Frenchman again hoisted his
shoulders, and said “ Bourgeois ! ” and re­
doubled his efforts to appear perfectly at ease,
aud consequently drew upon himself a double
share of notice.
iy
Google
226 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
Now it happened, fortunately» that Mr. Max«
well was at the opera that night; and it was
yet more fortunate that his attention was drawn
to the spot, where this little scene was enacted in
the pit. He had become, as we have observed
before, under Mr. Ledger's tuition, somewhat of a
man of business, and, therefore, he knew that de­
lays were dangerous, so he instantly despatched
a friend who was in the box with him, to sum­
mon old Bagsby to the seat of action, feeling,
no doubt, that the gentleman in black was con­
templating a coup de main: and it was well
that he did so, for the lean and learned man of
law arrived just in time to witness the caption
of his client by Messieurs Tappem and Grumps,
two of the legal “ operatives9
9 on such services,
who acted under the orders of Mr. Micros
Crabseye, of whom we have had occasion for­
merly to speak.
Mr. Maxwell offered bail to any amount in
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 227
behalf of his friend ; but Mr. Crabseye declared
bail to be quite inadmissible, as the prisoner’s
offence was of a capital nature. “ Indeed,” said
he, “ if it were not so, and the proofs were much
less plain, there have been so many forged notes
in the market lately, that it is our duty to the
public, as well as to ourselves, to make an ex­
ample whenever we have it in our power.”
“ Humph! ” coughed Bagsby, whose presence
then was first perceived, “ Humph! this is an
ugly piece of business! But,” he whispered to
the Comte, “ keep up your spirits! I have no
doubt that we shall be able to pull you
through.”
“ Who sent for you?” exclaimed the gentle­
man in black, who appeared much ruffled and
forgetful of his habitual politeness, at this un­
expected and unwelcome apparition of one of
the very few persons in the world, by whom he
had been outwitted.
iy
Google
* 228 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ What’s that to you ?” asked Bagsby, with
the same degree of urbanity, “ If you had agreed
to my reasonable proposition, and let me have a
pocket book------ ”
“ Pshaw ! ” exclaimed the gentleman of the
black books, interrupting him, “ Reasonable,
indeed ! I’m not such a fool as to pay a high
price for what I'm sure of getting for nothing.
No, no,” and he began to laugh at his own
joke, as was very customary with him, and to
take snuff with great glee, while Bagsby ap­
peared to be trembling with passion, and lite­
rally foaming at the mouth.
“ We can’t waste our time,” said Mr. Micros
Crabseye, “ Come Tappem ! Come Grumps !
Do your duty.”
“ There is no occasion for violence,” said
Mr. Maxwell. “ Let the gentleman be treated
according to his station in life, which is that
of a peer of France.”
iy
Google
i
Messrs. Tappem and Grumps receded two
steps at this information, but kept their eyes
steadfastly upon the prisoner, while Mr. Crabs-
eye very inelegantly remarked, that it was all
gammon and humbug, and that he had no
notion of foreign counts and marquesses.
The scene had hitherto been enacted in the
lobby of the theatre: but, as a crowd began to
collect, Mr. Maxwell offered the use of his
carriage, by which, and a hackney coach,
which Mr. Crabseye had in waiting, all the
parties were speedily removed, “ as per agree­
ment,” to a neighbouring hotel; Bagsby taking
an opportunity, during the transit, of recovering
his lost temper, and whispering certain instruc­
tions into Mr. Maxwell*s ear, in consequence
of which, immediately on entering the hotel,
that gentleman gave orders for wines and re­
freshment to be placed on the table.
When they entered the room it wanted pre-
x
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 229
iy
Google
1
230 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
cisely twenty minutes to twelve o’clock. It
was an anxious time for the poor Comte, who
had his black morocco leather pocket-book
about him, containing many of the notes in
question, the discovery of which upon his per­
son would, he knew, render his case absolutely
desperate.
But neither Mr. Maxwell nor old Bagsby had
forgotten that, provided the said notes were not
previously produced, they would, according to
the bond, vanish at midnight.
The former, therefore, politely addressed Mr*
Crabseye, telling him that he had frequently
heard of his extreme vigilance, and that it was
much better that, as in the present case, an
innocent man should be put to inconvenience,
than that the guilty should escape. “ Really,
my good Sir,” he continued, “ the Bank of
England, nay, I may say the public in general,
are greatly indebted to you. For my own
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 231
part, as a partner in a house of sonde eminence
in the city, I feel a degree of personal obligation,
which, upon my word, I hardly know how to
express/9
“ Very likely not/* observed the gentleman in
black, who was as well aware of the value of
time as any of the parties. “ Do me the favour,
Mr. Crabseye, just to cast your eye on that
gentleman; and then, perhaps, you will recollect
certain forged notes being traced to him some
time since.’9
“ I know the gentleman and his firm, Max­
well, Ledger, and Co.,” replied Mr. Crabseye,
“ We have kept a sharp look out, I promise
you: but all’s right there. I don’t know a more
respectable merchant in the city, than Mr.
Ledger.”
“ He’s an old hum-drum, line-ruling, dot-and
go-one, calculating, plodding, sneaking, inani­
mate, old-fashioned, rusty, old square toes!”
iy
Google
232 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
exclaimed the gentleman in black, forgetting
himself for a moment, in his rage against Mr.
Ledger, of whom he never liked to hear. But
recollecting himself, he continued, “ I beg your
pardon for being warm. I never had but one
transaction with the person of whom you speak,
and that was anything, but satisfactory. How­
ever, he is not here now— that's one comfort!—
So I beg leave to observe that the prisoner
ought immediately to be searched; or, even now,
the ends of justice may be defeated.”
" There can be no occasion,” said Mr. Max­
well, “ for treating a gentleman with such in­
dignity.”
" He knows better,” observed the gentleman
in black, sarcastically.
“ What do you mean by that ? ” asked Mr.
Maxwell.
“ Aye, aye,” cried Bagsby, strutting forward,
“ What do you mean by that insinuation ? I
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 233
beg you to understand that a British mer­
chant -------”
“ Confound all British merchants!” exclaimed
the man of the black cloak, “ Really, Mr.
Crabseye, if you do not immediately order
these men to do their duty, I will not answer
for the consequences.*’
Here old Bagsby jogged Mr. Maxwell’s elbow
and whispered, “ Pick a quarrel! Kick up a
row ! Go it ! Anything for the sake of tim e!
it wants only ten minutes ! ” and then the cun­
ning lawyer lifted up his own voice, and ad­
dressed the gentleman in black, saying, “ 1*11
tell you what, Mr. what-d’ye-call-em, a British
merchant is not to be lightly spoken of by
such fellows as you. What are you ? Where
do you come from ? Pray, Mr. Crabseye, my
worthy friend, where did you pick up this
ragamuffin of an informer ?”
u It can be of little consequence,” replied
x 2
iy
Google
234 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
Mr. Crabseye, with much dignity, “ we are not
in the habit of revealing the sources whence
we obtain our information. This gentleman
has lately made several discoveries of import­
ance to us. Perhaps he may have had a
hand in some awkward business; but what of
that? we must have evidence, and we must
make examples of some; and you know the
old adage, ‘ Set a thief to catch a thief,’ eh ? ”
“ Aye, aye,” cried the gentleman in black,
he knows that proverb well enough, and its
application too: for if it were not for that feel­
ing, there would be little enough to do in his
office at Lyon’s Inn. H e! h e ! he i However,
pray, my dear Sir! don’t lose any more time,
but begin to search. It will be of no use pre­
sently.”
“ That’s all my eye and Betty Martin! ”
ejaculated Mr. Grumps, “ I’ve got my eye-teeth
about me, I’ll promise y e ; and if so be as the
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 235
gemman goes to throw anything away without
my seeing it, I’ll eat it, that's all.”
“ The thing’s morally impossible,*’ observed
Mr. Tappem. “ He an't the first noble gentle­
man we’ve had hold on by a pretty many.”
“ These men have been tampered with! ” ex­
claimed the gentleman in black, angrily.
“ What does he say ? ” cried Bagsby, “ what!
my friends Tappem and Grumps! I’ll be bold
enough to say that they are as worthy and
honourable men, as any about the courts. A
pretty sort of a thing it would be indeed, if honest
men’s characters were to be at the mercy of a
fellow like this! But I’ll tell you what, gentle­
men,” he continued, whispering to the officers;
“ he's got plenty of money I know; and if
I was in your place, I’d make him pay pretty
handsomely, or bring an action against him.
For (here he elevated his voice, and spoke as
loud as possible) character—character, gentle­
men, is every thing,—
iy
Google
236 THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ ‘Who steals mypurse, steals bash /tis something—nothing;
’Twas mine, ftis his, and has been slave to thousands :
But he that filches from me my good name,
Robs me of that which not enriches him,
And makes me poor indeed.* ”
“ Aye, aye/’ roared Grumps, strutting up to
the gentleman in black, “ who steals my purse,
steals trash—but as for my good name, why,
it—has been—slave to thousands—what is it?
I don’t understand poetry. Howsomever, the
’ short and the long of the business is, I shan’t
stand no nonsense; and so, if you don’t make
an apology
“ Ah, to be sure,” said Tappem, u an apology,
or else come down pretty handsome; why, look
ye, Mr. Black-and-all-black! mayhap you may
find you have met with your match, that’s all.
Ah, to be sure, he who filches from me my
character, robs me of that which an’t of no use
to him nor nobody else, and it’s a burning
shame.”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 237
The moment Tappem was silent, Grumps re­
sumed ; and the instant Grumps was silent,
Tappem spoke; and sometimes both spoke to­
gether; and as they waxed warm, their language
became more obscure and slangisk; so that
after a few minutes, the gentleman in black,
who had in vain endeavoured to stop them,
found it utterly impossible to tell what they were
talking about, although he was himself strongly
suspected of having lent a helping hand in the
compilation of a “ flash9
’ dictionary.
Bagsby having thus succeeded in making a
diversion in favour of his client, helped himself
to a glass of wine, rubbed his hands, smacked
his lips, and indulged himself in a sort of cack­
ling laugh, as he witnessed the perplexity of
the black bond-holder; and then he put his
fore-finger to the side of his nose, and winked
and nodded at the Comte, and said, “ Never
fear, S ir! never fear! It’s an ugly piece of
iy
Google
238 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
business, but I have no doubt we shall be able
to pull you through.”
The gentleman in black perceiving, by this
time, that he had no chance of silencing the
two orators of the handcuff, appealed to Mr.
Crabseye; but that gentleman, assuming an air
of hauteur, coldly observed that it was utterly
out of his power to interfere; yet, that he could
not help remarking, that gentlemen could not
be too cautious in their remarks, and that all
sorts of insinuations against men’s characters,
unless they could be substantiated by evidence,
were highly improper; and he concluded by
averring that, to his own belief and knowledge,
Messrs. Tappem and Grumps were most highly
respectable and honourable men. Hereupon the
two gentlemen last mentioned, evinced their ap­
probation by a simultaneous cry of “ Aye, a y e! ”
and a moment after, the clock struck twelve.
“ Hurrah ! ” shouted Mr. Maxwell.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 239
“ Bravo ! bravissimo ! very good! ” exclaimed
Comte Louis.
“ Tol lol de rol,” squeaked Bagsby, apeiug the
gaiety of his companions, by snapping his fingers
and holding up one of his shrivelled legs as if
about to cut a caper.
“ I told you how it would b e! ” said the gen­
tleman in black, addressing Crabseye.
“ Told me what ? ” inquired the inquisitor of
bank notes.
“ It is of no use to search him now,’* observed
the gentleman in black, sullenly. “ I told you
how it would be.”
“ Told me what ? ” repeated Crabseye.
“ It’s past twelve,” was the reply.
“ He, he, he ! ha, ha, h a ! ” chuckled Bagsby.
“ Ho, ho, h o ! why, you don’t understand the
gentleman, Mr. Crabseye, he told you the clock
would strike—ho, ho, h o ! oh dear!” Here his
cough interfered to prevent any farther remarks,
iy
Google
240 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
and the gentleman in black, haying tapped his
black snuff-box and taken a pinch of black­
guard, appeared to have recovered his equani­
mity, and calmly told Mr. Crabseye that he
had nothing more to observe on the business,
as the prisoner was secured, and the law would,
doubtless, take its course.
He then shook hands with Messrs. Tappem
and Grumps; and the contact of his fingers
with their palms had an almost magical effect;
fpr they not only ceased to ask for apologies
relative to the injuries inflicted upon their cha­
racters, but declared that they thought all along
that he. was “ a real gentleman.” He then
gracefully folded his cloak about him, and
politely took his leave of the party. Mr. Micros
Crabseye very shortly followed his example ;
and Mr. Maxwell, after listening, with evident
satisfaction, to something whispered in his ear
by old Bagsby, went next.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 241
The remaining four then sat down to table ;
and the Comte, implicitly obeying every direc­
tion of his skinny lawyer, called for champagne,
which came at his call, and disappeared forth­
with in the hands of Tappem and Grumps,
whom Bagsby proceeded to address : “ Gentle­
men ! my friend here is a Frenchman, and
doesn't understand a word of English ; there­
fore, it’s no sort of consequence what we say
before him: so, first I must tell you, for the
sake of your consciences, he is no more guilty
of forging notes than I am. Perhaps he may
have passed one or two innocently—that might
happen to any man—but, as for forging, he has
no notion of it—indeed I suspect that fellow
that gave the information.”
“ W hat! " said Grumps, “ him as just went
away, whom we jawed a bit about our cha­
racters ? ”
“ The same,’’ replied Bagsby ; “ I have my
iy
Google
reasons.
242 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Come, come, that won’t d o ! ” cried Tappem,
“ we’re not to be bamboozled in that way. He’s
a gentleman every inch of him, and I wish you
were as much of one, that’s all! Come, here’s
to your reformation, (and he filled himself a
bumper) you sly old fox! You’re up to some
gammon or other now, I can see, by the twink­
ling of your eyes, and your jaw-pulling trick.
Aye, aye, what, you’re laughing, are you? W ell,
well, you may as well tell us what it is at once;
for we’re all friends, and it’s getting late.”
Upon this hint Bagsby spoke to the officers in
terms by no means ambiguous; and a very brief
interval elapsed ere the party were proceeding
along the streets in a hackney coach, towards
Mr. Tappem’s private residence, wherein it had
been previously arranged with Mr. Crabseye,
the person of Comte Louis was to be secured
for the night. Ere they mounted the vehicle,
Mr. Grumps had walked round it, to see that
iy
Google
\
THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 243
the straps and other matters were in good order;
for Bagshy observed that several of his friends
had met with unpleasant accidents, from the
shocking inattention of hackney coachmen.
This precaution, however, seemed to be in vain,
though we dare not say it did not answer the
purpose, for, in passing along a narrow street,
something gave way, and the crazy vehicle
heeled over on one side. The Comte, Bagsby,
and Tappem, found little difficulty in extricating
themselves, as from a trap-door; but poor
Grumps lay at the bottom, and declared his
leg was broken, and his humane comrade was
peeping pitifully into the dark abyss, and la­
menting so grievous a disaster, when the Comte,
under the directions of Bagsby, discharged the
contents of his snuff-box into his face.
“ My eyes! oh, bless my heart! I can t see !”
said Tappem, clapping his hands before his eyes.
“ This way,’* whispered Bagsby, taking the
iy
Google
244 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
Comte's arm, “ it’s all right/’ and he ted him
through one dark alley into another, and turned
to the left and the right, and the left about and
the right about, for the spgce of about half an
hour; and then they suddenly emerged into a
wide street near a bridge, where they found Mr.
Maxwell waiting for them in a chaise and four.
So the lawyer took a brief leaye of his client,
who took a seat in the vehicle, and arrived in.
his native land in good time for dinner.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. ‘
245
CHAPTER VIII.
The morning after the events related in the last
chapter, old Bagsby found himself very lonely
in his gloomy office in Lyons Inn. The mag­
nitude of the Comte’s transactions, in which he
had so recently been engaged, made the “ six
and eightpences’* appear exceedingly insignifi­
cant ; and he conned and looked over the petty
items of his regular clients with a languid eye,
then pulled his lip, thrust the papers from him,
threw himself back in his chair, looked at the
accustomed thrifty modicum of small coal in
one corner of the grate, and sighed.
y 2
iy
Google
246 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
While he was in this frame of mind, the door
opened, and the gentleman in black made his
appearance, and politely expressed a hope that
he saw his learned friend in good health and
spirits.
“ Middling,” replied Bagsby, “ I believe I
caught a bit of a cold last night. H eugh!
heugh 1 I don't like late hours."
“ 1am particularly partial to them,"' said he o f
the black cloak, placing a chair near the fire­
place, and seating himself therein in a quite-at-
home sort of a manner, “ I recommend them,
particularly to all my friends.”
“ Humph!" grunted the lawyer, “ very likely.
But what’s your business here! 1 am engaged,
you see, and have no time for visits of cere­
mony. The case in which we were engaged is
now removed into another court, and I hate
morning calls."
“ There again," exclaimed the gentleman of
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 247
the black-edged papers, u that’s very extraor­
dinary l I am particularly partial to them. The
sort of conversation which generally passes on
such occasions pleases me exceedingly, that is,
m a small way. Somewhat in the same manner
as the six and eightpences contribute to your
comfort, eh? You comprehend? When there
is no business on a large scale to be done, eh?
“ Is that all you have to say ?9
9 inquired
Bagsby, doggedly turning to the table, and
rummaging among the papers and deeds, as
though seeking for some document of import­
ance.
“ Not exactly,” replied the other. “ You
managed that business last night with your
usual skill, and I wished to express to you
that I do not feel the least animosity on
account of the event. I confess myself to have
been out-generalled. But, my dear Sir, (here he
drew his chair somewhat nearer the lawyer), now
iy
Google
248 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
the Comte has returned to his own country, of
course you do not any longer consider him as
your client.”
“ Humph !” said the old limb of the law,
“ that depends upon circumstances. There is
no process against him at present—but— ahem,
hem ! my cough is very troublesome/’
“ Well, well, never mind,” continued the gen­
tleman in the black suit, “ 1 like to come to the
point at once with those who understand busi­
ness ; and so, without farther preamble, as the
Comte’s business in this country may now be
fairly considered as terminated, you cannot, in
any way, be concerned in the ultimate arrange­
nt of his affairs/’
“ Hem, heugh, ahem ! ” coughed Bagsby,
“ that depends upon circum— ahem ! my cough
is exceedingly troublesome.”
“ Precisely so,” observed the gentleman in
black ; “ I perceive it. Well, my dear Sir, the
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 249
simple matter is, that, from what F have wit­
nessed of your talents, and considering» you now
to be perfectly at liberty, I wait upon you this
morning for the express purpose of putting my­
self into your hands/’
u W hat! ” exclaimed' Bagsby, thrusting back
his chair, and starting with his body erect there­
in, while his arms were stretched forth to their
full extent, and his shrivelled hands grasped the
elbows thereof, with a violence which seemed
to threaten dislocation to the ancient seat of his
plodding industry. “ W hat?” cried he again,
and his lean limbs appeared stiffened beneath
their parchment covering into an unnatural rigi­
dity/’
“ Precisely so /’ calmly resumed the gentle­
man of the black paraphernalia, “ in three words,
I wish to ask your advice/*
These words had an almost magical effect
on the man of law. He immediately got the
iy
Google
250 THB GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
better of his rigidity and surprise, recovered his
self-possession in an instant, and even his trou­
blesome cough appeared to be very consider­
ably amended; for he, forthwith, commenced a
speech of no small length, in which he acknow­
ledged that he felt sensibly affected by the
confidence which his new client was disposed to
place in him : that he was aware how frequently
he was engaged in suits of various descriptions,
and that really the offer was too flattering—too
tempting— too— and then, and not till then,
he began to hem, and again complain of his
cough.
“ Precisely so,” observed the gentleman in
black. “ Well, there must be a beginning : so
now, as the Comte, by running away from the
country, has left you perfectly at liberty, I wish
to know what, in his case, you would advise
me to do?”
“ Humph !” said Bagsby, “ it is an ugly piece
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 251
of business! but, my dear Sir, as we are, com­
paratively speaking, utter strangers; that is, I
mean, in comparison with what we may be in
future— ”
“ Precisely so,” observed the dark gentleman;
“ proceed.”
“ W ell,” continued the man of law, “ under
such circumstances, I am sure, my dear Sir,
you yrill excuse my freedom,—but, ahem, hem,
my cough is very troublesome ! under these cir­
cumstances, I say, I am sure you will excuse,—
but it is a rule that I laid down for myself many
years ago, when I first went into business,— I
am sure youw ill excuse, but really, there are
so many—hem, hem ! my cough is very trouble ­
some.”
“ Then come to the point at once,” said the
gentleman in black, somewhat testily, “ are you
willing to assist me with your advice ?”
“ Not unless I have something in hand to
iy
Google
252 THE GENTELMAN IN BLACK.
begin with,” replied old Bagsby, speaking as
plain as though he had never coughed in his
life.
He had so frequently, in the course of his
practice, experienced the potency of this pro­
position, in putting an end to many a promising
conference, that even the knowledge of his cli­
ent’s wealth could not prevent him from watch­
ing his dingy countenance with some anxiety.
But the dark gentleman was evidently gra­
tified by this display of the ruling passion, and
his eyes twinkled as he replied “ Precisely so.
Nothing can be more reasonable! I have no
idea of cheap law. It would be a pretty sort
of thing if justice were to be given away ! quite
contrary to my ideas of propriety, I assure you.
Shocking! just as if it was a thing of no value.
Ho, ho, ho! ha, ha, ha! upon my darkness,
your’re a capital old fellow; I admire your rule
exceedingly, and hope it will become general
iy
Google
Digitized by
1
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 253
throughout the profession. So here goes ! ” Utter­
ing these words, he began to pull out from* the
pocket of his black inexpressibles, the long
black elastic silk purse, of which we have so fre­
quently had occasion to make mention, while the
lean lawyer sat with greedy eye, as fold after
fold came forth from its dark abode, like a cable
from its tier on shipboard, and were arranged
in voluminous coils upon the ricketty old office
table, which literally began to groan beneath
their weight. Yet still the interminable process
went on, while the black purse bearer, to whom
the work was as easy as though he was hand­
ling gossamer, diverted himself by watching the
changes in old Bagsby’s countenance as the
heap accumulated.
At length the dark elderly gentleman sus­
pended his labours, though the end of his
magical purse had not yet become visible, as
it extended from the table to his pocket like
z
iy
Google
254 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
a rope. What its precise length might be,
Bagsby could not guess: but, judging from
other purses, it might be about half way out,
for the owner thrust his finger and thumb into
an opening, such as may be seen in the centre
of every-day money bags, and drew forth a coin
of the value of seven shillings, which he placed
before the admiring lawyer, and in a serious,
business like tone, and with a face of surpassing
gravity, said, “ I shall thank you to give me
change, that is, fourpence.”
The ancient lawyer had been gazing upon
the wonder working heap that was piled upon
his table, with a strange intensity; and his feel­
ings were of a most complicated nature. He had
some indistinct notion that a great part, if not
the whole, might fall to his share; but, never­
theless, there stole upon him an inward mis­
giving that there might be some danger in
receiving a fee from such a client; and withal,
\
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 255
a chilliness and fear, and trembling, took pos­
session of him ; the rigidity of his muscles gave
way, and his knees smote one against the other.
Therefore the words which were addressed to
him, for the purpose of contrasting his usual
gains with the prospect before him, fell un­
heeded upon his ear.
Not receiving any reply, the gentleman in
black looked up, and instantly perceived the
state of the case.
“ Smell this, my dear S ir!” he exclaimed,
handing one of his black glass bottles. “ There
— there— you are better now, I’m sure. What
has been the matter with you V9
“ Yes—hem— yes,” replied old Bagsby, sniffing
at the specific, “ oh, ah— it was nothing. I was
subject to such fits when 1 was a boy: but it
is a long time, a very long time, since I have
had an attack of the kind.”
“ What do you call it?” enquired the gen­
tleman in black.
iy
Google
256 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
* 0 h , nothing, nothing,” replied the lawyer,
endeavouring to appear quite at ease, “ it was
only a recurrence of early prejudices.”
“ Only a recurrence of early prejudices l” ex­
claimed he of the elastic sable purse. “ Do
you call that nothing? allow me to tell you,
Sir, that there is scarcely anything to which I
so decidedly object as such reminiscences. And,
permit me to say, Sir, that a gentleman of
your experience and good sense ought to be
above such follies and weaknesses. What old
woman’s tale have you got into your head?
Really, my dear friend,” (here he changed his
tone, which had been somewhat harsh, into one
of mild entreaty and persuasion) “ I did not
expect this from you. You have now been ac­
quainted with me for some years; and I should
have imagined -that the ridiculous fables of the
nursery, which represent me as a remarkably
ill-behaved personage, and positively frightful
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 267
in appearance, had long since been eradicated
from your recollection.”
4
4One is not able,” replied Bagsby, in a sort
of semi-apologetical manner,4
4to command one’s
feelings at all times.”
4
4So it seems,” observed the gentleman in
black drily, 4
4but, one would think your own
senses sufficient evidence to contradict the trum­
pery fabrications to which I allude. Look at
me, and say if you perceive anything disagree­
able or even ungentlemanly in my appear­
ance.”
Bagsby looked up, and such was the effect
of the slight attack which he had undergone
from 4
4early impressions,” that he spake but the
truth when he replied, 441 must say that I have
seen you look better in every respect.”
4
4If such be your opinion,” said the dark
elderly gentleman, 4
4 it is useless for us to
attempt to proceed to business this morning,”
z 2
iy
Google
258 THS GÉNTLEMAN IN BLACK.
and he immediately began to haul home the coils
of his long black silk purse from the table, into
his black breeches’ pocket.
Bagsby looked on and sighed, and was just
in the act of calling out “ stop!” when the
door of his office opened, and in walked Mes­
sieurs Maxwell and Ledger. The scene now
changed as quickly as in a pantomime. The
black purse rushed like a live thing into its
place, and its owner arose and took a polite
leave of the lawyer, and bowing to the two
other gentlemen, ventured to remark that he
would not interrupt their business with Mr.
Bagsby, as he was just about to take his de­
parture.
“ The sooner the better,” replied Mr. Ledger,
sternly, pointing, at the same time, to the door;
and straightway the gentleman in black sneaked '
off in a very crest-fallen sort of manner, as the
vulgar saying is, “ with his tail between his *
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 259
legs,” insomuch that the lawyer was astonished
at perceiving the extreme diminution of his
importance, and the mean and abject manner
in which he made his exit, keeping ever at a
most respectful distance from the stem and
upright old merchant.
Old Bagsby is not the only individual who
has been saved from the machinations of the
gentleman in black, by the recurrence of “ early
prejudices,” and the company of those whose
presence is particularly objectionable to that
personage.
If any consolation were requisite to the man
of law for the disappearance of the long black
purse, it was immediately forthcoming in the
shape of full and liberal payment for all
expences, charges, attendances, consultations,
stamps, messages, &c., &c., incident upon the
case, and in the transactions of the Comte
D ’Ormalle during his visit to England. When
iy
Google
260 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
these matters were arranged, Mr. Maxwell stated
that, although the Comte had left England, ft
did not follow that he should be forsaken by
his friends; and therefore he proposed that, as
soon as Mr. Bagsby could make it convenient,
he should follow him to Paris.
To this suggestion the lawyer would not, at
first, listen for an instant; but rose from his
seat, and paced the room in very evident and
great agitation, muttering “ me—me—what ? I
go abroad l M e! why I never was more than
ten miles out of town in my life, except once,
and then I’d better have been in bed all the
while,” and forthwith he began a long and tedi­
ous tale about a journey to Bath, which was
attended with inconveniences, incivility, over­
charges, narrow escapes, impositions, and all
the various et cetera, by which “ shabby ” or
inexperienced travellers are beset, and with the
narration of which they inflict no small penalty
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 261
on such as are compelled to listen thereunto.
The listeners in the present case, however, had
an interest at stake in keeping the story-teller
in good humour; and Mr. Ledger gave a signifi­
cant nod to his partner, which said, “ let the
old fellow have rope enough ! give him tim e/’
So when the elaborate tale was ended, they
extolled him exceedingly for the judgment and
discrimination of character that he had evinced
in the said journey, and declared that he was
perfectly competent to travel into any part of
the known world. And so it was that old
Bagsby was caught in his own trap, for he
had really, while speaking of his unfitness for
locomotion, been endeavouring to show o ff;
and, like most of us, he was highly delighted
at receiving a compliment upon his knowledge
of that, respecting which he was in utter ig­
norance. In common with the generality of
men who live apart from the world, he had a
iy
Google
262 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
very sufficiently good opinion of his own talents
and acquirements. Therefore, when he spake
of his ignorance of French customs, manners,
and laws, it was a mere feint or ruse to enhance
the value of his services; for he verily believed
himself to be a match for the gentleman in
black, in whatsoever part of the world he might
happen to meet him. Such being the case, he
was soon persuaded, by liberal promises held
out to him by those who had ever acted liberally
towards him, to proceed with the business in
question, even into the French courts; and im­
mediately the consultation was at end, he began
to make preparations for his departure.
On the fourth day after these events, a packet
sailed from Dover for the opposite port of Calais,
with what is termed a side wind; and on the
lower or leeward side of the said packet, sat the
lean lawyer of Lyons Inn, in a woful state of
agitation, both mental and corporeal. It was
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 263
the first time that he had beheld the sea; and,
consequently, as the little vessel heeled and
pitched about upon the face of the billows, he
imagined that she was in imminent danger of
upsetting, and was, literally, undergoing the
horrors of a storm. The keenness of the sea
breeze, moreover, affected him not a little, and
rendered it very desirable that his poor body
should be enveloped in certain paraphernalia,
which he had purchased for an expected noc­
turnal journey overland, and which, for econo­
my’s sake, he had packed up in his portmanteau.
But that was deposited in the cabin below,
whereunto his legs refused to carry him ; and
alas! there was no ringing the bell for Jerry,
So the poor old fellow sat and shivered, and
thought of that meagre worthy, and of the quiet
and steadiness of Lyons Inn, and, ever and
anon, peeped through his watery eyes upon the
lessening cliffs of his native land. From this
iy
Google
264 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
deplorable state of helpless endurance, he was
roused into activity by the imperative demands
of the God Neptune; therefore he arose, and,
much to his mortification, superadded to the
usual tribute, a pair of spectacles and a new
hat and wig, which went floating astern amid a
burst of laughter from some of the unfeeling
crew. But there were other good Samaritans
~ on board, who pitied the lawyer’s case; and he
was soon enveloped in a coarse seaman’s blue
coat, and a striped woollen cap was placed upon
his head; and, thus metamorphosed, he sat in
doleful dumps, as though he had been regularly
enlisted into the sea service. ‘
“ H a ! h a ! h a ! ” laughed a deep hollow voice
close at his elbow, “ why, old Jerry himself
would hardly know you now, my dear Sir. How
do you find yourself? Allow me to offer you
a pinch of snuff.”
Bagsby turned sharply round, and was not
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 265
a little startled to find the gentleman in black
sitting at his side, apparently quite at ease.
“ What,” continued the dark intruder, “ you
are surprised, eh ? precisely so ! I perceive it ;
but, the fact is, my dear Sir, I am a great
traveller— at home—every where. Quite a cos­
mopolite; and, wherever there is any business
to be done, there I am. So I thought, as you
would be quite at leisure during the passage,
and we shall be secure from interlopers, we
might as well take this opportunity of talking
over the affair in which we are respectively
engaged.”
“ I beg your pardon, Sir,” replied the lawyer,
distantly, and assuming as much dignity in his
new, or rather, old dress, as if enveloped in
the Chancellor’s robes, “ I am not at leisure.”
" Precisely so,” said the gentleman in black,
in a most imperturbed manner, “ that is as
you think. But the fact is, I have a propo-
2 A
iy
Google
266 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
sitkm to make to you, which, as a man of
sense, observation and calculation, I am con­
fident you will find much more to your advan­
tage than going on this wild-goose chase. I
have made a brief memorandum on the subject.
Just do me the favour to look over these
papers.**
“ I have lost my spectacles,** replied old
Bagsby, sulkily.
“ My dear Sir,” said the man of the black-
edged papers,’* I will lend you mine with
pleasure,” and dipping his hand into the
black bag, which stood as usual between his
legs, he drew forth a black shagreen case,
from which he took a pair, of spectacles, moun­
ted in black tortoise-shell, and politely handed
them to the lawyer, who forthwith began read­
ing, and seemed much interested in what he
read: and, in the meanwhile, the gentleman
in black walked up and down the deck, taking
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 267
snuff with as much sang froid and ease as
though he had been on terra firma. An ejacu­
lation from Bagsby, however, effectually distur­
bed his equanimity, and he snatched his spec­
tacles from the old fellow’s eyes, and exclaimed,
“ you know, Sir, 1 have a particular antipathy
to swearing!’*
“ My dear Sir/1 said the lawyer, “ allow me
to finish. The scheme is wonderful \"
“ Precisely so,” replied the owner of the
spectacles, resuming his seat. “ Loans to young
and thoughtless spendthrifts, are by far the best
speculations in which you can employ yourself.
What with immediate profits, accumulating in­
terest, extended connection, introductions and
future contingencies, upon my darkness! I
know nothing equal to them. And, as for the
needful, I am sure I shall always be ready to
advance on your own security. But read on**—
and, thus saying, he returned the spectacles.
iy
Google
2 6 8 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
It has frequently been a matter of doubt
with old Bagsby, whether he really did read
anything on that occasion, or whether the
spectacles he wore had not a magical effect
upon his optics; for he seemed, as in a vision,
to behold a succession of individuals, many of
them personally known to him, approaching and
proffering him securities for immense loans.
Then came others of the higher class of com­
moners ; and anon, followed nobles of the first
rank, either for the same purposes, or to effect
exchanges of immense extent and value. And,
as he looked on, the old lawyer's self-importance
gradually increased: and he beheld his pro­
fessional duties so much extended, that his
offices, instead of being confined to three dark
rooms in Lyons Inn, seemed to occupy the
whole of one side of one of the new squares,
including separate departments for conveyanc­
ing, and every other species of legal transac-
yGoogle
THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 269
tkrns. On and on went the process, and princes,
dukes, and marquesses appeared to be waiting
his convenience, till at length, in the portly form
of one, he recognized Majesty itself; and so
utterly was the old fellow lost in the delusion,
that he exclaimed— “ It is the King himself,
God bless him !” In an instant the spectacles
were snatched from his eyes, and instead of
being, as it were, enthroned in the midst of
his suite of gorgeous rooms, he sat, a poor lean,
shrivelled, meagre old man, trembling and help­
less as a child, at the mercy of the winds and
waves, while the gentleman in black stood scowl­
ing over him.
There are certain poisons, which, when ex­
hibited in too great quantities, have a tendency
to counteract their own deadly effects on the
human system: and thus it was with the won­
derful prospects which the dark designer had
presented to his intended victim. He had over-
2 a 2
iy
Google
270 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
dosed him ; and he plainly perceived his error,
and was about to plan a remedy, when the
lawyer’s good genius interfered in the shape of
a somewhat mountainous wave which broke over
the little vessel and pitched him forward upon
the deck, where he fell upon his knees, and,
in that position, under the influence of bodily
fear, he uttered his third and most fervent
ejaculation.
Thus, in consequence of his loyalty and sea­
sonable fear, Bagsby was freed, for a time,
from temptation to swerve from the path of
duty. The gentleman in black was no more
seen on board during the voyage; and when
they arrived at Calais, there was no small
uproar among the sailors at missing the “ dingy
fellow that seemed to have his sea legs on
board,” and who, they vowed, must have fallen
over-board, as they would defy even the old
one himself to “ bilk his passage, or escape the
Douaniers on landing.
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 271
CHAPTER IX.
P revious to Bagsby’s arrival in Paris, it will
be necessary to look a little into the state of
things there.
After the Comte’s departure, matters went on
much as usual at his hotel for the space of a
week; and then M. le Comte de Tien k la Cour,
who prided himself not a little on his skill in
such matters, was much scandalized at the
manner in which that most important meal,
dinner, was served; and he could not avoid
saying some severe things, to certain of the
servants in waiting. He had, however, too
iy
Google
272 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
much of the (good in that respect) old school
about him, to begin scolding regularly in the
presence of a few guests, who did him the
honour of taking their commons with him “ en
famille;” and, therefore, satisfied himself, for
the moment, with a glass of champagne, and
pulling a face and pushing away from him
portions of certain dishes which, truth to tell,
well merited the name he gave them of “ detec­
table,” inasmuch as they were sent in by the
“ Marchand” of “ Patisserie” for the express
purpose of (as we say in England) “ getting up
a row9
*for the sake of coming to an explanation.
The fact was, that the said “ Marchand ” had
heard an extraordinary tale relative to die
Comte D'Ormalle’s connection with the gen­
tleman in black, which tale he bad most stoutly
taken upon himself to contradict, because he
had had the honour to serve the table of M.
le Comte (and no nobleman, he was confident,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 273
kept a better table) for many years, and had
been always regularly paid whenever the Comte
visited Paris. But, alas ! such is the fleeting
nature of even a good name, that, when M. le
Comte suddenly left Paris without discharging
his bill, he began to doubt. Therefore, when
the Abbé Beueton called upon him, (as he felt
himself bound to do, seeing that his patron the
Comte was but ill-disposed toward the frican­
deaux, &c., of the said artist,) the said artist
spake of his wife and his large, and increasing,
little family ; and, after brief explanation, came
to the usual issue of a a large bill to make up,’*
“ disappointments, 9
9 “ arrangements to make,
&c. &c.,” all which the abbé said had nothing
' to do with the matter in question ; but which,
nevertheless, he should represent in the proper
quarter.
The poor Comtesse Emilie had never, since
her marriage up to that period, known what
iy
Google
274 TUE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
trouble or anxiety were. She had spent her
time in a constant round, or rather, a series o f
circles of gaiety and dissipation. As for money,
she had no idea of its value. It seemed
to her merely a sort of custom to put one's
hand in one’s pocket if one lost at cards, or
hold it out and receive something if one won.
And as for bills, they were to be referred to
the steward or the Comte. The case now, how­
ever, was very different. She had no money, the
steward had no money, and Monsieur le Comte
was gone nobody knew where. At first it struck
her as a very good joke, an exceedingly ridi­
culous sort of distress, and so she went and told
her most perpendicular father, who averred that,
so far from conceiving the thing to be a joke,
he considered it to be a very serious, or as
Bagsby would have said, “ a very ugly piece of
business.”
“ But, nevertheless, my dear Emilie, 9f he
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 275
continued, “ as it really makes very little dif­
ference to me where I live, I shall make it a
point not to leave you unprotected in your pre­
sent situation, but wait and see the end of the
affair. In the meanwhile, despatch your toilet
as quickly at possible, or we shall be late at the
Duchesse de Cherceleon’s select party.”
To that party and divers others they went;
and day after day passed on, yet the Comte
D ’Ormalle came not, and the poor Comtesse
remembered with grief, and something very
nearly akin to self-reproach, the manner in
which they had last parted. Duns became more
frequent, and less polite and ceremonious; and
even her own maid, Lisette (who, by the way,
firmly believed that the Comte had been carried
off by the gentleman in black) began to exhibit
symptoms of peevishness and disrespect.”
“ Sweet are the uses of adversity! ” The
Comtesse sat alone, removed from the summer
iy
Google
276 THB GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
flies of her prosperity, and thought on bye«
gone days of happiness with her dear Louis—
how he had anticipated her every wish: and
then she recollected the princely style in which,
without hesitation or remark, he had so long sup­
ported their, or rather her splendid establishment
in Paris. It had been the envy of all. What was
the consequence ? Where was poor dear Louis ?
Had he destroyed himself ? No ! That was too
horrible. She would not believe that. “ And,
yet, *' she continued, “ when I think on my
extravagance! But, o h ! I dare not look to the
future! ” and then the poor repentant lady wept.
Let it not be supposed that her nature was
so completely altered as to be ever in this frame
of mind. But in such a mood she was, when
Comte Louis, after his narrow escape from Lon­
don, arrived in Paris. She had been thinking
of him alone for, at least, ten minutes, and had
even murmured his name, and said, “ Oh ! what
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 277
,would I ^ive to see him ! ” when he rushed into
the apartment, and in a moment she was in his
arms, vehemently sobbing, and expressing, as
well as she could at intervals, her delight. And
the poor Comte! He perceived there was no
“ acting” in the case, as he had whilome sus­
pected in bye-gone-days. All was real; and
he pressed her to his heart in fervent joy and
gladness. Neither of them had been so happy
for years.
The next morning all the duns were dismissed
in a way perfectly satisfactory to their feelings;
and then the Corate visited Messieurs Lafitte,
Barillons, and the other bankers to whom re­
mittances had been sent in consequence of
his transactions in England, and found the
amount of his balances so immense, in French
livres, that he began to think he should have
a handsome surplus, after discharging the whole
of any accounts on black-edged paper which
2 B
iy
Google
278 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
the gentleman in black could produce against
him. A little consideration, however, convinced
him of his error on that head, and, for a short
time, depressed his spirits. Indeed, there are
very few of us who would not be somewhat
startled at beholding the sum total of what all
our expences and extravagances would amount
to4n_eight and twenty years. So the Comte
D ’Ormalle sighed, and ordered his carriage and
took a ride with his dear Emilie in the Boule­
vards, in order that his arrival might be gene­
rally known; and the consequences of his re­
appearance were a multitude of calls from the
Comtesse’s dear friends, and a visit from the
old bishop to himself, on particular and private
business.
The ancient and formal ecclesiastic was far
too tedious to be endured in detail by the reader*
Let it suffice, therefore, to observe, that he still
kept harping upon the alienated Church lands,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 279
declared that he had thought much on the
Comte’s singular case; but really— he scarcely
knew, &c., &c.,— and finally, that he had thought
fit to convene a sort of council,— a few learned
friends, men of distinguished parts, who had
already held several meetings on the subject,
and were to assemble again on the morrow,—
when he trusted that the Comte would have
the politeness to attend.
On the morrow, while the Comte was debating
on the subject within his own mind, he was most
agreeably surprised by the appearance of his
lean legal adviser, poor Bagsby, who, in spite
of the alarm, fatigue and battering that he had
undergone, instantly decided on attending “ the
Committee,” as he called it.
“ There will be no business done in our first
interview,” said he, “ I understand the nature
of such meetings, and shall plead fatigue as a
reason for not entering deeply into the subject.
iy
Google
2 8 0 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
But I shall have an opportunity of making m y
observations, and of judging what sort of people
we have to deal with.*'
The council in question were assembled in
a circular Chapter-house-looking building, con­
nected with one of the religious establishments
in Paris, which it would scarcely be correct to
name. The Abbé of Grandesdimes was presi­
dent, and the lowest place at the board was
occupied by brother Dodun, who was admitted
among his august superiors, in consequence of
his having been the first person intrusted with
the business in question.
u So we may expect to see the Comte to-day/’
said the president, taking his seat. “ What
time do we dine? Whose turn is it to order
dinner ? Ah ! I remember now, my dear Fran-
chelippe, we may trust to you always. But
really, it seemed to me, that the last time we
dined at Very’s, we were not precisely treated
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 2 8 1
with that sort of respect which I could have
wished. These miserable English at the restau­
rateurs are quite a nuisance ! ”
“ Les bêtes!” exclaimed the Abbé Nigaudin,
shrugging up his shoulders and elevating his
eyebrows in an attempt to look wise.
After a few more observations and questions
equally important, a lean, cadaverous looking
member of the council, Rateleux by name, put
on his spectacles, and, opening a huge manu­
script volume that lay before him, said, that,
if the president would give him leave, he would
read a few extracts from certain scarce works
of the ancient fathers, which appeared, in some
measure, to bear upon the case in point. And,
then, after hemming three or four times, he
began his task in a slow monotonous tone, and,
doubtless, the hearers were much edified thereby,
as what he read was written in good old monkish
Latin.
2 B 2
iy
Google
2 8 2 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ When this process had gone on for some
time, it was interrupted by a gentle tapping at
the door; and brother Dodun, by virtue of his
office, as no menials were allowed to be present
at this important consultation, went to ascertain
the cause.
“ The Comte D ’Ormalle is come,” said he,
gently, on his return to the table. Then fol­
low ed a whispering conference among the bre­
thren, whether they should awaken the president;
but that pillar of the church missed the soothing
tones of brother Rateleux, and saved them the
trouble of deciding.
“ Admit the Comte by all means,” said he
most graciously, as soon as he understood the
state of the case: and brother Dodun forth­
with performed his office, and requested the
Comte to walk in. The Comte accordingly
stepped forward, and, with a slight nod of
acknowledgment to the humble brother, “ en
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 283
passant/’ advanced towards the table where the
dignitaries were sitting. Dodun then attempted
to close the door; but finding some obstacle in
the way, peeped behind to ascertain what it
might be, and was in no small degree astonished
and dismayed at finding his face close to that
of our old friend Bagsby, who pushed forward
without ceremony, and followed the Comte.
A fearful exclamation from the janitor com­
municated his alarm to the council board, and
there was a general “ sauve qui peut ” movement
among their reverences, which was with some
difficulty arrested by the Comte, who assured
them, on his honour, that the gentleman was
only his lawyer. Yet, for some minutes, there
was a dead silence at the board, and the mem­
bers thereof eyed the intruder and his bag with
looks of suspicion: and it must be confessed
that Bagsby's appearance was far from pre­
possessing ; for, not being able to procure a wig
iy
Google
284 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
of his own pattern to supply the place of that
which had gone to sea, he had cheapened a
second-hand “ Brutus,” thinking it would do
very well till his return home. Now the said
“ Brutus” was black, and large, and full made,
and overshadowed, with a profusion indicatory
of much earlier life, the pale and shrivelled face
of the ancient lawyer; so that the u tout en ­
semble” was most unnatural. Added to this,
Bagsby, like most other men who do not often
enter into a joke, when he did relish one, en­
joyed it exceedingly; and the mistake which
had just occurred, tickled the old fellow’s fancy
so much, that he could not avoid chuckling and
cachinnating to himself in a manner that ap­
peared very unseemly in such august presence.
Brother Dodun, obeying a graceful wave of
the president’s hand, placed a chair for the
Comte, and Bagsby thereupon, without waiting
for any invitation, took one for himself: and
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 285
then the abbé of Grandesdimes, in his official
capacity, addressed the Comte D’OrmaAe in a
set speech, wherein he took occasion to say
much, of the condescension, paternal feelings,
learning, &c., &c., of their venerable and noble
diocesan, by whom they had been deputed to
examine into this very mysterious affair. “ We
have,” he continued, “ already made consider­
able progress : but there yet remain certain deep
and knotty points to be investigated, on one
of which we were deliberating at the moment
of your arrival. I assure you, Monsieur Le
Comte, the laity have little idea of the way in
which we of the clergy occupy our time—the
midnight oil—th e -------”
Here old Bagsby*s cough was extremely
troublesome, and the Abbé Nigaudin muttered
“ B ê te !”
“ But,” continued the president, “ far be it
from me to arrogate, either for myself or bre­
thren, any other merit than what we may fairly
iy
Google
286 THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
claim for patience and perseverance. For those
qualities, my son, you may faithfully depend
upon u s; and, in the meanwhile, remember that
the power of the church is immense. It is true
that I and my brethren here are but individual
and humble sons thereof; but, nevertheless, we
venture to counsel you not to despair; particu­
larly as you are possessed of the means o f
doing good.”
Here the president sat down in a state o f
exhaustion, and then there was a whispering
and looking at watches round the table, and
then an adjournment until the following day.
On rising from table, each of the members
paid their respects to the Comte, and each in
his turn, rang the changes upoa the old topic,
“ the immense power of the church, &c,” except
brother Rateleux, who squeezed the Comte’s
hand, shook his own head, and said it was an
ugly piece of business.
Bagsby attended the council on the following
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 287
day, in the character of plenipotentiary for the
Comte, and caused a great sensation by affirm­
ing that he would not advance a single louis,
on account of any expences that might be
incurred, until the business was settled.
This determination, in which the lawyer was
inflexible, caused the despatch of a messenger to
Rome, from whence he returned laden with offi­
cial documents called absolutions, indulgences,
&c., which professed to exonerate the Comte from
the consequences of the various sins which he
had agreed and been compelled to commit:
and then the gentleman in black made his
appearance before the board, to argue the case
in person. The uncomfortable feelings that
simultaneously Jtook possession of all the eccle­
siastics, when he first introduced himself, very
soon subsided: and he, after making his obei­
sance in a Btyle of courtly elegance, took a
seat at the board, and pulled a variety of black-
yGoogle
2 8 8 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
edged papers, tied with black tape, from his
black bag, and placing them on the table,
looked round him with an air of calm com­
posure that seemed to say, “ Here I am, ready
to answer anybody who has anything to say
to m e/'
In the meanwhile Bagsby had attached him­
self to a member of the council, who was like­
wise a Jesuit, and, consequently, well versed
in the science of “ mystification.” These two
worthies sate opposite the gentleman in black,
to whom the lawyer nodded in a knowing oblique
manner, which spake as plain as nod could speak
“ I’ll bother you yet, old fellow ! ”
After the minutes of the last meeting had
been read over, the president made a speech,
during which, we are sorry to say, old Bagsby’s
cough was again exceedingly troublesome, and
the dingy plaintiff himself was compelled to
take a pinch of blackguard to prevent him
iy
Google
TH2 GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 289
from being guilty of the ungentlemanly vice
of yawning.
At length the packet from Rome was pro­
duced in due form, and the various documents
were read, by which it appeared that the Comte
was relieved from all the consequences of the
past, and was freed from all allegiance, suit,
service, &c., towards the gentleman in blacky for
the future, any bonds, promises, &c. &c. to
the contrary notwithstanding.
When the reader was silent, the president
arose, and waving his arm with great dignity,
exclaimed, u Behold the power of the Church !
Great, wonderful, astonishing, marvellous, mer­
ciful, infallible is the—hem— In short the busi­
ness is now at an end— Monsieur le Comte
is perfectly freed from the toils.— Ahem. As
for you, Monsieur, ( turning to the sable
vested gentleman) you have no longer any
demand on, or controul over, him ; therefore
2 c
iy
Google
290 THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
— therefore, allow me to recommend you to
retire."
By no means,” replied the gentleman in
black, I cannot admit, for a moment, that
those documents in any manner affect the vali­
dity of the Comte’s bond, voluntarily entered
into with me. I consider him to be in the same
situation, as regards me, with that of a sub­
ject towards his sovereign to whom he has
sworn allegiance.”
“ Bah !9
9exclaimed Franchelippe. “ And sup­
posing he were ? The Pope, you know, has the
power of excommunicating the sovereign, and
absolving the subject from allegiance.”
“ As to the matter of excommunication, ”
replied the gentleman of the black bag, “ it
may be as you say, for aught I know or care;
but, from the best authorities, I learn that he
has not the power of absolving any subject from
his allegiance.”
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 291
“ You arè in a state of deplorable ignorance,
Monsieur, relative to the power of the Church,”
said the president ; “ I remember to have read
a great deal upon that very subject. Perhaps,
brother Rateleux, you will have the good­
ness— ”
Rateleux, who, according to the Cambridge
term of the present day, had been “ cramming”
himself upon the subject, commenced a long,
learned, and tedious dissertation upon papal
supremacy ; and spoke of the donation of Con­
stantine the great; and quoted divers antient
Chronicles, deeds, speeches, and received opi­
nions—related how Clement the Fifth (who, as
Pope was, of course, infallible) declared in the
council of Vienna, that “ all the right of kings
depended upon him alone.” How Boniface
the Eighth, and Innocent the Fourth had made
similar assertions relative to various kingdoms,
the former particularly claiming the kingdom
of France as “ a fee of the papal majesty.”
iy
Google
292 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
When this erudite display of brother Rate-
leux’s reading and industry terminated, there
ran a general buz of approbation and triumph
round the board, and then the president declared
it to be utterly impossible that any thing could
be said which should have the smallest weight
against such authority. But the gentleman in
black appeared in no degree dismayed; and,
after a cool and deliberate pinch of snuff, begged
leave to make a few observations.
“ They would be perfectly useless, “ said the
president, “ a mere waste of time, 1 assure
you.”
“ We cannot sit here all d ay/’ observed
Franchelippe, somewhat impatiently, and look­
ing at his watch.
“ I will not detain you long,” said the black
bond-holder, “ for, although I have no trifling
knowledge of many works quoted by the learned
gentleman, I will not refer to them. But the
fact is, I am a great traveller, and have lately
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 293
been much in England and Ireland, particularly
the latter; and I find that the best authorities,
and the most zealous among those of your own
church there, declare that the pope has not------ ”
Here the president’s curiosity got the better of
his politeness, and he interrupted the speaker
by exclaiming, “ well! and how does the good
cause go on ? It is a sad thing to think of
the heretical state of those kingdoms. Abbies,
Cathedrals, most excellent benefices I am told,
all, all in the possession of heretics ! Ah ! Our
poor brethren! But, tell me, I beg, are things
likely soon to be better?**
“ As for that, Monsieur,” replied the dark
advocate of his own cause, “ I dare not speak
positively: but I rather think they will. In
the mean while, however, what is more to the
business fn hand, which I always like to stick
to, they have agreed that the pope does not
possess the power o f -------”
2 c 2
iy
Google
294 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ We cannot listen to anything of that kind,*’
said the president.
“ Les bêtes l” exclaimed Nigaudin.
“ To think of prescribing limits to the power
of his holiness ! ” cried brother Dodun, turning
up his eyes, and concluding with an emphatic
« Oh !”
“ Let me tell you,” said Rateleux, whose zeal
now burst forth in consequence of the appro­
bation which he had just received—€t Let me
tell you it can be of no consequence what they
say. W hat! Shall it be allowed that a few
isolated members of the universal church, shall
presume to limit the powers of its supreme
and infallible head? Bah! What can their
opinions, even supposing them to be sincere,
weigh against the authorities which I shall,
with the permission of our learned president,
now proceed to quote?”
Here the hard-reading member produced a
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. •295
paper, on which an abundance of closely written
extracts, from ancient authors, were drawn up
in dark array : but he was prevented from pro­
ceeding in his review thereof, by brother Sapeur
the Jesuit, with whom, as we stated before,
Bagsby had formed an acquaintance.
“ I should recommend an adjournment/’ said
this son of Loyola briefly: and the influence of
his fraternity was so great, that the president
seemed disposed to attend to the suggestion;
and even brother Rateleux, at a significant
glance from the Jesuit, deposited the important
paper calmly amid the heap that lay before
him.’ The other members of the council felt
that there was a mystery in the business, and
as they could not comprehend it, were wise
enough to hold their peace, thereby evincing
a degree of prudence worthy of imitation in
higher quarters. So, after a short silence, the
council was broken up.
iy
Google
296 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
4
4You have taken a strange method of assist­
ing me/' said Bagsby, when he next found
himself alone with the Jesuit.
4
4 I am sorry to have disappointed you," re­
plied brother Sapeur, 4
4but it was a very deli­
cate matter; as you would say, a very ugly
piece of business. The point in question was
one which, just now, it would be exceedingly
imprudent to agitate. We must act according
to circumstances. The time may come—ahem—
no matter—that is not exactly the business
between us."
4
4 Have you anything to propose?" asked
Bagsby, 4
4or do you mean to leave me in the
lurch, after all your promises?"
4
4 I have no such intention," said Sapeur,
I propose to have an interview with the gen­
tleman in black upon the Comte’s case, as 1
feel myself deeply interested therein."
4
4Then the sooner the better !” exclaimed the
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 297
individual in question, as he entered the room
in which this colloquy was held, in his usual
unceremonious way— “ The sooner the better, as
I have much business in hand,*’ and he seated
himself at the table.
The Jesuit looked for a moment at Bagsby,
as though he felt uncomfortable at his presence;
but as the lawyer would not take the hint, he
proceeded to address the gentleman in black in
the Spanish language. His speech was slow,
monotonous and mystical, and seemed to make
no small impression upon the hearer, who, after
looking round for a moment in evident embar­
rassment, said, “ Perhaps—hem—precisely so—
I suppose from your dialect you are a Spa­
niard ?”
“ I am generally thought to be so when I
speak in that tongue,1
' replied Sapeur.
“ Precisely so,’1said the gentleman in black :
and then muttered to himself in an under tone,
iy
Google
298 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ A double-tongued Jesuit, and an old, wily,
slippery English lawyer ! Fearful odds! W hat
chance have / between them? I don’t feel
myself at all comfortable!” and he applied to
his black snuff-boxes and smelling-bottle with
unusual vigour, while the Jesuit and Bagsby
conversed aside for the space of five minutes,
to the great satisfaction of the latter, who was,
however, too prudent to allow any evidence
thereof to appear on his tutored countenance.
“ 1 can draw up the deed immediately,” said
Bagsby, speaking out,— “ nothing can be fairer.”
“ If the gentleman does not think fit to agree
to the proposition now, I will not engage to offer
it again,” observed the Jesuit in a cavalier
tone.
“ I have a great objection to delay,” said the
gentleman in black.
“ Rashness is frequently more prejudicial to
one's interests,” rejoined Sapeur, and old
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 299
Bagsby began pulling his under lip, as was
his wont when concocting any new device.
“ Half the sins remitted! Half the monies
paid T* murmured the gentleman in black.
“ Precisely so, to use your own words,” re­
plied the Jesuit, “ subject to the appropriation
of the sum I named for the prosecution of
certain schemes, during the progress of which,
whatever the end may be, you must be well
aware, many of your own interests will be
served.”
“ I acknowledge the truth of your remark,”
said the dark gentleman. “ I confess that the
stirring up of men*s passions is gratifying
to me.”
“ I am confident that a person of your good
sense must come to a right conclusion,” observed
the Jesuit.
“ But to postpone my claim to that which is,
as it were, within my grasp!” added the other.
iy
Google
300 THF. GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ As it were, indeed!” said Sapeur, " You
will soon find that I and my worthy friend
opposite have not exhausted our resources.*’
The gentleman in black sighed and cast a
glimpse at Bagsby, and muttered, “ Fourteen
years!” and then some sudden and not un­
pleasant idea appeared to cross his mind: and
he sat musing and tapping the lid of his black
blackguard snuff-box for the space of a minute,
when he exclaimed, “ Well—then, be it s o !
The first loss is the best when one gets into
such hands.”
" I beg leave to observe that that is a very
ungentlemanly observation,” said Bagsby.
1
1 Never mind,” quoth the Jesuit, “ We must
make allowances. Draw up the deed.**
“ Aye, aye,” muttered Bagsby, shuffling up to
the table, on which were writing materials in
abundance, “ Let me see.- Half the monies
to be returned.—They are entirely under my
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 301
controul, and I shall give a cheque. Half the
sins remitted—half the time—that is fourteen
years— and at the end of fourteen years more,
the question to be resumed as left on this
day.”
“ Precisely so,” said the gentleman in black.
“ We may as well take a walk in the gardens
while our friend is engaged,” observed the
Jesuit, “ and breathe a mouthful of fresh air.”
“ With all my heart,” replied the dark gen­
tleman, “ It will perhaps do me good, for, to
say the truth, 1 don’t feel quite myself this
morning.”
On their return it was evident that the spirits
of both were much improved, whether from the
effects of the air, or anything they had seen in
the gardens of the Tuilleries, or that they had
been complimenting and mystifying one another,
must remain a matter of uncertainty.
The lawyer, in the interim, had not been idle,
2 D
iy
Google
302 THS GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
for the deed was ready for signature, and he
presented it to the gentleman in black, and
requested him to look over it
“ B ah !” exclaimed the man of sables, “ what
a rig-marole! Four long pages! I never could
comprehend these endless, senseless phrases—
provided— nevertheless— hem— ha! I see the
heads are right. ct Fourteen years”— ah—
“ Half the amount o f”— “ renewed in fourteen
years”—hem—well—here goes then, for once,
to remit my just and lawful claims. Give me a
pen.”
The document was regularly signed, and wit­
nessed by Sapeur the Jesuit, and Bagsby, and
the cheque handed over to the gentleman in
black, who put it carefully up in his black
morocco leather pocket-book, and then throw­
ing himself back in a chair, gave vent to one
of his startling fits of immoderate laughter.
Hereupon the Jesuit looked somewhat blank,
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK* 303
and uttered an expressive “ Humph!” while
Bagsby’s ancient and meagre countenance un­
derwent not the shadow of a change.
“ Do you know,” asked the gentleman of the
dark suit, addressing the latter, as soon as he
had recovered from his hilarious paroxysm,
“ what was my principal reason for signing the
paper which you have in your pocket ?”
“ Not I,” replied the lawyer, “ I neither know
nor care. All I know is that my purpose is
answered, and that is sufficient for me.*’
“ Then 1*11 tell you,” said the gentleman in
black, “ I have been calculating that before the
expiration of fourteen years, you will have ceased
to be in a condition to oppose me.'’
“ Humph!” grunted Bagsby, “ Liter« script«
manent—you may, perhaps, have no great
cause for congratulating yourself when the time
comes.”
“ What do you mean ? ” inquired the dark
gentleman briskly.
iy
Google
304 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
“ Nothing more/' replied the lawyer calmly,
“ than that I have taken proper care of my
client’s interest. All demands on either side,
either for money or sin, cease for fourteen years,
and, at the end of that period, as I have re­
served to the Comte an option of cancelling
whichever half of the eight and twenty years he
pleases, I suppose he will find no great difficulty
in sinning for a second on the first year of your
renewed claim, and two seconds during the
second, and so on; and moreover, in case he
should have become particularly religious in his
latter days, he will have the advantage of the
clause introduced by yourself into the original
bond, by which “ all sins committed before,
and all sins which he may commit in future,
over and above the stipulated agreement, are
to be taken into account." So, altogether, if
he makes proper use of the money yet re­
maining in his hands, what with interest and
compound interest, I think you might almost
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 305
as well be in Chancery. He, he ! Why don’t
you laugh?” and the old fellow cackled most
triumphantly, till a fit of coughing put an end
to his merriment.
The gentleman in black, in the meanwhile
sat sadly crest-fallen and disconcerted, while
the Jesuit appeared to be absorbed in some
deep and abstruse calculations, his dark brow
and pale cheek supported on his left hand,
as he murmured at intervals, “ Fourteen years—
and fourteen— twenty-eight—the mission—the
Bourbons — Ferd — inquisit— emancipation— a
glimpse of former—hem—magna est veritas et—
hem—twice fourteen— a general—why not V*
“ Fool that I was !” exclaimed the gentleman
in black, rising and stamping violently on the
floor, “ to think of signing any paper without
bringing my own lawyer.”
“ It was very imprudent, certainly,” replied
Bagsby, “ but what is done cannot be undone,
2 d 2
iy
Google
306 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
and you should not bear malice. I must now
go and report progress to my client/' and thus
saying, he arose and took his hat.
“ I shall not lose sight of you,” exclaimed
he of the black habiliments, somewhat angrily;
but in a moment curbing his passion, he made
an effort at apparent magnanimity, and assum­
ing his usual courteousness, continued, “ 1 will
do myself the pleasure of calling upon you
at Lyons Inn ere long. I admire your talents,
and shall cultivate a more intimate acquaint­
ance; for you have convinced me that, not­
withstanding a considerable portion of self­
conceit to which I plead guilty, I have yet
much to learn. People say that I have a
very extensive circle of friends among gentle­
men of your profession, but I assure you that
the report is not to be relied on. Indeed,
considering the facilities of introduction which
I possess, and*the inducements I frequently
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 307
have in my power to hold out, I am often
surprised that I have not more on my list.”
“ I wish you a good morning,” said Bagsby,
taking his leave. •
“ Au revoir,” replied the gentleman in black,
bowing politely.— And so they parted.
A grand entertainment was given at the Comte
D ’Ormalle’s hotel, whereat Bagsby “ sported ” a
new wig, and was introduced as the Comte’s
most particular friend to many noble personages,
and “ gens comme il faut;” but a whisper of
the story of “ a gentleman in black ” had gone
abroad, and he found himself alone in a crowd,
though the “ admired of all admirers.” The
ladies, in particular, reversing the usual custom
of “ place aux dames,” made way for him
wherever he moved. His was a painful pre­
eminence, and therefore he lost .no time in
returning to the quietude of Lyons Inn, where
he and old Jerry were alive some years ago, and
going on in the old six-and-eightpenny style.
iy
Google
308 THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK.
Considering his nation and his habits, it will
not appear surprising that the Comte D'Ormalle
did not concern himself about what might hap­
pen in about eight and twenty years. The
ecclesiastical council on his case was broken
u p ; and the only individual of that body who
appears to have taken any further interest in
the matter is brother Rateleux, who was long
employed in a deep investigation and learned
dissertation upon the probability and possibility
of the gentleman in black urging his claims,
should the Comte have arrived in purgatory
before the expiration of the period during which
he had agreed to allow them to remain dormant.
We are happy to say that the decision to which
he came was, that, in such a case, which ac­
cording to the usual tenor of human existence,
may probably occur, the gentleman in black
will be nonsuited. But if the learned brother
has made a false conclusion, or the Comte
should survive the stipulated period, his ultimate
iy
Google
THE GENTLEMAN IN BLACK. 309
fate must depend entirely upon the question of
the pope's supremacy, which may, perhaps, then
be argued at full length. But, it is an enquiry
of too deep importance, and involved too much
in the labyrinths of historical investigation, for
us to venture an opinion thereupon.
In the meanwhile they are going on in Paris
as if they cared nothing about the matter.
Bradbury and Evans, Printers,
Bouverie Street
iy
Google
Digitized by Google
fiâ t arfo Intmítínjt ®Norká
PU BLISHED BY
WILLIAM KIDD, 6, OLD BOND STREET,
AND
HENRY CONSTABLE, 17, WATERLOO PLACE,
EDINBURGH.
Numbers 1 to 48, Price 6d. each, publishing weekly, (also Parts I. to
XI., price 3s., to be continued on the 1st day of every month).
OF
THE ANNIVERSARY CALENDAR,
AND
UNIVERSAL M IR R O R :
Comprising the Births, Deaths, and Catholic Obits of
more than ten thousand illustrious and memorable Indi­
viduals, in every period of the world, with the Place and
Yeai precisely stated, of the Birth, Burial (or Death), and
iy
Google
2 N E W W O R K S P U B L IS H E D B Y
Martyrdom, oo the days of their occurrence, in the form
of a Roman and English Calendar; also the Acts, &c. &c.
%* It is a principal object with the Editor, that the Work
when completed, which will be within the present year, shall,
from its accuracy and the fulness of its details, form a
L i b r a r y B ook o f G e n e r a l R e f e r e n c e .
O PIN IO N S OF TH E PU B LIC P R ESS.
“ The *Anniversary Calendar* is a work which, when
completed, will form a volume as elegant and attractive
in its typographical aspect, as it will be useful in its varied
contents. It is intended to comprise a Calendar o f re­
markable Events, o f every kind, each arranged under its
respective d a te; two pages being devoted to each day in the
year, and these being divided into three separate compart­
ments, under the respective heads of—1. B irth s; 2. Deaths;
3. Acts. Each page has also a motto and a tail-piece, con­
sisting o f a pithy sentence from some approved author ; and
each month is introduced by selected verses appropriate to the
season. We do not profess to be very precisely acquainted
with the previous publications of a similar kind, with which
the *Anniversary Calendar* will have to compete; but as
far as our memory in such matters serves us, the present is
by far the most tasty of its class, and it is sufficiently
comprehensive to serve all the purposes of utility for which
it is designed. It will be completed at the end of the pre­
sent year, in thirteen monthly parts, and form two volumes,
which will be by no means destitute of that entertainment
which is too often purposely divorced from utility.*’—Court
Journal, Feb» 13.
iy
Google
4
W IL L IA M K ID D , 6 , OLD BOND STREET. 3
SLAVERYAS IT NOWEXISTS IN THE WEST INDIA COLONIES.
Just published, in a handsome octavo volume, illustrated
bp numerous Lithographic Embellishments,
FOUR YEARS IN THE WEST INDIES, IN
1826-7,-8, & 9.
“ * Four Years’ Residence in the West Indies* has ena­
bled our clever author to produce a work at once amusing
and valuable—amusing from his lively manner, and valuable
from his judicious information. He is not one of those who
saw nothing but negro oppression and misery in the West
Indies: on the contrary, though an advocate for gradual
emancipation, he draws, on the whole, a favourable picture
of the condition of the slave population; and his testi­
mony is entitled to the more attention, as, being the son of
a military officer, and utterly unconnected with planters, he
could have no bias to warp his views on this momentous
question. His volume is enriched by concise chronologies
and statistics of the various islands, from their discovery to
the present time, and by a number of well executed litho­
graphic embellishments. In all respects the author de­
serves our praise; and his book will, we are persuaded, be
favourably received by the public in general.**— L iterary
Gazette,
*' This interesting Volume contains a very complete his­
tory of the past and present state of the West Indies.”
— Monthly Review,**
“ A very valuable work, which should be read by every
O PIN IO N S OF TH E PU B LIC P R E 88.
4 N E W W O R K S P U B L IS H E D BY
person interested in the West India Question ; and who is
there in this country that is not deeply interested?”—
M onthly Magazine,
** We earnestly recommend this interesting Volume to
the perusal of our readers.”—John B u ll,
“ This is by far the most readable book on the West India
Colonies that has yet appeared. It abounds in lively and
graphic pictures of society.”—Glasgow Free Press,
“ Among other interesting features in this volume, we
must not omit to notice the chronology of the Antilles, which
is not to be met with elsewhere.”—Standard,
In Three Volumes, post 800, price 24*.
A SECOND EDITION OP
TH E D O M I N I E 'S LEGACY,
CONSISTING OP
A SERIES OF TALES, ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE SCENERY
AND MANNERS OF SCOTLAND.
“ The old man travelled far, both north and south,
And mickle did he see, and mickle hear 1
And left the fruits to them wha like to read.”
L ITE R A R Y COM M ENDATIONS.
*• The * Dominie's Legacy* consists of a series of highly
entertaining Tales, and well deserves a place in every
library. The story of M ary Ogilvie is very affecting.”—
Blackwood's Magazine,
“ We should compare the feelings excited in these pages
to gazing on a series of rustic landscapes and simple home
scenes • * * Need we recommend them further to our
readers ? ”— Literary Gazette,
“ We can assure our readers that one single tale in
these delightful volumes (the tale of Mary Ogilvie,) is
well worth the money charged for the whole work.”—
Morning Journal.
iy
Google
