{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1831__morrison___loss_of_the_rothsay_castle.pdf","mytitle":"Loss Of The Rothsay Castle","mylang":"de"}
FOURTH EDITION,
WITH ADDITIONS.
NARRATIVE OF THE LOSS
0, TH!
R0 TH SAY CASTLE
STEAM PACKET,
IN BEAUMA RIS BAY ,
0“ TH!
NIGHT OF THE 11TH AUGUST, 1881.
BY
LIEUT. R. J. MORgISON, ‘I'
ROYAL NAVY. '‘
" And ﬁrst one universal shriek there rush'd,
Louder than the loud ocean, like a crash
0! echoing thunder: and then all was hush'd,
Save the wild wind, and the remorseless dash
Of hillows: but at intervals there gush’d,
Accompanied with a convulsive splash,
A solitary shriek, the bubbling cry
of some strong swimmer in his ngony.”-Byroa.
..-.__
LONDON :
iwnusnnn BY snn’xnr_ AND MARsHALL, rrwnoxmnsﬂ
coun'r; AND ROCKLIFE AND nucxwon'rn,49, CAsTLE
s'rnsn'r, LIvImrooL.
1831.
‘_'ll
NARRATIVE, &c.
Foa very many years there has been no circumstance of
so calamitous a nature—whether we regard the number of
persons who have perished, the suddenness of‘the event,
at a season of the year when wrecks are less probable, or
the melancholy circumstances attending the whole affair—
as the wreck of the Rothsay Castle steam-packet, on the
spit of the Dutchman’s Bank, in the Bay of Beaumaris,
on the night of the l7th of August, 1831. Many crude ac
counts have been given to the world,-—-some of them having
every appearance of partiality, others written under syrup-
toms of fearto tell the truth, as if it were possible to believe
that the present Government would allow such a diret'ul
sacriﬁce ofhuman life, b which the King has lost nearly
150 of‘ his subjects, an sorrow and penury have over
whelmed so many families all over the country, to pass by
without the strictest inquiry. For the satisfaction of the
public, whose voice calls aloud for a thorough exposure of
all the facts, and for the service oftruth in general, I have
been induced to make personal inquiries at the scene of
this sad event; and from these, and the evidence given be
fore thejury only, shall I compose a narrative of the en
tire circumstances. If I may express myself strongly in
vfie observations 1 may be led to make on the conduct of
individuals which has brought about this very dreadful
calamity, be they among the dead or the living, it is not
to hurt the feelings of any man, it is to deter others from
future similar neglect, which may, of course, lead to simi
lar disasters. To guard the public from entrusting their
‘ lives in cases where ignorance of nautical affairs exposes‘
them to the effects of criminal negligence, or avarice, is
one cause also for my taking up my pen on this distressing
occasion. And for this purpose I shall take leave to sug
gest how far prudent precautions, on the part ofindividuals,
and legislative regulations combined, may take the sting
out of, if not entirely destroy, the risk of such destruction
of human life, by the application of steam to navigation..
2
4
The Rothsay Castle was a steam-vess‘el built in the
Clyde, by, I believe, a very eminent builder in that river
of the name of Castles, about the year 1812: of course she
was 18 years old at the time of her destruction. She was
one of the ﬁrst vessels which plied upon that river; and
having been built in the infancy of steam navigation, and
before that admirable invention had been sufficiently proved
to render it advisable to send steam vessels beyond the
precincts of a river, it is fair to conclude that, though
admirably put together, she was constructed only for that
navigation, and was never, even when new, a seaworthy
vessel, in the strict sense of the word. A farther proof of
this circumstance, and one that is perfectly conclusive, is
that her upper timbers measured onlyfbur inches, which
for a vessel ofabout 200 tons, is altogether below that which
could entitle her to be called seaworthy, or to be intrusted
in‘ a difficult navigation, with that most valuable ofall car
oes—human life. This primafacie evidence of the alarm
mg impropriety of lacing “ such a vessel on this station,"
is farther conﬁrmed by many other circumstances. It is
known that many vessels in his Majesty’s navy, although
built of the ver best materials, and constructed with ﬁrst
rate skill, are requently considered unlit to go to sea after
ten or twelve years. It is not too much to assume, then,
that the Rothsay Castle, after constant exposure to the
workings of a steam engine during eighteen years, was
in a state to be condemned, and that she was sold be
cause she was, in plain English, worn out. It is said she
was condemned to be broken up. As to the correct
ness' of Mr. Thomas Wilson’s statement, which will be
found in the appendix, of her being “stronger after her
repairs than she was when new,” I shall leave others to
decide; but, if it be true, which I do not believe, it proves
nothing, as I am sure she was even then totally unﬁt for
a heavy‘ sea. ‘
At ten o’clock on Wednesday morning, the 17th Aug.,the
vessel was appointed to sail from the usual place, George’!
Pier-head, Liverpool; but there was a casual delay in
starting, and it was eleven o’clock before she got every ‘
thing in readiness. Whilst taking passengers on board, a
carria e arrived at the pier-head tor embarkation. It be
longe to W. M. Foster, Esq., of Regent’s-park, London,
who, with his wife and servant, were conveyed in it to the
packet, and took their passage at the same time. They
were all subsequently drowned, a little dog which accom
panied them being the only survivor of this unfortunate
lgroup. The detention of the packet beyond the customary
our of sailing materially tended, by its inﬂuence upon the
time of her'Irrival outwards, to bring on the beart-‘rending
6
catastrophe which sacriﬁced so important a portion of hu-
man life. ‘By starting an hour too late, they would, of
course, have the tide turned against them so much the
earlier, and thus their progress would be somewhat re
tarded; and, independently of the loss of time by this
means, the tide would be lower, byjust one hour’s ebb, at
the period when the fatal crisis arrived. It is accordingly
stated that when the vessel struck, the water was ex
tremely low.
‘ The ﬁrst fact of consequence which I have ascertained
is one which laid the foundation of the vessel's destruction.
It is, that when she passed the Prince Llewelyn—the
steam-vessel which plied with her to Beaumaris, and then
on her way to Liverpool—which occurred about three miles
off the Floating-light, she was very far to leeward of her
course.‘ It was observed on board the Prince Llewelyn,as
being extraordinary, and gave reason to suppose there was
something amiss on board. Nor does it appear that the
ctnnmander of the vessel ever made an effort to get the
vessel to a proper distance from the. land, which prudence
and good seamanship alike dictated with a leaky vessel,
bad weather coming on, and a most'dangerous shoreunder
her lee. When the steamer left the pier‘head, the deck
was thronged with passengers; but the precise number it
would be impracticable to obtain, because, besides those
whose names were entered in the books, many individuals
were taken immediately from the pierhead, without any
previous application. When it is considered that tickets
are not taken for children, that most of the deck passen
gers would go on board without tickets, and that 100 were
paid for at the oﬂiee, as l was there personally informed,
we may suppose that, including the crew, musicians, &c.,
and numerous families of children known to be there, less
than 150 souls could not have been on board the ill-fated
vessel. The majority of the passengers consisted of holi
day or family parties, chieﬂy from country places ; and in
one of these companies, who came on ajourney of pleasure
from Bury, in Lancashire, the hand of death committed a
merciless devastation. It consisted of twenty-six persons.
In the morning, joyous with health and hilarity, they set
out upon the sea, and, before the next sun arose, all of
them, except two, had been swallowed up in the remorse
less deep. _
The weather was not particularly bad at the time the
packet sailed. The severe storm which had previously
raged, had more than usually agitated the water on the
banks. An American vessel, which attempted, by means
of a steam-boat, to put to sea, at ﬁve in the morning, was
compelled to return to port. 2This circumstance will ao
A
6
count for the alarm which seems, early in the afternoon, to
have seized several of the passengers, and to have prom ted
them to urge the captain to return to Liverpool. rThe
wind, too, blew strongly from the north-north-west, and
the vessel had to contend with the ﬂood tide soon after
she left the river. These considerations will account for
the slow progress which a vessel with only one engine
made against'an adverse wind and tide, without any mis
management, up to a certain period on the part of her
commander. When the steamer arrived off the Floating
lig'ht, which is stationed about ﬁfteen miles from Liverpool,
it appears that the roughness of the sea alarmed many of
the passengers. One of the survivors states, that Mr.
Tarry, of Bury, who, with his family, consisting of him-
self, his wife, their ﬁve children, and servant, was on board,
being, in common with others, greatl alarmed for his own
safety and the safety of those dear to im, went down to the
cabin, where the captain was at dinner, and requested him
to put‘back. His reply was, “ I think there isad—d deal
of fear on board, and very little danger. If we were to turn
back with passengers, it would never do; we should have
no proﬁt.” To another gentleman who urged him to put
back, he is reported to have said, very angrily, “ l’m not
one of those that turn back.” He remained in the cabin
two whole hours, and peremptorily refused to comply with
the repeaterhrequests made to him by the more timid of
his passengers to return to Liverpool, observing, that_ if
they knew him, they would not make the request. Every
generous mind would be glad to cast a veil over the errors
of those who are not present to defend themselves ; and it
is deeply painful to reproach the memory of one who has
been so awfully called into eternity ; but truth compels me
to state, that very serious complaints are made, by spine of
the surviving passengers, of the conduct of Lieut. Atkin
son. Before dinner, I believe, his behaviour was atten
tive and unexceptionable; but, after he had dined, a very
striking difference was observed in his conduct. He be- '
came violent in his manner and abusive in his language
to the men. When anxiopsly questioned by the passengers
as to the progress the vessel was making, and the time at
which she was likely to reach her destination, he returned
triﬂing, and‘ frequently very contradictory, answers. Dur
ing the early part of the voyage, he had spoken conﬁdently
of being able to reach Beaumaris by seven o’clock ; but the
evening wore away, night came on, and the vessel was
still a considerable distance from the termination of her
voyage. She was a very long time in getting from the
Little to the‘Great ()rrneshead; some of the survivors‘say
between three and four hours. A sloop passed‘ at no great
7 \
distance, whilst they were beating about in this situation,
to leeward. ‘
Here I must remark, that night coming on, and the wind
freshening, with an increased sea, which, as the ebb tide
was now running, and opposing the wind, there must have ‘
been, it became the commander to consider the important
charge he had; and, as the ebb tide had made, and ren
dered it impossible to return with safet ,to seek some other
means of preservin the lives of t e numerous fellow
creatures committe to his charge. What were these
means? I contend that he should, while between the two
Ormesheads-—where the vessel lay between three and four
hours—have altered his course, and steered right out to sea
till daylight. This was the ﬁrst duty of a good seaman,
as it always is in such cases; to get a good ofling, to get
well clear of a lee shore. He should have laid her head
to wind, and have stood that course north-_north-west
till day-light; when he would have ‘had a'fair wind and
ﬂood tide to carry him into Beaumaris. If, however, as I
believe, he knew the vessel would not stand the sea till
four o’clock, being already.halffull of water, he had an al
ternative. Between the two’Ormesheads, and directly to lee
ward of him, there was, at about two miles off, anchorage
ground, in about three or four fathoms, not half a mile from
the shore. Here he should have anchored, kept the steam up
to assist the vessel—if he feared her drifting on shore.
and sent the women and children on shore by a dozen at a
time, in his boat; have got other boats, if necessary, from
the shore; and if there were no boats, and as a last re
source, he had empty casks, ladders, planks, and spars on
board, of which he should have made a raft, and saved as
manly lives as possible, in the event of the vessel going on
on s ore in spite of his endeavours. Had he done all this,
honour, and not blame, would have been attached to his
memory, even if some lives had been lost in the attempt.
The vessel stood on, still leaking; and there is no ao
connt of any attempt to come to an anchor, which might
have been done about ll o’clock, with a fair prospect of
riding till day-light in the centre ofthe Bay of Beaumaris;
near that spot in the chart where an anchor is depicted, with
the ﬁgures 8;, which shows that there are eight fathoms and
a half of water there atlow water, spring tides. At this time
' one of_ the witnesses, Mr. Robert Whittaker, of Bury, a
passenger, states, on oath, that he asked the captain “ to
oist a‘light or ﬁre a gun:” a very proper request, since
the vessel was in distress, the assen ers working at the
pumps, and “ water in the hol ” so eep as to be coming
over the deck of the gentleman’s cabin. To this the an
swer was, that he “ had none.” To which neglect of the
8
common provision against being in distress, the misery of
this wreck may be attributed. With whom the blame lies
it is needless for me to declare; but I am sorry to say it is
too common, and that many steam-vessels sail every day
from Liverpool without any gun to make signals of distress:
nor has this calamity been any lesson to the owners. Al
though she was evidently making a great deal of water,
so much so that the ﬁreman found it impossible to keep
the ﬁres up, owing to the water going in with the coals,
yet there is no account of any attempt being made to sound
the well, or ascertain what water was really in the vessel.
This is one of the most extraordinary instances of crimi
nal neglect attending the whole matter. If the unfortu
nate captain had used common reﬂection, he would have
considered that as it was low water now that he had arrived
at the mostcritical period of the passage, it particularly be
hoved him to have the lead going in this narrow channelI
when the least deviation from his course must be fatal; and
if he resolved to run all risks, not to anchor, but to stand
on with a sinking ship, then he should have used every
other effort, by making sail, which, as his course was west
by south, and the wind north-north-west, he could have
done, and stood directly in for the anchorage ground. This
is supposing the statement correct, that they ever reached
the spit buoy. But I do not myself believe they were ever
within a half mile of it. It was near twelve o’cloek when
they arrived at the mouth of the Menia Strait, about
ﬁve miles from Beaumaris. The tide had been running
out of the strait, and had, consequently, for some time, re
tarded the steamer’s progress towards her destination; but
it was now just on the turn. The vessel, according to the
statement of two of the seamen and one of the ﬁremen
saved, had got round the buoy on the north end of the
Dutchman’s Bank, and had proceeded up the river as far
as the tower on Pufﬁn lsland, when suddenly the steam
got so low, that the engine would not keep her on her
proper course. Now was the time to make sail, if he had
been in the situation of B, in the chart, which is where he
should have been, and which the witness, William Hughes,
seaman, declares was the case. The fact is, this man must
have supposed the vessel half a mile nearer Puﬂin island
than she really was. I have no hesitation ‘in afﬁrming,
that when the engine stopped, the vessel was some small
distance to leeward of the spit buoy. The tide was then
setting in, and driving her directly on to the spit, while the
wind was hearing her to leeward towards the swash way,
denoted by the blank just to the southward of the vessel,
drawn on the chart. The divisions at foot and round the
chart, represent one mile each; this will enable any person
I_
9
to judge of the relative distances. About this time, it is
said that one of the passengers in the steamer earnestly
implored the captain to put into Conway. His reply was,
“God keep me from attempting it: it would be instant
destruction.” This was quite correct: it will be seen
by the water marked in the chart, that at near low
water, it would have been impracticable. When asked,
why there was not steam up, the ﬁreman said, that a
d a of water had been ﬁnding its Way into the vessel
all day, and that some time before she got into the
strait, the bilge-pumps were choked. The water in the
hold then overﬂowed the coals ; so‘ that, in renewin
the ﬁres, a deal of water went in with the coals, slackene
the ﬁres, and made it impossible to keep the steam up.—
Sbe now drifted, with the flood‘tide and north-north-west
wind, towards the Dutchman’s Bank, on the spit of which
she struck.
It was now, indeed, a moment of awe and consternation.
The worst fears of the passengers had every appearance
of being realized. The vessel rolled in a frightful manner;
and as the breaking sea struck her on either side, immedi
ate destruction seemed inevitable. It is reported by the
seamen and ﬁreman abovementioned, that Lieutenant At
kinson immediately ordered the man at the helm to put the
helm a starboard. The man refused to do so; but put it
to port. The mate, perceiving this, ran aft, took the helm
from the man, and put it to starboard. The engine had
previously stopped for above ten minutes, and this was said
by some on board to have been occasioned by the loss of a
bolt, whereas, the true reason was, that the coals were co
vered with water, the pumps were choked, and the water
had 0t to the ﬁres. On her striking, the captain said, “ It
is only sand, and she will soon ﬂoat.” In the meantime,
he and some of the passengers got the jib up. No doubt he
did this intending to wear her round, and bring her head
to the southward, with a hope of getting her throu h the
swash way; but, it could not make the least di erence
which way her head was turned, as she was on a lee shore.
and there was no steam to work her off. The captain also
ordered the passengers ﬁrst to run aft, in the hope, by re
moving the pressure from the vessel’s stem, to make her
ﬂoat; this failing to produce the desired effect, he then
ordered them to run forward. All the exertions of the cap
tain, the crew, and the passengers united, were unavailing.
The ill-fated vessel stuck still faster in the sands, and all
ave themselves up for lost. The terror of the passenger!
ecame excessive. Several of them urged the captain to
hoist lights, and make other signals of distress; but it is
stated that he positively refused to do so, assuring the pas
10
sgngers that there was no danger, and telling them, several
times, that the packet was aﬂoat, and doing well, and on
her way; when the passengers knew perfectly well that
shewas sticking fast in the sand, and tbather cabins were
rapidly ﬁlling with water. Doubtless the unfortunate man
was most fully aware of the imminentdanger; but we may
Charitably suppose, that he held such language for the pur
pose of preventing alarm which might be fatal. The great
ell was now rung with so much violence that the tongue
broke, and some of the passengers continued to strike it for
some time with a piece of coal or a stone. The bell was
heard, it is said, at Beaumaris, but, as there was no light
hoisted on the mast of the steamer, (a fatal neglect l) those
who heard the signal were, of course, ignorant whence the
sound proceeded. The wind, at this awful moment, was
strong, but the atmosphere perfectly clear. The moon,
though slightly overcast, threw considerable light on the
surrounding objects. The tide began to set in with great
strength, and a heavy sea heat over the bank on'which the
steam-packet was ﬁrmly and immoveably ﬁxed.
The duty of the captain now was evidently to make every
possible exertion, by signals, to procure assistance from
the shore, and to endeavour to calm the passengers’fears,
by showing them that, so far from despairing, he still had}_
resources for their preservation, and to effect whatever couldr'“
have been done by forming a raft from the materials to’
be found on board. The masts‘should have been cut awayl
and every piece of timber adapted for this purposepby
which means very many valuable lives would have been.
snatched from the grasp of death. But it is idle to make.
observations on what a good ofﬁcer or seaman would have .
accomplished, as this poor man had left himself with onl
two seamen on board, and could, of course, do little wit
their aid beyond making signals to draw attention from the
shore. But although it has been proved that there were_
gentleman’s fowling-piece on board, he even refused to
allow this to be discharged, according to the assertions of
some individuals who were saved.
I must here quote a paragraph in the Liverpool Journal.‘
“ By numerous inquiries among the boatrnen at Bangor,
it was learned that it was their general belief, that if a li ht
had been shown on board the unlucky packet, even a ter
she struck, the numerous boats, from upwards of twenty
vessels lying at Bangor, would undoubtedly have eased the
greater part, if not all the unfortunate passengers. No
person has yet been able to divine what the 'Ltuse of the
captain’s mad refusal to allow this could have been. (‘ﬁne
of the witnesses stated, that he (the captain) declared that
there was no lantern on board. If boats could have pro-
we. .q_ﬁ‘
I:
1‘.
11
ceeded a distance of six or seven miles, or more, from
Flan or, in time to relieve the sufferers, much more readily
ciulg assistance have gone from Beaumaris, and still more
so from Penmon Point, where an establishment of pilots
was ﬁxed by Lotd'Bulkeley, for the express purpose of
rendering assistance in such cases. The world Wlll hardly
credit the astonishing fact, that their establishment is within
liﬂle more than a‘mile and a half from the scene of wretch
edness, and that, the wind being fair, the boats from thence
could have reached the spot in about ten minutes! A single
blue light burned--a sin le rocket ﬁred----or even a solitary
musket discharged, wou d have insured this happy result.
It is reported, however, that there was nothing of the kind
on board. If so, I will not trust m feelin s to express the
sentiments which arise at the know edge 0? such neglect.”
By referring to the chart accompanying this narrative, it
will be seen that the wreck is at the letter A., and as the
Penmon pilot boats, life boat, &c., were at letter D., the
distance will be found, by the scale of miles shown on the
edge, or border, to be little more than a mile and a half.
Nothing can possibly be more lamentable than the idea that
assistance was so near” and that from'lack of so simple an
act as hoisting a lantern, above one hundred and thirty lives
were lost, and all the hopes of hundreds cut ofl‘ for ever. I
do not hesitate tomention so large a number, as it will be
seen b the appendix, that I have given an account of 106
indivi uals whose ill stars led‘them on board ; and there is
'little doubt that very many bodies will long continue about
the wreck.
The scene that now presented itself was such as I should
in vain attempt to describe. A death of horror seemed to
be the inevitable lot of all on board. The females, in par
ticuiar, uttered the most piercing shrieks; some locked
themselves in each other’s arms,_while others, losing all
_self-command, tore off their caps and bonnets, in the wild
‘ness of despair. The women and children collected in a
knot together, and kept embracing‘ each ‘other, uttering all
the time, the most dismal lamentations. _ When tired with
crying, they lay against each other, with their heads
reclined, like inanimate bodies. It was a few minutes before,
that a Liverpool Branch Pilot on board, William Jones,
became aware, in all its extent, of their dreadful situation.
He is reported to have exclaimed “ we are all lost ;” which
threw down whatever ho es 'any on board had, till now,
entertained, and induced tliem to give themselves up to bitter
despair, This was sadly imprudent, and little like the con
duct I should have expected from such a man. Hetought to
have set an example of preparing somethin in the nature of
a raft to save whatlives could be saved; and‘as he must have
12
known that it was low water, and the whole of the Dutch
man's Bank was dry within a few ards of them, and the
tide just setting on to it, there can e no reason to doubt
that he might have been by this means instrumental in sav
mg many of the unhappy victims as well as himself. I do
not desire to‘ injure the man, of whom I know nothing
beyond the present occasion; but I must say that a pilot
ought to be a man possessed of coolness, courage, and
determination in the hour of peril. I have been accustomed '
to see English seamen in the moment of_danger; and I shall
' ever believe that it is by presence of mind to conceive, com
bined with skill to accomplish means of safety in such cases,
that they can lay claim to respect as useful members of
society. ' ‘
It appears by Jones’s statement, that early in the after
noon e had been invited by the steward to take some
refreshment with him, and in the course of conversation, '
a very strong opinion was given by the steward, that Cap
tain Atkinson never intended to reach Beaumaris, and that
the voyage he was now making would be his last. By the
expression “intended,” he explained was meant expected,
and the result proved the opinion to be too fatally correct.
Tired by what he had gone throu h before entering the
packet, the pilot lay down in the orecastle to sleep. He
was roused by a. sensation beyond all others most dreadful
he felt the vessel strike; and his experience told him that
all was over. Hastily rushing upon deck, his courage and
coolness were for a moment quite overcome. “I saw,”
said he, “the quality huddled together in the waist 'of the
vessel; and the praying and crying was‘ the most dreadful
sight to witness. '1 he waves broke over on both sides, and
took away numbers at once. They went like ﬂights, some
times many, sometimes few ; at last the bulwark went, and
none were left.”
The vessel had scarcely struck, when the two stays oft
chimney broke. These, after many ineffectual efforts, were
again made fast; but they soon ave way a second time,
and the chimne fell across the eck, bringing the main
mast with it. '12he mast, I am informed, fell aft alo the
lee or larboatd side of the quarter deck, and struck over
board some of the unfortunate creatures who had there
collected. The steward of the vessel and his wife lashed
themselves ‘to the mast, determined to s end their last
moments in each other’s arms. Several hus ands and wives
seem to have met their fate together; whilst parents
clun to their little ones. Several mothers, itis said, have
eris red with their little ones ﬁrmly clasped in their arms.
The carpenter and his wife were seen embracing each other
and their child in the extreme of agony. The poor woman
4‘—L'_._s__‘_._
13
asked a young man, Henry Hammond, to pull her cloak
over her shoulders, when a tremendous wave came and
washed off, in a moment, twelve persons, and her among
them.
Soon after the crash, the captain’s voice was heard for the
last time. He and the mate a'p ear to have been the very
ﬁrst that perished, and I shoul conclude that they must
have been dragged overboard by the wreck of the main
mast. It is true that there has been an absurd report in
Beaumaris, that both captain and mate found their wa on
shore safely in the boat, part of which was found on s ore
early in the morning. This, of course, cannot be believed.
Thou h I think it was quite possible that many lives might
‘have ieen saved in the boat, if she had been provided with
ours The absence of these, however, shows in a glarin
manner, the utter recklessness of human life which marked
the whole affair. It is stated by Mr. Henry Hammond,
ship-carver, of Liverpool, one of the persons saved, that it
is not true that a party of the passengers got into the boat
soon after the vessel struck, and were immediately swamped.
The statement he gives is, that the boat was hanging by
‘ the davits over the stern, nearly ﬁlled with water in conse
quence of'the spray; when the vessel struck, he and the
wife ‘and child of the carpenter got into the boat, but left it
a ain, being ordered out by the mate, who told them it was
0 no use, as no boat could live in such a sea. The boat
soon after broke adrift and was lost, but there was no person
in her.
By referring to the chart, it will be seen that for above
a mile and a half to the eastward of the s it-buoy in the
Friar’s Road, the sand is “ dry at half ebb,” and as the
Dutchman’s Bank is dry at low-water, I have no hesitation
in affirming that there was dry land within halfa mileof the
wreck when she struck ; and that if they had been informed
of the fact, many of those on board might have swam or
been drifted over the swash, and within two hundred yards
of the vessel would have found themselves in not more than
three or four feet of water.
The swash is very few yards wide, and was easily pas
sed by one individual, who, being a resident in Bangor,
knew the locality, and escaped, according‘to Mr. Whitta
ker’s narrative; who states as follows :—-“ At this time, a
gentleman from Bangor left the vessel, ‘with a small barrel
tied beneath his chin, and anumbrella ‘in his hand, which
he unfurled when he got into the water, in the hope of be
ing- drifted ashore in time to send some aid to his fellow
suti‘erers.” This was Mr. Jones, of Bangor.
Now, ifJones, the pilot, or the captain or mate, ‘or any
other person on board, who knew of the vicinity of the dry
B ~
14
‘ ﬁne.
sand, on which people walk at low water, had explained to
the persons who could swim the state of the case, many
others might have been saved as well as Mr. Jones. '
Mr. Tarry, who was exceedingly apprehensive during
the passage, kept his wife aud children in the cabin; on the
vessel striking, he made impatient inquiries respecting their
probable fate, and Jones, the pilot, having indiscreetly said
that there was no hope of safety, he became at once calm,
and, in a spirit‘ of resignation, said, “ I brought out my fa
mily, and to return without them would be worse than
death; l’ll, therefore, die with them.” He then went down‘
into the cabin, and embraced his wife and children. It
would appear that they afterwards, impelled by a sense of
self-preservation, came on deck; one, at least, of his little
girls was seen afterwards in a state of pitiable helplessness.
Mr. Duckworth, of Bury, who survived the catastrophe,
says, that while sustaining his wife, he saw her on the
quarter deck: she was‘about ten‘ years old. Each wave
that broke down on one side of the vessel hurled her along
with impetuous force, and dashed her against the gunwale
on the other side; and then it would recede and draw her
back again, a ready victim for another similar shock. The
poor innocent, bruised and half choked with the waves,
sent forth the most piteous cries for her father and mother,
between each rush of the waters. Her shrieks were pierc
ing beyond conception, and she screamed, “O wont you
come to me, father? 0 mamma! ” &c., till Mr. D. says
his heart yearned to save her, and though he dared not quit
his wife, he called to Mr. Entwistle to make the effort;
but he believes she was washed away soon after, while be
(Mr. Entwistle) was helping Mrs. Duckworth ‘on the ca
boose, as a safer place.
Mr. Tarry, it appears, was a great favourite with the
Earl of Derby. Only the week before the sad disaster,
he had taken a large farm from the earl, and paid a large
The Derb estate is let on leases of lives, not of
ears, and it so appened that Mr. Tarry inserted in his
ease the lives of the children'lost. Of course the Earl of
Derby will refuse to take advantage of such a calamity.
A schooner, belonging to a nephew of Alderman Wright,
was lying oﬂ' Beanmaris-grecn; the persons on board heard
the bell ring in the Rothsay Castle, but in consequence of no
light being,r displayed, which the captain refused to allow,
they could not tell in what direction to go to render assist‘
ance. They eventually saved several persons who had been
seven hours in the water. Such was the state of anxiety of
the poor creatures, who had been so long hanging to the
wreck, that they imagined, when taken up at seven o’clock
in the morning, that it was noon. One individual, scoured
15
by the schooner, had totally lost his sight; and not being
.iware of his misfortune, his constant prayer was that the
day might break.
‘ ‘I left Liverpool, on Tuesday morning, Aug-.23, to visitthis
scene of melancholy, with a view to learn, by my own ob
servations, particulars of suﬁ'erings which have never been
surpassed, and, perhaps, neve'r equalled, either for their
suddenness or intensity. On board the Prince Llewelyn
there were above 80 passengers, whose apprehensions of a
‘similar fate were destroyed by their conﬁdence in the
strength of the vessel, and the skill and steadiness of the
captain, Lieut. Wright, whose manner and conduct were
very different from that of the unhappy man, whose want
of those qualities, together with other circumstances,
brought about the dreadful event, which has been miscalled
an accident. _
One of the ﬁrst things which struck my attention was,
that, notwithstanding the recent anguish of so many poor
creatures, who. were hurried into eternity by the grossest
neglect of those persons into whose hands they had com
mitted themselves, the same neglect of the precautions
which the law wisely insists on being taken was still ob
vious. ‘If we had been overtaken by a dense fog, and hap
pened to strike upon one of the numerous sand-banks on the
passage, our fate would most probably have been similar,
for there was no gun on board to make signals of distress,
as the act of Parliament requires. Strange carelessness!
Owing to neglect, the lives and happiness ofthousands are
endangered, and the law set at deﬁance. The penalty ft r
this omission is, I believe, £20; but, as there is no person
appointed to inspect these vessels, and see the law carried
into effect, it is never inﬂicted. So much for our mali
time police. I will do the captain thejustice to say, that
I do not think the fault lies with him. Whatever they may
think of this, I can assure the good people of Liverpool,
that a steam-vessel never leaves this port without a great
possibility of being driven on to the sands, if a fog should
suddenly come on; and I challenge the owners or masters
of them to prove that, in case of such an event, if there be
no gun to make signals on board the vessel, it is not very
probable that all on board will perish miserably.
After a pleasant passage, we arrived safe at the end
of the fatal sand-bank, where the remains of the ill
fated vessel were still visible. ltwas low water, and we
could plainly perceive the paddle wheel,and what appeared
‘ to be the stump of the mast, a few feet above the sands,
into which the wreck had settled down. A few ribs were
also visible; but much less of the vessel remained in exis
tence than is generally the case, after a lapse of four or
16
ﬁve days, where a strong sea-worthy vessel is thrown upon
a bank, even in the winter time, when violent gales soon
demolish the 1stoutest ships.
_ The Llewelé it having stopped 06‘ Pufﬁn Island, a boat
came on boartIffrom the wreck, with Captain Galt, ot the
Eclipse steamer, which vessel was lying on the bank, with
two other vessels, to assist in raising the engines, &c. It
was stated that a body, having 300 sovereigns about it, sup
posed to be that of Mr. Foster, of No. 2, Cumberland Ter
race, Regent’s Park, London, was found under part of the '
wreck; the body could not be removed, but/the linen being
marked W. M. F., it was considered to be that unfortunate
gentleman. Several bodies were declared to be lying about
the wreck half buried in the sand, and which could not at
present he removed, owing to heavy pieces of timber and
other substances being in the way. I cannot help noticing
a scandalous report which was also brought from the wreck,
that several bodies had been found by the Penmon people,
and secretly buried, with a view to be subsequently
plundered. This, I believe, to have originated in a pure
love of scandal; for, so far from being able to trace it to any
foundation whatever, I learned in all directions, both in
Bangor and Beaumaris, that the conduct ofthe people had
been marked with the strongest stamp of propriety. The
meritorious efforts made by Sir Richard Bulkeley, and
other gentlemen of the neighbourhood, to insure respect to
the remains of the unfortunate sufferers, I believe to have
been attended with perfect success. Indeed, I subsequently
saw numerous valuable and portable articles which had
been saved, and lodged in the hands of the authorities at
Beaumaris, and which might have been very readily ah- '
stracted by the ﬁnders, to whom they offered great tempta
tion. I never was among the inhabitants of North Wales‘
before, and I must observe, that the very excellent conduct
of the lower orders on this occasion forms a strong‘ contrast
to that I have witnessed on the coasts of Devonshire and
the south of Ireland, where I have observed the most
cruel treatment of unfortunate creatures who were cast
ashore from wrecks. I remember, in the year 18l6, wit-_
nessing the wreck ofa vessel near Appledore, in the bay of
Barnstaple, when the country people came down in crowds
to plunder the wreck, and they drove the poor seamen back
into the surf, when they attempted to rescue a part of their
roperty. And it was no later than the winter of 1827, that
I knew a crowd to surround the mate ofa Welsh sloop,
wrecked on the coast of Waterford, whom they knocked
down and robbed of a small bundle of clothes, all that he
had saved from the wreck. I feel much pleasure in tes'ti}
fying to the superior humanity of the poor people near
l7
Beaumaris, which, I believe, may be attributed to the ex-
cellent endeavours to distribute the seed of education
among‘ the children, some years since, by the late Lold
Bulkeley. The fruit of his exertions is now showing itself
in their‘good conduct as men and Christians.
Proceeding from the Menai Bridge to Carnarvon, I‘found
every one’s conversation almost exclusively bent upon this
unhappy circumstance; ‘and a very general feeling of dis
gust and indignation prevailed at the wanton neglect which
had ended in the sacriﬁce of so many lives of fathers, nio
thers, and infants.‘ 'I returned to Bangor,'and here found
a still stronger feeling of gloom and sorrow. In the bury
ing ground attached to the ancient church in this town, I
saw the ﬁrst palpable evidence of the mortality occasioned
by this calamity. There ‘were two new graves‘ together,
ornamented with laurel leaves, ﬂowers, and herbs, in the
Welsh fashion. I learned that the bodies of John Parry
and his wife, from Manchester, were in one, and that Vl’m.
Cooke, a dealer in oranges, was the inhabitant of the other.
This poor fellow has left a wife and ﬁve children to ﬁght
their way through the world. Heis said to have made al
most superhuman exertions to save his life; so much so as
to draw attention amidst all the suffering and confusion.
He worked excessively hard at the pumps for some time be
fore the vessel struck, and then clung with all his energy,
ﬁrst to one part, then to another, of the wreck, as they were
successively torn from his grasp by the irresistible and re
lentless waves. No doubt the idea of his sufferinglittle
ondsshttged him to these endeavours.
_0narri'ving in Beaumaris, I found one solemn feeling
prevalent throughout the town. It was evident in every
face. Sorrow and dejection sat upon every brow; and
never did 1witness such a general expression of melancholy
since the fatal news of the death of the Princess Charlotte
spread sorrow throughout the land. A public meeting
which was held there gave me an opportunity of witnessing
the deep and absorbing interest which this sad misfortune,
if that he not too mild aterm, had created throughout the
place. ' it "' ‘
_ In the church-yard a heart-rending scene was to be u it
nessed. There was a. long string of graves, ﬁve of which
were open, and the last minister of earthly services was
busily engaged, with an assistant, in completing a sixth.
' ‘Twenty-four bodies had been already interred; and by w ay
i'f saving room, the coffins of two females, or young per
sons, were placed on one side, ready to be deposited in the
same grave with three others. All had been done with
tic‘scrum; and I must express my gratiﬁcation at the so
wnn and serious manner in which the Rev. Dr. Howard,
B 2
18
the rector, read that beautiful portion of scripture appro
priated to the funeral service. The two bodies whom I
followed _-to the grave were that of Mr. Entwistle, whose
brother-in-law attended him to the last resort of all living,
and, alas! that of a lady unknown. The body of this poorq
creature had been picked up near Conway, and, to the".
great credit of the people, she was immediately brought to
Beaumaris. She had been one of fortune’s favourites when
living; though destined to so cruel a death. She was ele
gantly and fashionably attired, with pink silk stockings and
andsome shoes. On her ﬁngers were three handsome
rings, besides the wedding-ring; and she had rich ear-‘g_
rings, and a‘g-old chain round her neck, with a locket, and,
I believe, a miniature attached. 1 could not avoid reﬂect
ing on the lesson this was for vanity. Here ‘was one
nursed in the lap of luxury, who had never dreamt but of
being carried to the house appointed for all living, amidst
the gaudy trappings of woe, and the tears of friends and
relations, and to have her name and virtues perpetuated on '_
the sculptured monument, buried in a common deal shell,
followed to. the grave by strangers, and without even a f
name! _
On board the William IV., in which vessel I returned
to Liverpool, were two of the survivors, Jones, the ﬁreman,
and Mr. L, Duckworth; and numerous individuals who
had been to seek for their friends among the bodies which
have been washed up, or otherways found. There was
also on board the_body of the younger Miss Broadhurst,
aged sixteen and a half; for conveying of which to Liver
pool, I was informed, Mr. Watson demanded the sum of
ﬁve pounds! I should have been more astonished at this,
if I had not previously heard that he required no less than
ten guineas for bringing that of Mrs. Hammond to Liver
pool; but at length agreed to take ﬁve guiueas. lt ap
peared, also, that Mr. Broadhurst remonstrated a ainst
what some people would call an extortionate deman , and
Mr. W. was prevailedon to bring the young lady’s body
free of expense. It is remarkable, that this ﬁneyouhg
creature was found in no‘ way mutilated, but her features
perfectly placid, and retaining all that beauty for which
{she was remarked when living. .
_ The gentleman who accompanied the body to Liverpool
seemed extremely distressed. He was kind enough to give
‘me the true particulars of the death of this poor girl, and
her sister, whose body had not then been found. It
appears that Mr. Broadhurst had just ‘placed his two
‘daughters in a part of the vessel in which he hoped they
might be safe for a few minutes longer, and was about. to
join them himself, when a spar fell and struck him over
a
19
board. He rose again and endeavoured to swim to the
ship, where he still observed his girls in an agony of
despair, at the supposition that he was lost for ever.
He made every effort to join them, but was speedily
washed away, and they met no more. On passing the
fatal spot, poor Mr. Duckworth, who was sitting looking
_in that direction, became much aﬁ‘ected. He had lost
his wife, and the view no doubt brought a fresh and pain
ful recollection of the scene to his mind, and I thought the
better of him when I perceived his lip quiver and the tear
steal from his eye. He informed me that he was in the
cabin when the vessel struck, and that, not long before, a
passenger had begged the captain very earnestly to put
back, and that the reply was, “ What! I suppose that you
have committed a murder, that you are so frightened.” If
this brutal answer was indeed given, which there can be no
reason to doubt, it shows too plainly the kind of character
to whose care these poor creatures’ lives were entrusted.
Mr. D. also related, that after the ship had been some time
on shore, he saw the captain trying the depth of water over
the side with a pole, and he declared there were seven feet
some inches of water. After those general events, which
have been so often related, had occurred, Mr. Duckworth
found himself standing b the caboose, or ship's kitchen,
his wife clasping him by t e waist. The heavy seas, which
broke perpetually over them, struck them down repeatedly;
“and (said Mr. D.) as fast as I could, I got up again, and
icked up my wife, who soon became exhausted.” She had
by this time lost her bonnet, and her hair was ﬂowing about
‘loose. Having succeeded in getting her on to the caboose,
Mr. Duckworth went to the end to climb up himself; but,
alas! before he could get up, a pitiless wave washed her
03', and he never saw her more.
It may not be amiss to call the attention of the public to
‘the necessity of some measures ‘being taken by the legis
lature to prevent loss of life, in cases of the wrecks of
lsteam-packets. Wherever a vessel of this description
carries above 20 or 30 passengers, it is obvious, that in the
case of being wrecked, an ordinary ‘boat has no chance of
saving the lives of above one-half the number. 'The law
should require every vessel, carrying passengers, to pro
vide suﬂicient materials for the preservation of all, in case
of being stranded. This might be done eﬂ'ectually by
compelling them to have on board, and ready for use, a
quantity of a certain species of liﬁ buoy. It’ a buoy, com‘
posed of four small kegs, capable'of containing about two
gallons each, and ﬁxed together at a distance of two that
between each keg, forming a quadrangle, could ‘support
four men, then about twenty ot these might have preserved
20
the whole number of persons lost in the Rothsay Castle.
A similar kind of buoy is in general use on board his Ma
jesty’s ships, for the purpose of throwing into the sea
whenever a man falls overboard. Life is frequently
reserved by this means. It is by no means necessary
‘for me to enter into a farther description of such buoys,
as every ingenious individual will see that they might
readily be constructed, so as to permit females and children
to be safely seated thereon, and attached by straps. Any
law of this kind would be worse than useless, however,
unless inspectors were appointed to see that proprietors of
steam vessels obeyed its provisions; or unless extremely
heavy penalties compelled obedience, as in the case of the
ﬁnes inﬂicted by our ﬁscal regulations. A ﬁne of£20, or
even £50, is laughed at by such men as the owner of the
Rothsay Castle; but a ﬁne of£lO for every passenger he
was proved to have on board without a magistrate’s certi
ﬁcate being publicly exposed in the vessel, that it had been
proved that there were materials for preserving the passen
gers in case of being wrecked, would be effectual.
In bringing my remarks to a close, lhave little to say
upon this lamentable instance of recklessness of human life,
as to the conduct ofthe unfortunate Lieut. Atkinson, beyond
the observations I have been compelled to make. ‘It was
notorious that he had a‘ha'hit of intoxication; that of all
others which rendered him least ﬁt to be entrusted with the
lives of his fellow creatures. If the owner of the vessel
knew it not, he was very singularly situated. On the
conduct of Mr. Watson himself in employing this vessel
for such a purpose, or in giving her to the command of
such a captain, or of neglecting to provide all that he did
neglect to provide, or on his subsequent com‘portment, I
consider it would be an insult to the common sense and
humanity of my readers to ‘make one single comment.
The Rothsay Castle was ill found, badl manned and com
manded, and very ill managed. Adde to which, she was
too slight and too old to be sent on such a passage, and
with such a number of passengers. Here is quite sufficient
to account for the cruel disaster‘which has shocked the
sympathies and excited the compassion of the whole peo-
ple of England.
. CORONER’S INQUEST.
On the 18th of August, the morning following the wreck
of the unfortunate Rothsay Castle, the coroner for the ho
rough of Beaumaris, M r. 'l‘hos. Williams, and the following
highly respectable individuals, proceeded to inquire into
the cause of the death of several persons, whose bodies had
been found :—
21
Sir Richard Bulkeley Williams Bulkeley, Bart., M.P.
John Wright, Esq. (an alderman of Liverpool.)
William Henry Tnrton, Esq.
George Debrisay, Esq.
Thomas Gray, Esq.
Richard Lewis,
John Batley, ' } Gentlemen.
John Lloyd,
George Walmsley, Esq.
John Jones,
Erasmus Griffith, Gentlemen.
Hugh Roberts.
. The ﬁrst witness was William Hughes, a seaman. He
stated that there were one other seamen, the carpenter, two
ﬁremen, the mate, and engineer, composing the crew. The
Rothsay Castle was not a stout boat. The sea ran very
high, and the vessel’s side was towards the sea. Witness
was at the helm when the vessel struck. The engines stop
ped when they arrived at the smoothing opposite the old
tower on Puﬁin Island. The vessel laboured hard, and the
water came in through the seams. That could not huh
been the case it‘ she had been seaworthy. Witness did not
before think her to be unseaworthy. After striking, the
vessel dragged a considerable way before she sunk—about
a mile. The mate took the wheel out of witness’s hands,
and U1: it hard a starboard, which sent the vessel farther
on t e bank. When‘ the accident took place, the captain
was fresh, and the mate was no better. The steam had
failed, and the vessel was (thereby) driven on the bank.
If the anchor had been let down at ﬁrst, the vessel could
have been saved.
W. Jones, ﬁreman, stated that the wind was at north at
leaving Liverpool, blowing fresh. There was a rent
number of passengers on board, upwards of a hunﬁred.
The vessel made much water during the passage; the
water came through the sides. The pumps were choked.
They began to pump about ten o’clock; the water was up
_ to his ancles while feeding the ﬁre. They could not gain
Ormeshead before ten p’clock. Had been employed in the
Rothsay Castle three weeks. The vessel was very strong.
The water came in through the shaft ‘on the paddle whee 1
Witness could just see Puﬁin Island whoa‘‘Sbeastrmky
Witness related that Jones the steward said, when oﬁ"
O'rmeshead, that “ they should never reach the shore.”
Witness heard several passengers ask the captain to put
back. Neither captain or mate was sober; both were levi
dentl drunk before they reached Ormeshead. The witness
state ,‘ in proof of the captain being‘intoxicated, that he
ordered hiop‘(witness) to cram the ﬁre when it did not re
22
quire it. The pumps were choked with ashes. Witness
is a ﬁreman, and no seaman. He states also, that a few
of the passengers asked the captain to cast anchor, and
that he answeredthem, “ Hold your bother; there is no
danger.” This witness stated also, that there were two
men left behind, at Bangor, whose places were not sup
plied. He gave it as his opinion, that the vessel was as
strong a one as he ever saw. ‘
W. Jones, pilot, stated, that at about half-past seven,
some of the passengers asked the captain to put back, and
he refused ; and that, when she struck, he asked the mate
to put alight up, which 'was also refused. He says that
the Rothsay Castle was a very old vessel, and very cranky.
The vessel struck about ﬁfty times before the captain‘or
dered them to reverse the engine. She ought not to have
got to leeward, if they had kept the right course. It was
in consequence of bad steering.
Mr. Henry Wilson, a passenger, stated, that after din
ner, the captain minded nothing but drinking, and spoke in
a violent and frivolous way. He was drunk, and the mate
also. Witness heard the captain frequently asked to put
up a light, and he refused. He also refused to allow the
bell to be rung; this was done, however, contrary to his
orders.
Mr. William Watson was owner of the Rothsay Castle.
Could not say how many of the crew were on board when
she started. The vessel was on the slip about four days to
gets. new boiler. He purchased her at the Clyde. Thinks
she is ten years old; she may be sixteen years old.* Never
heard that she had been condemned. The engine was a
ﬁfty horse power.
Evan Evans, seaman, was at the wheel a considerable
part of the voyage from Liverpool to Beanmaris. The ves
sel leaked so much between Ormeshead and Puﬁin Island
that the steam quite failed. The water came in partly
through the seams and partly from breaking on the deck.
She was on the weather edge of the bank when_she struck.
Witness does not think that.either'captain or mate was
so er. . _
Mr. George 'Hammond, of Leeds, was in the _habit of
going a good deal by steam-packets. Witness yv'vas'qnite
satisﬁed with the conduct of the captain and matesuntil
about four o’clock. They remained at dinner about two
' It is not probable that Mr. W. bought her without having
ascertained her age, which of course was registered. He bought
her in October last, and I do not know how he could forget such a.
fact, in which he was deeply interested. Instead of a crew of two
seamen, there ought to have been at least ﬁve- ‘5 I .
23
hours. After dinner, the vessel appeared. to be making
'no way, and the captain was requested to turn back. The
vessel was then labouring very hard. Is conversa'ntwith
machinery, and thinks the generality of steamers would
have weathered the sea then runnin . There was a want
of discipline on board. _Thinks that if the captain or mate
had attended to'their duty, or turned back to Liverpool, the
vessel would have been saved. The water rolled about in
the gentlemen’s cabin about an hour before the vessel
struck. Thinks that not a tenth part of the water then in
the vessel came through the aperture in the shaft, but that
the water must have come through the seams.
Mr. Robert Wl|ittaker,ofBury, was a passenger. Heard
several passengers ask the captain to turn back before they
came to Ormeshead ; he answered that he knew better what
to do than they did. Witness was one to work at the
pumps, as there was water in the hold. He thought the
captain was not quite sober, and he saw a person on board
attempt to assist the captain in working the vessel, and lie
was not sober. Mr. Whittaker then stated that he asked
the captain to hoist a light, or ﬁre a gun, and he said that
he “ had none.” Witness saw no gun on the deck; and
the captain said that he had no lantern. The captain stated
that there was no danger. . When the vessel struck, the
sea broke over her, and loosened the stays of the chimney.
Mr. Tarr , a passenger, frequently asked where was the
captain, t e answer was always, “ the captain is at dinner."
This answer was given for above two hours. The captain
seemed stupiﬁed and sulky afterdinner. Witness was told
by some one belonging to the vessel, that he was frightened
when he saw the Water coming through the cabin ﬂoors.
The above is the principal evidence given before the co
roner, although many questions were asked by Mr. Alder
man Wright, of Liverpool, and several other intelligent
individuals on the jury relative to minor points.—
Tllere have been several subsequent inquests held, some by
the coroner for the county, and the juries have returned
verdicts of “ Found Drowned,” after a formal examination
of a witness to prove the corpse had been one of the un
fortunates on board the Rothsay Castle.
The‘verdict given in the ﬁrst instance was as follows :-..
“That the said person unknown, on the 17th day of August, in
the year aforesaid, at the parish aforesaid, within the liberties of
the said borough, being a. passenger on board of the steam-packet
called the Rothsay Castle, plying between Liverpool and Beaumo
ris aforesaid. It so happened that the steam-packet called the
Rothsay Castle struck upon a sandbank, by means whereof the
said steam-packet called the Rothsay Castle was then and there
wrecked, and the said person unknown accidentally, casually, and
24
by misfortnr 2., was, in the water ‘of the Straits of Menai, within
the liberties' o" the said borough, then and there suffocated and
drownethgof 'nirh said suffocation and drowning the said person
unknown in . and there instantly died.”
After th" liove verdict was delivered in, the following
letter we ‘ I: inded to the Coroner :— ‘_
. “ Beaumaris, August 19, 1831.'
“ Sm—Jr‘rom the evidence brought before them, the Jury on this
inquest cannot separate without expressing their ﬁrm conviction
that had the Rothsay Castle been a seaworthy vessel, and properly
manned, this awful calamity might have been averted. They,
therefore, cannot disguise their indignation at the conduct of those
who could place such a vessel on this station, and under the charge
ofa captain and mate who have been proved, by the evidence
brought before them, to have been in a state of intoxication.
(Signed) “ R. W. BULKELEY, Foreman.
“ To the Coroner.”
PE RSONAL NARRAT IVES.
Mr. Nuttall, chemist, of Bury, was one of the persona
saved. With Miss Whittaker, from the same place, he
made up a party of twenty-six, all from Bury, and per
auaded them to visit Beauma‘ris.
‘‘ When the vessel arrived ofl‘ the Floating-light,” says
Mr. Nuttall, “the sea appeared rough, and Mr. Tarry, of
Bury, being, in common with others, greatly alarmed,
went down to the cabin, where the captain was at dinner,
and requested him to put back. His repl was, ‘ I think
there is a d—d deal of fear on board, an very little dan
ger. If we were to turn back with passengers, it would
never do: we should have no proﬁt.’ ” The sea continued
rough, and the vessel made such little way that she re
mained three hours in ‘sight of the Floating-light. The
passengers became very ill, and all expressed a great an!
iety to turn back, but the captain still refused. He was
repeatedly asked to make signals of distress, but declined
to do so. Soon after nightfall the vessel began to ﬁll with
water, and the pumps were put to work, but it still gained
on them, and the captain was requested once more to make
signals of distress. Had he done so, it is the opinion of
practical men at Beaumaris, that all could have been saved.
He would not, however, make signals, neither would he
hang out a light, and the result of his obstinacy was, that
the vessel quitted her course, and struck at twelve o’clock.
The scene was then piteous in the extreme ; ﬁfty persons
were at once thrown into the sea, amidst the screams of
the survivors, by the lurching of the vessel. Long before
she struck, the passengers looked on themselves as lost.
and parents and relation were to be seen taking leave of
each other.
25
When the vessel struck, the passengers rushed forward,
but the captain ordered them aft, and, on seeing his: con
sult with the mate, a gentleman cried out, “ It is all over
with us; the captain and mate are preparing to leave the
' vessel.” At that instant, no doubt from accident, the‘cap
tain fell, or tumbled, overboard, and was the ﬁrst person
who was drowned. Mr. Nuttall says he was intoxicated
. all the way.
The_ vessel continued whole until one o’clock, when
she broke, as it were, across, and the remainder of the
passengers, with the exception of those who were saved,
were hurried into the sea. Before this direful event, the
scene on deck was heart-lending; The women and chil
dren collected in a knot together, and kept embracing each
other, keeping up, all the time, the most dismal lamenta
tions. When tired with crying, they lay against-each
other, with their heads reclined, like inanimate bodies; but
when the vessel went to pieces, at half-past one, the shriek
of an uish and despair was deafening and terriﬁc. At this
awfu moment Mr. Nuttall was precipitated into the sea:
he was encumbered with all his clothes, a great coat, and, in
addition to these, a ﬁne little boy took refuge on his back.
He could not swim, and must have sunk, had not provi
dence thrown arope in his way. He seized it eager] , and
was guided by it to a part of the wreck that a hered
to the wheel. Here he found Miss Whittaker, a
boy, and six others. They remained here in the presence
of death until seven. The wreck was now aﬂoat; and, in
the hope of keeping her from going out to sea, they bor
rowed Miss Whittaker’s ﬂannel petticoat, and, holding it
between their hands, formed it at once into a. sail and sig
nal. 'They also hoisted a handkerchief, and this signal
having been seen from land, the life-boat came off, and car
ried them from the wreck. Previous to her arrival,'the tide
had carried them out to sea, and they must soon‘have pe
rished, had not assistance arrived. It was low water when
the vessel struck. If Mr. Nuttall was understood correctly,
several of the ladies and children were drowned in the
cabin. The boy that got on his back was saved.
.. n" '
The following narrative is drawn up from the verbal
statement of Mr. James Martin, one of the survivors of
the wreck. It is chieﬂy personal, and refers particularly
to the circumstances attending the fate of his friend, Mr_
Mark Metcalf: scores of individuals were, however, ex
posed to the same dreadful perils, and perished undercir
cumstances asawful as those under which that respectable
and lamented individual met his death. The narrative will
be read with feelings of deep and painful interest,
‘ c
26
“ We were some time in the river before we got off;
and nothing particular happened during the former part of
the voyage, only that it was rough, and we were a lon
time before we passed the Ormeshead. [was very sic
during a considerable part of the voyage, and, on passing
the Ormeshead, Mark came to me and said, ‘ James, how
do you feel?’ I replied, ‘ Better.’ He said, ‘I have had
no sickness, but I have a kind of dread or fear upon me.’
Soon after, we saw Puﬂin Island, and rejoiced, continuing
to encourage each other, until the vessel struck on the
bank, about 12% P.M. He then said, ‘ 0, James, what do
you think of this?’ I replied, ‘ Keep up your courage,—
whilst there’s life there’s hope.’ We then, amidst great
consternation and confusion among the assengers, went
forward and examined the pumps, whic we found were
choked and had ceased to work. At this time, man of
the passenger were making speaking trumpets oft eir
hands, and shouting together at the top of their voices,
whilst others were engaged in ringin the bell; but no
persuasion could induce the captain to oist a light at ‘the
mast-head. During all this shouting and confusion, we
ot to the bow of the vessel, against the anchor, where We
inelt down and engaged in prayer, Mark's hand being in
mine. He exclaimed, ‘ 0, exercise faith, James!’ After
I had prayed, Mark then engaged and wrestled with the
Lord. His prayer was marked by good sense and exceed
ing fervour. By this time a great number of females had
surrounded us, and a gentleman from Leeds, a member of
the Methodist Society, came up to us. Mark had some
‘conversation with this gentleman during the voyage, and
now besought him to join with us in prayer, observing,
‘ O, sir, you have faith,--assist us by your pra era.’ The
gentleman then offered up a truly sensible an energetic
prayer; and thus we continued in prayer and supplication
until the bulwarks were broken down and the waves were
dashing against us. We then rose from our knees. Mark
appeared under great excitement, and said, ‘ 0, James,
your wife and family will never forgive me for taking you_
away from them! 0, my poor wife and children! 0,
Lord have mercy u on me, and spare me for the sake of
my poor wife and c ildren !’ He addressed the Almighty
in strong terms, and often in language which truly sur
prised me.
“After we had thus engaged in prayer together upon
our knees, we commenced our search for a place of secu
rity, if such were to be found. Observing several indivi
duals on a lank, which reached across the vessel and
rested upon t e paddle-boxes on each side, upon this plank
I endeavoured to get, and, after some effort, succeeded.
‘<
27
.I then exhorted Mark to try and do the same; he made
several attempts, but failed through want of strength. He
then got near one of the paddle-boxes, and took hold of
.the iron‘_under the plank; there was a great number of
persons in a similar situation, holding on by the iron. I
was situatedjust over him, and had frequent opportunities
of conversing with him. The waves were continually
dashing over us with great impetuosity, sweeping away
the passengers at every stroke. A short interval of ease
occurred, and I looked for my friend : l ﬂiund him still at
his post, clinging to the iron. I asked him if he had a
ﬁrm grip. He answered, ‘ Yes; but lam nearly exhaust
ed.’ At this period, all the passengers who had had pre
vious hold of the iron which was under the plank had
disappeared, from the violence of the breakers, except my
friend Metcalfand another person. A short timeonly had
elapsed, and I saw him carried away by a. dreadful wave
.towards the paddle-box, poor Metcslfexclaimirrg,‘James,
I'm afraid it’s all over!’ I replied, ‘ 0! Mark, Mark!
lay hold of the paddle-box !’ He then attempted todo so,
and Isaw his hand layjng hold, when another wave came
and swept him right away. ‘ 0! James!’ said he, as he
was carried into the sea, ‘ it’: all over now !’ I then saw
him throw back his hands over his shoulders, and in great
anguish I exclaimed, 1 Oh! my friend, my friend, I
shall see him no more!’ .I commended him to God, he
disappeared, I saw him no more.
“ Shortly afterwards, the plank on which I and
‘about twenty other persons were situated, gave way, and
we were all precipitated into the deep,‘in the midst of the
breakers. I rose to the top of the sea, and struck out
my arms, in the hope of laying hold of some ﬂoating sub
stance, when Iprovidentially grasped the identical plank
by which I had just before been launched into the sea.
“ On recovering from the stupor of the moment, I dis
covered two others who had hold of the same plank; one
of them was without his clothes. We were not long in
gettingfinto smoother water, and the tide was taking us on
towards Beaumaris. The naked person, ai'ter‘some time
ﬂoating,sdisappeared, and shortly afterwards the other in
dividual, leaving _me alone‘with the plank. Asfl was thus
‘ struggling and ﬂoating,.[ hethought me it won‘ld be‘ much
. easier for‘me to get on the plank ; I accordingly made an
. effort, and succeeded, after which I found myself greatly
. relieved: my chief fear now was, that the tide would turn
before any one could perceive me, and that] might thus be
carried back, and lost after all. These, and similar reﬂec
_tions occupied my mind whilst in this perilous situation;
when, casting a longing look towards Beaumaris, l descried
28
two individuals upon a log of wood, ﬂoating in the same
direction as myself. Presently I came in sight of Beau
maris harbour, could see several boats, and perceived
chimneys smoking. A strong hope now sprang up in my
breast; and, on looking after my fellow sufferers on the
log, Idiscovered only one, the other having met with a
Water grave. Now [could distinctly see boats passing
to an fro, at a .considerable distance, near to Beaumaris. '
I shouted, in the hope that some one might hear me; and,
ﬁnding a small spar with a spike, I endeavoured to secure
it, and succeeded. To this spike I atﬁxed my hand
kerchief, waving it over my head, and shouting with all
the strength of my lungs. Presently I perceived a boat
making towards me, and was satisﬁed, by the cheers of
the boatrnen, that my distress was perceived, and that relief
was at hand, which, I need hardly say, truly gladdened
my heart; of this I was happily not deceived, for the boat
was brought alongside, and‘I was pulled in, being the se
cond rescued, one having been taken into the boat before
me. I then informed the men of the individual on the log;
they immediately pulled away in the direction pointed out
by me, and we secured .him, almost in the last stage of
human existence. ‘ We were then taken to Beaumaiis,
where we arrived about half-past eight, praising God for
the wonderful deliverance he had thus wrought out for us.
To his name be the praise!” ‘
Mr. Whittaker corroborated the statements res cting the
conduct of the captain during the early part 0ft e voyage.
To trim the vessel the passengers were kept moving about,
and a box ﬁlled with iron chain was frequently moved from
one side to the other. On hearing that the hold was ﬁlled
with water, the captain ordered all hands to the pump, but
the pump was out of repair, and there was no bucket then
onboard, _a sailor having previously lost the only one they
had overboard. After the vessel struck the pitching ceased;
she began to roll from side to side ; and the situation of the
passengers became perilous and alarming in the extreme.
consternation was depicted on every countenance, and the
most courageous, now partook of the general alarm. Atter
several times rocking, from windward to leeward, the lar e
chimney broke from its fastenings, and, together with the
mainmast, fell with a tremendous crash. The smoke, ashes,
soot, and sulphur, from the chimney, were thrown on the
leeward passengers, in quantities almost snﬂicient to pro
duce suffocation. The cries, terriﬁc screams, and ago
nising exclamations, of the unfortunate sufferers, no words
can convey any idea of. At this time, Mr. Whittaker asked
the captain if he had any means of making signals of dis
tress? He replied “no”. Mr. Whittaker asked him if he had
29
a gun? He replied, “ no." Have you a lantern? said Mr.
Whittaker, and to this question the captain said, “ no ;"
althou h Mr. Wittaker, not an hour previous, saw a person
on decE, connected with the vessel, collecting the copper
_ tokens, with a lantern in his hand. On Mr. Whittaker
' shall be assisted from the shore;
asking him,-what could be done? he merely replied, “We
" and seemed uite stupid
‘ and inactive. The sea, at this-time, was brea ing away
the weather boards to windward, and making its' wa over
‘ midships. The ship's bell was rung till the clapper roke,
and a passenger, as a last resource, proposed a simultaneous
shout, in the faint hope of making themselves heard on
shore; but the roaring‘of the sea, and the crashing of the
timbers, rendered their efforts abortive. The unfortunate
sufferers, driven to despair, clung to each other, and to
such parts of the vessel as seemed likely to afford the means
of averting their threatened fate, but those who clung to the
lee sule were swept off with the weather boards and precipi
tated into the sea, twenty or thirty at a time, and the num
bers on the deck soon appeared to be considerably diminish
ed : numbers were on their knees, and in other attitudes,
giving vent to the most piteous cries for mercy and help,
and, with the c and prayer on their lips, were driven into
the sea. Mr. hittaker having divested himself of his
‘ clothes, and after various efforts to retain his position on the
wreck, was washed overboard. Having formed two spars
into a cross, he ﬂoated on them, and was taken up next
morning, at ten o’clock, by the schooner of Ralph Williams,
Estlt; he was then blind, but by attention, recovered his
si t.
gMr. Henry Wilson, of Manchester. another of the sur
vivors, agrees with the preceding gentlemen, respecting
the events of the voyage. When the chimney fell, he,
with his wife, attempted to Wade from the wreck, but not
ﬁnding bottom he seized a ‘plank ; his wife did the same,
but they were quickly driven off it. “Although exhaus
tion,” he says, “ had considerably taken place with myself,
and there can be no doubt even more so with my unfortunate
wife, I seized her by the right hand with my left, and she,
ﬁnding that all attempts of her deliverance must be unavail
ing, cried out “ Save yourself! save yourself! save your
_ self! for the sake of the children l” ,when another wave,
more merciless than the rest, separated us for ever ! Seein
no possible chance, and scarcely knowing where to look,
was left to myself, compelled to obey her tender injunction,
when, looking around me, I saw part of the wreck
considerably elevated above the surface of the water, to
which I made my way, by the assistance of the iece
of timber that had been so serviceable hitherto.” fter
' c2
30
.much diﬂicult he got on the poop and was saved.
‘ In conclusion e says, “the precise number on board I
cannot state. The calculation of the agent, at Beaumaris,
. was, that there must have been about 130. I cannot omit
mentioning here the apparent uufeeling conduct of Mr. W.
Watson, agent, or proprietor, who, ‘when the conduct of
the captain was related to him, laughed immoderately.”
Amongst the survivors, was Mr. Coxhead, of Size-lane,
London; and. his escape was peculiarly remarkable. Four
times was be thrown from the vessel, and as often did he re
gain her. At one moment, every—even the faintest— lim
mering of hope had forsaken him, and he now per ectly
recollects what were his sensations. He fancied the water
around him was deliciously warm, and could not imagine
why he did not sink like those around him He could not
account for his buoyancy, and almost longed to die. At
length, a violent concussion brought him once more in con
tact with the wreck, and immediately under a‘plart of the
stern, on which were three other sufferers. ith great
humanity they assisted him to gain a footing with them 2‘
and in a few seconds all were ﬂoating on the poop at the
mercy of a raging sea. All on the poop were saved.
Mr. Henry Hammond, ship-carver, of Liverpool, one of
the persons saved, says it is not true that a part of the .
passengers got into the boat soon after the vesse struck,
and were immediately swamped. The statement he gives is,
that the boat was hanging by the davits over the stern,
nearly ﬁlled with water in consequence of the s ray; when
the vessel struck, he and the wife and child of the carpenter
' got into the boat, but left it a ain, being ordered out b the
mate, who told them it was 0 no use. as no boat cou'l live
.in such a sea. The boat soon after broke adrift and was
lost, but there was no person in her. He also was saved on
the cop.
r. Tinne, whilst struggling with the waves, swam up
to a portion of the wreck to which Mr. James Leigh and
his friend Mr. Souza were clinging. 0n perceiving a
mountainous wave, on the summit of which was a large
fragment of the wreck, approaching. and about to break
'npon them, he advised them to dive in order to avoid being
.with a large cloak,
dashed to pieces, and immediately did so himself in order to
escape the impending danger. Mr. Leigh was encumbered
and it ap ears probable that he and his
friend either did not, or could not proﬁt by the advice. and
_were killed by the shock. It seems that Mr. Tinne himself
'.did not wholly escape the concussion by diving, as he did
when he saw the danger approaching. He was struck on
the head, and rendered insensible ; when picked up}, he was
found clutchinga portion of the wreck'sg ﬁrmly, that his
_
31
deliverers found it very diﬂicult to loosen his hands; and
when they accomplished it, he is said to have grasped an
oar'with equal ﬁrmness, though stillin a state of insensi
bility. If this statement be correct, it furnishes a remark
able instance of the tenacity with which man clings to life.
APPENDIX.
LIST OF PERSONS‘SAVED.
Mrs. Payne, of Greenwater, Salford, (husband found).—Mrs.
Mary Whittaker, of Bury.—Mr. Wilson, Marsden-court, Manches
ter, (wife drowned, not‘found).—Mr. Hammond, ship-carver, Li
verpool, (wife drowned, not found).—Mr. James Coxhead, Size
lane, London—Mr. Nuttall, Bury.-—Mr. Tinne, merchant, Liver
pool,--Mr. Duckworth, Shuttleworth. near Bury, (wife drowned,
not found.)-Mr. Marsden, of Sandal, near WakefiehL—Owen
Morris, seaman, Liverpool.-‘Mr. Broadhurst, Sheffield, (his two
daughters lost.)—William Jones, Liverpool, pilot, No. 7.—Mr.
Radland, musician.-—William Jones, ﬁreman, William Hughes and
son, and Evan Evans, of the crew.-Mr. Edward Jones, Bangor.
—-Mr. James Martin, shoemaker, Cable-street, LiverpooL—Mr.
Lawrence Duckworth, of Edenﬁeld, near Bury, (wife lcst.)-Mr.
John Whittaker, of Bury.
LIST OF PERSONS WHO PERISHED.
PERsONs BELONGING TO THE Vessen—Captain Atkinson, the
mate, the engineer, one ﬁreman, the steward, his wife, a black
boy, and three musicians.
Msncnns'rnm—Mrs. Charles Faulkner, two children, and a
maid servant. Mrs. Faulkner has left other ﬁve children. Mr.
Payne, draper, Greengate, Salford. Mrs. \Vilson, (wife of Mr. H.
Wilson, who was saved.) Mr. Jonathan Shaw, draper and hosier,
‘New Bailey Bridge, aged 25. Mr. Humphrey Dyson,watchmaker,
Church~gates, aged about 30, unmarried. Mr. Parry, of Ardwick,
aged about 70, (father to the clerk of the Collegiate Church, and
secretary to the Manchester Whip (,‘lub,) and his wife, aged 61.
James Warrener, stone-mason, Lombard‘street, aged about 33.
Mary Warrener, (his wife,) aged 33. Robert Warrener, aged 27,
‘brother to the above. Mary Warrener, (his wife,) aged 25. Ben
jamin, their son, aged 10 months. Thomas Vause, stonemason,
Eltofbstreet, aged 30, and his wife, aged 30. George Mallinson,
bricklayer, Back Lad-lane, aged about 60, a widower.
BURY AND rrs NElGHDOUBBOOD.—Mr. William Tarrey, stew_
ard to'Lord Derby, his _wife, and ﬁve children, being the whole
family. Rachael Haworth, aged'l7, servant to Mr. 'l‘arrey. Mr.
Thomas Entwisle, of Grime Cote, cotton-spinner, unmarried. Se
lina Lamb, bar maid and chambermaid at the Grey Mare, Bury,
aged about 23. Mr. Wm. Walmesley, dyer, of Seed Field, aged 32.
Mary Walmesley, his wife, aged about 30. Henry Walmcsley, their
gen, aged about 5. Margaret Walmesley, of Boar Edge, aunt to
3V. Walmesley. -- Fitton, of Birtles, farmer to Edmund Grundy.
32
He was on the point of being married to Margaret Walmesley,
Elizabeth Duckworth, wife of John Duckworth, of Walmsley,
aged 43. Mary Duckworth, wife of Lawrence Duckworth, shop.
keeper ofTottingham, Higher‘Edge, aged about 35. John Wilkin
son, of Bury, joiner, aged about 25. Thomas Charles, of Bury,
shoemaker, aged about 38. Jas. Whittaker, son of Robert Whit
taker, of Bury. Thos. Whittaker, son ofMaxy Whittaker, ofBury.
ROCHDALL—Mr. William Bottomley, of Rakewood, near Roch
dale. George King, brother to Mr. King, manufacturer, of Moss
Mill, near Rochdale. Benjamin Lees, of Hogshead, near Bacup,
superintendent of a colliery. .
LIVERPOOL—Mr. James Leigh, soap-boiler, Byrom-street. Mr.
_ de Souza, brother-in-law of Mr. Leigh, formerly secretary to Mr.
Canning. Mr. Lucas, his wife, and daughter. Mr. Mark Metcalf,
of Marybone. leather cutter. A woman named Jane Alexander.
BANGOR, BEAUMARIs, Bun—Samuel Cooke, of Bangor, fruit
dealcr. Mr. Crow, of Beaumaris, his wife, and infant child. Rev.
Owen Owens, Miss Margaret Owens, and Miss Mary Owens, of
Beaumaris Michael Griﬂiths, seaman, his wife and child.
Caasranrrenn _Mr. Harwood, chymist and druggist, and Mr.
Brown, brazier and tinman.
VARIOUs Pumas—Mr. Thompson, of Bradford, solicitor, and
. his lady. Mr. Baldwin, of London. John Overend, of Oldham.
Mr. John Day, of Wakeﬁeld. Mrs. George Hammond, of Leeds. '
Mr. Alexander Wheeler, tea-dealer, of Birmingham. Two Miss_
Broadhursts, of Shefﬁeld. Mr. and Mrs. Foster, of London, and a
footman. Mr. Wm. Tee, Barnsley. Mr. John Leech, of the ﬁrm
_ of Boyle 81. Co. Chester. Rev. S. M‘Carthy, Catholic priest, Dub
lin'. Mr. Rogers, of Wrexham. Mr. John Brown, residence un
known. Mr. Simon Fox, of Rathmines, near Dublin.
. The following account ofa public meeting at Beaumaris,
‘ 0n the ‘25th August, taken from the Liverpool Journal, may
be interesting to some of my readers, as it conveys an idea
of the feeling existing on this painful subject. It was
ver respeetably attended; Sir Richard Bulkeley Williams
Bu keley, Bart, and member for the borough of Beau
‘ maria, in the chair.
PUBLIC MEETING AT BEAUMARIS.
The Grumman said, the meeting is assembled for the pur
pose of entering into a subscription for the relief of those of the
_ sufferers who are now in the town, and in want of pecuniary aid to
return to their homes, and also to reward those seamen who exerted
themselves to save‘lives and secure property, It was true that no _
dang‘er had been encountered by them ; but still they had under
gone mueh labour and fatigue. The constables, too, had made
every possible exertion in removing, stripping, and interring bodies;
and they were, therefore, not undeserving of some public mark of
approbation. “ Having now called your attention to the immediate
object of the meeting, I must," observed the Chairman, “take
the liberty of proposing a measure for the beneﬁt and prosperity
of this town, and also for the preservation of the‘lives of those
who visit this part of the country. And in addressing this meet
33
ing," continued the honourable baronet, “I hope'to be able to
keep my temper within bounds, and restrain as much as possible
the indignation I feel, and which I have no doubt is felt by every
man in this room, at the conduct of Mr. ‘Vatson since the me
lancholy catastrophe that has plunged so many families into grief
and despair." (Applause) [Mr. Watson here stepped forward,
and attempted to make some observations; but having been called
to order by Mr. Alderman Wright, the Chairman continued.]
“ We are not met here to discuss with Mr. Watson, whether the
Rothsay Castle was seaworthy or not ; nor shall I notice his letter
to the North Wales Chronicle, in which my name is mentioned.
I shall brieﬂy say, however, that the Rothsay Castle was known
and acknowledged by the inhabitants of this place and Liverpool
to have been an unsound vessel." The measures which the Chair
man proposed were, that the gentlemen, merchants, and inhabitants
of Beaumaris, Carnarvon, and Bangor should meet together, and
invite other companies and respectable individuals to put a proper
packet on the station, under the command of a competent person 5
and, also, to pledge themselves to give every encouragement and
support to such a vessel ; also to declare that Mr. Watson, having
lost the conﬁdence and respect of the inhabitants of this town,
they will exert themselves to the fullest extent to oppose any vessel
he may put on the station. (Great applause.)
Mr’. WATsON.--l hope, Sir Richard, you do not suppose that I
am dependent upon a packet to this town. (Marks of disappro
.bation.)
Alderman WRIGHT, of Liverpool—At least show you are not
‘independent of common decency.
The worthy alderman then addressed the chairman and meeting
in nearly the following words :—“ Mr Chairman, it grieves me ex
ceedingly to agree with you in every word you have uttered in re
probating the conduct of Mr. W. Watson, since his arrival here.
I cannot, sir, express my indignation in too forcible terms at the
apathy and want of common feeling exhibited by him on this me
Ilancholy occasion. Though he has told you and this meeting that
he is independent of the business of this place, still, sir, Ihad
hoped that he was not independent of public opinion, or above the
common feelings of humanity. I lament that I cannot give credit
to all the assertions he has made here, for I cannot forget the dif
ferent statements he gave before the jury, which were too perfectly
proved by the evidence not to have been fact‘ I must call his at
tention particularly to the circumstance of my having examined
him as to the Rothsay Castle having a gun on board, for the pur~
pose of making signals. I'le asserted that there was one ; but the
evidence of others disproved this assertion. '_
Mr. Watson—There was a gun found at the wreck. ' "
Alderman Wright.-No.
Mr. Watson.—Yes, a fowling-piece. (Marks of disapprobation,
and cries of shame.)
Alderman Wright.—Can Mr. Watson, or can any other man,
for a‘moment suppose that a mere fowling-piece was meant ? This
was the most paltry and pitiful subterfuge he ever'heard, and only
worthy of that want of feeling so lamentably shown by him‘ this
I‘
day.
34
Lieut. Monarson, R. N-, begged pardon for intruding on the
. meeting; but as he had gained aknowledge of one or two impor
tant facts relating to this very melancholy affair, he would, with
permission, mention them to the meeting; and this he should do
with the greater satisfaction, because it was in the presence of Mr.
. Watson. In the ﬁrst place this vessel was full 18 years old, which
was a reason to believe that she could not be altogether seaworthy;
she was built for the Clyde, and, from her slight build, never was
intended to go to sea at all. In fact, it was his opinion that she
never was ﬁt for the open sea, and only calculated for the smooth
water of a river. He believed that there was an act of Parliament
to compel all steam-vessels to hoist a light during the night.
The Chairman believed that it was not certain whether that
enactment had ever actually passed into a law.
Lieut. Morrison contined.-—He had also been informed, that
when the Rothsay Castle quitted the Clyde, and was put on to the
Wexford station, there were some of her crew who left her at the
_lsle of Man, not considering her safe for the voyage. There
was also much of the timber which had ﬂoated on shore that was "ti
reported to be perfectly rotten.
Mr. Watson denied the truth of the latter report; but we
did not hear him dispute the other statements made by Lieut.
Morrison. '
The Rev. Dr. HOWARD, rector of Beuumaris, was surprised at
the great want of deference shown by Mr. Watson to the opinions
and Christian feelings of others upon this unhappy occasion.
He entirely concurred in the resolutions laid before the meeting.
Several other gentlemen expressed themselves warmly in fa- ‘4
vour of the resolutions, and of making application to Parlia
ment for an act to punish the neglect of owners and captains
in such cases. _
After this a subscription was opened, and in a few minutes the
sum of nearly £80 was collected, and Alderman Wright undertook
to give something immediately to the widow of the ﬁreman.
A gentleman stated that he understood men had been employed ‘
10 remove the bodies from under the wreck, and that, in doing 80, ‘
they had aﬂixed ropes round one individual, and actually pulled ‘
away his arms and part of his head. The arms were afterwards
replaced in the sand. This statement seemed to ﬁll the meeting I“.
with disgust, and every eye was turned to Mr. Watson. He, how
ever‘, made no reply.
The CHAIRMAN said, if he had been present, he should have
felt it is duty, as a magistrate, to have committed him, (Mr.
Watson.)
Mr. Watson was understood to justify himself on the ground
of its being necessary to get at his property.
Thanks were then voted to the Chairman amidst the strongest
marks of approbation for his energetic conduct upon the present
occasion, and for his personal exertions in saving several lives. l
The meeting then separated.
“To 'run nnrron or ran ALBION.
“ Sir,—Scveral erroneous statements having been circulated
respecting the melancholy loss of the Rothsay Castle; and, uh
36
derstanding that the coroner’s inquest, which I have not seen,
countenances the general, but most unfounded report, that this
vessel was not seaworthy, I deem it my duty,in the absence of my
brother, the owner of this unfortunate vessel, who is at present at
Beaurnaris, to request you to publish the following certiﬁcates.
They are signed by well-known, disinterested, and' experienced
persons; and, in every unprejudiced mind, I have no doubt will
establish the proof of her having been completely seaworthy be
yond the shadow of doubt. '
“It was stated in the Liverpool Journal, of yesterday, that the
Rothsay Castle had no boat. I am enabled to assure the public,
that this statement is totally false. She had, when she left this
port onVWednesday last, an excellent boat, suﬂiciently large to
contain at least twelve or fourteen grown persons with perfect
safety,which is aslarge a boatas steam-boats of her size usually have.
“‘ Many severe, and, I think, cruel remarks have been made as
to the conduct of Captain Atkinson. He is, unfortunately, one of
those who have perished, and cannot answer for himself. 1n jus.
tice to his memory I might add, that I have always considered him
an excellent seaman, but the fact of his having been many years
an active ofﬁccr in the British navy renders any opinion of mine
unnecessary. I will, however, add, thatI have in my possession a
letter from a clergyman and other inhabitants of Ba ' or and
Carnarvon, addressed to myself, recommending hi in the
strongest terms, as eminently calculated for the situati to which
he was afterwards appointed by my brother. This, etter, with
other testimonials which Capt. A. possessed, induce? and I think,
fully justified, my brother in employing him—I‘ am, Sir, your
‘ obedient servant, “ JAMES WATSON.
“ 16,‘Water-street, 2lst Aug. 1831.”
“ This is to certify, that we had the steam-packet Rothsay Castle
on 'the patent slip, and stript the plank off her bottom ; took out
all the timbers that were broken, and replaced the same with new;
plruked the bottom with 25 inch elm, and put a new keel 12 inches
‘ luv'ad and 10 inches deep, with two logs of e the same size as
the keel,'and bolted to the keel and to the oors, and ﬁlled up
between the ﬂoors solid, in the wake of the engine; and two
stronger, 12 inches broad by ﬁve inches thick, bolted with one
inch screwed bolts; new decks, and replaced all the beams with
new. And it is my opinion, that she was ﬁrmer and stronger than
the day she was built. These repairs were made in Feb., 1831.
' “ANDREW MORRISON,
" Foremanlof the Patent Slip at the time when the vessel was re
paired. _ __ .
“ Aug. 20th, 1831.” '
“Mr. Morrison’: statement of the repairs done to the Rothsay
Castle, steamer, I believe to be correct; and it is my opinion, that
she was stronger after the repairs than she was when new. The
_
amount of our bills for the repairs was £600 and upwards.
_ “THOS. WILSON."
“ Birkenhead, 20th Aug. 1831.
“Dear Sir,—'l'he amount of our account, for the new boilen,
which we put on board the Rothsay Castle, on the 2d inst. is
35.
‘v
‘ when she 'sailed, on Wednesday ‘12st, to perform her intenderLor
£508 l0s. 7d. ,7 and, as no expense was spared in jointing and ﬁt
ting them in the best possible manner, we think that the total cost,
including jointing, copper and brass work, new safety valves, Bun,
will_not be less than £630. As the boilers raised more steam than
the engine required, we had arranged with your brother, that the
vessel should come up to our yard last Thursday, to have her
chimney reduced three feet in length. The engine appeared to be
in excellent orden—‘Vc remain, dear sir, yours truly,
“Toﬂames Watson, Esq." “WM. LAIRD and SON.
“ I, the undersigned, do hereby certify, that in the month of
October last,] went with Mr. Wm. Vt'ntson to Glasgow, with in- ‘
tent to purchase a steam-boat, in ‘which I_ was to be half concerned,
to run between Liverpool and Wexford. . At Glasgow we examined
several steam-boats, but waited to examine also the Rothsay Castle,
then running betweenlnvarary and Glasgow. On her arrival at Glas
gow, we had her limberboards taken up and the vessel thoroughly
examined, and I was so satisﬁed of her being a good vessel, that I
oﬂ'ered to take her on_joint account with Mr. \Vatson, but the
owners would not accept'ol“ our terms; this, however, they after
wards did,_ and on the same terms. Mr. W. Watson ﬁnally bought
her on his own account. After this purchase, I offered to take her
of? his h"n_‘= at the cost price, which he declined to accept. Some
time aftcr'this, I went on board of her at Liverpool, and found
that Mr. ‘Watson had given her new stringers and new binding of
the s‘rongest kind, new decks, new paddle-boxes, stancheons, and
rails, and after that a new bottom; and from my knowledge of
steam-boats, generally, and my examination of this vessel in par
ticular, I have no hesitation in certifying‘, that I consider her to
to have been a stanch and strong vessel, and in every respect ﬁtted
for the voyages which she was intended to perform. 1
. “ G. DANEY."
“ We ‘the undersigned, certify, thatwe commanded the steam
packet Rﬁi‘wsay Castle, in the months of February and March
last, trad'ng between Vi’exford and Liverpool, during which time
_
I. .r!‘ car, cs consisted of corn and cattle, both in the hold and on ‘
deck; arid although we frequently experienced severe and temp. 1
tuous womb‘u, no part of the cargoes ever sustained any damngg,
either by water or death of cattle. And we further certify, that
during cultime we commanded her, we considered her to be a good _’
sea boat. ‘and s'tanch and strong in every respect. And has she
has, dullh'g the present month, been regularly overhauled by ex‘
periencedbuilders, and such repairs done' to 'her as were thought
necessary, we think ourselves justified in stating, as our ﬁrm but-_
lief, th‘it‘she was perfectly seaworthy, and ﬁt, in every respect,
_ A
g‘!
. v _(w;
_‘ J. n. SHENUR, Ov‘erlooker of HIM, _5? oﬂice
' '\
any voyage within the United Kingdom.
Steam-packets. _ _ _ _ .
“ JND. PILE, Commander ofthe St. David Steamer.“
_ ‘""'_‘ ' H" h . ‘
{tackliﬂ' and Due. rigllerc, Liverpool. '. ‘
‘ ‘ Q‘? '.
I 7 JY74
\L- -
l ‘ ‘fDL\'r_<‘rﬁ_
