{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1831__taylor___astronomico-theological_discourses.pdf","mytitle":"Astronomico-theological Discourses","mylang":"de"}
_
THE
ASTRONOMICO-THEOLOGICAL
DISCOURSES ;
OR, LECTURES DELIVERED BY"THE LATE
CELEBRATED
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A.,
or ST. JoHN's COLLEGE, cmnmnca; MEMBER nv THE ROYAL
COLLEGE or suRG|soNs, Auvuon or THE "D|EGESl§,"
"SYNTAGMA," &c., Src.
ORIGINALLY PUBLISHED UNDER THE TITLE OF
ww @®l_n_fl5§ Qlmglmim.
TO WHICH IS ADDED A
SKETCH OF HIS LIFE.
-
VOLUM E I.
SLUIIIIUI! I
PRINTED AND
PUBLISHED nv rucnum
cuu.|§|.|z, AND Now
Rn-Pnnlrao BY W. DUGDALF, 16, Hourwau ST.,
'
STRAND.
J.
*ka
SUH4'
Bod.
V
PREFACE.
_ his is the age of cant."-1BvaoN.
RBADII E-The learned author of "
Tu! DllGl5|S," and of the Sermons
before you, is in prison in Horsemonger Lane Gaul. He has 'teen found guilty
of the alleged crime of blasphemy ; and is sentenced to two years' imprison-
ment,§o pay anne of two
hundred pounds, and afterwards to cuter into sure-
ties for in years to como, to the amount of one thousand pounds, which, con-
sidering his circumstances, is imprisonment for life. The matter selected for
prosecution wiil be found in Nos. Hi, and l5._
The trial wasa mockery -the Bench of Magistrates being incapable of ap-
preciating the explanatory defence of the accused. The witnesses, who were
hired by the Vice Society, were of the lowest class, and ignorant of the mean-
ing of words they swore to, descriptive of his manner of taking the Sacrament,
and could not understand the nature or
tendency of the discourse-oneof them
admitting that be did not rightly at first know whether some of the indicted
passages were verse or
prose ! !
The Jury behaved most
uubecomingly-declaring they would not listen to
"
s-ich," (meaning his defence)-told the Chairman their minds had long been
made up, and actually clenched their fists at the defendents for proceeding.
This conduct, instead of receiving a cheek, was
actually sanctioned by the
Chairman!
English justice in l88l ! -
Will ii be believed, that in the reign of William
IV., by some called the patriot King, daring the Administration of the Wbigs,
during the Chancellorship of Henry Brougham, during the Premiership of Earl
Grey, such a
prosecution should have been instituted? That a Rnnel, s
Bnrdett (the pupil of Toolre), an O'Conuel (the champion of Catholic Eman-
cipation, and countryman of Curren and Gratten), and s. Hobbonse, the clas-
sic friend and companion of Byron, could have been passive spectators of this
cruel mockery of justice, without instituting a
parliamentary inquiry on the
subject- Such, however, is the fact!
The writings of Mr. Taylor that are before the world best speak his talent,
-they are as uninliated as they are clear and convincing, and accord with the
unassuming demeanour of their author. The writer is convinced that all who
have spoken to him, of whatever creed, will acknowledge that his conversation
is that of s
philosopher, and his behaviour that ol' a gentleman.
The hope expremed by the Reporter,
"
that the historian of another age would
not have to record that he was
desertedvby his followers," has been fullilledi
They have stepped forward with pecuniary sid-and would do more-they
would sacriice life itself to restore to him his liberty.
Some members of different religious profession at Bolton, headed by a Ca-
tholic, have immortalised themselves by a spirited petition to the Commons,
with twelve hundred signatures. Let a few more such petitions be presenwd,
and he bars of Horsemonger Lane Gaul will snap like the bonds of Samson-
The pledge given by the Reporter, that the whole of the Rotunda lecturess
would be published, has b.en venlieil ; and, sorry is he to add, that his fore-
boding of the learcedylecrurer being imxuured in a prison, has been aceomplisheo.
MEMOIR
REVEREND ROBERT TAYLOR,
wno RECEIVED, FROM H. HUNT, THE '1'1'rLi: or
"THE DEVIIJS CHAPLATN."
Ronan' was the sixth son of John and Elisabeth Taylor. born at the village
of Edmonton, on thenorth-east side of London, in the Walnut Tree House,
adjoining the wooden bridge, over the
pos;
at three o'clock P. M. on Wed-
nesday, August IS, 1784. His parents re
highly respectable. and of am-
ple fortune : but its division among seven sons and a daughter left no more to
each than the nucleus of a fortune to be acquired hy the pursuit of some
pr»~
fession. Robert was Brat educated at the boarding-school adjoining the Bell
lnn, Pore-street, and subsequently under Mr. Thomson, of Ponder's End. His
father died while he was yet young ; and, after a long visit to his uncle and
guardian, Edward Fang: Taylor, Esq., of Chicken Hall. near
Bridgnorth, he
was articled as
lqmse pupil to Mr. Samuel Partridge, surgeon, resident in the
General Hospita . near Birmingham. ln the year 1805, he walked Guy's
and St. 'I`homas's Hospitals, under Sir Astley Cooper sud Mr. Cline, and
passed the College of Surgeons with great applause in ISO7.
Being unsettled as to his views and prospects in life, Mr. Taylor imhibed very
strong religionsfeelings from his intimacy with the Rev. Thomas Cotterell,
then minister of Lane End, in Staffordshire, a. clergyman of the Established
Church, of high evangelical principles. That reverend gentleman, seeing, in
his young friendnstrong natural eloqnenoe, combined with strong religious
feelings, persuaded him to seek holy orders in the Established Church.
In October, 1809, Mr Taylor matriculated, and instantly became Queen
Margaretfs Foundation scholar, at St. John's College, Cambridge. During his
residence in the University, he was a constant hearer of the Rev. C. Simeon,
whose hearers were
distinguished by the name of Simeonites, and was, by that
gentleman, instructed in the art of sermon-making ; in which art Mr. Simeon
istinguished him as thefacile princeps and incomparabilis of his class.
Ill JMIIIIFY. l8l8, Mr. Taylor took his degree of Bachelor of Arte, pur-
posely refusing his ehancs of th i'
'x
s qferior honours of the Tripos. He was com-
REVEREND ROBERT TAYLOR. v
plimented by the Master of St. John's College, as a singular honour to the
University in his scholarship, such as Cambridgahad not for sometime known,
and in all his scholastic st/rugzles for superiority under competition, he was never
second. The present Mr. Herschel, son of Dr. Herschel, the astronomer, was
his couipeer and competitor.
The Rei. Richard Lloyd, Rector of St. Dunstan's, and of Midhurst, in the
county of Sussex. wanting a curate for the latter place, wrote to the Rev. Mr.
Simeon. of Cambridge, requesting him to pick out the cle vereat and most re-
ligious young man at the University for that vacancy. The choice of the Pro~
fessor fell on Mr. Taylor, who, havine no
objection to embrace that opportunity
of entering upon holy orders, was ordained Dencon by the Bishop of Chichester
(Buckner) on
Sunday, March ll, l83l. at St. James's, Piccadilly. He sub-
sequently reeeived the order of the priesthood. On the same
day that he was
ordained Deacon, he preached his maiden sermon, at St. Dunstan's, Fleet Street.
From March, ISIS, to the summer of 1818, he continued s zealous and
highly evangelical preacher, at Midhunt, and obtained from Mr. Poyntz, a
gentleman of that neighbourhood, s brovn coat rerlorg/.*
About the commencement of the year l8l8, the Rev. Mr. Taylor became
acquainted with a tradesman at Midhunt who was an iniidel.
'
Having neither
hypocrisy nor scepticism in himself, and despising the hypoerisy`of othrrs, he
was
open to the arguments ofthe inlidel and of inidel authors. and soon found
that they were not deicient of weight. Here began the struggle in his mind
of virtue with the hypocrisy of the world. On the Trinity Sunday, he
preached a sermon, which gave oB`ence to the more orthodox psrt of his con-
gregation. The scepticism which thus began, and which had for six months
been fermenting in his mind, derived strength and growth from the disgust he
had received, at the hitter spirit and deceilful practices of the fanatics by
whom he was surrounded ; and he wrote tohis Diocesan, Dr. Bunlrneri Bishop
of Chichester, tendering the resignation of his little preferment, on the alleged
ground of the insupportable pain ofconscience he felt, in conlinning to preach
that which he had ceased to believe. It was at this time that Dr. Buckner,
the Bishop of Chichester, remonstrsted with him on the folly of relinquishing
his prospects in the Church. because he ceased to think with the orthodox,
described the Christian religion as a Promelhesn nose of wax, and declared
that he would not have ordained him if he could have imagined that he, Mr.
Taylor, would have turned out such s fool. as to entertain such silly seruples.
This sort of appeal startled our
young philosophising divine, and he began to feel
IB inclination to remain in the Church; but he had sofar committed himself,
that atonement was necessary, some apology, and something in the shape of re-
elntstion of inidel principles mustbe made; and for this purpose, it was
l
Clmrch living, in which t epatron, as Mr. Poynta was on this occasion. pockets the
hundreds or thousands that it
magproduce,
and gives a black-coated aura n s mere
twenty poundaa yearfor his ocean nal services.
A
brorngs-coatreotorp
ls a very sigrrineant Church phrase. It means :rectory or
vi MEMOIRS OF' THE
agreed heiween the Bishop, Dr. Bucknes, the Rector, Mr Lloyd, and the
Rev. Mr. Taylor, that the latter should retire from Sussex, or from his then
appointments, be secluded for a time, and be brought out again in th-1 lirst
good living at the disposal of the Bishop. The Bishop of _
London was privy
to this arrangement.
Blrs. Elizabeth Taylor, the widowed mother of our young sceptical divine,
wall. very religious woman, and prided herself much in having so
promising a
son in the Church. The shock of his removal from Midhurst, was, to her,
consequently great and almost fatal. lt brought her on a bed of sickness, and
on an
apparent death bed. In an
agony of mental condict with lilial alfeetion,
the hero of our memoir rushed to relieve the mind of his agnnised mother, and
in a delirium of grief, he was ready to recant, to avow, or to publish anything
that should be called for. This, for a moment, sssusged the anger of his
family; but added nothing to the fame, while it has been a thorn in the side
of the Reverend Gentleman. Dr. Gaskin, of Newington, of orthodox cele-
brity, undertook the puriicstion of the mentally wavering apnstate; but in_ji_
delity is knowledge, and though it may be concealed, or
preverted, or debased,
it can never be converted. He was allowed to oliieiate in the churches of
Edmonton. Tottenham, and Newington, as an assistant; but he became im-
patient of the littk while that was required for his retirement,snd thesubsiding
of the excitement produced by his singular apostacy, and nnhallowed, though
well-meant recsntstion. He wrote to the Bishop of London, requesting speedy
restoration to the bosom of the Church which he had oifended, but for which
odence he thought he had made due atonement. The Bishop answered in a
most sarcastic tone, that the circumstance required all the patience that should
evince a humility, a penitence, and a sincerity becoming a Christian minister
under adliction, to the satisfaction and judgment of the heads of the Church,
and that enough of the necessary proof had not
yet been obtained. Our mor-
tiiied aspirsnt then wrote to the Bishop of Chichester, in claim of the pro-
mised preferment; and was answered most insolently and significantly by his
former Rector, the Rev. Mr. Lloye, in nearly the following words:--" .lily
dear Taylor, the back ground is the place for you." This was not to be mis-
taken. There was no further hope in the Church. Other means of living
must be sought.
Our bamed, wavering, but growing hero, having a few hundred pounds at
command, sought its employment, backed by his brighter talents, in the posses
sion of a school. An advertisement brought him acquainted with a Bristol
family, of the name of May, which professed to have a suitable school for his
purpose. He embarked the remains of his little fortune with them; they
found him uninitiated into any of the tricks of commerce, and getting his loose
cash, as well as his acceptance to a hundred pound bill, they soon proved to be
swindlers, and his title to the school was not worth s
shilling. Wright, the
Bristol Quaker banker, had some transactions with those Mays, and, seven
yearsafterwsrds, prosecuted aclsim for the acceptance of the hundred pound
bill, which drove our unchurehed, unsuspecting, and impoverished dupe to a
1.
REVEREND ROBERT TAYLOR. vii
relief from prison by the Insolvent Debtors' Court. One of the Mayo was
hanged at Newgate for forgery; and, if the Rev. Mr 'I`aylor's account of the
story be correct, the Quaker banker rather deserved a
prosecution for a con-
spiracy to defraud, than to be considered a legal creditor.
ln distress, and shunned by his family, he obtained, through the lrindnm of
an old friend, the curacy of Yardley, near
Birmingham, and hoped to purge him-
self here of the sin of avowed scepticism, by an orthodox life. and a strictly cere-
monial service in this secluded Church. The Bishop of Worcester discovered
the intruder, among his dock, was peremptory in his demand for dismissal and
departure, rejected all proposed terms, and all sufficiency of recantation, and by
dint of persecution, produced a. reaction in the mind of our clerical transgreasor,
who used the time which custom allowed him to have for his quittance, in the
open preaching of Deism in the parish church of Yardley. by which the
churchwardens, and most of the parishioners, were converted. It is but just
toobserve. en pauant, that his moral character was
exemplary, and his prac-
tical habits highly calculated to win the esteem of those who lrnew him, and
who were too wise to be oilended by his lapse and relapse in doctrine, or too
ignorant to be conscious of the meaning.
ln this predicament, his brothers consentedto make him a
monthly allowance,
if he would quit England. Not knowing what else to do. he retired to the lsle
of Man. The irst month's promised allowance was
duly paid; but either
the second or the third was
peremptorily refused without any assigned reason.
Thrown on his own resources inthe Isle of Man, he sought literary employment
with the two newspapers of the Island; but on
writing an article on justinca-
tion of suicide. he was summoned befurs the Bishop, who had traced the
character of the new inhabitant, and warned, that if he did not quickly leave
the Island, the Bishop had the power to imprison him for life, without being
accountable to any one. lf this be true, it is time that it should cease to be so.
Moneyless and friendlesa, scouted by his family, our hapless hero landed at
Whitehaven, in the best first conveyance in which he could get away from
the alleged absolute power of the Bishop of Sodor and Man. His last resource
was his old friend, Mr Partridge, from whom he obtained a ten pound note,
and having paid about three pounds of debt incurred at whitehaven, he sailed
for Dublin. with the remainder, to seek s
living in a hoped retirement in Ireland.
The clerical errant succeeded by an advertisement in getting s situation in
the school of s. Mr. Jones, to the best of our recollection, at Rathfarnhsm ; and
so striking were his talents, that, it was not long before he was the admired
preacher in the parish church, and the favourite of all the respectable families
ofthe neighbourhood. The odium t/leologicum was
lynx-eyed and inexorable:
Archbishop Magee, of Dublin discovered the refugee, tbundered forth his
anathema, and no one connected with the church, or with the school, dared t'
give shelter to the excommunicated olfender, whose entreaties for new tri
were received with scorn. Thrown again on his wits, he tried his talent pub-
lielylin Dublin, by the publication of several tracts, under the title
of,. "The
Clerical Review," in which he introduced a Middletonian style of assaihng the
I,
viii p
MEMOIR &c.
nhureh. Such 3 Deism 35 that of Conyers Middleton was the extreme of his
acquirement up to the year 1824. In that year, his lesnings were rsther to
the Christisn religion than to Deism; md that it is to his persecution by the
Church, that we owe the noble and measurelessly important character to
which he has now arrived. His Dublin publications brought him the sc-
quaintance of Archibald Hamilton Rowan, of I Mr. Jessup, of Mr Shaw,
the printer and bookseller, and of many respectable persons of Dublin, one of
whom was Lord Dillon. Under their auspices, he projected L
public assucis.
tion. for the inclilcation of morals only in preaching, under the title of "
TH!
Socrrrv or Umvznsn. B:Nsvou:Ncz." This was
prospectively, though
not svowedly. s deisticul association. Obtaining the use of a small theatre for
his lectures. the bigotry of the Dublin Protestants was roused, the students of
Trinity College Hooked to the Sunday morning's lecture, commenced an out-
rageous vioience, by cries of blasphemy. llmnst destroyed the thestre, and put
his life in danger. His friends subscribed him the means of s
journey to Lon-
don, under this frightful aspect of affairs in Dublin, with s hope end calculation
that his pro`ected association for universal benevolence would better suit this
metropolis. He reached London in the summer of l824, and hsving made U.
few friends, one of whom was in himself s host of public virtue, on the 24th
of November, he held the lint meeting of his Cl-m|s'rni| Evxpnucn s0L'IK1'Y,
under the principles of the Association of Universal Bensvolenoe, free enquiry
and fair discussion. Having thus brought up his memoir to an acquaintance
with his efforts in this metropolis, we reserve the remsinder for the other volume
of "
The Devil's Pulpit. _
N
ww wwhws ilhulpit.
"
AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Alla Cinniflglan.
No. 1.1 MARCH 4, 1831. [Price 24,
`
THE STAR OF BETI-ILEHEM;
T
Q &mnnn,
PREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
ar 'ral norvnne, unacxrarlas-nosn, Nov. 7, 1830,
-
...-~.»-»-v-~.¢.-vvv~»..~,~,~v»
"Where'i¢ he that is bornK£ngo_f theJeo|P _forte hive
seen his Star in the East, and are come to worahip him.-~
Marrnlw ii. 2.
Wno are the inqnirersi The wise men of the East. Very
welll Show them in here, and we will show these wise men
of the East this mighty king of the Jews-the new-born
omnipotence-the little baby God. f
I-lark! the herald angels sing,
Glory to the new-born King,
Peace on earth, and mercy mild,
God and sinners reconciled :
Joyful all ye nations rise,
Join the triumph of the skies,
With the angelic host proclaim,
Christ is born in Bethlehem.
And these wise men were come from the East to worship
him, I only_beg leave to think I see them at it. I only
ask to be iaermitted to imagine that such a scene really
occurred, and to imagine what your impression, as well as
VOL L A
2
'
_
'rua nv1r.'s Pur.rrr.»
mine, would have been, had we been spectators of it. If
such a scene really occurred on earth, like every other real
occurrence it must admit of being imagined, to have occurred.
And even
they who require us_ to surrender our reason,
should atleast leave ns the exercise of our imagination, so
that we may have some part of our minds left, and not be
out of our minds-out-and-out. For 'tis rather riding us
hard, of our Christian divines, to require us to believe that
as true, which they themseves do not only not know to be
true, but dare not trust themselves, or any body else, so much
as to imagine to be true. The rnind's excursive faculty is
found to be as greatia rebel against faith as its reason. To
be a Christian, indeed, you must lay aside the use of your
minds altogether. For the facts of the gospel are of such a
mysterious nature, that they will not merely not bear to be
reasoned on, but they will not bear to be thought on. You
may believe that it is true-you may make believe that it is
true-you may say that it is true-you may swear that_it is
true: but the moment you begin to think that it is true, you
will find yourself within half an inch ef thinking that it is
false. So that there is really no other way of believing the
gospel, than that in which the Archbishop of Dublin believes
the Thirty-nine Articles-that is, taking them in the lump
-and so believing without thinking. The sanctity, the se-
riousness, the charm is gone, the moment you begin to 'let
in daylight on the gospel theatre, by imagining that its per-
sonages had a real existence, and its incidents an historical
occurrence. Who are these wise men, come from the East,
to say their prayers to a little squalling God-a-mighty, suck-
ing his thumb, as fast as he could suck? »
"And when they were come info the house, they saw the
young child with Mary, his mamma." But it does not say
what Mary, his mamma, was doing to the young child. But
it' says, that the wise men fell down; but then, again, it
does not say what it was that knocked them down: only it
'ran navnls PULP:-r. 3
immediately informs us, that they brought out some frank-
incense, which could be of no other use than to sweeten the
apartment-the stable, I should say. For we are never to
forget, that our blessed Saviour was born in a stable-as the
Angels told the Shepherds,
The heavenly babe you there shall ind
To human view displayed,
All meauly wrapt in dirty rags,
And in a
manger laid.
Indeed, one would be utterly at a loss to guess in what the
wisdom of the wise men consisted, unless it had been that
they had anticipated that the heavenly babe might have
such a heavenly smell about him, as would have rendered a
little frankincense, or aromatic vinegar, very refreshing.
And they worshifped him-the wise men worshipped him.
What sort of worship wise men would be likely to pay to a
new-bom child, might be easier guessed at than told-only it
was not very wise of them to open their treasures, and pre-
sent unto him gifts, gold, fraukincense, and myrrh, when a
ho'p'orth of lollipop, and some
bulls'eyes and sugar-plums,
would have suited his Royal Highness so much better, and
have been quite sufficient to have ensured their own everlast-
ing salvation: but, somehow or other, the wise men have
always contrived it that salvation should never be cheap; and
however little of the prophet may go to God, (God help him !)
his vicegerents and ministers take pretty good care that .if
you want to go worshipping, you must open your treasures.
"
And being warned of God, in a dream, that they should
not return unto Herod, they departed into their own
country
another way." However these wise men found their way to
Bethlehem, it is admitted that they dreamed their way back
again. But sure they could never have dreamed that the
King of the Jews, who ought to have been born in a palace,
could be so superfluous in his humility, as to suffer himself
to be born in a stable; and thus, while he was taking upon
4 'rua nsvnfs runnin.,
himself the nature of man, rendering it very doubtful whether
he was not, atthe same time, going to takeonhimselfthe na-
ture of a horse? For those good Christians, who believe that
our blessed Saviour was both God and man, mn have no
right to quarrel with me for carrying my faith a little bit fur-
ther than theirs, and believing, as I most sincerely do, that
he was both man and horse. To which most true faith I am
led, not merely by thermost natural suspicion attaching to the
circumstances of his having been born in a stablr-as where
else should a horse be born? But not to make any sort of
play on words, or to strain any phrase whatever from its ob,
vious sense* which I would not for the world -mot to build on
the certainty of the fact that he had no human father, that
the Angel spoke of him to the Mare, or
Mary, his mother, not
as the holy babe or holy child, but as the holy thing that
should be born of her: I appeal to the whole angelic chorus
-to the multitude of the heavenly host, who appeared to the
shepherds keeping watch over their docks by night, in rstii.
qation of that exprms definition, than which no words can be
more express :Q-" Unto you is bum this day, in Ihe city of
David, u Saviour, which is Christ the Lord; and this shall be.
a-sign." Now the key of the whole mystery lies in that sin.
gle phrase (Kao 'rowo vpn 'zo Enpew), and "
this to you shall
be the signz" that is, this Saviour, which is Christ the Lord,
shall be a sign. The false punctuation of our English Tests.
ments, contrived as much as possible to lead the people into
error, and keep them in it, would make it seem that the sign
had meant no more than a signal or token that the Angers
testimony was correct; and that that token was, that they
should find a babe wrapped in swaddling-clothes, and lying
in a. manger, than which a dog on the manger might have
known better. For not so ordinary and indiiferent a circum-
stance as a frail young woman running away from her
home (as she might have reason enough to do), and being
brought to bed in the best lodging that could be hired
1-as nsvnfs Pvrmr. 5
for nothing, was the sign (which would have been the
sign of nothing else than that the young woman had not
been so prudent as she ought to have been); but Christ
himseltl the Saviour, who is Christ the Lord, was the sign,
and that sign was to be seen in the city of David. Now,
there are but twelve signs in the city of David; and if among
them you will look for the sign of the month of November,
the season upon which we are now entering, you will ind
that sign actually is Sagittarius, with his bow and arrow:
uniting the two natures in his own
person-that is, not the
two natures of God and man, but the two natures of man and
horse, being down to the loins a human form, but all the rest
a horse. So that the creed of St. Kthanasius ought to have
run, that as the reasonable soul and _flesh is one man, so man
and horse is one Christ. Perfect nan and perfect horse, ofa
reasonable soul and human jlesh, aubsisting, who, _foramen
and for our salvation, came down from heaven (and it is pre-
cisely when the Sun is coming down from heaven that he ap-
pears in the sign of the man and the horse), and was hom in
a stable, which gives us the true and astronomical explication,
where I defy the wit of man to give any other explieation,
of that prophecy of Simeon in the second of Luke. Behold
this (Cnu.n)! Child, says our fraudulent English translation
-»lmt a Devil a word about a Child is there in the original,
or any half so childish. But it is Jw ours; nm-ac.
Behold this, that is, this thing-a-me-bob, this half-man and
half-horse, this Sagittarius, is set for the' fall and rising again
of many in Israel; and for a. sign which shall be spoken
against, ug o'»p.uav anlhryoprm-that is, he shall be one of
the adverse signs--one of the signs of the winter months;
the sign of the month November, when many in Israel-that is,
the many stars that make up this constellation, sink below the
horizon, and do not rise again, nor appear in the holy city,
till aher his resurrection, that is, alter the Sun, having passed
through the humiliation of his wintry state, in November,
6 1-nn nnvnfs runrrr.
December, January, and February, appears as the Lamb of
God crossing the line of the Equator in March, where, having
overcome the sharpness of death, he opens the kingdom of
heaven to all believers ; thus giving us the meaning again,
where no other meaning can be imagined, of those words of
St. Matthew, that "
the earth did quake, and the rocks rent,
and the graves were opened, and many bodies of the saints which
slept arose, and came out of their graves after his resurrection,
and went into the Holy City, and appeared unto many." The
on avym, the Saints, in the proper significancy of that word,
never having meant any person that ever existed upon earth,
but referring only to the
y*f)')] 1'`1RD,'!, the Stars of
Heaven, or DWEWH })p'1J DWND71, the holy ones of
Goa DT1'7R mp, as the Holy City, and the City of David,
and the City of our God, and the Jerusalem, in which all
these failings and rwngs again, these crucitixions, resurrec-
tions, and ascensions (than which no language of astronomy
could possibly be more astronomical), do all of them annually
occur, was no Jerusalem, no city, no place on earth, but
Jerusalem which is above. .As the Apostle expressly ad-
monishes us in these words to the Colossians, "Set your
afections on things above, not on
things on earth ;" that is,
set your understanding and apprehension on the great princi-
,ples of astronomical science, and do not be so stupid as to
suppose that Jesus Christ and his Apostles were persons
that ever existed upon earth. And as again, to the Philip-
pians, chap. v. 20, Hpwv #yup 'ro
'ro7u'reup.a nv ovpamgv
for our conversation is in the Heavens : that is, most explicity,
this whole adair of which we speak and preach, and which
is called gospel, has no reference at all to any persons that
ever existed, or events that ever occurred upon earth; but it
is astronomical-it is all to be seen, and is all exhibited in
the visible heavens: as the great Albertus has expressly
said, "All the mysteries of the incarnation of our Saviour
Christ, and all the circumstances of his marvellous life,
'run nnvu.'s rlunrrr. 7
from his conception to his ascension, are to be traced out
in the constellation, and are figured in the stars," And
there, in that heavenly Jerusalem, and only there, are the
DT'7'J'1*3, Bethlehem, the house of bread; that is, the tent
of the Virgin of August, in which Christ is conceived; and
all the Beth-saidas, Bethanies, Bethshemeshes, and Bethels,
in which every one of the imagined events of your gospel,
not excepting one, have their astronomical significancy, and
which, escaping the discernment of vulgar and incurious
ignorance, have been stupidly mistaken for historical facts.
Just as a fool, who has but seen the diagrams and delinea-
tions in the elements of Euclid, will make himself dead sure
that all the mathematics in the world could have consisted
in nothing more than in making hobscotches, and catgal-
lowses, and scrstchcradles, to play at tit-tat-toe with. While
our Christian clergy ofthe present day, either the most ig-
norant or the most deceitful of the whole human race, have
played into this fool's game, have pandered to the passions
of barbarous ignorance, and found that the swinish multi-
tude would be quite as well satisfied with the shells and
husks of science as with the kernel; and, so the tale was but
bloody enough and monstrous enough, impossible to have
happened, and inconceivable to be conceived, they would
never endanger the power of the clergy by seeking to be
wise above what was written. 'I`hns the clergy have laid
the bars of a fraudulent pretended historical evidence across
the path of knowledge; and I wish those had been the only
bars that they had laid. But here, Sirs, minds will be of
use to you; here, I ask you not, as new bam babes, to desire
the sincere milk ofthe word, but I call on you, as full-grown
men, to hold me to the debt of supplying you_ with the solid
intellectual feast of the meaning, in which I ask no sensible
man's assent from his favonr, but will challenge it from his
conviction.
'And not a man who hath the intellectual. cravings of a
3 ,TRI -navu.'s ronrrr.
man, but shall rise from this feast, to tread the fetters of su-
perstition and ignorance under his feet, and only to wonder
how he could have been in them so lang; and to say with
me-
How charming isldivine philosophy,
Notharsh and crabbed as dull fools suppose,
But musical as is Apollo's lute,
And a
perpetual feast of nectared sweets,
Where no crude sorfeit reigns. _
I have explained to you how the SUN, who is the Jesus
Christ, and the only Jesus Christ that ever existed, as he
passes respectively into each one of the twelve signs of the
Zodiac, assumes the character of that particular sign, and is
assimilated and entirely identified with it. So that while he
is still one and the self-same Supr e and only God, we
find him .continually spoken of under the most opposite and
contradictory characteristics and attributes. He is even
sometimes spoken of as his own enemy, and is as often the
destroyer ss the saviour of the world : sometimes loving the
world, then hating the world, then reconciling the world
um himself: thus borrowing contihuslly his,moral cha-
racter in the gospel fable, from his physical sdinities in the
Zodiac. He is the Lamb of God in March: he is the Lion
of the tribe of Judah in July : while he is the sign that shall
le spokes against, that is, the sign of Sagittarius, the half-
nan andhalf~horse, in the gloomy month of November,-
the sign which is indeed spoken against,
"
the gloomy month
of November, when the people of England hang and drown
themselves." And thus, through the whole twelve signs of
the Zodiac, which I have caused to be sketched on the dome
of the minor theatre, for the purpose of assisting these illus-
strations; as, should I live to see the day, when my fortune
shall enable me the exhibit the complete theological eidour-
anion which I meditate, not an iota, not we single genuine
nu Dl'»VIL'! runrrr. 9
passage of your Old or New Testament will I leave unex-
empliiied, undemonsuated, or untraced toits origination in
that occult astronomy, which, under the veil of what was
called Sacred History, has for ages subjugated insulted reason
to the power of priestcraft: and lapsing, as unhappily it did,
out of the management of those who knew its meaning, into
the ruiiian hands of the Goths and Vandals, who knew no-
thing about it, has muddled the little share of intellect which
nature has given them, and msddened them into Christians.
It is'no longer that doubt is possible, or that conviction can
be withheld, when the mind, possessing but the healthy
faculties of the mind, shall see what here we are competent
to show, that all the anomalies, contradictions, and absurdi-
ties of the gospel, by which a thousand generations of
wrangling idiots have been led by the nose by sanctiied
knaves, into s thousand different sects, are but the fallen
ruins of an once glorious temple, in which our art can yet
trace out the positions and relations of every part,-can mor-
tioe the beam into the joists, can dovetail every angle, and
replace every frieze, and cornioe upon the_ entablature of its
proper ahah, till the whole shall present to you the perfect
symmetry of the irst citadel of science. For indwd--and
in a sense which Christian stupidity never stumbled on, say
w¢=1D2r 7113 'amrm n~n'm im: mins: "I~ Jewry
i|Godlcnon, hisuméis great in Israel. At Sakai: his
tabernacle, and his dwelling in Sion. "CYS brake he the
arrows qf the boar, the shield, the sword, and the battle." In
the Old Jewry, in Chespside, suppose ye? Yes: quite as
probably there, as in any Jewry upon earth. But look to the
Jewry of the Zodiac, where the houses of the Sun, which
constitute that hesvsnly city, are,-and there you will see
the arrows ofthe bow in the hands of Sagittarius--the hone
and hiaridor, which the Sun is said to break and conquer,
by suffering and passing through that sign which is so much
spoken agaiaat, that through death he might overcome him
10 rn: x>avn.'s youu.
which had the power of death; that is, the devil-the dia-
bolua-the adverse sign, Sagittarius; of which 'victory Mi-
riam sang-when the Sun, rising victorious in the summer
months, throws this constellation below the horizon, so that
he seems to be drowned. "
Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath
triumphed gloriously ; the horse and his rider hath he thrown
into the sea." While the Psalmist, speaking of the same Lord
(that is the Sun), when about to enter this _
sign of the half-
man and haltihorse, and therefore reconciling it unto himself,
tells us (in the 147 Psalm) that "
The Lord flelighteth hot in
any nmfc legs, neither hath he pleasure in the strength of the
horse ;" which is as innocent of meaning as the gospel itself,
if you will be so innocent as to swallow it as gospel,-but
clear, harmonious, beautiful, and sublime, in its astronomical
reference to the Sun in Sagittarius, who, you will observe, is
a man
only from his head to his hips, so that he has no
man's legs to delight in, while all the rest of him is a horse,
in whose strength he has no pleasure ; the sports of hunting
making but little amends to the Sun for his humiliation in the
short and gloomy days of November. So that our blessed
Saviour, in becoming what the blessed Simeon calls him,
"
the sign that was -spoken against"--that is, the ninth of the
twelve signs, had very strong signs of being a horse; which
gave reason enough for the wise men, supposing them only
to be wise enough to understand his astronomical charac-
teristics, when they were inquiring where Christ should be
hom, tomake a pretty good guess that he would be born in a
stable. And why should the Christian, who has no hesita-
tion in calling his blessed Saviour a lamb, think it profane in
us to call him a horse. Or, if he only became a lamb, that
he might bear the sins of the whole world, it only shows that
the sins of the whole world could not have been very heavy.
But so intolerant, so tyrannical, overbearing, and oppressive,
has the Christian temper in all ages been, that while they
represent their Saviour in any way they please themselves,
'ran nnvu/s Puulxr. ll
they raise the cry of profaneneu, levity, and
gidicule, against
the slightest variation of the follies which their own imagina-
tions have consecrated. You may look unto Jesus as a
bleeding lamb, but you must not look on him as a stuck-pig:
you may address the Holy Ghost as a dove, but you must
not call him a ton-tit. So the blessed St. Augustin, being
an orthodox Christian father, the ornament of the age in
which he lived, and the highest authority to us of what the
most pure and primitive Christianity was, has left us a form
of soliloquy, addressed to our blessed Saviour, in which he
shows that our blessed Saviour was a blackbeelle, or cock-
chqfer, or May-bug, that is, one of those little insects which
Christian children are very properly instructed to stick upon
a
string and thread to set 'em buzzing, that the amiable
innocents might learn betimes to think of Jesus Christ, and
him crucified. So the learned Father Athanasius Kitche-
rius assures us, that "by the May-bug was signified the
only begotten Son of God, by whom all things were made,
and without whom was not any thing made that was made."
The words of St. Augustin are:
"
Bonus ille, scaraheus
mens, non ea tantum de causa, quod unigenitus, quod ipse-
met sui auctor, mortalium speciem induerit, sed quod in
hac fence nostra, sese volutaverit, et ex ipsa, nssci homo
voluerit.-He (that is, Jesus Christ) was my goodcockchafer;
.not merely because, like a cockchafer, he was the only be-
gotten, because he crmted himself, and put on a species of
mortals, but because he rolled himself in human es-ere--"
(Casalius de Veter. Egyp. Ritibus, p. 35.) It is too exe-
crable for me to translate; but God-a'-mighty knows that,
however pure- in heart these saints might have been, they
were men of the nastiest ideas that ever made civilized life
ashamed of them. The learned Casalius, in quoting so
solemn declaration of so great a saint, "that Jesus Christ
was a cockchsfer, or -May-bug," proves that the saint must
have been right, from those words of God himself. in the 22d
12 'rua nsvnis Punnr.
Psalm, when
1* expressly says of himself "
Asforms, I ana
a mom, and not a man,"-Eyu 3: :qu Exuksf sau wx. avépnog
WIN N71 D]7`)lJ'l *DJR1 where the Hebrew word, which
has been translated a worm, as the great Casalius thinks,
should have been translated a oockclzafer. But I am satis-
fied with the correctness of the received rendering; and do
(God be praised for so much grace !) rest in most assured cone
viction, that our blessed Saviour, in that high and sublime
sense of the science of divinity, of which our divines of the
present day are so egregiously ignorant, really was a morn
and not a man-as I can prove, beyond all possibility of
doubt, that no such man ever existed. But sprinkle cool
patience on your warm feelings, and I will make this matter
possess itself of your conviction, with "
confirmation strong
as proof of holy writ." That our blessed Saviour, the only
true God, really was a worm, you have not alone his own
word, in that most positive declaration of himselli than
which no words could he more positive-As for me, I an
umm, and not a nan -but you have the whole analogy
of faith, and all the harmonious coincidences of this sacred
science, to illustrate and evince. For, observe ye, our blessed
Saviour achieved his mightiest conquest in the grmne-and
'tis in the grave that the worm conquers every body. No-
body was ever conqueror in that Held but the worm. 'llo
the challenge,
"
0 grave where uh thy victory? the only
answer is, the victory is the worm's. To the worm alone
can it be truly said,
"
thine is the kingdom, and the power,
and the glory." The debt of gratitude, however ungrateful,
must at last be paid, and as
they say our blessed Saviour
died for us, we must die for him. And as he gave us his
Besh to eat, we must return the compliment, and give him
ours. We must go to the Lord's Supper, as it is very accu-
rately called, the last supper, where we shall not be shown
up as the company, but served up as the dishes: where we
shall be "
at supper, like Polonius in the tragedy," at supper,
'rua navufs ruuvxr. I3
where? "
not where we shall eat, but when we shall be
eaten." That he was a worm and no man, is still further
illustrated, by that text which saith,
"
Verily, thou art a God
that hideth thyu¢" and that which saith,
"
Who only bath
immortality," as he thrice declares himself to be "
the won!
that never dieth." Whatever part of us may go into the fire
that never shall be quenched, nothing is more certain than
that when we go to Jesus, all the fat and lean will go to the
worm that never dieth.
Now hold, and I unlock this mystery : the mystery exists
only in the misty view of Christian ignorance, for this our
noble science,
That, like the rock that lifts i'1 awful form,
Swells from the vale, and midway meets the storm ;
Though round its sides the rolling clouds are spread,
Eternal sunshine settles on its head.
'l'he intolerance of Christian ignorance might be ready to
exclaim, that at this rate we could make any thing of Jesus
Christ. I certainly proved him to be a horse, and now I
have proved him to be a worm:
yes, and if you'll honour
me with your attention hereafter, I will prove him to be a
ish; and that you may not think that I treat the matter
lightly, I will prove him to be a
pair of scales, and you shall
weigh him for yourselves. Remembering only, I pray, that
a false balance is an abomination to the Lord-but the true
scales are his delight. In a word, we shall trace the real
and only Jesus Christ, through every one of the twelve
signs, of the Zodiac, to have been nothing more than the per-
sonified genius ot' each of those signs, (that is, of the Sun,
as considered in each of them,) the same with varying
.physical phenomena throughout his annual course. As but
look, I pray, on
any projection of the signs of the Zodiac
you please-immediately before the horse or centaur of
November, you shall see the scorpion, blackbeetle, or "worm
14 'run nsvu.'s runnr.
that never dieth," the genius of October, the first of the
winter months, standing there in the gates of hell, that is,
the point at which the Sun dips below the equator. And
there stands the worm, &c., to testify to the whole world
that that tire, whose cheering light and heat is now about
to be abated, and apparently withdrawn, shall yet never be
quenched.
'
Upon these ingenious iigments, so egregiously misunder-
stood, and put so madly from their scope and purport, have
our clergy contrived to play upon the ignorance of the
people. But no single discourse, nor I fear the discourses
of a whole winter, will be sufficient to possess you of all
the treasures of this delightful science, in which, as you
advance, you will see all that is so
apparently wild-so
monstrously confused, and such a jumble of contradictions
and absurdities, as to outrage all faculty of method and
sobriety in man ; like matter in chaos, falling in at the com-
mand of a superior genius into a most superb and beautiful
orrery, exhibiting all the great phenomena of nature, and
solving every problem of this mystic science. We prove
to you that Christianity is a fable, with all the precision
of a mathematical demonstration: showing you not only
how, and in what, the fable originated, but what was its
meaning and moral: as we work out a quadratic equation,
by_presenting to you the unknown quantity, in defiance of
your mind's power of saying nay to it, solving all the
diliiculties, explicating all the mysteries, reconciling all the
seeming contradictions, and answering all the requisition
of the great problem. The key that corresponds to the wards
of the lock, however complex and intricate those wards
may be !-the key that fits into the lock-the key that ac-
tually throws the bolt and opens the door-is the key of
the door. That key, with respect to the Christian Religion,
is its allegorical astronomical sense. With that key, I will
return, on some future occasion, to the question,
"
Where is
'run nevufs PULPIT. I5
he fha# is bam King of the Jews ?" I will unlock the Au-
gean stable, and bring down such a stream of science, and
true learning, upon the congregated filth of barbarous ig-
norance, as shall wash away the manger and the King of
the Jews, and the Jews, and the wise men, and all; and
purify the atmosphere of reason from the pest of Christian-
ity. I shall show you, that though it may be possible
enough that the dunce and the fanatic, the half-idiot, or
three-parts lmave, may still continue to take personifica-
tions for persons, allegories for histories, and the mere ma-
chinery of science for its ultimate scope and end; it is not
possible for a man of learning, whose learning has ever
taken its fair range in these investigations, not to know
that the Christian religion, as taught in this Christian
country, is-what I may not call it, craftily practised by
great and mighty knaves upon the simplicity of ignorance
and the impotence of childhood. But here, Sire, with no
other presumption, than such as that of those who, in any
age of the world, have offered truth and science to the
world, in the place of the jargon of sanctified idiotcy, and
consecrated falsehood-as Pvrnsooaas presented his de-
monstration of the equality of the square of the hypothe-
nnse to the squares of the sides of the right-angled triangle
-as Commnus presented his evidences of the existence
of the Trans-Atlantic Continent, and GA1.u.so asserted
his science of the earth's motion in the teeth of monk-
ish ignorance and priestly cunning-incapable of anger as
of fears, inviting criticism, and challenging the opposi-
tion of learning, if there be any learning in the world that
can
oppose us; we ofer you our great solution of the evan-
gelical riddle: it can only confuse you while you are igno-
rant; it can only offend you while you are dreaming:
awake, and you will find that we were awake before you;
and you will come again and agah to this true school of
.
16 rn: nsvn.'s runrir.
intellect and reason, to demand and to receive, I trust, not the
eternal repetitions of s silly story, but to imbibe the mind-
invigornting draughts of genuine learning and still increasing
knowledge.
"
Here nature opens all her secret springs,
And heaven-born science plumes her eagle wings;
Too long hath bigot rage with malice swell'd,
'
Crushed her strong pinions, and her flight withheld-
Tno long to check her ardent progress strove;
So writhes the serpent round the bird of Jove»
Hangs on her flight, restrain: her towering wing,
Twista its dark folds, md points its venomed sting;
But breaking thus, the spell of things divine,
Her rising pride shall mock the vain design;
Shall rise to liberty, to life, md light,
While priests and priestcrsft sink to endless night."
END OF THE FIRST DlSCOUR.SE_ ON THE _STAR
OF BETHLEHEM.
SUH4'
Bodl.
Q
_
ww mmvs amtlmt.
"AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT I3."-Allan Cunningham.
No. 2.1 MARCH 11, 1831. [Price za.
Pam' II. or THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM:
5, Sermon,
PREACHED BY HIS H[GHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
at run no'rtJNna, nnacxrnlans-nous, Nov. 14, 1830.
.,.,,..-.~,..,-v`~..~..~.~`.~.~
"Now when Jesus was barn in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days
of Herod the King, behold there came wise men from the
East to Jerusalem, saying,
'
Where is he that is born King
of the Jews? for we have seen his Star in the East, and are
come to worship him.' "-_MATTHEW ii. 2.
---~.--~..~_.-.-.~..~
I nnwax to this most important subject in which man is
interested, to this most delightful science in which man can
be instructed. I return to the positions of this great science,
to which on Sunday evening last I brought u the convictions
of the large auditory which honoured me and gmemselves with a
most grateful attention.
vor.. 1. /' is
v,
ii FU-
yy
.A f
A
18 'rua nnvufs PULPIT.
The Star of Bethlehem has brought us up to the stable-
door; and no
person of rational understanding, who has
travelled with us thus far, can any longer doubt that we are
in possession of, what you shall seek for in vain in any church
or
chapel, or B-om any other minister of the gospel, in this
metropolis,--we are in possession of the key of the stable-
door! Ye have seen it pass into the lock-ye have seen it
ride over all the intricacies and involutions of the wards--ye
have heard it, without any strain or effort, throw the bolt,
and now the door is open; and "
Behold I bring you good
tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto
you is born this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, which is
Christ the Lord, and this shall be a
sign." That is, as I have
shown, this Christ the Lord shall be one of the signs of the
Zodiac. Walk in, ye lovers of true science, ye friends of
genuine and real leaming, who would assist her in the
arduous struggle in which she is engaged, and aid her
rapidly
approaching triumph o'er her barbarous foes, the
priests an priest-ridden dunces, who, with all their pretended
zeal and attachment to the gospel, when brought to the test
of rational criticism, stand convicted of knowing no more about
the
gospel
than the gospel knows about them. They have
but ed on the husks and shells of knowledge. Here we have
the kemel.
But why, say they, make we such a
parade of our leaming?
why this
apparatus
of philology, criticism, ,and science, set
before min s so little able to
appreciate, so
incompetent to
judge, as we must suppose the minds of the mr/n_y to be? and
why, if I really wish to communicate knowledge and truth to
the people, why not follow the example of the preachers of
the gospel, and speak in such language as is familiar to them,
and so give them reading-made easy, and lectures adapted to
the meanest capacity? My a.nswer is, would men but be
faithful to their own capacities, there would be no mean
capacities to be met with. It is only they who are afraid of
hearing what they never heard before, whose capacities are
mean indeed. I have found it quite as
easy, as I am sure it
is most
just and generous, to raise the understandings of my
hearers to the level of my own; and if I find them ignorant,
at least not to leave them so. We are all of us ignorant
before we are leamed; and those who are for ever for coming
THE DEVIL S PULPI13 19
down to our level while we are down, show but too
plainlty,
that it is the aim of~their charity to keep us down. n
offering instruction to my fellow-men, I would treat them as
my fellows; and must, therefore, plainly tell them that, it is
not for me to descend, but it is for them to rise: the level
*tween us is to be found, not by my humility, but by their
ambition. I will not make myself a dunce, but Iwill make
them scholars. Be it asked, "And I rob them of their
_fhit/1, (which God forgive me for being devilishly like to do,)
what will I give them in its stead ?" I answer, I will give
them leaming in its stead-I will set before them the treasures
of science and knowledge, to no worse effect than to create in
them an
appetite for extended information, whose cravings
shall never more be satisfied with the baby's lesson, nor con-
tent with etemal repetitions of what they knew before; but
shall demand continual su
plies of what they did not know
before; such su
plies as siiall increase the stores of their in-
tellectual wealtli), improve their minds, enlarge their hearts,
and free them from the yoke ot' priestcraft. And now, sirs,
ye shall see the use of so much leaming, in the leamed lan-
guages, as shall not cost you the expense of a classical educa-
tion, nor the labour of your whole life to attain; but, as by
your few hours diligent attention to these lectures, even with
your pleasure and entertainment, you shall find yourselves td
ave acquired; till there shall not be an individulal of com ef
tent fisculties, that had been fairly applied to these studies, But
who shall be a better scholar than any clergyman or
preacher
of the gospel, if he be dunce enough to believe the gospel him.
self] can possibly be. See now, sirs, how we advance! As
would not a man who had but the reason and proper spirit of a
man put to himself the question,-If these so called sacred
writings of the Old and New Testament were written, as
indeed they import to be, and most certainly were, "in ages
long ago betid," in conformity to the notions of men who
have long ago ceased to exist, and in languages which have
long ceased to be spoken; who but the sheerest idiot and
booby would dream of the
plossibility
of a translation of them
into a modem language ; or t at a sense of them, according to
/the sense, or nonsense of modem notions, could possibly
come even within a guess of their original significancy? But
'with the simple data of our admissions, as the axioms and
20 'rua nnvu..'s Pnnexr.
postulates of this science: 1. That men, ten thousand years
ago, were of the same nature as they are at present; their
heads grew upon their shoulders, I suppose; and they had
ears, eyes, nose, and mouth in them,-that is, they had the
same sources and means of acquiring ideas. 2. They had
but the same, and no other means and ways of communicatin
the ideas they had acquired. 3. The same things made the sam?
impressions. 4. And the same
impressions produced the
same reflections. We arrive at conclusions, than which, the
corollaries of a mathematical problem are not more con-
sequential and demonstrative. Of these corollaries, one of
the first is, that, as all ideas of mankind must necessarily have
been received into the mind in the same way, so there must
be a wonderful sameness and similarity in the modes, figures,
signs, and forms of` expressing those ideas, and as wonderful
a sameness of association of idea,-the one calling up the
other by a similar action of a similarly constituted brain, in
all ages, and among all nations of mankind. Hence arises
the large and very extensive class of' words, called amicus:
that is, words which are the roots and bases of' innumerable
varieties of language, but which, when analysed, are found to
be essentially the same, and of the same signification, in all
the languages of' the earth. And these you have the ad-
vantage of" learning, as you leam the general chords and
principles of music, by your own ear; by hearing me repeat
to you, as is my custom, all the different languages through
which the text on which I treat has been derived. These
radicals are always monosyllables; they never require more
than three letters, and may often be expressed by two, or
only
one. Hence the earliest and most ancient languages of men
are all monoyllabic, and all the combinations formed with
them are merely grammatical, and artificial variations of the
sound, but_ not of the sense; and have been introduced in
much later times, sometimes poetically, and tastefully, but
oftener to hide and conceal the original source from whence
they were derived. Of which last sort of words, you cannot
have a more striking specimen than that of the first noun in
our text, the name Jesus: of which, the last syllable, Us, is
no part of the word itself, but the mere Latin termination,
added to the only real and complete word, Jes. Thus Jesus
Christus is good Latin, but Jesus Christ is neither good Latin,
ran nnvnfs PuLPx1°. 21
nor good English, nor good sense. For in taking away the
latin termination from Christus, to render it into the En lish,
Christ, we should take away the Latin termination from Jesus,
and render it into Jes. The Greek word for Jesus, being
Img, which is precisely the same adoption of the Latin ter-
mination into Greek, as our Jesus is an adoption of it into
English, is one among the ten thousand proofs that betray the
Monkish Latin origin of our New Testament; that is, that
the latin, and not the Greek, was the first language in which
the contents of the sacred Diegesis of Egypt was
brought to
the knowledge of the priests of Europe. The translation was
made from the Latin into the Greek, and a Greek original
pretended, not till alter it was found expedient, to
opplose
a
check to the advance of curiosity, and to throw a t icker
veil over the mysteries of the gospel-craft. Had the Greek
been the original, the Greek for Jesus must have had the Greek
termidation cg, and been Imrog; but the Greek Ima; is bad
Greek, and nothing more than the Latin Jesus, exhibited in
Greek characters. The written documents, the DIEGESIB,
from which first the Latin, and subsequently the so falsely
called original Greek, was derived, have necessarily perished :
but Christian ignorance, in mistaking its fable for a
history,
and committing itself to criticism, by 'fixing an era and a
scene when and where its imagined events occurred, has sup-
plied the means of demonstrating the utter falsehood of its
pretences: inasmuch as we are able to adduce positive
evidence of the existence and prevalence of precisely the same
story in India, Persia, Egypt, and Greece, for more than
filteen hundred years before the date assigned to the pre-
tended occurrence of it in Palestine. But taking the words
of the Greek text, the highest written authority to which we
can
familiarly
appeal,
in their most simple and primitive
signilicancy, an suffering no subomed or forestalled sense to
pervert us from the sense which those words would naturally
convey, we shall (ind it far, infinitely far, from any such his-
torioal, or even
pretended historical sense, as our fraudulent
English translation, and still more fraudulent preachers of
the
gospel,
would palm on our insulted reason. "Now when
em: was barn in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days qf Herod
the King." Now, if this were an accurate rendering ot the
Greek (which it is not), and if the common-sense meaning of
22 'rua nnvrrfs PULPIT.
our English words were allowed to be its meaning, who could,
for one moment, pretend that this was the style of writing of
any one who could have been contemporary of the events he
was about to relate, who had ever lived with, seen, or con-
versed with the person of whom he speaks? How fatal,
therefore, is it to
ang' pretence that anything more than a
romance was intende . But look at the literality of the
text: Ta 3| Imrs -yum Qsvro; nr Bn97up. 'mg Iadamg; "the Jes, or
Yes, being in the house q/` corn, of the Isdaia, in the days if
Herod the King." Thus have we the literal translation ot' the
mongrel Greek, Hebrew, and Phmnician roots of this egregi-
ously-misconstructed sentence, of which the sense is, the Sun-
(that is, Yes,) being in the Zodiacal sign of the Virgin, who is,
distinguished by the spike of corn in her hand, and is the
genius of the month of August, which is the harvest month,
which is further distinguished by the definition Bn9 Map, the
house of com or bread of the Is- Anna, that is most literally of
the Zodiac, and still further, by the addition, in the days of
Herod the King, o nprpou; Hpuds 18 Bamlewg, that is, not in
the days, as signifying the reign of an king on earth, called
Herod, but in, or
according to, the Eplyiemeris, or Almanac of
Hercules, the Sun. The name I-lrznoo, being compounded
of apo; depag, that is, the Hero ry" the Skin, the well-known
epithet ot Hercules, derived from his always being described,
sculptured, painted, and distinguished, as wearing the skin of
the Cleonean Lion. For whatever real personages in real
history, might have assumed the rnythologico-astronomical'
name of Herod, it is certain that no
King Herod, or Herod
the Tetrarch, as a
person that ever existed upon earth, ww in-
te ided by the Ba,a-mu; Hpudng, of King Herod of the Gospel,
but, as the literality of the name
betrays, the Herod of the
Skin, King Hercules, that is, the Sun : who, in his annual
progress through the signs of the Zodiac, before he can reach
the Lion of July, and so invest himself with the skin of the
Lion, as to become the Hero of the Skin, that is, the Herod
indeed, is obliged to kill all the children that were in Judea,
that is, in Bethlehem and the coasts therqf; which is a most ac-
curate definition ofthe Zodiac, Ev Bn9 Assy., xai tv iran roi;
opioi; awrng. In Bethlehem, and in all the divisions of it, in which
you will see that there are two children, aero Swrag, of two
years old, Gemini the twins of May, which this solar Herod is
'run nnvn.'s Punrzr. 23
said to kill, in our
English rendering; but in the literal Greek
zvaupm, to take or put away, or pass through, as the sun ses
through the sign of the twins, umm /rar; arai3ar.<;;' andmjhat
:Irie werehbut
two of them, is discovered by
}:he
reference
e to t e astronomical scheme of the ro et, that is to
say, of the old astronomer, Jeremy:
"
Ingtaxirna was there a
vvice heard, larnentaliun and
weeping, and reat mourning ;
Rachael weeping for her children. Why in fiama? What is
Rama? Why Rama is the Hindoostanee, Coptic, Syriac,
Phcenician word, and literal name for the Zodiac ; the h' h, the
elevated, the exalted. And this whole tale of the Binh dieChrist
in the days of Herod the King, is found in the Bhagavat
Pourana of India, in the M thriacs of Persia, and in the
fabulous
wlgtings
ascribed to horoaster, the supposed contem-
rar of oses. As, tum to the old astronom ascribed to
Rgoseys, you will find that Rachael had but twoysons, which
were
Joseph and Benjamin, and there they are to this day in
Rama, the two boys of the Zodiac; as
Joseph and Benjamin
together
alrethaocolpnted asroramaking up but one of the
twelve?
s` s: an is in He is no other than such a sort o
plglsonage as our
En§lish_Jolm Bull-he_ never grows old-he
never goes dead-but he is the bloody King Herod, the naughty
man that comes to take away the naughty children. As we find
the grave historian Eusebius assuring us that the martyrdom
of Polycarp,-in the reign of Marcus Aurelius, at Smyrna, 200
years after the retended date of this affair, took place by
ogder
of this
selgsame. bloody
iiing Herod,
notwithstlaudiplg
tewormseating imu ;as e doever eat-,wen e
enters into the sign of thepScorpionyof Octob;r,yand gives not
God the glory. But not alone the name of King Herod, but
the
nalrpe
of
Itlhe cgildren
whom it is so ridiculously
supposeg
that
'
ero slew, in its ori 'nal si ificanc , an
historicalilgderivation, demonstrates th? astroninmical rilations
of the whole mystery, umm vran-rat; -r u ; II¢x.i3a.;-Herod the
King
(thrgtis,
Hengxles,
the Hero
%
the Skin,) put
avtgpygll
the
bo s. ow the reek word Hou rg betra s~to us e o tic
article Hi, in composition with the Phoehicilan Ades, the whjole
'
He took away the boys, i. e. the boys of the Sun. Pr-Ares,
whence the Greeks formed their word, 1|-q,;B¢g, boys ; was a com-
mon title of the Sun, and meant particularly, the Sun in Gemini.
24 -
THE DEVlL'S PULPIT.
Pi-Ades being the common title of the Sun, formed of the
radicals Pr. An. Es. The Lord Fire ; hence the Latin word
for a boy, puer, is the Greek word srvp, for Fire, the root of the
English words pure and purity, and the key ofthe evangelical
conundrum,
"
Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see
God," that is, the Stars that shine the brightest are nearest to
the Sun ; and these boys in Rama, which Herod passed over,
are demonstrated to have been none other than the fiery boys
of the Zodiac-the two bright cluster of stars representing
the figure of two boys, which the Sun enters in the month of
May, and for which Rachel weeps, and will not be comforted
-not because they are killed, but because they are not; that
is, because they are rendered invisible, no longer to be seen,
are absorbed in the superior etfulgence of the Sun in passing
through them, as he does in the month of May, when
----»Lost, dissolved in his superior rays,
One tide of glory, one unclouded blaze,
O'ertlows his courts.
Thus, in the name of God, Hercules, reduced to its radical, we
have the three Ammonian primitives, 27}2")J")1R, which are
respectively -mt, Light, 5; Au, gpm Fire, which is in wm-
position the light, the universal fre, or palindromically, the
tire, the universal source of light, that is the Sun. As there,
in the Zodiac in the Lion of July, is that Cleonean Lion,
whom the tDR"')J'1')R, the light, the universa.l fire, that is
the Sim, the Hgw; drgavrog, the King Herod, 171: Herod qf the
Skin, every year overcomes and passes through in his annual
progress, with whose skin he seems to invest himselfas a
t;;phy
of his victory ; and as, in which investiture, he is addres in
those words of the Psalmist, or ancient magical incantations
appointed to be read through every month, in honour ofthe
twelve months of the year,
"
0 Lord my God, thou art be~
come exceeding glorious, thou art clothed with majesty and
honour ; thou deckest thyself with light as with a garment, and
spreadest out the heavens like a curtain. 0 sing unto God,
and sing praises unto his name; magnify him that rideth upon
the Heavens as
upon a horse; even God in his holy habita-
tion." Thus too, the e ithet added to the name of Herod,
that is, the Hero ofthe SEM, Herod the King, in Hebrew 'f)D
Moloch: in Greek Baa-mug; in Latin Rex, the Ruler, the
rns nnvufs Ptrnrir. 25
Regulator; was a characteristic epithet of the Sun-the Sun to
rule the day, the monarch or only govemor of the whole solar
system.
_
And why should Christ be said to be bom in Bethlehem of Ju-
dea, and be called by the wise men, the Bawmw; -rw Isdauuu,
the King, the Rex, the Govemor or Ruler of the days qf Jao,
but in fulfilment of that prophecy of the pro het, that is, in
accordance with that astronomical sketch of the astronomical
priest, Micah: "
And thou Bethlehem in the land of Judah art
not the least among the Princes
cz'
Judah, for out of thee shall
come a Governor that :hall ru
my people Israel!" Now,
would any buta Christian idiot, who had bid good night for
ever to all use of reason, or a Christian knave, who would say
any thing, insult us by saying that there ever was a Bethlehem,
upon earth that ever
brought forth a Governor or ruler upon
earth, that ever governed or ruled an Israel upon earth? And
are we to endure the intolerable insult and ignominy any longer,
that asetof sanctilied idiots and solemn dunces, a roud and
aristocratical priesthood, too haughty as they are to he willing,
and too ignorant as they are to be able, to confront us, should
be allowed to
persuade the world that all these glorious
prophecies_ of "the wonderful Counsellor, the mighty God,
the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, of the increase of
whose govemment and dominion there should be no end, upon
the throne of David his father, to order and to establish it
with judgment and with justice for ever," had their verifica-
tion in the pretended real history of such a
King of the Jews ;
who, if his history were historical, presents us with nothing
more than the history of a thief, bom in a stable, living on
the high road, and dying on the gallows! AKing of the
Jews that never had his title recognised but in u sarcasm-
never triumphed but on the cross-never reigned, but as if all
our kings should be like to reign in the same fashion, we
should not long want Radical Reform. But tum we to the
sacred text itself, of the astronomical Micah (chap. v.
2), than
which nothing can be more astronomical. And thou, the
House of Corn, Mansion of theVirg-in, Genius of Increase
and Abundance, though thou be little among the thousands of
Judah, that make up the various signs of the Zodiac, out of
:hee shall he come to me, or shine forth, who is the Govemor
of Ismel(that is; of the whole Solar system), whose goings-
'26 :rms navnfs Pvnrrr.
forth from the East have been from the days of etemity ; that
is, the Sun, beyond all possibility of being any thing else,
the never-created, eternally-existing Sun, whose goings-forth
from the east to s
through the twelve signs of the Zodiac,
most literally andmieally have been from everlasting. And
what means the astrologer by those words 1
"
And thou,
Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the
thousands of Judah," but the astronomical fact, which, if you
will but look upon the thousands of Judah, your own eyes will
testify, that the Stars which make up the Constellation of Beth-
lehem Ephratah, which is the sign of the Virgin, or Good-
woman of the Zodiac, are
particularly small; those that should
make up the head, especially, being so minute as hardly to be
visible to the naked eye; which gave occasion to the allegorists
for their joke, that, if you want to find a good woman, you
must look for a woman without a head. '1`he Pagan sculptors
represent their Venus with a
particularly small head, while
the Christian ainters represented their Venus, the Virgin
Mary, whose liouse or domicile actually is in Bethlehem
Ephratah, as a maid with no head at all. The brightest stars
in this constellation being those which form the arms, or vinde-
miatrix, in the elbow; thus actually supplying the
pun,
that
has never been too gross for the piety of our Catholic rethren,
where, in the oflice of the conception of the Blessed Virgin, they
call her
_ Judith Invincible !
Woman of arms :
Fair Abishag° Virgin, that
True David warms!
Etemal God l why hast thou given us reason to insult us with
Christianity?
But see, sirs, and your conviction shall seal the truth it sees,
-how beautiful, how majestic, how delightful is science!
From the eternal and never-failing regularity of the goings-
forth or
progress of the Sun from sign _to sign, through his
annual course, the minds of men first received the idea of
TRUTH, of punctuality, and of certainty: and hence, among
all nations, and in all languages, we tind them giving precisely
'
Abishag, a Shuuamite, 1 Kings, i. 3.-fvpjjwfl JQPJX.
'rr-za navufs Punrrr. 27
the same name to whatever they held to be true, which they
had previously given to the SUN, whose imaginary moral
attributes were directly derived from his real physical ones;
and thus the faitlt/id and true witness in Heaven, the SUN,
was looked up to or
pointed to, by every man addressing
another man, and meaning to say, that what he said was
truth. It is true as God'r in Heaven; that is, it is as true, as
accurate, and as
regular, as are the goings-forth of the Sun,
"
whose goings-forth have been fi-om of old-from everlasting."
So the name of the Sun, in every country in which the Sun
hath shone, is universally found to be the same as that of their
form of assent or agreement, or
pledge of romise. And as
the worship of the Sun under the name oi)Jupiter Ammon,
was infinitely the most prevalent over all the world-above
all other forms of worship,' the ancient Phoenician word AM
-ON, literally si ifying the fire, the being ; the name
Amman, pronounced"in all manner of ways, through the nose,
through the throat, but always with the eyes shut, to relieve
them from the dazzling of the Sm's rays, as A-men, Au-men,
Ah-men, O-men, has found its way, and to this day retains its
gace
at the end of
everydprayer,
ending, "through Jesus
hrist our Lord Ammon ;' at is, most literally, that Jesus
Christ our Lord, isAmmon; and Jesus Christ and Jupiter-
Ammon stand thus demonstrated to have been but one and
the self-same rosopopeia-that is, _the personified Genius of
the Sun. AsJ)esus Christ is made to say of himself, in that
beautiful and scientific astronomical Mythos, called the
Revelation of St. John,
"
I am the Amen, the faithful and true
witness." So the name Yesus or Jesus, so deceitfully sheltered
from the discovery of its real meaning, by the Latin termina-
tion Us (which is no
part of it), in its dissyllabic and earlier
form, is ras, which has become our English form of assent
or
pledge of fidelity and' truth; as we say Yes, with the same
meaning as Amen, that is, verily, it is so-or I consent-I
will-that is, by God Iwill. Hues- Yes-In;-being the m0S¢
ancient name of 'the god Bacchus; and absolutely retained to
this day upon all our Christian altar-pieces and pulpit-cloths
' "
Quamvis ./Ethiopum populis, Arabumque beatis
Gentibus, atque Indi|, unus sit Jupiter, Ammon."
Lucian, l. 9.
28 'ma navxrfs PULPIT.
in those three mystical letters, I : H :E, which are Greek letters,
absurdly read as Roman letters, by our Rornish Monks, as if
they were to stand for the words, Jesus Hominum Salvulor,
Jesus the Saviour of Men: whereas they really are the name
at full length of the Pagan god, Bacchus, the God of Wine,
in whose honours at those altars our Christian Bacchanals, not
knowing what they do, continue to this day to drink the
sacramental wine, which is the blood of the gra -that is, by
metonymy upon metonymy, the blood of Bacclifis; that is, of
Jes, or Yes-the personitied genius of the Sun, whose name is
written in those letters, I, H, S, and surrounded with that
circle of golden rays, than which your ingenuity could not
write the word Sun, nor de ict it in an hieroglyphical repre-
sentation less to be mistagen, even if ou were the most
ingenious man alive. And this same, I, ll, S, is composed of
the Ammonian radicals, I, the one; and E, S, the _/int: i. e.
the one
greatfire: i. e. the Sun, under which identical name he
was the Supreme Deity of the ancient iire~worshippers of Persia,
from whom his rites were adopted, by those who are absurdly
called the primitive Christians.
The extent of Christian stupidity, and of Christian igno-
rance, would have been the most unaccountable of all the
phenomena of the universe, if its own history had not supplied
the account. Men have been trained to prefer ignorance to
learning, and have chosen to be driven mad and wild by faith,
rather than to be instructed, enlightened, and improved by
reason and philosophy. But as the intolerance of the religious
feeling, alike in all religions, was ever more opposed to im-
provement than any other, we
reapha contingent advantage from
the consecration of ignorance. e long continuance of the
nomenclature and technicalities of theology, and their
adop;
tion from one country to another, where every thing might
allowed to change, and to improve, but religion, enables us the
more
easily to work through the difliculties of the problem,
and to demonstrate the fallacy that runs through all religions.
'[hus, there is a long list of words, which our Christian parrots
prattle forth, of which they have never dreamed, or thought
more of the meaning and significancy than a
parrot, _and
which have been adopted and naturalzsed, without ever being
translated. I need not mention the Amen and Hallelujah, and
Hosanna, and Glory, and
Sanctification, and Holiness, of the
'run navu.'s PULPIT. 29
derivative meaning of which, a horse is not more ignorant
than a Christian: but our words God, and the Sun, are
really,
the one a Hebrew, the other an old Coptic word: both signi-
fying the same thing, but both alike adopted without being in-
%uired into, and naturalised without being understood. God, or
ad, being the never-translated name in the ancient Tsabaism,
or
star-worship, of the constellation of' the Ram, or lamb of
God, as I have explained to you, the Rama, the great, the_
elevated, that is, the first of the signs of the Zodiac-that is,
by metonymy of the Sun, in that sign Aries, the Ram or
lamb of God,* whose' astronomical name, Yes, is the root
of Jesus, the Lamb of God: as our English words, SUN
and DAY, are found in the first primitives, not of a
par-
ticular language, but of the most ancient and universal ever
uttered by man. San, pronounced Zan, Zon, Son, and Zun,
that is, with every vowel, and every mode of uttering the
initial that the tongue could compass, like Gad, Gid, Ged,
God, and Gud, wus, like that word, the common Ammouiau
narne for the Sun and Jupiter, as is witnessed by that old in-
scription, quoted by Bryant, on the tomb of Jupiter; who,
like Herod, Hercules, Bacchus, Mithra, A ollo, Chrishna,
Vichenu, and all the other allegorised types ol? the Sun,
"
was
conceived by the Holy Ghost, born of the Virgin Mary,
suffered under Pontius Pilate, was
crucified, dead, and
buried :" 93: psyag nes-rau Zan ou A|atxn¢7-na'xsa's.
"
liere was
buried the great Zan, whom they call Aw," that is, the great
Sun, whom they call God. When the first attempt was made
to represent the Sun in pictorial hieroglyphics, a mere straight
stroke, as a
picture as the finger of the priest, pointing to the
Sun, gave the letter I, or J if part of the hand be seen with
it: while the circle of the Sun's disk formed the O, and thus
the radical of all languages, I, O running through the theology
of all nations and of all ages, harder or softer in the Ai-o,
(Ja-o), Za-o, Jahavah, Jehova, Jeve, Juve, Jove, all betray
that the Sun, and the Sun alone, was the primordial signification
¢ As the Latin word Aries, the Ram, was derived from the
Egyptian word Arez, the Sun : as that word is found compound
with Dons, which is the same as Deus, God, the whole yard
Aw-ang, signifying God-the Sun, the same mentioned by Ter-
tullian, as Dysares, the God of all the Arabian nations. _
30 'ma DEVIL'S Puarlr.
of the terms for God and Jesus : and bring us to an absolute
demonstration of the truth, betrayed to us
by the unguardcd
father Tertullian, that many think that the SUN is our God, and
rel`er'us to the religion of the Persians (Apolrget, c. 16): and
still more
explicitly acknowledged in Heb. xii. 29: "
Our God
is a
consuming Firc."
I am not able, within the compass of such a measure of
your attention as I may reasonably detain, to do justice to the
challenges of the subject I have taken in hand; but (if I
have succeeded, as
your favour seems to im ly that I have),
I shall ho e you will retum with me, on
Sunsay next, to the
Stable of Eethlehem, fumished with the besom of philosophy,
to sweep away the filth of priestcratl, and to bring down such
a 'stream of genuine science and of real leaming, as shall
wash out the cradle, the manger, the little squalling God, and
the wise men and all, and purify the infected air from the pest
of Christianity. For this, sirs, you will now
perceive, is the
nature of true learning, that, like the light, it is communicable,
easyiof access, and equally beneficial to all men-most lea-
sant in the being sought for, most delightful in the geing
found: "
More to be desired than gold, than much _fine gold ;
sweeter also than honey or the honeycomb." Ye friends of
truth, of science, and of leaming, which never yet shrunk,
nor will shrink, from its most desired, most sought-for con-
tlict, with all that is re uted as leamed in the world, pro-
tect me but by the vindication of your own rights from the
rudeness of barbarous ignorance, and from the impertinencies
of those wild and furious savages of the gospel, who in all
ages of the world have been the priests' dogs, wrought up
into madness, for no other end than to terrify inquiry from
looking into the baseness of their craft, detecting their igno-
rance,
eiposing
their falsehood, and trampling on their
power. e noble science which I familiarise thus easily to
promiscuous auditories, 1 have intimated to the world in my
work, in challenge of the world's criticism, the Drrzcesrs, and
have offered to maintain in the Latin tongue, before either of
the Universities of England, as Reghellini and Dupuis have
offered its grand principles to the enlightened nations of the
Continent in the 1'rench language; and not a member of any
University in Europe, not a
priest in the world, has ever
dared to enter the lists, or attempt even aresistance to this
rue navuls 1'!LPIT» 31
Almighty demonstration of the utter falsehood of the gospel.
This demonstration is science itself; and in every position that
it offers you, does not ask you to believe, nor wish you to be
persuaded, but your persuasion must follow upon your know-
ledge; and you will find that, as fast as your knowledge comes
in, your Christianity will run out.
In this school, sirs, ye come not to etemal repetitions of the
same s ell ; we have no
baby's lessons for you ; the sincere
milk orthe word has tumed sour; the priests have had all the
cream of it, and we have no stomachs left for hogswash. We
are not going to be brought down, in the same notions that we
were brought up. Our lesson is not any longer,
"
As it was in
the beginning, is now, and ever shall be ;" but our say is, that
the power of priests and priestcraft to impose upon us, which
was in the beginning, is Nor now, and never shall be again.
END OF THE SECOND DISCOURSE ON THE STAR
OF BETHLEHEM.
50H/V
.1 *
HN
Elie awww Qlinlmit.
No. 3.3 MARCH 11, 1831. [Price za.
PART III. or THE STAR OF BETHLEHEM:
Q 5evmon,
PREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A.,
sr 'run norunns, nucxranns' ROAD, Nov. 21, 18301
"
Where is he that is born King of the Jem ? for we have
seen his Star in the East, and have cone to worship him."-
Mxrrunw, ii. 2.
UPON returning this third time to the stable of Bethlehem,
I am obliged to suppose my hearers already in possession of
what I am sure those who have been hearers of the two pre~
ceding discourses on this subject, have felt to be those rich
treasures of philological, scientific, and historical learning,
which it is the great aim of these lectures to lay before the
public mind. I must now take them up at the spot where, on
Sunday evening last, I left them, that is, at the stable-door, in
Bethlehem of Judea-where I had the honour of introducing
them to an acquaintance with Herod the king, and of conci-
liating their forgiveness and reconciliation with his Herodian
Majesty, for his having slain-" All the children, from two
years old and under, that were in Bethlehem, and in all the
coasts thereof"-which gave occasion to Rachael, notwith-
standing her having been dead 1732 years before it happened,
to weep for her children-when she "would not be comforted
because they were not."
Here, then, we resume the thread of these delightful studies.
vol.. 1. e
34 'run DEVIIYB PU1.P11°.
~
The anatomy of language has enabled us to lay open the pri-
mitive ideas, involved in those mystical words :-" Now when
Jesus was born in Bethlehem qf Judea, in the days qf Herod
ihe King."
1. We have found, n1s'ron1cau.v,that these very words-
that is, the meaning of them-in the whole identity of every
thing they refer to, or by any possibility could refer to, are a
direct plagiarism from the Sanscreet text of the Bhagavat
Pouranaidchat is, _in English, the Book qf God) of the Hindoos,
ascribed, and universally admitted to have been written, by
divine inspiration of the Brshminical priest, Vyaaa, who lived
and flourished in India, at the lowest calculation, fifteen hun-
dred years before our
unluckily imagined epoch! of the birth
of Christ.
2. We have found, ASTBOFOIICALLY, that in the most-
minute, even the most wonderfully minute applications, as'
accurately as the wax fills up every mark and line engraven in
the seal, the whole story betrays the character of an astrono-
mical enigma, or parable, and is a picture in words of the
annual phenomena of the solar system.
3. We have found, rnxsomuxcaux, that, upon tracing
back the words themselves to their radicals, or iirst types,
their literality itself is Asrnononxcax.; whereby we have the
same sort of perfectly mathematical demonstration, as when
we work out an algebraical problem geometrically, and theii
work back the geometrical result algebraically.
Thus history, philology, and science, combine in one great
trinity of demonstration, to prove the falsehood of the gospel.
The radicals, of our text, read philologically-that is, ac-
cording to their first types, throw up the perfect and complete
astronomy. Now when the Sun entered into the zodiacal sign
of the month of August, in the Ephemeris of Hercules, the
regulator, then follows, in our English version-" Behold
there came wise men from the east."
But here, again, is an egregious and most deceitfully-in..
'ran nsvn.'s Puurr. 35
tended false translation in our English Testaments, in order
to produce a respect for these imaginary baby-worshippers,
to which they were by no means entitled. They are not
called wise men, but Magi-that is, magicians, or conjurors :
notwithstanding the strong reason which some may think
they have to suspect that they were no conjurors. l
'Die fathers of the church generally speak of these wise
men of the east as being three kings, in order to make out the
accomplishment of that prophecy-" the King of Tltarsis and
ofthe Isles shall give presents, the Kings of shabia and Saba
slaall bring gifts." 72d Pss.lm.°
But bring, I pray, (as you would in all other sciences)
bring down the rich stores of the knowledge already acquired,
to aid ye in the further demonstrations to which now we tend.
The identity of Jesus Christ, with the Sun, the accordance of
all. the circumstances of his mythological history, from his
imagined conception by the Virgin Mary, to his death, resur-
rection, ascension, and final coming again, (as he does) every
year, to judge
"
both the quick and the dead"-that is, to
divide an eqnable proportion of his light and heat to both
hemispheras»~that ts, to us and to our antipodes; it being
night with them when it is day with ns, and vice versa. All
this having been so
clearly proved; the presence of these wise
men of the east, the first worshippers of the infant Yu-
these Magi-with their "gms, gold, frankincense and myrrh,"
which were from eternal ages the first tributary offerings
consecrated to the Sun, is, as it were, the elencher to the nail
driven in a sure place,-a demonstration never to be with-
'
So beautifully versilied in the eclogne of The Messiah :-
See barbarous nations at thy gates attend,
Walk in thy light, and in thy temple bend:
See thy bright altars tbronged with prostrate kings,
And heaped with products of Sabean springs"
For thee, |d.nme's spicy forests blow,
And seeds of gold in 0phir's mountains glow.
36 me nsvu.'s runs:-r.
drawn,-that the whole story of the gospel, from lirst to last,
was derived from these Magi, and never was, nor is, any other
than that ancient occult or hidden science, which the Apostle
Paul calls the Theosophy, or Wisdom of God in a mystery;
but which, in plain English, is the black art, or magic.
"
We
speak wisdom," says he,
"
to them that are perfect, (i. e. to
the initiated, to them that are up to the trick on't), yet not the
-wisdom of this world, (i. e. not a science of any thing historical,
or that ever really happened), but the Daeossplag or AlfT0l0I'
in -disguise, eve! the hidden wisdom : Tm afoxnxpvpplmv-that
is, the magic, the black art, in honour of which, its priestsand
preachers, to this day, wear black gowns and black dresses,
the very livery itself of their Divine Master, the Black Prince,
as you may see, by dissecting the word gospel into its radicals
--that is, God's spell, the spell, charm, or magical incautation,
by the repetition of certain words, of which, with your eyes
shut, and putting your body in the shape of the constellation
Orion (one knee up, the other thrust from you, and the hands
clasped together-thusl) it was believed that the power of
Omnipotence would be bound to attend the oonjuration.
The founders of this da.rk'scienca, or black art, are univer-
sally admitted to have been these Magi ; and our Christian
antiquaries are proud to quote the celebrated passage from the
Zend-Avesta of the Persian Zoroaster, which is found so
strikingly coincident with this pretended visit of these eastern
Magi to the stable of Bethlehem.
"
"You, my childr ," said the great magician, "shall be
Erst honoured by the manifestation of that divine person who
is to appear in the world : a Star shall 'go before you to con-
duct you to the place of his nativity ; and, when you have
found him, present to him your oblations and sacrifices; for
he is indeed your lord, and an everlasting king."
*
Burder's Oriental Customs.
:ns navufs euulr. ~
37
The apostolic father, Ignatius, Bishop of Antioch, in the
ith of his epistle to the Ephesians, after admitting that "
the
virginity of Mary, and he who was bon of her, as also the
story of his death, were the subjects of this black art, or hidden
science, and dose is secret by Gad ;" asks, and answers him-
sclfl
"
How then was our Saviour manifested to the world P
A star shone in Heaven, beyond all the other stars, and its
light was inexpressible, and its novelty struck tenor into
men's minds. All the rest of the stars, together with the sua
and moon, were the chorus to this star; but this sent out its
light exceedingly above them all."
While in the gospel, quoted by St. Paul, under the title of
"
the Gospel ry' Ihe Circumciaion,"' we are instructed, not
merely that ihe Star came and stood over the stable where the
young child was-which was certainly very polite of him-but
that he actually walked into the stable : "And behold it was
alljlled with lights, greater than the lights of lamps and can-
dles, and greater than the light of the Sam itseyl"
So the holy church, throughout all the world, has never
ceased to celebrate this affair of the Star, as an event as real
and as historical (and indeed it is just as much so) as
any
other portion in this whole bag of moonshine.
"
The 6th of January, commonly called Twelfth-day, being
twelve days from Christmas, famous for eating cakes, and as
famous for its proof of what cakes have been made of Chris-
tians, is entitled, in our Christian Calendars, Die Epiphany Q'
our Lori. It is s most holy festival, of our most holy church,
set apart in express comm moration of this appearance ofthe
Star to the magicians, as is acknowledged in the collect or in-
cantation for the Epiphany, or manifestation of Christ to the
Gentiles: "
O God, who, by the leading of astar, didst mani-
°
I Galatians 7. The gospel of the circumcision being evi-
dently anolher name for the Gospel of the Infency, ing_which,4hs
following passage will be found. 1 chap. 10 v»
38 ras nzvn.'s PULPIT.
fest thy only begotten Son to the ,Gentiles, mercifnlly grant,
that we which know thee now by faith, may, after this life,
have the fruition of thy glorious Godhead, through Jesus
Christ our lord, Amen." This festival of the Epiphany is so
much more sacred than the festival of Christmas, merely, that
the four successive Sundays which follow it are entitled, lst,
<2d, 3d, and fourth Sundays after Epiphany. While, through-
out Egypt and the East, from whence all our Christianity was
derived, the day of the Ihriphang was considered as the same
as that ofthe birth of Christ, and was uniformly observed on
the 6th of January.
The Epiphany, now-the Epiphany! Should not a sensible
man insist on knowing what is the meaning of Epiphany P I
suspect again, that 'thereby hangs a tale,' Could you have
clearer evidence of the fact, that Christianity is kept up solely
by the artiiice of keeping people in ignorance, than the fact
which your own experience attests in other persons, and per-
haps in yourselves, that not one in a million of those who
keep the festival of Epiphany, who say the collect for Epi-
'phany, who stare at the Twelfth~cakes in the pastry-cooks'
windows on the Epiphany, and play at conundrums, and draw
lots for the king and queen on each returning festival of the
Epiphany, ever dreams that this game at riddles, and drawing
for characters, is a continuance of the never-interrupted reli-
gion of the ancient Paganism, in honour of the black art, or
magic of these celebrated magicians ; and that Pnszvss com-
pounded into the word Epiphany-that is, qf or
concerning
Phanes-is a name perfectly synonymous with the name
Christ, literally signifying all that the names Jesus and Christ
ever signified--that is, the Sun.
Phanaaus and Phanes, from whence Epiphany, or Mani#
festatizm, was a distinguishing epithet of the God Apollo-
that is, the Sun, or the light of the Sun, it being the property
of the light of the Sun, to make manifest; upon which pro-
perty, we find the Apostle Paul playing oil' his puns and
rx-is nsvufs ronrtr. 39
riddles 1 "
that whatever doth make manifest, ti light ;"' and
101m again, that "
God is light, and is him is no darkness at
dh" and "
tlsatsoas the tm light that ligluerhevery mm :lm
cosseth into the world." And for this purpose the Son of Gad
was
manifested, that he night dissolve the works of the Devil,
i. e. the Sun becomes Phases, the shiny bright one, that he
may dissolve the frosts of winter. He appears in Phanes,
s¢anp»0n, the Ram of March, to counteract the evils that
followed in the train of the diabolical genius of November.
But the God Enos, which signifies love, and was the Greek
name for Cupid, received the name of Phanes, s'pv-ro; yup
'¢¢'9a, because he soasjrst manifested.
And hence that ridiculous conundrum, which our Metho-
dists are so fond of quoting, but of the meaning of which they
are so
exquisitely innocent. God is love! Yes, he is; and
as much as a horse, and no more, know they of the meaning
of God's being love :T the Roman poets, deriving their theo-
logy from the Greeks, with as little inquiry ss Christians,
have mistaken Plaaethon, who is the same ss Phanes, for the
Son of the Sun, whereas he wss unquestionably the Sun
-
°
5 Ephesians.
1- God is love! The fragment of the Babylonian Sanchonia-
then, minima fromthe Phmnician into creek, by Philo naming,
preserves to us this passage, from the Theology of the ancient
Phanicians: IV/zen I/u Spirit became enamoursd d' his own per-
fection, he begat Cupid-for Cupid was the beginning of the
creation of all things Thus little Cupid, and little Jesus, vho
was conceived by the Holy Ghost, and who is expressly entitled
the beginning of the creation Q/ God, are demonstrated to be one
and the self-same figment of imagination; and the Christian who
denies the real existence of the /wfy child, Cupid, while he be~
lieves in the existence of the holy child, Ju-uv, only shows that
he uses
his_resson in the one instance, but lays it aside in the
other.
40 -mn nnvufs ruurr.
himself; as the God of light, represented as the first-born of
Heaven, asin that verse of the ancient Orpheus-
Ilporoyrng ¢a.¢9nn 'npspnxzor Hep; umq.
"
First-born Phailon, Son of tlaefal'-shining awning."
an attribute, distinctively retained ,to the Epiphany of Christi-
anity, in that incantation to the Epiphany-" O God, who
didst manifest thy only begotten Son to the Gentiles," as he is
expressly called by the aged Simeon-" The light Io lighten
the Gentiles." But nothing hinders that God (who had_an
only begotten Son, in whom he was well pleased) might have
three or four only begotten daughters, with whom he wa much
better pleased,-and which supplies the best apology I have
ever heard ot; to save his moral character from the suspicions
that attash to his seeming to set so little store by the unfor-
tunate Jesus. Since we may hope that though he gave his Son
to die for us, he would not have sacrificed one of his daugh-
ters. Phaeton had three sisters :
Lampetia, Phaethusa, and
Phoebe, in the Pagan mythology. The three Marys-Mary
the wife of Cleopas, Mary the mother of James, and Mary
Magdalene, appear in precisely the same analogy as the
sisters of Jesus, in the gospel.
Of the Magi, so deceitfully translated as wise men of the
east, directed by a star to a stable in which the* King of the
Iudam, was to be born, all our historical knowledge is derived
from the most ancient of all writings, those transmitted to us
from the ancient Babylonians and Chaldeans.
i
They appear to be the first of the human race who consti-
tuted such a body as that which is now called the clergy.
They were formed into societies, and resided inoolleges, where
their whole business consisted in the study of astronomy,
which they disguised from the discovery of the vulgar, under
the thick vale of allegorical iictions and pretended histories,
precisely such as the gospels which are come down to us, are
found to be. Some of their order, from time to time, broke
loose from the collegiate discipline, and rambled at large, like
ras nsvu/s runrrr. 4l
so
many mendicants and begging friars, and were the itinerant
Methodists or Missionaries of the clerical conclave. They
were the professed followers or worshipers of the imaginary
founder of their craft, a deified personage, called Zoaoasna,
whose worship was styled Maura, or Magic, and the pro-
fasors of it Magi, or Magicians.
'
4
By Zoaoasrsa was denoted both the Deity, and also his
priest; so that, while there were many real personages wh0
bore the name of Zoaoasrnn, the original type is a mere
iction of imagination, as, I trust, on Sunday last, I instructed
you satisfactorily in the anatomy of words, or the art of dis-
secting them, and bring them back to their radicals, or first
types, you will see that Zosossnu is derived- from Zoa~
Anna-that is, the two Ammonian primitives.
'Hg Tsoua, Zor, Sir, the name of God, in Hebrew) and
Anna, the Star, in Greek. Thus, in Zoroaster, Zor-Aswan,
yourownearwillrun the gamut down to the types in our
own language of the words, Sir, applied in address to every
person of the rank of a gentleman, and Easter, the East,
E,ader, and- astronomy. ,
So in the name Magic, and magic, originally given to the
science of astronomy, disguised mder the veil of evangelical
romances, or God'a-spells, as they were called, your ear will
trace the roots of ouraame of Magistrate, the Latin Magister.
the English Made, one of the characteristic titles of Jesus
Christ, who, in the Persic language, as the ancient Persians
were the most lire-worshipers, was called Mithra
-that is, the Lfasier.
The absolute identity of the Pagan God, Mitbra-that is,
Zornaster, the original Zoroaster, or personiiled genius of the
Sun, and the Jean Clark! of the gospel, is then so clear and
so demonstrable, that no man's nose was never more clearly to
* Tranalateda Rook: vhsuca Petra, Peter. Jaw'Peler, Ju~
pitsr, Pator, and Pour, s father. Sea "
Brya.n¢'s Analysis."
42 was navnfs rnnrrr.
be proved to be a part and parcel of; and pertaining to, his
face, than Christ and Milhra, may be shown to be one and
the self-same personiiication of the Sun; and Christianity and
magic, one and the self-same devise for working on the ima-
ginations of ignorant and silly people, and rendering them the
slaves, cowards, and fools, that it was always most convenient
for their Masters that they should be.
Thus the birth of the God, Mithra, from the days of an
infinitely remote antiquity, was represented to have taken place
in a stable, and was celebrated throughout the whole Pagan
world, on none other than. the 25th day of December, our
Christmas-day, the most celebrated of all the Magian festivals ;
where, if you rectify your celestial globe to the moment of
twelve o'clock at midnight, between the 24th and 25th of
December, you yvill find the constellation of the stable of
Bethlehem, in which Christ is said to be born, the moment
he achieves his first degree of ascension, at the lower meridian,
while you shall see the constellation of the Virgin, who is said
to bring him forth (in no disparagement to her eternal virginity)
at that moment, come to the line of the horizon ; and thus said
to preside over his nativity.
As St. Jnstin, commonly called Justin Martyr, and of the
earliest of the Christian fathers, actually draws the parallel
between Christ and Mithra, that Christ was born on the some
day when the Sun takes his annual birth in the stable of
Augias-that is, in the station of the celestial Goat, where, we
have seen, is actually placed the stable of Augias, in the sixth
labour of Hercules.
_
This Cspricornus, the Goat, in the Pagan mythology, is said
to have suckled the infant Jupiter; of which enigma the un-
donbted solution is, that the Sun, who is Jupiter, first begin~
ning to rise on the 25th of December, when the days having
been at the shortest on the 21st, or St. Thomas's Day (so that
unbelieving Thomas doubted whether the Sun would ever rise
again), first appear to be lengthening again, the Sun, or Jupiter,
,run navnfs runrrr. 43
or Jesus, is said to be born, or brought-up with the Goat.
Thus among the nations who reckoned the year to begin at the
winter solstice-that is, in Capricornus, the Goat, the first
sentence of the first chapter of their book of Genesis was, as in
the first copies of the Samaritan 'Pentateuch, n92)N'2
}"N7'iT181 UDWT1 118 TFT! RWD-
"
In the besinvins
he Goat created the Heavens and the Earth," while those who
reckoned the year to begin from the vernal equinox-that is,
when the Sun enters the sign of Aries, the ram, which is the
tribe of Gad, in the Zodiacal Israel, placed Gad, as the first
of the tribes, and accommodating -their magic to their astro-
nomy, have handed down their Hebrew text, H0812
msn nm :men me n~n'm as-in, which vm
become our magic ;
"'
In the beginning Gad-that is the Ram,
created the heavens and the Earth."
~
This creation takes place every year on the 28th of March,
called Lady-day, or the day of the conception of the blessed
Virgin Mary, who, exactly nine months afterwards, on the iirst
moment of the 25th of December, brings forth her (irst-born,
Jesus, and lays him in a manger, because there was no room
for them in the inn: rv 'rn Wnn, #svn sx nv au-ras; 'mrog er Tl
Xl/l'¢AU'|,@'|'|» As you will see thatthereis reallynot room enough
in the pavilion of the Virgin, when, with the spike of com in
one hand, and the scales of September in the other, she drops
little Jesus out of her bosom, and he tumbles down into the
stable, the nadir, or lower meridian, the precise astronomical
position of the Sun at that moment.
Now, Sirs, at that moment, to the accuracy ofthe setting ol
a watch, what is the state of the visible heavens, in the con-
struction of the planispherei Why this it is: at the lower
meridian you have the stable of Bethlehem, in which Christ is
born; on the eastern point of the horizon you have the sign of
the virgin, with the great Star Vmdemialriz, in her elbow,
just peering above the horizon, of which Star the magi, or wise
men, express themselves-" We have seen hh Star in the
44 *rss navu.'s Pu|.P|'r.
-
East." At the upper meridian, you have the constellation
Cancer, the Crab, which includes the cradle of Jupiter, literally
the Io-Sepe-that is, the manger of Jac, from which mistaken
words, have been formed the name ofthe imaginary husband of
the Virgin,»Joseph. While on the westem horizon, you have
the Lamb of God, that taketh away the sins of the world ; im-
mediately above which, you will see the Epiphany, or
"
mani-
estation of Christ to the Gentiles," which is none other than
the beautiful constellation, Orion, which you may see this very
evening; those three bright Stars, which constitute his belt,
being the three Magian kings, who, looking directly across the
horizon, seehis Star in the east, and are come to worship him,
which they do by presenting gold, frsnkinceuse, and myrrh,
the emblematical oblations in all ages, consecrated to the
honour of the Sun.
1
And look ye, Sire; this is history itself, than which nothing
that was ever deemed an indubitable record of truth among
men, was ever more historical. The most ancient chronicles
of Alexandria attest the existence and universal prevalence of
this religion in Egypt ; for ages before the date of its falsely
pretended origin in the era of Augustus and Tiberius. "
Tb
this day," say the writers of that ancient chronicle, "Egypt
has consecrated the pregnancy of s
Virgin, and the notivityqf
her Sosnolwsslhey asmiallypresestia a cradleto theodoro.
tion qfthe people :" and when King Ptolemy, (that is 350
years before our Christian ers) demanded of the priests the
signiiicancy of this religious ceremony, they told him that "
it
was mystery that had been taught to their forefathers by a
respectable prophet." ln the name of the Egyptian Idol,
Serapis, we have the radical Zon-An. Is. The Sam, the
Father, the Fire, ratified by the high evidence of the virtuous
Emperor Marcus Aurelius, that the Bishops of Serapis, were
known and recognised under the title of Bishops of Ohrid.
We have found the self-same story, even in the most ridi-
culous minutsness of its circumstances, constituting the basis
1-ns nnvufs runnr. 45
of the legends of the I-lindoo God, Chrhhna, existing in writ-
ten documents fifteen hundred years before our era; and we
have found the whole name itseltl both Jesus and Christ,
quoted by the great astronomer of Arabia, Alboazer, or Abul-
mazar, as the name, which, following the moat ancient tradi-
tions qf the Percianc, the Chaldeam, the Egyptians, ofHermes,
and of Aisculapius, had been given to the child, which, in the
most ancient projection of the signs of the Zodiac, was repre-
sented as the Son ofthe Virgin, ofthe month ofAugust ;
"
that
child," says Abulmazar,
"
which some nations call Jena, but
which, in Greek, is calied Chnktus."
"
Of Jesus, traced to its radical Yas, the name of Bacchus.
the Sun, the numerical letters of the great solar Cycle, 608,
and the form, or sign of the consent, and truth, in the Yar of
the Dutch, the Oni of the French, the Yu of our own country,
you are heretofore informed.
The Hindostanee Chreeshna, transformed into the Greek
Xpner-mg, signiiesmerely the Good man: Jasus denoting the
divine, Cmusr the human nature, as existing in that great
and universal personilication of the solar ire, Jena Christ.
.
Christ, or Chrest, as a Greek word, derives its mystical
sanctity from the circumstance of its being the universal in-
scription on tombstones, and sepulchres of the dead, among all
* As old, then, as that first grouping together of the Stars into
imaginary ligures, whereby alone their relative positions with
respect to each other could be described ; and as old as that
necessary acting of the human mind, whereby it would attach
imaginary histories to these imaginary figures-that is, as old as
when first the first race of men looked up upon the vanity bosom of
the night, and said,
"
See there !" (as what else could they say 'l)
"
Belu/ld, I see the Angels qf God ascending and descending
upon th; Son of Man.Z' So old is the gospel of our Lord and Sai
viour Jesus Christ. The dream of the occurrence of any one of its
events, or of the existence of any one of its personages upon earfh,
is only one
among millions of melancholy proofs of what an idiot
man is capable of becoming when once he renounces his reason.
46 rx-is navuls runerr.
nations, that used the Greek language, and among many which
used it without knowing its signilicancy. The simple epitaph
on each good man's tomb was his name, and the two expressive
words Xpnrn Xalpel i. e. good fellow-good bye! These
two words, represented sometimes by the initial letters, two
X-es, or St. Andreufs Crosses, were a most obvious hieroglyph
of the two crosses of the equator, by the ecliptic, at the equi-
noctial points, that of autumn when the Sun dips below, and
that of spring when he crosses it again from below ; and so is
said to rise again from the desd.'
Hence, also, the word Chrest or Christ, upon all their
tombstones, naturally associated itself with the idea of the
Resurrection, and was hieroglyphical to the same purpose as
the Latin resurgass-I shall rise against Thus the phrase,
"
Jesus which was crucified," means nothing but the Sun which
was crossi/ied; while in all the cabalistical jargon of the epistles
of St. Paul, your observance will perceive that he never makes
the mistake of confounding the resurrection of Jesus with that
of Christ. For he can only prove Jesus to bethe Christ--that
is the Sun, by the fact of his rising again ; these etemal rising:
and settings being the proper and essential definition of the Sun.
°
Hence the name of Chrests and Chrestians, signifying nothing
more than good men or good fellows, and bearing no relation to
any religious distinctions whatever, was the common compliment of
language, and the worshippers of Jupiter and Juno, and of all the
rif-raf Gods and Goddesses of the Pa.ntheon,were called Christians,
and were as really so, as those ill-natured bigots who pretended
a distinction where there was never any difference, and would
allow nobody to be good fellows but themselves.
1- As you may have read it parodied in our common church-
yard stave-
"
Go home, dear friends, dry up your tears,
Here we shall lie till Christ appears;
And when he comes, ws're sure to have
A joyful rising from the grave."
'ral nsvrxls Punrlr. 47
Thus, Sirs, I think it must be as clear as the Sun to all who
would not tum from the Sun, and prefer darkness to light,
and idiotcy, folly, and faith; to learning, reason, and philoso-
phy; that I have done what I took in hand : that I have
brought down such a stream of science upon this stable of
Bethlehem, as has washed away the accumulated ignorance of
barbarous ages, and cleansed your hearts and minds from all
respect for the gospel, as a history, or for those stupid bunglers
who have mistaken it for a history; and having once made the
mistake, would never endure to have their error corrected, or
their infomation extended.
As your own experience attests to you this day, how didi-
cult and how daring a thing it must have been in any age for
the better-informed, the wise, and the discerning
~
few, to at-
tempt to stem the tide of popular prejudice, or to say nay to
falsehoods, however gross, to delusions, however monstrous
and mischievous: when once the propagating of those false-
hoods, and the keeping up of those delusions, has become the
source of distinction and eznolument to a selfish and a wicked
priesthood.
When you see with your own eyes, and witness with your
own observance, how savage a madness, how cniel and bitter
a spirit, your own protestant and dissenting clergy, the most
enlightened of the enlightened, and the most liberal of the
liberal, as they would be thought to be, do endeavour to excite
against any man who would attempt to make the world wiser
than it is convenient for their ignorance that it should be :
when you see the slanderous arts, the mean, the cowardly de-
famations, put forth fromftheir lying boxes, where they know
that no man may answer them,-a meanness and a cowardice
which, in no other case, would man's noble nature condescend
to#-all, all, to protect their guilty craf:-all to throw bars across
the path of knowledge,-all to evade discussion,-all to shirk
out from that collision of mind with mind, to which I challenge
them, and which alone can strike fonh the sparks of genius,
48 rms nnvufs PULPIT.
and light up the day of reason, among men. Were there one
priest or preacher in all this miserably priest-ridden metropo-
lis, only one of the thousand who warn their choused and
cheated congregations not to go to the Rotunda, who had
dared to trust himself or them to know what is going on at
the Rotunda: were there one of the thousands who affect to
treat our astronomical argument with scorn, who could show
that he had ever trusted himself so much as fairly to look at
that argument, I would say that man is honest. But such a
man is not to be found in Israel.
The conscious felon shudders not more at the confusion that
threatens him in an impending cross-examination, than your
Christian Clergy shudder at discussion.
Every other argument against their system has, in some
way
or other, well or ill, been answered-but never, never this.
Of this, as of the Ghost of Banquo, the flagrant demonstration
of their deep iniquity, they have only said,-they only can say,
_"Take any shape but that !"
END OF THE THREE DISCOURSES ON THE STAR
OF BBT]-ILEHEM.
was mshws iwulnit.
"AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Alan Cunningham.
No. 4.] MARCH 25, 1831. [Price 2d.
JOHN THE BAPTIST:;
5 &21'1'lllI,
PREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN,
THE REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A.,
rr 'run aoruxns, nucxrnrns-aoan, Nov. 27, 1830.
"
In those days came John the Baptist, preaching inthe wil-
derness qf Judea, and saying, Repeal ge ; for the kingdom
qf heaven is at hand."-Marranw iii. 1, 2.
Joan the Baptist! Joan the Baptist!! How d'ye do,
Johnny? Where d'ye come from? Who are you when
you're at home? What d'ye mean by making ducks and
drakes of the people-by sousing them i' the horse-pond?
What d'ye mean by the kingdom of heaven being at hand ?
You'd a'told us, I suppose, that the kingdom of heaven
was in your breeches pocket, had you worn such a super-
fluous article of dress? But raiment of camel's hair, and a
leathern girdle about your loins, is all you care for "
the
pomps and vanities of this wicked world." By my honour,
Johnny, I do admire your piety: but I blush for your
modesty. _
"
In those days came John the Baptist." And what days
were those! "
Preaching in the wilderness of Judea." Anil
what wilderness was that?
And if it was a wilderness that he was
preaching in,
what sort of a congregation must he have °had, but the
squirrels, and the rabbits, and the monkeys, and the chim-
panzes, and the ourang-outangs, and the wild beasts, and
vol.. I. n
56 'rua nzvnfs runri-r.
the wild men of the woods, and every thing that was wild ?
As- sure he must have looked wild enough himself, with
no shoes and stockings, and nothing else but an old mat of
csmel's hair, tied with a strap of leather, round his body :
and nothing to eat but wood-lice, grubs, and maggots, and
locusts, and wild honey; so that his very victuals were
wild. And, i'faith! if his doctrine was'nt quite as wild,
when he told the wild things to repent,
"
because the king-
dom of heaven was at hand." -
God! if the kingdom of
heaven had been atfool, I dare say, the wild fellows would
have been wild enough to have kicked it like a bladder,
from one end of the wilderness to the other, till they had
kicked the king out of the kingdom: and so had had a
radical reform with a vengeance.
So it was well thought of by Johnny, to cool 'em down
alittle bit, by dipping them i' the water ; and when "
they
begin to shiver, and they began to shake," they'd most
likely began to repent, and bring forth all that Johnny was
preaching for, i. e. "fruits, meat for repentance." For he
must have wanted some fruit very badly; but where the meat
was to come from, I cannot guess.
Did ye ever hear any thing so impious and wicked in
all your days? It is quite shocking,--it sets me all of
a twitter.
MOCK SERMON.
(Delivered in the slyle ef the Reverend Doctor.)
And is this the way in which we are to treat the oracles
of Omnipotence, the law of everlasting truth, God's most
holy word; whereby, however lightly we may affect to
treat it now, our souls will assuredly be judged at the last
day, and assigned to the eternal happiness of heaven, or to
have their portion with devils in the everlasting tor-
ments of hell-fire, according as we shall have believed
or disbelieved its solemn tniths. And is this a subject for
levity and ridicule, my brethren? Is a profane joke, an
'ran nsvu.'s PULP|T¢ 51
impious sarcasm, a mere Hash of wit, and exhibition of idle
buifoonery, to shut our eyes against the things that make
for our eternal peace; and to pervert our souls from the
faith of that divine Saviour, who came to seek and to save
that which was lost? And of all persons next to our blessed
Saviour himself, who would have thought that it would
have been that holy man,
'
that self-denying personage,
John the Baphlst, that would have been fixed on as the bull
of profane ridicule? 'I`hat John the Baptist, who is so dis-
tinctly mentioned in the 18th book of the Jewish Anti-
quities of Josephus, the 17th chapter of that book, where
his whole history, and the circumstance of his having been
beheaded by the younger Herod, is related in such entire
accordance with the facts detailed in the Gospels, that to deny
or to doubt the reality of his existence, is to outrage all
principles of evidence, and to ily in the teeth of history, phi-
losophy, and reason, as well as of scripture. ~
And why should the testimony of Josephus, a Jew, and
an enemy to the Christian faith, as he is known to have been,
so clear and explicit, so positive, and full to the proof as it is,
of the circumstances of the death of John the Baptist, leave
ns in any doubt of the reality and actual occurence of his
preaching in the wilderness of Judea, resting as the credit of
that occurence does, on the authority of the inspired word of
God? "
For if we receive the witness of men, the witness of
God ia greater." And that witness is, that this is He, who
was sent in fulfilment of that prophecy of the evangelical
prophet:
"
Behold I send my messenger, which shall prepare
thy way before thee: the voice of one crying in the wilder-
ness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the
desert a highway for our God."
That this man should enter on his divine embassy, with
such appearances of humility mortiiication, and self-denial,
as should show that his soul was set on higher objects than
the things of time and sense, that salvation was his end,
52 ran nnvxrfs runrrr.
heaven his home, and God his shield and his exceeding great
reward ; therefore came he baptizing with water unto
repentance, exhibiting, in his own abstemious diet, and
unostentatious apparel, the example of the humility he
taught :
The moss his bed, the cave his humble cell;
His food, the fruits ; his drink, the chrystal well:
His life one constant scene of calm repose;
No ulse that riots, and no blood that glows.
Stilfas the sea, ere winds were taught to blow,
Or moving spirits bade the waters How:
Remote'f1-om man, with God he passed his days,
Prayer all his business; all his pleasure-praise.
And was this a character to be held up to impious ridicule
and scorn? this the man? this bright model of all that was
transcendant in goodness-all that was sublime in virtue-
all that was exalted in moral excellence, to be set up in
features of caricature and elligy? and desecrated by a vile
buifoonery of exhibition, as a butt for the hand of Soorn to
point its slow and unmoving finger at?
Say, Christians, say, whether shall one be more astonished
at the impiety of feeling, the immorality of sentiment, the
obtuseness of understanding, or the depravity of 'heart, of
that unhappy man who would thus pour contempt on every
thing that is sacred, desecrate every thing that is holy, dash
the pure cup of a Saviour's love from his untasting lip, and
'wage wild war upon the God who made him? Gobble,
Gobble! Gobble, Gobble, Gobble!
"
END OF TBI MOCK SBBHON.
So, so! and with such a fetch as this, are we to be put oil'
the scent of curiosity, and to go home like good boys and girls,
from a very fine sermon, and never want to know any thing
more about John the Baptist?
How facile is it to be eloquent, where sound will do instead
of sense.
rua navu.'s Pours. 53
Huw easy to be a very ine preacher, in a veryiine chapel,
with very fine fools to preach to. And where, when the
minister happens to know no more about John the Baptist
than the pulpit, the congregation have no more wish to
know any thing more about him than the pews.
But here, I trust, we are curious creatures; and though
Abomelique, with his blue beard, may lock up his blue
chamber, and guard it with ten thousand blue devils, we'll
not be frightened from our criticism; we'll have a peep into
it, though hell itself shall gape and cry, "Forbearl" We
have the word, the form of conjuration, the key of the mys-
tery; l will use it now. John the Baptist, I conjure thee.
by God, that thou appear-appear-appear!
"
Be'est thou a spirit of health, or goblin damned,
Bring with thee airs from heaven or blasts from hell ;
Be thy intents wlcked or charitable, `
Thou comest in such a questionable shape,
That I will speak to thee."
The pretended distinctive testimony of the historian Jose
phus to the real existence of John the Baptist, vanishes in
a moment before the internal evidence of his derivation of
the story, from the very legends from which it has 'passed
into our Gospels. 'I'he authority is, therefore, no more a
distinctive or additional one, than an additional copy of the
New Testament would be an additional authority. Josephus
himself, evidently deriving the story from the Chaldean Be-
rosus, who describes an amphibious animal, under the very
name of Oannes, half a man and half a fish, who came out
of the Red Sea, and appeared in the neighbourhood of Baby-
lon, in the reign of Alorus, the first Chaldean king: who
preached to the first race of men all day, and every night
dipped back again into his native element, the sea,°-and thus
acquired the name of John the Dipper.
The authority, then, is one and the self-same in both:
"
Maurice; History of Hindostan, vol. i. p, 418. _
54 -mn nnvnls runrrr.
and we are thrown back on the unsupported and unabetted
claims of the gospel story, merely, for all that can be adduced
for the existence of such a
person as John the Baptist.
Now, if it shall appear from the unsophisticated, un-
strained text of sacred writ, taken in the most literal, ob-
vious, iirst sense and common sense, meaning of what is
called the original Greek, that no such person as John the
Baptist ever had a real existence : that the evangelists them-
selves (whoever they were) never meant a real personage,
nor had reference to any events that ever happened upon
earth.
If it should turn out that I can show you what it was that
they really did mean, and from whence it was that that,
their real meaning, was derived: I shall stand entitled to
your verdict, as triumphing in the challenge which I have
given to all the preachers of the gospel in this metropolis:
in that I charge them with being deceivers of the people:
inasmuch as that they are dunces, and Iam not one:
they
do not know the meaning of what they preach, and I do.
Now, then, to our business: now to the proof of this.
Give me but the ,measure"of attention which you owe to
learning-which you owe to your own characters as rational
beings, and let not Christian savages invade the rights of
man. And so withhold from me your conviction as
long as
you possibly can do so. I will not woo it from your courtesy,
nor win it from your favour; but I will make it mine, by
right of conquest.
"
In those days came John the Baptist." Mark, first, the
indication of an infinite indeiiniteness and remoteness of
time; "in those day|;" yes! there were giants in those
davs;
"
and it came to pass in those days," as St. Luke
has it. Such is precisely the form of beginning the most
avowed and declared stories of witches, ghosts, or hob-
goblins.
"
Once upon a time:" in those days-that is not
in those years, in those months, or in the reign of any
prince that ever reigned upon earth. But in the days of
Herod the King-as Christ is represented, in the 12th
chapter of this Gospel. as saying. "From #iw days of John
the Baptist unlil now, lhe kingdom of heaven .nqfereth violence,
and the violent take it by force." Where the phrase ot1
"from the days of John the Baptist," if it had any chronolo-
gical reference, could refer only to an
iniinitely remote anti-
quity, and be synonimous only with such a sense as, from
'rua navufs PULPl'I'» 55
the beginning of the world, or ji-on time inmemorial, or. as I
shall show you, that from the days of John the Baptist-
that is, from the 24th and 25th of June, which most litenlly
are, the days qf John the Baptist, which you will find
in the tropic of Cancer; from that point downwards, the
kingdom of heaven doth suffer violence. The days having
reached the longest at the 21st of June, the reign of the
tender Lamb of March, the harmless Bullock of April, and
the pretty Children of May, is no more; but the violent
Lion of July, the Snake in full chace after the Virgin of
August, the h deous Python right over the Scales of Sep-
tember, the $orm that never dieth of October, the Blue
Devil of November, and all the other Sons of Violence, do
take the kingdom of heaven by force; they seem to pull
the Sun from his altitude lower and lower, till "dread
Winter spreads his latest gloom, and reigns tremendous
o'er the conquered year." You will observe, too, that this
John the Baptist and his Baptism, could by no possibility
be brought within the associations of idea of
any nation or
people who had been educated under such institutions as
those ascribed to Moses. They could not have even
imagined such an imagination as that of rendering them-
selves acceptable to the God of Moses, by setting aside the
peculiarly Mosaic institution, and substituting the inno-
oent folly of Baptism. A John Baptist could not possibly
have been a Jew, had there ever been such a nation as that
of the Jews: which I shall hereafter show you, to an absolute
demonstration, that there never was: the name Jews,
Hebrews, Israelites,-like that of Freemasons among our-
selves, designating and meaning only those fanatics, of
whatever nation they might be, who had been initiated and
passed over," or "up" to the highest rank in the Greater
Myaterin of Eleusis, in Greece, or those of Isis, in Egypt;
and who considered themselves as our Iireemasons at this
day do, as "a peculiar people, a holy nation," scattered
throughout the world.
Observe again.
"
In those days came John the Baptist ;"
but the Greek text has not the word that could be fairl
translated came. It is not 1|7\9r, but rapavym-rau which
is an astronomical word, signifying in Latin aayisit-that is,
he became present,-he made his appearance.
Now, it is of the more consequence that no liberty
should be taken with the sacred text, but that we should
56 'ras nsvn.'s runrxr.
adhere to the most severe litaality of it, as I invariably do ;
come what will on't, for these twelve good reasons :-
lst. Because it is not said, and appears not to have been
known to this evangelist, where John the Baptist came from.
He had as good a right to tumble down from the moon,
the other had to tumble up again; as he was certainly
sent to prepare the way of the Lord, and to make his path
straight. » »
Rd. Because his appearance was not that of a human
being. You would not have taken him for a human being
had you seen him himselfl
3d. Because his food was not such as could have sus-
tained the life of any human being: and whether he came
fiom heaven or from hell, and supposing his meat was-
nothing else but locusts and wild honey, he must have lived
in a continual purgatory.
4th, Because his dress wasn't decent. ~
Sth. Because they said of him that he had a devil-that
is, that the devil was in him.
(ith. Because Jesus himself said of him, that he came
neither eating or drinking; and sure, if he could live
without eating and drinking, the devil was in him.
7th. Because Herod the Tetrarch said of him, that this
is John the Ba tist, whom Igbeheadsd; he is risen from
the dead, and therefore mighty works do show forth them-
selves in him.
8th. Because Christ himself said,--and sure it is very
hard when Christians won't take the word of their own
Saviour, and treat us as infidels for showing him more respect
than they do-Christ has said, and never said he any thing
more positive and solemnly-that this John the Baptist, as
they called him. really was none other than the prophet
Elijah come again, who, 900 years before, had been carried
up into heaven, in a chariot of fire, with horses of fire.
Which accounts for his keeping so near the water's edge, in
order that if the chariot of fire, with horses of tire, should be
aber him again, he might be ready to duck under, and so give
those red-hot race horses a chance to cool their metal ere
they could catch him. 'Tis stange, methinks, that one who
had certainly been to heaven once, should take such pains to
show us, that, rather than go back again, he'd be ready,to
drown himseltl
Qui. Because St. Luke says--that he was in the deserts
'ran nsvxu' runrxr. 57
until the day of his showing unto Israel, where certain it is
that no man, woman, or child could possibly live.
loth. Because the same St. Luke explicitly says, that he
grew and waxed strong in spirit, uxparmv-ro mlvpan-that is,
most literally, he lived upon the wind.
llth. Because, when Miss Herodias, the boarding-school
young lady at the Lord Mayor's ball, had danced herself into
an ungenteel tlusteratiou, and wanted something to drink,
she said,
"
Bring me here John Baptist's head in a charger,"
and she and her mother drank it olf between 'em. 'Twas
monstrous cruel of them to serve John Baptist so. But I
believe John Barleycorn gets served every day quite as
cruelly; and if they'd bring us his head in a charger, there
are very few of us who wouldn'nt be ready to commit quite
as bloody execution on him. And sure it ill becomes them,
who eat and drink the body and blood of Christ, to turn up
their noses at a pint of John the Baptist.
12th. Because, when the question was fairly put to him,
and demanded as fair and explicit an answer-who art
thou ? and he confessed land denied not, but confessed I am
not the Christ. And they asked him-what then art thou,
Elias? And he saith I am not. God forgive him for giving
the lie so
plumply to our blessed Saviour, who positively
declared that he was. Art thou that prophet? And he
answered, no. Then said they, who art thou? What sayest
thou of thyselfP He said, I am the voice .' Yes: he was the
voice-#Vox et przzterea nihil,-n voice, and nothing but a
voice. So now the mystery begins to clear up a bit. As
Jesus is expressly called the Word, and John the Voice, the
devil's in't, if the voice and the word are not first cousins, all
the world over.
And now we can account for his being so fond of wild
honey; for the doctors say that that's the Iinest thing in
the world for the voice. And sure, sirs, it will never do for
Christians to accuse me of levity and -sarcasm for speaking
of a voice without a body, where their wholse system is
founded upon so very near a relation to the Voice without
a
body, as is their Divine Logos, the Word, without a
meaning.
A barbarous people-and never be it forgotten that all
the religion in the world is derived to us from barbarians
and savages,-could sincerely
Gflieve
that they had some-
thing like sensible evidence of e real existence of a voice
58 'rna nlvnls rumur.
without a body, when the echo of the priest"s voice, while
the priest himself remained unseen, peeled through the
wildernesses, and bowery alcoves of the gods, on their
airighted ear.
And as the priests in all ages and countries were well
aware that 'twas the very secret life and charter of their
craft to let nobody speak but themselves, the echo of their
voice passed for the Deity himself. And thus, through
both our Old and New Testaments you will find that God,
who is often enough spoken of as the invisible God, is never
once spoken of as an inaudible God. He cannot be seen,
but he can always be heard. He has no body, parts or
passions. only he has the lungs of Stentor himself. He
doth send forth his voice: yea, and that his mighty v0ioe.fZ 1
, For these twelve reasons, then, added to the reason which
runs through them all, the reason of common sense and
common honesty and truth, do I advocate, and myself
invariably adopt, the severest literality of translation, not
warping a
syllable or an accent, either to the right or leh,
on one side or the other, for any sense whatever. I follow
the tlzrmo-up of the very letter, whether it may seem to make
sense or nonsense, whether it lead me to heaven or t'other
place.
It is not, then, the correct reading, that John the Baptist
came preaching in the wilderness; but that he appeared,-
the term is not historical, but astronomical, He was in the
deserts, as Luke has it; but what brought him there? You
must luke again before you'll guess at it. He was in the
deserts until the day of his showing unto Israel.
It is not in the power of language to put an astronomical
enigma more astronomically, or for the solution of such an
enigma to be more distinct than this-the constellation
called John the Baptist is in the wildemess-that is, quite
lost and imperceivable to the eye, in the general wildness
and jumble of confusion which the starry heavens presents
to the illiterate and unscientiiic eye, which can make neither
head nor tail of them; but falling into distinct method, and
most beautiful analogies, as soon as you shall have acquired
the art of grouping them into the figures which they repre-
sent, and looking for them in the seasons of the year, when
they appear above the horizon, then John is no longer in
the wildemess, but you will distinctly recognize him in the
Zodiac, at the season of his showing unto Israel, when he
:ras nsvufs rnnsir. 59
appears as the genius of the month Johnuafy-Aquarius the
water-bearer, who comes baptizing with water, ug p.:-ramar,
to repentance, says our English rendering, but to animadv¢r~
si¢m,is the meaning-that is, to change .qf mind-that is, to
put the mind up to the trick on't, that this is not history, but
science; in the acquisition of which you will be able, very
soon, to solve every problem of the gospel; to read of from
the face of heaven the bright interpretation of its dark say-
ings; to untangle all its confused mysteries; and in the
proud possession of the kernel of science you will trample
its husks and shells under your feet with a joy and liberty
of heart which science only can give. With this clue of
the whole science in our hand, let us catechise this John the
Baptist.
Now, my boy, what is your name 2-John.
Who gave you that name P-Why your old friend the
Angel Gabriel, when he appeared to my daddy the parson,
Zacharias, and said,
"
Fear not, Zachee, for thy wife Eliza»
beth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name
John." But his molher's neighbours and cousins said
unto her, f' There is none of thy kindred that is called by
this name,"' And they said, as well they might, "What
manner of child shall this be 3" And I should have been
quite as much pestered to think what manner of woman
old Betsy, his mother, was, had not the holy oracles of God,
in the 16th chapter of the gospel according to St. James#
informed me that Elizabeth, hearing that her son John was
about to be searched for, took him and went up into the
mountains, and seeing a mountain that she took a particular
liking to, she groaned within herself] and said,
"
0 mountain
°
And what is the meaning of that name, John, by which none
of your kindred, race, or nation had ever been called before
Iva-nng. It discovers to us the three grand Ammonian radicals
-I-ON. ES, the Sun, the Being, the Fire; the name of God,
the Sun-that is, of the Son in the sign of Aquarius, who pours
his stream of water into the mouth of the great Southern Fish:
and hence, became Jonas, swallowed by the iish, and the fish-God,
Oannes, of the Chaldeans, the Matsya Avater, or first incarnation
of Vishnu, in the form of a fish, of India, the Jonas of the
Phmnicians, the Iwami; of the Greeks, the Janus, theiirst of the
Great Gods of the Romans and the January, the first of the
Great months of the whole world.
1> Protevangelion-Apocryphal Gospel.
60 [ml nsvufs ruuir.
tain of the
Iglrd,
receive the mother with the child." And
immediately e mountain, being, I dare say, p sharp
set, opened his mouth, and swallowed the old womrshty
and the
boiyhlboth
at a bounce. ~
e old woman was completely digested; and nothing
more should we have heard of John the Baptist, but that it
pleased Almighty God that it should be so; the mountain
was seized with labour-pangs, and St. John the Baptist was
born again.
The mere ceremony of baptism would never insure our
salvation, unless it be attended, as it was in the case of the
Baptist himselil with a death unto sin, and a new birth unto
rig teouaness; to which wonderful fact our holy church
alludes in her incantation for the 24th of June, which is the
festival of the nativity of John the Baptist. "Almighty
God, by whose providence thy servant, John Baptist, was
wonderfully born, and sent to prepare the way of thy Son
our Saviour, by preaching of repentance."
Now, sirs, for the solution of this repentance! What
does it mean? I am sure that your clergy and preachers of
the gospel either don't know, and are so the dunces and
&noramuses
which I suspect them of being; or, if they do,
ey are the very fiends of imposture and deceit,--that
palter with you in a double sense, keeping the word of pro-
mise to your ear, to break it to
tylour
hope-Repentance,
Mrrasom, entire change of mind- at is, a coming to un.
derstand things in a wholly diierent way, the very reverse
and direct contrary in every respect from the notions you
had imbibed from your stupid nurses and your
lying priests.
Mn-emu-r sryynu 'y Bae-»7uus -nn ovpamrv. are e words of
an astronomical lyligrophant delivered as the prologue to a
tragedy, of which the imagined scene was the heavenly
Jerusalem, of which the characters WEN, the Persoaiiied
Genii of the twelve signs of the Zodiac; of which the plot
was, the representation of all the great phenomena of
nature, in the form of speeches in character, and the ideal
history of the birth, parentage, and education, trial, con-
viction, execution, last dying speech and confession of the
Sun, who was conceived by the Holy Ghost, born of the
Virgin Mary, sufered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified,
dead and buried, and all the rest on't. Of which tragedy
the prologue is spoken by a fellow dressed up after the
fashion of Jack Frost, with a pitcher of water under his
-run nsvrr.'s runrrr. 61
arm, in camel's hair, with a lenthem girdle round his loins,
The prologue being the words of our text, Mrfranam-that
is, animadvert ye, turn your minds now to the astronomical
signiiication, "for the kingdom ofheaven is at lumd,"-that is
this performance, which I have the honour of announcing
to you, is no matter of human
history
or of real occurrence
upon earth, but it is the kingdom of eaven in pantomime;
of which I, Jack Waterstone, am come to ndmonish ou;
and my cousin, who will perform the character of .¥esus
Christ, will, I hope, go through the dying scene with such
eiect as to ensure your future patronage, his beneit being
fixed for the 25th of December, and mine for the 24th or
June.
And sure enough, sire, if you tum to the calender in
your prayer-books, or to your almanacks, you will find that
the church really has fixed the festival of the nativity of
John the Baptist on the 24th of June; from which day,
downwards to the decline of the year, the days grow con-
tinually shorter and shorter; while, from the 25th of
December upwards, they grow longer and longer; and you
have thus the key to that conundrum in the lst of St. John's
Gospel, where the infant Baptist, as the Genius of the 24th
of June, says of his cousin, the Infant Jesus, the Genius of
the 25th of December,
"
He must increase, but I must
decrease." And he actually does decrease, till nine weeks
and three days after-that is, the 29th of August, he gets
his head cut 06' by the line of the horizon: and that day
our church has tixed as the festival of the beheading of
John the Baptist!
And therefore, with most mythological accuracy, is the
birth-day of John the Baptist fixed so near the Suu's
highest point of ascension, because that point really is,
not merely figuratively, but physically, the mountain of
the Lord; and John the Baptist, as we have seen, was, by
his second birth, the son of that self-same mountain,
_
'
John the Baptistis beheaded on the 29th of
August,because,
at the fourteenth hour and a half of that day, the right star of
Aquarius rises in the calendar of Ptolemy, while the rest of his
body is below; and as the direct adversary of Aquarius is Loo,
whom I have shewn to be none other than King Herod : so King
Herod, every 30th of AUZUBL at half after two in the
morning,
annually repeats the operation of cutting oil' John Baptisfs hes .
62 'ms nnvu.'s Puarrr.
Mountains, in all ages, not merely figuratively, but physi-
cally, being famous for giving birth to echoes; and what
was John the Baptist but an echo ?-a voice, and nothing
but a voice, as we read in the 40th of Isaiah. The voice
said, cry; and he said, what shall I cry? But I say, You
mag
cry what you please: but I shall cry, it': no
ga !
ut observe, I pray ye, the great enucleation. The elm.
racter of priests, and of the priests of all religions, has
ever been the same, From the days of remotest ages, the
priests usurped to themselves the sole and exclusive right of
addressing public assemblies, and were the first theatrical
performers. A monopoly which you do see with your own
eyes, theywould, if they could, still keep up : the most fanati-
caland energetical of them not blushing to preach against
theatrical entertainments, and to warn their hearers not to go
to any other playhouses but their own.
Hence the first forms of religion were perfectly theatrical.
The first theatrical performances were tragedies, and the first
tragedy was the gospel. The first performers, or trage-
dians, were called uvrmipi-ran, or
hypocrites-that is, persons
acting under a mask, and having an under sense and diferent
understanding to themselves, of the shows they exhibited to
the people.
Thus all our priests to this day are hypocrites, and all
the religion in the world is nothing but hypocrisy. Of this
fact you find the gospel itself bear witness, in that, Christ,
the manager of the strolling company, repeatedly addresses
the chief priests and preachers of his gospel, by their appro.
priate title: ye hypocrites-that is ye players, or gentlemen
ofthe buskin. The irst lot or story of the tragedy, from
which its name
Tpagou Dgn, the ode or incantation of the
Goat, is derived, was precisely what our gospel is found to
be,-an allegorical pantomime of the Sun's annual passage
through the twelve signs of the Zodiac, by those who
reckoned the year to begin from the winter solstice, when
the Sun is in the sign of the Goat. While those who
reckoned the year as beginning at the Vernal Equinox;
when the Sun crosses the line of the Equator, and
appears in the s' n of the Lamb, whose ancient Ammo~
nian name was gud, which has become our English, God,
exhibited the same »rpavyw3n-tragedy, or spell of the Goat,
under the varied name, but not varied signiicancy of the
Gad's spell, or God's spell--that is, the ode or incautation
frnn nsvufs rUr.rx'r. 63
of the Ram. The oldest written tragedy which has come
down to us. the Prometheus Dumotes of 1Eschylus, ad.
mitted to have been acted in the theatres of Greece, live
hundred years before our Christian era, presents us with
precisely the same story-the story of a crucified God, and
opens with a precisely similar first scene. Scene, the
wilderness; enter the demons of Force and Strength: to
them,Mercury, the messenger and forerunner of Jove;
Gow; pau sg 'rnkoupov nxopu srrgov
Zxu9mr I5 o:_u.ov sg aBpo'ro1 lgnpuau.
At length, then, to the wide world's extreme bounds,
To Scythia are we come--those pathless wilds,
Where human footstep never marked the groimd.
But where does our poor Johnny of the gospel pick us
his locusts and wild honey in "those pathless wilds, where
human footsteps never marked the ground?" Why, as
thus, sirs: in the ancient Arabic constructions of the
Zodiac, the Lion of July was depicted with a bee, which
the Arabs ingeniously call the honey-fly, flying into its
mouth; and John has to do in the New Covenant, what
his predecessor, Sampson, had done in the Old, to kill-
that is, to overcome, or come over the Lion. And so to
take the very victuals out of his mouth, which gives us the
real solution of Sumson's famous riddle;
"
Out of the enter
came
forth meat, and out of the strong cameforth sweetness."
So there was the honey for him : and sure I need not ex-
plain to you how necessarily the honey that was torn out
of the throat of a wild beast would be-very, very, wild
honey: and there, is the locust enough for him, in the
Scorpion of October.
And why are all the Twelve Apostles spoken of as
twelve poor fishermen?-a scaly set of them I admit.-
Bnt as you see, Aries is the first, the Fishes is the Twelfth
of them; and they are all of them eternally nmning alter
the loaves and fishes, than which nothing can be more apos.
tolical. And why is it, that "
all that will live godly in
Christ Jesus must suffer persecution i" But because, as
you see, they are all of them eternally running after one
another; and no sooner shall you see one of them getting
alittle bit up in the world, but you shall observe another
rising in the horizon immediately under him, ready to give
him a summerset from his highest point of elevation, and pitch
him to the devil.
54 'ran navn.'s ruarrr.
And here, sirs, have we the solution of that astrono-
mical enigma, which has so puzzled the chuckle-headed
critics upon sacred writ, who are called commentators; but
whose brains, forall the wit that was ever in them, might
as well have been made of common potatoes.
"
Immediately after the tribulation of those days, shall
the Sun be darkened, and the Moon shall not give her
light, and the Stars shall fall from Heaven, and the powers
of the Heavens shall be shaken." A catastrophe which we
actually witness at this da , as the natural result of the tribu-
lation, not of
any persons that exist, or ever did exist, on earth ;
but the tribulatlon of those days, i. e. the days have been per-
secutlng one another, so that our Sun is darkened; scarce a
moonlight night or twinkling star appears, to make us amends
for the chill, foggy day; and the very power of the heavens to
fertilise our earth again, seems to be brought in doubt. [But
"immediately after, the days shall be shortened," as on the
21st of December, they shall have reached the shortest ;
"
then
shall appear the sign of the Son of Man coming in the clouds
of heaven, with power and great brightness." As there you
see, immediately after the shortest day, emerges the constel~
lation of the Water-bearer, whois the Son of Man, the Baptist
of the Zodiac, with his sharp frosts eating up the grubs, and
larva of insects that might be fatal to incipient vegetation, and
pledging to our grateful faith the pleasing hope, that though
for a season
-
Grim horror round our cottage reign,
Yet Spring will come, and Nature smile aga.in.»»
And sure, I may say, -in the same sense as it was said by
the astrologue of the gospel, "there be some standing here
that shall not taste of death until all these things be fulfilled."
"
Nay," he adds, with peculiar emphasis,
"
verily, I say unto
you, this generation shall not pass away until all these things
be done." But done, such as things never were, nor could have
been in any other than that astronomical sense, inwhich they
are done every year of our lives. Which sense they who reject,
will find that the have as great miracles to work, to save their
Saviour, as ever their Saviour wrought, to save them.
IND Ol' THE DISCOUBSB ON JOHN THE BAP'|'I8'l'~
was @em0I'5 ajmullmft.
"AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Allan Cunningham.
.__
No.'5.] APRIL 1, mam. [Price za.
`
HRAISING THE DEVIL !
AN ASTBONOHICO-THEOLOGICAL DISCOUBSE ON THE
TEMPTATION Ol' CHRIST
DELIVERED BY HIS HIGHN'ESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A.
ufrne norunns, nmcxrnuas' nosn, Nov. 27, 1830.
~»
"
'Then was Jesus led up qf the Spirit into the Wilderness to
_
be tempted of the Devil."-Msrrnsw, iv. l.
;
fan Devil he was! the Devil! and, says our holy church,
"
Lord, we beseech thee, grant thy people grace to withstand
the temptations of the world, the desh, and the Devil; and
with pure hearts and minds to follow thee, the only God,
through Jesus Christ, our Lord Ammon ;" and twice in the
holy Litany,-"from the craft and assaults of the Devil,
good Lord deliver us;" and "from all the deceits of Ihr
world, the jlesh, andthe Devil, good Lord deliver us."
vol: 1.
66 'rne navu.'s PULPITI.
So seriousa bit of business-so right earnest a sort of an
lf8.l.l'1B0 real and so formidable a personage, have we all
been catechised to believe "
our ghostly enemy" to be. But
donft be frightened, my brethren; don't meettroublehalfway.
For it may comfort ye to know, as very soon
ye shall know, that
I have the honour of being somewhat better acquainted with
his Diabolical Majesty, than any public teacher or professor of
the diabolical art in this metropolis. My credentials have been
received at Court; my promotion has been duly gazetted;
my titles are indisputable : I have been literally hunted out
of the concealment, which my modesty would have preferred,
and must not now sink under the weight of so many blushing
honours, by squeamishly denying myself to be, e'en, as their
great wisdoms would have it so, Archbishop of Pandemonium,
Keeper of the Royal Conscience to his Majesty, the Devil, and
Primate of all Hell. But,
"
since they would buckle fortune
on
my back,"
"
to bear her burthen, whether I would or not,"
"
Satan doth know, as you may partly see," "how far I was
from the desire of this." Since, then, I am in oliice, put on
me thus reluctantly, I trust I shall not sink in your good
opinion, from my zeal and diligence to ,serve my master
faithiiilly. And, sirs, if gratitude to God be the first virtue
that can adorn the character of a Christian, the first virtue
that can adorn the character of one favoured and honoured
as I am, inust be gratitude to the Devil. And sure, sirs, it is
not unreasonable that I should call upon you as I do, on be-
half of "
him, whose I am, and whom I serve," to give the
Devil his due. For, let me tell you, my good Christian
heaters, that fair plug/'s a jewel, and will answer best in the
long reckoning, either with my master or with yours. You
need not make the Devil blacker than he 1% :
nobody knows
what friends they may come to need. And I must tell ye ho-
nestly, that if 'twere the will of my Royal Masterto fetch
you to our Empire, it isn't lamb's blood nor holy water that
could save
you. And, in such a case, a friend who might
speak a
good word for you at court, is not to be despised.
But aye, say ye! Godis stronger than the Devil. And are you
sure of that? Ask the Jew in the Garden of Gethsemane:
does Lama Sabacthani sound to thee like the cry of them
who shout for the victory P Then write this posy on the ring
of thy remembrance:-
'ran nnvrt.'s r>U1.Prr. 67
Jockey of Norfolk, be not thou too bold,
Jesus thy master was
bought and sold.
Andes it for the pimps and parasites of Godhead to call
themselves ministers of the gospel of peace, and to pretend
that to them is committed the word of reconciliation, canting
out, with their superfluous nonsense,
"
be ye reconciled to
God," while they deny my better title to be considered as a
minister of reconciliation; when I say--Be ye reconciled to
the Devil ; ye never had a quarrel with the other fellow. But
my master has been treated with the utmost indignity. Revile
not him, against whom even the Archangel Michael, when he
disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring a railing
accusation. No; he durst not- for the best feather in his
archangelic wings he durst not-or my great master would,
like an eagle in a dovecot, have trussed him for his infernal
spit, and cast him down to our great kitchen fire. Revile not
him, whom your own
scriptures expressly acknowledge to be
the God of this world. And whom should this world worship
but the God of this world? "the spirit which now ruleth in
the children of disobedience :" and I can tell you of the
children of disobedience, that there's a devilish large family
of 'em. But had ye seen my master's royal court, as I have
seen it, and can show it you, how would your admiration teach
ye to scom the state and pomp of earthly sovereigns, were-
"
Hgh
ona throne of royal state, which far
Ou one the wealth of Ormua or of Ind ;
Or when the gorgeous east, with richest hand,
Showers on her kings barbaric pearl and gold,
Satan exalted sat. E'en he
Who led ¢he embattled Seraphine to arms,
Under his conduct, and in dreadful deeps,
Fea:-less, endangered heaven's perpetual king,
Ami shook his throne : what, tho' the Held was lost,
All was not lost, the unconquerable will,
And study of revenge, immortal hate,
And courage never to submit nor yield:
And what is more, not to be overcome,
This glory never could his wrath or might
Extort from tu."
68 rua navn;.'s rnnnr.
I enter thus, in median res, into the midst of the subject at
once, because so does the text I treat; where you should
observe a fact, which should never escape your critical re-
membrance, that the Devil, where he is first mentioned in
the New Testament-for he is never once mentioned by that
name, in the singular namber, in the Old-is introduced to
us as an absolutely old acquaintance, with a familiarity as
gross as if the Evangelist had calculated that the idea of the
Devil would come as natural to us as folly to a fool; as if
we should not be astonished, should not want to know who
the Devil was, but be ready at once to accost him, as our
country cousin, with a-Ah! how d'ge do, Devil ; you come
to town? How did you leave our friend: in the low counlries?
Or, as if the Devil himself needed no further introduction to
us, than at once to bounce in upon us, like Paul Pry, with
his "
I hope I do not intrude. Know ye not me? Not to
know me, argues yourselves unknown." A proof this, than
which imagination could conceive no clearer, that the gospel
has no claim to be called a revelation; that it has no cha-
racter of originality e no feature of any thing that was new
to the ideas of men ; that it was not written, and by no pos-
sibility could have been written, till as many ages as you please,
after all the follies and superstitious of which it treats were
deeply and ineradicably rooted in men's minds, and their priests
had thoroughly played the devil with them. Faith may dream
what itpwill of the originality of these writings; but this is
internal evidence, that they could not possibly be original.
Written whenever they were, the story was up before. If I
were to name an evidence stronger than any other of the
necessarily demoralising, depraving, and vitiating tendency
of this devilish gospel, I would point to its soul-debasmg,
honour-killing influence on the minds of those who call
themselves Unitarian Christians, and Free-thinking Chris-
tians; who are for pretending to be Christians still, after
finding out that the Devil, upon whom the whole Christian
doctrine is entirely founded, is a purely imaginary being;
that, in reality, there is no Devil ; that there never was any;
and that all the positive declarations of Scripture, that seem
to speak of the existence of such a personage, are allegorical,
metaphorical, anagogical, oratorical, rhapsodical, categorical,
and all the other ary-gorizals, that mean, in plain English,
'ran m;vxL's PULPIT. 69
they are downright lies. But there is no part of the gospel
story related with greater appearance of historical truth and
narrative simplicity than this ofthe temptation of Christ.
The pretence, then, that it occurred only in a vision; all
this appearance of historical truth and narrative simplicity,
notwithstanding, isapretence, that when advanced by men
who profess and call themselves Christians, only serves to
show what unprincipled and dishonest men their Christianity
has made of them. _
For sure, sirs, to maintain that this portion of the gospel
was
visionary, while any other part of it was real, is nothing
more nor less than to make it historical or visionary, at your
own
option,-to make of itanose of wax, and mould it to
the fashion of your fancy.
The holy church, throughout all the world, has ever
received the temptation of Christ as a real event (and I
am sure it is so)as his crucifixion, and so 'much more im-
portant than that, that while it requires us to keep but one
day's fast in commemoration of his death, it enjoins a forty-
day's abstinence in commemoration of his temptation; and
would have us expect our eternal salvation, not more from
the merit of his precious death and burial, or from his
glorious resurrection and ascension, than from his baptism,
lasting, and temptation. As in the form of incantation, for
the irst Sunday in Lent are
these words :-"O Lord, who,
for our sakés, did fast forty days and forty nights ;" and
"
when he had fasted _forty days undjbrty nights," says our
text, 'F he was afterwards rm
hungered." But sure that was a
miracle that any of us could have beaten ; for if you or I had
fasted twice as long, we should not have been afterwards
hungry : we could have kept it up to all eternity.
But observe, I pray, (what Christians never observe), the
strict letter of the text, to the very letter of it, and we shall
see the wonder it envolves. "Then was Jesus led up of the
Spirit into the wilderness." Then! why then? There can
beno sense in THEN, but as it has a reference to a WHEN ;
and that when, you will find, as immediately after John the
Baptist (whose astronomical characteristics I have lately so
fully explained) had poured his water upon him, and
"
Lol
the Heavens were opened upon him." Then, when he had
been baptized, when he had been born of Water and of the
70 'ran navu.'s Putrrr.
Spirit, when he had the witness of God's Spirit with his Spirit,
that he was a truly'regenerateiperson; then, and not till then,
was he full ripe for the devil.
And observe again, my master hasn't to go straggling about
to fetch his pupils. The Holy Ghost brings 'em to him.
Jesus was led by the Spirit-whether he was led by the
hand, like St. Paul, or lagged by the ear like Ezekiel, or
like all other good Christians, led by the nose-the note for
our observarvrs is, that he' was led up into the wilder-
DESS, xmxgn-VP; Why not xa'rnx0n-down in the Wilder-
ness? Where was this wilderness, that the phrase should
always be up into the wildemess; and, as St. Mark's Gospel
has it,
"
he was with the wild beasts." And what wild beasts
were they, which were with him up in the wilderness?
Anon will I show you the whole menagerie.
"
And when the
tempter came to him "-that is, more astronomically, when
he came to the tempter-that is, to my master-for he is a
very tempting gentleman, I assure you. My master called
on him for something like Christian evidence, and gave him
the fairest and most honourable challenge, to make good his
pretensions.-" Will God suder his son to be hungry?"
"
If
thou beest the Son of God, command that these stones be
made bread." But he could command no such thing, and
so shirks us od' with a Methodist-parson text of Scripture.
°'
It iswritten, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every
word that proceedeth out of 'the mouth of God." '
So you see, Christian, how soon my master could make
your master eat his words. Then the Devil taketh him up
into the Holy City. "The Holy City," where is that?
Observe ye, every thing that is holy is devilish; it belongs
to my master-the temple itself is his. He setteth Jesus
on a pinnacle of it, and willing to try whether he dared
work a disinterested miracle, he saith unto him, "If thou
be the Son of God, cast thyself down; for it is written, he
shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their
hands they shall bear thee up, lest al any time thou dash lhy
foot against a stone." But there poor Jesus was content to
sit, till my good master, perceiving from the nonsense he
was talking, that his brain was beginning to swim, in pity
to his danger, took him down, and saved your Saviour.
What should have hindered sirs, had my dread Sover
'
'rna navnfs runrxr. 71
been the malignant being you have been scandaloasly taught
tothinkhim,andhad fearedarival intheGalilean boy,but
that he should have seized the young usurper by the nape of
the neck, with the gripe of Hercules on Antaaus, and dashed
him olfwith a "Down, down to Hell, and my I sent thee
thither 2"
But was it so! No, nothing the like of it. And with
your Christian justice, as if to show (what is indeed the
truth) that a thorough Christian never knew what justice
meant, you have charged my sovereign lord with every vice
that you could think oil while you cannot prove against
him a single imperfection. Is he the jealous God that
would visit the sins of the fathers upon the children?
ls he the child-killer? Must he have bloody sacrifices to
propitiate his own irritable temper? No! with loving
kindness not to be
surglassed,
with generosity not to be
equalled, he takes me 's hungry pupil, and, as Milton
(who was certainly inspired, if ever man was) expressly as-
sures us. set before him a banquet, compared to which, the
intended feast at Guildhall would have been but abanyan
day.
"
A table richly spread in regal mode,
With dishes piled, and meats of noblest sort,
And savour, fowl, and game,
In pastry built, or from the spit, or boiled.
All (ish from sea or shore,
Freshlet or purling brook, of shell or fin,
And exquisitest name, for which was drained
Pontus and Lucrene Bay, and Afric coast :
And at a stat/ely sideboard by, the wine,
That fragrant smell diffused, in order stood,
With fruits and flowers from Ams1thea's horn;
And ladies of th' Hesperides, more fair
'Phan thought could think, or love could wish them fair."
"
This was no dream," says Milton; while our own most
distinguished Bishop of London has translated, from the
Greek of Prodicus, the words of the tempter, which our
more frigid gospel has lett our imaginations to supply. My
master said :-
72 ral nsvnfs r~nr.Pr'r.
'
Now, will I give thee all thy sou1's desire
All that can charm thine ear, and please thy sight,
All that thy thought can frame, or wish desire;
»
To steep thy ravished senses in delight
The sumptuous feast, enhanced with music's sound,
Fittest to time the melting soul to love.
Rich odours, breathing choicest sweets around
The fragrant bow'r, cool fountain, shady grove;
Fresh flowers to strew thy couch, and crown thy head :
Joy shall attend thy steps, and ease shall smooth thy bed."
0, what a tempting, lovely tempting Devil! wno could
withstand him? And is there any thing in all Jehovah's
Heaven to match the glories and felicities of our Pande-
monium? And will ye still continue to revile my blessed
master, my God and Saviour-my imperial sovereign, the
Devil! will-ye still dare to call him by such degrading names
as
"
Old Scratch,"
"
Old Harry,"
"
Old Nick," the "
Old
Boy," and the "
Old One!" who, had he been capable of
growing old, and owed a debt to nature, must long ago have
paid it. But ah, no!
'
The Stars shall fade away, the Sun himself
Grow dim with age, and* nature sink in years;
But he shall Hourish in immortal youth,
Unhnrt amidst the war of elements,
The wreck of matter, and the crush of worlds."
Say ye that my master hath a cloven foot; and taunt ye
both him and me with your evangelical gibe?
"
How bean-
tiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel?" Then
let them that preachthe gospel accept the noble challenge
which I have given them, to undertake its defence, on terms
of fair and free discussion. Let them come and stand foot
to foot with me, and see how soon they should find them-
selves dqfeeted. For, by
my
master's honour, in the so-
lution of that enigma, would convict them of being as iig-
norant of the real meaning of the gospel, as if they didn't
know great A from a bull's foot.
Butas amistake in a matter which concems your soles
maybe averv serious matter at the laat :-In the law and
nu: navrns Puurr. 73
to the testimony! and judge for yourselves, whether the
cloven foot belong to
my master, or to yours. When your
prophet Ezekiel, describing the person of God himself, says,
that "his legs were straight legs, but the sole of his foot
was the sole of a calf's foot ;" and, in Dr. Parkhurst's
Hebrew and Greek Lexicons, may you see the Cherubim of
Glory, shadowing the Mercy Seat of Yahou, with four heads
a-piece, but only one leg: all heavenly minded creatures,
beingas headstrongas you please, but devilish weak i' th'
understanding.
But, an' if a cloven foot were such disparagement, what
say ye to your own apostles, with their cloven tongues, of
which the only conceivable use must have been, to speak
double with, to sa one thing and mean another; of which
I have heard my honourable master say, in the language of
Pandemonium-
Ex9pog 'yap y.o|'xwo; Opin; Alddaso vrulnrlr
O; :vs spSv per x.u0el m ¢pe¢r¢1s uM0 3: Qafu..
"
The man who one thing thinks, and can auodier tell,
My soul abhors him as the gates of hell."
Your master could indeed bestow the gift of tongues, and
your clergy have it most copiously; but mine alone could
serve you up the tongue with ,brain sauce to it. But if you
be not satisfied with my ministry, as the ambassador of his'
Satanic Majesty, I'll fetch my master bimseltl By process
of magical incantation I'll raise the Devil; and you shall
take his measure for a
pair of shoes. .
The last scene of the temptation of the Son of God was an
after-dinner scene, and is more
explicitly and circumstan-
tially related by the Holy Evangelist :-"Again the Devil
taketh him up into an
exceeding high mountain, and sheweth
him all the kingdom of the world and the glory of them in a
moment of time ; and saith unto him,
'
All these things will I
give thee, if thou wiltfall down and worship me."
"
Where-J
upon the Galilean, with an
imgudence
and ingratitude which
showed the manners of one w o had been born in a stable,
turns me a particular part of his person on my divine
master, and says-" Get thee behind me, Satan; for it is
74 'ran nnvnls Puanr.
written, Tnon shalt worship the Lord thy God." St. Luke
closes the story with the curious words,
"
And when the Devil
had ended all the temptation he departed from him for s
season."
For a season! Yes, for o season. For, be sure on't my
master will not be insulted with impunity; he'll settle with
him for this; he'll meet him at Gethsemane; he'll pay of
the whole score; he'll nail him for it.
For though my master
"
be not choleric nor warm, yet has
he something dangerous about him, which let your prudence
fear." St. Matthew concludes his narrative with merely
saying,
"
Then the Devil leaveth him, and behold angels came
and ministered unto him."
So where the Devil left him I shall leave him too, only
commending to your observance how accurately the analogy
is adhered to; which, wherever Satan is mentioned, either
in the 01d or New Testament, invests him with a character
of superior dignity and greatness. How respectfully do
those angels and ministers of grace keep their distance from
the royal presence, and leave the Son of God to starve, till it
be my master's sovereign pleasure to let him eat.
And I must remind ye, sirs, on behalf of my sovereign,
that however disrespectfully ye may have learned, and accus-
tomed yourselves to speak and think of his Serene Highness,
ye have learned no such lesson, nor could fairly have drawn
any such inference, either from your Old or New Testament.
The moral character of Satan is wholly unexceptionable.
For though it be oncesaid, on wholly ezparte evidence, that
"
he was a liar from the beginning, and abode not in the
truth :" and that he was the father af lies," which I admit
him tohave been, to his immortal honour, as I shall show
'tisa charge of which the sound alone has struck your ear,
while your understanding is innocent of the meaning.
Physically we acknowledge, morally we deny, the charge.
The father of aberrations, who, from the beginning, slipt
out of the Zodiac, and with his tail drew after him a third
part of the stars of Heaven, was as pure from any moral
°
Arbpuroxuroros nr ar' ospxng, on \»wa~rn; urn. John viii. 44.
In nevu. s runvrr. 75
defect, in that physical obloquy, as tne Sun's disc from dark
ness. g And though my great master be called the lempter,
who tempted Job, and tempted David, and the Son of David,
yet methinks 'tis rather disgracious of "they upon the ad-
verse faction." to represent that as a
disparagement in my
Sovereign, which they account the distinguishing perfection
of theirs, who is the great universal tempter, who has sent
H16 Whole human race into a state of temptation and trial.
And if it be the Devil alone who can
possibly tempt man-
kind, who is it that the Christian is addressing when he says,
"
Our Father-lead us not into temptationj"
And are you so dead sure on't, that your minds are under
the guidance of God's Holy Spirit, in being led to hear your
gospel ministers, when your gospel itself so
positively shows
you, that if you were led by the Spirit, it would not be to
church or chapel that you would be led, but to the Rotunda.
The spirit of truth would lead you in the pursuit of it, not to
go again and again-to where you were in the habit of going,
but to where you had never been before ; and you would be
u willing to embrace it, whether it came from Heaven or
Hell, from the Devil's bishop, or from the Devil himself.
Though the Devil be called an Accuser, and take his names
of the Adveraary,.and AiaCoAog, from the circumstance of his
accusing the brethren, day and night, before God :
yet, be it
observed, he is never called amfalse accuser. And, to an
innocent mind, an accuser is not an enemy. It is the wicked,
the gniltyfthe oriminous alone, who have cause to fear an
accuser.
But take all the names and titles of this diabolical majesty
that you can iind,Zzfrom the first of Genesis to the last or
Revelation, and I defy your proof of one, whose literal
meaning or significancy implies any such sense 'of moral
wickedness as you have imagined, or which does not imply,
and directly lead the mind to that astronomical solution
which my previous lectures prepare ye to anticipate. "That
old serpent, which is called the Devil and Satan," says St.
lohn.
From the fact of the Serpent, representing in hieroglyph
all the great theories of astronomical science-the serpent
became the great emblem -of the Supreme Being. Take all
76 rua nsvufs runrrr.
his other glorious names in conjunction with that of Satan,
and the dimculty will be to hide yourselves from the broad
glare of light, and to resist the conviction which I Hash upon
you. Is he not Lucifer, that name signifying the bearer of
light ? _,V
_és /
Is he not Belzebub, Lord of the Scorpion; I!
Is he not Belial, ':r'>:i Baali-Al, Lord of the Opposite ;
Baal Berith, Lord of the Covenant;
Baal Peor, Lord of the Opening;
Baal Zephon, Lord of the North;
Baal Perazim, Lord of the Divisions;
Baal Samen, Lord of Heaven; ' `
Baal Aiten, the Lord Almighty ; ., Er#
Lots
Baal Moloch, the Lord-the King?
'
I
In all varieties and modifications of the name of the Ser-
pent, the Hebrew vm nacash, a Serpent, the Greek Agway,
a Dragon, or Ocpig, a Snake, or Basilisk, the Royal Serpent-
the radical idea is the attribute of a peculiar acuteness of
sight, and hence its reference to the all-seeing Sun, so ad-
dressed by Homer-
Hrmag og fran' r¢opa. mu vrawr' evrxlcouu.
The Sun, who sees and hears all things.
Which hath, in Hebrew, saith St. John, his name Abaddon-
that is, an-an-oN, literally, the Father, the Lord, the
Being; but in Greek, Apollyon -'that is Apollo ; and
2a.9avm;, the adverse king, in our own Greek Testaments;
which is a slight variation from the Hebrew, me Sathen,
which first occurs in 1 Chron. xxi. 1, where are the words
'>n~|w~ by mo "parm, Ve gomed Slwtlgn ol Yeeroile, which is a
direct repetition of 2 Samuel xxiv.; in which this act of
Satan is expressly ascribed to Yahou,-thus proving that
Jehovah and Satan, God and the Devil, are really one and the
self-same imaginary being.
And in the ancient Phcenician tongue, which those first
navigators to this country left as a relic to their supersti-
tion, he acquired the name of the Deuce, from whence the
Romans borrowed their La in word, the Deus, and paid us
'ras DlV1L'B runrlr. 77
back, the Deil. And this is the true history and origin of
the Devil.
Now,sirs! be it your mind to perpend this magical in-
cantation, and in amoment will I confirm my title of the
Chaplain, by calling up my master to raiiy my cre-
enn s,
What oh, Satan! Belzebub! Baal Peor! Belial! Lucifer!
Abaddon! Apollyon! thou King of the bottomless pit, thou
King of Scorpions, having stings in their tails, to whom it
is
given to hurt the earth for live months-Appear !-appear!
(touching the globe). Well, HI: arrears! and, behold,
Satan himself is transformed into an Angel of Light. He
who was in the bottomless pit; but anon, by this semi-rots-
tion of the globe, the representation of the Earth's half
circuit round the Sun, is now become Lord of the Ascendant,
and appears in the Zenith. A
"And no marvel," says that cloven-tongued and double-
meaning magician, the Apostolic Chief of Sinners; and no
lawel, indeed; for these transformations of Satan' into
Christ, and of Christ back again into Satan, are as natural
and as
regular as the succession of summer and winter, day
and night,
The marvel on't is, that men who have their eyes open
enough in other respects, would be so wilfully blind, and
S0
madly stupid in matters of religion, as to take fright and
run
away, as if a Devil indeed were pursuing them, from the
WPI, who ofers them science in the lace of fanaticism,-
evidence, demonstration, and truth, in the place of fable, faith,
and falsehood.
If one or two, or only a few analogies were found between
the g0spel narrative and the visible phenomena of the starry
hetvens, they might be referred to the vague indedniteness
of
curious coincidence; and the gospel, in its broad lines of
demll, be considered as historically true, notwithstanding.
But when all is coincidence from beginning to end, when
910
analogy breaks not down in one single point,-to en-
Wfbim a doubt of the only inference resulting, or to imagine
that the gospel eould possibly be true, is possible only to
"lat innocent idiotcy of understanding, that could, imagine
that the Moon was made of a green cheese, or to that priestly
78 'ms nsvufs punrrr.
villainy of the heart, that would swear that it was so, to serve
its vile priestly craft.
And observe ye, sirs, I pray, the majesty, the grandeur of
truth. Our method of interpreting the sacred Scriptures,
leaves us in no
diHicu1ty,' drives us on no subterfuges. We
are not put to the juggling Unitarian a.rtific-.=, of picking and
culling, rejecting passages- which we don't like; swallowing
the camel, and choking at his mil; but all goesdown with us ;
and from those very diiiiculties, in their very grossest form,
which Unitarian craft would so craftily evade, bring we forth
the richer array of evidence, and the brighter refulgence ot
truth. Neither are we put to it, to shelter ignorance, under
the bull-hide shield of sanctihed insanity, or the canting inso-
lence of those three parts, idiots, and nine parts, knaves, who,
when they could not for the,~_life of 'ern say a sensible thing,
nor tell us the' derivation of'la single' word of the shovelfuls
they heap on us, are for quitting scores, by Mother Cole's
reckoning,
"
What wiP'}become af your soul when you die?
You'll think very diferently when you come to lie on a dying
bed. Think on the deaths of Woltaire, and Tom Paine, and
Row-Shew, where are theynow? Why, where you'll be,
perhaps, before a fortnight's over your head, lifting up your
eyes in Hell, and aring for a drop of water toysquench your
burning tongue !"
'l'hus would usurping idiotcy insult the_fs.ce,of science, and
barbarous ignorance tread on the neck ofa learning.
And thus it was, sits, that from a dire necessity of pro~
tecting themselves from the squeeling savages of salvation,-
whose ferocious dispositions would be satisfied with nothing
but tales of horror, a murdered God, a crucified Saviour,
and a red-hot blazing Hell,-the iirst men of science were
driven into dissirnulation, and obliged to hide the bright
pearl of astronomical knowledge under the thick veils of
gospel allegory. And this is the true history and origin of
the gospel.
VVe forgive, we
pity, yea, w¢may admire, the policy which
a dire necessity forced upon those who had the start in the
march of intellect before the general mind was stirring.
Their writings would not have come down to us at all, the
rich treasures of their collective wisdom would have been
'ran nnvrr.'s Pnnrrr. 79
despoiled, unless their value and their splendour had been
concealed under the allegorical veil. They had something
that they could teach: they taught it, not perhaps as they
would, but as it would be endured,-passing the word of truth
through the ruiiian hands of the all-believing multitude,
under the protecting shell of miracle and fiction, upon the
principle which themselves avow-" None qf the wicked shall
understand, but the wise shall undersland."
But not so is it with the priests of the present day: with
the Protestant priests, even with the most enlightened `of
our dissenting clergy,-Unitarian ministers and lecturers on
the evidences of the Christian religion, in this priest-ridden
metropolis-in this, the nineteenth century; who, instead of
being beforehand with the world in the progress of know-
ledge, hang like a dead weight upon the wings of Science,
and are the greatest obstacles to human improvement that
the world ever had to contend with.
Estimating the power of priestcraft, as it only can be
estimated, by the quantity of intellect over which it prevails,
surely we have proof that that power was never so great as
in the present age, when it is no longer children and savages,
but men in stature, and intelligent men in every thing else,
who tremble at the nz, nw, rr, Frm, of the nursery, and
dare not trust themselves to go to any school where there is a
possibility that they may learn more than is to be learned in
the Gospel Shop.
IRD OF THR FIRST DISCOURSE ON RAISING TBI DB''lL»
Eine aemvs amalmt.
"AND A sormm PULPIT rr is."-.man cunningham.
No. 6.] APRIL S, 1831. [Price 2d.
Part II., of RAIBXNG THB DEVIL
AN ASTRONOMICO-THEOLOGICAL DISCOURSE ON THE
TEMPTATION OF CHRIST,
DELIVERED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
at 'ran norunna, smcxranns-moan. Nov. 14, 1830.
"
Thenwar Jesus led up qf the
Spirit into the Wilderness, to
be tempted qf the Devil! -Mrrnn-:w iv. 1.
»
Bama me
up, Sirs, the benefit of your remembrance of the
gmtdiscoveries we have made in the stable of Bethlehem,
Where I showed you the Infant Jesus in the precise position of
Jupiter, in the stable of Augias, suckled by a Goat.
That Capricomus, the Goat of December, rendering over
his charge to Aquarius, the Wdtd*b¢¢Y¢1*hBt is, the John
ihe Baptist of Jauuary ; John must unbind the frosts of winter,
Ind, with descending rains, must baptize the God or Day, ere
he can enter fully on his ministry, as he saith in character,
"Safer it to be so now, for thus it bccomcth us to _ful/il all
r|fhteousners"4that is, thus must we observe the most accurate
artmnomical analogies, and make our magical spell a
perfect
dilgrarn qfthc visible Heavens." And, therefore, says John the
B0pt.ist, "
that he might be made mangfrt to Israel"-that is,
that the sun
might come to shine forth in the Zodiac,
"
came I
vor.. 1. r
82 THE DlVlL'B PULPIT.
baplizing with water." And thus, again, in character, our
genius of the month of Johnuary, seeing Jesus at a distance-
that is, ata month's distance, in Aries, the Ram of March, he
exclaims,
"
Behold the Lamb qf Gad that taketh away the Sin
of the World ;" that is, that rectifying the unevenness of day
and night of the Zodiac, which, in astronomical language, is
the Worhi, and gives an equal length of day and night to the
whole earth: o
eupwv -rm aluapnatv 'rou xoajuou. Why, Sits,
it is a sarcasm and a pun on language, to suppose an allusion to
such idiotcy as the conceit of taking away the criminality ofthe
crimes of men. From which analogy, the world-that is, all
the constellations which make up the great circle of the Heavens,
are astronomically allegorized as paying him their adorations in
that sublime mysticity. flhis is his name, whereby he shall be
called the Loan our Rxorrrnousnsss. But how can he be
brought into the world, or be led up into that wildemess, or
jumble of confusion, which the starry canopy of Heaven pre-
sents to the untutored eye?
How, but by the Spirit Y that Holy Gust, that rushing mighty
wind, which is necessarily" not made, nor created, nor
begotten,
but proceeding," etemally and necessarily proceeding from the
rapid and eternal motion of the whole solar system,
"
wheeling
unshaken through the void immense," with a velocity that beg-
gars all power of numbers:
So late descried by Herschel's piercing sight,
Hang the bright squadrons of the twinkling night;
Ten thousand marshall'd Stars-a silver Zone,
Eifuse their blended radiance round her throne 5
Suns call to Suns in lucid orbs conspire,
And light exterior worlds with golden tire.
And what must that allegorical nonentity, whose lowest
position was the stable of his nativity in the sign of Capricornus,
the Goat, immediately after having been baptized by Aquarius,
the Water-bearer, necessarily have to pass through, before he
nn r>zvu.'s runrxr. 83
can enter upon his ministry, and come at what all the gospel
ministers are marching after, the Muuon of March, and the
Beef of April? Why l he must live upon fish; and there they
are for him, in the pavilion of February, extending their scaly
influence, more or less, over forty days and forty nights, during
which, poor Jesus is in the plight of,
"
out gfwork, and nothing
coming tn."
'
He has all that idle time upon his hands, and (the proverb's
somewhat musty), but when my master finds a man idle, he ge-
nerally sets him to work.
He was very low spirited; and so, like all other low-spirited
fellows, he was
preparing to enter upon the ministry. And as,
of course, he would want s private tutor for that business, he
put himself to school to the Devil.
How rough and unseemly, Sirs, are these husks and shells
on which the swine do feed; how rich the pearls of science,
for the throwing of a few of which, before the Christian herd,
the Christian clergy, have read to me the sentence of my fate,
"God shall suddenly shoot at me with a swift arrow, that I
shall be wounded. O, how suddenly shall I consume, perish,
and come to a fearful end l" I know itl I know itl I know it
will be so I But be my epitaph-" The man who loved 'mum
more than he feared death! and hated Christianity more than
he loved life."
I
But your minds once awakened from the dnmken dream of
faith to the sober realities of reason, will run with a rapidity
faster than demonstration can
keep up with you, through the
solution of the astronomical riddles of the labours of the Sun,
which constitute the whole substantive sense, and original and
entire meaning,-alike of the Pagan, Jewish, and Christian
mythology: alike of the Shasters, Vedas, and Pouranas of the
east, and of both the Old and New Testaments of our occidental
world.
And why are those most beautiful, incomparably beautiful
and sublime compositions, which you call the Psalms ty"
84 rr-ra nnvnfs rnnrxr.
David," divided into thirty or thirty-one portions, to be in-
chanted morning and evening, for every day of the month,
through the twelve months of the year. But, because they are
indeed the songs of Zion,-l--i.e. of the Zodiac, detailing in
mystic allegories all the grand vicissitudei of the year, the joys
and sorrows, dejections, and elevations, conflicts and victories
of the true David, the SUN: who is despairingin winter;
hoping in spring, triumphing in summer, and dejected in
autumn. And, according to the predicaments of his physical
phenomena, himself addresses, or is addressed, in the beautifull
adaptations of the allegory. _
Who then, in this congruity, must necessarily be at once
his guide and tutor, and yet his constant adversary; but the
adverse sign, the AsaBoAo;-that is, the diametrically opposite
sign, the Devil, who is up, when he is down ; and down, when
he is up : who, therefore, in allegorical language, tempts him,
through the wilderness-i. e., goes before him, through the
signs of the Zodiac. And having led him to the top of that
exceeding high mountain--that is, the Sun's highest point of
ascension, the tropic ofCancer, the 21st of June, whose Hebrew
name is Thomas, the very name you will observe of him among
the twelve apostles, who was a crabbed incredulous fellow,
and had more than half a mind togo back again. He ad-
dresses him in that accurately astronomical problem-" All
these things will I give thee, gfthou wiltfall down and worxhqa
me."I
And from that point, he astronomically does, and allegori-
oally did, Bill down and worship him-that is, comes down
from his height of ascension, in succession, alter the Devil;
who, having been the leader, and so, seemed to go before, and
___
111 u~':nn.+
'
pu:-1~wn.*
I Tavfa srarrao om duo-aa, ma-un a-pomwvno-ng pos:
'ran nnvrrfs rnnelr. 85
drag and pull Christ up to that point, immediately aher be-
comes the follower, and receives that astronomical rebuke:
"Gm 'rnzz behind me, Satan," with that astronomical ex-
planation of it-" For it is written"-that is, it is according
to the everlasting law of the heavenly bodies-" Thou shalt
worship,"-that is, thou, the adverse sign, shalt follow or come
after the lord thy God-that is, as I have so abundantly ex-
plained-thou shalt follow after the constellation of the Ram,
which literally was, and etemally is, the Lord Gad of Israel.
Nor will you ever be confused in this science, if you will but
remember this simple axiom, that as there are three persons in
the Godhead, so there are three persons in the Devilhead;
the Hydra, extending over the three signs of Cancer, Leo, and
Virgo, is the Devil. The Dragon,that persecutes the Virgin, is
the Devil; and the Whale, that persecutes the Lamb, is the
Devil; yet are they not three Devils, but one Devil : the moral
character of Satan being nothing more than a picture of the
physical phenomena of these three constellations.
And the creed of Saint Athanasius, or the Athanasian, or
immortal creed, through all the conundrums and apparent
contradictions of its theological system, is a most beautiful
and scientific exhibition ofthe grand paradoxes of the Zodiac.
Thus God becomes man, when the Sun of the Vernal Equinox,
in the Lum of March, becomes the Sun of the Autumnal
Equinox, about the 29th of September, which is the day of
the
Archangel Michael. And Christians, without knowing the
physical meaning of their belief, have universally believed that
stint Mxcnsr-:t., the Archangel, whose name they translate
U
signifying equal with God, was none other than God him-
Self. Michaelmas-day being exactly the same length as Lady-
diy, and the Sun of the 29th of September, most literally is
U18 Same Sun as the Sun of the tribe of Gad, in the 25th of
March, as God and man is one Christ. In the ancient Persic
Projection of the sphere, the genius of the autumnal equinox
WHS
represented as a fierce warrior, holding a pair of scales in
86 'run nnvnls rtrnrrr.
his hands, in signification of his astronomical character, as that
Just One, which is one of the titles of him that was
crucified.
And the Archangel Michael is represented aswarring with Satan,
on the altar-piece of Trinity College, Cambridge, precisely as
the Head of the Serpent appears to be pulled down by the genius
of the Scales of September in the Starry Heavens.
And Gad becomes Michael-that is, God becomes man, not
by conversion of thc Godhead into_/lash, but by taking' the man-
hood into God.
That is, with most astronomical correctness, the sign does not
enter into the Sun, but the Sun enters into the sign Q || Q.
Again :-Christ, that is, the Sun, is most literally the Medi-
ator, or Go-between, between Gad and man, because the fixed
Stars which compose or make up the tribe of Gad, and all the
other tribes of the celestial Israel, are Suns to systems of' their
own : and our Earth's annual motion round the Sun throws the
Sun, or makes him seem to go, between us and those measure-
lessly remote fixed Stars.
As, only walk round the table with your eye steadily directed
to any fixed object on the table, you will see that object, with
relation to the distant parts of the room, exactly opposite them,
changing its point of opposition as you change your situation.
And thus while you alone are moving, the object on which
your eye is fixed will seem to be moving; and thus, will
be a Mediator, or Intercessor, at all times between you and the
more distant fixed objects, by which alone you can measure
the change which is going on, not in their positions, but
yours.
`
And now look, Sirs, upon the Starry Heavens, or, for your
greater convenience, on this most accurate picture of them upon
this beautiful toy, the celestial globe: the great liar from the
beginning--that is, not the moral, but t.he physical liar; the
constellation Catur, the largest of all Heaven, just at the be-
ginning, at the point of the vemal equinox, slips out of the
Zodiac. He abode not in the truth, and is, as his etemal
'rx-in navnfs ruuur. 87
punishment, condemned to follow the Lamb, wheresoever he
goeth. And here you see, most literally,
"
He walketh about,
seeking iohom he may devour."
Whom, says the cloveu-tongued and double-meaning apostle,
resist, steadfast in the faith-that is,
"
do you stand fast in the
Zodiac, out of which my master made a
slqz from the very be-
ginning, and the Devil a bit will my master be able to catch
youjv
"
Resist the Devil, and he wélljiee from you"- that is, tum
your'backs upon him, and you'll tind he's going the other way.
His infernal Majesty never thinks a soul worth dodging after;
he always keeps straight forward in his course, and "
hath no
variableness nor shadow ofturning."
But look now at the allegorical joys and sorrows, desires and
fears of the astronomical David of the Old Testament, and the
no less astronomical Son of David ofthe New. Says he, in the
22nd Incantation,
"
.Fat bulls qf Basan close me in on every
ride." Why, there they are, in the Taurus of April, in which
every year the Sun is literally enclosed. Says he, in the spell
of Matthew? "
Safer the little children to come unto mc, for
of such is the Kingdom of Heaven." Why, there they are, in
the Gemini, or Twins of May: where you shall see them
Lords of the Ascendant every year at that point of time,
when-
"
From opening fields of aether wide displayed,
Child oi' the Sun, refulgent Summer, comes."
Or, cries he again, in the 22nd Psalm: "
O save mefrom the
Lion's mouth, thou that hast heard me, also_fro1n among the horns
of the Unicorns." Why, there never were such animals as uni-
corns upon earth, except in the little baby's song, and the big
baby's bauble: _
"
The Lion and the Unicorn, a
fightingfor the Crown;
The Lion beat the Unicom, and drove him round the town."
But here, Sits, is the very astronomical crisis, to the accuracy
88 'ral nlvnls ruulr.
of the setting of a watch, of the allegorical adaptation of that
incantation; where you see the Sun, by rising up into the arms
of those little chiwren, just contrives to make his escape from
the home of the Unicorns ; and has now, tolook out for the next
forthcoming danger, and must make a
dip to the nicety of a
ha.ir's breadth,tokeep clear of the Lion's mouth; and "
Odelioer
any Soulfrom the Sword, my darling_fiom the powerqf the dog!
0 make thy way straight before me." Let me not be attracted
from my course by the power of the Dog, in the south, when
he rises heliacally with me in the summer: nor let me be'wor-
tied by them in the long nights of winter, when "
in the even-
ing they will retum, grin like a dog, and go about the city."
Psalm 59.
Resist the astronomical demonstration, if you possibly can,
of that mystical lament of the allegorical Jonah in the whale's
belly, which your ignorant clergy, for any sense that they could
ever find of it, are not able to protect from the laughter and
scom of all rational men; but which rises into grandeur and
astonishing wisdom and truth, when read to its astronomical
signiticancy :
"
I went down to the bottom of the Mountains :
the Earth with her bars was about me;for ever, then, said I,
Iam cast out of thy sight, yet will 1 look again towards thy
Holy Temple." Which, with severer literality of translation,
gives us the truly rrnwn 'nan ~n'1w~ :mn ~nxp'>
D'7l]75 *WJ magnificent language of the Sun, in his
state of humiliation, struggling to ascend in the Ecliptic:
"
I
went down to the bottom of the Mountains," repeatedly called
"
the dqzths of Satan,"
"
the Earth with her everlasting bands,
and colures was above me." Then said I,
"
I have stmk below
the line of the zodiacal constellations, those eyes of Heaven;
yet will I emerge again towards t.hy Holy Temple," which is
here in the constellation of the Ram : and just exactly is it three
days and three nights, to the accuracy of the setting of your
watch, that is, from twelve o'clock at midnight of St. Thomas's
day, that the Jonah of the Old Testament is in the whale's belly,
rs: n¢vu.'s PULPIT. 89
and the Son of Man of the New Testament is in theheert ofthe
mirth-that is, the Sun is in the lowest degree of his descent in
the curve of the Ecliptic, dn agu, 4-rraprouo; 'yup ia~n-that
being the exact term of the winter solstice, or of' the Sun's seem-
ing to be at n stand still; from which point, gaining his first
degree on the first moment of the 25th of December, at mid-
night, at the very moment when the Star in the East, the bril-
liant of the constellation of the Virgin, is seen rising on the
Eastern border of the Horizon. The whole Pagan world did,
through countless ages, rise at midnight to let in Christmas, and
slug that well-known Christmas carol :
"
A Virgin unspotted,
:K prophets foretold,
Brought forth her c
'
d Jesus, which now
you behold;
For to be our Redeemer from Death, Hell, and Sin:
Which Adam's transgression involved us in."
And who the Devil was Annu, that any transgression of' his
should get us into such a damnation scrape? Why, who? but
whom the name itself literally signifies. An-nr, the Lord,
the rnua ?-" that is, the Sun himself, who has been" trans»
gressing for the last three months most horribly, sinking lower
and lower into iniquity, or unevenneu, and giving us such
miserable days, that if' he does not mend his manners, and
begin and lengthen the days again, it will be all Hell and St.
Thomas with ns.
Hence the apostles' riddle about the first and second Adam;
both meaning one and the self'-same personification of` the Sum
The first, orfalling Adam, beihg the Sun, descending in the
Ecliptic, and shortening the days: and the second, or rising
Adam, being the Sun ascending again, lengthening the days,
and cheering our desponding hearts with the promise of an
annual salvation.
"
Assur'd, tho' honors round our mansion reign,
That Spring will come, and Nature smile again." g
And thus the Sun,retuming annually to his first degree of' as-
cension, on Christmas-day, recalls the departed soul of Lazarus,
90 'mn nnvrr/s runrwr.
whom he loved (the year), who has been in a galloping con-
sumption for a long while: though, as he expressly tells you,
"
this sickness is not unto death."
V
Hence, the Sun speaks that sublimely allegorical and most
correctly astronomical language:
"
I am the Resurrection and
the Lyle. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, get
shall he live; and whosoever liveth and believeth in me, shall
never die.
'I'hus, the Sun pledges to us, not the foolish dream of the
immonality of man, but the philosophical truth of the eternity
of nature. And so exactly is the astronomical truth observed,
that it is just exactly, nay to
_the moment, when Lazarus has
been four days dead (frrfraspfaaog ro-rn)-that is, arm thefourth
day-that is, when the year has stood at the winter solstice,
during which, Jesus (that is, the Sun) abode still in the same
plate 'where he was ; that, on the morning of Christmas-day, he
annually cries-Aoafaps dtvpo sfo,-Lazarus, comejbrth. And
Lazarus-that is, the genius of Christmas-day, does come
forth, shivering, freezing, deadly cold, so as just to say there
was a spark of life in him, but that was all,
"
bound hand and
foot with grave clothes ;" and his face wrapt up in a towel, pre-
cisely as the dressers of a
pantomime would send you up the
character of Jack Frost, with a good dash of the flower-bag in
his face, and a
cigar in his mouth ; you might have taken Jack
Lazarus for a white Devil.
`
_
And who, then, are those black ones, the Scorpions having
stings in their tails, to whom it was given to hurt the ea.rth for
live months? but the Allegorical Genii of the Scorpion of Oc-
tober, followed by the four wintry months of November, De-
cember, January, and February, all under the influence of
Aaanom, the King of the bottomless pit-that is, of that part
of the earth's surface, which, being tumed from the Sun, looks
relatively downwards, towards the regions of 'infinite space,
which literally, and really is, a bottomless pit, boundless, bot-
tomless, measureless, iniinite.
77
'ma ns.vn.'s rnnrir. 91
And what are the Seven Churches, but the seven remaining
summer months, answering most strictly and literally in their
very names, and allegorically moral characters, to their physical
antitypes, in the seven summer signs ofthe Zodiac.
I ask no more of the Christian, than that he should not deny
the text of his own book; I ask no more of any man's credu-
lity, than, that he should not be unwilling to admit that seven
and tive are twelve; for, so sure as they are so, so sure is this
demonstration, that the gospel is not history, but fiction ; not
truth, but allegory; notfact, but a
_/izble.
For, look ye, Sirs, if ever there were such a thing as allegory
in the world, and the imaginative faculty in man could imagine
the Sun to speak, what language could be imagined for him
more characteristic than those words of Christ in the Revela-
tion of St. John :
"
I am he who hohieth the Seven Stars in his
right hand, who walketh in the midst ofthe Seven Golden Can-
dlesticks."
Egregious raving and idiotcy, in any meaning that your
Pfiests could give you of it; sublimely beautiful, and rich of
science and truth, when interpreted by the key which itself
presents to us in those words: "
the Seven Churches which are
in Asn"-that is, most literally, the seven holy congregations,
Or
constellations, which are in the land a/'_/ire-that is, in the
S1lI'S path, in the Kingdom of Heaven-that ix, the reign of
the seven summer months.
The Seven Stars, says the sacred text, are the angels of the
Seven Churches,-and the Seven Candlesticks are the Seven
Churches. '
What are candlesticks, but fixed lights? what are those fixed
lights, in the midst of which the Sun walketh? but those con-
Qftgations, or
groups of fixed Stars, through the midst of which
|18 the Snn's annual course in the Zodiac.
And here they are in name, in character, in order.
The Church, or Constellation of Ephesus, of Thyatira, of Phi-
lffklphia, of Pcrgamos, of Sardis, of Smyrna, and of Laodicea.
92 'ms nnvu.'s runrrr.
1. Ernnsus, from Etpwag, upon Haus, the same as Jesus,
the Gaellish name of the God Mars, whence our English name,
for March, who is the Lord of Hosts, of the Old Testament,
and the Lamb of Gan, of the New.
To this church, Christ threatens that he will come and remove
its candlatick out of its place; and, by the well~known move-
ment of the heavenly bodies, called the precession of the equi-
noxes, this candlestick, which, 388 years before our Chrisian
era, was the iirst of the churches, has been removed out of its
places; and the equinoxial point which was then in the lirst
degree of Aries, is found at present to have left the second of
the fishes.
2. Tmwrnu, from Gum-nga -that is, (I tread on _fiankim
cease), fmnkincense being offered to the Sun, when in the
constellation of the Bull of April, famous for "its patience,
its labour, and its work," in the business of agriculture.
3. Pnrunsnrnra, brotherly love, the unequivocal character#
istic ofthe two loving brothers, the Twins of May;
4. Pnnonros, height, elevation, marriage of_fire : the Sun's
highest point of elevation is in this constellation, which dwelleth
where Satan's seat is. The Hydra's head being, as you see,
on the celestial globe, immediately under this church, which is
Cancer, the Crab, of June, whose Hebrew name is Tnoins;
who, in the gospel allegory, was but a crabbed sort of fellow,
and had halfa mind to go hack again. And here you see him,
in his position of the Heavens, bearing physically the very cha-
racter which he holds momlly in the allegory. He comes to the
Zenith Meridian, at the very moment, for looking down to see
Jesus raise the soul of Lazarus. But he was no iiivourite of
Jesus,whotells hiin inthe sacred text: "Thou hast in thee
those that hold the doctrine of Balaam." And here, in the
very midst of the constellation Cancer, is Balaam's ass, who
has found his wayto the very highest place in Heaven (and,
of course, brought the doctrine with him), but has let the doctor
tumble oB` his back: and he's gone to Hell.
'rua navu.'| runrrr. 93
The fifth church is SAR~DIS, that word, formed of the Am-
monian primitives, San, the Rock, Stone or Pillar, and Drs,
God, afterwards passing into the Coptic, or ancient Phoenician
word, nn-non, the Sun, the Being, and naturalized into the
Greek, Latin, French, and English word Lian-that is, the
Lion of July ; who, having been the Lamb of the tribe of Gad
or God of March, appears here as the Lion of the tribe of
Judah, or July. And here, as the SING-Avxran, or the Deity,
under the form of a Man Lion, bursting from a pillar,* exempli-
fying that frightful language ascribed to God in Hosea, C. 8,
"
I will rend the caul of their heart, and there will I devour
them like a lion."
.
The sixth church is Smmsa, that word signifying a bundle
of Myrrh, the offering made to the Sun, in the Virgin of August,
having reference to the fragrant pesy which she holds in her
hand, and to the milk-pail in the hand of the Lis-Omnia of
Egypt, the Indian Isa, and the Grecian Ceres; exemplifying
that amorous compliment in the song of the Loves of Christ and
his church, "a bundle of Myrrh is my beloved to me."
The seventh and last of the summer months-that is, of the
Ankztic churches, is, Laonrcna, that word signifying Aero; Burma;
-that is, thejust or
righteous people, living, as you see, in the
scales of Justice, Lraas, the balance of September, when the
weather is neither hot nor cold, but lukewarm : for which
Christ, who, like Christians, had no notion ofjustice, threatens
-to spew it out of his mouth.
And these seven churches-that is holy congregations-that
is, corzstellations that are in Asn-that is, the land qfjire; are
included within the two covenants-that is, comings together-
that is, the two equinoxial points, when the Sun, twice a
year,
in his oblique march in the Ecliptic, comes to the line of the
Equator, as he does, in spring, about the 25th of March, and
I
°
Shewing the Plate in Maurice's History of Hindostan,
94 'ms DEVIL'B Punrir.
in autumn, about the 29th of September, called Michaelmas-
day. And these two covenants are respectively the covenant
of works, and the covenant of grace : because spring is the
season for labour in cultivating the earth, and autumn is the
season for gathering in and enjoying the fruits of that labour.
"
The one," says the astronomical Hierophant,
"
is from
Mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, and anxwereth to
Jerusalem, which now is, and is in bondage with her children."
That is, the Vemal Equinox, when that point was in Tivans
the Bull, was the time for putting the ox to the plough; and,
during the reign, both of that constellation and the succeeding
Gnumr, her children, mankind are under the covenant of
works, and there can be no cessation of the labour: of husbandry.
But the covenant of grace, which is introduced by the fruitful
mother ofAugust, is Eleuthera-that is, Lib¢r,_/hee-Bacchus,
the covenant of enjoyment, when the full ripened grapes are to
be put into the agony, or
wine-press, in the garden, and to
sweat out their precious blood, into the cup of the lierceness of
the fury ofthe wrath of Almighty God,-And
"
all the ungodly
shall drink it."
"
All the ungodly ofthe earth," meaning nothing more than
all the months, October, November, December, January, and
]:`ebruary, during which the Sun is below the line of Gad--that
is, the line of the Equator, and therefore in a state of iniquity
unevenness, or ungadliness. And the lives of men are preserved
during these cold and cheerless months, and the absence of the
Sun supplied to them, by his blood, the essence of his virtue,
his concentrated wrath and heat, his fury pouredforth, and
eorked up in bottles, to supply, as occasion shall need, a sum-
mer within us, while all without is gloomy winter.
Thus does the Sun annually give his blood for the life of the
world: and that blood being pressed out of the grape at the
season of the vintage, which is indicated by the Sun coming
to the Equator, at the Autumnal Equinox, when he gives an
equal length of day and night to the whole earth ; and so is the
rms nzvufs ruLrx'r. 95
physical emblem of moral righteousness: We have the secret
of the invariable association of idea which connects the blood
and righteousness of Christ, and as invariably designates that
blood as the Blood ofthe Covenant and the Blood of the Cross :
phrases as innocent of meaning as
idiotcyitself, in any historical
sense, that could be dreamed of, but most beautifully and
scientifically solved by the physical and astronomical key.
The blood of the grape, which has been ripened by the heat
of the Sun, and is to be pressed out at the time when the Suu
crosses, or is crucifiedupon the line of righteousness, the Equator
is, therefore, by meto'n_1/my, the blood of the Sun, the blood of
Christ, the blood ofthe Cross, and the blood of the Covenant.
And thus the frightful story ofthe Crucitixion is but an alle-
gory of the process of the vintage: Jesus is nothing more than
the same personification as Bacchus, the God of Wine.
~"
And when Jesus therefore had tasted the Vinegar, he said,
'
It is_finished ;' and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost,"
John xix.; meaning nothing more than that when the Sour or
thinner wine comes out of the press, which it does after the
virtue of the grape is mainly drawn off, the fruit has sunk down
in the press, the spirit evaporates, the vintner dipping his finger
in the liquor, and licking it, perceives, from its thinness and
acidity, that all the virtue is extracted ; and "
It isfinished,"
-the process is over, the life of the grape is gone; and any
thing more that you can draw off by tapping the press, will be
mere blood and water.
And here, Sirs, do I present you types of the self-some He-
liolatrous allegory, constituting the basis of the story of the
Indian Idol, Chreeshna, existing, in written documents, in the
Sanscrit tongue, more than fitteen hundred years before it
became the curse of our western world, under the name of
Christianity.
But I trust, we are living to see the day of an end to that
curse,-for a curse it has in all ages been heavier than any, and
than altogether that ever alilicted the condition, outraged the
96 'nn n|vn.'s runrtr.
reason, and destroyed the virtue of men. I have raised the
Devil, raised him, I hope, above the power of our aristocratic
priests, to found the aristocratic lie, which they call gospel, on.
I have, I hope, swept out the ilthy stable of Bethlehem, and
purified your hearts and minds from all respect for a
religion
which you see with your own
eyes, never did and never will
find an advocate, or a defender, of competent learning and
talent to undertake its defence: where truth and science may
have fair play to plant their battery against il. Kept up, in-
deed, it is, and kept up it will be, as any other piece of villany
would, so long as the muldtude can be bemaddened and
befooled out of their reason, into that sneaking poverty of soul
that would lay its neck in the mire for kings and priests to
tread on.
And thus, with millions a year wrung from the folly and fana-
ticism of a
priest~ridden people, see we the pride, pomp, and
circumstance, that can be attached to nonsense that childhood
itself would be ashamed oil
END OF THB DISCOURSE ON RAISING THE DEVIL
ww wemw Mulmt.
No. 7.] APRIL 15, 1831. [Price 24,
THE TEMPLE:
S21 german, on gt. $aul'¢ Qtatljehral,
PREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.,
AT 'um norunnn, nucxranns' noun, JAN. 9, 1831.
¢~v\nnn»
'
"
The Temple qf the Lord, the Temple qf the Lord, the Temple
of lhe Lord are these."-J zumuu vii. 4.
...-.-~.-.....~.`~..,`~.......~..,.~.,.
Tin Tnurnn, in Hebrew, is Yekel ; in Greek, Naw; ; in
Latin, Templum ; in English, Temple.
The Greek word Nm; is radical, but connate with Nam, to
inhabit or dwell in, the basis of one of the epithets of Jupiter.
Zw xudurrs p.¢'yio~rr xrkaivripsg M9194 Nauw-i. e..
"
O Jew, most
glorious, most great, compelling the clouds dwelling in Ether !"
the Attic form of which is Neug, v, from Nw, glomero acervo
cumulo. Thus clearly signifying a group, a collection, a
constellation, agreeably to that definition of the apostle, to the
Ephesians, chap ii." "A holy temple. an habitation of God,
through the Spirit." In the description of the New Jerusalem,
Rev. xxi. 22., we have this solution of the matter : "And I
saw no temple therein, for the Lord God Almighty and the_
VOL. In
98 'ras nzvu/s PULPTT.
Lamb are the Temple of it." As, in that three-times-repeated
saying of the Jews, rebuked by their prophet Jeremiah,
"
The
Temple of the Lord, the Temple of the Lord, the Temple of
the Lord, are theseg" (Jeremiah vii. 4) his argument being,
that it was not sullicient, nor rationally consistent of them, to
know which were the Stars that constituted the Temple of the
Lord, unless at the time of the Sun's entering into that con-
stellation, which is the Temple of the Lord, in which he gives
an equal length of days and nights to all the earth, they should
"
thoroughly execute judgment between a man and his neigh-
bour," in imitation of the physical equity of the Sun at that
season.
Hence, the Sun, upon entering that constellation, in which
he is so
just and equal in the distribution of an equal length of
day and night, to all the inhabitants of the earth, isdistinguished
from the Sun, as considered at any other season of the year,
by the epithet so peculiarly appropriate to him at that season,
"Tan SUN or R1aa1°sousNass;" or, as this greatastronomical
priest, Jeremiah, most sublimely allegorises the Equinoxial
Sun; this is his name, whereby he shall be called "
the Lord
our Righteouaneas." Our English word Lord, compounded of
the Phoenician 'ng ma nm-i. ¢. the sun, the Light, origi-
nally signifying the Sun. The whole year being reckoned to
begin, as then it was, from the point of the vernal equinox, the
spring quarter, in the month of March. We find the names of
the four last months of the year, still retaining, in our own
language, evidence of their origination in an era when the
month of March was considered the first : as they are com-
pounded ofthe Roman names of the numbers 7, 8, 9, 10, and
of the most ancient name ofthe Greak Phoenician God |'"],
Berith, which, more literally, signifies a covenant-that is, a
group or constellation; and, in its full utterance, as Baal
Berith, the Lord of the covenant, was the name of the Sun,
as considered respectively in those covenants or constellations,
'run navufs runerr. 99
Septem-Ber, Octo-Ber, Novem-Ber, and Deoem-Ber--that is,
the 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th, God Berith, or God inhis 7th, Sth,
9th, and 10:11 celestial mansions : of which, January, being the
llth, and February the 12th : March, in which the Sun enters
the constellation of the Lamb, becomes the first. And, as
time was reckoned from this constellation, the Stars, of which
it is composed, were called "
The Tbmple of the Lord," As
you will find, the original meaning of the Latin word,Templnm,
had no reference to _any religious edifice on earth, but signified
a portion of the heavens, marked out by the lituus, or sacred
crosier of the Angurs, who are the speakers in our text, point-
ing to the constellation of the Lamb of March, and saying
"
The Temple of the Lord," &c. The Latin word Tempus,
time, is perfectly synonimous with Templum : and from the
equity of the Sun, when in that temple, or at that tempus, that
body of the clergy, who devoted themselves more
especially
to the study of law and equity, and the administration of
"judgment between a man and his neighbour," were called
Templars; and designated the colleges in which they devoted
themselves to this study, the Tauna. The celebrated
Areopagus, or Hill of Mars, from whom our month of March
derives its name, was
literally the Temple of that God Mars,
the God of War, or Lord of Hosts: in which temple law
and justice were administered with such strict impartiality,
that the Gods themselves were believed to submit to its de-
cisions.
The most admired orations of Cicero, his accusations of
Verres, his defence of Milo, all purport to have been delivered
in the temple of the Deities Castor and Pollux, who presided
over the administration of justice.
And if you ever travelled so far in your life, as to a place
called Temple Bar, Fleet Street, London, and used your eyes
when upon your travels, so as to see what may there be seen,
I shall not have to draw upon your credulity to persuade you,
100 'ras n|:vn.'s rumvrr.
that there is in that neighbourhood, abuilding, or collection of
buildings, called the Temple, which I should call the Areopagus,
or Mar's Hill : and that that Areopagus, or Hill of Mars, or, in
a word, the Temple, is dedicated to the templars, or students
of law and equity, whose future functions and duty it shall be
to execute judgment between man and his neighbour, as
impartially as the Sun, when he enters into the Lamb of
March, gives an equal length of day and night to all the earth.
As you will see that that Temple, which is not dedicated to
the study of divinity, but of law, bears over all its great gates
of entrance the figure oi' a Lamb, holding a cross in his paw,
in direct indication, that it is none other than the Lamb of
March, which is peculiarly the Temple of the Tempus, from
which all reckoning of time began; in which the Sun, crossing
the Equator in the sign of the Lamb, is the crucified, that is to
say the crossitied Lamb, and gives such equal justice to the
whole earth, as the lawyers are understood to profess to do ;
but in which, alas, they stick to their text no better than the
parson: and for this reason the Templars, though they had
nothing to do with religion, would always support the church-
men, because the game between them was never any other
than rogues all ; and Honesty would cry
"
a plague on both
their houses."
»
You will believe me, too, when I instruct you, that that
Areopagus, that Hill of Mars, the Temple, is the Lawyer's
House, situate at the west end of the city of EL*0N*D0`N--
that is ex., the Sun ; oN, the Being; non, the Lord, or Adonis,
the Loan, the Bama, the Fun: an-oN-non, losing the
significance ot those three Phoenician words, which show its
original meaning in the shortened utterance, London, some-.
times still more shortened in the vulgar
"
Lunnun."
~
On the highest spot of ground, in which city, those ancient
Phoenician settlers in Britain founded s magnificent cathedral
to the honour oftheir God, si. -
on-n oN, from whom our city,
59"/I
som
., et-
'rua nnvufs PULPIT. 101
-to this day, retains its name of London. That the God London,
to whose honour this great edifice was erected, was none other
than the Sun itself, is discovered to us, not merely in the
meaning of the three radical Phmnician particles, that make up
the word London; but in the stmcture and ornaments of the
edifice itself; which, how otten so ever
repaired or rebuilt, hath
never varied in one single stone or pillar, or statue, of which
it is constructed, from the hieroglyphs and emblems by which
it may be known and read of all men, as the cathedral or church
of the SUN. As on its western pediment you shall see to this
day, are the emblematical figures of Spring, Summer, Autumn,
and Winter, ridiculously, thoughvery crahily, called Matthew,
Mark, Luke, and John.*
And in the tyrnpanum of that pediment,is an alto-relief, or
hieroglyphical, representation, than which no written or en-
graven letters or words could more plainly, nay could any
thing like so
plainly have said, "This ediiice is dedicated to
the honour of the Sun."
~
Words may change or vary their signiicancy, but pictures
speak the same language to all men, and cannot be misunder-
stood, except where faith forbids the exercise of understanding.
For there, Sirs, the Sun in its place in the heavens is not
more apparent, than is that representation of the triumph of
the Sun, when he enters the constellation of Castor and Pollux,
the Twins of May, with the bright beams of light and glory,
striking his adversary Saul, the Gloomy Centaur of November,
fmm oil' his horse, and seeming to insult his sprawling antago-
nist, in those words: Eau). Zaah 'rua ps dwauig, which, in
their interpreted sense, is "
November, November, why shoulda!
Uoucomea_fter May ?" For sure, 'tis madness only that could
`.
n
'March, April, May: June, July, August;
ll Il II II Il
September, October, November: December, January, Febriiary.
102 -run nsvufs runrrr.
dream of any literal sense in the conceit of a man on earth,
persecuting a man in the sky: nay, a God in Heaven, so
devilishly uncomfortable in those mansions of happiness, as to
come down stain to tell us that somebody kicked him, and it
was very hard.
Our religiousfanatics are always preaching up the conversion
of St. Paul: but so much go they before their horse to market
in this, that not a word is there about the conversion of St.
Paul, in any part of the Scriptures : from beginning to end
there's not an allusion to such a thing : the acts of the apostles,
contain nothing of the kind. Good God! may you exclaim,
do I mean to say, the Christian cannot read? Yes; that is
what I do mean to say: to all intents and virtue of reading, 8.
Christian cannot read. It is faith doth put out the eyes of his
reason, and he sees, not the text of the book itself, but thevain
phantom of his own foregone conceit: or he would see that it
was not Paul that was converted, but Saul.
And Saul is the name of that king of Israel, who persecuted
David, and his brother Jonathan, who are the Gemini or Twins
of May, in the old allegory, as it is the name of the persecntor
of the Son of David, who is the Castor and Pollux of the new.
But Saul, we shall be told, is the same person who is after-
wards called Paul, as St. Luke says,
"
Saul, which is also
called Paul." Yes, he is so, but by precisely the same allitera-
tion of Sol, which is also called Pol. And Saul and Paul are
one and the same persons, only in the same sense as the Sun of
November is the same as the Sun of May. Only in diferent
characters; Saul before his conversion, being the November
Sun, in the sign of Sagittarius,where you see the Great Perse~
cutor, with his bow and arrow, playing havoc with vegetable
nature, stripping the trees of their foliage, riding down to
Damascus, and on the high road to Hell and Tommy-that is,
to St. Thomas's day, which is the 21st of December, the lowest
point of the Sun's declension; and, consequently, the lowest
pit of Hell.
'ma nsvn.'s ruurr. 103
The name Saul being, in Hebrew, the self-same word
NNW, which is, wherever it serves the purpose, translated
Hell: as the Greek name Paul is an abbreviation of the Greek
Apollo, under whose protection the month of May is placed in
the calendar of Julius Caesar, and of the name of the Star
Pollux, in which the Sun appears in his regenerate and mild
and amiable character at that'delightful season.
The waggery of pretending that what were really Pagan
edilices, were Christian ediiicee, and of changing the names of
the Pagan Deities into Christian Saints, even with the drollest
puns upon the names, where no such Pagan Deities or Christian
Saints either, had ever existed, prevailed universally throughout
Christendom. We have not only our Greek 1Edes Pollucis, or
church of Pollux, turned into Saint Paul'e church-that is,
Poll into Paul. But if you shall ever visit Rome, you shall
iind the Temple of Apollo that was, now called the Temple of
Apollinaris : the Temple of Mars tumed into the Temple of
Martina, and actually bearing the inscription-
"Martyrii gestans Virgo Martina coronam,
Ejecto him Martis numine templa tenet"-
that is,
"
Mara hence expelled, Martina (martyred maid)
Claims now the worship which to him was
paid."
And if Protestants were but as honest in acknowledging the
real origin and derivation of their churches, as the Roman
Catholics, we should see a similar inscription on the biggest
church in this metropolis.
The church you see beneath this golden ball,
Was built at first for Poll, but now for Paul.
The conversion which it commemorates, is not a moral, but
I
physical one. As you see Saul, the man and horse of No-
vember, in the tympanurn, sprawling on the ground, while Pol,
in whose honour the church is dedicated, and who has struck
104 'run nuvufs punexr.
Saul to the ground, himself stands upright on the pediment
with his drawn sword in his hand, the point downward, as,
having just done its work, in the attitude of a glorious con-
queror.
And this conversion, you will observe, takes place expressly
at mid-day-that is, when the Sun of Gemini is exactly at the
Meridian, twelve o'clock of the 9th of June, in the calendar of
Julius Cxesar.
Now, it will be for those who would outrage our reason, by
pretending an historical sense, for so clearly hieroglyphical a
representation, and that this representation had reference to
the conversion of a man, to go to the top of Ludgate Hill, and
look at it again : and ere
they tell us that it represents nothing
more than the conversion of the man, let 'em tell us why the
devil the horse should be converted too P for the horse happens
to be the principal figure in the whole group: as the horse
makes more than a half' of the whole constellation of the
Sagittary of November, which is literally struck to the earth by
the ascendancy of the Sun in May; and there it actually is a
Sun-beam, which is represented as striking him to the earth,
in that pediment.
~
Well,_ then, may we
say, to those most deceitful priests, who
would so impudently lie us out of the use of our eyesight:
Will ye put out the eyes of these people? Ye take too much
upon ye, ye Sons of Levi.
The story of the conversion of St. Paul, in his journey to
Damascus, has no account of a horse at all; but has a suG-
cient admission, that the apostle wasnot worth a horse, in that
after he had been struck to the earth, and got on his legs again,
he was led by the hand of those who were with him; which
would not have been the case, if they had a horse to have set
him on. Yet no piece of statuary, no ancient entablature, no
antique painting or picture in the world, representing this alle-
gorical conversion. omit-s'to give the same prominence to the
'ral navu.'s rvmxr. 105
tigure of the horse, which the horse bears in the iigime of the
Sagittarius of November: thus throwingus up a philosophical
and rational meaning of that song of Miriam, in celebration of
the self-same conversion of Saul into Paul, when she sang-
"
Sing ye to the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously : the
horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea." And here,
Sirs, is Miriam (Spiea Virginia), rising out of the Red Sea,
singing to Pol, who is at that moment at the meridian: while
Saul, the horse andhis rider, is at that moment at the bottom
of the sea.
And that the figure on the centre of the western pediment
of Pol's Cathedral is not a
representation of the Apostle Paul,
but is a representation of the God Pollux-that is, not of a
Christian Saint. but of a Pagan Deity; will strike the mind
in a moment's remembrance, that no
persons who had re-
þÿ 5 P 9 ¢ t ¬ d
what Christians call divine revelation, would have
Bet up
"
any graven image, or the likeness of any thing that
is in heaven above, or in the earth beneath, or in the waters
under the earth."
Nor could even a mistaken piety been possibly so much
mistaken, as to have intended to honour Christ and Christi-
lllity, when it called the noblest temple it could raise, by the
name of the servant rather than that of the master,-set up
the Apostle above the Saviour, and honoured and served the
Creatine more than Creator.
But it must strike the eye, that the figure itself is not the
figure of St. Paul, could not have been intended to represent
Nth a figure as St. Paul represents himselfto have been:
Where he says, "his bodily presence was weak, andhis speech
Nhtemptible
"
(though, God forbid that we should think his
°P°e¢h was more contemptible than his writingsl) and he had
Ill
inexpressible iniirmity in his flesh, which he says was
"
a
messenger of Satan to buffet him," as he is described in the
Phi-l0patris of Lucian; on the ground of which I admit his
106 'ms nzvufs PULPIT.
real historical existence, as well as in that description of his
person, acknowledged to 'be genuine by St. Jerome and St.
Cyprian, in which he is pourtrayed as a little pot-bellied,
bandy-legged, passionate old man, with a squeaking voice,
a hooked nose, squinting eyes, a bald head, and full of the
king's evil, and the grace of God.
Whereas the figure of the pediment, to whose honour the
edifice is built, presents you at once with all the character-
istics of Pol, the immortal brother of Castor, as presiding over
the administration of justice, wearing the judge's robe, and
holding in his hand the sword of justice, with which he
avenged his brother Castor's death, and with which he stands
before you in a presence the most contrary to that of the
handy-legged apostle, that could possibly be imagined.
"
Hyperion's curls, the front of Jove himself;
An eye like Mars, to conquer and command ;
_
A station like the herald, Mercury,
New-lighted on a heaven-kissing hill."
'
The cathedral, dedicated to the honour of the Sun, in the
Star Pollux, stands directly in the Zenith.
When the Star Pollux is at the Meridian, the Constella-
tion Aries, which is the Temple, will be observed rising in the
East. ~
The Great Star, Spica Virginia, in the hand of 'l`hemis, the
Goddess of Justice, holding the Scales of September; or
Ceres, the Goddess of Corn, or Miriam, or the Virgin Mary;
for they are but diferent names for one and the self-same
constellation, is setting in the West. -
And hence the Twins, Castor and Pollux, two names for
one and the self-same constellation, being, at that moment,
at the Zenith, were worshipped, as in a most peculiar sense,
presiding over the adjudication of equity, and in all courts of
law and justice.
In the calendar of Julius Caesar, the Sun enters the sign of
'ms navn.'s runnin. 107
the Twins on the 19th of May, which would bring him in the
Star Pollux on the 16th of June.
Now, the Hebrew name of the month of June, is Tnouas,
of whom we are three times told in the Gospel of St. John,
that he was also called Didymus-thatword Didymus literally
signifying a Twin. And Thomas, one of the twelve which is
called Didymus, in the gospel allegory, in calling for evidence
of the resurrection of Christ, and insisting on having prooL
and net mere
hearsay testimony, exemplifies the physical
analogy, which represents the Twins of May and June, as
presiding over the administration of justice.
Cicero makes a noble appeal to their Divinity in their
images, standing then before his eyes in the Praetorium, while
delivering his seventh oration against Verres:
Vos omnium rerum forensium, conciliorum maximorum,
legum judiciorumque arbitri et testes, celeberrixno in loco
praztorii locati, Castor et Pollux. Teque Ceres et Liber, a
quibus initia vitae atque victu, legum, morum, mansuetudinis,
humanitatis exemplahominibus et civitatibus data ac dispertita
esse dicuntur. "
Ye., of all forensic matters, of greatest
counsels, of laws and judgments, arbiters and witnesses, Collar
and Pollus, placed in the moat renowned place of the
Pnetorium .' And ye, 0 Ceres and Bacchus (that is to say,
MUY and Jesus), _f|'01l| whom, the beginnings of l#`e andfood,
Qf laws and manners, and examples of gentleneas and humanity,
are mid to have been given and distributed to men and cities."
Thus we find that they are, at the close, joined with Ceres
and Libera, and spoken of as the civilizers of the world: but
their peculiar province was law and judicature.-Bryant,
Vol. ii. p. 161.
"The name Castor, seems to be a compound of Ca-Astor,
þÿ t ° m P l ¬ »
or
place of Astor."
"
Ca Astor was, by the Greeks, abbreviated into Castor."-
Bryanl.
108 'rua n|vrr.'s runntr.
Hence so many names of towns in Britain (" among the
Britains of Phoenician extraction,)," Bryant, Vol. vi, p. 158)
ending in Caster, as Alcester, Chester, Manchester,Dorchester,
God-mam Chester, Ilchester, Lancaster, Leicester, Gloucester,
Rochester, Chichester, Cireacester, Worcester-all of them
distinguished by remains of cathedrals dedicated to the Great
God Castor-i. e. the Sun in Gemini, as that of Lodon is to
his brother Poll, who is one and the self-same Deity. As
London itselfwas called by the ancient Salons London-caster,
and abbreviated, as so long a word would necessarily be, for
the convenience of ordinary utterance x as our St. John's
Street is called Sinjus Street.
The real origin and signilicancy of the whole word London-
Caster (as I have explained so o&en, that no original
word could ever have consisted of more than one syllable)
ax.-on-non-cs-as--ron, lr., the Sun; ox, the Being;
now, the Lord; cs, the Temple; as, the Fire; ron, the Hill,
would gradually come to be absorbed in Lun-Doncaster, Lun-
Oncaster, Lunkaster, and Inncaster, which is, to this day, the
name of the London, or capital city of the great county of
Lancashire.
Castor and Pollux, the two Dioscdroi, were considered and
spoken of as the greatest of all the Gods.
'
There are altars still extant, which are inscribed Casrolu
I1 PoLLuc1 Dns Maoms. To Castor and Pollux, the
Great Gods, and in the Collection of Gmter, is a Greek in-
scription: Tam; rua Axapuu; Irpru; YIVOFINQ 9am Mryalun
Awrxvpw Kacupuv.
"Caius, the son of Caius, of Acharnia, having become a
priest of the Great Gods, the Dioscuroi, Cabiri."
The form of swearing Ede-Pol-that is, Per Eden Pol-
lucir: by Pol's Cathedral: indicates, what was indeed the
fact, that there was something very remarkable in the size and
magnitude of Pol's Cathedral. An analogy, still preserved,
'rua nsvu.'s Ponrzr. 109
in the relative size of the Pol's Cathedral, continued to this
day, under the variously sounded, but self-same meaning,
name of St. Paul's Cathedral. The greatest Gods seemed
naturally to require the greatest churches. And it was not a
greater libertyin language to change the name of the church,
than to change the name of the Deity to whom it was dedi-
cated. And Pol's Cathedral, the common utterance for the
"Temple of Pollux," became gradually to be pronounced
Saint Paul's Cathedral, without any note or date, or trace of
human observance, when or how the change took place : and
for this reason, Sirs, (which I think may pass for a pretty good
one) that there has really never been any change at all; and
it is to all intents and purposes the Temple of Pollux still-
thst is, the Temple of the Sun, considered and worshipped,
as in Pollux, the more
easterly, and the brighter of the Twins
of May. It was a Bishop's See for three centuries before the
religion of this country acquired the name of Christianity.
The Bishops of London and of York were present in the
council of Arles, in France, held under Constantine, in the
year 314, disputing about the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
though you will lind that Christianity had not been preached
in England, before the arrival of Monk Augustin, in the year
597-that is, 283 years after that council. The name of
either of the Twins being used indiiferently, the one for the
Other, the Temple of Castor, or Pol's Temple, signiiied but
one and the self-same Temple. And its extraordinary mag-
nitude is accounted for, not merely by the anamgy, that the
Gods Cabiri and Dioscuroi, the sons of Jove-that is, these
Twins, were distinguished as the greatest of all the Gods;
but they were the great guardians of property, and their
Temple was the general banking-house, to which all persons
of wealth committed their treasures, as to places of the
Sfeltest security; from which, all. the profits of banking,
ltcrued to the Dean and Chapter, and readily supplied the
tnormous expenditure which such an enormous
`
pile of
110 1-as nnvufs rutmr.
building would require, either for its structure or repair, as
we may learn from Juvenal, in those lines :
"
/Erma multus in area,
Fiscus, et ad vigilem ponendi Castora nummi."
"
A great revenue in the brazen chest, kept at the Temple of
Calor, the guardian of entrusted properly."
Hence, the sense of the rebuke put into the mouth ofthe
Christ of the Gospel, against those who used to say,
"
Who-
soever shall swear by the Temple, it is nothing ;" the uni-
versal form of common swearing being lEdepol-that is, per
asdem Pollucis, by Poll's Church,
"
but whosoever shall
swear by the Gold of the Temple, he is a Debtor"--that is,
he makes a draft upon the bank, and ought to have effects
there, to honour it.
The Twins themselves, both Castor and Poll, are each of
them names of but one and the self-same Deity, the SUN ;
and from their representation, as two brothers, originated the
fable of the union of the divine and human nature in the
person of Christ; Poll being the divine, Castor the human
part of the Constellation. l
They are uterine brothers only--that is, brothers by the
same mother; Pol, the son of Jupiter and Leda; Castor, the
son of Lmda,byher proper husband, the Joseph ofthe Gospel.
Hence, the Dean and Chapter of Paul's or Pol's Cathe-
dral, will al ys be sticklers for the divinity of Christ ; while
Arrian inform us, that Alexander the Great, sacrificed to
Castor and Pollux, on the day consecrated to Hercules, con-
sidering Hercules, and Castor and Poll, as the same Deity.
And that he was
perfectly orthodox in so doing, our Poll's
Cathedral is to this day a proof; for if you will but go into
St. Paul's-that is, into St. Poll's church-yard, and stand with
your face westward, on the northem side ; and you shall have
the sign of thc Bible and Crown of Rivington's shop, the shop
for the sale of books of Christian knowledge, in no other
'rua navufs ruufxr. lll
shape than that of the most perfect orthodoxy on your right;
and immediately on the point of the pediment over the entrance
of the edifice, stands the statue of Hercules, with his well-
known characteristic club; and the skin of the Cleonaean lion.
I should only like to know how a man could need better in-
fomation as to whom the house belongs, than that he would
infer from reading the master's name upon the door ? Or how
could a
worshipper of Hercules better know the Temple of
flcrcules,
than by seeing Hercules himself in full possession
o it?
But pass through the edilice: from the north, go out at the
southern entrance; and, on the pediment over that entrance,
you shall see the self-same Hercules, under the Greek name of
Andrew, which never could have been the name of a Jew, signi-
fying the strong man, holding a Saltier Cross-that is, a cross
in the shape of an X, a goniometer, or double pair of com-
PUBH, exhibiting the precise angle which the Sun made at his
two
Crossings of the Equator, at the time when this beautiful
form of Sun-worship was Hrst instituted. That angle being
now 23° 28', compared to what it was when observed by
Pmlemy. is shown to be gradually decreasing, at the rate of
One minute in a hundred years. So that in one hundred and
fflffy thousand years, it will be shut up entirely ; the Ecliptic
Will coincide with the Equator, and there will consequently be
lil
equal length of day and night over all the earth, and all the
Will'round, constituting the reign of righteousness,or a
physical
millenium, which our Christian blunderers have so
absurdly
"l-l°PHted in a moral sense. And St. Andrew, you will ob-
þÿ ' ° " ¬ ,
stands with this great goniometer, or measure of the
§'"f'S angel upon the Equator behind his back, in significant
llldlcation that what is to be seen is a crucified man, but what
" 5° be understood is in the back ground.
But it is not in one: it is not within the compass of very
'Nay discourses, that I can hope to compress the merit of this
|12 'ml onvufs runrrr.
great cumulative argument, this irrefutable and unanswerable
demonstration of the utterly fhbulous character of every thing
that hath ever borne the name of religion among men.
And sure there can be no better way of exposing falsehood
than by setting it side by side with truth, and bidding you,
with the eyes of your own reason, to look on this picture and
on this: this method I have pursued in innumerable illustra-
tions, which my hearers remember with full conviction :
this, in a thousand illustrations yet to come, I shall continue
to pursue.
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON ST. PAUL'S
CATHEDRAL.
Elmo aomrilw amulzpit.
"
AND A BONNIE PllLPI'l' IT IS."-Allin Cilliflglldm.
No. 8.] APRIL 22, 1831. [Price Sd.
THE UNJUST JUDGE:
5 Sn-man,
PREACHED BY HIS' HIG1-1NESS'S CHAPLMN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
. xr nn: norurrnn, BLACKl'B.IAB'B nous, JAN. 30, 1831.
-----~.~.-v.¢»..~»
1|
And he spake a parable unla lhem to lhia end, fhallzen ought
always to pray, and not to fainl; saying,
'
There was in a
city a
Judge, which feared not God, neither rqarded man :
And there was a widow in that city ; and she came into him,
saying,
'
Avenge me of"mine 0d091`3¢'ly~' And he would not
for a while : but afterwards he said within himse%
'
Though
Ifear not God, nor
regard man ; Yet because thi: widow
troubleth me I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming
she weary me_' "-Lum: xviii. 1.
-»-»¢~»-~¢~.~...~.,,,,,.
WELL, Sirs! This is gospel. It is an exhibition of the
divine character, as
purporting to be set forth by Christ him~
self. lt is the parable of the Unjust Judge ; and it in delivered
to us, under that solemn command of Christ: Hear what the
Urjust Jucfae saith."
At the same time, it must be home in remembrance, that
this parable is but one of a
pair: There is u fellow to it,
to be placed side by side with this pamble; (in the 16th chapiez
1l4 ral nevn/s PULPIT-
of this gospel) which bears the title of the Parable of lhe Unjut
Steward. In the two together, we have an harmonious exhi-
bition of what, on gospel principles, the character of God is
supposedto be, which is that of an Unjust Judge ; and what
the character of-a-Christian is supposed to be, which is that
of_-an Unjust Steward: a pretty brace of game to be dished
up to the relish of our moral appetite.
The Unjust Steward robbed his master; and the Lord coal-
fnended Ihe Unjut Steward because he had done wisely. And
the Unjust Judge gave sentence without hearing cause,
"
and
hanged the guiltless, rather than eat his mutton cold;" saying.
"
I care neither for God nor man." And the Lord mid,
"
Hear what .ihe Unjut Judge saith." And so say I; for
God's sake, for truth and virtue's sake,
"
Hear what the Unjust
Judge saith." And wonder no more at the state of morals in
a Christian country, when these are the examples and exhibi-
tions of moral perfection which Christianity itself has conse-
crated. For those who are in the higher ranks of life, our
aristocrats, lords, and hereditary masters, the most God-like
example proposed to their observance, is to teach them to be
indifferent to the petitions of the people, to act from no consi-
derations but of their own convenience; 8-nd if ever they do
attend to a petition, never to think of the right or the reason of
it, but only get rid of the bother. For those who are in
inferior, and dependent situations, the proposed example is,
that they should rob their employers, and cheat and swindle
so dexterously, that if they should ultimately be found out,
their employers themselves should own
they did it cleverly.
And this is gospel morality! the finest system of morals
that was ever delivered to man! The purest, the sublimest,
the "where will ymsjiad any thing equal to the words of the
gospel," calculated to make us just exactly what we are-a holy
nation, a peculiar people, zealous _of good works: and, as far
as this sort of morality has influence in society, society must
lU¢£9l»'i|Y and eternally consist of a set of lordly and oppres-
'rua nrvnfs Punrrr.
l
115
sive tyrants, having no sympathies with the people, and no
motive of action, but their own convenience, in the higher
ranks; and a set of cunning rogues, Isaocl, cheats, liars, and
slaves, in the lower.
Look, then, upon this picture, and on this x I bring before
you the master villain this evening, and shall serve you up
the man on some other occasion.
Y'have heard, and have, I guess, often read for yourselves,
the parable of the Unjust Judge. The question is, issuch an
exhibition of character, or such a moral lesson, whatever the
morality of it be, to come in at one ear, and go out at the
other, and so no harm dons: or, shall we he rational? Shall
words have meaning to them: and shall we look at the picture
which our priests have set before us, in its own ugly face I
By your patience I will do so, and shall lead your convictions:
int. to its critical; second, to its moral; and, lastly, to its
political aspects.
First, of the critical view on't.
But hold! of criticism I would recommend all good Chris-
liens to be innocent; for the faculty of criticism is fatal to
Christianity. The gospel will bear any thing else, but it will
not bear to be criticised; the moment you begin to criticise,
it'| farewell to faith. There's no knowing where it will lead
you to: for only see what hslter-skelter comes on't, the
moment you take up the besom of criticism,
i
"
And he spake a
parable to them," Avast, cries Criticism;
'Who spake to whom? where? when? how? and what the
devil is a parable? "A parable to this end, that men ought
llaooya to pray, and not to fainl." -
And what's the use of always praying? and what's to make
mm Mat when they leave of praying? All right and straight
forward enough, you see, while you sit in the hooby hutch at
church or chapel, and never dream of asking yourself, or any
body else, what it means : but discovering to the startled stten.
116 g
rin nnvu/s PULPIT.
tion of the critical mind, the frightful truth, that a
parable, to
such an end as that men
ought always to pray, and not tofaint,
could by no
possibility have been delivered, either by God or
man, before that end was an end, which priesterait had to
serve, and that everlasting vogue of praying was in full vogue
among men; which determines the period of the darkest day
of the dark ages, and of the full swing of Popish superstition
of "
Monks and Hermits, Cmbonitcs and Friars g Black
Friar: and Gray, and all their trumpery."
Neither could it have been delivered or devised before the
times of the general prevalence of that moat wicked notion of
election and reprobation, since its whole argument is the argua
ment ifortiori, that God would avenge his own elect, and that,
without any consideration of the justice of their cause, but
merely because they were his elect : ssour
judges of the pre.
sent day, whose characters are bound by these evangelical ex»
axnples, would convict an iniidel, not because they had any
evidence of guilt against him ; not because they had any argu.
ment to show that he wasn't as good a hearted man as ever
breathed; but merely because he was an iniidel. The Infidel
Lamb that should be accused ofmaking the stream run back-
ward, would be sure to be found guilty, where the Christian
Wolf did try him e O Christian Jnstice, how dost thou shine
forth, when the proprietor of the other shop gives verdict
against ours: when the sworn knave, that has the letting of
the booby-hatches in his own
chapel, finds the R.otun&
Guilty! 'Tis Christian jushbe.
<
A further indication of time is betrayed to us in that awk-
wardly dropt stitch:
"
Nevertheless, when the Son of Man
cometh, shall hejiadfaith upon the Earth ;" an admission as
clear as the day, that whoever the Sonof Ma-n was, he was not
then upon Earth : and that, consequently, the speaker in the
text could not be he. Then who the devil was, or fb, this Son
of Man? None of your clergy, in church or chapel, can tell
fill ns:vu.'| ruurr. 117
you: I can. They don't know him : I do; I haveasea him
myself; I know him very well, and all his family; and I can
show him you.
And in doing this, I hsven't to beseech you to see with the
eye of mth, to look to the things which ue invisible. 1 have
no occasion to draw upon your credulity, and to entreat you
to believe me, as my dear Heaters, least of all to stultily you
out of the exercise of your reason, with that villanol denun-
ciation, "
He that believeth not, shall be damned." Only be
men, and exercise your rational faculties as men: give me no
credit at all: think that I am deceiving you, as long as you
can think so: withhold your conviction, to the last struggle
that with reason it can be withheld; and it shall be mine at
last, by right of conquest. ,
As thus, Sits, where is't that this Son of Mm, in the
showing of the text itself was to be seen?
"
Coming in the
clouds of Heaven :" then, in the name of God, when else
should we look for him, but in the clouds of Heaven = and
wnan is he to be seen coming in the clouds of Heaven? Im-
mediately qher the days shall have been shortened, is the answer
to that question : then! then immediately alter the days shall
have been shortened. "
But when they persecute gn in this
City,_#ee ge into another : for verily, I say unto you, ge :hall
not have gone over the Cities of Israel till the Son of Mun be
cone." Matt. x. 28. Here, again, you have the speaker, Christ,
speaking of another, as contradistinguished from himselL who
was not then come, but who was to come,;before the saints
should have gone over the Cities of Israel. Gone over the
Cities? Gone over them, Sire-s pn 're7ua*n-ru-" Ye alulllnot
havejniahed them." And who and what were these, who
were to dee from city to city, but not to finish all the cities
before the coming of the Son of Man. And what sort of
cities were they, which these persecuted saints were to go
over, but so as never to go beyond them; never to be out of
one or other of thue cities! y
118 ran navu.'s runrxr.
Or as, again this mystical astrologer saith to Nicodemns :
"
No man hath ascended up into Heaven, but he 'that came
down from Heaven, even the Son ofMa.n, which is in Heaven."
"
O," say your Evangelical preachers, the most ignorant men,
of their own profession, on the face ofthe earth,
"
it was our
blessed Saviour himself, whowas the Son of Man x and while
he was convening with Nicodemas, he was in Heaven at the
same time." So! a
very clever trick, that, like St. Francis
Xavier, he contrived to be a-board two ships at once.
But if our Evangelical preachers would leave their choused
and insulted hearers in possession of the faculty of reason, all
the reason that ever was in the world*would say, that it was
utterly preposterous for a person to have spoken of the Son of
Man, who is in Heaven, who had meant that it was himself
sittingin his arm chair, and smoking his pipe,all the while, that
was in Heaven. And thatifit was in_ Heaven that this Son of
Man was, and in the clouds of Heaven that he was to make his
appearance, it must be nowhere else but in the Heavens, even
in the visible cloudy Heavens, that we are to look for him?
But we have a further clue to this mystery, which unravels
'it beyond the mistake of mystery itself. The epithet, the
Son of Man, is found accompanied with a term, absolutely
and literally defining what was meant by the Son of Man. It
is,
"
Theaiga of the Son of Man in Heaven," Matt. xxiv. 30.
Now there are but twelve signs in Heaven; and this sign of
the Son of Man is further defined as coming immediately aher
the end of the world. Then, of course, it could come nowhere
else, but at the beginning of the new world.
But this sign of the Son of Man is still further defined, aa
having days in it, or in him, or of and concerning, or pertain-
ing-to him or it.
"
The days come when ye shall desire to see one of the days
of the Son of Man, and shall not see it." Luke xvii.
But, what is more, this self-same son of Man seems to have
been as well known under the Old Testament as under the
'ma nr.v1x.'s rusem H9
New. As the prophet Daniel saw him, when and where, and
as
exactly as you may, every one of you see him yourselves.
"
In the visions 4' the night," Daniel vii. Attend ye then to
theyisions of the night-that is, study astronomy, look on the
immense expanse of the Starry Heavens, and there you shall
see the sign of the Son of Man-that is, the sign Aquarius,
.the sign of January, which you cannot go over the twelve
cities of Israel without coming to, which comes
immediately
alter the days have been shortened; which made us desire to
see one of the days of the Son of Man, when theymre getting
longer again : which comes immediately after the end of the
world, which ends in December, and which opens the new
year-i. e., the new Heavens and the new Earth, wherein
dwelleth Righteousness. And here, too, have we the meaning
of those eternal riddles about eating the flesh, and drinking the
blood of the Son of Man, which, from the Ganges to the Nile,
from the Nileto the Thames, through Brahminical, Egyptian,
Pagan, and Christian superstition,was the universal catachresis
of language, for_a mystery of which the meaning was never
any more than ordinary eating and drinking of the fruits
of the earth, which flow to ns from the fructifying um 'of
Aquarius. It being thus a natural, and not a supernatural
truth, that, unless we eat thejleeh, and drink the blood of the
Son of Man, wehave no li/'e in u.
-
And what is a parable? but a something represented to the
imagination, whichhas no reality: it is a throw by the side, or
apart from the line of truth, into the regionsof fancyand fiction,
There are forty-four parables in the course of the four gospels.
Now what is the nature of a work that contains admitted
parables, but evidently_a work of fiction and imagination,-a
work in which one thing is said, and another thing is meant.
But parahles, our parsons tell ns, are easy andfansiliar nodes
of instructions, adopted by our blessed Saviour, is
order lo omwey his divine lessons more
clearly ta the mind. Are
'hey so? and did he therefore speak in parables in order to
ISO 'ras navu/s Punnr.
assist our comprehension, and enable us to-.
"
0 yes !"
the parsons say. Only it's rather awkward, when we find
himself
"
Therefore epeak I to than in parable: ; that
seeing they may sec, and not perceive: and hearing they may
hear, but not understand."
O, what a clear way of conveying divine instruction to the
mind! This accounts for Christian being such wonderfully
clever boys as they all are. 'l"he great proieiency they make
in the study of divine things, the less they know of 'em : the
more they get on, the more they get of :
they go to school to
learn ignorance: they'd have known more if they had been
taught less. So that, should the Society for Promoting
Christian Knowledge have all the success they aim at, we shall
be parabolised, till we shall "
know nothing but Jesus Christ,
and him crucified ;" and nobody will ever again get into dan-
ger of hell fire, for calling his brother a fool.
This parabolical, hyperbolical, or rather diabolical, mode of
conveying instruction, once adopted, all notion of history, or of
historical iiddity, is at a sheer end for ever. Here are persons,
speeches, actions, and characters set before us, with as much
relief, distinctiveness, and apparent reality, as the broadest
features of the gospel narrative; and yet all this distinctive-
ness, apparent reality, and even historical probability, not.
withstanding, all is the pure creation of imagination and fancy,
and there isnot a word of truth in it from beginning to end.
And will any man say, then, that there is any redeeming
reason whatever, why the whole gospel narrative should not
itself be held to be altogether a parable ; of the same parabo-
lical and diabolical character. IS S0 much ind $0$0 Very many
parts of it must necessarily be admitted to he? A
At any rate, we have, in the eau before us, two very different
and distinct authorities in challenge upon our credence; for,
first. we have the Lord, whoever he was, telling ns a tale,
highly probable in itself, which nothing hinders from being
true,and telling it as a truth ; while the reporter qf the tale
-ral nsvxxfs Punrrr. 121
obtrudes his impertinent judgment to tell us that it was not
true, but a
parable: and whereas, the speaker of the parable
(ifa
parable it were) has not told us what the end or gist of
it was : the reporter has taken upon himself to supply this
deficiency, and to give it a moral, which may have been the
very reverse of the moral intended.
For had the gist on't been, to hold up the character of the
Unjust Judge to our hatred, rather than to our respect, as the
exhibition of the character of a Devil, rather than of a God;
and had the moral on't been just exactly that men who fall
under the government of such unjust governors, as heed not
the justness and reasonableness of the people's petitions, but
act only from caprice and tyranny, ought not to pray always,
but to pray no more; but take the power into their own hands,
Play the Paris game upon their ruthless oppressors, and hurl
them from their forfeited authority 1 would not that have been
88 good a moral, as honourable to the moralist, and as in-
ltructive to ourselves? So much for the critical view of the
Pl-fable. We come now to the moral, which inspired imper-
nenre has obliged us to submit to.
The moral on't ia, to represent the character of God as that
of an
Unjust Judge, restrained by no considerations of justice,
Nuity, mercy, or truth, but chuckling and glorying inavowed
injustice and most flagrant wickedness: ,"No|u, though I_fear
not God, nor
regard mas : get because this widow troubleth me,
I will avenye her cy' ber adversary, kai by her national coming
|710 weary sue." _
There is a Lord God for you! And shall we wonder that
0111* gods and lords on earth, with this example of the divine
Character before them, should act on the same principle, and
deem it most god~like and divine, to be indifferent to the
rights or wrongs of the people, and act only in consultation
of their own idleness, caprice, or humour?
Had aman sat down to try to hit out a scheme .for making
tyrants of one halt' of mankind, and slaves of the other, to
122 'ma nnvnfs ruu>n~.
make the world as wicked as wickedness itself; and to set up
priestly power on the overthrow of every thing that is noble
in sentiment, just in principle, or generous in action; could
he have hit on
any thing else so mischievous, so wicked, as
this. A
But the moral on't is,
"
that men ought always lo pray, and
not tofaint :" to pray, as the apostle says, "without ceasing "-
to keep it up, day and night, to wrestle in prayer, to bother the
everlasting God out of his everlasting life; not to trust to his
goodness, his equity, his wisdom, or any of that sort of stuff ;
but to stick to him, to give it him, to gripe, to tug at him, to
sicken him, till at last, in self defence, the prayer-wearied
tyrant will start, as if the fleas bit him, from his uneasy couch,
and comply with their desires, for no other reason than because,
as he might say, Damn the jleas, how they bite! Nor is this
any sort of caricature: Iwish, for humanity's sake, that it
were so. But 'tis the very language of the prayer of the
Patriarch Jacob,
"
I will not let thee go unless thou bless me."
And in the Catholic manual of devotion are the words of a
prayer, than which no words of prayer were ever more reason-
able: "O Lord God, if thine own goodness will not induce
thee to have mercy upon me, my importunity shall."
You see, after all, that there's a
way of getting the better of
Omnipotence; though he stands out a long while, he'll strike
at last. "And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day
and night unto him," says this divine teacher. And shall men
on earth think they can employ their time better than the
angels in Heaven spend their eternity ; or, than the chernbims
and seraphims which continually do cry: or than those pretty
dogs with four faces, which arebefore the throne of God, and
rest not day nor night, crying.
"
Holy, Holy, Holy."
~
Nay, and 'tis none other than the gravest of our Protestant
divines, who most gravely assure us, that the prayers of
Christians would never be unanswered if they were but con-
tinued long enough. Many a good batch of bread has been
,ma nnvu/s rtiarzr. 123
spoiled by letting the oven get cool too soon ; and many an
eiectusl fervent prayer has been rendered inefectual by being
given up just at the last moment-when one other long pull,
andastzong pull, and a pull altogether, would have pulled the
old fellow into compliance. He can stand two or three im-
portnnate widows, single handed; but when two or three are
gathered together in his name, they get him in the midst of
them, and do what they please with him.
But the most frightful part of the moral is, that if is never
necessary that what is prayed for should be any thing reason-
able for God to grant, or that there should be any sort of
merit or desert on the part of the person who prays; but
always, and in every instance, just exactly the contrary. The
more wicked the petitioner is, the more acceptable to God;
and the more unreasonable and tmjust the petition, the more
likely to be granted.
Let the greatest murderer and thief on earth, ask God to give
him a Crown of glory, and an etemity of happiness, 'twould
be granted in a tice; but should an honest man
only ask for
change for a shilling, he'd see him damned first.
So the old woman, the importunate widow, only wanted a
bit of vengeance-she wanted to pay off an old grudge, to
have her spite out against somebody that had displeased her.
She had only to pester the Almighty Judge with her everlasting
"Average me of mine adversary," and the Almighty, withou
inquiring what her adversary had done, or what he might say
in his defence, has him hanged, of at hand, to find out,
perhaps, that it was a lie that the woman told him, after the
execution.
Thus the apostle lays it down as a rule, that if any man sin,
we have an advocate with the father. Let hin pick pockets,
let him cut throats, or so ; and
"
There is. a fountain §|l'd with blood,
Drawn from Immanuel's veins;
And sinners plung'd beneath that Good,
Wash out their guilty stains,"
|24 rm: DlVlL'B rnnrrr.
But if he be so sinner-if he be an honest man, and con.
duct himself with moral propriety, he might as well whistle
to the winds, as say a prayer either to God or Devil.
So, in the showing of the story (such as it is), Jesus Christ
the righteous, might continue all night in prayer to God, and
prayed in agony, but prayed in vain,
"
Because he had done no
violence, neitlvr was deceit found in his mouth." But Saul of
Tarsus, the most deceitful thief and murderous villain that
ever escaped unhanged, the chief qf Sinners, a blasphemer, a
persecutor, and injurious,had onlyto pop on his marrow-bones,
and all the miraculous machinery of heaven was put into
instant requisition. The Almighty jumpt out of bed in the
middle of the night, and called up all the family of heaven,
with his hue and cry: "Arise, and go into the straight-street,
and inquire in the have of Simon, the tonner, for one Saul,
of Ta:-sus, for behold he prayeth." Old cut-throat, ye see,
that villain, the chief of sinners, had easy work on't.
But imagine your man of prayer, depict him in his true
colours, at his prayers, and in the act of prayer, with all his
blushing honours thick upon him, and then say how such an
act can be compatible with moral honesty, or how such a msn
can be entitled to be deemed an honest msn.
He either expects some advantage to accrue to himself from
his prayer, or he does not. If not, he is an idiot and a fool,
and acts without a motive; but if he expects to be the gainer
by it, how is that gain achieved, but by means, for the like
of which, in any other case, a msn would deserve to be scouted
as a blacluleg, and a chest, from all honourable society?
He worms and writhes his dirty way, on hands and knees,
into the presence chamber of Omnipotencez he gets on the
weak side of the Almighty fool, tickles his everlasting beard,
whispers the selfish purpose of his soul; and, as there must
always be a little praise mingled with prayer, though it's not
intended. l suppose, for flattery, only it's to tell him what a
good God is, and how inhnitely wise, and just, and holy,
'rn nnvn/s ruuu-r. 125
and what pure eyes he has got, andthat he is sure not to die,
and that his kingdom will last for ever and ever. And the old
gentleman is done over, he's caught, he's in for it, and his
Omnipotence is at their service *.
An honest man would say,
"
I want nothing that is to be got
by kneeling. Set your heaven open, and P11 be there, when
honest men are there, But for your straight gate, and your
narrow way, your passages for beggars, pimps and parasites-=
I choose damnation rather." And what is the spirit, which
your man of prayer, your straight-gate cringer, and your
narrow»way soul, will be likely to bring into the commerce of
social life? Who is to expect resistance to tyranny, or con-
curreme in the promotion of any general good, from the
sneaking psalm-singing cowards and slaves, whose very de-
votion itself is a villainy: and whose highest notion of right
and righteousness is, that they will pull down their own beg-
garly souls into Abra.ham's bosom, and then not reach a drop
of water to a gentleman in hell fire.
And mark, too, the wicked fraud, the cheat and the dis-
honour of the compact, between the man of prayer and his
familiar spirit: whom he calls God. It is ofthe same nature
as the engagement between a quack doctor and his hireling
patients, whom he engages to put od' his nostrums, to swear
how bad they were before they took the balm of Gilead, and
what wonderful benefits they had experienced from it. It is
of the same nature as the secret understanding between the
auctioneers and the sweeteners, as they are called, who are the
bait set in the fool-trap, to make you believe that the goods are
"'
A prayer granted, implies, that something is done in conse-
quence of the prayer, which otherwise would not have been done.
Which is the directing mindl 'where the spring of action! who
the Almighty, then! who but the praying knave himself, who,
with all his humble sinncfrship; and lie in the dust before God,
meekly suggests how he might manage his universe better: and
shows him how he ought to act. O, what a modest creature is a
Christian.
i
126 :run DlVIl.?l l'ULl'l1'.`
worth teniimes their value; and if you don't make haste,"
you'll lose the best bargains that ever were in the world.
There's the Jewel of Salvation, for next kin to nothing;
there's the Pearl of Great Price, going for sixpence. And
what would it profit a man, say they, should he gain the
whole world, and lose such a bag-full of moon-shine, as
they'll sell him at a gospel-shop.
"Let us," say they, "as new-born babemiesire the sincere mill:
of the word, that we
may grow thereby." Though when we've
grown a
very little, we begin to perceive that the sincere milk
of the word, has a devilish blue look, and that 'tis not the
spiritual babes, but the spiritual nurses, that get the cream ofit.
And here I cannot but glance at a eontrivance of those
spiritual nurses, who dish up the meat for babes, at all our
Bible Association, and Jew Converting, and Gospel Propagat-
ing
Societies: when the funds of the society run low, and the
ootllection
is likely to leave 'em minus-they always come it
wi a-
"
Bu! ah .' my brethren, it's your prayers that the society
desires. Ifyou have nothing else to gwe, you can give us
your
prayers. It i.m't yonrmoney that we lookfor, but your prayers.
Godforbid that we should think his cause depended on on arm
ofjlesla." And there ! say the babes and sucklings of the
gospel, there's disintersstednassfor you ! Where will you End
infidels that will act from such disinterested motives? l'd
give them a shilling, if 'twas the last I had in the world, be-
cause I see that they are not greedy. Why, aye! And they
see, too, that when once they can make a man fool enough to
prattle to the sky-larks, there's a good chance that he'll he
fool enough for any thing.
AN nonnsr 'rnavna is all I ask for! produce me one single
instance of an honest prayer! and then I'll say,
"
'tis possible
that a man who says his prayers may be an honest fool."
`
But when I see contrivance, trick. and management,between
God and man: when I see the man who puts himself under
the protection of Omnipotence, putting Omnipotence under his
protection inturn, and that the bargainbetween them is,ifyou'll
serve me, I'll serve you; you get me out of my scrapes, and
I'll get you out of yours. What can I think, but that the man
is more knave than fool; and that if the God were any thing
more than a figment of the man's conceit, they are but two
'run nsvu/s PULl'lT~- 197
knaves laying their heads together, to chouse and chat man~
kind. And is't not such a provision to get Omnipotence out
of the scrape, and to prevent his impotence and weakness from
being found out, when the petitioner petitions for nothing; but,
with that swindling, shirking, saving clause, in submission to
the divine will ; and so asks for nothing, that it will cost Omni-
potence any trouble to grant. Spiritual joys, grace in the
soul, and everlasting crowns in heaven, are so much cheaper
than bread and cheese and potatoes, that the sanctiiied knave
always provides for the glory of God, by not asking him for.
any thing which, being of a nature to admit of proof, whether
it had been granted or not, might prove that he stood not
quite so high in court favour as he pretended, and that his
divine croney, his God, that he has to Hy to when he is in
trouble, thinks, if he think at all, that he's an impudent thief
for his pains.
The poets Juvenal and Horace, and the moralist1Esop, have
led our ideas to the only instances, that I remember, with the
exception of the
prayer
of Jacob, in which the arrangement
is
perfectly fair and onourable: the man, a poor benighted
Pagan, to be sure, got grace, or rather good sense, at last, to
wrestle in prayer with his wooden Jehovah, to the effect:
"
0, Almighty and Everlasting God, maker of Heaven and
Earth, and of all things visible and invisible : all my life long
have I been worshipping and adoring your Divine Majesty, and
calling you all the infinitely Wise Gods, and Holys, and Al-
nightys, and Eoerlastings, and Inliniter, that I could jimi big
words i'the dictionary to call you And I and my poor
family are only getting worse and worse, till nothing but starvas
lion stares in in the face. Now, my Lord God, thoughyou can
live without eating and drinking, I can't : though you have no
Bowela, I have ? Will you then advance me a
mortgage on
that heavenly inheritance which you have promised us .' Say but
uhilling, a aizpenco, a
penny, a
half-penny per cent. to save as
from starvation."
The prayer was answered just as all other prayers are an-
swered. And the indignant man, awaking to the reason of a
man, seized the priest's puppet by the leg, and dashed him to
pieces. Away went rags and righteousness,-away went grace
and greece,-away went poverty and prayer! When he got the
Godout of his house, he got the Devil out of his house: the
Y
128 THB 'DEVIL 8 PULPI'l'»
ducats, dollars, crowns, and half~crowns rolled abouthim : the
bacon, bread, and beef, took the place in the cupboard of
bibles and prayer books. And the parsons told the people
never to go near that profane, wicked man, who, pointing to
his well-clothed wife, and well-fed children, told the parsons,
"
We've no more need of your spiritualplaycic : You may let
h."
the booby hutvc
To those who can guess the moral of the fable, the politic,
or political intention of the parable, which is the exact re»
verse of it in every respect, will be easy. The one is a ge-
nerous efort to undeceive and disabuse a
priest-ridden and
gospel-gammon'd people, by some great moralist, whose
name, could it be ascertained, would deserve to be enwreathed
in the grateful remembrance of the whole human species.
The other is some equally anonymous priestly villain's priestly
plot to degrade, to debase, and to destroy every spark of no;-
bleness, and every capability of a noble resentment, which
princes, priests, and oppressors have to fear in man; and to
make use of everlasting petitioners, and patient submitters to
all the wrongs and cruelties that princely power and priestly
pride shall put on us.
If men ought always to pray, here's a pretty praying trade
for a set of idle lubberly thieves, who ind praying easier than
working; and the millions who couldn't possibly continue
their existence if they were always at it themselves, must be
pinched of their honest earnings to pay the monkish knaves to
pray for them. And thus, a
mystical importance is attached
to a set of gourmands, and big bellies, who could make them~
selves of importance by no other means.
And while the poor man is driven to turn his talent from
one art to another, and Ends every inch of ground on which
he might struggle for a living, taken from him by encroach-
ment of machinery,-while every article of human apparel is
got up by machinery-shoes, stockings, hats, and gloves, all
by machinery,-printing, inking, and almost thinking, by ma-
chinery,-yet no machinery has been introduced into England
to take the parsons' job out of their hands: though the use of
machinery, in this way, would save the nation the clear sum
of nine millions nine hundred and twenty thousand a year,
and do the work much more
neatly.
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON THE UNJUST JUDGE.
ww nentlvs asttllmrit.
No. 9.1 APRIL 29. 1831. [Price 2.1.
VIRGO PARITURA:
Q &ermnn,
DELIVERED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
xr run no1'UNnA, nnscxrnmns-nosn, ran. 6, 1831.
-~»~~v-~»-..-~v.~_~v
IN the second article of our holy church's most holy creed,
falsely called the apostle's creed, are these words z
"
And in Jesus Christ, his only Son our Lord, who was cou-
ceived by the Holy Ghost, bom of the Virgin Mary."
The sentence is govemed in the construction by the initial
verb, I believe,-in Latin, credo ; from whence the whole matter
which follows is called the creed. And the credulous person,
giving credence to this creed, professes himself to believe, or
take for sooth and truth, every article contained in this creed ;
the whole number of articles being twelve, in honour of the
twelve patriarchs, in honour of the twelve tribes of Israel, in
honour of the twelve gates of the heavenly Jerusalem, in honour
of the twelve pillars of the Temple of Heliopolis, in honour
of twelve altars of Janus, in honour of the twelve labours of
Hercules, in honour of the twelve shields of Mars, in honour
of the twelve mansions of the moon, in honour of the twelve
Great Gods, in honour of the twelve Great Apostles, in honour
of the twelve Great Angels in Heaven, in honour oi' the twelve
vox.. 1. I
130 'mn nxvufs PuLm'r.
Great Rivers in Hell, in honour of the twelve rays of the Sun,
in honour of the twelve months of the year, in honour of every
thing that was reckoned by twelves,-but not in honour of one
single reason.
I must, for the present inquiry, beg to suspend your curiosity
upon the nail of vulgar apprehension, as to the "
AND in Jem.;
Christ, his only Son our Lord, who was conceived by the Ho@
Ghost, born ofthe"-. Let all that remain-in statu quo-
as it did, or as it may in any mind, while we confine our in-
quiry exclusively to the Virgin Mary.
Who was the Virgin Mary? i. e.
Who was she when she was at home
Where was she bom ?
How did she live?
Where did she die?
Where did she come from?
Where did she go to ?
Why was she a
virgin ?
Why was her name Mary?
What does the name Mary mean?
What is she to us?
What are we to her?
Why was it that we are so expressly and emphatically told
(Luke i. 26), that it was in the sixth month that she received
the visit of the Angel Gabriel : the sixth month, reckoning
March; the first being, as we all know, the month of August?
Why was this Virgin Mary espoused to a man l
Why was that man's name
Joseph ?
Why was he ofthe house of David?
Why did the blessed virgin arise in those days, which were
in that sixth month '!
Why did she go into the HILL country?
Why was that city of Judo, in which she appeared, situated
in the Hill country?
_
And when she appeared in that city of Juda, which was
'rax nnvrrfs rutrrr. 131
situated in the Hill country-why did she say that God had
regarded the low estate of his hand-maiden? and why should
the hand-maid ofthe Lord have ever been in a low estate?
Why did she say that she was his Hum-maiden, not mean-
ing (as God forbid we should think that she could mean) his
handy-maiden: but yet not his foot-maiden, nor his head-
lmiden, nor
any thing else but his hand-maiden?
Why did she say that he had put down the mighty 6-om their
seats, and exalted them of low degree?
Why did she talk about the hungry being filled with good
lhings, and the rich being sent empty away? Such revolution-
ary and seditious language as, had it been thrown out to the
Bgricultural labourers of the present day, would have exposed
her to two years' imprisonment in the Compter prison of this
diy, to pay a line of 2001. to the king, and to be further bound
in Securities of 1,oool., to be of good behaviour for ten years to
wme, and to be further imprisoned till such iine shall be paid,
and such sureties found l
Why did she say that all generations should call her blessed?
Why is it that no historical record whatever-i. e., in all the
world, not one recognises the existence of this most wonderful
P¢'50I1age which the world ever had in it?
Why is our reason patient, under the outrageous violence of
bfing required to believe that he who was the pattern of all
"Hue, packed up his own iiesh and bowels for immortality,
While he left the mould in which he was cast, the lap in which
he lay, the arms which had embraced him, for worm's meat?
_
Why is it, that in exact proportion as the various denomina-
tions of Christians, have _seceded further and further from the
Catholic Church, you find them paying less and less respect to
'he Virgin Mary? Not half so much in the Church of England
"S in the Church of Rome ; not half so much among any other
'denomination of Christians as in the Church of England; and,
among the Unitarians, none at all.
Whyis it, that among all the boasted treatises on the evi-
132 _
'ran DlVIL'S Punrrr.
dences of Christianity, not one has ever
attempted to prove the
existence of the mother of Christ? and
Why is it, that in proportion u the attempt is made to give
an historical basis to Christianity,-all reference to his mother
is so carefully avoided ?
Are not these questions which a man should ask : and on
which he should insist on being satisfied, as he would wish to
be faithful in the exercise of the faculty of his reason, by which
alone he is superior to a brute ?
And does it become a man to be going to ehurch and chapel
week after week, and year after year, to come away no wiser
than he went, listening for ever to etemal repetitions of sounds
without sense, and words without meaning?
If learning be better than ignorance, and wisdom better than
folly, in your apprehension, remember all ye have ever heard
elsewhere, in comparison with what now ye shall hear ; and do
yourselves the justice to reject the evil and to choose the good.
The Church of England celebrates two great festivals annu-
ally to the honour of the Virgin Mary: the one on the 2d of
February, called the Purification of Saint Mary the Virgin ;
and the other on the 25th of March, called the Annunciation of
the blessed Virgin Mary, or Lady-day.
The Church of Rome, being four times more religious than
the Church of England, celebrates eight annual feasts, and as
many preparatory fasts, the day before, to make ready for the
feasts, to the honour of this divine Lady. These are re-
spectively :
Her Purification February 2.
Her Annuncintion March 25.
Her Visitation J nly 2.
Her Desponsation January 23.
ller Commemoration July 1 6.
Her Nativity September 8
Her Conception December 8
Her Assumption August 15.
'rnz DEVlL'B runerr. 133
Why are these particular festivals kept on these particular
days ?
Of the Virgin Mary, it is first to be observed, that that epithet
added to her name, bears no such sense in its primitive appli-
cations as modern parlance attaches to it.
For though she is repeatedly called a virgin, she is never
called a maid. The term virgin being applicable to any virtu-
ous person, either married or single, and either male or female,
except where she says herself-" Behold the hand-maid of the
Lord ;" and that'God "had regarded the [low estate of his
hand-maiden."- '
The celebrated 7th chapter of Isaiah,verse 14, in the Hebrew,
VNTJDI7 TDK? DNWPT 12 I'l75"t 7177! i'lD'717Tl TUV!
rendered in the Septuagint of the Vatican, Ida n -:ra¢p9uo; sr
'yarrpr Jtmlfvrau xau 'refs-ran um, :au x.aMc'e|; ovopn aura Eppavank,
and in our
English, "
Behold a Virgin shall conceive, and bear
aSon, and thou shalt call his name Immanuel," when made to
bear the preposterous sense which the privileged deceivers of
the people put upon it, is only one
among ten thousand
instances ot' the egregious ignorance or wicked fraud, of which,
if they dared stand in controversy before us, they would stand
convicted: the word which should signify a virgin in their
sense of it, not being ndjyfl, which is the word here used,
but r1'71nJ-
But the word Blessed, added to the name of Virgin, itself
interprets that word, and excludes the notion of barrenness,
which the word Virgin alone, in the sense which it bears in
the translation, but not in the original, might seem to carry.
And this, the more
especially, as the blessedness predicated of
this virgin, is the peculiar blessedness of fruigfulness and
abundance : and signifies the overflowing, or that quantity over
and above an exactly full measure, the full measure filled up
and pressed down, and running over, or the handful thrown
into the bargain, over and above what was
exactly purchased,
which is called the blessing. As Elizabeth, when full of the
|34 fran navnfs Pnufrr.
Holy Ghost, explaineth its sense in these words: "
Blessed art
thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb"-that
is, not the son or daughter, but most literally the fruit-that is,
apples, pears, plums, but more especially all sorts of com and
wheat, for the abundance of which, bestowed on man by this
particular virgin, all generations shall call her the blessed, or
fruitful virgin.
As her husband Joseph, who had nothing to do with the
production of the fruits of harvest, or of the harvest mouth, was
yet appointed to preside over that month, and was rather a hus-
bandman, than a husband, as he is expressly worshipped in
those words of the holy Catholic church :
"
All hail, honour of
the Patriarchs: steward of the holy house of God, who hast
conserved the bread of life, and the wheat of the elect :" which,
if it lead us not into temptation, to suspect what particular
virgin it was, whose greatest festival is celebrated on the 15th
of August, who presides over wheat and com, and who is the
particular handmaid of the Lord ; we have never
contemplated
the constellation Virgo,-with her extended arm, in which is
the bright Star Vindemiatrix, holding in her hand an ear of
corn, called Spica Virginis : the Stars which constitute her head,
'being scarcely visible with the naked eye, the figure is chiefly
to be made out by those Stars which go to the making up of
the hand, which gives her the distinction of being, not the foot,
or the leg, or the head, but the hand-maid of the Lord-that is,
the maid with the hand.
But why was her name
Mary? It is precisely the same as
the name Miriam, the sister of Moses and Aaron, and literally
signifies Mnuuz, of the Sea, or
Lady or Mistrew of the sea.
It is precisely the same as
Smyrna, the name of the sixth of the
seven churches which are in Asia, addressed by Christ in the
-Revelations, and which I have demonstrated to be none other
than the Seven Golden Candlesticks-that is, the Seven Con-
stellations, the Ram, the Bull, the Twins, the Crab, the Lion,
the Virgin, and the Balance, respectively, of Munch, April,
'ran nnvxrfs Punrir. 135
Moy, June, July, August, and September, in the midst of which,
the Sun walketh in his annual course through the summer
months or
reign of the kingdom of heaven.
It is none other than the very name of Myrrh, the mother of
the beautiful Adonis, in the Pagan mythology: as you will tind
that very name of Adonis, to this day, given by the Jews to
their Supreme God, Yahu : and by our Catholic brethren to
their Supreme God, Jesus Christ, as in their Antiphon, for the
18th of December,
_
"
O Adamai, and kader of the house of Israel, come and re-
deem ua with a stretched-out arm." The story of Myrrha, in the
10th book of Ovid, introducing the character of the old woman,
Anna, the prophetess of Luke's Gospel, the Mother of the Virgin
of the Catholic, the Nurse of the Virgin of the Pagan Mytho-
logy, aiding and abetting the allegorical incest by which the
Virgin of the Zodiac is altemately represented as the Daughter,
the Wife, and the Mother of the Sun.
V
On all which natural analogies, so clear, so beautiful, so in-
structive in their physical and philosophical interpretation, the
clergy, whose great aim in all ages, but never so much as at
the present day, has been to keep mankind in ignorance, have
founded their monstrous mysteries of a
conception by the Holy
Ghost, a birth by the Virgin Mary,-a Theotokos, a
Deipara, a
Mother of God, a wife of her own Father, a Daughter of her
own Husband, a Sister of her Son, and Mother of her Brother.
And all those other hideous spurities which serve to show to
what n
depth of degradation the human intellect may be reduced,
when once 'tis lett to no more leaming than the priests will pro-
vide for it.
'
The word Mary is, as every one knows, the same as the
Latin word Mare, the Sea; and in its plural form Maria, pro-
nounced Maria., signifies the Seas, as the adjective Marina, of
or
pertaining to the Sea, read without the letter N, after the
ancient manner of writing, is the same word, and was, from the
days of an infinitely remote antiquity, one of the names of the
136 'rr-rs nnvrr.'s PU!-PIT.
Goddess Venus. The Marine Venus, as she was called by the
Romans; the Venus Anaduomene of the Greeks-that is, Venus
rising out ofthe Sea-that is, precisely the character of Miriam,
the sister of Moses and Aaron, at the moment of their leading
up the children of Israel out of the Red Sea, when she sang that
beautiful allegorical song, upon the moment of her foot standing
on the horizon, or shore of the mighty deep.
"
Sing ye to the Lord,for he hath triumphed gloriously ; the
horse and /:is rider hath he thrown into the Sea." At that mo-
ment, when Spica Virginis is at the horizon, the Star Pollux is
at the Meridian, and Sagittarius, the horse and his rider, who is
the Pharaoh of the Old Testament, and the Saul of the New,
directly pursuing Miriam and her company, is at the bottom of
the sea. And this victory of the Lord over Pharaoh, is ex-
pressly declared to have been achieved with a stretched-out arm.
And look ye here, Sirs; by heaven, if here is not the stretched-
nut arm, the peculiar characteristic ofthe Virgin of the Zodiac,
the hand-maid of the Lord!
The Venus Anaduomene, or Marine Venus, was the subject
of the finest picture of all antiquity.~It was painted by Apelles
from the person of his favourite mistress, Campaspe, who had
been given him by Alexander the Great. It came afterwards
into the possession of the Roman Emperor Augustus, who had
it placed in the Temple, which he built to the honour of his
predecessor, Julius.
From this famous picture, or from records of it, it is admitted,
that Raphael, Corregio, and Titian, even down to our own
Sir Joshua Reynolds, formed their great works, which have
never yet been missing from the altars of our Catholic Cathe-
drals.
And thus the face of the harlot Campaspe, has supplied the
features of the Virgin Mary. The name
Mary signifying .Mis-
tress of the Sea, so
distinctly characterising the Marine Venus,
is further identified by the vulgar versions of it into Polly and
Poll, which are common
epithets of the Sea ; the Greek word
'mn nnvufs Punrrr. 137
Pollus, for many, referring to the many waves of the sea; ad-
dressed by our English poet,
"
Hail, thou inexhaustible source of wonder and contemplation!
Hail, thou multitudinous ocean I"
And in the first Iliad of Homer, we have that noble epithet
for the sea, 'u'o>~v¢M|a'@o|o 9a,>~aa-ng.
"
Bn damrwv tvacpnz Quan, wo7u¢7»ow'Ca|o 9aiK¢a'a»|;."
That no such a
person as the Goddess Venus, or the Goddess
Ceres, the Goddess of Corn and Harvest, ever really existed, is
admitted by every one: and the pretence of their existence is ac-
counted for in a moment, by that natural tendency of the mind
to allegorize and personify all its abstract ideas. As to this day,
we
personify death, and speak of the cold hand of death, the
jaws of death, the king of terrors,-everybody, but a fool or an
idiot, knowing that for all such expressions as these, no real
substantial person or
personage, was ever meant by death.
So, after the whole world's observance, from the days of an
intinitely' remote antiquity, that their corn was ripe for the
sickle at the time when the Sun was observed to he in that part
of the heavens which is marked by a
group of Stars, that make
something like the shape of a young woman, with a
spike of
com in one hand, and holding out the other, which has the
beautiful Star, Vindemiatrix in it, over another group which
they called the Scales : the Tsahaists, as
they are called, or
worshippers of the Hosts of Heaven, as naturally as 'tis natural
to man to possess an imagination, fell into all the imaginations,
and adopted all the personifications of that group of Stars,
which, upon the principleof faith-you know faith that removes
mountainsl-became the basis of an evangelical history.
What was only imagined, was believed to have happened
and the mistake, however gross, was such a
pleasing delusion,
that the fools didn't wish to be set right, but looked on any one
as the devil, or the devil's chaplain, who would have awakened
them from their drunken dream of faith, and put them to the
trouble of being rational.
1_38 'run nnvu.'s Punrrr.
The most extravagant adorations, and the most absurd and
self-contradictory fictions, were consecrated to the honour of
this "
wonder in Heaven-a woman." And the brute people,
who never thought of asking their priests what they meant, nor
would have endured the true and rational explication of their
mysteries, were perfectly satisfied, that what was
predicated of
the Virgin of the Zodiac, had had a real occurrence upon earth;
and as for its infinite absurdity, and utter
impossibility to have
happened, the convenient adage,
"
Nothing is impossible to
God," settled thelmatter at onde.
So, no
part of religion is more rational than that in which
this wonderful woman of the Zodiacis to this day worshipped
throughout Christendom, under the denomination of the Virgin
Mary: and that, in words of which the astronomical sense is
actually avowed and acknowledged.
The most beautiful hymn of the Roman Catholic service,
actually bears the title of Ave Maria Stella-hail, Mary Star-
and proceeds:
"
Bright mother of our Maker, hail,
'l`hou Virgin ever blest;
The ocean's Star by which we sail,
'
And gain the port of rest." _ _
As we have to the same
Virgin, those words addressed, which,
if ever there were a
people on earth who worshipped the Stars,
are none other than precisely such words as those S:ar-worship-
pets, would address to this particular group of stars:
Hail, flourishing Virgin; chastity's renown,
Queen of clemency, whom stars do crown.
i Hail, city of refuge,
King David's tower;
Fenced with bulwarks,
And armour's power;
In thy conception, charity did flame!
The fierce dragon's pride
Was brought to shame.
Judith, invincible
Woman of arms:
Fair Abisaig, virgin,
That true David warms.
'mu nnvu.'s PULPIT. 139
Who, then, is that heavenly maid, thathand-maid of the
Lord, that Judith so remarkable for her arms, that warms the
tnre David; but that constellation of Virgo, that city of refuge,
as the ultimate end for which the whole year exists, and which
the Sun enters in the warm month of August, so
expressly and
literally defined in the New Testament, as
"
a virgin in the sixth
month," when "
he crowneth the year with his goodness. And the
valleysalso stand so thick with com, that they do laugh and sing."
Hence, this Virgin of the Zodiac, without any contradiction,
without any absurdity, was
worshipped by the ancient Tsabaists,
under the characteristic epithet of Virgo Paritura-that is, the
virgin that shall bringforth ; because it is really and physically
the mouth of August, which brings forth the fruits of the earth:
and for the fruitfulness of which, expectation waits through all
the circling year.
Hence, though a
pure virgin-that is, most literally, a
fire
virgin-that is, a virgin whose form is made up of those bright
iires, which stud the starry bosom of the night-she is yet the
tender mother of all animal life, who provides the food on which
We are to be sustained throughout the year-that
"
openeth her
hand and iilleth all things living with plenteousness." Thus,
all is beautiful, all is, magnificent, grand, harmonious, and in-
telligible ; elegant as art, and convincing as science, when in-
terpreted by the tme key of astronomical allegory.
Where stands the Virgin Mother, in the gospel, but near the
cross of Christ?
Where stands the Virgin Mother in the Zodiac? but just as
near the cross which the Sun makes over the Equinoctial line,
in September, when, after having expended his last fervours in
ripening the corn, he passes into his church of Laodicea-that
is, literally, the just people-that is, the group of Stars which
form the scales of justice, in which it is neither hot nor cold,
but 'lukewarm : but where the Solar heat every day diminishing,
he begins to dmcend with sorrow to the grave.
The Virgin Mother, is supposed grievously to deplore this
140 fran nnvnfs PULPIT.
event. Hence the pictures of the Crucilixion of Christ, which
represent the Virgin Mary, with the face of the Venus ofApelles,
in deep grief, standing near the foot of the cross. It never
being to be forgotten that the New Testament most distinctly
speaks of two crucilixions of Christ, answering to the two
crosses which the Sun makes over the Equator-the one in
Spring, in which he is the crucitied Lamb, and after which he
ascends into heaven, and the other in September; after which,
he descended into hell. As you have respectively two distinct
pictorial representations of the Crucilixion, the Vernal Cruci-
iixion, entirely omitting the figure of the Virgin Mother, as that
of the Autumnal Cruciiixion, which takes place in September,
with perfect analogy, never omits to represent the Virgin of
August, as standing near the cross of September. _
And the plaint of the Blessed Virgin, as read to this day in
the church of Rome,
"In grief the holy mother stood,
Weeping near the holy wood."
is but a version, and a very bad one, of the Greek idyl of
Moschus, the plaint of the Goddess Venus for the death of her
Adonis : _
"
Alas, alas! Adonis, the beautiful Adonis, is dead;
Alas, alas ! Cytherea, thy beautiful Adonis is dead."
Thamuz and Adonis, are one and the self-same Deity- Adonis
being none other than the Sun in Thamuz, from whence our
common name of Thomas, one of the twelve disciples of Christ
--that is, one of the twelve signs of the Zodiac; the Hebrew
name for the month of June being Thomas; and Thomas,
which is also called Didymus, signifying a Twin.
The annual wound, and being _yearly wounded, puts the
astronomical sense beyond all approach of doubt. '1`he Sun,
underhis name Adonis, literally composed of the three words-
An, the Lord ; ON, the being; and ls, the Fire, is allegorically
wounded, killed, or
put out, by the ascendancy of the Great
Bear, Boar, or Pig, which is Lord of the Ascendant during the
winter months. So Adonis, in the Pagan allegory, is believed
to be killed by the tnsks ofa wild boar; and Jesus, in the
Christian allegory, discovers a
particular spite against pigs,
and is represented to have received five wounds, analagous to
the five winter months, October, November, December,
January, and February, during which he is below the line of
the Equator.
-run nnvufs runrxr. 141
And hence, the savages, whom we call the peculiar people of
God, who have always been worshippers of Adonis, and who,
to this day, use the word Adonai, as synonymous with Yahou,
which we absurdly pronounce Jehovah, have always been dis-
tinguished for their aversion to pork. And the 80th Psalm to
David, that is, to the true David ,the Sun, beautifully describes
the ravages of winter, under this very figure, calling on the Sun
to turn and bring back again the comfortsof that better weather,
which we all, at this time, so long to see.
"
The wild boar out ofthe woods doth root it up, and the wild
beasts of the field devour it." '
"Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand: and upon
the Son of Man, whom thou madest so strong for thine own
self ;" that is to say,
"
Tum thee again, O Lord God of Hosts,
show the light of' thy countenance, and we shall be whole."
`
We shall get the better of these coughs and colds when the
fine weather comes, but not till then, when we shall be able
to say, "Now is the winter of our discontent, made glorious
summer, by this sun of York."
That the Virgin Mary, the Grecian Venus, and the Egyptian
Isis, are each of them the same as the Virgin of the Zodiac, is
a truth borne out, not by one or two, hut by a thousand analogies.
Paris, the capital. of France, still retains its Greek name
Ilapa Io-igftbat is, under the protection of Isis, as its great
cathedral, bears the name of Notre Dame-that is, our
Lady-
that is, the common name of Isis, Ceres, Venus, and the Virgin.
But that by this Notre Dame, our
Lady, was meant none other
than the Lady of the Zodiac, is certified by the architecture of
the building itself, which represents the twelve signs of the
Zodiac, six and six perpendicularly on the sides of the great
northern entrance, with the place that should be occupied by
the Virgin, supplied instead with a figure of the architect of'
the edifice, and the Virgin to whose honour it is dedicated,
taken out of her place in the succession of the signs, and set
over the centre of the door as the Goddess of the temple, with
the child Jesus in her arms, and having under her feet a
serpent
twisted round a tree, which is the exact relation of the Virgin
ofthe Zodiac.
Before the invention of letters, the hieroglyphical monogram
ofthe Virgin of the Zodiac was, what to this day it continues,
three straight strokes, with a thin running line from the middle
of the one, to the top of the other, and a tail, or downward
142 THE DEVIL'S PULPIT.
stroke, passing below the others, which has since become the
shape of the letters M and Y, the natural abbreviation of the
name
Mary.
But not alone the character and the symbols of the Virgin of
the Zodiac, were from remotest ages the very same as those of
the Virgin Mother of Christ; but both the name of Christ and
of Jesus, was
given to the child which the Virgin of the Zodiac
was represented as carrying in her arms, and which, in the
inscription to her honour in the temple of Isis, she was
repre-
sented as herself declaring to be none other than the Sun. I
au ALL 'run ls, 'rrurr was, AND 'mar SHALL ne; .mn rar:
Favrr wrucu I nnovoar ronru rs 'run SUN.
The Arabian astronomer Alboazer, or Abulmazer, has the
curious e
quoted by Kirker, Selden and R. Bacon, and
Dupuis 2Vol. iii., p. 46), putting the astronomical and inli-
nitely remote antiquity of the Christian allegory, beyond ques-
tion, to every mind capable of perceiving what evidence of
antiquity, really is.
"
We have," says Abulmazar, "in the first decan of the sign
of the Virgin, following the most ancient traditions of the
Persians, the Chaldeans, the Egyptians, Hermes, and
Esculapius, a young woman, called in the Persic language
Seclenidos de Darzama ; in Arabic, Adrenedefa-that is to say,
a chaste, pure, and immaculate Virgin, suckling an infant,
which some nations call Jesus, but which we, in Greek, call
Christ."
And why was this Virgin Mother of Christ Jesus, espoused
to a man whose name was
Joseph, but as you may see in the
visible heavens, and as is here delineated on the globe, this
Virgin in the sixth month, August, is accompanied, and always
to be seen together, rising or setting with the Husbandman
Bootes, who, with his beautiful Star Arcturus, and his sons,
mentioned in the Book of Job,
presided
over the vintage, and
was believed to have taught man ind the cultivation ot corn;
and who is so honoured and so
worshipped
to this day, by the
church of Rome in her collect: "We eseech thee, 0 Lord,
that we may be assisted by the merits of the spouse of thy most
holy mother, that what of ourselves we cannot obtain, may be
given us by his intercession, who liveth and reigneth with God
the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Ghost."
_
The name Bethlehem, in which the Virgin resided, literally
signifying the house qf corn, and the name Joseph, as literally
'raa r>avu.'s rvuur. 143
signifying increase or abundance; and it is the business of the
husbandman to store up and take care of this increase and
abundance, as it is in the month of August that the earth brings
forth her increase, and God, even our God, doth give us his
blessing.
And why, has the church fixed the great festival of the As-
sumption of` the Blessed Virgin Mary, on the 15th of August,
and that of hernativity on the 8th of September, as you will
see in your Almanacks, even of the present year?
The Assumption of the Virgin Mary, is fixed on the 15th of
August, because at that time the Sun is so entirely in the con-
stellation of the Virgin, that the Stars of which it is composed
are rendered invisible in the bright effulgence of his rays; and
the Christian church has the words: "
this day the Virgin
Ma§y,
is taken up into the Heavenly Chamber, in which the King
of ings, sits in his Starry Seat." As the Pagan church,from
an infinite antiquity, fixed this very day, as that ofthe Assump-
tion ofthe Goddess Astrea-that is, the Starry Goddess, which
is but another name of the same
personification. But, about
three weeks afterwards, the Sun having passed on, in his a
pa-
rent annual course, towards the scales of September, the gtars
which compose the Virgin, seem to emerge out of his rays, and
begin again to be visible to the naked eye.
or that reason, and for none other, the church has fixed the
festival ofthe nativity of the Virgin on the 8th of September.
And she was
espoused to the man
Joseph, because the con-
stellation Bootes, always rises and sets with her, and so was
imagined to have the charge of bringing her up. With her he
comes up in the Opium, the Hill Country, the upper or visible
hemisphere ; and with her, he goes down into Egypt-that
is, he sinks below the horizon in the west. The Great Star in
the Virgin, appearing on the eastem edge of' the horizon, at the
moment of midnight, between the 24th and 25th of December,
when the Sun gains the first degree of ascension, was said to
reside over his nativity, and gave occasion to the fable of
ghrist-i. e., the Sun being bom of a ure Virgin.
The fable of the birth, being once adlopted,the natural analo-
gies of human life, supplied the date of other festivals in honour
of this celestial lady, as that of Lady-day, the 25th of March,
precisely nine months before the 25th of December.
While our own allegorical language supplies all the fillings
up, of the ingenious fiction, the pure Virgin, without any con-
144 'ran mzvu/s x>UL1>1'r.
tradiction or absurdity, is literally purified in the tire of Hell,
when she is in her "low estate," in February; but, in the sixth
month, she thanks the Sun for having regarded the low estate,
that she, this maid of the hand, had been in, when he has put
down the mighty-i. e., the Stars of the opposite constellation,
fiom their seat, and exalted or
brought to the zenith, those that
had been of low degree. He fills the hungry with good things,
as the Lion of July, called by Samson, the Eater, and herself
in the sixth month, are the fruitful and abundant months:
while the rich, the opposite signs of January and February, are
sent empty away, with nothing to live on, but fish ; so that with
them, till the mutton of March, and the beef of April come in,
it must necessarily be, Lent.
And all this to-do is expressly declared to be in fuyilment gf
the covenant-that is, most literally, making up of the astrono-
mical allegory to Abraham--that is, the planet Saturn and his
seed-that is, the Stars of Heaven for ever.
Thus, Sirs, have I brought before you, in this lecture, a few,
in my other lectures, very many, ofthe principles of that occult
astronomical science which lies hid under the riddle of Evange-
lical fiction, with a force of demonstration which prejudice, hy-
pocrisy, or madness may oppose, but reason cannot.
For, Sirs, if reason, if truth, and the right of the cause, were
with those whom I oppose; or, if they themselves felt an
honourable conviction that they were right, why should they
have recourse to the dark and slanderous arts of defamation and
scandal, and the wicked persecuting tricks, which a good cause
never needed, and good men never used.
Why should they brand me with opprobrious epithets, to
terrify men's minds from the pursuit of knowledge?
'
Why is it
that they dare not trust their hearers, nay, nor themselves, so
much as to hear me, or even to know what the nature of the
arguments, I adduce is? But that, like conscious bankrupts,
they dare not look at the bill which an honest man would bring
against them.
Why do they decline the challenge which I have given, and
shall never cease to give, to the best and ablest of them, under
any arrangements, even of 'mem owN, so they will not kill me,
to show, by fair comparison, whether it be we, or they, who are
deceivers of the people?
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON VIRGO PARITURA.
was EDU513 amllyfh
"AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT I3."-Allin Cmntnghan.
No. io.) ,
MAY 6, 1sa1. [Price ad.
SA I N T PETER:
Q §2fmDU»
DELIVERED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
ar 'run norunna, nmcxralaas-aoan, FEB. 6, 1831.
. -~v--~.~~`~_.~v--v
"
And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his Wyou
Mother laid, and sick ofafeoer. And he touched her hand,
and the fever left her ; and :Ile arose, and ministered unto
them."-Mxrrnzw viii. 14. .
A
Ham: isa personage introduced to us, of whom we ought,
upon all principles of rational criticism, to be supposed' never
to have heard before. For this is the first passage in any part
of God's most holy word (that is, in either New Testament
or
Old), in which the name of Peter occurs:
yet here his
nameoccurs, and his character is introduced with a
familiarity
as
gross, as if the writer of this gospel had taken it for granted
that every body must know who Peter was,-that his name and
character, and every thing that was to be understood with respect
to him, would present themselves to the mind as
immediately
as the name of any one of the days of the week or months of
the year. As you might say, Sunday, February 20; every body
knowing, as well as yourself, what Sunday, February 20, means
A proof; this, among ten thousand others, that these gospels
vox.. 1. x
146 'nu nnvu/s PULPI1.
are not original writings, and were not, and could not have been,
written, till any length of time you please, after all the subject-
matter which they contain was as familiar to the general notions,
and ordinary associations of idea, among the persons for whose
convenience they were written, as the names of the days of the
week are with ourselves.
Here is an ambiguity in the text itself, which could only have
been set right, or at least settled, by those who had other and
better means of settling it, than any infomation which this
gospel contains. For, as far as the text goes:
"
When Jena
was come into Peter's house, he saw his WWQ Mother laid, and
sick of a fever," there's no
knowing whether it was Peter's
wife's mother, or Jesus's wife's mother, that wm laid, and sick
of a fever.
And if anything like historical and probable fact were in-
tended in the matter, nothing hinders but that Jesus might
have been a married man, as well as Peter. And there might
have been a Mistress Jesus Christ, as well as a Mistress Peter;
and that, too, with very great relief to the moral character of
this great pattern of holiness, from certain suspicions which
would naturally attach to a
person who was so familiar as he
was, with other men's wives: as we expressly read, that he was
followed by certain women which had evil spirits; which evil
spirits, I hope I may, without impiety, suppose to be none of
the best spirits.
"
Mary Magdalen, out of whom went seven
devils; _and Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward; and
Susanna, and many others which ministered to him of their
substance."
Like the Great Mogul, this great pattern of purity and
holiness,-his purity and holiness, notwithstanding--kept n
seraglio,-which accounts for the singular fact, that of all the
ten commandments, the one which our Blessed Saviour held to
be of least consequence, was that which comes between "
thou
shalt do no murder," and "
thou shalt not steal! As we find
him disposed to hush up a matter of that sort, with a
good-
'ras navnls ruarrr. 147
Dltured- Ut, tut ! say no more about it."-say no more about it.
Hath no man condemned thee, woman? neither do I condemn
thee. We are sis' of one and ha(/`-a-dozen qf the other. Go,
go! and be more prudent _for thefuture. It in not _jbr us to
_/ling :tones at you. The gospel, you see, both in example and
precept, presents us with the purest system of 'morals that was
ever propounded to man.
But our business now is with the chief of the apostles, that
great paragon of moral perfection, Saint Peter, who denied his
master, and who curst and swore till the very cock upon his
roost crowed Shame on
you, Peter ; but, by the wink of an
eye,
tumed into "Simon Peter, a servant and an
apostle of Jesus
Christ, the first Saint of the Calendar, the Porter of Heaven's
Gate,andthe rock and foundation ofthe whole Christian Church."
Now, as we can never go to Heaven when we die, unless
Peter, to whom Christ has committed the keys, shall be pleased
to open the gate to us, is it not worth our while to scrape all
the acquaintance we can with such an
important personage,
and not to expose our souls to the dreadful venture of having
to knock, and cry, Lord, Lord, open to us, to receive no better
answer, perhaps, than a Go and be ---, yejools, I know ye
not: and why should I, when you never
thought it worth your
while to know me. -
So, then, if ye have a mind, I will .introduce ye to Saint
Peter, and will tell you more about him and qf him, than any
of your clergy, either Catholic or Protestant, have ever known
themselves, or if they have known, than they have ever had
the honesty to tell you. Their object being that of the
Clrerubim, with the flaming sword, which turned every way to
keep you from the tree of knowledge,-my object being, that
which suitably comports with the title they have given me, of
the Devifs Chaplain, to tempt you, by all the arguments I can
ue, to eat of that forbidden fruit; for God doth know, that in
the day that ye eat thereof, then shnll your; eyes be open; ye
Shall see through the vile and wicked imposture that has been
148 :nu navn/s rumrrr.
practised on you, and the power of priats shall exist no
longer.
The gospel of Luke, chap. iv., settles the ambiguity of the
text of Matthew, by determining for us, what otherwise we
should have no right to determine, that it was Simon's wife's
mother, and not Jesus's wife's mother, that had the fever,-
Simon and Peter, or Simon Peter, being assumed to be syno-
nimous, or a double name for one and the self-same personage.
But the matter is but little mended, in this account, which re-
presents the fever, which had seized the old woman, as
being
as much a real personage, and as sensible a
personage, as the
old woman herself. -
St. Luke, who we are told, was a
physician, and thaefore
ought to be called Doctor St. Luke (and we have at this day a
Doctor St. John), tells us that this _fever took the woman, not
that the woman had taken the fever; and not that the fever
was avexy bad fever, or a yellow fever, or a scarlet fever, but
that it was a great fever-that is, I suppose, a
feva six feet
high, _at least: a
personal fever, a rational and intelligent fever,
that would yield to the power of Jesus's argument, but would
never have given way to James's powder. So we are expressly
told, that Jesus rebuked the fever-that is, he gave it a good
scolding: asked it, I dare say, how it could be so unreasonable
as to plague the poor old woman so cruelly, and whether it
wasn't ashamed of itself; and said, perhaps, Get aut, you
naughty wicked fever you : Go to Hell with you; and such
like olzgjurgatory language, which, the fever, not being used to
be rebuked in such a manner, and being a very sensible sort of
fever, would not stand, but immediately left the old woman in
high dudgeon, and swore he'd never come into that house
again.
The next important discovery is, that Peter, or Simon Peter
was at any rate worth a house: which shows us, at least, that
the man was by so much richer than the master, who declares
that he had not where to lay his head. The apostle, you see
ru navn.'s ruurr. 149
had a lixed and permanent place ot' residence, while his master
had not. It is hard to reconcile this admission of Petis being
a
housekeeper, and able, not only to keep a wife, and very
likely a
large iamily of his own, but to keep his wife's mother
aswell; with the general understanding, that he was eweed-
ingly poor, and nothing more than a
poor fisherman of the
Galilean Lake,exeept we suppose that his wife took in washing,
which may account for her husband being a Waterbearerf'
But then again we have the fresh ditiiculty opened upon us,
inthe Acts of the Apostles, which implies,that he was not a
fisherman, but a tanner, whose house was by the sea-side, with
this most curious _source of ambiguity, which none of your
Clergy can give a reason for; and you shall soon see that I
Nil! that Simon Peter, who, in the gospel, is but one
person,
in the Acts of the Apostles, splits into the two, Simon, and
Peter : and then, Peter is no longer a housekeeper, but alodger,
Peter, lodging in the house of Simon. The house of the tanner
being by the sea.-side (which was certainly not the best situa-
tion for a tan-yard), may account for the mistake of the tnnner
being taken for a fisherman. Though the most conclusive
r$son for settling the question, that this first of the apostles
was a tanner, and not a fisherman, is, that though he might
catch a sole or a dat lish now and then, yet we may be very
well assured, that there is nothing like leather. "
And it came
to pass," says our holy record,
"
that Peter tarried many days
ill-Tdppa, with one Simon a tanner." But the most curious
fact is, that God Almighty, who knows nothing about 11,
Cllrey Street, Lincoln's Inn, should discover such a very par-
tiwlnr acquaintance with the house of Simon the tanner, as in
two or three particular revelations from Heaven, repeatedly to
describe it, as if to prevent all possibility of mistake: "And
How send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whole surname
it Peter; he lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is
by the seo-side." This is most condescending particularity,
° Peter is unquestionably the Aquarius of the Zodiac.
150 rnn nnvnfs runrrr.
indeed. Now it is held to be a wonderful conformation 'to the
evidences of Christianity, to know that there actually is a town
of the name of Joppa, situate in the Levant, on the coast of the
Mediterranean Sea: and our Christian travellers, who always
see what they go to see, by the help of this divine directory,
will find you out the very tan-yard of Simon, and come back
in new shoes, made of the leather that Simon tanned.
While the scripture mentions no other place of permanent
residence for St. Peter, none that could at any time be called
his home, but Joppa,-God himself instructing us that if we want
to find Peter, we must send to Ioppa. And if we really want to
know who a man is, there's nothing like setting ourselves to find
outwhoheiswhenheisathome. Now,asPeterwasasortof
personage who found it convenient to have more names than
one, and could onlybe identified by ringing the changes through
a' great many aliases, as alias Simon, alias Peter, alias Simon
Peter, alias Peter Simon, alias Cephas, alias a Stone, alias a
Rock, alias Satan, alias the Devil;-
We have one of these aliases immediatelyconfened on him
Christ himself, which puts into our hands a clue to further rm-
ravelments,
"
Blessed art thou Simon-bar Jonah." Matth. xvi.
But this "
Bar-Jonah," ought to be no bar to our
perception,
that Simon and Jonah are one and the same personage-" Bar-
Jonah" signifying the son of Jonah, and son and father commonly
bearing the same name: and Jonah, who navigated in the {ish's
belly, when he fled from the presence of the Lord, went down
to Joppa, and there he found a
ship 'going to Tarshish ; so that
Simon-ba:-'Jonah-that is, Simon, the son of Jonah, identities
the Peter of the New Testament, as a second edition of the
Jonah of the Old, according to the analogy which, in so many
instances, I have demonstrated as obtaining, between the Old
and New Covenant : with only this curious transposition, that in
the New Covenant, it is the man that catches the fish: whereas,
in the Old Covenant, it is the fish that catches the man.
Now the name Jonas, which, on the showing of Christ him-
'ran navxrls PULPIT. 151
self, constituted so essential a
part of the style of Simon Peter :
Simon-bar Jonah is a direct anagram, and absolutely the same
name as that of Janus, who, in the Pagan mythology, bears the
same character, and tills the same iimctions, as the Simon-bar
Jonah, or Peter of the Gospel; with this most curious, most
startling coincidence ofmet-tlmtwhile no single line ofhistorical
record, of any character whatever, was ever yet to be adduced
to prove that any such person as Simon Peter or Simon-bar
Jonah ever existed, or was ever in Rome,-Rome, through all
periods of its Pagan history, was famous for its temple of Janus.
Januswas not a Greek, but peculiarly and exclusively a Roman
deity ; and Rome, to this day, retains the selilsame Janus,
under his name Peter, as her patron saint; and her temple of
Janus, on the self-same spot of ground, imder the name of St.
Petal-'J Church.
The figure of the God, Janus, (lamog), was represented with
astaif in one hand, with which he pointed to a rock, from whence
issued a
profusion of water; while in the other he held a. key,
and had generally near him some resemblance ofa ship.
He was addressed,
"
Jane bifrons, anni tacite labentis origo."
Twofaced Janus, the origin of the silently_flowing year. He
was believed to preside over the new year; his two faces
(sometimes one old, and the other yoimg), were emblematical
of his looking both on the old and the new year, as the name
of the month January, is derived from that of Janus. And his_
lingers were so
disposed as to represent the number 365, the
number of the days of the year. Sometimes the two faces, the
old and young, were
represented as the one looking upwards,
to the coming year, the other downwards, on the year gone by,
and were set on two distinct persons ; and in this form you may
see him to this day, on the westem front of our own St. Paul's
Cathedral, where he has got the character of the Evangelist, St.
Msrk. And the church has invented the silly lie that Saint
152 'ran nzvufs ruuvrr.
Mark wrote his gospel, under the immediate dictation of St.
Peter; as there you will observe the old, boy, with his pen in
his hand, ready to scribble away; while the young one (a little
Cupid, with wings, the very form of the Aquarius, or Water-
bearer ofthe Zodiac), is looking him up in the mee, and telling
him what to write. While wehave still preserved the very words
of the Pagan prayer-book, which'identify him with the Peter of
the gospel.
"
Jane Pater, Jane tuens, Dive biceps biformis.
O Cate rerum Sator, 0 Princlpium Deorum."
O Father Janus, 0 regarding Janus, two-headed, two-bodied
Saint; O wise smear qf things, O chiefofall the Gods.
The word Pnea, now generally taken lbr the Greek or
Latin for nrnsn, is but a
corruption of the word Peter. The
word Pxroa or Pnroa, from whence the nameof the Apostle
Peter was, as the leamed Bryant has shown, an
Egyptian
word, the true name of the Ammonian priests, or priests of
Jupiter Ammon, being Petor or Pator: and it is found in
combination, to this day, in the name of the Supreme Pagan
Deity, Jupiter, which, without any pun or levity, and in brave
defiance of any approach of ridicule or sarcasm, stands, the in-
controvertible basis and origin of the Jew Peter-Jew wu the
name of God, which the soft and elegant utterance of the Greek
nations, pronounced with a
sigma or Zeta, as mug, or Zw, and
Pater, or Peter, signifying not his patemal character, but his
wisdom, in foretelling things to come,
"
or bringing to light,"
the proper attribute of Tmz. As the priests of Apollo were
called Patéres, or Peters, in signilication of their being inter-
preters ofthe oracles of Apollo, as our
priests, are to this day.
All the names of relationship among us, as father, mother,
brother, sister, uncle, nephew, niece, being, in the opinion of
the leamed Bryant, originally the names of different orders 'of
priests or priestesses ofthe Gods and Goddesses.
The name of Peter, the highest, lirst, and chief of the priestly
hierarchy, and a
part of the name of the Supreme Deity Jac'
'rua navufa runrrr. 153
Peter, was, by an obvious metaphor, paued over to the father
ofthe household, and he was called Pater, as bearing the same
analogy to the family as Janus to the Gods, as January tothe
year, as
Aquarius to the Zodiac, as Reubm to the Patriarchate,
a Jonah to the Prophets, as Peter to the Apoatleahip, and aa
John the Baptist to the Messiahship.
At Rome, the Pagan origin of the name and character of
Janus is overlooked or forgotten in the word St. Peter; but at
Naples, professing the same Christian religion as Rome, and
under the same Patron Saint, it comm bolt upon us in the un-
wvered, and undisguised name of Saint January, Bishop of
Beuevento, who was believed to have been beheaded in the pen
secution of Dioclesian, and who was much auch mother Saint,
IS Saint Monday, and whose blood is annually liquefied, when
towards the latte' end of January, the Sun turning and looking
with awarmer ray upon the mouth, that haddeiied being under
his induenoe, his icy-heart is thawed, his fronts unbound, and
January, that came in so cold and ruthless, and blustered like
St. Peter in the gospel,
"
went out and wept bitterly :" and here
you see more than enough of the marks of his dirty tears stain#
ing the walls of our Rotunda.
One of the most striking epithets of the God Janus, was
Mdlutinua-that is, of or
pertaining to the nu-ning, as he was
believed to preside over all beginnings, entrances, gates, and
wmmencements ; not merely over the beginning of the year,
but over the beginning or dawn of every day: and hence, the
Cock, whose crowing announces the tirst appearance of the day,
Was the peculiarly accompanying emblem of the God Janus;
md bears precisely the same part in the gospel allegory, in
'lowing Peter into repentance, as he bears in the analogy of
Dhture, when his shrill voice proclaims the breaking-in of evan-
Xdical light upon the dark conscience of the Sun-abjuring
\>0l1e; and the evidence of his repentance descends upon the
World,in the dewy tears ofthe morning.
Hence, 'tis the allegorical language of the Sun, addressed sto
154 mn nnvnls runrlr.
the God of Morning, most beautiful in poetry, most accnmte
in nature, in the 130th Psalm: "
My soul 'waiteth for thee,
before the Moming Watch, I any before the Morning Watch."
Nor less allegorical, nor less beautiful, is that extension of the
metaphor, in the language of Christ, to the Janus of the gospel,
"
Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice,"-that is,
ertendedly,
"
Though the three watches ofthy :tate qfdorknus,
thoulbalt frrtwear thyllord: but the early birdshallowaken
thee, and at his crowing thou shalt perceive my glance upon thee,
and acknowledge its influence, in dewy sorrows."
The Greeks, who never adopted the Janus of the Romans,
had a Janus of their own-i. e., the same allegorical personage,
under the name of Eaculapiau, who, like the Janus of the
Romans, the Jonas of the Old Testament, and the Simon-bar
Jonas, or Simon Peter of the gospel, was none other than one
of the-ten thousand personilications of the Sun ; as is discovered
to us in the etymology of the name Esculapiux, which is com-
pounded of the three Ammonian radicals: Asn-fire-xoL-
ull: no-father, with the mere grammatical termination,
makingAdi-kul-ab-iua-that is,-Hslsculapius, the Fire, the
Universal Father--that is, the Sou.
Of the Greek Janus, then, as well as of the Roman, the cock
was the peculiar emblem: and we have meaning, signiiicancy,
and beeuty, in those last words of the dying Socrates, admitted
to have been one of the wisest of the human race, and a most
strenuous maintainer of the Unity and Perfection of the Supreme
Being, when, with his dying breath, he reminded his followers
of their religion: duties, saying,
"
Remember we owe a cock to
Jilsculapiua."
But the eecompaniments and associations which identify the
Saint Peter of the gospel, are more particularly :
1. His primacy inthe Apostleship.
2. His appointment to the care of the Keys of the Kingdom
of Heaven.
3. His designation ns Cephas, which is, being interrupted, n
-run nnvu/| runrxr. 155
Stone, or Rock, upon which Stone or Rock the Church of
Christ was to be founded.
4. His being the Brother of Andrew.
5. His being the Father of Judas Iscariot; as Judas Iscariot.
is expressly called the Son of Simon.
6. His being the peculiar comrade of Jana and John, the
Sons qf Zebedegwhich were
partners with Simon, Luke v.
7. His always and invariably being connected with fishing, or
fishing-nets, or a boat or
ship, or with something necessarily
leading the mind to some idea of water, of the sea, or of a sea-
faring life. .
The ship into which Christ entered was Simon's; the house
into which Christ entered was Simon's. And we have four
partners in the firm, the brothers Simon and Andrew, and the
brothers James and John, the sons of Zebedee; which name
Zebedee, literally signifies, abundant portion, as James and
John receive from Christ the distinguishing title of Boanerges,
which is, the sons of thunder. Mark iii.
1. The primacy, or first place in the apostleship, is evidently
given to Peter, on no score of superior merit, and can be ao-
counted for on no other principle, than the analogy of his
character, and the absolute identity of his name, as Simon-bar
Jonas, to the first of the signs of the Zodiac, Aquarius, the
Water-bearer, from which the name of the month Jonuary, or
January, takes its name, followed as you see that month is, by
the sign of the Fishes of February, which the man, pouring out
his urn of water,seems to be pursuing; hencetheallegorical
character of a
fsherman, given to the people of the gospel, and
the belief, that Janus was the Son of the Ocean, and the in-
variable accompaniment of a boat or
ship, in all representations
of the .Tama of the mythology.
The water which Aquarius, or Januarius pours out of hisum,
isswallowed by the great southern (ish, Formolhaut: hence,
the allegorical fiction of Jonah, being swallowed by a whale, iri
the Old Testament, and the no less allegorical danger of St. Pe~
ter, of being drowned, in the New.
156 'ml n|vn.'s ruulrr.
2. Zh Keys qf the Kingdom ¢y` Heaven, given to Peter,
in those words of Christ: "
I say also unto thee, that thou art
Peter; and upon this Rock I will build my Church, and the
Gates of Hell shall not
lprevail against it. And I will give unto
thee the Keys of the ingdom of Heaven. And whatsoever
thou shalt loose on Earth, shall be loosed in Heaven,"-is a
sort of language to which any notion. of literality, history, or ab-
solute tact, can no more attach, than to the language of fable.
We must renounce our reason altogether, and so, the greater
fools or madmen we can make of ourselves the better, to
dream of such a
thing as Heaven with keys to it: the key
of the
pantry-door, and literal gates of Hell, and a wer,
either given or
possest, by any human being, or Divine King,
either to bind or loose, according to the oaprice of his arbitrary
will.
And this renunciation of men's reason it is, that has given
grounds to the insane arrogance of the Papal power, and the no
less insane tyranny of our Protestant clergy, and the infinite
miseries, cruelties, and crimes, which religious insanity has en-
tailed on the ,Christian world.
But, use your reason, and how beautiful, how sublime is the
allegory: you have the key of the kingdom of Heaven, as it
were, put into your hand, b Christ himself in his own
ipress
declaration, that to preach the gospel, was
"
to prea the
acceptable year of the Lord"-that is (than which no
explana-
tion could be plainer)--to preach the gospel, is to set forth the
annual phsenomena of nature, rmder the beautiful type of an
allegorical history: in which the sun is re resented as Jesus
Christ, and the twelve apostles, through which he sheds his
bright beams of light upon the world, are the twelve signs of
the Zodiac. And thus you see at once, in how beautiful, in how
sublime an analogy, Janus or January has two face, the one
looking downwards upon the old, the other upwards on the new
ear.
y
2. How Reuben, the first of the twelve Patriarchs, who is
the same Aquarius, is described in the Pentateuch, as that "
he
shall pour the water out of his buckets."
3. How the Son of Man, who is the same Aquarius in the
Psalms, is described as "the mm
qflcisright hand, whom God"
-that is, the Sun,
"
made so
strangfor his ownaelfl"
4. How the prophet Jonas, who is the same Aquarius, was
swallowed by the whale. ,
,
nn navnfs rnan-r. 157
5. How, when you go into the city, the heavenly Jerusalem,
"there diall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water," who
is this same Aquarius, the Water-bearer of January.
6. How, John the Baptist, who is this same Aquarius, comes
haptizing
with water to repentance, saying that "they should
'
e on him who should come after him '-that is, the Sun.
_
7. How, Simon-bar Jonas, who is again this same Aquarius,
is
always connected with the idea of water and fishing, has the
keys of the kingdom of Heaven ; as he stands uthe iirst month
of the year, and has the power of binding up the heavens, in
fronts: whose effect is felt throughout all nature, or loosening
them in thasos, and
delugini
us with rains: of which, in like
manner, every thing on eart is loosened, and liquefied, with
this only consolatory assurance, that "the gates of Hell shall
never prevail against it"-that is, be the frosts or thaws, the
bindings or loosenings of January, what they may; the Sun has
given such power to this first month of the ear, that the gates
Of Hell-that is, the months of October, Nyovember, and De-
cember, which the sun
passes through, in autumn and winter,
willnever he able to recover their empire; and January, the
rock of ages, with -all his ruggedness, or frosts or thaws ; by the
evidence of his lengthening days, assures us, that
"
Though horrors roxmd our mansion reign,
Yet spring shall come, and nature smile again."
And hence, have we the meaning of that conundrum, that in
the days of November and Decembu, which are now gone by,
we daired to see one of the days of January--that is, one of
the days of the Son of Man, and were not able.
And we have this distinct axiom, laid down by the speaker
in the gospels, as a guide and clue to us in the astronomical
interpretation,
to prevent the confusion and cross
purposing,
whic would appear to arise from the Sun being spoken of as
the sign in which the Sun is; and the sign in which the Sun is,
as the Sun itself.
-
"
The Disciple isnot above his Lord; it isenoughfor the
Dilcipk, that he be as his Lord." And hence, the equal re-
spect paid in the heathen mythology to Janus, as to the Su-
preme Jupiter himself : and each of the twelve great Gods,
when spoken of separately and distinctively, being each in turn
s ken of and addressed as the one Supreme and only God.
Iggnce, in the Christian mythology, the equal respect paid to
the apostles, or to ach and every of them, as to Christ him-
158 :rua Dlvllfl roms.
self, and, indeed, a
great deal more,-as you will find through-
out Christendom, twenty churches built to the honour of St.
Peter, St. James, St. Andrew, and all the rest of them, except
Saint Judas Iscariot, for one to the honour of poor Jesus.
And hence, you see, with what an accuracy of analogy the
apostle has a house of his own, while the Saviour has not where
to lay his head,-the constellations retaining their fixed relative
positions, while the Sun, in seeming to pass through them,
wanders from house to house.
And hence, as you find Jesus in the gospel, calling Peter a
Stone, you will find Peter in the epistle retuming the compli-
ment, and calling him a Stone, and the drollest kind of a Stone
that ever was in the world, a
living Stone, unto whom coming, he
says, "as unto a
living Stone, disallowed indeed qf men, but
chosen of God, and precious." And this, in accomplishment
of that most extraordinary prophecy, in the 28th of Isaiah:
"
Thus saith the Lord God,
'
Behold I lay in Zion for a foun-
dation, a Stone, a tried Stone, a
precious Corner Stone, a sure
foundation; and he that believeth shall not make haste:"'
which, for any explication that any of my reverend brethren
can
give,
and
saving(most reverentially speaking) the honour of
the rd God, w o, you know, has a
right to say what he
pleases : if any
body
else had said it, I should say-No! I
won't tell you what should say.
'
Are we then so positively commanded to worship a Stone,
and to believe in a Stone; and that, under peril of the drollest
damnation that ever man was damned to, that if' we don't believe
in the Stone, we shall make haste?
And does it become us, then,to fling stones at the pretended
ignorance of our heathen ancestors, and to assure ourselves that
none other than the grossest litholatry could have been intended
by those who addressed their devotions to the immortal statuary
ofa Phidias or Praxitiles, the Paphian Venus, or the Olympian
Jove, all of Parian Marble, and of such matchless execution,
as if the design of them had been to present a
perpetual admo-
nition to the world: how clever, how infinitely clever man may
become, when he gives his mind to the arts and sciences; and
what a fool, religion makes of him. 0, but cry my gospel in-
nocents, the Stone, spoken of in Scripture, does not mean a
Stone. No! it does not; and neither does the man, spoken
of
in the gospel, mean a man: and no suoh man as Jesus
Christ, or such men as any of his twelve apostles, eve'
'rnn navufs run!!-r. 159
existed. Nor has their historical existence ever been pretended,
but by those whose object is to keep mankind in ignorance,
and who havejustly, that woe denounced against them, by the
speaker in the
gospel,
who was, in hisday, what I am called
in mine, the ev1l's
Chalplain;
and who said to the chief
priests
and lawyers, what say to them too :
"
Woe unto you,
ypocrites, for ye have taken away the key of knowledge; ye
enter not in yourselves, .and them that were entering in, ye
hindered." Luke xi. With that key, I now
present you, in the
moral certainty, that by Zion, was never meant any lace on
earth, but the great circle of the starry heavens; as tlle Stone
laid for a foundation in that Zion, the sure foundation, is that
first of the signs of the Zodiac, from which the whole vaulty
arch of Heaven takes its Spring, which the Sun enters in the
month of January.
»
"And he that believeth"-that is, he who understandeth the
science hidden under this allegory, so as to know the bearings
and positions of this first of the constellations, he will not
make haste:-that is, he will become an accurate chronologer,
and will be able to keep his account of time, with the accu-
lazyi
of an almanac, through the whole acceptable year of the
r .
As the astrologue in the New Testament, rebukes his hearers
for their stupidity,
"
a wicked and adulterous generation"-that
is, going ad ultcra, looking to the Stars that lie without the band
of the Zodiac,
"
seeketh for a sign from Heaven, and there shall
no sign be given them, but the sign of the prophet-that is,
the foreteller of future events, the
prophet
Jonah"-that is,
Aquarius, the Water-bearer; because,i you don't understand
that, you are too stupid ever to make any proficiency in
astronomy; but, understanding that, you will soon be able to
decipher all the rest,-as thus:
1. January, is Saint Peter, Aquarius.
2. February, is Saint Judas Iscariot, the Fishes : that fellow
betrayed his master, and lost a day, as St. Peter, in the Acts
ofthe Apostles explains expressly,
"
that he might go to his own
lace."
P
3. March, is St. Andrew, the brother of Peter; because,
formerly, the year was reckoned to begin in March; and,
therefore, equal honour is due to them both. And Andrew is
universally distinguished by his standing before a Saltier Cross,
the cross like the letter X, which is a goniometer, or exact mea-
160 fm: n|vn.'s Ponta.
sure of the angle which the Sun makes in crossingthe Equator,
as be does in the month of March.
4. April, is Matthew, the Taurus, or Bull of the Zodiac, as
you see all representations of St. Matthew, with a bu|l's head
at his foot, as if of purpose to show us, what the proper under-
starulipi
of the thing is. _
5. ay, is John, the disciple which Jesus loved.
6. June, is Thomas, or Didymus, directly rising out of the
Twins: yet himselt§ a crabbed sort of a fellow, that towards the
last had half a mind to go backward.
7. July, is James the greater.
8. August is Judas, the brother of James.
9. September, is James the Less, sumamed Oblia the Just,
holding Libra, the balance of Justice.
10. October, is Nathaniel, whom Christ saw underthe Eg-tree,
%athering
in the last remaining fruits of the year, and called by
hili .
11? November, was
Philip, whose very name signiiies lover
gf a horse; as you see his characteristic in the Sagittarius of
the Zodiac, who is always represented as halfa man and half a
horse, or so
passionately attached to the sports of the field, as
always to be on horseback. And you have this curious defini-
tion, John i. 44 :
"
Now Philip was of Bethsaida,"-Bethsaida
literally signifying the House of Hunters: and
12. December, is Simon, the Canaanite.
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON ST. PETER.
was @®hil'5 ihttlmit.
"
AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Allan Cunningham.
No.11.]. MAY 13, seal; [Price ld.
JUDAS ISCARIOT VINDICATED:
5 éermen,
FREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A. '
sr 'ran uoruuns, nnscxrnuas' nosn, usecs 6, 1831.
"
Rise, let ua be going :
Behold, he is at hand that dolls betray
me. And while he get spake, lo ! Judas one of the twelve."
-Murrnnw xxvi. 46.
f
Tms is the first passage in which the name of Judas occurs;
except we reckon that, in the 13th of this holy gospel, in
which a Judas is mentioned, who, together with .loses and
Simon, are spoken of as the immediate brothers of our blessed
Saviour, besides awhole posse of sisters,-for the Virgin Mary
was the mother of a
very large family : the only thing to be
regretted is, that hislbrethren, who must have known him best,
had none the better opinion of him, for that better knowledge,
they were all of them infidels, as we are expressly assured.
John 5., that "neither did his brethren believe in him."
Familiarity, you see, breeds contempt. If you really wish to
love your Saviour, the less you know of him the better :
knowledge is always fatal to devotion. I should have been as
gwd s Christian as any body, if I had not learnt my book.
l have, in my last discourse, proved, even to absolute deg
vol.. x.
162 nu nsvufs rnnrir.
monstrstion, that the first of the apostles, St; Peter, is a
purely imaginary being ; that, like his master, Jesus Christ, he
never had any real existence: but is of that order of romantic
and ideal personiiications which weak and disordered minds
naturally fall into : he is nothingmore than a varied embodying
of the Esculapius of the Greeks, the Janus of the Romans,
the Reuben of the Patriarclmte, the Jonah of the Ninevites, the
Aquarius of the Zodiac, the January of the Almanac, the John
the Baptistof the Churches, and the Jael: Frost ofthe Nurseries.
We come, now, to the less distinctly drawn, but equally ima-
ginary, characters of the rest of the glorious company of the
apostles,-that word always signifying the bright and shining
company.
And here the pretence to any thing like history, or historical
probability, receives its first shock, from the astronomical cha-
racter of the name itself.
_
The disciples or learners, being changed into apostles, a name
that could not have been given to mere
messengers or itinerant
preachers, and could not have occurred to the unscientiiic and
illiterate conceptions of a Jewish peasant, as Jesus Christ,
had he been a real personage, must be supposed to have been.
Then, again, why are the names of nine out of these twelve
apostles, being supposed to be Jews, such names as the like of
which no Jews were ever called by. As every one knows, that
every country has a sort and order of names peculiar toitself;
and you would no more find such names as Andrew, James,
Jolm, Philip, Thomas, and the rest of them in Judea, thanyon
would find Tom Smith, Richard Jones, or Jack Robinson, at
the Court ofthe King of the Cannibal Islands.
'I'hen, again, why should there be just exactly twelve of 'em,
and no more nor less than just that astronomical number twelve,
so nicely corresponding to the twelve months of the year, and
the twelve signs of the Zodiac?
And this number twelve, so absolutely necessary to be made
up, and kept up, that eleven would be one too few, and thirteen
'run nxvuls runrrrf 163
would be one too many; so that, though there were 120 disci-
ples, there must be but twelve apostles : and, in the first
chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, we find the eleven, after
the Resurrection of their Divine Master, assembled in a large
upper roms. God forbid that we should think that large upper
room was a garret, or the first Boer down the chimney. I dare
say it was a very respectable lodging, and a great deal nearer
Heaven than any garret in Grub-sheet. Here, then. they were
in the garret (God forgive me l), in the wagner, in the large
upper room, casting lots--that is, tnssing up a halfpenny, the
but out of two and three, for the appointment of one, that was
wanting to make up the complete dozen, by supplying the
place of the traitor Judas, who, as St. Peter tells us, had some-
thing the matter with his bowels, and so lost his bishopric, all
which is explained to us, as clear as every thing else is ex-
plained, by the application ofa text of the book of Psalms:
"
For it is written in flu book of Psalms, Let hr? habitaiion be
desolate; and let no :nan dwell therein, and his bislmpric let
another lake." How soon, ye see, were these holy apostles on
the scramble for theibishoprics.
The see that Judas had vacabedwas not long left undisposed
of; there were two candidates, ofwhom, one was to he ordained,
says St. Peter,
"
to be soilneues with su of the Resurreclion of
the Lord Jesus,"
Though neither of the .candidates had been any more wit~
ueeses of the resurrection than I or you. And how the Devil,
if there had been any reality in the Transaction, could a man be
ordained a witness, of that which he had really not witnessed I
And if he really had witnessed it, why should it depend
upon the toss-up of is halfpenny, whether he should be allowed
to be a witness of it or not? If Joseph, whose surname was
Justus, which signifies a just Mill, had really been a
witness of
the resurrection of Christ, why should the world be deprived
of his testimony, merely because he happened tocry tail when
it turned up a head, or because thirteen would have been too
3
164 'ras navnfs swam.
many witnesses, or because the luck fell to Matthias, whose
name signiies a
gift? (a word devilishly like a bribe), and he
was numbered with the apostles. So he got the bishopric, as
all other bishops get their bishoprics, the Lord knows how ;
and having got it, like all other bishops, he lies snug, and the
devil a bit do ye hear of him any more; except that our
Church, for a reason which none of your preachers of the gos-
pel can tell you, and I can, have fixed, a feast on the- 24th of
February, and a fast on the 23rd of February, to make ready
for the feast, in honour of Bishop Matthias, on which occasion
she says that pretty prayer,
"
O Almighty God, who, into the
place of.
the traitor Judas, didst choose thy faithful 'servant
Matthias, to be of the number of the twelve apostles; grant
that thy church, being always preserved from false apostles,
may be ordered and guided byfaithful and true pastors, through
Jesus Christ our Lord Ammon." ~
The 24th of February being
the place of the Bissextile in the calendar of Julius Cesar,
where in order that Judas might go to his own place, which is
the Sun's highest point ofascension, fromwhich he is betrayed,
or drawn down, a new day was introduced, and thus the gospel
allegory was made to' preserve its perfect coincidence withstlae
acceptable gear ofthe Lord.
Now see what havoc a little criticism will play with your
gospel history, and you will no more wonder that your clergy,
and all their satellites, should
"
labour by all means in their
power to deter you from the exercise of that dangerous faculty,
-as thus : .
'
Why is Peter the speaker and arranger of the whole affair,
in this election of the new apostle P
Did it become him who, with oaths and curses, denied his
Master, and whose treason, therefore, was not a whit less
than that of Judas, to/be the Erst for calling for s filling up
of the place
"
from which Judas, by transgression, fell?"
And why should not the repentance of Jndas have been as
acceptable to God, as the repentance of Peter, seeing the
L
'ral nnvrrls runrrr. 165
»
I
repentance of Judas was accompanied with fruits worthy of
repentance, he gave the greatestproofof sinceritythat man could
give. He brought back the one pound ten-i. e., thirty pieces
of silver, which I beseech you to observe, doth make exaetly a
shilling a day for every day in the month, with two shillings to
spare, if that month should happen to be February, and with
only one shilling to spare if that February should happen to
be in Leap-year: whereas Peter only went out and blubbered,
and then wiped his eyes, and was as merry as ever.
The accounts of the last catastrophe of Judas, in the gospel,
and in the Acts of the Apostles, are
utterly irreconcileable : so
egregiously and flagrantly irreconcileable, that no Christian
who would wish to be thought capable of honest criticism,
would attempt to maintain that they possibly can be recon-
ciled,-as thus:
The Judu of the Gospel, repented.
The Judas of the Acts, did not repent.
The Judas of the Gospel, deepened 'in his iniquity.
'
The Judas ofthe Acts, triumphed in his iniquity.
The Judas of the Gospel, returned the money. .
'
The Judas ofthe Acts, kept the money.
The Judas of the Gospel, bore an honourable testimony to
the innocence of Christ. _
The Judas of the Acts, bore no such testimony.
The Judas of the Gospel, gave back the whole sum he had
received to the priests, who put it into the treasury. _
The Judas of the Acts, bought a field with it.
The Judas of the Gospel, hanged himself.
The Judas of the Acts, died by an accident.
The Judas of the Gospel, met a death that was entirely na-
tural.
The Judas ofthe Acts, met a death that was entirely mira-
culous.
_
So that, most likely, like the death of Christ, it was no death
/'
166 rs: n:vu.'s sosmr.
at all. For who knows but that it might have been like-
tnsster like~man.
And Judas might have got over his suicide or fatal accident
(which ever it was) as Christ got over his crucifixion, so as to
be none the worse for it, a
day or two after: which, indeed,
is more than intimated in the sacred text, from which we learn,
that after hehad fallen headlong (wpmug ynopuwq), and burst
lsunder in the midst--sMuun'¢ pero;-that is, split into two
halves, and all his bowels gushed out, in some .way or other,
which God knows best ;» he stuck his two halves together, and
went home, whistling as if nothing had happened : as we are
expressly told, in words whose very curious meaning has never
yet been trusted to the understandings of Christian audiences,
that it was the spostleship, "hom which Judas by tramgres.
sion,fell, that he might go to his own
place."
The words of the original Greek, rendered literally and
syllabipally, as they ought to be, are still more curiously (and
to me, delighyfully) enigmatical, :E ng ¢'apaGs Is dag, 1ropu9nv¢u,
EM T01 TUVFOI T" l3|0|~
012: ofwhich pauedover Iov-Dns, lo be carried lo lheplace
which was his proper place.
'I'he words rendered, "from which Ian Das. by transgression
fell," by no means imply any moral fall, or
any fault or crime
which Iou Das had committed, but merely and literally a
passing over that he might go to his own place, as I must pass
over Blackfriars-bridge to-night, to go to my own place.
It is true, indeed, that thereare a few passages, which, by a
false punctuation, or collocation of the words; and in that
stupid wayof jumping at a conclusion. upon insuicient pre-
mises, are made to bear a sense dishonourable to the character
of this holy apostle.
But these, when properly arranged, and the stops put in, in
their right places, will be found to bear a wholly diferent
meaning.
nz nlvn.'s runnr. 167
As,whereJndssseemstobemlledaDevil, and lheSonqf
Perditionf; and it is said, the Son of Man goeth, indeed, as it
is written of him ; bat woe unto that man
by when the Son of
Man 'ie betrayed. If Iuxdbeen goodfor that monifhe had
not been born." And where Jesus says,
"
Have not I chosen
you twelve, and one of you is a Devil P" It is evident that it
was not Judas lscariot that was the Devil, but Simon Peter;
for an express exception is made in favour of Judas, in those
words immediately following: "for he lnmo who it was that
should betray kim."-that is, he knew it was not he that was the
devil, as he as certainly knew that it was Simon Peter that was
the devil, when he expressly said to him,
"
Get thee behind
me, Satan" and the dev'il's in it, if it was not far more likely
to be the devil that wanted to prevent Christ from sniering,
for our redemption, as did Peter, than he who betrayed him
to safer, as did St. Judas.
The Greek word for who betrayedhim, o
-zqdulug, is nothing
morethan hewhogaoe him up: and instead of implyingan act
of treason or crime, implies an act of the highest benevolence
and charity. .
'
The clause in the prayer of Jesus, "
Those whom than had
gioenme Ihaoekept, andnoneof themislodbutihe Sonqf
Perdition, that the Scripture might be _#ll/illed ;" when pro-
perly collocated, should run thus :
"
None of them is lost but
the Son, that the Scripture of Perdition might be dlled up ;"
so that there might be no room led: for any body to come into
Perdition.
And as for Judas having the Devil in him, and the Devil
having put it into the heart of Judas Iscariot to betray him ;
this, instead of being any proof of the guilt of Judas, in be-
traying Christ, if guilt there were, is the strongest possible
proof ofhis innocence.
And if the Devil entered into Judas, have we not a fair
right to inquire who the Devil it was that let the Devil into
him? And who should that be but Christ himself? _for im~
1
.
/'
168 '
rua navnfs rur.rrr.'
mediately after he had given him the cop, Satan entered into
him. So that if Satan really were a bad spirit, as some who
know nothing about spirits, would pretend, the actof Jesus, in
giving Judas the sop, dipt in such a
spirit, was little less than
setting a
gin to catch his soul : and then, forsooth, he calls
Judas the Son of Perdition, after he himself had given him a
dose of blue ruin. Now, if there really were any treason in
the case, who was the traitor but Christ himself; who invited
his victim to supper, and thenpoisoned him, most literally,
played the devil with him, gave him sucha d-d bad spirit,
as not merely got up into his head, but worked in another way
so
fatally, that all his bowels gushed out. And, indeed, Jesus
himselfseems to have been well aware of the operation of the
dose that he had given the poor man, by telling him to leave
the room
immediately. "What thou doeat," says he,
"
do
quickly." Judas had only time enough, before he died, to
point out to the odicers of justice who it was, not whom he
had betrayed, but who had betrayed him. But if this be not
the true way of understanding the whole afair; and by the
spirit which was
sopt up into the sop, that Jes gave to Judas,
was meant no sort of aquafortis, gin, hollands, or rum, or
whiskey, heightened with vitriolic acid, but the real incarnate
eternal Devil himself; why, then, it turns up that we have
been mistaking our friend for our enemy all this while; and
the Devil it was-the Devil himself-who was the prime agent,
and all-directing power in the great work of human redemp-
tion. He it is, whose minister I am ; my master Satan, who
isalone entitled to be called, our blessed Saviour. He it is,
to whom we ought to feel infinitely obliged. But for the part
which he played in the scheme, all would have been lost.
We should all have been damned,-Jesus would have sbirked
out of it. He would not have suffered for our sins, and there
should we have been letl: in the lnrch to suier for them our-
selves; which, with reverence be it spoken;would have been a
damnation case. _
s
'ma nnvu.'s runexr. 169
Nor is there any definition of goodness and virtue, which a
Christian can give, which is not included in that truly merito~
rious action.
For, first, you shall observe, that setting aside the carnal
judgment of the natural man, which discerneth not the things
of the Spirit of God, Judas, so far as he was a free agent in
the aEair,.made the word of God the sole guide and rule of
his actions.
Now, how could such a man possibly be an immoral cha-
racter? For where will you find such an excellent system of
_morals as in the Bible? And to whom are we to look for
examples of fidelity, faithfulness, goodness, and truth, if not
to the immediate apostles of our blessed Saviour ? Judas, in be-
trayinghis divine master, did nothingbut the very act for which
he was foreordained, and commanded by God, and inspired by
the Holy Ghost to do. And if such an act could possibly be
criminal, and so criminal, too,! as to deserve eternal damna~
tion, or (what isa great deal worse than eternal damnation) to
-lose a bishopric, why, there's a sheer end of all distinction
between obeying the will of God, and disobeying it: and a
man might as well make reason the rule of his actions, as the
Bible.
.
For, so strictly conscientious was Judas (Ie-nas) to observe
the law of God in all his actions, that, though he might have
made a much better bargain with the high priests, and sold
his master for ten times the sum, yet he so subdued all selfish
and mercenary motives, that he asked no more than the thing
he had to dispose of was worth, that was, one pound ten.
Thirty pieces of silver, that being the price which God, in his
infinite wisdom, was pleased to determine was as much as it
was worth. g
And that Judas was actuated by no motives of malice, ill-
will, or unkindness against our blessed Saviour, but quite the
contrary, is proved by the fact, that when he came to Jesus,
in the last interview they ever had, he said, hail master, and
170 'ras nsvufs runrrr.
Ahdlesusseemstohavekissedhimin return; asthewords
of the sacred text are: "And Jun said unto him, 'Friend,
wlrerqfore art thou some P'
"
which, in ordinary parlance, is
nmzthler moae
nor less than My dear bog, how d'yo do ? than
w ic not ing could be more aiectionatez so that it seems
they
cliapt
their
bieardstoglethe.;-,
and
slobberedlike two Cupids
in a v entine. esus sai to udas, "friend.
'
_
Now, I would only ask, what right our Christians have to
give their blessed Saviour the lie, and to charge him with the
3$Zi"§§'"'¢l'¥,2°§P°" °'°"'§'"'l;',3'*'I»"1."'1!.'1i°"1" if112° 'fill
m is enemy 1 e y oo m
an
enemy;
and only called him friend ironically, why did he
not suit 's action to his word, so that the one
mighthhave
in-
terpreted the other °
and when the fellow thmst is dirty'
beard in his face, givehimsuch a ringer in the chops, as would
have shown decidedly what sortof a friend he took him to bs.
And how could any two
persons
on earth be more decidedly
egown
to be friends, than
sims
and
Judaf,
as
notaxggrely
ex-
e
anging such affectionate utations, al thank are out
of fashion in the civilized world, sitting st the same table, and
dipping their fingers together in the same dish,-for knives'
and forks, and spoons, are intidel inventions,-but oo-open
ating in the same great counsel of inhnite wisdom, for the
redemption of mankind.
And as for the betraying of Jesus, being represented as a
crime, or a disgrace, or a shameful act in Judas, itis the most
egregious and monstrous misrepresentation of the matter, that
folly itself could have been so foolish as to have dreamed of.
For to betray Christ was so far from being a dishonourable,
disgraceful, or wicked act, that there was not one of the disci-
ples but what was anxious to do it. So, that when
biesus
said,
"
Verily I say unto you, that one qf you shall tray
ne." they were all on the scramble in a moment to obtain the
f'f~%";§ "f
*"°
""',,,.,.,.,",',;°"';,f'r;'
,su wen
esuswasp se e e
pute, in favour of Judas, by sa ing,
"
He it is to whom I
shall give a sop, when I have dhpped it (in the pan) ; and
when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot,
the Son
offSim§n"-that is, the Son of Simon Peter, which
accounts or imon Peter being so envious ofV
his son
Judas, being promoted before him, that he could never
speak s good word of him afterwards; and which was a literal
~
oss nmvufs runrrr. `l7l
fulfilment of that prophecy of Christ, in which he said that
he was come to set the son against the father, and the father
against the son. So Simon Peter,.when he found that his son,
Judas Iscariot, had got the thirty shillings, was so vexed,
that he went out and wept bitterly, and cursed and swore that
he never would be reconciled to his son any more,
For how could a greater partiality be shown to any man,
than by almost giving him the very victuals out of your mouth,
helping him to the choice bit, sopping up the gravy of the dish,
and reaching your hand over the table, dish and all, to afford
him the advantage of licking the grease od' your lingers. And
there can be no doubt that our blessed Saviour'e lingers were
purer than all the silver spoons in the world. Thus Judss was
elected to the honour of betraying Christ, and by coming up
at the very crisis, when otherwise his virtue would have failed,
pushing him on when he wanted to push oth and getting him
is for it, when he wanted to get out of it, he was actuallythe
meritorious agent, and the very hinge and pivot on which the
whole chance of our salvation was on the swing.
It is the grossest absurdity, then, to talk of our being saved,
through the merits of Jesus Christ; when, upon coming to
read the gospel for yourself; you shall see, that if there were
any merits in the business, they were the merits of Judas
Isesriot. v
And as for the peculiar merit of dying for su-that is so
far from belonging to Christ, that it is peculiarly and exclu-
sively the merit of Judas. Judas Iscsriot is the only one
Spoken
of in the gospel, whose death was matter of his own
oice, and therefore his was the only death which could, by
any possibih`ty, he conceived to have merit in it. It is evident
that Jesus would not have been hanged, If he could have
helped it. But Judas hanged himself.
As St. Peter, and the other apostles, in the 5th of the Acts
of the Apostles, concur in a direct contradiction to the ac-
counts of each of the four gospels, by declaring to the Jews,
not that they had crucified Jesus, which, God knows, they
never did, but that they slew him, and hanged him on a hee ;
which is quite as true as the other story.
`
For, be it remembered, thst the iiattest and most palpable
contradictions that can be put into words, are no contradictions
in Scripture: thus, no sincere Christian doubts, or can doubt,
-not only that Judas Iseariot hanged himseltl but that he abso-
1
171 run nav: r.'s runrxr.
lately did not hang himself. And that it is equally true, that
he retumed the money for which he betrayed his master, and
that he did not return the money.
t -
And the disciples of Christ could never doubt that he was
crucified, dead, buried, and gone to Hell, even at the very
moment, when he was as much alive as we are at this mo-
ment, and asking them what they had got for supper, as on
that interesting occasion he said to them,
"
Children, have ye
any meat P" ~
So, nothingincompatiblewith the character ofhistorical con-
sistency has ever yet been observed by the childish understand~
ings of the forty and titty year old babes in Christ Jesus, in
the circumstance of Peter, a Jew, at Jerusalem, preaching to
the Jews, telling them what the name of the field was, in the
Jewish language, that it was called, in their proper tongue,
Aceldama ; but as their proper tongue, their native language,
was a language that none of the natives had ever heard o£ he
kindly condescended to translate it into plain English -
Aceldama, that is to say, the _field of blood.
How sublimely accurate is Scriptural Chronology: the field
had got a name from the transaction, before the transaction
had taken place. It was a matter of very high antiquity, when
it had occurred within the last fortnight; and it was known to
all them that dwelt at Jerusalem, when all them that_ dwelt at
Jerusalem knew no more about it than it knew about them.
-
But why, above all things which Judas might have bought,
should he have bought a field?
And wh , above all deaths which Judas might have chosen,
should he have chosen to hang himselfP
And why should his buying a field, cause him to fall head-
long ?
why should his falling headlong, cause his bowels to
gush out P
And why should the field be called Aceldama »'
And why was he called Ia Aug?
And why was Ie da; also called Iscariot? -
'
And why was lu-Das Iscariot, also called the Son of Simon?
The bringing forth ofthe latent astronomical sense, will solve
all these questions.
-
Judas is the same name as Judah, which is the name of one
of
the twelve tribes of Israel. Iscariot is the same as Issachar,
which is another of the names of the twelve tribes of Israel.
ras navn.'s noun. 173
Issaehar is the sixth of the twelve tribes of Israel, answering
to Cancer, the Crab, of the month of June, in the centre of
which constellation,a.re the Stars, called the Asses; which gives
us the clear astronomical solution of that extraordinaryblessing
which Israel pronounces upon the twelve patriarchs, applying
to Issachar, in the 49th of Genesis, the words,
"
Issachar is
a strong Ass, coaching down belween two burdens : and he saw
that rest was good, and the land that it was pleasant, and
bowed his shoulder to bear, and became aservant unto tribute."
Now, here is the strong Ass, which Issachar, without any
intended afront, is literally said to be; and which strong Ass,
in an inferior and earlier state of astronomical observation,
would give its name to the whole constellation, which, by
taking in a great many of the surrounding Stars, is now en-
larged into the constellation of Cancer, the Crab of the month
of June. .
This Ass, is said to crouch down between two boundaries, as
it stands precisely on the line that bounds the two halves of
the Zodaical year.
"
And he saw that rest was goods" the Sun having reached
this point, is said to be at the summer solstice, where it seems
to be perfectly stationary, for several days, as if it would wish
to rest in that state,
"
for he saw the land that it was plea-
sant ;" the whole earth never appearing more delightful than
in the month of June.
But this Issachar of the Old Covenant-this Iscariot of the
New-that is, this Jack Ass, between the two boundaries of
the old astronom , this backsliding Crab of the new; stand-
ing, at the Su.n's highest point of ascension, betrays him with
a kiss. He gets him up into the large upper room, than
which he can go no higher, and then gives him to understand,
that down he must come.
The astronomical chronology being beautifully veiled in the
allegorical picture, which represents to us, that immediately
when Judas went out-that is, the latter end of the month of
June ; then said the Jesus of the allegory-(that is, the Sun in
the visible heavens):
"
Now is the Son of Man cpaanrmn,
and God is clarified inhim. If ,God be clariiied in him, God
shall also
clara?
him in himself, and shall straightway clarify
him, little chi ren!" that is to say, there's for you, little
children-there's your favourite game-there's _
"
I
"
Riddle me, riddle me, ree, ,
None are so blind as those that won't see."
174 fran navu.'s ruuur.
But let the little children, the babes and sacklings of the
gospel, show wit enough to unriddle me their riddle, and I
myself will put on a pin-a~fore, and go to school again, to the
infant academy in Silver-street.
I want to know how the Son of Man is to be clariied
straight-way, but in no other way than the strsighbway?
Had it been in the cross-way, or the reverse way, or the
crooked-way, there would have been some grievous error in
the reckoning?
Answer. Because the apparent path of the Sun, through the
visible heavens, is within the perfectly straight band of the
tropics.
And why should this clarification have happened in no other
place than ia that large upper room ?-Answer. Because the
Sun's most transcendant beauty and brightness is attained
when he reaches the tropic of Cancer-that is, at the moment
when he kisses Iscariot, or, which is the same thing, when
Iscariot kisses him i
'
Why should this clarification have happened at no other
time than when Judas was going out P--Answer. Because
that is the exact allegorization of the latter end of June?
And why should Judas hang himself?-Aguwer. Because
all the twelve apostles are hanged as well as he, each self-
suspended from the vanity arch of night, where you may see
them, each hanging in his particular field, or portion of the
heavens; where they retain the lixed positions, and where the
righteous, 'not figuratively, but literally, do shine as the Stars
in the kingdom of their father?
And why did Judas, hung in the skies, as all the rest ofthem
are, after betraying his master-that is, having led him up to
the point, from which his fall commences, himself fall, head-
long, -frpnmg ysvopmg-that is, become prone. -Answer. Be-
cause, when the Sun has passed through the constellation, the
constellation itself seems to be tumbling down.
And why, when Judas became prom, headlong, did all his
bowels gush out P
Answer. Because, when the constellation throughwhich the
Sun has passed, by the Sun's passing onward, seems to emerge
or come out on the other side, the stars of which it is com-
posed, appear much fainter than they were, as if the Sun, in
going over them, had trampled out their iires,
And why, when Judas goes out, is the Son of Man clariied,
iran nsvrrfs Punmr. 176
and when the Son of Man is clariied, God is clarified in him:
and when God is clarified in him, God returns the compliment
by clarifying him in himselfP My God! why, or how is all
this, but by that clear and universal metonymy, which ob-
tained exactly in the Pagan m thology, as it does in the
Christian, whereby each one of the twelve great Gods, was in
turn substituted, and spoken o£ and invested with all the at-
tributes of any other, and of all the rest, and each in its turn,
when considered as Lord of the Ascendant, was the one Su-
preme and only Lord.
Duodotheism, was perfectly consistent with Monotheism-
the same Deity that was God in summer, became the Devil in
winter;
"
and no marvel, for Satan himself is transformed
into an angel of light."
'
So Jupiter was often turned into Apollo, Apollo back again
into Jupiter-the rule of orthodoxy being
Ea; Zrug, ss; A3315 rs; I-Duog, ug Ainvoerog,
Ei; Oro; sv vrarnddi.
There is, then, no more real contradiction in their being
twelve persons in one God, each by himself, being separately
and distinctively the one true and only God, than in there
being three persons in one God, in the Christian Trinity.
It being the same Sun, through the whole year round,
though there be as January Sun, a February Sun, and so on:
and it is the same Sun which was the January Sun, which is
now the March Sun, and will be the July and August Sun.
And you will find as many distinct moral characters of your
Jesus, in your gospel allegory, as there are ph sically varied
phmnomena of the Sun : in passing through the twelve
months of the year. For
"These, asth ch , Almi ht Father! these
Are but theevyariegngird-thgroliling year
Is full of thee."
And hence, not only the names of Peter, Andrew, James,
John, and the rest of them, but the name of Judas Iscariot is
one of the names of that oro7vww;uvAauy.wv, that many-named
Damon, by which was never meant any thing else than the
Sun himself.
The name Judas, the same as Judah, generally translated
the praise of the Jew-that is, of the Lord, is a compound of
the two Ammonian names of God Ieue, pronounced Ieve,
175 rua navnfs rnnmr.
'whence the Pagan God Jove, and the Christian Jehovsh, and
Poll. DiS, DI". me day, the God of day, and Iscariot, signify-
mg he that cats afar ezlerminates, as the month ofJune puts
an end to the Sun's further ascension, and begins to shorten
his days. This constellation, upon being personified as they
all are, gets the allegorical character of a murderer, and the
§i°l§'1» 01'
portion ofthe heavens, in which this sign ofthe Zodiac
rs laterally hanged, and where, Atheistically speaking, it hanged
at-MM gets the allegorical name of Aceldama, (nm 'aa wc)
warn:-now, the light, universal blood, or the field oflblood.
As the name Jesus itself is really none other than the ancient
Persic name for the Sun, with a Latin termination, the radical
word itself, I. ES, signifying I, the One; the Alone ; and ES,
the Ere-that is, the One great Fire, which is the Sun, and
which, worshipped under the name of Hercules, compounded
of W 5; -mr, the light, the universal fire, which was the
lame Jesus Christ, and under the name Esculapius, com-
pounded of na 5: une, the Fire, the Universal Father, which
was the same Jesus Christ, and under the Greek name of
Arona, Apollo-that is, apart the many, which was the same
Jesus Christ, and under the Latin name of Sol, or Solns, the
One, the Alone, which is the name of Jesus Christ.
_
And under the reverentially repeated name of On, the Being,
on-1-on, the Being, the One, the Being, the self-same
Deity, the Sun was worshipped, by the ancient Egyptians. As
the sacred name, Onion, was also the name of the great temple
ofthe Sun, at Heliopolis. This gave occasion to those, whose
object was to enquire into the real meaning of things as little
as possible, to accuse the Egyptians of worshipping onions.
l. The onion, receiving that Egyptian name, from the curious
analogy, that if you cut it through horizontally, the two sec-
tions present a resemblance of the solar system: the Sun in
the centre, and the orbits of the planets, which revolve round
it, making up the whole substance of the root.
Thus, by looking at it, you may contemplate heavenly
wonders; and, by smelling at it, you may shed tears of as
sincere devotion, as any sensible man could wish to shed ;
and it2 after having looked at it, and smelt it, you should have
a mind to eat lt, it would be the most sensible way I know of
taking the sacrament.
nun or rua nxscouasa on Jonas xscsaxor VINDICATID.
Wie memaiw amnlmt.
"AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Allan Cwminglldfll.
NO. 12.] 20, 1831. [Price jd,
SAINT THOMAS:
Q&ermntt,
PREACHED BY HIS HlGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
AT :mn ROTUNDA, BLACKl'RlARS°B.0AD, lnncn 13, 1831.
"
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with
them when Jesus came. The other disciples, therefore, mid
unto him,
'
We haoe seen the Lord." But he said unto them,
'
Except I shall seein his hands the print of the nails, and
put myjinger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand
into his side, I will not helieve."-JOHN, xx. 24.
No more will I. But, my God, then, Tommy, you will he
damned to all etemity,-you unbelieving wretch,-you Devil's
Chaplain,-you'll go to Hell, as sure as your name is Tommy l
And here have we the origin of that curious association of ideas
which obiains not merely in our common English phrase, Hell
and Tommy, but which is found in the language of every nation
on which the Sun hath ever shone, from the Gauges to the Nile,
from the Nile to the Thames.
In India, in Egypt, Greece, and Italy, in the language of
every nation in which a beliefof the existence of a Hell is to
be found (and wherever there are lmaves and fools, that belief
is to be found) Hell and Tommy, or the terms, answering in
1
1
178 'ms DBV|L'8 Puarrr.
their-languages-to-those terms, stand in as natural and insepar-
able an association with each other, as boiled beef and mus-
tard. You could not think of the one, without immediately
thinking on the other.
With the reason and the science of this curious association
of ideas, I will presently repay your attention, only requesting
you for a few minutes to suspend your admiration, on the peg
of your observance of the parity of the association of the Devil
and Judas, and Hell and Tommy; in which, asJudas seems to
be something worse than the Devil, so Thomas is the climax,
Gr something worse than Hell. You may go to Hell, audootnl
back again as we read of Jesus Christ, that "he dmcended
into Hell, but the third day he rose again z" whereas, if he had
gone to Hell and Tommy, his soul must have been left in
Hell,
and his flesh would have seen corruption-that is, as far as Q
dead man could see anything.
~
The passage in continuation of our text, runs thus :-" And
after eight days, again his disciples were within, and Thomas
with them ; then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in
the midst, and said,
'
Peace be unto you.' Then saith he- to
Thomas,
'
Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands, had
reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side ; and be not
fatthless, but believing. And Thomas answered, and said unto
him,
'
My Lord, and my God !' .Tesussaith unto ltim,' Thomas,
because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed ; Blessed are they
that have not seen, and yet have believed] "
_ ,
On any attempt to.give a character of history to this beauti-
ful allegorical grouping, nothing could be conceived, grosser
than the outrageous and monstrous ahsurdities, and direct con-
tradictions to itself, which the story so perverted 'presents us:
the fool that could believe it, could believe anything. The
knave who would say that he believed it, would say anything.
V
For here is supposed to be the body of a man, presenting
himself, for the expre purpose of demonstrating to the senses
of his friends, that he was
nophantom, no shadow, no
smoke;
'ras nsvufs rtrwrr. 179
but mrightbe seen and felt; and yet, coming into the room when
tlsedoorswere shut, as most certainly no body that was solid
Ind substantial, could oouibly have done, or even beconceived
to do.
1
And _if thebody were solid, and could be seen and felt, then
is the pretence, that Christ had really been crucified, and put
wdeath, demonstmted to be a cheat and a lie, by evidence,a.s
strong asever was adduced to prove that a thing could be and
not be at the mme time.
»
For if the presence of a man alive, in health, in strength
(you seehim, you hear him, you touch him, you shake hands
with him, you convene with him, and eat and drink with him)
beanot a
proof that whoever had asserted that that man had
'been' dead, was a liar, then there is no difference between lying
md truth among men; and God Almighty should better take
'away the reason he has given us, than have made us reasonable
to insult us so offensively.
a
Not all the testimony on earth, not all the hosts of heaven,
not God himselh nor his Almighty power, could make it be, er
seem to be, that the man who is found alive to-day, had been
'really and truly dead, any two, three, or ten days before to-
day. And the Christian religion, if such be- its foundation, is
founded onthe most monstrous lie that ever falshood framed or
folly credited. .
'
'The only'lit're in the whole romance, on which belief of its
monstrous inconsistency might hang, is the supposition that
Thomasand the rest of them (had such persons really existed
as I shall 'prove to you they never did) might have expressed
their astonishment, not at Jesus's being-alive, but at the mistake
'they had made in supposing that he had ever been dead; of
which, his appearance, if a real appearance,it were, was, what
would be called in all reason, a sufficient proof to the contrary.
<
The cause of which mistake, still on the supposition of his.
tory, Christ himself might have explained, as thus: "
Pontius
Pilate was my friend. Ile protected me from the rage ol' the
I
180 THB DBVIUS PULPIT.
mob, by bringing forth another criminal, dressed up in my
clothes, and saying,
'
Behold the man J' while his wife, who
was in the secret, sent me away in women's clothes."
If history had been intended, which it certainly was not, this
and this only, would have been the historical reading. For,
whatever is not probable, is not history, but romance. _,
But come we now to the elucidation of the deep science
involved in this romance. You shall see the gospel, rising
above the low and grovelling conceptions of the intolerant' and
impatient fools and dunces, whose vanity cannot bear that any
body should be wiser than themselves, and presenting us with
'a beautiful drama, which had constituted the subject matte! _of
the Diegesir# from which the compiler of Luke's Gospel ac-
'knowledges his work to be a compilation: and of thefour
'mystical books which were carried by the priests in the sacred
processions of the Goddess Isis in Egypt, and of which the
purport was,-that which our
gospels to this day may de-
monstrably be proved to be, a vepresentation of tha naturai
history of theyear, or of the Sun in passing through the year,
under the pleasant_fiction qf an imaginary hero, called Hercules
and Esculapius, in Phmnicia; Osiris, Adonis, and Thamux, in
Syria and Egypt; Chrishna, in India; Jesus, in Persia;
Christus, in Greece; Apollo, Jupiter, and so forth, in Italyi
Hesus, in Germany, Gaul, Britain, Sec.
The name part, and character of Saint Thomas, among -the
dramatispersonz of the evangelical pantomime, is one of the
most marked and beautiful, as it most clearly conducts the
studious inquirer to the solution of the whole enigma.
The name Thomas, lirst occurs in the list of the names ofthe
twelve apostles, in the 10th of Matthew's gospel, where it
stands as the '7th ; but in the 3rd of Mark's, and the 6th-of
Luke's gospels, it stands as the 8th in the apostolic series; Saint
Peter, in every one ol' the lists, being invariably the first; and
*
H
torical work the Dnaxsis.
ence the name which Mr. Taylor has given to his greatlhis-
me navnfs runrir 181
_Saint Judas Iscariot, the 12th of the apostles.. The character
of Thomas appears in no other parts of the sacred scene, except
this of his unbelief in the resurrection of Christ, that of his re»
mark previous to the resurrection of Lazarus, in the 11th of St.
John's gospel, when he said, in the contemplation that Jesus
would die in Jerusalem,
"
Let us also go that we may die wifi
Tiim," that of his direct contradiction to Jesus, in the 14th oi
that gospel, when Jesus had said,
"
Whither I go ye know, and
'the way ye know 5" and Tom said,
"
We do not know whither
thou- goest; and how can we know the way Y" And his share
in the aaswer, which six of the disciples make to Peter, after
Christ's resurrection, when he said,
"
I go afshing," and they
said,
"
We also go with thee." Neither of the other gospels
mentions a word about Saint Thomas, more than his name in
'the list: and only this gospel of St. John gives us his surname,
or the interpretation of his name Thomas,
"
which is called
Didynsus," that is to say a Twin, or one of the Tioins.
Of which amount of the whole testimony, the sum is,
"
ist, that something more was known and understood of the
part that Thomas should bear in the sacred allegory, by the
writer of the 4th gospel, than by either of the writers of the
first three gospels.
V
2nd, That it was not distinctly known between Matthew, Mark
and Luke, whether Thomas was the seventh or the eight disciple.
3rd, That John, who has given us no list of the disciples at
all, by interpreting for us the name Thomas, as signifying Didy-
mus-that is to say, a Twin, has left it doubtful whether he
might not have been the sixth or fifth in the glorious company#
But, whichever he be, the essentialily of his character is
his connection with Jesus in the mystery of the resurrection,
either in that resurrection of which Jesus is the agent, and
raises the dead man, or that, in which he is the patient-that
is, the dead man himself, who is to be raised. In the first
enigma, we are instructed, that if Jesus were to die, Thomas
182 mt! mtvtts etnrtr.
twttld die: in the second, that if Jesus were not to rise agaid,
or a doabt could possibly be entertained on that subject, Thais
mas would give up his place in the apostleship.
'
With this most curious analogy, that the state of doubt- in
Thomas's mind, as to whether his master was risen or not,
lasted exactly eight days, and then, his faith in Christ began at
his '
fingers' ends.' Seeing, was not believing ;
'
hearing; was
not believing; Thomas must have '
a linger in the pie,' beforehe
would be satisfied. He would not be content with ocular
proof, nor oral proof,-he would have tangible proof :-and so
would I, or any other sensible man, before I would believe any
thing that a dead man had to soy for himself.
'
~
That this tangible and feeling proof was afforded to Thomas,
makes it only somuch the more miraculous, and not a lite!!
hit unfair, that the like should have been withheld from the
Lady Mary Magdalen, when she met her sweet Jesus, as Juliet
met her Romeo, by moonlight in the garden. And when she
said to him, not Rabbi, as they say to aJew, nor od rabbit it,
as you or I might have said, but Raw-bony. But Raw-boned
would not stand it, and said "
Touch me not, for I am not yet
ascended to my Father." As if there were something in his
bones that would not bear touching, till he had got a little more
Besh on them; which cannot but leadus to look with a little
severe: criticism into the terms of the privilege granted to
Thomas. And in adhering to the strict letter of the sacred text,
you will find that Thomas was not allowed to touch Christ, any
more than Mary had been. He was not permitted to feel with
his lingers, but he was to ree with his fingers. The terms being
not "Reach hither tlzyjinger, and _j?el," but "
Reach hither
thy finger, and behold."
`
So that Thomas, after all, saw no more of his Saviour than a
man could see with his fingers. "And reach hither thy hand
ond thrust it into my side," which was a thing, if Jesus had
"WY be9n'1|iVlDE m8l,~f-absolutely impossible to have been
done. Nor is it all asserted or
implied in the text that it was
'rua navu.'s msn. 183
done. 0nly.Th0mas raptout an oath, "llyLord, and
God!" which_Beza and the Unitarians coasideras a mere
ejaculation of surprise and astonishment, as when any body
I-reads on our toe, we cry 'O Lord,' or 'Good God,' (for
which, God forgive us l) but which the Trinitarians, and I with
them, most sincerly hold to be a profession of faith-that is,
a declaration of Thomas, that from that time forth he should
hold the risen Jesus to be his Lord and his God.
_In the csseof unbelieving Thomas, even if you choose to,
Nldelatand it as history, which I am sure it is not, you see, as
i9 the majority of cases, from the beginning of Scripture to the
end, the great advantageof being an inlidel. It is not belief,
butyunbelief, that is the safe side. And let the gospel be the
Wqrd Qi' God, by, which our souls shall betried, all the hazard,
all the daring, all the likelihood to be eternally damned
md most richly to deserve to be damned, is incurred by the
believer.
A hundred texts pledge safety and security, and that he could
D01 be on ,better ground than he is, to the honest iniidel, for
one that holds outa chance of salvation, to the fool of a be-
liever. The iniidel is as safe as the holy apostle Saint Thomw
who was nota wit more incredulous than every sensible man
ought to be. Theinlidel is as safe as the immediate family
and relatives of Christ himself,
"
for neither did' his brethren
believe in him." John v. Whereas, the believer, who knew his
L0rd's will, and did it not, shall be beaten with many stripes.
The believer, that said his prayers; or, and bocuuseof his say-
ing his prayers, which no wise or good man would ever think
ol doing, :lmll receive the greater damnation." ~
_
Why, then, this mighty hue and cry against unbelief,-this
beggarly tract circulating, this zealous preaching against unbe-
lievers,as if there were no sin in the world but unbelief,-but
because unbelief is fatal to priestcraft? Unbelief doth spoil
thegospel trade: unbelief doth hinder the craftsmen of the
Y
|84 'nu DEVIL e PULNT.
money they would receive from letting their seats in their
chapels; and hence it is, they would rather make theii' peace
with the greatest murderer or thief that was ever hanged or
unhanged, than have ii
good word to say for the belt mm that
ever breathed, if he were an intidel,
Thomas, like all the rest oi' the
heroes of the gospel, is a
character wholly unknown, unheard of, untraced, and untrace-
able, in any legends, but those of the Church of Rome, which
no sensible man of the present day would any more think of
quoting as history, than he would the "
Arabian Nights Enter-
tainments," or
"
The History of the Seven Champions of Eu-
rope."
Origen, an Egyptian monk, quoted by Eusebins, tells us that
Thomas went and preached to the Medea and Persians, the
Caramanians, the Baskerians, and the Magicians. He is ge-
nerally called the apostle of India: and the Greek church
professes to believe that his body, after his death, was mira-
culously transported to Edessa. Some Portuguese writers
assure us that he suffered martyrdom at Meliapour, in the
Peninsula of India; while the Manichees atiirm, that a man
who struck him, was killed by a Lion. The whole Protestant
world is wisely aware, that the less inquiries of this sort are
prosecuted the better. All historical writers, without excepting
one, have been infidels. They would never condescend to
take the leastaiotice of the heroes of theology.
It was necessary to invent the story that one of the apostles
had preached the gospel in India. St. Thomas, therefore, as
the genius of that month in which the Sun is hottest, was fixed
on as the proper saint, for that hot climate; to counteract tho
awkward historical evidence found in the Blngavat Poumna,
which proves that the gospel has been preached in India, more
than fifteen hundred years before its Jewish origin had been
pretended.
'
Both of the names of Thomas, Thomas Didymus,,
TBI n|vr|.'s rutrn. -35
nam of Pagan Deities; and what is still more fatal to the
pretence of a distinction between Christianity and Paganism,
those deities bear precisely the same character and part in the
Pagan mythology as in the Christian gospel. One of the
must distinguished sumames of the God Apollo, was
Didy-
mis, that name signifying a Twin: and Apollo was called
ApoLlo'Didymaeus, as dispenser of the twin light, or
light both
by day and night.
The month of May is subscribed in the calender of Julius
Omar, "under the protection qf Apollo," as every one
knows,
that the Twins, Gemini, is, to this day, the name of the third of
the twelve signs of itha Zodiac, reckoning Aria the first-that
is, the fifth, reckoning Aquarius, the Water-bearer, the first.
The Sun, entering Gemini on the 19th of May, quits it for
Canur, the sign immediately following, on the 20th of J'une.
How the Hebrew name for the month of June happens to be
none other than the direct basis of this word Thomas (Thamus)
and thus Didymus--i. c the Twin, is not an interpretation of
the name Thomas, but a surname added to it: Didymus ex-
pressing the thirteen days which the Sun of Gemini, the Twins,
takes out of the month of May, and Thomas, the remaining 10
out of the month of June,-the whole, Didymua Thomas, or
Thomas-a-Didymul, exactly delining the relations of this sign
of the Zodiac.
As Didymeus, or Didymus, was a synonomous name of
the Grecian Apollo, so Thomas was the perfect synonime of
the Phoenician Adonis. As each name, traced to its primitive
roots, most clearly demonstrates-an, the Lord; ou, the Being;
rs, the Fire-that is, the LORD! the ons, the nas; that is, the
Sun.
In the Pagan fable, believed to be the Son of the Virgin
Mynha, by her own father, Cinyras.
_
ln the Christian fable, believed to be the Son of the Virgin
Ma ,
b her own God.
Vi/yorsiiipped by the demi-humanized ourang-outangs whom
We call Jews, to this day, under the name of Adonai,' which
theyalways substitute in the place of the name Yahou which
we
pronounce Jehovah.
°
Adonai illitarally my Lords, in the plural; Adoni is my Lord in
tba singular; Adonis, the Lord, the .Being tltejire-i. e. the Sun, in
thdiull nominative cane singular.
|86 'rua nsvnis eaten,"
Worshipped by the savage hordes, from whom the Jews be-°
lieve themselves tobe descended, under the name of Tammut'
from the days of an infinitely remote antiquity.
The name Thomas being compounded of the two Ammonian
primitives, nun T/tom, Wonderful, from whence the Greeks
formed their word Oulu,/.a, a miracle sign, or wonder: and WN,
fire ;" the whole together, litlerally expressing,
"
the wonderful
fire-that is the SUN. The name of Hell, or Hell-tire, is
directly formed from the Hebrew Sn, Eel God; from whence
the Greeks-1' formed their name of the Suu, Hzuros: and thc
Hebrews took back again what they had lent in their name of
the prophet,who went up in hisjiefy chariot, Euas
"
Taxuuz, ablrusa, concealed-Cruden.
. T And the name Hell, or Hell.lira, is but another reading of the
name Tuoans-that is, the wondergfitl _fire ; whence the universal
association of the names Hell and Tommy. They are perfectly
lynonimous. '7x, Heel the Hebrew name of God, forming the basis
of X-l7uo;, the Greek name of the Sun, and passing over by metonomy
to the name of the fish, called the Eel, or Water-snake, which, by
putting its tail into its mouth, was tha univasal emblem of tha
eternity of tha Sun; by its remarkable tenacity of life, was tha
emblem of the immortality of the Soul; by its possession of it!
energies, without any limb or division of its body, the emblem oi him
who peculiarly hath life in himself ; and by its silent orhicular pm-
gress, the emblem of the Sun's apparent motion in the Zodiac, and
of the whole solar system together, through inlinite space And by
analogy, transferredto the Heel, as the lower part of the human body
is the microcosm of man; as the point nf Hell and Tommy in the
Zodiac, is the'Sun's lowest place of declination, on the 2lst. of Dv
cemben And here breaks in upon us the light of signiiicancy and a
meaning, where otherwise I defy the wit of man to find any meaning
st all. of those words in the 49th Psalm: "
Wherefore should I
fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of my heels compaaseth me
round about.
"
_
In the name of God, now, what sort of iniquity is it
that man could commit with his heel ? Or how could the iniquity of
his heels compass him about? Morally, the thing is an absurdity#
historically, it is an
impossibility; but, astronomically,
"
the dsylof
evil" are the short days of deep winter; and then it is, that the heels
of tha Sun, in his annual walk, stick fast in the deep mire and clay,
ss fast as hs gets one heel out, the other sticks in again. Ha is ro-
Wieti in his progress, and the unevenness at turning tlie curve, seenis
completelytocompass him about. And that this sort of language
'nm nnvnfs rouvr. 187
. Nor is there any truth in which the leamed are more entirely
agreed, than that Tammuz and Adonis are one and the self-
same deity-that is, synonimous names of the same deity;
namely, the Sunin the month of Ju1se,_of which Milton so
beautifully eings,~in the first book of his Paradise Lost.
"Thammuz came next behind,
Whose annual wound in Lebany allured
The Syrian damsels to lament his fate,
In amorous ditties alla summer's day;
While smooth Adonis, from his' native rock,
f
Ran purple to the sea-supposed with blood
Ol' Thsmmuu, yearly wounded: the love~tale
Infected Sion's daughters with like heat,
Whose wanton passions in the sacred porch
_ Ezekiel saw, when by the vision led,
His eye surveyed the dark idolatries
Of alienated Judaht"
That love-tale, which the Syrian damsels sang, "in amorou9
ditties, all a summer's day," was none other than that self'
some tale, which we now call gospel, and which was denounced
uthe grossestidolstry by the Jewish God, 594 years before
it acquired the name of Christianity. It was the tale of the
strliering Saviour, the crucilied God, poor Tommy, denounced
sean execrable abomination, though carried on as religious
worship, even in the temple of Jehovah himself; as
you read
in the 8th of Ezekiel, v. 14.
"
Then he brought me to the door
qf the Lord's house, which was towards the North, and behold
'MTC sat women
weeping for Tammuz" (Thomas). The Latill
Vulgnte has given us the name of Adonis, as a direct transla-
tion of the word Thomas. "
Et ecre ibi muhgres _sa1abant,
ylangentes Adonidem." _' _
_`
'
The Greek of the Septua int has it, mu 538 nm.
fywaultlt
ti,gQnp,rya¢| gpnvda-at 'ror
Qfatppouz. The Hebrew text IS,
.- .umm mt rnznu rnnw u'wa'n nw rum.
;_,'lY;at the tale, or story of Poor Tom, or Tommy, or Thomas,
or Adonis, was the same as the story of Jesus Christ, I have
shown most fully in my work on the origin and history of the
ins astronomical, in announced in the verse immediately preceding, in
which tha speaker calls what he was going to ny, a problem in tho
.Ggegk ; s proposition in the Latin 3 n dark saying, in the Engliif
uid, as the common sense of it means, a riddle.
'
i
1B8` 'ma nnvu.s runrir.
Christian religion, entitled the Drsonsrs: to which I can only
refer the more curious inquirer, resting here, on the pretty suf-
ficient evidence,
'
Ist. That the names are, in some instances, the very same.
Znd. The signilicancy or meaning of the name is, in every
instance. the same.
3rd. The doctrines are the very same.
4th, The forms and words of worship are the very same.
And if, with so much evidence of the sameness between the
ancient Paganism and the modem Paganism, which is now
called Christianity, there ever was a real substantive and essen-
tial dilference, the man is yet unborn whose wit, or whose leam-
ing could point out, in what that difference consisted.
The name Thomas, which is but a varied utterance of
Tammuz (as hardly any two men of two countries would
utter the same word in the same way)-the Hebrew name of
the month of Juv|e,signities, asyou will see in your Concord-
ance, in the whole word Tennmz, the abtrue, the runners,
or concealed.
So, the name Ammon-that is, the Amen, one of the names
of Jesus Christ, in the gospel, is always brought in at the end
of our Christian prayers, as the explanation and meaning ot
the name of Jesus Christ,
"
Through Jesus Christ, our Lord,
Ammon"-that is Jesus Christ, who is our Lord Ammon. or
Jupiter Ammon. Ammon, in the whole word, always signified
the abtruse, the hidden, or concealed one.*
'
As we find the prophet Isaiah addressing him with this
pretty compliment,
"
Verihy, thou art a God that hides# I/|y8Cy;"
saiah,xlv. 15. "
O God of Israel the Saviour." The Sun,
which is Adonis, Thomas, Jupiter, Ammon, and Osiris, is said
tohide itself at the winter solstice: and hence, in Egypt, the
annual religious ceremony of seeking for Osiris, and the innu-
merable expressions which run
through our whole Christian
theology, which is entirely derived from Egypt, about seeking
the Lord.
`
'
'
Ammon was worshipped, not only asthe Sun, at its highest
altitude in the Ecliptic, but as at the directly op osite point,
the lowest-that is, not only as the Sun, in an his glory,
_ °_Ao¢0rdiu¢ to Manetlm, as we learn from Pllutunh, Allan,
9325" 'rv
nrxpvpprmu, um -rn: xwtlm, accullua "
ooealtatioaua.
-Sir W. Dru|nmond'| Origines. Vol. ll. p- 822.
'ran navn,'s rar.i>rr. 189
"liltingu)p
the light of his countenance upon us ;" but as the
Stygian upiter, in deep winter, hiding himself from us.
And thus, while Thomas is literally the name of the month
of J une; yet Thomas's day, or the day in which Thomas is to
beparticularly worshipped, is the 2lst of December.
On which day, the church returns thanks to God for the un-
belief of his holy apostle Thomas. Of which allegorical unbe-
lief, the physical interpretation is so clear and so beautiful,
that one hardly knows whether more to admire the want of all
poetry of soul, or of all common sense, in the bungling dunces,
that could dream of any thing else than an allegory having been
intended by it. The Sun isat his lowest point of declination
on the 21st of December, and for about four days before and
four days after St. Thomas's day,therefore, the 21st-that is,
the middle day of the wintersolstice, is 'mixed on, asthe shortest
day. And St. Thomas, therefore,as the Genius of that day,
is in allegorical despair, as to whether his master, the Sun,
will ever rise again. But, on the 25th of December, which is
Christmas-day, four days after St. Thomas's-day, it is evident
that the Sun actually has risen, the day is lengthened, the Sun
_has achieved his first degree in the ascending scale: and hence,
.in one manner of arranging the allegory-that isthe day of the
Birth of Christ; in another, it is thc day of his second birth,
or resurrection; and in a third, it is the day of the resurrection
of Lazarus-that is, of the year, the friend of Christ, which
had been exactlyfour days dead.
It is on the 25th of December that the Genii, or personifi-
cations of the other days and months of the year, say, in exact
allegory, to Thomas,
"
We have seen the Lord," and receive
from him that churlish avowal of his unbelief: _
-
Don't talk to me about seeing the Sun! My _/ingevs are
front-bitten still, and till I can thaw then in his vital heat, and
put my hand upon some substance that has been made warm by
his recovered ray,-the absolute print qf his hand upon nature,
-I will not believe. ,~
This absolute increase of the Sun's vital heat, becomes une-
uivocally perceptible, about eight days afterwards. Thomu,
iherefore, receives thesatisfaction he had demanded, and from
that day, which is the first of January, and not before the
2-lengthening of the day, and the perceptible increase of the
_
Sun's heat, having done away with the doubts of St. Thomas,
the new year is reckoned to begin.
'
199 IBB nevufs i>nx.nn'.
But there will still be, tothe unskilled in this. occult hei-
ence, a constant appearance of confusion and jumbling, audi'
consequent suspicion of a total want of system and method, as
if one could make any thing of it one
pleased, and it
all mereconjecture, as I can put any one apostle in the
place of any other, as it seems to serve the turn ; and I iam
constantly confounding the disciple with his Lord, and the
Lord with the disciple, and one disciple with another; dad
ascribing to one and the same disciple the mea opposite and
contradictory characteristics. ~'
The answer is, the multiplication table is just such :mothe-
jumble and piece of confusion, to a fool; but if you 'will be
at the pains to evolve the inductions or repeated additions
which constitute the multiplications, you wiil leam
appearance of confusion originated in your own ignorance,
and that, in reality, there is no
jumble or confusion at dl;
in it. f
'V
Only serve the multiplication table as you serve the gospel,
by taking it for what it was never meant for, and refusing to
understand it any otherwise than as you did the first day it
was put into your hands, andyou will acquire -about as much'
skill in arithmetic, as your clergy have in divinity. But all the
ditiiculy and apparent contradiction will vanish, if you will
but recollect, and apply the universal metonomy both of
human language and of human ideas: whereby, a thing 'is'
held to be sumciently expressed, when any thing which has
an immediate connection and relation with it is expressed,-
aswe say 'make the 'kettle boil,' for make the water boil, and*
'
shut the door,' for shut the door-way. So, the sign in which
the Sun is, is at any time identified with the Sun. And 'the
Sun of every year, of every month, and of every day, is spoken
oi, in allegorical astronomy, as a distinct and-particular Sun;
while yet, there never is, nor was, but one and the self-mme*
Sun. Thus the Dii Majores, or
greater Gods, of the Pagan
mythology, were but one and the same God»-t:hal'- is, the
same Sun, as distinctively considered in the twelve months oi
the year, as the three Gods, or three persons in one God, in*
the Christian Trinity, or in like manner but one and lheself-
same God-that is, the productive energy of nature, 'ns' con-'
sidered in the three elements of Fire, Water, and Air, which
are
the original and only Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,'*'wl6ch
was 1n the beginning, is now,and ever shalluhe, ,world withcstit
end," Ammon.
rm; navnfs ruufrr. _ 161
Thus theAmeu of- the -gospel, in the mystical prayer of
the 17th of John, prays "that all his disciples may be
turned into one; and that he may be in them, and they in
him, md he in God; that they may all be in one, as thou
Father art in me, andl in thee, and Iin them, and thou in
mer" so that, instead of leaving the reckoning to stand as
only three persons in one God, it must, by any arithmetic,
make fourteen personsin one God,
"
That they all may be one,"
sys Christ,-and so say I too. For if three persons, each
by himself being God and Lord, may yet make but one God
and one Lord; what is to hinder, but that fourteen, or any
'other number of Gods and Lords may be but one? For
when onoe a man renounces his reason, as every good Christian
is bound todo,-sure enough it's all one to him.
The solution of the enigma, however, as -an
allegory of the
natural phenomena of the same one 'eternal and unchanging
Sun, through all the changing seasons of the year, is so clear,
so beautiful., |0w0bV&IlS, that it is impossiblenot to see that
only by effort, and pains taking, that men have she!
themselves out from conviction, and barricaded themselves in
ignorance, by pretending an historical character for what an
imiophistioated child would see, could never have been in-
tended but as a fiction. In which "case, one cannot but apply
to them the censure which the gospelitself denounces. flhey
love darkness ,rather than light, because their deeds urevevil "....
that is,~they hide themselves from the clear and evident alle-
gorical sense of their scriptures, and have pretended an histori-
calone, because they have awicked and sinistrous purpose of
their own to serve: because they have a craft to carry on; be-
cause they would usurp a tyranous and cruel influence over
weak minds, that see not through their craft; and, because
honour, wealth, and power, are acquirable in this way, with less
talent, exertion, or industry, than in any other.
The belief which the gospel requires, was never the belief
which implied a taking it to be true, but that only which im-
plies,-what in a vulgar, but very expressive phrase, is called
the being up to it-that is, indeed, the not taking it to be true,
but taking it as it was intended, and as it is, indeed, a
fiction, a romance, an allegorical veil thrown over natural
history. _
-
And as one series of natural phenomena might be more in
the mind of the allegorist than another, or a more or less
|92 'rua nnv||.'s Punrlr.
ingenious way of allegorising the same facts would occur
to the more or less ingenious allegorists, you have that brave
neglect of`method, that heedlessness of consistency with itself,
or with any other allegory of the same
phcenomena, which cha-
racterises St. John's allegory, as
distinguished from the allego-
ries of Matthew, Mark, and Luke.
So the character of Thomas, a
pure invention of the fourth
allegorist, like the allegorical miracle of tuming water into
wine, and the resurrection of Lazarus, never occurred to the
minds of Matthew, Mark, or Luke,-as the allegorical miracle
of the Devil's drowning the pigs, or the pigs drowning the
Devils, which cuts such a
pretty figure in Matthew, Mark, and
Luke is wholly omitted by St. John. To say nothing of the
total contrarity, and different way of telling the fable of the
resurrection of Christ in John's gospel and the three' others;
a contrariety and difference, which Christian critics themselves
are constrained to admit cannot be reconciled on any' supposi-
tion of an historical basis of the story, but allowable ough
under the licenceof allegory and fiction, from which a perfect
consistency is never expected ;-it being enough that the story
hangs together any way in which it may hang together; and
that the reader be sufficiently aware of the moral or latent
astronomical significancy which the story is constructed to
convey-
'
_
A
"
Erroi-sflike straws, upon the surface How:
He who would seek for pearls, must dive below."
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON SAINT THOMAS.
im Behwa ahnlmt.
"AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Allan Ctlnflillgham.
No. 13.] MAY 27, 1831. [Price ld.
.,
1,
SAINT JAMES AND-SAINT JOHN,
THE SONS OF THUNDER:
% &ermnn,
PREACHED BY His H1GHNEss's CHAPLAIN,THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.,
xr 'ran ROTUNDA, BL/lcxrizuns nom, usscx 20, 1831.
"
And rykr si: days, Jenn taketh with him Peter, and James,
and John, and leadeth them up into an
high Mountain, apart
by themselves : and he was transfigured be/'ore them.
'
_And
his raiment became shining, exceeding white, as mow: so as
nofuller on earth can white th8m."-*MARK ix. 2, 3.
l
I uns before preached, and have published the discoiirse I
preached, on this fable of the Trangfguratizm of Christ, as it is
called,-the Metamorphosis, as it ought to be called. For itis
of the same nature as Ovid's Memmorphosés. The word
rendered he was
transfgured ,|,my,¢9¢~9»|, in both Matthew's
and Luke's gospel, is, as your own ear will admonish you,
most literally--he was metamorphosed--that is, he was mela-
morphosed into the Sun: and the drollery of it is, that his
coat, waistcoat, and breeches, and his shoes and stockings, if
he had any, were uietamorphosed too; they also partook of the
divine beatilication, which is a clear proof that the clothes we
vor. 1. u
194 ran
nsvrxfs ruurrr.
wear, are as capable of immortality as ourselves: and when we
rise again in gloriiied bodies, we shall rise at the same time in
glorified apparel, to cover our glorified bodies : as St. Paul
says,
"
Not that we would be unclothed ;" God forbid! "
but
that we would be clothed upon." There will be nobody at
the marriage supper ofthe lamb, but who will have the decency
to appear in some sort of a wedding garment.
After all, then, it is really no such impiety as they would
fain pretend that it is, to say, that the gospel is altogether a bag
of moonshine. For, if this part of the gospel be literally true,
and I am sure it is as true as
any part of the gospel, it is evi-
dent that Jesus Christ, as he stood upon that mount of trans-
figuration, or as it is sometimes called, the Holy Mount, was
nothing more than a
bag of sunshine.
E»ym'ro,'rn ttdogrs rrpoowrra aura, vnpov, is the Greek of the
text of Luke's version of this metarnorphosis-his _fhce was
turned into another; or, if we
prefer the Greek of the Syrio-
Armenic {Codices of Cambridge, it is »|M¢¢u0», which would
signify that he was Sunnified, or turned into the Sun.
My discourse on this subject is published in the fourth
volume of the Lion, and is in the twenty-fourth number of that
volume. To that, I refer the more curious inquirer, as it is
notnow my intention to treat of the miracle ofthe Transfigura-
tion. The narrative has only come in my way, as bringing
together the names of two of the disciples, .Tamer and John ;
who, with Peter, were admitted to the exclusive privilege of
being introduced into this Camermlucida. To which_ the Peter
of the epistles is made to refer, as the most positive evidence
that could be adduced for the truth of the Christian religion,
in those words: "
For we have not _/bllowed cunningly-devised
fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of
our Lord Jesus Christ, butwere eye-witnesses of his Mqesty.
For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when
there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory,
'
This
is my beloved Son, in whom I am wellpleased] And this voice
ran r>r¢vrr.'s euulrr. 195
which came ji-om Heaven, we heard, when we were with him in
the Hoiy Mount." 2 Peter, i. 16-18.
I have only now to remark, in passing, on this miracle ofthe
transfiguration of Christ, that it is one among ten thousand
proofs, of the absolute truth and fidelity of the noble science to
which I have so long directed your researches. It supplies a
ready answer to those who would revile me as the most absurd
of men, for representing Jesus Christ as being nothing more
than the Sun --that is "precisely as he represented himself"
So that, I may boldly say, the gospel has not, and never had, so
faithful a
preacher as the person whom lis enemies have en-
titled the Devil's Chaplain.
'
The story of the metamorphosis of Christ, and of the part
which Peter, James, and John bear in it, as called u-ofrrou,
sophistically translated, "Eye-witnesses qfhis lllqjesty," can only
pass for a
part and parcel of a system, taking date, subsequently
to the reign ofthe Emperor Augustus, on that stupid ignorance
that would believe any thing, and that stupid ignorance
fortified by the malicionsness of a bad heart, which purposely
bars otfall access of better information, and _strikes away the
light of knowledge, lest it should shine into the unswept cham-
bers of a fool's understanding.
The whole adhir is an uncovered, unconcealed exhibition of
the most ancient ceremony or sacrament of the Eleusinian
mysteries: the same in all essentialities of sameness, whether as
celebrated in Egypt or Greece, to the honour of the Egyptian
Isis, or the Grecian Ceres: in which those of the initiated who
were advanced to the highest degree, that was, to ree the ulti-
mate scope and end of those mysteries,
"
to whom it was
given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of Heaven," were
called the Perfect, the »n7mo¢ ; and, from the Sight which had
been afforded them, mor-rm, or Seen, or awwrm-that is,
Eye-witnesses. As the sight itself was called the Autopsy-
that is, the sight itreifz and the showing of the sight, the Pho-
tagogy, or bringing in of light. _
,_`
196 'ran nzvrr.'s runrxr.
Hence, St. Luke, in his preface, can give no higher authority
to his gospel, than calling it a Diegesis of things which had
been told them by those who had been Autops and Upereets of
the science: which our deceitful translation renders,
"
.Eye-
witneues and ministers of the word,"-he himself being one of
he initiated, but not advanced to the higher degree of an Autop,
or noble-grand, or royal arch, in this Freemasonry mystery.
The secret was to be kept most profound, as you lind the master,
when he came down from the Mount of Vision, straightly
charged the Autops, or favoured disciples, that they should tell
no mam The initiated, who had passed through all the inferior
grades, and attained the high rank of Autqrs, or eye-witnesses,
were called by the whole pagan world, Israelites _and Hebrews.
The name of Israelites, Jews, or Hebrews, did never designate
a political or national body, but were the names, which, from
an infinitely remote antiquity, designated the nltuos, the Upe-
reets, the Autops, the Rechabites, the Fanatics, the Frantics,
the Lunatics, or whatever other tics and bites might be used to
signify the highest order of the initiated in those holy mysteries ;
and to whom, and to whom alone, were committed the ormcles
of God. ,
As lthe name Jnw, or Jnuz, is the identical name
whichwe pronounce Jehovah, and is a name given to the wor-
shippers of Jaus, not from their country, but from their God :
and hence Jesus Christwas said to be a Jew-5. e. a God.
As their great ecclesiastical historian, Eusebius, translates
the name Hebrew, and correctly (warn max) translates it, one
who has over, and says, that it wasgiven to those "
whose
religious philosophy had burst through the limits of the visible
world, and passed into the bosom of intellectuality, and
into that divine light, where are invisible and hidden asenoes."°
The Autopsy or Transtiguration of Christ, then, though alle-
gotically indicating the bright shining of the Sun upon the
allegorical Genii of July and August, takes its narrative form,
_
Q Dupuis, Vol. il.,Part ii., p. 839.
ru nnvxrls ennrrr. 197
and its dialogue, ss does the whole fable of the crucifixion md
resurrection of Christ, from words actually used, and incidents
actually represented, with more or less aptness, as it might he
by the real Hierophant and his disciple, who performed their
respective parts in the mystical pantomime which we now call
gospel; but which Hierophant and his disciples were no more
the pesons that they represented, than our players of the pre-
sent day are the gods and devils, and fiends and ghosts, which
a fool might imagine them to be.
Out of the whole glorious (that is to say, clarion, or shining)
company of the apostles, we have found the places, relation,
and phznomena in the great solar system, of those distinguished
personitications, Peter, Judas, and Thomas!
It is the Autops, James and John, who, with Peter, were
hvoured with this privilege of the autopsy, with whom we are
now to become acquainted : and that is more than any Chris-
tian upon earth dare trust himself to do,-inquiry and know-
ledge, in all cases, being fatal to faith. Well, Mr. James, and
John, why were you, and Saint Peter, fixed upon to be the
only Autops, i. ¢. witnesses of the metamorphosis of Christupon
the Sunshiny Mount? Why didn't ye take T/wma: with you,
-our friend Tommy, the unbelieving, honest-hearted Tom, the
only sensible man among ye, if men, or any thing like men, ye
hadlbeeni The clergy, ye see, in all ages, and in all relations,
were well aware, that the apostle of infidelity would take the
shine out of 'em. ~
We first hear of James and John, in the 4th of Matthew,
where they are found by Jesus on the sea ot' Galilee, and are
mlled two brethren, James, the Son of Zehedee, and John, his
brother, who were ina ship with Zebedee, their father, mending
their nets: and Jesus called them, and they immediately left
the ship, and their father, and followed him.
°
The whole ofthe apostolic company will he treated of in due
s ueecesslon, in this solence.
198 _run nsvxrfs Punrrr.
Thus commencing theirapostleshipwithan act ofthe grossest
Elial disobedience and ingratitude-leaving their poor old father
Zebedee to mend his nets himself; and to get his ship to land,
the devil might care how, while they ran strolling up and down
the country, after a person, who, for all that appears in the
history-if history it had been-was nothing more than a
moimtebank quack doctor, who pretended to have dealings
with the Devil, and to cure all manner of diseases.
But, not for a moment must we lose sight of the curiously-
dropt stitch in the weavingof the story, that these two brothers,
James and John, were called to be disciples of Christ immedi-
ately atter the calling of two other brothers-Simon, called
Peter, and Andrew, his brother; and that, by the same sea of
Galilee, and from the same avocation, running atter the fishes.
So, here were two brace of brother fishermen-the brothers,
Peter and Andrew, who, as Peter was called Simon Peter, and
Simon-bar Jona, were the sons of Jonah; and the brothers,
James and John, the declared sons of Zebedee: which James
and John, notwithstanding their being expressly called the
sons of Zebedee, receive from Christ himself the surname of
Boanerges, which is, the sons of thunder. Mark iii. 17.
So! so! the sons of thunder, then 2 Was the old man Ze-
bedee the thunderer? What became of Zebedee, old Zebedee I
His disobedient sons might leave him in his ship, mending his
rotten nets, and there an end of him. So will not we!
If James and John acquired the name of Boanerges, which
is, sons of thunder--what did the name of Zebedee, their fa-
ther, signify? Its literal translation is, abundant portion.
Now, in a figurative sense, there is quite as perspicuous a sig-
niiicancy in the sons of abundance, as in the sons of thunder.
If, then, a literal sense cannot be pretended for such aphrase
as, the sons of thunder, which is Boanerges, neither can it be
pretended for the sons of abundance, which is the sons of
Zebedee. And the sons of abundance being thus identified
with the sons of thunder, this James and John, who are the
,ras nzvxL's Pvtrxr. 199
sons of thunder and the sons of abundance-that is, the sons
of Zebedee, can be no more real persons, than abundance and
thunder are real persons.
Now the church-for a reason which no churchman can give
you, and I can-lixes the festival of St. James on the 25th of
July, which is a month remarkable for the frequent occurrence
of thunder and of thunder-storms, as the month of August is
as remarkable as being the harvest month, or the month of
abundance. On the 25th of July, the Sun enters the sign of
the Lion of July; but not before the 6th of August is the Sun
fairly in the middle of the Lion. On that day, then, is fixed
the festival of the Ihansjiguralion: the face of Christ thenbe-
comes another, and the Lamb of God is transiigured into the
Lion of the tribe of Judah.
Now be awake again, I beseech ye! The names of James
and John--these sons of abundance, these sons of thunder,
these apostolic brothers, privileged above all the rest to bask
in the eifulgence of Christ's glory upon the holy mount-are
names which always come together, and always in this order-
James and John-never as John and James, which would be
blasphemous, andwould as
surely raise theDevil, as if you were
to say the Lord's Prayer backwards. It would be as preposte-
rous as if you were to reckon August as coming 'before July.
Nor is James, though distinguished by the title of James
the Great, ever mentioned as concerned in any action-as
making any speech, as
speaking, or as spoken of, so much as
in one single instance, separately and distinctly, from his bro-
ther John.
And as there can be no thunder without lightning in the order
of nature, so we find that the characters and actions of these
thunderers in the gospel, are as allegorical as their names.
For the sons of thunder, James and John, it is who, of all
the apostolic band, were the only two who ask of Jesus Christ
for leave to call for tire from Heaven ; when some apparent in-
terruption in his course had occurred, and James and John ob-
200 'run n|:vn.'s Punlr.
served it, they said, "
Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to
come down from Heaven, and consume them, even as Elias
did P" But he turned (what did he turn for ?) and rebuked them.
On which the beautiful fable of the Sun, holding the thunder
and lightning of July and August in cheek, in order to preserve
the harvest from their blasting influence, has been attached-
the noblest and best moral that any fable ever had.
Only, unhappily, our gospellers have served the gospel as
they serve all other fables. 'I`he moral of it was always that
part which they never wished to see, nor cared to practise.
In the keepings of an historical congruity, it should have
been Simon the zealot, or the rash and hasty Simon Peter,-it
should have been the iniidel Thomas, or the traitor Judas,
whose dispositions should have appeared in the desire to call
for (ire from Heaven, or any of the twelve, rather than James
the Great, whose character is not drawn at all; and John, the
disciple whom Jesus loved, whose character, as far as it is
drawn, was the most oppositeof all the twelve, to that of such
a disposition. '
It is evidently, then, not an historical consistency, but a
physical one, that the gospel allegory respects. In which con-
sistency, it is seen at once, that though the months of July and
August are, in the course of nature, most ordinarily beneiicent
and amiable to man, yet they are often found to be the sons of
thunder, and, from their great heat of temper, frequently ac-
companied with the most dreadful storms of lightning.
Of the thunderer, James, not one
single act which he ever
did, not one word which he ever spoke, nor one syllable that
he ever wrote, exists, or can be shewn ever to have been in arist-
ence, in any record whatever. The epistle, called the General
Epistle of James, in the New Testament, claims to be no more
than au epistle of
"
James, a Servant of God, and of the Lord
Jesus Christ ;" and is evidently the composition of a Roman
Catholic priest, contrived to inculcate their very lucrative doc~
trines of auricular confession and extreme unction;
WHA'
1
i
./ ,
Q'
'rua nsvxrfs PULPIT. 801
such, is rejected asamost
palpable cheatand imposture, by
the shrewder and more intelligent, even of those who have pro-
fessed and called themselves Christians. And those who will
have that epistle to be apostolical, _ascribe it to James the Less,
and not to James of whom we now treat, the son of thunder.
The leamed Unitarian divine, the Rev. Edward Evanson, in
his
cel¢=;_br:ted work, the Dirsonanee, &c.,has settled all preten-
sions o t e e istle-writin James, . 276.
Neither ispthere any historical'identification of the James
the brother of John, of the gospels, with the Jam , the brother
of John, of the Acts of the Apostles, chap. 12, where it is said
that Herod the King
Sour
old friend, you know, Herod the
King, that cruel child-ki ler, who is always brought on the stage
when there is any bloody scene to act) "stretched forth his
lxndl; tau?
certain of the Church, and he killed James, the
at r
0/ ohn, with the Sword."
Now what matters it to us, what instrument it was that he
killed him with? It matters every thing: for it is not said
that he killed him with a
sword, but he killed him with 'ral
sword, paautipa, a very particular sort ofa sword that must be,
to be worthy to beso particularly mentioned. Let's hope it
might be a sort of a sword that would not shed much blood:
since, otherwise, it would behard to account for amiraclebeing
wrought' to get Peter out of this Herod's clutches, while poor
Jemmy was left to be his victim. For the story runs, that
Herod the King, having killed James with the sword, proceeded
further, to take Peter also ; and when he had apprehended him,
he put him in prison, tpukaxnv, "and delivmd him to _#mr
puaterzior;qfh
soldiers to
keep him; intending, after Enter, to
ring im art to the eo le.'
So, so, sol and we Azrepto read this holy jargon so, with our
eyes shut, and with such a
perfect innocence of criticism, as to
see nothing absurd or contradictory, or preposterous, in this
murderous King Herod being so punctiliously conscientious,
as not to allow any public performances to go on during the
Passion Week. Like a good Christian, as he was, he will wait
till after Easter. An unlucky translation that, of the p.r'ra¢-ro
ragxu which might have been rendered q/ter the .Pau over:
except that the rendering q/Yer the Passover, is hardly thick
enough to cover from the prying eyes of honest scepticism the
latent astronomical conundrum, that this King Herod, having
killed James with the sword, must proceed further to take
202 -ran r>nvu.'s rnnrxr.
Peter, and finds a Pass-over, or something, some line, some
bridge, some any thing you lease, that must be passed over,
ere he can serve Peter, as he had served James.
The first thing, however, that Peter does, upon finding him-
self escaped from the power of Herod, is to send word, to
James especially. of his miraculous escape ; which obliges us
to recollect that there is another James in the apostleship, and
that is, James the Less, who, though he is expressly called the
son of
Alphteus,
which signifies a thousand, learned, or chi¢
has the istinguishin epithet of the Brother
3/`
Jesus Christ,
and the still more gistinguishing epithet of ames the Just,
which epithet sulliciently serves to tix his place in the Scales of
Segember.
ut of the James, the brother of John, the James and John,
the sons of thunder, to whom now we conline our studies : their
identity with the imaginary Genii of the months of July and
August, which are thundering months, is still further established
by the allegorical analogy of their being the objects of envy to all
the other apostles: as July and Augustare the months in which
the Sun
puts
forth his greatest splendour, and more especially
crowns e year with his goodness: so that July and August
are, by the most obvious figure, the sons of Zebedee-that is,
the Sons fy" Abundance. But of all the apostolic cohort, James
and John happen to be the only two that had a mother, or a
mother that cared for them, that had their interest at heart, and
whose character was worthy to be wrought ,into the texture of
the allegorical drama. As in Matthew xx. 20, you have intro-
duced the character of the mother of Zebedee's children-Mrs.
Zebedee, come to Jesus upon a boroughmongering errand, to
get good places under government, for her two sons.
"
'Wor-
shipping him," says the text,
"
and desiring a certain thing of
him." A cameying old woman she was. _She worshipped him,
-not that she cared for him any more than he for her: only she
was up to the way of things at court, and knew that places
under government are only to be got by the trick of appearing
to be vastly religious, and laying on the worshipping pretty
thick. So, after he had enough of her worshipping, (as like the
rest of 'em, she'd have worshipped the Devil, had he happened
to be in office) : he said unto her,
"
What wilt thou? She
saith unto him,
"
Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one
on
thy right hand, and the other on thy left, in thy kingdom l"
You see they were mere sinecure places which the woman
'ran n|.vu.'s rnuxr. 203
wanted,-nothing to do in 'em but to sit still and enjoy them-
Sclves at the expense of the kingdom.
There were, however, two ualiiications necessary for the
places they desired, as to whicli, their sumcient accomplish-
ment might be doubted: those qualifications were, drinking
and
ducking, "Are ye able to drink?" said Jesus (and to
make a
good splash in the world, that is no
ordinary drink, be
sure on't),
"
but to drink of the cup that I shall drink of2" to toss
lt oil, I dare say, at aswig, without stopping to take breath.
To which these sons of thunder answer very promptly,
"
We
are able." And the Devil doubt 'eml the hot months of July
and August, naturally disposing men to be thirsty and feverish:
thepersonified genius of either of those months appears in the
lneroglyphical picture as a
complete
"
Toby Fillpot, a
thirsty old soul,
As ere crackt s bottle, or fathomed a bowl."
But that cup now? that particular cupl O, season but your
admiration with so much patience as shall put it into my power
to serve you
up
that cup in the due order of this intellectual
banquet; and do promise you in one of these discourses, that
you shall drink out of that cup the nectar of the Gods, so rich
a
draught of science, and of scientific demonstration, as shall
destroy in you for ever all possibility of swallowing any more
of the milk and water of the gospel.
But our business now, is with the sons of Zebedee, and their
mother, Mrs. Zebedee. There ,is not a little difficulty in
'identifying this old woman, owing to her being spoken of by
no other e ithet than that most evidently enigmatical one, the
mother ¢y'PZebedce's children,-which should seem to indicate,
that though she was the mother of Zebedee's children, she
never had the honour of being Zebedee's wife. The ladies
Bhd gentlemen of the gospel seem not to have been any thing
like so ceremonious about these things, as we are now-a-days.
Because the gospel is the purest system of morals that ever was
in the world,-and where will you find any thing to compare
with the morals of the gospel ?
There are two Johns, two Jameses, two Judases, two Simons,
and four Maries, in the dramatis persona of the gospel. So
that though we have the expression, Mary, the mother of
James, and Mary, the mother of,
John: it must rest only in
conjecture, which of the Maries was the mother of the S0115 Of
204 rn: DlVIL'B mmf.
Zebedee. Unless we please to relieve our conjecture, byacting
faith on God's word, and so conclude, that as there are three
persons in one God, so there might be four mothers, where that
was but one woman.
But this sublime confusion is, for the better exercise of our
faith, most sublimely enhanced, by the discovery which results
from a
comparison of the text of Matthew's gospel with that of
Mark's, which shows us, that as Christ could truly
say,
"
I
and my Fatherare One :" so his disciples, James an John,
could as trul say, we and our mother are one.
What, in §atthew's gos I, is reported as having been
spoken
by the mother, is, in Marges, said to havebeen spoken y her
sons; and no mention at all is made of Mrs. Zebedee in the
affair. It being evidently all one and the same thing, whether
it were they who said it, or she-that is, whether the applica-
tion to be allowed to sit, the one on Jesus's right hand, and the
other on his left, were made immediately by themselva, or by
their mother, who represented them. Because, as it is the
Virgin of the Zodiac, who represents the Genii of those sons
of abundance, July and August-that is, James and John.
It never being to be forgotten, that in allegorical adaptations,
those congruities and consistencies which we look for in his-
tories and narratives, are not required. The contradictions,
absurdities, and jarring statements, which are not to be excused
nor endured, in any thing that would pass for history, become
the source of greater entertainment, and the vehicle of further
instruction, in mythology. And these contradictions, absurdi-
ties, and impossibiliti , which are found in every page of
sacred writ, are themselves the evidence and demonstration that
it was not history, but mythology, that was intended.
The believer of the gospel, therefore, is not he who takes it
to be tme, but he who takes it as it was intended to be taken-
that is, who understands it, who sees through or looks under
the gross veil of the letter, into the sublime science of the
spirit: in which sense, no
pretended minister of the gospel in
this accursedly priest-ridden country, dare trust himself, or his
congregation, to accept the challenge I have given, to show
whether it be I, or he, who is the rmpostor. For God hath
made me what none of them are,
"
an able minister of the New
Testament,-not of the letter, but of the s irit,-for the letta
killeth "-that is, you see, it makes fools oigpeople; "but the
'ral nnvrr.'s PULPIT. 295
spirit giveth life,"-that is, there's some good fun, and work
for science in it.
As, look into
history,
or toany thing that ever bore the name
of history: where wil you find the names, or an
thing like
the names, of these sons qf thunder, James and John, any ac-
cormt of any action they ever did, or any event in which they
bore a part ?
Of James, your only account is, that after having preached
nothing, written nothing, spoken nothing, and done noth` ,
he was killed for nothing, by that etemally reviving old chili-
killer, King Herod.
Of James the Just, following the romance, called ecclesias-
tical history, he gets killed, in like manner, for nothing at all.
And, like almost all the rest of them, he suffers his martyrdom
in Heliopolis, or in Hiem olis, those words literally meaning
the City ofthe Sun, and the Sacred City, the known and uni-
versal metaphor for the Zodiac, in which all these martyrdoms,
or bearing witnesses, are said to have happened, and in which
alone, did any of these martyrs exist.
John, however, the beloved son of thunder, never died at
all; for though he ceased to breathe on earth, we are assured,
by the holy and most veracious Father of the Church, Saint
Augustin, that'he continues to breathe under the earth :K as he
lies buried in the church-yard, at Ephesus, where St. Augustin
himself could see the earth of his grave heave u and down, as
the old man draws his breath. It was called a
standing
miracle, for many hundreds of years in the Christian church,
notwithstanding the churchmen themselves could not deny that
it was a
[ying one.
Its efficacy, however, 'in confirming the faith of the faithful,
has been much diminished, owing to the fact of our church-
yards, to this day, presenting equally well-attested evidence of
thousands of vampires, snoring away in damp sheets, and wait-
ing for the glorious resurrection.
As no history, no
geography, no chronology, no annals, re-
gisters, or vestiges of fact in all the world, have any account
of the existence of such
persons
as these sons of thunder,
shall we be blind to the lig tof evidence, which a
perfect re-
semblance of names, and a
perfect similarity of the fable, flashes
on us, in proof that the ancient Paganism and the mythology
which we now call Christianity, are one and the self-same
religion.
203 run navu.'s PULPIT;
Observe, then, the demonstration, and I do beseech you to
bar me off from your convictions as long as you possibly can
do so.
Only be rational, and surrender your conviction to
nothing short of rational demonstration.
Bear in mind, then, the story which makes so distiguishing
a
portion of three out of four of our
gospels, of the metamor-
phosis of Christ upon the holy mount.
_Bear in mind, that it was the distinguished and exclusive
privilege of Peter, James, and John, to be witnesses of this
metamorphosis, or trausliguration, or gloritication, or what you
please, of Christ upon this holy mount.
V
Bear in mind, that if this had happened, as an incident pe-
culiar to Christianity, it could not have happened before ,the
founding of Christianity.
Bear in mind, that your Christ in the gospel constantly
speaks of his twelve disciples, or any one of them, as
being
one with himself, as he was one with the Father.
Bear in mind, that the name Jnnss is always rendered into
Latin, Jacobus, of which the termination, us, is merely g¥Bll"
matical, and leaves us the name Jacob, ~.1:|py~r:pp~, that Iac.
Ob.-(Genesis, 26, v. 36.)
But Iacchus is the direct, undisguised, unconeealed name of
the God Bacchus, the God of Wine: which, without its Latin
termination, is Iac, the direct origin of our English, Jack, the
radical of Jao, Iam, Jeue, and all our names for God: in which
we
arenever to lose sight of the perfectanalogy of physical
pha-
nornena with the theological allegory. As we always find ack,
;?`IJl6'lIlg God, and Tom, signifying the Devil. lf you go to
eaven when you die, you will go to Jack in the bor ; but if
you goto the other place, you'll go to Hell and Tommy.
But Ob* was a direct name of God, as signifying the Father,
and added to Iac, or Jack, made the whole name Jack-0b-
that is, Gon 'rue Fnana. And Jack-Ob, called Jacob, was
applied to the grandson of Abraham, as bein the father of the
twelve Patriarchs. Those twelve Patriarchs have been proved
to be none other, 'than the personified Genii of the twelve divi-
sions of the Zodiac, in the old allegory : and the twelve apostles,
are the same allegorical Genii, in the New.
'A Serpent, in the Egyptian language was
styled 0a-Bryant,
Vol. i. Ab generally signilies a father; indiifsrently styled Ab,
Aub, and 0b.-Ib. Vol. ii. 202.
'ran nzvrxls runrxr. 207
Thus is this Jack-Ob, identified with God the Father, the
Iacchus, or Bacchus-that is, the Sun ; which is the father of
the twelve signs of the Zodiac.
But how came Jacob and James-that is, Jack-Ob and
I-an-r-:s, to be universally understood as perfectly synonimous
names ; when they are certainly no more like each other, than
the names Bacchus and Apollo, which were different and distinct
persopifications
of one and the self-same Deity in the Mytho-
ogy .
huns*-that is, again, without its Latin termination, I Lu,
was the universal and most ancient name of the God Apollo.
And his priests were called, from his name, the Iamidae, or
Iameses. They were the very oldest order of priests, known in
Greece: as the measure of verses, called Iambic, is derived
from the hymns sung to the honour of Iamus, consisting of a
short syllable, followed by along one; and it is found in the
poetry of all nations.
The whole word James, anatomised into its Ammoniau
radicals, presents us with the etemally-recurring trinity in unity.
I, the One; su, the nan; ns, the Fire-that is, the one
great source of Heat, the Fire, the Sun.
Without the third syllable, the I-am-that is, the One, the
Heat, or warmth, or caloric, as
distihguished from Fire, the
name is naturalized as a name of God, and ridiculously called
the Great "
I su," as in that droll lay upon words, in the 3d
of Exodus, Moses said to God,
"
Ipsay, what's your name ?"
And God said to Moses,
"
I au 'nur I su ; and thou shalt
sag, I au hath sent me unto you :" which in our ridiculous
version amounts to no more than if he had said, his name was
Thing-a-me-bob, and Moses was to go to the children of Israel,
and say to them, Thing-a-me-bob, or What's-his-name, has sent
me to you: which was as much infomation as the children of
Israel could reasonably require, or
perhaps
as the subject ad~
mitted. It was the clearest revelation o the divine character
that ever was in the world; and the babes of Christ Jesus me
quite as well satisfied with it, as the children of Israel.
Now, it hap ns most awkwardly, for any pretence to origin-
ality, in our Cgiiistian Mythos of the Transfiguration of Christ
upon the holy mount, that we have the same scene as occurring
*
Iamus was the same as Apollo and Osiris.-Bryant, Vol, i
p. 321.
208 mn navufa rtn.Pn~.
to deities of the same name, in an infinite antiquity, before his
time, described in the sixth Olympic Ode of the poet Pindar,
who tlourished 500 years before the Christian era; with this
only difference, that in the poem of Pindar, the tale is majestic,
sublime, and beautiful : whereas, in the gospel of Matthew,
Mark, and Luke, it is such a tale, as,if it were found any where
else, would be a
disgrace to the children ofIsrael.
Pindar, speaking of the God Iamus-that is, James, who was
believed to be conducted by Apollo to Olympia, says, that
"
they both came to the Petra (that is, to Peter, the Rock, to
the Petra) Elibatos-that is, the Sun-trod Rock "
(a favourite
'epithet
fora rock, so high as to be only accessible to the all-
imbing Sun) upon the lofty Cronian Mount; there Apollo
bestowed upon Jamus a double portion of prophetic knowledge.
Ixovro d'v¢nM4o Hcfpar, ~
AA»Ca-ra Kptma,
Ev9'o» wwawr Qmrdupor,
Asdufsw M¢7TOG'llIG»§»
We have no account, however, of any particular degree of
knowledge possessed by any James of the gospel. Eusebius.
however, so famous for supplying deficiencies ofevidence, had
not lost sight of the idea ; andassures us, that immediately after
the Ascension, "our Lord imparted to James, John, and Peter
the gift of knowledge."
And if he did so, 'tis the best account that can be given for
the fact, that neither the one nor the other had ever more a
word to say in favour of Christianity; for so soon as their
knowledge came in, their Christianity ran out.
A man may, indeed, have knowledge of other kinds, and
upon other subjects ; but I am sure he can have none upon the
subject of Christianity, if he has any higher respect for it than
I have. But,
"
A wise man will hear, and will increase knowledge; he will
understand the proverb, and the interpretation thereof,-the
words ofthe wise, and their dark sayings."
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON SAINT JAMES AND
SAINT JOHN, THE SONS OF THUNDER.
Eine Eehivs amtllpft.
No. 14,1 JUNE 3, 1831. [Price zd.
THE CRUCIFIXIUN OF CHRIST.
_
Q QHO0U¢,§l7iUdD g-sermon:
PREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS/S Cl-IAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
AT 'ran n.o'rvNnA, BLACKFRIARS-Roan, Nov. 14, 1830.
Aklsc lnvu, mirror a 31/van-au a-wa'au : si Bosa'»7.sug Ia'panA ern;
uvragafrv nav evzro T8 rrawpa, mu
ma--reua-oy.n aww.
"
He saved others, himself he cannot save. If he be the King
of Israel, let him now come down from the Cross, and we
will believe him."-MATTHEW xxvii. 42.
Was not this a blasphemous, cruel taunt, to cast in he
teeth (if he had any teeth) of the poor bleeding Lamb; of
whom, on this holy day, a hundred thousand Christians, quite
as innocent as lambs, are singing that pretty stave :
"
Lo! streaming from the fatal tree,
His all-awning blood :
ls this the Infinite Z 'tis He,
My Saviour, and my God."
'
'
And I say, my God, tool But ere I give ye any comment of
my own, you shall have the text itself of Christian doctrine, to
the full chorus of evangelical orthodoxy.
"
Well might the Sun in darkness hide
And veil his glories in ;
When God, the mighty Maker, died,
For man (the Creatu re)`s sin."
Watfs Hymns, Boo 1. 2, Hymn 9.
°
Pn0siscU'1'isu Fon Ih.§§§iiE§ixT
'
VUL. In
0
210 'rua navxrfs Punrrr.
In the full tide of evangelical declamation, the fathers of our
English church, pursuing to its full extent the dogma of the
absolute divinity of Christ, in commemoration of this day, which
they call Good Friday, to this effect, address their admiring
congregations :-
"
Carry back your minds, ye faithful Christians, to the awful
scenes of Gethsemane and Calvary. He who suffered on that
bitter cross, was none other than the Creator of the world him-
self. "'
0 awful mystery! O love divinel there you behold
the Almighty God arraigned as a felon at the bar of Pontius
Pilate. Him, who only hath immortality, tried for his life;
Jesus Christ, the righteous, found guilty : the author of nature,
suifered : the Immortal God, expired : the Everlasting, ceased
to be: the Eternal, was no more: the Great Iam, was not:
the living God, was dead. There was a radical reform in the
Kingdom of Heaven; the boroughmongers were tumed out;
the Jure-Divino-ship of God himself was no longer respected ;
'
God over all,' was
put under;
'
Blessedfor ever mm~e,' was no
more blessed;
'
Holy, Holy, Holy,' was wholly kicked out;
'
Jehovah's awful throne,' was declared vacant; and the pro-
visional govemmentdevolved into the hands of that venerable
old republican, Lieutenant-General Beelzebub."
Such, is not more than the consecutive tissue of absurdity
which imagination must necessarily attach to that first and pri-
mordial absurdity, which the evangelical Watts has consecrated
in those words:
"
God, the might Maker, died,
For man
(the`(geature)'s sin."
Nor does it exceed the licence of Catachresis, which, in an
extemporaneous babbler, in a
gospel shop, would be allowed to
come within the propriety andsolemnity of a most
spiritual and
sublime sermon.
But, if we may relieve the cracking stretch of imagination,
~
->
"
In the Indictment.
'
was nnvt'|.'s eurmrr. 211
by borrowing so much physic from reason, as may work us into
coolness, by imagining so much of the story only to be true, as
will admit of being imagined to be true (which, God knows, is
very little of it). Why, then, in the case of one who had given
himself out to be some great one, who had pretended that, in
some supematural sense, he was come
_fi-on God and went to
God, that he had really wrought miracles, healed the sick, and
raised the dead : now seen himself to have need of a Saviour,
sean himself to be dying: no challenge could be fairer, nor be
conceived to be so, than that which the chief priests and scribes,
and elders, offer to him, in the fine irony, and noble sarcasm of
the text:
"
He saved others, himself he cannot save, If he be
the King of Israel, let him come down from the cross, and we
will believe him."
-
Had there been any historical reality in the scene, the not
accepting of that challenge, the not coming down from the cross,
when so called on so to do, was the greatest proof of imposture
that imposture of any sort could be conceived to have.
And never was there an impostor upon earth, nor any means
or faculty in man to distinguish between imposture and truth,
if such a challenge, declined under such circumstances, were not
an absolute proof of imposture.
But God, it will be said, is not bound to give whatever par-
ticular proof the impertinent incredulity of man might call for.
But, with reverence be it spoken, by God and by his honour he
is bound to do so : and the acquitting him from that bond,
under the hypocritical pretence of a submission to his will, is
but the same kind of treason against the divine maiesty, as that
of the Roundheads against King Charles, when they took up
arms in the king's name against the king's person; and were for
calling themselves his loving lubjects, while they cut his head
off "
Let him come down from the cross, and we will believe
him." What fairer, what fitter proof of his divine mission,
could have been proposed to him? 'Twas the thing which he
himself must have most wished to do.
212 rn: 1>s.vn.'s runsir.
His rising from the dead afterwards; ifwe ourselves had seen
him rise, would not have been so
strong a
proof to us of his
truth, as his not delivering himself from death, ww a
proof of
his falsehood.
But it was necessary, say our Christian credulists, tint he
should die, in order that he should rise again. Then, why did
he die at all? why that superfluous, gratuitous, unnecasary
suffering, or appaarsnceof suffering, which could add nothing
to the dignity of character, or to the proof of a divine sussiou,
in a
person who was really capable of survivirg death?
And, alter all, if we are to reason
upon the matter, and let
the words we use have the proper meanings attached' to them ;
the resurrection of Christ, in the sense our ignorant and stupid,
if not wicked and deceitful clergy, attach to it, involves a cun-
tradiction in terms, a
mying and unsaying, a being and not
being, at the same time; which, if it is to be endured, why
Bedlam must be the greatseat of wisdom, slobbering idiotcy,
and stark-staring madness, are to be our masters, and will turn
poor reason out of doors for ever. For what is it to be dead?
if it be not to be as dead as mutton; as dead as adoor~nail-
that is, utterly beyond the poudrility, beyond the conceivability
of again becoming alive? Il, then, it was
possible that Christ
could come to life again; it could not at the same time have
been impossible. But, if it was not impossible that he could
come to life again ; then, he had never been in that state which
answers to the definition of death: he had never been deadat
all.
`
And, if there had been any necessity for a manifestation of
divine justice in the matter, why, in the name of God and of
reason, should not that Jesus Christ, who had made a whip of
cords, and tamed out the poor tradespeople, and little shop-
keepers, for the venial oflence of selling their wares in the
church-yard: why should he not, for the much greater olfenoe
of the ariswcrats, the chief priests, and scribes, and pharisees,
in _seeking to
crucify him, make a cat-o'-ninotails, and lay it
0
'rrra o|vu.'s PULPIT. 213
on their backs to such a tune aswould have whipt the oiiending
Adam out of 'eml and brought them to their knees in true re-
pemance.
But such is, in every instance, the character of the boasted
morals of the gospel,
"
the purest system of morals, ye see,
that ever was in the world ; and where will ye find any thing to
equal the morals of the gospels '!"
The poor devils who had sought to keep soul and body toge-
ther by picking up the honest penny that might be gained by
selling nuts and oranges in the outer courts of the temple, have
their baskets knocked over, and are dogged, sconrged, and la-
eerated with stripes and wails:
"
Which Mercy, with a
hleedhg heart.
Woepl when she sees inllictod on a dog."
While the poor and spotless clergy, might commit the greatest
crime which the Sun ever saw, with impunity, might nail him
who made them to the cross, blaspheme his Godhead, and defy
his power. O, what a beaudiirl exhibition of moral justice is
the gospel !
&t, there is this relief to the matter, upon the Unitarian hy-
potheds,thst,vra-e the storyviewedu a matterofhistory-
which I am sure we never intended--and were all its pre-
tended evidence to be received as good and valid evidence, and
to be judged by the ordinary lows of evidenoe,as an honest jury
wouldjudge in any other case, it would not carry a verdict that
Christlnd ever been putto deathatall. ~
I-'or what is the evidence? ~
Ist. The disposition of Pilate to release Jesus, is admitted.
"
From themqforth Pilate sought to release him." John xx. 12.
Rnd. The power of Pilate to release him, is admitted.
"
Knowest thou not that Ihauepawer ta thee, andluwe
powcrto release thee ?" John xx. 10.
3rd. The declaration of Pilate, that he would release him, is
admitted. "
1 will cluutise kim, and let him go,"-that is, I
wru. let him go : no less than a positive promise to do so.
_,
214 'rx-la nav: r.'s Puarrr.
°
4th. The finnness of Pilate's character, in that what he had
once said he would do, in defiance of all the power of the chief
priests : that he would do: "
What I have written I have
written," is admitted.
5th. The remonstrance of Pilate's wife, sent to him as he sat
on the judgment-seat, to wam him to
"
have nothing to do with
that Just Man," is admitted. Matthew xxvii. 19.
6th. His own conviction, that he was a Just Man, is admitted.
"
I_find in him no
fault at all."
7th. The fact of no person, but Pilate and his friends, having
access to the presence of Jesus, in thejudgment-hall,is admitted.
8th. That the person whom Pontius Pilate presented as Jesus,
and of whom he said,
"
Behold the man !" was disguised in a
dress in which his person could not be recognised (most strongly
implying that he was not the man), is admitted. _
6th. The strange and unaccountable appearance of "
Simon,
the Qynsnian, the Father if Alexander, and Rag/ia, coming out
of the country," and being seized upon, and compelled to carry
the cross, is admitted.
And upon these admissions, it is ibund in evidence, that the
absolute grammatical construction of the text of both Matthew,
Mark, and Luke (that is, of three out ofthe four), as read as it
ought to be, and would be in a court of law, on a trial for
murder, is most positively and literally to the sense, that "it
was not Jaus Christ, but Simon, the Cyrenian, who was cmci-
fied. For in each of these fatal sentences, there is no other
accusative in relief, to be govemed, of the verb, they
but the accusative or objective case of the pronoun him, an-
swering to the noun, Simon the Cyrenian." (* Theyfound Simon,
him they compelled to bear his cross, to him they gave vinegar
to drink, and they cruci d nm.
While Luke, still mg concliisivelyhas the positive words,
that immediately upon their laying hold of Simon the Cyrenian,
~
_
'
In the Indictment.
'ma navn/s Punerr. 215
lhqy led Jesus away-that is, they got him out of the crowd;
so that he stood leisurely by,-(and* upon seeing Poor Simon
tucked up in his place, he endeavoured to comfort him, by
assuring him, that it was all a mistake. "
Father," says he,
addressing himself to old Simon,
"
Father Simon, _forgive
them,for they know not what they do. They think that it's me
that they're crucifying; but they've got you: don't take it to
heart, Simon; you know you must die sometime or other, and
it's quite as fair that you should be crucified for my salvation,
as I for yours.")
And that they really had got the wrong man (that is, if they
had got any man at all) is rendered still further probable, by
the very different behaviour of the person, whom they had
seized by mistake, from that which we should naturally have
expected from the meek and holy Jesus.
Jesus would have been resigned to the will of God, would
have met his death with fortitude, as
knowing that it was all a
hoax, and that he should be none the worse for it a day or two
aher. He would have set us an
example of that faith, and
that joy and peace in believing, which, we are told, always
awompanies the dying scenes of the faithful. But the wretch
who was substituted in his place, either the chief Barabbas, or
Simon the Cyrenian, which ever it was, was a
blaspheming
inlidel, and groaned out his guilty soul in the most frightful
ejaculation of despair and blasphemy : "My God, my God,
why hast thou forsaken me./" Could this be Jesus, this de-
spdring wrench, this conscience-stricken coward, this blasphem-
ing ingratel It is impossible: I should rather think it was the
Devil himself; as, certainly, if divine justice required that
somebody should suffer for our sins, who so tit to suffer, as the
Devil, who had been the cause of them; and who so unfit
as poor Jesus, whohad done all he could to prevent our sinning.
With this sense and reading of the mutter, comports the
whole theory of Christian doctrine. As you will find the holy
'
In the Indictment.
216 'rua oavu/s PULPIT.
Apostle Paul, most emphatically declaring, that the very
essence and defiinition of gospel-preaching consisted in this:
"
We preach Jesus Christ, and him crucified"-that is, not
that Jesus Christ was crucified (who but a fool could have
thought so?) but Jesus Christ was one
person, and him that
was crucified, was another; and the apostle, therefore, preached
'em both, Ina'8r Xyurror, Kan 1108: so'-rawpwpsvov.
We are, therefore, called upon, as Christians, to have a
thankful remembrance of the death of him that was
crucified-
that is, we are glad of it, it served him right, and the Devil
take him; whereas, it would have been our duty to be exceed-
ing sorry for the circumstance, had it been poor Jesus that had
been crucified, as most certainly it was not.
We find, too, upon further inquiry into the matter, that (all
that the blessed Jesus had to do with the cross, was not to bear
it himself, but to get Simon the Cyrenian to bear it for him ;1~)
not that he suffered a defeat, but that he gained a victory; not
that he was nailed to the cross, but that he himself nailed, or
caused to be nailed, to the cross, the Cheirography," or hand-
writing, that was against us,
"
nailing it," says the apostle,
"
to
his Cross." (So, ye see, it was not the nail that was in his
hand, but the hammer :1>) he was not the vanquished, but the
victor: (he did not suffer, but he triumphed on the cross.1>)
'
(Nor is it ever said, in any part of the gospel, that Christ
showed himself alive after his death, which we know was xm-
possible, the strongest expression of all being, that in the first
of the Acts of the Apostles, that "
he showed himseff alive qfhr
his Passion." Mem 'ro -1ra9sn a-u-row, not pina 'ro mro0anu aw-ras,
as the Greek would have been, had it meant ajier his death,
but after his PASSION. And what was to hinder him from
showing himself alive qfler his passion. A man may put him-
sel into a passion, I hope, and put himself out of it again,
witho breaking a blood-vessel.'|>)
'
To Xnpoypar.Qa|. Coloss. ii. H.
f In the Indictment.
'ma nnvnfs runrrr. 217
And when the Jews wanted to kill him, and actually did kill
Simon the Cyrenian, or somebody else, whom they mistook
for him, it was enough to try the patience of Job himself.
We are not, therefore, so to confound all grammar in words
and all reason in ideas, asto take Jes-as Christ, and him aucgfed,
for only one person: when words cannot be plainer to the
sense, than they were two ; and two the most distinct and op-
posed, that any words whatever could describe to be distinct
and opposed.
Jesus Christ was the person who certainly was in a
passion;
but him crucified, was the person who put him into the passion.
And Jesus Christ is as certainly, and as clearly, defined, as the
person who was not crucified, as the other fellow--6. e. "him
¢'ruci_]'ied," is defined as the person that was, him that was
cnwzjied.
*And here, again, as in ten thousand instances, you find, that
it is him whom they call the Devil's Chaplain, after all, who is
the only faithful preacher of' the gospel.
God hath made me, what none of the fellows at the other
shops are,-" an able minister ofthe New Testament." 1 alone,
do truly answer to the apostolic character; I alone, of all the
bishops and priests inthts miserable be-bishop'd and be-priested
metropolis, do preach
"
Jesus Christ, AND him C1'lN.'|_f¢d!"
whereas they have run away with but half' the story, and that,
the wrong halfl They have represented him as crucified, who
never was so: and him as dead, who, as St. Luke says,
"
did
show himself by many infallible proq/i to be alive."
For, if it be not proof, sin, and proof infizllible, that a man
had not been crucified, or not much hurt, and certainly no
killed; and that there must have been some egregious mistake
in any representation, that he had been so; when he is seen,
three or four days afterwards, alive, shaking hands with his
friends all around, eating and drinking with them, and after
supper, playing with them at his old game of making riddles
upon the Bible, and explaining to them, out of Moses and the
Prophets, how it ought to have been, and how he ought when
218 'rue nnvnfs PULPIT.
suffered. "What is proof?" as he says to them, in Luke
xxiv. 25: "O ye fools and slow-hearts, ought not Christ to
have suffered these things and to enter into his glory ?" Yes,
to be sure, he ought; but there's a little difference, I hope,
between things being what ought to he, and- being what was.
If every fellow that ought to be hanged, was to be hanged, what
would become of Judge Jefferies?
In setting ourselves to decipher, or make out the significancy
or hidden meaning of any oonfessedly Pagan allegory, we
invariably begin with the severest possible scrutiny into the
names or nomenclature of the machinery. We weigh the force
of every letter of which the namm are
composed, of every sig-
nificancy which the names could convey, and of every varia-
tion of' letters by which the same name might be exhibited.
We inquire into the history of that name; we
compare lists
of all the synonymes of the name; we trace that name to its
roots; and thus, often discover, to demonstration (the discovery
itself being held to be demonstrative), that the name which
millions of persons might have bome, in its first purport, was
nota personal name,-as, a Mr. West, a Mr. South, a Mr.
East, or Mr. North, whose real existence, as persons, could not
be doubted, would bring us to no conclusion as to the origin
of these terms, North, South, East, and West, which undoubt-
edlyhad no original personal signilicancy. So Arms, of the
mythology, a word signifying great labour, or toil, is found in
its significancy to be the same as the name of the apostle, Saint
Annaaw, of the Christian-fable, which signifiesthe srnosc on E,
but who was no more a real personage than Saint Arms. As
it is the allegorical language of Saint Andrew, in the 75th
Psalm: "
When I receive the congregation, I shall judge ac-
cording unto right. The earth is -weak, and all the inhabitants
thereof I bear upon the pillars of it."
As you find the position of St. Andrew, is in the Scales of
ustice, where the Sun crosses the Equator, at the Autumnal
Equinox. When St. Andrew "receives the congregation"-
that is, when the Sun, personified as St. Andrew, enters
into
:ri-in nsvufs rnnrrr. 219
the constellation, or
congregation of Stars, called Libra, he is
in the Balance of Justice; he will once again give an equal
length of day and night to all the inhabitants of the earth;
which, notwithstanding its declining state, still depends upon
him for its support. While, as ii' to prevent all possibility of
mistaking the astronomical significancy of this genius, you inva-
riably find the iigtue of St. Andrew represented as that of a
man, about sixty years old, when the blood is getting somewhat
cooler than once it was, standing with a saltier cross behind his
back, a goniometer, or exact measure of the angle which the
Sun in the Ecliptic makes in passing over the. line of the Equator,
As St. Paul expressly defines this old man,
"
as him thatwas cru-
cified," knowing this, that our old man-i. e., our Old Andrew,
is crucified. Romans, vi. 6.
The Saint Andrew of the gospel being none other than the
Saint Michael, the archangel of the Apocalypse; you have him,
under this name, standing at the Autumnal foot of the Great
Solar Arch; and so seeming to bear it upon his shoulder, and
giving his name to the '29th of September, which is Michael-
mas-day.
And Andrew, is the brother of Peter, as James is the brother
of John. Because, these four Genii or Saints, independently
of their allegorical character, as Genii of their respective months,
have the peculiar honour of being Genii of the four seasons of
the year, Spring, Summer, Autumn, and Winter: of which
Peter, is Srnmc, commencing in March: when the Sun enters
the constellation of the Lamb or Ram : and hence it is, that in
the allegorical picture, it is Peteralone, out of all the glorious
company of the apostles, to whom his master, the Sun, imme-
diately aher his resurrection-that is, after his having crossed
the line, gives that allegorical charge,
"
Feed my Lambs," and
"
Feed my Sheep."
And Andrew, is AUTUKN. The church, or church history,
having consecrated the beliet, on no evidence whatever, and
for no supposeable reason, but the accurately astronomical one,
220 'run nzvrx.'s Puurr.
that St. Andrew hung two days upon the cross, which is exactly
the length of time which the Sun seems to hang, in perfect
equilibrio, upon the line of the Equator.
And, as the Sun, in the order of nature, crosses the Equator
twice every year; so
you will find, in your New Testament
allegory, that there are actually two crucifixions, and Christ is
said to be crucified twice--that is, once
upon Mount Calvary,
the place of u skull (as if to say, brains were of no use to that
skull that is so thick as not to find out the meaning of the
allegory).
As here you see, most
literallyiis,
the place of a skull, Mount
Calvary, the head of the Great onster, Cetus, which the Cru-
cified Lamb of God is crushing beneath his feet. _
And once in Ifgyzt, "where also our Lord wa: crucified."
Rev. xi. 8. And after which Autumnal Crucitixion, "
be
descended into Hell," under the custody of the Archangel
Mrcrurzt. (')p2j"U), "
W/ao is like to God 2"-(Cnuur-zu). By
Catholics, rendered "
Equal with God," which, though theolo-
gically absurd, is, as you see, astronomically correct. For the
points of the Vernal and Autumnal Eqninoxesf being on the
same parallel, as here you see Hercules, the Andrew, risen at the
mme time with the Balance. And that God-that is, the Lord
qf Hosts, Gum, a troo , never meant any other than the Lamb
of the Zodiac, to which Michael is thus literally and astrono-
mically equal, you have the concurrent testimonyof both Daniel
and John, prophet and apostle, who, describing the person of
God, assure us that the "
hair of his head was like wool." So
you have the same astronomical enigma, couched in the alle-
gorical epithet of "
the Lamb slain from the beginning of the
world,"-that is, the Lamb of March, and "Jesus Christ the
Righteous, who appeared once in the end qf the world, to put
away iniquity,"-that is, once again, to put an end to the un-
evenness of the days and nights, by appearing in the Balance
of September. And thus, it is Christ upon Mount Calvary in
Spring: but it is Jesus, in the Garden of Gethsemane. in
Autumn. And hence, the tirst Martyr St. Stephen (whose
name, 2'r¢¢a,vo;, is theGreelt word for a Crown, and who never
was, nor meant, any other than the Corond
Septentrionalis,
or
Northern Crown, which you see here at al tim in the
heavens, rising and setting with the Scales of September):
though he had heard of the crucifixion of Christ,never dreamed
run n|.vxx.'s ruurrr. 221
of the resurrection of Christ: because, after the Autumn/rl
Crucitixion, which is that which St. Stephen bears witness to,
the Sun does not rise again, but goes to Hell and Tommy-
that is, St. Thomas's-day, the shortest day in the year: and,
therefore, St. Stephen, in the crucifixion which he refers to, pre-
dicates not of a Crucified Lamb, but of that most singularly
astronomical personilication,
"
that Just One, of whom," says
he,
"
ye have been now the betrayers and murderers."
"
Tun JUST Ont," being the directly allegorical name of the
perslpplitication
of the Sun, as considered in the Scales of Sep-
IBID .
And Saint
Setipben,
who is this Stephane: Arcticoa, disco-
vered by his Gr name, which signifies the Northern Crown,
gets the name of the First Martyr; because, at that epocba of
time, to which this allegory synchronizes, the point of the
Vemal Equinox, was in Libra: and then, as
you see, on this
globe, Saint Stephen really is the first Martyr. And it is, with
reference only to this effect of the precession of the Fquinoxes,
which has caused, and will again and again cause, that the
Spring quarter may occur in Autumn, and that of Autumn,
where now 'tis Spring; so that we may have Summer in Janu-
ary, and Winter in July, that the astrologue of the gospel in-
structs his disci les, that in the Kingdom of Heaven "there be
nrst, which shali be last-and last, which shall be first."
And thus, as Peter has the' keys of Heaven, so his brother
Andrew has the keys of Hell; And as the brothers, Peter and
Andrew, are
personitications of spring and autumn ; so the bro-
thers, Janna and John, are the Genii respectively, of summer
and winter.
And these personitications are consecrated in the visible
heavens, by those four distinguished Stars of the first magnitude,
known by the name of the Royal Stars, which the Sun seems
to near or
approach as he divides to us these four seasons ol
the year:
Aldebamn, the Bull's eye, in April.
Regulus, the Lion's heart, in July. .
Antares, in the Scor ion of October; and
Formalhaut, in the Fishes' Mouth of January.
That it is the Vernal Crucifixion, or
crossing ofthe Equator
by the Sun, when he enters the sign of Aries, the Ram, as he
does on the 21st of March, and no crucitixion of any man,_gcr
222 'r§a navrr/s rur.r»r'r.
any event that ever ha
pened upon earth, that was the subject
of the Fast of Good I~Ii~rday, and the Feast ot" Easter, that fol-
lows it ; is demonstrated in the historical fact, that this Fast
and Feast have been religiously observed in the Spring of the
year, in every country of the world, and in every era of time, of
which a record of any sort has descended to our own; and ob-
served, too, with the ve same ceremonies, to the very same
significancy, and even wiltiithe very same words. And the Christ
of the Spring Crucifixiou is celebrated; because, after that Pass-
over, he asoeuds into Heaven, and we look forward to the joyful
Summer. But the Christ ofthe Autumnal Pass-over daoends
into Hell :. and we must repare for the gloomy Winter.
Three hundred and eighty-eightyears before our date of the
pretended birth of a man, called Jesus Christ, the Vemal Equi-
noctial point-that is, the point exactly at which the Sun crosses
or
'passes
over the Equator, was in the first degree of the Lamb;
an since that time, all nations of the earth have celebrated this
annual phuznomenon, under the allegorical veil of a crucihed
Lamb. And all the difference that ever was between the Jewish
and the Christian ceremony, is so much difference and no more,
than as a man may imagine between the words, cross over, and
pass over. And this cross over, or over, is universally
celebrated, at that season when the giiirs does pass over ; and
the Sun does, or did for many ages, pass over, or cross the line,
when he enters the constellation of the Lamb, which the Jews
call the Paschal, or Pass-over Lamb.
The Jewish ceremony, consisted essentially in eating their
Lamb ; the Christian ceremony in "
eating the flesh and drink-
ing the blood of the Lamb of God, that taketh away the Sin of
he World."
And this festival of Easter,on which all other festivals depend,
always falling on the first Sunday after the tirst full Moon, which
happens next after the 21st of March, when the Sun
pisses
over, or crosses over the Equator, and enters into the mb,
when the Jews eat their pass-over lamb, and the Christians eat
their cross-over lamb-this lamb»eating, always follows after the
long fast of Lent, during which, it was always the most damn-
able sin that a man could commit, to eat anything but fish, as
here you see the constellation of the Lamb comes immediately
after that of the Fishes. And of those who cannot see, I ask
no more faith iu my word, than that they will believe me, that
'mn nnvn.'s Punrrr. 223
the month of March comes after that of February. But in the
ceremony of taking the Sacrament, it is both the crucilixions or
pass»ouer that are celebrated ; and we eat his tiesh,in honour of
the Vernal Crucilixion: and drink his blood in honour of the
Autumnal Cruoilixion: his blood being nothing else than the
blood of the grapes, which are ripe in September-as his flesh
is the mutton ready for the spit in Spring.
'
Thus, as to preach the gospel, is declared by the speaker in
the gospel to be the same thing as
"
to preach the acce tables
year qf the Lord. So "
the doctrine of the Cross,"--tiiat is,
the science of it, is none other than the science of astronomy.
And I alone, ye see, aut the only faithful minister of the gospel,
and true preacher of the cron, in all this priest-ridden, priest-
insulted, and riest-cheated metropolis. And, in bearing the
name of the gevil's Chaplain, and Bishop of Hell, and every
other reproachful epithet that Christian malice can fasten on
me, I bear the reproach qf the Cross, And if this way of
preaching seem to you to be foolishness, it seems so, not because
you are believers in Christ, but because you are not. The
preaching of the cross is foolishness to them that believe not-
that is, that understand not; that ken not, that sap not, that are
not up to it. But to us, who are up to it, who do understand
it, who see through it, and see through all the vile, mating,
hypocrisy of the reverend knaves who would hinder you from
seeing through it, this preaching of the cross, which they call
foolishness, is, most literally, preaching
"
t.he ower of God,
and the wisdom or science of God,"-that is, otghe Sun in the
constellation of the Lamb, in which the Cross takes place, and
which is the tribe of Gad; the same, whether you call him
Adonis, or Jesus, Mars, the God qf War, or Yahou, the Lord
qj' Hosts.
And they it is, who want to ut down the Rotunda, who are
"
the enemies of the Cross ot' éhrist, whose God is their belly,
and who mind earthly things :" whereas, the true doctrine of the
Cross has no
earthly foundation whatever; and I, its true
preacher, do set my affections-on things above, not on
things
of the earth ; and my conversation is, as you see and hear, in
Heaven, where, and where alone, as you may see, in this de-
lineation, is the Crucilied Lamb, which the Sun enters in
March, and where is the Lamb's Wife-that is, Mrs. Lamb, in
the Virgin of August. As the Psalmist sublimely exclaims:
224 me nnvr r.'s PUI.PI1'¢
('
"
Forever, 0 Lord, tl|_1/word is true in Heaven." And so it
is: but it was never true on earth z and none but a fool or a
dunce would ever have dreamed that it was so.) And they who
have represented Christ and his apostla as
persons that ever
existed upon earth, do tum the truth of God into a lie.
Nor was it till the year 680 of our era, under the reign of
Constantine Pagonatus, in the 6th Constantinopolitan Council,
held under Pope Agathus, that in the 82nd decree of that council,
it was decreed, and the decree subsequently ratified by Pope
Adrian the First, that instmd of Christ's being represented
under the form of a crucified Lamb, which had, up to that time,
been the only emblem of the crucifixion, he should be repre-
sented in the hideous and disgusting form ofa crucified man.
As here, I have the happiness of showing you, on the un-
questionable
authorigy
of the learned and pious Casalius, a
plate
ot' the oldest form o the crucifix, preserved in the Vatican of
Rome, where you see Christis represented as the bleeding lamb,
standing upon a mount under the cross, and bleeding from his
five wounds, one in each foot, and the fifth fiom his breast, in
allegory of the five vvinter months, October, November, De-
cember, January, and February, during which the Sun really
and literally is, below the cross, precisely as in the sacred
Hieroglyph you see him represented.
Nor was it till the middle of' the fifteenth century, the year
1468, that any eye of man had seen the fraudulently-pretended
passage of Tacitus, which the monks foisted into the text of
that historian, to make it appear that the crucified lamb was a
crucified man, and to disguise and hide the real origin and
sagnificancy
of the Christian religion, by giving a.n
appearance
o
history to most manifestly intended fiction; and to found
on thatcrucifixion and resurrection, which had reference only
to natural phenomena, a belief of a dead man coming tolife
again, and absurdities so monstrous, that no man dared tell
them to another without first making him promise, that he
wouldn't laugh at them.
'
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON THE CRUCIFIXION
OF CHRIST,
°
In the Indictment. ~
Wwe memlfivs élmtlggntt.
nam it lovin: PULPY1' rr'|s."--Amis cquungxm.
_.i 'JUNE 10, 18§l. . _
[Price id.
h`7¥'ff'..THn our' OF- SALVATIUN:
'
-4 &rrmon,° ~
PREACHED BY His H1c.uNnss's CHAPLA1N, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, Bn.,
rr nu:
ROTUNDQ, nucxrnuns how, APRIL 3, 183i.
"
Whois this that comelhjrom Edom, with dyed Garments, /MN
Bozrah? this that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in
the greatness of his slren th? I that npeak in
righteous-
ness, mighty to save.
lgherejbrc art thou red
m_lhme
apparel, and thy garment: like him that treadet/t m the
wine vat? I have trodden the wine- reu alone; and of
the people there wa; none. with me: lglzr I will tread them
in mine anger, and trample them in m_1/fury; and their
blood shall be .sprinkled upon my garments, and I will
'
PBOSECUTED FOR. BLASPHEMY.-~['l'hin Sermon wu re-delivered,
B! the Learned
Enfounder
of Beripture Allegory, on Sunday evening last
( une 5), to :crow ed and highly- tiiied congregation., Garbled extracts
of the preceding discourse, on
Goostahidny (No. 14), form the tint
three
eounts of the indictment. The 4th, Miz, and 6th, are mutilated IQDRHCQB (in
like manner tacked together with the tnutolpgionl fungo of the law) from the
gent
Sermon. This medley of prieztlypatehvvork was l8¥V¢d on the Rev.
tlemm on the llth of
Augril following,-from the Surrey Sessions. The
trinl in had for the 4th of J next. The remit in not fared-free inquiry,
mdfree discussion, mimnmedv bluphemy,
hnvinf
eeuetl to terrify my but
wrong doors und tithe-eaten. His congregation c nim for their Instructor that.
which he hu invariably oiered to hil advennriel-"I hir sta , without fn-
vour." Let this be grunted on his trial ; md
they
feel unxretftthnt the ver-
dict of Ill unpacked jury, having the common in etl of understanding. and
=|»»=i¢y enough to diztinzuish metaphor from simple feet, will bein ncoord-
Anee with theu- wi|he|.]-Bnronn. , y _
VOL. I
226 'ru nzvnls ruurr.
stain all raiment. y
For the da o eance is in mine
heart, U1ldm¥l|£year of.my And I
and there was none
to"help§'and I wondered that there was
none to uphold, therqbre mine own arm brought salvation
unto me; and my jiuy, it upheld me. And I will tread
down the people in mir: anger, and make them drunk in my
_/iny, and I will bring down their strength to the Earth,
I will mention the loving kindnesses qf the
_borkgnd
the
praisesqf the Lofd,ai:eonding to all that the
' '
hath
bestowed an su, and the great goodness toward: the house of
Israel, which he hath' bestowed on them, accorling to his
mercies, and according to the multitude qf his loving kind-
nmes. For he said, 'Hardly they are my people, children
that will not lie :' So he was their Saviour."-Isarul
kiii. 1-8.
' `
., AND there ends the substantive matter of this whole holY
text,
"ISO
he was their Saviour." Very well, gentlemen, very
ll
we ; suppose he was their Saviour : the Saviour of the
"
Children that would not lie!" Only they must be n very
extraordinary sort of children, that would not lie; for all the
children we have ever' known, have been devilishly given to
lying, especially the forty and fin years old children, the babes
and sucklings of the gospel, an! the "
any-old-clothes
"
chil-
dren, with their nasty clotted beards, as thick as the twigs in
a birch broom, whom they call "
the Children of Israel."
And a droll way of saving the children, it must be, to tread
upon them, and trample them, and make 'em drunk, and bring
down their strength to the earth : and to be in the Devi1's own
rage and fury with them, to-squeeze their insides out, and to
stain all his garments with their blood. 0 Lord! 0`Lord! 0
Lord! what astrange sortofsalvationl Thisisto be the
blessed etfect of divine revelation.
'
Now go away, Christian, decamp! retire tothe other shop,
"
for here is not your rest."
Here, we are going to look at what Christians never dared
to inquire aher, the meaning of all this. Here, we are going
to commit the nnpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost, the
sin of being rational. Here, we are
going to repeat the crime
that damned the whole human race. We are going to pluck
of the forbidden fruit of knowledge, that grows under this leafy
ru uv|t.'s num 81
wilderness of words. Well
'
punts'
'
and en at
thcgospel wam ye, for your-Lzhyrxke, and br'
ill-t il, for their HKU, to keep any from the Rotunda! Well
hvethey
soszctto
hold
mem; togublic oxecration, by,t'ut~
Qing on me o mhrious
'
of ll Dtun's.Cnar~un| :
since, like tbl Destin 1 om phyhig the Devil with their omit,
and do tempt ye to take, pluck, and estd' thntforhiddmhiit
of theTtea of Knowledge; "forGoddoth knsw,thst'ithe
day that ye eat thereof, then shall your eyes he open," and
it shall not be in the power of those reverend
impostors
to
insult you with their gospel, and to trend and trump e on you,
as they have done, any longer.
I announced, in
|'p|et:e¢i1%disoourse,
that I would, in due
sequence, serve ye up
"
the up of Salvation," out of which,
if ye thirst afterknowledge, ye should thok the very nectar ot'
the gods; sorich a draught of ,genuine science, and of seal
learning, as but once to have drank thereof, shalldestroy in
you,
for ever, all relish for the
heggarlysmall-beer ofthe
goslpsl
s
op.
Observe ye, iirst, the positions of this table of the rd, and
its mystical fumiture, the bread of life, and the cup of salva-
tion, as
placed upon this table( _
You are to
suppose
this table situate exactly in the East,-
eonironting, ord ectly opposite to, the West. It is not so;
but your imaginations must help our science.
All our 'churches and chapels to this day are built, as all the
Pagan Pagodas and Temples of the Sun, through unrecorded
ages, were, 'sons to have their altars in the East: and all the
light allowed to fall on that mystic table, was such alone as
could gleam through that window in the East, darkened
obscured, and shaded, as much as conveniently
might be,
by
thecultivated growth of rvr, trained to grow on, e churc
wall, and to, ,spread its dark foliage, as a
leafy umbrella,
over that sacred
'
Window ;' the Ivy, hehre the invention of
glass,
serving
to keep oil' the showers, or to prevent too much
light from s
lining on the mysteries of that dark table, there
being nothing that the priests, whether Pagan or Christian,
Catholic or Protestant, were ever _
so much afraid oh as of
letting in too much
HQ; upon their Sacraments.
But the Ivy, sirsl hy islvy trained, to this day, to grow in
Christian ehumhfyards, and to
spread
its leaves over the
eastern window, immedia over t e =sacred table, and sacred
f' Cup qf Salvation,"
`
ou that sacred tshle, in "the
228 -nm mvu.'s -
roulr.
order for the administration of the Holy Communion," but
because Iqy ,*was» the peculiar emblem; ot' the Jolly God,
Bacchus, who-is always represented as crowned with a garland
of-Ivy-leaves? And 'Bacchus and Christ Jesus were never more
ditfersnt from each other, than six and a half-doun,--or, than
ditfsxent vtrsions of the same substantive allegory-Jesus being
indisputablgone
of the names of Bacchus-
AsMr. ope,inhisepistle of Sappho to Phson, has ren-
dered those beautiful lines of Ovid:
V
"sl!l¢§d¢lI¢fPllll'¢|l'llgf¢|lIlIlif¢l¢ll'P0w~
Aeeidmt apiti comms, Bacchus erin."
,
'l'hsltarp'sndbmrwould yonlikemtashuwssr,
V
Al::fhtcr
Plimbnl nlfltson might _
W d you with Ivywreathe your owing hair,
,
lot Bacchus salt' with Phan could compare.
But, in towns and cities, where Ivy is not so
conveiiiently
to be raised, you see the same efect aimed at, by stained glass,'}
or painted windows, exhibiting allegorical representations of
the same Bacchus-that is, of the Sun, as he appears in the
visible heavens, the dey after Michaeltnas-day-that is, imma
diateiyl
stter he has crossed over, or been cructfed, by crossing
over e line of the Equator, at the point of the, Autumnal
Equinox, which is the last day of September, the last day of
the process of wine-making, or of the annual vintage; and was,
st the time of the adaptation of this allegory to the phenomena
of nature, the last day of the Sun's position in the .Scales of
Justice, or righteousness.
So that he is represented as
"
Christ taken
d0Ul{';|'l¢:l
the
Cross," a dead man, with all the blood drawn out of _
'
, tht
precious blood which he shed for us men, and for our Salva-
tion, when he "
came down from Heaven."
And where is his blood '! Why,_ where should it be, but in
that "
Cup of Salvation," standing upon that sacramental table,
just as it was drawn out of the Bacchanalian barrel, on which
the Ivy-crowned Bacchus sits like a drunken boy at the good
vintner's shop. And as I feel a little bit blood-thirsty just at
this moment; and as the Catholic clergy very sensibly held,
that there was no occasion to give up the cup to the lsity, I shall
°Hcdsnl|dix.
1 S¢¢ill¢lMh°dist¢7hspsllnQussn~|treet, whielishidsonslytcnsbleons.
ml nlvuh rnurr. 229
'qitiyour
'
iuion lice the.cu to self hoping thntyour
(hiih will g satistieil, bypseeing gymk it an
you( repre-
sentative. V
»
Drake.
" And now," in the sublime poet of Watts' Hymns, os
sung in an hundred ohnpels and churghyes, in this infinitely be-
daapeled and be-churched metropolis: .
'
"
.Ana now 1 arm my' rrvnmu uma, (ra-ww.
I-tlmnktisee, l¢d,'ll|1¢|'0|lllll¢|' .
llingled with love, the fountain nord _
' '
mm um am bleeding nut of thine.-(Hyum ll.)
Dea.rSuiour, 'til thy blood : (Dl'i5l-
We thank that precious Huh of thine,
For this immortal food."-w»ok a, Hymn 17.)
Or, as I have read those lines of Dr. Watts plagiarized, and
but little altered, in the
comlposition
of quite
asgood
a
poet
_es þÿ D I . W B l B 4 f h ¬
Rev. Dr. owzer,a famous han atdoggerel:
V V
,
4'{"l'i|tlienmel>lood,inwineor|wipe|,
` '
'Tb God'| own blood, wevow;
-1
Andwhenwebelltinomuipes,
_
-
~
. Wefeelwednlrt knowhomf f i
V (Driqdu.
Nothingcen be more sublime/ than this language: only, the
ewkwardnesrof it is; when/they who use thimort of language
ns thot of the mort fervent piety in their mouths, would repre-
sent it as blasphemy in ours: and would punish as .for only
quest;
and repeating their own qniuima oerbu, their way, very
YD L* -<
"
1 f.~»~ 1 » ,fri iw
»Whst says their own Saint Cyprian Bishop of Carthage
me~p»ade»ma glory of-their chrmmf cum-eh, in aiethini
century, whose language is held to be none other tlmntlmt of
orthogolyihltlfmt
' ~i
:'4'> ruci mm uhguinem sugimus, `et inter ipsa re-
demptoris nosn'i-1ui;|ers,¢iigimub;ling\sm."~ þÿ ' ¬W¢ stiaklto the
Oroagwesuck the bland, .andiwe -.lull ourhtonguez in thevefy
wound|qfourRedcemer. ~
~» ¢~-if.
~
~
~There em be no doubt at all, thot this is
Gamive language.
Only one cannot help sympethising-svitlr ,liability of its
being misimderstood, when premheiby our missionaries to
convert the
blubber-lip; andf-oogper-coloured
soulnof mar
brothers and sirtersrin ceen,-snchas 1 1; _
'~ =y' '~ =
"H°u¢y,rg:¢,'wmn¢,'m&,
~'
"
'-
l
' '
And the g of the Csnnlbal Illmdl. _
1 .
-
,
v' ~~
;'_'l'_[|'#M|ldi¢@Bll¢._
'
lw ml. nlvu.'s rnutn
Eqeoiaily -when 'tis tden into the nooount, that the mia-
sionlries themselves could no more explain the meaning- of
thoseligures of speech, to the cannihals, than the cannibal:
ooliid
to them.
I
_ A
"_
V
or butask them, sits' na ,askanyof yourpreaohers
the gospe|,that live and die in fat of idlensas, here athane,
Wunnroan snounn rr an mu Goo snouno roucrva
ova snu, nnchuss or Cnrs'r's nnoon?-(Sindh article of
the Indabtrnent.) What Seguitur, what connection, what rele-
vancy, of the one thing to the other?
lisit that we killed his only son, the greatest of all con-
ceivable sins 3 and for that-sin, he is so
pleased with us, that it
was the best thing that ever was done in the world: and for
that sin's sake, he not only forgives us that sin, but all the
other sins that we could possibly commit! Can your
clergy
answer this? 'I'hey cannot, they never could: I can and wi I.
Wan nnson cur rovn cnznor oxv: 3-(Si-rtli article qf
the Indictment.) None, absolutely none: sad in their de-
fault, I offer you a reason, for which I ask noothet favour from
you,fas rational men, than that you should withlmld your con-
viotiolnaslongu-you om do so,evena| longasyan-nm .Id
nonran~'a=oonsent from hisfavour. I wilmake it mine by
'right of conquest; L A
"
Tun nnsou vm' nn noon or Cnun non xxnucx
Goo -ro ronoxvn us non sms rs, 'rnxr an mass A naor or
'nn 'Oratérms vnu. is vn no ; 'ran run :tx uno A noon
xmroua, uciwmnr us ll no-r so PAITIUULAB noir: ut"
-(Sink -article
¢;fllaeindictmenti)
And see, sirs [call heaven and earth to witnnl, the starry
searof God most high, in the viihle Heaven, the typical Cu
o0Saivation upon earth, and themystie enigmaof mens
lh60logy,¢nllha1:ad by demonstrations of irréagable science,
that this is the true, the
my
reason.
&. h
Look u ,sir|,u
'
vaultyhosoin-of enig t,orapon
thisbeqntigl
toiy, rqprenentuion of-whatisthee
to bosom: an 'Merc thnt0n4-rn, which the Lord loveth;
and hero inhat Carter which-theLord loveth, pictured on this
globe; and Mrs is thot Cram- upon thimaidourunic table,
which, I thank God, is riqpim-q»¢,g¢ gli, gpd which I love as
well as he.
'
= l -.
Thefhuierisnotan Irish,lmtaLatin word,
'
'tying the
bowl or cup of salvation. Itwasalvuys represengmin deline-
'ran navufs runrrr., 931
QGDRQ ofthe- otorryheavens; u a .cu-p.lwving-, two handles--a
sullicrent hint, as I hope it may prove, to m -Christien persef
cutors, that, iu seeking ,to thnowme a time into rison,
for
blaipheirpy, they have takm hold of the Cause gy the.
wrong an e. _
. _
A
_
,
_
Observe, now, the of this Crater, in the hmvenly
Qty, and ,then see ify e Lord. does not love n drop of the
Crater, as
well as we. It is at qr near, the gate, or going out,
Of the Celestial Sion; always near, and a little below thepoint
Onithhe AutugpaglEquinox,
2:11 coortning
before it, in order to be
ytoca
»
eprecious it, the vintage. V
hmce it is,.because of.the good drink in that cup, al¢
ways srtuate so near the gate of that heavenly city, that of the
!4>rd who loves a drop of the Crater as well as we do, it is said
in me a1xeg<»nl=l|mua¢um of me em Psalm,
"
The Lord
loveth the gates of Sion morethan all the dwellings of Jacob,"
-that rs, more than all the other signs of the Zodiac, which
gre the mansions of the Sun, the dwellings of .hex On-that
u, of God the Father, of whom says the Christ of the gospel,
'f In my Fath¢r'.| Home are many Mansions." And,by essen-
tial metonomy of langunge,
-
»»
'°
Netonomy doth new umm impose,
And thing: for things hy near nhtioo shows." -
1
To lovethe gate, could .neverimean anything else then to
love the good entertainment that yonvget at the gate ; _and_to
love the Crater could never mem anythin else than to love
the good stuff thatvmtin the For Ibelievewe should
all of us he innocent enough of an excessive attachment to the
wp, if the cup vvereu empty of' good stuff as Christian pro-
secutors for blasphemy are ofgood feelings.
"
And why?"
says the~Psalmist in his 75th,
"
God is the judge: he putteth
iowa one, endutreul up another. For in the hand ofthe Lord
tid! ilu Cup. and the Wim is red; it isfull mixed, and he
parrot# aut,qf the sam." A
y
L _
,
And, like him, I poumut the med wine, and I pledge him
from -the bottom of my heart.
Aldifhe. be a Just Judge, just as is the Sun, when in the
Scales of September
alle gives an equal length of day to all the
inhlbitxntsofthe ear ) UIQ. devil of my quarrelwill he have
with me. I never -
olfended him in thought, word, or deed.
Buqwhd will he_soy to-a gang of labelling priests, who, when
232 rn: nnfvnfs -rot.rrr.`
they could' never give a 'rational 'interpretation of their own
balderdash themselves, are for calling in the strong arm of the
law to crush and destroy him who can do so,-a better scholar
and an honesterman than their holy church, throughout all the
world, could ever boast of. ~
I say, it is the wine that puts Godinto good humour,»or
rather puts good humour into`God, as intludges; ix., 13, it is
expressly said that~" Wine cheentlr the heart qf Gad and
man." And hence, in the most beautiful analogy of the moral
propriety, indicated by die physical phenomena of the Sun in
the Scales of J ustioe, elfusing therich blood of
°
the
grape into
the Cup' of Salvation, should man learn, that when his own
cup of blessedness is full, he should never forget to till for his
neighbour; nor ever put the Cup of Shlvation to his own lip,
but to
pledge in it his heart's forgivenness, and remission, and
absolution, and laying aside foreverof all notions of sin and
damnation, and 'all their damnation cruelty against any >body,
or for any thing: and to be ready to say or sing, either to Jew,
Turk, Infidel, or heretic ;
"
Than gie'| n hand, my honest Irimd,
And here'| n hand for thine ;
We'l1tak'ncnpofkin»ino||yo¢, t
-
For nuld lang sync." ,
»
»
Here, then, is the eongruity, the connection, and the-moral
solution, of the physical* problem, between the -shedding of
blood and the forgivenness of sins. <
'
i
'
Wine, then, cheereth the-heart both of God and man. An
immaterial, incorporeal, or unsuhstantive' deity,
'
is no deity at
all. The sacred record of God's most holy word, of which, in
all this priest-ridden and priest-insulted country, I alone am
the faithful Minister and true Hierophant; knows nothing of
such an hallucination. It is a
cheat, invented by the priests,
to hide the truth of nature, and»to prevent rational man from
becoming reasonable: it is a dagger of the mind-a false ,ere-,
ation-proceeding from the
heat-otgpreltsed
brain ;2 and-of which
the brain, recovering itself from e fever of iimaticism to the
health ofreason, will dissipate the delusion at once#-"~Thr¢'s
nosuchthhrgt"
v v
;~
-
'
t
-~
"
But see now, after all the
maddenininonseme
of spirituality,
and
spiritually-pretended meanings, w ich'al'e-no li0Bllillg8~ ll
all, how refreshing, lrow delightful, how beautiful is --
'ral »nsvn.'s »
lunlrrrl i £33
'
"
17|e'Uup of'Soloa¢ion."» Nowfobserve ye, sirs, the priest't
position with relation to the position ,of that cup, upon that
table; of the reason of which, tha priests themselves, our
Protestant and Dissenterisn priests, the most priestly of all
priests that ever bepriested a priest-ridden people, are most
profoundly' ignorant. »
`
Those relative positions are the same to this day, in the ad-
ministration of the Christian Sacrament, as they were
through
anterior ages of Pagan superstition, in the administration of
bread and wine, to the honour of Ceres and Bacchus, in the
Eléusihian mysteries : and both Orgies bore the name, which
the Christian Orgy, to this da , retains,
"
those holy .ssysleriesff
The word 1-1or.v is but a :noch solemn utterance of the ancient
Phmnician word, nan, from whence was formed the Greek
word, fo'Helioc-i. e. the Suu; and fromwhenca our whole
family of English words, bequeathed to in by our Phmnician
ancestors, as health, and healusg ; and Eel, the iish; and Hell.
Hill, Hole, andVHnll;' and the Heel ofthe human body, conf
niceted,
as
every shoemaker can tell you the Heel is, with the
so .
»
'1'he human family-is to be distinguished froin the family of
the ourangoutang lady- and gentleman, whoihnve lately come
to see their cousins, the dandies, in Piccadilly, by the felicity
ol' having a-Heel? and so, I suppose, a Soul to, their, heels-
Heel being the Greek, and Soiil, or Sol, the Latin, for the SUN.
As everything depends upon #havisiga rightmmlqrstaardisg, so
the Psalmist prays to God to :forgive him ilu iniquity of his
heels ; and Christ complains of Judas,
"
He that eateth bread
with me, hath lihed 'np his mel? V
_
And hence,- your church and chapel #arrangements of_ the
parnphernslia, in theseHelymysteries,or mysteries of the Sun,
have been always those of a camera obsesra, on astronomical
orrery ; exhibiting, in shadowy types upon that darkened table,
the actual; pheenomena ofthe heavenly bodies, as
observedmlgy
the atronomical priests,from theirepiscopalobservstories,w
'
are now called 'the Bishops' Sees, or lookancts,-the bishops
alwaysfbeing upon the look-out; And ouhave the very earliest
rule laid down for the building of a church or chapel, in Hee
brews viii; 5 s-" See, saith he, that thou make all things ac-
cording to the pattern showed to thee in the Mount."
'
And see, sirs,~ how accuratelyis that heavenly pattern copied
in the =a.rrahgemsnts'of this heavenly tablm _
~
p
IM ma n|v|r.'a rsurr.
'I'he tahle must stand in ,the Dat, and this portion of
ture, which I have read, appointed to be read for the Epic# ,
must be read by the priest, standing on the south side of that
table : it would have been blasphemy against the Heely Gust,
to have read it on the north aide: it is the gospel, and not the
epistle, that is to be read on the north side ofthe table. Be-
cause--for what reason that your clergy can give you, none
at all ! but, look at their book with your eyes open. in the
48th Psalm, and you have the because-because,
"
Uponthe
north side lieth the City of the Great King : God is well known
in her palaces as a sure refuge." Northward of the Equator
stand the mansions of tbeSua,in his reign through the summer
months, beginning with March, and ending with September ;
but southward of the Equator, as you see in this delineation,
stinds the Cup of Salvation. ,And I, whom they brand as the
Devil's Chaplain, for which I forgive them-and whom they
seek to put into prison, for which, the Devil forgive ,theni for
me-am not only the most faithful minister of the gmpel you
ever heard in your lives, but the most orthodox. _
And, in resdin this portionof Scripture, appointed forthe
epistle, with my fiat standing on the south side of the table,`I
say with the Psalmist, in the 26th Psalm &-" My foot standeth
right ; I will praise the Lord in the congregations ;"-that is,
the Sua,'in the congregation or goups of Stars that consti-
tute the respective sigaaofthe Zodiac:
And were you dying with thirst, you might never take the
Sacnirnental Cup, before you had taken the Sacramental
Bread; because, _
_Ceres comea before'Bscchus; the Mother before her Son;
the Lady before the Gentleman; the Corn-harvest bdon the
Vintage; the Wheatof Augustbefore theGrapes of September.
'
Aye, and of the latter end of September, too--that is, not
till Michaelmas-day, the day of the Archangel Michael, who
holds up the Arch of Heaven, on the 29th of September, with
the Scales in his hands,--the 29th of September being the
Day of'Jndg-ment, the last day for gathering in of the last fruits
ofthe cultivationof the earth, of which the allegorical apostle
admonishea the farmeu, the' gardeners, and theyine-dressers;
fhlff on that Dq of Judgment, the Sun will render to every
man according to his agricultural industry; "and whatsoever
1
mil) wweth, thatshall he also reap." And the necessity
of being accurate, as to the precise day-that is, the Day qf
rn, nnvrils ruuvre; §§5
Iugnrent, or of the Sun's coming to the line ofthe Equakr, at
the Autumnal Equinox-that is, the day of the Covenant, was
beautifully indicated in the astronomical theorem of the Slst
ti Job :
"
'I have made a Covenant with 'mine eyes :
why, then,
should I think upon a meid T" that is, infra astronomical solu-
tion, "
I have ascertained by astronomical observation, that
the Covenant, or the coming of the'Sun to the point of the An-
tumml Equinox, takes place in the Sodes of September, -and
K
therefore not to be anticipated or looked for in the Virgin of
n t. .
gswhet the_ Virgin Mother, in the marriage at Cana, in
9adl;lee;lcomplains
to'herhSon,
the
Barcmcltus
of the
Gorpeléékllnt
y avenowtnez' s ereoeives t aseronomica re e,
"
Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet
come," --
of which the astronomical solution is,
"
that the
time lbr making wine is not in August, but at the latter end of
Septsmba," "And there were set thete,Vsix water-pots of
none, alter- the manner of the punjying ry' the Jews "-that iq,
literally, of "tile jringaqf the Ion-Du-or"--i.c., the Sun's
bringing in of his solar like into the six signs of the summer
mentlw, during which men mul be content to drink water,
beurrse thetime forturning weterinto wine is nottillthe
latte: end o!September,just ns the'Sunis etlthegate, goingout,
or
just at tht nomut ne out, of the heavenly Jerusalem.
The Epistolerto the l-lebrews still more accurately heethe
very
d?
of the
vintage, by ns, in
Hehrewsxiii. 12,
theta
e|ustl;°t;t'|at'hl:!eél:`rgh:"eaneuf! thslpedogmle
with
ssdbloomtk
|l&NdW t te -thatts, e yrmrned
the Sun's having crossed the Equator,-in honour of
'fnthring witnout'the~gae," our mostorthodox Christina altar-
preces, represent Christ, not esidireetly upon the Cross, but, es
lakh dotuafrom the »Cross. Now, where stands the Virgin
Hother ofthe Son ot`Godin yourgospels hutbytlte Cross
gegtrist?
And where stands the V
ig?
of*
ge}?odiac";tl;uthy
rosswhiahtl|nSun rnalterover line t e r. at
télkeuirtumnal Equinox?
Anddgere-l`:yieyon'the Egoltlfstoay
tunahnrge' et-Cans,-w tis umngement te
starry heavens, ascending up to a date, not of hundreds merely,
=-
'°'l'h M tC¢l t'tti`nrtli1yJerueakmi|,veryunlsetunntslytvi!M1
the nt:,ir:`¢ll:e eentrvzrifthoeeity.
'
885 un., nxvufs wnntr. ,
but of thousands of years before the pretended era of the birth
of
gnu'
Christian Christ.
ere is the old maid hersell§ as fond of a
drop of the Crater
as
andy
of us ; with her head, as you see, running on nothing
but e Crater, which. she has just been smelling, she' turns
away her .head in disgust, because she finds it empty, and with
her outstretched arm, in which is the bright star Vindemia-
Uk, ,that is to say, indicator of the approaching vintage, she
seems in the actof saying, "
They have no wine."
And observe, now, the positions of the heavenly bodies, ll
the moment when the stars in that outstretched arm peerabove
the edge of the horizon, due Ent by North.
'
And then read ol? the text, which I have read to you hom
Icred writ, and this astronomical text. A
t
Who are the Lords of t.he Ascendant, at that moment, for
whose ,sake this "that cometh from Edom, with dyed gun-
ments from Bozrah, _
treadeth the wine-press alone, and of the
peoplethere is nonewith hi¥n."l 'I'hey are the children, Castor
and Pollux, Gemini, the Twins ofthe Zodiac,
"
Children that
will not lie," and, the only children that ever answered to the
definition; sure indicators, by their ascendancy in the zenith,
of,the rising u of this outstretchcdlsrm of fthe Lord, which
will bring on the =Day of Vengeance-¢that is, of Vines-geanoe,
or ,of treading and tmmphng down the grapes in the winepress,
-fcalled the agony# in the Garden of ;Gcthsemane, when' the
declininig
Sun sweats his blood out into the Cup of Salvation,
--that ayfalways being the day of the V
Sun's position. in the
lineof the Equator, as the 'Sun comes to that podtion every
autumn._~ » »
,.
-
'
'
-
"
The 'point of the Autumnal Equinox beitg, as you see,
parallelwith that of the Yema! Equinox, the Archangel Mi-
chael, or the Genius of Michaelmns-day, has his name of llr-
crum, which signifies Equal with God : and Jesus, that Just
One, as he is calledby the first Martyr, St. Stephen, Co-
rona
Septentrionalis,-;-whosesposition, you see, is immediately
over~theScales'ofvJuotice. f
r
I' '
o
I
And Enoch, that Ju# Man, who,was translated, and. "was
_
I., »a,
'
' An Agony litsrallyla a Wine-press: its application 'to a state ofbnmsn
"lf
'
.' _
l0l'ieA|. J 'Rdi
' ~
.. a.'2?'§,'i..lI..'2'f'.?l'¢».. .....:'f.:=:.*:.:':~...:.2t=°*»
'° °'"°°' "
'°°'""°'¥
'ral nxvirfs nun.
`
V237
not, because God took him"--that is, the Sun entering into the
constellation, by
`
his brighter eifnlgence rendered the Stars,
which constitute this constellation, invisible-and Noun, that
is Nock-ee: Enoch, written backwalils, that Just Man, not-
wilhshrdin his getting so gloriously drunk, are both laid to
walk withéod. '-
-
'Bos' sow couw ANY un war.: wrrn Goo-with their
indeEnite,indescript, and indescribable God, their incom re-
hensible andfinlinite space-filling God? wsu
(their) gon
carlos' wsu nnsszLr'l `Why, to be sure, nz wovmn he
ar ms JoU'm|sv's sim, nnrona nz ser ovr. Ano asia:
ru.r.s su. since, as uosr sn' sum. nr Au. smcz, un A
soon can um na urs Asn-caan, no snr rr nous
'rnnouoa au. r.n:nNr1'r."*
0 folly, folly ! 'where will thy foolishness end? Into such
measureless absurdities will men run, when
they are, as we see
them, too ignorant to give a rational meanin o their own lan-
guage to us, and too wicked to let us show tae rational meaning
of it to them. -
'
But see, now, how, to all the definitions, even to the most
répparently incongruous and
contradictory,
of this Sacrament-al
up, answers this cup of the celestial sp ere, as thus:
ist. "
It is the Cup of Salvation, you drink of it and are
saved." Psalm cxvi. 13. Because it preserves the Sun's vital
heat within you, without which you would go dead.
2ud. It is the cup of damnation,-you drink of it, and be
Because, alter the Sun has shed his precious blood
into lt, his reign in the summer months is over, and to Hell
and Tommy he must go.
»
3rd. It is the Cup of Consolation (Jeremiah xvi. 7), because
it consoles us for the absence ol' the Sun, whose blood is
poured into it. ,
»
4th. It is the Cup of Trembling. Isaiah li. 22.' As you
see, it stmds but on hall' its rim, on the slimy back of the Wa-
ter Snake; the most slippery position that could possibly be
imagined: as if to admonish us of that heaven-recorded moral:
`
"'1'here'| many usll ,
'
'Twixt the cup and tgelip." _
5th. It is the Cup of the Grace of our Lord Jesus Christ.
'
' In the Indictment.
238 nn navnk iwufn.
Beoouse it is the concentrated Minot, virtue, and
of the Taos. Vnu (John xv. 1), who is the Lon! Jesus
1. .
.
i
, ,
6th. It is the Cup oftheheremeseovfthe fury, of shevnth
9fAlmighty God.. Rev. xiv. 10. Because the fiemorud he
hotter is the Sun, the lcher and the better is our wine. F'
7th, It is the'Cup, -as you see, of the Pure Virgina( Bethle-
hegii °iih"iii`k3'.,m`Il a f
`
'
i me On
. utoo `,sir|:-an orgiveme Itis
of the Scarlet Lady of Bab lon. Rev. xvii. 4."
P
10th. "
This Cup is the how Testament is my blood," says
I-he Bacchus ofthe Luke xxii. 20. As in. his Spey
Gharacter, he speaks o the Cup. beingin the wine, instwd of
the wine being in the Cup.
llth. It in 'the blood of the everlasting covenant. H&; 12.
Because the Covenant, or coming of the Sun, to the lim of the
Equator, indicates the time of the Autumnal Equinox, .when
are ripe for the vintage.
'l It is "
the Cup of Blessing which we hlms." I Cor.
x. 16. "
Because through eternal ages, men-did pledge therein,
_Hellth-and prosperity to all good men."
13. It is the Cup of Abominatixm, and of all abominable
things. (Rev.) Because .the time for the filling of that Cup is
the beginning ofthe fell of the year: the Ab-Ones ofthe com-
ing winter: and the orooking raven, rising South-east by Ld,
immediately after that Cup, ,peeks the Snake's back, to male it
drop and spill its precious oontent: when the Cup, setting
West by South, yields the aseendaney to the infernal Serpem,
who seems about to seize the Crown of# Heaven, and to "the
Scorpions, having stings in their mils," and to their King, the
goyal Star, Anruuxs, the Annan, the King of the Bottomless
it.
Now, e end ye, sirs,aga.inl Through ages of an .indeli-
nite antiguhg, before our ridiculousl pretended em of the birth
of Christ, our Pagan ancestors had been taught to believe thot
Mus, the God of hattla, from whom our name of the month
of March is derived, surnsmed by the Greeks Ares, from
which the Latins formed their name of the constellation, Aries ,
'
Mr. Taylor explained privately, to Gentlemen, the Oth. It in ".&h|_£lp
ofFornicotion;"uit|ta.nds d th 't f' et' fth two oil- of
lea-. an mu me by ai. »F3.`l"iaqf1.&»`l"s;°¢'£¢°s¢u,fu¢.
"
'ran n|vn.'s rrruur. 939
the Ram, had been drowned in this cup oi' Bacchus, indilfer-
autiy called the
'
Cup, the Crater, .the bowl, the goblet, the
barrel, the tun, the hogshead, or any thing, whose association
is the idea of holding wine. -
'
And he was drowned by the two brothers, the giants Othns
and Ephisltes. -
'
V
-
'Raegssronomical
solution of that theological allegory, is clear
ss e .
'
But segsible men always knew what wss masnt by the orio-»
dofxy that forbad the appearance of Mars in the presence of
Bacchus. For if any hostile
fwli t any man were
found to obtrude itself atthe festive ,
'
"'0r|nyesreor grlefremsln, A
e
V
i
wvu sn" is in an nm." ,
And this isthe morality of Heaven itself. Sirs, here is the
bowl, whose coming to the Zenith throws Anka Wert by
North, below the Horizon. And here are the giants, Al that
moment rising East by North,
layingihrsirheads tqgether.
So, through infinite ages, was the est home, or
gathering
in of the last grapes of the vintage, celebrated by pnntomimes
and allegorical tragedies, similar to such as our sailors, tofthis
day, perfonn on shi , on passing the line, .-
»
Allegorioal res were the first origins, not,
merely ofour
theatrical but of our pulpit performances. Andiragrenl, ig;
deed, have they proved to human happiness, ever since the
Hupo-Krite:-that is, the hypocrite: (and never was there a
priest on earth, but who was a hypocrite) have been for making
Us pay for their performances, 'and sending us to prison, for
linding out the meaning of them.
-
Thenarne .ofthe TRAGEDY is precisely the same as the name
of the Gosrsr.; the one Tpevys '03n,literally signifying the Ode,
gil;
or bringing down of the Goat, when Capricomns, the
with the Fish's tail, was the sign of the summer solstice,
ss the Crab now is; snd, therefore, must be brought down to
the Western 'HOIl1A)B, to bring the Sun to the zenith, when in
the Scales of September.
The Gon'snr., or_Spoll;or inonntstion of the Lamb of God,
in precisely -the same astronomy, brings the Lamb into the
lowest Pit of Hell. You have, consequently, the Sun in the
latter end of Autumn, personated _as Jesus in the Garden of
Gethsemane. _
,
"
And being in an Agony," n wyama, says St. Luke-that
240 'ras n|vn.'s- muse
is, literally, in a
'Wine-press, his sweat was 'as great drops -of
blood, anru
Qpopcot cups/rag, falling to the ground, a bloody
sweat! hideous in imagination, and impossible in nature; but
the very technical language itself of theprocess of wine-making,
that word
9pvpCu, translated great drops, being nothing else
than a synco ation of the word Tmuutavs, a well known ap-
pellative of the God Bacchus.
"
And there ap eared unto him an angel, strengdtening
him." What angercould that he; but the Angel of Michael-
mas-day, the Archangel Michael? ,
"Strengthening him "-
that is, making him strong by putting more grapes into the
Agony, to make it sweat more than eve.
But,
"
when he- had tasted the vinegar, he said,
'
It is
finished,"-that is,`whe'n the great drops had left od' falling,and
only the thin and sour wine that is pressed out of the mere
stalks and skins, could be drawn ol, he said, "The busiues is
all over." A
And thus we can tell the Clergy, that "
we know that this
record is true," as we can tell them, that we know their record
is not true.
Ours is the seat of everlasting curiosity, indefatigahle re-
search, and still increasing knowledge. Our hearts are too. full
of the love of science, to leave a vacuity for the harbouring of
had passions. We have none. We have not time or leisure
to be wicked.
"Where science dwells, the Husesjoin tlscirtrain,
And geutlest arts and purest manners rel|n.'!
Thus deal we with our priestly fables, of both the Old and the
New Testaments, while our
priests answer us in the only way
that is left for them to answer, that, of their rowrn ; their
tyrannous, oppressive, and wicked Powu.
They can drag us to the bar of felony and crime; and they
have done so.
V
They can subject us to be insulted by the mock solemnity
and pompous shakiugot' a
lawyet"s wig upon a barber's block:
and they will do So.
They can tum on 'us again thedreadful clanging bolts and
hats of their Oakham Jail. Icall on you, sirs, to ann to save
me from them, and to check the triumph of barbarousiguorance
over
persecuted philosophy.
END OF THE CUP' OF SALVATION.
Em emnl'5 mnlmt.
No. 16.] JUNE 17, 1831. [Price 2d.
LECTURE ON FREE MASONRY:
PART L
DELIVERED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A.,
AT 'rua IOTUNDA, Bucxrntsns' Bohn, Arun. 10, 1831.
,-~....~.-..~,..~........~....._
"
He that despised Moses' Law, died without mercy under two
or three witnesses. Qf how much sorer punishment, mnose
ye. shall he bs thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot
the Son of God, and hath counted the blood ofthe cove-
nant, wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and
hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace? For we know
him that hath said.
'
Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will
recompence," saith the Lord. .And again, the Lord shall
judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the
hands of the living God."-Hnnnnws, x. 28-30.
w*
Tun epistle to the Hebrews is, as I shall prove, the compo-
sition of some Royal Arch Mason, veiling the mysteries ofthe
masonic craft, under a sort of language whose sense and pur-
pose has escaped, and been intended to escape, the penetration
of all but the FREE MASONS of the Hebraic degree, to whom
it is addressed: and will therefore supply the text of this, and
of the whole course of the lectures I have proposed to deliver:
in which I shall, with "
confirmation strong as
proof of holy
wit," expose to the whole world the Pretended Secret of Fan:
VOL. 1.
242 'ma nnvufs runmr. _
~
Masomw ; and discover, to Masons themselves, that whereby,
when they shall come to read,
"
'mar shall understand my
knowledge of the mystery of" their craft.
'1'he words of the text are dreadful, and terribly frightful I
and, read as they may be, (and as I have heard them), in a
crackt-bell sepulchral tone of voice, their terror doth unnerve
the faculty of reason in man; and many, many a good and
innocent mind, throwing the reins up upon tle neck of imagi-
nation, hath been borne away into reckless despair, or incur-
able insanity.
Our madhouses are filled with miserable wretches, who,
applying this teit to themselves, have imagined that they have
committed the unpardonable sin against the Holy Ghost: that
they have, in the grossest sense,
"
trodden under foot the Son
of God, and done despite unto the Spirit of grace." A mere
vicissitude in the state of their animal spirits ; the subsiding
of the high fever of fanaticism, when, in their insane lan-
guage, they were illuminated, and had tasted of the heavenly
gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost, and had
tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to
come," (Hebrews, vi. 5.) into the sober November, of that
debility which necessarily follows alever, is evidence enough
to them, of their unpardonable gift: the wound is given, that
never can be healed,-the sorrow conceived, that never can be
comforted: while villains of harder nerve, though not of
stronger intellect, in their luck of being able to brave its terror
for themselves, by making sure of their own salvation, play
the priest with it, in turn, upon others, and gratify the worst
feelings of a malignant heart, by applying it, in imagination,
to any object of their religious aversion.
But let a man, rise up in an age, possessing learning enough
to know the meaning of the text, and with that learning, ge-
nerosity enough to communicate his knowledge, and thus to
break the spell of priestcraft, to restore distracted minds to the
health of reasoh, to soften stony hearts into the flesh of hu-
'ral nnvxxls runrxr. 243
man gentleness and love: the priests are all on the shiver and
the shake for the safety of their craft.--they are ready to set
all Bedlam loose, to tear him to pieces; their patients are
taught to look on him as their enemy; imagination invests
him with the character of an emissary of Satan, the embas-
sador of Hell, the Devil's Chaplain: the very walls, the mere
brick and mortar of the building, within which the voice of
reason is to be heard, get a bad name: and the evangelical
idiots that would block the streets up to get a glimpse of a
rational man, in Silver-street Chapel, dared not, for their
salvation, trust themselves within the doors of the Rotunda.
And priests, of all denominations, in this metropolis, have the
modesty to warn and dehort, and admonish their choused
heaters not, for any consideration whatever, to trust them-
selves to enter that horrible Rotunda.
"
Why, who preaches
there 2" the Devil's Chaplain. If once you go and hear him,
your soul is lost for ever. He is inspired by the Devil.
Witchcraft composes his discourses, a power of fascination
rides upon his sentences, and Hell itself lets down the sledge-
hammer of conviction upon his periods. Your only safe
policy is to keep away from the Rotunda: if you go there,
you'll become rational, and then they lose your custom for
ever. Only put forth your hand, and pluck and eat of the
apples of Paradise, and the devil a tooth will you have left for
any more of the crabs of the wilderness. As, for instance,
see the way that we have, in the passage I have read to you.
A merciless, horrible bit of business as it is. But
Who wrote it? How 2
Who said it? Whom does it concern P
Who did it? To whom was it addressed?
When P What does it mean? and
Where? What business is it of ours?
These are questions which every sensible man would ask on
any other subject, in which he was, or might suppose himself
to be, interested; and without the most perfect and satisfac-
244 'ras nsvrrfs runsrr.
tory solution of which, a rational man would no more snifer
himself to be frightened, at the big words of it, than a sensible
cock-sparrow would at the clapper in a cherry tree.
To be sure, Jack Straw looks devilish savage, and when the
Holy Ghost blows his clapper round a little faster than usual,
it makes a great noise; but let us venture once to perch on
him, and we shall sing,
"
Cherry ripe, cherry ripe, (Singing),
ripe, ripe, ripe," and when the cherries are ripe, it is not the
parson's clapper, nor his devil either, that shall hinder the
clever birds from helping themselves to them.
"
Thus then, to all this much-a-do about "
dying without
mercy," and "
sorer punishment" still, than "
dying without
mercy," this "'
trampling under foot the Son of God :" this
"
sanctified bloody covenant :" this "
unholy spiteful Spirit
of grace:" this "vengeance and judgment :" and "frightful
falling into the hands of the living God." Reason answers at
once :
"
Shall I be frightened when a madman stares P"
"
But we may find, perhaps, that there is a method in this
madness. But if there be I-method is a thing of which
reason, and reason only, canjudge : and they who were con-
scious that what they put forth would bear the scrutiny and
trutination of reason, would never be afraid of looking at
both scales, nor shrink from that calm and indifferent com-
parison of what may be urged on both sides, which it was
never anything else but madness or villany that was afraid of.
First, then, who was the author or writer of this epistle to
the Hebrews, as it is called?
In the Greek manuscripts, and in all authentic translations
from the Greek, it is perfectly anonymous. lt is called only
H rrpo; EG'poua; Ema~roM, Ihe epistle to the Hebrews. It is
not known by whom it was written, nor is there a single pas-
sage in it, from beginning to end, to glance a
probability as_to
who the writer was. lt is only guess-work, supposition, and
imagination, that has ascribed it to the apostolic chief of sin-
ners, Saint Paul; and, upon this mere guess, many of our
:rns n|:viL's runrrr. 245
English Bibles and Testaments entitle it, "the Epistle of
Paul the Apostle to the Hebrews," notwithstanding the flat con-
tradiction of the subscription that states, at the end of it, that
it was written by Timothy--i. e. Written to the Hebrews,from
Italy, by Timothy.
In Dr. Lardner's table of the Books of the New Testament,
this book of the Epistle to the Hebrews is classed under the
head of Dzsrornn Booxs; of which definition, he defines,
that it is one of those, which should be allowed to be read in
Christian aasembliegfor the ed(/ication of the people, but not to
be alleged as qfording alone .nqficient proof of any doctrine :"
--that is, as l understand the definition: it will do to be read
in Christian assemblies, where any thing will do-for the
edi/ication of the people--that is, as I understand it, the
building them up, like blockheads, stocks, and stones, into
pedestals, for priests to play the God on.
The time at which Dr. Lardner, the highest authority in
the judgment of Christians that could possibly be quoted,
supposes or
guesses (for it is all guess-work) that this epistle
might have been written, is the spring of the year of our era,
63. As I (with as good a right, and better reason for gues-
sing, than Dr. Lardner) should guess, that it might have been
written in the autumn of the year, sixty-three thousand years
before our era.
My reason for guessing that it was written in autumn, being
the strong symptoms that the epistle itself contains, of having
been written when wine was cheap, and when he who was so
anxious to edify others, was pretty well headiiied himself: and
I guess it to have been written so many ages ago, in honour
to humanity, which should but ill brook the atfront of sup-
posing that such stuff, as this epistle consists of, could have
possibly come into respectability, after mankind had acquired
the faculty of reason.
At the same time, I have no quarrel against the guess ofany
other person who might guess, with equal force of presump-
'246 'ran nnvufs runrrr.
tive evidence, that it was written yesterday atternoon at four
o'clock ; as he might urge, that it begins with the express
date: "In time last days," and it is certain that none other
than yesterday, and the day before, were these last days ;
and it ends in the last chapter, with an
equally explicit indi-
cation of date, that we should consider the end of the conver-
sation, Jesus "Christ, the some yesterday.
The result of all the guessing, and of all the critical research
and learning in the world, throwing us up this melancholy
fact, that mankind have been frightened out of their wits; and
our madhouses have been filled, and our churches and chapels,
which are but half-way houses to the madhouses, crowded, by
persons who have believed that themselves or others had
trodden under foot the Son of God, and all the rest ol' this
hideous orgy, upon the authority of some scratchings and
scramblings on an old goat-skin, scratched by the nails of
some drunken Bacchaual, of whom nobody can guess who
he was, between Jack Sprat, or
Jack-any-body, and nobody
can guess when, within any thousand, or two, or three thou-
sand years ago. The rule with Christians, being invariably
this, that the less they know about any thing, the wiser they
take themselves to be: and the more
profoundly ignorant, the
more fervently religious.
'I`he meaning of a thing was always that part of it which a
Christian never wished to know any thing about.
But, granting what no longer can be denied among men of
learning, that the Epistle to the Hebrews is anonymous and
dateless. It is not known by whom, nor when, it was written :
yet it was written to somebody, or some community of persons.
And our want of the light of date, and name, may be supplied
by the light reflected from the implied character of the persons,
or community ofpersons, to whom it purports to be addressed.
It is called, at any rate, the Epistle to the Hebrews. 'I'he
Hsssnws! Then who are, or were, or what is or was meant
by, the Hebrews? Now, Sirs, do I put it to your own autho-
ras nr.vn.'s Punrrr. 247
rlty of judging, to judge, who is the scholar, and worthy to
be revered as a teacher, having something that he can teach,
and you can learn,-I, who can teach and tell you who the
Hebrews are, and what the meaning of this Epistle to the He~
brews is; or
your spiritual pastors and masters who cannot,
and who, as they are profoundly ignorant themselves, have no
protection for their mouopoly,ybut the trick of suppressing
curiosity, and warning you not to go to the Rotunda, for fear
you should ind out, by your own improvement, what s. state
of boobyism and ignorance they would have kept you in!
The Hebrews, the Jewish nation, you have been taught to
believe the descendants of the Patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob,--a national and political people, such as the French,
Dutch, Poles, Russians, among ourselves,-a people that had
once a political constitution,-King, Lords, Commons, and
Boroughmongers of their own. The immediate ancestors of
the long-armed and blue-faced gentlemen of the menagerie,
whose existence, to this day, is a standing proof of the truth
of divine revelation, suppose ye? -
Aye, aye! lt will do, ye see, for a lecture on the Evidences
of the Christian religion, where the lecturer dare not suffer
himself to be questioned, even in the most respectful and
courteous manner in which an inquirer after truth could
question the professed teacher of it.
But it would not do to abide the questions, where ? in what
monument of past existence? in what document, line, word,
or vestige of history? by which alone we can know anything
of what has been going on in the world before we came into
it; have we a vestige of the existence of a Hebrew nation E'
That question can be answered only in the most decisive, the
most unequivocal negation that ever truth threw up in solu-
tion of any inquiry whatever. No wusan, in all the world,
no where : in no era of time, in no slate, or stone, or skin,
or papyrus, or paper-in nothing that ever was plastered by
the trowel, scratched by the style, graven _by the chisel, or
248 'ma nnvn/s ronrrr.
written by the pen of the human hand, hath the world ever
possessed a scratch of a scrabblement that recognised the ex-
istence of a Hebrew nation. "
A holy nalion, a peculiar
people, a royal priesthood./' their only scriptural definition is
a definition that expressly bars olf, and excludes any sense or
understanding of their ever having existed as a. political body,
or
ordinary people, in the national sense.
But this Epistle to the Hebrews, anonymous as it is, yet
of high antiquity, as in all soberness and truth it must be ad-
mitted to be, is proof that there were persons, or a commu-
nity of persons, called the Hebrews. Yes; and so are there,
and so has there been, since the building of Solomon's
Temple, persons, and communities of persons, called Free
Maamu ; persons corresponding with each other by means of
secret symbols, snd held together in a mystical corporation,
governed by law and odicers of their own--recognizing each
other by certain winks of the eye, positions of the foot, lollings
ofthe tongue within the cheek, gripes of the hand, and in-
dentations of the thumb upon the wrist; which, escaping the
notice of persons not informed in the crah, easily discover
those who are initiated, to each other.
And thus, many a man is asked whether he is a mason,
and what degree he has attained in the masonic mysteries, by
these dumb signs, and pantomimic actions, which no eye nor
ear of any third person can possibly perceive. The first or
the second summons being misunderstood, or unheeded, a
third and fourth of higher authority, and of more imperative
mystery communicated only to the higher graduates of the
craft, enables them to boast with truth, that whatever mis-
takes may occur in this way among their inferior orders, the
higher dignities, the ECpauo¢ the a.3sA.¢a¢ avym, or
holy brethren,
can recognize each other with infallible accuracy, what-
ever countries they may be born in, whatever language they
may speak, all over the world, and through all eras of time.
By these symbols, of higher authority than the common
ras nsvnfs ruuvir. 249
claims of humanity, and the ordinary obligations of charity in
man to man, they can demand and receive assistance from each
other, in all their distresses and inconveniences ; and each good
mason will ily to the reliefof his brother mason, as an obedient
son to the command of an adectionate father, as the righthand
of one's own
body will come up to the assistance of the left;
and that, without any regard of the country, age, condition,
character, or religion, of the mason, who has thus need to be
assisted, but solely and exclusively in virtue of the considera-
tion, that he is a mason.
'I'he moral uses, and the moral fitness and propriety of such
an institution, if ever there were a fitness and propriety in it,
'must necessarily be diminished, and the institution itself grow
into desuetude and neglect; as every good mason is bound to
wish and desire that it should do, in proportion as its end is
achieved, and its principles diffused, by the diffusion of civiliza-
tion ; and, consequently, of universal benevolence among men,
when the whole world shall become one great lodge of Free
Masons,-when the Secret qf the Lord shall be discovered to
every individual on whom the Sun doth shine. As it exists at
the present day, it is a slander upon reason, and a disgrace to
humanity. Boys, and lubberly garsoons in a drunken frolic,
and for the mere joke of the thing, may have been betrayed into
the first ceremonies of the idolish mummery: but sure I am, that
there is not a sensible and honest man on earth, who, when
reminded of such a proof of his boyish folly, as his having be¢
come a mason, will not hang his head and own himself ashamed
of it. A Free Mason is another name for a fool professed.
But, in earlier days, through the days of an infinitely remote
antiquity, such an institution as that of masonry, as it had its
necessity, had its sanctity, its right, its justice, its utility, in
that need, which those of the human racewhofirst emerged from
the state of barbarous ignorance into reason, intelligence, and
science, had to_protect themselves from the incursions of the
monkeys, baboons, and wildmen of the woods, with whom the
250 'ma navu.'s runrrr. V
conflict was
continually the struggle of wit against brute force,
and who were only to be kept aloof by stratagem, overawed
by mystery, and ruled by terror. To keep od' these, it was
always the iirst care of a master mason to see
"
the lodge pro-
perly tiled." Gradations of mystery, and trials of the strength
of understanding, of those whose curiosity urged them to wish
to penetrate into the arcane of masonry, were
absolutely neces-
sary to protect the cradle of infant science from the incursion
of the wolves of the wilderness. And the same law of nature,
by which man feels that more is due to man from man, than
from man to the inferior animals, both justified and authorized,
that eaprit du corps which attached the mason to his brother
mason, as man more
properly to his In-other num,-his brother
in the possession of a rational nature, and in that sympathy of
desire to enlarge his faculties and to cultivate his reason ; which
he who hath not, though he may be the best Christian that ever
hreathed, is but a
monkey still.
The celebrated Chevalier Ramsay has laboured to prove,
that Free Masonry arose during the Crusades, and was
only a`
secondary order of chivalry: the leamed Abbé Barruel sup-
poses it to be a continuation of the Society of Knights Tem-
plars; while Clinch and others deduce its origin from the
Institution of Pythagoras.
'
In the course of these Lectures, however, with the aid of
further discoveries, brighter lights, and juster principles of cri-
tical research, than have heretofore been brought to bear on this
curious subject,-I pledge myselfto let the cat-out-of-the-bag ;
to leave no
part ofthe mysterious secret unexposed ; but to flash
resistless conviction on the minds of Masons themselves, that
they are absolved from their oath of secrecy, in that they know
nothing that we do not know as well as they, and that they
have nothing lett, either to conceal or to betray.
I shall prove Free Masonry to be the combined result of the
Egyptian, Jewish, and Christian superstitious, and absolutely
identical with the celebrated Eleusinian Mysteries of Greece,
'ms nr.vn.'s rnnrlr. 251
the Dionysian Mysteries, or orgies of Bacchus, and the Christ-
ian Mysteries of the Sacrament of the Body and Blood of
Christ, which are
absolutely not more different in any respect
from each other, than the customs and forms of any Lodge of
Free Masons in England, may be, from those of a
Lodge in
any of the nations of the Continent; where, though the lan-
guage, the words, the persons, and the paraphernalia, may be
varied, the spirit and the purport of the mysteries is precisely
the same.
On the evidence hereahzer to be adduced, no one shall be
able to doubt that the Eleusinian and Dionysian Mysteries,
modelled as
they were, upon the Mysteries of Isis, and Osiris,
of Egypt, have passed over into the mysteries of the crah: of
Free Masonry ; and that they were fonned at first for scientific
purposes, though subsequentlymade the vehicle of the doctrines
of the Egyptian mythology.
Those who were initiated into the Eleusinian Mysteries, were
bound by the most awful engagements to conceal the instruc-
tions they received and the ceremonies that were performed.
None were admitted as candidates till they arrived at acertain
age, and particular persons were appointed to examine and
prepare them for the rites of initiation. Those whose conduct
was found irregular, were
rejected, as unworthy of initiation:
significant words were communicated to the members, such as
the Giblum or Chibbelum, Mo-A-bon and Begnlgal, in modern
masonry. Grand odicers presided over their assemblies.
Their emblems were exactly similar to those of Free Masonry,
and the candidate advanced from one degree to another, till he
received all the lessons of what they called wisdom and virtue
which the priest could impart.
The terms, Jews, Israelites, and Hebrews, were designations
of those who had passed on to the highest dignities in these
holy mysteries. And hence, this Epistle to the Hebrews, lite-
rally is, an Epistle to the Free Masons-that is, to the higher
order of the initiated in
the craft of the mysteries,
"
the free and
252 'ms navufs roam-r.
accepted masons ;" who, if Christians would but read their book
with a mind to observe what it is that they do read (which they
never do), they would see that the Hebrews, and this Epistle
to the Hebrews, is not addressed to any national community,
but to a mystical and religious fraternity only, whose members
might consist as societies of Free Masons may, of men of any
and of every country, nation, and language upon earth, as
"
there were dwelling at Jerusalem, Jews, devout anen of every
nation under Heaven."
'1`he patriarch Abraham, is called "
Abraham the Hebrew,"
not in designation of his country, but of his college.deg1ee, the
rank he had attained in these mysterious dignities. Abraham,
was a Free Mason.
If you will only look into the order of the arrangement of the
-books oi the New Testament, you will see, that the Epistle to
the Hebrew is not arranged with the Epistle to the Romans,
the Corinthians, the Colossians, the Thessalonians, &c,, which
designated the Christians inhabiting Rome, Corinth, Colossé,
Thessalonica, and so on. But it is set apart by itself, coming
after all the epistle: that were addressed to particular commu-
nities, or particular persons; and constituting therefore, no
epistle, properly so speaking, but a general discourse, the
meaning of which would only be understood by that higher
order of Free Masons, who, though they are neither called
Free Masons, nor hebrews, in any part of the discourse itself]
are addressed by a title which signifies the same thing as Free
Masons-that is,
"
Holy Brethren, partakers of the heavenly
calling,"-that is,
"
Fellow-craft-free-masons,"
The initiated in the Dionysian Mysteries of Bacchus, who
were
exclusively the "
partakers of the heavenly calling," pos-
sessed the exclusive privilege of building temples and theatres
in Asia Minor. They were incorporated at Tbos, by the kings
of Pergamos, and'were actually subdivided into diferent lodges,
as the Free Masons are with us at this day.
And. as our Free Masons of the present day are only masons
ras navrx.'s rouur. 253
in a figurative sense, and those who are the Hebrews, or have
attained the highest degree among them, could no more
lay a
brick in mortar, or mount the ladder with the hod on their
shoulders, than they could dance the tight rope ; _
but are
per-
fectly satisfied with being masons of the the silk apron, and the
silver trowels,-so the masonic character of this Epistle tothe
Hebrews, is indicated to absolute demonstration, by the masonic
metaphors and figures of speech mixed up with the Bacchana-
lian tropes and allegories, which constitute the subject-matter
of the piece.
For every house," says the master oi the lodge,
"
is built by
some (mason), but he that built all things, is God." Thus, in
the full vanity of the masonic spirit, attempting to prove that
God himself was a Free Mason : while Free Mason Abraham
"
looked for a city, which had foundations. whose builderand
maker is God."
That these Free Masons-that is, the higher grades of them,
the Hebrews, understood what was meant by Moses, and
Christ, and Christianity, to a very different tune from any with
which our clergy have kept in concert, is betrayed, by that
curious exhortation which opens the 6th chapter, in which the
apostle calls on his Free Masons to leave the Doctrine of
Christ, which I, as earnestly as the apostle, do most sincerely
call on you to do. You cannot leave it too soon : the sooner
you have done with the doctrine of Christ altogether, the better,
For, as the apostle truly says, it is baby's meat, it is mere milk
and lollypop for the nursery,-a sensible man ought to be
ashamed of it.
"
Therefore, leaving the doctrine ofChrist," and all such like
milk-and-water spoon-meat for fools, let us
go on into perfec-
tion, as "Free and Accepted Masons. "
To the praise and
glory qf his grace, wherein he hath made us accerrnn in the
beloved." 1 Ephes. 6.
"
I'Vherefore we labour," says the
apostle, that
"
whether present or absent, we may be Accsvran
qf him." Thus most accurately defining the meaning of the
254 ral navrr.'s runrrr.
word Hebrew to be none other than precisely that which ob-
tains, at our masonic lodges to this day, a free and an accepted
Mason, as the word Hebrew, in the irst of all documents in
which it is found (Genesis xiv. l3),literally signifies Wijyfl,
6 mpavmg, one who has passed over, or through the lower de-
grees.
The earliest appearance of Free Masonry, in modem times,
was nothing else than a revival of the mystical fraternity ofthe
Dionysian Mysteries, which had, for countless ages, subdued
the reason, and repelled the curiosity, ofmankind. lt appeared
in the form of a travelling association of Italian, Greek,
French. German, and Flemish artists, who were denominated
Hee Masons, and who went about erecting churches and
cathedrals, as they acquired renown, and their renown called
them into employment in the way of their trade throughout
Europe.
But this hinders nothing of the force of our evidence of the
anterior existence of their craft, betrayed to us in the most
mystical parts of the language of the New Testament (quite
mystical enough), and confirmed by the coincidence of Pagan
and classical evidence, quite as accessible to the general
scholar, and a good deal more so, than to the novitiate at a
modern masonic lodge.
But the essential. connection of eonvivial purposes, and good
carousing, with the most mysterious solemnities of masonry
identifies the institution, beyond the emergence of a doubt, with
all the ends and purposes of the mysterious orgies of the jolly
God: and the trick of speaking in a Fee-fawqi-roar sort of a.
way, of what was really avery simple affair, and rendering the
most ordinary and innocent act of eating your supper, and
washing it down with a comfortable swig of good wine alter-
wards,-a mighty-to-do, to frighten women and children,
was the pith of the secret of Free Masonry, which the women
never found out,-not because they could not have found it out,
but because, strong as their curiosity was, their superstition
'run nnvu.'s Punnr. 255
was stronger. And it was never a discovery which any body
was ever
very proud of discovering,to discover how greatlyhe
had been befooled, and how easily it was done.
For very mortification, he who had been drawn in himselt]
would lend his hand to draw in others, and from having been
the dupe, would become, in turn, the agent of the imposture.
The Fox who had lost his tail, you know.
The mysteries of Free Masonry are identically the same as
those of the Dyonisia, or Mysteries of Bacchus; and, con-
sequently, an
uncovering and exposure of these mysteries,
will be an exposure of all the secret or mystery that is, or ever
was, in the masonic craft. And that masonry, correctly under-
stood, is the combined result of the ancient Egyptian, and
Jewish, and Christian religions, you will learn, from demon-
strations to be adduced, in the due order and succession of these
lectures.
From the present, 'tis matter worthy of your attention to
carry home the correction of the general error, which supposes,
that there ever was a Hebrew nation, or a temporal Kingdom
of Jews, Israelites, or Christians. These, being, not political,
or national, but entirely mystical and masonic terms,-names
of the different degrees of gradation in the masonic craft,
that temple of Solomon,
"
in which ge al»o,as spiritual stones,
are builded together, for an habitation qf God through the
Spirit."
In which series, the Christian is the lowest, the Israelite
next, the Jew next, the Hebrew next, and so on, up through
the gradations of those who, having passed
"
the middle wall
of partition," and been admitted within the Veil, are called
Hebrews of the Hebrews, to martyrs or witnesses, autops* or
seers, prophets or tellers, saints, apostles,--" Jesus Christ
himse# being the chief comer alone."
As you see. in the 18th of the Acts of the Apostles that
Apollos was a Jew, though bom at Alexandria, in Egypt, an
eloquent man, and mighty in the scriptures. But Paul, who
256 'ran nnvnfs PULPIT.
was a Jew, though born at Tarsus, a
city in Cilicia, was a
Hebrew, as well as a Jew,-the higher dignity always includ-
ing the lower. And Paul, the Hebrew, therefore took Apollos,
the Jew,
"
and expounded to him the way of God more per-
fecfly." Though Paul himself had not reached the still higher
degree of a Tsxuog, or perfect one, but was proceeding through
his degrees, following qfter, as he drolly describes it,
"
that he
might apprehend that _for which also he was apprehended of
Christ Jesus." Philip. iii. 12. g
END OF THE FIRST LECTURE ON
FREE MASONRY.
EM þÿ B e h ¬ l ' §
iiulpit. E
#mn A nomvm PULPIT rr 1s.~'_.4m» a-ai-yi-.
Ho. 17] JUNE 24, 1831. Price xd.
LECTURE ON FREE MASONRY: 3
Psrt ll.
DELIVERED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN,
THE REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
rr 'rn noruunn, nucxnnns-non, nan. 17, 1831.
iL_i.....l_.
"For gftlie Bloodqfbulls andqf Goats, and the ashes qfcn
hegfer eprinkling the unclean, sancti/ieth to the
puréf/ing
qf the flesh: how much more shall the blood
Iqf Ibrist,
who, through the Eternal Spirit, ofered himsef without
spot to God, purge your conscience dead works, to
serve the living God. And for t/:is cause, he if the
Mediator
Z'
the New Testament, that by means of death,
forthe re
mption of the transgressions that were under
the _first testament, they which are called might receive the
promise qf eternal inheritance."-Hznsws ix. 13+15.
The passage in any sense which o& Christian clergy ell
put upon it, is, the language of slobbering idiotcy, or of stark-
Stlring madness. I defy the ingenuity of man to look oni
with the eye of criticism, or to hes: it with the em' of intel-
Voz.. I. 0
'run nnvufs Puu>x'r.
ligence, and not feel unspeakably disgusted at it. Bulls'
Blood and Goals' Blood, and Ashes, sprinkling, cleansing,
purging, dead works, and uvmo Gons: and then, the Me-
diator of the New Testament, redeemingor getting the trans-
gressions that were under the old one out of pawn, and this in.
He Brews nine, 15. Then he brews ve
intoxicating liquor:
for sure, there never was any doctrine in :hye world that could
more tend to our
(headgfcation) editication. Goat's blood and
bull's blood, and tohat not? mixed up with ashes, for a man to
ish his hands and face in, for the purifying of his flesh:
and then, you know, with all the-all the-what is more easy
to be smelled than mentioned, "with all his blushing honours
thick upon him," to stand before God for a sweet smelling
savour. My God, if it isn't the most knock-me-down doctrine
that ever was. Think you, but see the nasty stinking saints,
where,
"Lol round the throne, at God's right hand
The Saints in countless stand;
Of
evtg
tongue redeem to God,
Array in garments washed in blood."
And can
'you
resist the idea,of what aslaughter-house sort
of a smell ere must be, about the throne of God! or can
you wonder, that the ladies should
alwayscany
alittle bottle
of aromatic vinegar to church or chape , together with their
Bibles and prayer-books, as a sort of Companion to the Altar,
to help to sweeten their imaginations?
Or can the learned in ancient history, with the light which
this sort of lan age, asoribes to divine inspiration, as it is,
by the whole ghristian world, upbraid the ignorance and
barbarity of their Pagan ancestors, who, in the sacred cere-
mony of the fllzuribolia, in order to ensure their sanctification,
put themselves into a sort of sawpit, and boards being laid
over the pit, full of holes, an ox or bull was slaughtered upon
the boards, in order that every thing that might run from the
body of the animal mi ht run upon them; and with which,
being most plentifully lwsmeared, and be~gi-eased, and be-
graced, and be-sprinkled, the Lord's anointed ones came
forth, believing themselves to be regenerated, as from "a
death unto sin, unto a new birth unto righteousness: for
'ras DlV|L,5 Puurr. 25
being by nature, bom in sin, the children of wrath, they
were hereby made the children of grace :" and sweet children
the children of gratxe must have been.
And if this pepper-box way of sanctitication, this letting it
drop through holes in the cullender upon the body of the
saint in the sawpit, which we so justly execrate, and reprobate,
and shudder at, in the Pagan Tauribolium, was nothing like
any thing that was meant in the
"pure
doctrines of our
most holy faith; how awkward 'tis, at the pure doctrines
of our most holy faith should have been handed down to us
in none other than such oratorioal, metaphorical, and allegorical
figures of speech, as could have derived their origin from none
other source than those execrable Tauribolia.
Why, too, are we
taught to look for our salvation to the
blood of sprinkling, and told expressly by the a tle to the
Hebrews, that the blood of sprinkli spealxeth bzlter things
than the blood of Abel. (Heb. xiilg Blood that can talk!
Eternal Godl and is it possible that the
apostle
is actually
making puns for us; md that by the blood o Abel, he means
nothing more than the blood of a Bull? By the holy Peter
we are told that our sanctilication of the spirit must be "unto
obedience, and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christz"
which sprinkling can no where be so conveniently administered
as by our
going into the holy place. And our hearts are not
said to becleansed, or washed, but sprinkled from an evil
conscience, and afterwards our bodies washed with pure water,
as
God-a-mighty knows, after such a
nasty process, a little clean
water must be very refreshing.
'Diese Egibolia, Goat sacrilices, or TaUnraoLu, Bull
sacrilices,as they are called, were
_lpjlrts
of the mysteries of
the more ancient Free Masonry. ey were renewed every
twenty years, when the penances of the noviciate were again
renewed, and not fewer than eighty kinds were gone through
before the ap rentice mason could attain the degree of a
T1-yung, or the highest degree in these masonic mysteries.
The Sovereign Pontit'l} the "thrice puissant, illustrious,
respectable, and worshipful" high priest, himself descended
into the saw it, which in this Epistle to the Hebrews is
called the ily Place, invested with all the emblems of
royalty; and the vestments which he had worn, the garments
washed in blood, excited the most profound veneration ; they
260 'ran nevnfs ronrrr.
were accounted to increase in holiness (as it is most probable
they did) in
proportion
as
they became more ragged: the more
they stank,t e sweeter they were held to be; and when they
would no longer hang together, they were
placed, on a column
of the temple.
The seven successive Christian Emperors, from Constantine
to Gratian, wore, and were proud to wear, the pontifical
"garments washed in blood." The Emperor Gratian, 383
years after our Annu: Domini (that is, not till after the middle
of the fourth century), was the first Christian Emperor who
threw oil' the badges of Paganism, or found out that there
wasany such difference between Paganism and Christianism,
as thata man
might not be both Pagan and Christian at the
same time.
Our kings and emperors, however, of the present day (God
take 'em all to his mercy) have been less punctilious; and a
George the Fourth, a Duke of York, and the Duke of Sussex,
for their own imperial, royal, and ducal purposes, have
thought themselves none the worse Christians for being Free
Masons.
That the argument of the text is of this masonic character
is as apparentas that it has any argument at all. For none
at all is there in it, if it be not the argument ai fortiori, or
argument/'rom the stronger, admitting the sanctifying efficacy
of the Tauribolium and aligibolium, the blood of bulls and
goats, and the nuns (that is the modest word for the excre-
ments) of aheifer sprinkling the unclean, to sanctify to the
purifying ty' the jiesh, in order to prove the still more purifying
and higher etlicacy of the blood of Christ, when applied in the
game way.
I must now, then, re-open our masonic lodge, and suppose
the proofs admitted, whereby I have already proved that the
terms Chrislians,]ews, Israelites and Hebrews, are not names
of communities that ever existed in a national or
political
character, but are designations of the different degrees, or
gades
of initiation in the mysteries of masonry. This
pistle, then, to the Hebrews, is an
eipistle
to Free Masons
of the rank of the EC|am-that is, o those who had passed
over, or
passed through, as the name literally signifies,
pissed
over the middle wall of partition, between Jews and
entiles, and were therefore admitted to afar different un-
run nvnfs rtu.>|'r. 261
standing of the mysteries of the craft, from that which does
well, and well enough, for the bearded babies and sucklings of
the gospel.
A Christian sticks to the gospel of Christ, and takes it
allto be literally true, which is very well for him-for as the
"thrice puissant, illustrious, res table, and worshipful
Adoniram," in this Epistle to the I'l,3l(;rews, justly tells them,
"
the doctrine ofLChristisbaby's meat; it is mere meat and
lollypop for the nursery; as he tells the lodge at Corinth,
"I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto
ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able."
But as the fellow-craft masons-that is the Hebrews, were
more advanced,he addresses them, in the 6th chapter of the
Hebrews, or Perutes, or Past-overs, "
Holy brethren, partakers
qt the Heavenly calling" (leavin the doctrine qf Christ, and
all such like milk-and-water stutffgr fools) let Us
go on to perfec-
tion, as Free and Accepted Masons, "to the praise and
glory
pféiishgrace,
wherein he hath made us accepted in the blood.'
P . VI.
As all the other Epistles in the New Testament, called the
Epistle of Paul the A stle to the Romans, Corinthians,
Ephesians, Colossians, 'Kessaonians, Soc., are
epistles
to
different lodges of Free masons, which were esta lished in
Rome, Corinth, Ephesus, 8w., and had been established for
ages before our date of the Christian era. And these are ex-
horted, in langu e which none but masons could properly un-
derstand, to" bulls! themselves up in their most holy faith."
As in the opening of a lodge in the second degree of
masonry, or "a fellow-craft.sman's lodge," after the due
knocks and si , and assurance given to the worshipful
master that tlielgdge is properly tiled, the worshipful master
calls out, "Brethren to order! as masons in the second de-
§ee.
Brother Junior Warden,are you a fellow-craft Free
asonl"
The Junior Warden, answers,
"
I am: try me, prove me."
Worshipful Maslar: "By what instrument in architecture
will you be proved?"
'l`he Junior Warden answers, "By the square."
þÿWorshi¬{,'ul
Master: "
What is the square T"
Junior arden; "
An angle of ninety degrees, forming the
fourth part of a circle.,'
262 ra: DlV£L'S Punrtr.
To which the Worshipful Master answers, "Since you are
so well informed yourself"-
(Wonderlirl information, you see, it is for a
Free Mason
to
#vow
what a
square is l)-" Since you are so well informed
yo rself, you will prove the brethren present to be Free Masons,
by three fold signs, and demonstrate that proof to be correct,
by copying their example." _
'I'his reference to the square, or
squarer, whose use UI
building is to ascertain the perfect equality of the angles of
the stones which are toifonn the building, identifies these
fellow-craftsmen, or masons of the second degree, with the
masons of the lodge ol' Ephesus, addressed by Paul
(who
was a mason of the third degree), in the Second Chapter of hu
Epistle to the Ephesians, where, distinguishing these fellow-
rrqft Free
M;asansdli'om thptse
of
theN6|st, plr e?)tered ajqmen-
!ice's degree, read resses em:-" ow,t ere re, ye are H0
more strangers and forei ers, but fellow-citizens with the
Saints, and of the householdi of God, and are built upon the
foundation of the apostles and ;pro hets, Jesus Christ himself
being the chief comer stone, in whom all the lruildin _ftly
_ji-an/ed together, groweth into a holy temple inthe itord:
"ln whom ye also (having been tried by the square) are
builded together for an habitation of God through the
S irit;" or, as they are addressed by the Free Masons, Saint
.later (whose name itself signifies a Stone, than which
masonry itself could not possibly be more masonic.)
"
Ye also, as
lively stones, are built up a spiritual hone.
But unto them which be disobedient, the same stone which
the builders (or masons) rejected, is made the headlof the
corner, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offence, even
o them which stumble at the word." Stumble at what word?
In the name of God, the Great Architect, what word could
that be, but the pan-word? the knowledge of which could
onlybe committed to masons of the higher degree; and the
being atantult lor which, when called upon, detected the
mason, who should attem t to play the cotoan, and
penetrate
into the mysteries into whichhe had not been duly initiated.
He would stumble at the word: which, as it had never _been
committed to any one who had not gone through the ceremony,
and had the bandage taken from before his eyes,-whereby,
says the worshipful master, he "should show l`orth_ the
rar: m:v|r.'s rvtrrr 263
praises of him who had called him out of darkness into his
marble-ous light," none but the "
Free and Accepted Masons"
could know the word: and all the rest would stumble at it.
But I, in challenge of all the Free Masons in the world,-
better acquainted, as I am sure I am, with their mysteries,
than themselves,-archer than the archest of them,-have not
stumbled at the word. I have discovered the great secret.
The spirit of the
egreat
master, Hiram Abiil, the immortal
widow's son, hathl me to the centre, from which point no
master mason can err: and of those genuine secrets of a
master mason, lost by the untimely death of Hiram Abili, and
admitted to be lost in every lodge of Free Masons in the world,
I can
sa! Eunzn,-Ihavefound thee: I have drank of the
blood o the everlasting covenant, and the life of the Lord
Jesus Christ flows in these veins.
"
Abeste, Abeste, 0 prooul abeste prryhni.
"
Be far hence: be far hence, 0 ye profane.
Brother Junior warden, see that the lodge be properly tiled.
s
Letnotthelhraciansteartheir Orpheus. ,
Letnotthewickeda proachtohurtme.
Let not Ehyroh of the Cave again assault the sacred person
of Hiram Abid, the immortal widow's son.
Let not the Christians, again in my person, crucify the Son
of God aiiesh, and put him to an open shame."
And then masons, of the higher orders,
"
to
Jon
it shall be
given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of eaven.
And none of the wicked shall understand, but t.he wise shall
understand."
Brothers of Your hol order again' I charge ou to see that
our lodge be properly glad.
' ` y
Ii;ht.here;eany hee who love not truth, or fear to hear
iti,
let em e in , ere I normce the t an
fearful wordP;;'t Gmxgvthichis "
sgck and powetrra, and
sharper than any two-edged sword, reaching to the dividing
asunder ofthe soul and s irit, and of the joints and marrow,
and is a discemer of the Snoughts and intents of the heart."
The
sharp-cutting
sword do I now strike home to the
heart of every indivi ual whohath ever been inalodge
of Free Masons: in the declaration of a truth which must
penetrate him to the marrow; and the truth is,-that no honest
man was ever conscious of a secret, or, being conscious of one,
264 ru nxvufs rvnexr.
ever kept it. He who would be privy to the concealment of
any thing which it concerns another, as well as himself, to
know, is a villain. He who by any sort of ceremonies could
bebound b others, or imagine that he had bound himself
to
keep suclra secret, doth write himself a fooll
An though he may have been
passed through all the
idiotish fooleries of the drunken beast y bacchanals, who call
themselves Masons, he was never a member of the com-
munity of rational men who call themselves ran. The
very signs and symbols, the winks and grips, pass-words and
ceremonies, by which he hath been befooled into the conceit,
that he hath been let into the secret, are the proof and
demonstration that he hath been shut out of it. The azcnzr,
or, as the word originally meant, tle sacred, of Free
Muonry, was in its intention only sacred and secret, from
the natural and insuperable ditliculty of communicating the
great truths of astronomical science to the vulgar mind, and
of records of the great phenomena of nature,
whic only e few, the very few among mankind, in their
infant emergence out of barbarism, had leisure to observe, or,
ingenuity to record.
And these were not secret, 'nor sacred, any further, or in
any other sense, than the science of geometry *or navigation
as
secret or sacred from those who know nothing about
em.
All the -'myste and all w u n the necessit of
using symbols argl characégrgrybgnwhicgothe well-skillet); in
these sciences mi ht communicate with each other, but which
the ignorant ang foolish multitude run away with, as the
ultimate scope and intention of all that could ever have been
intended. Andas the dunces and fools were infinitely the
majority, the wise and intelligent,found their machinery
taken out of their own hands, and were not allowed to rectify
the error of general ignorance, nor to explain their own
meanm .
The great secret of masonry, which the masons themselves
were not allowed to know, and which for that reason, and
that. alone, they never told, was that strong meat, which even
_hgp¢1'dl3, or Hebrews themselves, were not able to digest,
bwause, as the worshipful master tells them, in the 5th
chapter_ of the Epistle to the Hebrews, that "strong meat
ru n|.vrL'| runvrr. 265
belongeth to them that are q/'full age, who have their senses ex-
ercised in the use q/` their reason, to discern both good and evil."
'rrituan as roru n on ra
'rp0¢n.
I need not tell( ye, then, how innocent both Jews _and
Gentiles, and all the choused masons of the craft, below the
rank of the Teleios, or
perfect masons, must necessarily be
of the great secret of Free Masonry; when God-a-mighty
knows, that they never exercise their sense or reason in the
matter at all.
So _there are but three Free Masons of the highest
rank, the lkleioi, or Perfect Mason, who could tell you the
secret, an' if they would. And those three masons, the
magistri mag-istrorum, the master of the masters, the only
perfect masons in this kingdom, are the Duke of Sussex, who is
the first,-Mr. Richard Carlile is the second,-and modesty
only forbids me to name the third.
There were but two copies of the great development of the
work of the;" Frere Macon Reghellini de Schio" brought into
England; and of those two, the Duke of Sussex has the one,
and I have the other. ,
Tue oanr sncnsr was, an honest avowal and full
discovery to the perfect mason of the utter imposture of
all the religions that were ever in the world, and the obtain-
ing of his forgiveness of all the mummeries and tricks that
had been played off upon him, to prove whether he had
a mind capable of rising above them, and to bar ali' the
brute and barbarous multitude, to escape from whose savage
hugs science was
obliged to hide herself in the cloak of
mystery. The Christians, the Jews, the Israelites, and all
the other stones and blocks of masonry, who were made to
be beplastered and put upon,-being never so self-satisfied
as when most imposed on ; never so wise, as when most
egregiously ignorant; and never so _happy as when perfectly
miserable.
'
'
Ere these could pass through the dark "chambers of
Imagery" into-the Bright hall of Science and Truth, they
would,a.s they do, stumble at the in-ord,-and what word
could that be, but _the word of salvation, the word which
every Christian has a thousand times seen written in Roman
letters over every representation of Christ upon the Cross?
I' e' _I , £|§.».¢.J
266 mr: nnvrtfs Pvnrrr.
The Christian Teragrammaton Irmr consistin of the four
renee. 1. N. R. 11
' g
Alittle bit of Latin, I suppose, like the labels on the
doctor's gallipot, that stands as well for Jesus Nazarenus Re:
Judmorum--that is, "Jesus the Free Mason, the king of the
fellow-cratls'-men," as it would stand in English for, .Tack
Nobody, Rascallg Jack.
_
Ask your preachers of the gos l to tell you the meaning of
it: they cannot tell you, they would!stumble at the word, and
would
bereadtyato knock you down for asking them. It
might be right Christians not to seek to he wise above what
u written: but their folly has been so monstrous, that
they have never sought to be so wise as to know the
meaninlg
ot' what is written : and there stand the four letters I. N. R. _
upon the church, of which Christians know no more the
meaning, than they do the meaning of the cawing of a crow
upon the steeple. _
Those letters are the initials of the four s-words to the
higher grades of masonry, Iami, Now-, Rgfach, Iebeschal,
which signify the four elements, Water, Fire, Air, and Earth,
over which the four archangels were imagined to preside,
whose names are
Fpass-wordsin masonry , Asnoner., Casmaran,
Tarliud, and urlac; the meaning of the mystery being,
that the Being who is represented as
hanging below the word
1. N. R. I, is the personified genius of universal nature "For
in him," says the apostle, "dwelleth all the fulness of the
Godhead bodil :" and all the elements, F1an,`Air, Entra,
and Wnzigwhich make up and constitute the Pleroma, or
fulness ofthe Godhead, are ually effected by the position of
the God of Nature-that is, 32the Sun, when upon' the Crom
of the Equator.
Thus, to those who knew the secret, the_ diference between
nman's saying Jesus Christ, or Christ Jesus, would be dif-
ference enough to show which way the wind blew.
If he said Jesus Christ, he was only a Christian,+he was
a
Johnny Raw, and knew no more about Christianity tlmn
the knaves of the higher grades of masonry had
tauiat
him.
But if he said Gurus-rJ1-asus, and tipt the wink, to s ow that
hehad not said so
by accident, but kenned the everlasting
science which determines the reason why he should say Christ
Jesus ratherthan Jesus Christ, he was known to be a Free
*mn n:vu.'s runrrr. 267
,and an Accepted Mason, and would not be found at the pillar
Boaz (the left), when he should understand Jachin (the
right). That on the right Jachin,-op the left Boaz. (2
Chron. iii.)
Kmqémg 1~:~ ( Yekcn), restification.
Iuxyg 'U3(BOZ þÿ 8 l ! ¬ n g l h .
"But Ol" cry me some of the Free Masons of the lower
lodges, "we have been initiated, we are regular members,
we have gone through all the ceremonies, and we never heard
any thing of the sort." I know ye never did: ye have kept the
aacrliet very inviolably. I give ye inlinite credit for your
e `t ,-
y
You have been very lhithfuI,sirs: I know
You never told what you did never know.
But I must tell you, sirs, the secret of the Lord is with
them that _/car him, and he will show I/tern his cofvenant: the
Secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and put their
trust in their mercy,--that do I; and that is what none of your
preachers of the gospel, nor any of your masons below the rank
of royal arch, lmow any thing of. _
I cansay, with holy Job, "I have made a covenant with
mine ¢; why then should I think upon a maid!" (Job 31.)
'Tis Z/rabic, 'tis Shem Hemephoresh, 'tis Abracadabra, to
you. Go, asl: any preacher of the gospel to give you the
meanin of it,-not one in all this priest-ridden and priest-
iusultetf metropolis would ye 'rind who was not as ignorant
of the meaning ofit as a horse. Go tell
Xour
"thrice puissant,
illustriouspespectable, and worshipful donimm," that I can
tell the meaningof it; and if he can tell it himself, he will
admit that he who can do so has discovered the great secret
of the
royal
arch. _
Shall discover to you something of this glorious secret,
orwill ye still go tochurch and chapels, and be for ever the
dolts and dunces that your riests would have ye to be?
Iook, then, upon the vaulty bosom of the visible heavens,
that real royal arch, in which rei ns the glorious King of Da .
Observe the ap nt pass 0% the Sun round the Earth,
which is the r eofllii Earth round the Sun. Twice a
year youwill perceive the Sun shines exactly upon the line
which you might imagineto divide our globe into two equal
pants; and, in consequence of his shining thus exactly over the
268 -run nsvnfs noun.
middle, he gives an equal length of day and night to all the
inhabitants of the earth.
This he does, once in coming upwards, which is the spring
quarter; and once again, in coming down, from his highest
point of the great or royal arch, towards winter, when it is
autumn.
These two points, then, at which the Sun comes to the line,
bear the name which expresses coming together, Ctr Venants,
the two Covenants. And these two Co-Venant.s,orcoming
together ofthe line of the Sun's path, called the Ecliptic, with
the line of the Equator, take place, one in spring and the other
in autumn, and are therefore called respectively,
"
the Cove-
nant of Works"-that is, when men are called on to labour
in the cultivation of the earth; and "
the Covenant q/` Grace,"
fniitton or
enjoyment, under which they are to enjoy the fruits
oftheir labour.
This coming together, in the spring quarter, tool: place
when the Sun is seen to be in the group of Stars called the
Lamb; and in autumn, when he appears to be in the Scales,
or Balance of September, after having passed through the
Virgin, or Maid of August. And as the Covenant of Grace
does not take place when the Sun is in the group ot' Stars,
which are called the Virgin, nor before it reaches the further
end of the Scales, which it does on Michaelmas-day, the Free
Mason Job says,
"
I have made the Covenant with mine eyes"
meaning, I have, by astronomical observation, ascertained the
point ofthe Covenant; I have ascertained and it is in Libra,
the Balance of September. Why then should l look for it in
the Virgin of August. And these two Covenants are the two
masonic columns, Jac/tin and Boaz,-the one signifying science,
the other strength; in allegorical language, Christ the wisdom
of God, and Jesus the power of God. _
Thus Faith is the Genius of Spring; Hope of Summer; and
Charity of autumn. .
Furs, of Spring, because faith and Works must always
come together.
Hove, of Summer, because from that point the Sun looks
vertically down upon the seeds which have been committed in
faith to the fertilising womb of the Earth.
Cunurr, of Autumn, because then the Sun empties his
Cornucopia into our desiring lap.
rn nzvn.'s ruuflr. 269
Faith is the Eastern Pillar; Charity the Westem Pillar ;
and Hope the Key Stone of this Royal Arch l
"
CHRIST is the end of the Law to them that believe ;"-
that is, the Lamb` of God, in Spring; but Jesus is the other
end of the law-that is, "that J usr Ona," in the Scales of
Autumn, when in the rich and luxurious juice of the
grafge,
he gives us his blood to drink; and it is this blood, and is
alone, which, not reaching its full ripeness before the Autumnal
Equinox, is called the Blood of the Covenant.
And the vintners, or those who tread upon the grapes to
press their juice out, do every year trample under foot the Son
of God-that is, of God, the true vine, or Bacchus, being
really the odspring, Gift, or Son of the Sun in the constellation
of Gab, which is March. But they never account the
blood of the covenant, with which they are sanctified-that is,
Sunnyied (if I may coin that word), to have sunshine
put
into
ihelll, BD unhol -that is, an unrunny thing: they now it
is the linest drink in the world, and that they owe it
entgely
to the Sun, whose blood, in so striking a metaphor, it
rea y is.
'
And thus it is, in reference to the Scales of justice, that the
Grand Master, in the Epistle to the Hebrews, or Free Masons
of the line of the sover, or the plummet, plays off his
riddles about "
We grow him that hath said vengeance belong-
eth unto me, andthe Lord (that is, the Sun) :hall judge har
people," as I -know all about it too. "The day of Ven-
geance"-that is, literally, of Vine-gmac, meaning nothing else
than the day of working the Vine, wine-making. It is the
allegorical language of the Sun,,in the Scale of September.
An all the scope of this affair is nothing more than a warning,
on the part of the master ofthe vintage, to those who were em~
ployed in trampling under foot the Son of God, to remember
that the blood of the covenant was very intoxicating; and if
they should get so drunk with it as to fall intothe vat, it would
§¢o@r|»o»,
a very dangerous thing. Itis a fearful thing to fall
A
the hands of the 6ro; fur-that fcnnenting God-that is,
into the wine vat.
The Jews, an order of Free Masons, above that of Christians,
but below that oflfebrews, profess that the name ot' the Su-
preme Deity is unutterable, andinvariably substitute in the
270 ra: m:vu.'s Puutr
stead ofthe word which we absurdly and erroneously pro-
nounce Jehovah, Anurur, which is, literally, My Lords-
with the pronoun sullix to the plural of the word ADONIS, the
well-known name of the beautiful Son of Marrhag in the Pagan
mythology, and never meaning any thin else than the Sun
itself-that is, an, the Lord; on, the geing; rs, the Fire,
which is the Sun, in allegorical language, the Father, the
Husband, the Son, the Lover of the Lamb's Wife-that is, the
everlasting Mrs. Lamb, the August Virgin Mary of the Zodiac.
While the Free Masons of higher degree make a precisely
similar
pretence,
and have a mystical, or talismanic name of
God, w ich is never communicated but to the very highest of
the craft, which they are not allowed to utter,-but I will;
and of which they themselves don't know the meaning, and
I do!
As you find the Hebrew, or third degree mason, Paul, in 2
Corinth. xii. 4, describing himself as having been caught up
into the third heaven, where he heard "unspeakable words,
which it is not lawful for a man to utter." _
Not lawful for a man to utter! I shall be damned if I utter
it. But, since it comes to, that I'll be damned if I don't: I
have it: the great secret is here!-I am bursting to let it
out. Where is the Devil 'I-keep him oil' from me a. moment.
The unutterable word is-is-.lao-Bum.-on! O Lord, 0
L0rd,0Lordl .Tao-Bull»on. What alive! and the secret
is out: the
caommion
secret of Free Masonry, of Christianity, of
Judaism, an of agenism. ,
l
'
,N But what is its meaning? `."="'"»*"T`)°*»'-U* 64 l'QMM./VV*
law, the name ofthe Su reme Being, as uttered from the
Sacred Tripod of the Delpliic Oracle.
Kllpafnu en 'rm warren wravrar :ppm lan
I pronounce Im to he the name ofthe Supreme Being. I, the
symbol of unity in number. Alpha and Omega, A and o, the
first and the last, the beginning and the end, which was, and
which is to come,
"
the Almighty."
Rull Bul Bale. Disguise it as you will, utter it in any
tongue of all the
gippled
earth, its essence and significancy is
none other than I, the name of the Supreme God, when the
nm n|vu.'s Punrr. 271
Covenant-that is, the Vernal Equinox, was in the Bull of
the Zodiac, from whence the name of that sacred animal, in our
own language, to this day; and on, the never-varied Egyptian
name of the Sun , thus proving the Sun to be, as indeed it hu
been, the Great and On mr
object of all religious worship: and
the science of the Sun, or of astronomy, the interior and esoteric
secret of Free Masonry. The science of the Sun, bein the
secret sense of all mysterious
allegaries,
and the Sun ilse¥f, the
ultimate object of all religions. e
,
Father of all in every a
In every clime adoreff'
By saint by savage or by gage
Iac, liull, or
'
END OF THE SECOND LECYFURE ON FREE
MASONKY.
'33
,
|
DMM W
Google
ww memvs minima.
"AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Allan Cunningham.
Nu. 1s.] JULY 1, 1831. [Price 22"
LECTURE ON FREE MASONRY:
'
ru-tnl.
DELIVERED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
AT THE ROTDNDA, BLAcxFnIiur.s-nonn, APRIL 19, 1831.
-~v-v-v-~,-~v`~_.-.,,...
"
Now the God qfPeace, that brought againfrom the dead our
Lord Jesus, that Great Shepherd of the Sheep, through the
blood of the everlasting Covenant, make you perfect in
every good work to do his will, working in you that which
is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ: to
whom be glory, for ever and ever, Ammon."-Hnuniaws
xiii. 20.
Now, the God of Peace? 1. What's the meaning of the
God of Peace? 2. And what's the difference between the
God of Peace, and the Peace of God: which, the parsons tell
us, passeth all understanding? And how many Gods are there?
since we read not only of a God of Peace, but of a God of
Battles, and of a. God of Mercy, and a, God of Wrath, and a.
God of this World, and a God of Heaven? With this most
curious distinction, that it is the God of Peace who alone is
called the VERY God of Peace. 1 Thess. v. 23. And in the
Nicene Creed, the Very Godqf Very Gad. Are there some
vor.. I. s
274 'rua nnvu.'s rvuvrr.
Gods that are not Very Gods? Are [there Summer Gods,
Autumnal, and Winter Gods, as well as Vznr or
Spring
Gods? And why is it, that _the Vuw God, and the Verily
VeriLy .way of speaking, always stands in connection with
something about a sheep, or a mutton, or a ram, or a lamb, or a
tup, or an ewe, or a Rachel, or a
shepherd, or a
sheepfold ?
Never is the association varied. It is the God of Peace, that
brings back the shepherd from the dead, after he had been as
dead as mutton. And why is it that always, after our ideas
have been led to the Verily Verily shepherd of the sheep, we
are admonished that we mustgo to plow,
"
to every good work,
and labour," in the cultivation of the earth. And then Jesus
Christ is defined as "to whom be glory"-that is, in whom is
Sunshine: and then-Ammon.
Are not these questions the like of which a rational man
would ask, and on which he would insist on receiving the most
ample satisfaction, in any matter which concerned, or which
he thought might concem, his temporal interest? Say that it
might be something which would give him a title, or claim to
receive twenty, or one hundred, or ten thousand pounds, or
bring him under an obligation, to pay, or make good some
such a sum, according as the letter and spirit of the document
should determine.
Would he treat the copy of a lease, a will, or a title deed, as
he treats what he calls a revelation from the God who made
him ?
A revelation from the All-wise God, on the proper under-
standing and due obedience to which, his eternal happiness or
etemal misery is at stake,-a revelation originally written in
Greek! _
Greekl My God! and would not a sensible man say, does
not the All-wise God know, that I am an Englishman: and if
he had any revelation which he wished me to attend to, why
didn't he write it in plain English?
Aye, but the persons, ye see, very leamed, and entirely dis-
'mn nnvrils Pnnrir. 275
interested men, have kindly interposed in the affair, and have
given us a translation out of the original Greek into the vulgar
tongue. Yes they have,-and the Devil thank 'em for their
interference. I thought that there had been but one Mediator
between God and Man. But if there be no means of knowing
the will of God, but by a revelation, which requires to be
translated, why, 'fore God! there must be as many mediators
as translators.
But look, then, at the translation, such as the translators,
these self-constituted Mediators between God and Man, have
given it us-these very learned and entirely disinterested clergy
-who, seeing that God wished to communicate his will to us,
in generous condescension to our ignorance, and to God's ig-
norance as well as ours, have kindly interfered to tell us what
he means.
'
I dare say God would have explained it himself, if he could.
But here is the meaning, brought down to the meanness of
the meanest capacity, with this most singular advantage, that
the meaner a man's capacity is, the better is he satisfied with
the meaning.
And so here, after "the bulls' blood, and the goats' blood,
and the ashes of a calf sprinkling the unclean, and Jesus suffer-
ing without the gate, and sprinkling us with his blood, and
sanctifying us with his blood," and all sorts of nastiness,`comes
the wind-up, about the God of Peace, and the shepherd of the
sheep, and the dead alive again, and the blood of the everlasting
covenant, and Jesus Christ, and glory for ever and ever, and-
Ammon.
And sure, Sirs, they who think it no
presumption to translate
to you, what it is that God means, ought not to persecute me,
for translating to you what it is that they mean.
It is the secret of the masonic craft,-it is the secret of priest-
craitf-it is the secret of lawcrait, and gospelcraft: it is the
secret of everything that is secret,-Gammon .
Go to the door ofa masonic lodge, give 'em the three knocks,
276 'rss navuis Pours.
the dactylic knock, one long and two short; the anapaestic
knock, two short and one long; and the adonic, one long, two
short, and two long.
'
V
1. Tum tl-tl
2. Ti-t`i tum.
3. Tum tl-ti-tim tum.
And then, as our blessed Saviour mys,'_" Knock, and it shall
be opened unto you ;" and when it is opened, bounce in upon
'em, and cry
"
Gammon l" and, my life on't, if the master of
the lodge will not recognise you for a Royal Arch, without your
ever having had your buttons taken off your clothes, a halter
put round your neck, a dagger held to your breast, your eyes
bandaged, or any other of those disgusting and filthy fooleries,
whose usage accounts for so many kings andiprinces, and royal
dukes, having been Free Masons.
Had any good or just £eeling towards mankind, been at the
bottom of their mysteries, you would never have heard of a
royal duke being at the top of them.
The word Ammon, which is real_ly and truly the identity,
the very same as our word, Amen, which comes at the end of
all our prayers, and creeds and collects, at the end of all the
titles and epithets of Jmus Christ, and at the end of every
thing that is excessively nonsensical and mysterious, always
signified the secret one, the hidden, the occult, and was uttered
in a low voice, in intimation to the mystics, that something was
to be sought for, that was lost, and to be found again; there
was a subauditur, a subintellzgitur, something of which you
were to
"
give it an understanding, but no tongue." _
And in this use, it was one of the names of Jupiter, and as
regularly closed his catalogue of titles, as those of Jesus Christ,
signifying that Jupiter was Ammon, as it also signifies, to those
who look for signitications, that Jesus Christ is Ammon.
Jupiter-Ammon being precisely the same deity as Jesus
ChfiSr,Amen; on, as it stands at the beginning of nwm, In
the nameqf God, Amen. And both Jupiter, Ammon, and God
'ran nn.vn.'s runrrr. 277
Ammon, and Jesus Christ, Amen, are personincations of the
Sun, who is Jupiter, in Spring; Christ, in Summer; Jesus, in
Autumn; and Amen, in Winter.
Hence the mystic game of hide and seek, or hofpeep, or blind-
m¢m'a buf, or hunt the slipper, or something that was lost, and
again to be found, or
something that was hidden, and to be
sought for, which is the one common and universal conceit that
runs through all the forms of religion that ever were in the
world, and never difering in any one religion, from the cere-
monies of any other. Thus the Free Masons pretend to seek
for the lost secrets of Hiram Abitf ; the worshippers of the
Goddess Isis, seek for the remains of Osiris. 'I'he Eleusinian
Dionysian, Adonic, Bacchanalian, Masonic, Jewish, and
Christian Mysteries, alike abound in the same figures of speech,
about seeking for the Lord, and calling on the name of the Lord,
as if to awake him, with a sort of "
Holloa," God Almighty!
Where are you, My Lord God?
As you will observe, all these seclcingrfor God, begin with a
mighty 0, as
"
O Lord God Almighty l and O Lord Jesus
Christ," and end with crying out the word of the game, or the
word oflyk, as it is called. As the bishop is exhorted to hold
fast the faithful word (1 Titus 9), which is a sort of whoop, or
pun,pun, give me 4 léttk water ; the faithful word, being Ammon.
And it is never till they cry Ammon, that the fervent prayer-
monger rises from his knees, takes his hands away fi-om his
eyes, and seems as if he had just recovered his lost senses.
But it is especially to be observed, that this mystical opera-
tion of seeking the Lord, is always to be performed with the
eyes shut, or at least only squinting between their lingers,
there being nothing that religious people are so much afraid of
as letting in too much light upon their dark fooleries. It is
the self-some game of the nursery. Only the big fools are
playingat it, instead of the little ones, the game of shut your
qu, and open your mouth, and sec what God will sendyou.
Only the worst on't is, tlmt the forty and fifty year old babies
278 'ran nnvnfs runmr.
when we won't play with 'em at hide and seek, are for changing
the game, into prisoner's bars. A dirty trick that, Sirs, when
they dared not attempt to grapple with the man's argument.
Thus, when the wise and studious had compared the glorious
Arch of Heaven, to the vaulty dome of a
magnificent temple,
it was much easier to jump to the conclusion at once, that it
was Solomon's Temple, than to take any pains to learn astro-
nomy. Who knows, but that there might have been such a
temple? and, certain it is, that very line temples have been
built, precisely as
globes, and eidouranions, and orreries, are
constructed at this day, in which, the great model of what
astronomers and philosophers have observed in the visible
heavens, has been represented in the forms and ornaments of
our churches, cathedrals, and chapels, to this day,-the original
devisers, intending them, as
temples of science,-the barbarians
into whose hands they have subsequently lapsed, perverting
them into means of perpetuating the first and grossost conceits
which infancy could form, and thus binding down the child
who, when be was a child, did think asa child, and speak as a
child, when he became a num, to be as great a child as ever:
and, to this day, will you see the forty-year-old babies running
away from the Rotunda, for fear any thing should be explained
to them : and praying to God, that they may die in the same
faith that they were bom in, and so be brought down, no wiser
than they were brought up.
But now for demonstration: look, I beseech you, as to the
two pillars, which constitute the essential emblem of Free
Masonry. You never saw nor heard of a masonic lodge in
which that emblem was
wanting.
They are called respectively Boaz and Jachin, the names
which Solomon, the wisest of men, is said to have given to the
two pillars, which he set up in the porch of the temple.
"
And he set up the right pillar, and called the name thereof
Jscnm, and he set up the left pillar, and called the name
thereof Boaz." 1 Kings, 21. As the masons of the preent
'urn nsvnls rlunrlrr. 279
day absurdly pretend, that .Boaz and Jachin were masons em-
ployed under the director of their great master, Hiram Abifl,
and to their honour these pillars were respectively consecrated.
Boaz, the column on the left, being the name of the master of
the apprentices in the masonic mysteries.
Jscam, the column on the right, being the name of the master
of the fellow-cralt masons in the same mysteries: while I-Imam
Aarrr, the immortal widow's son, who is the Jesus Christ of the
system, and the great object of their idolatrous veneration, is
honoured by the consecration of a tomb, which is placed at the
north part of the sanctuary.
While a
rope, that comes from the colin in the north, goes
by the ohelisk in the south, and binds the two columns toge-
ther,-which columns, says the perfect master, are fixed cross-
ways.
-
Itwas at the fixed cross-way, called the Pillar Jachin, the
right-hand pillar, that Jachin paid the craftsmen their wages.
That was very just of him. Could any thing lead the mind
more directly to the idea of justice 'Q And Juatire, observe ye,
standing at the cross-way.
And Jachin, the pillar at the cross-way ofjustice, is master of
the fellow-craft masons, who enjoy the fruits of their labour.
While Boaz, the pillar at the left cross-way, is only master of
the entered apprentice masons, who do all the work.
I seek the derivations of the words Boaz and Jachin (which
is what masons themselves never think of), and 1 find them,
respectively, Boaz,
"
In it is strength," and Jxc:-nn,
"
He shall
establish :" thus identifying the radical ideas of Mrcar and
Rronr, Strength and Justice.
I look, again, at the masonic insignia, and I see that these
two pillars, which the perfect master has told mc, are two
cross-ways, and which I lmve told him, signify Might and
Right, are adorned by anarch of cloud, which seems to rest
upon them. ,
They are then cloudy pillars, and I leam that I am to look
280 'ran nnvufs PULP1'r.
for them in the clouds, and through the clouds. They are the
pillars of Heaven, supporting the vaulty arch so high above our
heads, and that arch only is the royal arch, in which the King
qf Heaven-that is, the Sun,reigns through the summer months,
commencing at the Vernal Equinox, in Spring, where Boaz, the
master of the entered apprentices, sets his men to work, in cul-
tivating the earth, and ending at the Autumnal Equinox, the
29th of September, where Jachin, the master of the fellow-craft
masons, pays the men their wages by giving them the fruits of
the earth.
And these two Equinoctial points, when the days and nights
are of an equal length, as they are on the 25th of March, and
the 29th of September, are called pillars, because the great
semicircle, or
upper hemisphere, doth seem to rest upon them,
as they are
expressly called by J ob (chap. 36),
"
the pillars of
Heaven, standing until the day and night come to an end ;"
which is manifestly an elliptical, or abbreviated sentence, of
which t.he sense filled up is-the pillars qf heaven standing at
the point where the inequality qf the length qf day and night, is
at an end, and the days and nights are of an equal length over
all the earth, as they are when the Sun is at the point of the
Vemal, in Spring, and again, at the point of the Autumnal
Equinox, in Autumn.
,But the Adoniram of the masonic mysteries, has further be-
trayed the craft, by telling the perfect master that the pillars,
Boaz and Jscam are not only pillars, but cross-ways.
Now, in the name of God, what are cross-ways but two ways
of which the one crosses the other? I ask no more of your
credulity, than that you would look on the heavens for your-
selves, or on these representations of the heavens and the earth,
and then try to deny, if you eau, that these cross-ways, Boaz
and Jachin, are the Vernal and Equiuoctial points, at which the
line of the Ecliptic crosses the line of the Equator-that is,
the Sun in his apparent path,-the Ecliptic, comes to shine
directly over the line of the Equator; this it does in Spring
ran navufs Punrrr. 281
and Autumn, and only then. Hence these coming: together-
that is, comings of the line of the Sun's path to the line of the
Equator, are called the two Covenants, or the two Testaments;
and you have the reason in Heaven, while no
earthly reason
whatever could be assigned, why there should only be two
Covenants, or two Testaments, the Old and the New.
Which Covenants, Saint Paul expressly tells the Free Masons
of
Galatia,
"
are an
allegory"-that is, most
expressly, the
whole contents of both the Old and the New Testament, are in
every respect a mere allegory, and not a word of historical
truth, nor was any thing like history ever intended.
Now, Sirs, when I take an algebraic problem, and work it
éut geometrically, it is admitted to he science,-it is called de-
monstration.
It] then, I take the terms of an admitted allegory, and find
them answering, in every respect whatever, to their solution in
the visible phmnomena of nature,-is not that demonstration?
Give me, then, the mathematically accurate points of the two
Covenants of Spring and Autumn, and resist the demonstration
who can ? that every figure of speech, with respect to the two
Covenants, answers to the absolute relations of nature at those
583801)S .
srnmc.
March 21st, at twenty-one
minutes after eight in the
moming.
Spring,the Covenant of works,
when men must cultivate
the earth.
'
The Jewish Dispensation.
The Law.
Truth.
Righteousness.
avrvun.
September 23rd, at forty-six
minutes after seven in the
afternoon.
Autumn, the Covenant of
grace, when they are to en-
joy the fruits of their la-
bours.
The Christian Dispensation.
The Gospel.
Mercy.
Peace.
282 'mn navnfs PULP1'!'i
Boaz Jachin.
Masonry under the Law of Masonry under the Law of
Types and Shadows.
'
Grace and Truth.
Hence it is, that in the gospel covemnt (that is, at the Au-
tumnal Equinox), when all the great ends for which the year
exists, are annexed, when the Sun of Aries, the Ram of March,
has come into Libra, the Balance of September, the allegoritxl
conundrum is,
"
Mercy and Truth are met together; Righteous-
ness and Peace have kissed each ot.her." Psalm 85. And this
kissing, takes place-(where should it else)-on the lips of the
Virgin 'l
i
But not till God's justice has been satisfied. And how cali
God's justice be satisiied, but by the Sun's going a little bit
further than the Virgin of August, and putting himself into the
Scales of Septe ber. ,
And out of those Scales he will not get; and that justice,
therefore, will not be satisfied, without a crucifixion. For in
those Scales of Justice, is the cross-way, Jachin, where the line
of the Ecliptic crosses the Equator.
As you read in the allegorical gospel,
"
Now there stood by
the Cross of Jesus, Mary his Mother."
Eternal God l and does she not stand there still? Cen the
clergy say that I did this? _
Why do they shake their gory locks at mel »
But see here-here stands-the Virgin of August, by the side
of the Cross of September.
What! and say my harbarous persecutors: do I make no-
thing but an allegory of that awful display of the divine attribute,
when God, to satisfy his own justice, vouchsafed to be cruci~
fied 1
_ And do I make nothing more of Mercy and Truth meeting
together, than a mere allegory of what happens every- Autumn
of our lives?
N°» Mlhing more! but I do with my Bible what my perse-
'ma navuls runrrr. 283
cutors never do or did with theirs: I ann it, and understand
what I read.
And I read immediately in the context, that when Mercy
and Truth meet together, and Righteousness and Peace kiss each
other, then it is that "
our land doth yield her increase ;" and
if it be not in Autumn that our land doth yield her increase,
why, then, I'll try again, and say with the Holy David, in the
74th Psalm,
"
O Lord, look upon the Covenant, for all the
earth is full of darkness and cruel habitations ;" which I should
understand to mean:
"
Give us an abundant harvest, and a
luxurious vintage, as thou hast promised, to reward our labour,
for all the earth-that is, all that part of the earth which falls
below the points of the Covenant, is full of dark and gloomy
days, and all the celestial mansions, then over it, are cruel
habitations." The damnation Scorpion of October, the cruel
Archer of November, the filthy Goat of December, the nothing
but the Cold Water of January to drink, and nothing but the
Smly Fish of February to eat.
O, give me plenty of the blood of the Covenant, and the Devil
may have the water, wherein "
Christ is the end of the law, to
them that believe." But Jesus is the other end of the law, to
them that understand.
"
I know in whom I have believed," says the old wag, and am
persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed
unto him, against that day. V
_
In whom had he believed ? the Sun.
What had he committed to him? the seed sown in the earth.
Against what day? why, the day ofjudgmeut.
VVhen the Sun, in the Scales of September, shall weigh out
"to every man according to his work; and whatsoever a man
hath sown, that shall he also
reap."
Look then at that masonic arc .
Its pillars are faith and Charity.
Its key-stone is Hope.
284 'run navufs Punrrr.
The husbandman must sow in Faith, live in Hope, and reap
in Charity. _
And why are those who cultivate the earth always called
Husbandmen? Because, in allegorical language, they are mar-
ried to the Virgin of August, to
whom they look continually,
that she shall hring forth their children.
Faith is Spring, Hope is Summer, Charity is Autumn.
Spring is the Covenant of Works, because Faith and Works
must come together.
Autumn is the Covenant of Grace, because then, the works
of husbandry are over, and man has to enjoy the free gift of the
Sun's bounty. Then,
`
"
What blessings his free bounty gives,
Let us not cast away ;
For God is paid when mm receives,
To enjoy is to obey."
But Hope, the keyfstone of the royal ardn, the most mysteri-
ous of these ingenious hieroglyphs, hath for its object the resur-
rection of the dead. The resurrection of what dead ?
None other, Sirs, than the seeds which are sown in Faith,
and which are to be reaped in Charity-that is, buried in the
Earth, in Spring, to be found again in the abundant retums of
Autumn.
And here, Sirs, is the common solution ofthe masonic riddle
of seeking for Hiram Abiti§ of the mythological search of Ceres
for Proserpine, of Isis for Osiris, and all the hide-and-seek
nonsense, and bo-peep fooleries, which have been called mys-
teries, sanctities, solemnities, awful considerations, sacred,
secret, holy balderdash, which they have adhered to, as if they
had thought that reason was
given to them for no other md
than to employ all their ingenuity, labour, and skill, to get rid
of it.
While all the mystery of our text, so hideous, so monstrous,
so
filthy, in the best sense that ever was, or could be given to
'run nnvufs PULPIT. 285
it by those who are going about to get me irnmured in a
dungeon, and cut off from the cheerful ways of men, as unwon-
thy to exist in society: doth in this illustration come up to a
dignity and grandeur, which their sanctified idiotcy never
dreamed of, which their ignorance would not understand, and
their malice would not endure.
The blood of bulls and goats, the blood of crabs and fishes,
the blood of any one of the animals whose imaginary forms
inclose the groups of Stars which constitute the Twelve Signsof
the Zodiac, were each in turn, as efiicacious for the salvation of
mankind, as the blood of Christ, as the ashes of an heifer-that
is, those bright-bumiug and inextinguishable sparks which
make up the form of the Bull of the Zodiac, sanctified-that is,
sunnified, to the purification-that is,_firei/ication, impregnating
with the creative heat of the solar Ere, the_flesh or animal-food
which the Sun creates for us. But this, and these, only had
their eflicacy-that is, their astronomical accuracy, as symbols
ot' science, according as the two Covenants-that is, the point
of the Vernal Equinox, the Covenant of Works and the Au-
tumnal-that is, the Covenant of Grace, was in one or other of
these signs. These Covenants. change every 1253 years.
Hence the term, the New Coveizant, and the Blood of the Co-
venant, is always the juice of the grape, which is always ripe
when .the Sun is at the Autumnal Covenant, wherever that
Covenant may fall: and this blood has always the efficacy of
purifying our consciences-that is, tiring, or warming our minds
from dead works-that is, of refreshing us after the labour of
sowing the seed, which is sown in hope of a glorious resurrec-
tion at harvest.
And for this cause, Christ is the Mediator of the New Testa-
ment-that is, most literally, he goes between our earth, and
the Autumnal Equinoctial point, which is the New Covenant.
That, by means of death-that is, being crucified, and duck-
ing under the Equator, he might redeem and fetch up the
286
'
'run navufs ruuur.
stars which were in a state of transgression, by being under the
line of the first Covenant.
That, they -which are called-that is, the stars of the first and
second magnitude, which the astronomers call by distinct names,
might receive the promise of eternal inheritance-that is, the
etemal duration of the universe, that so long as the Sun and
Moon endureth,
"
seed time and harvest, summer and winter,
day and night, shall not fail."
And thus, Sirs, have I given you a rational sense of words,
for which I defy your spiritual pastors and masters to give any
sense at all.
And this, if I am again to be the victim of the savages of the
gospel, will be my proof, that under the pretext of suppressing
what they call blasphemy,-their hostility is directed solely
against learning, which they cannot equal, and science, which
is too unprofitable and excellent for them to seek or to attain.
"
Felix qui potuit rerum cognoscere causas,
Atque metus omnes, et inexorabile fatum
Subjecit pedibus; strepitumq ; Acherontis avari."
Georgie. lib. ii. 499.
Happy the man, who, studying Nature's laws,
Thro' known eil`ect.s can trace the secret cause;
His mind possessing in a quiet state,
Fearless of Fortune, and resigned to Fate.
END OF THE THIRD LECTURE ON
FREE MASONRY.
'ms nnvuls rnsrrr. 287
NOTICE.
'l'hereportertskesleavetoremsrk,inthe spaeeunoeeupiedbythslscture,
that the trisl ofthe Bev. Mr. Taylor willhsve terminated beforethe next pub-
lication of this work. On Monday, July 4,' will be decided, whether the
chem ion of free public discussion on religious subjects is to he
tolerated, or
whetlrer this staunch defender of the Deity from the reall
blagahemous
im.
putation of blunder and cruelty, is to be again inearoeratmf, at e instance of
a. Society of ignorant Fansdcs-the cat's-paw of mother body who dare not
risk their own lingers near the Ilre of criticism, to obtain their ohject-inother
words, the chsnoe of refutation of their mistranslsted (but highly paid-for)
doctrines. A body who would beat down reason and
philosophy
with the club
of the law, and convert the sword of Justice into the stiletto the assassin.
The masked freebooters call for the aid of the law of the land-for what 7 To
punish the disturber of the peace of their places of worship? No. But to
shield the asserted truth of their doctrines from observation, and to stile
The law of the land! 5 The persecutors of Galileo and Copernicus
were sanctioned by the law of the land-the diseouerers (3) and persecutors of
wissrds and witches were held guiltless, und the victims of bigotry, after s
mock trial hy a puritanical jury. were hung and burnt, bya law of this land:
nay, the Reformers of some of the
corrurtions
of the praent most holy Chris-
Efsn Churcg,
were hung, burnt, banishc , or imprisoned by the aforesaid law
the Ian .
The attempt of the church to draw on government, its former eoadiutor,
for aid, at once proclaims
itsdpolitioal connexion, notwithstanding the asser-
tion of Earl Grey, on Tues y se'nnight, in reply to the inquiry of the
Saintl Lord Wharnoliife, if his
Majesty!
Ministers would extend the accus-
tomed,aid to the Established Church "
Government," he said,
"
would
continue to aford its support to the Church, in return for the seal and atten-
tion with which it its dutiu [to whom ?], and on aeoount of the
superior usarr of its relxgious instruction."-(A merit not allowed to he
questioned, forsooth)-Bah! Merit needs not the protection here
sought-it
has
nothinito
lose by investigation, and everything
to by publicity-it
seeksnoo
erlgnatronorprotectorthanthemsgestyof
.
The Noble srl, however, assured the Noble Querist that he "
disclsimed
the idea of a political union with the Church ;"ohservi.ng,
"
that its members
had very seldom exercised that power with
advantage to themselves (7), and
often
%;"alwa.ys]
with great detriment to the public# 1'
Can expressed. And he
mighglhave
ss truly added, that, in the ¢0'h~
tuted endyeavours to prop up the C tian Church, more lives have been sa-
erideed, more cruelty practised, more philosophers
itmlprisoned,
more wealth
eqwnded, more famine created, and more unchari le feelings generated,
thsninsll theotherwarfaresof mankindputtogethensinoetheperiodofits
mind'uetion.
l._
°
Awrltof corti
'
was applied for but refused! ment t th
felon bar, being tlrxight more dogradirig, and the v fo:mor:
seeure(')
1 Jurors -_ye whose names will hereafter be associated with the honour of
'tting, or with the odium of confining, this persecuted philosopher, mark
gin admission df the Premier.
/
288 ras nnvrrfs rutrir.
And yet, oh,
consistency!
this Psrlismentflteforming Peer suiers the Law
Omoer of the Crown, in espite of his opinion, to prosecute the Rev. Robert
Taylor, in.the name of the King, for blssphem , i. e., the developmentof
Truth, which, the indictment says, is a
"
smndalto Almighty God,-a HYD-
terapt
of our Lord the King,-and an evil example to all his liege subjects."
the framers of this stupid, drivelling production-the indictment--be not
blasphemers and libellers intentionally, rn
prodering their igmy might to ss-
aist the
Almigh)?'
God to punish the Reverend Robert Taygir, they can hardly
be ac uitted folly, in supposing that by
putting
down the leader of a
peacedhle assembly, (who, not believing according to aw, argues according to
reaaon,) they can
stop
the
growth
of his opinions. No. They have taken root
too tlrmly to be era icate by their feeble grasp. They may "scotch, but
cannot xru. the snake."
The prosecuted Discourses are to be found in Nos. 14 and 15 of this work;
and the Reporter takes this opportunity to inform the readers of the Punrrr,
that notes of all the Rev. Gentleman's Discourses have been taken up to the
gireaent time, and will be published, in the order of their delivery, weekly.
r. Taylor has given notice of his intention to deliver the substance of his
intended Defence, at the Rotunda, four times this week,' which will also be
carefully noted. Thus subscribers to the DeviI'.r Pulpit will possess, even
thosugh
their instructor be again immured in a dungeon, a volume of astrono-
gii information, unequalled by any writer on the subject in ancient or mo-
ern times.
lt must occur to every one, when made acquainted with the fact, that the
King (whose name is a bugbear in the service), if defeated, ays no costs, that
the
eerlpenses falling on the defendant, are themselves sngcient to crush an
unw thy individual. The Rev. Robert Taylor is not rich. The Road to
Wealth he left to walk in the Path of Truth,-or, as his persecutors would be
glad to believe, the Road to Ruin. An
opportuni?
for his friends to assist
him in his journey, and enable him to overcome t e obstacles to its accom-
plishment-and, indeed, to all who value, and would contend for, the right
of tnleratiou-is now
gpen,
by promptly subscribing to pay the law expenses
of this prosecution. he Reporter is authorised to state, that subscriptions
for that
glugtpose
will be received at the Rotunda, and at the house of Mr. Car-
lile, 62, t Street; a weekly acknowledgment of which will be inserted in
"
The Prompter."
Whatever the result of the trial may be, it is coniidently hoped that the
historian of another age will not have to add, when recording the persecution
of this scientiiic
Expounder of Scripture Astronomy, the desertion of his fol-
lowers, when their ard was needed and solicited. -
June28,1B3l..
*
The policy of this proceeding may be questioned by many, as
givindgilad-
vantage to the enemy. This the Rev. Gentleman, however, seems to re-
d : and
appears only anxious that the truth and justice of his defence
gliduld be ublicly appreciated, wholly disregarding the consequences to him-
self; thinking, ¢l1;xhxaps, _
_
"
`ce is he armed who hath his quarrel Just."
May it so turn out.
ww mcmvs imtlmt.
1§1<>. 19.1 JULY a, 1sa1. [Price za.
'
LECTURE ON FREE MASONRY:
nn rv.
DELIVERED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.
ur 'rua norumu, nucxramns-Bonn, Aran. 24, 1831.
. .-v..~..--/»»-~v~¢»-vv
"
Now the God qfPeacc, that brought againfrom the dead our
Lord Jesus, that Great Shepherd of the Sheep, through the
blood of the everlasting Covenant, make you perfect in
every good work to do his will, working in you that which
is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ: lv
whom be ghny, for ever and ever, Ammon."-Hsnaxws
xiii. 20.
_
.
I nerunn, without preamble, to the stage of our process in
the last discourse on these words.
The name Jupiter is etymologically composed of what Dean
Swift has ignorantly represented as a pun on the word, the Jew,
Peter.
'
The word Jewes, or Jeve, being the very word which we
pronounce Jehovah, A
or Jove; and which (see erratum) Free
Masons pronounce JAve, and say, it is the name by which
they know the Grand Architect of the universe. From the
order of perfect masons being permitted to pronounce this name
vol.. I.
288 'ma
DEVlL'B runnrr.
of God, they acquired the distinction of being called the
people qf God, and took to themselves, or received from others,
the name which they had given to God: and so arose the sect
called the Jewees or Jews. The word Peter, which signiiies
a
Stone, added to the name of God, Jaw, making the whole
title Jupiter, most emphatically expressed, as God the Great
Architect. _,
As we find it was the Sun, who really is the Great Architect,
who, in all ages and countries was emblemized and worshipped
under the character of a Stone.
Christ in the gospel, confers this title on the chief of the
apostles, the Jew Peter.
"
I say unto thee that thou art Peter, which is by interpre-
tation a Stone."
The chief of the apostles retmns the compliment to Jesus
Christ, by calling him the Chief Stone of the Corner.
Thus the epithet, a
Stone, was common, both to Jupiter, the
Jew Peter, and the Jew, Jesus.
But the epithet Ammon, added to both the names of Jupiter
and Jesus, as they are, when fully pronounced Jupiter Ammon,
and Jesus Christ Amen, demonstrates their absolute identity,
as neither the one nor the other ever meant any thing else than
Sox., the Sun, the word' Amon, being composed of the two pri-
mitives, Ara, the Heat or Warmth; oN, the Being.
And this Heat or Warmth of the Sun, being missing, or
hidden, or concealed, during the winter months, all nature
was supposed to be engaged in seeking for Amman, and the
priests expressed this sense very beautifully in those words:
"
Verily thou art a God that hideth thyself; 0 Godqf Israel,
the Saviour."
But where the devil is he to hide himself, when he is every
where present? Why look ye, Sirs, most geometrically, most
astronomically under the earth, by descending, as the
apostle
calls it, into the lower parts qf the earth--that is, by t e earth
presenting that part of it which ye inhabit from the _S .A
ral navnfs ruLPx~r. 289
Hence the physical consistency, and universal usage, of those
who seek qfler God, seeking him upon their knees, as if they
would scratch him out of the ground with their nails: and
calling him byname, Ammon, Amen, Aumen, Omen : and even,
sometimes, giving him a good scolding for lying in bed so long,
asyou read in the 44th Psalm: "
Up Lord! Why :leepest
thou! Awake, and be not absent _from us
forever: Wherefore
hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our
misery and trouble :"
And in the 89th Psalm, you find the Psalmist giving hima
complete Billingsgate ragging, calling him a liar, and asking
him, if he's not ashamed of himself. "
How long, O Lord,
will you hide yourself'I For ever? Where are your loving
kindnesses which you sware unto David in your truth."
Thus the order of Free Masons, called Jews, scattered as
they
were, through all periods of their existence, took a pride in
calling themselves by the name of the Great Architect, Jew...
that is God, never meaning any thing else than the Sun itself.
While the -inferior order of Masons, analogous to what are
now called the .Entered Apprentices, the Christians, were con-
tent to believe, that Christ, their God, actually resided in them:
and
As by Christ, was never meant any thing else than Sor., the
Sun, that Latin name of the Sun, the Sol, pronounced for the
greater reverence, the Soul, gave origin to the mystical belief
that every Christian has an immortal soul in him. And thus,
physically, and not metaphysically, "Christ doth dwell in us,
and we in him: we are one with Christ, and he with us." And
hence Christians, not only pray to God, as the Soul or Sol of
the universe, but to the soul's vital heat, or warmth within
them. "Praise the Lord O my Sox., and all that is within
me, praise his holy name :
why art thou heavy, 0 my SOL, and
why art thou so disquieted within me ?" And where the Sol-
that is, the Sol's vital heat leaves men's bodies, notwithstanding
the immortality ofthe Soul, the common phrase is, that so many
Souls perished-that is, not in the gross, and mad conceit, that
290 .ma nnvufs runrn-.
the Sun's body, or orb, is actually in us: but he dwelleth in
us, as the apostle needfully explains by his spirit, which he
hath given us-that is, by his vital warmth and heat-that is,
most literally, by the Amen-that is, Au, the heat, or caloric ;
ON, gf the Being, as distinguished from Jesus, which is I, the
One, ns, the fire, which is the Sun itself.
Hence, with the most accurate analogy, the Scriptures never
speak of Jesus being in us; but the phrase always is, that it is
Christ that dwelleth in us, that is not the Sun's Orb, but the
Sun's heat and warmth, which what it is, and all that it ever
meant, the apostle puts -beyond all doubt in that most express
detinition ,to the Colossians iii. 3,
"
Christ, who is our life :"
and for me_to live is Christ : or, as Christ, the principle of vi-
tality, allegorically speaks of himself,
"
I am the Resurrection
and the Life." And this life in us, is kept up and increased,
and can
only be supplied, by continued and repeated taking of
the Sacrament of the body and blood of Christ-that is, by
good eating and drinking. And I only wish that those who are
so anxious to give the poor the gospel, were but halfas anxious
to give 'em the Sacrament.
"
For except we eat the flesh of Christ, and drink his blood,
we have no life in us."
"
He that hath the Sun hath life, and he that hath not the
-Sun of God, hath not life."
The dilference between the Sun, and the Sun of God, being
only that the Sun is the great Solar fire, as spoken of ab-
stractedly : and the Sun of God is the ame Solar Orb, as
spoken
of in relation to his apparent position at the Vernal Equinox,
from whence all time was reckoned to begin: and when he
appears to be in the tribe of God-that is, the constellation,
called Aries,'the Ram, or Lamb.
-
And from which position, from which the whole yearwas
reckoned to begin, the 'Sun receives that truly magniicent
epitheton, "Our Lord Jesus Christ, that Great Shepherd of the
-Sheepz" and hence it is, the Sun itself, who, speaking in his
'ran n|vu.'s; runmr.. 291
allegorical character,,calls himself so repeatedly Verily, Verily :
Van being the well-known Latin word, for the Spring, the
Vernal Equinox. And this so emphatically, and twenty times
repeated
"
Verily, Verily, I say unto you," does not mean
truly or really, but the very contrary-that is, figuratively,
Vernally, Verily-that is, in the character of the Vemal Sun.
(I, Sw-)
"
I am the beautiful Shepherd, and I know my Sheep, and
I am known of mine." o
:upon o Kang, the Shepherd, the
beauhjicl. Our English translation shirks out of the sense of
the original, in order to conceal the identity of the sweet Jesus
of the gospel, and the beautiful Adonisof the mythology,
"
the
beautiful Shepherd layctla down his lgkfor the Sheep."
Why, look Sirs, to the best sense your clergy could ever give
you of such a catachresis, and say if the walls of a madhouse
ever resounded to the echo of greater nonsense!
I-Iere's the world turned topsy-turvy. Here's the sheep taking'
care of the shepherd, andwe're to eat the butcher instead of
the mutton.
But how beautiful, how sublime, how magnificent is science.
Listen, I beseech you, to her sacred voice, in the personated
diaracter of the Great Shepherd:
_
".Nomantak¢tl|»mylyéfromme; butllayitdownqfmy-
ref Ilurvepowcrto lay itdown,andIhavepawerto take it
again."
What is his life but his vital warmth and heat? When
does he lay it down, but when entering into the Scales of
September, he satisfies the Justice of Heaven, by giving to men
the reward of their works in cultivating the earth, in full mea-
sure of the Corn of August, and the full ripened Grapes of
September? And there Sirs, when the Sun is in the Scales of
September, where was the point of the coming together of the
Sun's oblique path in the Ecliptic, upon the straight line of the
Equator-that is, most literally, in the Autumnal Covenant,
292 ran nnvnfs runrrr.
V
there stands the Cup of Salvation, into which he every year
sheds his most precious blood, the rich juice of the grape,
therefore called the Blood of the Cross, and the Blood of the
Everlasting Covenant, and 'the Blood of the Grape, and of the
True Vine, and of God, and of Jesus, and of Adonis, and
Bacchus. '
And there the Amen, the faithful and true martyr, or witness,
having fulfilled all the promises of the year, and repaid all the
toils of agriculture, lays down his vital heat, and descends below
the line of the Equator into that Hell beneath, in the gate of
which, you see, stands the ugly Scorpion of October, that "worm
that never dieth," to pledge to you that encouraging truth, that
though Ammon be hidden or concealed, Christ still liveth, though
the caloric, or vital heat, appears to be greatly diminished, yet,
"
the_fire is not quenched."
The Sun, that seemed to give up his life into the power of
those infemal Scorpions, having stings in their tails, to whom it
was given to hurt the earth five months, will rise again in the
Constellation of the Ram, with healing in hisbeams: and he who
was our Saviour in Autumn, becomes our Redeemer in Spring.
Hence, says the Apostle, speaking of the Sun in the Scales of
September,
"
It is Gad tluztjustifieth." Who is he that con-
demneth ? "
It is Christ that died." But that was a mistake:
It was not Christ that died,-the apostle immediately corrects
the error, by saying,
"
Nay, rather that isrisen :" because Jesus
is the Autumnal, and Christ the Vernal Sun. It is Jesus,
therefore, that dies, and Christ that rises: and Jesus dying to
redeem the chosen sheep is but another version of the story of
Jason, sailing to fetch back the Golden Fleece.
All calculations of time, being made from the commencement
of the Spring Quarter, when the Sun, appearing in the sheep,
is so
beautifully called the Shepherd of Israel, and so sublimely
addressed in the 81st Psalm :
"
Hear, O thou Shepherd cf
Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a
sheep, show thyself!"
'ru nsvu.'s ruurr. 293
Where you see the ids of leading, is expressed in terms, as it
is involved in the Greek word for sheep, 1rpoCa/ro: from
þÿ - w p o ¬ a m » ,
to go before, or to gojirst; thus demonstrating the
Sheep qf Christ never to have meant any other than the Sheep
of the Zodiac, which is the first or leading constellation.
All calculations being made by means of counting oE of little
stones, to help the memory, which were calculi, from whence
our word calculate, to coimt or reckon up, is derived. Each
particular stone was to represent the unity, or single idea re-
quired to be represented ; and so, by necessary association of
idea, got the name of the thing so represented, and shared in
the respect attached to that idea.
It required, then, twelve stones to represent the twelve signs
of the Zodiac. And as the iirst of these was the constellation
of the Ram or
Sheep, the Stone that represented this, could,
of course, be none other than a precious Stone, the chief Corner
Stone.
And the Sun always being associated with the sign which he
was in, the Sun in the Sheep, was called the Shepherd of the
Sheep; and so
they represented him as a devilish big Stone.
And thus get you the solution of that conundrum of the dying
Jacob, which I am sure none of your clergy could solve for you,
in the 49th Genesis,
"
From hence is the Stone the Shepherd of
Israel." Thus the worship of Stones, Litholatfy, grew up with
Heliolahy, or Sun Worship, because the barbarous savages,
who were always the majority, found it easier to settle the
matter at once, by worshipping the Stones themselves, than to
bother their brains by inquiring what it was that the Stones e-
presented.
'
But when calculation came to be superseded by arithmetic-
that is, when it was fmmd, that little pictures, or
hieroglyphical
marks, would represent unities, quite as well as Stones, and
would not be in danger of being put out of their places; and so
to subject the unity which they represented to be forgotten, or
the one mistaken for the other, those scrabblements, or marks,
294 nl nzvnfs ruun|.'
were necessarily determined by some sort of resemblance to the
thing to be represented,
And then, in the tbnns of the nine digits, and the cipher or
nought that follows them, and to which nought is ascribed the
peculiar property of -recalling the whole nine to itself, we dis-
cover what it was, that was the common buis both of religion
and science; and their common origin in Egypt, the cradle of
them both. There, the Nile overflowing their country, through
three months of theyear, during which the world was believed
annually to be drowned, the remaining nine were deemed only*
worthy of especial notation.
To these, the poet consecrated the Nine Muses, with Apollo
in the midst ol' them: while the mathematicians more soberly
gave them the names of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and nought at
the end of them; and they are honoured in the 68th Psalm,
under the title of "
the damsel: playing upon the tizubrelsf' with
God in the midst of them.
The number ONE., themost simple of all forms, has all the
properties in arithmetic with which imagination invests the deity
of theology, and is represented by a
straightstroke standing per-
pendicularly upon the line ofthe Equator.
inallthe languagesofthe earth,itsnamehaseverbeenthe
same as the name of the Supreme Deity.
'
The Own-mug, un,
une, 01, ov, of fall tongues, of all nations, in all ages, betrays
but the varied utterance of the primitive Egyptian word oN,t1|e
Being.
Nor has there been any name invented for the Supreme Being,
of which the first engraven character was not the letter I, as in
Jove, Jupiter, Jehovah, Jason, Janus, Jesus.
The moral idea, deriving itself from the physical-one, godli-
ness and uprightness arcsynouimous terms. An upright msn,
acting with the greatest simplicity and sl:raightforwa.rduess, was
the moral reflection of the physical God. While the epithet,
316 Upright, par excellence, "the upright- Lord,"
"
the righteous
God," "
the Lord most upright,"
"
JesusChrist therighteous,"
'nm mrvrifs Pours. 295
were the peculiar designationsof theEterual Ono-that is, of
the One-God, m distinguished fromthetwo-God, thethree-God,
the four-God, and all the rest of the Gods.
Whenasmallstrokewns added to thetopof thefigum,and
mother at the bottom, the bottom stroke represented the line
of the Equator, and the top the lineof thetropicof Cancer,
the Sun's highest point of ascension, while the whole pillar
wnsa nztualldmanacof thesuxislntitude, or north declinaf
tion, for every day from the Spring Quarter, to Midsummer-
dny. V
It was a
great improvement when the straight stroke was set
aslant: because then, it not only represented the Sun's declina-
tion, but it represented the line of the Ecliptio-that is, of the
Sun's :ppuent path, at the precise angle, which that path forms
on the line of the Equator.
'
The Greeks improved this hieroglyph ; and having represented
this path of the Sun aslant, as it is in nature, they elongated the
ornamental cornice at the top, to the leh, and the little pedestal
atthebottom,to theright,thusZ. So that these lines being
perfectly parallel, represented the upper one, the line of the
tropicof Cancer, the Sun's highestpointof Ascension : the lower
one, the line of the Equator, on which the whole hgure stands,
and which is perfectly parallel with the line of the tropic of
Clneer.
A
But out, alas! in this modification, science was ontrunuing
orthodoxy,-the ignre was no longer an I, but it is a Zan.
It no longer expresses the simple and abstract idea of unity or
uneness,.-but here are three strokes for your one.
Your patience, bunglers! look again I and you will see that
these three are mme, and each of them is separately and distinc-
tively a perfect one, And you have a trinity in unity, a Father,
Son, and Holy Ghost in one undivided and indivisible God-
head. ,
Of which, this sloping line, the Sun's path, the line of the
Ecliptic, is God the Father; this (the upper one, the line of
296 can n|.vrL's runrrr.
the tropic of Cancer) is God the Holy Ghost, sitting, as where
should he else, on the head of God the Father, as his inspiring
wisdom and science. _
Turs (the One standing in the line oi the Equator) is God
the Son, the Lord our
Righteousness; who, as you see, leaving
the glory-that is, the brightness which he had with the Father,
when he tloated in the line of the Equator, likea swan upon a
fish-pond,-" did, for us men and for our Salvation, come down
from Heaven," as the Sun, dropping below the Equator, from
the point ofthe Autumnal Equinox, has every ymr to make the
round .of the gloomy months of October, November, December,
and January.
As you see him, thus 3, giving a tail to the letter Zed, you
see together, the three ones, of which each is separately an one,
-the whole ligure, representing the One God, and "thereby
hangs a tale."
The Greeks, in adopting this more scientilic hieroglyph,
adopted at the same time a softened utterance of the name of
God, and Jew, the vocative utterance of 0 God! is in
Greek Zio, the Zed being substituted for the J, and the
elegant utterance of Zn: Ha/np, supeseded the coarse sounding
Jew Peter, the original basis of the name of the One-God,
Jupiter.
The two-God, as represented by the ligure 2, is a picture of
the Sun, in the second of the constellations, called Taurus, the
God Baal of the Scriptures, vitiated in our English utterance
into the word the BULL, which the Sun enters in April 19.
And this little dot (.) is the Bull's Eye, the Star of the first
magnitude, called Aldebaran, an Arabic word, signifying the
One Eye, from which the Sun, setting olil about the 19th of
April, throws oB` his arch, to the heighth of reaching the
tropic-that is, Midsummer-day, from which whirls round the
nobly-arched shoulders of the animal, to the line of the
Equator, which is so much below the parallel of the Bnll's
Eye,-asit is longer from Midsummer to Michaelmas than lrom
,
M
of d.<f",¢</~_ -wfe/'~-=f`
"'fi="'u'"°"""
.» , .
J
_
,
"l_ '~"~~"l_.; §_g¢.~ l1_ w »
J .V
__,
'mx DlV!L'B PULP:-r. 297
April the 19th to Midsummer: and there he sits on the
Equator, as thus 2, with his knees turned under him, like an
ox in a meadow, calmly chewing the cud. And so, if I am
depriving you of the sugar-plums of the gospel, I give you
the Bull's Eye of philosophy.
3. Here is the three- God, the Sun in Gemini, the Twins of
May, the shining brothers, Castor and Pollux, of whom one
represented the human, and the other the divine nature in the
person of Christ.
Castor was the human, Pollox was the divine nature: and
so great was their love for each other, that Pollux was not
content with his own immortality, without obtaining pennie-
sion from Jupiter to share it with his mortal brother, and the
boou was granted upon the condition, that Castor should fetch
his brother Poll out of Hell, by coming down from Heaven to
convert him-that is, to turn him up, and to stand in his place.
So that the one was to be in Heaven,-the other in Hell.
Here then is Cssron, a
pretty little spark, about the 19th
May. Observe his historyl he whirls himself round on his
axis, with a
very little ascension to the height of the tropic,
from which you trace his quadrant of a circle, resting on the
Equator, at the point of the Autumnal Equinox, thus P
Now then for a leap into the dark: now Castor go and fetch
your brother Poll z you are not the first Saint that went out of
the world by means of a line.
"
Down, down to Hell; and say I sent thee thither."
See him passing through what remains of September, getting
into October, thicker, deeper, darker grow the days: this is
Hell itselfl But this is not the worst on't: he must not only
go to Hell, but he must go to Hell and Tommy, who is at t.he
bottom of the bottomless pit.
Saint Th6mas's-day, Sirs, which is the 21st of December, the
lowest point to which the Sun can
possibly descend the tropic
of Capricorn.
Well, then, I have brought my little Castor to the lowest pit
298' ur. nnevufs mmm.
of Hell, in search'aRer his brother Poll: and behold Poll is not'
here. Methinks I hear ,the distress of the heavenly brother,
crying out,
"
Where are you Polly: O my poor Poll 1" but
patience, my pretty boy! turn round the bottom Hell, clear
the tropic of Capricomus, ascend- as the days grow lighter s
far as to the 25th of January, and at that point exactly you
will find your brother Poll; exactly answering to this map of
the whole adventure, which is the figure 3. And for that
reason, and none other it is, that on that day, the 25th of
January, the church has fixed the festival of the conversion of
Saint Foul, just one month from Christmas-day.
»
And Castor recognizes his brother Pollux, in Hell, by his
black eye, which he got in boxing, from whence his name
Pollux, which signifies a
pugilist : and; his type, the black eye,
which terminates the iigure. And it is even none other than
the God Pollux, defined by the black eye, as being the bruised,
whom Christ, in the 4th of Luke, declares himself sent to de-
liver. "
He hath sent me to preach deliverance to the captives,
and to set at liberty them that are bruised." And if you go to
Hell, you must look to get bruised too; for, depend on't you°ll
have to box Harry, before you get out again.
The two dots, then, of the figure 3, are the one, the Summer,
and the other the Winter Sun, the break being the line of the
Equator, cutting the figure at about one-third above and two-
thirds below.
The 4 God is the unambiguous combination of the oblique
line of the Ecliptiot, standing upon the horizontal line of the
Equator, with the line of the Equator marked oil, with the thick
black line which measures on the Equator, so much of it as the
Sun shines upon, and fixes the point of the Autumnal Equinox,
where the Sun must be crucified.
The 5 God is a most beautiful orrery, exhibiting the line of
the Ecliptic, from the top of which, which is the Summer
Solstice, runs off the line of the tropic of Cancer, and from
the bottom of which, which is the Equator, at the point of the
rms m:vu.'s rxrnrrr. 299
Autumnal Equinox, fiom below which, bellies round the
course of the Sun, through October, November, December,
where you see him having paused the tropic of Capricorn, which
is the line on which the whole figure stands, with his eye shut,
and his nightcap ou, a
perfect hieroglyph of the phmnomena of
the Sun on the 25th of January; and, therefore, another hiero-
glyph of the conversion of St. Paul.
'1'he 6 God, the Kingdom of Heaven, is open to all believ-
ers:
you have the Sun's full and open disk standing upon the
line of the Equator, whirling himself into rotundity upon his
own axis, and by that whirl throwing off fi-om his own body the
mighty vault of his reign through the Summer months, where
you see him, as an elegant little spark, just having turned the
tropic of Cancer, on the 2d of July, come to pay his addresses
to his intended wife, the Virgin of August, the Lamb's wife,
Mrs. Lamb that is to be : and here it is, on none other thanthis
2d of August, the church fixes the festival of the Vidtation of
the Virgin Mary. ,
The Seven God-i. c., the God of Sabaoth, the 7, presents
you with the horizontal line of the Equator, marked off at the
beginning, to show you the point of the Vemal Equinox, and
terminated at the point of the Autumnal Equinox, from which
the Sun drops below the Equator, and carries his dark thick
gloomy tail, growing only thicker and thicker, into the lower re-
gions, and no turn or dot indicating where the Hell he wasgoing
to. 7 is the _great mystical number, the hieroglyph of all igno-
rance ; and, consequently, the parent of all devotion, ,
It being an universal law, that men never consider any thing
so sacred~as that which they know nothing about. Remember
the Seven, to keep it holy. _
The 8 God is the Summer and the Winter Sun, -meeting toge-
ther,-the one above, the other below the line of the Equator,
precisely atthe pointof the Autnmnal Equinox, makingthat cross
at which the Justice of God is satisfied, -by pouring forth of the
tierceness of his wrath, into the Cup of Salvation, and in
which reconciliation, or coming together,
"
Mercy and Truth
300 _'ran r>avu.'s runrrr.
are met together; Righteousness and Peace have kissed each
other." That kissing annually taking place, as then it did, upon
the pretty lips of the Virgin of August, which is the 8th month
of the year, though more accurately defined by Saint Luke, as
the ofthe Sixth Month, when March is considered as the
4ire.
The 9 God is the Sun standing with open and tranquil disk
upon the Equator, from which he throws off his substance, by
a voluntary suicide to go and redeem the lost sheep of the house
of Israel.
For he only laid down his life that he might take it again ;
and to those who love his appearing, shall he appear the
second time, and I hope, a many times, without Sin imto
Salvation.
As there he stands, like a scale or
steel-yard, the ball at the
upper end, vainly endeavouring to up the weight which
pulls it below the balance at the Equator, 9, the unequivocal
hieroglyph of the ninth month ; and the last of the reign ofthe
Prince of Princes.
The 0 God is the Sun itself, or the whole circling year, placed
at the end of all numbers, to multiply them by ten-that is, to
recal the whole to itself.
`
Our English word Yun, to which the letter R at the end is
superiiuons, is nothing more than a drawling pronunciation of
the word yea or
yes, of which the meaning is the sameas Amen,
and the derivation the same as that of the name Yssvs, which
is Jesus.
And thus you see, Sirs, that relig-ion is nothing more than
science, most monstrously misunderstood: and
'
science is
religion, properly and wisely explained.
If_I have not yet done it, I rlmll develope, that Sun worship,
obscured by the wintry mists of religious ignorance, thattrue
hell
upon_earth, is the secret of all sacred Scriptures, and of all
religious and mysterious associations.
END OF LECTURE ON FREE MASONRY.
son"
ran n|vu.'| runrrr. 301
~
,
Q
/ j
'
_
ERRATUM.
By an oversight of the compositor, an error occurred in the
last number of the Devil's Pulpit; the moral of which, as an
error, has this week been repeated at the Surrey Sessions.
The last sentence of the paragraph, at the top of page 278,
was deficient of a member, which, when supplied, will show that
the Surreyjustices were deficient of three members, or knowledge,
law, and justice, which should be in office with them. The
sentence was thus spoken :-
_
A DIRTY TRICK THAT, SIRS, WHEN THEY
DARED NOT ATTEMPT TO GRAPPLE WITH THE
MAN'S ARG UMENT, T0 FASTEN THEIR SPI'I`EFUL
FANGS ON THE MAN!
Was not this prophetic ? Is not the Devil's Chaplaina man
divinely inspired l Is he not the man whom Moore's A1-
manac has prophesied, as to this year, as certain to overthrow
the bishops, to set the king right on the subject of religion, to
overthrow all the corruptions of the Christian religion, and to re-
establish, at the same time, the Original and the New»Jeru-
salem? Is not the Reverend Robert Taylor the man? He is
now in Hell ; but he shall rise again on the third day. There
are not more than three great days at a time, as a
temporal
emblem of the Trinity and Unity. Such were the threedays
of Jerusalem, alter the crucifixion. Such were the three days
in Paris, in July last. 'I'he one spiritual, the other temporal
or real. As we, in England, have learnt, how, as
politicians,
to mix up spiritualities with temporalities, as is the case in the
person of the King, in the person of the Lord Chancellor, and
in the persons of the Bishops and Clergy generally ; so, in our
advent of the glorious resurrection, alter our three days of hell
tire we shall gloriously purge both our spiritualities and our
302 'ran n|vu.'s rumlr.
temporalities. These are words for the wise, for the initiated,
for the Royal Arch degree, for the people of God; fools and
gentiles will not understand them. They have eyes, and see
not ; ears, and hear not ;' skulls, and understand not.
The Rev. Robert Taylor vent to his mock trial on Monday,
last, the 4th inst.; and, being called on, addxessed the chief
priests and Jews of the Surrey Synagogue. They exclaimed,
"he hath spoken blasphemy, what need we of_fi¢rther witnesses?
Yehaveheardhisblasplzenqy. Wehauealaw,audb_ythatlao
he ought to die. For that purpom take two years' imprism-
ment ofhis person. Let kim coin two hundred poundsin
gold, as a fine, by the aid of his master, the Devil, and_hiS
philosopher's stone. And let him give the world a pledge of B
thousand pounds againstany further use of his magiceloquence-
Crucify him among thieves, and give him nought but hyssop
and vinegar." See "The Prompter," No, 35, for a piotu-re if
his horrible
ww atfofvs amtlpit.
"AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Allan Cunnhsgham.
No. 20.] JULY 15, 1831. [Price 211.
THE HOLY GHOST:
5 whitsiuutihe &n°mun,
PREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A.
Al' IBB BOTUNDA, BLACKIBIABS' BOLD, HAY 29, 1831.
-¢-....-.,....__...¢-.--.--
"
All manner qf sin and lzhzsphemy shall be forgiven unto men;
but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not befor-
given unto men. And whosoever speaketh a word against
the Son of Man, it shall be forgiven him ; but whosoever
speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven
'
him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come."-
Marrnnw xii., 31.
___i..i,-i
So so, gentlemen! then we're in for it. So stands the text,
and not alone in Matthew xii., 31, which I have repeated ; but
again, without any material variation, in Mark iii., 28, and
Luke xii., 10,-so that there's no getting out of it.
Wliy, w;hatv$h§omfl;u5abl§, delightful,
consolr;torya{lhing this
g is. t ti
'
of eat 'o or pe.
Veg; iniinile obligagon are slllgsundeigrw thd gergy tbr lleuopart-
ing this precious bit of comfort for us: as if they had thought
we couldn't be miserable enough with all the miseries that
Hesh is heir to, but we must invite and call in the supemume-
rary luxuries of anticipating the horrors of a red-hot hell, and
everhsting brimstone, in another world. Lost, lost is our quiet
for ever: damned must we be beyond the power of God the
Father to save us, beyond the redeeming etlicacy of the blood
vox.. 1. U
306 'ma nnvu.'s runrrr.
of God the Son to redeem us, beyond the reach of salvation
itself to _save us, only, if one day we
ha(ppened,unaware, to bolt
out a
naughty word against the Holy `host. Am I not justi-
fied, then, in charging the preachers of the gospel with being
impostors, quacks, and deceivers of the people, when they
reach up repentance towards God, and faith in the Lord
gesus Christ, as suilicient to salvation, when 'tis so evident
that they are not suihcient? Their prescriptions do not and
cannot reach the seat of the disease: and a man
may
be damned,
all his repentance towards God, and faith in esus Christ,
notwithstanding.
é1The gospel is nowhere faithfully and honestly
preached but at e Rotunda.) Their nostrums are but a
chip
in
(porridge,--worse
than a
chap
in porridge: they are actively
an
potently mischievous, an deadly poisonous, making their
deceived patient to rest in a false confidence, to
plerish,
because
of his confidence, to die of his medicine when e might have
recovered of his disease. Nay, by the pretended medicine
itself, they indict on him the disease which otherwise he would
have escaped. For had there been no divine revelation at all,
there would have been no sin at all,-and so we should have
been equally free from the disease and from the
Rgysic.
Butasit is: and if we must bepersuaded tthe text of
the New Testament, in the way in which they understand it, is
the word of God: Is it not handling the
world
of
god
deceit-
fully? Is it not "cryin peace, ,
w en ere is no
peace 2" Is it not a lie against the goly Ghost, to talk of the
blood of Christ cleansing hom all sin, when there is a sin from
which it cannot cleanse '! or to preach the all-sufficiency of
Christ's atonement, when thusit stands upon the record, that
that atonement is not sudicient? For what's the use of stop-
ping all the leaks in your leaky ship but one, when that one
sinks you uite.
What's die good of
pzying
ofall your creditors but the only
one, whom you know fore hand to be inexorable, who will
cast you into prison ? and "
Verily I say unto you, thou shalt
in no wise go hence till thou hast paid the utmost farthing."
Come, sinner,-come, be honest to thine ovm convictions,
and venture to look for once into thine own alfairs. Cast up
the reckoning for the chance of thy salvation. Down with it :
down with it! thy spiritual assets to meet the spiritual claims
upon thee I Thou'lt go to Heaven, wilt thou? when thou diest ?
'me nr:vn.'s PULPU. 307
Thou'lt be in better light than the unregenerate! the apostate?
the intidel? or the bihs hemer, I su pose '!
Thou-hast a reconciied God and) Father to go to? And
"
justified by faith, thou hast peace with God, through
Jesus Christ ?" hast thou? Ah, ah," thy peace of God, which
passeth all understanding," is a cheat, a fraud, a trick, a lie.
A reconciled God, an atoning Saviour! they are not worth a
lig: they are of no use at all :
you may be damned in
spite of
the blood of Christ to save thee, thinkest thou?
Why, tis of
less reckoning than the cankered pin upon a beggars sleeve.
Look'st unto Jesus? So looks the drowning wretch unto the
distant shore, that mocks his misery by showing him he cannot
swim to that, nor that to him.
There is another, a third, and `a greater power than either
thy God or Saviour, or than them both together, whose single
vero upon thy salvation doth render all the rest of the rocess
a mockery of thy hopes, and an
aggravation of th dpespair.
For the holy church, throughout the whole world, dothacknow-
ledge the Father of an infinite Majesty: his honourable, true,
and only Son. But therewith go,
"
also the Holy Ghost,"
who,hlay
the most
crucgleggny
and sarcasm
dthaltiwascever
couc e in
language, is , eminence,
"
e ol host
the Comforter.
Par y
Ere I proceed to serve ye up the intellectual feast, to which
I have invited ye, I have a grace before meat to say, from the
bottom of my heart to the heart of
every
good-hearted man in
this assembly: let him lay a honest and u n his honest
heart, and withhold his Amen from the grace thgt I shall say,
if he can do so,-ifhe can do sol
Hear it, all good men. _
If a wise and good man saw thousands of his fellow-
creatures, weak-minded men, credulous women, and defence-
less children, all of them capable of becoming reasonable, had
they been reasonably dealt with, driven instead into incurable
madness by a confederacy of reverend knaves and thieves, who,
to serve their wicked craft, have set up a fiction of théir own
imaginations merely, and led the poor simpletons to quail and
shu der at the thought of committing an
unpardonable sin
against that fiction, would he be the evil-disposed and wicked
person who should draw up the veil of mystery, and show to
all who were not too blind to see what a fiction it vm, and
308 'rum nvu.'s PULPIT.
thus turn their reverence into scorn, their fear and quniling
into honest laughter, and their childish religion into manly reap
son ? For my exploits in this way, I have got the credit of being
inspired by the Devil: and the clergy, who cannot defend their
religion in
any
other way, are
seeking
to bring on me the pun-
ishment whic the law assigns to
lasphemy and witchcraft;
but "
this only is the witchcraft I have used.'
So, having said grace, without further ceremony I shall Ml-
to. And now for the unpardonable sin against the Holy
Ghost.
For' ou ma make the matter u again,andbe as good
friends zs ever vhith God the Fatherypand God the Son, and
hlaspheme 'em as much as
you please;
but if you only speak
a word against God the Hoy G om, the fat's in the fire, and
you're damned to all eternity.
Now, if God the Father and God the Son had really been
-friends of ours, and able to settle the business of our salvation
between themselves, what place, office, or function, could a
sane imagination imagine for so
stgrerfluous, and, at the same
time, so mischievous, a deity as e
Holy Ghost? A more
ridiculous plight could hardly be conceived, than that of our
immortal souls, all tight and right for salvation, as far as God
and his Son could save 'ern: but to be damned and lost lbr
ever, because there was a third
party that required to be con-
sulted on the occasion. But this, you see, is the
conseguence
of having such a glorious constitution in your King om of
Heaven, as must consist ofthe three estates of the realm.
Your Reform Bill is roposed by the representative of God,
approved and sanctionedby the patriot God, and yet you and
your bill may be thrown out and lost, by the impertinent in-
terference of a third power,-the other house that you know
nothing of, that represents no interests of yours, that's made u
mainly by a bench of
bishops, against whom, if you but
a word, it's a breach
ogrrivtlegeg you are condemned wi
judge or jury; and to ell you go, in spite of all that God the
Father and God the Son would do to save yon.
Nor is the
predicament of God the Father, and his Son
Jesus Christ, rn this business, a whit less ridiculous than that
of the damned soul, that had been deceived by the clergy to
repose a vain and fruitless confidence in them. Since, if
Imagination is to
have litir play, in imagining a soul damned
'nu Dlvn.'s rUr.Pl'. 309
for having committed the unpardonable sin against the Holy
Ghost, it is impossible not to imagine how, God the Father and
God the Son might express their sorrow and sympathy at such
an unfortunate event.
As with the eye of faith, methinks I see God the Father
looking over Heaven Wall, down into Hell Pit, and crying,
"
Ah, poor sinner ! what, are you there f" And then waiting
till another whiff of wind blows the smoke away ; Pm xorryfor
ye,from the bottom ofmy heart, I'd never 'a damnedyou, no more
would my Son." . When up comes God the Holy Ghost, turns
me God-'tt-mighty round upon his heel, and thunders on him 1
"
Hark yc,my Lord God, attend to your own business! and
me your aupedluout and uncalled-for pity. You and your
mayforgive all manner of sin.and blasphemy oorgtmitted
aizainst yourselves as you please; But, as
for my forgiving rr
b aphcmy, a sin, a word, a
thought, a breath, against my divi-
nity, I'll see 'em first. Your propitiationfor sin is no
com
that shall pass tn my market : the blood of Christ may*
dtonefor sins committed against you ; but as for the blood of
Cluist, in cases of sin against me,--damn his blood."
'
'It may sound strange to you, Sirs : but this is the very pitlr
and gist of the argument '; the absolute and inevitable catastro-
phe of the
supposition
of an unpardoning and unforgiving God.
And so the ishops, who have always taught us that we must
love our enemies, and bless them that curse us, and pray for
them that despitefully use us, have required us to love and
bless, and pray to the- Holy Ghost, the greatest enemy to us,
and to our salvation,if there were any truth in the story, that
could ssibly be.
Andmby that blessed rule of contraries that runs through
every thing of a religious nature, it is that never-pmdoning,
nevu-forgiving Holy Ghost, who drives men to despair, who
cut: them off from all hope, and damns 'em to all eternity, only
for saying the IA>rd's prayer backwards, who
glets
the pretty
name ofthe Couroaua, and who, they say, ls 'em "with
all joy and peace in believing." We were wont to understand
that Job's comforters were none of the most comfortable com-
forters. But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, out-
herods Herod. And aher
you
may have made your peace
with God, through faith in esus Christ, is competent to step
in, with his Veto upon your bill. _
This, indeed may be sport to the infidel, and a trifle to the
310 ri navn.'s nam.
hypocrite, but, to the person who has the misfortnme to be a
sincere believer, it must be truly horrible.
But to crown alll this day, which the church appoints to
be kept holy to the peculiar honour of this wonderful good
friend of ours, has got the name of Whit-Sunday, that is to say,
I suppose, Witty Sunday.
Because the Holy Ghost is the giver of all wisdom, or wit.
But little wit, indeed, has he given to those who believe in him,
worship him, and are frightened out of their wits, for fear they
should commit the unpardonable sin against Hn, without ever
having inquired who or what he is, or where he came from ;
whether he was fish, tlesh, bird, or beast; whether he was mas-
culine, feminine, or neuter, and how, or when, he was iirst
heard of, or what right he could have to damn our souls, when
we were all
right enough with the other party.
On all of w 'ch matters of infinite curiosity, a man who had
the wit which a man should have, would insist on
receiving the
most ample satisfaction.
Because, if this "
blood and tire, and vapour of smoke,"
which we read about in the service of this Witty Sunday,
should prove to be nothing but a bag of smoke, it may turn
out that the bishops have been smoking us all the while; and
Whit-Sunday, instead of being
kelpt
so lateas the middle of
May, ought to have been fixed for e lst of April.
Some of our leamed divines, however, tell us, that Whit-
Sunday does not mean Whit Sunday ; it being the universal
rule in matters of divinity, that a thing never means what it
means, but Whit Sunday means White Sunday. And I dare
say it does; though, if it had not been for the sound of the
thing, it would have been quite as witty to have called it Blue
Sunda , or Yellow Sunday, or Green Sunday,-so it had
never been forgotten that Greenwich Fair is the day afterwards,
But the colour of the day could certainly only be derived
from some analogy to the colour of the mind. And white,
which was always the emblem of simplicity, because it is the
easiest to be put upon: and so the forty-year-old babies have
been as much overawed by the terrors of White
Sunda`y;as
ever were the ten-year-olds b the thought of Black Mon y.
Whit Sunday is also called the Day of Pentecost, because
the word Jrzrrnxorrog, is the Greek for Quinquagesimus--that
IS, the ji/lieth, and this day is the iihieth hom Easter-that is,
from the day of the Jewish Pars-over, and the Christian Crow
`
~
nu nsvuls ruurr. 311
over, and the astronomical Go-over-that is, from the day when
the Sun in the Ecliptic panes over, crosses over, or
goes over the
line of the Equator, at the time ofthe Vernal Equinox.
Notwithstanding the pretended celebration of this festival, in
honour of the descent of the Holy Ghost upon the apostles in
the visible appearance of fiery cloven tongues; an event which
if it ever ha pened at all, must have ha pened qfler the date
assigned to tile resurrection of Christ. (gertain it is, upon the
showing of the Jew-books, that this self-same festival was ke t
for age before that event. : As it is called in those books,
"
tlie
feast qf weelu." It being exactly seven weeks from their
Passover, as it is from our Cross-over. And in their edition of
the story, it fell on the same day, and was
precisely in com-
memoration of the descent of the first
person of the Trinity,
upon Mount Sinai, in thunder and lightning, as it is with us,
in commemoration of the descent of the third, upon Mount
Up-stairs into the large upper room, in "
blood and tire, and
vappur
of smoke."
ith this most singular, and never-to-be-forgotten coinci-
dence, that,
Whether this Patelisction of the Deity be "
up stairs, or down
stairs, or in my lady's chamber," it never took place, but in the
month of May, and when the Sun was in the sign of Gemini,
the Twins : where, happily for our illustrations, it happens to
be, at this minute, 'ust entering Gemini, 35 minutes, 52 seconds
of its lirst degree, this being May 22: to-morrow it will have
made the first degree complete, plus 33 minutes, 52 seconds.
May, being peculiarly the season of love, and towards the latter
end of it, the beginning of the hay harvest, when the first in-
stherings
and early fruits gave us a gust, or foretaste of the
rthcoming abundance: and the Sim, having entirely over-
come the mistiness and fogs which attend his earlier career,
shines forth in his full splendour. He is then said to be, and
physically ir,
clarified,
as our pens and quills are said to be
clarified, what al the superduous moisture, and goosegrease,
is, I know not how, boiled or baked, or dried out of them.
But, though the Sun is thus clarified, and cleared from all
the mists that dim his splendour, when he enters the Twins of
May, his heat is not yet so equably ditiiised, as when he
shines directly down from his highest point of elevation, the
summer solstice. In consequence of which, the air is heated
and rarilied, but partially as over the sands of Africa; and
312 mx nxvnls warn.
'
over all those parts of the earth which reflect heat. So that
the surrounding denser air,
rushin§ in, in consequence, causes
those rushing mighty minds, or oly Gusts, which render the
mongl
of May full often peculiarly unpropitiom to human
heal .
The word holy is but an aifectedly solemn and religious-cant
utterance of the word luly, purposel adopted to conceal its
real meaning and derivation, from the Greek word Helios;
which signifies the Sun, as that Greek word is from Hsu,
which is, My God-that is, the Sun.
In like manner, the word Gnosr, is but the drawling, mock
solemn utterance, adopted for the same deceitful purpose, of
the word Gvsr, or a pu , or blast of wind.
And glory, or , and
gloxation,
are similar cheats
of the sound to 'de the sense, 'ch is clary, claf-Q/ied, and
chmjication; from whence our common words, clear, clearly,
and 61661756583 which I hope I have now made clearto your
understandings.
So your Holy Ghost at last ends in a mere puff of wind. A
Hely Gust-that is, a gust ofwind caused Qy the Sun.
And we can give our Christian clergy a
physical, rational,
and literalinterpretation of their famous conundrum,John vii., 39,
where, in the Greek, are these words: ss-u 149 gy nw,"
vysov on o Inav; 83l'll'U e3ofato0n.
"For as yet there was no Holy Ghost because Jesus was
not et clanjied."-(Solution.)
That peculiar rushing wind from Haven, can be
tgroducad
only by the Sun, and then, and not before, when e Sun is
clarified, as he is in May.
And all this, in illustration of another enigma,
"
He that be-
lieveth in me, out of his belly shalljlow rivers of living water."
Yes, yesl And this is Christian instruction for you: this is
the blessed effect of believing in Christ. It will give a msn
the dropsy in his
belly,
and not pints, or quarts, or gallons, but
rivers of living Water God, the Waters may be living, but the
Devil's in't if the man must notbe dying. What would become
of such a believer : his dearest friends must be afraid of coming
near him, for fear of being drowned. He'd overwhelm us.
St. Luke mentions Christ's healing a certain man, which
was before him, and which had the dropsy, as if it had been a
very kind and charitable thing to cure a man of the dropsy.
But here, in St. John, we have the dropsy, and the most inor-
nu navn.'s runrxr. 313
dinate dropsy that ever was in the world, described as a pri-
vilege, and beneiittobeconferredon a msnasa rewardfor
his believing in Christ. Could wilder nonsense, could more
execrable insanity, and stark staring madness resound through
the walls of Bedlam, than this? orthan the best interpretation
of this, that any clergyman you ever heard before in your lives
could ever give you 2 Or could you have clearendemonstration
that your clergy really are enemies to the diffusion of good
sense and rational learning among men, than when you see
them unable to meet a man in argument, or vie with him in
honest labours, to rationalize society, seeking to brand him
with the naine of evil disposed wicked person, and to assign
him to the penalties due to felony and crime?
As see ye, airs: the "certs.in man which had the
dropsy."
in Luke's gospel, was indeed a certain man, that very particular
certain man, that had such a very particular sort of dropsy.
as no man but he.
And that we may be the more particular as to the identity
ot that certain man, which had the drops , the evangelist
points him out to us, with that particular aaimonitoryhint to
us, which nobody takes any notice ot, but whidx is the
kif
the whole riddle. "
Behold!" "
Behold acertain man."
`
's
certain man with the dropsy, then, is a man that may be be-
held, looked at, seen, observed. Beheld! where i He's not
here, surely. Holloa, Old Potbelly, where are you P _
The text supplies an answer even to that question, a certain
man,
"
before him"--that is, not in his presence, or behind
him, as was the certain Cyro-Phnnician woman which came
behind him, and touched the hem of his garment, but before
him-that is, in his may : so that Jesus must run over him if
he does not get out of his way.
And then it follows that he "
healed
"
him-that is, not
that he cured him of his dropsy; the Devil-a-bit, for that was
as had as ever. He has a relapse of this complaint every
spring ofthe year: and so appears again in the gospel of St.
John, as the believer in Christ, like the poor Chinese, Hoo
Loo, so used to his tumour, that 'twould kill him to inks it
away, though out of his belly dow rivers of living water.
So Jesusisnot saidto cure him, but he healedhimg that
word, from Hnuos, the Sun, signifying merely that he shone
upon him-that is, he Saumed him, as the sacred words are.
"
he took him, and healed hiss, and let him go." And here you
314 'rua nlvufs ruuxr.
see the old boy, in Aquarius, the genius of
January, with the
pot right upon his belly, and rivers of living water hterallyand
annually flowing out of it. As the inundations of both the Nile
and Qthe Ganges, the most famous rivers of the whole earth,
annually take place at the time of the Sun's entering into the
constellation of Aquarius, the Water Bearer. And Jesus
every year, and
physically
takes this dropsical man,
and Suns him, an lets him go, w en he takes up. and enters
into the group, which constitutes this constellation, as it
stands in his annual course, shines in it, and passes through
it; so he heals it, and lets it go: as David calls upon the Sun
to do, in order that he may pull himself out of the mire and
clay of winter. "
Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right
hand, and on the Son of Man, whom thou madest so strong
for thine own self." Psalm 80.
The witty miracle, or descent of the Holy Ghost, on the
apostles, by the rule of coutraries, which runs through the
whole of sacred writ, is in the letter so excessively and inor-
dinately silly, that we End our Christian ministers, notwith-
standing their mendacious professions of not being ashamed of
the Gospel of Christ, most
egregiously
ashamed of the Acts of
the Apostles : so much so, that thong ,like the Pagan Augnrs,
whose successors they are, they job the job, of sayingas little
about itas possible from their pulpit, no two of them would
venture to speak of it in the presence of a third, without mak-
ing him promise, that he would not pointhis linger and laugh.
For first the miracle waswhollysupertluous and unnecessary,
ea impossible, unless Christ himself were an impostor,which
lam sure he was not.
For how could the apostles receive the Holy Ghost, when
they were already in full possession of the Holy Ghost 1
And how could Christ possibly send down the Holy Ghost
from Heaven, after his ascension, when before his ascension,
he had actually given them the Holy Ghost, and,
consequenlgy,
put them in full possession of all the advantages that co d
attend the possession of that gift. '
"
He breathed on them," says John, in his gospel, xx. 22 ;
and saith unto them :
"
Receive ge ihe Holy Ghost. 77/4000-
eucr sins ye remit,
tlgy
are remitted, and whomever sins ye re-
tain, they are retain ."
What could priestlypride and arrogancewaut more than this!
What could it be but a mere sending coals to Newcastle?
'ran navu.'s PULPIT. 315
to supply 'em with any more Holy Ghost, aRer such a blow-
out as this?
And can we suppose, that the power to forgive and retain
sins, would have given to men_ who had yet to wait till Wit
Sunday, before they could have wit enough to know how to
exercise that power, or suliicient of the gift of talking, to say
enough about it? '
But out again,-this is but half the foolery on't. For, after
having received the Holy Ghost, to endue them with super-
natural wisdom, and the gi& of tongues, to enable them to
speak all the languages of the earth in a moment of time, we
find, that the next day they had forgotten all those learned
languages, and even spoke their own so clownishly and un-
grammatically, that even the Bow-street magistrates took
notice of Peter and John, the two principals, "that they were
unlearned and ignorantmen." Acts iv. 13.
The prominence of Peter and John, in this alfair of the
tongues in which Peter, after all, was the only one who seemed
to make any use of his tongue, must lead us to think that these
two were the representatives of all the rest: so that, in reality,
there were but two of them on whose heads the fiery tongues
actually sat: and who were in that "
large upper room," not
to say the first floor down the chimney, when,
"
suddenly there
came a sound from Heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind, and
it filled all the house where they were sitting."
Sitting, sirs! they were sitting ; and, like their impudence,
it must have been, to be in a sitting position, when the third
person in the Trinity was come to visit them. "They were
all, with one accord, in one place :" so that, however many of
them," they made up but one
congregation, and had but two
dignities of the iirst magnitude among them. And the lone
place, where they were with one accord, is in the Greek of the
immediately preceding chapter, called 9 umpwm: with this
still more critical and curious piece of exactness,-that this
rushing mightywind from Heaven, which was the HolyGhost,
was to come, not about the time of Pentecost merely, or onthe
day of Pentecost, which might have seemed particular enough|;
but, not till the day of Pentecost wasfully come. As if this
matter were regulated with the precision of a chronometer.
The hint given to our observance, is, that whenever the Holy
Ghost is concerned with a man's upper story, we should not
316 nu n|vn.'s runrrr.
_
only see which wuy-the wind blows, but also be veryparticular
as to what time o' the day it is with him.
Ot' which propriety the church throws us out a pretty broad
hint, in her Witty Sunday collect: "Grunt us by the same
spirit to have a rightjudgment in all things, Amen"--that is to
say Ammon--that is in say Gaaulwn-that is, we must be up
to Gammon, and take a special care to have e right judgment
in all Holy Ghost transactions.
-
Thus, as the Holy Ghost means most literally nothing more
than the Sunfheated air--that is, a Holy Gust, or a Gust
rushing through a hole-as it is' expressly called,
"
a rushing
mighty wind," And we see that it is the property of the wind
to produce a mere noise, without any sort of sense or articu-
late coherency. We see what kind of use they would be likely
to make of their tongues,
"
who spoke only as the Spirit gave
them utterance."
As you may see and hear for yourselves, to this day, in what
they call extempomneous preaching, and what passes for elo-
quence at the other shops,-that they have indeed the gift of
tongues most abundantly, but the Devil-a~bit of the gift of
common sense, or intelligible congruity with their tongues.
You may hear them rattle away, like the clapper in a cherry
tree. All the louder, and all the faster, the more of the Holy
Gust blows upon, while they themselves are as unconscious
of any meaning in their clsmour, as the daws and sparrows
that are fools enough to be frightened at it.
Had the severest sarcasm that ingenuity could devise, have
been intended (and who could say that it was not intended ?)
in this witty miracle, how could it be wrought up to finer
efect, than in the exhibition of a set of fellows, under the in-
iluenee of a brain fever, imagining that the heat they felt about
the head-was atongue of fire, and that the ramblings of their
delirium were spoken, not by the tongues of their mouths, but
by knots on the tops of their night-caps. So that their friends,
making the best apology theycan for them, say, that they must
be drunk. Whereupon the chief speaker among them, in
order to prove that they were not drunk, "-standing up," and,
"
lifting up his voice," explains to them, that it was impossible
that they could be drunk, because they had only been drinking
for three hours,
"
seeing it was but the third hour" ofthe day.
And as a further proof that theywere not drunk, he beseeches
W
:mn navufs PULPIT. 311
them, only to listen for a few moments, how rationally and
soberhe can talk. Andthenhe tips 'emoEthat hespecimen
of rational argument, and sober, calm, and manly reasoning,
"
Your daughters shall prophesy, your young men shall see
visionaandyouroldmenahalldreamdreams, adarkSun,a
bloody Moon, blood and fire, and vapour and smoke."
Wheneupon the more sensible part of their hearers sus out
a writ ds Inquireado; and, for the safety of the
public, the ministers of divine wisdom are put into the nttest
place for all the divine
Such is the impression, that thestory in any relations toan
historical character of it, would necessarily produce on
any
honest mind. And so well aware are the privileged deceivers
of the people, that this would be the impression, thatthoughit
is in the system ot' their theology,the eine qua non: the great
and ultimate proof of Christ's resurrection (as it really is in
nature, the proof of the Sun's having reached the great object
of his desire, the Gemini, or Twins of MBy)» that they always
shirk it. Even the maddest of our evangelical preachers, mad
as they are, have too much of that shrewd cunning which ac-
companies madness, to expose themselves to the laughter
which would attend on
any explanation they could give, of this
witless Whit Sunday witty miracle.
But mad and foolish beyond all names of madness andfolly,
es is all that you ever heard, about this Holy Ghost sfair, in
church or chapel : It is not madness nor foolishness that we
oEer you at the Rotunda. I, indeed, laugh at their interpreta-
tionsof scripture, can they return the compliment and laugh
at mine? Indeed they cannot: or, if they did, 'tis at the
wrong side of their mouths.
But "
Wisdom is justified of her children." And here an
her children, the Gemini of May, the great object of desire ua
the personifed genius of the Sun, in the gospel pantomime,
where, as you see, they turn their faces from him, and Master
Castorisholding up his hand, asif to push himofz While
he coaxes them to him in these allegorical words: "
Sufer
the little children to come unto me, and forbid them mt:
for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven."
And of such as you see, really is the Kingdom of Haven.
Such is the Sun'e position really and literally on the day of
Pentecost-that is, on the nttieth day from Easter. »
And to all the analogies of their historical nonsense of the
I
318 ras n|:vn.'s rvnrxr.
day of Pentecost, present we here that rational, philosophical,
and demolmtrative solution, which, they who dared not come
and hear it, for fear they should beconvinced, call blasphemy.
For see, sirs. Problem 1.-Were the all with one accord
in one
place, so that how many soever they were, they made
up but one unanimous congregation?
Solution.-The Stars which make up the whole constellation
of Gemini, which are 85 in Flamstead's catalogue, though only
25 in the catalogues of Ptolemy and Tycho, are most literally
with one accord in one place, and form but one constellation,
consisting of two brothers, Castor and Pollux, answering to
two brothers, Peter and John, who are the two who represent
the whole company, and were the only two who made any use
of their tongues.
Problem 2.-And they were sitting, when the Holy Ghost
came, and filled all the house where they were
sitting.
Solution.-The Gemini, or Twins of May, are, and always
were represented in a sitting position, the two boys kissing
and cuddling each other.
Problem 3.--And what particular large upper room, in
which they were, is called an upper room.
Solution.-In relation to appearances with ua, it is up in-
deed, e'en up in the vaulty arch so high above our heads.
Problem 4.-And it is called in the Greek -ro va-:p»6r-that
is, literally, in the egg above.
Solution.-fThe Castor and Pollux of the Zodiac are repre-
sented ss hardly out of the shell, and were both believed'to be
oviparous-that is, born from the egg of Linda, the wife of
Tyndarus.
But the most curious and literal of all these analogies is
that contained in those words of sacred writ, which every body
has read, but nobody has read, with their eyes sufficiently open
to see exactly what it was that they were reading.
"
And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of
Ere, and it sat upon each of then." E¢ na :narrow awn-
that is, upon both of them-that is, upon the two only, Peter
and John, or Peter and Thomas, as representatives of the
whole constellation.
And here are the "
cloven tongues like as of fire," sitting
upon the heads of each of the brothers, Castor and Pollux, the
Pretty prattling children of the Zodiac, who, if they 'could not
Prlttle better stuff than the pantomime sets down for them,
THE DEVIL,S PU LPIT. 319
had better hold their tongues: lest other children should apply
to them the proverb- ,
"Tell tale tit
Your tongue shall be slit."
A slit tongue, or a cloven tongue, never being emblematical of
any thing else than a lying tongue. Their identity with the
disciples is further sustained by the fact of their eternal child-
hood, as we find them addressed by Christ, both before and
after his resurrection, notwithstanding their beards were thick
enough, by the wheedling epithet, "little children," as in John
xiii. 33. Where he speaks to them, like mamma to her little
pets,
"
Little children, yet a little while I am with you, and
whither Igo ye cannot come ;" which, for all the sense your
clergy could ever give you of it, is as pretty a
"
Bye baby bunting
Your father's gone a hunting,"
as ever lnlled to rest the tetchey squallers of the nurse .
But philosophically most accurate: the little while gat he
is with the little children, is, from this day, Whit Sunday,
May 22, till Wednesday, June 22, when he leaves the little
children, and passes into Cancer the Crab: and, sure enough,
whither he goes they cannot come.
'
So did the ancient astronomers, in this enigmatical dction,
record their accurate knowledge of the proper motions and re-
lations of the heavenly bodies.
The Pagan story of Castor and Pollux, which is quite of as
good authority, and of infinitely higherantiquity than the story
of the Acts of the Apostles : as we have it in Diodorus Siculus,
relates that these Gods, sailing with Jason, in Argonautic ex-
pedition, to bring back the Golden Fleece, saved the vessel
from a dreadful storm (that is, surely, from "
a
rushing mighty
wind"), there appearing upon the heads of Castor and Pollux
two lambent flames-that is,
surely,
"cloven tongues like as
of fire, and it sat upon each of em :" 'which appearance
wasfollowed by so great a calm, as left no doubt on the minds
of any of them, that the persons on whose heads the hery
tongues had been seen were divinely inspired.
And, as in the visible heavens, when the first star in the toe
of Castor, is at the Zenith, at that moment, the two Equinoc-
tial points are respectively at the eastern and western edge of
320 'ras n:vn.'s runrn-.
the horizon, Castor and Pollux were believed to preside in an
especial manner over all courts of law and justice.
And hence, in all theologies, consisting alike as all systems
of theology have done, of an allegory upon natural phoeno-
mena, the origin and never altered, never varied observance of
the principle, that the promulgation of the law should always
be from the top of a mountain.
Jupiter tlmnders forth his decrees from the top of Mmnt
Olympus-Yahough or Jehovah gives his laws from the top
of Mount V
And Jesus Christ preaches his sermon from the Mount.
But here is the solution of the whole mystery. As the
mythology of Castor and Pollux ran, that they should always
beantipodestoeachother: sothatwhenonewssin Haven
the other should be in Hell. Here you see precisely opposite
to the place of Castor and Pollux, in the Zodiac, is the Holy
Ghost flying away with "
his beloved Son, in whom he is well
pleased." Here is St. John, on whom the cloven tongue had
sat when he was in the large upper room, turned into the boy
Antinous, carried away by the eagle of Jupiter. The eagle
itself being identiiied with Jupiter, in the Pagan Mythos, as
the Pigeon of the Gospel is identified with the Holy Ghost in
the Christian fable: the beloved disciple with his Eagle on
the pediment of your Christian Cathedral, is thus identiied
with the Ganymede or Antinous of the Pagan Mythology.
IND OP Tll DISCOUBSB ON THB HOLY GHOST.
Em aehiws mulpit.
"
AND A BONNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Allan Cunninghqm.
No. 21.] JULY 22,`183l. [Price 1d.`
T
V
SAINT PHILIP:
1
Q &n'mon,
PREACHEIS BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A.
A-r -run norlnun, nmcxnuns-nosn, :mu 12, 1831.
"
He delighteth not in the strength of the horse:
He taketh not pleasure in the legs of a. man."
_ Bible Version.
"
He hath no pleasure in the strength of ahorse;
Neither delighteth he in any man's legs."
Prayer Book Version.
"
He values not the warlike steed, but doth his strength disdain:
The nimble foot swiftly runs, no prize from him can gain,"
Brady and Tate'.r Version,
"He gives to beasts their food, and to young ravens when they cry;
His pleasure not instrength of horse, nor in man's1egs doth 1ie.'
Stern/:old and Hopkins' Versign,
Tur~:nr:'s for ye, sirsl There's nuts for us to crack. They
give you the shells only for your money at the other shop ;. but
here we'll have the kernel.
H ere's a bit of divine revelation for us:
"
The Lord hath no
pleasure in the strength of a horse; neither delighteth he in any
man's legs." _
y
_
What a droll conceit, that God-a'-mighty should have any
vor.. r.
'
,
1
320 'ran nnvnls runrr.
objection to a |nan's legs; must be some underlynding
in tllse legs, I guess; and I defytheiwitofmantogive a
better guess why the Bible should be called the Old Testament
-that is, the last Will and Testament of God, than that it
leaves us a leg-I-see (legacy/.) 2
`
And if we but make ri. right use of the legs, which God hath
bequeathed to us, we shall giye the clergy such a kick bye and
bye as shall not leave thenra leg to stand on.
But the New Testament and»_the op are so essentially inter-
woven, that the defects of the ellipsis in the one being to be
supplied by the periphrasis of 'the other, like different transla-
tions of the same original, affords a strength of demonstration
as to the signilicancy and intention, than which nothing which
is called demonstration can be more demonstrative.
Thus, in all possible renderings, or translations of this evi-
dently enigmatical portion of the word of God, and it rally
and truly is the word of God, "The Lord délighteth not in a
man's legs ; neither hath he pleasure in the strength of a horse ;"
tum it which way you please, or let it mean whatever in the
Devil's name it may mean-it' either means nothing, or it
means something that smells of the stable. It's a bit of horse-
manship; and I'll answer for it, that Mr, Ducrow, at Astley's
theatre, could give yea more rational explanation of it than
the Archbishop of Canterbury;
There are always to be found in the New Testament chame-
ters, analogies, and personiiications, which supply the key to`
the blue chamber of the Old Testament,-the one is said to be
typical of the other: and, therefore, the way of interpreting
Scripture, which I have uniformly adopted, has been tht
which Scripture itself proposes. Not handling the word of
God deceitfully, as they do, whom the apostle denounces for
beguiling unstable souls, but comparing spiritual things with
spiritual, and letting God speak his own
language, and in his
own way, however droll and strange to us that way of his may
seem to be. For ye see, my brethren: .
'ras n:ru.'s Pvtrzr. 321
"
The Ierd's nys are not# our ways, nor his thoughts as
our thoughts-" And, therefore, when his ways seem _us to
be Strange 'Ilya/and his thoughts nonsensical thpuits, it
_becomes ua, to submit ourwisdomkto hilfolly, end to settle
the quarrel with our Btith, by ,concluding at _once-that i¢'¢ .away
-tlaathelolgot. . T
I
p
_ ,
AS the-holy apostle admonishetlt us in those holy words, in
1 Dolinth. i. 25: "
Beeausethe foolishnesaof God is wiser than
men, and themvealmess 9frGod isstronger than men."
.And ou own reason must show us, thatif the ;tlmighLy;did
not occasionally relieve infinite wisdom .from the stretch,
by oondeaoendingew _make g fool of himself oooasionally, not
only would his iniinite°wisdom wear out, but we should lose
the grandest /evidence of the truth of our :holy faith, which
.assures ns that God made man in.his own image, ,alter his own
likeness. .So that aa- ,
Nemo mortelium-otnnibus 'horis snpit: no .man is wise at all
times,-so it is not for us suing mortals to our heavenly
Father, vrhooifers the,Cup of Salvation to our souls, for an
occasional symptom of his having been a lit¢1¢ bit in his cups
God forbid that! should ihrow out an irreverentinl insistin-
tion against his incomprehensible Majesty. But when I find
_his holy word so little mincing the matter, as to let it bolt out,
that he's downrightsdrunk, I take _the very humblest, modest,
and most reverential mode of :only insinuating that his Omni-
potencemay he supposed to be capable Qflll holy indiscretion,
But not more evident than the state of divine inspiration.
when complaining in the language of our-text, that "
he hath
no pleasure in the strength of a horse, neither delighteth he in
any mau's legs." _
But, whatever may be the state of divine inspiration, reason
is always sober: and shews the oertain etymological fact, that
the lover, or delighter in e horse, is expressed in the Greek
word Philippqgl the basis of the name Philip, will, through all
322 nn nxvnfs nn. rr.
the windings ofthe Cretan Labyrinth, identify that
had ibpleasure in the legsol' a man, and but 'little in the
strength of a horse, with the holy apostle Philip, the discipk
'of Christin the gospel allegory, and the halllman and half-
horaeof the Zodiac, from whence thatallegorywas taken.
'l'heSagittariuaofthe Zodiac is, as you see, thegloomy
genius of November,-'a man down to the loins only, andall
the lower'part'a'horse-asian, therefore, 'exactly answering
to so much ofthe definition of the Lordin the Old Teatnmmt,
as brings the idea ofaman and honetogether-thatishlilan
nothavinga ma.n's legs, but thoseof a horse:
Aniangrowing to ahorse; and soa'lwer`o_fahorse,-
most literally. a Philip.
`
n
In the strength ofthis horse the Lord has nopleasure, and
inthelegs ofamanthishorsehasnooocssion. TheSunisin
this constellation in the month of Nov ber, during' which
there is but little pleasure for either man or horse, the sports
ofhunting, at this season, hardly amends for the
chilly and cheerless prospect of approaching winter.
'
So it isthe chilly and chesrless Apostle Philip of the gospel,
who alone, of all the twelve, says in his master,
"
Lord, show
as the Either, and it sqpiceth us,"--that is, aslight glimpse
of the Sun, or a mere sight of him, without feeling much of
heat,'will be 'enough for the gloomy days of November.
To which he is answered in the language of a most perfect and
scientific allegorical astronomy:
"
"
Havevl been so long time with yon, and yet hast thounot
known me, Philip ? He that hath seen me, hath seen the
Father; and how sayest thou, then, show us the Father ? Be-
llevest thou not that I am in the' Father, andithe Father in me I
The words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself, but the
Father that dwelleth in me-he doeth the works. Believe me
that' I' am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe
me for the very work's sake. Verily, verily, I say unto you :
He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also,
'ras navnfs ruurr. 323
andgreaterworksthantheseshallhsdo; because I gounto
my Father."-John xiv. 8-12.
'
'
If this, then, be a dedhition of a believer in Christ, and sure
it is su, sirs; if Christ himself is to be believed upon`his oath,
his twice -repeated oath,
"
Verily, Verily," being in strength
of allidavit no less than By God, By God. "
He that believeth
in me, the works that I do shall hedo also, and greatu works
than these shall he do ;"-that is, the man shallbeat the masterl
Where is there a Christian upon earth at' this day, who
answers to the definition) or how can a man call himself:
believer .in Christ, without, by that very pretence, committing
the most flagrant blasphemy," making himself superior to
Christ, setting himself above Omnipotence, and asserting his
possession of superiormiraculous powers? _
_
'
V
"
If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that
believeth." None, then, ,but the Almighty himself can be Bg
believer. , é V
-
_ ,.
As Saint Paulinstructs us-"that the wisdom of God (which
is wise enough with the boys and girls) is foolishness with men;
"
And if ye had faith 'as s
grain of mustard~seed, ye might
say to this Sycamore tree, be thou plucked up ,by the root,
and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you."
'Ihen surely, sirs, the pretenders to faith are the most impudent
hypocrites that ever insulted reason : for it is as impossible that
a man should possess faith, as thathe should remove mountains.
"
He that believeth in Christ, is one with Christ, and Christ
with him. He is in- Christ, and Christ in him." And is as
much entitled to be bsiimasin, payed ro, mme, md wer-
shpped, as Christ 'himself; rand, therefore, prove to me'that he
is a believer in Christ, (if any man on earth can) I'd be quite
as ready to worship him, as 'his master.
u
"
Out of his belly shall How rivers of living water." So that
if a believer in Christ would but take his course through the
interior ofAfrica, he mightbe theméans of
fertilitingthe whole
sandy deiert. He that believeth in Christ,
"
though he
weife
1
394 rn: rnvnfs num
dead, yet shall he live,='snd whosoever believeth nd- livethin
him shall never die.". Nothing, then, which is mtllil, un
answer to the definition of a believer in Christ.
There can be no doubt at all that the Holy Apostle, Saint
Philip, was a believer in Christ, and by the clue of these deli-
nitions, we may efectuate the business ofthis indagntiom, which
is to find' out- our man.
Andsswe have more than s hintrthat Phili was a._ great
hunter, we cannot follow his holy example- getter, than by
hnvingsgood hunt after him,-with this more es cial in-
ducement to the chaoe, that we have been told that
lyliilip had
four daughters 'which did prophesy: so that, by stealmg a
march upon»Ssint Philip, we may run s chance of scraping
acquaintance with the Missa Plnip, llld'g'Bl§|§ our-farhmes
told. , i
,
t
As we resd, in Acts xxi. 9,
"
of Pnxur, the Evangelist, who
was one of the Seven-that is, I suppose, one of the sever
evangelists, or else one of thesseven archangels, or else one of
the seven heavens, or else one ol' the seven summer months, or
else one of the seven gates in the Holy City, or else one of
the seven Stars in Jesus Christ's right lmnd, .or else one of
the seven eyes
V
in _
God-a.'-mighty's forehead, or else one
of the seven golden eandlestxcks, or else one of the seven
planets, or' else one of the seven days of the week, or else one
ofthe seven
vials
of wrath, or else
gi;
of
itll:
seven seals of
pro ,breseoneoftheseven
'
of s"t,orelse
seven deadly sins, or elsqone of any llalipthe seven
holy or seven
unholy things, _
which we find
always
so ingeni-
ously contrived to set the brains of religious peop e in the state
that their brains are always found to be in-i. e., all sixes and
sevens:
So Philip, the evangelist, was one of the seven somethings,
or sumefats, or, for fear of being
"
wise shove. what is written,"
we had better be satisfied with knowing that
Philip:
the evange-
list, was one of the seven thi -i'-me-bobs,-w ich, if it be
not quite so much information :Eoin Saint Philip, the evange-
list, ss I am in the habit of supplying my customers with, God
Almighty knows that it's quiteas much ns you'll get for your
money at the other shops
`
It is somethnxg, howevsnto know, that Philip, theevsngelist,
WQS
Philip
the evangelist ; becsue, if sn evangelist means a
writer of e
gospel, as
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the
na nzvufs IU]-BIT. 325
writers of ourfour gospels are therefore called the four evan-
gelists; then Philip, the -
evangelist. is a fifth evangelist, and
the gospel, according to Saint Philip, must be of as high au~
and quite as essential to our salvation, as either of the
got of Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John.
The earliest seetof Christians, called the Gnostics, professed
to possess at genuine and real gospel, that was
actually written
by the holy evaigelist, Saint ,Philip ; but, unfortunately, the
later sects of Christians, who called themselves Orthodox
Christians, said that the gospels which the Gnostics received,
were no-gospels, and that the Gaultier were so-sticks ; because
they stuck at- nothing, and forged their gospels themselves:
which, if they did, itonly shows what sticks Christians must
be. in having no suspiion that others might play the game as
well as they.
'
u But of Philip, the evangelist, whatever became of his
Ulllgely, we have the most positive information that he "
had
four daughters. virgins which did prophesy," Acts ui. 8. I
should not wonder if their names were Spring, Summer, Au-
tumn, and Winter. But their prophesying is vexatious : since
it shows that we have not only been derived of Philip's
gospel; but, between the sticks is every thing, and the sticks
at nothing, we have been done out of the Miss Philips' pro-
phecies: and here has been all this divine inspiration thrown
awe . Hereis infinite wisdom running out at the spigot, and
no
(gap of Salvation to catch it,-an inspiring God, the mind
that rules the universe, in the fountain of all knowledge,
throwing away its suggestions as if they were of no more ac-
count than the froth in a bottle of ginger beer. Had we been
by when the cork was drawn, we might have .been sprinkled
into salvation. But as it is, alas l No more of the sweet
waterrof life hath flowed down to us thanhath served to breed
locusts and caterpillars, in the stinking ditches of priestcraft.
Tell they us, that the four gospels are enough, and that we
ought to be satisfied with the prophecies of their Isaiahs, and
Jeremiahs, and Zachariahs. and Zephaniahs,and Jeberechishs ?
they lie against the testimony of their own book in so telling
us : "For thus saith the Lord God, the prophets prophesy
falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means."
And if it hadn't been to support the craft of the priests, we
should never have been curst by their prophets, or evsngelists
eithefs ,
I '
/"
326 nn navufs ror.nr.
_
Would we do sway with divine revelatiorwsltogetha? I'
answer, certainlynot,with the Miss Philips' divine revelations :
but none but the Miss Philips for us. Let them produce
the Miss Philips' pro hecies, and they would convert the
whole intidel world. Iiior I am as sure as I am of my own ex-
istence, that no iufidel would ever give the lie to the ladies.
Notwithstanding the
(positive
assertions of
Scripture,
that
Saint Philip had "four aughtens, virgins which' d` not pro-
phesy," we leam from ecclesiastical history (Euseb. lib. 3. c.
30), which never contradicts Scripture, that he had but three
daughters, two whereof, Ensebius says, persevered in their
virgmit ; but the other was not quite so
persevering; The
two oldymaids, he says, died at Hieropolis, that never-to-be-
forgotten Hierapolis, or Holy City, and°Heliopoiis, that City of
the Sun, in which all these virgins and prophetesses, and evan~
gelists, and saints, and martyrs, come by their saintships, and
martyrdoms, and crucitixions, and executions, so as to leave no
account of their having been executed in the calendars of any
cityiqpr country upon earth. _
e other Miss Philip, as we learn from the same Eusebins,
"lived a very spiritual life," and died at Ephesus. Ephesus,
as I have heretofore demonstrated in theological geography, not
being any city so called upon earth, but another compartment
of that self-same Hierapolis, or
Heliopolis. 1
Of the holy apostle, Saint Philip, a l that we learn from our
prayer books is, that he goes partners with~J|rmes the- Less, in
the religious honours of the
chimney-sweedps' holiday, the ist
of May,-when the parsons, for no reason at they could ever
tell any body, tell God Almighty to
grant
that they, following
the steps of his holy
apostles,
Saint hilip and Saint James,
may stedtinstly walk in e way that leadeth to eternal life, through
the same, his Son Jesus Christ, t.heir Lord, Ammon.
Of all which mystical language,
'
the whole meaning is
couched in that last word Ammon, and may be found out by
spelling ammon, with a capital G to it;
Of this holy apostle, Saint Philip, all we learn from critical
orthography is, that no Jew, or inhabitant of Jerusalem, or
Hebrew, if we were to suppose the existence of a Hebrew or
Jewish nation (which I deny), could ever have been called by
that name. For Philip is not a Hebrew, name; _
but, like
Andrew, Nicodemus, John, Thomas, James, Alexander, Rufus,
and many others, of Greek derivation; proving so
incidently
ran onvnis .rn|.n'r. 327
with ten thousand other proofs, that the original Greek, in a
sense -which Christian critics never
yet had the honesty to con-
template, was the original indeed. t
The word Philip, literally signifying, loverof a horse, meta-
phorically became a name expressive of the character of
jockeys, huntsmen, equestrians, farriers, riders.
Horsemen, as we call them to this day, men delighting in the
menage, training, and care of that noble animal, the hone,
than .in the care and management of which no man can be
witlier or better employed.
But the light of science breaks in here upon the faintly de-
lineated Philip of the gospel.
'I'he horseman-like, the God-man of the Christian fable,
rides back again into his original site in the Starry Heavens,
and t.he holy apostle, Saint Philip, of an idiotishly-believed
fable, is the Sagittarius of astronomical science. _
Ol' the holy apostle, Saint Philip, the holy fable, that is to
say, the holy gospel, expressly states :-" Now Philip was of
Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter." John i. 44.
We 'have already settled our reckonings with Andrew, and
Peter, James, John, Thomas, and Judas.
We have already ascertained and demonstrated, even with
the accuracy of mathematical demonstration, the precise as-
tronomical positions of Saint Peter, the keeper of heaven gate,
at the gate going into that heavenly city, -
and his t
brother
Andrew, the keeper of the gate, at the going out of that city.
What other, then, could that city of Peter and Andrew be,
than the city which lay between the stations Peter and An-
drew-that is, as
every city must lie, between- the gate that
leads into it, and the gate that leads out of it.
That city of Andrew and Peter was also the city of Philip,
and also is called Bethsaida. But what light, reflects the
meaning of that word Bsmsatna, as constituting an exegesis,
or further definition of the city of Andrew and Peter? Or, if
Philip were a man at all, what the better or worse man should
he be for being of Betlwaida ? Or of what such consequence
could it be that we should know that Philip was of Bethsaida,
that it should be worthy of divine revelation, divinely to reveal,
and to inspire a particular parenthesis, stopping the
general
tenor of the business of divine revelation, to give us, as it were.
a rap on our knuckles-a sort of mind ye, airs. MW. 107101
you're about .P Remember, PHILIP wasor Bivrnssina.
i
3% 'run xrnvrih lunar.
'
Well, what ofthat? Therein somnch ofthatasamoaats to
another, added to one 'hundred thousand ooncurrentdemolmdrl-
tions, that in every text, in every parenthesis, in every phrase
of your gospels, there is proof inherent, that they are not true,
and never were intended to pass foritmth, or for anything more
than what they are--that is, a veil thnovm. mer, astronomical
science, and allegory and lictionimerely. .
,
-
RW nn (Bet-lluada), is literally the house qf the hunter.
Here, then, we have the whole enucleation, and o Qantas
are Bn90'GYda, Philip qf Belhsaidu, is identified with the lover
of the horse, the horse-man, or half man and half horse, in the
house or mansion of the hunter, which is the plane of the
Sagittarius of the Zodiac, and is the city of Andrew and Peter:
the Philip of the New Testament being none other than the
Nimrod of the Old. "
Cash begat Nimrod; he began ,to bt o
mighty one in the eartlz,"--that is, among the constellations
which fall below the Equator, which are called tj the earth, or
earthy, as distinguished from the constellations of the northam
hemisphere, which are called heavenly. Andes Nimrod is dia-
tinguished in the Genesisas hewho "began.to be tl mighty
one," so Phili , the hunter of the gospel fable, has the honour
of being the_gncalled to be a disciple of Christ.
"
He was
amighty hunter before the Lord." Wherefore it is said,
"
even
as Nimrod, the mighty hunter before the Lord." Genesis x. 9.
And here you see, on the celestial lobe, is the gloomy genius
of Nouent-Bn/--that is, the ninth (god-Berith,-each of these
stations of the heavens .
deriving its name from its ancient
Tsabaism, or Stag-worship, whenoe,.in the Phcenician tongue,
the word Beth-Saidu, the house, station, temple, or constella-
tion of the hunter; and, for the whole of them,
generalll,Beth,
Baal, Berith, the templeqfthe Gods Berith.-Bryunfs
Vol. II1.,p. 210. V
Aa you read in Judges viii. 33 :-" And it came to pass, as
soon as Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned
again, and went a whorin after Baalim, and made Baal Berith
their God." n~|-hav: main:
,God forbid that we should find any titult with the languqe
of divine inspiration ; only, in our carnal way of lh01ght,we
grown-up folks cannot help thinking that the Israelites must
have been a very forward race of people, when the children of
Israel wenta W-i .
'llie name of the'gods, Berith in the singular number, Ba,
'nut »ntvn.'s -sunrise. 329
is still retained in conjunction with the Latin fwords
W
Outh, Nwem, Decent, in our Septem Ber, Octo Ber, oven
Her, Decem Ber.
We now, I think, begin 'to ken in what sense this- Novem
Ber, or Ninth God Berith, this Philip, or .Horse Man, in
Betluaida; the house or station ol' the-hunter, gets the name, in
common with others, of the -evangelist. Acts, xxi. 8. "The
house of Philip the evangelist,"-fan evangelist meaning "-a
preacher of the gospel," and to pouch the gospel, meaning, to
do what no man on earth ever did, or could do, what none but
the twelve apostles, tm is, the twelve signs of the zodiac,
and the Sun, asshining in and through thhse signs, could do,--
that is, as Christ himself has told you what it is. Luke iv. 19.
"
To preach the acceptable rua
of the Lord"--that is, to in
dieate time, and to regulate and' point out the beginnings and
ends of the months, and seasons of the year. ,
These, then, are the only preachers of the gospel, the mtural
lights ofthe world, whose houses or celestial mansions arein
that "
city set upon a hill," which "
cannot be hid,"_ where
they are set "
for signs and for seasons, and for days and for
yzars
;" :nd from the study of which we leam the "
word of
¢ gpg _
They stone an me believers in diner, was, "vim he is,
there are they also." ~'
-
They alone are the believers who "
have everlmting lik."
They alone "
cast out devils,"--that is, the Diabloloi, or signs
which are adverse to them. They alone speak the same
science inall the languages of the earth. -
They-alone.
"
drink.
deadly poison," slmrb the putrid exhalaticas of the earth,and
are unhurt, They alone, ln annual succession, appear as
"
in
Christ when Christ is in them." They alone are so essentially
homogene with him, tht the eilhcu ascribed to him are equally
ascrihable to them.
"The works which he doth do, they do also: and greater
works than these do they do, because he goeth to his father."
Hzrroceeds
from sign to sign, by an attraction which keep
him thin the range of our Solar System. They are distinct-
ive Suns to Sysmms of their own, Suns brighter than ours, pro-
ducing more glorious objects of creation, and lighting up hap-
pier worldsthrough the
gllery
of immeasurable space,
But I have another hilip for you, which will leave the
astronomical identity of this believer .in Christ beyond all
330 rn:
=
navrrh rnnrrr.
ambiguity. Your last Scriptural Philip is found in Acts ix. 26,
where the Angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying,
"
Arise
and go toward the South, unto the way that goeth down from
Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert." '
Why, look ye, sirs ; theseare the very relations ot' the Phili
the Horse-man of the Zodiac. He ir litemlly
"
going towns
the South." He is going down from Jerusalem; as almost
the_'whole body of the constellation falls below the tropic of
Capricorotis,
the Goat, his head alone being within the Zodiac ;
an hegoe|intoGaza; and ,
Gaza is' the Hebrew for a goat; and 'F Gam," which is
"desert," is none other than a delinition of the unfruitfulrand
desolate Decem Ber. r
,'
find he eached to the eunuch,-an eimuch literally signi-
fying "ajrre night,"-the line and frosty nights of ,the begin-
ning of winter being the- most convenient, for astronomical
observations.
"
An euauch, under Candacl, Qu¢¢n.q/` the Ethiopian" the
most beautiful ligure of language that could be conceived for
a
_#ne night, the silver moon, palefrtcgent gf the dark ones, being
under, or ret.
'
'
And he preaehed, not
ofyhe triumphs of the Sun in Summer,
but of his humiliation after his having descended below the
Scales of Se tember, and therefore having come into the neigh-
bomhood og Philip.
"
In. his humiliation," he says, "his
judgment was taken away,"-that is, when the Sun comes to
the Equator, at the Autumnal foot of the Celestial Arch, he is
in Libra, the house of judgment, and his eifulgence, of course,
nnders the Stanwhich 'constitute the house of judgment invi-
sible. And thus,
'
_
l
"
In his humiliation his judgment is taken-away."
'
Bu;
mark ye still! Philip, with his_/ine night, rides as they
reac
P
Eternal God l-au' if here isn't the- coach they ride in,-
Charles' Wain, the Great Northern Bear, -on which, with your
owneyes, and every, night of your
liveszyoumay see the whole
heavens riding round in royalpornp, an proclaiming, in one
and the selflsame demonstration, the everlasting truth of science,
and the utter falsehood of the gospel.
_But how far did the gentefolks ride in continuation of their
disc-curse upon the humiliation of _Christi
Why, _through the whole,-remaining winter. season, they
"ran nsvn.'s rum-lr. ,331
¢(:;euea'h»:11}:hwugh "Gm, which is desert"-that is, me
t, w 'c is the constellation of the barren and frosty De-
cember, till they come into Aquarius, the constellation of
January, which establishes the faith of the "fair night,"--that
the Sun is re-ascending. He cries out,
"
See, here is water,
what doth hinder me' to be baptised I" "
Baptised heis.
'
f"And when they were come up out of .the water-that is,
when the water is 'at the zenith, just at the moment when it
passes
the zenith, the horsemen,
Saqiiyttai-ins,
sinks below the
orrizon at the point, Soutluwert by est.
The Slpiritof the Lord caughtaway Philip, that the much,
the line nights, saw him no more.
"
And he went on his.wa,y
re_}o|c1ng,"-his way being upwards in the course of the Sun,
towards the summer months.
But Philip was found at Asotus--that is, in'Hell, the lace
gg then: that go down to the pit, the smsaved. In the lgit of
estruction. -
And thus, in the theatre of the starry heavens, as well as
upon the stage on earth, we iind one man
ip
his turn plays
many parts : and we can trul say that w atever they ma
1;_alk
of at
tlgatpospel shop, wehave here "
Good entertninmenl:
or man an orse." '
4
_
.
_
Our holy evangelist, Saint Philip, has been in ~turn both
lung and beggar, both friend and foe, both saint and sinner,
gpthhpersecuted
and persecutor. You may gaze at him as
e untsman ; ou
may stag him for the chace.
_
He has been gharoah, King of Egypt, the horse and his
rider, thrown into the sea. .
He has been the Joseph of the Patriarchate, whomhis
brethren threw into the pit.
"
Andhere, sirs! Conldyouentertsinsdoubtif you weretotrytodo so:
that with your definitions established your controversy-Gaza, which is desert-
Guabemg the Hebrew fora Goat; the Goatbeing the sign which the Sun
enters when the Earth is shut up in deepest winter, when indeed it is desert g
and the name Samson, npmr- Shemsbsn, literally the Sun,
That Samson
caréying
swa the gates of Gus, and bearing them on his
shouldisrsyp the ill of Hehron, never meant any thing else than the Bun,
dashing his mighty way out of his wintry
prison,
and hearing the nature which
he had borne in December, up the hill w ich he climbs in his annual course
through the Zodiac. And that Christ rising from his Tomb is mother version,
but not so goods one of the same astronomical allegory.
I
382 -rua nsvrrfs Punts-.
Andhereyouseehimcomeoutofthepigat the very mo-
ment when he has sent Mrs.
Poiphar,
the scarlet lady, about
her business; and, having reach the meridian, he is Lord of
all
Egyptxpresiding
over the com. The Stal' Spica Virgiris
setting, at at moment, at the point due west by south, whm
the brightest Star in Sagittarius is Lord of the Ascendant.
And you will remember that Joseph, among the twelve
patriarchs, was not more famous for delivering divine prophecies
than Sagittarius, among the twelve signs ia, for shooting with a
lon bow.
gut it is only by a laborious effort of painful stupidity, that
we can fail of indentlfyingthe Joseph of the Patriarchate, the
Philip ofthe Apostolate, and the Sagittarius of the Zodiac,-
when Philip is the only one of the apostles that had a daughter
thatwas a virgin, that Joseph was the only one of the Patriarchs
that had a
daughter that was s virgin once ; with this most
singular characteristic, that she was a
virgin that mn over the
wall. Gen. xlix. 22.* And here is Miss Philips, the virgin,
tumbling over the wall, heels
upwards,
and her father running
_alter her, as iffendeavouring to sep her a virgin. But how he
succeeds m that endeavour, you may guess when you shall
observe, that the moment that he gets over the wall, if you look
o' th' other side, you will see that Miss Philips is brought to
bed of Twins.
Could imagination conceive a more beautiful personiheation
ofthe genius of Bethsaida, than that which immediately fol-
lows this of his runaway daughter:
"
The archers have sorely
grieved him, and shot at him, and hated him. But his how
abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong
by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob."
As see ye, Sirsl All the bright and
strong?-marked
Stars
of this constellation, are immediately in the w, and in the
arms and hands ofthe figure.
What could be more graphically precise? unless it be the
further definition :
h "The blessings ofthe everlasting hills shall be on the had
of Jose h, and onthe crown of him that was separated from
his brethren." Gen. xlix. 26.
It is when the everlasting hills which you see here, immedi-
_° The Latin Vulgate has it "
tllin discarrarunt supmnamra."
ras nevn.'s n|r.rn'. 333
Ndyovsthe fruitiul Scales of
September. are come to the
meridian, thet.Sagittorius is seen rising south~east by east.
Sogittarim is the only one of the signs ,thot literally is sepe-
1:l.ed_from
his brethren, by falling so much below the tropic of
corn.
ysleph is the only one of the Patriarchs that was ever spoken
rofas standing in any relation to acrown: and the Sagittary is
-the only one ofthe signs ofthe Zodiac in the very. some pre-
dicament, landing, as you see, in immediate contact with the
crown ofthe south. ,
Thus, not more accurately dmwn on the celestial globe, than
in your divine revelation, vi. 2. "
Behold a white horse, and
he that sat on him had a bow, and a crown wesgiven unto himI
andhewentforthcon
'
andtocon er." SothePhi1i
of the Zodiac rides whichq:dmert.
P
Sothe Philipof the gospel remonstrates: "Show us the
Father, and it sufliceth us"-that is, a mere sight of the Sun
will dofor Novemben And so the frony Nimrod of the year
veigps,
es a
king over-conqueredlv tation.
et the dying Israel adds: "
?ero1n thence is the Shepherd,
¢l|c»SIoneqf Isra¢l,"._¢ords which defy all
faculty of inter-
pretation in any other sense. But clear as the day in this truly
magniicent science, Peter is the Stone, to whom Christ com-
mits the core of his sheep: and see ye, airs! lt is the coming
of Sagittarius to the meridian, that muses the Stone, the
Shepherd of Israel, to rise E.N.E. in the horizon; and
Segntarius setting S.W. end W. brings Peter-to the
So that from the :tions of-the one, we find the other, and
"
from thence is tr:Stone, the Shepherd of Israel." V
This
Ls]
all we are forced to believe of Philip,
tbmecause
it is
contain in that of ecclesiastical fiction t is called
sacred. There is Eiiltorne further notice of Philip, in that part
git' ecclesinsticalcriipion, which, not being forced down our
touts, is not at .
-
_
We are instructed by the bishops of the Church of
E|;glmd,
in the bishop's book, Nelson's Festivals, page 202, that hilip,
"'
in the letter end of his life"--that is, I dare my, when it was
getting towards November with him, "came to Hierapolis"-
thutis, the sacred city again;
"
and found that sacred city"
very much addicted to idolatry.
Why yes, sirs, loolr ye here, if that sacred city isn't addicted
to idolstry, worshipping lambs and rams, and bulls and goats,
./'
~334 run nxvufs rnnrxr.
and lions, and oral>s,and lobsters, and mackerel. But, says
the
bishops' book, the Hierapolites were in those days more
particular y addicted to the worshi of a serpent, or dragon, of
"a prodigious bignesa." Saint Phi
`
, by his prayers,procuxed
the death, or, at least, the vanishing those are the very words
of our
bishops) ol' this ihmous serpenti"
But here is Philip, and the prodigiously big serpent too:
and Philip, as
you see,'levela his
bow-arrow at the serpent's
tail, and by coming to the zenith, literally causes the
s?ait,
Hydra, which reaches nearly a third
part of the -
length the
whole
city,
to vanish out of Hierapohs.
And w at did the Hierapolites do to Philip for attacking
their God T '
There must have been some
society
for the suppression of
vice in the city of Hierapolis, to put own the fellow that was
riding the high horse against the established religion of the
count ,
,
Wlliyy the bishops
gravely
tell us, that "the magistrates, being
provoked by the success `bristiaaity had among the people,
put St. Philip into prison."
Why, then, what but solemn thievu, and consecrated
swindlers, were they who called in the power of the law to de-
fend their religion, when it could not be defended with argu-
ment, and put thef man into prison, for ridiculing their folly,
and showing them what a system of idiotish ignorance and
priest¥ imposture, this established religion was.
So hilipsuffeied martyrdom`in Hierapoligwhere he was,
as the bishops would havens to believe,
"
hanged up by the
neck against a
pillar." p. 203; _
A
Now, ye know a man cannot be hanged against a
dpillar,-he
can only be hanged upon a
pillar, or near it, or by e side of
it, or from some beam, or any thing else transverse, or forming
an
angle with the pillar. , . 1
But see, now, how bishops invent gospel. Here actually is
the pillar, the great solstitial colure, passing immediately before
the nose of Saint Philip: and here is Saint Philip hanging by
the neck in the Zodiac; all the rest. of his _body being ,below
the Zodiac, and immediately against this pillar.
So then, gentlemen, I believe I have left nothing unex-
plained of this bit of ecclesiastical horsemanship.
`
END or 'mn
Discovnsn ON SAINT Pmur.
@lt@'@®h1fII'§ amtlmt.
Nu. 22.3 JULY 29, 1831. [Price 1.1.
"
SAINT MATTHEW :
3 &et°mnn, ~
PREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CI-IAPLAIN,TI1E
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B. A.,
AT nu:
norvuna, anacxrfanns nom JUNE 19, 1831.
'A man, named Mat Tlu~w,"-Mnnnzw ix. 2.
l_@_
W1-zu., what of the man named Mat Thew? Why so much
of him, sirs, and no less than affects the merits ofthe most im-
portant question in which man is interested, as is the pivot on
which tums the altemative of thine everlasting destinyl
If the profession of the Christian faith were not a system of
the grossest hypocrisy, a fashionable villany, a licmsed swindle,
cheat, and trick, in the keeping of which each religious scoun-
drel thinks himself authorised in enforcing a seeming and
appearance of consent from others which he could never sin-
cerely yield himself, would it be possible that we should see
every Christian nose in an instant, as it were, tying itself into a
knot of contemptand scorn at the annunciation of any kind of
argument that could hang to the tale ofa man named Matthew,
and shove off' all inquiry with its disdainful-
What qf the man named Mat Thaw? Wan or nur, sirsl
What of him? Is it come to it, then, that a Christian should
unxs
betray to us his own consciousness of connivance with
vol.. 1. Y
836 *ma m:vn.'s Puufrr.
priestly imposture, and that foul hypocrisy of zfalse and wicked
heart, that will, after lending its countenance to the distraining
of the sum of £10,359,560 a
year out of the means of a
country that starves its own inhabitants to keep up the credit
of a story that was told by a man named Matthew ; and, alter
frightening reason from her sat by threatening us with ever-
lasting torment in the red hot blazer of hell fire and brimstone,
if we don't believe the gospel according to the man named
Matthew.
And after we exclaim in anxious terror: We will-we will
believe it-a thousand times believe it-
Only tell us
something about the man who wrote it-
Who was the man named Matthew!
After having thus robbed us, thus terrified, or at least thus
insulted us-do they shirk us oif at last with a
What of the man named Matthew? What consequence can
it be to you to know who the man named Matthew was?
And so their doctrine, after all, is, go to church and chapel,
you fools,-listen to the parson, and shut your eyes, and open
your mouths, and see what God will send you. What matters
.it to you who the man Matthew was, or whether he was a man
or a horse?
Never was the day, never, in all the tide of time, in which
such mighty efforts were made to keep mankind in ignorance;
never were any clergy on earth, Pagan or
Papistical, so opposed
to the diffusion of knowledge, so
desperately afraid of it, and
so bitterly hostile to it, as the Protestant clergy, both of the
established church, and the dissenters of the present day, in this
metropolis.
But ask of any one of them, in his public function, the solu-
tion of any dimculty, on which your mind's peace may be at
stake, in the most respectful manner that you possibly can, the
whole congregation will rise in instant alarm to have you fon-
cibly ejected, as if they looked on you as a mad dog broken ln
among them.
V
TH! DEVILS PULPIT. 337
Ask of any one of them in private to relieve your doubt, or
satisfy your curiosity, you would instantly be disdained as an
insolent and dlfensive intruder, or remanded to such satisfac-
tion as you might derive from listening to their public offi-
ciation.
But one institution exists in the whole country, where any
respectful Question, which any well-meaning man
might wish
to put, would instantly be answered, with critical and scientific
truth, freed from all embargo; and that one institution is in
danger of being shut up for want of means to pay its rent;
and the critical and scientific lecturer there, the only honest
and faithful expounder of the mysteries of theology in the
kingdom, is in danger of being shut up, for his honesty and
his faithfulness, within the dreadful walls of Horsemonger-lane
gaol.
And so, sirs, will this tax-burthened and priest-ridden
country, from age to age, continue to pay its millions upon
millions a-year.
So will the millions of our fellow men in Ireland continues,
from year to year, in contented wretchedness, to whine to us
like hogs that cannot help themselves, for potatoes; to pines,
starve, and die like dogs in ditches; to keep up the pompous
sanctity of a set of reverend knaves in preaching to us their
Matthew's gospel, not one of whom could ever tell us who the
man Matthew was, or would give us any more satisfactory relief
of our
curiosity tha.n such as amounted to a virtual "damn
your impudence for wanting to know." And that's quite as
much knowledge as was ever promoted by the Society for
the Promotion of Christian Knowledge.
`
But we'll know something about the man named Mat Thew;
or, what will do as well, we'll know the reason
why we know
nothing about the man named Mat Thew.
So let the slaves of priestcraft, the gudgeons, ilatiish, and
hlind eels, that they catch in the gospel net, swim down the
ditch of faith into the cesspool of insanity. But here we shall
/
338 'ma Dl'.VlL"S PULPIT.
_
blaspheme and he national. We must know something about
the man named Matthew. We must know all about him.
And for this reason, sirs (and if you 'cannot Dear the reason
you must go to the other shop), that we hold that when a man
has got the credit of having written a
gospel, which we ure
bound to take for gospel, under peril of eternal damnation, the
man who would leave any stone untumed in the way of picking
all possible acquaintance with him, would be a i`ool.
Now the tirst place or
passage in any writing, hook, or part
of any book, or record, profane or sacred, history or romance
in which the name of the man named Matthew occurs, is in
our text, this same ninth verse of the ninth chapter of what is
called "
The Gospel according to St. Matthew."
And here it occurs in the accusative case, Mat Oam, govemed
by the verb silty, he saw, and in conjunction with the noun
under the same grammatical govemment, a»0;w~n'u, which is
translated, a
mrm, that word, so translated, attracting its parti-
cipial adjectives, na0n;.mov, sitting,-that is, a man sitting, and
7wyo_u.xvov, named, or, more literally, called,-thus throwing up
so much information as a man sitting culled Mat Wzew, with
the further predication of what he was sitting tm, or nt-that is,
his chair or table-tm -ro 'rtAumov, which the best Latin versions
render sedentrm in Tklonio, which in English should be "
sit-
ting in a Tr:r.oN|vM ; and which, for all that can be shown to
the contrary, might mean sitting in a wheelbarrow; but which
our English translators, taking an audacious liberty with the
sacred text, instead of confining themselves to the business of
translation merely, have presumed to interpret for us, which
they had no
right to do; they have added tothe text the gloss _
of their own
impudence, and rendered what should have been
sitting in a telonium, in the long periphrasis, sitting at the re-
ceipt of customs.
The variation may seem but trifling to uncritical and uncu-
tious bnalams of the gospel that can swallow any thing, but
to ns, who would not handle the word of God deceitfully, and
rm: nsvtr.'s PULPIT. 339
I sincerely hold this to be the word of God, it makes no less
difference than that of turning it into the word of the Devil.
As the text stands in our English Testaments,
"
And as
Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man, named Matthew,
sitting at the receipt of customs, and he saith unto him,
'
follow
me ;` and he arose and followed him."
It's a downright falsehood. There is not a word in the
original to signify that Matthew was in the receipt of anything,
when he obeyed the command ol' Jesus, and arose and followed
him; and supposing Matthew to have been a Jew, as they tell
us that he was, it is an
attempt to palm on us a greater miracle
than the resurrection of Christ himself ; for who ever heard of
a Jew who would leave his business at the call of either Gbd
or man, when there was anything to he received!
`
If a Jew had ever obeyed the call of'Jesus, we may be sure
it must have been because he was not at the receipt of custom,
and because no better customer than Jesus was likely to call at
his shop.
Sooner might they persuade us that the moon was made ofa
green cheese, than that there was evera disciple of' ltloshesh,
who would leave an
opportunity of fingering a
sixpence, for a
sackful of Christian Salvation.
Besides, the derivative meaning, given by Christian inter-
preters, to 'the name Matthew, signifies civstr, or, a
Rzwann,
which, if it signifies anything, should signify that the man
named Matthew would do nothing but what he would take
care to be rewarded for.
And ifthe Telonium meant the place, as
they tell us, in which
Matthew sat as a custom-house officer, appointed under go-
vernment to receive the customs and charges of freightage ot
the cockboats that sailed on the Galilean puddle, his leaving
his masters' employment and betraying his trust, at the bidding
of the first thief that bid him do so, only shows what an un
principled scoundrel the .man called Mat '1`hew must have been,
and should make us rather wish that such a viliain might be
I
340 'rua nnvufs Punmr.
found to be no re.ation to tne gentleman who wrote the gospel
according to Saint Matthew, than that we should guess them
into one and the same person.
_
And sure, sirs, there is no instance in any rational construc-
tion of langua e among men, in which any author of a treatise
so annihilated dns own memory of his own person, and was so
utterly beside himself, as to introduce his own name and cha-
racter into his treatise, in such a
way as this man named
Matthew has done, if this Matthew was the same as the
Matthew to whom the Gospel according to Saint Matthew was
ascribed.
With as much reason might they tix on
any other name in~
troduced in the course of the gospel, as the name of its author,
as that of the man named Matthew; as I might tix on the name
Belzehub, which occurs in this gospel, and call it the Gospel
according to Saint Belzehub, which "they upon the adverse
faction" would find as much labour to disprove as ever they
could impose on us to prove that it was not the composition of
their runaway custom-house qficer.
Neither is the term which our English renders a man, in the
phrase
a man named Mat Tltew, avdpa, which would have been
iterally a man, and which is the term invariably used, when
nothing more than an ordinary and proper man is intended, but
it is
u.p.9pwvror, which is the figurative and complimentary term
fora man, literally signifying something whose_face is upward, a
lovker up.
Do I mean, then, to question whether a man named Mat
Thew was
really a man? I answer, yesl that's exactly what
I do mean to question ; and for this reason, because there is
nothing in evidence to show but that he might have been a
horse. And none but a fool would ever go before his horse to
market.
To all-gulping and never-chewing Christians, who, while
they treat the holy scriptures with the utmost contempt and
indifference themselves, call us
blaslphemers
for showing them
a higher respect than they know ow to show, this might
appear as mere badinage, and the starting a difficulty and doubt
as to whether so
simple a
phrase as a man named Mat Thew
really means
"
A Mn: named Mat T/new," might look like chi-
caning rather than reasoning. But not so fast! the grounds
and rmsons for that doubt are the very strongest on which ever
doubt was founded. »
Till nlvu. s
P'ULPl1'¢_ 841
For who could have a right to be absolutely sure that a man
means a man in the language of that m sterious,book in which
he is obliged to admit that the Sou or §/IAN does not mean the
Son cf a Mun, Christ being always called wo; av9pum-a, never'
wo; ardpcg -that is, always the Son of Man in the figurative
term for man, never the Son of Man in the literal one, as most
certainly in that sense he was never the Son Q/`a Man.
But not only was the Son of Man not the Son of Man, but
the Son of Man was not a man at all; the holy scriptures most
emphatically admonishing us, that he was
only
"
found in
fashion as a man," Philip ii. 8; that only being one of his
fashions which very soon went out of fashion, as in Mat. xvi. 13.
You will find that "
when he was come into the coast of
Caasarea (that is to say, seize him here) Philippi (of Philip, the
lover of a horse)-it was a question, that flesh and blood
could not settle, whether he was a man or horse. And so at
Caesarea Philippi, no where else, and at no other time, but
when he was come to Casarea Philippi. Why at Casarea
Philippi? Eternal Godl we'll meet him at Philippi ! There
he pro oses the avowed problem,
"
Whom say they that I the
Son ofPMan am ?" And one guesses that the Son of Man is
Elias-that is, Hsuos, the Sun itself; another guesses that he
is John the Baptist-that is, the constellation of Aquarius, the
Water Bearer; another guesses that he is one of the planets;
at last another guei 3 s that the Son of Man is the Son of God,
and that's the soluton"' of the conundrum.
It is evident, upon this solution, that the word man is syno-
nimous with Gan. The man named Mat Thew may therefore
mean the God named Mat Thew. And this is the only proof
that the clergy themselves could ever adduce, for calling the
word of Mat Thew the word of God. For Mat 'l`hew is not
one word, as it is deceitfully represented so be, but two: and
two of entirely distinct signiticancy,-Mat being the individual
name, and Tzu-:w the family name.
So that whatever the Mar means, we may wipe our feet
upon the mat. But the Tnnw betrays to us, that "
The man
named Mat Thew," most certainly was no man at all. Tnnurn
being the name of the Chief or Supreme God of the Egyptian.
From the Egyptian word Tnztrrn, dropping the cacophony
produced by the repetition of the 9, or rn, at the end, which is
paragogic merely, as the word was
variously spelt, the Greeks
formed their name for the Supreme God 9 anos, which is the
_/'
342 'ran nnvufs runrrr.
basis of our English words theology, and theological. In the
Doric dialect of the Greek, this Theos would be spelt and
written Thaios, which is precisely the word added to the word
Mat, in the Mat Thaios of the Greek Testament.
In the Eolic dialect of the Greek, _
which was the basis of
the Latin tongue, Turzos became Deus : as in our English
coinage, Deus is the sum of all we have to say about the Deity.
Plato, in his treatise, named Philebus, mentions Theuth, the
Supreme God of Egypt. He was looked upon asa great bene-
factor, and the first cultivator of the vine, as is expressed in
that pretty hexameter:
1'l'pw'ro¢; 9w9 adam dplvrotvnv tm Gorpuv evyupuh
b
Thoth _/irst taught how to apply thepruning knyk to the vine
ranch
He was supposed to have invented letters : if so, he certainly
invented the two best inventions that ever were invented, that
is to say, good leaming, of which I have enough, and good
drinking, of which I have not enough. (Drinks)
Suidas calls him Theus ; and says that he was the same as
Arez, which was the name of the God Mars, from whom our
English word for the rough and blustering month of March,
and the Latin name, Annes, the Ram.
So that there's no knowing whether the man, named Mn'
Tnew, may not tum out to be a beast at last.
But it may be asked, how could abrute beast write a
gospel!
Tha.t's soon answered-
A brute beast could quite as
easily write a
gospel as a
rational man could believe one.
And sure, sirs, 'tis monstrous, that any man who believes
that Baalam's ass could preach a sermon, should doubt that my
ass in the world might write the text for it. Nothing is impos-
sible to God.
And that there really was
something of the beast in the cha-
racter of the man named Matthew, or something very beastly
about him, I appeal to the highest authority in this metropolis,
even as high as the top of St. Paul's Cathedral, on the westem
pediment of which, you will see the man, named Matthew, in
company with one of the savagest looking wild beasts of all that
you ever saw in Pidcock's Menagerie.
They say, Pares cum
paribus facilime cong-regantur. Birds
ofa katherjlock together, and it may be so with beasts.
'raa nnvu/s eunmr. 343
But this is certain, however cruel you may take Mat Thew's
lion to be, Matthew himself has a heart of stone.
God Almighty, they» say, says,
"
Thou shalt not make to
thyself any graven image, nor the likeness of any thing that is
in
dHea;enEabove, or
the
Earyh beneath, nor in the water
un ert e arth.' ieascltoo -bo .
But the contemptbf the Christiansizliergy for any command-
ment of God, is as
huge as Saint Paul's Cathedral.
So there stand the graven images, in as naked impudence as
the Venuses, and Tam-o'-Shanters, and Souter Johnnies, on the
Italians' head-boards, as they cry,
"
Combien pour cela_
Monsieur !" ~
But is there no authority for this apparent idolatry? Yes,
the authority of every cathedral or decorated church in
Christendom, the authority ofa thousand altar-pieces of God,
in immediate juxtaposition with this violated commandment.
The authority of all the omarnented title-paces of the Bible
itself, every representation you ever saw, or that ever existed,
in which the man, named Matthew, was re resented, never
ft;iled'
to represent a lion, as a co-essential andrinseparable part
o that representation.
The man named Matthew has something to do with the
beast. But whether it was the man or the beast that wrote the
gospel can only be guessed at on the strong presumption that
it was the beast that wrote it, implied in its not being called
the gospel of Matthew, or by Matthew, as it would have been
had the man named Mat Thew wrote it: but acctutmso to
Mat Thew: that word according being composed of the Latin
word Con, cordis, the heart-that is, agreeably or answering to
the heart.
Now, if the gospel had been agreeable to the man's heart,
and not answered exactly to the lion's heart,--the lion, as being
the
kingdoahebeasts, like all other kings that beasts are subject
to, woul ve tom the man to ieces.
Nor would Mat Thew's gospg be of any authority whatever
among rational men, if it were not supported by the authority of
the royal beasts. And that's the reason why, if a man
speak
his mind too freely against the gospel according to Saint Mat
Thew, the Devil-a-bit does Mat care about it. But the lion
begins to roar, and the jackalls of the gospel, that are always
the lion's providers, will swear that you said it against the
peace of their Sovereign Lord the King, his Crown and Dig-
344 'rua nnvu.'s ruunr.
nlty; and you may reckon it as a bit of the Devil's own luck
if you don`t get Cast into the lion's den.
Never would mankind have believed_ in Matthew's gos l, if
they had not been frightened out of their wits by Matdizwk
lion.
But there are three other gospel-mongers, or
evangelists, as
well as the Anthrope Mat Thew, to whose loving kindness we
are
equally indebted.
There is Saint Mark, with his little Devil, to remind us of
the
characteristiovgenius of his gospel,
"
He that believeth not
shall be damned.
There is Luke, with his mad bull, ready to gore us into sal-
vation : and
There is John, with his eagle, to pluck out the eyes of our
reason.
And each of these monsters, or holy evangelists, as you ob-
serve, has a
royal nature in it-that is, something indescribably
mischievous, savage, and destructive: the lion, being the
king among wild beasts ; the bull, the king over tame animals;
the eagle, the king of things "in Heaven above ;" and the
Devil,or Man-devil, the king of things "in the Earth beneath."
Well, then, may we pray to these royal beasts, or
beastly
kings, and especially I, who, with the eye of faith, do see them,
as it were, on the spring, to lock me in their infernal embraces.
"
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,
Spare the bed which I lie on."
The royal savages are all but readyto murder us in
oursleep.
Their myrmidons are breathing vengeance u on me, for on y
having made a
joke or two against the Holy §criptures. Be-
cause
my jokes set my fellow-creatures a laughing: whereas,
their jokes have never been laughing matters. And they are
for coming the old joke, which they played oil' upon me, when
they clapt me into Oakham Gaol, and then sent the chaplain of
the prison to tell me to
"
stand fast in the liberty wherewith
Christ had made me free."
And then, having seen the action entered against me, and
seen me entered for the endurance of the most cruel perse-
cution their power can inflict, they'll come their other joke of
entering their protest against all sorts of persecution, and assur-
ing me that Christicnity allows of no
persecution, while not a
'lrop_ of water to cool the ma.rtyr's tongue" not a drop of oil on
thc up of a feather te ease the creaking of the hinges, and the
'ran nnvufs Pturrr. ,345
impetuous recoil and jarring sound of their iron bars upon his
wounded ears, will the whole body of the clergy be able to
afford him out of their tiny annuity of 1o,a59,56o1. a
year.
When I lay in Oakham Gaol, the Bishop of Norwich, the
most liberal of the whole Bench of ,
Bishops, sent me word, that
he was sorry for me; but that was all he sent.
There was a joke for ye, sirs, or rather, joke for me; that
was a bishop's joke.
And all, ye see, to keep in their own hands the exclusive
privilege of communicating what they call Christian knowledge,
and teaching the meaning of the holy scriptures.
And you are to give your preachers of the gospel credit for
being ahle to teach you the meaning of the reading of the
book, when you see that those preachers don't themselves know
the meaning ofthe pictures. The best part of every book in the
world is the pictures. Even a sensible child might put your
folly to the blush, if he saw you so inveterate a fool as to fancy
that you could understand the meaning of the book, when you
did not understand the meaning of the pictures. The pictures,
sirs, the pictures!
Not till the days of the interference of our Protestant and
Dissenterian preachers in the publication and circulation of
Bibles and Testaments, was an authorised edition of the four
gospels ever put forth, without presenting an equally authorised
representation of the four evangelists with the four royal beasts
by which they are respectively distinguished,-the lion, for
Matthew; the angel, for Mark; the bull, for Luke; and the
eagle, for John. But the Protestant priests, the most deceitful
of all deceivers of the people, beginning to fear that the people
might acquire wit enough to ask for the meaning of those four
royal beasts, have swindled away the old title-page, and substi-
tuted one with only two royal beasts in it.
"
The lion and the unicorn, a fighting forthe crown."
And God grant that they may fight for it, till they kill each
other, and so not a single royal beast be left to worry our lives
out for the sake of keeping u his crown and dignity.
But now for what your grotestant priests never dared to
Tst you with, or nevcr knew themselves, the meaning of all
is.
Refuse to think that what I offer you is sooth and truth, as
long as ye can refuse to think so. Withhold your assent as
long as ye can withhold. it. Only lend me
your attention, and
_.F
346 _
-run nrfv nfs ruuur.
you shall lend me nothing else: I will not borrow your con-
viction, nor
pay it ye back again. 1 will steal it, and keep i*
for ever. Thus, sirs,
'
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, whoever or whatever they
were, were
divinely inspired. Ve well, 1 suppose they were
so. And if they were, they mustrlyiave had something in them
not common to the nature of man. The divine light shone in
them in a
very peculiar manner.
But if the divine light shone in them, the divine light must
have been less light than the light of the kitchen grease in the
Eper
lanthorn that illuminates the edge of a Billinsgate sprat-
sket, if it hadn't shone in the wild-beasts as well as the wild
evangelists.
But if it was the understandings only of the evangelists that
were illuminated, the Devil's in it if the tour-footed beast has
not twice the understanding of a two-legged beast to be illu~
minated.
And if it be urged that light is only of use to tnosewho have
eyes to see with: why, then, the more eyes any thing has, the
more light it must want. Now, the four evangelists laboured
under the misfortune of having but one single pair of eyes
a-piece, and those little better than buried .alive in their fore-
heuds; but the four beasts. with whom they are invariably
attended, are described in the 4th of Revelations, as being full
of eyes, before and behind, so that they could- see with their
tails: and not only were they full of eyes before and behind,
but it is added,
"
they werefull Q/'eyes VIITIIIN."
A most wonderful provision that against their catching the
cholera morbus ; for the moment they felt they didn't know how,
they had only to look at their own tripes to see what was the
matter with them.
That they are the very same beasts as those which ever ac-
company the four evangelists, is defined in the sacred text, with
the accuracy of natural history. "The first beast," says the
holy apostle, "was like a lion; and the second beast like a
calf; and the third beast had a. face as a man; and the fourth
beast was like a
flying eagle."-Rev. iv. 7. And these four
beasts were not merely before the throne ol' God, or round
about the throne of God; but they were in the midst of the
throne, where none could he but Cod-that is, they were none
other than God mmself---that is, the All-seeing God, who
having to see all things, must of course have employment
was navu.'s runrrr. 347
enough for all his eyes; and, indeed, for a few more, in order
to let some cf them get a wink of sleep, while the others are
on duty. But as it is, the holy apostle says,
"
they rest not
day nor night."
Come, then, bright science, from thy starry throne, and
enable us to rescue the spell-bound reason of men from the
accursed bondage of those priestly thieves who preach a
gospel
to their choused hearers, which they never believe themselves,
which not one of them dared trust himself to defend by argu-
ment before rational men, and which is only kept up in a
mockery of respect by the terror of their prisons, the pomp of
their priests, and the bayonets of their soldiers.
Here, sirs, are Mat Thew, Mark, Luke, and John, answer-
ing to every one ofthe predications of the four evangelists, not
excepting one, or
leaving a defect of demonstration for chicane
to hang a doubt on.
Here are the four royal stars, an they were through etemal
ages of by-gone time, located in the visible heavens, to mark
the place which the Sun nears or approaches, as he annually
divides to us the four seasons of lhe year.
Saints they were called, and Saints really they are, that name
signifying, as'it.s derivation betrays, Suns, as each of the fixed
Stars is a Sun; and which the circular halo of rays, with which
the heads of their efligies were surrounded expressly acknow-
ledged ;evangelists they were, because their office was "to
preach the acceptable year ofthe Lord," and to mark the predi-
cament of Evan-that is, of Bacchus, the Sun, through the
four seasons.
Fova they are, because tnere are but four seasons of the year,
over which these four royal Stars reside.
Matthew, Mark, Luke, and .l)ohn, they are names never
found in the language of any Jewish nation upon earth: but
betraying in their derivation the most accurate description of
the four royal Stars.
Regulus, which is Saint Matthew, or Cor Leonis, the heart
of the lion, which the Sun enters about the 2d of July, and
leaves about the 23d of August, when the earth begins to give
her fruits; and thence this Star' gets the name of Saint Mat
Thew, which is, most literally, the Sun, the girl, the God, t.he
most exnressive designation. ofthe Sun's bounty, and of tho
heat at that season. And here is Matthew, not only with his
lion, but in his lion, the very heart of the linn. And here is
848 rn: navnfs vunrtr.
thc beast in the tnrone of God, and see if he is not full of eyes,
before and behind. He has got an eye in his tail, Deneb, and
the eye within him, which is his heart itself; and these eyes
never slee , they rest not
day nor night.
Formallliiaut, in the Fishes mouth, Jonah in the whale's belly,
swallowing the water which is effused from the urn of the
A uarius of January, is the Saint Mark.
hat word Marcus literally signifying the polite or
shining
one, the most beautiful definition you could inventfor the shin-
ing Formalhaut, who is the only one of the four whose accom-
panying genius is a human being, Marcus being believed to
ave
composed his gospel under the dictation of Saint Peter:
and here, sirs, is Peter, pouring it forth, and Mark swallowing
it,as fastas he can swallow; and I need not tell you that there's
a
good deal for him to swallow.
Aldebaran is the bull's eye, the unequivocal elymon, both of
the name and symbol of St. Luke, with his bull.
The word Luke, literally signifying the luminous, the very
tenn than which you could find no other to ex ress the magni-
ficent red-looking Star, which you see a little above, and west-
ward of Orion, and which you have never looked at the Stars
in your lives nor, I
guess,
at any thing else, if you have not
sheen,
and which the un is directly upon, about the 28th of
a .
'
Karanas, in the Scorpion, which the Sun is directly u n,
on the 29th of November, is Saint John: that I, the (?r?e;
(/um, the Being; ns, the Fire: this being the brightest ofthem
all, the
disciple which Jesus loved,-que les Remains appel-
loient Paricihenne.
The colour, the apparent sizes, the geometrical figures which
these four Stars of the first magnitude presented to the eyes of
the lirst observers of nature, and would present to us still, had
not our Christian priests, in a moral sense,
put
out the eye: of
the
people; but, above all, their neighbour ood to the Equi-
nocual and Lsolstitial points, caused them to be marked as fixed
points from which to measure and determine the progressive
maich of the Sun, of the Moon, and the live other moveable
Stars, or Planets; and, consequently, of thetime of the year,
oftl.e seasons, and in necessary association, of the progress of
vegttation, of heat and cold, of winds and tem ts, and thus
entuely of all the phmnomena of nature, to be diselopcdin the
revoiuuon of "
theacocptable year of the Lord."
was nnvufs runrrr. 349
These four royal Stars, therefore, could not have failed of
attracting observance, in every age, in every country, where
man had been capable of observance, wherever "
seed time and
harvest, summer and winter, day and night, had been observed."
They could not have failed of being observed as the authors of
divine knowledge to man. They could not have failed of being
worshipped by all the worshippers of the hosts of Heaven, as
they are at this day in the Church of Rome, with a
worship
only secondary to that of .evau-that is, Christ, Bacchus him-
self. They could not have been honoured with any honour
heterogene to that of the four holy evangelists. They could
not have been named with names more expressive of their ap-
pearance and relations than
Mat Thew, the giving God.
Marc, the polished.
Luke, the resplendent.
John, the Fiery.
Regulus, the Little King.
For-mal-haut, the Arabic for the Fishes' Mouth,
Aldebaran, the Arabic forthe Bull's Eye: and
Antares, the Scorpion's Heart :
Which are their name s
upon the celestial globe, are absolutely
?s}s expressive than *he names Matthew, Mark, Luxe, ana
o n.
Two of them.-i. e., the Stars Luke and Iohn, are red : and
glue
other two, Matthew and Mark, are white or
pale-looking
IBIS.
And they are
placed* in such opposition to each other, that
when one of the red ones is at the meridian, the other is its
direct antipode in the middle of its course under the earth. So
with the white ones.
The two, Luke and John, are laced near the colure of the
Equinoxes, and were þÿCOIlSid¬l¬J)
as the sentinels who kept
guard, separating the long days from the long nights.
The two, Matthew and Mark-i.e. Regulus and Fornialhaut,
guarded the limits of the Sun's highest and lowest parallel of
declination, Summer and Winter.
As Matthew's is the longest, and Mark's the shortest gospel,
Luke's and John's, like Spring and Autumn, are about of an
equal length.
Saints they are, that name literally signifying what the rays
round their heads pictorially signify : they are Suns.
350 'run nevnis runnr.
Now, sirs, with our most certain historical knowledge,
seconding these astronomical demonstrations. lst. That the
Bishops of the Egyptian Idol Serapis, in the time of the Em-
peror Adrian, were called Bishops of Christ. 2d. That the
sign or sacred symbol of that idol was the sign qf the Cross-
that is, in the processions or
religious marches of these astrono-
mical priests, there were carried certain sacred rpelhs, or
holy
books, which detailed the history of the Sun in his annual
revolution, under the allegory of a
crucified man, whose name
was J asus: and that the number of those books was_fbilf : and
that the name of those books was none other than the equivalent
of thefour gospels: and that the authority to which they were
ascribed, was none other than that ofihefour evangelists.
And that for making these magnificent discoveries to an
insulted people, your Christian gospel preachers, unable to find
a man among them that can answer me, like Moses in the
Exodus, are looking this way and that way for their opportunity
to
"
smite me in the back, and bury me in the sand," to
huddle me OH' the stage of public observance into the dark cells
of their Horsemonger-lane Gaul.
I have but one
argument with ye: if there dwells a noble
nature m ye, let 'em not do it!
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON SAINT MATTHEW.
ww awhile mtttmt.
°
"
AND A BDNNIE PULPIT IT IS."-Allan Olmnhlgllarn.
No. 23.] AUGUST 5, 1831.
[Price_1d.
THE REDEEMER:
5 éermnn,
PREACHED BY HIS HIGHNESS'S CHAPLAIN, THE
REV. ROBERT TAYLOR, B.A.
AT 'nm nornnne, BLA
cxrnuns-noen, um: -1, 1831.
1-1-__..i.__
"
I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at
the latter day upon the Earth. And though qfler my Skin
worms
destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God;
whom I shall see _fbr mysem and mine eyes sluzll behold, and
not another."-Jon xix. 25.
(_
,_
.__»
"I xnow that my Redeemer liveth," saith the holy Job.
And I know so too: nor does their breathe on earth a man
who hath higher respect for the text of this sacred passage, or
a firmer conviotion of the tnmth that it contains, than he, whom
professing Christians designate as the Devil's Chaplain; and
whom the Society for the Suppression of Vice have branded as
a wicked and evil-disposedperson.
What, then, is the cause of the difference between us, if I
respect the Scriptures as much as
they do. This it is: they
respect them, because they know nothing about them; I re-
YOL. L Z
352 me navufs runrtr.
spect them, because I know all about them. They, like the
devils believe and n-emble at them: I, like a rational man,
understand and laugh at them.
What, then, is the difference, 'twixt their Sxith and mine?
'I'heirs bids them lift their dagger to my throat. Mine doth
forgive the wrong, and bids them hear me. Only hear me,-
e'en upon no other covenant than the challenge. Strike, but
hear mel And if they would only hear me, the Eiult should
all be mine if they struck at all. If they would only hear me,
I have a
magic that would unnerve the uplifted arm; I could
put a spell upon them, of power to tame the savage breast, to
soften rocks, and bend the gnarled oak.
Of the thousands and tens of thousands who rail against me
and persecute me, by forbidding all friends of theirs to become
friends of mine-the most cruel mode of persecution-how
many are there, who ever exchanged a single word with me?
I have no enemy on earth who hears me. All I complain
of is, of being hated, because unknown ; and condemned,
because unheard. Of the whole body of the Society for the
Suppression Qf Vice, whose subscriptions supply the fund,
which, in the event of their success, is to buy away my property,
my good name, my liberty, and all that is dear to a good man,
how many are there, who have once so much as heard me,
or read my writings, `or could with honour say that of their
own
knowledge they -knew me to be such a man as ought to be
punished,-as ought not to be allowed to enjoy his life and
liberty. Not one of them, sirs,-not one.
And this, sirs, is what the Society for the Suppression of
Vice-that is, the Bishops, Archdeacons, Reverend Rectors,
and Vicars, Right Honourable Lords, and Honourable Baronets,
ho constitute the Society, call Justice. They club together
out of their enormous wealth to supply the fund, with which to
buy up the testimony of the dirty thieves that will, for money,
swear them any thing, and to pay the dirty counsel, that will,
'ran r>evn.'s PULPIT. 353~
formoney, plead them any' thing, to crush a. solitary unsup-
ported individual, whose only means of subsistence is his in-
tellectual labour,-whose only claim to distinction is his hard-
earned learning, whose only riches is the good esteem which
he hath earned in the judgments of all good men.
And, like the wolf that only wanted to play with the kid, if
he would but come down from the shed, and to tickle him
under the throat a little bit, just no more than to make him
squeak, and to show him how far they are from any thing like
a vindictive spirit, and how entirely their gospel forbids any
thing like persecutious for religious opinions: they will per-
suade the jury that they may be safely trusted with the power
which an adverse verdict would give them, for God forbid
and jhr be it _fi-om them, and all the rest on't, that they should
seek any further object than the mere suppression of an in-
tolerable nuisanoe, and that the defendant be for mere form
sake lined _[ive shillings, reprimanded by the court, and dis-
charged.
They have no ill-will against the .defendant as an individuali
they have no desires to suppress the free and uncontrolled dis-
cussion of any opinions whatever: they are as far from a spirit
of bigotryand intolerance as the sun's disk from darkness.
Till the choused and cheated jury, giving them credit for all
these liberal professions, and thinking the punishment of so
trifling a sentence, even if it should not be exactly just to the
defendant, less than the inconvenience of being shut up all
night to themselves, will heedlessly and idly pronounce the
fatal verdict, that will bring the poor kid down from the
sheltering shed, to the proof of the sincerity of their woltish
pretensions.
Then, when they shall have got the verdict, then, like the
city sledge hammer, will they come down with vengeance,
then will the wolves show their teeth, the aspect of things wgl
be altered, then the mere Jive shilling fine, which might have
/"
354 -rn: nsvuh roam.
been all the punishment which the jury had meditated, will be
turned into the forfeiture of 1,oool. as part of the sentence
passed on him, upon his last conviction, 5001. of which must
be taken out of the pockets of the best and dearest hiends he
ever had on earth, and so wound him through them.
And what sort of a wound that must be, I put it tothe
feelings of every man in this assembly, who ever had stroll
liiends, or was worthy to havethem, to feel for him.
Then, too, it willbe remembered, that lawsare of no avail
if theyare never to be put into execution: and the law ex-
pressly awards, that the ptmishmcnt for blasphemy, upon a
second conviction, shall be tmnsportation for life.
'Ihe Court, however, always tempering Justice with Mercy,
Ind yielding to the earnest solicitations of the prosecutors
lhemselves, to whom the defendant oughtto feel himself ini-
uitely indebted, will insist on no more than the payment of the
line of the thousand pounds incurred upon the previous con-
viction, and which they know that it is absolutely impossible
that it should be paid. And to be further imprisoned, till-
till e'en as long as they please.
Go, Christian, goand smell the sweetand wholesome air,
of which God hath given the free enjoyment to every thing
that breathes, and then say, by God and by his everlasting truth
and mercy, who are thewsbked and evil-disposed persons,-the
Society for the Suppression of Vice .who seek to deprive him
of that precious right,-or the man, of whom not a single membs
of that society can show that he ever did a
wrong to any man.
But the clergy, the 'patrons of this Society, say of him, as
their prototypes, the chief priests and plmrisees of the gospel
said of Christ, he hath spoken blasphemy, and in the most
literal analogy to the type of the gospel, the chief priests, the
clergy, and the church patrons of this Persecution Society, act
from the back ground; they strike from behind a screen, not
bringing the accusation directly in their own persons, but
'rar navn.'s runrxr. 355
hiring and suboming two false witnesses, to report aomethig
that he had said, which they did not understand, and did nd
wish to understand, and which, being reported, without any
notice of what was said before or ailer, or in what relevancy,
or to what end, might have the same appearance of strangetlul
and vildness, as if he had said,
"
Destroy this temple aid in
Ntrec days I will build it up again."
And his discourses, of which all men of scieB¢B and learning
who have ever heard them, have ever acknowledged to be most
truly learned, and most demoustratively scientific, have been
served up to his persecutors, in Lincolu's Inn, who will handle
them with just as much criticism, and just as much ability and
disposition to understand them, as might he expected for h¢
diagrams of Euclid, [when submitted to the criticism of that
most genuine House of Lords, a pig-stye.
I have been engaged in enuoleating the bright gems of
science, hid in the shell of religious allegory,
The splendour of those illustrations begins to fish into the
dark caverns of priestly wickedness: and the priests, purposely
averting their eyes from the light, have set their dogs at 11103
as well knowing, that though the light cannot be refuted, it may
he extinguished; though they cannot answer their opponent,
they can destroy him.
I retum, aswell as I can, to the business which the text more
immediaiely propounds, in the illustration of which I hope to
add another to the thousand proofs that the world possesses,
that the prosecution against me is really none other than the'
war of barharous ignorance, and cruel fanaticism, against in-
telligence and virtue. Another effort (may it he the last l) of
priestly villany to prevent the dilfusion of knowledge, and to
perpetuate the reign of superstition and madness among men.
Independently of the sublime astronomical science, veiled
under the allegory of s cmcilied Saviour, the allegory discovers,
in innumerable episodes and underplots, subordinate to the
356 -ras nuvufs runnr.
main design, an eamest effort on the part of the allegorists to
attach a moral corollary to their gospel. .
But unfortunately, the moral of the story has ever been that
part of it which Christians, in all ages, have been, of all men
in the world, least disposed to attend to.
So that it is hard to say whether the science of the gospel
has been more above their understandings, orits moral, opposed
to their conduct.
-'No sooner was believing the gross sense of' the dead and
deadly letter of the text of the New Testament, substituted in
the place of a critical and philosophical understanding of its
spirit and intention, than a fierce and furious zeal for the gospel
was allowed to supersede all necessity of obedience to its moral
inference.
The moral detail, drawn out on the scientific ground-work
ofthe natural phenomena of "
the acceptablelyeor of the Lord,"
the allegorised history of the Sun, exhibited to the perceptions
of the wise, the wrongs and sorrows, which the princqzle of
reason would have to undergo, ere it would come to
triumph,
as
ultimately it will, over berbarous ignorance and sanctified
maliguity. _
The princqzle of reason, the Logos, science, or truth itself
personified, is the Jes-ur of the fable; the representatives of
barbarous ignorance are the Jewish rabblement, the religious
church and chapel-going villains, egged on by their priests and
preachers, and Methodist persons, to cry out against him, they
know not wherefore; and to hate him, for they know not
what.
'Ihe chief priests and elders, and all the council, seeking for
false witness against him (and very easily finding it, be sure
on't), are the Society for the Suppression of Vice, with the
clergy and dignitaries of the church at their head, not acting
openly and above board, but in cotmcil, and secret cabal, em-
ploying their wealth to
defray the expenses of the prosecution,
.Inn nnvrnls unrir. 357
and urging on the 'blackguard people of God tocry erucgfy him !
crucgfy him! and to the reasonable question,
"
Why, what evil
hath he done ?" to cry out so much the more, Let him be cruci-
fied. So that when the deed shall have been done, each parti-
cular reverend and right reverend may still be able to lay claim
to the praise of setting his face against all sorts of persecution,
and to say, like the Scottish murderer to the ghost of Banquo :
"
Tluntoanlhwfmyldtdit/"
It is obvious, then, to all impartial criticism, that the gospels,
though their details are various, and their particular incidents
wholly irreconcileable with each other, are not in the least
degree false or contradictory, because the detail and the inci-
dents are no essentialities of it.
'
~
'I'he moral is wholly unaffected, however the circumstances
of the allegory may be varied.
The only line of truth to be observed, and which is not, and
may notbe compromised, is, that in whatever way, and by
whatever means, it is always ignorance and prejudice that seek
the destruction of learning and virtue; it is always the self-in-
terested and the crafty who excite that prejudice, and en-
deavour to perpetuate that ignorance.
From which the moral is, to the good and the wise, that they
should learn to meet with fortitude, to bear with patience, and
to forgive with boundless philanthropy, the persecutions and
wrongs, from which perfection itself could not be exempted.
The admonition to the less learned and less wise (0 that
they would take it in good part l) is, how little they should
trust themselves to be ruled by priests, and how the man whom
their priests have delivered over to their prejudice, might, if
they had but done themselves the justice to inquire into his
character, prove to be their best and greatest benefactor. This
is really the moral of the gospel. But in the main design of
sacred writ, the scope and interpretation is entirely a matter
of science, and the moral only contingent, as a moral might
358 'rin n|vu.'s nun.
attachtothcgameofchesa, ortoaprohlemin Euclid,in
which the moral ideas of precision and accuracy, ot' method in
conduct, of order, of justice, ot' truth, cannot be separated
from our observance of the beauty we perceive, and the
leasnre we derive, in the accuracy of the scientific demonstra-
hon.
'Hue text--" I know that my Rcdeeiner livetla," kc., is of this
entirely scientilic character, and the moral corollary, no
part of
the proposition itself, is nothing more than an inference as to
the pleasures of hope in any object, and the utilities which the
of hope may subscrve in strengthening a lnan's
courage to contend with the ditliculties of his immediate situa-
HOD.
The words of the text derive a peculiar solemnity tiom the
circumstance of their being read in the oltice for the burial of
the dead, and a peculiar familiarity to the minds of musical
amateurs, from their forming the most magnilicent anthem in
the oratorio of the Messiah,-the sound being the only part of
the business which Christians have ever attmded to.
But the meaning of it? 0 God, none but an intidel would
ever have dreamed of its having any meaning. The moment
you begin to want to know the meaning of a.
thing, your
Christian neighbours will put you down as, "a wicked and
end-disposed person." When you seek to be wise above what
is written, though what is written be the greatest nonsense that
ever was written, they consider you as a dangerous man,an
immoral character, one whose conversation is to be avoided,
whose company is to be shunned. Men would grow wiser for
it, you see; and the consequence would be, that the empire of
folly and fanaticism would be endangered, and olergymen would
not beahle to get a living.
So it's enough for them to know that somebody said-
though the Devil may care who-that he "
knew that his Re~
deemer was alive; and that after he was dead, he would be
ru nzvlns runrrr. 359
alive himself." And then about his ilesh and his skin, and
the worm's meat, coming to life, again (which it is devilishly
like to do).
And then, when all the kin was off, raw-head and bloody-
boues was to see God, in his jksh,--in his _/lah, Without SDY
Skill on it, a pretty pickle to see God in I Nobody being able'
to tell us, whether it was the man thatwas to see God in his
own Gash, or whether God was going to run away with the
man's flesh.
But as for the skin, that seems to have been not worth a
resurrection, it was more holy than righteous, the worms might
have that.
Go, ask your clergy to show you some relevancy in all this
jumble of absurdity, some method in this language of apparent
madnes ; some sense of it, in the understanding of which, a
man may stand excused to his own reason, for pronouncing it
to be reasonable. They cannot do so. All that they can do,
is to wam
you not to go near the Rotunda, where you will find
a man who can : and so they club together in their dark
coteries, to accuse him of reviling Scripture, who never reviled
any thing but their most gross and iilthy misunderstandings of
Scripture: and of biaspheming the word of God, who never
blasphemed any thing but the corrupt glosses and false inter-
pretations, which they have put on Scripture; and which, he-
cause they dared not submit them to the trial of discussion,
they seek to defend by the tyrannous arm of power.
But see, now, ye who love truth, and hold learning and
science to he more respectable than sanctified insanity, and
slohbering Grace qf Godsltqz, what the text of sacred writ will
become when shone on by the bright light of critical erudition.
How infinitely superior in sense, how exalted in signiiicancy,
how sublime in sciene, how rich of instruction I
The passage is introduced by a most sublime summons on
.ourseverest attention.
»
360 nm navufs rnnrrr.
"
Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with
my_jlesh?"
"O that my words were now 'written ; 0 that they were
printed in a book." Printed in a book is a
devilishly awkward
fig-ure of speech for a man to have hit upon, three or four
thousand years before printing was invented-" that they were
graven in an iron pen, and lead in the rock for ever." It ends
with the words-" Yet in my _flesh shall I see God, whom I
shall see
for myself] and mine eyes shall behohi, and not another
though my reins be consumed within me." .
The very striking and infinitely important variations of the
Greek and Latin from our
English translation, and probably
of the Hebrew text, which is itself but a translation from the
original Arabic, stand in demonstrative proof, that the effort
of the English translators has been precisely that of our Pro-
testant clergy, at this day-that is, not to discover the meaning
'of the text, but as much as possible to conceal it; not to in-
struct the people, but to keep them ignorance.
The Latin Vulgate has it,
"
I know that my Redeemer lioeth
and in the last day I shall rise up out of the Earth. And again
I shall be invested with my skin, and in my_/lesh I shall see my
Gadz" and for the words,
"
though my reins be consumed
within me :" the Latin has it,
"
This hope ir laid up in my
bosom."-(Sinus.) The Greek of the Septuagint has it,
"
For
I know that he who shall liberate me is perpetually dwelling in
the Temple over the Earth. My skin which pumps up these
shall rice again. For these things are accomplished for me,
hefore the Lord, which thing I (understand or) represent in my
own person, which things my eye hath seen, and not another.
For all things are perfected to me, in my breast."
"
Osh fyap a~r» amaof roms 6 notuuv pr p.rAAwv, wt yag, awa-
tr-rna-ai 'ra lippa pa 'ro avarrksv fawrat, rxpa yup
Kvgm
-rawa
pos o'un-n7u¢r9n- A vyw r/.icturu 'a'uw|na~ray.cu li o o¢ at7p.o;_ |18
supatxr, :tau ex oa7>»0s 'rarro limi avrr|'rr?ua°'rau tr xohwu.
l
'ran nsvufs snarrr. 301
A little bit of difference that, I believe, from any thing that
.appears in your vulgar tongue! The Devil-a-word about the
warm's meat: and the rot in the man's loins, or of any such
stud, as eould serve for a basis of the Bedlamite idea, that
dead men's flesh, after having been eaten by worms, and
undergone a million of decompositions and recompositions,
through millions of millions of years, should appear alive again.
Who, then, was Jon? 'l'he leamed Jewish Rabbis, who have
plagiarised this work from the Chaldean and Arabian astrono-
mers, admit that he was a mere personification, an imaginary
being, that never had any existence but in poetry and fiction.
Though a
poor guess has been made, to identify him with
Jobab, the lifth descendant from Abraham, from the similarity
ofthe name Job, to that of Jobab in the series,
"
Abraham be-
gat Isaac, Isaac begat Esau, Esau begat Ruel, Ruel begat
Cruel, and Cruel begat Jobab.
But without the addition ol' a single latter to the name,
without any variation at all, but our remembrance that the
Greeks, who have no letter V in their alphabet, but always re-
presented that letter by a B, as they wrote
Cryynaog for Virgilius,
and
2sCnpo; for Severus. So they must have written and could
have written in no other way than Jon for Jovr.. And, says
the leamed Bryant, there is good reason to think that Jehovah,
the name of the God of Israel, underwent a like cha.nge, and
was converted to IuC¢, by the Africans pronounced .Tuba,
which, in Latin, signifies the feathers in a cock's neck, which
he holds up when he lights ; also the red Besh, like crests in a
snake's neck, precisely such as were the form and shape of the
Holy Ghost, when he sat in tongues of 'Aire upon the heads of
the apostles, on the day of Pentecost; and, as you see them
here upon the heads of my two celestial fighting cocks, Castor
and Pollux, the Twins of May, the Holy Ghost always being
famous for making people devilish hot-headed, giving them th¢
gift of the gala, and setting them a fighting.
If
362 'mn nnvufs Prznru.
As certainly, then, as air maybe proved to be the same as
half-a-dozen, is it proved that Job, and Jove, and Jehovah,
are penoniiicstions of the one, and the self-same great Themes
of all allegory, the Sun and the Year.
And the perfect and upright man of the East, with his Seven
Sons, and three daughters, tempted by Satan, and falling into
great alliction, and then getting out of his afliiction, and be-
coming as prosperous as ever, and finding his seven sons and
three daughters alive again, and none the worse for having all
been killed, at the beginning of the story, is a Chaldean
gospel, precisely of the character ofour Egyptian fable of
Jesus Christ, of which the gist was nothing more than the
natural history of the year, which has the seven summer
months, from March to September forits sons : the three extra-
zodiacal feminine constellations for its three daughters, the
Old Mother Virgin Mary, that tempts him to curse God and
die, for his wife, and Bootes, Hercules, and Serpentarius, for
his comforters, who descended with him into his state of amic-
tion, when below the Equator : in which, as if almost by the
pun itself] Old Bootos, or Boots, is Bildad, the Shootie ; Serg
pentarius is Zophar, the Naamathite; hnd Hercules is Eli-
phaz, the Temanite.
While God is invariably the Gad of the tribes of Israel-
that is, the Ram of the signs ofthe Zodiac.
Hence, in strict observance of the astronomical analogies,
.God, the Sun in the constellation of Aries the Ram, asks Job
or Jove the year, in his state of dejection, utter the Autnmnal
Equinox-Cans# than bind the sweet iq/lueacesof the Pleiades,
or loose the bands of Orion f Coast thou bringforth the hubs
signs in the season ? or canst thou guide Arcturus with his
Sons P Where the names of these constellations are precisely
the same as
they are on our celestial globe, at this day, and the
Pleiades, Arcturus, and Orion, though so manifestly none other
than names of the fixed stars, are spoken o£ as much as if they
'
'rua nnvn.'s runrrr. 363
were real persouages, and certainly they are quite as much so
as Job and his three friends, or God and the Devil, who each
sustain their respective parts in this beautiful astronomical
drama.
Hence, with that perfect astronomical science, which had
ascertained the motion of the precession of the Equinoxes, to
the accuracy of determining that motion to be 50" 9"', and
three-fourths of a third ofa degree in a
year, an accuracy which
our Herschels, Haleys, and Sir Isaac Newtons have never been
able to surpass or to dispute, the great astronomer, speaking
infthe dramatic character of Jove, or Job, the allegorical genius
of the year, has those remarkable words, in the 31st chapter,
"
I have made a Covenant wilh nine eyes, why then should I
lhink upon a Maid T'
Than which, for any sense that your clergy could ever put
upon it, more idiotish nonosnse never echoed within the walls
of a madhouse.
For what should hinder a man from thinking of a maid?
Or what would the maids think of us, if we never
thought of
them ? Or why did God give a man
eyes at all, if the bargain
is to be, that there should be any harm in using them to look
upon the loveliest thing that eyes did ever see.
But look at the beautiful result of the astronomical enuclea-
tion : the fruits ofthe earth are to be patiently waited for till thc
season of their maturity-that is, of the coming of the Sun in
his path in the Ecliptic, to the line of the Equator. This
covenant takes place, not in Virgo, the Virgin of August, but
in Libra, the Balance of September. Hence the astronomical
accuracy of the Apophthegm, "I have made a covenant with
mine eyes,"-that is, I have observed the place of the Autum.
nal Equinox, byastronomical observation,-I have ascertained
that it takes place in the Balance of September,-why, then,
should I think of finding it in the Virgin of August.
And now, sire, bring our science to the text. And it is no
A
364 'run nlvu.'s Punrir.
longer obscure, that the declining year should say to the con-
stellations, whose ascendancy marks the Autumnsl period,
"
Why should you persecute me,"-that is, come aRer me,
'
as
God "-that is, as God persecutes, or drives along the whole'
glorious company of the apostles,
"
and are not satisfiedwith my
flesh "-that is, with havingenjoyedthe animal food, which the
year supplies in Spring;
"
but are thirsting for my blood"-that
is, the rich juice of the grape, which the'year gives in Autumn.
Then, have we in most accurate analogy, the clear and
beautiful language of the nan, mer having shed his blood in
Autumn, consoling himself with the assurance that the Sun,
which every year redeem, or brings the year round again, still
liveth : and "
in my jlesh," says he-that is, the Hesh, the
mutton and beef of March and April, which comes immedi-
ately in succession after the iish of February," shall I see God."
Thus, according to the Latin text, "I know that my Re-
dqemerliveth, and at the last day I shall rise up out of the
Earth, and again 1 shall be invested with my skin," the last
day, or the latter day, is the last day of the old, and the first
day of the new year, when the yearwas reckoned to begin
from the commencement of the Spring Quarter. l
And then it is, that the Sunappears in the mutton of March.
Jesus has redeemed his lost sheep, Jason has brought back the
Golden Fleece, and Job is re-invested with his skin.
And thus, sirs, without believing in any thing supematural,
which no man in the use of his reason could possibly do:
with perfect sincerity of heart, and with a far higher respect
for the sacred text, than was ever shown to it by Christians,
for we have shown it the respect of taking pains to understand
it: say I, and not an intelligent infidel upon earth will hesitate
to say with me,
"
I know that my Redeemer liveth, and at the
'latter day," of each, concluding winter, through eternal ages,
"
he shall stand upon the Earth, And though, qfter my skin,"
my Starry Golden Fleece ofthat celestial sheep :
"
he passeth
'ru DlVIL'S Pvnrrr. 365
on
till worms destroy this,"-that is, till the Scorpions of Oc-
tober seem to have extinguished his vital heat :
yet, again
and again, no sooner shall he have passed through myfish of
February, than in myjlesh, of March, þÿ ¬ ' s h a l l I
seeGad," whom
I shall see for my Sol., "
and mine eyes shallbehold, and not
another."
The face of nature is varied,-year will continue to follow
year, through eternal ages ; but the Sun, and the Sun alone,
is eternally the same#
END OF THE DISCOURSE ON THE REDEEMER:
J'
