{"type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/www.iapsop.com\/ssoc\/1831__thacher___demonology_ghosts_and_apparitions_and_popular_superstitions.pdf","mytitle":"Demonology Ghosts And Apparitions And Popular Superstitions","mylang":"de"}
AN ESSAY
ON
DEMO~OLOGY, GHOSTS A)lD APPARITIONS,
AND
I'OPULAR SUPERSTITION~.
ALSO,
AN ACCOt;~T
OF THE
lVITCHCRAFT DELUSION AT SALEM,
IN 1692.
BY J.\~1~ THACHER, !\1, 0., A. A. S.
...
1 "'ith Sl~t~ll• ami charan:. I break thu vi110r'• juw,
('lenve 'loli•l rucks, o.1k:! from their fisqtm•s draw,
\\'bolo wuud'l r!'nmve, the airy mollllluin~ ~ho.kc,
Cnrth fun·c•l 10 gruau1 anrl ;:host~ from gravPs ltwa~e. '
{hI II~ .\~ l: r .\~luR.
ENTERF.D1
according to Act of Congress, in the year
1331, by CARTER & HENDE~, in the Clerk's Office of
the District Court of Massachusetts.
!JOSTON CLASS I C PRES!!.
1. R. BU'l'TS.
ADVERTISE~IENT.
TuE following pages were in substance com-
posed to be read before the Plymouth Lyceum,
in 1829. When it was under:3tood that Rev.
CHARLES \V. UPH.ut was about to favor the
public with a work on the same subject, it was
determined that this little performance should be
suppressed. The Rev. Author obscrycd in a let-
ter, that although we may traverse the same field,
itis highly probable that we pursue different tracks.
The subject is so various, ample and abundant in
instruction, that good rather than evil would re-
sult from the application of more than one ruind
to its discussion.' Since therefore, in the deeply
inlerel>ting work referr~~d tn, the learned author
1\'
lUis not particularly di~~tCU>iSed the iiiubject.s of
Ghosts, Apparitions, l\Ient.al Illusions, &c, there
may be no impropriety in submitting the following
imperfect production to the public, with the hope
that it will not be considered as altogether l:iU-
perfluous.
J. T.
PLYMOUTH, Nov 1831.
CONTENTS.
Ghol:its and Apparitions,
Power of Imagination,
Illusions, . . . . .
Imagination and Fear,
Superstition, . . .
Witchcraft and Sorcery,
Salem \Vitchcraft,
Omens and Auguries,
l\Iedica] Quackery,
.
.
. .
. .
. .
.
.
.
.
raga.
1
21
26
. . 47
. . 63
74
. . 113
• • 204
• 225
ESSAY.
G II 0 S T S A :X D A P P .\ R 1T l 0 N S.
:Srnt i:s the constitution of the human mind,
that it never attains to perfection; it is con-
stantly ::susceptible of erroneous impressions
and pen·erse propensities. The faculties of
the soul are bound in thraldom by :superstition,
and the intellect, under its influence, is
scarcely capable of reflecting on its divine
origin, its nobleness and dignity. The mind
that is imbued with a superstitious tempera-
ment, is liable to incessant torment, and is
prepared to inflict the most att'ocious evils ou
mankind ; cYcn murder, suicide, and merciless
persecution, have proceeded from, and been
~anctioncd by a superstitious spirit. It is this,
in its most appalling aspect, which impels the
heathen to a lite of mutilation and perpetunl
pain anrl torment of body, which degrades the
1
2 GHOSTS AND ArPAIUTIO!I:S.
understandincr below that of a brute. 'fli~
~
superstitions practised by the devotees to the
Roman Catholic Church, if less l)orrible, are
equally preposterous and pernicious. The
popular uelief in supernatural visitations in
the form of apparitions and spectres, is foster-
ed and encouraged by the baneful influence of
superstition and prejudice. So unilersal has
been the prevalence of the belief that those
conversant with history can resort to the era
when every village had its ghost or witch, as,
in more ancient times, every family had its
household gods. Superstition, is a word of
very extensiYe signification, but for the purpose
of this work, the word applies to those who
believe in witchcraft, magic, and apparitions,
or that the divine will is decided by omens or
auguries; that the fortune of individuals can
be affected by things indifferent, by things
deemed lucky or unlucky, or that disease cau
be cured by words, charms, and incantations.
It means, in short, the belief of what is false
and contrary to reason. Superstition arises
from, and is sustained by ignorance and cred-
ulity in the understanding. The subject of
:supernatural agency and the reality of witch-
(;HOSTS .o\XD .-\PP..\JU'l'JOXS. 5
both external and internal, entirely depend.
The nen·es are the medium of illn!"ions; their
influence pervades the whole body, and their
,·arious impressions arc transmitted to the
brain. 'Vhen the entire brain is affected, de-
lirium is the consequence; if the optic nerve
only, "isions disturb the imagination ; if the
acoustic nerves receive the impression, unreal
sounds or voices are heard. If the optic
nerves are cut or rendered paralytic, the sense
of ,·i:;;iou is irrecoverably dc:-;troyed. The
nervou:-5 :-;y~tem is liable to be diseased and de-
ranged from various cau!:!e", from which, it is
obrious, derangement of both hody and mind
must ensue. The following is extracted from
a lecture on MoraJ Philosoph}, by the learned
and Rerercnd Samuel Sta.nhope Smith, D. D.,
late Prc~idcnt of the College of New Jersey.
' The nenes are ca~ily excited into moYe-
ment by an infinite \'ariety of external im-
pulses, or internal agitations. lly '' hatever
impulse any motion, ,·iiJration, or affection, in
the ncnous system is produced, n correspon-
dent sen~ation, or train of ~cusations, or ideas
in the mind, will naturally follow. 'Vhen the
body is in regnlar health, ancl th~ operations
p
GHOSTS .\XD .\t'PARlTJOi\S. 2
craft, has been the occa~ion of unbounded
speculation, and of much philosophical dis-
(:jHisition, in almost all n~tions and ages.
'Vhile some of the wisest of men have assent-
ed to their actual existence and visible appear-
ance, others equally eminent have maintained
the opinion that the supposed apparitions are
to be accounted for on the principle of feverish
dreams and disturbed imaginations. That
our Creator has power to employ celestial
spirits as instruments and messen~ers, and to
create :;upernatural Yisions on the human
mind, it would !Je impious to deny. But "'e
can conceive of no uece::::sity, at the present J
day, for the employment of di:-;emLodied spirits
in our world ; we can hohl no intercourse with
them, nor realize the sli6htcst adrantage by
their agency. To Lelie\'e in apparitions is to
believe that God suspends the la.w of nature
for the most trivial purposes, and that he "·ould
communicate the power of doing mischief, and
of controling his laws to beings, merely to
gratify their own passions, which is inconsist-
ent \\ ith th~ goodness of God. "~c are suffi-
ciently aware that the sacred spirits of our
father:i ha\'c ascended to rcgious prepared for
S GHOSTS AND APPARI'l'IONS.
organs, of sensation, are strained into an un-
natural tension, and the whole system is ex-
alted by an enthusiastic fervor to the pitch of
delirious intoxication. When a man is ex-
alted to such a degree of ner\'ous excitement
and mental feeling, his visions are commonly
pleasing, often rapturous, and sometimes fan-
tastic; but generally rise above the control or
correctio_
n of the judgment. Lord Lyttleton,
in the vision which he beliered he saw of his
deceased mother's form, shortly before his own
death, may be an example of the former; and
the Baron Von Swedcnborg, in his supposed
visions, sometimes of angels and sometimes of
reptiles, may be an instance of the latter.
Persons, whose fancies haYc been much dis-
turbed in early life, by the tales of nurses, and
other follies of an injudicious education, creat-
ing a timid and superstitious mind, are more
especially liable to haYc their fears alarmed
and their imagination excited by every object
in the dark. \Vhence sounds will be aurr-
rnentcd to the ear, and images ren<.lered mo;c
glaring to the eyes.'
In a note, tl1e learned author presents the
I
G GUOS'fs A:\"0 APPARITIONS.
of the mind are in a natural nnd healtl1f'ul
train, the action of the nervous system, being
affected only by the regular and successin~ im-
pressions made upon it by the objects of na,
ture, as they succcssi,·cJy occur, will present
to the mind just and true images of the scenes
that surround it. llut by various species of
infirmity and disorder in the body, the nerves,
sometimes in their entire sptcm, and some·
times only in tho~c divisions of them which
arc attached to particular organs of sense, may
be .subjected to very irregular motions or vi.
brations. Hence unreal images may be raised
in the mind. The state of the nervous affcc·
tions may be Y:tiated by intemperate indul-
gence, or by infirmity resulting from sedentary
and melancholy habits. Superstitions, fancies,
or enthusiastic emotions, do often greatly dis-
turb the regular action of the nervous system,
Such elastic and vibratory strings may be sub-
ject to an infiuite variety of .irregular move·
ments, sometimes in consequence of a dis-
ordered state of health, and sometimes arising
from peculiarity of constitutional structure,
which may present false and often fantastic
1mages to the mind. No eause, perhaps,
CHOS'I'S .\ND APPAR1TIONS
...
I
produces a more anomalous oscitancy, or vi-
bration of the nervous system, or of some
particular portions of it, than habit::; of intem-
perate indulgence. And I have not unfre-
quently become acquainted with men who had
been addicted to such exces:ses, who were
troubled with apprehen::;ions of supernatural
appant1ons. A peculiar imbecility of consti-
tution, however, created by study, retirement,
or other causes, may be productive of similar
effects, ami ::;ometimes these nen·ous anomalies
are formed in men who are otherwi<:eof active
and athletic constitutions. Bnt where they
possess enlightened minds and vigorous un-
derstandings, ~uch vi~ionary tendencies may
be counteracted by their intellectual energies.
Yet have we ~ometimes known the strongest
understandings overcome by the viracity of
nervous impression,which frequently is scarcely
inferior to the most liveIy ideas of sense. This
rnay, especially, be the case in two opposite
conditions; either when the body has fallen
into a gloomy temperament, and the mind is
weakened by fears, in which case it is op-
pressed by distressing apprehensions; or, on
the other hand, when the nerves, the .primary
4. GHOC:.:TS AND API•ARITlON'<.
for their reception, and there may they remain
undisturbed tm the mighty ~ecrets now con-
cealed shall be revealed for our good. The
soul or spirit of man is immaterial, of course
intangible and invisible. If it is not recog-
nisable 'by our senses, how can the dead ap-
pear to the living 1 That disembodied spirits
should communicate with sun'iving objects on
earth, that the ghosts of the murdered should
appear to disclose the murderer, or that the
spirit of the wise and good should return to
proffer instructions to the vile and ignorant,
must be deemed unphilosophical.
It will now be attempted to demonstrate,
that the generality of the supposed apparitions,
in modern times, '"'ill admit of explanation
from causes purely natural. For this purpose,
it will be requisite first, to describe the ~ystem
of nerves, and their functions, wllich constitute
a part of our complicated frames. Nerves are
to be considered as a tissue of strinO's or cords
0 ,
v.-hich have their origin in the brain and spina]
marrow, and are distributed in branches to all
parts of the body. They arc th' immediate
ol'gans of sensation and of muscular action.
Upon the intcgritv of the nerves. all the sen~f!s,
I
C:IIOSTS AND .APPARITJOl,\1~. 9
following examples, tending to illustrate the
principlc:i just advanced.
' I knew, some years ago, a ,~.rorthy lady
who, anxiously watching by the cradle of a
sick infant, and mornently expecting its death,
felt, as she belie,·ed, just before it expired, a
violent stroke across the back of both her
arms. From a tincture of superstitious appre-
hension infused in her early education, and
unacquainted with any natural cause of such
a phenomenon, she construed it into a preter-
natural signal of the death of her child. It
was, probably, a sudden and convulsi,·e con-
traction of the muscles in that part of the sys-
tem, occasioned by the solicitude of her mind
and the fatigue of watching, which, aided by
imagination in a very interesting moment, pro-
duced a shock that had to her the feeling of a
severe concussion. That a convulsive con-
traction should take place in those particular
muscles need not appear strange to those who
know how irregular and uncertain is tile whole
train of nen·ous action, especially under the
operation of some disorders of the body; and
frequently, ti\dcr the influence of strong af-
fection::; and emotions of the minfl.' 'A
10 GUOSTS AXD AP1'.\Ill'r10X5.
young lady, who was peculiarly susceptible of
the impressions of fear in the dark, or at the
sight of any of the accompaniments of death,
attended the funeral of one of her intimate
companions, who had died of the small pox.
On the following night she lodged in company
with a female friend of great firmne5s of mind.
"\Vaking in the night, some time after the moon
had risen, and faintly enlightened her cham-
ber, the fir:st object that struck her view was a
white robe hanging on the tall back of a chair,
and a cap placed on the top. Her disturbed
imagination instantly took the alarm, and ih
her agitation and terror rousing her compan-
ion, she exclaim~d \'iolently that her deceased
friend was standing before her. The lady,
with great presence of mind, brought the arti-
cles of clothing which had caused the alarm,
and thus composed her fears. After she had
become tranquil and was able distinct}y to re-
call her sensations, she declared that the per-
fect image of the deceased, ju~t as she was
dressed for her coffin seemed to be before her
sight. She contemplated it as long as her fears
would pern1it her, before :she cx!laimed. She
was sure that she recognised every feature of
GIIO~T~ A.N.U APPARITIONS. 13
the evening, perceiving his female companions
in a gloomy mood, he took one of them and
danced a minuet with her, then taking out his
watch, said, 'Look you here, it is now nine
o'clock, according to the vision I have but three
hours to live, but don't you mind this, madam;
never fear, we'll jocky the ghost, I warrant
you.' At eleven o'clock he retired to bed ear-
lier than usual with him, but his pretence was,
that he had pianned fOT the party to breakfast
early, and spend the day in riding into the
country. Admiral 'Voolsey and his friend re-
soh·ed to sit in the parlor till the predicted
hour was past, and the clock ''ras pri,·ately put
a little forward; and as soon a~ it struck twelve,
his Jordship said, ' you ·ee I have cheated the
ghost;' but soon after a voice was heard from
the staircase, uttering these words. ' He's
dead? Oh, my lord is dead!' Instantly run-
ning up stairs, they found him in bed, fallen
back, and struggling. Admiral 'Voobey took
hi::; hand, '"hich was grasped with such vio-
lence that it was painful to endure, but he
spake no more. His eyes were turned up and
fixed. They opened tlw jugular vein, L>ut no
IJ!ood issued, and he was entirely dead at mid-
'>
...
{2 GHOSTS AND Al'PARITIO~~.
was warned in a dream ot' vision of the everrt1
which, accordingly, took place without any
previous illness. According to his own ac..
count, he awoke from sleep, and saw the im·
age of his deceased mother, who opened tl1e
curtains of his bed and denounced to him,
that in three days he should die. On the sen·
tence being denounced, he started up in great
terror, incoherently saying, 1
what! shall I not
live three days 7' The reply wrt~, no, you will
not live more than three dayR, and the appari·
tion instantly vanished. This alarming vision
his lordship related, at breakfa:;t the next
morning, to several women who were his com-
panious. They ftll a crying ; but he, although
secretly agitated, pretended to uisregard the
affair, laughed at their crcdulous folly, and
professed to have no sort of belief, or appre·
hension about it. On the third day of the pre-
diction, ]Je im·ited Admiral "\Voolsey and
another friend to dine with him, at his country
seat. At dinner, bjs lordship, appeared more
than usually loquacious and desultory in his
conversation, reciting the probable remarks
that would of course be made whenever the
new::; of hi::; death should be announced. In
GHOSTS A:XD APPARITIONS. }1
her friend, and even the pits of the small pox,
of which she died, in her face. And she af-
firmed tliat before any tribunal she would have
been willing to make oath to this fact.' 'I
have introduced this anecdote,' says Dr Smith,
' merely to illustrate the power of the imagina-
tion by its reaction on the nervous S) stem, to
complete the pictures that any sudden impul
ses of the sen!:ies, occasioned by surprise or by
superstitious or enthusiastic feeling, have be-
gun to form. It is not a solitary anecdote of
the kind. But I have selected it, because I
am more perfectly possessed of the circum-
stances, than of many others that arc circulat-
ed through certain clas~es of society. Nor
are these classes always to be found among the
most ignorant and credulous.' Lord Lyttleton
was a man of splendid abilities, but degraded
himselfby a continued course of profligacy and
the basest dissipation. He was arrested in his
career by a sudden and remarkable death, at
the acre of thirtvfive in the )'ear Iii9. The
::::0 ~
various narrations that have been published
relatirc to this sinuular erent concur in most
0
of the following particulars. Three days pre-
vious to his death, being in perfect health, he
18 . GHOSTS AND APPARITIONS.
ry images of dreaming, as well as what we
have learned of similar visionary impressions
-that a particular period should be denouuc·
ed to him for his deatht the symptoms and pre..
sages of which, in all probability, he frequent·
ly felt in the tremors and palpitation of a
breaking constitution. The principal difficul·
ty in the minds of those who have only care·
lessly attended to this history, is to account for
the exact correspondence of the event of hi:;
death to the time fixed by the prediction, if it
had no other foundation than nervous impres·
sion. The imagined prediction itself was suf-
ficient, in a debilitated and exhausted consti·
tution, like that of Lord Lyttleton, to produce
its own accomplishment. Seizing upon ltis
fears, in spite of his reason and philosophy, for
a life of dissipation and sensual excess gener·
ally very much weakens the powers both of
the mind and of the body, it would naturally
throw his whole system into great commotion.
These perturbed and tumultuous agitations
would increase as the destined moment ap-
proached, till the strength of nature failing,
may well be supposed to break at the point of
extreme convulsion; that is, at the expected
moment of death.
GHOSTS AND APPARITIONS. 17
often been, by the conscious apprehension of
his approaching end, may naturally be suppos-
ed to have predisposed them to such a vision.
Conscience, not\.vithstanding his assumed gaye-
ty, somewhat perturbed by the fears of death,
and with a recollection of a pious mother,
whose anxious admonitions had often endeav-
ored in vain to recall him from his vicesJ and
to fix his thoughts on his future existence,
might natmally retrace her features in this for-
midable vision. It is not improbable, that the
whole scene may have been a kind of wal{ing
dream, or if it was wholly tJansacted in sleep,
it might have been with such a forcible and
vivid vibration, or impulse of the nerves con-
cerned in the formation of such an image, as
would give it the distinctness and vivacity of
waking sensation. In the tumult of his spirits,
and the fear-excited vibrations of his whole
system, it is not strange, that the image of that
disappointed and reproaching parent should be
presented to him, with a solemn and forebod-
ing aspect. And it would be adding only one
trait of terror to the scene, already so well pre-
pared to admit it, and one that is perfectly
conformable to our experience of the desulto-
2*
\G (;JJOST..:; AKD APPARITION'-.
the predicted day, and at the prescribed time,
he actually expired.
This fact has been regarded by many per-
sons, and those by no means of inferior under-
standings, as a decisive proofof the reality of
apparitions from the spiritual world ; and by
others has been attempted to be resoh·ed on a
variety of different grounds. The principles
already suggested, may, perhaps, ::;erre to ex-
plain it in conformity with the known laws of
human nature, ]f the theory of nervous vibra-
tion be admitted to be true, without resorting
to the solution of supernatural agents. The
irregular and convulsive motions in the ner-
vous system which frequently arise trom long
continued habits of intemperate indulgence,
might be especially expected in a constitution
so irritable and debilitated, as that of Lord
Lyttleton. If, either sleeping or waking, or,
in that indefinite interval between sleeping and
waking, their disordered movements could pre·
sent to the fancy or excite in the visual nerves,
the di!':tinct image of a living person apparent-
ly resuscitated from the deau, '~hich has been
shown to he a possible case, the debilitated
frame of his lord~hip, agitated as it must barf)
GHOSTS AXD APPARITIONS. 15
seem to require a philosophical firmness to re-
sist the impression in favor of supernatural
visitations; but this latter instance will, I be-
lieve, bear a different explanation. The gen-
tleman was apprised of Lyttleton's vision and
predicted death, which, with the thousand
pounds depending, must ha,·e excited in his
mind an exquisite degree of anxiety, and rous-
ed a guilty conscience. He doubtless count-
ed every hour, and although he fell asleep,
could not be calm, and probably had a disturb-
ed dream. Awaking suddenly, it is quite nat-
ural that he should have the impression, that
the prediction was fulfilled. Dr. Smith, who
is quoted abo,·e, comments as follows on the
death of Lord Lyttleton. His lordship was a
man who bad worn down to a very feeble state,
a lively and elastic constitution, and impaired
a brilliant wit, by voluptuous, and intemperate
excesses. A few days before his death, he
imagined that he saw before him the perfect
resemblance of his deceased mother, who de-
nounced to l1im that on such a day, and at a
prescribed hour, he should die. Under a con-
strained vivacity, his mind, during the inter-
val·, was evidently much agitated. And on
14 (;[Ios'rS A~D AfirAHl'l'IOS~.
night of the third day. Admiral 'Vool.;;ey
gives the following remarkahlc particulars in
addition. At the distance of thirty miles from
the place where this melancholy scene hap-
pened there lived a gentlemen, one of the inti-
mate companions of Lord Lyttlcton, l\1. P. An-
<lrews, Esq.; and they had agreed that which-
erer of them should die first, the survivor
should receive one thousand pounds from the
estate of the deceased. On this very night he
awoke about one o'clock and rung his bell
with great violence. His servant ran to him
with a11 speed, and inquired, 'what is the mat-
ter 1' The gentleman sitting up in bed, with a
countenance full ofhorror, cried out,' Oh Johnl!
Lord Lyttleton is dead !' 'How can that be 1'
he replied, 'we have heard nothing, but that
he is nlive and well.' The ma:stcr exclaimed
with the greatest perturbation, 'no, no, I
awoke just now on hearing the curtains un·
drawn, and at the foot of the bed stood Lord
Lyttleton, as plain as ever I saw him in my
life. lie looked ghastly, and said, "all is o,·er
with me, Andrews. You ha\'e won the thou-
sand pound~," and ,·ani~hcd.' A ftcr attending
to the particulars abore detailed, it would
GHOST~ AND .o\PP.\RlTIONS. 19
To a case analogous, in many respects, to
that of his lordship, there are many witnesse~::
.still Jiving in the city of Philadelphia. The
contrast in the issue of the latter, serves to
confirm the solution which has just been given
<of the former. Mr Ed\\:ards, a clergyman of
the Baptist persua~ion in that city, of a ten-
dency somewhat addicted to melancholy in his
habit, but, otherwise of a vigorous constitution,
had, like Lord Lyttleton, a visual impression,
so clear and distinctly defined, that he mistook
it for a supernatural messenger from the spir-
itual world to announce to him that at the end
of a certain period, he should die. He was
so per::;uaded of the reality of the vision, and
the verity of the prediction, that he took leave
of his particular friends, and of his congrega-
tion, before the appointed day. On the eve-
ning of this day, I saw his house filled with
spectators and inquirers, awaiting with solici-
tude the catastrophe of this extraordinary af-
fair. The tumult of his whole system, his
difficult respiration, his quick and tremulous
pulse, and its frequent intermissions, Jed many
to announce, at various times during that eve-
ning, to the surrounding spectators, that he
~Q GHOSTS A:\U Al'l'.UUTIOXt:.
was just expmng. And without doubt, if his
frame had been as weak and delicate as his
nervous $ystem, he could not have sm·rived the
agitations, and, I may say, almost convulsions,
into which he was thrown. And here would
have been another prediction, and another su-
pernatural appearance, a~ extraordinary as
those of Lord Lyttleton. But his constitution
triumphed, and he remained a monument to
prove the force of nervous illusion, which, in
this case, as doubtless it has proved in many
others, appears to hare gi,·en birth to an image
as clear and definite as could have been pro-
duced by the actual pre~cnce of such an ob-
ject as was supposed to have created it. I
would hardly have ventured to relate such an
anecdote, if there were not ample testimony
to its verity still e'xisting. The good man wag
so a::;hamcd of his delusion, and it so much
lessened his credit with his ~piritual flock, that
he was obliged to leave the city, and the
church where he had formerly been highly
esteemed, and retire to a remote position in
the country. Many anecdotes to confirm the
reality of nervous sensation, if I may apply
that phras€' to designate those sl'nsible pe,.Cfp-
POWER OF 1:\lAGIN.\TION. 21
tions which arc sometimes caused in the mind,
without the presence or aid of external ob-
jects, mu::;t have occurred to those who ha\'C
had extcnsi\·c opportunities of practical1y ob-
serving human nature. "\Yith several persons
I have been acquainted, and those by no means
of inferior understanding, who hare been
firmly persuaded of the existence of the spec-
tres indicated by such nervous affections, and.
ha\·e, on such occasions, held conversations
with them, real on their part, imaginary on the
part of the supposed spectre. Such, perl1apc;,
in general, arc the disciples of the Baron Von
Swedenhorg. But illusions of this nature arc
not confined to this class of men alone.
POWER OF IMAGINATION.
DR V.A.N CLEYE, of Princeton, was lately
applied to as a physician on behalf of a man
who had reduced him::;elf by intemperance, to
a state of very distres~ing nervous irregularity.
II(' was continually disturbed by vision~, some-
times of the most fantastic kind. He often
heard strange voices, and \rould ask and
22 POWER OF DtACJN.\.TIOX.
answer questions, as if engaged in conversation
with some of his Yisionary pertionagcs. His
disorder, the doctor said, was evidently not
of that species \\.'hich is usually denominated
mania, but appeared to be wholly the effect of
a habit of nervous irregularity, delirium tre-
men-., induced by previous intemperance. But
the Baron Von Swedenborg, in his most vis-
ionary moments, was never surrounded by
more extraordinary assemblages of strange
sights. A very striking example of the power
of nervous impression, occurred a few years
ago in the Rev. James 'Vilson, formerly assist-
ant minister with Dr Rodgers, in the first
Presbyterian Church in New York. He was
a native of Scotland, and was a man highly
esteemed for his good sense, and the sound·
ness of his judgment; although not distin-
guished for a warm and popular eloquence.
Being obliged for a time to relinquish the ex-
ercise of his ministry from a hemorrhage in
his breast, he employed himself for several
years in different occupations in Scotland and
America, but chiefly in presiding over an
Academy in Alexandria, in the State of Vir·
gtma. The expectoration of blood having
ceased for a considerable time, hi::; conscience
began to reproach him for indolence and self..
indulgence, in not renewing his ministerial
functions. In this unea:;y state of mind, a
Vi!:>ion, ns he thought, of a man of ¥ery digni-
fied aspect, stood at the foot of his bed in the
morning, after he was perfectly awake, and
surveyiug him steadily for some moments,
commanded him to resume his duties in the
pulpit : but addecl, that as considerable error
had crept into the church, he should undertake
to reform it according to the model of the primi-
th·e age. l\1r 'Vilson, conscious of his want
of eloquent talents, and reforming zeal, rea-
soned with the suppo:;ed apparition, alleging
his utter incompetency to the task imposed
upon him. The dialogue ended in a repeti-
tion of the command, and assurance of ability
and success. The good man, wholly unable
to explain this clear and palpable vision, on
any principles of nature or philosophy with
which he was acquainted, was deeply distress-
ed, yet perfectly sen!Sible of his insufficiency
for such an undertaking, he neglected attempt-
ing to fulfil it. After an interval of t\.\'O o1·
three years, the vision was repeated, with
ILLUSIONS.
of partial mental derangement from hypochon~
-driasis, chiefly from his own knowledge, such
as the following. A sea captain believed that
he had a wolf in his liver ; others that they are
converted into an animal of another species,
such as a goose, a dog, a cat, a hare, a cow,
and the like. One imagined that he "":as once
a calf, and mentions the name of the butcher
that killed him, and the stall in the Philadel-
phia market, on which his flesh was sold, pre-
viously to his animating his present body.
One believed that he had no soul. Another
that he is transformed into a plant, and insist-
ed on being watered in common with all the
plants around him in the garden. Another
that his body was transformed into glass. The
celebrated Cowper suffered much anguish from
complaints of a similar nature, arising from
hypochon<.lriac affection.
Among the causes of nervous affection and
tliscased. imagination, are those of sedentary
habits and a free use of strong tea. The fol-
lowing instances were communicated by my
friend the Rev. l\Ir K.
The late Rev. l\Ir F. of Ipswich, who was
very sedentary ; spent most of his time in his
;
lLLt.:'SIONS. 27
was rormerly made, aud hence the o11e be-
comes audible, and the other visible.
'The deception, when made upon the ears,
consists most commonly in hearing our own
names, and for this ob,,ious reason ; we are
accustomed to hear them pronounced more
frequently than any other words, and hence
the part of the ear, which vibrates with the
sound of our names, moves more promptly,
from habit, than any other part of it. For the
same reason the deception, when made upon
the eyes, consists in seeing our own persons,
or the persons of our intimate friends, whether
living or dead, oftener than any other people.
The part upon the retina, from which those
images are reflected, move more promptly,
from habit, than any other of that part of the
organ of vision.
'The voice which is supposed to be heard,
and the objects which are supposed to be seen,
are never heard nor seen by two persons, even
when they are close to each other. This
proves them both to be the effect of disease in
the single person who hears, or sees, the sup-
posed voice or object.'
Dr Rush has recorded numerous instances
2J 1'0\\"ER OP 1!\lAGrNATION.
nearly the same circumstances, except that
the a~pect of the person who appeared to pre"
sent himself, was more sm·cre, and cxpres~ivc
of displeasure at his past delinquency. 1\fr
Wibon repeated his former rcnsonings on his
want of health, and want of talents, with other
topics. But the answer was still the same; a
repetition of the injunction, and assurance of
the necessary ability, and ult.imate succe:-;s.
liis di::;trcss was raised to the highest degree
in the conflict of his mind between what he
thought a sensible demonstration of a super·
natural requisition, and an invincible con-
sciousness of his own incompetency, and his
fear of doing an injury to true religion by his
failure. After con~ulting ~eYcral of his friends
upon the subject, he at length addressed a
letter to the author, stating all the circumstan·
ces which haYe just been detailed. He was
answered with the general reasonings contained
in this lecture, to conrince him that his ,·ision
was merely a consequence of ncn·ou::l affection,
resulting f1·om bodily di~orcler. Three letters
passed between J\fr 'Vilson and the author,
rcnso11ccl 011 the part of l\Ir \Vil~<Jll with great
cnlnmcss and good sense, admittiug all the
POWER OF UfAGJNATION. 2j
objections to such an apostolic undertaking as
that to which he was urged, both from scrip...
ture and from his own peculiar deficiency of
power and talent::-, but pleading the impulse of
a sensation as clear and strong, and, to his
miud, as real as he had ever felt. But it was
replied that there were other considerations
combined with the whole system and harmony
of nature, which ought to ha,·e greater author-
ity with a rational mind than any ~ingle and
indiri<~ual impression of sense, which evidently
violates its general order. The correspondence
came to this issue at la:-t, that, as he agreed
with the church a" she now exists, in most of
her doctrines, and e~pecially in the moral pre~
cepts of religion, he should begin his course
by inculcating only those principles in which
all \rere agreed, and if he found the promi:;e
of his vision verified in his returning ~trength
and succes::;ful eloquence, he would then have
sufficient encouragement to proceed further.
He actually came to New York with the in-
tention to put thi::, experiment into execution:
but died in that city shortly after his landing.
He published one di::,conrse introductory to
the <.lel:iign.
a
26 ILLUBIO::-:s ,
ILLUSIONS.
~liE following observations are from Dr'
Uush, found in his Treatise on Diseases of the
l\Iind. 'lly this term, (Illusions) I mean that
disease, in which false perceptions take place
in the ears and ej es in the waking state, from
a morbid affection of the brain, or of the sense
which is the seat of the illusion. It may be
considered as a waking dream. Persons af-
fected with it fancy they hear voices, or see
objects that do not exist. These fabe percep-
tions are said, by superstitious people, to be
premonitions of death. They ::;ou;etimes indi-
cate either the formiug state, or the actual ex-
istence of disease, which being ~eated most
commonly in a highly vital prtrt of the body,
that is, in the brain, now and then ends in
death, and thus adminil:lters E'npport to super-
stthon. 'rhey depend, like false perception in
madness, upon motion being excited in a part
of the cat· or the eye, which does not vibrate
with the impression made upon it, bnt com-
municates it to a part upon which the impres-
sion of the noise heard, or of the person seerr,
lLLl'~lONS.
study without exercise, and his health became
impaired. He imagined for some time before
his death, that he was actually dead. I saw
him in this state of mind, walking hi::; chamber
in extreme agitation. To the question, how
he could suffer so much, if actually dead, he
answered, that his on·n spirit wa~ departed,
and that another spirit had taken possession of
his body.
A gentleman in Boston on~c told the first
Pre~ident Adams, that he had become strange-
ly timid, that be dared not keep the side walks, 1
but walked in the middle of the street, being
constantly apprchensi"e that the tile on the
houses would fall on his head. The president
asked him if he made a free use of tea, and
beiug answered in the affirmative, he recom-
mended to him to use it more sparingly and
he wonld probably be benefited by the change.
By pursuing this advice, he was relieYed, and
was soon able to return to the side walks with-
out fear.
A gentleman of Salem, 5ailing from the
~outh to MassachusettR, while under the influ-
ence of nervous affection, imagined that he
~aw a man m the water near the 5hip, who
3•
ao ILLUSIONS.
wa::; drowning. Concci\'ing that he might
t-:avc his life, he was in the very act of leaping
into the sell for that purpose, hut was happily
prevented by those on deck. Ile afterward
recovered his health, and had a perfect recol-
lection of his feelings on that occasion. He
had no idea of destro) ing himself, but would
have perished had he not been prevented.
Instances of a similar nature have probably
occurred, in which lives have been lost in con-
sequence of such delusion.
It is said that l\Ir .Murdock, the member of
the Vermont Legislature, who recently com-
mitted suicide, imagined himself to be Dr
Cleaveland, who wa:; under sentence of death.
.Mr ~Iurdock attempted to speak when Cleave-
land's case was before the legi:slatun~, but wa::;
so much agitated that he could not speak, and
was taken from the house hy hiH friends. Un-
der this strong impression of his being Cleave-
land, he killed himself to aYoirl the doom of the
law. This eYent would make -a thrilling chap-
ter in Sir 'Valter Scott's history of Demonolo-
gy and \Vitchcraft.
It will aid onr purpose to relate the follow-
ing inRtance of r~Ir Nicolai, nn intelligP.nt
lLLl SIOXS.
bookseller and member of the Academy of
Sciences of Berlin, who happily possessed phi-
losophy enough to account for the phantasms
which, for some time agitated his own mind,
upon rational principles. 'In the year 1791, l
was much affected in my mind by several in-
cidents of a ,·cry disagreeable nature; and on
a certain day a circumstance occurred, which
irritated me extremely. At ten o'clock in the
forenoon, my wife and another person came to
console me. I was in a violent perturbation
of mind, owing to a series of incidents which
h::td altogether wounded my moral feelings,
and from which I saw no po::,:>ibility of relief;
when suddenly I observed at the distance of
ten paces from me, a figure; the figure of a
decenbed person. I pointed at it, and asked
my wife if she did not see it. She saw no-
thing; !Jut being much alarmed, endeavored to
compose me, and sent for the physician. The
figure remained seven or eight minutes, and at
length I became a little more calm ; and as l
wa' extremely exhausted, I soon afterwards
fell into a troubled kind of slumber, which
lasted for haJf an hour. The vision was as-
cdhcd to the great agitation of mind in which
ILLU!IO~S .
I had been, and it was supposed I should have
nothing more to apprehend from that cau::;e ;
but the violent affection had put my nerves
into some unnatural state ; fi·om this arose fur·
ther consequences which require a more de-
tailed description. In the afternoon a little
after four o'clock, the figure which I had seen
in the morning again appeared. I was alone
when this hnppened, a circumstance, which,
as may easily be conceived, could not be very
agreeable. I went therefore to the apnrtment
of my wife, to whom I relntetl it. But thither
also the figure pursued me. Sometimes it was
present, ~ometimes it \'anishcd, but it was al-
ways the same standing figure. A little after
six o'clock, ~everal stalking figures also ap-
peared, but they had no connexion with the
standing figure. The figure of the deceased
person never appeared to me after the fir~t
dreadful day; but several other fignres showed
themseh·es afterwards very distinctly: some-
times such as I knew, mostly however, of per-
son~ I did not know, and amongst those known
to me, were the semblance of both liYincr and
;::,
deceaRed persons, but mostly the former; anrl
I made the observation, thnt acquaintance with
ILLUSIO!'JS. 33
~hom I daily conversed never appeared to me
as phantasms; it \vas always such as were at a
distance. These figures appeared to me at all
times, and under the most different circum-
stances, equally distinct and clear. \Vhether
I was alone or in company, by broad day
light equally as in the night time, in my own
house as well as in my neighbor's; yet, when I
was at another person's house, they were less
frequent, and when I walked the public street,
they very seldom appeared. )Vhen I shut my
eyes, sometimes the figures disappeared, some-
times they remained even after I closed them.
If they vanished in the former case, on open-
ing my eyes again, nearly the same figures ap-
peared which I had seen before. For the
most part I saw human figures of both sexes;
they commonly passed to aud fro, as if they
had no connexion with each other, like people
at a fair, where all is hustle; sometimes they
appeared to have busine~s with each other.
Once or twice I saw among5t them persons on
hor.:;euack, and dogs and birds; these figures
all appeared to me in their natural size, as
distiuctly as if they had exi::-tcd in real life,
\\'ith the s~veral tints on the 1mcovered
38 lLl.USJO::\'!'i.
mo..:;t of the figure she still saw ~tnncling before
her. As howc,·er, the cres ~~ill continued to
' .
be ftxecl upon her, after a few morucuts she
said-' \Vhy don't you speak - ?' The figure
upon this moved off towanls the win<low at the
farther end of the room, the eyes still gazing
on her, nnd passed so very close to her in do-
ing f'O, that she was struck by the circum-
stance of hearing no ~tep nor sound, nor feel-
ing her clothe::; brushed against, nor even any
agitation of the air. The idea then arose for
the first time into her mind, that it was no
reality, but a spectral illusion, (being a person
of sen~e aud habituated to account rational1y
for most things, the notion of anything super-
natural was out of the question.) She recol-
lected, however, your having mentioned that
there was a sort of expcrimentnm crucis, appli-
cable to these case:;, hy which a genuine ghost
may be distinguished from one conjured up by
merely natural causes; namely, the pres:::ing
... the eye in order to produce the effect of seeing
double, when, according to your as~ertiou, a
true 'l'artarcan ghost may be duplicatecl as
well as everything ebc ; ,\}tile tbe morbid
idea being, I suppose, an impres::;iou on the
ILI,USJONS.
the fire-place. After a few minutes, she heard
the same voice, still calling-' Come to me,
come, come away;' this time in a loud, plain-
tive, and somewhat impatient tone. She an-
swered as loudly-' "\'Vhere are you? I don't
know where you arc'- still imagining that I
was somewhere in search of her; but receiv-
ing no answer, she shortly went up stairs. On
my return to the house about half an hour af·
terwards, she inquired why I had called to her
so often, and were I was; and was of course
surprised to hear I had not been near the
house at the time.
On the 30th of the same month, at about
four o'clock, P. l\1., .Mrs B. came down stairs
into the drawing room, which she had quitted
a few minutes before, and on entering the room,
saw me, as she supposed, standing with my
back to the fire. She addressed me, asking
how it was I had returned so soon. (I had
left the house for a walk half an hour before.)
She said I looked fixedly at her with n serious
and thoughtful expression of countenance, but
did not speak. She supposed I was busied in
thought, and sat down in an arm-chair near
the fire, and within a couple of feet at
4
36 lLLU!IONS.
and having suffered so much by the negieci,
he again had recourse to u1ood letting and
was soon relieved of all his phantasms.
The following article is contained in the
Edinburgh Journal of Science, conducted by
Dr Brewster, who says of the narrator of the
case, that, his station in society and as a man
of science, would authenticate the minutest
particulars in his narrative, and satisfy the
most scrupulous reader that the case has been
philosophically as well as faithfully described.'
The narrator is in fact the husband of the lady
who was the subject of the disease.
' On the twentysixth ofDecember, 1829,about
half past four o'clock in the afternoon, 1\Irs B.
was st.nnding near the fire in the hall, and on
the point of going up stairs to dress, when she
heard, as she supposed, my voice calling her
by name,- Come here, come to me! She im-
agined that I was ca1ling at the door to have it
opened, went to it, and was surprised on open-
ing it to find no one. She returned toward
the fire, and again heard the same voice, cuB-
ing very distinctly and loud,- Come, come
here. She then opened two other doors of the
~'<arne room, but seeing no one, :::;he returned to
lLU:SIONS 35
)ne the whole day together, and €\CD during
the night, if I happened to awake, I hau re-
course to several medicines. Had I not been
able to distinguish phantasms from phenomena,
I must have been insane. Had I been fanatic
or superstitious, I should have been terrified at
my own phantasms, and probably might have
been seized with some alarming disorder.
Had I been attached to the marvellous, I
should have sought to magnify my own import-
ance, by asserting that I had seen spirits; and
who could have disputed the facts with me 7
In this case, howe,·er, the advantage of sound
philosophy and deliberate observation may be
~cen. Both prevented me from becoming
either a lunatic or an enthusiast; for with
nerves so strongly excited, and blood so quick
in circulation, either mi::~fortune might have
ea~ily befallen me. But I considered the phan-
tasms that hovered around me as what they
really were, namely, the effects of di~ease, and
made them subservient to my observations, be-
cause I consider obser\'ation and reflection as
the basis of all rational philosophy.' This gen-
tleman had been accustomed to Jose blood
twice a year, but it \'\'as omiHed at tl1i3 time,
34 ILLt'SlO~!!!.
parts of the body, and with all the different
kinds and colors of clothes. On the whole,
the longer I continued in this st.1te, the more
did the phantasms increase, and the appari-
tions Lecame more frequent. About four
weeks afterwards, I began to hear them speak,
~ometirnes the phantasms ::poke with one
another; but for the most part they addressed
themsel\'cs to me; these speeches were in gen-
eral short, and never contained anything dis-
agreeable. Intelligent and respected friends
often appeared to me, who endeavored to con-
sole me in my grief, which still left deep traces
on my mind. This speaking I heard most
frequently when I was alone; though I some-
times heard it in company, intermingled with
the conversation of real persons, frequently in
single phrases only, but sometimes e\'Cn in con-
nected discourse. Though at this time I en-
joyed rather a good state of health both in body
aud mind, and had become so familiar with
these phantasms, that at last they did not ex-
cite the least disagreeable emotion, but on the
contrary afforded me frequent subjects for
amusement and mirth; yet as the disorder sen-
sibly increao;ecl, and the fignre'i appeared to
ll,Ll.JSlON!. 39
retina, would or ought to remain single. 1
am sorry, howC\·er, to say, that the opportunity
for verifying your theory was unfa\"orahle.
Before .1\Irs B. was able distinctly to double
her vision, my figure had retreated to the win-
dow and disappeared there. The lady follow-
ed, shook the curtains, and tried the windows,
being stiU loth to believe it was not a reality,
so distinct aucl forcible was the impression.
Finding, howe,·er, that there was no natural
means of egress, she became convinced of
having seen a gpectral apparition, such as are
recorded in Dr Hibbert's work, and conse·
quently felt no alarm or agitation. The ap-
pearance lastecl four or five minutes. It was
bright daylight, and Mrs B. is confident that
the apparition was fully as vivid as the reality ;
and when standing close to her, it concealed,
of comse, the real objects behind it. Upon
being told of this my visible appearance in
the :::;pirit, having been only audible a few days
before, I was, as you may imagine, more
alarmed for the health of the lady than for
my own approaching death, or any other fatal-
ity the vision might be supposed to forebode.
Still both the stories were ::>o very much en
40 ILLU~JON:<.
rcgle as gho!'t f'tories, the three calls of the
plainti\'e roicc, each one louder than the pre-
ceding, the fixed eye and mournful exprc~:;ion
of the phantom, its noi8eless step and spirit-
like vanishing, were all so characteristic of the
wraith, that I might have been unable to
shake off some disagreeable fancie~, such as n
mind once deeply saturated with the poison of
nursery-tales cannot altogether banish, had it
not been for a third apparition, at whose visit
I myself assisted, a few clays afterwards, and
which I think is the key-stone of the case,
rendering it as complete as could be wished.
On the 4th of this month, January, 1830,
five days after the last apparition, at about ten
o'clock at night, I was sitting in the drawing-
room with 1\lrs B. and in the act of stirring
the fire, when she exclaimed, ''Vhy, there'!!
the cat in the room !' I asked ' Where 1'
She replied, 'There, close to you.' 'Where?'
I repeated. ' \Vhy, on the rug, to be sure, he-
tween yourself and the coal-scuttle.' I had
the poker in my hand, and I pushed in the
direction mentioned. ' Take care,' she cried
out, ' take care, you arc hitting her with the
poker.' I again asked her to point out exactly
lLLU~IONSi. 41
where she saw the cat. She replied, 'Why,
sitting up there close to your feet, on the rug :
- she is looking at me. It is Kitty, come
here Kitty.' There are two cats in the bouse,
one of which went by this name. They are
rarely, if ever in the drawing-room. At this
time Mrs B. had certainly no idea that the
sight of the cat was an illu~ion. I asked her
to touch it. She got up for the purpose, and
seemed, too, as if she was punming something
which moved away. She foJlowed a fe,v steps,
and then said: - ' It has gone under that chair.'
I told her it was an illusion. She would not
believe it. I lifted up the chair ; there was no-
thing there, nor did l\hs B. see anything more
of it. I searched the room all over, and found
nothing. There was a dog lying on the
hearth, who would have betrayed great un-
easiness had a cat been in the room. He was
perfectly quiet. In order to be quite certain,
I rung the bell and sent for the cats. They
were both found in the housekeeper's room.
The most superstitious person could now
douht no longer as to the real character of all
the:se illusory appearances, and the case is so
complete, that I hope there will be no renewal
4•
42 ILLUSIO~S.
of them, symptomatic as they of course are of
a disordered :;tate of tlw body. I am sorry to
say .Mrs B. as well as myself, forgot to try in
time the c:.xpcrimentum ct ucis on the cat. .Mrs
B. has natura11y a morbidly scnt~itivc imagina~
tion, so strongly affecting her corporeal im-
pre::5:sions, that the story of any person haYing
se,·ere pain by accident, or otherwi~e, will oc-
casionally produce acute twinges of pain in
the correspondent part in her own person. An
account, for instance, of the amputation of an
arm, wi11 produce an instantaneous and severe
sense of pain in her own arm ; and so of other
relations. She is subject to talk in her sleep,
with great tluency; to repeat poetry very much
at length, particularly when unwell, and even
cap ncrsr.s for half an hour together, ne,·er
failing to quote lines beginning with the final
letter of the preceding till her memory is ex-
hausted.
She has, during the last six weeks, been
considerably reduced and weakened, by a tire-
some cough, which has also added to her
weakness by preventing the taking a daily
tonic, to which she had been for some time
accustomed. She had also confined herself
ILLUSIONS. 43
from this cause to the house for some weeks,
which is not usual with her, being accustomed
to take a great deal of air and exercise. Her
general health for some time past has not been
strong, and a long experience has proved be...
yond a doubt, that her ill health is attributable
to a disordered state of the digestive organs.
These deta.ils are necessary for a complete
understanding of this case, which strikes me
as one of remarkable interest, from combining
the character of an ordinary ghost story with
those of an indubitable illusion, as well as
from the circumstance occurring to a person
of strong mind, devoid of any superstitious
fancies, and to be implicitly relied on for the
truth of the minutest details of the appearan-
ces. Indeed, I do not recollect any well au-
thenticated and recent instances of auricular
delusion like the first of those I have related,
though of course the warning voices and
sounds which have frightened too many weak
persons into their graves, must have been of
this nature. l\Irs B. tells me that about ten
years ago a similar circumstance happened to
her when residing in Florence, and in perfect
health. "\Vhile undressing after a bal1, she
4t
ILLt ~IONS.
heard a voice call her repeated!y hy name, and
was at that time unable to account for the
fact.
It was nearly a month after the last occur..
rcucc, that Mrs ll. was prepariug for bed at
about eleven o'clock at night, and after some·
,,.·hat a fatiguing day, and ~ittiug before the
dressing glass occupied in arrau!!ing her hair.
Site de~cril>es her !:itate of mind at the time a"
listless and drowsy, hut fully awake; indeed
her Jinge1s "ere in acti\'e motion among the
papillotes, when she was suddenly ~tartled by
seeing in the mirror the figure of a ncar rcJa...
ti\'e (at the time in Scotland) over her left
shoulder ; her C) e~ meeting his in the glass.
The figure was enveloped in gra,·e clothes,
cJo:-;cly pinned as i~ usual with corp::~es round
the head and under the chin. Though the
eyes were open, the features were solemn and
rigiu. The dre:-s was decidedly a .,Ju·oud, as
l\Irs D. remarked e\'en the punctured pattern
worked in a peculiar manner round the edges
of that garment. .
1\lrs B. dc:-:cribc~ herself as
sen ·ihle of a feeling like fascination, compel-
ling her for a time to gaze on this melancholy
apparition, which was as di~tinct and 'ivid as
ILLl' SIO~S. 45
:any reflected reality could be ; the light of the
candles on the dressing table appearing to
shine fully llpon it. After a few minutes she
turned round to look for the realtty of the form
O\'er her ~boulder. It was not, however, visible;
and l1ad abo disappeared from the glass when
she looked in that direction again. Coupled
with the pre,·ious illusions I lelated to you,
thi::; la::;t apparition becomes more interesting
than it would be alone. In the first place, its
melancholy and inueed horrible character, dis-
tinguishes it from the others, but brings it still
nearer the ordinary storie::; of supernatural vis-
itation. At the same time the po~~ible contin-
uance of such spectral appearances is highly
disagreeable, howe-rer firm the lady's nerves,
and howm·er sound her philo:sophy. 2d. The
mind in this case seems not to hare had the
remotest influence in raising or dissipating the
illusion. .Mrs B. is convinced there was no train
ofthought preriously passing through her mind,
likely to ha,·e. the slighte~t a:-ssociation with the
idea of the relati,·e, whose form she suddenly
saw with all the distinctness of reality. 3d.
'The former illusions might be supposed ideas
4fi ILLUSION::;.
of sensation, sounds, or pictures reproduced,
with extraordinary vividness in the same shape
and character, in which they had been per·
ceived by and stored up in the mind. Dut in
this last case there is a new combination of
ideas which never entered the mind in con·
nexion.
The union of the well known features with
the shroud, must have been a pure effort of, or
creation of the mind. There seem~, therefore,
no reason wl1y, under the same disposition of
the nervous system, any monstrous creation of
the faculty we call imagination might not be
produced to the eyes and other senses; indeed,
with all the qualities that con~titute reality, ex-
cept their endurance, though this :should hard-
ly he excepted, since there can be no reason
why the appearances may not endure, by a
continuance of the conditions for days, or
months. I need hardly say that the relati\'c,
whose ghost \Vas seen after so dismal a. fashion,
wa.s at the time in perfect health. Had it
been otherwise, and the apparition coincided
with il1ness or death, as has no doubt frequent·
ly happened in other instances, our philo::;ophy
would have had to stand a se,·ere triaL'
4t
4..
,.
li\L\u1.r.;.\.T10N Ai\IJ FEAI\.
IMAGINATION AND FEAR.
TnE influence of the imagination on the
nervous system has on some occasions produc-
ed etfects bordering on a state of insanity. It
dcpri' es the mind of all correct reasonings,
pervct b the understanding wilh which we are
endowed by our Creator to regulate our belief,
gnide U:5 in our pursuits, and enable us to trace
effects to their true causes. Instances a1e not
wantiug, in which the imagination has been
so highly excited as to produce fatal effects.
'Ve hare on record, among others, the story
of a German student, who dreamed he was to
die at a certain hour the next day. He imme-
diately made his will, and prepared himself for
the awful event. Every argument was used
to conrince him that no dependence is to be
put in dreams, but without shaking his belief,
and as the hour approached, he exhibited the
alarming sigus of death. He \'latched the
clock with the greatest anxiety, till his attend-
ing physician contrived to place the hands of
the clock beyond the specified hour, when his
mind waa relie\ed frDm the impression, and
4Q
u 11\UGJNATIO.N AND FEAR,
he was rejoiced to find that he might ~till con-
tinue to live in despite of his dream. lu
another instance, a man whose nervous system
was impaired, and imagination excited, con-
ceived the extravagant idea, that his legs were
mad<' of glass, and would use no exercise le)ojt
he should break them. He was prevailed on,
however, to ride, and the carriage was design-
edly overset, when he was soon cmwincecl that
his legs were made of the substantial materiafg
intended by nature. A few years since, Eli..
jah Barns of Pennsylvania, killed a rattlesnake
in his field without any injury to him!'elf, and
immediately after put on his son's waistcoat,
mistaking it for his own, both being of one co..
lor. He returned to his house, aud on at-
tempting to button hi::> 'Naistcoat, he found to
his astonishment that it was much too small.
His imagination was now w10ught to a high
pitch, and be instantly conceired the idea that
he had been bitten impeJceptibly by the snake,
and was thus :swollen from iti::i poison. He
grew suddenly very ill, and took to his bed.
The family in great alarm and confu.sion :sum-
moned three phy:.;icians, and the usual reme-
dies were prescribed and admiui::;tered. The
11\1.\GI:\"ATTON A!'\I> PE.\R. 49
patieut, however, grmY wor~C' and worse e\'ery
minute, until at length his son came home
with his filthcr's waistcoat dangling about him.
The mystery was instautly uufolded, and the
pnticnt being relieved from his imaginary ap-
prehensions, dismissed bi:s phy~icians, and was
re:-tored to health.
The philo~ophy of mind is a ~tudy of pecu·
1iar interest, and after all our powers of re_
search are exhausted, numerous phenomena
will remain iucxplicablc. ltHlced our mental
faculties arc continually OYerwhelmed with
thing:::. inexplicable. \Ve too often embrace
for sub tantial truths mere phantoms, which
vanish into air, and lea,·c the mind to deplore
its own imbecility. 'Vhile superstition weak-
ens our moral Yirtuc:;, and the influence of
imagination deludes our intellectual powers,
the passion of fear has a pernicious and even a
hazardous tendency. It i:' the passion, which
most of all others, exerts it:-. effects directly on
the heart; on !'Orne occasions, it produces in-
stant death, and in numerous in:st:mces, it lays
a foundation for a chronic <li:ieasc of that vital
organ, which, after a long <luration of distress-
ing complaints, has a fatal t~rmination. Not
50 1.\IASINATION A~D 1'1:.\ft.
long since, an instance was pnhlished, of n.
child ha\'ing died of a disca.~c of the heart, in
consequence of a fright received by being
thrown upwards and caught in its fall for
amusement.
Few persons are aware of the extreme dan-
ger of sudden fright on timid minds. The
most melancholy consequences haYe on some
• occasions resulted from stratagems with efii-
gies, representing apparitions for innocent and
momentary amusement. Instances are nol
wanting of n total loss of intellect during life,
from such inexcusable folly. Parents aud
nurses should carefully avoid imbuing the
minds of children with idle stories of ghosts
and apparitions. The following facts, select-
ed from numerous others, will illui::itrate the ef-
fects of terror on the mind. In a poor-houllc
i~ H aerlem, a girl was seized with a convul-
sive disorder, which returned in regular par-
oxysms; not long after, another was taken,
and others in succession, till all the boys and
girls in the house were affected in a similar
manner. The medical prescriptions failed to
perform a cure. At length the celebrated Dr
Boerhaave, ascribiJ?g the occurrences to the
IMAGINATION AND FEAR. 51
habit of imitation, ordered several furnaces to
be placed in the chamber. o,·er the burning
coals a number of crooked irons were laid,
and the doctor ordered his attendants to burn
the arm of the first child, who should be seized
in a fit, even to the bone. This alarming re-
medy produced the desired effect; their imag-
ination was overpo\\'ered by the force of fear,
and not a case of the kind again occurred.,
In a family of six children, one of them was
afflicted with convulsive affections; all the
others exhibited the symptoms of the same
disorder, by imitation. No remedy could re-
move the extraordinary affection, till the father
placed a block and an axe in their view, and
declared that he would decapitate the first one
who should exhibit any more gestures, except
the first one taken. By this expedient, all
imitation and ima~inary feelings were orer-
come, and the five last ''ere happily deli,·ered
from the nervous agitations. "\Vith respect to
the appearance of ghosts and apparitions, it
cannot be doubted, but many of the reports
found on record, or repeated by tradition, were
mere illusions of imagination, or fictions, con-
trived solely to amuse, or to answer some par-
5•2 11\lAGr~ATION ANTI El~AR.
ticular purpose; and too m:my have been the
dupe::; of implicit faith, without examining the
affair with that jealous attention which it re-
quired,. It is not improbable, that in many in-
stances, hobgoblin stories may he explained by
the deceptive powers of ventrilo<1uism. ·we
hare had auricular demonstration of the ex-
traordinary powers of ventriloquists; they can
counterfeit the voices of animals and all imag-
inable noises, at pleasure~ and conjure up a
ghoHt or witch on any occasion. Although
ventriloquism was not practised, as an art, in
ancient times, it was not unknown, and indi-
viduals possessing that faculty might haYe put
it in operation, on particular occasions, without
susptcton. In most cases of supposed appari-
tions and spectres, the reports originated with
timorous and credulous per~ons, or those of
questionable characte1·. The scene is always
exhibited in the night, when the eye is pre-
pared to see fl-ightful spectre~, and the imagi-
nation is a" aked to magnify C\'cry object,
whether real or unreal.
• .All thing;,; are full of horror and affi·ight.
And dt·caclful even the :,.ilcucc of the night.'
The darkness of the night, the gloom and
l~lAGI:-..ATION AND l'EAR. 53
horror produced by the report of haunted
houses, or some disastrous occurrence, as
murder or robbery in a particular situation,
and a state of mind naturally depressed and
melancholy, ham doubtlc:-;::; contributed to
give a currency to many of tho:::c legendary
stories which hare been credulou~ly received
and di::::::eminated by the ndgar. Those, espe-
cially, who arc trembling with a guilty con-
science, nrc liable to deception; cren the most
intrepid hare been alarmed, when in the night,
post!", trees, and other objects, hare been pre-
sented in a di~torted form. \Vc arc familiar
"ith the story of the frightened person, who,
on passin!r a church-yard in the night, con-
ceited that he saw a ghost clothed in white;
but on examination it prored to be no other
than a white horse. A few years ago, Dr
Steams was travelling from Bo::,ton to Salem
in the C\ cniug, having a considerable sum of
money about him. He suffered himself to be
strongly imprc~,:,ed with the apprehcn::>ion of
being robbed. 'VhiJe his mind was wrought
up to the highest pitch, he imagined that a
robber approached him with a club su-,pcnded
over his head, and demanded his money. He
lJ.j l.l\1.\GlNATION AND ··EAH,
instantly took out his pocket book :mel threw
it on the ground, and in grc:at affright drove
off with all !'peed. Ilaviug procured assi:st-
ancc and light.:;, they visitc!l tltc :spot in search
of the robber, when to their surprise they
f()und a pump standing ucnr the road, having
it~ handle turned upwards, and the doctor's
pocket hook instead of beinrr in the hand of
a robher, was found lying hcside the pump.
"'"ere all the ~uppo~ed npparitions and speo-
treR to be met with the intrepidity di~playcd in
the fo11owing instance, ghost Rtories would
seldom be repeated. About the latter part of
the last century, a 1\Ir Dlake, of Hingham,
1\Iassaclmc;ctts, was passing the church-yard in
the night, when he ~aw an object in human
form, clothed in white, sitting ncar an open
tomb. Resolving to ~atisfy himself, he walked
toward it. The form moved a:; he approached,
and endearored to elude his pnr~uit; when he
ran, the object ran before him, and after turn-
ing in different directions, descended into the
tomb. l\lr Blake followed, and there found a
woman, who was in a deranged state of mind,
\vho had covered her~clf with a sheet, an«l was
roaming amon~ the silcut tombs.
J~IAGlNATJON .~XD Fl:AI: . 59
3.lh·erti~ed, that the person to whom the prom-
ise was made of striking on the coffin, was
then about to visit the vault, and that the per-
formance of the promise was then claimed.
The company at 1 o'clock went into the
church, and the gentleman to whom the prom-
ise was made, went with another into the
vault. The spirit was solemnly required to
perform its promise, but nothing more than
silence ensued. The person supposed to be
accused by the spirit then went down with
several others, but no effect whatever was
perceived. Upon their return they examined
the girl, but could draw no confession from
her, and the father of the girl, when interro-
gated, denied in the strongest terms, any
knowledge or belief of fraud. It was there-
fore published by the whole assembly, that the
girl had some art of making or counterfeiting
a particular noise, and that there was no
agency of any higher cause. Thus ended
this singular affair, which had so long been
permitted to disturb the peace of the city and
of the public. The greatest surprise is, that
an artful, mischievous girl, should be suffered
,.
5~ l.:'f'IA<HNATION AND f'EAR.
snppo5ed spirit had publicly promised, Ly an
affirmati\'e knock, that it would attend any
person into the vault under the church. where
the body was deposited, anrl wou]d give a
knock on the coffin ; it was, therefore, deter-
mined to make this trial of the visitation and
veracity of the supposed spirit. On this occa-
~ion, Dr Johnson, with several clergymen and
other gentlemen and ladies, assembled about
ten o'clock at night, in the house in which the
girl had, with proper caution, been put to bed
by several ladies. More than an hour passed,
without hearing any noise, when at length the
gentlemen were summoned into the girl's
chamber, by some ladies ·who were near her
bed, and had heard knocks and scratches.
)Vhen the gentlemen entered, the girl declared
that she felt the spirit like a mouse upon her
back. She was required to hold her hands
out of bed, and from that time, though the
spirit was very solemnly required to manifest
its existence by appearance, by impression on
the hand or body of any one present, by
knocks, or scratches, or any other agency, no
evidence of any preternatural power was ex-
hibited. The spirit was then very seriously
l:\1.\GI!I;ATION AND FCAR. 57
circumstances, should afterwards be unques-
tionably proved, I ~hould in that case be per-
suaded, that I had supernatural intelligence
imparted to me.' Jolmson related a story of
a ghost, said to have appeared to a young
woman several times, advil:>ing her to apply to
an attorney for the recoYery of an old house,
which was done, and at the same time saying
the attorney would do nothing, which proved
to be the fact.
About the middle of the last century, there
were reports of a ghost vbiting a house in
CJckJane, in the city of London. The whole
city was, for many weeks, kept in a state of
agitation and alarm, and the magazines and
newspapers teemed with strange accounts of
tl1e Cocklane ghost. The ~tory, at length, be-
came so popular, and created ::;uch excitement,
as to require a thorough inYcstigation. The
purport of the story was, that a spirit had fre-
quently appeared, and announced to a girl, that
a murder had been committed ncnr that place,
by a certain person, which ought to he detect-
ed. For a long time, unaccountable noises,
t~uch as knocking, scratching- on the walls of
the house, &c, were heard every night. The
5G J:\IAGINA'J'ION .AND J1'EAH.
it.' Boswell ~uggested, as an objection, tha'
if spirits me in a state of happiness, it would
be a punishment to them to retmn to this
world; and if they are in a state of misery, it
would he giving them a rc:-;pite. Johnson rc-
plied, thnt ' as the happinCSf; or misery of
~phits depends not upon place, but is intellect·
ual, we cannot say, that they are less happy or
less miserable, by appearing upon earth.'
Johnson obaerved, that he makes a di!'itinction
between what a man may ex}>erience by the
mere strength of his iml}ginatiou, and w.hat
imagination cannot possibly produce. Thus,
said he, 'suppose I should think that I saw a
form, and heard a voice say, Johnson1 you are
a Yery wicked fellow, and unless you repent,
you will certainly be punished ; my own llll·
worthiness is so deeply impressed upon my
mind, that I might imagine I thus saw and
he!_lrd, and therefore I should not believe that
an external communication had been made to
me. But, if a form should appear, and a ,·oice
should teJl me, that a particular man had died
at a particular place, and a particular hour, a
fact which I h:td no apprehension of, nor au)
means of knowing, and this fact, with all tts
ll\IAGINA'l'lON AND FEAR. 55
The passion of fear is implanted in our na·
ture for wise purposes. It prompts us to self
defence and the avoidance of evil. It is ex-
cited into action by various causes, depending
on the condition of the nerves in different con-
stitutions, or in the same at different times.
But when extended to imaginary objects of
terror, fear becomes superstition, as by a sort
of instinct, and has a direct tendency to cher-
ish ignorance and credulity. Dr Franklin
had no faith in apparitions and spectres, but
he proposed to a friend, that the one which
should die first, should return in spirit and visit
the survivor; his friend died first, but his spirit
never returned. The strong mind of Dr
Samuel Johnson was not altogether free from
agitation and embarrassment, when contem-
plating the question of the appearance of in-
corporeal spirits in our world. 'This great
man said to Mr Boswe11, his biographer,
c it is wonderful that 5000 years have now
elapsed since the creation of the world, and
still it is undecided whether or not there has
ever been an instance, in modern times, of the
spirit of any person appearing after death.
All argument is a~ainst it, but all belief ii for
5
60 ll\UGINATION AND P.EAH.
to !ct at defiance the close~t scrutiny to detect
her imposition and deception.
The following anecdote may be foq£ld in
some historical publication, but is now related
from memory without recollecting the authority.
After the execution of Charles the First, the
Parliament. resoh·ed that eYcry \'estige of roy-
alty should be annihilated. I•'cn this purpose,
eommissioners were appointed to carry into
effect the decree in the Palace of the late
King. While executing th~ir prescribed
duties) the commissioners were from day to day
annoyed and disturbed by strange and frightful
noi~es, in various part~ of the house. Logs of
wood rolling o,·er the floor in the kitchen,
various utensils clattering together, dancing
and stamping were heard iu rooms whose
doors were closed, and to :such nlnrming heights
was the deception carried that the commis·
sioners were about to ahandon the house, from
the belief that it was -llllunted by e'•il 1'pirits.
At length, on close jnvestigation, the fc1ct wns
disclosed that the whole deception was the
contrivance of a man of sinrrnlar art called
b '
funny Joe, who was the acting ::.ccretary of the
commJS~loncrs.
IMAGINATION AND FEAR. ()J
In Southey's life of Wesley, we have another
instance of supposed preternatural noises in
the parsonage house of 'Vesley's father, in the
year 1716. The mysterious noises were said
to be as various as unaccountable; such as
knocking at the door, lifting up the latch, and
a groaning, like a person in distress ; a clatter
among a number of bottles, as if all at once
they had been dashed in pieces; footsteps as
of a man going up and down stairs, at all
hours of the night; sounds like that of danc-
ing in a room, the door of which was locked ;
but most frequently, a knocking about the
beds at night, and in different parts of the
house. Mr Wesley was once awakened a little
after midnight, by nine loud and distinct
knocks which seemed to be in the next room,
with a pause at e\'ery third stroke. He and
his wife rose, and went below; a noise was
now heard, like that of a bag of money pour-
ed on the floor at their feet. At one time, the
servant heard his hand-mill in rapid motion,
without any visible hand to move it. 1\lr
Wesley made C\'cry exertion to ascertain the
real cause of the noises, without success. He
at length became so impatient with the unusual
5t
ffi il\TA(:J~ATJO:-l AND FEAR.
annoyances, that he prepared a pi!'tol, which
he was about to di~charge at the plac.c where
the noise wa'3 heard, but was dissuaded from
it by a neighboring clergyman, who had been
called in to his assistance. But he upbraided
the goblin for disturbing the family, and chal-
lenged it to appear to him while alone in his
study, after which, on entering his study, tllC
door was pressed against him, but no object
was seen. At length, the family became so
familiar with this invisible spirit, that one of
the daughters gave it the name of Old Jeffrey,
and they treated it as matter of curiosity and
amusement. This unaccountable affair excit-
ed much speculation throughout the country.
The celebrated Dr Priestley, and many others,
undertook to in\'estigate the circumstances,
but were unable to make any satisfactory dis-
covery, and it remains inexplicable.
A reviewer of 'Vesley's life ob~erves, that
few will regard the circumstances as anything
more than creatures of imagination, the off-
spring of credulity and superstition ; but I
should strongly suspect that some one of the
family was the prime mover in the business,
as was funny Joe in the Royal Palace of King
Charles the F irst.
~UPERSTJTION. 63
SUPERSTITION.
IltsTORlCAL records furnish innumerable in-
stances of superstition, fraught with circum·
!!lances of inexpressible horror. It is an in..
firmity inherent in our nature, and extremely
difficult to eradicate ; no lesson on moral evil,
or lecture on physical destiny, can sever the
spell or dissolve the dark enchantment. So
peculiarly fascinating is the love of the mar·
vellous, that when ignorance and bigotry co-
operate, the pure fountain of truth is polluted,
and the most preposterous tales of antiquity are
held in veneration by every fiery zealot.
From this cause, millions of innocent lives
have been sacrificed. The intellects of thous-
ands have been shackled, and their energies
perverted by irrational fears, aud by degrading
conceptions of the nature of Deity, and of
the purposes and modes of religious worship
and obedience. It was in the darkest days of
superstition, that the rack was in exercise to
chain down the understanding, to sink it into
the most abject and ~ordid condition, punishing
St
&1 SUPERS'l'ITJON.
imaginary crimes, and repressing truth and
philo!:'ophical research.
The science of medicine had to encounter
the scourge of superstition at nn early period;
the epithet of magician was applied to the
physician, who appeared to be endowed with
superior genius and knowledge. The inquisi•
tion wa.s constantly prepared to take holy cog·
nizance of those who distinguished themselves
by extraordinary cures, and hundreds of mis..
erable wretches were dragged to the stake for
this cause alone. Galileo, in the lith century,
was condemned by the inquiSition to a rigor·
ous punishment, for his noble and useful dis--
·coverics in astronomy and geometry ; and
about the same period, Dr Bartolo suffered a
similar fate at Rome, because he unexpectedly
cured a nobleman of the gout.
The University of Salamanca decreed that
no physician should dare to bleed his patient
in a pleurisy in the arm of the affected side;
declaring that such practice was of no less
pernicious consequences to medicine, than
Luthees heresy had been to religion. The
inquisition having adopted the irrational and
foolieh doctrine that diseases should be ascribed
SVPER8TJTION.
was totalIy ignorant of his singular talent.
Suddenly, on his first appearance, in open day,
and in pre~ence of several persons who were
with her, she hear~ herself accosted, in a
voice perfectly resembling that of her dead
husband, and which seemed to proceed from
abore, exclaiming, ' Give my daughter in mar-
riage to Louis Brabant. He is a man of great
fortune, and of an excellent character. I now
endure the inexpressible torments of purgatory
for having refused her to him. lf you obey
this admonition, I shall soon be delivered from
this place of torment. You will at the same
time provide a worthy husband for your
daughter, and procure everlasting repose to
the soul of your poor husband.' The widow
could not for a moment resist this dread sum-
mons, which had not the most distant appear,
ance of proceeding from Louis Brabant, whose
countenance exhibited no ,·isible change, and
whose lips were closed and motionleRs, during
the deli\·ery <,. it. Accordingly, she consented
immediately to receive him for her son-in-law.
Louis's finance~, however, were in a very low
situation, and the formalities attending the
marriage contract, rendered it necessary for
70 SUPERSTITION.
him to exhibit some show of riches, and not to
gi,·e the ghost the lie direct. Ile accordingly
went to work upon a fresh subject, one Comu,
an old and rich banker at Lyon~, who had
accumulated immense wealth by usury and
extortion, and was known to be haunted by
remorse of conscience on account of the man-
ncr in which he bad acquired it. Having
contracted an intimate acquaintance with this
man, he one day, while they were sitting to-
gether in the usurer's little back parlor, artfully
turned the conversation on religious subjects,
on demons and spectres, the pains of purgatory
and the torments of hell. During an interval
of silence between them, a \'Oice was heard,
which to the astonished banker seemed to be
that of his deceased father, complaining, as in
the former case, of his dreadful situation in
purgatory, and calling upon him to deliver
him instantly from thence, by putting into the
hands of Louis Brabant, a large sum for the
redemption of Christians then in slavery with
the Turks ; threatening him at the same time
with eternal damnation if he did not take this
method to expiate like,vise his own sins. The
reader will naturally suppose that Brabant
tiS 8UPi:RS'L
'J'l'lON.
deceive themselves, and with what tenacity the
mind clings to its darling delusion7 sober re-
flection is awakened to a lively sense of the
evils resulting from our imperfections. As
the germs of plants may lie dormant in the
earth for ages, and be resuscitated, so may the
troubles created by unhallowed superstition, re-
vi\'c and be reiterated by means of some de-
prared spirits in our day.
rmtriloquism is an art which may be made
:!!Ubservient to knavery and deception. An
ingenious work on this subject was published
iu 1772, by M. de la Chapcllc, who was of
opinion that the responses of many of · the
oracles were deli\·ered by persons thus qualified
to serve the purposes of priestcraft and delu-
sion. That ventriloquism may be made thus
subservient to the purposes of knav~ry, will
clearly appear by the following anecdotes.
Louis llrabant, valet de chambre to Francis
the First, was a capital ventriloquist, and a
great cheat. He had fallen in love with a
young, handsome, and rich heiress ; but was
rejP.cted by the parents as an unsuitable match
for their daughter. The young ladfs father
dying, Brabant marle <t visit to the widow, who
SUP£TISTIT!ON. ()7
hind, we are pressing forward in the race with
rapid strides to the melioration of the condition
of the physical and moral world. Had the
stupendous works performed, and those con-
templated at the present day, been predicted to
our fathers in the 17'th century, they would
l1ave trembled with alarm, lel't their posterity
were destined to form a league with the infer-
nal powerH. The paralyzing idea that the
present ~tate of knowledge is as perfect as our
nature will admit, should he uttelly reprobated;
for knowledge i:. eternally progrel'sire, and we
can ha,·e no daim to be P.l'timatccl as the ben-
efactors of po&terity, unless by 0ur own efforts
and toils we add to the achicvem~nts of our
ancestors. "\Vc may tak~ u rf'trospect of the
meritoriou::; characters of onr fathers with ex-
nlt::ttion, and when dispo~ed to animadvert on
the frailties and follies pP.cnJiar to their times,
Jet us reflect that it is our happy lot to live in
an age in many respects t be most glorious the
\vorld ever knew. \Ye h:n e a moral interest
in all that concern:" the human race, and, as
philanthropists, we ought to ~ympathize in every
calamity with which our species may be affiict-
ed. Being apprised with what f.1cility mankind
66 !'l'PER~TJTJON.
of the physical world; Lut t11rough the infirmity
of human nature, it has pre\'ailed to the per-
version of the profoundest understanding, and
the purel:'3t intellect. It has arrested the pro-
gress of literature and science, and shackled
the mind with vulgar fictions, errors, and pre-
judices. E\·en the sublime genius of Lord
Bacon was subjected to its influence ; he be-
lieved in witchcraft, and asserted that he was
cured of warts by rubbing them with a piece
of lard with the skin on, and then exposing it
to the sun. Dr .More, and the enlightened
Cudworth, applied the epithet Atheist to those
who opposed the belief of witchcraft. The
celebrated Dr Hoffman, the father of the mod-
ern theory and practice of medicine, in the
large edition of his work in 1742, says, that
the devil can raise storms, produce insects,
and act upon the animal spirits and imagina-
tion ; and, in fine, that he is an excellent o~
tician, and •natural philosopher, on account of
his long experience.
But, blessed be the Almighty Ruler, the
present is an era, preeminently distinguished
for improvement in physical and moral philos-
ophy ; and forgetting the things that .are be-
~UPERSTITIO~.
to fascination, a phy::;ician who opposed that
doctrine was compelled to accede to it, and to
declare that he had seen a beautiful woman
break a steel mirror to pieces, and blast trees
by a single glance of her fascinating eyes.
Superstitious opinions prevailed in regard to
the cure of diseases, also. Some were sup-
po~ed to be ctm~d by a song. Josephus asserted
that he saw a certain Jew, named Eleazer,
draw the devil out of an old woman's nostrils,
by the application of Solomon's seal to her
nose, in the presence of the Emperor Vespa-
sian. Numerous remedies were employed for
expelling the devil, among which was flagel-
lation, purgatives, and antispasmodics. Sev-
eral bewitched persons being cured by a plas-
ter of aRsafretida, the question arose, in what
way this article excited so much efficacy.
Some ::;upposed, that the de,·il con~idered so
vile an application an insult, and ran off in a
passion ; but other::; very sagely observed, that
as devils are supposed to have eyes and ears, it
is po~sible that they ha\'e no:::;es al~o, and that
it pro,·ed offensi,·e to their olfactory nerve:;.
It may be observed that super:stition is not
confined to tho~e who are ignorant of the laws
SUPERSTITION. 71
affected a due degree of astonishment on the
occasion, and further promoted the deception,
by acknowledging his having devoted himself
to the prosecution of the charitable design
imputed to him by the ghost. An old usurer
is naturally suspicious. Accordingly, the
wary banker made a second appointment with
the ghost delegate for the next day ; and to
render any design of imposing upon him
utterly abortive, took him into the open fields,
where not a house, or a tree, or even a bush was
in sig!tt, capable of screening any supposed
confederate. This extraordinary caution ex-
cited the ventriloquist to exert all the powers
of his art. Wherever the banker conducted
him, at every step, his ears were saluted on all
sides with the complaints and groans not only
of his father, but of all his deceased relations,
imploring him, for the love of God, and in the
name of e\·ery saint in the calendar, to have
mercy on his soul and their's, by effectually
seconding with his purse the intentions of his
worthy companion. Coruu could no longer
resist the voice of heaven, and accordingly
carried his guest l10me with him, and paid
him down 10,000 crowns, with which the
72 SUl'.ERS'l'ITtoN.
honest ventriloquist returned to Paris and
married his mistress. The catastrophe was
fatal. The secret was afterwards blown, and
reached the usurer's ears, who was so much
affected by the loss of his money, and the mor-
tifying railleries of his neighbors, that he took
to his bed and died.
Another French ventriloquist, named M. St
Gile, was not less adroit in his secret art.
Entering a convent, and finding the whole
community in mourning, he inquil'ed the
cause, and wa5 told that one of their body had
lately died, who was the delight and ornament
of the whole society, and they spoke feelingly
of the scanty honol's they had bestowed on his
memory. Suddenly a voice was heard, appar•
ently proceeding from that part of the church
where the singing of the choir is performed,
lamenting the situation of the defunct in pur·
gatory, and reproaching the brotherhood with
their lukewarmness, and want of zeal on his
account. The friars, as soon as their aston·
ishment gave them power to speak, consulted
together, and agreed to acquaint the rest of
the community with this singular event, so in·
teresting to the whole 3ociety. M. St Gile,
SUPERSTITION.
who wished to carry on the joke still farther1
dissuaded them from tal{ing this step, telling
them that they ,,·ould be treated by their absent
brethren, as a set of fools and visionaries. lie
recommended to them, however, the immedi-
ately calling of the whole community into the
church, where the ghost of their departed
brother might probably reiterate his complaints.
Accordingly, all the friars, novices, lay broth-
ers, and even the domestics of the convent,
''~ete immediately summoned and collected to-
gether. In a short time the voice from the
roof renewed its lamentation and reproaches,
and the whole convent fe11 on their f.1.ces, and
vowed a solemn reparation. As a first step,
they chanted a De profundis in a full choir ;
during the intervals of which the ghost occa-
sionally expressed the comfort he received from
their pious exercises, and ejaculations on his
behalf. \Vhen all was over, the friar entered
into a serious conversation with M. St Gjle;
and, on the strength of what had just passed,
sagaciously inveighed against the absurd in-
credulityof our modern sceptics and pretended
philosophers, on the article of ghosts or appari-
tion:5. M. St Gile thought it now high time to
6
74 WITCHCRAFT AND SOltCERY.
disabuse the good fathers. This purpo~e,
howeYer, he found it extremely difficult to ef-
fect, till he had prevailed upon them to return
with him into the church, and there be wit-
nesses of the manner in which he had con-
ducted this ludicrous deception.
WITCHCRAFT AND SORCERY.
A nELrEF in the entity of witchcraft and sor-
cery may uoast of a high degree of antiquity.
In both the Old and New Testament, we ob-
serve numerous tragical e\'ents, bearing the
semblance of diabolical agency. A prominent
instance is found in the witch of F.ndor, who
is said to ha\·e been deeply \'ersed in the ar~ of
deception, and notorious in her day for skill
in practical astrology. It is the opinion of
some divines, tl1at to beguile Saul, sl1e raised
a demon, counterfeiting Samuel; but it seems
difllcult to decide in what precise manner she
effected her purpose of impo~ing upon her
credulous employer. The sorcery and witch-
craft, prohibited under the Jewish dispensation,
so WITCIICRAFT AND SORCI::tlV'.
. ....,
'
The methods put in practice for the discorery
<>f witches were ,·arions and singul:u. One
was, to weigh the suspcctetl woman against the
church bible, which, if l'he was guilty, \\:ouhl
prepontlcratc. Another was to rCf{Uire her to
repeat the Lord's prayer; in attempting this, a
witch \\'ill ah,·ays hesitate and blunder. If a
witch :-;hould "·eep, she could not shed more
than three tears, and that out or the left eye.
This deficiency of tears was considered as a
very substantial proof of guilt. Excrescences
on the body, from which the imps receive their
nourishment, were deemed infallible signs of a
witch. She was bound cro:-;swisc, the right
thumb tied to the left toe, aud the left thumb
to the right toe ; i11 this condition bhe was
cast into the water, if guilty she could not
sink, for having in her compact with the devil
renounced the water of baptism, the water in
return refuses to recei\c her. If she was
found able to swim in that condition, she was
taken out and burnt or hung ; hut it is proba-
ble the bystanders 'Were allowed to save them
from drowning or few could e:-,capc. The
trial by the ~tool was resorted to as another
experlient; the suspected woman was placed
WIT('HCRAFT AND SOitCERY. 79
offence, ancl could. e,·en raise ::;torms and tem-
pest..;, nwl ~ink ships at sea.
N umcrous legendary tales were formerly
propagated of haunted houses, where witches
assemhled and held their nightly orgies and
diauolical revels. The:;e haunts were always
objects of great terror to the credulous .,:ulgar,
being considered. as a pandemonium of all
manner of eYils, misei ie~, and. calamities.
The idea, was prevalent, also, that witches
could bridle men in the night, and ride them
about at pleasure. The woman who should
exhibit the characteristics above described,
'"as at once ~tigmatized as being in league
with the deYil, and was treated not only with
ridicule and contempt, but ~ubjected to un-
merciful persecution. Ranked among demons,
instruments of the devil, they were objects of
no pity, hut were Yiewed with scorn and hor-
ror. Instances were not wanting of these
"retched mortals, although entirely innocent,
becoming so hateful and terri hie to all, and be-
frientled hy none, that at length they abhorred
thcms~h·e:-:, and were reconciled to be burnt or
hung, that they might escape the rage of cruel
persecution.
Gt
78 WITCHCRAFT ANI> ~ORCCUY.
movements at \'ariancc with a propBr demean-
or. She is supposctl to lwrc lurmccl a compact
with the uc\ il, giving hcr::;clf up to him body
and ~oul. This compact, it is bclicvc<l, cannot
be transacted mentally, but the ueYil must
appear in bodily shape to the witch. In thi..:
interview, he deli,'ers to her an imp, or familiar
spirit, by which sl1e is enablcu to transport
hen,clf in the air, on a broomstick or a ~pit,
to distant places in the night to attend witch
meetings, at which the devil always presides.
She was supposed to be attended by an old
gray cat, as her confederate, or imp; the cat
and her mistress, it wa::3 believed, were often
overheard plotting their fairy tricks together.
She was supposed to possess the power of
transforming herself into a cat, a squirrel, or
other animal, which she would send abroad to
execute her commandf'. These animals could
not be killed but by a silver bullet, and should
the animal receiYe a wound the witch would
have a wound in the same place. It was
imagined that the 'ritch, hy the aid of Satan,
had power to inflict death, and Yarious dis-
cases ancl cril~, on families and individuals,
and also on cattle, by wny of re\'cnge for any
\YITCHCR.H'T AND SOH<.:J:RY.
......
I I
the dirine nature and ours. But both philos-
ophers and Christians that have \'entured to
defme their natures or works, have been very
various in their notions respecting them, and
the holy scriptures, though they gi\'e us many
instances of the employntcnt of both the e,·jl
aud the good spirits, teach us none such as
we commonly meet with in the modern rela-
tions of witchcraft, and the conjoint powers of
Satan. The holy scriptures tell us of no such
tales as these which confound the laws of na-
ture, and absolutely destroy the testimony of
our senses.'**'*' The human mind is sometimes
FO clouded and opprc::;scd, that pcr:;ons think
themselrcs dead. At another time they are
elevated far ::1 bore their natural pitch, full of
rapture::;, and high conccih, nnd think them-
~clvcs kings and queens; now if witch stories
arc in their heads, or witcl1craft in their ima.g-
inatious, why may they not think themselves
bewitched, or fancy themselrc::> witches or
wizards, as well as kings and quceu~? '
A "itch, in her personal character, was
commonly an uncouth old woman, or hag.
Her countenance was repulsire, her air and
iait rlisgusting, and her general al'pect and
Q.tf
'io WITCHCRAFT AND IORCI!!I< f".
'Demonaics,' says Kenrick, 'were persons
disordered in their uncler:;tanclings, and sup-
posed to be possessed by an eYil demon.' That
real miracles were wrought by our Saviour
and his apostles, and that both good and evil
spirjts were subservient to his \vill, no christian
belieYcr can ever deny. But by all impartial
inquirers after truth, it " ·ill perhaps be conced-
ed, that dcmoniacal possession is a subject the
least susceptible of a satisfactory solution, of
any in scripture. It has received the most
critical inves6gation of commentators and
divines, for centuries, and still remains involv-
ed in mystery. The subject in its nature, is
too intricate and mysterious to justify even a
discussion on this occasion, nor is it requisite
for my purpose. It must, therefore, be referred
to philo~ophical commentators and learned
biblical critics.
In a work entitled, Historical Essay concern-
ing Witchcraft, by F. Hutchinson, D. D., pub-
lished in London in 17~0, the author says,
' The divine 'nitings, as well as the soundest
philosophy and soberest reason, give confirma-
tion that there are both good and bad spirits.
1.,here are !';Uperior beings intermediate betv.·ixt
Wl'l'CIJCRA.FT Al'ID SORCJ::RY. i5
i:. suppo~ed hy high authority to he a very dif-
f('fcnt ~pecies of c1 ime ti·um t11at wllich was
so abhorrent in the days ot our aucestors; the
former might have come under the description
of idolatry, or of the heathcu mythology.
' The ancients believed that there were good
and evil demons, which had influence over the
minds of men, and that these beings carried on
an intercourse between men and gods, con-
veying the addresses of men to the gods, and
divine benefit::; to men. Hence, demons be-
carne the objects of "·orship. It wa~ supposed,
abo, that human :-;pirib, afler tlu"ir departurl!
from the body, became demons, and that the
~oul.s of virtuou:o; men, if highly purilicd, were
cxnlted from demon::-. iutu gods.'
The variou:-{ instances of demoniac::;, luua-
tics, and posses:-ed, recorded iu the sacred
scriptures of the New Testament, have re-
ceived different interpretations according to
the particular views among learned expositors.
By some of the enlightened German theolo-
gian", those subjects are considered as mere
prototype::; of the maniacs ami epileptics of
our own times; but most of the English
di\'ille"' have imhibccl clitTNent opmwn~.
86 WI7CUCRAFT AND IORC£RT.
where the times have not been so violent and
euperstitious but that sensible men might ven-
ture to speak freely, and the accused could
have a fair trial, they have usunlly discovered
cheat and imposture. Fifteen famous detec-
tions of fraud were made, many of them after
judges and juries, and a multitude of eye
witnesses had been deceived. Had the rest
undergone as strict inquiry, most of them
would probably have proved innocent.
In the year 1427, the famous heroine Joan
of Arc, after her glorious military exploit at
the siege of Orleans, being taken prisoner by
the Earl of Bedford, was cruelly burnt as a
witch. ln 1488, a violent tempest of thunder
and lightning in Spnin, having destroyed the
corn for some leagues around, the people ac-
cused two old women of being the cause.
They confessed and were burnt. Other in-
stances, no less preposterous, are recorded
about that period. In 1515, five hundred
persons were executed at Geneva, in three
months, as witches and wizards, and at an-
other place, fortyeight were burnt in five year!.
Eighteen were condemned in England in
1596; an acC'onnt of their- triaIs w;~s published,
WITCHCRAFT AND SOHCERY. 81
in the middle of the room on a stool cross~
legged ; if she refused, she was bound with
cords, and in this uneasy posture she was kept
without meat or sleep, for twcntyfour hours,
during which it "·as supposed that her imps
would return to her for nourishment. A
small hole was left in the door for the imps to
enter, and persons were directed to be con-
stantly sweeping the floor, ancl to keep a strict
watch fcJr !-ipiders, flies, or other insects, and if
they could not kill them, they certainly were
the witch's imps. Suspected witches were
sometimes put to cruel torture to force con-
fession, and were afterwards executed. From
such kinds of proof, together with the most
absurd ancl foolish evidence of old women and
children, thousands of innocent persons were
condemned for witchcraft, and burnt at the
stake.
Bishop Jewel, in a sermon preached before
Queen Elizabeth, in 15.58, tells her, 'It may
please your Grace to understand that witches
and sorcerers, within these last four years, are
marvellously increased \\ ithin your Grace's
realm. Your subjects pine away even unto
death ; their color fadeth, their speech is be-
fjt
WJTCIICltAF'f ANO SOflCER\'. 85
their own interest, pas::ion, or capricions humor.
They learu to counterfeit various kinds of fits;
hark and :o:natl like a dog, goggle their eyes,
foam nt the month, ,Ji~tort their hodie=-, and
disjoint their limb~. Such impo~tors ha,·e
tliCir confederates or partners wl1o join \\ ith
them, and share in the profit, or in the humor.
Dr Francis Ilntchin..;on, published a chro-
nological detail of tria}g and executions for
supposed \Vitchcraft, sorcercl"s, and conjurors,
in various countriP.s in Europe. From this it
will be seen, he obserres, that, in all age:s of
the world, superstitious crcdulit} has produced
greater cruelties than arc practi...ccl among
Hottentots, or other nntions who::;c belief in a
Deity is called in quc~tiou. The number of
witches and their supposed dealings with Satan,
l1c obserrcs, will increase or decrP.asc accord-
ing as such rloiugs arc accounted probable, or
impo~sihle. Under the former ~uppo~ition,
charges and convictions wilJ be fonnd aug-
mP.ntcd in a ten ific degree. Vt~hen the accu-
!'ations are clisheltm·cd and dismi:-;sed as not
worthy of attention, the crime becomes unfre-
qucnt, ceasf'~ to occupy the public mind, and
:dlnrd~ little tronhle 1n the judge~. That
82 WITCJ.lCfiAFT AND SORC:t.RT.
numbed, their senses arc bereft; I pray God
they never practise farther than upon the sub·
ject.' John Bell, minister of the gospel at
Glaidsmuir, says, 'Pro,·identially two tests
appeared to discover the crime. If the witch
cries out, ''Lord have mercy upon me!" when
apprehended, and the inability of shedding
tears; because, as a witch could only &hed
three tears, and those with her left eye, her
stock was quickly exhausted; and that was the
more striking, as King James J. shrewd]y ob·
serves, " since other women in general are
like the crocodile, ready to weep upon every
slight occasion."'
King James the First, indulged a ferocious
antipathy against sorcery and witchcraft, and
in the first year of his reign, a new ~tatute was
passed, embracing every possible mode and
form in which imagination could paint the
mystical crime. James fully considered his
own personal safety greatly endangered, as
attempts had been made to poison l1im by some
who practised the magic art. He composed
a book on demonology, in which he advised
the water ordeal, by swimming, and when a
work was published in opposition to his opinion
WITCJICRAFT AND SORCERY. 83
and de!'ire, he ordered it to be burnt by the
common executioner.
That mustrious Engli~h bwycr, Sir Wil1iam
Blackstone, having, in his commentaries on
the law:; of England, stated the evidence on
both ::;ides of the question, concerning tl1c
reality of witchcraft, says, ' It ~emns to be
the most eligible way to conclude that, in gen-
eral, there has been such a thing as witchcraft,
though one cannot give credit to any particular
modem instance of it.' According to our
conceptions of human actions, they are in
general prompted and go,·erned uy reason, and
perhap-. mo...t frequently the dominant motives
are tho e \Vhich pertain to our own inrli\ridual
interc~t. Now it may be inquired. in what
imaginable circumstances the interest of hu-
man beings can be linked with the affairs of
Satan, or their welfare promoted by his influ-
ence? No one will pretend, that there can
be honor attached to a seat in hi:-; privy council,
for it is well known that a witch is considered
one of the mo::,t odious and cle:,picable wretches
in exi·--tencc. Nor will it he contended that
pecuniary adrautages are derivable from that
source; wizards and witches are always poor>
84 Wl'l'f:IICRAf'f A~U SOROEH\.
miserable, forlorn beings. They arc supposed
to give thcmseh·es up to ~crve uncl~r the ban-
ner:; of a erucl, tyrannical wastPr, the implac-
able euetny ami tempter of mankiucl, whose
very name excites horror and detestation in
every virtuous mind. It lllU:-<t, ltowe,·er, be
confessed that a strong bias to scepticism rela-
tive to things we cannot UIH1er:;tancl, is no less
a mark of weakness of intellect, than indis-
criminate credulity. But I am aware, that the
real existence of the frnteruity has received
the credence of some of the wiHcst and best
of men. Dirjne providcucc has permitted the
delusion respecting this great f'conrge to pre-
vail in the minds of some, as he did the sin of
idolatry among his chosen people while in
their pilgrimage to the land of promise.
Numerous instances of imposition and
counterfeit ha\'e been detected in times of
alarm from supposed witchcraft. There arc
in all countries those who cannot exist but in
times of confu~ion and ciril commotion. They
delight to be noticed as objects of great won-
der and curiosity, and when they cannot be dis-
tinguished for \·irtuous actions, resort to deeds
of the mo~t infernal character, according to
W&T~IICR.\I"r AND SORCEH\". 9l
.
general, and travellc(l from town to town with
a train of a~:::i~tants, tor the profe:sseu purpose
of detecting- \\ itche:--, charging twenty shillings
for each town. He aflcctcd to hHe uncommon
skill in hi::-. profc~sion, but treated his subjects
with great crnclty, keeping them from sleep,
wearying them to distress by constal}t walking
(o force confc3~ion. lie also adopted the mode
of swimming them while cross-bound. But
the cruel 'nctc.h finally met his just deserts;
he was treated as he had treated hundreds of
others, being thrown into the water cross-
bound ; but, although able to s\\'im as a witch,
be was suffered to escape from the country.
It is greatly to be lamented, that a considera-
ble number of Calvinistic divines should take
zealous concern in the prosecution of reputed
"itches. Among tho~e pious divines, we find
the Yenerable names of B::t:x:tcr and Cabmy,
in England, and the two )lathers in America.
That they were conscientious, and influenced
by the purest motiYcs, no one will doubt; but
that they were imbued with a large share of
the credulity of the times, will appear most
evident. The following are Mr Baxter's own
words as quoted by Sir Walter Soott. ' The
7
88 WlTCllCRAl'T ANU SORCERY.
executed in England, of both ~exc"', husband
and wile, mother and daughh'r together, some
confcssinrr others declaring themsclres inno-
"'' '-'
cent. In Germany, whole counties were de.
populatecl, that no witch might escape. But it
was in ScotlatJd that Satan \Vas set at liberty
to execute his vengeance. There the flood-
gates of malice, revenge, and bloodshed, were
thrown open, and multitudes were sn·ept away
by the dreadful torrent. No less, it is said in
history, than 4000 victims were cruelly sacri·
ficed within a short period, for the dubious
crime which never has and never can be pwrcd.
In H364, two women were tried before the
celebrated Lord Chief Justice Sir Matthew
HaJe, and were conricted. The eridence
against the accused was :;o trivial, that his
Lordship was greatly embarrassed on the occa-
sion, and his scruples were such, that he de-
clined the duty of summing up the evidence.
Being willing, however, thnt the law should
have its course, he pronounced t'entence, and
they were executed. The eridence again~t
them was, partly spells and partly spectralt and
one evidence was that a cart rnn arrainst the
0
eottagc of one of the women, by which she
WITCHCRAFT AND SORCERY. 89
was offended, and shortly after the same cart
stuck fast in a gate where its wheels touched
neither of the posts, and y<'t was mo\:ed easily
forward on one of the posts being cut down.
A girl, suppo~cd to be bewitched, went into a
fit on being touched by one of the accused.
But much weight was given to the evidence of
Sir Thomas Browne, ' that the fits were nat-
ural, but heightened by the power of the de\·il,
cooperating with the malice of witches.' (Sir
\Valter Scott, page ~25.) About this period,
se,•cnty pen.;ons were condemned in Sweden,
and most of them executed. Fifteen children
were also executed, thirty;:,ix ran the gauntlet,
and twenty were whippcu for the same reputed
crime. In l ()iS, six were executed in Scot-
land for bewitching Sir George 1\laxwell.
The principal evidence in these cases was a
deaf and dumb girl, who made signs that there
wa::; a picture of wax in one of their houses as
an instrument of enchantment, but it was
proved afterwards that it was placed there by
herself, and she was whipped through the
tltrcets of the city and banished. In 1682,
three women were hung at Exeter, confessing
themselves witches, but died with pions prayers
WJTf'UCrtAFT A~D SORC'£f{Y. 87
with the names and colors of the spirits. A
perusal of that fantastic production must have
excited wonder and amazement in any age.
In France, in 1594, the crime of witchcraft
had become so common, that the jails were
not suflicicnt to contain the prisoners, nor had
they judges enough to try them. In 1595, a
woman was hanged in England, for sending
an evil spirit into Thomas Darling; and E.
Hartley was executed for hewitching seven
persons. In the trial, spectral evidence was
made usc of against him, and the experiment
of saying the Lord's prayer, which it was be-
lieved a witch is unable to repeat. But that
which touched his life, was a deposition that
he had made the magic circle for conjuration.
In 1612, twelre women were executed at
Lancaster. Mary Smith believed herself to he
a witch, and died very pious. A learned and
eminent clergyman in France, named Grandier,
was, in 1634, put to cruel torment on suspicion
of an eril spirit, and was adjured to clear
himself by shedding tears if innocent. He
was t01 turcd till he swooned on the rack, and
then inhumanly burnt. From 1634 to 1661,
history records accounts of ::;ev~ral hundreds
90 Wl'l'CliCRAf'1' .\ND 60llCERY•
in their mouths. These were the }a:;t executed
in England for the crime or witchcraft. Some
of the accused persons were in their indict·
ments charged with keeping imp~, one was
said to be like a pole-cat. Ou one trial several
witnesses dcpo::;ed that the gnmclmotlter and
aunt of the pri!:ioner were haugcd fi>r witches,
and that her grandmother J1ad said that she
had eight or nine imps, and th:-tt ~l1e had giren
two or three to each of her children. In
IG97, about twentyeight were accused in
Scotland, by a girl eleven years old. Two
boys and a girl, and two other persons, saved
theml"ch·cs by confcs::;ing, and upon their tes-
timony seven were executed, all denying their
guilt.
A notorious witch-finder, says Dr Increase
Mather, undertook by a pin to make an infalli-
ble diHcovery of suspected persons. If, vd1en
the pin was pushed an inch or two into the
flesh, no blood appeared, nor any sense of pain,
then he declared them to be witches. No
less than three hundred per::ions, says that re-
spectable author, ·were thus condemned in that
kingdom. This miscreant was Matthew
Hopkin~, who styled himself "'-'itch-finder
92 WJTCIICRAF'l' AN'D !ORCERY.
hanging of a great number of witches in H345
and 1646, is famou~ly known. .Mr Calamy
went along with the judges on the circuit, to
hear their confessions, and sec there was no
fraud or wrong done them. I spoke with
many understanding, pious, learned, and cred-
ible persons, that lived in the counties, and
some that went to them in the prisons, and
heard their sad confessions. Among the rest
an old reading parson, named Lewis, was one
•
that was hanged, who confessed that he had
two imps, and that one of them was always
putting him upon doing mischief; and he being
near the sea, as he saw a ship under sail, it
moved him to send it to sink the ship ; and he
consented, and saw the ship sink before them.'
The Rev. Mr Lew.is was condemned on his
own simple confession, that he sent his imp to
sink a ship, but it was not known that any
ship was lost, and it was supposed that the
man was deranged in his intellect. l\lr Baxter
relates another story of a mother, who gave
her child an imp like a mole, and told her to
keep it in a can near the fire, and :;he would
never b'e in want.
The Catholic priests were remarkable for
WlTCRCR.\FT AND ~ORC£RY. 93
their zealous pretensions to peculiar powers in
dispos~cssing demon~, by fit~ting and prayer,
and they were detected in numerous frauds.
It was probably from their reports that the
story originated which Dr Mather cites in his
cases of conscience, that at the time when
l\lnrtin Luther died, all the possessed people
in the Netherlands became quiet and at ease.
The dc\·ils in them said the reason was, that
Luther had been a great friend of theirs, and
they owed him so much respect as to go as far
as Germany to attend his funeral, and on the
mention of some ministers of the reformed
religion, the de,·ils in the possessecl laughed
and said, that they and the Calvinists were
very good friends. There were among the
Protestants some clergymen base enough to
become rivals with papists in their pretended
exorcisms. The following is an instance of
unprecedented turpitude. In 1689, Richard
Dugdale, of Lancaster, was reported by a
clergyman as having been dispossessed of
devils, by f..1sting and prayer. He had for
several months exhibited, at interrals, apparent
sufferings, both surprising and unaccountable.
He would counterfeit the demoniac, epileptic,
!l 1 \\'JTCIJCilA FT A~ n •·on, l~In.
and a train of Henous fits, and unnatural af-
flictions, which were attributed to demon .
His siuguln.r condition cxcited the curio::::ity
and wonder which he and his vile mini~tcr
desired, and his supposed ~uffcrings cnllt•d
forth the sympathy, and his indigent circum-
stances the charity of his numerous deluded
risitors. By these means he wa-. encouraged to
persevere in his deception, living at ease on
the delnsion which he and his minister had
artfully created about a year. '\Vhcn at length
complaint was made to the Bishop of London,
who brought Dugdale to confess that he had
acted the part of an impo~tor, and tl1at he
had, from time to time, received prirate lessons
of instruction from the clergyman, to carry on
the imposition, that he might have the credit
of di:=:possessing the devil, by his fastings and
prayers.
In the trials for witchcraft, says Dr Hutch-
inson, an unpardonable partiality was mani-
fested, owing to the vulgar prejudices among
the people. The Engli~h statute against
witchcraft and sorcery interdicts all acts of
sorcery whatever, and all charms for employ~
ing spirits; yet, for diFcovering a reputed
"lTCliCRAFT A~D SORCt:R\._ £15
witch, the accm;ers were allowed to usc charms
which must ba\'c their force, if any at all, f10m
the same diabolical po" er. Thi~ is unptece•
dented partiality, and directly contrary to the
statute. "\Vhcther such compact~ arc real or
imnginar}, they onght to be ptmi1'he<.l equally
on both sides. The number or witches, and
the "llppo::ed dealing.; of spirit", have been
found to increa"'c aud decrea-.e according to
the law· and princip}Ps :::mbsi:;ting at the time
arHl place. Sincn philosophy nnd learning
ha\'c prevailed, we han: had hut little trouhle
about witche!' and ~orccrers, except that creat~
t'd by the super-.titious imagination of men.
'\re may ha'e as mauy de\ib in our day as
they had in other age~, for we have as many
nutrcler~, robberies, ,false accusntions, and lies,
and other crimes which are the deril'::; works.
Some are of opinion that the dc,•il cannot
really control the laws of nature, while others
aver, that the laws of nature arc a mere jest
with him. It ha~ been denied thnt he pos~
~e:::ses po,Yer to trnnsform a mnn or woman into
a cat, but Dr Henry More bclic,cd he could,
anci dcc:cribes the manner in which he trans·
forms them. Tt is difficult to cnnceirc how
7'..
•
96 WITCHCRAFT AND SORCC:RY.
Dr 1\Iorc acqnired such knowledge ; but we
shall nerer bcJic,•e that Satall is the ruler ,of
our world. 'Ve ha\'e no reason to imagine
that God has endowed him with miraculous
powers; he cannot, therefore, impart such
powers to others; consequently, there can be
no such creature as a witch. All illusirc
fancies of witchcraft may be clearly explained
on the principles of mental philosophy and
sound and enlightened reason. The confes-
sions of witches have so often been extorted,
so often the effects of distraction, and so often
been found contrary to plain truth and sober
reason, that no dependence should be placed
on them. Dr Hutchinson asserts, that it may
be plainly proved, from scripture and reason,
that there never was a witcg, such as we mean,
who can send dp.vils, diseases, and destruction,
among the people. The spectral evidence
made use of in courts, is far from being legal
proof, it is of no sort of weight, nor should it
be regarded as anything more than dreams.
The confessions of ignorant olcl \\'omen, ought ·
to have been entirely rejected ; some were
extorted, many were impossible, and all ridic-
ulous and incredible.
WITCU(;RAF'f .AND SORCERY. 97
The Rev. Dr Holmes, in his American
Annals, observes, that our fathers, before the
world was enlightened by learning and phi-
losophy, lored to a:::tonish themselres with the
apprehen:-;ionsof witches and prodigies, charms
and enchantment. There was not a village in
England, he ob~en·es, that had not a ghost in
it; the church-yanls were all haunted, eYery
large common had a circle of fairies belonging
to it, and there was scarce a shepherd to Le
met with 'vho hod not seen a spirit.
The dreadful contagion was at length per·
mitted to afflict the puritans of New England,
and our revered ancestors were im·olved in a
series of tragical events, and m·erwhetmed
with the most appalling apprehen:sions. Are-
tro~pect to that sorrowful period creates painful
impressions; but however revolting the trans-
actions in those days of melancholy delusion,
we are not without the consoling hope, that
our pious fathers were guided by a conscien-
tious spirit in their proceediHgs and condemna-
tions. The people of New England were
naturally of a grave and serious cast, and re-
markably prone to the most rigid and sacred
construction on all the events of Pro\'idence,
7t
!)9 WITCHCRAFT .\ND SOIU.:EnY.
nnd too often their :sentiments we1c biassed by
cntlntHiasm and superstition. The books con"
taininrr naHativcs of trials of witches and sor•
1::1
cerer:; in England, had been received hcrcJ
aud coulU not fail of making a. deep imprcs~ion
on the public mimi. lienee it i~ uot strauge
that there shouhl be a close coincidence be·
tween the English witches and those reputed
such in New England, and that they should
suffer a similar fate. So violent was the pop•
ular prejudice against every appearance of
witchcraft, that it was deemed meritorious to
denounce all that gave the least reason for
susptcJon. Ercry child and gossip were pre·
pared to recognise a witch, and no one could
be certain of pcrr-;onal safety.· As the infatua-
tion increased, many of the mo::;t reputable
females, and several males abo, were apprc·
hcnded and committed to pri::-on. There is
good reason to be)iC\ c, that, in ~ome in~tanccs,
the vicious and abamloned, availed thcmsehes
of opportunities of gratifying their· corrupt
pas:sions of envy, malice, and revenge. The
English judge, Sir Matthew Hale, so eminently
distinguished for his knowledge in the law,
and his exemplary piety, was most highly
WITCDCR,\FT AND SORCCRY. 99
estimated here, and knowing that he had con-
demned some persons in England, his opinion
had great influence with both judges and
JUnes.
In a publication in 1767, by the Rev. John
Hale, of Beverly, it appears that the fust per-
son who suffered in New F.ngland for witch-
craft was a woman in Charlestown ; and in the
collection of the l\las~achusctts Historical Ro-
ciety, (~rol. V. second series) it is recorded,
that ' in June 1648, one Margaret Jones of
Charlestown, was executed for a witch. She
was proved to ha,·e such a malignant touch,
that whomsoever she touched with any affec-
tion of di:--pleasure, were taken presently after
with deafness, vomiting, or other Yiolent sick-
ness. Soon after she was executed, a ship
riding m·er against Charlel)town, of three hun-
dred tons, having in her hold an hundred and
twenty tons of bal1ast, and eighty hor~es
aboard her for the Barbadocs, was on a sudden
observed to roll as if she would ha,·e tumecl
over. The husband of that witch lately exe-
cuted had desired pas:;age in that ship to Bar-
badocs, which not obtaining, that accident
was obsen·ed to follow. Notice being giYen
7:j:
100 \\'lTCITC1L\FT ANn ~ORc'ERY.
of this to the magistrates, then sitting in court
at Boston, a warrant was sent to apprehend
him, and as the officer was passing therewith
over the ferry, one asked if he could not tame
the vessel, seeing be could sometimes tamo
men; he answered, I hare that here, which, it
may be, will tame her and mal(e her quiet,
showing his warrant, and at the same instant,
the ship began to stop her motion, and swim
upright, which bad continued rolling, after a
strange manner about twelve hours, and after
Jones was in prison she never mo' ed in that
kind any more.'
Another, executed not long after, was a
Dorchester woman; she also positi\'ely denied
being guilty. The next was a woman of
Cambridge, against whom a principal evidence
was a nurse, who testified that the accused
did bewitch a child to death; for the woman
made much of the child, heing per1ectly well,
but quic1dy changed its color, and it died in a
few hour::; after. The woman denied her
guilt to the last moment. In 1G55, l\Irs Hib-
l>ens, widow of an assistant, or counsellor,
was executed at Boston. ThiR gaYc great dis-
::;:-~ti:;;t1tction to sereral principal persons, arul it
WITCIICRAI'T AND SORCER\'. 101
was believed that her death ~:wed the lives of
many other inferior persons. About the same
time, two or three at Springfield, and one at
Hartford, were executed, two of'"hom confess·
ed themselves guilty. The llCXt that sum~red
was in lUG~, a woman named Greensmith,
and her husband with her; who confessed,
but he denied guilt. Two other "ere put to
the water ordeal, but being found to float on
the waler like cork, were permitted to fly from
New England. This ridiculous experiment
appears to have been soon after abandoned.
In 1663, l\Iary Johnson was tried and hanged.
She ::said the devil appeared to Iter, and cleaned
her hearth of ashes, and hunted the hogs out
of the corn. In 1688, a female named Glover,
an I ri:->h papi~t, was hung for bewitching four
children of one John Goodwin, of Boston.
This affair was attended by such extraordinary
circumstances as to arret't a general intere:::.t
and !'ympathy. Goodwin was a man of unex-
ceptionable moral character, and his children
were religiously educated, and di~Co\·ered mild
and amiable tempers. 'These children,' says
the celebrated Dr Cotton 1\Iather, 'were ar-
rested by a stupendous witchcraft. The
}{)2 WITCHCRAFT AND SORCERY.
eldest a dau<Thtcr thirteen )'CarR old, \Vas first
, 0
seized with odd fits, in appearance diabolical;
it was not long before one of her sisters, and
two brothers, were similarly affected.' They
were at times deaf, dumb, and blind. Their
tongues would be drawn down their throats,
and ·then pulled out upon their chins. Their
mouths were thrown open \Vith 6reat violence,
and then the jaws clapped together ngain with a
force like that of a spring lock, and all their
limbs and joints were strangely distorted.
They made piteous outcries that they were cut
with kuivcs, and struck with blows. The
ministers of Boston and Charlestown, had re•
course to fa~ting and prayer, and during the
de,·otions, the children it is said were dcpri\'ed
of hearing ; but the youngc:,t child was entirely
relieved. The poor ignorant woman, abo\'e
mentioned, was suspected of employing de-
monH to afi1ict these children; she "·as arrested,
and committed to jajl in chains. On her trial
she rather bragged thnu denied her guilt, but
she would converse only in Iri:;h, though she
understood the Engli:sh language very well.
Her hou!'e being searched, se\'eral images and
puppets, or babies made of rags and stuffed
WITCHCRAFT Al.\"0 SORCERY. 103
with goat's hair, were found, and she confessed
that her ,,;ay to torment the objects of her
malice, was by wetting her finger with spittle
and stroking those little images. The afflicted
children were present in court, and the woman
appeared to be greatly agitated. One of the
images being presented to her, she oddly and
quickly snatched it into her hand, and instantly
one of the children fell into a fit. The
judges ordered a repetition of the experi-
ment, with the same rc::iult. Being asked if
she had any one to stand by her as a friend,
she replied that she had, and looking round in
the air, she added, no, he is gone. The night
after, she was heard expostulating with the
devil for his de::ierting her, telling him that be-
cause he had served her so basely and falsely,
she had confessed all. The court appointed
several physicians to examine whether she was
in any degree crazed in her intellect; but
they pronounced lier sane, and the court passed
sentence of death upon her, and she was exe-
cuted. After the condemnation of the woman,
Dr Mather made her many ''isits; she declined
answering his que~t ions, or attending to hi~
prayers, pretending that hm· spirit~ wou]cl not
10-l Wl'fCIWR.-\FT A!'\D ~OHC [;((\".
consent to it. At her e:l::ecution she said the
afflicted children should not be relieved by her
death, as others were conc0rncd in it; accord-
ingly the three children coutinuc.d to be tor-
mented. They frecptently discerned ~pcctrcs
around them, and when a hlow was aimed at
the place whNe they ~aw the ~rcctre, the boy
alway!' felt the blow in the part nf his body
answerin,g to that ~tricken at, and it was 'c>ry
credibly affirmed that a dangc>rou~ woman or
two in the town, rccci\·ccl blows 1lml4 giren to
their spC'ctrcs. At length, the children would
bark nt each other like dog,..;, anil pur like so
many cats. They "·onld cmnplain that they
were in a hot oYen, or roa~ting on an inri~ihlc
~pit, and thnt knircs were cutting tlu"!m. They
would complain of blows from a f!Teat cudgel,
and though we could sec no ctulgel..:, we could
see the mnrks of the blow~ in rc:d strcal<s upon
their skin. They "'onld complain that thrit
hcadH were nailed to the tloor, ancl it required
more than ordinary strength to pull them from
thence. They would be so limber sometimes,
that it was j11dged e\·ery hone might be bent,
and anon ~o ~tiff, that a joint could not be
moYcd. Sometimes they would fly like geese,
Wll'CIIVRArT AND SORCEnL 105
with incredible swiftness, through the air, their
arms waving, like the wings of birds, and the
feet scarcely touching the ground once in
twenty feet. The sight of the Bible, and all
religious discourse, wonld throw them into
distresf'ing fit:-;. Dr 1\Iathcr took the eldest of
these children into his own family, that be
might hare opportunity to observe the doings
of Satan more critically; but unhappily his
own imagination was so continually haunted
by ideas of wicked demons and witches, that
he was unconscious of the imposition he was
suffering. 'Vhen he prayed, her hands with a
strong force wou]d be clapped upon her ears~
and if pulled away by force she would cry out.
She complained that she l1ad Glm·er's chain
round her leg, and would imitate her in her
gait. An invisible chain would be clapped about
her, and slte would, in much pain and fear,
cry out \'l!hen they put it on. Sometimes '\'e
could with our hands knock it off as it began
to he fastened. But when it was on she would
be pulled out of her seat, with ~uch Yiolence
that it was difficult to keep her out of the fire.
I may add, says the learned, but credulous
dnctor, that the demons put an lmseen rope
110 WITCliCR.UT MW SOilCTm¥.
The afllictcd parents treated them with all
possible care and tenderness, believing tltat
they were ohjr.cts of pity and compas!:jion. At
length 1\Trs D-y, not long after the supposcrl
blows from the mother, sicktmed and died,
and the two oldest girls cem;cu compla.ining;
the youngc~t helu out longer, lmt all persisted
in it tltat there had been no fraud. But their
consciences, that inward monitor, finally se-
verely lashed and tortured them. The eldest,
for ~ome years, wore a gloominess upon her
mind, and when questioned by her parents and
others on the subject, she woulJ artfully turn
the discourse. Not ha,·ing been baptized, she
applied to a minister for ba.ptism, who examin-
ed her closely relatire to the affair, telling her
she was suspected of falsehood and fraud;
but this she denied and asserted her innocence.
In 172~, having removed to .Medford, she ap-
plied to Rev. 1\tlr Turcll, to he atlmitted into
his church. She gave him a \'Cry good account '
of the state of her soul, and discoursed sensi-
bly and religiously respecting her past temper
and conrcrsation in life. 1\lr Turell knew
nothing of her having been an actor in the
fraud above detailed, and propounded her fur
WITCHCRAFT AND SOHCl:RY. 1{)9
upon the top of the hou!'e, and again upon
the tops of trees, pretending she had flown
there, and some fancied they had seen her in
the air. There were often the marks of blows
and pinches upon her, which \\'ere supposed
to come from an invi::;ible hand. The second
daughter, aH.er her sister had practised the art
for 5omc months, and had succeeued so well,
imitated her in complaints of 1\lrs D-y, and
outuid her in feats of climbing the barn and
tree~, ascending \rhere she could not descend
without a:;~istance with a ladder. "\Vhat was
mo~t surpril'ing, the youngest, of fi"e years ohl
only, attempted the same feat:s and in some in-
stances weRt beyond her sisters. The neigh-
bors agreed they were under an eril hand,
and it was pronounced witchcraft, as certain
as there ever had been at Salem. Pl1ysicians
had been at first ernployeu, but to no purpose,
and afterwards ministers and elder~ were call-
ed to pray orer them, but without success.
'fhe children had numerous visitors, and the
more they were pitied, the more loud and
con:;taut were their moans and distractions ;
few spectators :--u~pected that they were acting
the part of perverse and wicked impo::;tors.
8
108 Wl'I'CliCR,\l'T ANU SORCEHY.
manner of rl'latinrr them. J>]Pa.,cd with tho
::>
upplausc, :::;he went fiom ....ome !'he had heard
to some of her O\\'ll framing, awl ::-o 011 to
dt·eams awl vi:;iou~, antl attaiucd the art of
swooning, ancl of being, to all appcanmcc,
brcathles~. Upon her re' i\·a] she woulcl relate
strange things she bad 111et with in this and
other world::;. 'Vhen she met with the word
God, ancl other solemn '' onb in the Dible, ~he
would drop down as if dead. Strange and
unaccountable noises were often heard in, awl
upon the house, stones came down the chim-
ney and did consic.lcrable mischief She com-
plained of the spectre of .1\Irs D-y, a \voman
in the to\'vn, and once she desired her mother
to strike at a place where she said there was a
yellow bird, and she said to her mother, you
have hit the side of its head, ancl it appeared
that Mrs D-y's head was hurt about the same
time. Another time the1 mother ~truck at the
place where the spectre was, and the girl said,
you have struck her on the bowc1s, and on in-
quiry it was found, that :Mrs D-y complained
of a hurt on her bowels n.Lout the ~ame time.
l t was common to find her in ponds of water,
crying out she should be drowned ; sometimes
WITCHCRAFT AND SORCERY. 107
They imitated, with wonderful exactness, the
actions of one drunk in speaking, and reeling,
and romiting, and anon sleeping, till they re•
covered. These child1·en were all restored to
their naturnl health, and lived to adult age.
Governor Hutchinson, in his History of l\las~
sachu:;ett~, says he \\'as acquainted with the
eldest daughter; she sustained an unblemished
character ; but he believes she never made
any confession of fraud or imposition in this
transaction.
Hutchinson was truly an excellent historical
writer, whatever may have been his political
principles and conduct as chief magistrate.
From the history and from the collections of
the IIistorical Society, I copy the fo1lowing
narrative, with the Yiew of evincing to what
extent artful children may impo~e on credulous
persons.
In the year 1720, the!e was at Littleton, in
the county of 1\liddlesex, a family who were
supposed to be bewitched. One J. B. had
three daughters, eleven, nine, and five years
old. The eldest was a forward and capable
girl, and having read and heard many strange
stories, would surprise the company by her
106 WITCDCR,\FT .\1'\D SOr.CEIH.'.
with a cruel noose about her neck, by which
she "as choked till she was black in the face,
and though it was ~got ofl' before it killed her,
yet there were the red marks of it, and of a
finger and thumb, remaining fur f!'ome time.
She once said, if she could steal or get drunk,
she would be well. At one time an invisible
horse was brought to her, and she would put
herself in the posture of a riding woman. She
would in her chair throw herself into a riding
posture, sometimes ambling, sometimes trot-
ting, and sometimes galloping very furiously,
and attempting to ride up stairs. Dr 1\lather
observes, that the girl having learned that he
was about to prepare a sermon on the occasion
of the witchcraJt, became very turbulent and
insolent, constantly endea,·oring to interrupt
his studying the sermon. In prayer time, the
demons would throw her on the floor, where
she would whistle and sing to drown the voice,
and attempt to kick and strike the speaker.
But to conclude this tedious story. At Christ-
mas, says the doctor, this girl and her l"ister in
another house, were by the demons made very
drunk, though the people in the house were
well satisfied that it was without strong drink.
WITCHCR.\F'r ASD SOnCERY. ]((
full communion. The next Sabbath, without
nny reference to her, he happened to preach
from this text, 'lie th:Lt tclleth lies shall not
escape.' The day helorc !1he was to be ad-
mitted into the church ~he 'isitcd Mr Turell
in great di,trcss and anguish of mind, inquir-
ing of him what dreadful things he had heard
about her, that made him preach so a,~·fully
against the practice of lyin~ and liars. l\Ir
Turell being much surprised, replied that no
one had made any complaiut against her and
that he had no particular rcfhence to her.
"\Vith great grief she fi·ankly coufcssed that
she had been a great ~inner, but was now
awakened and com·inced by the word preach-
ed, and that ::.he was re~oh·ed no longer to
conceal the truth, but confc,:)s it before God
and man. She then proceeded to acknowledge
herself guilty of the wicked deception which
she had practised, bewailing and weeping bit-
terly for her egregious folly and wicked con-
duct. She then desired .~.\ir Turell to draw
up a suitable confcs,ion to be read before the
congregation, and ::.he would publicly own and
acknowledge the same; whirh was accordingly
done, ;md :::he was admitted to full communion,
112 WITCHGRAFT AND SOltCtmY.
and C\'er after conducted in a m:mncr becom-
ing the chri~tian profe:-o~ion. She acknow-
lcdgeclto 1\Ir Turcll as fi)llows: that the moti' es
which excited her and her sisters to act the
part of impostors, \Vere fi·om folly and pride.
Finding that she pleased others or caused ad-
miration, she was over pleased with, and ad-
mired hcn~clf, grew conceited and high mind-
ed. She thought to be able to deceire her
parents and neighbors, was a fine accomplish-
ment. She never dreamed of witchcraft in her
case. The wounds, pinches, nnd bruises on
their bodies, were from their own hands, and
the noises and stones falJing down the chim-
ney, were the effects of their contrivance.
She was often sorry she ever began the de-
ception, but could not humble herself to desist,
and was obliged to tell one lie to hide another.
Her two sisters, she said, seeing her pitied
had become actors also, with her, without be-
ing moved to it by her; but when she saw them
fol1ow her, they all joined in the secret and
acted in concert, and thus durincr eirrht months
~ t:'
their parent:: were kept in con:-taut painful
anxiety, and they were con::,iclercd as objects
of pity and compassion. They had no
SALEl\I WITCHCRAFT. 113
particular spite against .Mrs D-y, but it was
necessary to accuse some person, and the eld-
est having pitched upon her, the others follow-
ed. 1'he \voman's complaints about the same
time the girl pretended she was struck, pro-
ceeded from other causes which were not then
properly inquired into. Once, at least, they
were in great danger of being detected in
their trick::; : hut the grounds of suspicion were
oYerlookcd through the intlulgcnce and credu-
lity of their parent:-.
SALEM WITCITCRAFT.
I SIIALL now detail an impartial history of
the memorable trials and executions for sup-
posed witchcraft at Salem, in 169~. A con-
tro\'crsy respecting the settlement of a minister
had subsisted jn Salem for some time prior to
this melancholy catastrophe. They had also
recently been deprived by death of several of
their most distinguished and influential char-
acters, who had been considered as the fathers
and governors of the town for half a century.
8*
114 SAI.El\1 WITCIJCftA\'1'.
Unfortunately, h\ o or three ministers iu the
town, and several in the vicinity, were, with a
large proportion of the inhabitants, bigoted
and superstitious believers in the <loctriue of
witchcraft, and they aggravated the geueral
prejudice and fanaticism. From prcconccircd
opinions and strong prejudices, it was scarcely
possible that the trials should be impartially
conducted. It seemed not to be recollected,
that in the trial~ of witches no other e,·idencc
should be recciYed than in the trials of mur-
derers and other criminals ; and that nn con-
victions should be made, but through the most
substantial human te!'timony, rejectiug all dia-
bolical or witch evidence, which can, on no
principle: be deemed legal in any case. In
the language of the late Dr Bentley, in his
History of Salem, 'The ~park fcJl upon in-
flammable matter, and behold, how great a
matter a little fire kimlleth.' But it \\ ou]d be
unjust not to make due allowance for the times
in which they lived, and the melancholy delu-
sions which prevailed from the war of preju-
dice, and the slavish effects or the most imbe-
cile apprehensions. These error~, like those
of a thousand years ago, are equally opposerl
BALEI\I WITCIICRAF'f. 115
to the progress of knowledge, and to a piau::~
confidence in the wisdom and goodn<'::;s of an
Almighty Providcn~e. The authorities from
which the following hi,tory i:; derilcd, are,
Hutchinson'::> Hi:itory of 1\la~::;achu:-etts, Dr
Cotton .Mather's 1\Iagualia, 'Vonders of the
Invisible \rorld, by the ~nme author, HistoricaI
Collections, and l\lore \Vondcrs of the Inrisi-
hle 'Vorld, hy R. Calef, of Bo~ton, pnbl\::hed
in 1700.
In a letter of Thomas Brattle, F. R. R,
dated October 8, 1692, published in the Col-
lectiom; of the )Ja::;sachusetts Historical Soci-
ety, we hare the following account.
' As to the method "hich the Salem justices
do take in their examinations, it is truly this;
a warrant being i!:'sued out to apprehend the
persons that are charged and complained of by
the aillicted children as they arc called, said
persons arc brought bc(()re the ju~ticcs, the
afflicted being..prescnt. The ju~tices ask the
apprehended why they afnict tho....c poor child-
ren, to which the apprehended answer, they
do not afflict them. The justices order the
apprehended to look upon the said children,
which, accordingly, they do; and at tho time
8t
}~ S.ALE;\1 WITCII 1'IlAl'T.
and they had it twice that day.' Upon such
kind of evidence, person:; of hlamele:::-s clw.r-
acter were committed to prison ; and, such
was the dreadful infatuation, that the life o
no person was secure. The most eficctual
way to prerent an accusation was to become
the accuser; and accorcliugly the numher o
the affiicted increased cYery day, and the num-
ber of the accused in proportion i who, in
general perished in their innocence. .More
than a hundred women, many of tl1em of fair
characters and of the most reputable families,
in the towns of Salem, Bcvetly, Andover,
Billerica, &c, were apprehended, examined,
and generally committed to pri!::!on. Goodwife•
Corey, as she was called, was examined before
the magistrates, in the meetinghouse in tl1e
village; the nm·elty of the ca~e produced a
throng of spectators. 1\lr Noyes, one of the
ministers of Salem, began by prayer. Several
children and women were present, that pre-
tended to be bewitched Ly her, and the mos~
of them accused her of bitin11, pinchinrr, andl
e t:l
strangling, and said that thc:y did, in their fits,
*Goodwife, Goody, ancl Goodman, were vulga•
terms applied to heads of families by the lower class.
5ALE~l 'VITCIICR.~PT. 119
d1ild looked upon, it is said, fell tlown in fits,
complaining that they were in torment. Eliz-
abeth Proctor, being accused and brought to
examination, her husband, as every kind hus-
band would haYe done, accompanied her to
1ter examination ; but it cost the poor man his
life. Some of the affiictcd cried out against
him, also, and they both were committed to
pri::ion. Instead, says Gorcrnor Hutchinson,
of !'U:specting and sifting the witne;:,ses, and
suflcring them to be cross-examined, the au-
thorities, to say no more, were imprudent in
making usc of leading questions, and thereby
putting words into their mouth:-, or suffering
others to do it. .1\lr Parris was over-officious ;
most of the examinations, although in the
presence of one or more of the magistrates,
''ere taken by him. They allowed of such
as the following tririal replies to their examin-
ing questions. John the Indian. ' She hurt
me, she choked me, and brought the book a
great many times. She took hold of my throat,
to stop my breath. She pinched and bit me
till the blood came. I :saw the witches eat
and drink at such a place, and they said it was
their sacrament ; they said it was our blood,
118 !'l'\LEl\1 Wl'l'C'IlOnAF'r.
make her confess, ami to nccu~e her sister
witches, as he termed them, did confess that
the cleril urged her to f'igu a book, which he
presented, and also to work mi::;chicf with the
children, and she was f'ient to jail. The child-
ren complained, lil<ewisc, of S;uah Good,
who had long been counted a melancholy or
distractcu woman, autl abo Sarah Osborn, an
olU bedridden woman, uoth of whom being
examined by two Salem magistrates, were
committed to jail for trial. About three weeks
after, two other women of good character, and
church members, Corey and Nurse, 'vere
complained of and brought to their examina-
tion, when these children fell into fit!', and the
mother of one of them joined with the child-
ren and complained of N nr~c as tormenting
her, ancl made most tcrriulc shrieks, to the
amazement of all the neighborhood. The old
women denied CYerything charged against
them, but were sent to pri!'on ; and !'uch was
the infatuation, that a child of Sarah Good,
about four or fi\·e years old, was committed
also, charged with being a witch and of biting
some of the afflicted, who ~howcd the print of
small teeth on their arms ; and all that the
S \LEl\1 WITCHCRAFT. }}7
similar complaints, and exhibited antic ges-
tures and tricks, similar to those of Goodwin's
children, two or three years before. The
physician, unable to account for the complaint,
pronounced them bewitched.. They named
sereral women whose spectres they saw in their
fits, tormenting them, and in particular Tituba,
an Indian woman belonging to ~Ir Parris's
family. She had been trying :;orne experiments,
which she pretended to be used in her own
conntry, in order to find out the witch; upon
this, the children cried ont against the poor
Iudian, ~ nppearing to them, pinching, prick·
ing, and tonnenLing them, and they fell into
fits. '1'1tuba acknO\dedgcd that she had
learned how to find out a witch, but denied
that ::.he was one her::=elf. Sereral private
fasts were kept at the minister's house, and
several more public by the whole village, and
then a general fast through the colony. This
p_
rohahJy had a tendency to bring the afflicted
into notice; which, with the pity and compas-
sion of tho-..c who visited them, encouraged
and coufirmed them in their designs, and in-
creased their numbers. Tituba, as she said,
being beat and threatened by her master to
St
116 SALEM WITCHCRAFT.
of that look (I dare not say hy that look, n!l
the Salem gentlemen do) the afllictcd arc cast
into a fit. The apprehended nrc then blinded
nnd ordered to touch the aflJictcd ; and at that
touch, though not by that touch (as above) tho
atllictcd clo ordinarily come out of their fits.
The afllictcd persons theu declare and affirm,
that the apprehended haYc afllicted them j
upon which the apprehended persons, though
of ne\·er so good repute, arc forthwith com-
mitted to prison on su~piciou for witchcraft.'-
' Such was the excess of their stupidity, that
to the most dubious crime in the world, they
joined the most uncertain proofs.'-' A person
ought to ha\'e been n. mngician to be able to
clear himself from the imputation of magic.'
The first instance of reputed witchcraft jn
the town of Salem, took place in the family of
1\Ir Parris, minister of Salem, and very soon
after, one or two in the neighborhood were
afflicted in a similar mauner, and a day of
prayer was kept on the occasion. The per-
sons who complained of heinCT afflicted were
.::1 '
a daughter and a niece of .Mr Parris CTirls of
' 0
ten or clc\·en years of age ; and these were
soon followed by two other girls. They made
SAU~l\1 WITCliCli.\FT. 1;21
sec her likeness coming to tlu~m, and bringing
a book for them to s}gu. ~ltc wa:s accused by
them, that the black man, meaning the devil,
\\hispered to her now while she was on her
examination. The unfortunate woman could
only deny all that was laid to her charge, and
she was committed to jail. A miserable negro
~ilave was accused by some of the girls, but on
hamination she extricated her~elf by her na-
li\'c cunning. Question to Candy. 'Are you
11 witch?' Answer. ' Candy no witch in her
country. Candy'~'~ mother no witch. Candy
no witch, .Barbadoe~. This country, mistress
give Candy wjtcll.' 'Did your mi::trcss make
you a witc,h in thifi country~· 'Ycs, in this
r.ountry mistrcf:s giw~ Candy witch.' ' \Vhat
did your mi:,tre...s do to mal· e you a witch ?'
'Mistress bring book, and p('Tl, and inl<, make
Candy 'nite in it.' From thi;: testimony, ~lr~
Haskins, the mistres~, had no other way to
sare her life but to snake conl(·::-~inn.
In April, 160~, there was a puLJic hearing
and examination belore l'ix magistrates and
sereral ministers. The afihctcd complained
?.f!ainst many with J1irlcou~ clamors and
~crP.echin~~. On their P.Xamination~, besides
12=2 SAI,Ei\1 WITCJICRA F'1'•
•
the experiment of the nffiictc•l falling down at
the sight of the accused, they were required
to repeat the Lord's Prayer, which it was Slip-
posed a real witch coul!l not do. 'Vhen ~~~
\Villiam Phipps entered upon the office o
Governor, in l\Iay, 169:2, he ordered the witch
to be put in chains; upon that it was :said th
afllictcu persons were free from their torments
In 1\1a.y, l\1rs Carey, of Chnalc::-;town, was ex
nminc<l and committed. Her hu~hand pu
lished the following factf;.
' Haviug for f<ome days heard that my wif
was accused of witchcra11, nll!l being nmcl
disturbed at it, we went to Salem },y adrice t
sec if the afllictcd knew her. The pri:::oncr
were called in before the justices, singly, an
as they entered were cried o11t against by th
afllictcd girls. The prisoners were place
about seven or eight. feet from 1he justiccH, au
the accusers between the justices and th
prisoners. The prisoners were ordered t
stand directly before the ju~ticcs with an ofl'
ccr appointed to hold each hnnd le:;t the
~houlcl therewith affliet the girls ; and th
prisoners' eyes mn!'t be constnn11y fixed on th
justices; for if they lookPd on the afflicte
SALEM WITCHCRAFT. 123
•
they would either fall into these fits, or cry
out of being burt hy them ; after examination
of the prisoners, who it was that afflicted these
girls, &c, they put them upon saying the Lord's
Prayer as a trial of their guilt. vVhen the
afllicted seemed to be out of their fits, they
would look stedfa~tly on some one pc1·son, and
not l'peak, and then the justices said they ,,·ere
struck dumb, and after a little time they would
speak again ; then the justices said to the ac-
cu~ers, which of you will go and touch the
prisoner at the bar 1 Then the most courage-
ous would venture, but before they made three
steps would fall on the floor as if in ('I fit. The
justices then ordered that they should be taken
up and carried to the prisoner, that she might
touch them, and as soon as this was done the
justices would say they are all well, before I
could di~ccrn any alteration, but the justices
seemed to understand the mannerofthestrange
juggle. 'l'wo of the accusers who pretended
to be bewitched, were Abigail 'Villiams, niece
of .;\lr Parris, aged eleven or t\\·eh'e years, and
Iuclian John, tlte husband of Tituba, who was
now in jail. This fellow had himself been ac-
cused of witchcraft, but had now become an
)24 SALEI\1 WITCIICP.AF'r•
•
accuser for his own safety. He showed sc
eraI old scars "hich he 5airl were the efl'ccts
'vitchcraft, but more likc·ly of the lash. 0
inquiry who they would accuse as the cause
theu sufferings, they cried out Carf'y, and i
mediately a warrant was sent by the justic
to bt ing my wife before them. 1Icr chief a
cusers were t"·o girls; my wife declared to th
justices that she ne,·er hacl any knowledge
them before that day. She wa:) obliged t
stand with her arms extended. I requestc
that I might hold one of her hanus, but it wa
denied me. She then desired that I woul
wipe the tears and the sweat from her fac
and that she might lean herself on me as :;h
was faint; but justice Hathorn said she ha
strength enough to torment those per::::on~, an
she should have strength enough to stand.
remonstrated against such cruel treatmen
but was commanded to be silent, or I ~houl
be turned out of the room. Indian John w
now called in to be one of the accusers ; h
fell down and tumbled about like a brute, b
said nothing. The justices asked the gir
who afflicted the Indian; they answered sh
(meaning my wife); the justices ordered h
S.ALEM WITCHCRAFT. 125
•
to touch him in order to his cure ; but her
head must be turned another way, lest instead
of curing, she should make him wor~c by look-
ing on him ; her hand was guided to take
hold of hi!:i, but the Indian seized hold of her
hand, and pulled her down on the floor, in a
\'iolent manner ; then his hand was taken off,
and her hand put on his, and the cure was
quickly wrought. l\ly wife, after being thus
cruelly treated, was put into pri~on, and the
jailor was ordered to put irons on her legs
which weighed about eight pounds. These
chains, with her other afilictions, soon produc-
ed conrulsion fits, so that I was apprchensire
she would ha,·e died that night. I intreated
that the irons might be removed, but in vain.
I now attended the trials at Salem, and finding
that spectre evidence, together with idle or
malicious stories, was recei,·ed against the
li\'es of innocent people, I trembled for the
fate of my wife; as the same e,·idence that
would sef\'e for one would sene for all. In
this awful situation, I thought myself justifiable
in devising some means of escape; and this,
through the goodness of God, was effected.
We were pursued as far as Rhode Island, but
126 SALEM \VlTCIJCRAFT.
we reached New York in safety, where w
were kindly recci,·crl by Governor Fletcher.
To speak of the treatment of the prisonen
and the inhumanity shown them at their exe-
cutions, is more than any sober Chri:::,tian em
endure. Tho:"e that suffered, being many o
them church memhcrR, and most of them o
blame)c:-;s con\'crsation.- JoNATHAN CAREY.
Captain John Alden, of Bo:ston, mariner,
was sent for hy the magistrates of Salem, u
the accusation of several poor, distracted,
possessed creatures, or witches. On his ex
amination, these wretches began their jugglin
tricks, faJiing down, crying out, and staring in
the faces of people ; the magistrates demande
of them several times who it was of a11 th
people in the room, that hurt them; one of th
accusers pointed ~vcral times to one Captai
Hill, but said nothing, till a man standing
hind her to hold her up, stooped down to he
car, when she immediately cried out, Alden
Alden afflicted her. Being asked if she ha
ever ~een Alden, she answered no, but sh
said the man told her so. Alden was th
committed to custody, and his sword take
from him, for ·they said he afflicted them
SALEM W ITCliCRAPT. 131
the searcher of all hearts, knows that as I shall
answer it nt the tribunal ~eat, that I know no-
thiug of witchcraft, therefore I canuot, l dnre
not, Lelic my own soul by confessing.' She
intreats their honors not to deny the humble
petition of a poor, dying, innocent person, and
prays thn.t the Lord will give a blessing to
their cndea\'ors that no more innocent blood
be shed. These two women were among the
eight who were executed. together, wl1en the
Rev. Mr Noyes, turning towards the bodies,
~aid., what a sad thing it is to see eight fire·
brands of hell hanging there ! !
John Proctor, while confined in prison,
complained that two young men were com-
pelled to a confession by being tied neck and
heels till the blood was .ready to burst out of
their uoses. They then confessed that one
had been a wizard a montl1, and the other fi,·e
weeks, and that their mother had made tl1em
so when'she had been confined in jail without
seeing them for nine weeks. He adds, '.My
son, 'Villiam Proctor, when he was examined,
because he \Vould not confess that he was
guilty, they tied him up neck and heels till
the blood gushed out of his nose.
9*
130 SALEM Wl'l'CJICitAl~·r.
de,·il. The governor, however, saw cause to
grant a reprie\'e, upon which, when known,
the accuscn; renewed their dismal outcries
again::it her, insomuch that the governor wns
by some Salem gentlemen prevailed with to
recall the reprieve, and she was executed with
the rest. The testimonials of her christian
behaviour, both in the course of her life, and at
her death, are numerous and highly satisfacto-
ry. :Mary East.y, her sister, was al~o condemn-
ed. She was of a serious and religious char-
acter, and before her execution she presented
a petition to the court and the reverend min-
isters at Salem, protesting her innocence he-
fore God. She petitioned, not for her own
life, for she knew she must die ; but most
earnestly prayed, that if possible, no more in-
nocent blood might be shed. By her own in-
nocence she said she knew the court was in
the wrong way, and humbly begged that their
honors would examine the confe::;sing witches,
being confident that many of them had belied
themselres and other:::. They had accu:;ed
her and others, she said, of having made a
league with tho devil, which she and they most
positively denied. 'The Lord alone, who is
S.\LEl\1 WITCHCR.UT. 129
having viewed and compared, found to be the
same ; and the young man affirmed, that
yesterday he happened to break that knife,
and that he cast away the upper part in the
pre::;ence of the person who now produced it.
The girl was cautioned by the court not to tell
any more lies, but was still employed to gi,,e
evidence against the prisoners whose lives
were in her hands.
1\lr Noyes, the minister, urged Sarah Good
to confess, saying he knew she was a witch,
and she knew she was a witch ; to which she
replied, 'You are a liar. I am no more a
witch than you are a '\vizard.' At the trial of
Rebecca Nurse it was remarkable that the
jury brought her in not gnilty ; immediately
all the accusers in the court, anci soon after
all the afflicted out of court, made a hideous
outcry, to the amazement of the court and
spectators. The court having expressed some
dissati:Saction, the jury were induced to go
out again to consider better one expression of
hers when before the court. They now
brought her in guilty, and ::;he was condemned.
After her condemnation, she was by :Mr Noyes
of Salem, excommunicated and given to the
128 !- \LE.!\1 Wl'tCHCnArT.
truth in nil they Rnid of him. Ald~n, howeYcr,
was committed to jail where he continued fif-
teen weeks, vdwn he made his escape. At
the examinations, and at other times, it was
usual for the accul'lers to tell of the black man,
or of a spectre, as being tl)en on the table;
the people pre!'ent would strike with swords or
sticks at those places. One justice broke his
cane at this exercise ; and ~ometimes the ac-
cusers would say they struck the spectre; and
it was eYen reported that se,·eral of the accus-
ed women were hurt and wounded thereby,
though at home at the !5ame time.
In June and July, the court of Oyer and
Terminer proceeded on trials aud condemna·
tions, and six miserable creatures were execu-
ted, protesting their innocence.
At the trial of Sarah Good, one of the
afflicted girls fell into a fit, and after coming
out of it, she cried out against the prisoner
for stabbing her in the breast while in court,
and actually produced a piece of the blade o!
the knife which she said was used and broken
in <loing it. Upon this, a young man was
c:1llcd to pro\'e the impo~ition. lie produced
a haft and part of the blade, which the court,
lU.LEM WITCHCRlt.FT. 121
his sword. He was next sent for to the meet-
ing-house, by the magistrates, and was ordered
to stand on a chair to the open Yiew of all the
as..cmbly. The accusers cried out that Alden
pinched them when he stood on the chair;
and one of the magistrates hid the marshal
hold open his hands, that he might not pinch
those creatures. .l\Ir Gidney, one of the jus-
tices, bid Captain Alden confess, and give
glory to God. He replied, he hoped he should
always give glory to God, but never would
gratify the devil. He asked them why they
should think that he should come to that vil-
lage to afllict persons that he had never seen
before ; and appealed to all present and chal-
lenged any one to produce a charge against
his character. Mr Gidney said he had known
him many years, and had been to sea with
him, and ah\!ays believed him to be an honest
man ; but now he saw cause to alter his opin-
ion. Alden asked Gidney \vhat reason could
he !!i,·en why his looking upon him did not
strike him down as well as the miserable ac-
cu~ers; but no rea::;on could he given. He
assured Gidney tlmt a lying fipirit was in his
accu::,er~, anc.l that there \\as not a \\Ord of
n
J:J'l S.ALE~I WJ'l'I'JH'HAFT.
At a conrt held in Salem, April, 1692, by
the honorable Thomas Danfi>rt h, deputy gov-
ernor, Elizabeth Proctor was tried for witch-
craft. The \Vitnesses were Indian Jl')lm, hus-
band to Tituba, and three or four girls who
pretended to be afflicted hy the said Proctor.
The questions by the court, aud the answers
of the witnesses, were exceedingly futile and
whimsical; but they exhibited their antic ges-
tures and fits, which they pretended were
caused by the presence of the pri::;ouer at the
bar. The court then put the qnc~tion thus-
'Elizabeth Proctor, you uudcrstand whereof
you arc charged, Yiz. to be guilty of sundry
acts of witcl1craft : what say you to it 1'
' Speak the truth as you will answer it before
God another day. 'Vhat do you say, Goody
Proctor, to these things 1' ' I take God in
heaven to be my witness, that I know nothing
of it, no more than a child.' Proctor, the
husband, being present in court, the afflicted
girls cried out against him, saying be was a
wizard, and again exhibited their tricks and
fits. The question was put by the court,
''Vho hurts you?' Answer. 'Goodman
Proctor, and his wife too.' By the court.
!!.\.LEM WITCHCRAFT. 133
'\Vhat do you say, Goodman Proctor, to these
thiug::, ?' 'I know not, I am entirely innocent.'
It i~ no le"s painful than a~tonishing to add
that by such mberable evidence, Proctor and
his wife were both condemned and executed.
Proctor earne:;tly entreated that he might be
allowed a few day!'! to prepare him~eJf fur
death, and at his execution he de~ired in the
mo:st afti·cting mllnner that Mr Noyes would
pray 'vith, and for him; but his request was
cruelly denied hin'1, becau:se he would not con-
fe~s himself to be a wizard.
August 19th, IG!H, fire persons were exe-
cuted, all protesting their innocence in the
firmest mnnncr. One of thi:s number was 1\Ir
George Burrouglts, who had been a preacher
several years before: at Salem Yillagc, where
there had been :::;omc misunderstanding between
him and the people; afterwards he became a
preacher at Wells. It was alleged against l\Ir
Burroughs, that he had beeu seen to perform
feats of strength exceeding the natural po,.,·ers
of man. He had lifted a barrel of moJasses
or cider from a canoe, and carried it to the
:-;horc. lie would, with one hand, extend a
heary musket of six or ~ven feet barrel, at
9t
134 SAI.~l\1 WiT<:JICRAl"l'.
arm's length. In addition to these charge·, it
was urgeu hr the writers of that clay, a::; a
principal part of the evidence, that se,•en or
eight of the confessing witches witnessed
against him. But it will appear trom the exam-
inations by the court, that their evidence waa
drawn from them. For example. Question
to Mary Lacey. ''Vas there not a man among
you at your meetings?' ' None but the devil.'
' Your mother and grandmother say there was
a minister there ; did you n~t see men there?'
' There was a minister there, and I think he is
now in prison.' ' Vias there not one Mr Bur-
roughs there ?' ' Yes.'- Question to another
witness. ' 'Verc there not two ministers there 1'
'I heard Sarah Good talk of a minister or
t\'VO, one of them is he that has been to the
eastward ; his uame is Burroughs.' Margaret
Jacobs had been brought to accuse herself of
being a witch, and then to charge Burroughs
the minister, and her own grandfather, but
afterwards being struck with horror, she chose
to lose her own life rather than persist in her
confession. She begged forgi,·eness of Bur·
roughs heli)re his execution, who is said to
have freely forgiven her; and to have prayed
SALEM WITCHCRAFT. 135
with, and for her. She all'o recanted all she
had saif1 against her grandfather, but all in
''ain as to his life. Some of the accusers as~
sertcd that Burroughs often attcn.ded the witch
or devil's sacrament. Some testified, that, in
their torments, Burroughs tempted them to go
to a sacrament; and he would, with the sound
of a trumpet, summon other witches ; who,
quickly after the sound, would come from all
quarters unto the rendezvous. Numerous
other charges, equally friYolous, were brought
against this unfortunate minister, as stated by
Dr Cotton l\lather ; among others, his venom-
ous bites, leaving the prints of his teeth upon
the flesh, which ,would compare precisely \vith
his set of teeth. It is seldom that a man, 80
years of age, can boast a good set of teeth,
and some said that he had not one in his bead,
and could be no other than imaginary teeth,
but these could answer their purpose. Bur~
roughs had been twice married, and it was re-
ported of him, perhaps truly, that he had
treated his wives unkindly.
'Several of the bewitched,' adds Dr Cotton
.Mather, 'gave in their testimony that they
had been troubled with the apparitions of two
9t
SALEM WITCHCRAFT. 1 3~
populace would have prevented the execution.
He suffered this ignominious death a.t the age
of about 80 year;,, with fenent prayers that
the dreadful delusion might cease. As soon
as he was turned off, Dr Cotton 1\lather, being
mounted, addre;)Sed himself to the people, de-
claring that llurroughs was not an ordained
miui~ter, and that there was the fullest proof
of his guilt. Dr Increase Mather, equally
credulous in these things with his son, in his
" Cases of Conscience," affirms, that he was
.. pre~cnt at the trial of Burroughs, and had he
been one of his judges, he could not have ac-
quitted him. ' For se\·eral persons did on oath
te;:,tify, that they ~aw him do such things as no
man that has not a devil to be his familiar,
could perform.'
Jolm \Villard was another who suffered
about the same time. He had been employed
in looking up witches, but at la~t refusing to
fetch in more, as he deemed it unjust, he was
accused. He at first made his escape to a
di~tance of forty miles, but was overtaken and
condemned. Giles Corey, aged about 80
~·cars, was brought to trial, but refu~cd to plead,
bctng um\ illing to be tried by a jury that
)38 SALE~l Wl'l't;IICRAP'r,
Ruck being r-:tartlcd at that, intimated that
the deril himself, ditl uot know :so far. Bur-
roughs answered, ':i'Iy God mal<c::J known
your thoughts unto me.' The prisoner at the
bar had nothing to aus\\'Of unto what was thus
witnessed against him, that was worth consid-
ering. ' But the court hegan to think,' says
Dr .i\lather, ' that he then ~teppcd a::,ide only
that by the as~i:stance of the black man he
might put on his invisibility, and in that fascin.
ating mist, gratify his own jealom; humor to
hear what they said of him.' This is paying
no great compliment to the philosophical
character of the court. Burroughs was, how-
erer, condemned, and was carrie,} in rags in a
cart tln·ough the street:; of Salem, to his exc·
cution ; and hj..; hody was dragged by the rope
o\'er the ground, and buried among !'iome rocks,
one hand and part of the face left uncovered.
'Vhen on the ]adder, he repeated the Lord's
Prayer ; probably hccau:se it was the popular
opinion, that a wizard is dcpri\·cd of the power
of doing it, anchhe also protested against the
injustice of his sufferings with such awful ~o­
lemnity, as to atlcct the spectators to tears,
and it was by some appreltencled that the
SALEI\1 Wl'rCHCRAJ:'T. 137
1t was testified hy some of the witnesses, that
the prisoner had been at witch meetings with
them ; and that he was the person who had
seduced them into the snares or witchcraft ;
that he promi::)ed tlwm fine clothes for doing
it; that he brought puppets to them, and thorns
lo stick into those puppets, for the afflicting of
other people; and that he exhorted them with
the rest of the crew to bewitch all Salem Yil-
lage, hut be sure to do it gradually, if they
would prevail in what they did. It was testi-
fieu of one Ruck, brother-in-law to the prison·
er, that him::-elf anti sister, with Burroughs,
going out two or three miles to gather straw-
berries, Ruck, with his sister, rode home very
moderately with Burroughs on foot in company.
Burrough2 steppe<l aside into the bushes, where-
: upon they halted and holloed for him. He
not answering, they proceeded homewards
with a quickened pace, and yet, when they
were got near home, to their astonishment
they found him on foot with them, having a
ua:-ket of strawberries. Burroughs then fell
to chiding his wife for speaking to her brother
of him on the road; which, when they won-
dered at, he said he knew their thoughts.
\36 SALEM WITCRCnAFT.
women, who said they were Burroughs' two
wives, and that he hnd been the death of them,
and that the mngi:;trates must be toJd of it,
before whom, if Burroughs upon his trial de-
nied it, they did not know but they should
appear against him. in court. Burroughs being
now on trial, one of the bewitched persons
was cast into horror at the gho::;ts of the two
deceased 'viYe::;, then appearing before him,
and crying for Yengeance against him. But
he, though much appalled, utterly denied that
he discerned anything of it : nor was this,'
adds Dr Mather, 'any part of his conviction.'•
• In an English court, a witness was about to rclato
an account of a murcler as he reccivo<.l it from the
ghost of the murdered person. ' Hold, sir,' snid the
judge; 'The ghost is an excellent w!:ness, and his
evidence the best possible, but he cannot be heard hy
p•·oxy in thi~ court; summon him hither, and i'll hear
him in person; but your communication is mere hear-
say> which my office compels me to reject.' 1fa court
or magistrate will Ji-.;tcn to ghost evidence to convict a
reputed criminal, why not atln1il the t:mmc evidence on
the contrary, in proof of innocence. And if a judge or
magistrate countenance or abel such kind ofjuggling
with diabolical intlucnce, do they not come under the
penalty of the statute of King Jamc~, which interdicta
all acts of sorcery whatever, and all charms for ern·
ploying spirits?
140 S,\I,El\1 Wl'I'CII<:HAl"J'.
cleared no one ; he was thercfiJrc pressed to
death. \Vhen in the agonies of death, the
\'ictim thrust out his tongue, and the oHiccr
pushed it into his mouth with his c:mc. This
was the first, and I believe the only one, who
was pressed to death in New England, though
there had been examples of it in Old England.
Corey's wife suffered at the gallows, where
she made an eminent prayer.
September 22d, eight were executed, the
horse carrying them together in a cart to tho
gallows, failed for a shmt time, and the accus-
ers said the de,·il hindered it; but it may he
asked, if he had power to arrest the cart for a
moment, why not stop it altogether, and pre-
vent the executions 7 But they shew no sign~
of confidence or hope in his power to save
them. One '\Vard,ve11, having formerly con-
fessed himself guilty and afterwards denied it,
was brought upon his trial. Iiis former con-
fession and spectre evidence were adduce
against hifi!; but his own wife and daugllt.c
accused him and sa,·ed themselves. ( Thcr
arc,' says Hutchinson, 'many instances o
ehildren accusing their parents, and some, o
parents accusing their chilchen. This is th
SALEM WITCIICRAFT. 141
only instance of a wife or husband accusing
one the other, and surely this instance ought
not to have been suffered. I shudder while I
relate it.' Besides these irregularities, there
were others in the course of these trials. At
the execution of Wardwell, ~·bile he was
speaking to the people, protesting his inno-
cence, the executioner being at the same time
smoking his pipe, the smoke coming in his
face interrupted his discourse, the accusers
said the dm·il hindered him with smoke.
Mrs Engli~h was a woman of superior mind,
and an excellent education ; but was thought
not to be very condescending or chatitable to
the poor ; and L>y some of them she was ac-
cused of witchcraft. The officer read to her
the warrant in the evening, and guards were
placed round her l1ouse. In the morning,
after attending the devotions of the family, she
l\isRed her children with great composure,
proposed her plan of education, and took leave
of them, and told the officer she was ready to
die, being confident that would be her fate.
After being cxnmiued, she was by indulgence
committed to custody in a public house, where
her hgsband frequently visited her, and this
142 SALE)l WITCUCRAJ'T.
occasioned an accusntion again:--t him. Being
a man of large property, a merchant in Salem,
and having con:--iderablc influence, he fortu-
nate]yobtained permi:-sion to be confined '' ith
his wife in a prison in Boston, till the time of
trial. Here their friends found means to effect
their escape, and they fled to New York,
\\·here they were recei' ed with fri<'udJy atten-
tion by Gorernor Fletcher. In the winter
following, l\lr English sent generous supplies
to the suffering poor at Salem ; but on his re-
turn after the storm had subsided, he found
his house plundered, and his property so r
duced, that from an estate Yalued at £1500,
he realized only about £!300.
In July, one Goody Foster was examined
before four justices. She had confessed man
things of her~elf, but her daughter now confess
cd others in which she was concerned. Sh
was told that her dauuhter was with her wltc
"'
she rode on the stick, and was with her at th
\Vitch meetings, and was asked how long he
daughter had been engaged with her. Sh
replied that she had no knowledge of it at al
She wa::; then told thac one of the afilicte
persons sn.id, that Goody Carrycr's shape tol
SALEM WJTCIICnAFT. 143
her that Goody Foster had made her daughter
a witch ahout thirteen years ago. She replied
that she knew no more about her"daughter's
being a witch, than what day she should die.
If I knew anything more I would speak it to
the utmost. The daughter being called in,
and a~ked whether she had any di--course with
her mother while riding on the stick, replied,
I think not a word. Next comes the impor-
tant quc~tion by the magistrate, ' 'Yho rid
foremo~t on that stick to the village 1' ' I sup-
pose my mother.' The mother replied, 'no,
Goocly Carr)er was foremost.' It might be
supposed that it was time for the magi:strates
to stop ; but they proceed to question the
daughter. 'How many years since they were
baptized, who baptized them, and how 1'
'Three or four years I suppo~e ; the old ser-
pent dipped their heads in the water, saying
they were l1is, and that he had power over
them forever and erer.' 'How many were
baptized that day, and who were they?' 'T
think there were six, some of the chief~·, they
were of the higher powers.' The old woman's
grandaughtcr, J\1. Lacey, was now called in,
and instantly .M. 'Varren fell into a violent fit,
.-
148 S.~LEM WlTCllCUAI~'l'.
of, as will appear at the great day of judgment.
1\Iay it please the honored court, I was cried
out upon by some of the posses~ed persons, as
afflicting them ; whereupon ~ was brought to
my examination, which persons at the sight of
me fell down, which did Yery much startle and
affright me. The Lord above knows I knew
nothing in the least degree who affiicted them;
they told me without doubt I did, or they
would not fall down at seeing me ; they told
me if I would not confess, I should be put
down into the dungeon, and would be hanged;
but if I would confess I should have my life
spared; the which did so affright me, that to
save my life, I did make the confession, which
confession, may it please the honored court, is
altogether false and untrue. The rery first
night after, I \ras in such horror of conscience
that I could not sleep, for fear the devil woulcl
carry me away for telling such horrid lies. I
was, may it please the honored court, sworn to
my confession, as I understand since, but at
that time I was ignorant of it, not knowing
what an oath did mean. The Lord, I hope,
in whom I trust, out of the abundance of his
mercy, will forgive ma my false forswearing
~ALE!\1 W11THCHAI'T. 147
to gi\'e her a black dog, but the dog never
came to her. ' But you f'nid you saw a cat
once, wltat did that say to you?' 'It ~aid it
would tear me in pieces if I would not set my
hand to the book.' She said her mother bap-
tized her, and the devil or hlack man was not
there as she saw. She said she afflicted peo-
ple by pinchiug them, she had no puppets, her
mother carried her to afflict. ' How did your
mother carry you when she was in pri:son 7'
'She came like a black cat.' 'How did you
know it was your mother?' ' The cat told me
she was my mother.' Thi~ poor child's mo-
ther was then under sentence of death, and
the mother of the other two children was in
pri~on also, and was soon after tried and con-
demned.
The following is among the affecting in-
stances of confessors retracting their confes-
sions.
The humble declaration of Margaret Jacobs
unto the honored court now sitting at Salem,
::ihoweth, 'That whereas your poor and hum-
ble declarant, being closely confiucd in Salem
jail, for the crime of witchcraft, which crime,
thanks be to the Lord, I am altogether ignorant
1·16
.
SALEM WITCJI<.'RAF1',
siucrable than barely the nr.cusf!d person'
being reprcsentf!cl by a spectre unto the afllict·
eel; inasmuch as it is an undoubted and
torious thing, that a demon may by God's per
mis::;ion appear e\'en to ill purposes, in tb
shape of an innocent, yea, of a virtuous mao
Nor can we esteem alterations made in tb
sufferers by a look or touch of the accused,
be an infal1ible evidence of guilt, but frequent!
liable to be abused by the de\'il's legerdemain.
Among the confc~sing witches were D
Falkner, a child of ten years, A. Falkner, o
eight, and S. Carryer, between seven an
eight. Sarah Carrycr's confession. It w
asked by the magistrates. ' How long h
thou been a witch?' ' Ever since I was si
years old.' ' How ohl are you now ·
?' 'Ne
eight years old; brother Richard says I sh
be eight years old next No,·ember.' 'Wb
made you a witch?' '~ly mother. She mad
me set my hand to a book. I touched it wit
my fingers, and the book was reu, the pa
was white.' Being questioned she said sb
never had seen the hlack man, the place whe
she did it was in a pasture, and her aunt
and har cousins wer~ there. They promis
SALEM WlTt.:HCRAF'l'. 145
\vas not prepared to receive. Being fully sat·
isfied of his wife's innocence, the question
was now suggested and controverted, whether
the devil could afflict in a good person·s shape,
taking it for granted, that the minister's wife
was a good person. The accusation of Mrs
Hale, and some others of respectable charac-
ter, brought them to believe that the devil
could so manage matters as that the afflicted
person shoulu think he did. This affair effected
a considerable alteration in the sentiments and
conduct of 1\-Ir Hale. He became much more
moderate and rational in his views of witch-
craft. lh the midst of their distress and con-
fusion, the clergymen of the town and vicinity
held a consultation by request of the governor
and council, upon the state of things as they
stood; particularly, to consider the question,
whether Satan may not appear in the shape of
an innocent and pious, as well as of a nocent
and wicked person, to afflict such as suffer by
diabolical molestation 1 They reported, among
other things, as their opinion, ' That presump-
tions, whereupon persons may be committed,
and much more, convictions, as being guilty of
witchcraft, ought certainly to be more c,on-
10
144 ~ALEM Wl'l'CliCH.AI•"f,
but was soon restored w})(•n Lacey laic] her
hand on her arm. Question hy the justices.
' Jlow dare you come iu here a11d bring the
dc\·il with you to aHlict these poor creatures ;
which way do you do it. 'l' 'J cannot tell. 1f
my mother made me a witch I did not know
it.' She was now tlirected to look on 1\I.
'Vat'ren in a friendly way, without iujuriug
her ; but in doing so she struck her down with
her eyes. Being asked if she would now ac-
knowledge l1erself to be a witch, she said yes.
Being asked how long, she said she had not
been a witch above a week. The devil np·
pearcd to her in the shape of a horse, bidding
her worship him, and fear nothing, and he
would not bring her out, but he has prored a
liar from the beginning. The questions being
still put to her, she again said, f'he had been a
witcl~ but a little more thau a week ; but at
another time she replied, that the devil appear·
ed to her a little more than a year ago for the
first time.
Among other persons accused of witchcraft,
was Mrs Hale, \vhose husbaud, the mini:::!tCr of
llevcrly, had been very nctivc in thc5c prose·
cutions~ this was a stroke which the rrood mao
• 0
!Al,E:\1 WlTCliCI<AFT. 149
myself. \Vhat I said was altogether false
agaimt my grandfather and Mr Burroughs,
which I did to sa,·e my life and to have my
liberty ; but the Lord charging it to my con-
science, made me in so much horror, that I
could not contain myself before I had denied
my confession ; choosing rather death with a
quiet conscience, than to live in such horror.
And now, may it please your honors, I leave
it to your pious and judicious discretion, to
take pity and compassion on my young and
tender years, to act and to do with me as the
Lord and your honors shall see good; having
no friend but the Lord to plead my cause, not
being guilty in the least measure of the crime
of witchcraft, nor any other sin that deserves
death from the hands of man.'
The horrid scourge of witchcraft was, by
means of the imprudence, or rather the folly,
of au indi\'idual, extended to the town of An-
dover. One JoBeph Ballard, of that town,
sent to Salem for some of the accusers who
pretended to have the spectral sight)o tell him
who afflicted his wife, who was then sick of a
fever. Soon after thig, fifty persons at Ando-
,·er were accused of witchcraft; many of whom
to•
150 SALEM WITCJJCRAF'T.
were among the most rnputahle f.1milies.
Here the nonsensical stories of ridiug on poles
through the air, were circulated. .l\lauy pa-
rents believed theil' children to be witches,
and many husbands their wives, &c.
The following is the grand jury's bill against
1\lary Osgood.
' The jurors for our sovereign Lord and
Lady the King and Queen present, that .Mary
Osgood, wife of Captain Joseph Osgood, of
Andover, in the county of Essex, abont elm·en
years ago, wickedly, maliciously, and feloni-
ously, a covenant with the devil did make, and
signed the devil's book, and took t.he devil to
be her God, and consented to serve and \\:Or-
ship him, and was baptized by the de,·il, and
renounced her former christian baptism, and
promised to be the devil's, both body and soul,
forever, and to serve him ; by which diabolical
covenant by her made with the de\'il, she, the
said :M:ary Osgood, is become a detestable
witch, against the peace of our sovereign Lord
and Lady the King and Queen, their crown
and dignity, and the laws in that case made
and provided.'
The foregoing bill was grounded principally
SUF.l\1 WlTCHCR.\FT. 15}
on her own confession, the purport of which
i~ as follows. -That about eleven years ago,
when :::he was in a melancholy state, upon a
certain time while walking in her orchard, she
saw the appearance of a cat at the end of her
house, which she supposed was a real cat,
about this time she made a covenant with the
devil, &c. She said further, that about two
years agone, she was carried through the air
in company with three others, whom she nam-
ed, to five mile pond, where she was baptized
by the devil, and was transported back again
through the air in the same manner in which
she went. and believes they were carried on a
pole. Site confe:;~cs that she had afflicted
three persons, and . that she did it by pinching
her bed clothes, and giring consent the devil
should do it in her shape, and that the devil
could not do it without her con!;ent. "'hen
in court, she afflicted sereral per~ons, as they
pretended, and they were as usual restored by
her touching their hands. It was not Jong
after, that the said :Mary Osgood, with five
other women, who had, when in danger, con..
fes.:;cd themselves guilty, retraced their con-
fP..s~ions, stating that ' they were u)iqd-folded,
10-~
Jln S,, LE!\J WI'l'CHCRAFT.
a.nd their hands were laid on the afllicted per-
sons who fell into fit~ ; others when they felt
our hands, said they were well, and that we
were guilty of atRicting them, whereupon we
were committed to pri~on. By reason of that
sudden surprisal, knowing ourseh·cs perfectly
innocent, we were exceec.lingly a~tonished and
amazed, con!5ternatec.l and afflicted out of our
reason. Our neare:st anc.l dearest friends and
relations, seeing our awful situation, entreated
us to make confession, as the only way to s;n-c
our lives. They, out of tender love and pity,
persuaded us to make such confession, telling
us we were witches, they knew it, and we
knew it, and they knew that we knew it, which
made us think it was really so. Our un-
derstanding and rea5oning faculties almo~t
gone, we were incapable of judging of our
condition. Some time after, when we had
been better composed, they telling us what we
had confessed, we did profess we were innocent
of such things.' The testimonials to these
persons' characters, says Governor Hutchinson,
by the principal inhabitants of Andover, will
outweigh the credulity of the justices who
committed, or of the grand jury which found
SALE:'II WITCHCRAFT. 153
bills against them. Fiftythree reputable in-
habitants of Andover, addressed the court,
held at Salem, stating that ' they are women
of whom we can truly give this character and
commendation, that they have not only lived
among us so inoffensively as not to give the
least occasion to suspect them of witchcraft,
but by their sobcr, god!y, and exemplary lives
nnd conven;ation, have obtained a good report
iu the place, where they have been \veil es-
teemed and approved in the church, of which
they are members.'
One Dudley Bradstreet, a justice of peace
in Andover, haring himself committed thirty
or forty persons to prison for supposed witch-
craft, himself and wife were both accused, and
they were obliged to flee for their li\'es. The
accusers reported, that l\Ir Bradstreet had
killed nine persons, for they saw the ghosts of
murdered persons hover Oler those that bad
killed them. A dog being afflicted at Salem,
those that had the spectral sight said, that J.
Bradstreet, brother of the justice, afllicted the
dog and then rode upon him. He also was
glad to make his escape, and the dog \Yas
killed. Another dog was said to afflict other~,
lOt
~-. Ia the wretched butcheries of
.timel, (for so they in faet were,) in wbicb
and 1eason were equally set at defiance,
have shocking instan.cea of unnatural cept.QDOJJ
We find parents accusingtheir child~
reo their pa.reuts, &Jld wives their DUJBDI,....el
. .
SALEl\'1: WITCHCRAFT. 157
the injury done to religion, and the distress of
the aggrieved, were seen aud felt with the
greatest sorrow.'
I quote the following from Judge Story's
Centennial Discourse.
' The whole of these proceedings exhibit
melancholy proofs of the effects of superstition
in darkening the mind, and steeling the heart
against the dictates of humanity. Indeed no-
thing has ever been found more ,·indictive and
cruel thun fanaticism, acting under the influ-
ence of preternatural terror, and assuming to
punish otlcnces created by its own gloomy
re\·enes. Uuder such circumstances it be-
comes itself the very demon whose agency it
seeks to destroy. It loses sight of all th8
common principles of reason and evidence.
It sees nothing around it but victims for sacri-
fice. It hears nothing but the voice of its own
vengeance. It believes uothing but what is
monstrous and incredible. It conjures up
every phantom of superstition, and shapes it
to the Jiving form of its own passion~ and
frenzies. In short, insanity could hardly
devise more refinements in barbarity, or profli-
gacy execute them with more malignant cool-
156 SALEl'tl WITCitCitJ\l'T.
and the confessions blinclP.d the judge". The
public clamors urged them on, and the nm clty
of the calamity deprived them of all ability to
investigate its true cau~cs, tiJJ nineteen inno-
cent pcr~ons were made victims to the public
credulity.' ' From March to August,H)92,' says
Dr Bentley, ' was the most distressing time
Salem e\'cr knew; business was interrupted,
the town deserted, terror was in every counte-
nance, and distress in every heart. Every
place was the subject of some direful tale, fear
haunted every street, melancholy dwelt in si-
lence in every place after the sun retired.
The population w~s diminished, business could
not, for some time, recover its former channels,
atfn the innocent suffered with the guilty.
But as soon as the judges ceased to condemn,
the people ceased to accuse. Terror at the
violence and the guilt of the proceedings, suc-
ceeded instantly to the conviction of blind zeal,
and what every man had encouraged, all now
professed to abhor. E,·cry expre!"sion of sor-
row was found in Salem. The church erased
all the ignominy tl:ey had attached to the dead,
hy recording a most humble acknowledgment
of thoir error. But a diminished populatiou,
SALEl\1 WITCHCRAFT. 155
the number of the accused ; and the executing
of some made way for the apprehension of
others, till the numbers became actually
alarming to the public, and it was feared that
Salem had im·olved some innocent persons, as
all the nineteen denied the crime to their
death.
The late Dr Bentley of Salem, in his His-
tory of that town, published in the Historical
Society's Collections, observes, that ' the scene
was like a torrent, sudden, irresistible, and
momentary. Th~y who thought they saw the
delusion, did not expose it, and they who were
deluded were terrified into distraction. For a
time no life was safe. On the trials, children
bfllow twelve years of age obtained a hearing
before magistrates. Indians carne and related
their own knowledge of invisible beings.
Tender females told e\'ery fright, but not one
man of reputation ventured to offer a single
report, or to oppose openly the o'v·erwhelming
torrent. Nothing could be more ridiculous
than a mere narrative of the evidence. It
would be an affront to the sober world. The
terror was so great, that at the hazard of life,
they who were charged with guilt confessed it,
)54 SALEl\f WITC:ACRAF1'.
and they fell into fits when the dog looked on
them, and he was killecl. At length a worthy
gentleman of Boston, being accuf:ed by some
of those at Andover, sent a \nit to arrest the
accusers in a thousand pound action, for dc-
famn.tion. From that time the accusations at
Andover generally ceased, to the unspeakable
joy of the inhabitants.
This tremendous storm continued sixteen
months in Salem, in which was displayed a
great want of sober wisdom in ~orne, and of
moral honesty in others, while a spirit of su-
perstitious persecution, almost without a paral-
lel, generally prevailed. Nineteen innocent
persons were hanged, one pressed to death,
and eight more condemned; and about fifty
confessed tl1emselves witches, of which not
one was executed. Above one hundred and
fifty were in prison, and above two hundred
more, being accused, it was thought proper to
put a stop to further prosecutions. The per-
sons in the prisons were set at liberty, and
those who had fled returned home in peace.
Experience showed lhat the more were appre-
hended, the more were afflicted by Satan, and
the number of confessors increasing, increa::;ed
SALE:.\1 \VITCIICR.\FT. 159
force conviction, that the whole was a scene of
fraud and imposture, commenced by young girls,
who at first, perhaps, thought of nothing more
than exciting an interest in their sufferings, and
continued by adult persons, who were afraid of
being accused themselves. Rather than confess
their fraud, they permitted the lives of so
many innocent persons to be sacrificed. None
of the pretended afflicted were erer brought
upon trial for their fraud ; some of them proved
profligate persons, abandoned to all vice, oth-
ers passed their days in obscurity and con-
tempt.
In December, 1696, there was a proclama-
tion for a fast, in which there was this clause,
'That God would shew us what we know not,
and help us wherein we have done amiss, re-
ferring to the late tragedy raised among them
by Satan and his instruments, through the
awful judgment of God. On the day of the
fast, at the South meeting-house in Boston,
Judge Sewall, who had sat on the bench at the
trials, delivered in a paper to be read publicly,
and he stood up while it was reading. It ex..
pressed in a very humble manner, that he was
apprehensive he might have f.1llen into soma
)(30 S.~LE!\1 WITCHCRAFT.
error in the trial.;; at Salem, and prayin~ tlmt
the rruilt of such mbcarrinrr<"!' UIU)' uot be im-
o ~
putc<.l either to the country in general, or to
him or his family in particular, aml asking
forgirencss of God and man. The Chief
Justice, .Mr Stoughton, being informed of this
action of one of his brethren, observed for
himself, that when he sat in judgment, he had
the fear of God before his eyes, and gave l1is
opinion according to the best of his unucr-
stau<ling; and although it might appear aftcr-
warus that he had been in an error, yet he
saw no necessity of a public acknowleugmeut
of it.
'rwclrc men who had servcu as jurors in
court at Salem, in IG92, pllblishcd a recanta-
tion of their sentiments, aud nn apology for
their doings on the trials; stating that they
were incapable of understanding, nor able to
withstand the myste1 ious deluc:ious of the pow-
ers of darkness, and the prince of the air, but
for want of knowledge and information from
others, took up such evidence against the ac-
cused as, on further consideration ancl better
information, they justly fear they hare been
instrumental with others, though ignorantly
!!ALEI\1 WITCHCRAFT. 161
and unwittingly, to bring upon themselves the
guilt of innocent blood, &c. They express
a deep sense of sorrow for their errors in act-
ing on such eridence to the condemnation of
per~Oib, declaring with deep humility that they
were deluded and mistaken, for which they
are much distre~sed and disquieted in mind.
They humbly beg forgiveness of God, and
praying that they may be considered candidly
and aright by the survi\'ing sufferers, acknow-
ledging themselrcs nJuler the power of strong
and general dclu~ion. 'fhey again ask for-
gircncss of all whom they may have offended,
declaring t1H'Y would not do such things again
for the whole world.
As this great calamity began in the house of
Mr Parri', and he had been a witness and \'ery
zealous pro:-ccutor of the 5uppo.;.;ed offenders,
many of his church withdrew from his com-
munion, and in April, 1()!)3, they drew up ar-
ticles against him. ' They charge the said
Parris of teaching such dangerous errors, and
.preaching ~nch scandalous immoralities as
ought to di::-chnrgc any man, though e\·er so
gifted othcrwiFc, from the work of the minis-
try. Particularly, in his oath against the lives
}6~ SALE.i\1 Wl'fCIICRAl"l'.
of several, wherein he swears, that the prisou
ers with their looks knock <.lown those pre
tended sufferers. 'Ve humbly conceive, tim
he who swear~ to more tl1an he is certain of, i
equally guilty of perjury with him that swear
to what is false.'
They were so settled in tl1eir aversion, tha
they continued their persecutions fot three o
four years; and in July, 1697, they presente
a remonstrance to arbitration, in which they ac
cuse him of 'believing the devil's accusation.
an<.l readily departing from all charity to pet:
sons, though of blameless and godly liYes, upo
such suggestions against them ; l1is promotin
such accusations, as also his partiality in s(
fling the accusations of some, and vigilant!
promoting others. !tis applying to those wh
haYe a familiar spirit to know who affiicte
the people ; which we consider as an implic
denying the providence of God, which alon
we believe can send afflictions, or cause dC\·i
to afflict the people. By these practices an
principles, 1\Ir Parris bath been the beginn
and procurer of the sorest affiictions, not
this village only, but this whole country, th
diu ever befall them.' .1\Ir Parris did atleng
!.ALE~l WITCllCR.\FT. l(j3
acknowledge his errors, but the people would
not he satisfied till he was entirely dismissed.
At the period when the prosecutions for
witchcrn fl. were conducted at Salem, Sir Wil-
liam J>hipp::; was governor of the Colony. He
was a natire of New England, of obscure ori-
gin, and \'cry illiterate. His title and his afflu-
ence were acquircu by fortuitous circumstances,
not from any meritorious or honorable achieve-
ments. l\1r Phipps had, uy some means, ob-
tained information that n Spanish ship loaded
with gold nnd silver, had been wrecked on the
COU:it or La Plata, many years before, and be
resoh·ed on a bold effort to pos!'ies::; himself of
the booty. For the purpose of procuring as-
sistance in the enterpri~e, he performed a voy-
age to England, where he obtained partners
and associates, and from thence he proceeded
to J....a Plata, in H387. lie was so fortunate as
to discover the hulk, from \\hich he recovered
:e-old and :-ih·er to the amount of £300,000,
hi~ own share being £16,000. HaYing re-
turned to England, and being introduced to
men of rank and influence, he receiYed from
Kiug Jamc::; the Seconc.l, the honor of knight-
hood, anc.l wa::; commissioned as Gorernor of
JI
}()4 S,\l.EJU WtTCJICitAF"('.
his native Colony. llut, though a mau o
piety and integrity, be was not qualified to
support. the dignity of the oflicc to which he
had the honor of being promoted.
Sir \Villiam was a firm Lclievcr in witchcraft,
and among the first acts of his authority, was
an order for chaining the witches ; stupidly be-
lieving that if the body was chained, the ,...ickcd
spirit within could exert no power. llut before
the close of the tragedies, in which his excel-
lency was so zealous an actor, his own wife,
was by some of the complainnnts, accused o
being a witch; but through favor to the gov-
ernor's lady, she escaped without chains or
halter.
It appears that Dr Cotton l\Iather was one
of the leading champion:-; in the persecution o
witches. In October, J692, at the desire o
the governor, he published an account of the
trials of se\·en of those who had been con-
demned and executed, in which he states that
the court grounded their proceedings chiefly
on the laws of England, and precedents found~
in books from thence. lu his preface he ha
this passage. 'Ifin the midst of the man)' dis
satisfactions among us, the publication of thcs
SALEN WITCHCRAFT. 165
trials may promote a pious thankfulness unto
God Jor justice being so far executed among
us, I shall rejoice that God is glorified ; and
pray that no wrong steps of ours may ever sully
any of his glorious works.' But it should be
remembered that no condemnation can recei\'e
the !'auction of justice nor the countenance of
Christians, unless the party is fairly convicted
by full and substantial human evidence. It is
a most extraordinary circumstauce that the ru-
lers and judges, and the eminent divines of
that day, should overlook tl1e reasonable max-
im in the Jewish constitution, that every word
or thing admitted for evidence in the decision
sltall be established by the concurrence of what
cometh from the mouth of two or three credi-
ble witnesses. c So you will not pollute with
blood the land in which you dwell.' - ' And if
a false witness rise up against a man, and ac-
cuse him of any crime, the two men before
whom is the controversy, shall stand before
the Lord, and before the prie:sts, and before
the judges, who may be in those days. And
when the judges ha-re made a strict examina-
tion, if the false witness hath testified false-
hoods, and risen up against his brother; you
166 ~ALEl\I WITCJI'.!RAI'T.
shn.ll do to him as he wickedly thought to rl
to his brother.'* It is melancholy to refle
that no instance can he found on record of
false witness against tl1c innocent victims u
Salem having been brought to merited puni::;h
ment.
Dr 1\Iather, in his work entitled ' Wonder
of the Invisible World,' produced an abrido
ment of the trials of the two women condemn
ed by Lord Hale, 1664, and also an abrido
ment of the rules and signs by which witche
are to be discovered, of which he says ther
are above thirty. His production receive
the approbation of two of the judges of th
court, one of whom was the chief justice an<
lieutenant governor. The author's father, D
Increase l\lather, also expressed his coinci
dencc in the same sentiments. The work is
nevertheless, a singular and curious production
it evinces, most clearly, that the reverend au
thor, in the fer-rency of zeal, suffered his min
to be deeply imbued with bigotry and depres ·
ing superstition. Dr Mather was eminent fo
extensive knowledge and christian piety ; bu
.. Numbers, xxxv. 30. Dcut. xvii. 6, and :xix. 15.
SALE:\1 WITCHCRAFT. 167
foibles and infirmities were his lot, and while
his mind was enriched with knowledge, his
heart mu:.-.t hm·e sickened for lack of wisdom.
He publi:;;hed 382 books and tracts on Yarious
subjects. In these he displays wit and fancy,
and advocates with zeal the cause of religion ;
and although his style is :;;ingular and verbose,
his works contain rich and important matter
for the hb,torian and antiquary. It would be
unjust not to acknowledge the debt of grati-
tud.e due to Dr Mather for the immeasurable
benefits which our country and the world have
enjoyed from his efforts to introduce smal1pox
inoculation, in 1721. But the work now in
question affords a striking example of the im-
becility of mind in the absence of its glorious
attributes. Sobriety of judgment is seduced
by fo1ly, and moral dignity is degraded by the
intrusion of fictions of imagination, and the
man becomes a dupe to his own credulity. He
adopted, in the fullest extent, the doctrine of
demons, and of supernatural compacts between
Satan and witches, and- was fatally blinded
again::,t the most palpable impositions practised
on himself. But this distingui:shed diYine was
not singnlnr in his proneness to bigoted and
11*
109 SALEM WlTGIICr~AfT,
dogmatical principles and doctrines ; they
were in perfect coincidence with the habits of
thinking in the times in which he lived. His
cotemporaries, who administered the affairs of
government, and those who were called to de-
cide in their judicial proceedings, had evidently
imbibed the same gross absurdities; and there
is in our nature an unaccountable reluctance
to discard crror:s, howerer preposterous. His
publication teems with romantic and ludicrous
stories, which he unwiseJy adduces for sub-
stantial facts. A shrewd reply was made to
it by R. Calef, a merchant of lloston, which
led to a controversy between the two authors,
on the subject of their inquiry.
The following is an abridged narrative of
the trials of B. Bishop, S. :
Martin, E. How,
and l\1. Carryer, from Dr !\lather's '"\Vonden~
of the Invisible World.'
'The court appeared to rely for evidence
chiefly on the testimony of the accusers, and
the incidents exhibited by the experiment with
the parties in their presence on the trials. In
all instances the presence of the accused
would produce wonderful effects on the persons
of the accusers. At a look, or caRt of the
S.\.L.I!:.\1 WITCHCP.Al·'T, 169
eye, the accusers would instantly fall down as
if in a fit or S\voon, and would throw them·
~elves into unnatllral and painful postures, and
by the application of the witchf>s' hand they
were immediately restored.* Some complain·
eu that the shape or spectre of B. Bishop, the
prisoner on trial, pinched, cl10ked, and bit
them. One testified, that the shape of the
pri oner, one day, took her from her wheel
and carried her to the river side, threatening
to drown her if she would not sign the devil's
hook, and said she had been the death of ~ev·
eral persons whom she named. Another tes·
tified, that there were apparitions or ghosts
seen \Yith the spectre of the prisoner, crying
out " You murdered us." There was testi-
mony, likewise, that a man striking once at a
place whe're a bewitched person said the shape
*Why not bewitch the ma~istratcs as well as others,
and <~:we the victim~ from death ? If the witches, as-
si:;tcd by Satan, have power over the laws of nature
and lhc action~ of men, how is it that theif· enemies es-
cape with impunity? Jr they pos~css the power of
raio;in~ s•orm<: :md :-oiukit1g '-hip" at sea, why not oYer-
whclnt both judge and jury in the ruins of falling house~
:nul make a mock of the ch;1ios and ropes employed for
their cxcculions ?
II+
1i0 SALEI\t WJTCliCitAl·"Jf,
of this Bishop stood, the bewitched cried out
that he had torn her gown, and tl1e woman's
gown was found afterwards to be torn in the
very place mentioned.
One D. Hobhs having confessed herself to
be a witch was now tormented by the spectres
for her confession, and this Bishop tempted
her to sign the book again, and to deny what
she had confessed, and it was the shnpe of this
prisoner which whipped her with iron rods to
compel her thereto. To render it further un-
questionable, tllat the prisoner at the bar was
the person truly charged in this witchcraft,
there were produced many evidences of other
witchcrafts by her perpetrated. J. Cook testi-
fied that, about fire or six years ago, he was in
his chamber assaulted by the shape of this
prisoner, which looked on him, grinned at him,
and very much hurt him with a blow on the
side of his head ; and on the ~amc day about
noon, the same shape walked into his room,
and an apple strangely flew out or hi:; hand
into the lap of ltis mother, six or eight feet
from him. S. Gray te:5titicd, that about four-
teen years ago, he waked ou n. uight and saw
the room where he lay full of light, and baw
SALEl\f WITCHCRAFT. 171
plainly a woman between the cradle and the
bed, which looked upon him. He rose, and
jt vanished, though the doors were all fast.
He went to bed, and the same woman again
assaulted him. The child in the cradle ga\·e
a great screech, and the WOtljan disappeared.
It was long before the child could be quieted;
though it were a \'Cry likely, thri,·ing child, yet.
from this time it pined away, and after divers
months died in a sad condition. He was sat-
isfied that it ''vas the apparition of this Bishop
which had thus troubled him. B. Coman te~­
tified, that eight years ago, as he lay awake in
his bed with a light burning, he was annoyed
with the apparition of this Bishop, and of two
more, who came and opprcs~ed him, that he
could neither stir himself nor wake any one
ebe ; the said Bishop took him by the throat
and pulled him almost out of bed. 'fhe next
night his kinsman lodged with him, and as
they were discoursing together, they were vis-
ited by the same guests, and the kinsman was
struck speechless and unable to move hand or
foot. He had laid his sword by him, which
the spectres did strirc much to wrest from him,
hut he held it too fast for them. S. Shattuck
lli'
172 SALEM WITCHCRAFT.
testified, that in the year 1680, this m~llop
often came to his house on frivolous and fool-
ish errands. Presently, whereupon, his eldest
child began to droop exceedingly, and the oft-
ener she came to his house the worse gr,ew
the child. He would be thrown and brui:scd
against the stones by an invi::;ible hand, and
his face knocked against the sides of the house
in a miserable manner, and the child's money,
purse and all, would be unaccountably conrey-
ed out of a locked box, and ne\'Cr seen more.
The child 'v\'as taken \Vith terrible ftts, and did
nothing but cry and sleep for several months
together, and at length his understanding was
utterly taken away. Among other symptoms
of enchantment upon him, one wa~, that there
was a board in the garden whereon he would
walk, and all the invitations in the world could
never fetch him off. About seventeen or
eighteen years after, there came a stranger to
Shattuck's ho.use, who, seeing the child, said
this poor child is bewitched, and you have a
neighbor who is a witch. J. Louder testified,
that having some little controversy with Bishop
about her fowls, he awaked in the night by
moonlight, and clearly saw the likeness of this
)/8 SALE~l Wl'FCIICRAI"l'.
seen ; and out of fonrteen good oxen all were
·drowned, save one. John Atkin...on testifiP.cl,
that he exchanged a cow with the f'Oll of !:iaitl
1\.fartin, whereat she muttered anti was unwil-
ling he should have it. Going to reccire his
cow, though he hamstringcd her, and halt~rcd
her, she, of a tame creature, grew so mad
they could scarce get her along. She broke
all the ropes that were fastened unto her, and,
though she was tied fast to a tree, yet she
made l1er escape, and gave them such further
trouble, as they could ascribe it to no cause
but witchcraft. J. Kemball testified, that the
said l\lartin, upon a cause)e!)s disgust, threat-
ened him that a certain cow should ne\·er do
him any more service, and it came to pass ac-
cordingly, for soon after thP. cow was found
stark dend on the ground, without any dis-
temper to be discerned upon her ; and this
was followed with the death of several more
of his cattle. 'But,' says the reverend author,
'the said J. Kemball had a filrthcr testimony
against the prisoner, which was truly admir a-
ble. He applied himself tu uuy a dog of thio
:Martin ; but she, not letting him have his
choice, lrc said he would supply himself at one
!ALE~ WITCllCRArT. 177
illartin. 'I can't help it.'
J.llngi:lfratc. ' Is it not your master ? How
comes your appearance to hurt these?'
Jllnrtin. 'How do I know 1 He that ap-
peared in the shape of Samuel, a glorified
saint, may appear in any one's shape.'
It was then also noted, that if the afflicted
went to approach her, they were flung down
to the ground. The court counted themsel\'es
alanncd by these things, to inquire farther into
the conversation of the prisoner, and see what
might occur to render the~e accusations further
credible. John Allen testified, that he refused,
because of the weakness of his oxen, to cart
some stones, at the rcquc~t of this 1\Iartin.
She was displeased, and said it had been as
good tl1at he had, for his oxen should never do
him any more service. 'Vhereupon, as he was
going home, one of his oxen tired, so that he
wa::; forced to unyoke him that he might get
him home. He put his oxen, with many oth-
ers, on Salisbury beach; they all ran into
Merrimack ri' er, and the next day were found
on Plum hland. They next ran, with a ,·io·
lence that seemed wholly diabolical, right into
the sea, swimming as far ns they could be
l'i'G !!ALE:\1 WI'fClH':J~At~'l'.
TRIAL OF SUSANN.t.. MARTI;\", .TtJNE 29, ]692.
lJiagistratr.. ' Pray what ails these people ?'
JJ:lartin. 'I don't know.' ·
IJiagistrate. ' But what do you think ails
them?'
JJ[m·tin. 'I do not desire to ::;pend my
judgment upon it.'
lJiagistrate. 'Don't you think they are be-
'
witched 7'
JJ[m·tin. ' No, I do not think they are.'
JJ'lagistrate. 'Tell me your thoughts about
them, then ?'
lJiartin. 'No: my thoughts arc my own,
when they are in, but when they arc out, then
another's their master.'
lJfagistrate. 'Their master ! who do you
think is their master ?'
IJ.Iartin. ' If they be dealing in the black
art you may know as well as I.'
JJiagistrate. 'Well, what have you done
towards this ?'
lflm·tin. 'Nothing at all.'
lJiagi~trate. '"\Vhy, it is you or your ap-
pearance.'
~ALE~l WITCHCR .\PT. 175
wnll of the old house, wherein she formerly
lived, they did, in holes of the said wall, find
several puppets made up of rags and hogs'
bristle~, with headless pins in them, the points
being outwards. "\Vhereof she could now give
no account unto the comt, that was reasonable
or tolerable. There might have been many
more strange things brought against this wo-
man, but there was no need of them. But
there was one very strange thing more with
whid1 the court was entertained. As this'
woman was under guard, passing by the great
and spacious meeting-house of Salem, she
garc a look towards the house, and immedi-
ately a demon, im·isibly enteriug the meeting-
house, tore down a part of it; so that though
there was no person to be seen there, yet the
people at the noise, running in, found a board
which was strongly fastened with several
nails, transported into another quarter of the
house.'
It will doubtless be conceded, that if
Bridget Bishop was actually gui1ty of all the
disasters above detailed, she was a proper sub-
ject for the gallows.
l 74 SAl.El\1 Wl'l'Cllr.RAI<''J'.
him, he had gone hut ahout three rods frorr1
her when lookin<r for his mone)' it wac; mwc-
' 0
countably gone from him; and heincr ahout :-:ix
rods from her, with a small load in his cart,
suddenly the off wheel sunk clown into a hole
upon plain ground, so that he was forced to
get help for the recovery of the wheel ; but in
searching for the hole in the ground, which
might give him thi::; disaster, there was none
at all to be found. ~oon after thit', as he was
in a dark night going to his barn, he was very
suddenly lifted up from the ground and thrown
against a stone wall ; and aftGr that he wns
again hoisted up and thrown down a bank.
At another time t.hi::; deponent pa:-;sing by the
~mid Bishop, hi:s horse with a small load, striv-
ing to draw, all his gears flew to pieces, nnd
the cart fell down, and the deponent going
then to lift a bag of corn of about two bu~hcls,
could not lift it with all his n1ight. :Many other
pranks of the prisoner this deponent was ready
to te!::itify. He Yerily belicrcd that the said
Bishop was the instrument of Iris dauf!htcr
Pri!'cilla's death. To crown a!J, says the Dr,
.T. llly, and ,V. Dly, te!'tified, that being em-
ployed by snid Bishop to take down the cellar
SALEM WITCDCIUFT. 173
woman grievously oppressing him; she held
him, unable to help himself, till near day. He
told her of this, but she utterly denied it: and
threatened him very much. Soon after this,
being at home on a Lord's day, with the doors
shut, he saw a black pig approach him, but it
soon vanished away. Soon after he saw a
black creature jump in at the window, and it
came and stood before him. The body was
like that of a monkey, the feet like a fowl's,
but the face much like a man's. He was so
extremely affri!!hted, that he could not :speak;
he endeavored to clap his hand upon it, but
could feel no substance, and it jumpetl out of
the window again. He struck at it, but missed
his blow, and broke his stick; and the arm
with which he struck was soon disabled. This
same creature appeared again, and 'vas going
to fly at him, whereat he cried out, and it sprang
back and flew over the apple tree, shaking
many npples off the tree in fl}ing over. At
its leap it flung dirt with its feet against the
stomach of tlle man, whereon he was then
struck dumb, and so continued for three days.
'Villiam Stacy testified, that having received
some money of this Bishop for work done by
·~ALEM Wl'l'CHCH.AFT. 181
'thought, into a. pit, from whence he reco"Vered
by taking hold on the hush, although afterwards
he could find no pit in the place. Having
gone fire or six rods he saw S.l\iartin standing
on hi::. left hand, as the light had done before,
but they changed no wor-ds with one another.
At length he gut home extremely affrighted.
The next day it was upon innuiry umlerstood,
that .l\lartin was in n miserable condition by
pains and hurts that wcte upon her.' (Forty
stout blo,rs would have killed any one but a
witch.) ' The deponent further testified, that
having <lffronted the prisoner, many years ago,
she said he should never prosper , more par-
ticularly, that he shoulJ ne,·er hare more than
two cows; that though he were erer so likely
to have more than two cows, yet he should
nerer hare them. From that rery day to this,
.namely, for tn enty years together, he could
never exceed that number, but some strange
'thing or other still prevented his having more.'
TRIAL OF ELIZ.\BETH HOW, .TU:'J.E 30, 1692.
'The most remarkable things ascribed toE.
liow, \\'ere, that the sufferers complained of
her as the cause of their distresses, and they
l q
....
180 f:'ALE.:\1 Wl'1'CDCRAI~1'•
flew at him and at his throut O\'Cr his shoulu•
ers one way, and then over Itis shoulders an·
other way; his heart now l1egnn to fuil !Jim,
and he thought the <log woulu have tore hi:;
throat out. But he recovered hi111sclf aud
called on God in his clistres~; aud it ''a11i hcd
away at once.'- i This S. 1\1 artin once walk-
ed from Amesbury to Newbury in an extraor-
dinary season, when it was not fit for any oue
to tra\'el. She bragged and showccl how dry
sllc was; it could not be pcrcciYcJ that l:!O
much as the soles of her shoes ·were wet.
Being told that another per::on wouJU hare
been wet up to the knees, she· replied, "slu;
scorned to be drabbcd." It wns noted that this 1
tc~timony upon her trial, ca:::t her into a very
singular confut)ion. John I>re:s:5y testified,
that being one eYening bewildered near the
field of ,Martin, as nuder enchantment, he saw
a marvellou~ light, abont tlte higne:"s of a half
hn!:=hcl, near two rods out of the way. He
::-trnck at it with a ~tick and laid it on with all
his might. He gave it ncar forty blows and
felt it a palpable substnncc. Dut going from
it, his heels were struck up, and he wa:s laid
with his back on the ground, sliding, as he
182 '- \J,EM WJTCllCltJ\I'T.
would fall down \\hen she looked on them and
were rai::,ed again on the touch of her hand.
There was te~timouy, also, thnt the shape of
her gave trouble to people nine or ten years
ago. There were apparitions or ghosts testi-
fied by ~ome of the pre~ent :5Utferers, which
ghosts aflirmed that this How had murdered
them. .J. How, brother to the husband ofthe
prisoner, testified, that having refu!"cd to ac-
company her to her examination, as she desir-
ed, immediately some of his cattle were be-
witched to death, leaping three or four feet
high, squeaking, falling, and dying at once;
and going to cut off an car, the hand wherein
the knife was held, was taken \Cry numb and
painful, and so remained tor several days, and
he suspected the prisoner as the cause of it.
N. Abbot testified, that tmnsual and mischicr-
ous accidents would befall his cattle whcuc\'er
he had any difierence with her. Once in par-
ticular, she wished his ox choked, and within
a little while that ox was choked with a turnip
in his throat. A woman, on some difference
with How, waa Lewitched, and she died
charging her of having a hand in her death.
Many people had their barrels of beer una<r
SALEM \VITCHCRAFT. 183
countably mischicfe<l, spoiled, and spilt, upou
displeasing her. One testified, that they once
and again lost great quantities of drink out of
their vessels, in such a manner as they could
ascribe it to nothing but witchcraft. And also
that How once gave her some apples, and
when she had eaten them, she was taken with
a very strange kind of maze, so that she knew
not what she said or did. There was likewise
a cluster of depositions that one J. Cummings
refused to lend his mare to the husband of the
said How; the mare was within a day or two
taken in a strange condition. She seemed
abused and bruised as if she had been running
o..-cr the rocks, and was marked where the
bridle went, as if burnt with a red hot bridle.
On using a pipe of tobacco for the cure of the
beast, a blue flame issued out of her which
took hold of her hair and not on!y spread and
burnt 1m her, but it also flew upwards towards
the roof of the barn and like to have set the
barn on fire, and the mat·e died very suddenly.
F. Lane being hired by the husband of How
to get him a parcel of posts and rails, Lane
hired J. Pearly to assist him. The prisoner
told Lane that the posts and rails would not do
I
SALEM WITCIICRAFT, }79
lllaztlcl's, and marked a puppy there which be
liked. G. Martin, the husband of the prisoner,
asked him if he would not have one of his
wife'~ puppies, and he answered, no. "\Vhere-
upon the prisoner replied, " As I live I will
gi,·c him puppies enough." 'Vithin a few
days after, Kernball coming out of the woods,
there aro:se a little black cloud in the N. \V.
and Kcmball immediately felt a force upon
him, which made him not able to avoid running
upon the stumps of trees, although he had a
broad, plain, cart way before him; but though
l1e had hi::; axe on his shoulder to endanger
him iu his falling, be could not forbear going
out of his way to tumble O\'er them. 'Vhen
he came below the meeting-houc;e, there ap-
peared to him n little creature lil<e n puppy, of
a darkish color, and it shot backwards and
forward~ between his legs. He had the cour-
age to usc all possible endeavors to cut it with
his axe, hut he could not hit it, the puppy ga,·e
a jump from him, and went, as to him it seem-
ed, into the ground. On going a little further,
there appeared unto him a black puppy, bigger
than the first, hut as black as a coal. Its mo-
tions were quicker than tho:sc of hi::; axe. It
184 SALlni WITCHf., UAF1
because Pearly helped him, hut if he had got..
ten them alone they might have done well
enough. When How came to receive his
posts and rail~, on taking them up by the ends,
they, though good and sound, yet unacounta-
bly broke off, so that Laue had to get twenty
or thirty more. And thi.s prisoner being in-
formed of it, said she told him so before, be-
cause Pearly helped about them.'
TRIAL OF MARTHA CARRYER, AUGUST 2, 1692.
A considerable number of bewitched per-
sons deposed that it was .Martha Carryer or her
shape, that grievously tormented them by biting,
pricking, pinching, and choking them; the
poor people were so tortured, that every one
expected their death upon the very spot, but
that on the binding of the prisoner they were
eased. Moreover, the looks of Carryer then
laid the afflicted people for dead ; and her
touch, if her eyes at the same time were off
them, raised them again. It was te:,tified,
that on the mention of some ha,·ing their uecks
twisted almost round by the shape of this Car-
ryer, she replied, it ,s no matter though thPir
necks had been twi--ted C]Uite off. R Abhot
•
SALEl\t WITCHCRAFT. 185
testified, that the prisoner was very angry with
him upon laying out some land near her hus-
band's. She was heard to say she would hold
Abbot's nose as close to the grindstone as ever
it was held since his name was Abbot. Pres-
ently after this, he was taken with a swelling
in his foot, and then with a pain in his side,
and exceedingly tormented. It bred a sore
which was lanced by Dr Prescott. For six
weeks it continued very bad, and then another
sore bred, and finally a third, all which put
him to very great misery. He was brought to
death's door, and so remained till Carryer was
taken and carried away by the constable.
From which very day he began to mend and
so grew better every day. Abbot was not only
afflicted in his body but suffered greatly in the
Joss of his cattle in a strange and unaccount-
able manner. One A. 'foothaker testified,
that Richard, the son of M. Carryer, having
some difference with him, pulled him down by
tbe hair of his head; when he rose again be
was going to strike at Richard, but fell down
flat on his back to the ground, and bad not
power to stir band or foot until he told Carryer
pe yielded, and then he saw the shape of his
12* •
186 SALE~t \VlTCUCnAFT.
mother, the prisoner, go off his breast. One
Foster, who Jmu coufcs~cd hcr~clf a witch,
tcstiiiml, that she had been the pri~o11cr at :-<omc:
of their witch meetings, and thnt the dc\'il
carried them on a pole, lmt the pole Lrokc
and she hanging about Canyer's neck, they
both fell down and she rcceiYcd a hurt by the
fa11. .Many other evidences of her mischier-
ous conduct were produced, which I omit; the
last was this. In the time of the prisoner's
trial, one S. Sheldon, in open comt, had her
hands unaccountably tied together with a wheel
band, so fast, that without cutting, it could not
be loosened. It was clone, says Dr l\Iathcr,
by a ::-pectre, and the sufferer affirmed it was
the prisoner's.
There is something in the foregoing proceed-
ings during the memorable events at Salem,
that seems to surpass all our conceptions of
impartial justice, christian charity, or humanity.
It is humiliating to our nature to reflect, that
a cJas:; of the most profligate wretche::; were
brought together on the stage, and their base
intrigues tolerated and encouraged, fa.nciful
experiments witnessed, and little else than fie-
•
•
S.\LI::M WITCHCR.H''I'. 187
titious e,·idence of accusation recei,·ed to con·
demnation; while all pleadings for mercy, on
the score of innocence, were of no avail. Not
a solitary instance is found on rec.ord of the
voice of pity and compassion being raised in
behalf of the friendless, ignorant 'Victims of
suspicion. They were subjected to barbarous
tricks and senseless experiments, calculated to
encourage fraud and imposition, and then con-
signed to the gallows for the consequences.
Better that ten guilty persons escape, than one
innocent should suffer. Unfortunately, no
lawyers were at that time employed in criminal
caEes. liad our present court and our state
prison been then in existence, the good people
of Salem would not long ha,·e been molested
by witches and bewitched girls, with their in-
visible ropes and chains.
But while we contemplate the melancholy
errors of judgment in our predecessors, we
ought in charity to cherish the belief that had
not their mincls been clouded in superstitious
darkness, their posterity would not have been
called to mourn O\'er imbecilities so lamentably
exemplified. But "·e would attribute to our
,·eneratecl fathers no moral c,orruption, no per-
•
ISS s.\Ll~~x WI'tcncRAF'l'.
verseness of temper, no desire to 5wene frorn
the dictates of stern ju tice. Their task was
most arduous, their path of duty obscured by
novel occurrences, and their decisions unavoid·
ably swayed by popular clamor and \'ulgar
prejudice. If, unhappily, their intellects were
tinctured with superstition, it was the effect of
early education, fo::itcrcd and confirmed hy
concurrent sentiment and opinion, propagated
in books of the heathen and papist.
Much importance was attached by the mag·
istrates to the cflccts of the witches' eyes upon
the sufferers ; but no explanation i~ gi\'en why
the same eyes could produce no mischievous
em'cts on any other person. Great !'tress was
laid on the cit cumstance, that in the trials the
&ufrerers were revh·ed from their Jits by the
touch of the hand of the reputed witch, but
not by the hand of any other per::;on ; but in-
stances of the contrary can be adduced; the
experiment was ordered to be made in a court
in England; the afflicted girl's eyes being
blindfolded, and she being touched by the
hand of another woman, recovered as speedily
as if touched hy the accused witch.
The Rev. Dr Increa:se Mather then Prcsi-
'
SALEl\t WITCHCRAFT. 189
dent of Harvard College, may be considered
as among the best authorities for the prevalent
doctrines on the subject of witchcraft. On
the 19th of October, 1692, he went to Salem
and conferred with eight of the confessing
witches, all of whom freely and relentingly
recanted their former confessions, declaring
that in making them they had violated the
truth, being compelled to it by pressing threats
and urgings, by which they were so affrighted
as to agree to anything that would tescue
them from their awful situation. But they
confessed with anguish of soul that they had
committed a great wickedness for which they
implored forgiveness. ln his 'Cases of Con-
science,' published in 1693, Dr 1\IathP.r has
particular re!C~rence to the trials at Salem. In
this work he observes, that ' the gift of healing
the sick and possessed, was a special grace
and favor of God for the confirmation of the
truth of the gospel, but that such a gift should
be annexed to the touch of wicked witches, as
an infallible sign of their guilt is not easy to
be believed.' If it be as supposed, by virtue of
some compact with the devil, that witches have
power to do such things, those who encourage
12t
SALEM WITCHCilAFT. 195
from him and was then clapped on his head,
and there held so fast, that the unseen fury
pulled him with it backward on the floor. He
had his cap torn off his head, and in the night
he was pulled by the hair and pinched, and
scratched ; and the invisible hand pricked him
with some of his awls, and with needles, and
bodkins, and blows that fetched blood were
sometimes given him. His wife going down
into the cellar, the trap door was immediately
by an invisible hand shut upon her, and a table
brought and laid upon the door. When be
was writing another time, a dish went and
leaped into a pail and cast water upon the
man and spoiled what he was about. His cap
jumped off his head and on again, and the pot
lid went off the pot into the kettle, then over
the fire together. A little boy belonging to the
family was a principal sufferer, for he was
flung about at such a rate, that it was feared
his brains would be beaten out. His bed-
clothes would be pulled from him, his bed
shaken, leaping forward and backward. The
man took him to hold in a chair, but the chair
fell a dancing, and both of them were very
JlPar beinf! thrown into the firP. These, and
194 ~At,EM WITCHCRAFT.
eaded; and the keys of the family taken some
of them from the bunch where they were tied,
and the rest flying about with a loud noise.
For a while the people of the houf'e could not
sup quietly; ashes would bo thrown into their
suppers and on their heads The man's shoos
being left below, one of them would be filled
with ashes and coals and thro\\ n up after him.
'Vhen in bed a stone, weighing about three
pounds, was divers times tluown upon them.
A box and a board were likewise thrown upon
them, and a bag of hops being taken out of a
chest, they were by the invisible hand, beaten
therewith, till some of the hops were scattered
on the floor, where the bag was then laid and
left. The man was often struck by that hand,
with several instrumen1s, and the same band
'
cast their good things into the fire; yea, while
the man was at prayer, a broom gave him a
blow on his heacl behind and fell down before
his face. While the man was writing, his ink·
stand was by the inrisible hand ~natched from
him, and being able nowhere to find it, he
:saw it at length drop out of the air down by
the fire. A shoe was laid on his shoulder, and
when he would have catched it, it \\'as snatcheq
SALF..:\1 WlTt;IICG.\.FT. 193
instead of ' hnllo\\·cd be thy name,' she ex-
pressed ' ltollmNd be thy name.' T hus by her
u.;;ing the o, in place of a, it was concluded
that she could not say the Lord's Prayer, and
she was committed. to jail as a witch.
In Dr Mather's ' 1\Iagualia,' we ba,·e the
following in:stance of witchcraft.
In the year IG79, the house of William
1\Iorse, at Newbury, was infested with demons.
' Bricks, nnd sticks, and stones, were often by
some invisible hand, thrown at the house, and
so were many pieces of wood; a cat was
thrown at the woman of the house, and a long
staff was danced up and down in the chimney,
and afterwards the same long staff was hanged
by a line, and swung to and fro, and when two
persons laid it on the fire to burn, it was as
much as they were able to do with their joint
strength to hold it there. An iron crook was
,·iolently, by an im·i!"ible hand, hurled about,
and. a chair flew about the room until at last it
lit upon the table, where the food stood ready
to be eaten, and would hare spoiled all, if the
people had not with much ado saved a little.
A. chest, was by an invisible hand, carried
from one place to another, and the doors barri-
}g",l SALEM WlTCH<.;RAl"J'.
of committing horrid crimes, !-\houlcl be spared
and suffered to live in ~ociety, while others,
relying on their innocence, honestly despised
those tempting conditions, should be consigned
to the gallows. In fact, fabe confessions,
fraud, and counterfeit, were so palpable, that
the halter might with more justice have been
applied to the accusers than to those who ac-
tually suffered.
But such, at that time, was the state of the
public mind, that the more extravagant the
talc, the more implicitly was it regarded. The
hostility to witchcraft was so prevalent as to
give a general bias unfriendly to the fair de-
velopment of truth, or to the impartial exam-
ination of facts and circumstances. The un-
happy victims were without defence, and their
total ignorance subjected them to the most
cruel treatment and sufferings. In one in-
stance on record, there appears to us to be a
profanation of the Lord's Prnyer. The woman
being required to repeat it before the court,
instead of t deliver us from cYil,' expressed it
c deliver us from all evil ;' this was considered
as referring to her own condition, and she was
ordered to repeat it again. On the second trial,
SALEl\1 W ITCIICHA 1-"J'. 191
stake. In most of the instances at Salem, the
confessions proved false and deceptive, those
who made them being totally ignorant of the
nature of witchcraft. Our )earned author
further observes, that if two creclib)e persons
shall aflirm on oath that they have seen the
pen~on accused, doing things wlticlt none but
6ur.l' as lwvefamiliarity wit!t tlte devil ever did
or can do, that is a suifidcnt ground of convic·
tion. It was on this ground that he justified
the condemnation and execution of George
Burroughs, the minister; it being testified be-
fore the court, that he hatl been seen to lift a
barrel of molasses or cider, and to extend with
, one hand a heavy musket at arms' length.
Kothing could be more sophistical than evi-
dence of this description, for there arc persons
who can lift a solid body of six or seven hun-
dred pounds, and can extend a king's arm at
arms' length, when held at the smallest end
with one hand, and no jury in our day would
condemn such to the gallows as wizards.
It is among the most unaccountable facts,
that those who, to save their li\'cs, belied their
consciences, and confes:::,ed themscl\'es guilty
of baring formed a league with the devil, and
190 S.\LE!\1 WITCIICRAFT.
them in the practice, whether courts or indi-
-viduals, mu~t be guilty of sacrilege. The ac-
cusers pretended to suffer much by bites, and
the prints on the skin would compare precisely
with the set of teeth of the accused, but those
who had not such bewitched eyes, have seen
the accusers bite themselves and then com-
plain of the accused. It was true, also, that
some who complained of being pricked hy
pins sticking in their flesh, were their own
tormentors, for the purpose of effecting their
wicked designs. The pins thus employed are
still preserved at Salem. Dr Mather, in the
work just quoted, judiciou~ly affirms, that the
evidence in the crime of witchcraft ought to
be as clear as in any other crimes of a capital
nature. He is decidedIy opposed to the em-
ployment of spectral evidence as being alone
sufficient to justify conviction. But he con-
siders a free and voluntary confession as a
sufficient ground of conviction ; yet the reve-
rend author himself cites one remarkable in-
stance of false confession for the avowed pur-
pose of effecting her own death in consequence
of the cruel persecution" which she suffered
from suspicion only, and she was burnt at the
100 S.\LEI'tt WITCllCR:\FT.
a thousand such vexations, befalling the boy
at home, they carried him to li\'e at a doctor's.
There he was quiet, but returning home he
suddenly cried out he was pricked on the back,
where was found strangely sticking a three
tined fork belonging to the, doctor, and had
been seen at l1is house after the boy's depart-
ure. Afterwards his troublers fouml him out
at the doctor's also, when crying out again he
was pinched on the back, they found an iron
spindle stuck into him ; and on the like outcry
again, they found pins in a paper stuck into
him, and a long iron, a bowl of a spoon stuck
upon him. He was taken out of his bed and
thrown under it, and all the knives in the house
were one after another stuck into his back;
which the spectators pulled out, only one of
them seemed to the spectators to come out of
his mouth. The spectre would make all his •
meat, when he was going to eat, fly out of his
mouth, and inste~d thereof make him fall to
eating ashes, sticks, and yarn.'
The foregoing has all the air of au exag-
gerated narrative, and it is probable that Dr
1\lathcr, in his love for the tnarvcllous and
wonderful, recorded the circumstances without
S.Al.E:\t WITCHCRAFT. 191
due examination, but merely from the uncertain
rumor among the credulous neighbors. The
same story i~ found on the records of the court
at Salem, but with the following explanatory
circum~tances as I have recei,·ed them. It so
happened, that one Caleb PoweJJ, an intelli-
gent seaman, suspected that a boy, the grand-
son of .1\Iorse, who lived in the family, was the
cause of all the mischief, and watched for an
opportunity of detecting him. Going one
morning to Morse's house, he saw through the
window, the said boy throw a shoe slyly at the
old man's head. Upon this, Powell told l\Iorse
that if he would let his boy come and li,·e with
him a short time, he gut·sscd that with a little
astrology and a little a~tronomy, he could un-
ra,·e] the my::,tery. .Mor~e reluctantly con-
::entecl, and his house was not molested during
the boy's absence. This, .Morse acknowledged,
but yet, unwilling to c;uspect the boy, he and
his neighbors concluded that Powell had stud-
ied the Llack art, and had by that means been
the cause of all the mi::icbief about Morse's
house. Powc11 was accordingly apprehended
and tried at Salem. The testimony against
him was singular. One testified, that be had
19S SALEl\1 WlTCUCR.H"l.
heard him say that by a little astrology and ft
little astronomy, he guessed he could find out
the cause of :Morse's trouble. Another testi..
fied, that he heard it said that l.,owell had
studied the black art with one Nonvood, a
famous magician be) ond sea. The result of
the trial was, that although they could find no
positire evidence of his guilt, yet he had giren
so much ground for suspicion, that he deserved
to bear his own shame and the costs of court.
.Morse's wife was at another time tried for
witchcraft, and condemned to be hung, but
was afterwards reprieved, and died a pious
woman.
The folJowing is an amusing ~tory, well told,
but it is from newspaper authority, the Galaxy.
A bout the year 1760, the fury of the inhabi-
tants of New England had declined toward~
suspected old women, but their believing fear
was not altogether quelled. At this time, a
case of witchcraft occurred in Billerica, under
the ministry of the Re\-·. Dr Cummings, who
related the story \vith much satisfaction, as the
last which came within his precincts.
An old woman, of very peaceable character,
lived pretty much alone in a shell of a hou~e
'::>.\1,1':.:\1 )\ ITCHI"IU.F'l'. 199
hear the meeting-house and the clergyman's
<Iwelling. She wa.s su~pected of witchcraft by
a family who lived at two miles' di~tance, in
the we;;:t part of the town, and they brought
accusation immcdiatcl) to the par~on; ·who in
tho;:,e early times, exercised not only the spi-
ritual, but the temporal power of the parish ; he
wa:- often coun'-el for bvth parties, and was
judge and jury, without subjection to appeal.
He was, moreover, a peace-maker. 1\lr C.
accu:-ed .Mrs D. of witchcraft. ' How do you
know she is a witch?' 'Becau~e ~he has be-
witched my marc.' 'How do you know that
JOUr mare is bewitched ?' " Becau~e she won't
5tand still to be "addled, and the minute I get
on, ~he kicks up and throws me off.' 'But
what makes yon think that .Mrs D. has be-
witched her ?' No answer. 'Hare you had
a (}Harrel with her ?' ' Oh no ! I have had no
quarrel.' 'But what is the matter? surely
~he would not h"witch her for nothing.' ''Vhy
I carri0-cl her ~omc corn on the marc about a
week ago, and I didn't know hut I might ha' e
wade a wic:take in the measure ~o that it tell
short, and so'-· And becau~e }Oilf corn tell
short, )"Oll suc:pect that she found it out, and is
]:1
200 SAJ~E)l Wl'J'CIICRA!-'T.
so angry as to bewitch your mare.' ' Yes,
that's it, and I want you to go and lay the
devil.' 'Why, if you have raised the devil by
cheating in the corn, you had better lay him
yourself.' 'Yes, but I don't knon· how.' 'Go
then, directly, and carry the balance of the
corn, and take good care never to commit such
an act again : the devil is always busy with
people who do not perform all their duties
honestly.' The man slunk away home at this
unexpected rebuke, and failed not to carry corn
enough to make full measure; which, however,
he feared to carry into the house to the old
woman, but emptied it down upon the door-
stone. But the mare ceased to Jdck as usual ;
whereupon 1\lr C. came to the minister, told
him what he had done, and begged for holy
assistance. ' Go home,' said the parson, with
a.Jl that energy for which he was so remarkable,
' go home,- you need not trouble yourself
about witches; I'll not allow them to do any
mischief, I ussure you- do your tluty, so as
to escape a guilty conscience, and if your mare
is refractory, whip her, as I do mine- go,
and let me hear no more about witches.' Mr
C. obeyed, but he was fur from convinced that
•
!HLEM WITCHCRArT. 201
1\'Irs D. was not a witch, and he determined to
put it to the proof. For this purpose he boiled
a large potato, which he put directly from the
boiling water, under the bewitched mare's
saddle. The caperings and kickings of the
poor beast were excusable this time, at Jeast,
for when after some hours the saddle was got
off, it was found that a severe mark was left
behind it. The proof of the matter was to be
this ; if the old woman had bewitched the
mare, she would have the same mark of a burn
on her back. Two old women were prevailed
on to be of the examining committee. Dr
Cummings was· requested to be of the party,
with his Bible at hand, to prevent any fatal
explosion from Satan's nostrils. This office
he prudently declined. His place was supplied
by another old women, and Saturday night
was appointed for this examination. This time
was chosen, because the good people thought
that Satan would not visit in holy hours. In
the meantime, the good woman got an ink-
ling of what was going on ; and as they en-
tered a long dark entry, they were saluted with
a ~tupendous flash of powder and tow, and a
glorious clatter of tin pan«. The committee
~20~ SAI..Ei\1 WJ'l'CJICn,\ 1"1'.
was scattered of course- and before churc1r
the next day, everybody in the town knew,
that the devil came, all covered with blue brim-
stone, to save his disciple, the wid:ed .Mrs D.
This would have made a new era in witchcraft
in the town, but for the pertineut Jemarks of
the parson touching the matter; for he was
enabled to dispense a word in season.
It is but a few years since, a farmer at Ken·
nebunk, observing his cattle to be affected with
some fatal disease, conceived the idea that
they were bewitched, and fixed his suspicion
on a poor widow who had become insane in
consequence of the death of her husband at
sea. He was so confident of her guilt, that
he went to her lonely cottage, and with his ox
goad, beat and abused her in a cruel manner.
It is not under our salutary laws that a ~rime
so atrocious can pass with impunity. The
culprit was prosecuted and receiw'd the merit-
ed punishment.
The ft1mily of 1\1'Fnrlain, of Pembroke,
were remarkable for. peculiarity of character
and manner~. About the }ear 1i89, Seth
1\I'Farlain attracted the notice of the neigh-
borhood by being supposed to be under tho
CALE:\t l\'ITl'HCH.U''I'. ~03
influence of witchcraft. He became an object
of wonder and commi~crntion to some, and
of curio~ity and ridicule to others. Hundreds
of people thronged round his hou::-;e from time
to time, gazing with a~toni:shmcnt nt hi~ sup-
posed personal sufferings; inflicted, as he
pretended, hy a certain old hag in the neigh-
borhood. He was de:::ired to 'i~it the woman
at her house, but beiore he could 1each the
door, hi!\ lilllbs would fail him, and he would
fall to the ground. His body was occasionally
diotorted and convulsed, he would utter the
bitterest complaints of pain and distress, which
he a"cribed to the pre:-:;ence of the hag, although
~he was im·isible to all hut himself. lie con-
sulted Jud!!e T-r, to know whether he would
bP. cuJpn.blP. in law if he !-hould kill a witch.
The Judge observing Seth on the bed with a
club, swinging his arms to and fro, to keep off
the witch, was willing to humor the whim,
aud procured a gun, and loading it with some
pieces of sih·er, enjoined on Seth to take a
:sure aim when the witch again made her ap-
pearance. Accordingly, Seth pointed the gun
to the door \\here she usually entered, and
hung up her bonnet, and at the proper time
1~*
204 0!\IEXS A~D Al1UURI:&S.
he discharged his piece. The discharge shat-
tered the door in pieces, but the cunning
witch dodged her head at the moment he
pulled the trigger I
OMENS AND AUGUHIES.
IN ancient times, especially among the
Greeks and Romans, omen~ and auguries
were considered as of great importance in the
common co.ncerns of life ; but having their
origin in ignorance and superstition, they van-
ished before the light of philo~ophy and wis-
dom. But so late as the first part of the )a..;t
century, the belief in fairies, hobgoblins,
witches, and omens, prerailed almost uniller-
sally among tl1e superstitious part of the com-
munity; and even some of snperior rank and
condition in life, were under the influence of
these chimerical fancies.
The following were among the lucky and
unlucky omens.
The flight of singing birds, or the mann~r
of feeding ()f birds and chicken~, ·portended
good or e,·il, according to particular circum~
stances. The act of sneezing was ominous
of good or evil, according to the number at the ,
time, or the place. If1
when a f::ervant is
making a bed, she happens to ::;neeze, no per~
son can sleep in 1t undi"'tLtrbed, unless a part
of the straw or feathers be taken out and burnt.
Nothing conlcl insure success to a person going
on important business, more effectually than
to tluow an old shoe after him on leaving the
house. If there be in compnny thirteen per·
::5ons, the <.levil's dozen, some misfortune will
befall one of them. 'ro spill salt, at table, is
rcry ominous, and the ticking of the small in·
sect called a death-watch, foretels death, and
the screech-owl at midnight, some terrible
misfortune. These, and many other siJly
fancies, ha,·e been keenly satirized by Addison,
in the Spectator. To find a horse-shoe was
deemed lucky, more especially, if it be preserv-
ed and nailed on the door, as this pre\'ents the
annoyance of witches. This, probably, was
the origin of the practice continued in our
time , of nailing hor~e :5hoes on the masts of
ves5cb, against the enchantment of witches.
The omens are extended to particular days in
13-t
206 0:\lENS .\NI> AUCUltJJ;~.
the week. Friday, for instance, is cou::~iuerccl
an inauspicious day for the commencement of
nny undertaking. It is sc]dom that a seaman
can be prevailed on to comm0nce a voyage on
that day. An account has been publisbeu of
some person, who, desirous of erauicating this
prejudice, ordered the timber of his vessel to
be cut on Friday; her foundation laid, her
launching, and the engaging her cr~w, on
Friday, and finally he.ordcrcd her to sail on
Friday. But it was remarkable and unfortu·
nate, that neither the vessel nor crew were ever
heard from afterwards. This, however, is no
proof that Friday is more likely to produce
disasters than any other day in the seven,
We know that all events are under the control
of Divine Providence, and it is inconsistent
with reason to imagine, that fatality will attend
undertakings because they were commenced
on any one particular day.
That singular genius, Lord Byron, was
among those who indulged the superstitious
notion, that Friday is an unlucky uay. In
Moore's Life of Byron, may be found the fol-
lowing.
' Amoug the supen;titions in which he chose
01\IENS AND AUGURIES. 207
to indulge, the supposed unluckiness of Friday,
as a day for the commencement of any work,
was one by which he almost always allowed
himself to be iufluenced. Soon after his ar-
rival at Pi.,.a, a lady of his acquaintance hap-
pening to meet him on tlte road from her
house, as she was herself returning thither,
and supposing that he had been to make her
a visit, requested that be would go back with
her. " I ha,·e not been to your house," he
ans,vere<.l ; "for just before I got to the door I
remembered that it was Friday; and not liking
to make my first visit on a Friday, I turned
back." It is e\·en related of him, that he once
sent away a Genoese tailor, v~ho brought him
home a new coat on the ::;ame ominous day.
"\Vith all this, strange to say, he set sail for
Greece on a Friday ; and, though by those
who have any leaning to this superstitious
fancy, the result may be thought but too sadly
confirmatory of the omen, it is plain, that
either the influence of superstjtion o\·er his
own mind was ~light, or, in the excitement of
self devotion under which he now acted, was
forgotten.'
In Lord Byn~n, \re have an example of thP.
I3t
208 0:\fENS AND AUCtJRIE~.
fatal consequences which ~ometimcs en~ue
from prejudices against any particular purpose
or object, being instiJled into the youthful mind.
Of all his prejudices, he declared the strongest
was that against bleeding. His mother bud on
her death bed obtained from him a promise
never to consent to bei11g bled. When on his
own death bed, therefore, he pertinaciously
opposed the operation, contrary to the united
and earnest entreaties of his phy::;icians, and
it was delayed till too late to afl'ord him the
desired relief.
History furnishes one signal instance of a
successful enterprise commenced on Friday.
It was on that day that Christopher Columbus
sailed from the port of Palos on his first voyage
of discovery; and it was on Friday that he
landed on an island never before seen by
European eyes. Of all events recorded in
modern history, this is incomparably the most
important.
A curious and melancholy instance of aber-
ration of intellect, occurred on board the ship
President, on her outward bound passage to
Charleston. She encountered very heayy
weather, and one of tl1e sailors statefl to his
shipmate::> that he was convinced the HOflll
had ari!"cn entirely in consequence of his
wicked course of life, and that the offended
majesty of heaven could only be appeased by
his immeuiately precipitating himself into the
Eea. In 'ain was every argument urged, and
erery ende;n-or made, on the part of the cap·
tain aml hi~ officers, to induce him to relinquish
hi=- purpose. One evening he a:-cended tho
main rigrring, and putting off a part of his
attire, threw himself headlong into the deep.
'Vhen the sl1ip was returning to this city, a
storm of con~iderable Yiolcuce arose, which
called forth all the superstition of the mariners,
and a cry became universal that she would go
down unle~s 'Sam's' chest wa::; thrown orer4
board. A Scotchman was among the most
bigoted portion of the crew, and having more
dread of the elements than the captain, he,
by some means or other, procured the chest of
poor 'Sam,' and entombed it in the grave of
its owner. The storm almost immediatcly
abated; calmness reigned upon the face of the
waters, and a fine breeze wafted them to the
mouth of the harbor. Here, however, the
wiud became unpropitious, and a squall from
the land drove them off. Di5content again
manifested its influence, and a general search
took place to ascertain whether anything be·
longing to the suicide remained. After the
forecastle had been duly searched, an old shoe
was discovered, and hastily yielded up as a
sa.crifice to EoIus. The wind again subsided,
and a fair breeze brought them into port.; the
whole scene without doubt, confirming their
minds in the superstition they had cheri::;h-
ed.- 1V. Y. J. of Commerre.
On board of a ship, Capt V. master, it be-
came necessary in the night, to reef the top-
sails; the sails were lmYered, and the reef
tackle hauled out, when the sailors ascended
the roast; but to the surprise of the captain,
th~y soon came <lown in great terror, crying
ont that the devil was in the top, they knew
him by his horng, flashing eyes, and grisly
beard. No commands or threats from the
'
captain could a\'ail, to induce them to make
another attPmpt. A II other orders they were
willing to obey, but to encounter the devil on
the topmast was too much. The affair began
to grow serious, for the topsail was quirering
and s~i,·ering in the wind. The captain and
01\IENS AND AUCURIES. 211
officers resolved with courage to ascend, but
they, too, were driven in terror to the deck.
It was now agreed, be their fate what it may,
to wait till the moruing; when by daylight it
was di:scolered, that an old goat wa:s ::seated on
the top, with its glaring eyes staring the sea-
men in the face. It appeared that the goat
was sleeping on the halliard5 while coiled in a
tub, and was by that means hoisted up to the
top without the knowledge of any one.
The Roman Catholics have been educated
in the full persuasion that the devil appears in
bodily form, and often in the high style of some
great personage. I hare more than once lis-
tened to an honest Irish Catholic while gravely
relating the manner in which Satan appeared
on horseback with a splendid retinue, and
took possession of a gentleman's palace in Ire-
land, after the mas~acre of the Romish priests.
His majesty having taken possession of the
palace, a Protestant minister was sent to drive
him to his own abode, but he was recei\'ed
with a laugh and sneer, as possessing no pow-
er. But at length a Catholic priest, who had
been secreted in a cavern during the massacre,
was sent and he no ~ooncr entered tban the
'
deYil in a fright, flew up the chimney, carryiug
an iron pot from orer the fire, and in pas!:!ing
out carrying off the top of the chimney. The
Irishman entertained not the lea:-;t doubt of the
reality of the transaction; and added that the
r.himney ~till remains in tlle same state, no one
daring to mend it.
Some old seamen admire to he considerr.cl
as being on familiar terms with the ue\'il. The
following ~tory has often been related by sailors
in the full belief of its truth.
A sailor sold himself to the dPvil, on condi-
tion that he should enjoy all tlw good thin!!s
and pleasures of this life fi>J' iifty yenr[o;, ''lien
he would give himself up; hut the devil wa~:~
to perform any one thing which the sailor
might desire before he sunrndered. At the
expiration of fifty years, Satan came fc11· his
man. The sailor acknowledged that the time
had expired, but one thing was to be done.
Satan was required to pump the l'ea dry, hut
the cunning son of Neptune had so placed the
pump that the water from it flowed directly in-
to the sea aorrai.n. The devil was so enracr('U
n
at this cunning artifice, that he gave him a
tremendous blow with his tail and vanished m
a cloud of smoke and brimstone.
O)lEN~ A~D ,\llGURlll::,. 213
The Reformation of the 16th century, al-
though it in a great mea"ure broke the shac-
kles which bound the human intellect, and
taught men to think, did not altogether eradi-
cate heathen and popish ahhtmlities, even from
the reformers themselres. 'Vhat, but a spirit
of bigotry, could influence the great mind of
Martin Luther grarely to declare that he ex-
perienced several personal encounters with the
devil, in consequence of his being engaged in
reforming the abuses of the Catholic Church,
and particularly that his ' Satanic majesty en-
tered his bolted chamber one night, stole his
hazel nuts, and cracked them on his bed-post,
to his no small annoyance ?'
The Re\'. Mr "'hitman, in his ingenious
lecture on Popular Super~tition, relates, that
' Not many years ago, a man was suddenly
missing from a certain town in this common-
wealth. The church immP-diatcly sent one of
her m(!mbers to consult tl1e far-famed fortune-
teller, l\lolly Pitcher. After making the ne-
ce...sary inquiries, she intimated that the absent
per,on had been murdered by n family of ne-
groes, and hig body sunk in the deep waters
behind their dwelling. Upon this evidence)
2J4 OMENS AND AVGURIF.S.
the accused were fortlnvith impril:)oned, and
the pond raked in vain from shore to shore.
A few days previous to the trinl, the murdered
man returned to his friends safe and sound.'
The church would have done themselves more
credit, had they taken the legal means for the
punishment of the fortune-teller in the peni-
tentiary for defamation.
I cannot omit to communicate the following
excellent remarks in the language of my amia-
ble and learned friend and correspondent,
Thomas Miner, l\:1. D. of l\1iddletown, Conn.
'That demons could ever work miracles,
seems to be incredible ; but mind as well as
matter was evidently subject to different laws
anciently, from what they are at present.
This principle may perhaps help to a satisfac-
tory solution of many things otherwise involved
in inextricable perplexity in the Scriptures.
God never violated, and can never violate,
known laws, but he can change them at
pleasure. Every geologist knows he has
changed them since the creation, for by no
Jaw now existing, can we account for the or-
ganic remains of tropical animals, and plants
in arctic and temperate region~. There ha,·c,
OMeNs AND AUGURIES. 215
therefore, been miracles, or variations, or sus..
pensions, or additions, to the common laws of
nature, as respects the physical world. Science
teaches tbis, particularly geology, and this
cuts, or rather unties, the gordian knot in the
material world. The analogy is complete in
the world of mind ; at least, revelation informs
us that the ordinary laws of mind, and of mat-
ter too, have been occasionally varied, sm;-
pended, or have had supplementary additions,
as is the fact in all the miracles recorded in
Scripture. If Ilume had only been a modern
geologist, he would have seen the futility of his
rea~oning against the possibility of miracles,
for he would hare had facts staring him in the
face, demonstrating that matter had at times
been governed by laws very different in kind
or in degree, or in hoth, from any that are now
known to exist. Analogy shows that this may
hare been the case with mind; Scripture says
it has been. t
' I must confess, I am very cautious in ex-
plaining away a single miraculous event re-
corded in the Scriptures, since if I begin I
know not where to stop; but if I only admit
this prjnciple, that though the general laws of
'216 0.:\lEN~ ANJJ AUGURl£5.
matter and mind have always been the snmo,
yet the Creator has frequently, for great and
wise purposes, dm·iated from them himself,
and permitted, or authorized, or empowercJ.
others, sometimes, on important occasion~, to
de\·iate from them, (a::; we know has been 1hc
fact in the material world) nearly c\·ery ditli-
culty in the interpretation of the marvellous
part of revelation, at once becomes of ca~y
solution. Perhaps it may be objected that this
does not solve the <liHiculty concerning the
miraculous agency of bad men or other de-
praved beings. But revelation does mention
cases of bad men prophesying, working mira-
cles, and performing other wonders, whom the
Saviour never knew. True science, where..
ever it is properly applied, must destroy super-
stition and fanaticism, but as is the ca~e with
geology, showing that miracles or changes or
the laws of nature ha,·e existed, it serves to
suppcrt real religion, and demon:strates the im-
moYeable basis on which it is founded. Phi-
losophy shows that miracles hare exi:sted, rer-
elation reconls the time, place, and occa::;iou.
After all, I woulJ speak with great caution
concerning the ancient demoniacs, whatever
OMENS .\ '.V AUGUR IES. 2li'
:sule of the que::-tion we take, much remains
that is mysterious and perhaps incomprehensi-
ble by our pre~ent imperfect facultie:'.
• In mo:'t points of 'iew, "e live in the best
:tge the world ever saw ; but we lire in an age
of excitement. E\'ery, almost c,·ery project,
is begun and pnrsncd with enthusiasm. The
difliculty is to keep from running into complete
fanaticism. Mere duty or expediency, howev-
er, is a cold thing, and nerer alone does much,
un!C!"S it is attended with some zeal, :::ome ar-
dor, ~ome earnestness of feeling. These latter
-emotions should rc-.emble the sleady, but gen-
tle b1eeze; but passion, especially, when pro-
tracted into fanaticism, is like the hurricane
and tomado. I know of no W:t} to insure the
golden mean with any prospect of :::uccess, ex-
cept by giring the ri:,ing generation a stable
education, founded upon the ~urc basis of the
morality and religion of the go-=veL The
sermon on d1c monnt contain<; the best rules
of duty, and the thirteenth chnptf'r of the fir~t
Corinthian<;, the bc~t cxpo.~ition of them, any-
where to be found. The great law of lm•c,
enforcing a di-.po..,itiun to do to other~ as we
\'.'ould "'i:::h them to do to us, i practically
l·l
0:\JEXi AND AuCUltiES. ~23
Catholic ~Iajc:"ty, the physicians were ordered
to adhere to it in all cases, and forbidden to
prescribe any other remedy.
In the days of !Jitter intolerance, Senetus,
a learned Spanish physician, discovered the
course of the blood through the lungs, called
the Jesser circulation ; and was afterwards
cruelly burnt at the stake, with his books, in
corbe<ptence of a religious contrO\·ersy with
John Calvin.
'The immortal Harvey, who, in 1628, was
the author of the most important discovery re-
corded in medical history, the circulation of
the blood, was subjected to base calumny and
detraction, while hc~towing blessings on the
world, by his noble efforts and pious example.
( It was, I !Jeliere,' says Lady Morgan, 'late
in the last century, that Baron de Luch was
executed at Turiu, for having published that
the earth mores round the :::un.' The Che,·a-
licr La Barre, a minor, was executed in France
for an imputed insult offered to the crucifix.
But, God be prlised, the rack of torture
and th~ lighted fagot never have disgraced
our native country; nor are these horrid en..
gincs any longer in requisition to puni~h imag-
14t
222 O)IE~S AND .AUGURIES.
principles of moral wisdom and philanthropy.
The author has not favored the public '' ith
the rules and signs by which witches and wiz-
ards arc to be de:signatcd, and the evidence by
which they are to be com ictcd. Had he lived
in witch-hanging times, he might bare wit-
nessed with what sang-froid ghosts and spec-
tres could consign ·witches and \HZards to the
gallows. Has the author been :--o fortunate as
to ascertain whether the sin of witchcraft, as
understood in modern times, is actually de-
nounced as punishable in the holy Scriptures 7
In all countries, improvements in literature
anu the arts and sciences, have been impeded,
not only by superstition and bigotry among
the ignorant, but by the abf'urd edicts of sove-
reigns and legislators, as if to hid defiance to
all the energies of progr('~sive }mowledge. In
the loth century, the Emperor Charles V. of
Spain, although himself addicted to crimes of
the blackest stain, ordered an assembly of
divines to deliberate, whether it were lawful in
point of conscience to di~sP-ct a dead body.
During the preralence of n mnlignant fe,·er in
Barcelona, the court of l\lndrid \\'rote the pre-
scription to be used, and by command of his
OMENS AND A UC UIUES. 221
appreciating the free institutions of our father!',
as rich hoons from heaven, and the freedom of
mind as of inestimable value. The avenue~
which lead to the fountains of honor and in-
telligence are as wide and easy of access as
tho:'e which overwhelm in vice and misery,
and tho..;e who prefer the former need not pac;:;
through life unacquainted with the mighty
wonders which the world contains.
It is with regret, that, in ' A Dictionary of
important ni:nne::., objects, aud term:, found in
the holy Scripture!", intended principally for
youth,' recently pul>li::-;hed by Howard .Malcolm,
A. .M., the follo\\'ing definition is found.
' TVitr.h is a woman and ll'iz.arrl is a man
that is suppo::ed to have tlealings with Satan,
if not actnaiiy entered into formal compact
with him. That ~uch persons are among men
is abundantly plain from Scripture; and that
they ought to be put to death.'
It can scarcely he believed that this can be
intended as an item in the code of instruction
fr>r the ri:sing generation in the 19th century.
Our children, it i~ presumed, have, in these
enlightened times, been taught lessons better
calculated to instil into their tender minds the
14•
lancholy, gloom, and de:--pair. ThcE
e eril n·-
:sults are tliamctrically oppo~ed to that honm a-
ble and happy character which the cht i~tian
religion is so admirably calculatctl to form and
sustain.
We may confer great benefit on our youth,
by directing them to a proper course of reading.
In a library, without advice, they are in the
condition of a stranger in a city without a
guide. The world is almost inundated with
books ; a choice may be made to answer every
requirement and to suit every genius and taste.
Popular etlucation has now become almost
universally a darling pursuit. Seminaries of
learning and improved school institutions, are
extending more and more, and will soon be
diffused throughout the land, and their bene-
fits equa1Jy enjoyed by all clas~es of our youth.
N urnerous Lyceums have, within these last
few years, been established in New England,
and the public voice bespeaks an abundant in-
crease iu their numbers; they abound in the
best means to excite enmlation and diffuse
general knowledge. It is auspicious to the
public welfare when our citizens are wise, and
sober minded, patriotic. chaste, and rirtuou::;,
O)!Er\S AXD AUHUJUt:~. 21!)
Litchfield) distinctly calling 1
Sam.' From
which he had wrought up hi::s mind to expect
the most woful tidings of his bclo\'ed parent,
but was entirely and happily disappointed.
Let our youth be taught that the whole
phalanx of ghosts, apparition~, witches and
wizards, charms and enchantment;;;, second
sight, omens and auguries, astrology and for-
tune telling, vulgar miracles, and vulgar pro-
phecies, should be classed with other vulgar-
isms, the legitimate offspring of perverted im-
aginations, and ought to be reprobated as de-
grading to the human understanding. Those
who di~dain to believe in their existence, will
never be molested by them. ' Rcsi:st the devil
and he will flee from you.' Firmly resist a
belief in witchcraft, and you may bid defiance
to all the witches that ever traversed the air or
haunted a dwelling.
Strongly impress on the minds of our youth,
that superstition and bigotry are derogatory to
the cause of genuine religion, gi\·ing counte-
nance to inadequate conceptions of the deity,
illiberality, and uncharitableness, religious
frenzy, tumultuous excitements, fanatical dis-
qnieturlcs, unreal or doubtful conversiOns, me.
~18 OMENS .A , U Altit' llll.tl ,
exemplifiecl in the charity which i~ :;o much
insisted on by Paul.'
It is incumbent upon us ns patriots and phi-
lanthropists, as far as in our power, to guard
the rising generation againRt every species of
superstitiou, by a strong bulwark laid deep
and early in the minds of our children. It is
our children that are to be entrut'ted with our
character, our acquirements, and our senti-
ments ; whether fraught with pure wi5dom, or
tinctured with brain-sick infirmities, future
generations will know how to appreciate their
worth. If we wish posterity to enjoy true and
permanent happiness, let them he taught to
cultivate their intellectual po\\·ers, and fortify
their minds against deceptive illu..;ions and im-
aginary e' il:s. Spectral illusions may be expe-
rienced while the intellectual facn1ties remain
entire, as is exemplified in the cases of Nicolai
and the Scottish lauy, related in a former
part of this work. The celebrated Dr
Samuel Johnson, was prone to superstiti(Jn,
and occasionally afflicted with paroxysms of
hypochondriacal illusions. He relates, that as
he was one day at Oxford, turning the key of
his chamber, he heard his mother (who was al
224 OMENS AND Al1GURlEl'f.
inary crimes and to reprc~s truth and philo-
sophical research.
A pious friend and patron of the preseut
writer, dying in the year Ji87, without heirs,
bequeathed by will his whole e~tate, except
some legacies, to thirteen Congrc·gational f:lo-
cieties in the county in which he li,·ed ; the
interest of which was to be appropriated, an-
nuaJly, for one hundred years, to the purcha:;;e
of certain specified religious books, to be dis-
tributed among the said Societies. After the
expiration of one hundred years, other relig-
ious books might be selected by the existing
ministers, except, that one )'Car in C\'ery four,
the books fir~t mentioned only ~hould he pur-
chased. In less than twenty years, the ~peci­
fied books becoming obsolete, new editions
were required to be printed for that particular
purpose only, \vhich occasioned great ex-
pense. The Societies interested became dis-
satisfied with their resrrir.tion to hooks which
were constantly supersede(] by more recent
publications, keeping pace '"ith progressiYe
improvement. They all united in a petitiou
to the legislature that the will rnight be abol-
ished, which was granted, and the estate sold
and the proceeds di\'idcd among the several
::5ocietics concerned.
Chnng:c and decay arc stamped in indelible
characters upon the proudc:::-t productions of
man; all bequests on illiberal conditions and
human creeds to which men may cling a~ in-
fallible, can be considered as commen~urate
only with all earthly object:; ba:-:erl on no per-
manent foundation.
J\T .ED I CAL Q G ACKER Y.
TnEnr: may be no impropriety in adding a
few pages on the subject of Medical Quack-
ery and empiricism, since, for more than half a
century, the writer has occasionally witnessed
melancholy scenes and disasters among his
fellow-men in consequence of their nefarious
practice. It is a matter of congratulation,
that from the liberal and excellent prorisions
made by our legislatures, and the most ample
means of education '\ hich our institutions af-
ford, C\'ery candidate for medical fame may
become completely qualified for its attainment.
14t
226 liEDICAL QU.H'l\:ERY.
And every town or parish may be supplie1l with
scientific physicians, meriting the confitlcncc
of the people ; and no 01 her should ever be
employed or encouraged, as 1he) have peculiar
claim to public patronage.
Notwithfitantling that in all the metlical in-
stitutions in the United States, the most judi-
cious and energetic measures have been adopt-
ed to pre\'ent the evils of quackery, there are
ignorant and unprincipled impostors, who set
at defiance all learning and theoretical know-
ledge, and practise the vilest acts and decep-
tions, sporting with the heallh and lives of their
fellow-men without remorse. Such miscreants
are too frequently encouraged by the heedless
multitude, who, delighting in man·cllous and
magical airs, readily yield themsel\'es dupes to
the grossest absurdities. From one of this
character we have the following anecdote.
An old acquaintance who knew well the
character of a celebrated empiric, said to him,
while standing at the door, 'Prithee, doctrn,
how i:s it that you, whose origin I so well kni)W,
should ha\'e been able to obtain more practice
than almost all the regular bred physicians.'
'Pray,' says the quack, 'how many persons
MEDI~AL QUACKERY. 22i
have passed us while you put the question 7'
'Ahout twenty.' 'And pray how many of
them do you suppose possess a competent
share of common senf1e 'l' 'Perhaps oue out
of the twenty.' 'Just so,' says the doctor,
' and that one applies to the regular physician,
while I and my brethren pick up the other
nineteen.'
And how often have \\ e seen the contempti-
ble ignoramus raised by the voice of popularity
above the level of the learned and accomplish-
ed physician, and boJ.sting of nineteen twen-
tieths oi the practice? It is not unfrequent
that our attention is arrested by the pretensions
of prophets and mystical fanatics, who an-
nounce their pretended heavenly mission, and
treat their credulous patients with bubbles and
magical f'pclls. The stranger: called the rain-
water doctor, after gulling hundreds of people
of weak miucls a few years since, disappeared,
le:ning both his origin and his exit involved in
mystery. But the most audacious impostor
thr~t was c,·cr suffered to delude even the Yul-
gar, was one Aust1n, of Vermont, who, a few
years since, proclaimed himself a prophet, and
pretended to cure all diseases by prayer to
22!; Ml::DICAI. QLlM"t\:l;nY.
' heaven, requiring no other information relati\'e
to the patient, than a few line~ n·quc:5ting hi:;
prayers. Such was the creclulity and such the
faith of the multitude, that letters and messcu-
gers were despatched to him from the sick, the
blind, and the crippled, from tltc distance of
several hundred miles, until thousnnd:s bad ac-
cumulated on his hands. A certain poor man
whom I knew, became so infatuated with the
prophet'::; proclamation, that, after collecting
letters from a number of invalids, of all de-
scriptions, among whom was one totally blind,
and having received contributions in money,
actually performed a journey of about two
hundred miles to receire the benefit of the
prophet's prayers. But he soon returned as he
went, and gained for his credulous employers
and himself no other henefit than a com·iction
of their folly, and the vile impo~ition of modern
prophets. The two jugglers abo,·e mentioned,
it is presumed, jeoparded no lives hy the use of
poisonous materials, as they depended on the
operation of the imagination ; hut there are
bolder champions of the craft who can pop
you off the stage in a moment. The country
is annoyed by a train of unprincipled ignora-
•
llEDlCAL QlT
ACKERY. 233
that political and moral millenium, when know-
ledge will be more sought tor than wealth, and
the charms of virtue more prized than those
of Yice; when prejudice, superstition, and li-
centiousne~s, \rill be discountenanced among
all classes of mankind, and righteousness shall
exalt our nation.
Truly ' the lines haYe fallen to us in pleas-
ant places, and we ha,·e a goodly heritage.'
But it were unjust to look back to antiquity
and compare the beauties of the present day
with the deformities of ancient times ; to at-
tribute exclusi\'e perfection to ourselves and
deprire our ance~tors of their real worth and
merit; for we kno\\· not the period among
them when wi~dom and ,·irtue were lightly es-
teemed. Let us reflect, with religious gratitude,
on the momentous privileges and benefits be-
queathed to us by our fat her::l. In all their
actions we trace a zealous ~olicitude to trans-
mit to posterity a glorious inheritance. Like
angeb of light, they would illuminate the
minds of their children, with the high impor-
tance of religious institution~, seminaries, and
free schools. If, in any form, they \\Ould en-
chain our minds, it would be in the principles
of civil and religious freedom, of patrioti~tn,
philanthropy, mora] rcctitLulc, and public vir~
tue. But ' our fathers, where arc they ?' Let
us with laborious fidelity follow lhem in e,·cry
good word and work, that out· children may, in
the spirit of gratitude and lore, reiterate tlll.!
exclamation ' our father:-, where are they l'
It is our glorious pri,·ilcgc to lh·c in an age
when the elements of our tcrre:-.trial abode arc
rendered subserrient to the most :;tnpendous
operations. The ·works of men's hands appeal'
us if endowed with intelligence ; the heated
steam subverts the power of the fleetest steed,
and the facilities of trarcrsing the earth aud
seas, are like the airy flights of the feathered
tribe. But oh! humbling consideration, death
trimnphs o,·er the frail uature of mau ; our
life is but a continued miracle, capah]e of bciug
sustained only by the hand of that omnipotent
being whom we adore as I he ' former of our
bodies, and the fathm- of om :o:pirits.' All
must bow to the a\\ fu1 summons, au~1 quit tLi:-:
earthly tabernacle; the la!')t remains of mortal-
ity arc consigned to the sileut tomh to mingle
with the parent dust.
!\IEOI~AL QUACJit.ERT. 229
muses, without reputation, who are prowling
about, brandishing the sure weapons of death,
reckless of consequences. But their punish-
ment i:s reserved to the day of~ retributive jus-
tice. l well recollect the follo\\'iug moral Jes-
son of a pious physician. < If a patient die
through your wilful ignorance, rashne-.s, or
carele:::::; ucglect, his blood will be required at
your hand::;.' How much greater, then, must
he the accountability in tho:-e who administer
the most active and even poisonous materials,
without the smallest acquaintance with the
human constitution or the nature of the medi-
cine. It is characteristic of these people, to
undertake to cure incurable~, magnifying a
wart to a rose cancer, a simple ulcer to a
~preading mortification, and to set bones where
there is neither joint nor fracture. Although
palpable instances of death from their practice
are frequent, should a single cure happen, it is
proclaimed as almost miraculous, and the law-
le:-os miscreants are still suffered to seek their
prey with impunity, and no one tells of their
thou~and victims concealed in the silent gra\"e!
It is from a gimilar empirical source, that
the public is annoyed by a di~gusting display
230 J.IEDICAI. QU.\CI~ tm.r.
ofquack and patrnt mcdidnr.s; which, througl1
the medium of newspapers, are impudently
palmed upon public attention. It would seem
as though a host of ignorant impostors ha\'C
leagued in hostility against the profession of
medicine, wishing to deRpoil it of its dignity
and usefulness, and prostrate its character in
the dust. The ·.\·orld is inundated with nos-
trnms, usurping the power, not only to remedy
all the diseases of our nature, but actually to
fortify the human constitution, and rcndf'r it
iuvulnerable. In their ostentatious clisplay,
tbey extol a single nostrum as adequate to the
pre\·ention and cure of a whole catalogue of
diseases, however opposite or discordant in
their nature. They are suited to all constitu-
tions, as the shoe-black's composition is appli-
cable to every one's boots or shoes. Thus are
we kindly invited, at the expense of a few
dollars, to purcha~e of those self 'dubbed
doctors,' that health and longerity which even
the judicious hand of science is unable to be-
stow. The inYentors and Ycnders of these
pretended specifits, in most instance!', have no
knowledge of the diseases which they pretend
to cure; they depend, as it were, on a random
MEDICAL QUACKERY. 231
bhot, and whate,·er nwy be the is~uc, they arc
sure nf their enormous gains, from two to four
hunrlrcrl per cent ; article::; solU for a dollar
might be atfol'(]ed for ten cents.
By such fraud and imposition, a noted
Charlatan in London accumulated such an
immcn...e fortune as to parade the streets in a
splendid equipage, the effects of public credu-
lity. But the public may be assured, that
since the great improvements in chemical
science, a large proportion of patent medicines
ha\'e been analyzed, and are found to consist
of old articles which phy~icians have expunged
from their materia medica, to gi,·e place to
more \ aluable and efficacious remedies. Here,
then, i" a boundle::!s source of kna,·ery and
fraud,- but I desire to ha\'c it understood,
that these ohf:crvations arc not to extend to all
patcutee::; of medical composition;;, without
exception, for aJI are not equally censurable.
Few, indeed, there are, wl1ich scientific physi-
ciau.;; are willing to concede mny be of public
utility. nut that indiscriminate application in
all case-: and circumstance.;;, ::ihould be most
pointedly 1cprobated. 'Vere the annual amount
of money expended for useless nostrums made
23",2 l\lEDICAL QUACKERY.
public, it would excite astonishment, and were
the innumerable di::>appointmcnts in their crea-
tiYe powers promulgated, puhlic iuclignation
and contempt would be the portion of the in-
ventors nnd ,·enders of putentcJ uostrums.
There is not a more pro\·oking absurdity, as
applied to the economy of hcalt1l, than the
ideaof spring medicines,famil!J medicines, ~·c,
and it should be distinctly understood by every
individual, that such medicine administered to
persons in health, as preventive of disease, as
well as those administered without a skilful re-
ference to the present condition of the system,
are absolutely dange10us to health and life.
And the same observation will apply to the
practice of blood-letting in the spring season.
Those who maintain the ridiculous idea that
individuals are endowed with supernatural
gifts and knowledge, and become skilful physi-
cians without education or study, betray a piti-
ful credulity, equalled only by the conceits of
those who believe in ghosts and spectres, haunt-
ing the dwellings of the dead. 'Vc now wit-
ness with the dee~est interest, the rapid strides
in the march of intellect, keeping pace with
the advance of light nnrl truth, looking for
